Proceedings of the ACL-2012 Special Workshop on Rediscovering 50 Years of Discoveries, pages 83?87,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 10 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntegrating User-Generated Content in the ACL AnthologyPraveen BysaniWeb IR / NLP Group (WING)National University of Singapore13 Computing Link, Singapore 117590bpraveen@comp.nus.edu.sgMin-Yen KanWeb IR / NLP Group (WING)National University of Singapore13 Computing Link, Singapore 117590kanmy@comp.nus.edu.sgAbstractThe ACL Anthology was revamped in 2012to its second major version, encompassingfaceted navigation, social media use, as wellas author- and reader-generated content andcomments on published work as part of the re-vised frontend user interface.
At the backend,the Anthology was updated to incorporate itspublication records into a database.
We de-scribe the ACL Anthology?s previous legacy,redesign and revamp process and technolo-gies, and its resulting functionality.1 IntroductionTo most of its users, the ACL Anthology1 is a usefulopen-access repository of scholarly articles on thetopics of computational linguistics and natural lan-guage processing.
The liberal use and access policygranted by the Association of Computational Lin-guistics (ACL) to the authors of works published bythe ACL makes discovery, access, and use of its re-search results easily available to both members andthe general readership.
The ACL Anthology initia-tive has contributed to the success of this mission,both as an archiving and dissemination vehicle forpublished works.Started as a means to collect and preserve arti-cles published by the ACL in 2001, the Anthologyhas since matured and now has well-defined work-flows for its core missions.
In 2009, the AnthologyPraveen Bysani?s work was supported from the NationalResearch Foundations grant no.
R-252-000-325-279.1http://aclweb.org/anthology/; beta version 2currently at http://aclantho3.herokuapp.com/.staff embarked to expand the Anthology?s mission tomeet two specific goals: on the backend, to enforcea proper data model onto the publication metadata;on the frontend, to expand the scope of the Anthol-ogy to encompass services that would best serve itsconstituents.
Where possible, we adopted widely-deployed open source software, customizing it forthe Anthology where needed.With respect to the backend, the revamp adopted adatabase model to describe the publication metadata,implemented using MySQL.
On top of this databaselayer, we chose Ruby on Rails as the applicationframework to interact with the data, and built suit-able web interfaces to support both administrativeand end-users.
The backend also needed to supportresource discovery by automated agents, and meta-data export to sites that ingest ACL metadata.With respect to the frontend, the Anthology web-site needed to meet the rising expectations in searchand discovery of documents both by content and byfielded metadata.
To satisfy both, we incorporateda faceted browsing interface that exposes metadatafacets to the user.
These metadata fields can beused to restrict subsequent browsing and searchingactions to the values specified (e.g., Year = 2001?2011).
Aside from resource discovery, the fron-tend also incorporated changes to support the work-flow of readers and authors.
We added both per-author and per-publication webpages.
The publica-tion pages invite the public to define content for theAnthology: anyone can report errors in the meta-data, authors can supply revisions and errata, soft-ware and dataset links post-publication, readers candiscuss the papers using the commenting framework83in the system, and automated agents can use NLPand CL technology to extract, process and post in-formation related to individual papers.2 Revamp DesignPrior to our revamp, the Anthology?s basic missionwas to transcribe the metadata of ACL proceed-ings into a suitable form for the Web.
To ensurewidespread adoption, a simple XML format for therequisite metadata of author and title was created,with each ACL event?s publication chair providing asingle XML file describing the publications in eachevent and the details of the event (e.g., the volume?sbooktitle and year).
Other fields were optional andcould be included in the XML.
The Anthology ed-itor further added a unique identifier, an AnthologyID, for each publication record (e.g., ?A00-1001?
).Mandatory fields in the XML were extracted by acollection of programs to create the visible HTMLpages in the Anthology website and the service ex-port files, used to update the Association of Com-puting Machinery?s (ACM) Portal2 and the DBLPComputer Science Bibliography3.
Prior to the re-vamp, this set of XML files ?
collected over variousyears ?
represented the canonical record of all pub-lication data.While easing adoption, storing canonical pub-lication metadata as XML is not ideal.
As itis stored across multiple files, even simple ques-tions of inventory are hard to answer.
As therewas no set document type definition, the XMLschema and enforcement of mandatory fields var-ied per document.
In the revamp, we migratedthe publication data into a database schema shownin Figure 1.
The database form allows easy in-corporation of additional fields that can be pro-vided post-publication (including the DocumentObject Identifier, DOI, currently provided by theACM by mutual agreement).
The database struc-ture also promotes publications, venues, and au-thors to first-class objects, enabling joins and viewson the data, such as paper?author and venue?special interest group.The database currently has21,107 papers, authored by 19,955 authors.
These2http://dl.acm.org3http://www.informatik.uni-trier.de/?ley/db/papers encompass one journal, 17 conferences andhundreds of workshops sponsored by 14 SIG groups.The publication years of these papers range from1965 to 2012.Figure 1: Current database schema for the Anthology.The database?s content is further indexed in in-verted search indices using Apache Solr4.
Solrallows indexing and querying in XML/JSON for-mats via HTTP requests, powering the frontendwebsite search facility and enabling programmaticsearch by automated agents in the Anthology?s fu-ture roadmap.
We employ Ruby on Rails (or?Rails?, version 3.1), a widely-deployed and matureweb development framework, to build the frontend.It follows a Model-View-Controller (MVC) archi-tecture, and favors convention over customization,expediting development and maintenance.
Railsprovides a closely tied model for basic database in-teractions, page rendering, web server deploymentand provides a platform for integrating plugins foradditional functionality.
To enable faceted browsingand search, the revamped Anthology integrates theProject Blacklight5 plugin, which provides the websearch interface via our Solr indices.
Rails appli-cations can be deployed on many commercial webhosts but not on the current hosting service usedby the primary ACL website.
We have deployedthe new Anthology interface on Heroku, a commer-cial cloud-based platform that caters to Rails deploy-ment.3 Frontend Form and FunctionOf most interest to Anthology users will be the pub-lic website.
The remainder of this paper describes4http://lucene.apache.org/solr/5http://projectblacklight.org/, version 3.284Figure 2: A screenshot of a faceted keyword search, showing additional restrictions on Author and Year (as a range).the individual features that have been incorporatedin the new interface.Faceted Browsing: Facets let a paper (or otherfirst-class object, such as authors) be classified alongmultiple dimensions.
Faceted browsing combinesboth browsing- and search-based navigation: An-thology users can progressively filter the collectionin each dimension by selecting a facet and value, andconcurrently have the freedom of searching by key-word.
It is a prevailing user interface technique ine-commerce sites and catching on in digital libraries.The current Anthology defines five facets for pa-pers.
?Author?, ?Publication Year?, ?Venue?, ?Attach-ments?
and ?SIG?
(Special Interest Group) of the cor-responding volume.
The ?Year?
facet further exposesan interface for date range filtering, while the ?At-tachments?
allows the selection of papers with soft-ware, errata, revisions and/or datasets easily.
Thewebsite also has a standard search box that sup-ports complex Boolean queries.
Figure 2 illustratessome of these functions in a complex query involv-ing both facets and keyword search.
This is an im-provement over the previous version that employedGoogle custom search, which can not leverage ourstructured data to add filtering functionality.
Tak-ing back search from Google?s custom search alsomeans that our search logs can be provided to ourown community for research, that could enable animproved future Anthology.Programmatic Contributions: The ACL com-munity is uniquely positioned to enhance the An-thology by applying natural language technologyon its own publication output.
The ACL Anthol-ogy Reference Corpus (Bird et al, 2008) previouslystandardized a version of the Anthology?s articlesfor comparative benchmarking.
We take this ideafarther by allowing automated agents to post-processinformation about any publication directly into thepublication?s corresponding page.
An agent can cur-rently provide per-paper supplementary material inan XML format (shown below) to the editor.
Aftersuitable validation as non-spam, the editor can ingestthe XML content into the Anthology, incorporatingit into the paper?s webpage.
Such functionality couldbe used to highlight summarization, information ex-traction and other applications that can process thetext of papers and enrich them.We use the Anthology ID to uniquely identifythe associated paper.
Currently the system is pro-visioned to support supplementary data provided as1) text (as shown in Figure 3), 2) an embedded web-page, and 3) hyperlinks to websites (similar to howattachments are shown).<paper id="P11-1110"><content name="keywords", type="text"><item>discourse, implicit reference, coherence,readability</item></content></paper>...Figure 3: Excerpt of a programmatic contribution to theAnthology.
The excerpt shows a keyword contribution onpaper P11-1110.85Figure 4: (Compressed) individual publication view withcallout highlights of features.Bibliographic Metadata Export: The previousAnthology exposed bibliographic metadata in Bib-TeX format, but its production was separate fromthe canonical XML data.
In the revamp, we trans-form the database field values into the MODS bibli-ography interchange format.
We then integrated theBibutils6 software module that exports MODS intofour end-user formats: BibTeX, RIS, EndNote andWord.
This lessens the effort for users to cite worksin the Anthology by matching major bibliographymanagement systems.
Our use of Blacklight alsoenhances this ability, allowing the selection of mul-tiple items to be exported to bibliographic exportingformats or to be shared by email.User Contributed Data: While social media fea-tures are quintessential in today?s Web, scholarlydigital libraries and academic networks have yet toutilize them productively.
One vehicle is to allowthe readership to comment on papers and for thosecomments to become part of the public record.
To6http://sourceforge.net/p/bibutils/home/Bibutils/accomplish this, we integrated a commenting pluginfrom Disqus7, which enables users logged into othersocial media platforms to leave comments.We also want to tighten the loop between readerfeedback and Anthology management.
Our revampallows users to submit corrections and additions toany paper directly through a web form on the indi-vidual paper?s webpage.
Post-publication datasets,corrections to author name?s and paper errata canbe easily processed in this way.
To avoid spamchanges, this feature requires the Anthology editorto manually validate the changes.
Figure 4 shows theindividual publication view, with metadata, biblio-graphic export, metadata editing, commenting, anduser (programmatic) contribution sections.Author Pages: As a consequence of using Rails,it becomes trivially easy to create pages for otherfirst-class data elements.
Currently, we have createdwebpages per author, as shown in Figure 5.
It givesthe canonical listing of each author?s publicationswithin the Anthology in reverse chronological or-der and includes a list of the popular co-authors andpublication venues.
This feature brings the Anthol-ogy up to parity with other similar digital libraries.We hope it will spur authors to report publicationsunder different variants of their names so a namingauthority for ACL authors can result partially fromcommunity effort.Figure 5: (Compressed) author page with correspondingco-author and venue information.7http://www.disqus.com864 Usage AnalysisThe revised Anthology interface is already seeingheavy use.
We analyzed the application logs of thenew Anthology website over a period of five days tounderstand the impact and usage of the new features.During this period the website has received 16,930page requests.
This is an increase over the originalwebsite, which garnered less than 7,000 page viewsduring the same period.
The average response timeof the server is 0.73 seconds, while the average loadtime of a page is measured at 5.6 seconds.
This isslow ?
web usability guidelines suggest load timesover 200 milliseconds are suboptimal ?
but as thewebsite is deployed on the cloud, server responsecan be easily improved by provisioning additionalresources for money.
Currently the new Anthologyinterface is run on a no-cost plan which providesminimal CPU bandwidth to serve the dynamicallygenerated webpages to the readership.The majority of the requests (11,398) use the newfaceting feature; indeed only 30 requests use the tra-ditional search box.
The most used facet patternsinclude ?Author, Venue?
(51.6%) followed by ?Au-thor, Venue, Year?
(14.8%).
While we believe that itis too early to draw conclusions on user behavior, theoverwhelming preference to use facets reveals thatfaceted browsing is a preferable navigational choicefor the bulk of the Anthology users.3,180 requests reached individual (detailed) pub-lication views, while 2,455 requests accessed au-thor pages.
Approximately 62% of the total requestshad a visit duration under 10 seconds, but 22% re-quests last between 11 seconds to 3 minutes, withthe remaining 16% sessions being up to 30 minutesin length.
The noticeable large ratio of long visitssupport our belief that the newly-added features en-courages more user engagement with the Anthology.Since the website went live, we have received 3 validrequests for metadata changes through the new in-terface.
Up to now, there has not been any use ofthe social media features, but we believe Anthologyusers will adopt them in due course.5 Conclusion and Future WorkS.R.
Ranganathan, arguably the father of facetedclassification, proposed that ?the library is a grow-ing organism?
as one of his laws of library science(Ranganathan, 1931).
We observe that this is true inthe digital context as well.We will support the legacy ACL Anthology inter-face until the end of 2012 in parallel with the newinterface, gradually phasing in the new interface asthe primary one.
Our immediate goal is to fleshout the per-author, -venue, -SIG views of the data,and to enable resource discovery via Open ArchivesInitiative?s Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH) (Lagoze et al, 2002), an open protocol forharvesting metadata by web crawlers.
Our mediumterm outlook hopes to furtherincorporate grassrootACL resources such as the ACL Anthology Net-work (Radev et al, 2009) and the ACL Search-bench (Scha?fer et al, 2011).We are most excited by the ability to incorporateprogrammatic contributions made by NLP softwareinto the Anthology.
We hope that the communitymakes full use of this ability to showcase the impor-tance of our natural language processing on schol-arly data and improve its accessibility and relevanceto others.ReferencesSteven Bird, Robert Dale, Bonnie J. Dorr, Bryan Gib-son, Mark Joseph, Min-Yen Kan, Dongwon Lee, BrettPowley, Dragomir R. Radev, and Yee Fan Tan.
2008.The ACL Anthology Reference Corpus: A referencedataset for bibliographic research in computational lin-guistics.
In LREC?08.Carl Lagoze, Hebert Van de Sompel, Michael Nelson,and Simeon Warner.
2002.
The open archivesinitiative protocol for metadata harvesting, version2.0.
http://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/ openar-chivesprotocol.htm, June.Dragomir R. Radev, Pradeep Muthukrishnan, and VahedQazvinian.
2009.
The ACL Anthology Network cor-pus.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Textand Citation Analysis for Scholarly Digital Libraries,pages 54?61.S.
R. Ranganathan.
1931.
The Five Laws of Library Sci-ence.
Madras Library Association (Madras, India) andEdward Goldston (London, UK).Ulrich Scha?fer, Bernd Kiefer, Christian Spurk, Jo?rg Stef-fen, and Rui Wang.
2011.
The ACL AnthologySearchbench.
In Proceedings of the 49th Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics: Human LanguageTechnologies: Systems Demonstrations, pages 7?13.87
