Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Language in Social Media (LSM 2012), pages 37?45,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting Influencers in Written Online ConversationsOr Biran1* Sara Rosenthal1* Jacob Andreas1**Kathleen McKeown1* Owen Rambow2?1 Department of Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, NY 100272 Center for Computational Learning Systems, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027* {orb, sara, kathy}@cs.columbia.edu** jda2129@columbia.edu ?rambow@ccls.columbia.eduAbstractIt has long been established that there is a cor-relation between the dialog behavior of a par-ticipant and how influential he or she is per-ceived to be by other discourse participants.In this paper we explore the characteristics ofcommunication that make someone an opinionleader and develop a machine learning basedapproach for the automatic identification ofdiscourse participants that are likely to be in-fluencers in online communication.
Our ap-proach relies on identification of three typesof conversational behavior: persuasion, agree-ment/disagreement, and dialog patterns.1 IntroductionIn any communicative setting where beliefs are ex-pressed, some are more influential than others.
Aninfluencer can alter the opinions of their audience,resolve disagreements where no one else can, be rec-ognized by others as one who makes important con-tributions, and often continue to influence a groupeven when not present.
Other conversational par-ticipants often adopt their ideas and even the wordsthey use to express their ideas.
These forms of per-sonal influence (Katz and Lazarsfeld, 1955) are partof what makes someone an opinion leader.
In thispaper, we explore the characteristics of communica-tion that make someone an opinion leader and de-velop a machine learning based approach for the au-tomatic identification of discourse participants whoare likely to be influencers in online communication.Detecting influential people in online conversa-tional situations has relevance to online advertisingstrategies which exploit the power of peer influenceon sites such as Facebook.
It has relevance to analy-sis of political postings, in order to determine whichcandidate has more appeal or which campaign strat-egy is most successful.
It is also relevant for design-ing automatic discourse participants for online dis-cussions (?chatbots?)
as it can provide insight intoeffective communication.
Despite potential applica-tions, analysis of influence in online communicationis a new field of study in part because of the rela-tively recent explosion of social media.
Thus, thereis not an established body of theoretical literature inthis area, nor are there established implementationson which to improve.
Given this new direction forresearch, our approach draws on theories that havebeen developed for identifying influence in spokendialog and extends them for online, written dialog.We hypothesize that an influencer, or an influencer?sconversational partner, is likely to engage in the fol-lowing conversational behaviors:Persuasion: An influencer is more likely to expresspersonal opinions with follow-up (e.g., justification,reiteration) in order to convince others.Agreement/disagreement: A conversational partneris more likely to agree with an influencer, thus im-plicitly adopting his opinions.Dialog Patterns: An influencer is more likely to par-ticipate in certain patterns of dialog, for exampleinitiating new topics of conversation, contributingmore to dialog than others, and engendering longerdialog threads on the same topic.Our implementation of this approach comprisesa system component for each of these conversa-tional behaviors.
These components in turn provide37the features that are the basis of a machine learn-ing approach for the detection of likely influencers.We test this approach on two different datasets, onedrawn from Wikipedia discussion threads and theother drawn from LiveJournal weblogs.
Our resultsshow that the system performs better for detectionof influencer on LiveJournal and that there are in-teresting differences across genres for detecting thedifferent forms of conversational behavior.The paper is structured as follows.
After review-ing related work, we define influence, present ourdata and methods.
We present a short overview ofthe black box components we use for persuasion anddetection of agreement/disagreement, but our focusis on the development of the influencer system as awhole and thus we spend most time exploring theresults of experimentation with the system on dif-ferent data sets, analyzing which components havemost impact.
We first review related work.2 Related WorkIt has long been established that there is a correlationbetween the conversational behavior of a discourseparticipant and how influential he or she is perceivedto be by the other discourse participants (Bales et al,1951; Scherer, 1979; Brook and Ng, 1986; Ng et al,1993; Ng et al, 1995).
Specifically, factors such asfrequency of contribution, proportion of turns, andnumber of successful interruptions have been identi-fied as being important indicators of influence.
Reidand Ng (2000) explain this correlation by saying that?conversational turns function as a resource for es-tablishing influence?
: discourse participants can ma-nipulate the dialog structure in order to gain influ-ence.
This echoes a starker formulation by Bales(1970): ?To take up time speaking in a small groupis to exercise power over the other members for atleast the duration of the time taken, regardless of thecontent.?
Simply claiming the conversational floor isa feat of power.
This previous work presents two is-sues for a study aimed at detecting influence in writ-ten online conversations.First, we expect the basic insight ?
conversationas a resource for influence ?
to carry over to writtendialog: we expect to be able to detect influence inwritten dialog as well.
However, some of the charac-teristics of spoken dialog do not carry over straight-forwardly to written dialog, most prominently theimportant issue of interruptions: there is no interrup-tion in written dialog.
Our work draws on findingsfor spoken dialog, but we identify characteristics ofwritten dialog which are relevant to influence.Second, the insistence of Bales (1970) that poweris exercised through turn taking ?regardless of con-tent?
may be too strong.
Reid and Ng (2000) discussexperiments which address not just discourse struc-ture features, but also a content feature which repre-sents how closely a turn is aligned with the overalldiscourse goal of one of two opposing groups (withopposing opinions on a specific issue) participatingin the conversation.
They show that interruptions aremore successful if aligned with the discourse goal.They propose a model in which such utterances?lead to participation which in turn predicts socialinfluence?, so that the correlation between discoursestructure and influence is really a secondary phe-nomenon.
However, transferring such results toother types of interactions (for example, in whichthere are not two well-defined groups) is challeng-ing.
In this study, we therefore examine two types offeatures as they relate to influence: content-related(persuasion and agreement/disagreement), and dis-course structure-related.So far, there has been little work in NLP relatedto influencers.
Quercia et al (2011) look at influ-encers?
language use in Twitter contrasted to otherusers?
groups and find some significant differences.However, their analysis and definition relies quiteheavily on the particular nature of social activityon Twitter.
Rienks (2007) discusses detecting influ-encers in a corpus of conversations.
While he fo-cuses entirely on non-linguistic behavior, he doeslook at (verbal) interruptions and topic initiationswhich can be seen as corresponding to some of ourDialog Patterns Language Uses.3 What is an Influencer?Our definition of an influencer was collectively for-mulated by a community of researchers involved inthe IARPA funded project on Socio Cultural Contentin Language (SCIL).This group defines an influencer to be someonewho:38P1 by Arcadian <pc1>There seems to be a much better list at the National Cancer Institute than the one we?vegot.</pc1><pa1>It ties much better to the actual publication (the same 11 sections, in the same order).</pa1>I?d like to replace that section in this article.
Any objections?P2 by JFW <pc2><a1>Not a problem.</a1></pc2>Perhaps we can also insert the relative incidence aspublished in this month?s wiki Blood journalP3 by Arcadian I?ve made the update.
I?ve included template links to a source that supports looking upinformation by ICD-O code.P4 by Emmanuelm Can Arcadian tell me why he/she included the leukemia classification to this lymphomapage?
It is not even listed in the Wikipedia leukemia page!
<pc3>I vote for dividing the WHO classificationinto 4 parts in 4 distinct pages: leukemia, lymphoma, histocytic and mastocytic neoplasms.</pc3><pa3>Remember, Wikipedia is meant to be readable </pa3>by all.
Let me know what you think before I deletethe non-lymphoma parts.P5 by Arcadian Emmanuelm, aren?t you the person who added those other categories on 6 July 2005?P6 by Emmanuelm <d1>Arcadian, I added only the lymphoma portion of the WHO classification.You added the leukemias on Dec 29th.</d1>Would you mind moving the leukemia portion to theleukemia page?P7 by Emmanuelm <pc4>Oh, and please note that I would be very comfortable with a ?cross-coverage?of lymphocytic leukemias in both pages.</pc4>My comment is really about myeloid, histiocytic andmast cell neoplasms who share no real relationship with lymphomas.P8 by Arcadian <pa5><a2>To simplify the discussion, I have restored that section to your version.</a2></pa5>You may make any further edits, and <pc6>I will have no objection.</pc6>P9 by JFW The full list should be on the hematological malignancy page, and the lymphoma part can be here.<pc7>It would be defendable to list ALL and CLL here.</pc7><pa7>They fall under the lymphoproliferativedisorders.</pa7>Table 1: Influence Example: A Wikipedia discussion thread displaying Emmanuelm as the influencer.
Replies areindicated by indentation (for example, P2 is a response to P1).
All Language Uses are visible in this example: Attemptto Persuade ({pci, pai}), Claims (pci), Argumentation (pai), Agreement (ai), Disagreement (di), and the five DialogPatterns Language Uses (eg.
Arcadian has positive Initiative).1.
Has credibility in the group.2.
Persists in attempting to convince others, even ifsome disagreement occurs3.
Introduces topics/ideas that others pick up on orsupport.By credibility, we mean someone whose ideas areadopted by others or whose authority is explicitlyrecognized.
We hypothesize that this shows upthrough agreement by other conversants.
By per-sists, we mean someone who is able to eventuallyconvince others and often takes the time to do so,even if it is not quick.
This aspect of our definitioncorresponds to earlier work in spoken dialog whichshows that frequency of contributions and propor-tion of turns is a method people use to gain influence(Reid and Ng, 2000; Bales, 1970).
By point 3, wesee that the influencer may be influential even in di-recting where the conversation goes, discussing top-ics that are of interest to others.
This latter featurecan be measured through the discourse structure ofthe interaction.
The influencer must be a group par-ticipant but need not be active in the discussion(s)where others support/credit him.The instructions that we provided to annotatorsincluded this definition as well as examples of whois not an influencer.
We told annotators that if some-one is in a hierarchical power relation (e.g., a boss),then that person is not an influencer to sub-ordinates(or, that is not the type of influencer we are look-ing for).
We also included someone with situationalpower (e.g., authority to approve other?s actions) orpower in directing the communication (e.g., a mod-erator) as negative examples.We also gave positive examples of influencers.
In-fluencers include an active participant who arguesagainst a disorganized group and resolves a discus-sion is an influencer, a person who provides an an-swer to a posted question and the answer is acceptedafter discussion, and a person who brings knowledgeto a discussion.
We also provided positive and neg-39ative examples for some of these cases.Table 1 shows an example of a dialog where thereis evidence of influence, drawn from a WikipediaTalk page.
A participant (Arcadian) starts the threadwith a proposal and a request for support from otherparticipants.
The influencer (Emmanuelm) laterjoins the conversation arguing against Arcadian?sproposal.
There is a short discussion, and Arcadiandefers to Emmanuelm?s position.
This is one pieceof dialog within this group where Emmanuelm maydemonstrate influence.
The goal of our system is tofind evidence for situations like this, which suggeststhat a person is more likely to be an influencer.Since we attempt to find local influence (a per-son who is influential in a particular thread, as op-posed to influential in general), our notion of influ-encer is consistent with diverse views on social in-fluence.
It is consistent with the definition of influ-encer proposed by Gladwell (2001) and Katz (1957):an exceptionally convincing and influential person,set apart from everyone else by his or her ability tospread opinions.
While it superficially seems incon-sistent with Duncan Watts?
concept of ?accidentalinfluentials?
(Watts, 2007), that view does not makethe assertion that a person cannot be influential ina particular situation (in fact, it predicts that some-one will) - only that one cannot in general identifypeople who are always more likely to be influencers.4 Data and AnnotationOur data set consists of documents from two differ-ent online sources: weblogs from LiveJournal anddiscussion forums from Wikipedia.LiveJournal is a virtual community in which peo-ple write about their personal experiences in a we-blog.
A LiveJournal entry is composed of a post(the top-level content written by the author) and aset of comments (written by other users and the au-thor).
Every comment structurally descends eitherfrom the post or from another comment.Each article on Wikipedia has a discussion forum(called a Talk page) associated with it that is usedto discuss edits for the page.
Each forum is com-posed of a number of threads with explicit topics,and each thread is composed of a set of posts madeby contributors.
The posts in a Wikipedia discussionthread may or may not structurally descend fromother posts: direct replies to a post typically descendfrom it.
Other posts can be seen as descending fromthe topic of the thread.For consistency of terms, from here on we refer toeach weblog or discussion forum thread as a threadand to each post or comment as a post.We have a total of 333 threads: 245 from Live-Journal and 88 from Wikipedia.
All were annotatedfor influencers.
The threads were annotated by twoundergraduate students of liberal arts.
These stu-dents had no prior training or linguistic background.The annotators were given the full definition fromsection 3 and asked to list the participants that theythought were influencers.
Each thread may in princi-ple have any number of influencers, but one or zeroinfluencers per thread is the common case and themaximal number of influencers found in our datasetwas two.
The inter-annotator agreement on whetheror not a participant is an influencer (given by Co-hen?s Kappa) is 0.72.5 MethodOur approach is based on three conversational be-haviors which are identified by separate systemcomponents described in the following three sec-tions.
Figure 1 shows the pipeline of the Influencersystem and Table 1 displays a Wikipedia discussionthread where there is evidence of an influencer andin which we have indicated the conversational be-haviors as they occur.
Motivated by our definition,each component is concerned with an aspect of thelikely influencer?s discourse behavior:Persuasion examines the participant?s language toidentify attempts to persuade, such as {pc1, pa1} inTable 1, which consist of claims (e.g.
pc1) madeby the participant and supported by argumentations(e.g.
pa1).
It also identifies claims and argumenta-tions independently of one another (pc4 and pa5).Agreement/Disagreement examines the other par-ticipants?
language to find how often they agree ordisagree with the participant?s statements.
Examplesare a1 and d1 in Table 1.Dialog Patterns examines how the participant inter-acts in the discussion structurally, independently ofthe content and the language used.
An example ofthis is Arcadian being the first poster and contribut-ing the most posts in the thread in Table 1.40Figure 1: The influencer pipeline.
Solid lines indicateblack-box components, which we only summarize in thispaper.
Dashed lines indicate components described here.Each component contributes a number of Lan-guage Uses which fall into that category of conver-sational behavior and these Language Uses are useddirectly as features in a supervised machine learn-ing model to predict whether or not a participant isan influencer.
For example, Dialog Patterns con-tributes the Language Uses Initiative, Irrelevance,Incitation, Investment and Interjection.The Language Uses of the Persuasion and Agree-ment/Disagreement components are not described indetail in this paper, and instead are treated as blackboxes (indicated by solid boxes in Figure 1).
Wehave previously published work on some of these(Biran and Rambow, 2011; Andreas et al, 2012).The remainder of this section describes them brieflyand provides the results of evaluations of their per-formance (in Table 2).
The next section describesthe features of the Dialog Patterns component.5.1 PersuasionThis component identifies three Language Uses: At-tempt to Persuade, Claims and Argumentation.We define an attempt to persuade as a set of con-tributions made by a single participant which maybe made anywhere within the thread, and which areall concerned with stating and supporting a singleclaim.
The subject of the claim does not matter:an opinion may seem trivial, but the argument couldstill have the structure of a persuasion.Our entire data set was annotated for attempts topersuade.
The annotators labeled the text partici-pating in each instance with either claim, the statedopinion of which the author is trying to persuadeothers or argumentation, an argument or evidencethat supports that claim.
An attempt to persuademust contain exactly one claim and at least one in-stance of argumentation, like the {claim, argumen-tation} pairs {pc1, pa1} and {pc3, pj3} in Table 1.In addition to the complete attempt to persuadeLanguage Use, we also define the less strict Lan-guage Uses claims and argumentation, which useonly the subcomponents as stand-alones.Our work on argumentation, which builds onRhetorical Structure Theory (Mann and Thompson,1988), is described in (Biran and Rambow, 2011).5.2 Agreement/DisagreementAgreement and disagreement are two LanguageUses that model others?
acceptance of the partici-pant?s statements.
Annotation (Andreas et al, 2012)is performed on pairs of phrases, {p1, p2}.
A phraseis a substring of a post or comment in a thread.
Theannotations are directed since each post or commenthas a time stamp associated with it.
This means thatp1 and p2 are not interchangeable.
p1 is called the?target phrase?, and p2 is called the ?subject phrase?.A person cannot agree with him- or herself, so theauthor of p1 and p2 cannot be the same.
Each anno-tation is also labeled with a type: either ?agreement?or ?disagreement?.6 Dialog PatternsThe Dialog Patterns component extracts featuresbased on the structure of the thread.
Blogs and dis-cussion threads have a tree structure, with a blogpost or a topic of discussion as the root and a set of41Component Wikipedia LiveJournalP R F P R FAttempt 79.1 69.6 74 57.5 48.2 52.4to persuadeClaims 83.6 74.5 78.8 53.7 13.8 22Argumentation 23.3 91.7 37.1 30.9 48.9 37.8Agreement 12 31.9 17.4 20 50 28.6Disagreement 8.7 9.5 9.1 6.3 14.3 8.7Table 2: Performance of the black-box Language Uses interms of Precision (P), Recall (R), and F-measure(F).ConversationalBehaviorLanguage Use(Feature)UsersComponent A J EPersuasion Claims 2/6 2/6 2/6Argumentation Y Y YAttempt to Per-suadeY Y YAgreement/ Agreement 1/1 0/1 0/1Disagreement Disagreement 1/1 0/1 0/1Dialog Initiative Y N NPatterns Irrelevance 2/4 1/2 1/3Incitation 4 1 3Interjection 1/9 2/9 4/9Investment 4/9 2/9 3/9Table 3: The feature values for each of the partici-pants, Arcadian (A), JFW (J), and Emmanuelm (E), inthe Wikipedia discussion thread shown in Table 1.comments or posts which are marked as a reply - ei-ther to the root or to an earlier post.
The hypothesisbehind Dialog Patterns is that influencers have typ-ical ways in which they participate in a thread andwhich are visible from the structure alone.The Dialog Patterns component contains five sim-ple Language Uses:Initiative The participant is or is not the first posterof the thread.Irrelevance The percentage of the participant?sposts that are not replied to by anyone.Incitation The length of the longest branch ofposts which follows one of the participant?s posts.Intuitively, the longest discussion started directly bythe participant.Investment The participant?s percentage of all postsin the thread.Interjection The point in the thread, representedas percentage of posts already posted, at which theparticipant enters the discussion.7 System and EvaluationThe task of the system is to decide for each partici-pant in a thread whether or not he or she is an influ-encer in that particular thread.
It is realized with asupervised learning model: we train an SVM with asmall number of features, namely the ten LanguageUses.
One of our goals in this work is to evaluatewhich Language Uses allow us to more accuratelyclassify someone as an influencer.
Table 3 showsthe full feature set and feature values for the samplediscussion thread in Table 1.
We experimented witha number of different classification methods, includ-ing bayesian and rule-based models, and found thatSVM produced the best results.7.1 EvaluationWe evaluated on Wikipedia and LiveJournal sepa-rately.
The data set for each corpus consists of allparticipants in all threads for which there was at leastone influencer.
We exclude threads for which no in-fluencer was found, narrowing our task to finding theinfluencers where they exist.
For each participant Xin each thread Y, the system answers the followingquestion: Is X an influencer in Y?We used a stratified 10-fold cross validation ofeach data set for evaluation, ensuring that the sameparticipant (from two different threads) never ap-peared in both training and test at each fold, to elim-inate potential bias from fitting to a particular partic-ipant?s style.
The system components were identicalwhen evaluating both data sets, except for the claimssystem which was trained on sentiment-annotateddata from the corpus on which it was evaluated.Table 4 shows the performance of the full systemand of systems using only one Language Use featurecompared against a baseline which always answerspositively (X is always an influencer in Y).
It alsoshows the performance for the best system, whichwas found for each data set by looking at all possiblecombinations of the features.
The best system forthe Wikipedia data set is composed of four features:Claims, Argumentation, Agreement and Investment.The best LiveJournal system is composed of all fiveDialog Patterns features, Attempt to Persuade andArgumentation.
We found our results to be statis-42System Wikipedia LiveJournalP R F P R FBaseline: all-yes16.2 100 27.9 19.2 19.2 32.2Full 40.5 80.5 53.9 61.7 82 70.4Initiative 31.6 31.2 31.4 73.5 72.7 73.1Irrelevance 21.7 77.9 34 19.2 100 32.2Incitation 28.3 77.9 41.5 49.5 73.8 59.2Investment 43 71.4 53.7 50.2 75.4 60.3Interjection 24.7 88.3 38.6 36.9 91.3 52.5Agreement 36 46.8 40.7 45.1 82.5 58.3Disagreement 35.3 70.1 47 19.2 100 32.2Claims 40 72.7 51.6 54.3 76 63.3Argumentation 19 98.7 31.8 31.1 85.2 45.6Attempt 23.7 79.2 36.5 37.4 48.1 42.1to persuadeBest system 47 80.5 59.3 66.2 84.7 74.3Table 4: Performance in terms of Precision (P), Recall(R), and F-measure (F) using the baseline (everyone is aninfluencer), all features (full), individual features one at atime, and the best feature combination for each data set.tically significant (with the Bonferroni adjustment)in paired permutation tests between the best system,the full system and the baseline of each data set.When we first performed these experiments, weused all threads in the data set.
The performance onthis full set was lower, as shown in Table 5 due tothe presence of threads with no influencers.
Threadsin which the annotators could not find a clear influ-encer tend to be of a different nature: there is eitherno clear topic of discussion, or no argument (every-one is in agreement).
We leave the task of distin-guishing these threads from those which are likelyto have an influencer to future work.7.2 Evaluating with Perfect ComponentsIn a hierarchical system such as ours, errors canbe attributed to imperfect components or to a badchoice of features, so it is important to look at thepotential contribution of the components.
As an ex-ample, Table 6 shows the difference between ourAttempt to Persuade system and a hypothetical per-fect Attempt to Persuade component, simulated byusing the gold annotations, when predicting influ-encer directly (i.e., a participant is an influencer iffshe makes an attempt to persuade).Clearly, when predicting influencers, Attempt toSystem Wikipedia LiveJournalP R F P R FBaseline 13.9 100 24.5 14.2 100 24.9Full 36.7 79.2 50.2 46.3 79.8 58.6Best 40.1 76.6 52.7 48.2 81.4 60.6Table 5: Performance on the data set of all threads, in-cluding those with no influencers.
The ?Best System?
isthe system that performed best on the filtered data set.Data Set Our System Gold AnswersP R F P R FWikipedia 23.6 69.4 35.2 23.8 81.6 36.9LiveJournal 37.5 48.1 42.1 40.7 61.8 49Table 6: Performance of the Attempt to Persuade compo-nent in directly predicting influencers.
A comparison ofour system and the component?s gold annotation.
Theseexperiments were run on the full data set, which is whythe system results are not exactly those of Table 4.Persuade is a stronger indicator in LiveJournal thanit is in Wikipedia.
However, as shown in Table 2,our Attempt to Persuade system performs better onWikipedia.
This situation is reflected in Table 6,where the lower quality of the system component inLiveJournal corresponds to a significantly lower per-formance when applied to the influencer task.
Theseresults demonstrate that Attempt to Persuade is agood feature: a more precise feature value meanshigher predictability of influencer.
In the future wewill perform similar analyses for the other features.8 DiscussionWe evaluated our system on two corpora - Live-Journal and Wikipedia discussions - which differ instructure, context and discussion topics.
As our re-sults show, they also differ in the way influencersbehave and the way others respond to them.
Toillustrate the differences, we contrast the sampleWikipedia thread (Table 1) with an example fromLiveJournal (Table 7).It is common in LiveJournal for the blogger to bean influencer, as is the case in our example thread,because the topic of the thread is set by the blog-ger and comments are typically made by her friends.This fact is reflected in our results: Initiative is avery strong indicator in LiveJournal, but not so in43P1 by poconell <pc1>He really does make good on his promises!
</pc1><pa1>Day three in office, and theGlobal Gag Rule (A.K.A?The Mexico City Policy?)
is gone!</pa1>I was holding my breath, hoping itwouldn?t be left forgotte.
He didn?t wait.
<pc2>He can see the danger and risk in this policy, and the damageit has caused to women and families.</pc2><pc3>I love that man!</pc3>P2 by thalialunacy <a1>I literally shrieked ?HELL YES!?
in my car when I heard.
:D:D:D</a1>P3 by poconell <a2>Yeah, me too</a2>P4 by lunalovepotter <pc4><a3>He is SO AWESOME!</a3></pc4><pa4>Right down to business, noifs, ands, or buts!
:D</pa4>P5 by poconell <pc5>It?s amazing to see him so serious too!</pc5><pa5>This is one tough,no-nonsense man!</pa5>P6 by penny sieve My icon says it all :)P7 by poconell <pc6>And I?m jealous of you with that President!</pc6><pa6>We tried to overthrowour Prime Minister, but he went crying to the Governor General.
</pa6>Table 7: Influence Example: A LiveJournal discussion thread displaying poconell as the influencer.
All the LanguageUses are visible in this example: agreement/disagreement (ai/di), persuasion ({pci, pai}, pci, pai), and dialog patterns(eg.
poconell has positive Initiative).
This example is very different from the Wikipedia example in Table 1.Wikipedia, where the discussion is between a groupof editors, all of whom are equally interested in thetopic.
In general, the Dialog Patterns features arestronger in LiveJournal.
We believe this is due to thefact that the tree structure in LiveJournal is strictlyenforced.
In Wikipedia, people do not always replydirectly to the relevant post.
Investment is the excep-tion: it does not make use of the tree structure, andis therefore an important indicator in Wikipedia.Attempt to Persuade is useful in LiveJournal (theinfluencer poconell makes three attempts to per-suade in Table 7) but less so in Wikipedia.
This isexplained by the precision of the gold system in Ta-ble 6.
Only 23.8% of those who attempt to persuadein Wikipedia are influencers, compared with 40.7%in LiveJournal.
Attempts to Persuade are more com-mon in Wikipedia (all participants attempt to per-suade in Table 1), since people write there specifi-cally to argue their opinion on how the article shouldbe edited.
Conversely, agreement is a stronger pre-dictor of influence in Wikipedia than in LiveJournal;we believe that is because of a similar phenomenon,that people in LiveJournal (who tend to know eachother) agree with each other more often.
Disagree-ment is not a strong indicator for either corpus whichmay say something about influencers in general -they can be disagreed with as often as anyone else.9 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have studied the relevance of content-relatedconversational behavior (persuasion and agree-ment/disagreement), and discourse structure-relatedconversational behavior to detection of influence.Identifying influencers is a hard task, but we areable to show good results on the LiveJournal corpuswhere we achieve an F-measure of 74.3%.
Despitea lower performance on Wikipedia, we are still ableto significantly outperform the baseline which yieldsonly 28.2%.
Differences in performance betweenthe two seem to be attributable in part to the morestraightforward dialog structure in LiveJournal.There are several areas for future work.
In ourcurrent work, we train and evaluate separately forour two corpora.
Alternatively, we could investigatedifferent training and testing combinations: train onone corpus and evaluate on the other; a mixed cor-pus for training and testing; genre-independent cri-teria for developing different systems (e.g.
length ofthread).
We will also evaluate on new genres (suchas the Enron emails) in order to gain an appreciationof how different genres of written dialog are.AcknowledgmentThis work has been supported by the IntelligenceAdvanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA) viaArmy Research Laboratory (ARL) contract num-ber W911NF-09-C-0141.
The U.S. Government isauthorized to reproduce and distribute reprints forGovernmental purposes notwithstanding any copy-right annotation thereon.44ReferencesJacob Andreas, Sara Rosenthal, and Kathleen McKe-own.
2012.
Annotating agreement and disagreementin threaded discussion.
In Proceedings of the 8th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andComputation (LREC), Istanbul, Turkey, May.R.
F. Bales, Strodtbeck, Mills F. L., T. M., and M. Rose-borough.
1951.
Channels of communication in smallgroups.
American Sociological Review, pages 16(4),461?468.R.
F. Bales.
1970.
Personality and interpersonal be-haviour.Or Biran and Owen Rambow.
2011.
Identifying justifi-cations in written dialog.
In Proceedings of the FifthIEEE International Conference on Semantic Comput-ing.M.E.
Brook and S. H. Ng.
1986.
Language and socialinfluence in small conversational groups.
Journal ofLanguage and Social Psychology, pages 5(3), 201?210.Malcolm Gladwell.
2001.
The tipping point: how littlethings can make a big difference.
Abacus.Elihu Katz and Paul F. Lazarsfeld.
1955.
Personal in-fluence.
Free Press, Glencoe, IL.
by Elihu Katz andPaul F. Lazarsfeld.
With a foreword by Elmo Roper.
?A report of the Bureau of Applied Social Research,Columbia University.?
Bibliography: p. 381-393.E.
Katz.
1957.
The Two-Step Flow of Communication:An Up-To-Date Report on an Hypothesis.
Bobbs-Merrill Reprint Series in the Social Sciences, S137.Ardent Media.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functional the-ory of text organization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.S.
H. Ng, D. Bell, and M. Brooke.
1993.
Gaining turnsand achieving high in influence ranking in small con-versational groups.
British Journal of Social Psychol-ogy, pages 32, 265?275.S.
H. Ng, M Brooke, and M. Dunne.
1995.
Interruptionand in influence in discussion groups.
Journal of Lan-guage and Social Psychology, pages 14(4),369?381.Daniele Quercia, Jonathan Ellis, Licia Capra, and JonCrowcroft.
2011.
In the mood for being influential ontwitter.
In SocialCom/PASSAT, pages 307?314.
IEEE.Scott A. Reid and Sik Hung Ng.
2000.
Conversation as aresource for in influence: evidence for prototypical ar-guments and social identification processes.
EuropeanJournal of Social Psychology, pages 30, 83?100.Rutger Joeri Rienks.
2007.
Meetings in smart environ-ments : implications of progressing technology.
Ph.D.thesis, Enschede, the Netherlands, July.K.
R. Scherer.
1979.
Voice and speech correlates of per-ceived social influence in simulated juries.
In H. Gilesand R. St Clair (Eds), Language and social psychol-ogy, pages 88?120.
Oxford: Blackwell.Duncan Watts.
2007.
The accidental influentials.
Har-vard Business Review.45
