Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 72?80,Avignon, France, April 23 - 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting ShibbolethsJelena Prokic?Ludwig-Maximilians-Universita?tj.prokic@lmu.deC?ag?r?
C?o?ltekinUniversity of Groningenc.coltekin@rug.nlJohn NerbonneUniversity of Groningenj.nerbonne@rug.nlAbstractA SHIBBOLETH is a pronunciation, or,more generally, a variant of speech thatbetrays where a speaker is from (Judges12:6).
We propose a generalization of thewell-known precision and recall scores todeal with the case of detecting distinctive,characteristic variants when the analysis isbased on numerical difference scores.
Wealso compare our proposal to Fisher?s lineardiscriminant, and we demonstrate its effec-tiveness on Dutch and German dialect data.It is a general method that can be appliedboth in synchronic and diachronic linguis-tics that involve automatic classification oflinguistic entities.1 Introduction and BackgroundThe background of this contribution is the line ofwork known as DIALECTOMETRY (Se?guy, 1973;Goebl, 1982), which has made computationalwork popular in dialectology.
The basic idea ofdialectometry is simple: one acquires large sam-ples of corresponding material (e.g., a list of lex-ical choices, such as the word for carbonatedsoft drink, which might be ?soda?, ?pop?, ?tonic?etc.)
from different sites within a language area,and then, for each pair of samples, one counts(or more generally measures) the difference ateach point of correspondence.
The differencesare summed, and, given representative and suffi-ciently large samples, the results characterizes thedegree to which one site differs from another.Earlier work in dialectology mapped the dis-tributions of individual items, recording lines ofdivision on maps, so-called ISOGLOSSES, andthen sought bundles of these as tell-tale indica-tors of important divisions between DIALECT AR-EAS.
But as Chambers & Trudgill (1998) note,the earlier methodology is fraught with prob-lems, many of which stem from the freedom ofchoice with respect to isoglosses, and their (nor-mal) failure to ?bundle?
neatly.
Nerbonne (2009)notes that dialectometry improves on the tradi-tional techniques in many ways, most of whichstem from the fact that it shifts focus to AGGRE-GATE LEVEL of differences.
Dialectometry useslarge amounts of material; it reduces the sub-jectivity inherent in choosing isoglosses; it fre-quently analyzes material in ways unintended bythose who designed dialect data collection efforts,including more sources of differences; and finallyit replaces search for categorical overlap by a sta-tistical analysis of differences.Dialectometry does not enjoy overwhelmingpopularity in dialectology, however, and one ofthe reasons is simply that dialectologists, but alsolaymen, are interested not only in the aggregaterelations among sites, or even the determinationof dialect areas (or the structure of other geo-graphic influence on language variation, such asdialect continua), but are quite enamored of thedetails involved.
Dialectology scholars, but alsolaymen, wish to now where ?coffee?
is ordered (inEnglish) with a labialized /k/ sound ([kwOfi]) orwhere in Germany one is likely to hear [p] andwhere [>pf] in words such as Pfad ?path?
or Pfund?pound?.Such characteristic features are known as SHIB-BOLETHS, following a famous story in the oldtestament where people were killed because ofwhere they were from, which was betrayed bytheir inability to pronounce the initial [S] in theword ?shibboleth?
(Judges 12:6).
We propose ageneralization of the well-known precision and72recall scores, appropriate when dealing with dis-tances, and which are designed to detect distinc-tive, characteristic variants when the analysis isbased on numerical difference scores.
We alsocompare our proposal to Fisher?s linear discrim-inant, and we demonstrate its effectiveness onDutch and German dialect data.
Finally we eval-uate the success of the proposal by visually ex-amining an MDS plot showing the distances oneobtains when the analysis is restricted to the fea-tures determined to be characteristic.The paper proceeds from a dialectometric per-spective, but the technique proposed does not as-sume an aggregate analysis, only that a group ofsites has been identified somehow or another.
Thetask is then to identify characteristic features of(candidate) dialect areas.1.1 Related WorkWieling and Nerbonne (2011) introduced twomeasures seeking to identify elements character-istic of a given group, REPRESENTATIVENESSand DISTINCTIVENESS.
The intuition behind rep-resentativeness is simply that a feature increasesin representativeness to the degree that it is foundat each site in the group.
We simplify their defi-nition slightly as they focus on sound correspon-dences, i.e.
categorical variables, while we shallformulate ideas about features in general.Representativeness(f, g) =|gf ||g|where f is a feature (in their case sound corre-spondence) in question, g is the set of sites in agiven cluster, and gf denotes the set of sites wherefeature f is observed.As Wieling (2012) notes, if one construes thesites in the given group as ?relevant documents?and features as ?queries?, then this definition isequivalent to RECALL in information retrieval(IR).The intuition behind distinctiveness is similarto that behind IR?s PRECISION, which measuresthe fraction of positive query responses that iden-tify relevant documents.
In our case this would bethe fraction of those sites instantiating a featurethat are indeed in the group we seek to character-ize.
In the case of groups of sites in dialectologi-cal analysis, however, we are dealing with groupsthat may make up significant fractions of the en-tire set of sites.
Wieling and Nerbonne thereforeintroduced a correction for ?chance instantiation?.This is derived from the relative size of the groupin question:RelSize(g) = |g||G|RelOcc(f, g) = |gf ||Gf |Distinct(f, g) = RelOcc(f,g)?RelSize(g)1?RelSize(g)where, G is the set of sites in the larger area ofinterest.As a consequence, smaller clusters are givenlarger scores than clusters that contain many ob-jects.
Distinctiveness may even fall below zero,but these will be very uninteresting cases ?
thosewhich occur relatively more frequently outsidethe group under consideration than within it.CritiqueThere are two major problems with the earlierformulation which we seek to solve in this pa-per.
First, the formulation, if taken strictly, appliesonly to individual values of categorical features,not to the features themselves.
Second, manydialectological analyses are based on numericalmeasures of feature differences, e.g., the edit dis-tance between two pronunciation transcriptions orthe distance in formant space between two vowelpronunciations (Leinonen, 2010).We seek a more general manner of detectingcharacteristic features below, i.e.
one that appliesto features, and not just to their (categorical) val-ues and, in particular, one that can work hand inhand with numerical measures of feature differ-ences.2 Characteristic FeaturesSince dialectometry is built on measuring differ-ences, we assume this in our formulation, and weseek those features which differ little within thegroup in question and a great deal outside thatgroup.
We focus on the setting where we exam-ine one candidate group at a time, seeking fea-tures which characterize it best in distinction toelements outside the group.We assume therefore, as earlier, a group g thatwe are examining consisting of |g| sites among alarger area of interest G with |G| sites includingthe sites s both within and outside g. We furtherexplicitly assume a measure of difference d be-tween sites, always with respect to a given feature73f .
Then we calculate a mean difference with re-spect to f within the group in question:d?gf =2|g|2 ?
|g|?s,s?
?gdf (s, s?
)and a mean difference with respect f involvingelements from outside the group:?d6gf =1|g|(|G| ?
|g|)?s?g,s?
6?gdf (s, s?
)We then propose to identify characteristic featuresas those with relatively large differences between?d6gf and d?gf .
However, we note that scale of thesecalculations are sensitive to a number of factors,including the size of the group and the number ofindividual differences calculated (which may varydue to missing values).
To remedy the difficul-ties of comparing different features, and possiblyvery different distributions, we standardize both?d6gf and d?gf and calculate the difference betweenthe z-scores, where mean and standard deviationof the difference values are estimated from all dis-tance values calculated with respect to feature f .As a result, we use the measure?d6gf ?
d?fsd(df )?d?gf ?
d?fsd(df )where df represents all distance values with re-spect to feature f (the formula is not simplifiedfor the sake of clarity).
We emphasize that wenormalized the difference scores for each featureseparately.
Had we normalized with respect to allthe differences, we would only have transformedthe original problem in a linear fashion.Note that this formulation allows us to applythe definitions to both categorical and to numer-ical data, assuming only that the difference mea-sure is numerical.
See illustration in Figure 1.For this work we used a difference function thatfinds the aggregated minimum Levenshtein dis-tance between two sites as calculated by Gabmap(Nerbonne et al, 2011).
However, we again em-phasize that the benefit of this method in compari-son to others proposed earlier is that it can be usedwith any feature type as long as one can definea numerical distance metric between the features.Regardless of the type of data set, some distancevalues between certain sites may not be possibleto calculate, typically due to missing values.
ThisSFigure 1: Illustration of the calculation of a distancefunction.
Our proposal compares the mean distanceof all pairs of sites within a group, including all thoseshown on the left (in blue) to the mean distance of thepairs of sites where the first is within the group and thesecond outside it.may affect the scale and the reliability of the av-erage distance calculations presented above.
Forthe experiments reported below, we calculated av-erage scores only if the missing values did not ex-ceed 20% of the total values used in the calcula-tion.Fisher?s Linear DiscriminantThe formulation we propose looks a good deallike the well-known Fisher?s linear discriminant(FLD) (Schalkoff, 1992, 90ff), which maximizesthe differences in means between two data setswith respect to (the sum of) their variances.S =?2between?2withinBut FLD is defined for vectors, while we wishto generalize to cases where only differences areguaranteed to be numerical measures.
The meanof categorical features, for example, is undefined.We might imagine applying something like FLDin the space of differences, but note that low vari-ance does not necessarily correspond to a tightlyknit group in difference space.
If we measure thedifferences among all the pairs of sites in a can-didate group, each of which realizes a given cate-gorical feature differently, the mean difference ofpairs will be one (unit) and the variance zero.
Dif-ference spaces are simply constructed differently.Silhouette methodWe also note relation of our approach to theSILHOUETTE method introduced by Rousseeuw(1987) used to evaluate clustering validity.
Thesilhouette method is used to determine the optimalnumber of clusters for a given dataset.
It startsfrom data that has already been clustered using74any of the (hierarchical or flat) clustering tech-niques.
For every object i in the data (these wouldbe sites in clustering to detect dialect groups) itcalculates the average dissimilarity to all other ob-jects in the same cluster a(i), and the average dis-similarity to all objects in all other clusters (forevery cluster separately).
After the distances toall other clusters are computed, the cluster withthe smallest average distance (b(i)) to the objectin question is selected as the most appropriate onefor that object.
The silhouette s(i) is calculated ass(i) =b(i)?
a(i)max{a(i), b(i)}Values close to 1 indicate that the object is ap-propriately clustered, while negative values indi-cate that the object should have been clustered inits neighbouring cluster.
By comparing silhouettevalues obtained by clustering into different num-bers of groups, this technique indicates an optimalclustering.We compare average distances within groups toaverage distance to objects outside groups with re-spect to individual features, making our proposaldifferent.
A second point of difference is that weaim not to score ?groupings?, but rather how char-acteristic specific features are for a given group-ing.3 Experimental set upThe method we propose is tested on Dutch andGerman dialect data.
We use Levenshtein algo-rithm in order to calculate the distances betweenthe sites and Ward?s clustering method to groupthe sites.
In this section we give a brief descrip-tion of the data and the clustering procedure.Dutch data setDutch dialect data comes form the Goeman-Taeldeman-Van Reenen Project1 that comprises1876 items collected from more than 600 loca-tions in the Netherlands and Flanders.
The datawas collected during the period 1979-1996, tran-scribed into IPA and later digitalized.
It consistsof inflected and uninflected words, word groupsand short sentences.
More on this project can befound in Goeman and Taeldeman (1996).The data used in this paper is a subset ofthe GTRP data set and consist of the pronunci-ations of 562 words collected at 613 location in1http://www.meertens.knaw.nlthe Netherlands and Flanders.
It includes onlysingle word items that show phonetic variation.Multi-word items and items that show morpho-logical, rather than phonetic variation, were ex-cluded from the analysis.
Items where multiplelexemes per site are possible were also excluded.2German data setGerman dialect data comes from the project?Kleiner Deutscher Lautatlas ?
Phonetik?
at the?Forschungszentrum Deutscher Sprachatlas?
inMarburg.
In this project a number of sentencesfrom Georg Wenker?s huge collection of Ger-man dialects (1870s-1880s)3 were recorded andtranscribed in the late 1970s and early 1990s(Go?schel, 1992).
The aim of the project was togive an overview of the sound structure of mod-ern German dialects.In this paper we use a small subset of the datathat consists of the transcriptions of 40 words.
Wehave selected only words that are present at all oralmost all 186 locations evenly distributed overGermany.Distance matricesThe distances between each pair of sites withineach of the two data sets were calculated usingthe Levenshtein algorithm (Levenshtein, 1966).This method is frequently used in dialect com-parison to measure the differences between twosites (Nerbonne et al, 1996; Heeringa, 2004).
Italigns two strings and calculates the number ofmismatching segments in two strings.
The totaldistance between two sites is the average distancebetween all compared strings collected at thosetwo sites.
For the method proposed in this paper,any other method whose output is a numerical dis-tance metric between the features can be applied.The final result is a site ?
site distance matrix,that can later be analyzed by means of clusteringor, alternatively, using a dimensionality reductiontechnique such multidimensional scaling.We analyze two distance matrices using Ward?sclustering algorithm, also known as the minimalvariance algorithm.
We use MDS plots (as im-plemented in Gabmap (Nerbonne et al, 2011)) asa visual basis to choose the optimal number forclusters for the two data sets.
The choice of the2The data set used in this paper can be downloaded fromhttp://www.gabmap.nl/ app/examples/.3See, too, the Digitaler Wenker Atlas (DiWA) project,http://www.3.diwa.info/75appropriate clustering algorithm is a difficult taskas is the determination of the number of signif-icant groups (Prokic?
and Nerbonne, 2008), butthese questions are not the subjects of this pa-per.
At the risk of repeating ourselves, we empha-size that our focus in this paper is not the choiceof clustering method or the determination of themost significant (number of) groups.
We do noteven assume that the groups were obtained viaclustering, only that candidate groups have some-how been identified.
We focus then on finding themost characteristic features for a given group ofsites.
In the next section we present the resultsof applying our method to the Dutch and Germandata sets.EvaluationWe evaluate success in the task of selecting itemscharacteristic of an area by using MDS to ana-lyze a distance matrix obtained from only thatitem.
We then project the first, most importantMDS dimension to a map asking whether the orig-inal group of sites indeed is identified.
Note thatin successful cases the area corresponding to thegroup may be shaded either as darker than the restor as lighter.
In either case the item (word) hasserved to characterize the region and the sites init.We also experimented with clustering to ana-lyze the distances based on the pronunciations ofthe candidate characteristic shibboleths, but singleword distances unsurprisingly yielded very unsta-ble results.
For that reason we use MDS.4 ResultsDutchWe examine a clustering of the distance matrixfor Dutch varieties with six clusters, which wepresent in Figure 2.The clustering algorithm identified Frisian(dark green), Low Saxon (Groningen and Over-ijsel, light blue), Dutch Franconian varieties(pink), Limburg (dark blue), Belgian Brabant(red) and West Flanders (light green) dialectgroups.
For each feature (word) in our data setand for each group of sites (cluster) we calculatedthe differences within the given site and also withrespect to each of the other five groups in orderto determine which words differ the least withinthe given group and still differ a great deal withrespect to the sites outside the group.
The top fiveFigure 2: Six dialect groups in Dutch speaking area.words for each group of sites are presented in Ta-ble 1.The results obtained show that the same wordcould be prominent for more than one cluster;for example, the word scheiden is scored highlyin two different dialect groups.
In Figure 3 wepresent maps of Dutch language area that arebased on the pronunciations of the best scoringwords for each of the six groups of sites.
Foreach word we calculated the Levenshtein distanceand analyzed the resulting distance matrices usingMDS.
In maps in Figure 3 we present the first ex-tracted dimension, which always explains most ofthe variation in the data.4 We also supply the de-gree to which the extracted dimensions correlatewith the distances in the input matrix.Maps in Figure 3 reveal that the best scoringword does indeed identify the cluster in question.For example, the map in Figure 3(a) reveals thatbased on the pronunciation of word vrijdag theFrisian-speaking area is internally homogeneousand distinct from the rest of the sites.
No othergroups can be identified in the map.
In Figure 3(b)we present the analysis of a distance matrix basedon the pronunciation of the word wonen ?live?
thatwas found to be relevant for the Low Saxon area.The map shows two areas, Low Saxon and WestFlanders, where it was also among top 10 bestscored words, as two distinct areas.54The only exception is Figure 3(b) where we present sec-ond dimension.5These two areas are both known for pronouncing the slot?n in final unstressed syllables of the form /@n/ as a syllabicnasal that has assimilated in place to the preceding conso-nant.76(a) vrijdag (r = 0.78), selected as most character-istic of the Frisian area.
(b) wonen (r = 0.54), characteristic both of LowSaxon (in the northeast) but also of West Flanders(southwest).
(c) durven (r = 0.54), characteristic of Franco-nian Dutch.
(d) wegen (r = 0.59), characteristic of Limburg.
(e) gisteren (r = 0.60), selected as characteristicof Belgian Brabant.
(f) heet (r = 0.58), selected as characteristic ofWest Flanders, but in fact not awfully successful indistinguishing exactly that area.Figure 3: Dutch dialect area based on the pronunciation of words (a) vrijdag, (b) wonen, (c) durven, (d) wegen,(f) heet and (e) gisteren selected as characteristic of respective areas.77Frisian Low Saxon Franconian Limburg West Flanders Belg.Brabant2.891217 vrijdag 1.881354 wonen 1.131973 durven 2.317413 wegen 1.605255 heet 1.968656 gisteren2.808631 zoet 1.875302 dopen 1.101160 maanden 2.048480 schoenen 1.587253 weten 1.803535 gewoon2.659577 geven 1.784224 scheiden 1.096989 metselen 2.015069 schaven 1.573224 weer 1.794680 gal2.618426 draden 1.747136 bijten 1.073387 houden 1.979678 schapen 1.567049 keuren 1.764176 kleden2.606748 dun 1.721321 worden 1.054981 dorsen 1.956787 scheiden 1.548940 horen 1.753901 wippenTable 1: Five most characteristic words for each Dutch dialect variety.Figure 4: Two dialect groups in Germany.GermanWe ran the same analysis for the German data set.In Figure 4 we present the two largest groups inthe cluster analysis of the distances obtained using40 words.
We might have examined more groups,but we wished to examine results based on largergroups as well.We focus on the top-level, two-way split thatdivides Germany into north and south.6 These ar-eas correspond with the traditional division intoLow German on one hand, and Middle and HighGerman on the other.
Just as with the Dutch data,for every word in the data set and for each groupof sites we calculate the distances with respect tothe word in order to see how well the words char-acterize one of the two dialect groups.
The resultsare presented in Table 2.
Because we are exam-ining a two-way split, it is not surprising that thesame words sometimes characterize the areas (in-versely).In Figures 5(a) and 5(b) we present the MDSmaps based on the distances derived from com-6In anticipation of worries about the analysis we hastento add that more finely discriminated groups may also bedistinguished.
That is not our purpose here.North South1.057400 weisse 1.056600 gefahre1.011804 gefahre 0.909610 gross0.982128 bleib 0.825211 weisse0.920354 Ochse 0.764463 Pfeffer0.831812 gross 0.755694 baueTable 2: Five most prominent words for two dialectgroups in Germany.
Because we examine a two-waysplit, some words characterize both areas.paring the words weisse and gefahre, which weretwo best ranked words.The word weisse shows only small differenceswithin the north, which is illustrated by the light-colored northern part of Germany in Figure 5(a).The map in Figure 5(b) shows an even clearer splithighlighting the High German area based on thebest ranked word found by our method.
This wordshows also low variation in the Low German area(second best scored), which is also clearly visiblein Figure 5(b).5 ConclusionsIn this paper we have presented a method to de-tect the most characteristic features of a candidategroup of linguistic varieties.
The group might beone obtained from cluster analysis, but it mightalso be obtained from correspondence analysis(Cichocki, 2006), or it might simply be anothergroup identified for theoretical or extra-linguisticreasons (geography or social properties).The method is applicable to any feature type aslong as one can define a numerical distance met-ric between the elements.
In particular the methodmaybe applied to categorical data whose differ-ences are individually zero or one, or to vowelscharacterized by the Euclidean distance betweenformant vectors (or pairs), and it may be appliedto edit distance measures applied to phonetic tran-scriptions.
The proposed method is therefore notconstrained in its application to only the categor-ical features, as the proposal in Wieling & Ner-bonne (2011) was.Essentially the method seeks items that differminimally within a group but differ a great deal78(a) weisse (r = 0.63) (b) gefahre (r = 0.59)Figure 5: First MDS dimensions based on the pronunciation of words (a) weisse and (b) gefahre.with respect to elements outside it.
We cruciallylimited its application to elements that were in-stantiated at least 20% of the sites, and we usednormalized z-scores in order to improve the com-parability of the measurements.We demonstrated the effectiveness of the pro-posed method on real dialect data by trying toidentify the words that show low variation withina given dialect area, and high variation outside agiven area.
We evaluate the results of these ex-periments by visually examining the distances in-duced from single words.
Although this indicatedthat the technique is performing well, we concedethat alternative evaluations would be worth while,e.g.
simply mapping the density of low distancesbetween pairs in the distance matrix.
This awaitsfuture work.The proposed method can be used in dialectom-etry to automatically identify characteristic fea-tures in dialect variation, while at the same time itoffers traditional dialectologists insights into thedetails involved.
Its application may also not belimited to dialectology (including dialectometry).It is a general method that can be applied in otherbranches of linguistics, such as historical linguis-tics or typology, that deal with language classifi-cation at various levels.The method proposed in this paper might alsofind use in the evaluation of clustering, specifi-cally in helping researchers to determine the opti-mal number of groups in a clustering solution.
Itmight then result in a modification of the silhou-ette technique discussed earlier.Application of computational methods in di-alectology and historical linguistics is still notgenerally accepted.
This state of affairs is due lessto the questions that the groups of researchers aretrying to answer, and more to the methods they areusing to reach their goals.
Bringing them togetheris a challenging task.
The method we propose cananalyse large amounts of data without losing sightof the linguistic details.ReferencesJ.K.
Chambers and Peter Trudgill.
1998.
Dialectol-ogy.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Wladyslaw Cichocki.
2006.
Geographic variation inAcadian French /r/: What can correspondence anal-ysis contribute?
Literary and Linguistic Comput-ing, 21(4):529?542.
Special Issue, J.Nerbonne &W.Kretzschmar (eds.
), Progress in Dialectometry:Toward Explanation.Hans Goebl.
1982.
Dialektometrie: Prinzip-ien und Methoden des Einsatzes der NumerischenTaxonomie im Bereich der Dialektgeographie.O?sterreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften,Wien.Antonie Goeman and Johan Taeldeman.
1996.Fonologie en morfologie van de nederlandse di-alecten.
een nieuwe materiaalverzameling en tweenieuwe atlasprojecten.
Taal en Tongval, 48:38?59.Joachim Go?schel.
1992.
Das Forschungsinstitut fu?rDeutsche Sprache ?Deutscher Sprachatlas?.
Wis-79senschaftlicher Bericht, Das Forschungsinstitut fu?rDeutsche Sprache, Marburg.Wilbert Heeringa.
2004.
Measuring Dialect Pro-nunciation Differences using Levenshtein Distance.Ph.D.
thesis, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen.Therese Leinonen.
2010.
An Acoustic Analysis ofVowel Pronunciation in Swedish Dialects.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Groningen.Vladimir I. Levenshtein.
1966.
Binary codes ca-pable of correcting insertions, deletions and rever-sals.
Cybernetics and Control Theory, 10(8):707?710.
Russian orig.
in Doklady Akademii Nauk SSR163(4), 845?848, 1965.John Nerbonne, Wilbert Heeringa, Erik van den Hout,Peter van der Kooi, Simone Otten, and Willemvan de Vis.
1996.
Phonetic distance between dutchdialects.
In Gert Durieux, Walter Daelemans, andSteven Gillis, editors, CLIN VI: Proc.
from the SixthCLIN Meeting, pages 185?202.
Center for DutchLanguage and Speech, University of Antwerpen(UIA), Antwerpen.John Nerbonne, Rinke Coleand, Charlotte Gooskens,Peter Kleiweg, and Therese Leinonen.
2011.Gabmap: A web application for dialectology.
Di-alectologia, Special issue II:65?89.John Nerbonne.
2009.
Data-driven dialectology.
Lan-guage and Linguistics Compass, 3(1):175?198.Jelena Prokic?
and John Nerbonne.
2008.
Recogniz-ing groups among dialects.
International Journal ofHumanities and Arts Computing, 2(1-2):153?172.DOI: 10.13366/E1753854809000366.Peter J. Rousseeuw.
1987.
Silhouettes: a graphical aidto the interpretation and validation of cluster analy-sis.
Journal of Computational and Applied Mathe-matics, 20:53?65.Robert Schalkoff.
1992.
Pattern Recognition: Statisti-cal, Structural and Neural Approaches.
John Wiley,New York.Jean Se?guy.
1973.
La dialectome?trie dans l?atlas lin-guistique de gascogne.
Revue de Linguistique Ro-mane, 37(145):1?24.Martijn Wieling and John Nerbonne.
2011.
Bipar-tite spectral graph partitioning for clustering di-alect varieties and detecting their linguistic fea-tures.
Computer Speech and Language, 25:700?715.
DOI:10.1016/j.csl.2010.05.004.
Published on-line May 21, 2010.Martijn Wieling.
2012.
A Quantitative Approach toSocial and Geogrpahical Dialect Variation.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Groningen.80
