Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Models of Language Acquisition and Loss, pages 26?28,Avignon, France, April 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSearching the Annotated Portuguese Childes CorporaRodrigo WilkensInstitute of InformaticsFederal University of Rio Grande do SulBrazilrswilkens@inf.ufrgs.br1 IntroductionAnnotated corpora of child language data arevaluable resources for language acquisition stud-ies, for instance, providing the basis for devel-opmental comparisons and evaluation of differenthypotheses.
For computational investigations an-notated corpora can serve as an approximation tothe linguistic environment to which a child is ex-posed, as discussed by Wintner (2010).Recently there has been a growing numberof initiatives for annotating children?s data for anumber of languages, with for instance, part-of-speech (PoS) and syntactic information (Sagae etal., 2010; Buttery and Korhonen, 2007; Yang,2010) and some of these are available as part ofCHILDES (MacWhinney, 2000).
For resourcerich languages like English these annotations canbe further extended with detailed information,for instance, from WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)about synonymy, from the MRC PsycholinguisticDatabase (Coltheart, 1981) about age of acquisi-tion, imagery, concreteness and familiarity amongothers.
However, for many other languages one ofthe challenges is in annotating corpora in a con-text where resources and tools are less abundantand many are still under development.In this paper we describe one such initiative, forannotating the raw Portuguese corpora availablein the CHILDES database with (psycho)linguisticand distributional information (?2) .
It also de-scribes a modular searching environment for thesecorpora that allows complex and flexible searchesthat combine different levels of annotation, andthat can be easily extended (?3).
We finish withsome conclusions and future work.2 Resource DescriptionThe Portuguese, CHILDES contains 3 corpora:?
Batore?o (Batoreo, 2000) with 60 narratives,30 from adults and 30 from children, abouttwo stories?
Porto Alegre (Guimara?es, 1994; Guimara?es,1995) with data from 5 to 9 year old children,collected both cross-sectionally and longitu-dinally and?
Floriano?polis with the longitudinal data forone Brazilian child: 5530 utterances in broadphonetic transcription.The total number of sentences and words perage in these corpora is shown in Table 1Table 1: Frequency of words and sentences per age inthe Portuguese corporaAge words sentences0 0 01 7k 2k2 8k 1k3 0 04 1k 615 38k 1k6 47k 1k7 56k 1k8 56k 1kIn order to annotate the transcribed sentencesin the CHILDES Portuguese corpora we used thePALAVRAS parser1 (Bick, 2000).
It is a statisti-cal robust Portuguese parser, which always return1Tagset avaliable at http://beta.visl.sdu.dk/visl/pt/info/symbolset-manual.html.26at least one analysis even for incomplete or un-grammatical sentences.
This parser has a high ac-curacy: 99% for part-of-speech and 96-97%.
Theparser also has a named entity recognizer (Bick,2003) and provides some semantic informationfor nouns, verbs and adjectives (e.g.
organization,date, place, etc).
The annotations process con-sisted of the following steps:1. automatic pre-processing for dealing with in-complete words and removing transcriptionnotes;2. tagging and parsing with PALAVRASparser;3. annotation of verbs and nouns with psy-cholinguistic information like age of acqui-sition and concreteness from (Cameirao andVicente, 2010).For enabling age related analysis, the sen-tences were subsequently divided according to thechild?s age reported in each corpus, and annotatedwith frequency information collected consideringseparately each type of annotation per age.3 System DescriptionIn order to allow complex searches that combineinformation from different levels of annotationfor each age, the sentences were organized in adatabase, structured as in Tables 2 and 3, respec-tively presenting the structure of words and sen-tences).Table 2: Information about WordsWordage of acquisitionpart-of-speechcorpus frequencyfrequency by ageadult frequencyTable 3: Information about SentencesSentencechildren genderPoS tagsdependency treesemantic tagsUsing a web environment, a user can chooseany combination of fields in the database to per-form a query.
It is possible to examine, for in-stance, the usage of a particular word and its evo-lution according to grammatical class per age.The environment provides two modes forqueries: an expert mode, where database queriescan be dynamically specified selecting the rele-vant fields, and a guided mode which containspredefined query components and a set of filtersthat users can combine in the queries.
The resultsare available both as a file containing the relevantannotated sentences for further processing, or ina graphical form.
The latter shows a chart of fre-quency per age, which can be displayed in termsof absolute or relative values.The guided mode provides an iterative way forquery construction where the user selects a rele-vant field (e.g.
age of acquisition) at a time andadds it to the query until all desired fields havebeen added, when the resulting query is saved.The user can repeat this process to create com-bined queries and at the end of the process canchose the form for outputting the result (graphicor file).4 ConclusionThis paper describes the (psycho)linguistic anddistributional annotation of the Portuguese cor-pora in CHILDES, and presents an environmentfor searching them.
This environment allowscomplex searches combining multiple levels ofannotation to be created even by non-expert users.Therefore this initiative not only produced an in-tegrated and rich annotation schema so far lack-ing for these corpora, but also provided a modularenvironment for structuring and searching themthrough a more user friendly interface.
As nextsteps we foresee the extension of the annotationusing other resources.
We also plan to add cor-pora for other languages to the environment, suchas English and Spanish.AcknowledgementsThis research was partly supported by CNPqProjects 551964/2011-1 and 478222/2011-4.ReferencesBatore?o, H. 2000.
Expressa?o do Espac?o no Por-tugue?s Europeu.
Contributo Psicolingu?
?stico para27o Estudo da Linguagem e Cognic?a?o.
PhD Disser-tation, Fundac?a?o Calouste Gulbenkian e Fundac?a?opara a Cie?ncia e a Tecnologia, Ministe?rio da Cie?nciae da Tecnologia, LisboaBick, E. 2000.
The Parsing System Palavras.
Au-tomatic Grammatical Analysis of Portuguese in aConstraint Grammar Framework.
[S.l.
]: Universityof Arhus.Bick, E. 2003.
Multi-level NER for Portuguese in aCG framework.
Proceedings of the ComputationalProcessing of the Portuguese Language.Briscoe, E., Carroll, J., and Watson, R. 2006.
The sec-ond release of the rasp system.
COLING/ACL 2006Interactive Presentation Sessions, Sydney, Aus-tralia.Buttery, P., Korhonen, A.
2007.
I will shoot yourshopping down and you can shoot all my tins?Automatic Lexical Acquisition from the CHILDESDatabase.
Proceedings of the Workshop on Cogni-tive Aspects of Computational Language Acquisi-tion.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Cameirao, M.L.
and Vicente, S.G. 2010.
Age-of-acquisition norms for a set of 1,749 portuguesewords.
Behavior research methods 42, Springer.Coltheart, M. 1981.
The MRC psycholinguisticdatabase.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psy-chology, 33A:497?505.Fellbaum, C. 1998.
WordNet An Electronic LexicalDatabase..
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA ; Lon-don.Guimara?es, A. M. 1994.
Desenvolvimento da lin-guagem da crianc?a na fase deletramento.
Cadernosde Estudos Lingu?
?sticos, 26, 103-110Guimara?es, A. M. 1994.
The use of the CHILDESdatabase for Brazilian Portuguese.
I. H. Faria &M. J. Freitas (Eds.
), Studies on the acquisition ofPortuguese.
Lisbon: ColibriMacWhinney, B.
2000.
The CHILDES project: toolsfor analyzing talk.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,second edition.Sagae, K., Davis, E., Lavie, A., MacWhinney, B. andWintner, S. 2010.
Morphosyntactic annotation ofCHILDES transcripts.
Journal of Child Language.Wintner, S. 2010.
Computational Models of Lan-guage Acquisition.
CICLing?10.Charles, Yang 2010.
Three factors in language varia-tion.
Lingua.28
