NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Predicting and Improving Text Readability for target reader populations (PITR 2012)., pages 8?16,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Automatic Lexical Simplification in Spanish: An Empirical StudyBiljana Drndarevic?
and Horacio SaggionUniversitat Pompeu FabraDepartment of Information and Communication TechnologiesC/ Tanger, 122-14008018 Barcelona, Spain{biljana.drndarevic,horacio.saggion}@upf.eduAbstractIn this paper we present the results of the anal-ysis of a parallel corpus of original and simpli-fied texts in Spanish, gathered for the purposeof developing an automatic simplification sys-tem for this language.
The system is intendedfor individuals with cognitive disabilities whoexperience difficulties reading and interpret-ing informative texts.
We here concentrateon lexical simplification operations applied byhuman editors on the basis of which we derivea set of rules to be implemented automatically.We have so far addressed the issue of lexicalunits substitution, with special attention to re-porting verbs and adjectives of nationality; in-sertion of definitions; simplification of numer-ical expressions; and simplification of namedentities.1 IntroductionIn the highly digitalized 21st century sharing infor-mation via Internet has become not only common-place but also essential.
Yet, there are still a largenumber of people who are denied this fundamentalhuman right ?
access to information.
In 2006 the UNconducted an audit with the aim of testing the stateof accessibility of the leading websites around theworld.
The results were rather disappointing, withonly three out of 100 tested web pages achievingbasic accessibility status.
It is therefore clear thatone of the priorities for the future is working on en-abling inclusion of all the groups that are currentlymarginalised and denied equal access to informationas the rest of the population.Written information available online is far too of-ten presented in a way that is perceived as incom-prehensible to individuals with cognitive disabili-ties.
It is therefore necessary to simplify the com-plex textual content in order to make it more acces-sible.
However, manual simplification is too time-consuming and little cost-effective so as to yield suf-ficient amount of simplified reading material in asatisfactory time frame.
Hence, the need and in-terest arise to develop automatic or semi-automaticsimplification tools that would (partially) substitutehumans in carrying out this laborious task.Our project is one such aspiration.
Our goal is tooffer an automated text simplification tool for Span-ish, targeted at readers with cognitive disabilities.We delimit our research to simplification of infor-mative texts and news articles.
So far we have fo-cused primarily on syntactic simplification, with analready implemented module currently in the teststage (Bott and Saggion, 2012b).
The present work,however, deals with lexical simplification and is cen-tred around a corpus analysis, a preparatory stage forthe development of a separate lexical module in thefuture.Earlier work already establishes the importance oflexical changes for text simplification (Carroll et al,1998; Caseli et al, 2009; De Belder et al, 2010).Upon examining a parallel corpus consisting of orig-inal and manually simplified newspaper articles inSpanish, we have found that by far the most com-mon type of changes applied by human editors areprecisely lexical changes, accounting for 17.48% ofall annotated operations (Bott and Saggion, 2012a).Words perceived as more complicated are replaced8by their simpler synonyms.
A recurring exampleis that of reporting verbs.
Corpus analysis shows aclear tendency towards replacing all reporting verbssuch as advertir (warn), afirmar (declare), explicar(explain), etc.
with the ubiquitous decir (say).
Sen-tences 1 (original) and 2 (simplified) illustrate thesaid phenomenon (translated into English):1.
It is important that we continue working on themeans that promote the access of the disabledto cultural content, she explained.2.
The Minister of Culture said that she is work-ing towards granting the disabled access to cul-tural content.We therefore document all cases of lexical changeobserved in the corpus and try to extract rules fortheir automatic implementation.
The remainder ofthis paper is organized as follows: Section 2 ad-dresses the related work in the field; in Section 3 wedescribe the experimental setting and the process ofobtaining the parallel corpus used in the study, whileSection 4 provides a more detailed insight into thekind of lexical simplifications observed.
We con-clude in Section 5 and outline our future work.2 Related WorkText simplification has so far been approached withtwo different aims.
One is to offer simplified ver-sions of original text to human readers, such asforeign language learners (Petersen and Ostendorf,2007; Medero and Ostendorf, 2011); aphasic peo-ple (Devlin and Unthank, 2006); low literacy in-dividuals (Specia, 2010) and others.
On the otherhand, simplified text is seen as input for further nat-ural language processing to enhance its proficiency,e.g.
in machine translation or information retrievaltools (Klebanov et al, 2004).
The earliest simplifi-cation systems employed a rule-based approach andfocused on syntactic structure of the text (Chan-drasekar et al, 1996).
The PSET project (Carroll etal., 1998) dealt with simplification of news articlesin English for aphasic readers.
Together with syn-tactic analysis and transformations similar to thoseof Chandrasekar et al (1996), they employed lexi-cal simplification based on looking up synonyms inWordNet and extracting Kucera-Francis frequencyfrom the Oxford Psycholinguistic Database (Quin-lan, 1992).
Therefore, the most frequent of a set ofsynonyms for every content word of the input textwas chosen to appear in its simplified version.The above approach to lexical simplification hasbeen repeated in a number of works (Lal and Ruger,2002; Burstein et al, 2007).
Bautista et al (2009)also rely on a dictionary of synonyms, but their crite-rion for choosing the most appropriate one is word-length rather than frequency.
Caseli et al (2009)analyse lexical operations on a parallel corpus oforiginal and manually simplified texts in Portuguese,using lists of simple words and discourse markers asresources.
Bautista et al (2011) focused on numeri-cal expressions as one particular problem of lexicalsimplification and suggested the use of hedges as ameans of dealing with complex numerical content.Given the fact that many words tend to be poly-semic, attempts have been made to address this is-sue so as to provide more accurate, context-awarelexical substitution.
De Belder et al (2010) werethe first to employ word sense disambiguation tech-niques in order to capture contextual information,while Biran et al (2011) apply an unsupervisedmethod for learning pairs of complex and simplesynonyms based on an unaligned corpus of textsfrom the original Wikipedia and Simple EnglishWikipedia.3 Experimental SettingWe have gathered a corpus consisting of 200 in-formative texts in Spanish, obtained from the newsagency Servimedia.
The articles have been clas-sified into four categories: national news, interna-tional news, society and culture.
We then obtainedsimplified versions of the said texts, courtesy of theDILES (Discurso y Lengua Espan?ola) group of theAutonomous University of Madrid.
Simplificationshave been applied manually, by trained human ed-itors, following easy-to-read guidelines suggestedby Anula (2009), (2008).
We are interested to seehow these guidelines are applied in practice, as wellas how human editors naturally deal with cases nottreated by the guidelines in sufficient detail.The corpus has been automatically annotated us-ing part-of-speech tagging, named entity recognitionand parsing (Padro?
et al, 2010).
Furthermore, a text9aligning algorithm based on Hidden Markov Mod-els (Bott and Saggion, 2011) has been applied to ob-tain sentence-level alignments.
The automatic align-ments have then been manually corrected through agraphical editing tool within the GATE framework(Cunningham et al, 2002).
A total of 570 sentenceshave been aligned (246 in original and 324 in sim-ple texts), with the following correlations betweenthem: one to one, one to many or many to one, aswell as cases where there is no correlation (cases ofcontent reduction through summarisation or infor-mation expansion through the introduction of defini-tions).
The alignments facilitate the observation ofthe corpus, particularly cases where entire sentenceshave been eliminated or inserted.A parallel corpus thus aligned enables us to en-gage in data analysis as well as possibly carry outmachine learning experiments to treat specific prob-lems we have so far detected.
We have documentedall simplification operations used by human editorsand placed them in eight major categories applied atvarious linguistic levels (individual words, phrasesor sentences).
The operations are change, delete, in-sert, split, proximization, re-order, select and join,listed in the decreasing order of their relative fre-quency in the corpus.
Among these are the changesthat are either rather idiosyncratic or involve com-plex inferential processes proper to humans but notmachines.
Sentence 1 (original) and paragraph 2(simplified) are an example (translated into English):1.
Around 390,000 people have returned to theirhomes after being forced to evacuate due tofloods caused by monsoon rains last summer inPakistan.2.
Last summer it rained a lot in Pakistan.
Therain flooded the fields and the houses.
That isto say, the water covered the houses and thefields.
For this reason a lot of people left theirhomes in Pakistan.
Now these people return totheir homes.Sentences in bold are examples of information ex-pansion which is difficult to implement automati-cally.
The concept of flood is obviously perceivedas complicated.
However, instead of offering a defi-nition taken out of a dictionary and applicable to anycontext (as in the example further below), the writerexplains what happened in this particular instance,relying on their common knowledge and inferentialthinking.
It is obvious that such conclusions cannotbe drawn by computers.
What can be done is inserta definition of a difficult term, as in the followingexample:1.
The Red Cross asks for almost one million eu-ros for the 500,000 Vietnamese affected by thefloods.2.
The Red Cross asks for one million euros forVietnam.
The Red Cross is an organizationthat helps people and countries around theworld.After documenting all the operations and analysingtheir nature and frequency, we have finally decidedto focus on the automatic treatment of the following:lexical simplification, deletions, split operations, in-version of direct speech and the insertion of defini-tions.
In the next section, we concentrate on oper-ations applied at the lexical level, with the aim ofdrawing conclusions about the nature of lexical sim-plification carried out by trained editors and the pos-sibility of their automatic implementation in the fu-ture.4 Data AnalysisWe have so far obtained forty simplifications and ourgoal is to shortly acquire simplified versions of all200 texts.
A variety of lexical operations have beenobserved in the corpus, which go far beyond sim-ple substitution of one lexical unit with its simplerequivalent.
In order to describe the nature of thesechanges, we have categorized them as follows:?
substitutions of one lexical unit with its simplersynonym;?
insertion of definitions of difficult terms andconcepts;?
simplification of numerical expressions;?
simplification of named entities;?
elimination of nominalisation;?
rewording of idioms and collocations; and?
rewording of metaphorically used expressions.104.1 Lexical substitutionWe have documented 84 cases where one lexicalunit has been substituted with its simpler synonym.These words make up our lexical substitution ta-ble (LST), gathered for the purpose of data analy-sis.
The table contains the lemma of the original(O) word, its simple (S) equivalent and additional in-formation about either the original word, the simpleword or the nature of the simplification, such as pol-ysemy, hyponym ?
hypernym, metaphor, etc.
Ta-ble 1 is an excerpt.Original Simple Commentaryimpartir pronunciar polysemyinformar decir reporting verbinmigrante extranjero hyponym?
hypernymletras literatura polysemyTable 1: An excerpt from the Lexical Substitution TableTo analyse the relationship between the sets of O-S words, we have concentrated on their frequency ofuse and length (both in characters and syllables).4.1.1 Word frequencyFor every word in the LST, we consulted its fre-quency in a dictionary developed for the purposes ofour project by the DILES group and based on theReferential Corpus of Contemporary Spanish (Cor-pus de Referencia del Espan?ol Actual, CREA)1.
Wehave found that for 54.76% of the words, the fre-quency of the simple word is higher than the fre-quency of its original equivalent; in 30.95% of thecases, the frequency is the same; only 3.57% of thesimple words have lower frequency than the corre-sponding original ones; and in 10.71% of the casesit was impossible to analyse the frequency since theoriginal word was a multi-word expression not in-cluded in the dictionary, as is the case with complexconjunctions like sin embargo (however) or pese a(despite).As can be appreciated, in a high number of casesO and S words have the same frequency of use ac-cording to CREA.
In an intent to rationalise thisphenomenon, we have counted the number of timeseach of these words appears in the totality of orig-inal and simple texts.
In more than half of the O-1http://corpus.rae.es/creanet.htmlS pairs the simple word is more common than itsoriginal equivalent, not only in the simplified texts,where it is expected to abound, but also in the orig-inal ones.
This difference in the frequency of usein actual texts and the CREA database could be ex-plained by the specificity of the genre of the texts inour corpus, where certain words are expected to berecurrent, and the genre-neutral language of CREAon the other hand.
Out of the remaining 44.5% ofthe cases, where O words are more abundant than Swords, five out of fourteen may have been used forstylistic purposes.
One good example is the use ofvaried reporting verbs, such as afirmar (confirm) oranunciar (announce), instead of uniformly using de-cir (say).
Six in fourteen of the same group are pol-ysemic words possibly used in contexts other thanthe one where the simplification was recorded.
Suchis the example of the word art?
?culo, substituted withcosa where it meant thing.
However, it also occurswith its second meaning (article: a piece of writing)where it cannot be substituted with cosa.What can be concluded so far is that frequency isa relatively good indicator of the word difficulty, al-beit not the only one, as seen by a large number ofcases when the pairs of O-S words have the samefrequency.
For that reason we analyse word lengthin Section 4.1.2.
Polysemy and style are also seenas important factors at the time of deciding on thechoice of the synonym to replace a difficult word.Whereas style is a factor we currently do not intendto treat computationally, we cannot but recognizethe impact that polysemy has on the quality and ac-curacy of the output text.
Consider the example ofanother pair of words in our lexical substitution ta-ble: impresio?n ?
influencia, in the following pairof original (1) and simplified (2) sentences:1.
Su propia sede ya da testimonio de la ?im-presio?n profunda?
que la ciudad andaluza dejo?en el pintor.Its very setting testifies to the profound influ-ence of the Andalusian town on the painter.2.
En esa casa tambie?n se ve la influencia deGranada.The influence of Granada is also visible in thathouse.In the given context, the two words are perfect syn-11onyms.
However, in expressions such as tengo laimpresio?n que (I am under the impression that), theword impresio?n cannot be substituted with influen-cia.
We have found that around 35% of all the orig-inal words in the LST are polysemic.
We thereforebelieve it is necessary to include a word sense dis-ambiguation approach as part of the lexical simplifi-cation component of our system in the future.4.1.2 Word LengthTable 2 summarizes the findings relative to theword length of the original and simple words in theLST, where syll.
stands for syllable and char.
forcharacter.Type of relationship PercentageS has fewer syll.
than O 57.85%S has more syll.
than O 17.85%S has the same number of syll.
as O 25%S has fewer char.
than O 66.66%S has more char.
than O 23.8%S has the same number of char.
as O 9.52%Table 2: Word length of original and simple wordsThe average word length in the totality of origi-nal texts is 4.81 characters, while the simplified textscontain words of average length of 4.76 characters.We have also found that the original and simplifiedtexts have roughly the same number of short words(up to 5 characters) and medium length words (6-10characters), while the original texts are more satu-rated in long words (more than 11 characters) thanthe simplified ones (5.91% in original and 3.64%in simplified texts).
Going back to the words fromthe LST which had the same frequency accordingto CREA, we found that around 80% of these werepairs where the simple word had fewer syllables thanthe original one.
This leads us to the conclusion thatthere is a strong preference for shorter words andthat word length is to be combined with frequencywhen deciding among a set of possible synonyms toreplace a difficult word.4.2 Transformation rulesUpon close observation of our data, we have deriveda set of preliminary simplification rules that applyto lexical units substitution.
These rules concern re-porting verbs and adjectives of nationality, and willbe addressed in that order.In the twenty pairs of aligned texts nine differ-ent reporting verbs are used.
All nine of themhave been substituted with decir (say) at least once,amounting to eleven instances of such substitutions.Three verbs from the same set appear in simplifiedtexts without change.
On the whole, we perceivea strong tendency towards using a simple verb likesay when reporting direct speech.
Our intention isto build a lexicon of reporting verbs in Spanish andcomplement it with grammatical rules so as to en-able accurate lexical substitution of these items ofvocabulary.
Simple substitution of one lexical unitwith another is not always possible due to syntacticconstraints, as illustrated in the following example:1.
El juez advirtio?
al duque que podr?
?a provocar lacitacio?n de la Infanta.The judge warned the Duke that he might causethe Princess to be subpoenaed.2.
Murio?
cient?
?fico que advirtio?
sobre deterioro dela capa de ozono.The scientist who warned about the deteriora-tion of the ozone layer died.In the first case the verb advertir is used as part of thestructure [advertir a X que], in English [warn some-body that].
The verb decir easily fits this structurewithout disturbing the grammaticality of the sen-tence.
In the second instance, however, the reportingverb is used with the preposition and an indirect ob-ject, a structure where the insertion of decir wouldbe fatal for the grammaticality of the output.
We be-lieve that the implementation of this rule would bea worthwhile effort, given that informative texts of-ten abound in direct speech that could be relativelyeasily simplified so as to enhance readability.As for adjectives of nationality, we have no-ticed a strong preference for the use of periphrasticstructure instead of denominal adjective denotingnationality.
Thus, a simple adjective is replacedwith the construction [de < COUNTRY >], e.g.el gobierno pakistan??
(the Pakistani government)is replaced by el gobierno de Pakista?n (the gov-ernment of Pakistan).
The same rule is appliedto instances of nominalised nationality adjectives.In these cases the structure [ArtDef + Adj]2 be-2ArtDef: definite article, Adj: adjective12comes [ArtDef + persona + de + < COUNTRY >],e.g: los pakistan?
?es ?
las personas de Pakista?n(the Pakistani?
the people from Pakistan).
In onlyfive instances the adjective was preferred.
Twice itwas espan?ol (Spanish), which were the only two in-stances of the expression of this nationality.
Thisleads us to the conclusion that espan?ol is sufficientlywidespread and therefore simple enough and wouldnot need to be substituted with its periphrastic equiv-alent.
Norteamericano (North American) was usedtwice, therefore being slightly more acceptable thanestadounidense (of/from the United States), whichis always replaced by de Estados Unidos.
The re-maining is the one instance of egipcio (Egyptian),otherwise replaced by de Egipto.Based on the observations, our hypothesis is thatmore common nationality adjectives, such as Span-ish, and possibly also English or French need not bemodified.
Norteamericano or estadounidense how-ever common are possibly perceived as complicateddue to their length.
In order to derive a definite rule,we would need to carry out a more detailed analy-sis on a richer corpus to determine how frequency ofuse and length of these adjectives correlate.4.3 Insertion of definitionsDefinitions of difficult terms are found in 57.5% ofall texts we have analysed.
Around 70% of theseare definitions of named entities, such as El Greco,Amnesty International, Guantanamo and others.
Inaddition to these, difficult lexical units, and even ex-pressions, are explained by means of a definition.Thus, a (prison) cell is defined as a room in a prison,and the prisoner of conscience as a person put inprison for his ideas.
In order to deal with namedentity definitions, we intend to investigate the meth-ods for the look-up of such definitions in the future.To solve the problem of defining difficult individuallexical units, one solution is to target those wordswith the lowest frequency rate and in the absenceof an adequate simpler synonym insert a definitionfrom a monolingual dictionary, given the availabil-ity of such resources (the definition itself might needto be simplified).4.4 Numerical expressionsOur analysis shows that the treatment of numericalexpressions should have a significant place in oursimplification system, given their abundance in thekind of texts our system is mainly intended for, anda wide variety of simplification solutions observedby examining the parallel corpus.
Even though byfar the most common operation is elimination (inthe process of summarization), there are a numberof other recurrent operations.
The most common ofthese are explained below for the purpose of illus-tration, given that the totality of the rules is beyondthe scope of this paper.
We separately address nu-merical expressions forming part of a date and otherinstances of using numbers and numerals.The following are the rules concerning numericalexpressions in dates:1. en < YEAR >?
en el an?o < YEAR >en 2010?
en el an?o 20102.
Years in parenthesis are eliminated (this opera-tion has been applied in 100% of the cases dur-ing manual simplification):El Greco (1541?1614)?
El Greco3.
In expressions containing the name and/or theday of the month, irrespective of whether it isfollowed by a year, the information relative tothe month (i.e.
name or name and day) is elim-inated (applied in around 85% of the cases):en septiembre 2010 ?
en el an?o 2010el 3 de mayo?
?As for other numerical expressions, the mostcommon rules and most uniformly applied are thefollowing:1.
Replacing a word with a figure:cinco d??as?
5 d??as2.
Rounding of big numbers:ma?s de 540.000 personas ?
medio millo?n depersonas3.
Rounding by elimination of decimal points:Cerca de 1,9 millones de casas ?
2 millonesde casas4.
Simplification of noun phrases containing twonumerals in plural and the preposition of byeliminating the first numeral:cientos de miles de personas ?
miles de per-sonas135.
Substitution of words denoting a certain num-ber of years (such as decade or centenary) bythe corresponding number:IV centenario de su nacimiento?
400 an?os desu nacimiento6.
The thousands and millions in big numbers areexpressed by means of a word, rather than afigure:17.000 casas?
17 mil casasWe are currently working on implementing a nu-merical expression simplification module based onrounding and rewording rules derived from our cor-pus and previous study in the field (Bautista et al,2011).4.5 Named EntitiesAs with numerical expressions, the majority ofnamed entities are eliminated as a result of sum-marization.
Only those names that are relative tothe theme of the text in question and which tend toappear throughout the article are kept.
In the caseof these examples, we have observed the follow-ing operations: abbreviation; disabbreviation; usingfull name instead of the surname alone, customaryin newspaper articles; expanding the noun phrase[ArtDef + NCom]3 with the name of the referent; re-placing the noun phrase [ArtDef + NCom] with thename of the referent; inversion of the constituentsin the structures where a professional title is fol-lowed by the name of its holder in apposition; anda handful of other, less frequent changes.
Table 3summarizes the most common operations and illus-trates them with examples from the corpus.
As canbe observed, some NE are written as acronyms whileothers are disabbreviated.
It would be interesting toanalyse in the future whether the length and the rel-ative frequency of the words that make up these ex-pressions are a factor, or these are simply examplesof arbitrary choices made by human editors lackingmore specific guidelines.While to decide how to deal with names of organ-isations that may possibly be abbreviated we wouldneed a larger corpus more saturated in these exam-ples, there are a number of rules ready to be imple-mented.
Such is the case of personal names, where3NCom: common nounalmost 90% of the names appearing in simplifiedtexts contain both name and surname as opposed tofirst name alone.
The same is true of the order ofname and title, where in 100% of such examples thename is preferred in the initial position.
As for ex-panding the named entity with a common noun (thepainter Pablo Picasso), we have recorded this op-eration in only 15% of the personal names used inS texts.
We do, however, notice a pattern ?
thiskind of operation is applied at the first mention of thename, where the common noun acts as an additionaldefining element.
It is an interesting phenomenon tobe further researched.4.6 Other simplification tendenciesHuman editors have opted for a number of other sim-plification solutions which are either difficult or im-possible to implement computationally.
The elimi-nation of nominalisations is an example of the for-mer.
Whereas common in the journalistic genre, hu-man simplifications show a very strong tendency to-wards substituting the combination of the supportverb and a deverbal noun with the correspondingverb alone, as in the example:1.
La financiacio?n ha sido realizada por la Gener-alitat Valenciana.The funding has been provided by the ValencianGovernment.2.
La Generalitat Valenciana ha financiado la in-vestigacio?n.The Valencian Government has financed the re-search.The expression realizar una financiacio?n (providefunding) from the original sentence (1) has been sub-stituted by the verb financiar (to fund) in the simpli-fied version (2).
Twenty other instances of this kindof operation have been recorded, thus making it anissue to be readdressed in the future.What is also to be addressed is the treatment ofset expressions such as idioms and collocations.
Al-though not excessively abundant in the current ver-sion of our corpus, we hypothesise that the simpli-fication of such expressions could considerably en-hance the readability of the text and the research ofthe issue could, therefore, prove beneficial, provided14Original Simple Operation TypeComite?
Espan?ol de Representatesde Personas con DiscapacidadCERMI abbreviationel PSOE el Partido Socialista ObreroEspan?oldisabbreviationGonzales-Sinde Angeles Gonzales-Sinde full nameel artista el artista Pablo Picasso NCom+NEla ciudad andaluza Granada NCom ?
NELa ministra de Defensa, CarmeChaco?nCarme Chaco?n, ministra de De-fensaNCom,NE ?
NE,NComTable 3: Named Entities Substitution Examplesthe availability of the necessary resources for Span-ish.On the other hand, an example of common hu-man simplification tactics which is out of reach fora computational system is rewording of metaphori-cally used expressions.
Thus, un gigante de la es-cena (a giant on stage) is changed into un actor ex-traordinario (an extraordinary actor).
Such exam-ples point out to the limitations automatic simplifi-cation systems are bound to possess.5 Conclusions and future workIn the present paper we have concentrated on theanalysis of lexical changes observed in a parallelcorpus of original and simplified texts in Spanish.We have categorized all the operations into substitu-tion of lexical units; insertion of definitions of diffi-cult terms and concepts; simplification of numericalexpressions; simplification of named entities; anddifferent cases of rewording.
Analysis suggests thatfrequency in combination with word length is thenecessary combination of factors to consider whendeciding on the choice among a set of synonyms toreplace a difficult input word.
On the other hand, ahigh number of polysemic input words underline theimportance of including word sense disambiguationas part of the lexical substitution module.Based on the available data, we have so far de-rived a set of rules concerning reporting verbs, ad-jectives of nationality, numerical expressions andnamed entities, all of which are to be further de-veloped and implemented in the future.
Numeri-cal expressions in particular are given an importantplace in our system and more in-depth analysis isbeing carried out.
We are working on rounding ofbig numbers and the use of modifiers in the simplifi-cation of these expressions.
A number of issues arestill to be tackled, such as elimination of nominali-sation and simplification of multi-word expressions.The ultimate goal is to implement the lexical mod-ule as part of a larger architecture of the system forautomatic text simplification for Spanish.AcknowledgementsThe present study is part of a Spanish researchproject entitled Simplext: An automatic system fortext simplification (http://www.simplext.es).
Simplext is led by Technosite and partiallyfunded by the Ministry of Industry, Tourism andTrade of the Government of Spain, through the Na-tional Plan for Scientific Research, Developmentand Technological Innovation (I+D+i), within thestrategic Action of Telecommunications and Infor-mation Society (Avanza Competitiveness, with thefile number TSI-020302-2010-84).
We are grate-ful to the fellowship RYC-2009-04291 from Pro-grama Ramo?n y Cajal 2009, Ministerio de Econom?
?ay Competitividad, Secretar?
?a de Estado de Investi-gacio?n, Desarrollo e Innovacio?n, Spain.ReferencesA.
Anula.
2008.
Lecturas adaptadas a la ensen?anza delespan?ol como l2: variables lingu??
?sticas para la deter-minacio?n del nivel de legibilidad.
In La evaluacio?n enel aprendizaje y la ensen?anza del espan?ol como LE/L2.A.
Anula.
2009.
Tipos de textos, complejidad lingu??
?sticay facilicitacio?n lectora.
In Actas del Sexto Congresode Hispanistas de Asia, pages 45?61.S.
Bautista, P. Gerva?s, and R.I. Madrid.
2009.
Feasi-bility analysis for semiautomatic conversion of text toimprove readability.
In The Second International Con-ference on Information and Communication Technolo-gies and Accessibility.15S.
Bautista, R. Herva?s, P. Gerva?s, R. Power, andS.
Williams.
2011.
How to make numerical in-formation accessible: Experimental identification ofsimplification strategies.
In Conference on Human-Computer Interaction, Lisbon, Portugal.O.
Biran, S. Brody, and N. Elhadad.
2011.
Putting itsimply: a context-aware approach to lexical simpli-fication.
In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics:Human Language Technologies, pages 496?501, Port-land, Oregon, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.S.
Bott and H. Saggion.
2011.
An unsupervised align-ment algorithm for text simplification corpus construc-tion.
In ACL Workshop on Monolingual Text-to-TextGeneration, Portland, USA, June 2011.
ACL, ACL.Stefan Bott and H. Saggion.
2012a.
Text simplifica-tion tools for spanish.
In Proceedings of LanguageResources and Evaluation Conference, 2012.Stefan Bott and Horacio Saggion.
2012b.
A hybrid sys-tem for spanish text simplification.
In Third Work-shop on Speech and Language Processing for AssistiveTechnologies (SLPAT), Montreal, Canada.J.
Burstein, J.
Shore, J. Sabatini, Yong-Won Lee, andM.
Ventura.
2007.
The automated text adaptation tool.In HLT-NAACL (Demonstrations), pages 3?4.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, Y. Canning, S. Devlin, and J. Tait.1998.
Practical simplification of english newspapertext to assist aphasic readers.
In Proc.
of AAAI-98Workshop on Integrating Artificial Intelligence and As-sistive Technology, pages 7?10.H.
M. Caseli, T. F. Pereira, L. Specia, Thiago A. S. Pardo,C.
Gasperin, and S. M.
Alu??sio.
2009.
Building abrazilian portuguese parallel corpus of original andsimplified texts.
In 10th Conference on Intelligent TextPRocessing and Computational Linguistics (CICLing2009).R.
Chandrasekar, D. Doran, and B. Srinivas.
1996.
Mo-tivations and methods for text simplification.
In COL-ING, pages 1041?1044.H.
Cunningham, D. Maynard, K. Bontcheva, andV.
Tablan.
2002.
GATE: A framework and graphi-cal development environment for robust NLP tools andapplications.
In Proceedings of the 40th AnniversaryMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics.J.
De Belder, K. Deschacht, and Marie-Francine Moens.2010.
Lexical simplification.
In Proceedings ofItec2010 : 1st International Conference on Interdisci-plinary Research on Technology, Education and Com-munication.S.
Devlin and G. Unthank.
2006.
Helping aphasic peopleprocess online information.
In Proceedings of the 8thinternational ACM SIGACCESS conference on Com-puters and accessibility, Assets ?06, pages 225?226,New York, NY, USA.B.
B. Klebanov, K. Knight, and D. Marcu.
2004.
Textsimplification for information-seeking applications.
InOn the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems, LectureNotes in Computer Science, pages 735?747.P.
Lal and S. Ruger.
2002.
Extract-based summarizationwith simplification.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2002Automatic Summarization / DUC 2002 Workshop.J.
Medero and M. Ostendorf.
2011.
Identifying targetsfor syntactic simplification.Ll.
Padro?, M. Collado, S. Reese, M. Lloberes, andI.
Castello?n.
2010.
Freeling 2.1: Five years of open-source language processing tools.
In Proceedings ofthe Seventh International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC?10), Valletta, Malta.S.
E. Petersen and M. Ostendorf.
2007.
Text simplifica-tion for language learners: a corpus analysis.
In Proc.of Workshop on Speech and Language Technology forEducation.P.
Quinlan.
1992.
The Oxford PsycholinguisticDatabase.
Oxford University Press.Lucia Specia.
2010.
Translating from complex to simpli-fied sentences.
In Proceedings of the 9th internationalconference on Computational Processing of the Por-tuguese Language, pages 30?39, Berlin, Heidelberg.16
