Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages 267?274,Montre?al, Canada, June 7-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsFormemes in English-Czech Deep Syntactic MT ?Ondr?ej Du?ek, Zdene?k ?abokrtsk?, Martin Popel,Martin Majli?, Michal Nov?k, and David Marec?ekCharles University in Prague, Faculty of Mathematics and PhysicsInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsMalostransk?
n?me?st?
25, Prague{odusek,zabokrtsky,popel,majlis,mnovak,marecek}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractOne of the most notable recent improve-ments of the TectoMT English-to-Czech trans-lation is a systematic and theoretically sup-ported revision of formemes?the annotationof morpho-syntactic features of content wordsin deep dependency syntactic structures basedon the Prague tectogrammatics theory.
Ourmodifications aim at reducing data sparsity,increasing consistency across languages andwidening the usage area of this markup.Formemes can be used not only in MT, but invarious other NLP tasks.1 IntroductionThe cornerstone of the TectoMT tree-to-tree ma-chine translation system is the deep-syntactic lan-guage representation following the Prague tec-togrammatics theory (Sgall et al, 1986), and its ap-plication in the Prague Dependency Treebank (PDT)2.01 (Hajic?
et al, 2006), where each sentence isanalyzed to a dependency tree whose nodes corre-spond to content words.
Each node has a numberof attributes, but the most important (and difficult)for the transfer phase are lemma?lexical informa-tion, and formeme?surface morpho-syntactic infor-?
This research has been supported by the grantsFP7-ICT-2009-4-247762 (FAUST), FP7-ICT-2009-4-249119(Metanet), LH12093 (Kontakt II), DF12P01OVV022 (NAKI),201/09/H057 (Czech Science Foundation), GAUK 116310, andSVV 265 314.
This work has been using language resources de-veloped and/or stored and/or distributed by the LINDAT-Clarinproject of the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic(project LM2010013).1http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.0mation, including selected auxiliary words (Pt?c?ekand ?abokrtsk?, 2006; ?abokrtsk?
et al, 2008).This paper focuses on formemes?their definitionand recent improvements of the annotation, whichhas been thoroughly revised in the course of prepa-ration of the CzEng 1.0 parallel corpus (Bojar et al,2012b), whose utilization in TectoMT along with thenew formemes version has brought the greatest ben-efit to our English-Czech MT system in the recentyear.
However, the area of possible application offormemes is not limited to MT only or to the lan-guage pair used in our system; the underlying ideasare language-independent.We summarize the development of morpho-syntactic annotations related to formemes (Sec-tion 2), provide an overview of the whole TectoMTsystem (Section 3), then describe the formeme an-notation (Section 4) and our recent improvements(Section 5), as well as experimental applications, in-cluding English-Czech MT (Section 6).
The mainasset of the formeme revision is a first systematic re-organization of the existing practical aid, providingit with a solid theoretical base, but still bearing itsintended applications in mind.2 Related WorkNumerous theoretical approaches had been madeto morpho-syntactic description, mainly within va-lency lexicons, starting probably with the work byHelbig and Schenkel (1969).
Perhaps the best onefor Czech is PDT-VALLEX (Hajic?
et al, 2003), list-ing all possible subtrees corresponding to valencyarguments (Ure?ov?, 2009).
?abokrtsk?
(2005)gives an overview of works in this field.267This kind of information has been most exploitedin structural MT systems, employing semantic re-lations (Menezes and Richardson, 2001) or surfacetree substructures (Quirk et al, 2005; Marcu et al,2006).
Formemes, originally developed for NaturalLanguage Generation (NLG) (Pt?c?ek and ?abokrt-sk?, 2006), have been successfully applied to MTwithin the TectoMT system.
Our revision of for-meme annotation aims to improve the MT perfor-mance, keeping other possible applications in mind.3 The TectoMT English-Czech MachineTranslation SystemThe TectoMT system is a structural machine trans-lation system with deep transfer, first introducedby ?abokrtsk?
et al (2008).
It currently supportsEnglish-to-Czech translation.
Its analysis stagefollows the Prague tectogrammatics theory (Sgall,1967; Sgall et al, 1986), proceeding over two layersof structural description, from shallow (analytical)to deep (tectogrammatical) (see Section 3.1).The transfer phase of the system is based on Max-imum Entropy context-sensitive translation models(Marec?ek et al, 2010) and Hidden Tree MarkovModels (?abokrtsk?
and Popel, 2009).
It is factor-ized into three subtasks: lemma, formeme and gram-matemes translation (see Sections 3.2 and 3.3).The subsequent generation phase consists of rule-based components that gradually change the deeptarget language representation into a shallow one,which is then converted to text (cf.
Section 6.1).The version of TectoMT submitted to WMT122builds upon the WMT11 version.
Several rule-basedcomponents were slightly refined.
However, most ofthe effort was devoted to creating a better and biggerparallel treebank?CzEng 1.03 (Bojar et al, 2012b),and re-training the statistical components on this re-source.
Apart from bigger size and improved filter-ing, one of the main differences between CzEng 0.9(Bojar and ?abokrtsk?, 2009) (used in WMT11) andCzEng 1.0 (used in WMT12) is the revised annota-tion of formemes.2http://www.statmt.org/wmt123http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/czeng3.1 Layers of structural analysisThere are two distinct structural layers used in theTectoMT system:?
Analytical layer.
A surface syntax layer, whichincludes all tokens of the sentence, organizedinto a labeled dependency tree.
The labels cor-respond to surface syntax functions.?
Tectogrammatical layer.
A deep syntax/se-mantic layer describing the linguistic meaningof the sentence.
Its dependency trees includeonly content words as nodes, assigning to eachof them a deep lemma (t-lemma), a semanticrole label (functor), and other deep linguisticfeatures (grammatemes), such as semantic part-of-speech, person, tense or modality.The analytical layer can be obtained using differ-ent dependency parsers (Popel et al, 2011); the tec-togrammatical representation is then created by rule-based modules from the analytical trees.In contrast to the original PDT annotation,the TectoMT tectogrammatical layer also includesformemes describing the surface morpho-syntacticrealization of the nodes (cf.
also Section 3.3).3.2 Transfer: Translation Factorization andSymmetryUsing the tectogrammatical representation in struc-tural MT allows separating the problem of translat-ing a sentence into relatively independent simplersubtasks: lemma, functors, and grammatemes trans-lation (Bojar et al, 2009; ?abokrtsk?, 2010).
Sincetopology changes to deep syntax trees are rare in MTtransfer, each of these three subtasks allows a vir-tually symmetric source-target one-to-one mapping,thus simplifying the initial n-to-m mapping of wordphrases or surface subtrees.?abokrtsk?
et al (2008) obviated the need fortransfer via functors (i.e.
semantic role detection)by applying a formeme transfer instead.
Whileformeme values are much simpler to obtain by au-tomatic processing, this approach preserved the ad-vantage of symmetric one-to-one value translation.Moreover, translations of a given source morpho-syntactic construction usually follow a limited num-ber of patterns in the target language regardless of268their semantic functions, e.g.
a finite clause willmost often be translated as a finite clause.3.3 Motivation for the Introduction ofFormemesSurface-oriented formemes have been introducedinto the semantics-oriented tectogrammatical layer,as it proves beneficial to combine the deep syntaxtrees, smaller in size and more consistent across lan-guages, with the surface morphology and syntax toprovide for a straightforward transition to the surfacelevel (?abokrtsk?, 2010).The three-fold factorization of the transfer phase(see Section 3.2) helps address the data sparsity is-sue faced by today?s MT systems.
As the translationof lemmas and their morpho-syntactic forms is sepa-rated, combinations unseen in the training data mayappear on the output.To further reduce data sparsity, only minimal in-formation needed to reconstruct the surface form isstored in formemes; morphological categories deriv-able from elsewhere, i.e.
morphological agreementor grammatemes, are discarded.4 Czech and English Formemes inTectoMTA formeme is a concise description of relevantmorpho-syntactic features of a node in a tectogram-matical tree (deep syntactic tree whose nodes usu-ally correspond to content words).
The generalshape of revised Czech and English formemes, asimplemented within the Treex4 NLP framework(Popel and ?abokrtsk?, 2010) for the TectoMT sys-tem, consists of three main parts:1.
Syntactic part-of-speech.5 The number of syn-tactic parts-of-speech is very low, as only con-tent words are used on the deep layer and thecategories of pronouns and numerals have beendivided under nouns and adjectives accord-ing to syntactic behavior (?evc?
?kov?-Raz?mov?and ?abokrtsk?, 2006).
The possible values arev for verbs, n for nouns, adj for adjectives,and adv for adverbs.4http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/treex/,https://metacpan.org/module/Treex5Cf.
Section 5.2 for details.2.
Subordinate conjunction/preposition.
Appliesonly to formemes of prepositional phrases andsubordinate clauses introduced by a conjunc-tion and contains the respective conjunction orpreposition; e.g.
if, on or in_case_of.3.
Form.
This part represents the morpho-syntactic form of the node in question and de-pends on the part-of-speech (see Table 1).The two or three parts are concatenated intoa human-readable string to facilitate usage inhand-written rules as well as statistical systems(?abokrtsk?, 2010), producing values such asv:inf, v:if+fin or n:into+X.
Formeme val-ues of nodes corresponding to uninflected words areatomic.Formemes are detected by rule-based modules op-erating on deep and surface trees.
Example deepsyntax trees annotated with formemes are shown inFig.
1.
A listing of all possible formeme values isgiven in Table 1.Verbal formemes remain quite consistent in bothlanguages, except for the greater range of forms inEnglish (Czech uses adjectives or nouns instead ofgerunds and verbal attributes).
Nominal formemesdiffer more significantly: Czech is a free-word orderlanguage with rich morphology, where declensionis important to syntactic relations?case is thereforeincluded in formemes.
As English makes its syntac-tic relations visible rather with word-order than withmorphology, English formemes indicate the syntac-tic position instead.
The same holds for adjecti-val complements to verbs.
Posession is expressedmostly using nouns in English and adjectives inCzech, which is also reflected in formemes.5 Recent Markup ImprovementsOur following markup innovations address severalissues found in the previous version and aim to adaptthe range of values more accurately to the intendedapplications.5.1 General Form ChangesThe relevant preposition and subordinate conjunc-tion nodes had been selected based on their depen-dency labels; we use a simple part-of-speech tag fil-ter instead in order to minimize the influence of pars-ing errors and capture more complex prepositions,269Figure 1: An example English and Czech deep sentence structure annotated with formemes (in typewriter font).Formeme Language Definitionv:(P+)fin both Verbs as heads of finite clausesv:rc both Verbs as heads of relative clausesv:(P+)inf both Infinitive clauses; typically with the particle to in English?v:(P+)ger EN Gerunds, e.g.
I like reading (v:ger), but I am tired of arguing (v:of+ger).v:attr EN Present or past participles (i.e.
-ing or -ed forms) in the attributive syntacticposition, e.g.
Striking (v:attr) teachers hate bored (v:attr) students.n:[1..7] CS Bare nouns; the numbers indicate morphological case?n:X CS Bare nouns that cannot be inflectedn:subj EN Nouns in the subject position (i.e.
in front of the main verb of the clause)n:obj EN Nouns in the object position (i.e.
following the verb with no preposition)n:obj1, n:obj2 EN Nouns in the object position; distinguishing the two objects of ditransitiveverbs (e.g.
give, consider)n:adv EN Nouns in an adverbial position, e.g.
The sales went up by 1 % last monthn:P+X EN Prepositional phrasesn:P+[1..7] CS Prepositional phrases; the preposition surface form is combined with the re-quired case?n:attr both Nominal attributes, e.g.
insurance company or president Smith in Englishand prezident Smith in Czechn:poss EN English possessive pronouns and nouns with the ?s suffixadj:attr both Adjectival attributes (Czech inflection forms need not be stored thanks tocongruency with the parent noun)adj:compl EN Direct adjectival complements to verbsadj:[1..7] CS Direct adjectival complements to verbs (morphological case must be storedin Czech, as it is determined by valency)adj:poss CS Czech possesive adjectives and pronouns; a counterpart to English n:possadv both Adverbs (not inflected, can take no prepositions etc.
)x both Coordinating conjunctions, other uninflected wordsdrop both Deep tree nodes which do not appear on the surface (e.g.
pro-drop pronouns)?I.e.
infinitives as head of clauses, not infinitives as parts of compound verb forms with finite auxiliary verbs.
?Numbers are traditionally used to mark morphological case in Czech; 1 stands for nominative, 2 for genitive etc.
?Since many prepositions may govern multiple cases in Czech, the case number is necessary.Table 1: A listing of all possible formeme values, indicating their usage in Czech, English or both languages.
?P+?denotes the (lowercased) surface form of a preposition or a subordinate conjunction.
Round brackets denote optionalparts, square brackets denote a set of alternatives.270e.g.
in case of.
Our revision also allows combiningprepositions with all English gerunds and infinitives,preventing a loss of important data.We also use the lowercased surface form in themiddle formeme part instead of lemmas to allow fora more straightforward surface form generation.5.2 Introducing Syntactic Part-of-SpeechFormemes originally contained the semantic part-of-speech (sempos) (Raz?mov?
and ?abokrtsk?, 2006)as their first part.
We replaced it with a syntac-tic part-of-speech (syntpos), since it proved compli-cated to assign sempos reliably by a rule-based mod-ule and morpho-syntactic behavior is more relevantto formemes than semantics.The syntpos is assigned in two steps:1.
A preliminary syntpos is selected, using ourcategorization based on the part-of-speech tagand lemma.2.
The final syntpos is selected according to thesyntactic position of the node, addressing nom-inal usage of adjectives and cardinal numerals(see Sections 5.4 and 5.5).5.3 Capturing Czech Nominal AttributesDetecting the attributive usage of nouns is straight-forward for English, where any noun depending di-rectly on another noun is considered an attribute.In Czech, one needs to distinguish case-congruentattributes from others that have a fixed case.
Weaimed at assigning the n:attr formeme only in theformer case and thus replaced the original methodbased on word order with a less error-prone onebased on congruency and named entity recognition.5.4 Numerals: Distinguishing Usage andCorrecting Czech CaseThe new formemes now distinguish adjectival andnominal usage of cardinal numerals (cf.
also Sec-tion 5.2), e.g.
the number in 5 potatoes is now as-signed the adj:attr formeme, whereas Apollo 11is given n:attr.
The new situation is analogousin Czech, with nominal usages of numerals havingtheir morphological case marked in formemes.To reduce data sparsity in the new formemes ver-sion, we counter the inconsistent syntactic behaviorof Czech cardinal numerals, where 1-4 behave likeThe word ban?n is in genitive (n:2), but would have an ac-cusative (n:4) form if the numeral behaved like an adjective.Figure 2: Case correction with numerals in Czech.adjectives but other numerals behave like nouns andshift their semantically governing noun to the po-sition of a genitive attribute.
An example of thischange is given in Fig.
2.5.5 Adjectives: Nominal Usage and CaseThe new formemes address the usage of adjectivesin the syntactic position of nouns (cf.
Section 5.2),which occurs only rarely, thus preventing sparse val-ues, namely in these syntactic positions:?
The subject.
We replaced the originally as-signed adj:compl value, which was impos-sible to tell from adjectival objects, with theformeme a noun would have in the same po-sition, e.g.
in the sentence Many of them werelate, the subject many is assigned n:subj.?
Prepositional phrases.
Syntactic behavior ofadjectives is identical to nouns here; we thusassign them the formeme values a noun wouldreceive in the same position, e.g.
n:of+X in-stead of adj:of+X in He is one of the best atschool.In Czech, we detect nominal usage of adjectivesin verbal direct objects as well, employing large-coverage valency lexicons (Lopatkov?
et al, 2008;Hajic?
et al, 2003).Instead of assigning the compl value in Czech,our formemes revision includes the case of adjecti-val complements, which depends on the valency ofthe respective verb.5.6 Mutual Information Across LanguagesThe changes described above have been motivatednot only by theoretical linguistic description of thelanguages in question, but also by the intended us-age within the TectoMT translation system.
Instead271of retraining the translation model after each change,we devised a simpler and faster estimate to measurethe asset of our innovations: using Mutual Informa-tion (MI) (Manning and Sch?tze, 1999, p. 66) offormemes in Czech and English trees.We expect that an inter-language MI increase willlead to lower noise in formeme-to-formeme transla-tion dictionary (Bojar et al, 2009, cf.
Section 3.2),thus achieving higher MT output quality.Using the analysis pipeline from CzEng1.0, wemeasured the inter-language MI on sentences fromthe Prague Czech-English Dependency Treebank(PCEDT) 2.0 (Bojar et al, 2012a).
The overall re-sults show an MI increase from 1.598 to 1.687 (Bo-jar et al, 2012b).
Several proposed markup changeshave been discarded as they led to an inter-languageMI drop; e.g.
removing the v:rc relative clauseformeme or merging the v:attr and adj:attrvalues in English.6 Experimental UsageWe list here our experiments with the newly de-veloped annotation: an NLG experiment aimed atassessing the impact of formemes on the synthesisphase of the TectoMT system, and the usage in theEnglish-Czech MT as a whole.6.1 Czech SynthesisThe synthesis phase of the TectoMT system reliesheavily on the information included in formemes, asits rule-based blocks use solely formemes and gram-mar rules to gradually change a deep tree node intoa surface subtree.To directly measure the suitability of our changesfor the synthesis stage of the TectoMT system, weused a Czech-to-Czech round trip?deep analysis ofCzech PDT 2.0 development set sentences using theCzEng 1.0 pipeline (Bojar et al, 2012b), followeddirectly by the synthesis part of the TectoMT sys-tem.
The results were evaluated using the BLEUmetric (Papineni et al, 2002) with the original sen-tences as reference; they indicate a higher suitabilityof the new formemes for deep Czech synthesis (seeTable 2).6.2 English-Czech Machine TranslationTo measure the influence of the presented formemerevision on the translation quality, we comparedVersion BLEUOriginal formemes 0.6818Revised formemes 0.7092Table 2: A comparison of formeme versions in Czech-to-Czech round trip.Version BLEUOriginal formemes 0.1190Revised formemes 0.1199Table 3: A comparison of formeme versions in English-to-Czech TectoMT translation on the WMT12 test set.two translation scenarios?one using the origi-nal formemes and the second using the revisedformemes in the formeme-to-formeme translationmodel.
Due to time reasons, we were able totrain both translation models only on 1/2 of theCzEng 1.0 training data.The results in Table 3 demonstrate a slight6 BLEUgain when using the revised formemes version.
Thegain is expected to be greater if several rule-basedmodules of the transfer phase are adapted to the re-visions.7 Conclusion and Further WorkWe have presented a systematic and theoreticallysupported revision of a surface morpho-syntacticmarkup within a deep dependency annotation sce-nario, designed to facilitate the TectoMT transferphase.
Our first practical experiments proved themerits of our innovations in the tasks of Czech syn-thesis and deep structural MT as a whole.
We havealso experimented with formemes in the functor as-signment (semantic role labelling) task and gainedmoderate improvements (ca.
1-1.5% accuracy).In future, we intend to tune the rule-based partsof our MT transfer for the new version of formemesand examine further possibilities of data sparsity re-duction (e.g.
by merging synonymous formemes).We are also planning to create formeme annotationmodules for further languages to widen the range oflanguage pairs used in the TectoMT system.6Significant at 90% level using pairwise bootstrap resam-pling test (Koehn, 2004).272ReferencesO.
Bojar and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2009.
CzEng 0.9: LargeParallel Treebank with Rich Annotation.
Prague Bul-letin of Mathematical Linguistics, 92.O.
Bojar, D. Marec?ek, V. Nov?k, M. Popel, J. Pt?c?ek,J.
Rou?, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2009.
English-Czech MTin 2008.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop onStatistical Machine Translation, pages 125?129.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.O.
Bojar, J.
Hajic?, E.
Hajic?ov?, J.
Panevov?, P. Sgall,S.
Cinkov?, E.
Fuc?
?kov?, M.
Mikulov?, P. Pajas,J.
Popelka, J.
Semeck?, J.
?indlerov?, J.
?te?p?nek,J.
Toman, Z.
Ure?ov?, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2012a.Announcing Prague Czech-English Dependency Tree-bank 2.0.
In Proceedings of LREC 2012, Istanbul,Turkey, May.
ELRA, European Language ResourcesAssociation.
In print.O.
Bojar, Z.
?abokrtsk?, O.
Du?ek, P.
Galu?c??kov?,M.
Majli?, D. Marec?ek, J.
Mar?
?k, M. Nov?k,M.
Popel, and A. Tamchyna.
2012b.
The Joy of Par-allelism with CzEng 1.0.
In Proceedings of LREC2012, Istanbul, Turkey, May.
ELRA, European Lan-guage Resources Association.
In print.J.
Hajic?, J.
Panevov?, Z.
Ure?ov?, A.
B?mov?,V.
Kol?rov?, and P. Pajas.
2003.
PDT-VALLEX: Cre-ating a large-coverage valency lexicon for treebank an-notation.
In Proceedings of The Second Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories, volume 9, pages57?68.J.
Hajic?, J.
Panevov?, E.
Hajic?ov?, P. Sgall, P. Pajas,J.
?te?p?nek, J. Havelka, M.
Mikulov?, Z.
?abokrtsk?,and M.
?evc??kov?-Raz?mov?.
2006.
Prague Depen-dency Treebank 2.0.
CD-ROM LDC2006T01, LDC,Philadelphia.G.
Helbig and W. Schenkel.
1969.
W?rterbuch zurValenz und Distribution deutscher Verben.
VEB Bib-liographisches Institut, Leipzig.P.
Koehn.
2004.
Statistical Significance Tests forMachine Translation Evaluation.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP 2004, Barcelona, Spain.M.
Lopatkov?, Z.
?abokrtsk?, V.
Kettnerov?, andK.
Skwarska.
2008.
Valenc?n?
slovn?k c?esk?ch sloves.Karolinum, Prague.C.D.
Manning and H. Sch?tze.
1999.
Foundations ofstatistical natural language processing.
MIT Press.D.
Marcu, W. Wang, A. Echihabi, and K. Knight.
2006.SPMT: Statistical machine translation with syntacti-fied target language phrases.
In Proceedings of the2006 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 44?52.
Association forComputational Linguistics.D.
Marec?ek, M. Popel, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2010.
Maxi-mum entropy translation model in dependency-basedMT framework.
In Proceedings of the Joint FifthWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation and Met-rics (MATR), pages 201?206.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.A.
Menezes and S. D. Richardson.
2001.
A best-firstalignment algorithm for automatic extraction of trans-fer mappings from bilingual corpora.
In Proceed-ings of the workshop on Data-driven methods in ma-chine translation - Volume 14, DMMT ?01, pages 1?8,Stroudsburg, PA. Association for Computational Lin-guistics.K.
Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, and W.J.
Zhu.
2002.BLEU: a method for automatic evaluation of machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the 40th annual meet-ing on association for computational linguistics, pages311?318.
Association for Computational Linguistics.M.
Popel and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2010.
TectoMT: modularNLP framework.
Advances in Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 293?304.M.
Popel, D. Marec?ek, N. Green, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.2011.
Influence of parser choice on dependency-basedMT.
In Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, ChristofMonz, and Omar Zaidan, editors, Proceedings of theSixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation,pages 433?439, Edinburgh, UK.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.J.
Pt?c?ek and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2006.
Synthesis ofCzech sentences from tectogrammatical trees.
In Text,Speech and Dialogue, pages 221?228.
Springer.C.
Quirk, A. Menezes, and C. Cherry.
2005.
De-pendency treelet translation: Syntactically informedphrasal SMT.
In Proceedings of the 43rd AnnualMeeting on Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 271?279.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.M.
Raz?mov?
and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2006.
Annotationof grammatemes in the Prague Dependency Treebank2.0.
In Proceedings of the LREC 2006 Workshop onAnnotation Science, pages 12?19.M.
?evc??kov?-Raz?mov?
and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2006.
Sys-tematic parameterized description of pro-forms in thePrague Dependency Treebank 2.0.
In J. Hajic?
andJ.
Nivre, editors, Proceedings of the Fifth Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT), pages 175?186, Prague.P.
Sgall, E.
Hajic?ov?, J.
Panevov?, and J. Mey.
1986.
Themeaning of the sentence in its semantic and pragmaticaspects.
Springer.P.
Sgall.
1967.
Generativn?
popis jazyka a c?esk?
dekli-nace.
Academia, Prague.Z.
Ure?ov?.
2009.
Building the PDT-VALLEX valencylexicon.
In On-line proceedings of the fifth CorpusLinguistics Conference.
University of Liverpool.273Z.
?abokrtsk?, J. Pt?c?ek, and P. Pajas.
2008.
Tec-toMT: highly modular MT system with tectogrammat-ics used as transfer layer.
In Proceedings of the ThirdWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation, StatMT?08, pages 167?170, Stroudsburg, PA. Association forComputational Linguistics.Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2005.
Valency Lexicon of Czech Verbs.Ph.D.
thesis, Charles University in Prague.Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2010.
From Treebanking to MachineTranslation.
Habilitation thesis, Charles University inPrague.Z.
?abokrtsk?
and M. Popel.
2009.
Hidden MarkovTree Model in Dependency-based Machine Transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Con-ference Short Papers, pages 145?148, Suntec, Singa-pore.274
