The 7th Workshop on the Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 127?135,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDeveloping ARET: An NLP-based  Educational Tool Set for ArabicReading EnhancementMohamed Maamouri1, Wajdi Zaghouani1, Violetta Cavalli-Sforza2,Dave Graff1 and Mike Ciul11 Linguistic Data Consortium, University of Pennsylvania, 3600 Market St., Suite 810,Philadelphia, PA 19104.2 School of Science and Engineering, Al Akhawayn University, Ifrane 53000, Morocco.maamouri@ldc.upenn.edu, wajdiz@ldc.upenn.edu,v.cavallisforza@aui.ma, graff@ldc.upenn.edu, mciul@ldc.upenn.eduAbstractThis paper describes a novel Arabic ReadingEnhancement Tool (ARET) for classroom use,which has been built using corpus-based Natu-ral Language Processing in combination withexpert linguistic annotation.
The NLP tech-niques include a widely used morphologicalanalyzer for Modern Standard Arabic to pro-vide word-level grammatical details, and a rela-tional database index of corpus texts to provideword concordances.
ARET also makes use of acommercial Arabic text-to-speech (TTS) sys-tem to add a speech layer (with male and fe-male voices) to the Al-Kitaab languagetextbook resources.
The system generates testquestions and distractors, offering teachers andstudents an interesting computer-aided lan-guage learning tool.
We describe the back-ground and the motivation behind the buildingof ARET, presenting the various componentsand the method used to build the tools.1 IntroductionReading is an essential skill for learners of ModernStandard Arabic (MSA).
For most of learners it isthe most important skill to master in order to en-sure success in learning.
With strengthened readingskills, learners of Arabic tend to make greaterprogress in other areas of language learning.
Read-ing should be an active, fluent process that in-volves the reader and the reading material in build-ing meaning.
Often, however, it is not.
The averagelearner?s second language reading ability is usuallywell below that of the first language.
This can im-pede academic progress in the second language.Arabic language teachers and learners face manychallenges in the classroom.
Teaching studentshow to utilize the skills and knowledge they bringfrom their first language, develop vocabularyskills, improve reading comprehension and rate,and monitor their own improvement are just someof the issues that teachers must consider in prepar-ing for an Arabic language reading class.
Withthese issues in mind, we set out to create a web-based service that would provide efficient andpedagogically relevant access to instructional textsin Modern Standard Arabic, with the goal of creat-ing a resource that would serve both instructorsand students, by presenting novel modes of infor-mation access.
We received valuable support fromGeorgetown University Press, which gave permis-sion for us to use the reading passages from the 3-volume textbook publication Al-Kitaab (Al-Batalet al, 2001;2004 and 2006), which is the mostpopular publication in the USA for teaching Arab-ic.2 MotivationUsing technology in classrooms can make the les-sons more efficient.
There are many technology127tools that can be used in English as a Second Lan-guage (ESL) classes to improve foreign students?English and technology skills.
According to Wang(2005) there are many advantages integrating tech-nology in classrooms especially for ESL students.To be able to improve their language skills, likewriting, reading, listening and speaking, Englishlanguage learners use pedagogical computer appli-cations to check their work and improve their lan-guage skills; they also use web browsers and e-mail to search for information, join in online dis-cussions, publish their work, read technology texts,communicate each other even worldwide.
He alsosays that, ?Technology integration in foreign lan-guage teaching demonstrates the shift in educa-tional paradigms from a behavioral to aconstructivist learning approach?
(p. 2).
Gone arethe days in which learning foreign language voca-bulary and grammar rules relied largely on repeti-tive drills; more and more, foreign languagelearners are asked to engage directly with authenticmaterials and take more initiative in their learning.However, finding appropriate, authentic readingmaterials is a challenge for language instructors.The Web is a vast resource of texts, but most pagesare not suitable for reading practice, and commer-cial search engines are not well suited to findingtexts that satisfy pedagogical constraints such asreading level, length, text quality, and presence oftarget vocabulary.
We present a system that usesvarious language technologies to facilitate the se-lection , presentation and study of authentic read-ing materials from the widely used textbook seriesAl-Kitaab (Al-Batal et al, 2001;2004 and 2006).
Inthe next section we review some of the relatedwork.
In section 4 we discuss some of the specificchallenges faced when learning the Arabic lan-guage.3 Related workMany studies have shown that an on-line learningenvironment that supplements classroom instruc-tion with additional study materials at an appropri-ate level for the learner may enhance languagelearning and development (Ware, 2004; Chiu et al,2007; Yuan, 2003; Wang, 2005;).
As a result, anumber of recent projects have aimed to dynami-cally provide a supply of accessible authentic textsto language learners by drawing from online re-sources.
WERTi (Meurers et al 2010) is an intelli-gent automatic workbook that uses texts from theWeb to increase knowledge of English grammati-cal forms and functions.
READ-X (Miltsakaki andTroutt, 2007) is a tool for finding texts at specifiedreading levels.
SourceFinder (Sheehan et al,2007)is an authoring tool for finding suitable texts forstandardized test items on verbal reasoning andreading comprehension.
Project REAP (Reader-Specific Lexical Practice) (Brown and Eskenazi,2004; Heilman et al, 2006) takes a different ap-proach.
Rather than teachers choosing texts, inREAP the system selects individualized practicereadings from a digital library according to specificlexical constraints.
Readings are chosen to containvocabulary words that a given student needs tolearn, while limiting the number of words the stu-dent does not know.
The choice of texts is there-fore driven by a curriculum model, informed by astudent model, and constrained by the availabilityof suitable texts, as described by their text model.While a user-adapted tool has the potential tobetter match individual needs, since each studentcan work with different texts, a drawback of thisapproach is that instructors may have difficultycoordinating group discussion about readings andintegrating the tool into their curriculum.
An ad-vantage of a tool containing a search system, how-ever, is that teachers can find texts that match theneeds and interests of the class as a whole.
Whilesome degree of individualization is lost, the advan-tages of better coordinated support from teachersand classroom integration are gained.
In the earlystages of this project, we had planned to use REAPsoftware after adapting it to handle the complexmorphology of MSA.
Unfortunately, while thesystem was already being tested in the field, REAPproject leaders did not consider the code base ma-ture enough to be released to other researchgroups.
As a result, we chose to develop our owndatabase and access method to texts, foregoingadaptation to individual users.4 Challenges of Arabic readingIt has never been an easy transition from ?learningto read?
to ?reading to learn?
for Arabs and otherArabic learners.
In Meynet (1971) and according tofather Anastase Al-Karmali, a member of theArabic Language Academy in Cairo, Egypt.
?TheArabs study the rules of the Arabic language inorder to learn to read, whereas others read in order128to learn ??.
Indeed, reading in Arabic as a first orsecond language presents special challenges due toits script and its rich and complex morphology.Also, Arabic texts lack short vowels and otherdiacritics that distinguish words and grammaticalfunctions.
These linguistic complexities result insignificant reading difficulties.
Typically, Arabicas a second language learners face difficulties inword recognition, word disambiguation and theacquisition of decoding skills, including recogniz-ing letter and word boundaries, decoding unvoca-lized words and identifying these words.
In orderto understand Arabic text, the novice reader mustlearn to insert short vowels and other diacriticsbased on grammatical rules not yet learned.
Theambiguity associated with a lack of diacritization isshown for instance in the lemma ???
/Elm/ whichhas the following nine possible reading interpreta-tions shown in Table 1.????
?Science, learning??????
?flag?
?3 ????
?rd P. Masc.
Sing.
Perf.
V. (MSA V. I)?he learned/knew?
?3 ????
?rd P. Sing.
Pass.
V. (MSA V. I) ?it/hewas learned????????
Intensifying, Caus.
V. (MSA V. II) ?hetaught???????
Causative V. Pass (MSA V. II) ?he wastaught???????/????
(NOM Noun + Definite and Indefinite)?????
(ACCU Noun + Definite)??????/????
(GEN Noun + Definite and Indefinite)Table 1.
Various interpretations for the lemma ??
?5 The Arabic reading enhancement toolsTo address these challenges, we developed anArabic Reading Enhancement Tool (ARET) forclassroom use with support from the U.S. Depart-ment of Education?s International Research StudyProgram (IRS).
The ARET tool is rather similar inintent to the foreign language learning tool,GLOSSER-RuG built by Nerbonne and Smit(1996) for Dutch, but targets explicitly the particu-larities of MSA.
ARET has two subparts tools : theArabic Reading Facilitation Tool (ARFT) and theArabic Reading Assessment Tool (ARAT).
A ma-jor achievement of this project was to create a col-lection of fully annotated texts for learners ofArabic, using materials included in an authoritativetextbook series that spans several competence le-vels.
In this section, we describe the creation,structure and content of the Arabic corpus/lexicondatabase, and then describe the ARFT and ARATtools in more detail.5.1 The Al-Kitaab corpus databaseThe ARET system uses the full text of Arabicreading passages from the Georgetown UniversityPress Al-Kitaab textbook series, which represents a60,000 word corpus.
Each passage was submittedto a combined automatic/manual annotationprocess in order to create a version of the text thatwas completely diacritized and thoroughly seg-mented and labeled to identify all morphemes foreach word, including their part-of-speech labelsand English glosses.We first applied the Standard Arabic Morpho-logical Analyzer (SAMA) (Maamouri et al, 2010),to enumerate all possible solutions for each wordtoken in a given passage.
The entire passage, withthe full set of possible SAMA solutions for eachword token, was then presented to a native Arabicspeaker experienced in the morphological analysisof MSA, and their task was to select the particularSAMA solution for each word based on their un-derstanding of the context; where necessary, theannotator would manually edit the details of POStags or glosses to fill gaps in SAMA?s coverage ofthe vocabulary.
This is a standard approach used inthe annotation of numerous Arabic text corpora,including the Arabic Treebank Project (Maamouriand Bies 2004).
As described in section 5.2, theresulting annotation was fully reviewed by expertArabic linguists using our reading facilitation tool,to identify and repair errors.A relational database was created to store thecorpus and annotations.
Separate tables were usedto enumerate (a) the reading passages (keepingtrack of the book volume, chapter and page num-ber of each passage), (b) the sequence of sentencesin each passage, (c) the word token sequence foreach sentence, (d) the inventory of distinct wordtypes (i.e.
orthographic word forms with their con-text-dependant analyses), and (e) the inventory ofdistinct ?headwords?
(lemmas) and affix mor-phemes (clitics).Using this relational table structure, a full pas-sage could be assembled for display by querying129for the sequence of sentences and the word tokensfor each sentence.
The information returned by thequery could include, for each word token, the orig-inal and/or diacritized spelling, and an index forlooking up the context-dependent morphologicalanalysis plus gloss for the token.
This in turn alsoprovided access to a dictionary entry for the lemmafrom which the token was derived.
Table 2 sum-marizes the contents of the database.
The numberof distinct lemmas refers to the number of citationforms for content words (nouns, verbs, etc) that arereferenced by the all the inflected stems found inthe reading texts; the number of glossary entriesrefers to the manually edited dictionary descrip-tions for lemmas / citation forms, including theirconsonantal roots.
In cases where a lemma doesnot have a corresponding glossary entry, the fully-detailed morphological analysis provides an Eng-lish gloss (but not the root) for each word tokencontaining the lemma.Type No.
ofEntriesSentences, titles and sub-headings3,692Arabic word tokens 53,411Distinct undiacritized Arabic ortho-graphic forms17,209Distinct diacritized orthographic forms 20,725Distinct morphology/POS/gloss anno-tations on word forms22,304Distinct clitic and inflected-stem mor-phemes16,774Distinct lemmas 6,829Glossary entries for lemmas 3,436Table 2.
Corpus quantities in ARET database5.2 The Arabic reading facilitation toolThe Arabic Reading Facilitation Tool (ARFT)provides the user with direct access to the Al-Kitaab text corpus, organized by volume, chapterand page number.
In addition to presenting the fulltext for a given passage, the user can click on anyword in the passage to bring up in a side-bar thefull morphological analysis and gloss for the wordin that context, along with a glossary entry for theassociated lemma, and a summary of other Arabiccitation forms that are related by root.
Two otherimportant functions are also provided: (a) togglingthe presence vs. absence of all diacritic marks inthe full display of the reading passage, and (b) theability to view a concordance of all occurrences forany selected word.
The tool also provides a "tool-tip" pop-up window whenever the mouse cursorhovers over an Arabic word in the text passage; ifthe page is showing undiacritized text, the pop-upshows the diacritized form of the word, and vice-versa.
This is a very useful feature for the newlearners of the Arabic language.As soon as the annotated version of the corpuswas loaded into the database, there was a sustainedeffort involving native Arabic speakers and Arabicfaculty to carefully review the database content, asdisplayed by the ARFT, and validate it against theoriginal textbook content.
This effort involvednumerous repairs of all sorts that stemmed from allstages of corpus preparation: typing mistakes fromthe original keyboarding of the text, problems inmorphological annotation, and difficulties in theloading of the tables.
Customized tools and proce-dures were developed to facilitate the updates thatwere needed to apply all the corrections directly tothe database.A glossary for use in the ARFT was added tothe database, with the relational linkage needed tosupport glossary lookups triggered by the userclicking on any word in a text passage.
The word-to-glossary relation is based on the "lemma_ID" ofthe stem in each word.
The lemma_ID is a stringidentifier assigned by the Standard Arabic Mor-phological Analyzer (SAMA), which was used forthe morphological annotation of the entire corpus;all verbs in a given conjugation paradigm share thesame lemma_ID, as do all nouns or adjectives in agiven declensional (case) paradigm, so every dis-tinct inflected form of a noun, adjective or verb islinked by the annotation to its corresponding glos-sary entry.
The glossary table (with indexing bySemitic root) was a special, additional annotationspecifically for ARFT, so not all lemmas werecovered in the glossary; when a term not in theglossary is clicked, the side-bar display area in theARFT shows the message "Refer to MorphologyInformation"; the morphology information is thefull set of annotation data for each word based onSAMA, and this always includes an English glossfor the stem (except in the case of proper nouns,which always have "Proper Noun" as their part-of-speech label).The ARFT is intended for use with a modernweb browser over a reasonably fast internet con-130nection.
The tool has a flexible and intuitive webinterface to navigate the texts via several key fea-tures:1.
Source Panel, featuring Al-Kitaab text2.
Highlighted Sentence3.
Highlighted Word4.
Audio Player for highlighted sentence5.
Audio Player for highlighted word6.
Morphological Data Panel7.
Lexical Data Panel8.
Tabbed browsing for convenient access tomultiple screensFigure 1. below illustrates an example of the toolusing a passage of text from Al-Kitab Volume 2,Page 61.Figure 1.
Arabic Reading Facilitation Tool featuringfunction labels5.3 The Text to speech moduleAn Arabic Text-to-Speech technology module waslicensed from RDI1.
This technology has been usedto add an audio feature to the ARFT, and can beused to render audio of arbitrary Arabic text.
Sothe users will be able to listen to individual wordsor passages of text spoken by a high quality syn-thesized voice.
The RDI module, reads text files orliteral text in Windows Arabic encoding and gene-rates WAV audio data either as files or for directoutput to an audio device.
It has a C++ API thatmay be employed in Microsoft Visual Studio.
The1<http://www.rdi-eg.com/Technologies/speech.htm>voice rendering quality is excellent.
Moreover, themodule analyzes diacritized or undiacritized Arab-ic text to determine pronunciation, rhythm andinflection of speech.
Many variables of speechproduction can be controlled, most significantlythe gender of the speaker.
We developed a simpleconsole-based executable that reads a list of Arabictext files and generates a WAV file of speech cor-responding to each one, using a male voice, femalevoice, or one of each.5.4 The Arabic Reading Assessment Tool(ARAT)In order to support the creation of tests and quizzesfor specific Arabic reading skills the Arabic Read-ing Assessment Tool (ARAT) has been builtaround an existing open-source web applicationframework called Moodle (http://moodle.org).
Thisframework was developed as a ?Content Manage-ment System?, and provides built-in support formany of the ?infrastructure?
functions that ARATwould need, including: registration of faculty andstudent user accounts; creation of courses withschedule plans and content-based resources; crea-tion, presentation and scoring of tests and quizzes;and overall record-keeping of resources, activitiesand test scores.
Custom software modules weredeveloped to augment the Moodle code base inorder to provide functions that are specific to theARAT:- communicating with and importing data from theannotated Al-Kitaab passage database;- defining specialized question types (the firstthree types described below) based on annotationsin the database, such that answers to the questionscan be scored automatically by reference to thecorpus annotations.The three types of annotation-based questionswere defined and implemented in the prototypeARAT:- Cloze-Test Question: given a reading passage inArabic, one or more words are chosen as test itemsand are replaced in the text by an underlined emptyslot; the student is given a multiple-choice questionto identify the correct Arabic word to fill each slot.- English Gloss Question: given a reading passage,one or more words are chosen as test items andhighlighted in the text; the student is given a mul-131tiple-choice question to identify the correct Englishgloss for each test word.- Case-Ending Question: given reading passage,one or more nouns and/or adjectives are chosen astest items and highlighted in the text; the student isgiven a multiple-choice question of the six possiblecases in Arabic to identify the correct case endingfor each test word.
Mood ending could also beconsidered for verbs.- Yes/No questions: these are fully  developed byteachers, who must enter questions and answersinto the program in order to have Moodle give thestudent/teacher the appropriate final scores andcorrect answers feedback.The implementation allows an instructor to se-lect what text passage to use for a given quiz, andalso allows for either manual and automatic selec-tion of words to use as test items from the text, aswell as either manual or automatic selection ofdistractor items for the Cloze and Gloss tests.
Byproviding automatic selection of test items anddistractors based on available annotations in thecorpus database, ARAT allows a student to prac-tice each task any number of times on a given textpassage, be challenged by novel questions on eachattempt, and receive a tally of right and wronganswers, without the instructor having to create orscore each attempt as shown in Figure 2.Figure 2.
A sample question created with ARAT5.5 The test set creation procedureThe procedure for creating a test set within ARATbreaks down to the following ?top-level?
steps:1.
Provide or select a text passage to be used as thesource from which test questions are derived.2.
For questions that will be based on specific wordtokens in the text, identify the tokens that will bebasis for test questions; these token-specific ques-tions will always involve a particular task with amultiple-choice response, so for each selected to-ken: select the task (word choice, gloss choice,case-ending), identify a correct answer and provideor select a set of three distractors.3.
For questions not based on specific tokens, theinstructor must supply the following: promptingtext for the question, the type of response (y/n, t/f,type-in, multiple choice) and the correct answer(and three distractors for multiple choice).
Figure 3shows the test set main screen.Figure 3.
Test set main screen.6 Classroom usage and tool evaluationThe ARFT was presented to Arabic faculty at theUniversity of Pennsylvania; the tool was an-nounced in Arabic courses and students were askedto use it.
Several lists of student enrollments formany Arabic courses have been imported into theMoodle-based system.An informal evaluation was also performed, inthe Summer of 2010, with Arabic instructors teach-ing in the ARAbic and North African Studies(ARANAS) program at Al Akhawayn University,in Ifrane, Morocco.
Unfortunately, due to the veryrushed schedule and time pressure that instructorswork under during this intensive program, the toolsdid not receive the desired attention.
Only a hand-ful of instructors actually explored the tools.
Two132instructors filled out an evaluation questionnaireconcerning various aspects of the tools and theiruse of computer technology for language teachingin general.
The feedback was generally positiveand included some detailed suggestion for improv-ing the tools; they also revealed some issues withinconsistent response time (partly due to the net-work infrastructure of the university at that time)and ease of use (for non technology-savy instruc-tors).
The biggest obstacles to using the tools,however, appeared to be lack of time on the part ofthe instructors to acquire sufficient familiarity withthe tools and devise effective ways of introducingthem in the curriculum.
We are investigating thepossibility of using the tools with exchange stu-dents during the regular academic year, eventhough the numbers in Arabic classes at all levelsis much lower than in the Summer program.Recently, the use of the ARFT and its compa-nion the ARAT has been mandated by the ArabicSection at the University of Pennsylvania and wehope that a more consistent use is going to bemade.
As of now, 118 students are registeredrepresenting four 1st Year classes (total: 63 stu-dents), two 2nd Year classes (total:3 students), one3rd Year class ( total: 13 students) and One 4thYear class ( 11students).At this point, the tool im-pact on the classroom has not been evaluated, but itis in our future plans to do a comprehensive class-room evaluation of the tool.As part of the effort to introduce the ARFT andthe ARAT to faculty, we obtained three short read-ing passage texts, totaling 1022 Arabic word to-kens, selected by a faculty member from newssources.
These were submitted to annotation todisambiguate and diacritize the content based onSAMA analysis, just as was done for the Al-Kitaabpassages.
The annotated texts have been added intothe database corpus and are available for use in theARAT, but are not accessible for general browsingvia the ARFT.
The annotation and database importwent quickly, demonstrating that these procedureshave matured, and providing resources for buildingquizzes and tests based on materials that are ?un-seen?
by students who use both the ARFT and theARAT.7 ConclusionWe have described computational tools and lin-guistic resources that enable students to enhancetheir Arabic reading skills by helping them withthe difficulties they face in word recognition, worddisambiguation and general decoding skills duringthe Arabic reading process.
These computationaltools and resources provide the needed correct andmeaningful vocalizations by using natural lan-guage processing (NLP) technologies namely aStandard Arabic Morphological Analyzer(SAMA), a concordance, a Text-to-Speech moduleand various interfaces.
The time gained by studentswho use our Reading Enhancement Tools could beput to good use in the current ASL (Arabic as aSecond Language) classroom which, following theACTFL proficiency movement puts a primaryemphasis on communication with less concern foraccuracy as reflected in morphology or syntax,particularly at the initial stages of ASL learning.We reiterate at this point that our choice of theGUP Al-Kitaab textbook series was not fortuitous.We could have chosen any other pedagogical textbut Al-Kitaab distinguishes itself by being widelyused in the United States and abroad, and provid-ing an extensive curriculum with a wide variety oftexts.
We are thankful that GUP gave us permis-sion to use this resource, as it enabled us to create atool that can accompany many English-speakingstudents studying MSA in many classrooms aroundthe world.In addition to answering learners?
reading needsin MSA, our efforts went beyond the specificitiesof this language by allowing us to demonstrate thatour tools and the methodology we followed was infact ?portable?
to other languages which had amorphologically complex nature such as, for in-stance, the Nahuatl Learning Environment (NLE)project based on the ARET infrastructure 2.
Futureefforts will continue experimentation of the use ofavailable and robust Arabic NLP technologies toextend the enhancement of Arabic reading to betterunderstanding of authentic reading text that thereader could download from the Internet for in-stance.
Progress in that direction is desirable andpossible because it would increase the motivationof Modern Standard Arabic learners and will boostaccess by students and other professionals to au-thentic real world language text in new genres andtopics.
In this way, the contribution of NLP tech-2 The Nahuatl learning tool project prepared by JonathanAmith (n.d) and a team of Nahuatl speakers can be accessedonline through a Beta version of the Nahuatl Learning Envi-ronment at the LDC : http://nahuatl.ldc.upenn.edu/.133nologies to the teaching and learning of languagesmay become more significant and more compellingto all concerned, teachers, learners and computerNLP specialists alike.AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge the sponsorship of theU.S.
Department of Education, whose InternationalResearch Study (IRS) Grant No.
P017A050040-07-05 supported our work on this project.
Theviews, opinions and/or findings contained in thisarticle are those of the authors and should not beinterpreted as representing the official views orpolicies, either expressed or implied, of the U.S.Department of Education's International ResearchStudy program.
We also acknowledge the helpand support of Georgetown University Press whoallowed us to use their Al-Kitaab series as a testingground for our tools.
Thanks and appreciation goProfessor Roger Allen and his team of Arabicteachers at the University of Pennsylvania for theirwarm reception of our tools in their teaching struc-ture.
Thanks go finally, to all the programmersand annotators who worked on the project.
Theyare numerous and we cannot give them all the cre-dit they deserve but without them our achievementwould not have been so significant.ReferencesMahmoud Al-Batal, Kristen Brustad & Abbas Al-Tonsi.2006.
Al-Kitaab fii tacallum al-cArabiyya, Volume II(with DVDs, Second Edition).Washington, D.C.:Georgetown University Press, 2006.Mahmoud Al-Batal, Kristen Brustad & Abbas Al-Tonsi.2004.
Al-Kitaab fii tacallum al-cArabiyya, A Text-book for Beginning Arabic, Volume I (with DVDs,Second Edition).
Washington, D.C.: GeorgetownUniversity Press, 2004.Mahmoud Al-Batal, Kristen Brustad & Abbas Al-Tonsi.2001.
Al-Kitaab fii tacallum al-cArabiyya,VolumeIII.Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press,2001.Jonathan Amith.
n.d. Nahuatl Learning Environment.Available online at : http://nahuatl.ldc.upenn.edu/.Jon Brown and Maxine Eskenazi.
2004.
Retrieval ofauthentic documents for reader-specific lexical prac-tice.
In Proceedings of  InSTIL/ICALL Symposium2004.
Venice, Italy.Tsuo-Lin Chiu, Hsien-Chin Liou and Yuli Yeha.
2007.A study of web-based oral activities enhanced byau-tomatic speech recognition for EFL college learning.Computer Assisted Language Learning, 20 (3), 209?233.Michael Heilman, Kevyn Collins-Thompson, JamieCallan, and Maxine Eskenazi.
2006.
Classroom suc-cess of an Intelligent Tutoring System for lexicalpractice and reading comprehension.
In Proceedingsof the Ninth International Conference on SpokenLanguageProcessing.
Pittsburgh, PA.Mohamed Maamouri, David Graff, Basma Bouziri,Sondos Krouna, Ann Bies and Seth Kulick.
2010.Standard Arabic Morphological Analyzer (SAMA)Version 3.1.
Linguistic Data Consortium, CatalogNo.
: LDC2010L01.Mohamed Maamouri and Ann Bies.
2004.
Developingan Arabic Treebank: Methods, Guidelines, Proce-dures, and Tools.
In Proceedings of the WorkshopComputational Approaches to Arabic Script-basedLanguages.
Pages 2-9./20th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics/.
COLING Geneva,Switzerland.Detmar Meurers, Ramon Ziai, Luiz Amaral, AdrianeBoyd, Aleksandar Dimitrov, Vanessa Metcalf, NielsOtt.
2010.
Enhancing Authentic Web Pages for Lan-guage Learners.
In Proceedings of the 5th Workshopon Innovative Use of NLP for Building EducationalApplications, NAACL-HLT 2010, Los Angeles.Roland Meynet.
1971.
L'?criture arabe en question: lesprojets de l'Acad?mie de Langue Arabe du Caire de1938 ?
1968.Beirut: Dar el-Machreq, 1971.
142 ppEleni Miltsakaki and Audrey Troutt.
2007.
Read-X:Automatic Evaluation of Reading Difficulty of WebText.
In Proceedings of  E-Learn 2007, sponsored bythe Association for theAdvancement of Computing inEducation.
Quebec, Canada.John Nerbonne and Petra Smit.
1996.
GLOSSER-RuG:in Support of Reading.
In Proceedings of the 16th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING 1996).Kathleen M. Sheehan, Irene Kostin, Yoko Futagi.
2007.SourceFinder: A Construct-Driven Approach for Lo-cating Appropriately Targeted Reading Comprehen-sion Source Texts.
In Proceedings of the SLaTEWorkshop on Speech and Language Technology inEducation.Carnegie Mellon University and Interna-tional Speech Communication Association (ISCA).Li Wang.
2005.
The advantages of using technology insecond language education.
T.H.E.
Journal, 32 (10),1-6.134Paige D. Ware.
2004.
Confidence and competition on-line: ESL student perspectives on web based discus-sions in the classroom.
Computers and Composition,21, 451?468.Yi Yuan.
2003.
The use of chat rooms in an ESL set-ting.
Computers and Composition, 20, 194?206.135
