NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Future directions and needs in the Spoken Dialog Community: Tools and Data, pages 7?8,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDialogue Systems Using Online Learning: Beyond Empirical Methods ?Heriberto Cuaya?huitlGerman Research Center for Artificial IntelligenceSaarbru?cken, Germanyhecu01@dfki.deNina DethlefsHeriot-Watt UniversityEdinburgh, Scotlandn.s.dethlefs@hw.ac.ukAbstractWe discuss a change of perspective for train-ing dialogue systems, which requires a shiftfrom traditional empirical methods to onlinelearning methods.
We motivate the applica-tion of online learning, which provides thebenefit of improving the system?s behaviourcontinuously often after each turn or dialoguerather than after hundreds of dialogues.
Wedescribe the requirements and advances for di-alogue systems with online learning, and spec-ulate on the future of these kinds of systems.1 MotivationImportant progress has been made in empiricalmethods for training spoken or multimodal dialoguesystems over the last decade.
Nevertheless, a differ-ent perspective has to be embraced if we want dia-logue systems to learn on the spot while interactingwith real users.
Typically, empirical methods op-erate cyclically as follows: collect data, provide thecorresponding annotations, train a statistical or othermachine learning model, evaluate the performanceof the learned model, and if satisfactory, deploy thetrained model in a working system.
The disadvan-tage of this approach is that while data is still be-ing collected subsequent to deployment, the systemdoes not optimize its behaviour anymore (cf.
step-wise learning, the solid blue line in Fig.
1).
In con-trast, dialogue systems with online learning tacklethis limitation by learning a machine learning model?This research was funded by the EC?s FP7 programmesunder grant agreement no.
ICT-248116 (ALIZ-E) and undergrant agreement no.
287615 (PARLANCE).TrainingactivityOnlinelearningOfflinelearningCollected dialoguesFigure 1: Learning approaches for dialogue systems.Whilst offline learning aims for discontinuous learning,online learning aims for continuous learning while inter-acting with users in a real environment.continuously often from unlabeled or minimally la-beled data (cf.
dotted red line in Fig.
1).
So whilstempirical methods train models after hundreds of di-alogues, online learning methods refine the systemmodels after each user turn or each dialogue.
In therest of the paper we discuss the requirements, ad-vances and potential future of these kind of systems.2 Online Learning Systems: RequirementsSeveral requirements arise for the development ofsuccessful online learning systems.
First of all, theyneed to employ methods that are scalable for real-world systems and the modelling of knowledge insufficient detail.
Second, efficient learning is a pre-requisite for learning from an ongoing interactionwithout causing hesitations or pauses for the user.Third, learnt models should satisfy a stability crite-rion that guarantees that the learning agent?s perfor-mance does not deteriorate over time, e.g.
over thecourse of a number of interactions, due to the newlyaccumulated knowledge and behaviours.
Fourth,7systems should employ a knowledge transfer ap-proach in which they master new tasks they are con-fronted with over their life span by transferring gen-eral knowledge gathered in previous tasks.
Fifth, on-line learning sytems should adopt a lifelong learn-ing approach, arguably without stopping learning.This implies making use of large data sets, whichcan be unlabeled or partially labeled due to the coststhat they imply.
Finally, in the limit of updating thelearned models after every user turn, the online andoffline learning methods could be the same as longas they meet the first three requirements above.3 Online Learning Systems: AdvancesSeveral authors have recognised the potential bene-fits of online learning methods in previous work.Thrun (1994) presents a robot for lifelong learn-ing that learns to navigate in an unknown office en-vironment by suggesting to transfer general purposeknowledge across tasks.
Bohus et al (2006) de-scribe a spoken dialogue system that learns to op-timise its non-understanding recovery strategies on-line through interactions with human users based onpre-trained logistic regression models.
Cuaya?huitland Dethlefs (2011) present a dialogue system in thenavigation domain that is based on hierarchical rein-forcement learning and Bayesian Networks and re-learns its behaviour after each user turn, using indi-rect feedback from the user?s performance.
Gas?ic?
etal.
(2011) present a spoken dialogue system basedon Gaussian Process-based Reinforcement Learn-ing.
It learns directly from binary feedback thatusers assign explicitly as rewards at the end of eachdialogue and that indicate whether users were happyor unhappy with the system?s performance.
Fromthese previous investigations, we can observe thatonline learning systems can take both explicit and/orimplicit feedback to refine their trained models.4 Online Learning Systems: FutureWhile previous work has made important steps, theproblem of lifelong learning for spoken dialoguesystems is far from solved.
Especially the follow-ing challenges will need to receive attention: (a) fastlearning algorithms that can retrain behaviours aftereach user turn with stable performance; and (b) scal-able methods for optimizing multitasked behavioursat different levels and modalities of communication.In addition, we envision online learning systemswith the capability of transfering knowledge acrosssystems and domains.
For example: a dialogue actclassifier, an interaction strategy, or a generationstrategy can be made transferable to similar tasks.This could involve reasoning mechanisms to inferwhat is known/unknown based on past experiences.The idea of learning from scratch every time a newsystem is constructed will thus be avoided.
In thisregard, the role of the system developer in thesekinds of systems is not only to specify the system?stasks and learning environment, but to constrain andbootstrap the system behaviour for faster learning.All of these capabilities will be possible using on-line learning with a lifelong learning perspective.5 Tools and DataCurrently there are software tools for training mod-els but they are more suitable for offline learning.1Software tools for online learning remain to be de-veloped and shared with the community.
In addi-tion, since building a dialogue system typically re-quires a tremendous amount of effort, researchersworking on learning approaches should agree onstandards to facilitate system development.
Finally,since dialogue data is an often lacking resource inthe community, the online learning perspective maycontribute towards reducing the typical chicken andegg problem, due to dialogue knowledge being morereadily transferable across domains, subject to on-line adaption towards particular domains.ReferencesDan Bohus, Brian Langner, Antoine Raux, Alan Black,Maxine Eskenazi, and Alexander Rudnicky.
2006.Online Supervised Learning of Non-UnderstandingRecovery Policies.
In Proc.
IEEE SLT.Heriberto Cuaya?huitl and Nina Dethlefs.
2011.
Optimiz-ing Situated Dialogue Management in Unknown Envi-ronments.
In Proc.
INTERSPEECH.Milica Gas?ic?, Filip Jurc??
?c?ek, Blaise Thomson, Kai Yu,and Steve Young.
2011.
On-line policy optimisationof spoken dialogue systems via interaction with humansubjects.
In Proc.
IEEE ASRU.Sebastian Thrun.
1994.
A Lifelong Learning Perspectivefor Mobile Robot Control.
In Proc.
IEEE/RSJ/GI.1www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/8
