NAACL-HLT 2012 Workshop on Predicting and Improving Text Readability for target reader populations (PITR 2012)., pages 25?32,Montre?al, Canada, June 7, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsGraphical Schemes May Improve Readability butNot Understandability for People with DyslexiaLuz Rello,1,2 Horacio Saggion21 Web Research Group2 NLP Research GroupUniversitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelonaluzrello@acm.orghoracio.saggion@upf.eduRicardo Baeza-Yates, Eduardo GraellsWeb Research GroupUniversitat Pompeu FabraYahoo!
Research, Barcelonarbaeza@acm.orgeduardo.graells@upf.eduAbstractGenerally, people with dyslexia are poor read-ers but strong visual thinkers.
The use ofgraphical schemes for helping text compre-hension is recommended in education man-uals.
This study explores the relation be-tween text readability and the visual concep-tual schemes which aim to make the text moreclear for these specific target readers.
Our re-sults are based on a user study for Spanish na-tive speakers through a group of twenty threedyslexic users and a control group of similarsize.
The data collected from our study com-bines qualitative data from questionnaires andquantitative data from tests carried out usingeye tracking.
The findings suggest that graph-ical schemes may help to improve readabilityfor dyslexics but are, unexpectedly, counter-productive for understandability.1 IntroductionReadability refers to the legibility of a text, thatis, the ease with which text can be read.
On theother hand, understandability refers to comprehen-sibility, the ease with which text can be understood.Since readability strongly affects text comprehen-sion (Barzilay et al, 2002), sometimes both termshave been used interchangeably (Inui et al, 2003).However, previous research with dyslexic peoplehave shown that both concepts need to be takeninto consideration separately.
For instance, whilein dyslexic population reading, comprehension hasbeen found to be independent of the spelling errorsof the text; lexical quality can be used as an indicatorof understandability for the non-dyslexic population(Rello and Baeza-Yates, 2012).Dyslexia has been defined both as a specific read-ing disability (Vellutino et al, 2004) and as a learn-ing disability (International Dyslexia Association,2011).
It is neurological in origin and it is char-acterized by difficulties with accurate and/or fluentword recognition and by poor spelling and decodingabilities.
Secondary consequences include problemsin reading comprehension and reduced reading ex-perience that can impede growth of vocabulary andbackground knowledge (International Dyslexia As-sociation, 2011).On the other hand, the role of visual thinkingis crucial in dyslexics and its development may behelpful for a number of tasks such as visual anal-ysis and pattern recognition (West, 2009).
Par-tially related to the importance of visual thinking indyslexics, the use of graphical schemes has been anextensively recommended pedagogical strategy fordyslexic students (Ram?
?rez Sa?nchez, 2011; Chalk-ley et al, 2001) as well as for students with readingdisabilities (Lo?pez Castro, 2010).The inclusion of semantic maps was found tobe beneficial for reading comprehension of gen-eral disabled readers in (Sinatra et al, 1984) andthe inclusion of graphical schemes to improve com-prehension for dyslexic readers has been proposedin (Weaver, 1978).
However, to the best of ourknowledge, no estimation of the effect of graphicalschemes on the readability for dyslexics using eyetracking together with their effect in understandabil-ity has been done.
Therefore, this paper presents thefollowing three main contributions for Spanish na-25tive speakers:?
An estimation of the effect of graphicalschemes in the readability of dyslexic readersbased on the analysis of an eye tracking userstudy.?
The relationship between readability and un-derstandability in dyslexic readers using com-prehension questionnaires.?
A survey conducted among dyslexics on thehelpfulness of including graphical schemes.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
Sec-tion 2 covers related work and Section 3 details theexperimental methodology.
Section 4 presents ourresults and in Section 5 conclusions and future chal-lenges are drawn.2 Related WorkWe divide the related work in: (1) strategies used indiscourse simplification for dyslexics, and (2) howthese strategies were measured in relationship withreadability and understandability.Since dyslexics represent a target population ofpoor readers, different strategies have been appliedfor improving readability: the use of different textformats (Rello et al, 2012) and environments (Gre-gor and Newell, 2000), the use of multi-modal infor-mation (Kiraly and Ridge, 2001) and text to speechtechnologies (Elkind et al, 1993), among others.The closest work to ours is the incorporation ofsummaries and graphical schemes in texts.
Previ-ous work has shown that the readability of dyslexicstudents could be improved by using text summa-rization (Nandhini and Balasundaram, 2011) and se-mantic maps (Sinatra et al, 1984).Various factors have been applied to measurereadability in dyslexics.
Classic readability mea-sures are useful to find appropriate reading materialfor dyslexics (Kotula, 2003) and to measure com-prehension.
For instance, the Flesch-Kincaid read-ability degree was applied to access comprehensionspeeds and accuracy in dyslexic readers (Kurniawanand Conroy, 2006).
Other specific readability mea-sures for dyslexic readers have been proposed inother domains such as information retrieval (Sitbonand Bellot, 2008).In the case of the use of summaries, the evaluationof comprehension was carried out using question-naires (Nandhini and Balasundaram, 2011).
Multi-ple choice questions were applied to measure the in-corporation of semantic maps among disable readers(Sinatra et al, 1984) and eye tracking measures havebeen used to explore various characteristics relatedto dyslexic reading (Eden et al, 1994).Although the creation of graphical schemes is ex-tensively recommended in literature (Weaver, 1978;Ram?
?rez Sa?nchez, 2011; Lo?pez Castro, 2010), wefound no formal evaluation of their impact in read-ability and comprehension combining data from eyetracking, questionnaires, and a survey.3 Experimental Methodology3.1 ParticipantsTwenty three native Spanish speakers with a con-firmed diagnosis of dyslexia took part in the study,twelve of whom were female and eleven male.
Allthe participants were asked to bring their diagnosesto the experiment.
Their ages ranged from 13 to 37,with a mean age of 20.74.
There were three par-ticipants with attention deficit disorder.
All partic-ipants were frequent readers; eleven read less thanfour hours per day, nine read between four and eighthours per day, and three participants read more thaneight hours daily.
Ten people were studying or al-ready finished university degrees, eleven were at-tending school or high school and two had no highereducation.
A control group of 23 participants with-out dyslexia and similar age average (20.91) alsoparticipated in the experiment.3.2 DesignThe experiment was composed of four parts: (1) aninitial interview designed to collect demographic in-formation, (2) a reading test, (3) two questionnairesdesigned to control the comprehension, and (4) asurvey to know the impressions of each person re-garding the inclusion of graphical schemes.Along the reading test we collected the quantita-tive data to measure readability, with the compre-hension questionnaires we measure understandabil-ity, while with the survey we gather informationabout the participant views.We used two different variants (A and B) of the26Test AComprenhesionQuestionnarieText 1:StarSchemeText 2:FishSchemeText 2:FishText 1:StarComprehensionQuestionnaireComprenhesionQuestionnarieComprehensionQuestionnaireComprehensionQuestionnaireComprehensionQuestionnaireParticipant Preferences SurveyTest BComprenhesionQuestionnarieSunday, May 6, 12Figure 1: Variants of the experiment.test (see Figure 1).
Each test was composed of twotexts: one text that included a graphical schemein the top and another text without the graphicalscheme.
We extracted the most similar texts wecould find from the Spanish Simplex corpus (Bottand Saggion, 2012).
The chosen texts share the fol-lowing characteristics:(a) They both have the same genre: science news.
(b) They are about similar topics: Text 1 (calledStar) is about the discovery of a supernova andtext 2 (Fish) is about the discovery of a newspecies of fish.
(c) They contain the same number of sentences: 4sentences in addition to the title.
(d) They have the same number of words (136).
(e) They have a similar average word length: 5.06letters per word in Star and 5.12 letters perword in Fish.
(f) They contain the same number of uniquenamed entities (7).
(g) They contain one foreign word: Science in Starand Jean Gaudant in Fish.
(h) They contain one number: 6.300 an?os luz(?6,300 light years?)
in Star and 10 millones dean?os (?10 millions of years?)
in Fish.As seen in Figure 1, in variant A, text 2 includesa graphical scheme while text 1 was presented with-out the graphical scheme.
Variant B is reversed: text1 appeared with a graphical scheme and text 2 with-out it.
The order of the experiments was counterbal-anced using the variants A and B to guarantee thatthe participant never reads the same text twice.For the layout of the texts and graphical schemeswe chose a recommended font type for dyslexics,sans serif arial (Al-Wabil et al, 2007), unjustifiedtext (Pedley, 2006), and recommended color andbrightness contrast using a black font with cremebackground1 (British Dyslexia Association, 2012).For the creation of the graphical schemes2 wetook into account the pedagogical recommendationsfor dyslexics (Ram?
?rez Sa?nchez, 2011; Chalkley etal., 2001), and the cognitive principles of inductivelearning in concept acquisition from scheme theory(Anderson et al, 1979; Anderson and Robert, 2000).Since the tests were going to be read by dyslex-ics, the graphical schemes were manually created bya dyslexic adult and supervised by a psychologist.The graphical schemes simplify the discourse andhighlight the most important information from thetitle and the content.
Each of the graphical schemesshares the following pattern: the first line of thegraphical scheme encloses the main words of the ti-tle connected by arrows and then, starting from thetitle, there is a node for each of the sentences of thetext.
These nodes summarize the most relevant in-formation of the text, as the example translated toEnglish shown in Figure 2.
We present the originaltext and its translation in the Appendix.To control the comprehension, after each text wedesigned a maximum performance questionnaire in-cluding inferential items related to the main idea.We did not include items related to details, be-cause they involve memory more than comprehen-sion (Sinatra et al, 1984).
Each of the items had1The CYMK are creme (FAFAC8) and black (000000).Color difference: 700, brightness difference: 244.2Notice that we distinguish graphical schemes from con-ceptual graphs (Sowa, 1983) or semantic maps (Sinatra et al,1984).27Figure 2: Example of a graphical scheme (Fish).three answers, a correct one, another partially incor-rect (normally containing details), and an incorrectone.
We gave 100, 50, and 0 points for each typeof answer, respectively.
For instance (translated intoEnglish):?
What is the text about?
(a) About the National Museum of Natural His-tory in Paris (0 points).
(b) About the discovery of a prehistoric fish in Va-lencia (100 points).
(c) About the content of the fish feces (50 points).The test finishes with one survey to learn the par-ticipant preferences.
The survey is composed ofthree items about how helpful was the graphicalscheme for (1) reading, (2) understanding, and (3)remembering the text.
Each item uses a Likert scalewith 5 levels, from strongly disagree (1) to stronglyagree (5).
An example of an item follows:?
Without the graphical scheme, my understand-ing of the text would have been:1.
Much more easier because I did not under-stand anything about the graphical scheme.2.
Easier because the graphical scheme is com-plicated.3.
Neither easier nor more difficult.4.
More difficult because the graphical schemehas helped me.5.
Much more difficult because the graphicalscheme has shed light about the content.3.3 EquipmentThe eye tracker used was a Tobii T50 (Tobii Tech-nology, 2005) with a 17-inch TFT monitor.
The eyetracker was calibrated for each participant and thelight focus was always in the same position.
Thedistance between the participant and the eye trackerwas constant (approximately 60 cm.
or 24 in.)
andcontrolled by using a fixed chair.3.4 ProcedureThe sessions were conducted at Pompeu Fabra Uni-versity and they took around 30 minutes, dependingon the amount of information given by the partici-pant.
In each session the participant was alone withthe interviewer (first author) in the quiet room pre-pared for the study.The first part began with an interview designed tocollect demographic information.
Second, we pro-ceeded with the recordings of the passages using eyetracking.
Half of the participants made variant A ofthe test and the other half variant B.
The participantwas asked to read the texts in silence and completingeach comprehension questionnaire.
The text ends byanswering the survey.3.5 Data AnalysisThe software used for analyzing the eye trackingdata was Tobii Studio 3.0 and the R 2.14.1 statisticalsoftware.
The measures used for the comparison ofthe text passages were the means of the fixation du-ration and the total duration of reading.
Differencesbetween groups and parameter values were tested bymeans of a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA).4 ResultsIn this section we present first the analyses of thedata from the eye tracking and comprehension ques-tionnaires (Section 4.1), followed by the analysis ofthe survey (Section 4.2).4.1 Readability and UnderstandabilityTo measure the impact of graphical schemes inreadability we analyzed the means of the fixationtime and the total reading duration of the pas-sages.
Shorter fixations are preferred to longerones because according to previous studies (Just andCarpenter, 1980), readers make longer fixations atpoints where processing loads are greater.
Also,shorter reading durations are preferred to longerones since faster reading is related to more read-able texts (Williams et al, 2003).
We compare read-ability with understandability through the inferentialitems of the comprehension questionnaire.First, we studied the differences between thedyslexic participants and the control group.
Then,28Table 1: Experimental results of the eye-tracking and thecomprehension user study.Measure (sec., %) Scheme + Text Text(ave. ?
std.dev.)
Group DFixations Duration 0.224?
0.046 0.248?
0.057Visit Duration 64.747?
22.469 78.493?
34.639Correct Answers 86.93% 97.73%Group NFixations Duration 0.205?
0.033 0.198?
0.030Visit Duration 43.771?
14.790 45.124?
13.353Correct Answers 89.58% 95.83%we analyzed the influence of the graphical schemesin the readability and understandability.In (Kurniawan and Conroy, 2006) it was foundthat students with dyslexia are not slower in read-ing than students without dyslexia when the articlesare presented in a dyslexia friendly colour scheme.However, we found statistical significance amongthe dyslexic and non-dyslexic groups when readingboth texts without graphical schemes taking into ac-count the mean of fixation time (p < 0.0008) andthe total reading duration for the texts with graph-ical schemes (p < 0.0007) and without graphi-cal schemes (p < 0.0001) (see Table 1).
On theother hand, our results are consistent with other eye-tracking studies to diagnose dyslexia that found sta-tistical differences among the two populations (Edenet al, 1994).The presence of graphical schemes improves thereadability of the text for people with dyslexia be-cause the fixation time and the reading duration de-creases for all texts with a graphical scheme (see Ta-bles 1, 2, and 3).
Notice that these positive resultsare given for the comparison of the texts alone (seethe text areas in Figure 1).
If we compare the to-tal reading duration of the text alone with the textplus the graphical scheme, it takes in average 18.6%more time to read the whole slide than the text alone.However, we found no statistically significantresults among texts with and without graphicalschemes using such measures.
The greatest differ-ence in readability among texts with and withoutgraphical schemes was found taking into account thefixation times for both texts (p = 0.146) among thedyslexic participants.Comparing both Fish and Star texts (see Tables2 and 3), we observe that Fish was more difficultto read and understand since it presents longer fixa-tions and a lower rate of correct answers.
In dyslex-ics the fixation time decreases more (from 0.258seconds without graphical scheme to 0.227 with agraphical scheme, p < 0.228) in Fish that in Star(0.237 to 0.222, p < 0.405), meaning that graphi-cal schemes have a higher impact in readability forcomplex texts.Considering the similarity of the texts, it is sur-prising how Fish seems to be easier to read than Star.One possible explanation is that the scientific pieceof news contained in Star was more present in themedia than the other news contained in Fish.However, graphical schemes have not helped ourparticipants to increase their rate of correct answersfor the inferential items.
For all the cases except one(non-dyslexic participants in Star, Table 2) the rateof correct answers decreased when the text was ac-companied by a scheme.Dyslexic participants have a higher percentage ofcorrect answers than non-dyslexics when the text ispresented with the graphical scheme, and lower rateif the text is presented without the graphical scheme.These results are consistent with some of the opin-ions that the participants expressed after the session.A few dyslexic participants explained that the graph-ical scheme actually distracted them from the textcontent.
Another dyslexic participant exposed thatthe graphical schemes helped her to remember andstudy texts but not to understand them.
The diverseopinions of the participants towards the graphicalschemes suggest that normally graphical schemesare highly customized by the person that createsthem and therefore a non-customized schema couldcomplicate understandability.4.2 SurveyThrough the user survey we infer how the partici-pants were influenced by the graphical schemes in:(1) the text?s readability, (2) the understandabilityof the text, and (3) remembering the text content.In Figure 3 we present the results for each of theitems comparing dyslexic and non-dyslexic partici-pants (N = 23).In terms of readability, dyslexic and non-dyslexicparticipants have opposite opinions.
While dyslexicparticipants agree in finding graphical schemes help-29Figure 3: Survey results for understandability, readability and remembering.Table 2: Experimental results of the eye-tracking andcomprehension user study for text 1, Star.Measure (sec., %) Scheme + Text Text(ave. ?
std.dev.)
Group DFixations Duration 0.222?
0.061 0.237?
0.023Visit Duration 63.633?
0.00 83.918?
18.606Correct Answers 87.5% 95.45%Group NFixations Duration 0.205?
0.023 0.199?
0.041Visit Duration 39.552?
14.850 47.351?
15.580Correct Answers 91.67% 91.67%Table 3: Experimental results of the eye-tracking andcomprehension user study for text 2, Fish.Measure (sec., %) Scheme + Text Text(ave. ?
std.dev.)
Group DFixations Duration 0.227?
0.026 0.258?
0.078Visit Duration 60.073?
20.684 69.058?
29.910Correct Answers 86.36% 100%Group NFixations Duration 0.205?
0.042 0.214?
0.036Visit Duration 47.990?
14.130 42.896?
10.991Correct Answers 87.5% 100%ful for reading (12 participants, 52.17%), non-dyslexic participants said that graphical schemeswere unhelpful.
Some participants explained thatthe graphical schemes mislead them because theywere placed at the beginning of the slide when theydid not know the topic of the text.
However, a fewparticipants claimed that they found the graphicalschemes very helpful.Participants with dyslexia mostly agree (10 partic-ipants, 43.48%) in finding graphical schemes helpfulfor textual comprehension while most of the non-dyslexic participants (14 participants, 60.87%) didnot find graphical schemes neither helpful nor un-helpful for understandability.
On the other hand,both populations agree in finding graphical schemeshelpful for remembering data from the text.5 Conclusions and Future WorkThe addition of informational elements to a text im-pacts its readability.
Since dyslexics are strong vi-sual thinkers this study relates the use of graphicalschemes to readability and understandability, con-tributing to predict their impact.In general terms, we can affirm that adding agraphical scheme in a text improves its readability,since we observed a decrease in the fixation timeand an increase of reading speed in texts containinggraphical schemes.
On the contrary to the expectedresult, understandability does not improve with thepresence of graphical schemes.Even though dyslexia presents heterogenous man-ifestations among subjects, we found patterns re-lated to readability and understandability usingquantitative and qualitative data.However, our results shall be taken with care sincereadability, specially in dyslexic users, depends onmany factors which are very challenging to controlin an experimental setup.
These factor include the30vocabulary of the participants, their working mem-ory or the different strategies they use to overcomedyslexia.Further work is needed such as the inclusion ofmore types of graphical schemes in the experiments,the addition of a delayed post-test to address the ef-fect of supplemental graphical schemes on robust-ness of learning, and the exploration of more factorsrelated to readability.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Mari-Carmen Marcos for her assistancewith the eye tracker hardware and Joaquim Llisterrifor his invaluable help distributing our experimentsannouncement among experts.
Special thanks gofor the psychologists Daniela Alarco?n Sa?nchez andClara Mar?
?a Pavo?n Gonzalo for their help when de-signing the questionnaires and graphical schemes.For their altruistic help in contacting dyslexic peoplewe are indebted to Anna Eva Jarabo, Mar?
?a FuentesFort, Beatriu Pasarin, Du?nia Pe`rdrix i Sola`s, ToniMart?
?, Vero?nica Moreno, Emma Rodero, Olga Soler,Berta Torres, Mar?
?a Vilaseca, and Silvia Zaragoza.Special thanks go to all the anonymous dyslexic par-ticipants and their families.
Finally, we thank theanonymous reviewers for their excellent comments.ReferencesA.
Al-Wabil, P. Zaphiris, and S. Wilson.
2007.
Web nav-igation for individuals with dyslexia: an exploratorystudy.
Universal Acess in Human Computer Interac-tion.
Coping with Diversity, pages 593?602.J.R.
Anderson and J. Robert.
2000.
Learning and mem-ory.
John Wiley New York.J.R.
Anderson, P.J.
Kline, and C.M.
Beasley.
1979.
Ageneral learning theory and its application to schemaabstraction.
Psychology of learning and motivation,13:277?318.R.
Barzilay, N. Elhadad, and K. R. McKeown.
2002.
In-ferring strategies for sentence ordering in multidocu-ment news summarization.
Journal of Artificial Intel-ligence Research, 17:35?55.Stefan Bott and Horacio Saggion.
2012.
Text simplifi-cation tools for spanish.
In Proceedings of the eighthinternational conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2012), Instanbul, Turkey, May.ELRA.British Dyslexia Association.
2012.
Dyslexia styleguide, January.
http://www.bdadyslexia.org.uk/.B.
Chalkley, J. Waterfield, and Geography DisciplineNetwork.
2001.
Providing learning support for stu-dents with hidden disabilities and dyslexia undertak-ing fieldwork and related activities.
University ofGloucestershire, Geography Discipline Network.GF Eden, JF Stein, HM Wood, and FB Wood.
1994.Differences in eye movements and reading problemsin dyslexic and normal children.
Vision Research,34(10):1345?1358.J.
Elkind, K. Cohen, and C. Murray.
1993.
Usingcomputer-based readers to improve reading compre-hension of students with dyslexia.
Annals of Dyslexia,43(1):238?259.Peter Gregor and Alan F. Newell.
2000.
An empirical in-vestigation of ways in which some of the problems en-countered by some dyslexics may be alleviated usingcomputer techniques.
In Proceedings of the fourth in-ternational ACM conference on Assistive technologies,ASSETS 2000, pages 85?91, New York, NY, USA.ACM.International Dyslexia Association.
2011.
Def-inition of dyslexia: http://interdys.org/DyslexiaDefinition.htm.
Based in the ini-tial definition of the Research Committee of the Or-ton Dyslexia Society, former name of the IDA, done in1994.K.
Inui, A. Fujita, T. Takahashi, R. Iida, and T. Iwakura.2003.
Text simplification for reading assistance: aproject note.
In Proceedings of the second interna-tional workshop on Paraphrasing-Volume 16, pages 9?16.
Association for Computational Linguistics.M.A.
Just and P.A.
Carpenter.
1980.
A theory of reading:From eye fixations to comprehension.
Psychologicalreview, 87:329?354.J.
Kiraly and P.M. Ridge.
2001.
Method of and apparatusfor multi-modal information presentation to computerusers with dyslexia, reading disabilities or visual im-pairment.
US Patent 6,324,511.A.W.
Kotula.
2003.
Matching readers to instructionalmaterials: The use of classic readability measuresfor students with language learning disabilities anddyslexia.
Topics in Language Disorders, 23(3):190.S.
Kurniawan and G. Conroy.
2006.
Comparing compre-hension speed and accuracy of online information instudents with and without dyslexia.
Advances in Uni-versal Web Design and Evaluation: Research, Trendsand Opportunities, Idea Group Publishing, Hershey,PA, pages 257?70.M.R.
Lo?pez Castro.
2010.
Intervencio?n educativa enun caso real de problemas de comprensio?n lectora.Hekademos: revista educativa digital, (6):27?48.31K.
Nandhini and SR Balasundaram.
2011.
Improv-ing readability of dyslexic learners through documentsummarization.
In IEEE International Conferenceon Technology for Education (T4E), pages 246?249.IEEE.M.
Pedley.
2006.
Designing for dyslexics: Part 3 of 3.http://accessites.org/site/2006/11/designing-for-dyslexics-part-3-of-3.D.
M.
Ram?
?rez Sa?nchez.
2011.
Estrategias de inter-vencio?n educativa con el alumnado con dislexia.
In-novacio?n y experiencias educativas, 49.L.
Rello and R. Baeza-Yates.
2012.
Lexical quality as aproxy for web text understandability (poster).
In The21st International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2012), April.L.
Rello, G. Kanvinde, and R. Baeza-Yates.
2012.
Lay-out guidelines for web text and a web service to im-prove accessibility for dyslexics.
In InternationalCross Disciplinary Conference on Web Accessibility(W4A 2014), Lyon, France, April.
ACM Press.R.C.
Sinatra, J. Stahl-Gemake, and D.N.
Berg.
1984.Improving reading comprehension of disabled read-ers through semantic mapping.
The Reading Teacher,38(1):22?29.L.
Sitbon and P. Bellot.
2008.
A readability measure foran information retrieval process adapted to dyslexics.In Second international workshop on Adaptive Infor-mation Retrieval (AIR 2008 in conjunction with IIiX2008), pages 52?57.J.F.
Sowa.
1983.
Conceptual structures: informationprocessing in mind and machine.
Addison-WesleyPub., Reading, MA.Tobii Technology.
2005.
Product description Tobii 50Series.F.R.
Vellutino, J.M.
Fletcher, M.J. Snowling, and D.M.Scanlon.
2004.
Specific reading disability (dyslexia):What have we learned in the past four decades?
Jour-nal of child psychology and psychiatry, 45(1):2?40.P.A.
Weaver.
1978.
Comprehension, recall, and dyslexia:A proposal for the application of schema theory.
An-nals of Dyslexia, 28(1):92?113.T.G.
West.
2009.
In the Mind?s Eye: Creative Vi-sual Thinkers, Gifted Dyslexics, and the Rise of VisualTechnologies.
Prometheus Books.S.
Williams, E. Reiter, and L. Osman.
2003.
Experi-ments with discourse-level choices and readability.
InProceedings of the 9th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation (ENLG-2003), Budapest, Hun-gary.A AppendixBelow we present Text 2 (Fish) and its translation toEnglish.Descubren en Valencia una nueva especie depez prehisto?ricoEl estudio de un lago salino que existio?
hace 10 mil-lones de an?os en Bicorb (Valencia) ha permitido descubrirel fo?sil de una nueva especie de pez prehisto?rico y de susheces.
Segu?n informo?
este martes el Instituto Geolo?gicoy Minero de Espan?a, este pez depredador ha sido bau-tizado por los investigadores como ?Aphanius bicorben-sis?, en honor a la poblacio?n de Bicorb donde ha sidoencontrado.
La investigacin ha sido realizada por En-rique Pen?alver, experto en insectos fo?siles del InstitutoGeolo?gico y Minero, y por Jean Gaudant, especialista enpeces fo?siles del Museo Nacional de Historia Natural dePar?
?s, gracias a la financiacio?n de la Consejer?
?a de Culturade la Generalitat Valenciana.
El estudio del contenidode las heces de estos peces, que tambie?n quedaron fos-ilizadas en la roca, ha permitido a los investigadores saberque este depredador se alimentaba de los foramin?
?feros yde las larvas de mosquito, especialmente abundantes enel lago.A new species of a prehistoric fish is discoveredin ValenciaThe study of a saline lake that existed 10 million yearsago in Bicorb (Valencia) has uncovered the fossil of a newspecies of prehistoric fish and their feces.
The Geologicaland Mining Institute of Spain informed last Tuesday thatthis predatory fish has been named by the researchers as?Aphanius bicorbensis?
in honor of the town of Bicorbwhere was found.
The research was conducted by En-rique Pen?alver, an expert on insect fossils of the Geologi-cal and Mining Institute, and Jean Gaudant, a specialist infossil fishes of the National Museum of Natural Historyin Paris, thanks to funding from the Council of Culture ofthe Government of Valencia.
The study of the content ofthe feces of these fishes, which were also fossilized in therock, has allowed researchers to know that this predatorwas feeding on foraminifera and mosquito larvae, espe-cially abundant in the lake.32
