Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 35?44,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdvanced Visual Analytics Methods for Literature AnalysisDaniela OelkeUniversity of KonstanzData Analysis and VisualizationKonstanz, Germanyoelke@inf.uni-konstanz.deDimitrios KokkinakisSpra?kbankenDepartment of SwedishUniversity of GothenburgGothenburg, Swedendimitrios.kokkinakis@gu.seMats MalmDepartment of Literature,History of Ideas and ReligionUniversity of GothenburgGothenburg, Swedenmats.malm@lit.gu.seAbstractThe volumes of digitized literary collec-tions in various languages increase at arapid pace, which results also in a growingdemand for computational support to ana-lyze such linguistic data.
This paper com-bines robust text analysis with advancedvisual analytics and brings a new set oftools to literature analysis.
Visual ana-lytics techniques can offer new and unex-pected insights and knowledge to the liter-ary scholar.
We analyzed a small subset of alarge literary collection, the Swedish Liter-ature Bank, by focusing on the extraction ofpersons?
names, their gender and their nor-malized, linked form, including mentionsof theistic beings (e.g., Gods?
names andmythological figures), and examined theirappearance over the course of the novel.
Acase study based on 13 novels, from theaforementioned collection, shows a numberof interesting applications of visual analyt-ics methods to literature problems, wherenamed entities can play a prominent role,demonstrating the advantage of visual liter-ature analysis.
Our work is inspired by thenotion of distant reading or macroanalysisfor the analyses of large literature collec-tions.1 IntroductionLiterature can be studied in a number of differentways and from many different perspectives, buttext analysis - in a wide sense - will surely alwaysmake up a central component of literature stud-ies.
If such analysis can be integrated with ad-vanced visual methods and fed back to the dailywork of the literature researcher, then it is likelyto reveal the presence of useful and nuanced in-sights into the complex daily lives, ideas and be-liefs of the main characters found in many of theliterary works.
Therefore, the names of all char-acters appearing in literary texts can be one suchline of enquiry, which is both an important sub-field of literature studies (literary onomastics) andat the same time the result obtained by a maturelanguage technology (named entity recognition)which can be turned into a tool in aid of text anal-ysis in this field.
(Flanders et al, 1998) discussthat references to one type of names, namely thatof people, are of intrinsic interest because they re-veal networks of friendship, enmity, and collab-oration; familial relationships; and political al-liances.
People?s names can be an appropriatestarting point for research on biographical, his-torical, or literary issues, as well as being a keylinguistic and textual feature in its permutationsand usage.We argue that the integration of text analysisand visualization techniques, which have turnedout to be useful in other scientific fields such asbioinformatics (Nature Methods, 2010), could beput to effective use also in literature studies.
Wealso see an opportunity to devise new ways of ex-ploring the large volumes of literary texts beingmade available through national cultural heritagedigitization projects.Digitized information and the task of storing,generating and mining an ever greater volume of(textual) data becomes simpler and more efficientwith every passing day.
Along with this opportu-nity, however, comes a further challenge: to createthe means whereby one can tap this great poten-tiality and engage it for the advancement of (sci-entific) understanding and knowledge mining.35We apply a supra-textual perspective to theanalysis of literary texts by encompassing a ratherglobal visualization of a document.
As a casestudy, we have analyzed a subset, 13 novels, of theSwedish Literature Bank1 collection through twolevels of inquiry by focusing on person names,their gender and their normalized, linked form,including mentions of theistic beings (e.g.
Gods?names and mythological characters), and examin-ing their appearance in sentences, paragraphs andchapters.Our aim is to explore the usage of alterna-tive visualization means that provide additionalinsight by showing the data at higher resolutionlevels or that permit an analysis of the devel-opment of the story in the course of the text.The employed visualization techniques are scal-able enough to display several novels at once andtherefore allow a literature scholar to compare dif-ferent literary texts to each other.
By combiningadvanced natural language processing techniqueswith visualization techniques, we aim to allowthe user to rapidly focus on key areas of interest(based on name mentions) and provide the abilityto discover e.g.
semantic patterns in large collec-tions of text.
Therefore, our work is based on in-dividual texts, by looking for certain patterns ofvariation based on a particular named entity type.Our work is also inspired by the notions of distantreading or macroanalysis applied to the analysesof literature collections which we find appealingfor the research we describe.
However, we do not1The Swedish Literature Bank (Litteraturbanken,http://litteraturbanken.se) is a co-operationbetween the Swedish Academy, the Royal Library ofSweden, the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, Historyand Antiquities, the Language Bank of the University ofGothenburg, the Swedish Society for Belles Lettres, andthe Society of Swedish Literature in Finland.
The SwedishLiterature Bank also focuses on neglected authors andgenres, effectively establishing a set of ?minor classics?alongside the canonical works.
So far, mainly texts inSwedish are available, but over time, selected works willbe offered in translation as well.
Currently, the SwedishLiterature Bank offers literary works either as searchablee-text, as facsimiles of the original edition, as PDF files oras EPUB files - often in more than one format.
The textsare available free of charge and the software is developedas open source.
The website is directed towards the generalpublic and students and teachers at every level, as well astowards scholars.
The digital texts are based on printed firsteditions or on later scholarly editions.
They are carefullyproof-read, thus establishing a basis for scholarly work.
Forthe common reader, introductions and essays provide freshperspectives on the classics.consider such techniques to be used as a substitu-tion for reading a book sequentially but as a usefulsupplement.2 BackgroundComputer-assisted literary criticism is a ratheryoung field in literature analysis (Juola, 2008).Typically, researchers in literary studies use com-puters only to collect data that is afterwards ana-lyzed conventionally.
Yet, there are some casesin which the computer has already proven use-ful, e.g., for the analysis of prosody and poeticphonology or for comparing an author?s revisions(from version to version).
Computer-assistedstudies have also been performed in the contextof sequence analysis in the past, such as assigningquoted passages to speakers and locating them inthe sequence of the text (Butler, 1992).2.1 Distant Reading and Macroanalysis(Moretti, 2005) coined the term ?distant reading?in which ?the reality of the text undergoes a pro-cess of deliberate reduction and abstraction?.
Ac-cording to this view, understanding literature isnot accomplished by studying individual texts, butby aggregating and analyzing massive amountsof data.
This way it becomes possible to detectpossible hidden aspects in plots, the structure andinteractions of characters becomes easier to fol-low enabling experimentation and exploration ofnew uses and development that otherwise wouldbe impossible to conduct, e.g., quantifying the dif-ference between prose styles.Distant reading or its near synonym macroanal-ysis is a technique to analyze literature, as op-posed to ?close reading?
of a text that is the care-ful, sustained interpretation of a brief passage oftext where great emphasis is placed on the par-ticular over the general, paying close attention toindividual words, syntax, and the order in whichsentences and ideas unfold as they are read.
Themost fundamental and important difference in thetwo approaches/terms is that the macroanalyticapproach reveals details about texts that are for allintents and purposes unavailable to close-readersof the texts.
Distant reading is in no way meantto be a replacement for close readings and in tra-ditional humanities, as Moretti puts it (Schulz,2011), ?distant reading should supplant, not sup-plement, close reading?.362.2 Visual Analytics for Literature AnalysisVisual Analytics is ?the science of analytical rea-soning facilitated by visual interactive interfaces?
(Thomas et al, 2005).
The central idea of visualanalytics is that by tightly integrating the humanexpert and the machine, the strengths of both canbe leveraged in the analysis process.
Visual An-alytics has been applied successfully to many ap-plication domains in the past such as text analysis,geographical data analysis, security applications,(computational) biology or multimedia data.2However, visual analytics is not often used inthe context of literature analysis.
Commonly, atext is read sequentially and then analyzed by theresearcher bit by bit.
Only during recent yearssome literary scholars have started to employ vi-sualization techniques in their studies.One of them is Franco Moretti, who advocatedthe usage of visual representations such as graphs,maps, and trees for literature analysis (Moretti,2005).
(Vuillemot et al, 2009) suggested the us-age of word clouds and self-organizing graphs andpresented a tool that allows to analyze a novelinteractively with respect to several properties.In (Plaisant et al, 2006) a tabular representationthat is enriched with visual symbols was used topresent the results of an automatic algorithm fordetecting erotic statements.
(Rydberg-Cox, 2011)generated social network graphs of characters inGreek tragedies, based on information taken fromlinguistic dependency treebanks, which permit tovisualize the interactions between characters inthe plays.
Furthermore, scatterplot views allowedthe user to search for correlations between sev-eral variables of the meta data that comes with thenovels.
Rohrer et al (1998) experimented withusing implicit surfaces to compare single docu-ments with respect to the most frequent terms andto visualize a document collection.Pixel-based visualizations come with the ad-vantage that the documents can be analyzed ata higher resolution level.
The Compus system(Fekete and Dufournaud, 2000) used dense pixeldisplays to visualize the structure of richly anno-tated XML documents of books of the 16th cen-tury.
Keim and Oelke (2007) focused more on theanalysis of documents with respect to certain text2Cf.
proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Vi-sual Analytics Science and Technology (IEEE VAST),http://visweek.org/.properties to compare authors with respect to theirwriting style or to learn more about the character-istics of a literary book.
The two techniques alsodiffer from each other in terms of how structuralinformation is encoded and how they deal withthe problem of overplotting that occurs if a pixelencodes several feature values.3 Named Entity RecognitionNamed entity recognition (NER) is an importantsupporting technology with many applications invarious human language technologies.
It hasemerged in the context of information extraction(IE) and text mining (TM).
The automatic recog-nition and marking-up of names (in a wide sense)and some other related kinds of information - e.g.,time and measure expressions and/or terminology- has turned out to be a recurring basic require-ment.
Hence, NER has become core languagetechnology of great significance to numerous ap-plications and a wide range of techniques (Jack-son and Moulinier, 2007).In our study involving 19th century fiction, weuse a slightly adapted NER system to the lan-guage used in fiction around the turn of the twenti-eth century (Borin and Kokkinakis, 2010).
More-over, the nature and type of named entities vary,depending on the task under investigation or thetarget application.
In any case, person, locationand organization names are considered ?generic?.The system we applied implements a rather fine-grained named entity taxonomy with several mainnamed entity types and subtypes but for our casestudy we chose to only use the type person whichusually incorporates people?s names (forenames,surnames), groups of people, animal/pet names,mythological names, theonyms and the like.
Notethat we haven?t performed any formal evaluationof the entity or the gender annotation in this work.In previous studies, based on data from the samesource and applying the same NER-tools (Borinet al, 2007), we have shown high figures on pre-cision and recall (96-98%) on, particularly, personrecognition.3.1 Gender AttributionCurrent NER systems are limited to the recog-nition of a small set of entity types without at-tempting to make finer distinctions between them.The system we use goes beyond this in the sensethat it attempts to also automatically determine37the referential gender of all person entities.
Ref-erential gender relates linguistic expressions, bothpersons and groups of individuals, to ?female?,?male?
or ?gender-indefinite?.
This is an impor-tant constraint which contributes to better perfor-mance in subsequent language processing appli-cations based on NER, such as anaphora resolu-tion, by filtering-out of gender-incompatible can-didates (Evans and Orasan, 2000).
The approachto gender discrimination is based on applying acombination of the following heuristics:?
NER has a high accuracy in identifying per-son names, a large number of which are as-signed gender.
A pre-classified list of 16,000common first names assigns gender to com-monly used first names.
This way a first dis-tinction is already being made between enti-ties that carry gender.
The list has been ac-quired from various internet sites.?
Use of gender-marked pronouns in the vicin-ity of person entities (a simplistic form ofpronoun resolution where simple decisionsare made by matching a genderless per-son entity with a gender bearing personalpronouns, han ?he?, hans ?his?, hon ?she?and hennes ?her?).
Also, various types ofhonorifics and designators, manually pre-categorized into gender groups, provide theevidence that is explored for the annota-tion of both animate instances but also theirgender.
Inherent characteristics for a largegroup of these designators (e.g., morpholog-ical cues), indicate biological gender.
Exam-ples of gender-bearing male designators aree.g.
the nouns baron and herr ?Mr?, and ad-jectives with suffix bearing gender, namely-e, such as starke ?strong?, hygglige ?kind?and gamle ?old?
; while female-bearing des-ignators are e.g.
tant ?aunt?
and fru ?wife?.Gender is also captured using a simplified setof suffix matching rules, such as -inna/innan,-erska/erskan (typical suffixes for female)and -man/mannen, -iker/ikern (typical suf-fixes for male).?
Labeling consistency is a technique that op-erates over the whole annotated text.
Thismodule reviews the annotations made sofar, in order to support gender attribution ofunassigned cases based on unambiguous pre-vious gender assignments.
This is a sim-ple but robust approach that does not relyon pre-compiled statistics of any kind.
Inorder to capture such consistency we em-ploy a two stage labeling approach.
Dur-ing the first stage, we note the instances ofperson entities with unknown gender, andsearch for a context where the same entityhas been assigned gender (male, female) dueto a gender-indicating context and for whichno other occurrences of the same entity arefound in the document with a different gen-der.
If this is the case, then all occurrencesof that entity are assigned the same genderthroughout the document.
During the sec-ond stage, the system investigates if thereare any conflicting, ambiguous annotationsfor gender for which the local context andthe supporting resources (e.g., first names?gazetteer) cannot decide the gender attribu-tion.
If this is the case and more than onepossible annotation for gender is recorded,we choose the most frequently assigned gen-der label for the entity in question, in case ofa tie we mark the gender as unknown.3.2 Name LinkingSince the same name can be referred to in vari-ous ways, extracting named entities alone is notsufficient for many tasks.
Therefore, mappingand linking multiple linguistic variations to a sin-gle referent is necessary.
We apply a simplifiedform of co-reference resolution based on salientfeatures and pattern matching that links (hope-fully) all mentions that refer to a single per-son entity.
Consider the aggregated occurrencesfor the name O?Henny appearing in the novel?Clownen Jac?
[lb904603] (1930).
All 92 oc-currences of the figure O?Henny will be linkedto the same individual since there is sufficientand reliable evidence which is based on gendermatch, no annotation conflicts (i.e.
other individ-ual named Denny or Henny with the same gender)and orthographic characteristics: O?Henny (58);Denny (19); Denny O?Henny (7); Henny-Denny(4); Denny-Henny (3); Henny (1).4 MaterialProse fiction is just one type of textual materialthat has been brought into the electronic ?life?
us-ing large scale digitized efforts.
But it must be38considered an essential source within many disci-plines of humanities (history, religion, sociology,linguistics etc.)
and social studies and an invalu-able source for understanding the movements ofsociety by its ability to demonstrate what forcesand ideas are at work in the society of its time.Prose fiction is complex and difficult to use notonly because of interpretational complexity butalso because of its limited availability.The Swedish Literature Bank, and its sisterproject ?the 19th Century Sweden in the Mirrorof Prose Fiction?, aims to change this by devel-oping a large representative corpus which mir-rors society at given points in time, chronologi-cally selected in such a way that historical com-parisons can be made.
A substantial part of thematerial is all fiction, written in the original andpublished separately for the first time, that ap-peared in Swedish starting from the year 1800and collected during consecutive twenty year in-tervals.
The material provides a whole century ofevolution and social, aesthetic, scientific, techni-cal, cultural, religious and philosophical change.Out of this data we selected the literary produc-tion, 13 novels, of a single author, namely Hjal-mar Bergman (1883-1931).
The selected novels(followed by their id) are:?
Savonarola (1909); id=lb443177?
Amourer (1910); id=lb1611717?
Hans na?ds testamente (1910); id=lb1611719?
Vi Bookar, Krokar och Rothar (1912);id=lb494265?
Loewenhistorier (1913); id=lb1631349?
Falska papper (1916); id=lb1525006?
Herr von Hancken (1920); id=lb1524996?
Farmor och Va?r Herre (1921); id=lb1187656?
Eros?
begravning (1922); id=lb1470072?
Chefen fru Ingeborg (1924); id=lb1524995?
Flickan i frack (1925); id=lb1470073?
Kerrmans i paradiset (1927); id=lb1317426?
Clownen Jac (1930); id=lb9046035 Visual Exploration of the DataIn this chapter we report on our experiences withdifferent visualization techniques that can be em-ployed for analyzing novels with respect to thecharacters involved in the plot.
Besides net-work representations two alternative, not as wellknown, visualization techniques are tested.
Ourgoal is to learn about their strengths and weak-nesses with respect to the task and identify chal-lenges that are specific for the field.
We show howvisualization can be used to gain insight into lit-erary work that otherwise would be much morelaborious to get.5.1 Network representationTraditionally, persons in a novel are analyzed interms of the relations that exist between them.Obviously, graph visualizations are well suited forrepresenting this kind of information.
Figure 1shows a person network for the novel ?Eros?
be-gravning?
(?Eros?
funeral?)
(1922).
Nodes repre-sent characters of the plot and an edge is insertedbetween two persons if they co-occur in at leastone sentence of the novel.3 In such a represen-tation it is easy to identify protagonists that areconnected to many other characters (e.g., Ludwigvon Battwyhl or Olga Willman-Janselius).
Fur-thermore, it is possible to see clusters of char-acters.
Figure 1 also shows that Casimir Brut isthe person that connects the two main groups ofcharacters of the novel, in the sense that he in-troduces one group of characters to another.
Thethickness of an edge encodes the number of timesthat two names co-occur which could be regardedas the strength of the relationship.
A strong con-nection seems to exist between Brita Djurling andLudwig von Battwyhl but also between Hans HinzFaber and Gruber.
It is interesting to see thatGruber is only weakly connected with other char-acters of the plot but almost exclusively occurstogether with Hans Hinz Faber.
Presumably, be-cause Hans Hinz Faber was the faithful servant ofGruber.The example shows that network representa-tions can provide interesting insight with respectto the relationship between different persons inthe plot.
However, one question that this plot can-not answer is how these relationships evolve overthe course of the novel.5.2 Summary PlotsSummary plots are tabular representations inwhich each column represents a text unit (here:3Note that using co-occurrence can be just considered anapproximation.
More advanced methods would be neededto ensure that all and only well-established relationships be-tween characters are extracted.39#SchamilJuditOlleCasimir BrutBetty WillmanKarolina WillmanSch?lerMaturinHenrikGr?delHans Hinz FaberFilemonLovisaErik JanssonBaukisGruberLizzy WillmanBrita DjurlingKarl-HermanAnna-Lisa WillmanKarl-AugustLotten BrennerLudwig von BattwyhlJan-Petter JanseliusOlga Willman-JanseliusLasseLisaAlexanderKatarinaBollaNathan SpeibachMariaSara Sch?nthalWillmanHieronTheanderAnna-Lisa DjurlingJoachim BrutSven LagerKalle MagerFigure 1: Network representation based on the co-occurrences of the person names in ?Eros?
begravning?a chapter) and each line corresponds to a personof the novel.
Table cells are colored accordingto the frequency of the character in the specifictext unit (normalized with respect to the numberof words in the chapter).
The person names aresorted in descending order according to the over-all frequency of the person name in the novel.In such a heatmap-like representation it is easyto see which characters co-occur in a chapter butalso how this develops in the course of the docu-ment.
Do always the same persons meet?
Is thereone main protagonist in the book that is almostalways present or is the story line more complexin terms of characters?
Being able to answer thiskind of questions provides the analyst with insightabout the development of the story that would notbe visible in a person network.Figure 2 shows the summary plot for the novel?Eros?
begravning?
in which some interestingcharacteristics become apparent.
For example,some person names are only mentioned in aspecific chapter (see lines of Hans Hinz Faber,Gra?del, Schmil, Lisbeth etc.).
Besides, the chap-ters differ significantly with respect to the num-ber of unique person names that are mentioned.The first and the last chapter are the ones inwhich most characters are mentioned whereas inthe third chapter only four characters play a role.A closer look into the text reveals that the novelconsists of a ?frame text?, where different peo-ple meet and tell each other stories.
The storiesconstitute chapters in the novel, and thus becomea bit like short stories.
The first chapter, whichdoes not have a title, introduces a large number ofpeople.
This number of participating people thendecreases during the course of the following sto-ries (chapters), but towards the end of each chap-ter the discussion is returned to the overall storyonce again, where people are talking with eachother about various things before the next storystarts.
Also, in the individual chapters there existpeople who do not participate outside of a singlechapter.5.3 Literature FingerprintsSummary plots allow literature scholars to seewhich characters co-occur in one chapter.
How-ever, they do not permit to analyze the usage ofthe person names within one chapter.
In contrastto this, pixel-based visualizations avoid such ag-40lb1470072, red = Olga Willman-Janselius, green = other name1234567Figure 3: Literature Fingerprint for the novel ?Eros?
begravning?.
Red pixels mark mentions of the protagonist?Olga Willman-Janselius, green pixels highlight the position of other names.Figure 2: Summary plot for novel ?Eros?
begravning?(?Eros?
funeral?
).gregation and enable an inspection of the data ona much higher resolution level.We use the literature fingerprinting technique(Keim and Oelke, 2007) to inspect the novel?Eros?
begravning?
in more detail.
Each pixelrepresents one word.
Pixels are arranged from leftto right and top to bottom and are grouped accord-ing to chapters.
The color of a pixel can be usedto encode a value.
In this case pixels were coloredin red if they represent the name of the most fre-quent protagonist, Olga Willman-Janselius, andin green if another name was mentioned.
Thetechnique is scalable enough to display the wholebook at this high resolution level.
However, thecolored pixels are sparse and would likely be lostin the sea of uncolored pixels.
We therefore usesemi-transparent halos around the colored pixelsto increase their visual saliency.
(For more vi-sual boosting techniques for pixel-based visual-izations see (Oelke et al, 2011)).
In this visualiza-tion it is now possible to see where in the courseof the novel the main protagonist, Olga Willman-Janselius, plays a role.
Furthermore, it becomesobvious that there are parts in which almost noperson name at all is mentioned.
This is in linewith the fact that the book tells several separatestories that are integrated at the end of each chap-ter into the overall story (see also explanation insection 5.2).Alternatively, we also could have highlightedthe positions of several names using one color perprotagonist to compare their distribution.
Thisway an analyst can learn about the relations be-tween different characters.
However, the numberof different names that can be highlighted at thesame time is restricted by the human ability to dis-tinguish different colors easily (cf.
(Ware, 2008)).Figure 4 shows fingerprints for all 13 novels.Again each pixel represents a word but this timeall words that neither are a name of a person norof a theistic being are disregarded.
This way a41MaleFemaleUnknownGodsIncludesnewdataVi Bookar, Krokar ?
(1912)                 Savonarola (1909)                              Clownen Jac (1930)                              Kerrmans i paradiset (1927)Amourer (1910)                                    Hans n?ds testamente (1910)          Chefen fru Ingeborg (1924)                Loewenhistorier (1913)Herr von Hancken (1920)                    Eros?
begravning (1922)                     Farmor och V?
r Herre (1921)            Falska papper (1916)Flickan i frack (1925)Figure 4: Fingerprints for the 13 novels.
Color is used to encode the three categories male, female, gods.focus is put on the order in which the mentions ofthe three categories (male, female, gods) appear.Words that the algorithm recognized as a namebut could not assign to one of the categories aremarked as unknown and are colored in white.Some interesting patterns become visible in thevisualization.
One book (first one in the secondrow) sticks out because of its high number of men-tions of theistic beings.
?Amourer?
[lb1611717](1910) is a collection of short stories.
The laststory, ?The False Cristoforo?, varies the theme ofChristopher, who carried Jesus Christ across theriver which results in the peak of names of theis-tic beings that can be observed at the end of thebook.Another interesting observation is that in thebeginning of the book ?Kerrmans i paradiset?
[lb1317426] (1927) (last one in first row), malecharacters are clearly dominant which is almostreversed in the book?s second part.
A closer lookinto the book reveals that this is because the bookis divided into two main parts.
The first partis more about prestige and position in society,i.e., social games with other men, while the sec-ond part is more personal and relates clearly towomen.
The summary plot of the book (Figure5) reveals that there are not fewer male charactersinvolved in the second part of the book but overallthey are less frequently mentioned.
At the sametime, female characters that had in the first part ofthe book only a minor role become more domi-nant in the plot.5.4 DiscussionEach of the visualization techniques that we ex-perimented with has its strengths and weaknessesif used for the analysis of a novel with respect toits characters.
Person networks come with the ad-vantage that they can show relationships betweencharacters.
This way clusters of persons that forma group within the story become visible.
In con-trast to this, summary plots can only show co-occurrence within a chapter (or smaller text unit).But their strength is to show the development ofthe set of persons involved in the plot.
In such atabular representation it is easy to compare the in-42Male charactersFemale charactersFigure 5: Summary plot for the novel ?Kerrmans i paradiset?.
Lines are grouped according to the two categoriesmale / female and are sorted within each category according to the overall frequency of the characters.volvement of different characters across the doc-ument.
Even more details are provided by theliterature fingerprinting technique.
Because thetechnique is very scalable, every single word canbe visualized.
Coloring is used to encode textproperties of interest.
Again, the development ofthe characters across a document is visible, thistime even within single chapters.
However, com-pared to the summary plot technique, fewer per-son names can be distinguished.Obviously, a combination of the three tech-niques is advisable for analyzing novels with re-spect to the persons involved.
But our comparisonof the three techniques also allows us to identify amissing type of visualization: One that is able toshow the development of the story in terms of thecharacters involved and at the same time is able todisplay their relationships.Furthermore, the techniques lead to interesting in-sight but these newly generated hypotheses needto be checked in the text.
A tighter integration ofthe actual text source into the visualization toolscould therefore be a valuable extension.6 ConclusionsThe combination of robust text analysis with vi-sual analytics brings a new set of tools to litera-ture analysis, provides powerful insights on docu-ment collections, and advances our understandingof the evolution of human behavior, society, tech-nological advancement and cultural trends.
Asa matter of fact, (Michel, 2010), introduced theterm ?Culturomics?, i.e.
the application of high-throughput data collection, digital book archivesand the like, and analysis to the study of hu-man culture and we believe that novel insights to-wards this direction can be gained by combiningsuch technologies.
In this paper we have shownthat quantifiable data such as (person) names canbe identified, extracted, and visualized in novelways.In the future we intend to further extend the ca-pabilities for visual literature analysis.
One re-search goal is the development of a visualizationtechnique that allows to investigate the develop-ment of a story across a novel but at the sametime shows the relationships between the char-acters.
Furthermore, we believe that interactivevisual analysis tools (instead of static visualiza-tions) open up additional possibilities for litera-ture scholars to explore the large volumes of dig-itized literary collections that are nowadays avail-able.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Zukunftskollegof the University of Konstanz and the Centre ofLanguage Technology in Gothenburg.43ReferencesYevgeni Berzak, Michal Richter, Carsten Ehrler andTodd Shore.
2011.
Information Retrieval and Vi-sualization for the Historical Domain.
LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage - Theory and Ap-plications of Natural Language Processing.
Pp.197?212.
Springer.Lars Borin and Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2010.
Liter-ary Onomastics and Language Technology.
Liter-ary Education and Digital Learning.
Methods andTechnologies for Humanities Studies.
Pp.
53?78.IGI Global.Lars Borin, Dimitrios Kokkinakis and Leif-Jran Ols-son.
2007.
Naming the past: Named entity andanimacy recognition in 19th century Swedish litera-ture.
Proceedings of the ACL Workshop: LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaTeCh).Prague.
Pp.
1?8.Christopher S. Butler.
1992.
Computers and WrittenTexts.
Basil Blackwell.Richard Evans and Constantin Orasan.
2000.
Im-proving anaphora resolution by identifying ani-mate entities in texts.
Proceedings of the Dis-course Anaphora and Anaphor Resolution Collo-quium (DAARC) 2000.
Lancaster, UK.
Pp.
154?162.Jean-Daniel Fekete and Nicole Dufournaud.
2000.Compus: visualization and analysis of structureddocuments for understanding social life in the 16thcentury.
Proceedings of the fifth ACM conferenceon Digital libraries.
San Antonio, Texas, UnitedStates.
Pp.
47?55, ACM.Julia Flanders, Syd Bauman, Paul Caton and MavisCournane.
1998.
Names proper and improper: Ap-plying the TEI to the classification of proper nouns.Computers and the Humanities.
31(4), pp.
285?300.Peter Jackson and Isabelle Moulinier.
2007.
Naturallanguage processing for online applications: Textretrieval, extraction and categorization.
Amster-dam: John Benjamins.Patrick Juola.
2008.
Killer applications in digitalhumanities.
Literary and Linguistic Computing.23(1): 73?83.Daniel A. Keim and Daniela Oelke.
2007.
LiteratureFingerprinting: A New Method for Visual LiteraryAnalysis.
Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium onVisual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST).Pp.
115?122.Jean-Baptiste Michel et al 2010.
Quantita-tive Analysis of Culture Using Millions ofDigitized Books.
Science 331 (6014): 176.?http://www.sciencemag.org/content/early/2010/12/15/science.1199644?.Franco Moretti.
2005.
Graphs, maps, trees: abstractmodels for a literary history.
R. R. Donnelley &Sons.Nature Methods.
2010.
Visualizing biological data.Supplement to Nature Publishing Group journals.7 (3s): S1-S68.Daniela Oelke, Halldor Janetzko, Svenja Simon, KlausNeuhaus and Daniel A. Keim.
2011.
VisualBoosting in Pixel-based Visualizations.
ComputerGraphics Forum.
30 (3): 871-880.Catherine Plaisant, James Rose, Bei Yu, Loretta Auvil,Matthew G. Kirschenbaum, Martha Nell Smith,Tanya Clement and Greg Lord.
2006.
Exploringerotics in Emily Dickinson?s correspondence withtext mining and visual interfaces.
Proceedings ofthe 6th ACM/IEEE-CS joint conference on Digitallibraries.
Pp.
141-150, ACM.Randall M. Rohrer, David S. Ebert, and John L. Sibert.1998.
The Shape of Shakespeare: Visualizing Textusing Implicit Surfaces.
Proceedings of the 1998IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization.
Pp.121-129.Jeff Rydberg-Cox.
2011.
Social Networks andthe Language of Greek Tragedy.
Journal of theChicago Colloquium on Digital Humanities andComputer Science.
1(3): 1-11.Kathryn Schulz.
2011.
The MechanicMuse - What Is Distant Reading?
TheNew York Times - Sunday Book Review.Page BR14.
?http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/26/books/review/the-mechanic-muse-what-is-distant-reading.html?.James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook.
2005.
Illu-minating the Path: The Research and DevelopmentAgenda for Visual Analytics.
National Visualizationand Analytics Center.Romain Vuillemot, Tanya Clement, Catherine Plaisantand Amit Kumar.
2009.
What?s Being Said Near?Martha??
Exploring Name Entities in LiteraryText Collections.
Proceedings of the IEEE Sympo-sium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology(VAST).
Atlantic City, New Jersey, USA.
Pp.
107?114.Colin Ware.
2008.
Visual Thinking for Design.
Mor-gan Kaufmann.44
