Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Models of Language Acquisition and Loss, pages 20?22,Avignon, France, April 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Morphologically Annotated Hebrew CHILDES CorpusAviad AlbertLinguisticsTel Aviv Uni.IsraelBrian MacWhinneyPsychologyCarnegie Mellon Uni.USABracha NirCommunication SciencesUni.
of HaifaIsraelShuly WintnerComputer ScienceUni.
of HaifaIsraelAbstract We present a corpus of transcribedspoken Hebrew that reflects spoken interactionsbetween children and adults.
The corpus is anintegral part of the CHILDES database, whichdistributes similar corpora for over 25 languages.We introduce a dedicated transcription scheme forthe spoken Hebrew data that is sensitive to boththe phonology and the standard orthography ofthe language.
We also introduce a morphologi-cal analyzer that was specifically developed forthis corpus.
The analyzer adequately covers theentire corpus, producing detailed correct analysesfor all tokens.
Evaluation on a new corpus revealshigh coverage as well.
Finally, we describe a mor-phological disambiguation module that selects thecorrect analysis of each token in context.
The re-sult is a high-quality morphologically-annotatedCHILDES corpus of Hebrew, along with a set oftools that can be applied to new corpora.CHILDES We present a corpus of transcribedspoken Hebrew that forms an integral part ofa comprehensive data system that has been de-veloped to suit the specific needs and inter-ests of child language researchers: CHILDES(MacWhinney, 2000).
CHILDES is a system ofprograms and codes designed to facilitate the pro-cess of free speech analysis.
It involves threeintegrated components: 1.
CHAT, a system fordiscourse notation and coding, designed to ac-commodate a large variety of analyses, whilestill permitting a barebones form of transcription;2.
CLAN, a set of computer programs; and 3.
Alarge, internationally recognized database of lan-guage transcripts formatted in CHAT.
These in-clude child-caretaker interactions from normally-developing children, children with language dis-orders, adults with aphasia, learners of secondlanguages, and bilinguals who have been exposedto language in early childhood.
Researchers candirectly test a vast range of empirical hypothesesagainst data from nearly a hundred major researchprojects.
While about half of the CHILDES cor-pus consists of English data, there is also a signif-icant body of transcripts in 25 other languages.Corpus We focus on the Hebrew section ofCHILDES, consisting of two corpora: the Ber-man longitudinal corpus, with data from four chil-dren between the ages of 1;06 and 3;05 (Bermanand Weissenborn, 1991), and the Ravid longitudi-nal corpus, with data from two siblings betweenthe ages of 0;09 to around 6 years of age.
Thecorpora consist of 110,819 utterances comprisingof 417,938 word-tokens (13,828 word-types).Transcription The Hebrew data are transcribedwith a Latin-based phonemic transcription (Niret al, 2010).
We use a set of monoglyph Unicodecharacters (mostly in line with standard IPA con-ventions) that has already been applied for othercomplex scripts.
In contrast to previous tran-scription methods, the current transcription re-flects phonemic, orthographic and prosodic fea-tures.
The advantages of our approach in reducingambiguity are:?
Unlike the standard script, our phonemictranscriptions includes the five vowels of Mod-ern Hebrew, and prosodic information on primarystress location, thereby yielding fewer ambigui-ties that stem from homographs.?
At the same time, we retain valuable phone-mic and phonetic distinctions that are standard inthe orthography but are no longer distinct in Mod-ern Hebrew speech (e.g., t /t., k /q, P/Q).?
We separate and mark prefix particles, mak-ing it easier to recognize them as separate mor-phemes, which never participate in homographs.20Our transcription thus conforms to the threemajor goals which the CHAT format is designedto achieve (MacWhinney, 1996): systematicityand clarity, human and computerized readability,and ease of data entry.Morphological Analysis CLAN includes a lan-guage for expressing morphological grammars,implemented as a system, MOR, for the construc-tion of morphological analyzers.
A MOR gram-mar consists of three components: a set of lexi-cons specifying lexical entries (base lexemes) andlists of affixes; a set of rules that govern allomor-phic changes in the stems of lexical entries (A-rules); and a set of rules that govern linear affixa-tion processes by concatenation (C-rules).Different languages vary in their requirementsand their need to utilize these MOR devices.The Hebrew MOR extensively uses all of themin order to account for vocalic and consonantalchanges of the stem allomorphs (handled withinthe A-Rules), and the proper affixation possibili-ties (via the C-rules and affix lists).The lexicon includes over 5,800 entries, in16 part-of-speech (POS) categories.
Lexically-specified information includes root and pattern(for verbs mainly), gender (for nouns), plural suf-fix (for nouns), and other information that cannotbe deduced from the form of the word.
Over 1,000A-rules describe various allomorphs of morpho-logical paradigms, listing their morphological andmorphosyntactic features, including number, gen-der, person, nominal status, tense, etc.
Lexical en-tries then instantiate the paradigms described bythe rules, thereby generating specific allomorphs.These, in turn, can combine with affixes via over100 C-rules that govern the morphological alter-nations involved in affixation.Results and Evaluation The corpora includeover 400,000 word tokens (about 14,000 types).More than 27,000 different morphological analy-ses are produced for the tokens observed in thecorpus; however, we estimate that the applicationof the morphological rules to our lexicon wouldresult in hundreds of thousands of forms, so thatthe coverage of the MOR grammar is substan-tially wider.
The grammar fully covers our cur-rent corpus.
Figure 1 depicts a small fragment ofa morphologically-annotated corpus.To evaluate the coverage of the grammar, weapplied it to a new corpus that is currently beingtranscribed.
Of the 10,070 tokens in this corpus,176 (1.75%) do not obtain an analysis (77 of the1431 types, 5.3%).
While some analyses may bewrong, we believe that most of them are valid, andthat the gaps can be attributed mostly to missinglexical entries and inconsistent transcription.As another evaluation method, we developed aprogram that converts the transcription we use tothe standard Hebrew script.
We then submit theHebrew forms to the MILA morphological ana-lyzer (Itai and Wintner, 2008), and compare theresults.
The mismatch rate is 11%.
While fewmismatches indeed indicate errors in the MORgrammar, many are attributable to problems withthe MILA analyzer or the conversion and compar-ison script.Morphological Disambiguation The MORgrammar associates each surface form with all itspossible analyses, independently of the context.This results in morphological ambiguity.
Thelevel of ambiguity is much lower than that of thestandard Hebrew script, especially due to the vo-calic information encoded in the transcription, butseveral forms are still ambiguous.
These includefrequent words that can function both as nouns,adjectives or adverbs and as communicators (e.g.,yo?fi ?beauty/great!
?, t.ov ?good/OK?
); verbswhose tense is ambiguous (e.g., baP ?come?
canbe either present or past); etc.We manually disambiguated 18 of the 304 filesin the corpus, and used them to train a POS tag-ger with tools that are embedded in CLAN (POS-TRAIN and POST).
We then automatically disam-biguated the remaining files.
Preliminary evalua-tion shows 80% accuracy on ambiguous tokens.Future Plans Our ultimate plan is to add syn-tactic annotation to the transcripts.
We have de-vised a syntactic annotation scheme, akin to theexisting scheme used for the English section ofCHILDES (Sagae et al, 2010), but with specialconsideration for Hebrew constructions that arecommon in the corpora.
We have recently begunto annotate the corpora according to this scheme.Acknowledgments This research was sup-ported by Grant No.
2007241 from the UnitedStates-Israel Binational Science Foundation(BSF).
We are grateful to Arnon Lazerson fordeveloping the conversion script, and to ShaiGretz for helping with the manual annotation.21Figure 1: A fragment of the annotated corpusReferencesRuth A. Berman and Ju?rgen Weissenborn.
Acquisi-tion of word order: A crosslinguistic study.
FinalReport.
German-Israel Foundation for Research andDevelopment (GIF), 1991.Alon Itai and Shuly Wintner.
Language resources forHebrew.
Language Resources and Evaluation, 42(1):75?98, March 2008.Brian MacWhinney.
The CHILDES system.
Ameri-can Journal of Speech Language Pathology, 5:5?14,1996.Brian MacWhinney.
The CHILDES Project: Toolsfor Analyzing Talk.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,Mahwah, NJ, third edition, 2000.Bracha Nir, Brian MacWhinney, and Shuly Wintner.A morphologically-analyzed CHILDES corpus ofHebrew.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conferenceon International Language Resources and Evalua-tion (LREC?10), pages 1487?1490, Valletta, Malta,May 2010.
European Language Resources Associ-ation (ELRA).
ISBN 2-9517408-6-7.Kenji Sagae, Eric Davis, Alon Lavie, Brian MacWhin-ney, and Shuly Wintner.
Morphosyntacticannotation of CHILDES transcripts.
Jour-nal of Child Language, 37(3):705?729, 2010.doi: 10.1017/S0305000909990407.
URLhttp://journals.cambridge.org/article_S0305000909990407.22
