Proceedings of the 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 55?60,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDiscourse Structure in Simultaneous Spoken TurkishI?
?n Demir?ahinMiddle East Technical UniversityInformatics Institute, Cognitive ScienceODTU, 06800, Ankara, TURKEYdisin@metu.edu.trAbstractThe current  debate  regarding  the data  struc-ture necessary to represent discourse structure,specifically whether tree-structure is sufficientto  represent  discourse  structure  or  not,  ismainly focused on written text.
This paper re-views  some  of  the  major  claims  about  thestructure in discourse and proposes an investi-gation of discourse structure for simultaneousspoken Turkish by focusing on tree-violationsand exploring ways to explain them away bynon-structural means.1 IntroductionThere  is  an  ongoing  debate  about  the  nature  ofstructure in discourse.
Halliday and Hasan (1976)propose that although there is some structure in thetext and structure implies texture; texture does notnecessarily imply structure.
Text  is  held togetherby a variety of non-structural cohesive ties:  refer-ence, substitution, ellipsis, conjunction and lexicalcohesion.
However,  their  notion  of  structure  isstrictly syntactic; and for other researchers, the ele-ments  that  hold the text  together,  especially  ele-ments of conjunction, can be taken as indicators ofstructure in discourse.If there is structure in discourse, the complexityof  the  said  structure  is  of  interest  to  linguistics,cognitive  science  and  computer  science  alike.
Isdiscourse structure more complex or more simplethan  that  of  sentence  level  syntax?
How and  towhat degree is that structure constrained?
In orderto answer questions along these lines, researchersexplore the possible data structures for discourse innatural language resources.Section  2,  reviews  the  current  approaches  todiscourse structure.
Section 3 introduces the cur-rent study, i.e., the search for deviations from treestructure in spontaneous spoken language.
Section4 presents a conclusive summary.2 The Structure of Discourse2.1 Tree Structure for DiscourseHobbs (1985) takes it as a fact that discourse hasstructure.
He argues that a set of coherence rela-tions build a discourse structure that is composedof trees of successive and sometimes intertwiningtrees of various sizes connected at the peripheries.Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann andThompson, 1988) proposes that a text can be ana-lyzed as a single tree structure by means of prede-fined rhetorical relations.
Rhetorical relations holdbetween adjacent constituents either asymmetrical-ly between a  nucleus and a satellite, or symmetri-cally between two nuclei.
The notion of nuclearityallows  the  units  to  connect  to  previous  smallerunits  that  are  already embedded  in  a  larger  treestructure,  because  a  relation  is  assumed  to  beshared by the nuclei of non-atomic constituents.
Inother words, a relation to a complex discourse unitcan be interpreted as either between the adjacentunit and the whole of the complex unit, or betweenthe adjacent unit and a nucleus of the complex unit.One of the rhetorical structures in RST,  elabo-ration is criticized by Knott et al (2001) who pro-pose an elaboration-less coherence structure, wherethe global focus defines linearly organized  entitychains,  which can contain multiple atomic or non-atomic  RS trees,  and  which  are  linked  via  non-rhetorical resumptions.55Discourse - Lexicalized Tree Adjoining Gram-mar (D-LTAG) (Webber, 2004) is an extension ofthe sentence-level Tree Adjoining Grammar (Joshi,1987) to discourse level.
Discourse connectives actas  discourse  level  predicates  that  connect  twospans of text with abstract object (Asher, 1993) in-terpretations.
Coordinating and subordinating con-junctions  such  as  fakat  'but'  (1)  and  ra?men  'al-though' (2), take their host clauses by substitutionand the other argument either by substitution or byadjoining; whereas discourse adverbials such as (3)take the host argument by adjoining, and the otherargument  anaphorically.
In  the  examples  below,the host  argument is  in boldface, the other argu-ment  is  in  italics  and the connectives are  under-lined.
(1) Ara?t?rma Merkezi a?a??
yukar?
bitmi?
du-rumda, fakat i?
ve d??
donan?m?
eksik.
?The Research Center is more or less com-plete but    its internal and external equip-ments are missing.?
(2) Benim i?in ?ok utand?r?c?
bir durum ol-mas?na ra?men oral?
olmuyordum.
?Although it was a very embarrassing situ-ation for me, I didn?t pay much heed.?
(3) ?lgisizli?im seni ?a??rtabilir.
ama  ?veybabam?
g?rmek istemedi?im i?in y?llard?r oeve gitmiyorum.
Anneme ?ok ba?l?
oldu?u-mu da s?yleyemem ayr?ca.My indifference might surprise you, but sinceI do not want to see my stepfather,  I have notbeen to that  house for  years.
In addition,  Icannot  say  I  am  attached  to  my  mommuch.As in sentence level syntax, the anaphoric rela-tions are not part of the structure; as a result, thediscourse  adverbials  can  access  their  first  argu-ments anywhere in the text without violating non-crossing constraint of tree structure.
When a struc-tural connective such as  ve 'and'  and a discourseadverbial such as bundan ?t?r?
'therefore' are usedtogether as in (4), an argument may have multipleparents violating one of the constraints of the treestructure;  but  since the discourse  adverbial  takesthe other argument anaphorically, the non-crossingconstraint is not violated.
(4) Dedektif  roman?
i?inden ?
?k?lmaz gibi g?r?-nen esrarl?
bir cinayetin ??z?m?n?
sundu?ui?in,  her  ?eyden  ?nce  mant?
?a  g?veni  veinanc?
dile getiren bir anlat?
t?r?d?r vebundan  ?t?r?
de   burjuva  rasyonelli?ininedebiyattaki ?z?
haline gelmi?tir.Unraveling the solution to a seemingly intri-cate murder mystery, the detective novel is anarrative genre which primarily gives voiceto the faith and trust in reason and being so,it has become the epitome of bourgeois ra-tionality in the literature.Figure 1: Tree structure for (4).
Bundan ?t?r?
'therefore' takes one argument anaphorically, shown as a dotted line inthis representation.
Since the anaphora is non structural, there is no crossing in (4).
However, tree structure is still vi-olated because Du2 and Du3 share an argument, resulting in multiple-parent structure.56Implicit  connectives  always link two adjacentspans structurally, the host span by substitution andthe other by adjoining.
Since after adjunction theinitial immediate dominance configurations are notpreserved, the semantic composition is defined onthe  derivation  tree  rather  than  the  derived  tree(Forbes et al, 2003; Forbes-Riley et al, 2005).The Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) (Prasadet al, 2008) is loosely based on D-LTAG, as thediscourse  connectives  are  annotated  as  discourselevel predicates with two arguments; but the focusis no longer on the global structure of discourse buton  individual  relations,  and  the  annotations  arekept as theory-neutral as possible.2.2 Deviations from Tree StructureWolf  and Gibson (2005),  judging from a corpusannotated  for  a  set  of  relations  that  is  based  onHobbs  (1985),  argue  that  the  global  discoursestructure cannot be represented by a tree structure.They point out that the definition for the anaphoricconnectives in D-LTAG seems to be circular, sincethey  are  defined  by  their  anaphoric  argumentswhich can be involved in crossing dependencies,and in turn they are defined as anaphoric and thusoutside the structural constraints.
They propose achain graph-based annotations scheme, which theyclaim express  the  discourse  relations  more accu-rately than RST, because the relations can accessembedded, non-nuclear constituents that would beinaccessible in an RST tree.Since  Wolf  and  Gibson  use  attribution  andsame relations, which are not considered discourserelations in D-LTAG or the PDTB, a direct com-parison of chain graph annotations and the PDTBdoes not seem possible at this point; but violationsof tree structure are also attested in the PDTB.Lee et  al.
(2006,  2008)  investigate  the  PDTBand identify dependencies that are compatible withtree  structure,  independent  relations and  full  em-bedding;  as  well  as  incompatible  dependencies,shared  argument,  properly  contained  argument,partially overlapping arguments, and  pure cross-ing.
They claim that only shared arguments (sametext  span taken as argument  by two distinct  dis-course connectives) and properly contained argu-ments (a text span that is the argument of one con-nective properly contains a smaller text span that isthe  argument  of  another  connective)  should  beconsidered  as  contributing  to  the  complexity  ofdiscourse  structure;  the  reason being that  the  in-stances  of  partially  overlapping  arguments  andpure crossing can be explained away by anaphoraand  attribution,  both  of  which  are  non-structuralphenomena.
The presence of shared arguments car-ries  the  discourse  structure  from tree  to  directedacyclic graphs (Webber et al, 2011).Akta?
et al (2010) have identified similar treestructure violations in the Turkish Discourse Bank(TDB) (Zeyrek et al, 2010).
In addition to the de-pendencies in Lee et al (2006), Akta?
have identi-fied  properly contained relations and  nested rela-tions.
A full  analysis of the TDB with respect todiscourse structure is yet to be done.Egg and Redeker (2008, 2010) argue that treestructure violations can be overcome by applyingan underspecification formalism to discourse rep-resentation.
They  adopt  a  weak  interpretation  ofnuclearity, where although the relation between anatomic constituent   and a  complex constituent  isunderstood to hold between the atomic constituentant the  nucleus of the complex constituent, struc-turally the relation does not access the nucleus ofthe complex, and therefore does not result in multi-ple parenting.
This approach is not directly appli-cable to PDTB-style relations, because of the mini-mality principle, which constrains the annotators toselect the smallest text span possible that is neces-sary to interpret the discourse relation when anno-tating the arguments of a discourse connective.Egg and Redeker also argue that  most  of  thecrossing dependencies in Wolf and Gibson (2005)involve anaphora, which is  considered non-struc-tural in discourse as well as in syntax.
However,they admit that multi-satellite constructions (MSC)in RST, where one constituent can enter into multi-ple rhetorical relations as long as it is the nucleusof  all  relations,  seems  to  violate  tree  structure.They state that only some of the MSCs can be ex-pressed  as  atomic-to-complex  relations,  but  theyalso state that those the MSCs that cannot be ex-pressed  so  seems  to  be  genre  specific.
The  factthat both Egg and Redeker (2008) and Lee et al(2006, 2008) cannot refute the presence of multipleparenting in discourse structure is striking.2.3 Discourse Structure in Spoken LanguageAll  studies  in  Section  2  investigates  discoursestructure in written texts.
There are spoken corporaannotated for RST such as Stent (2000) and SDRT57(Baldridge  &  Lascarides,  2005),  but  the  onlyPDTB-style spoken discourse structure annotationwithin the author's knowledge is part of the LUNAcorpus in Italian (Tonelli, 2010).The most striking change Tonelli et al made inthe PDTB annotation scheme when annotating spo-ken dialogues is to allow for implicit relations be-tween non-adjacent text spans due to higher frag-mentation in spoken language.
They also added aninterruption label for when a single argument of aspeaker  was  interrupted.
Some  changes  to  thePDTB  Sense  Hierarchy  was  necessary  includingthe addition of the GOAL type under CONTINGENCYclass, fine tuning of  PRAGMATIC subtypes, exclu-sion of LIST type from EXPANSION class and merg-ing  of  syntactically  distinguished  REASON andRESULT subtypes  into  a  semantically  definedCAUSE type.3 Proposed Study and MethodologyThe  aim  of  the  current  study  is  to  determinewhether tree structure is sufficient to represent dis-course  structure  in  simultaneous spoken Turkish.Unfortunately, due to time and budget constraints,continuous annotation of a large-scale corpus withmultiple  annotators  is  not  possible  for  the  shortterm.
Therefore, the immediate goal is  to extractexcerpts of interest that include tree-violation can-didates, annotate the violations along with their im-mediate context adopting a PDTB-style annotationwith some adjustments for Turkish and spoken lan-guage;  and  explore  means  of  explaining  awaythese violations by non-structural cohesive ties de-fined by Halliday and Hasan (1976).
Cohesive tiesinclude the frequently discussed anaphora (refer-ence in  their  terms),  but  also include other  non-structural mechanisms such as  ellipsis and  lexicalcohesion.3.1 Extracting tree-violation candidatesThe first step of the study is to examine the struc-tural configurations in the TDB.
Although the TDBis a written text source, it contains texts from mul-tiple genres;  and in some genres such as novels,stories and interviews, dialogues are annotated fordiscourse  structure.
We  expect  the  TDB annota-tions  to  provide  some  insight  that  can  be  trans-ferred to spoken language.
For example, if a cer-tain  discourse  connective,  a  particular  attributionverb  or  some  specific  type  of  embedded  clauseseem to participate frequently in tree-violations inthe TDB, searching for instances of that particularelements in spoken data may considerably hastenthe search for tree-violation candidates.The second step is the continuous annotation ofsmall pieces of spoken data.
The goal of this step isnot to produce  a fully annotated spoken corpus,but rather to gather some insight into the structuresthat are unique to spoken data.
By annotating ran-domly  selected  small  pieces  of  spoken  data,  weaim to discover structures that are unique to spokendata that cannot be extracted form the TDB.
Likethe first step, the goal is to identify elements thatare  likely  to  result  in  tree-violations  that  can  besearched for in large amounts of unannotated data.The last step is obviously to look for the identi-fied  elements  in  the  first  two  phases  in  largeramounts of spoken data and annotate them.
Cur-rently considered spoken resources are the  METUSpoken Turkish Corpus (Ruhi and Karada?
2009)and freely available podcasts.3.2 Anticipated adjustments to the PDTB an-notation schemeThe TDB has already made some adjustments forTurkish on the PDTB style.
One major adjustmentis to annotate phrasal expressions that include deic-tic expressions (such as bu sebeple 'for this reason')as discourse connectives.
Although the PDTB an-notates  some  phrasal  and  multipart  connectives,deictic and productive phrasal expressions such asthat's because  or the reason is were annotated asalternative  lexicalizations  rather  than  lexicalizeddiscourse predicates.
In the TDB, such expressionsare annotated as discourse connectives because ofthe   structural  similarity  between deictic  phrasalexpressions  and  subordinating  discourse  connec-tives.
In addition, a  shared span label was intro-duced to accommodate for text spans that belong toboth  arguments,  such  as  sentential  adverbials  orsubjects of subordinate clauses.
Finally, in an on-going attempt to add sense annotations to the TDB,some  new  sense  labels  such  as  OBJECTION andCORRECTION were added to the PDTB sense hierar-chy.In addition to Turkish-specific changes, we willconsider adopting speech-specific changes such asthe non-adjacent implicit connectives and the repe-tition label by Tonelli (2010) as needed.58Figure2: An attempt at building a tree for (5).
The first argument of ??nk?
in Du5 is either recovered from Du3 bynon-structural means, or taken structurally form Du3, resulting in pure crossing and depending on the decision toannotate attribution as a discourse annotation or not, either shared argument or properly contained argument.3.3 A sample tree-violation candidateA sample excerpt of interest is (5).
The contextis that  the speaker is complaining that the projectmanager assigns new tasks right before the end ofworking hours.
(5) Sonra da sabah gelip  onlar neden yeti?medidiye hesap sorup sinir bozuyor.
E, ??nk?
senalt?ya ?eyrek kala i?
verirsen yeti?mez tabi.Then he comes in the morning and asks whythey are not ready yet and (thus) he gets onmy nerves.
Well,  because if you assign thetask at a quarter to six o'clock, they won'tbe ready of course.In  (5),  the  first  argument  of  the  connective??nk?
'because' is the complement of asking, and isembedded in a  sequence of  events.
Most  impor-tantly, it is neither the first nor the last event in thesequence, so structurally it should not be availableto ?
?nk?.Once a tree-violation candidate such as (5) isidentified, it will be analyzed to see if a plausibletree structure can be constructed, or the violationcan be explained away by non-structural  mecha-nisms or speech-specific features such as intona-tion.
In  this  case,  there  doesn't  seem  to  be  ananaphoric explanation to get rid of the crossing de-pendency.
However,  left  hand  side  argument  of??nk?
is embedded in a verb of attribution.
?Why are they not ready yet??
and the answer?Because if you give the task at  a quarter to sixo'clock, they won't be ready of course.?
make up asub-discourse  distinct  from  the  structure  of  themain discourse.
Another non-structural explanationis ellipsis, where the missing argument of ??nk?
isrecovered from the preceding context.
Repetition(an  element  of  lexical  cohesion)  of  yeti?mek 'tocatch up, be ready', may play a role in the recoveryof the missing argument.
At this point, we confineourselves to identifying possible explanations, butrefrain from committing ourselves  to any one ofthe  explanations.
Further  research  should  revealwhether this is a frequent dependency type a.
for??nk?
'because', b. for lexically reinforced ellipsisand  c.  for  arguments  of  attribution  verbs  d.  forTurkish  discourse,  or  e.  for  spontaneous  speech.Each of this possibilities will have different ramifi-cations, ranging from a discourse adverbial inter-pretation of ??nk?
'because' to a graph structure forspoken discourse.4 ConclusionWhether tree structure is sufficient to represent dis-course relations is an open question that will bene-fit from diverse studies in multiple languages andmodalities.
Here we have presented some of the ar-guments for and against tree structure in discourse.The current study aims to reveal the constraints insimultaneous  spoken Turkish  discourse  structure.The  proposed  framework  for  discourse  structureanalysis is based on PDTB-style, with  adjustmentsfor Turkish and spoken language.
The adjustmentswill be based on the existing PDTB-style studies in59Turkish  and  simultaneous  speech,  although  theyare likely to evolve further as research progresses.The methodology for the study is to search for pos-sible tree-violations, and try to apply the explana-tions in the literature to explain them away.
The vi-olations that  cannot  be plausibly explained awayby  non-structural  mechanisms  should  be  accom-modated by the final discourse model.AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge the support of TurkishScientific and  Technological Research Council ofTurkey  (TUBITAK)  and  METU  Scientific  Re-search  Fund  (no.
BAP-07-04-2011-005)  for  theTurkish Discourse Bank.ReferencesBerfin Akta?, Cem Boz?ahin, Deniz Zeyrek.
2010.
Dis-course  Relation  Configurations  in  Turkish  and  anAnnotation  Environment.
Proc.
LAW  IV  -  TheFourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objects inDiscourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Jason  Baldridge,  Alex  Lascarides.
2005.
AnnotatingDiscourse Structure for Robust Semantic Interpreta-tion.
Proc.
6th International Workshop on Computa-tional Semantics.Markus Egg, Gisela Redeker.
2008.
Underspecified Dis-course Representation.
In A. Benz and P. Kuhnlein(eds)  Constraints  in  Discourse (117-138).
Ben-jamins: Amsterdam.Markus Egg, Gisela Redeker.
2010.
How Complex isDiscourse Structure?
Proc.
7th International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2010) pp.
1619?23.Katherine  Forbes,  Eleni  Miltsakaki,  Rashmi  Prasad,Anoop  Sarkar,  Aravind  K.  Joshi.
2003.
D-LTAGSystem: Discourse Parsing with a Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining  Grammar.
Journal  of  Logic,  Languageand Information, 12(3), 261?279.Katherine  Forbes-Riley,  Bonnie  Webber,  Aravind  K.Joshi.
2005.
Computing  Discourse  Semantics:  ThePredicate-Argument Semantics of Discourse Connec-tives in D-LTAG.
Journal of Semantics, 23, 55-106.Michael A. K. Halliday, Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohe-sion in English.
London: Longman.Jerry R. Hobbs.
1985.
On the Coherence and Structureof Discourse.
Report CSLI-85-37, Center for Study ofLanguage and Information.Aravind  K.  Joshi.
1987.
An Introduction to  Tree  Ad-joining  Grammar.
In  A.  Manaster-  Ramer  (Ed.
),Mathematics  of  Language.
Amsterdam:  John  Ben-jamins.Alistair  Knott,  Jon  Oberlander,  Michael  O'Donnel,Chris Mellish.
2001.
Beyond elaboration: The inter-action of relations and focus in coherent text.
In T.Sanders, J. Schilperoord & W. Spooren (Eds.
),  TextRepresentation:Linguistic  and  psycholinguistic  as-pects (181-196): John Benjamins Publishing.Alan Lee, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind K. Joshi, Nikhil Di-nesh,  Bonnie Webber.
2006.
Complexity of depen-dencies  in discourse:  are dependencies  in discoursemore complex than in syntax?
Proc.
5th Workshopon Treebanks and Linguistic Theory (TLT?06 ).Alan  Lee,  Rashmi  Prasad,  Aravind  K.  Joshi,  BonnieWebber.
2008.
Departures from tree structures in dis-course.
Proc.
Workshop on Constraints in DiscourseIII.William C. Mann, Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetori-cal  structure theory:  Toward a functional  theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3), 243-281.Rashmi Prasad,  Nikhil  Dinesh,  Alan  Lee,  Eleni  Milt-sakaki,  Livio  Robaldo,  Aravind  K.  Joshi,  BonnieWebber.
2008.
The  Penn  Discourse  Treebank  2.0.Proc.
LREC?08 - The sixth international conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation.?
?kriye Ruhi, Derya ?okal Karada?.
2009.
Features foran internet accessible corpus of spoken Turkish dis-course.
Working Papers in Corpus-based Linguisticsand Language Education 3, 311-320.Amanda  Stent.
2000.
Rhetorical  structure  in  dialog.Proc.
2nd International Natural  Language Genera-tion Conference (INLG'2000).
Student paper.Sara  Tonelli,  Giuseppe  Riccardi,  Rashmi  Prasad,  Ar-avind Joshi.
2010.
Annotation of Discourse Relationsfor Conversational  Spoken Dialogues.
In  Proceed-ings of the Seventh International Conference on Lan-guage  Resources and Evaluation (LREC).Bonnie Webber, Matthew Stone, Aravind K. Joshi, Al-istair Knott.
2003.
Anaphora and discourse structure.Computational Linguistics.
29 (4):545-587.Bonnie Webber.
2004.
D-LTAG: Extending LexicalizedTAG to  Discourse.
Cognitive  Science,  28(5),  751-779.Bonnie  Webber,  Markus  Egg,  Valia  Kordoni.
2011.Discourse structure and language technology.
Natu-ral  Language  Engineering, doi:  10.1017/S1351324911000337,  Published  online  by  Cam-bridge University Press 08 December 2011.Florian Wolf, Edward Gibson.
2005.
Representing dis-course  coherence:  a  corpus-based  study.
Computa-tional Linguistics 31: 249?87.Deniz  Zeyrek,  I?
?n  Demir?ahin,  Ay?????
Sevdik-?all?,Hale  ?gel  Balaban,  ?hsan  Yal?
?nkaya,  ?mit  DenizTuran.
2010.
The annotation scheme of Turkish dis-course bank and an evaluation of inconsistent annota-tions.
Proc.
4th  Linguistic  Annotation  Workshop(LAW IV).60
