INLG 2012 Proceedings of the 7th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 95?99,Utica, May 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsReformulating student contributions in tutorial dialogue?Pamela Jordan1pjordan@pitt.eduSandra Katz1katz@pitt.eduPatricia Albacete1palbacet@pitt.eduMichael Ford2mjford@pitt.eduChristine Wilson1clwilson@pitt.eduUniversity of PittsburghLearning Research & Development Center1School of Education2Pittsburgh PA 15260, USAAbstractWhile some recent work in tutorial dialoguehas touched upon tutor reformulations of stu-dent contributions, there has not yet been anattempt to characterize the intentions of refor-mulations in this educational context nor anattempt to determine which types of reformu-lation actually contribute to student learning.In this paper we take an initial look at tutorreformulations of student contributions in nat-uralistic tutorial dialogue in order to charac-terize the range of pedagogical intentions thatmay be associated with these reformulations.We further outline our plans for implementingreformulation in our tutorial dialogue system,Rimac, which engages high school physicsstudents in post problem solving reflective dis-cussions.
By implementing reformulations ina tutorial dialogue system we can begin to testtheir impact on student learning in a more con-trolled way in addition to testing whether ourapproximation of reformulation is adequate.1 IntroductionIn the current study of tutorial dialogue we describehere, we seek to identify the most pedagogicallyvaluable ways in which a tutor incorporates a stu-dent?s contribution into his turn so that we can im-plement these in a tutorial dialogue system.
In edu-cational research, two teaching techniques that have?The research reported here was supported by the Instituteof Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education, throughGrant R305A100163 to the University of Pittsburgh.
The opin-ions expressed are those of the authors and do not represent theviews of the Institute or the U.S. Department of Education.been shown to benefit students, Accountable Talk(O?Connor and Michaels, 1993) and Questioningthe Author (Beck et al, 1996), both train teach-ers to make use of a number of discussion movesthat react to student contributions.
One such movethat is shared by both teaching techniques is revoic-ing.
Revoicing is characterized as a reformulationof what the student said with the intention of ex-pressing it in a way that most of the student?s fellowclassmates will be able to make sense of it and elab-orate upon it.
In the case of Accountable Talk it alsoincludes the intent that the teacher attempt to relin-quish authority on the topic under discussion.
This isdone by not evaluating the student contribution andinstead inviting the student to assess the teacher?sreformulation.
In tutorial dialogue, the pedagogicalintention of revoicing cannot be exactly the same.However, a reformulation that invites the student toassess it may retain some of the benefits of class-room revoicing.
This is something we intend to testas part of our research.
A step we are taking towardssuch a test is to look at what reformulations appearin tutorial dialogue and then attempt to character-ize the tutor intentions that may be associated withthem.In some applied contexts, such as second lan-guage learning, reformulations are more narrowlydefined as using different words while keeping thecontent semantically equivalent.
However, researchin pragmatics takes a broader view of reformulation.In a corpus study of lectures that examined reformu-lation markers such as ?in other words,?
?that is?
and?i.e.?
and also endeavored to consolidate the find-ings from previous linguistics studies, the range of95intentions identified include, among others, defini-tion, denomination, specification, explanation, cor-rection and consequence (Murillo, 2008).
In our pre-liminary characterization of reformulations in nat-uralistic tutorial dialogue, we will use this broaderdefinition and will test whether a tutor contributionis a reformulation of what the student said by check-ing the felicity of inserted reformulation markerssuch as ?in other words.
?Two recent studies of tutorial dialogue specifi-cally recognize revoicing.
The first study (Chi andRoy, 2010) examines face to face naturalistic tutorialdialogue in which a tutor is helping a student workthrough a physics problem.
They suggest that whenthe tutor repeats part of what the student said, it isoften done with the intention of providing positivefeedback for correct answers and call this revoicingas with the excerpt below which is repeated from(Chi and Roy, 2010) .S: First the gravity is pulling downT: Pulling it down.
[Tutor revoiced.
]S: Weight is..the mass times..acceleration dueto gravity and that?s force.T: Right.
Right.S: Ok.T: So weight is the force.
[Tutor revoiced.
]Given the limited context of these transcribed ex-cerpts it is difficult to argue that these are revoicingsin the sense of Accountable Talk (AT).
There areno implicit or explicit invitations, such as a questionmark, to assess the tutor?s contributions.While it is possible in the first example that thetutor understood the student to be making a genericstatement and was adding ?it?
to apply it to the par-ticular problem under discussion, it is also possiblethey have the shared goal of identifying and sum-ming all the forces on a particular object and the tu-tor is just acknowledging understanding.The second example seems to draw attention towhat is most important in what the student just said.In AT and Questioning the Author (QtA), this typeof move is called marking instead of revoicing.
Amarking is a reformulation that emphasizes what ismost important in what the student said and attemptsto direct the student to focus his/her continued dis-cussion on the reformulation.Although neither of these examples are revoicingsin the sense of AT and the first seems more like arepetition to acknowledge rather than reformulate,both are still important to consider for tutorial dia-logue.
They may help lessen the student?s cognitiveload (Walker, 1996) by drawing attention to what ismost important in what the student said (Becker etal., 2011).The other recent study of tutorial dialogue thatconsiders revoicing collected a corpus using humantutors who were trained to use QtA and who fill infor a conversational virtual tutor in a science educa-tion system (Becker et al, 2011).
This corpus hasbeen annotated along multiple dimensions.
Two dis-cussion moves from QtA, revoicing and marking,which are noted to be frequent in this corpus, areincluded in the dialogue act dimension along withother more general speech acts.
However, there is nostated goal to annotate other reformulations.
So wedo not know what other intentions associated withreformulations may appear in the corpus.In addition, the authors?
description of revoicingdiffers from that used in AT.
Here, it is a reformula-tion that is meant to help a student who is strugglingwith a particular concept.
As shown in the annotatedexample of revoicing repeated below from (Beckeret al, 2011), authority is not relinquished and thestudent is not invited to assess the reformulation.S33: well when you scrub the the paperclip tothe magnet the paperclip is starting to be a mag-net [Answer/Describe/Process]T34: very good, so if the magnet getsclose to the paperclip it picks it up [Feed-back/Positive/None, Revoice/None/None]A range of reformulations are recognized in otherwork on tutorial dialogue and have been incorpo-rated into tutorial dialogue systems.
In AutoTutor(Person et al, 2003), elaboration and summary in-volve reformulation.
In Circsim-Tutor (Freedman,2000), student answers that are close to correct ex-cept for terminology trigger a reformulation.
Fi-nally, in Beetle II (Dzikovska et al, 2008), restate-ments of correct and near correct answers involvereformulations.
In our work we wish to identify amore comprehensive set of reformulation types andintentions and determine which of these types aremost beneficial to emulate.96In this paper we examine a corpus of natural-istic human tutorial dialogues for tutor reformula-tions.
We further outline our plans for implementingrevoicing and reformulation in our tutorial dialoguesystem, Rimac (Katz et al, 2011), which engageshigh school physics students in post problem solv-ing reflective discussions.
By implementing refor-mulations and revoicings we can begin to test theirimpact on student learning in a more controlled wayin addition to testing whether our approximations ofthem are adequate.First, we will describe the corpus of human tu-torial dialogues we are analyzing and then we willpresent examples of some of the reformulations wehave found in the corpus and speculate upon pos-sible tutor intentions for these reformulations.
Wewill then outline our plans for implementing certaintypes of reformulation by first describing the currenttutorial dialogue system and the planned modifica-tions for implementing tutor reformulations.2 The CorpusThe corpus of human tutorial dialogues we are an-alyzing was collected during a study (Katz et al,2003) on the effectiveness of reflection questions af-ter a physics problem-solving session with the An-des physics tutoring system (VanLehn et al, 2005).The tutors in this corpus were graduate teachingassistants who had experience in tutoring physics.The students were recruited from introductory un-dergraduate physics courses.The students first solved a problem using theAndes system and afterwards they were presentedwith a deep-reasoning reflection question which theyneeded to answer.
After typing their answer, theythen engaged in a typed dialogue with a human tutorto follow up on their answer.
This dialogue contin-ued until the tutor was satisfied that the student un-derstood the correct answer.
Three to eight reflectionquestions were asked per problem solved in Andes.There were 12 Andes problems in all.3 Characterizing Reformulations inReflective Tutorial DialogueAs part of our analysis of the corpus described inthe previous section, we have been annotating casesof repetition and reformulation across immediatelyadjacent tutor-student and student-tutor turns (Katzet al, 2011).
While this effort is still ongoing andwe cannot yet fully characterize the reformulationsfound, we can show examples of some of the re-formulations we have identified and speculate uponwhat the tutor?s intentions may have been.
Our goalin this section is to show the variety of intentions onecan attribute to these reformulations.
Due to spacelimitations we cannot include examples of the fullrange of intentions we have found.The first example, shown below, reformulateswhat the student said (in italics) by using terminol-ogy that is typical to mathematics/physics (in bold).Arguably, ?I would call that?
may act as a reformu-lation marker in this example.
At the end of a re-formulation, we list in square brackets the pragmat-ics labels we believe best characterize the reformu-lation.T: what direction (in words) is the displace-ment?S: downwards/towards the negative y-axisT: right: I would call that the -y direction [de-nomination]The next example, shown below, reformulateswhat the student said in terms of a more fully spec-ified definition.
Inserting ?in other words?
after?Right?
seems felicitous.T: What is speed?S: it is velocity without directionT: Right, The (instantaneous) speed is themagnitude of the (instantaneous) velocity.
[specification/definition]The next example, shown below, reformulatessome of what the student said so that it is correct.Here we can insert the marker ?you mean?
in frontof ?the mass and acceleration are related to forces?and arguably ?as you point out?
could be serving asan explicit reformulation marker.
In this case the tu-tor seems to be correcting an implied ?equated to?to ?related to.
?S: the mass and the acceleration push the maninto the airbagS: so aren?t they considered forces?T: the mass and acceleration are related to97forces as you point out, but in Newtonian me-chanics are not considered forces.
[correction]And finally, the example shown below is a refor-mulation that is a revoicing.
In this case the studentmay be struggling to explain but seems to have a cor-rect conceptual understanding.
The tutor attempts tosummarize in a clearer way what he thinks the stu-dent meant and invites a student assessment with ?Ithink I see what you mean?
and the question mark.S: no gravity is no effecting x directly, but if itdid not effect y, it would go on forever, and xwould countinue to grow as well, but since yhas a bound, so does the xT: I think I see what you mean.
That whengravity pulls the ball back to the earth, thatthe earth then affects the horizontal mo-tion (by direct contact), which wouldn?t havehappened without gravity?
[summary]S: gravity is needed to bring y back to 0 so thatthe d x comp is = d4 The Rimac Tutorial Dialogue SystemTo understand how we propose to implement re-formulations, we must begin with a high level de-scription of the current Rimac system.
To build Ri-mac, we used the TuTalk (Jordan et al, 2007) nat-ural language (NL) tutorial dialogue toolkit.
Thistoolkit enables system developers to focus on de-veloping the content to be presented to studentsand rapidly developing an end-to-end system forconducting experiments that determine what con-tent and presentation is most pedagogically effec-tive.
Tutorial dialogue system developers can grad-ually transition towards a more principled dialoguesystem as questions of pedagogical effectiveness areanswered, since core modules such as NL under-standing and generation are designed to be replacedor supplemented as needed.The simplest dialogue one can write using thistoolkit can be represented as a finite state machine.Each state represents a tutor turn.
The arcs leavingthe state correspond to all classifications of a stu-dent?s response turn.
When creating a state, the au-thor enters the NL text for a tutor?s turn and entersthe NL text that defines several classes of student re-sponses as transition arcs, and indicates which stateeach arc leads to.
An arc can also push to anotherfinite state network.In this toolkit, the NL text associated with a stateor an arc is represented by a concept definition.
Inthe simplest case, a concept is a set of NL phrases.For instance, the set for a concept labelled NEG-ACK might be ?Not quite,?
?Well, not exactly,??No.?
When a student turn is received, the dialoguemanager sends a request to the understanding mod-ule to determine what concepts it best represents anddetermines transitions on the basis of the concept la-bels returned.
Likewise when a concept is to be ex-pressed, the dialogue manager asks the generationmodule to determine how to best express it in NL.In the next section we outline an initial approachfor rapidly testing which reformulations matter tostudent learning.5 Implementing Reformulation in Rimacand Future WorkIn our preliminary approach for emulating some ofthe types of reformulation we have found in thecorpus, if there is a more preferred phrasing for amatched concept, regardless of whether the student?sresponse is considered correct or incorrect, then a re-formulation with the preferred phrasing is presentedto the student.
How the reformulation is presenteddepends on the quality or confidence of the conceptmatch.
If the student turn is a poor match for a con-cept, but it is the best available match then the sys-tem will revoice the student response; e.g.
:S: the distance of the hailstoneT: Are you saying ?distance the hailstonetravels?
?In this example, we assume that ?distance of thehailstone?
is a poor match for the expected cor-rect concept and it does not match any other con-cepts that represent an incorrect response.
Further,we assume that the author indicated ?distance thehailstone travels?
as one of the most highly rankedphrases for expressing the correct concept.
So thetutor?s response revoices using the preferred phras-ing.
In this example, the tutor?s question invites thestudent to confirm the system?s reformulation of herresponse or try again.However, if the student?s response is a high qual-ity match for a concept but the author ranked this98phrasing as a less preferred way of expressing theconcept, then the system will reformulate using themost preferred phrasing for the concept; e.g.
:S: the height of the cloud and the starting placefor the hailstoneT: Good.
You could have also said ?the mag-nitude of the displacement of the hailstone?.Note that we are not yet attempting to distinguishthe intentions behind reformulations.
Instead we arefocusing on when to revoice vs. reformulate.
Here,revoicing is similar to the confirmation/clarificationquestions used in spoken dialogue systems whenrecognition of the user?s speech is uncertain.We have also implemented a standalone prototypeof simple repetitions using the XSLT approach de-scribed in (Wilcock, 2001).
By this we mean that thesystem will incorporate part of a student?s answerinto correctness feedback; e.g.
for positive feedbackas found in (Chi and Roy, 2010; Dzikovska et al,2008):T: in which direction is the acceleration?S: it is [to the right|eastward]T: Yes, it is [to the right|eastward]and, in addition, for negative feedback similar tosplicing in (Person et al, 2003); e.g.
:T: in which direction is the acceleration?S: it is [to the right|eastward]T: No, if it were [to the right|eastward] thenthe velocity would be increasing instead of de-creasing.We are currently in the process of completing ouranalysis of reformulations and are just beginning toimplement the approach for revoicing and reformu-lation we outlined for the Rimac system.ReferencesI.
Beck, M. McKeown, C. Sandora, L. Kucan, and J. Wor-thy.
1996.
Questioning the author: A yearlong class-room implementation to engage students with text.The Elementary School Journal, 96(4):385?413.L.
Becker, W. Ward, S. Van Vuuren, and M. Palmer.2011.
Discuss: A dialogue move taxonomy layeredover semantic representations.
In IWCS 2011: The9th International Conference on Computational Se-mantics, Oxford, England, January.M.
T. H. Chi and M. Roy.
2010.
How adaptive is anexpert human tutor?
In Intelligent Tutoring SystemsConference, ITS 2010, pages 401?412.M.
Dzikovska, G. Campbell, C. Callaway, N. Stein-hauser, E. Farrow, J. Moore, L. Butler, and C. Math-eson.
2008.
Diagnosing natural language answers tosupport adaptive tutoring.
In Proc.
of InternationalFLAIRS Conference.R.
Freedman.
2000.
Using a reactive planner as the basisfor a dialogue agent.
In Proc.
of International FLAIRSConference.P.
Jordan, B.
Hall, M. Ringenberg, Y. Cui, and C.P.
Rose?.2007.
Tools for authoring a dialogue agent that partic-ipates in learning studies.
In Proc.
of AIED 2007.S.
Katz, D. Allbritton, and J. Connelly.
2003.
Goingbeyond the problem given: How human tutors usepost-solution discussions to support transfer.
Interna-tional Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education,13(1):79?116.S.
Katz, P. Albacete, P. Jordan, and D. Litman.
2011.Dialogue analysis to inform the development of anatural-language tutoring system.
In Proc.
of SemDial2011 (Los Angelogue) Workshop on the Semantics andPragmatics of Dialogue.S.
Murillo.
2008.
The role of reformulation markers inacademic lectures.
In A.M. Hornero, M.J. Luzo?n, andS.
Murillo, editors, Corpus Linguistics: Applicationsfor the Study of English, pages 353?364.
Peter LangAG.M.C.
O?Connor and S. Michaels.
1993.
Aligning aca-demic task and participation status through revoicing:Analysis of a classroom discourse strategy.
Anthropol-ogy & Education Quarterly, 24(4):318?335.N.
Person, A. Graesser, R. Kreuz, and V. Pomeroy.
2003.Simulating human tutor dialog moves in autotutor.
In-ternational Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Educa-tion, 12(23-39).K.
VanLehn, C. Lynch, K. Schultz, J.
A. Shapiro, R. H.Shelby, and L. Taylor.
2005.
The Andes physics tutor-ing system: Lessons learned.
International Journal ofArtificial Intelligence and Education, 3(15):147?204.M.
A. Walker.
1996.
The effect of resource limits andtask complexity on collaborative planning in dialogue.Artificial Intelligence Journal, 85(1-2):181?243.G.
Wilcock.
2001.
Pipelines, templates and transforma-tions: Xml for natural language generation.
In 1st NLPand XML Workshop, page 18.99
