Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Models of Language Acquisition and Loss, pages 1?9,Avignon, France, April 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDistinguishing Contact-Induced Change from Language Drift inGenetically Related LanguagesT.
Mark EllisonPsychologyUniversity of Western AustraliaMark.Ellison@uwa.edu.auLuisa MiceliLinguisticsUniversity of Western Australialmiceli@cyllene.uwa.edu.auAbstractLanguages evolve, undergoing repeatedsmall changes, some with permanent ef-fect and some not.
Changes affecting alanguage may be independent or contact-induced.
Independent changes arise inter-nally or, if externally, from non-linguisticcauses.
En masse, such changes causeisolated languages to drift apart in lexicalform and grammatical structure.
Contact-induced changes can happen when lan-guages share speakers, or when their speak-ers are in contact.Frequently, languages in contact are re-lated, having a common ancestor fromwhich they still retain visible structure.This relatedness makes it difficult to distin-guish contact-induced change from inher-ited similarities.In this paper, we present a simulation ofcontact-induced change.
We show that itis possible to distinguish contact-inducedchange from independent change given (a)enough data, and (b) that the contact-induced change is strong enough.
For a par-ticular model, we determine how much datais enough to distinguish these two cases atp < 0.05.1 IntroductionEvolutionary change happens when structures arecopied, the copying is inexact, and the survival ofcopies is uncertain.
Many structures undergo thiskind of reproduction, change and death: biologi-cal organisms, fashions, languages.
Often evolu-tionary change leaves little or no trace, except forthose copies which are present at the moment.
Inthese cases, determining the evolutionary historyof a family of structures involves comparing sur-viving copies and making inferences from wherethey correspond and where they differ.Language is, for the most part, one of thosecases.
Most languages have not had a writingsystem until recently, and so their history hasleft no direct trace.
Since the 18th century, lin-guists have been comparing languages to recon-struct both common parents and individual histo-ries for these languages (Jones, 1786; Schleicher,1861; Brugmann, 1884, for example).In this paper, we hope to contribute to this effortby presenting a formal model of a particular kindof evolutionary change, namely contact-inducedchange, and placing limits on when its past pres-ence can be inferred from synchronic evidence.Contact-induced change can happen whenspeakers of different languages come in contact,or where there is a sizeable group of bi- or multi-linguals.
We distinguish two different types.One type, contact-induced assimilation (CIA)changes languages so that they become more sim-ilar to each other.
This is the type of contact-induced change that is most obvious and that hasbeen best studied.
The consensus is that it canaffect all sub-systems of a language dependingon the intensity of contact (see eg.
Thomason &Kaufman 1988).
The other type, less frequentlynoticed and only recently receiving attention (seeeg.
Franc?ois 2011, Arnal 2011), is contact-induced differentiation (CID) where the changeacts specifically to make the languages less sim-ilar.
This type of contact-induced change pre-dominantly affects the parts of a language whichspeakers are most conscious of being distinct: thephonological forms of morphemes and words.It is hard to isolate contact-induced change in1related languages from the effects of common in-heritance or normal independent drift.
In lan-guages in contact over a long period of time, itis impossible to tell whether the dropping of anysingle cognate is the result of chance variation orthe action of a differentiation process.
Likewise,if languages are compared using a single-valuedmeasure of similarity (such as fraction of cog-nates in a Swadesh list), the effects of more or lesscontact-induced changes cannot be distinguishedfrom a greater or lesser time-depth since the com-mon ancestor.
This is shown in figure 1.Lesscontact?induced differentiationcontact?induced assimilationseparated earlierseparated laterSimilarity MoreFigure 1: shows the problem of identifying contact-induced change between related languages.
Contact-induced assimilation and having a more recent com-mon ancestor can both account for language similari-ties.
Contact-induced differentiation accounts for lesssimilarity, but so does positing a remoter common an-cestor that allows time for more independent drift re-sulting in greater differentiation without contact.
Asingle similarity measure is insufficient to separatetime-depth from contact-induced change.Contact-induced change is, however, differentfrom independent drift.
If it is detectable at all, itwill be because it creates different counts of syn-onyms and different proportions of cognates, thandrift alone.
Thus, with enough data, it should pos-sible to distinguish the effects of time-depth andcontact-induced change.
This paper presents theresults of a simulation to determine just how muchdata would be enough.1.1 OverviewSection 2 discusses contact-induced change, andCID in particular.
While it is easy to find instancesof CIA, eg.
borrowing a word from one languageto another, it is harder to find unarguable cases ofCID.
They can be found, however, and some ofthese are discussed in section 2.2.Section 3 describes language as a bundle of re-lations.
Language changes can then be modelledas changes in these relations.
A formal account ofindependent and contact-induced changes in rela-tions is given, as the underpinnings for the nextsection.This next section (section 4) investigates howmuch data is needed to develop 95% certainty thatcontact-induced change has occurred as opposedto independent change alone.
As might be ex-pected, the weaker the CIA or CID pressure, themore evidence needed to distinguish the types ofchange.The final section considers the implicationsof the research, and situates it within a largerprogramme of investigation into contact-inducedchange.1.2 TerminologyThis paper uses terms from mathematics and lin-guistics.
The term relation will only be used inits mathematical sense of a potentially many-to-many association from elements in one set, thedomain, to elements in another, the range.
An as-sociation between a domain element and a rangeelement will be called a link.
We introduce theterm doppels to describe words from differentlanguages which have had a common origin, orare so similar that they might be presumed to havea common origin.
These differ from cognates intwo ways.
Although cognates must have had acommon origin, doppels need not ?
they may justlook like they do.
Also, where there is a commonorigin, cognates must have evolved with the lan-guage as a whole, while doppels may be the resultof borrowing.
Etymologically, doppel is a doppelof the German Doppel, duplicate, copy, double.2 Contact-Induced Change in NaturalLanguagesIt is impossible to study language history withoutbeing aware of the impact of contact on languagesall around the world, not least in the currentage of globalisation.
However, while the mosttransparent and best known process of contact-induced assimilation, word borrowing, has beena focus in historical linguistics, some other assim-ilatory phenomena and almost all differentiatingprocesses are only recently receiving attention.2.1 Contact-Induced AssimilationContact-induced assimilation (CIA) describes anyprocess which causes two languages to becomemore similar.
The increased similarity could be2the result of: more doppels between the lan-guages, due to one language borrowing from an-other; convergent phonology, as a large commu-nity of bilinguals use a single phonemic inventoryfor both languages; or convergent syntax and mor-phology.
This last may occur as the speech ofweak bilinguals, dropping rich morphology andusing a lot of word-for-word translations in theirnon-native tongues, impacts the entire commu-nity.English itself exemplifies the extent to whichborrowing can make languages similar.
Finken-staedt and Wolff (1973) found that Latin andFrench (including Old Norman) have each con-tributed more words to Modern English than itsGermanic parent language has.
English speakersconsequently often find it easier to learn a Ro-mance language than a Germanic one.Metatypy (Ross, 2006) is one type of contact-induced change at the grammatical level.
Lan-guages engaged in metatypy, such as Kannada andMarathi in the Indian village of Kupwar, can cometo have (nearly) identical grammatical and mor-phological organisation; the languages only differin their lexical forms.
One result is that it is easyto translate from one language to the other, sim-ply by replacing a morpheme in one language byits form in the other.CIA seems to be much more common thanCID.
This may, however, be due to the fact thatit is much easier to detect, because similarity isinherently less likely to occur by chance than dis-similarity.2.2 Contact-Induced DifferentiationBecause dissimilatory change is sometimes, butnot always, hard to detect, many of the knowncases of it arise because it is done deliberately andspeakers report that they are doing it.
Thoma-son (2007) gives two principal motivations forthis kind of deliberate change: (a) a desire orneed to increase the difference between one?s ownspeech and someone else?s, and (b) a desire orneed to keep outsiders at a distance.
However, thetwo recent studies already mentioned ?
Franc?ois(2011) and Arnal (2011) ?
describe how this typeof change may arise without ?differentiation?
perse being the primary motivation (see Franc?ois2011:229-30 in particular).A situation that fits the first description isthat found in one of the dialects of LambayequeQuechua where speakers systematically distorttheir words in order to make their speech dif-ferent from that of neighbouring dialects.
Oneof the processes used involves the distortion ofwords by metathesis giving, for example: /yaw.ra/from /yawar/, /-tqa/ from /taq/, /-psi/ from /pis/and /kablata /from /kabalta/ (Thomason 2007:51).This kind of process clearly gives rise to a systemwith different phonotactics.There is also anecdotal evidence that non-Castilian languages of the Iberian Peninsula haveundergone deliberate differentiation.
Wright(1998) reports that some late-medieval Por-tuguese avoided using words similar or identi-cal to the corresponding Castilian words whena less similar synonym was available, while Vi-dal (1998) reports the same behaviour among theCatalan.
More recently Arnal (2011) has de-scribed further differentiating change to Catalanlexical forms due to increased levels of Span-ish/Catalan bilingualism among native Spanishspeakers, following the establishment of Catalanas a co-official language in 1983.
There have alsobeen processes of differentiation at play in Gali-cian, where purists have promoted alternatives toitems shared with Castilian (Posner and Green,1993; Beswick, 2007).
These in turn are bal-anced by movements to assimilate Galician withPortuguese.Franc?ois (2011) describes the strong tendencyfor languages spoken in the Torres and Banks is-lands of northern Vanuatu to diverge in the formsof their words, resulting in a pattern where closelyrelated languages that would be expected to havehigh levels of cognacy, instead exhibit highly dis-tinctive vocabularies.Perhaps the most extreme example of changeaimed at increasing the difference in one?s ownspeech is that of the Uisai dialect of Buin,a language spoken in Papua New Guinea onBougainville island.
Laycock (1982:34) reportsthat Uisai shows diametrically opposed noun cat-egories to other dialects.
The markers for cate-gory 1 in Uisai occur only with category 2 else-where, and vice-versa.
In this particular parame-ter these dialects are significantly more differentthan would be expected by chance.The desire to differentiate languages in this waydoesn?t necessarily imply hostility or antagonism.Laycock also reports an opinion from the Sepikregion of Papua New Guinea: it wouldn?t be any3good if we all talked the same, we like to knowwhere people come from.One of the reasons for the current work is tocreate the tools which might let us see whetherthese efforts to change languages, for social or po-litical reasons, actually have a lasting effect on thevocabulary, or whether they are at best ephemeral(see eg.
Thomason & Kaufman 1988, Ross 2007,Aikhenvald 2002; and Franc?ois 2011, Arnal 2011on differentiation).3 Evolutionary Change in RelationsIn this section, we explore the formal model thatwe will use to distinguish normal, independentchange from contact-induced change.
The firststep is to model languages as a bundle of relations.Modelling language in this way is not new, but israrely made explicit.3.1 Language as a Bundle of RelationsMuch language structure can be expressed as rela-tions between different spaces.
For example, thelexicon can be regarded as a relation between thespace of meanings available in a language and thephonological forms of morphemes expressing thatmeaning.
There can be meanings represented bymultiple forms, such as ready and prepared, orforms with multiple meanings such as fire in thesense of burning or terminating employment.Another language relation maps phonemes-in-contexts to phones that can realise them.
Phone-mic distinctions may collapse in some contexts,such as with the final devoicing of obstruents inPolish, so that distinct phonemes are realised withthe same phone.
Likewise, the same phoneme,even in the one context, may be realised by mul-tiple phones; the Portuguese phoneme /K/ is re-alised as [K], [?
], [G] or even [r], with multiplepossible realisations even for the one speaker.So both the lexicon and phonetic realisation canbe modelled with relations.3.2 Primitive Changes on RelationsIf some important language structures are rela-tional, an interesting question is what sort of evo-lutionary changes can effect these relations.
Thissubsection explores a number of minimal changeswhich can effect relations.
To the best of ourknowledge, this is the first time that languagechanges have been characterised this way.
Thestarting point is a simple relation between a do-main and a range, as shown in figure 2.ABC123Domain RangeFigure 2: shows a relation from a small domain to asimilarly-sized range.The first kind of change is a global substitution,see figure 3.
This is where a change of permuta-tion or merger applies to elements of either thedomain or the range.
All of the pairs which con-tain the affected elements are modified, hence thename.ABC123Domain RangeABC 3Domain Range12Figure 3: shows a global substitution: range elements1 and 2 are merged, preserving all links.
It is calleda global substitution as every link with 1 or 2 in therange now has 12 as its range element.Modifications of the phonetic relation can be ofthis kind.
For example, when Gaelic ?
both Irishand Scottish ?
merged [D] into [G], the change af-fected both lexical /D/ in closed class words, suchas the preposition <dha>, /Da/, to, as well as lex-ical /D/ in open class words such as <duine>,/du?
@/, person.
This was a global substitution.More frequently met are small changes, we willcall local mutations.
These involve either the in-sertion of a single link, or the deletion of a singlelink.ABC123Domain RangeXFigure 4: shows two separate local mutations in a re-lation: a deletion marked by an X on the link, and aninsertion shown as a dotted arrow.Gloabl changes can be expressed as localchanges combined with relation composition.4The lexical relation associates meanings with thephonological forms, which may take the formphonemes in contexts.
The phonemic map thenprojects these onto their phonetic realisations.If a single link in the phoneme realisation mapis dropped, then all lexical meanings expressedusing that phoneme-in-context can no longer re-alise it with that phone.
If a single link is addedto the phonetic relation, then all lexical meaningsexpressed using that phoneme-in-context can nowrealise it with the new phone.
This multipliereffect on changes means single sound changescan have a disproportionate effect on the simi-larity of cognate forms in two languages.
Elli-son and Kirby (2006) presented a similarity mea-sure which bypasses this superficial difference:pairs of domain elements are compared for thesimilarity of the corresponding sets of range el-ements, and these similarity values are then com-pared cross-linguistically.
This measure mitigatesthe effect of global substitutions.The iterated application of local mutationalchanges to language structures is called drift.In traditional models of language history, it isthe primary mechanism for explaining difference,while the shared parent language is the primaryexplanation of similarity.3.3 Contact-induced changeSo far, we have only looked at change arisingin independent relations.
Change, in language atleast, is often the result of contact with the corre-sponding relational structure in another language.Figure 5 shows two relations between the samedomain and range, superimposed.
Later diagramswill use this same superimposed representation indescribing contact-induced changes.ABC123Domain RangeFigure 5: shows two relations simultaneously: thelinks from one are shown with thick arrows, those fromthe other with thin.
Links common to both relations aredoppels.In considering contact-induced change, it isworth noting that the change need not be sym-metrical between the languages involved.
If onelanguage is spoken by a dominant, larger popu-lation, it may see no reason to differentiate itselffrom the language of a smaller community.
Thesmaller community may feel that language differ-entiation is a way to protect its identity.
Whateverthe reason, we shall call the relation undergoingdifferentiation the assimilating or differentiatingrelation, and the relation it is pushing away from,or pull towards, the reference relation.Contact-induced assimilation or CIA can con-sist of the insertion of a new link into the relation,or the deletion of a link in the relation.
As assim-ilation is about making the relations more similar,so insertion applies to create doppels where thereference relation has a link and the assimilatingrelation does not.
Likewise assimilation appliesto delete links where the reference relation doesnot have a link but the assimilating relation does.Examples of this kind of assimilation are shownin figure 6.ABC123Domain RangeXFigure 6: shows contact-induced assimilation (CIA)as an insertion shown as a dotted line and a deletionmarked with an X.
Existing links of the assimilatingrelation are shown thin, while those of the referencerelation are shown thick.
In CIA, links are more likelyto be inserted to make a doppel, and deleted where nodoppel exists.The reverse is true in cases of contact-induceddifferentiation ?
see figure 7.
The differentiatingABC123Domain RangeXFigure 7: shows contact-induced differentiation (CID)in the form of an insertion shown as a dotted line anda deletion marked with an X.
Existing links of the dif-ferentiating relation are shown thin, while those of thereference relation are shown thick.
In CID, links aremore likely to be deleted if they have a doppel, andinserted where they do not.relation is more likely to delete a link which is halfof a doppel than delete other links.
Likewise, it is5more likely to create a link where there is nonein the reference relation, rather than borrow a linkfrom it.4 When can CIA/CID be Inferred?This paper addresses the question: how much datais required to distinguish cases of contact-inducedchange from similarity due to a common ancestorand differences due to drift?
The question willbe addressed in terms of relations and the typesof changes covered in section 3.2 and section 3.3.To render the problem tractable, we need an addi-tional assumption about the lexical relations: theyhave the form described in section 4.1.4.1 RPOFsWe restrict lexical relations to RPOFs.
An RPOFis a reverse of a partial onto function, in otherwords, a relation such that each element of thedomain participates in at least one link, while eachelement in the range participates in at most onelink.
An example of such a relation appears infigure 8.
If the lexical relation in a language isAB123Domain RangeFigure 8: shows an RPOF relation.
In RPOFs, eachelement of the domain has at least one link, while eachelement of the range has at most one link.an RPOF, then each meaning is expressible withat least one morphemic form, and each potentialform expresses exactly one meaning, or else is notused in the language.
In other words, the languagehas no homophones.This assumption is usually only mildly inaccu-rate.
For some languages, however, such as Chi-nese, mono-syllabic morphemes are frequentlyhomophonous.
The analysis presented here mayfail for languages of this kind.The advantage of using RPOFs is that theirstructure can be summarised by a cardinalityfunction ?
a partial function from natural num-bers to natural numbers.
This function associateswith any cardinality of range subset the numberof elements of the domain which associate witha range set of exactly that size.
For example, therelation shown in figure 8 maps one input ontotwo outputs, while it maps the second input toa single output.
Thus its cardinality function is{2 : 1, 1 : 1}.
Such specifications completelycharacterise an RPOF relation upto permutationof either the domain or range.One of the effects of assuming RPOF structurefor the lexical relation is that we do not allow thesole link from any domain element to undergodeletion.
This is because all domain elementsmust retain at least a single link.
For the lexi-cal relation, this has the fairly likely consequencethat the sole morpheme representing a meaning isunlikely to be lost, while if there are multiple syn-onyms, one might fall out of use.4.2 Pairs of RPOFsWhen we are comparing RPOFs evolved froma common parent, we can characterise their re-lationship, upto permutation of the domain andrange, by frequency counts over triples.
Thetriples are numbers describing how many ele-ments of the range a domain element links to:solely in relation 1, in both relations (ie, the num-ber of doppels), and solely in relation 2.
For eachtriple, we count the number of domain elementswhich have the correspondingly sized projectionson the range.
This kind of summarisation allowsus to describe the similarity of two lexical rela-tions with a few hundred numbers if we limit our-selves to, say, domain elements linking to at most10 range elements in either relation.4.3 Significance TestingIt easy to evaluate the posterior likelihood of aset of data associating a counting number witheach triple, D ?
NTriples, given a model M ?Dist(Triples) in the form of a distribution overtriples.
The triple associated with each domain el-ement is assumed to be the result of independentprocesses ?
in other words, we assume that thenumber of doppel and non-doppel forms associ-ated with a meaning is independent of the num-bers associated with other meanings.P (D|M) =?t?TriplesM(t)D(t)We can evaluate the likelihood of one modelM1 generating data at the frequencies producedby a second model M2.
The posterior probabilityof the data relative to the second model is shown6in equation (1), while the probability of generat-ing that data from the model which did indeedgenerate it is shown in equation (2).P (M2|M1) =?t?TriplesM1(t)M2(t) (1)P (M2|M2) =?t?TriplesM2(t)M2(t) (2)The likelihood ratio, i.e.
the ratio of posteriorlikelihoods of M2 and M1, is shown in equation(3).P (M2|M1)P (M2|M2)=?t?TriplesM1(t)M2(t)M2(t)(3)This ratio expresses the amount of informationwe are likely to gain about which distribution iscorrect as a result of looking at a single data item.In terms of RPOF relations, this single data itemis the triple of counts for relation-1-only, doppels,and relation-2-only associated with a meaning.
If,as assumed above, the counts associated with eachdomain element are independent, then the likeli-hood ratio is raised to the power of the number Nof items seen.P (M2|M1)P (M2|M2)N= [?t?TriplesM1(t)M2(t)M2(t)]N (4)To establish a chance prediction at p < 0.05,we merely need to know that P (M2|M1) <P (M2|M2), and then determine the minimumlevel of N for which the ratio in equation (4) isless than 1/19.
This number of items generatedfrom the target distribution would allow it to bedistinguished from chance at a ratio of 19 : 1.Determining the correct value for N here isa general problem known as power analysis.For standard experimental designs and corre-sponding statistics, the power analysis can befound in many texts, such as that by (Bauselland Li, 2006), and many computing librariessuch as the pwr library for power analysisin R (see http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/pwr/).
Where the model de-sign is as complex as that described here, thepower analysis must be constructed from firstprinciples.It is often easier to work with this quantity in in-formational rather than probabilistic form, whereit takes the form shown in equation (5).?
log P (M2|M1)P (M2|M2)= ?
?t?TriplesM2(t) logM1(t)M2(t)(5)The quantity in equation (5) is the well-knownKullback-Liebler divergence DKL(M2||M1) ofthe two distributions, also known as the discrim-ination information.
Significance is achievedwhen this value multiplied by the number of dataitems is greater than log2(19) = 4.2479.4.4 Models with and withoutContext-Induced ChangeThe construction of the no-CIA/CID and the with-CIA/CID distributions makes use of four parame-ters.In the non-context model:insertion of a link combines the probability?
of making a change at all for any givendomain element, with the probability ?/(1+?)
that the change will be the addition ratherthan deletion of a link, into a likelihood ofadding a link per domain element of ??/(1+?
).deletion of a link combines the probability ?of making a change at all for any given do-main element, with the probability 1.0/(1 +?)
that the change will be to a deletion, withthe number m of links to select from for thatdomain element, so the probability of delet-ing any of those links is ?/(m+m?
).In the case of CIA/CID, we only consider theimpact of contact on deletion.
The per-link prob-ability of deletion ?/(m + m?)
is modified by aparameter ?
indicating how strong the effects ofcontact are.
Positive ?
brings about CIA ?
withshared links less likely to be dropped than others,while negative ?
develops CID ?
shared links aremore likely to be dropped than others.
The prob-ability of dropping any given doppel link from agiven range node is (1??
)z, and of any unsharedlink is z where nd is the number of doppel linksfrom the domain element, and nu the number of7unshared links in the differentiating relation, andz is given in equation (6).z = ?((1?
?
)nd + nu)(1 + ?
)(6)4.5 Simulation ResultsThe above model was used to generate distribu-tions over triples for non-CIA/CID relation pairs,and relation pairs with additional CIA/CID pro-cesses.
The number of iterations of the mutationprocess with or without CIA/CID was fixed at 100in creating the generating distribution M2.
Theparameter ?
was fixed at 0.1 and ?
at 0.5.
Thevalue for ?
was chosen to approximately repro-duce the single-language distribution of range-setsizes for Castillian as computed from the Spanishwordnet.
The bias parameter ?
was varied from?0.5 to 0.5 in steps of 0.1.
For each level ofbias, a search was made over non-CIA/CID distri-butions at different depths from the common an-cestor ?
this is the parameter N ?
until the dis-tribution with the least K-L divergence from thegenerated distribution was found.
This found dis-tribution M1 represents the null hypothesis, thatthe data arose without CIA/CID bias.The number of data items needed to achievesignificant recognition of the presence ofCIA/CID bias is 4.2479/DKL(M1||M2).
Theresults for various levels of ?
are shown in figure9.?
N S D-0.5 118 3128 0.091-0.4 115 4364 0.096-0.3 111 6839 0.101-0.2 108 13800 0.107-0.1 104 47378 0.1140.1 95 30913 0.1330.2 90 7331 0.1450.3 85 2793 0.1600.4 79 1278 0.1780.5 72 654 0.203Figure 9: Tabulation of number S of data items neededto achieve significance and the number of iterations Nof the best non-CIA/CID model, and fraction of dop-pels remaining D, against CIA/CID bias parameter ?.Note that fewer data items are needed to recognise sig-nificant assimilatory bias (positive values for ?)
thandifferentiating bias (negative values of ?)
at the samestrength.5 ConclusionThis paper has looked at different ways that re-lations may evolve from a common parent struc-ture.
They may undergo local mutational changes,global substitutions, independent changes, orthose triggered by contact with other relations.
Inone class of relations, with reasonable assump-tions, it is clear that a large, but possible, amountof data needs to be adduced to ascertain that CIAand/or CID have occured, rather than just sharedorigin and independent drift.In historical linguistics, this opens the door, fortesting whether the impressionistic accounts ofCID are reflected in the distributional propertiesof the languages concerned.
It may also be possi-ble to circumvent the onerous data requirements,by bringing in data from multiple independent re-lations within the language, such as those definingmorphological structure and phonology, as well asthe lexicon.As mentioned in the introduction, this workis part of a larger programme by the authors todevelop statistical tools able to show that CIDhas taken place, if it has.
This work is partlydriven by the need to account historically for thelow cognacy but high structural similarity be-tween nearby Australian languages.
In the DalyRiver area, adjacent languages with very similarphonology, syntax and morphology show remark-ably low cognacy counts, often around 8% (Har-vey, 2008).
One possible explanation for this is apowerful CID imperative acting over a short timedepth to differentiate the vocabularies of the lan-guages.
The result presented in this paper sug-gests that with sufficient lexical data, direct statis-tical evidence could be found if this is indeed thecorrect explanation.There are potential uses for this work beyondhistorical linguistics as well.
The model might as-sist in some cases of plagiarism detection, for ex-ample, where two students worked together on anassignment, and then set out to deliberately differ-entiate them by altering vocabulary.
Similar anal-ysis of documents might reflect other reasons forreworking a text, such as to give it a new identityfor a new setting.8ReferencesA.
Aikhenvald.
2002.
Language contact in Amazonia.Oxford University Press, Oxford.Antoni Arnal.
2011.
Linguistic changes in the catalanspoken in catalonia under new contact conditions.Journal of Language Contact, 4:5?25.R.
Barker Bausell and Yu-Fang Li.
2006.
PowerAnalysis for Experimental Research: A PracticalGuide for the Biological, Medical and Social Sci-ences.
Cambridge University Press, March.Jaine E. Beswick.
2007.
Regional nationalism inSpain: language use and ethnic identity in Galicia.Multilingual Matters.Karl Brugmann.
1884.
Zur frage nach denverwandtschaftverhltnissen der indogermanischensprachen.
Internationale Zeitschrift fr allgemeineSprachwissenschaft, 1:226?56.T.
Mark Ellison and Simon Kirby.
2006.
Measur-ing language divergence by intra-lexical compari-son.
In ACL, pages 273?80, Sydney.Thomas Finkenstaedt and Dieter Wolff.
1973.
Or-dered profusion: studies in dictionaries and the En-glish lexicon.
C Winter.Alexandre Franc?ois.
2011.
Social ecology and lan-guage history in the northern vanuatu linkage: a taleof divergence and convergence.
Journal of Histori-cal Linguistics, 1:175?246.Mark Harvey.
2008.
Proto-Mirndi: a discontinuouslanguage family in northern Australia.
Pacific Lin-guistics, Canberra.Sir William Jones.
1786.
The third anniversary dis-course, delivered 2nd february, 1786: on the hindus.Asiatick Researches, 1:415?31.Donald C. Laycock.
1982.
Melanesian linguistic di-versity: a melanesian choice?
In R.J. May andH.
Nelson, editors, Melanesia: beyond diversity,pages 33?38.
Australian National University Press,Canberra.Rebecca Posner and John N. Green.
1993.
Bilingual-ism and Linguistic Conflict in Romance.
Walter deGruyter.Malcolm D. Ross.
2006.
Metatypy.
In K. Brown, edi-tor, Encylcopedia of language and linguistics.
Else-vier, Oxford, 2nd ed edition.Malcolm Ross.
2007.
Calquing and metatypy.
Jour-nal of Language Contact, Thema, 1:116?43.August Schleicher.
1861.
Compendium dervergleichenden Grammatik der indogermanischenSprachen.
Hermann Bhlau, Weimar.Sarah Grey Thomason and Terrence Kaufman.
1988.Language contact, creolization, and genetic linguis-tics.
University of California Press, Berkeley & LosAngeles.Sarah Grey Thomason.
2007.
Language contact anddeliberate change.
Journal of Language Contact,Thema, 1:41?62.Carrasquer Vidal.
1998.
Untitled post in ?Cladisticlanguage concepts?
thread, HISTLING mailing list,Oct.Roger Wright.
1998.
Untitled post in ?Cladistic lan-guage concepts?
thread, HISTLING mailing list,Oct.9
