Proceedings of the 6th EACL Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 1?6,Avignon, France, 24 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLexicon construction and corpus annotation of historical languagewith the CoBaLT editorTom Kenter1, Toma?
Erjavec2, Maja ?orga Dulmin3, Darja Fi?er41 Institute for Dutch LexicologyMatthias de Vrieshof 3, gebouw 1171, 2311 BZ Leidentom.kenter@inl.nl2 Department of Knowledge Technologies, Jo?ef Stefan InstituteJamova cesta 39, SI-1000 Ljubljanatomaz.erjavec@ijs.si3 maja.zorga@gmail.com4 Department of Translation, Faculty of Arts, University of LjubljanaA?ker?eva 2, SI-1000 Ljubljanadarja.fiser@ff.uni-lj.siAbstractThis paper describes a Web-based editorcalled  CoBaLT  (Corpus-Based  LexiconTool),  developed  to  construct  corpus-based computational lexica and to correctword-level  annotations  and transcriptionerrors in corpora.
The paper describes thetool as well as our experience in using itto  annotate  a  reference  corpus  andcompile  a  large  lexicon  of  historicalSlovene.
The  annotations  used  in  ourproject  are  modern-day  word  formequivalent,  lemma,  part-of-speech  tagand optional gloss.
The CoBaLT interfaceis  word  form  oriented  and  compact.
Itenables  wildcard  word  searching  andsorting  according  to  several  criteria,which makes the editing process flexibleand  efficient.
The  tool  accepts  pre-annotated corpora in TEI P5 format andis able to export the corpus and lexicon inTEI P5 as well.
The tool is implementedusing  the  LAMP  architecture  and  isfreely available for research purposes.1 IntroductionProcessing tools as well as linguistic studies ofhistorical  language  need  language  resources,which have to be developed separately for eachlanguage,  and manually annotated or  validated.The two basic resource types are hand-annotatedcorpora and lexica for historical language, whichshould  contain  (at  least)  information  about  themodern-day equivalent  of  a  word  form and itslemma  and  part-of-speech  (PoS).
The  first  ofthese  is  useful  for  easier  reading  of  historicaltexts, as well as for enabling already developedmodern-day  PoS  tagging  and  lemmatisationmodels to be applied to historical texts.
PoS tagsmake  for  a  better  environment  for  linguisticexploration  and  enable  further  levels  ofannotation,  such  as  tree-banking.
They  alsofacilitate  lemmatisation,  which  is  especiallyuseful  for  highly  inflecting  languages  as  itabstracts away from the inflectional variants ofwords, thereby enabling better text searching.To  develop  such  resources,  a  good  editor  isneeded that caters to the peculiarities of historicaltexts.
Preferably it would combine the productionof  annotated  corpora  and  corpus-based  lexica.This paper presents CoBaLT, a Web-based editorwhich  has  already  been  used  for  developinglanguage  resources  for  several  languages.
Wedescribe it within the framework of developing agold-standard  annotated  reference  corpus(Erjavec, 2012) and a large lexicon of historicalSlovene.This paper is structured as follows: in the nextsection  we  describe  the  implementation  andfunctionality of CoBaLT.
In Section 3 we presentthe input and output corpus and lexicon formats,in particular from the perspective of our project.In Section 4 we compare existing tools serving asimilar  purpose  to  CoBaLT  and  discuss  theadvantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  CoBaLTenvironment.
The  last  section  summarizes  andlists our conclusions.1Figure 1.
CoBaLT interface2 The CoBaLT tool2.1 ImplementationCoBaLT is a Web-based editor using the classicLAMP architecture (Linux, Apache, MySQL andPHP).
Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)technology  is  used  extensively  as  it  enablesupdating only relevant parts of the screen whichincreases  speed  and  usability.
The  code  isoptimised to work with large datasets and comeswith  documentation  on  various  settings  forMySQL and  PHP that  enhance  handling  largedata  collections.
System,  project,  language-specific details (e.g.
the list of valid PoS tags toenable their validation during editing) and someinterface settings are encapsulated in a PHP file,making  the  adaptation  of  the  tool  to  otherenvironments  very  easy.
However,  someknowledge  of  MySQL is  still  required,  e.g.
toadd new users to the system which is performeddirectly in MySQL.Apart  from  an  Internet  browser,  no  additionalsoftware  is  required  at  the  user  side.
Theinterface can be used from various browsers onall major operating systems, although it has beentested primarily on Mozilla Firefox.2.2 User interfaceApart from logging into the tool and selecting thecorpus  or  file  to  work  on,  the  CoBaLT  userinterface is always contained on a single screen.The  icons  and  fields  on  the  screen  haveassociated tool-tips.As shown in Figure 1, the screen is divided infour parts:1.
The upper, ?dashboard?
part enables ways oforganizing  the  displayed  information,  i.e.how to sort the word forms, which ones toselect, whether to hide certain less interestingword forms (such as numerals), the numberof word forms shown, and links back to startpages.2.
The left  side  of  the  middle  part  shows the(selected)  historical  word  forms  with  theircorpus  frequencies.
This  is  followed by aneditable window giving the modernised wordform, lemma, PoS and potential gloss; if thecorpus contains  distinct  annotations  for theword form, they are all shown, separated bya  pipe  symbol.
Finally,  on  the  right-handside,  all  the  possible lexical  annotations  ofthe word form are given; those in bold havebeen validated.3.
The separator between the middle and lowerparts  shows  who  has  worked  last  on  theselected  word  form,  and  gives  icons  forsorting  the  word  forms  in  context  in  thelower part according to a number of criteria:word  form,  right  and  left  context,  analysisand verification.4.
The  lower  part  of  the  screen  shows  theselected  word  form  tokens  in  contexttogether with their  analyses  in  that  contextand a tick box for validation next  to each.Also displayed is the name of the documentin which they appear.
The arrows next to acontext row allow for expanding the context.Clicking on the camera icon at the left sideof the row opens the facsimile image.The separator bar in the middle can be draggedfor relative resizing of the middle and lower part.2.3 Editing in CoBaLTThere  is  more  than  one  way  of  editing  theanalyses  assigned  to  a  word  form in  CoBaLT.The user can work on a specific word form eitherin the middle screen or in the lower screen, with2keyboard  shortcuts  making  the  process  veryefficient.
Multiple  rows  of  a  word  form  incontext can be quickly selected with the mouse.The user can assign the analysis to selected wordform  tokens  a)  in  the  middle  part  either  bywriting it in the editable window or by clickingon a proposed analysis; b) in the lower part byclicking on the word token, which opens a dropdown  menu.
Further  options  are  available,explained in the user manual.A special feature is the ability to assign analysesto  a  group of word tokens,  e.g.
when multipleword tokens in the historical text correspond to asingle modern word.
Multiple analyses can alsobe assigned to a single word token,  e.g.
if  onehistorical  word  form  corresponds  to  severalmodern ones.Working  on  historical  language,  the  needoccasionally  arises  to  correct  the  transcription.This can be done by Ctrl-clicking the word formin context in the lower screen.
An editable boxwill appear in which the user can correct a typoor separate merged words.3 Data import and export3.1 Corpus import and exportCoBaLT input  corpus  files  can  be  in  arbitraryformats, as long as the tokens, and possibly theirannotations,  are  indicated  in  the  texts,  andappropriate import routines are in place.
The toolcurrently  accepts  plain  text  and  aparameterisation  of  TEI  P5  XML  (TEIConsortium,  2007).
The  latter  option  is  moreinteresting for our case, as TEI files can alreadybe structurally  and linguistically  annotated.
Zipfiles are also supported, which enables uploadinglarge datasets with many separate files.The  Slovene  corpora  are  encoded  in  TEI,  andeach  corpus  file  contains  the  transcription of  asingle page, together with the link to its facsimileimage.
The  page  is  also  annotated  withparagraphs, line breaks, etc.
Such annotation isimported  into  CoBaLT  but  not  displayed  ormodified, and appears again only in the export.The texts in our project were first automaticallyannotated  (Erjavec,  2011):  each  text  wassentence  segmented  and  tokenised  into  words.Punctuation symbols (periods, commas, etc.)
andwhite-spaces were preserved in the annotation sothe original text and layout can be reconstructedfrom  the  annotated  text.
Each  word  form  wasassigned its modern-day equivalent,  its PoS tagand modern day lemma.Such  files,  a  number  of  them  togetherconstituting one corpus, were then imported intoCoBaLT  and  manually  edited,  with  CoBaLTsupporting the export of the annotated corpus asTEI  P5  as  well.
In  the  export,  each  validatedtoken  is  additionally  annotated  with  theannotator?s username and time of annotation.One particular  facet of the annotation concernsthe  word-boundary  mismatch  between  thehistorical  and  modern-day  word  forms.
Asmentioned, CoBaLT supports joining two wordsin  the  transcription  to  give  them  a  commonannotation, as well as giving several successiveannotations  to  a  single  word,  and  this  is  alsoreflected in the exported TEI annotation.3.2 Lexicon exportWhile it is of course possible to produce a directSQL dump of the lexicon, CoBaLT also supportslexicon  export  in  TEI  P5  using  the  TEIdictionaries  module.
This  lexicon  is  headword(lemma) oriented.
The lemma entry in the exportconsists  of  a  headword,  part  of  speech  andoptionally a gloss.
The entry also contains all themodern word forms of the lemma as annotated inthe corpus.
For each modern word form one ormore historical word forms are listed, includingtheir normalised and cited forms.
The differencebetween normalised and cited forms is that citedforms are the exact word forms as they appear inthe corpus, while the normalised ones are lower-cased, and, in the case of Slovene, have voweldiacritics  removed  as  these  are  not  used  incontemporary Slovene and are furthermore veryinconsistently  used  in  historical  texts.
Thesenormalised forms are also what  is listed in theleft  column of  the  middle part  of  the  CoBaLTwindow.
As  illustrated  in  Figure  2,  one  citedform with examples of usage is ?gl?
?nikam?, thenormalised  form  ?gla?nikam?,  the  modernisedone ?glasnikom?
and the lemma form ?glasnik?,which is a common noun of masculine gender.This  word  does  not  exist  anymore,  so  it  isassigned a gloss, i.e.
its contemporary equivalent?samoglasnik?
(meaning ?vowel?
).The cited forms also contain examples of usagetogether  with  the  file  they  occurred  in.
Theexport  script  can  be  limited  as  to  how  manyusage examples get exported, as in the case of afully annotated corpus the number of attestationsfor  high-frequency  words  (typically  functionwords)  can  easily  go  into  the  thousands,  andthere is little point in including all of them in thelexicon.3<entry><form type="lemma"><orth type="hypothetical">glasnik</orth><gramGrp><gram type="msd">Ncm</gram><gram type="PoS">Noun</gram><gram type="Type">common</gram><gram type="Gender">masculine</gram></gramGrp><gloss>samoglasnik</gloss><bibl>kontekst, Pleter?nik</bibl><lbl type="occurrences">1</lbl></form><form type="wordform"><orth type="hypothetical">glasnikom</orth><form type="historical"><orth type="normalised">gla?nikam</orth><form type="cited"><orth type="exact">gl?
?nikam</orth><cit><quote>kadar be?eda, ktira na?l?duje,sazh?nja s' enim <oVar>gl?
?nikam</oVar>al tudi s' enim/quote><bibl>NUK_10220-1811.pb.007_Pozhetki_gramatike.xml</bibl></cit></form></form></form></entry>Figure 2.
Example of a TEI dictionary entryThe  export  script  also  accepts  parameters  thatdetermine which word forms should be exported?
all, or only the attested or verified ones.As in the corpus, the special case of multiwordunits and split words arises in the lexicon as well.Multiword units have the lemma and modern dayforms composed of multiple words, and multiplegrammatical  descriptions,  one  for  each  lemma,while split words have the historical word formscomposed of two or more words.Also included with CoBaLT is a script to mergetwo  TEI  lexica  (e.g.
derived  from  differentcorpora) into a single TEI lexicon and to convertthe TEI lexicon into HTML for web browsing.We extended this script for the case of Slovene toalso  give  direct  links  to  several  on-linedictionaries  and  to  the  concordancer  that  hostsour corpora.4 Discussion4.1 Strengths and weakness of CoBaLTFirst,  it  should  be  noted  that  CoBaLT is  notlimited  to  working  with  corpora  of  historicallanguage ?
it could also be used for non-standardlanguage  varieties  (e.g.
tweets)  or  for  standardcontemporary  language,  by  slightly  modifyingthe  import/export  and  the  parsing  of  the  wordannotation  in  the  editor.
Nevertheless,  itincorporates  several  features  that  make  itparticularly suitable for handling historical texts:?
CoBaLT supports both corpus annotation andcorpus-based lexicon construction; extensivelexica are, at least from the point of view ofgood processing of historical language, muchmore important than annotated corpora.?
The texts of historical corpora are typicallyfirst  produced  by  optical  characterrecognition  (OCR)  software  and  thenmanually corrected.
In spite  of  corrections,some errors will invariably remain in the textand will be, for the most part, noticed duringthe annotation process.
While not meant formajor  editing  of  the  transcription,  CoBaLTdoes  offer  the  possibility  to  correct  thetranscription of  individual  words.
This  is  arare functionality in other annotation editors,which typically  take the base text  as  read-only.
The current version of CoBaLT offerssupport  for  editing,  splitting,  and  joiningword tokens.
Deleting word forms altogether,however,  is  not  supported ?
an option thatshould be added in the future.?
Related  to  the  previous  point  is  CoBaLT?sfeature to display the facsimile of a particularpage,  making  it  possible  to  check  thetranscription  or  OCR  result  against  theoriginal image of the page.As  regards  the  functioning  of  the  tool,  it  isimportant  to  note  that  almost  all  linguisticprocessing occurs outside of CoBaLT making itmore  light-weight  as  well  as  more  languageindependent.
In  previous  work  (Erjavec  et  al.,2010)  a  different  editor  was  used  which  hadlinguistic  processing  built  in  and proved  to  bemore difficult to adapt to Slovene than CoBaLT.In this particular project we decided to organisethe files around the concept of a facsimile page.This has a number of advantages, in particular astraight-forward  mapping  between  files  andfacsimile images, a simple unit of sampling forthe corpus, and small files, which makes it easierto manage the work of annotators.
However, this4arrangement  causes  some  problems  from  alinguistic point of view, namely that the page willoften start or end in the middle of a paragraph,sentence or even word.
We decided to start andend  each  page  with  a  paragraph  or  sentenceboundary,  while  split  words  are  marked  by  aspecial  PoS tag.
It  should be noted that  this  isused only at  page-breaks ?
split  words at line-breaks are joined before importing the texts intoCoBaLT.From  a  user-interface  perspective,  adistinguishing feature of CoBaLT is that there isa single editor window, with keyboard shortcutsmaking the jumps between the parts of the screenfaster than moving a mouse, allowing for quickand  efficient  editing.
Adding  or  deleting  anumber of analyses is also just a click away.
Thisagain  makes  the  tool  very  efficient  but  alsomeans that the user has to be quite careful not toaccidentally destroy already existing annotations?
this proved to be a problem in the annotationround.From an implementation standpoint,  we shouldnote that the level of security offered by CoBaLTis limited.
Only a user name is needed to log inand have access to the data.
While this can beeasily  circumvented  by  placing  the  entireinterface behind a secure page, a higher level ofsecurity, e.g.
just adding passwords to the loginprocedure, should be implemented in the future.On  the  other  hand,  access  should  not  be  toorestricted, as simple access does allow for easycrowdsourcing.4.2 Related workHistorical  corpora  have  been  compiled,annotated and made available for searching in anumber of projects, such as Corpus of HistoricalAmerican English (Davies, 2010), Penn Corporaof  Historical  English  (Kroch  et  al.,  2004),GermanC historical corpus (Durrell et al, 2007),Historical  Corpus  of  the  Welsh  Language(Mittendorf  and  Willis,  2004)  and  IcelandicParsed  Historical  Corpus  (Wallenberg  et  al.,2011), etc.
Surprisingly few of these initiativeshave  developed  or  discussed  the  need  for  ahistorical text platform that would enable manualcorrection of pre-annotated corpora, facilities forlexicon building,  and a standardized annotationformat.As  the simplest  solution,  some of  the  projectsused  general-purpose  XML.
However,  humanannotators usually have a hard time working inXML directly  to  revise  word-level  annotationsand  transcription  errors.
This  is  one  of  thereasons  why  automatic  and  manual  corpus-development tasks were integrated into the sameenvironment in the GermanC project (Scheible etal.,  2010),  where  the  GATE  platform(Cunningham et al, 2002) was used to producethe  initial  annotations  and  to  perform  manualcorrections.
However,  GATE  does  not  provideexplicit  support  for texts  encoded according  tothe  TEI  P5  guidelines,  which  is  why  theGermanC team spent  a  lot  of  time  on  writingscripts to deal with formatting issues.
As GATEhas automatic processing integrated into it, it isalso not trivial to adapt it to a new language.The  only  special-purpose  tools  for  historicalcorpus development we could find is E-Dictor, aspecialized tool for encoding, applying levels ofeditions and assigning PoS tags to ancient textsfor building the Tycho Brahe Parsed Corpus ofHistorical Portuguese (de Faria et al, 2010).
It issimilar  to  CoBaLT  in  that  it  too  has  aWYSIWYG interface  and  allows  annotators  tocheck transcriptions and assign several layers ofannotations  to  the  tokens.
E-Dictor  enablesexport of the encoded text XML and the lexiconof  editions  in  HTML  and  CSV.
This  is  aninteresting  tool  although  it  does  not  seem  tosupport a lexical view of the data or merging andsplitting word forms, and it is not quite clear howit  interacts  with  automatic  processing  of  thetexts, or if a user manual is available.As the review of related work shows, there is ageneral lack of tools such as CoBaLT which cansignificantly  simplify  and  speed  up  mosthistorical  corpus  and  lexicon  developmentprojects.
We believe CoBaLT has  a  number  ofqualities  that  will  make  it  attractive  for  otherresearchers.5 ConclusionsThe  paper  presented  CoBaLT,  an  editor  forconstructing corpus-based lexica  and correctingword-level annotations and transcription errors incorpora.
The editor has been extensively tested ina  project  in  which  a  historical  corpus  wasmanually  annotated  and  used  to  produce  alexicon, with the lexicon being further extendedon  the  basis  of  a  much  larger  corpus.
Sevenannotators have worked on the resources for overhalf a year,  which put  the tool through a goodstress test.
CoBaLT has also been used in severalsimilar projects for other languages, in particularin producing historical lexica for Czech, Polish,Dutch and Spanish (de Does et al, 2012).15With the help of CoBaLT Slovene now has twoessential  historical  language  resources,  bothencoded in TEI P5.
The resources will be used tobuild  better  models  for  (re)tokenisation,transcription, tagging and lemmatisation, and tofacilitate  corpus-based  diachronic  languagestudies.
We also plan to continue using CoBaLTto further extend the hand-annotated corpus andlexicon.CoBaLT is freely available for research use fromthe  Web  site  of  the  Impact  Centre  ofCompetence,  http://www.digitisation.eu.
Thedistribution contains the code, user manual, andassociated scripts mentioned in this paper.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank the anonymousreviewers  for  their  helpful  comments  andsuggestions.
The  work  presented  in  this  paperhas been supported by the EU IMPACT project?Improving Access to Text?,  http://www.impact-project.eu.ReferencesMark  Davies.
2010.
The  Corpus  of  HistoricalAmerican English (COHA): 400+ Million Words,1810?2009.
http://corpus.byu.edu/cohaJesse  de  Does,  Katrien  Depuyd,  Klaus  Schulz,Annette Gotscharek, Christoph Ringlstetter, JanuszS.
Bie?,  Toma?
Erjavec,  Karel  Ku?era,  IsabelMartinez, Stoyan Mihov, and Gilles Souvay.
2012.Cross-language  Perspective  on  Lexicon  Buildingand  Deployment  in  IMPACT.
Project  Report.IMPACT.Toma?
Erjavec,  Christoph Ringlstetter,  Maja  ?orga,and Annette Gotscharek.
2010.
Towards a Lexiconof XIXth Century Slovene.
In Proceedings of theSeventh  Language  Technologies  Conference,Ljubljana, Slovenia.
Jo?ef Stefan Institute.Toma?
Erjavec.
2011.
Automatic linguistic annotationof historical language: ToTrTaLe and XIX centurySlovene.
In  Proceedings  of  the  5th  ACL-HLTWorkshop  on  Language  Technology  for  CulturalHeritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, ACL.Toma?
Erjavec.
2012.
The  goo300k  corpus  ofhistorical  Slovene.
In  Proceedings  of  the  EightInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation, LREC?12, Paris, ELRA.Anthony Kroch, Beatrice Santorini, and Lauren Delfs.2004.
The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of EarlyModern English (PPCEME).
Department ofLinguistics, University of Pennsylvania.
CD-ROM,first edition.http://www.ling.upenn.edu/hist-corpora/Martin  Durrell,  Astrid  Ensslin,  and  Paul  Bennett.2007.
The  GerManC  project.
Sprache  undDatenverarbeitung, 31:71?80.Ingo Mittendorf, and David Willis, eds.
2004.
Corpwshanesyddol  yr  iaith  Gymraeg  1500?1850  /  Ahistorical  corpus  of  the  Welsh  language1500?
1850.http://people.pwf.cam.ac.uk/dwew2/hcwl/menu.htmJoel C. Wallenberg, Anton Karl Ingason, Einar FreyrSigur?sson, and Eir?kur R?gnvaldsson.
2011.Icelandic Parsed Historical Corpus (IcePaHC).Version 0.9.http://www.linguist.is/icelandic_treebankSilke Scheible, Richard J. Whitt, Martin Durrell, andPaul Bennett, 2010.
Annotating a Historical Corpusof  German:  A  Case  Study.
Proceedings  of  theLREC 2010 Workshop on Language Resources andLanguage Technology Standards, Valletta, Malta.Hamish  Cunningham.
2002.
GATE,  a  GeneralArchitecture for Text Engineering.
Computers andthe Humanities, 36:223?254.Pablo  Picasso  Feliciano  de  Faria,  Fabio  NatanaelKepler, and Maria Clara Paix?o de Sousa.
2010.
Anintegrated  tool  for  annotating  historical  corpora.Proceedings  of  the  Fourth  Linguistic  AnnotationWorkshop, ACL?10, 217?221.TEI Consortium, eds.
2007.
Guidelines for ElectronicText Encoding and Interchange.http://www.tei-c.org/P51 For more information on these projects please see the Impact Centre of Competence:http://www.digitisation.eu/6
