Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 84?87,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsTrend Analysis in Harper?s BazaarSophie Kushkuley, B.S.Brandeis University415 South StWaltham, MA 02453, USAsophiek@brandeis.eduAbstractTopic modeling of fashion trends were ana-lyzed using the MALLET toolkit.
Harper?sBazaar magazines from 1860-1899 were used(freely available online).
This resulted in20 topics with 4 characterizing words each.Trends over time were analyzed in several dif-ferent ways using 100-topics and 20-topics.1 IntroductionUsing trend analysis to extract topics from a fashionmagazine may finally put to rest the question ofthe cyclicality of fashion.
Entire issues of Harper?sBazaar from the 19th century are freely availableonline [1].
Preliminary data analysis using theNLTK toolkit in Python [2] did not yield promisingresults.
Bigram collocations were extracted forthe first three years of data.
The collocationswere extracted on a monthly basis, however thebigrams were extremely non-specific and containedno relevant information.
Topic modeling is thenatural choice for large amounts of historical data,so this was the strategy implemented for the secondattempt.
Extracting this data and applying theMALLET toolkit [3] for topic modeling provideda good start and a novel way of looking at fashiontrends.2 Data ExtractionFor every year from 1867 through 1900 roughly 52volumes (one volume per week) per year of Harper?sBazaar are available in text format online.
Mostvolumes from 1867 - 1899 contain an article enti-tled ?New York Fashions?.
For consistency, this isthe article that was scraped from every volume forthe purposes of topic modeling.
Volumes from year1890 only go up to April 28th and do not containthe ?New York Fashions?
article, hence 1890 wasexcluded from the analysis.
1867 was a short yearas well, volumes started in November.
A Pythonscript was used to extract the articles from every vol-ume, however, the data is not entirely uniform andcontains errors.
Despite significant post-processing,noise in the data has caused some imprecision.3 Topic ModelingMALLET uses latent Dirichlet alocation [5] to pro-duce a topic distribution over any given text.
Stopwords were removed automatically, and a distribu-tion of a user specified number of topics was pro-duced together with a user specified number of topickeys associated with every topic.3.1 100-Topic ModelFirst, 100 topics were distributed over all the data,each with 4 topic keys.
Many of the resulting topicswere uninformative (e.g.
?cost made black ladies?and ?good made make great?).
Below is a sample ofthe topic keys for the first 20 topics:black satin green jet; trimmed satin skirt dress;skirt made skirts hips; silk black long jet; brown grayblue dark; white tulle dress low; worn ladies youngmade; de black white soie; flannel worn warm skirts;dress costumes white blue; blue pink white pale;satin velvet lace brocade; price shown centre set;plain figures shown designs; yard cents sold cost ;84capes back long jackets; cambric tucks linen french;girls years white children; costumes costume styletrimming; collar high pointed front.Figure 1: Occurrences of topic by year: first 10At first, the topic with the highest percentage foreach volume was chosen, along with its topic keys.Then every year for which this is the number onetopic was found.
Some topics will be associatedwith the same year a number of times, because eachyear contains roughly 52 volumes each of which hasa topic distribution.
The number of times each yearshows up in each number one topic was counted andplotted (Figure 1).
This allows one to see which top-ics are strongly correlated with a particular year orset of years, and from here it may be possible to de-duce which topics are most representative of trendsby year.Some keys (e.g.
?cost made black ladies?)
are verygeneral, uninformative and infrequent.
Others occurseveral times in one year and not in any other year(e.g.
?costumes costume style trimming?).
Thenthere are topics that occur frequently over a shortrange of years (e.g.
?dresses skirt plain wool?).
Andstill other, such as ?fur seal skin black?
that occur in-frequently over a vast range of years, vs those thatoccur infrequently over a short range of years, ?flan-nel worn warm skirts?.The most relevant topics are the ones that occurfrequently over a short range of time.
These are top-ics that may be representative of trends, and it wouldbe helpful to plot the distribution of such topics overtime.3.2 20-Topic ModelDue to the large amount of data generated by the100-topic model, a 20-topic model was generatedto provide a more thorough analysis of the data.Twenty topics are more easy to manually look at,and 20 is not too few topics but it?s also not an over-whelmingly large number of topics.
For each of the20 topics 4 topic keys were generated.
Below is thelist of all 20 topic keys:fur seal black long; made gown skirt gowns; hairladies made worn; yard price cents suits; velvet clothred made; made girls waist dresses; crape blackmourning worn; white dress dresses silk; white laceblue made; satin lace black jet; skirt front back side;silver gold diamonds large; black blue color brown;designs wood cost small; worn suits white black;stripes colors blue designs; text px hearth td; bonnetscrown hats brim; silk long made back; back waistsleeves skirt.It is evident that one topic (?text px hearth td?)
isdue to bad post processing, so it has been thrown outfrom further analyses.
Topics in the 20-topic modelhave much higher counts than those in the 100-topicmodel.
This might lead to less fine-grained topicsfor the data.
Some topics clearly stand out as havinga very high frequency for a short range of years (e.g.
?made gown skirt gowns?
).Next, the distribution of a sample of topics wasplotted by year.
This was done by following eachtopic separately over time; the percent of the topicin the distribution for each year was plotted by year.Since every year has many topic distributions (cor-responding to each of the 52 volumes per year formost years) a bootstrapping sampling method wasperformed to determine the percentage associatedwith a specific topic and year.
Bootstrapping pro-vides the advantage of a weighted average that cor-rectly preserves the original distribution.
A percentfrom the topic percent-pool for the year was chosenrandomly 1,000 times and averaged to produce onesingle percent associated with that topic and year.The most frequently occurring topics are ?Silklong made back?
; ?Skirt front back side?
; ?Velvetcloth red made?
; ?White lace blue made?
; ?Yard pricecents suits?
; ?Made gown skirt gowns?
; ?Back waistsleeves skirt?
; ?Black blue color brown?
).Four of these topic percentages are plotted by year85Figure 2: Topics by year(Figure 2).
This yields a view of the topics in whichspecific trends can be spotted based on frequency(e.g.
long and silk items peaked around 1872-1882,velvet and red characteristics peaked around 1882-1887).
In addition, a certain amount of cyclicalitycan be seen in Figure 2.
Two of the topics have atopic key in common, ?back?.
The first topic ?silklong made back?
peaks around 1877, and ?back waistsleeves skirt?
peaks around 1895, and these two top-ics have a topic key in common, ?back?.
Given acontext, meaning can be found in such trending top-ics.3.3 Project RefinementIt appears that the topic keys generated by the 100-topic model are more relevant and contain moreinformation than those generated by the 20-topicmodel.
On the other hand the 20-topic model is sim-pler to analyze.
Therefore, inspired by the work onMartha Ballard?s diary [4] another model was gen-erated with 20 topic keys for each of 20 topics.Figure 3: Trend-predicting topics by yearThese labels were plotted by year, and topics withthe most movement are shown (Figure 3).
Thereare trends here that clearly stand out, but there doesnot seem to be enough data to follow the trendsthrough to the end.
Certain topics rise in popular-ity and fall again, however, it is impossible to knowfrom 30 years of data if they rise again further intime.
Similarly to the 20-topic model with 4 topickeys, many topics stand out due to their cyclic na-ture.
However unlike the 4-topic keys model, risesand dips in frequency are more dramatic, suggest-ing that more topic keys leads to a more thoroughanalysis of trends.An additional analysis was performed using notonly the most highly probable topic associated withevery year but the top three such topics.
The num-ber of occurrences of the top three topics of everymonth were counted and divided by the total num-ber of months to obtain a percent of occurrence forthe year.
A heat map was then generated for this data(Figure 4).
Some specific trends are discernible, andeven a potentially cyclic topic (topic 7 is frequent in1867 and resurfaced in 1896).Figure 4: Heat map of topic occurrence by yearThe high frequency topics are presented below.Types of garments, accessories, colors, materialsand fabric stylings have been highlited:0 black yard silk wide dress price worn half grossold fringe folds trimming grain cents inches yardstrimmed centre amp1 made gown gowns lace black silk worn whitestyle wear put satin trimmed waist fashion effectgreat year smart women7 skirt front belt skirts waist cut narrow sideback long material short ruffles bands band flouncetrimmed trimming full upper9 silk black skirt dresses basque back long front86side pleating trimmed pleated flounces pleatingsdress apron polonaise plain trimming sleeves16 suits worn made ladies cost gray suit bluestylish amp imported fashion shown linen browngarment soft yard cents braid17 skirt dresses made waist front full side plainred dress drapery foot wool skirts line gatheredsurah pleats basque vest18 satin red lace gold plush colors beads velvetlarge made small brocaded plain trimmings em-broidery imported great shown shades dark19 black sleeves waist gowns skirt silk back rib-bon satin full front white collar large green bodicebelt yellow foot gownThese topics include many descriptive terms (inbold) that could depict broad scale fashion trends.Highlighted topic keys describe real trends and pro-vide a starting point for further analysis.
Not surpris-ingly, frequent topics coincide with the most highlypeaking and oscillating topics in Figure 3.
These fre-quent topics also depict more fashion trends, as de-fined by the categories mentioned above.
For exam-ple, below is a non-frequent topic, and it does not in-clude a single topic key that falls into the categoriesdefined above:2 hair head price natural cents large fancy prettylong ladies hand lady box made cards dolls waterchildren good dressed.4 ConclusionTopic modeling for 19th century magazine data doesnot automatically yield relevant topics that can beplotted and analyzed.
Extensive post-processing andgeneralization is necessary for useful results.
It isimportant to correctly classify topic keys and iden-tify useless topics.It seems to be the case that more topics and moretopic keys yield better results; which may then beobtained by carefully sorting through the 100-topicmodel and categorizing topic keys into topic labels,then plotting them by year to analyze trends.
It maybe possible with more detailed analyses to deducetopic keys that are cyclic in nature when put in con-text (e.g.
?back?
in Figure 2).
A heat map can be agood way to weed out uninteresting topics.
It alsoprovides an excellent visualization method for therise and fall of topics, as well as topic cyclicality.Based on these highlighted topics, it is interestingto group the topic keys by characteristic (e.g., color,article of clothing, construction, technique, materialetc).Trends have been discerned in this analysis, andwith this wealth of freely available data specificfashion trends can be searched for and analyzed.5 Future WorkThe fashion trend analysis of the 19th century ac-cording to Harper?s Bazaar presented here is incom-plete.
Further refinement of the topics will yield theidentification of more specific trends that can thenbe analyzed over time.Honing in on specific topic categories (e.g.
ar-ticles of clothing, materials, colors and styles) canhelp illuminate trends.
Topic analysis can then beperformed for every category for a cross-sectionalview of trends.Post-processing of the keys is another necessarystep to focus in on trends.
For example, stemmingthe topic keys is necessary to avoid repetitive keys.Additional data will also be helpful to fully ana-lyze trends and assess cyclicality.
Shared topic keysamong the topics may provide insight into the prob-lem, if a method of linking them contextually can bededuced.This paper provides an initial insight into fashiontrends using topic modeling with MALLET, but italso leaves room for further directed analyses.References1.
Albert R. Mann Library.
2012.
Home EconomicsArchive: Research, Tradition and History (HEARTH).Ithaca, NY: Albert R. Mann Library, Cornell Univer-sity.
http://hearth.library.cornell.edu (Version January2005).2.
Bird, Steven.
NLTK: Natural Language Toolkit.http://www.nltk.org/.3.
McCallum, Andrew Kachites.
2002.
MAL-LET: A Machine Learning for Language Toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.4.
Cameron Blevins.
2010. historying.Topic Modeling Martha Ballard?s Diary,http://historying.org/2010/04/01/topic-modeling-martha-ballards-diary/.5.
Blei, David M. Ng, Andrew Y. Jordan, Michael I.2003.
Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
Journal of MachineLearning Research 3 (2003) 993-1022.87
