Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on the People?s Web Meets NLP, ACL 2012, pages 10?14,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Serious Game for Building a Portuguese Lexical-Semantic NetworkMathieu Mangeot?
Carlos Ramisch???
GETALP ?
LIG, University of Grenoble (France)?
Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil)FirstName.LastName@imag.frAbstractThis paper presents a game with a purposefor the construction of a Portuguese lexical-semantic network.
The network creation isimplicit, as players collaboratively create linksbetween words while they have fun.
We de-scribe the principles and implementation ofthe platform.
As this is an ongoing project,we discuss challenges and long-term goals.Wepresent the current network in terms a quanti-tative and qualitative analysis, comparing it toother resources.
Finally, we describe our tar-get applications.1 IntroductionThe creation of lexical resources like wordnets istime consuming and very costly in terms of man-power.
Funding agencies and publishing houses arevery reluctant to launch new projects.
Ironically, inour globalized nowadays world, the need of such re-sources for communication is growing.
In this con-text, there is hope for building resources via commu-nities of voluntary contributors.
But is it possible touse the Wikipedia paradigm for building a rich andbroad-coverage lexical resource reusable by humansand machines in NLP projects?
Wordnets are veryinteresting resources, but they suffer of several limi-tations.
First, even if the English wordnet (Miller etal., 1990) is open source and freely available, this isnot the case of the EuroWordnets.
Second, wordnetsand other manually built thesauri are based on lin-guists?
intuition.
Information about up-to-date en-tities (Facebook, Costa Concordia, etc.)
and real-world facts are missing.
Third, relations between thesynsets of wordnets are of limited semantic kinds.We would like to build other relations at the syntac-tic and lexical level (e.g.
collocations).Our first goal is to build a rich lexical networkfor the Portuguese language.
The relations betweennodes (words) is represented in a sophisticated way,by using lexical-semantical functions ?
la Mel?c?uk(Mel?c?uk, 1995) such as the Magn function repre-senting the notion of intensifier: Magn(smoker) =heavy, Magn(bachelor) = confirmed.
The resultingnetwork represents the usage of the language, not thenorm.
Thus, it may contain frequent spelling mis-takes or neologisms.
This resource is open-sourceand freely available.
It can be used in several appli-cations: lexicography, printed dictionary, text gen-eration, semantic information extraction, ontologylearning, etc.
The construction of the resource isdone indirectly by contributors through a game.In the next section, the concept of using seriousgames for building NLP resources will be explained(?
2).
The following section will detail the construc-tion of the Portuguese version of the game (?
3).
Af-terwards, we will discuss some preliminary results(?
4) and finally we present future work (?
5).2 Serious Games and NLPThe concept of human contribution, collaborationand computation has been utilized in many applica-tions and scenarios.
The work of Luis von Ahn madea breakthrough, especially in ESP game (von Ahn,2006; von Ahn and Dabbish, 2008).
Human com-putation (crowdsourcing, volunteer contribution) isnow seriously considered to be able to solve largecomputational problems (Speer, 2007).
The ideaof collecting massive contributions from volunteersthrough an online game took off recently.
Nowa-10days, many serious games or GWAP ?Game WithA Purpose?
(von Ahn and Dabbish, 2008) projectsexist in different domains, like Open Mind Com-mon Sense (Singh et al, 2002), ESP games, Learner(Chklovski and Gil, 2005), or CYC project 1.
Con-cerning more specifically lexical networks, similarprojects exist like ?small world of words?2 launchedin 2003 by KU Leuwen.
For the moment, thisproject is limited to building relations of only onekind: associated ideas.Looking at the Wikipedia project, the idea ofbuilding lexical resources with the help voluntarycontributors comes to mind.
Unfortunately, theWikipedia paradigm cannot be easily applied tobuild a dictionary with rich lexical information.
InWikipedia, articles do not need to follow the samestructure, while in a dictionary, the same structureand linguistic theory must be applied to all the arti-cles.
Moreover, while it is easy to contribute to anencyclopedia entry, not everyone has the linguisticknowledge to contribute to a dictionary.
On read-ing Wiktionary entries, one realizes that the qualitycannot be compared to existing paper dictionaries.When looking at people playing online gamesthrough the Internet, one could think that it wouldbe interesting to use this time for playing a game thatwould build lexical data in the background, specifi-cally data that is difficult to find in existing dictionar-ies.
In this context, the idea of a serious lexical gameemerged.
The first version was launched for Frenchin 2007 (Lafourcade and Joubert, 2008), which hasnow around 250,000 nodes and 1,330,000 relations.Our game aims at building a rich and evolvinglexical network comparable to the famous Englishwordnet (Miller et al, 1990).
The principle is asfollows: a player A initiates a game, an instruc-tion is displayed concerning a type of competencycorresponding to a lexical relation (e.g.
synonym,antonym, domain, intensifier) and a word W is cho-sen randomly in the database.
Player A has then alimited amount of time for giving propositions thatanswer the instruction applied to the word W .The same word W with the same instruction isproposed to another player B and the process is thesame.
The two half-games of player A and player1http://game.cyc.com/2http://www.smallworldofwords.com/B are asynchronous.
For each common answer inA and B?s propositions, the two players earn a cer-tain amount of points and credits.
For the word W ,the common answers of A and B players are enteredinto the database.
This process participates in theconstruction of a lexical network linking terms withtyped and weighted relations, validated by pairs ofplayers.
The relations are typed by the instructionsgiven to the players and weighted with the numberof pair players that proposed them.
A more detaileddescription of the game in French is provided byLafourcade and Zampa (2009).3 Portuguese VersionThe game interface was translated by a native Por-tuguese speaker.
A preliminary step was to interna-tionalize the text messages by separating them fromthe interface and storing them in an array, allowingfor easy translation in any other language.
Simul-taneously, we developed, and tested an easy step-by-step installer which makes the deployment of thegame as easy as installing a content managementsystem software on a server.A list of seed words must be provided from whichthe game will chose the proposed terms at the be-ginning.
As the game evolves, people suggest newwords not necessarily in the initial dictionary, thushelping the vocabulary to grow.
Two resourceswere used to compose this list of seed words.
Thefirst is the DELAS?PB dictionary from NILC (Mu-niz, 2004).
All nouns, verbs, adjectives and ad-verbs were extracted, resulting in 67,062 words.
Asthese include a large number of rare words, pilottests showed that the game became annoying whenthe player ignored the meaning of most of the pro-posed words.
Therefore, the number of Googlehits for every word was obtained and only the 20%most common ones were kept, resulting in a list of13,413 words.
To this, the entries of the BrazilianOpen Mind Common Sense network (Anacleto etal., 2008) were added, in order to allow future com-parison with this resource.
Apertium?s lt-toolbox3was used in order to obtain the most frequent POStag for each entry, resulting in 5,129 nouns, 3,672verbs, 1,176 adjectives, and 201 adverbs.
The unionwith the preceding dictionary resulted in a final seed3http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/Lttoolbox11list of 20,854 words.Once the game is deployed, one of the big chal-lenges is to gather volunteer players.
We gave pre-sentations about the game in the academic contextand spread the word among Portuguese teachers, ar-guing that the game could be used to enrich the vo-cabulary of their students.
We also created a Face-book page and linked it in our website.
One way tomotivate subscribed players to come back is to offergift words.
Each player can offer a friend a gamewith a specific word.
For example, if I have a friendfan of baseball, I will offer him/her this word.Once the first challenge of gathering a commu-nity of players is overcome, the main difficulty isto keep the motivation going.
For succeeding, theproject needs a person that will animate the com-munity, motivate gamers and publicize the game forrecruiting new contributors.
Games were launchedin other languages, but due to social factors (lack ofcommunity animator), they are in a sleeping state.4Internally, each word is represented as a node ina graph.
The directed edges are the lexico-syntacticrelations created by the game.
Each edge has a type(associated idea, hypernym, hyponym, typical ob-ject, etc.)
and a weight, corresponding to the num-ber of times the two words co-occurred.
Each nodehas also a weight corresponding to its popularity(proportional to its degree).
Part of speech is en-coded as edges going from a term to special POSnodes.
In addition to the standard attributes, eachedge also contains counters that represent the coun-try of players who contributed to its creation.
There-fore, we would like to investigate dialectal varia-tions of Portuguese in Portugal, Brasil and other lu-sophone countries.
This information can be impor-tant for using the resource in semantic extraction,according to the variation of the analyzed text.4 Preliminary EvaluationTo date, 61 players participated in the game.
In thispreliminary quantitative and qualitative evaluation,we consider only the nodes for which some rela-tion was created, thus excluding all the seed wordsthat were not connected to other words yet.
Figure 1shows a fragment of the network.
Green edges rep-resent associated words, red edges represent hypo-4http://jeuxdemots.liglab.fr/Figure 1: Overview of part of the network.and hypernyms.
Most relations created are standard,like feij?, andr?, am?lia and jean are associated withname.
However, non-standard relations are also cre-ated, like Cuba is the antonym of United States ortatoo is associated to eternal.
While purists mayconsider these as noise, we regard it as relations rep-resenting real-world semantics and language use.The network contains 19,473 word nodes and20,854 occurrences of POS relations (a word mayhave several POS).
Among those, 347 nodes donot contain POS edges, meaning that they are newwords.
A sample of the 20 most popular terms ispresented in Table 1.
They include common hyper-nym nodes like thing and person and animal but alsoeveryday language words like drink, car and sea.From all the nodes in the network, only 1,408(7.23%) have a degree greater than 1 (excludingPOS edges).
For the remaining 18,065 nodes, norelation was created.
Figure 2 shows user activityin number of games played per day.
The number ofgames is unsteady but it does not seem to increasenor decrease.
Analysis of the log files show thatplayers tend to participate a lot and the beginningand then, after one or two weeks, they stop.
Thus, itis important not only to attract new players but alsoto keep them active.Word w Word w Word wcomida 110 hotel 80 pintura 74*** 100 bebida 80 ?gua 72pessoa 96 mulher 78 porta 72dinheiro 92 casa 78 mar 72carne 82 carro 78 empresa 72nome 80 animal 76 coisa 72Table 1: Top-20 most connected words and weights (w).1225/12 02/01 10/01 18/01 26/01 03/02 11/02 19/02 27/02 06/03 14/03 22/03 30/03 07/04Date01020304050Number ofgamesFigure 2: User activity from Dec 27, 2011 to Apr 4, 2012.For the moment, the most common edge is of theassociated idea type.
It corresponds to more than80% of the edges.
Some players bought compe-tences in hypo- and hypernym, which together ac-count for 15.39% of the edges.
As these relationsare dual, it would be easy to infer new edges.Thetotal number of edges acquired is 1,344.There is one large connected component in thegraph and a large number of small connected com-ponents with two or three nodes.
The total numberof connected components in the graph is 281 (ig-noring disconnected nodes), yielding a high mod-ularity of 0.898.
The average degree of a node is0.955, as more than 750 nodes have only one rela-tion and around 200 have 2 relations, and the degreedecreases exponentially.The trend is that, as more relations are added,the current small components will be attached tothe larger ones, but also more smaller unconnectedgraphs will be created.
However, we expect thatonce a large proportion of the nodes has been cov-ered, the network will converge to a single large con-nected component.For the moment, the coverage of our resource islimited.
But a previous comparison done for theFrench game versus the French Euro WordNet (F-EWN) was very promising.
The french game con-tains 10 times more terms than F-EWN (240,000 vsRelation type Count %Associated 1,126 83.78Hypernym 115 8.56Hyponym 81 6.83Domain 12 0.89Antonym 10 0.74Total 1,344 100Table 2: Number of edges according to types.23,000) and relations (1,359,000 vs 100,000).
On asample of 100 terms frequently played in the game,3% of them contain errors (spelling mistakes or con-fusions).
Data collected with the French game bringa lot of originality but the precision rate is muchlower that data collected manually in F-EWN.Our resource now only contains as much as 0.91%of the nodes in English Wordnet.
As precise num-bers about the size of the Portuguese wordnet (Mar-rafa et al, 2011) are not available, we also queriedthe online service for the nodes in our network.
Wefound out that 35.87% of the nodes are covered bythe Portuguese wordnet.
Thus, we believe that col-laborative methods can considerably speed up thecreation of lexical resources, as in only three monthswe already have some information complimentary toa 13-years old project.5 Future workWe presented the deployment and a preliminaryevaluation of JeuxDeMots?pt,5 a game that aimsat the construction of a Portuguese lexical-semanticnetwork.
The coverage of the resource is still lim-ited, but the network keeps growing.For the moment, we have made available a simpleinterface in which the user can query for a word andretrieve all the words related to it.
For instance, ifone searches for the word loja (store), the result is:?
store is a place?
cell phone store is a store?
store is associated to buy shirt?
store is associated to sell toys?
store is associated to manager?
store is associated to clothesThe creation of the network is much less onerousand faster (and more entertaining) than traditionalthesauri construction, that can take years of the workof many experts.
Our long-term goal is the creationof a large network comparable to existing resourcesfor English.
This resource would be extremely use-ful in many NLP tasks.
Once we will have enoughdata, our goal is to apply it to many other applica-tions like information extraction, WSD, semantic in-ference and textual entailment.
This would help tobridge the gap of missing lexical resources for NLPapplications dealing with Portuguese language.5http://jeuxdemots.liglab.fr/por13AcknowledgementsThis work was partly funded by the CAMELEONproject (CAPES?COFECUB 707-11).ReferencesJunia Coutinho Anacleto, Aparecido Fabiano P. de Car-valho, Alexandre M. Ferreira, Eliane N. Pereira, andAlessandro J. F. Carlos.
2008.
Common sense basedapplications to advance personalized learning.
InPROC of the IEEE International Conference on Sys-tems, Man and Cybernetics (SMC 2008), pages 3244?3249, Singapore.Timothy Chklovski and Yolanda Gil.
2005.
An anal-ysis of knowledge collected from volunteer contribu-tors.
In Twentieth National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (AAAI-05), Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.Mathieu Lafourcade and Alain Joubert.
2008.
Jeuxde-mots : un prototype ludique pour l?
?mergence de re-lations entre termes.
In JADT 2008 : 9es Journ?esinternationales d?Analyse statistique des Donn?esTextuelles, pages 657?666, Lyon, France, 12-14 mars.Mathieu Lafourcade and Virginie Zampa.
2009.
Jeuxde-mots and pticlic: games for vocabulary assessment andlexical acquisition.
In Computer Games, Multimedia& Allied technology 09 (CGAT?09), Singapore, 11th-13th May.Palmira Marrafa, Raquel Amaro, and Sara Mendes.2011.
Wordnet.pt global ?
extending wordnet.pt toportuguese varieties.
In Proc.
of the First Workshopon Algorithms and Resources for Modelling of Di-alects and Language Varieties, pages 70?74, Edin-burgh, Scotland, July.
ACL.Igor Mel?c?uk.
1995.
Lexical functions: A tool forthe description of lexical relations in the lexicon.
InLeo Wanner, editor, Lexical Functions in Lexicogra-phy and Natural Language Processing, pages 37?102.John Benjamins, Amsterdam/Philadelphia.George A. Miller, Richard Beckwith, Christiane Fell-baum, Derek Gross, and Katherine Miller.
1990.
In-troduction to wordnet: an on-line lexical database.
In-ternational Journal of Lexicography, 3(4):235?244.Marcelo C. M. Muniz.
2004.
A constru?
?o de recursoslinguistico-computacionais para o portugues do brasil:o projeto de unitex-pb.
Master?s thesis, Instituto deCiencias Matematicas de Sao Carlos, USP, S?o Carlos,SP, Brazil.Push Singh, Thomas Lin, et al 2002.
Open mindcommon sense: Knowledge acquisition from the gen-eral public.
In Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Ontologies, Databases, and Applica-tions of Semantics for Large Scale Information Sys-tems, Irvine, CA, USA.Robert Speer.
2007.
Open mind commons: An inquis-itive approach to learning common sense.
In Work-shop on Common Sense and Intelligent User Inter-faces, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA., January 28-31.Luis von Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2008.
General tech-niques for designing games with a purpose.
Commu-nications of the ACM, pages 58?67.Luis von Ahn.
2006.
Games with a purpose.
IEEE Com-puter Magazine, pages 96?98.14
