Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, page 2,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 12 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSubjectivity Word Sense Disambiguation(Abstract of Invited Talk)Janyce WiebeDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of PittsburghSennott Square Building, Room 5409210 S. Bouquet St., Pittsburgh, PA 15260, U.S.A.wiebe@cs.pitt.eduAbstractMany approaches to opinion and sentimentanalysis rely on lexicons of words that may beused to express subjectivity.
These are com-piled as lists of keywords, rather than wordmeanings (senses).
However, many keywordshave both subjective and objective senses.False hits ?
subjectivity clues used with objec-tive senses ?
are a significant source of errorin subjectivity and sentiment analysis.
Thistalk will focus on sense-level opinion and sen-timent analysis.
First, I will give the resultsof a study showing that even words judgedin previous work to be reliable opinion clueshave significant degrees of subjectivity senseambiguity.
Then, we will consider the taskof distinguishing between the subjective andobjective senses of words in a dictionary, andthe related task of creating ?usage inventories?of opinion clues.
Given such distinctions, thenext step is to automatically determine whichword instances in a corpus are being usedwith subjective senses, and which are beingused with objective senses (we call this task?SWSD?).
We will see evidence that SWSDis more feasible than full word sense disam-biguation, because it is more coarse grained?
often, the exact sense need not be pin-pointed, and that SWSD can be exploited toimprove the performance of opinion and sen-timent analysis systems via sense-aware clas-sification.
Finally, I will discuss experimentsin acquiring SWSD data, via token-based con-text discrimination where the context vectorrepresentation is adapted to distinguish be-tween subjective and objective contexts, andthe clustering process is enriched by pair-wiseconstraints, making it semi-supervised.2
