Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis, pages 47?51,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 12 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnalysis of Travel Review Data from Reader?s Point of ViewMaya Ando Shun IshizakiGraduate School of Media and GovernanceKeio University5322 Endo, Fujisawa-shi, Kanagawa 252-0882, Japanmaya@sfc.keio.ac.jp ishizaki@sfc.keio.ac.jpAbstractIn the NLP field, there have been a lot ofworks which focus on the reviewer?s point ofview conducted on sentiment analyses, whichranges from trying to estimate the reviewer?sscore.
However the reviews are used by thereaders.
The reviews that give a big influenceto the readers should have the highest value,rather than the reviews to which was assignedthe highest score by the writer.
In this paper,we conducted the analyses using the reader?spoint of view.
We asked 20 subjects to read500 sentences in the reviews of Rakuten traveland extracted the sentences that gave a biginfluence to the subjects.
We analyze theinfluential sentences from the following twopoints of view, 1) targets and evaluations and2) personal tastes.
We found that ?room?,?service?, ?meal?
and ?scenery?
are importanttargets which are items included in the reviews,and that ?features?
and ?human senses?
areimportant evaluations which express sentimentor explain targets.
Also we showed personaltastes appeared on ?meal?
and ?service?.1 IntroductionReviews are indispensable in the current e-commerce business.
In the NLP field, there havebeen a lot of works conducted on sentimentanalyses, which ranges from trying to estimate thereviewer?s score or analyzing them by the aspectsof reviewer?s evaluations.
However the reviewsare used by the customers, not by the reviewers.So, the business value of the review lies on thecustomer?s point of view, rather than thereviewer?s point of view.
The reviews which givea great influence to the customers should have thehighest value, rather than the reviews to whichwere assigned the highest score by the writer.
Wedefined customers as readers and reviewers aswriters.
We found the differences between thewriter?s view and the reader?s one using scoresgiven by reviewers.
Especially the negativeinformation is found much more influential to thereaders than the positive one (Ando et al, 2012).We conducted the analyses using the reader?spoint of view.
We asked 20 subjects to read 500review sentences in Rakuten travel reviews1 andextract the sentences from them that gave a greatinfluence.
We analyzed the influential sentencesfrom the following two points of view, 1) targetsand evaluations (Chap.
4) and 2) Personal tastes(Chap.
5).2 Previous StudyThere have been a lot of works on sentimentanalysis in the past decade.
Some of them wereclassifying reviews into positive, negative, orneutral (Turney, 2002; Pang et al, 2002;  Koppelet al, 2006; Pang, 2005; Okanohara et al,  2006;Thelwall et al, 2010).
These works wereconducted based on the writer?s point of view, i.e.the targets are mainly assigned by the writers.
Inour research, we will describe reader?s point ofview.1Rakuten Travel Inc.http://travel.rakuten.co.jp/ (Japanese)47In some reviews, there is information calledhelpfulness which is given by readers.
Ghose et al(2007) used it as one of the features in order torank the reviews.
Passos (2010) also used it toidentify authoritativeness of reviews.
They didn?tconduct any detailed analysis like what weconducted in this paper.
So far, the usage of thehelpfulness information is limited, and indeed theinformation is too obscure to be used in theanalyses we are trying to conduct.3 Data PreparationWe use hotel?s reviews of Rakuten travel Inc. Wedefined influential sentences as those thatinfluence readers to make them book the hotel.
Inpractice, influential sentences are very sparse.
So,in order to collect them efficiently, we used aheuristic that it is relatively more likely to findthem in the sentences with exclamation marks(?!?)
located at their ends.
We randomly extract500 sentences which have more than one ?!?
atthe end, and used for the analyses.
Note thatexclamation mark doesn?t change the meaning ofthe sentence.
We conducted a preliminary surveyand found that our assumption works well.We asked 20 subjects to extract influentialsentences from the 500 sentences.
The task is toextract sentences by which each subject thinks itinfluential enough to decide he/she wants to bookor never to do the hotel.
We asked them not toinclude their personal tastes.
There are 84influential sentences on which more than 4subjects agreed.
In the following sections, these84 sentences will be called the influentialsentences and the other sentences are regarded asthe non-influential sentences.4 Analysis of Target and EvaluationWe analyze classes of targets and evaluationswhich are most influential to the readers.
Here,the targets are such as meals or locations of thehotels, and the evaluations are the reader?simpressions about the targets such as good orconvenient.
We allow duplication of theclassification, i.e.
if a sentence contains more thanone target or evaluation then we extract all thetarget or evaluation terms.We categorized the targets into 11 classes andthe evaluations into 7 classes (Table1).
The tablecontains the Chi-square test results for each class.It indicates how significantly each class appearsin the influential sentences compared to the non-influential sentences.
?Less than 1%?
means thatthe chance having the number of classes in theinfluential sentences and that in the non-influential sentences is less than 1%, if randomdistribution is assumed.
?None?
means there is nosignificant influence.
The results of Chi-squaretest show that the three classes of target, ?room?,?meal?
and ?service?
give influence to the readers(less than 1%), and ?scenery?
is also influential(less than 5%).
Two classes of the evaluations,?human senses?
and ?features?
are influential(less than 1%).
?Features?
are expressionsdescribing the writer?s view about particulartargets in the hotel.We found that some particular combinationsof a target and an evaluation are influential(Table 2).
?-?
indicates infrequence (less than 6).We will discuss the combinations of ?meal +human senses?, ?service + feelings?
and ?room/meal/ service/ scenery + features?.In the combination of ?meal + humansenses?, ?human senses?
are all about taste.
Thenumber of the influential sentences is 12, and thenon-influential sentences are 19.
We analyzeeach set of sentences, and found that theinfluential sentences include particular name ofdish like ?sukiyaki?
much more often (less than1%).
Non-influential sentences include moreabstract expressions, like ?breakfast?.
Thereaders are influenced by particular food.The combination of ?feeling + service?appeared in influential sentences relatively moreoften(less than 2.5%).
?Service?
includes serviceof the hotel like ?welcome fruit?
or ?staff?sservice?.
?Feeling?
is influential only when itcombines with ?service?
(ex.
1).Ex.
1: ?there was happy surprise service at thedinner!!?Features?
is very frequent.
Investigating thecombination with targets, we found that ?room?,?meal?
and ?service?
are the ones which madesignificant difference (less than 1%) bycombining with ?features?.
These are the key tomake ?features?
more influential for readers.
?Scenery" is a target originally created and has asignificant difference less than 5%.
It is a bitunexpected, but was useful information for somereaders.48Table 1.
Target and Evaluation with Chi-square testResult of Chi-square test Target evaluationLess than 1% Room, meal, service Human sense (e.g.
delicious, stink), Features (e.g.
marvelous, bad)Less than 5% Scenery -NoneLocation, staff,facility, hotel, bath,plan, pricerecommendation (e.g.
This is my recommendation)next visiting (e.g.
I?ll never use this hotel), feeling (e.g.
happy)request (e.g.
I want you to?
), others (e.g.
Thank you)Table 2.
Combination of Target and Evaluation with Chi-square testroom meal  bath service facility sceneryfeatures less than 1% less than 1% NO less than 1% NO less than 5%feelings NO - - less than 2.5% - -human senses - less than 1% - - - -5 Personal tastes in the influentialsentencesAlthough we instructed the subjects not to includeparticular personal tastes, we observed theselections of the influential sentences are differentamong the subject.
289 sentences are selected asinfluential sentences by at least one subject, and94 sentences are selected by only one subject.The personal tastes often appear on the target,so we analyzed differences of targets among thesubject.
We clustered the subjects based on theirchoice of the targets.
For each subject, we create afrequency vector whose elements are includingthe most popular 7 targets, namely ?location?,?room?, ?meal?, ?bath?, ?service?, ?facility?, and?scenery?.
Then the cosine metrics is applied tocalculate the similarity between any pair of thesubjects.
Next, we run the hierarchicalagglomerative clustering with the farthestneighbor method to form their clusters.
Threefigures, Figures 1 to 3, show the results of threeclusters in Rader charts.
Each of three clusters hasa typical personal taste, namely groups who areinfluenced more by ?service?
very strongly (Fig.1), by ?meal?
(Fig.
2) or by both ?service?
and?meal ?(Fig.
3).We analyze influential sentences by using thenumber of sentences including ?service?.
Table 3shows the numbers of sentences that were judgedinfluential by certain numbers of subjects on?service?.
In this analysis, we categorize theinfluential sentences into positive and negativeones.
For example, there were 2 positivelyinfluential sentences that were judged influentialby 9 subjects.
From Table 3, we can observe thatthe sentences can clearly be grouped into two;sentences which 7 or more subjects judgedinfluential (we will call them as a popular group)and sentences less than 7 subjects judgedinfluential (unpopular group).Figure 1.
?Service?
type     Figure 2.
?Meal?
typeFigure 3.
?Service & meal?
typeTable 3: the number of influential sentences judged bycertain number of subjects on ?service?10 or more 9 8 7 6 5 Less than 5Positive 3 2 1 0 1 5 33Negative 3 3 1 0 0 2 4In the ?service?
target, 63 sentences areselected as influential by at least one subject.Among them, 45 sentences are positive, 13sentences are negative and 5 sentences areclassified other (i.e.
neither positive nor negative).There are four sets of data by combining positive-negative axis and axis.
We will analyze them oneby one.
[Negative & Popular]There are 7 sentences in this group and we foundthat 3 of them include ?feeling?
evaluation, suchas ?surprised?
or ?angry?.
In contrast, there is nosentence including feeling in the negative &unpopular group.
Also, very unpleasant events49like ?arrogant attitude of hotel staff,?
?lost theluggage?
and ?payment trouble?
are foundnegatively influential by many subjects.
[Negative & Unpopular]There are sentences about staff?s attitude in thisgroup, too, but it is less important compared to theones in the popular group.
For example, staff?sattitude is about greetings or conversation by thehotel staff.
We believe it is depending on people ifthey care those issues or not.
[Positive & Popular]In this group, there are 2 sentences that showunexpected warm service (ex.
2).
Also, there aresentences that express high satisfactions not onlyin service but also in other targets, such as meal.Ex.
2: ?they kept the electric carpet onbecause it was cold.
We, with my elderlyfarther, were so glad and impressed!!
[Positive & Unpopular]All sentences include some positive descriptionsabout services, such as ?carrying the luggage?
or?welcome fruit?.
Some subjects are influenced,but the others aren?t.
We believe it is becausesome people think that these are just usualservices to be provided.Now, we describe analyses on the ?meal?
target.There are 68 influential sentences selected by atleast one subject.
There are 58 positive sentences,5 negative sentences and 4 sentences otherwise.We analyze the four groups, just like what we didfor ?service?.
[Negative & Popular]We find strong negative opinion about meal itselflike ?Their rice was cooked terrible?, which arenot found in the unpopular group.
Many peopleare influenced when the meal is described badly.
[Negative & Unpopular]There are 2 sentences about the situation of therestaurant, such as "crowded" or "existence of alarge group of people".
We believe that the mostimportant feature of meal is taste, not the situation.Many people might know such situation happensby chance, so only some people cares about thiskind of issue.
[Positive & Popular]The sentences in both popular and unpopulargroups include ?delicious?, but ?delicious?
withemphasizing adjectives, like ?really delicious?were found only in the popular group.
[Positive & Unpopular]The sentences including "cost performance" and"large portion" only appear in the unpopulargroup.
We believe that the size might beinfluential to people who like to eat a lot, butpeople who might not be interested in them.The analyses show that there is personal tasteand we analyzed it in detail by examining theexamples.
It indicates that personalization is veryimportant for the readers to find the reviews thatmight satisfy readers.6 ConclusionThe main focus of our study is on the reader?spoint view to evaluate reviews, compared to thewriter?s point of view that was the major focus inthe previous studies.
We defined the influentialsentences as those that could make the reader?sdecision.
We analyzed the 84 influential sentences,based on the selection by the 20 subjects from the500 sentences.
We conducted the following twoanalyses.1) We analyzed targets and evaluations ininfluential sentences.
We found that ?room?,?service?, ?meal?
and ?scenery?
are importanttargets, and ?features?
and ?human senses?
areimportant evaluations.
We also analyzedcombinations of the targets and evaluations.We find that some combinations make it moreinfluential than each of them.2) We analyzed the personal tastes.
The subjectscan be categorized into three clusters, whichcan be explained intuitively.
We found that themost important targets to characterize theclusters are ?service?
and ?meal?.There are many directions in our future work.One of the important topics is to conductcognitive analysis on the influential sentences.We found that expressions can be very influentialby adding a simple modifier (?really delicious?
).Furthermore, many metaphorical expressions arefound in influential sentences (this topic was notcovered in this paper).
We would like to conductthe cognitive analyses on these topics to clarifythe characteristics of the reader?s point of view.We believe it will reveal new types of informationin reviews that is also useful for applications.50ReferencesAlexandre Passos and Jacques Wainer, 2010, What doyou know?
A topic-model approach to authorityidentification, Proc.
Of Computational SocialScience and Wisdom of Crowds(NIP2010).Anindya Ghose and Panagiotis G. Ipeirotis.
2007.Designing novel review ranking systems: Predictingusefulness and impact of reviews.
Proc.
of theInternational Conference on Electronic Commerce(ICEC), pp.
303-309.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
"Thumbs up?
Sentiment Classification usingMachine Learning Techniques".
Proceedings of theConference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP).
pp.
79?86.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2005.
"Seeing stars:Exploiting class relationships for sentimentcategorization with respect to rating scales".Proceedings of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL).
pp.
115?124.Daisuke Okanohara and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2007.Assigning Polarity Scores to Reviews UsingMachine Learning Techniques.
Journal of NaturalLanguage Processing.
14(3).
pp.
273-295.Koppel, M. and Schler, J.
2006.
?The Importance ofNeutral Examples in Learning Sentiment?.Computational Intelligence.
22(2).
pp.100-109.Maya Ando and Shun Ishizaki.
2012, Analysis ofinfluencial reviews on Web(in Japanese), Proc.
Ofthe 18th Annual Conference of the Association forNatural Language Processing,  pp.
731-734.P.
Victor, C. Cornelis, M. De Cock, and A. Teredesai.2009.
?Trust- and distrustbased recommendationsfor controversial reviews.?
in Proceedings of theWebSci?09, Society On-Line.Peter Turney.
2002.
"Thumbs Up or Thumbs Down?Semantic Orientation Applied to UnsupervisedClassification of Reviews".
Proceedings of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
pp.
417-424.Thelwall, Mike; Buckley, Kevan; Paltoglou, Georgios;Cai, Di; Kappas, Arvid.
2010.
"Sentiment strengthdetection in short informal text".
Journal of theAmerican Society for Information Science andTechnology 61 (12).
pp.
2544-2558.51
