Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 37?45,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA User and NLP-Assisted Strategic Workflow for aSocial Semantic OWL 2-Based Knowledge PlatformAbstractOriginating from a multidisciplinary researchproject that gathers, around the SemanticWeb standards and principles, SocialNetworking and Natural LanguageProcessing along with some Bioinformaticsnotions, this paper sheds the light on some ofthe most critical aspects of thecorrespondingly adopted framework and real-time knowledge architecture and modelingplatform.
It recognizes the considerableprofits of an appropriate fusion between theaforementioned disciplines, especially via theproper exploitation of OWL 2 (WebOntology Language) features and novelties,typically OWL 2 language profiles.Accordingly, it proposes a distinctiveworkflow with well-defined strategies for anontology-aware user and NLP-assistedflexible and multidimensional approach forthe management of the abundantly availableSocial data.
Application scenarios related toawareness and orientation recommendersystems based on biomedical domainontologies for childhood obesity preventionand surveillance are explored as typical proofof concept application areas.1 IntroductionIn parallel with the Semantic Web's extremelyactive research community lies a continuous andexceptionally rising propagation of the SocialWeb.
A remarkable advancement can be made ifa proper methodology for maximizing thecooperation between the two webs can be set.Such a methodology should highly encourage thefirst Web to bring in its theories and formalismsto the second, in exchange for some of the latter'spopularity and proliferation.An amplified fusion between the Social andthe Semantic Webs is indeed a stronglybeneficial achievement to both disciplines.
Itshall solve the foremost problems undergone byeach of them, yielding an outcome that by farsurpasses the sum of its individual componentsby endorsing automation, standardization andinteroperability, promoting efficient informationextraction, querying and aggregations, andproviding valuable large data sets to feed theSemantic Web applications from the abundantsocial networking Web 2.0 sites (SNS).
Thesesites will successively benefit from SemanticWeb applications to generate semantically-richdata, and an overall reflection of the henceforthstrongly formalized Social Web's network effecton the Semantic Web, boosting its formerlylimited usage (Breslin et al, 2009).By delving into the Semantic Web's mainachievements for Social Networking (SN), thisresearch notices a lack in those involving theSemantic Web's advanced findings and relativelycomplicated vocabularies and grammars,particularly in the endeavors related to OWL 2(Web Ontology Language) novelties.
In addition,it recognizes the major limitations and concernsrelated to complexity and accuracy when dealingJinan El-HachemEngineering & Computer Science DepartmentConcordia UniversityMontreal, Quebec, Canadaji_elhac@encs.concordia.caVolker HaarslevEngineering & Computer Science DepartmentConcordia UniversityMontreal, Quebec, Canadahaarslev@cse.concordia.ca37with ontology-aware Natural LanguageProcessing for large amounts of data.As a consequence, it proposes a promisingflexible and multidimensional user and NLP-assisted workflow for social data managementencompassing different strategies varyingaccording to prerequisite constraints andconcerns.
The proposed workflow is highlightedas part of a knowledge architecture and modelingplatform that in addition to its possibleincorporation of previous efforts, includes formalmethods and models for more advancedSemantic Web accomplishments in support ofSN.The paper thus introduces a backboneknowledge base repository while laying aparticular emphasis on an anticipated "meta-semantics" model, revealing the numerousadvantages it offers such as its particularlanguage and fragment projection capabilitiesand the considerably gained flexibility whilstaddressing a favorable application area alongwith appropriate corresponding profile reasoningfacilities.Furthermore, the suggested innovative policyfor applying ontology-aware pattern-matchinggrammars for natural language processing,recommends a layered approach that considerspreconditioned concerns and constraints toloosen or restrict text parsing procedures.
On theother hand, it confers a Web 2.0 usercollaboration novelty residing in promoting SNusers "rule tagging" assignments that are initiatedon account of domain-specific semanticarrangements in the knowledge base repository.This optional user intervention featuredetermines the semi-automatic as opposed to thefully automatic adopted strategy.The overall initiative leads to valuable andfruitful foundations of semantically engineeredsocial data for efficient decision support andrecommender systems.Conversely, data and methodologies forrelevant application scenarios aiming atawareness and orientation recommender systemsbased on biomedical domain ontologies areprovided to support the different endeavors andprovide typical proof of concept applicationareas.Following is a summary of the keycontributions:?
Highlights on the critical aspects of aninclusive approach and framework for aknowledge architecture and modelingplatform, in its comprised layers andmethodologies?
A flexible and multi-dimensional socialdata management strategy?
An analysis of the proposed strategy'ssub-approaches  encompassing a crucialNLP component?
A description and emphasis on the user'srole in assigning "semantic rule tags".The rest of this paper is organized as follows:in the next section, we provide an overview ofsome of the related background work.
Section 3presents a very brief overview of the enclosingknowledge framework and platform; in Section4, the user and NLP-assisted workflow isportrayed and analyzed; Section 5 exposes OWL2-supported demonstrating scenarios that endowwith recommender systems based on an ontologyfor childhood obesity surveillance.
We finallywrap up with a conclusions section thatcomprises a closing discussion and highlights onfuture work.2 Contextual Background OverviewDescription Logics (DL) are a family ofknowledge representation languages (Baader etal., 2006) having building blocks consisting ofthree kinds of entities: concepts, roles andindividual names.
A DL ontology consists ofstatements called axioms formed based on thedifferent types of entities and separated into threegroups: the set of terminological axioms TBox,assertional axioms ABox, and relational axiomsRBox.While the NLP-related background work willbe progressively  presented in its related Section4, we will provide herein some generalbackground information related to OWL 2novelties on the one hand, and to the mainrelevant Semantic Web realizations for the SocialWeb on the other.2.1 OWL 2 and Description LogicsConceptsRelying on Description Logics, OWL 2 wasdesigned to overcome limitations encountered inthe initial version of OWL and to compensate forthem (W3C, 2009).
It presents extendedexpressivity, convenience features and variouscapabilities that will prove to be particularlybeneficial for the SN typical data expressed inblogs, wikis, feedback updates, etc.
OWL 2profiles are among the novelty aspects that will38mostly be referred to across different sections inthis paper.OWL 2 Profiles (also known as tractablefragments are "trimmed-down" versions of OWL2 DL; they are the result of a simple tradebetween all-inclusive expressivity and efficientreasoning.
Every fragment addresses a favorableapplication area; it is therefore essential toidentify the target scenario in order to apply theaccordingly most favorable profile.
In terms ofreasoning engines, the regular OWL 2 reasonersare applicable; however, more capablespecifically designed ones based on everyfragment's constructs have been built.The main profiles presented for OWL 2 are:?
OWL 2 EL: conceived for the reasoningover large-scale ontologies based on theEL++ family of description logics(Baader et al, 2005).
This profile offersOWL's expressive features required bylarge-scale ontologies such as the"Systemised Nomenclature of Medicine -Clinical Terms" (SNOMED-CT)renowned ontology1.?
OWL 2 QL: enabling conjunctivequeries' satisfiability based on the DL-Lite family of description logics(Calvanese et al, 2007), conceivedspecifically for reasoning with largeamounts of data organized consistentlywith relatively simple schemata.?
OWL 2 RL: a forward-chaining ruleprocessing system supportingconjunctive rules and relying on a rule-based description logics fragment(Grosof et al, 2003) and on parts ofOWL Full rule-based implementations(ter Horst, 2005).2.2 Social Semantic Web Efforts andOntologiesThe main efforts undergone based on acooperation between the Semantic and the SocialWebs have yielded a vast number of interestingSN specifications, ontologies and projects.
Someof the main contributions that our framework isset to be compatible with, to reuse and/or extend,are summarized next:?
The Semantically Interlinked OnlineCommunity (SIOC 2 ) initiative presentsan ontology for representing useractivities in blogs and forums, thus1www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct2www.sioc-project.orgincreasing the integration of theinformation in online communities.SIOC is a description of online-community information.
It offers ameans to represent "rich data" from theSocial Web in RDF  (Bojars et al, 2008).?
The Friend-of-a-Friend (FOAF 3 ) is anontology for describing people alongwith their relationships.
FOAF can beintegrated with other Semantic Webvocabularies and has been established asthe most broadly used domain ontologyon the semantic web (Miller andBrickley, 2010).?
The Meaning of a Tag (MOAT 4 )framework allows the association of tagsto semantics, via linking them toknowledge base URIs such as DBpedia(Auer et al, 2007), GeoNames 5 , etc.
(Passant and Laublet, 2008).3 Introducing the Overall FrameworkThe various efforts described in this paper are allenfolded in an already conceptualized frameworkfor a knowledge architecture and modelingplatform that we briefly present herein.
Figure 1provides a high level depiction of its main flow,components and layers.Having as its core aim the extension of thecooperation between the Social and the SemanticWebs via an underlined use of highly developedand expressive Description Logics-basedlanguages - namely OWL 2, this frameworkcomprises: a knowledge base repository to holdthe ontological data, rules and axioms, includingspecialized domain ontologies, and previouslydefined social semantic ones; a user and naturallanguage processing-assisted approach to parseand detect semantics from SN Website data (tobe explored in the next section),  as well asdedicated reasoning capabilities to offer a varietyof knowledge and information system servicesand facilities.
Typical reasoning services,typically elucidated in (Baader et al, 2006), likeclassification and subsumption, satisfiability andinstance checking, inference discovery and queryanswering, rule validation and processing, are themeans by which the outcome decision supportsystems capabilities are attainable.
The backbonerepository (based on the Semantic Meta-Object-Facility, SMOF (OMG, 2010), another OWL 23www.foaf-project.org4www.
moat-project.org5www.geonames.org39Figure 1- Knowledge-based Architecture and Modeling Platform General Overviewfeature) also holds dedicated structures known asmeta-semantics structures; they play a  crucialrole in sorting and grouping the different axiomsin the knowledge base, to later allow automaticscaling or downscaling between the OWL 2sublanguages having varying levels ofexpressivity.
Algorithms and methods that allowthis categorization procedure are beyond thescope of this paper, but it is worth noting that thisprocess will have an important impact at thedifferent platforms' levels, notably the NLP-based social data management and ontologypopulation workflow that forms the spotlight ofthis manuscript.4 Proposed User and NLP-AssistedOntology Population WorkflowThe proposed strategy that will allow thegeneration of semantic annotations and theconsequent ontological data population is nextexplored.
In a few words, it is amultidimensional and flexible user and  NLP-assisted approach relying on SN data constraintsand knowledge based prerequisites for automaticor at least semi-automatic domain specificexpressive ontology population.4.1 Online Social Data Sources and NLPBackgroundThe different Web 2.0 platforms such asTwitter 6 , Facebook 7 , LinkedIn 8 , as well asconventional Web logs (blogs), wikis and forumswebsites all form adequate sources of online SNdata to be exploited by our framework, but surelywith different levels of availability.
Throughoutour explored overall framework, we mostly relyon blog and forum posts, due to theiraccessibility facilities.The data parsing layer targeting semanticinformation extraction from the available SNdata is based on GATE (the General Architecturefor Text Engineering) (Cunningham, 2002).GATE has rapidly grown and evolved to turninto one of the most mature NLP platforms.GATE's effectiveness in ontology-awarelanguage processing has already beendemonstrated within several studies and projects,such as KIM 9 , a platform for InformationExtraction using GATE and targeting large-scalesemantic annotation and ontology populationbased on the PROTON 10  lightweight ontology.6www.twitter.com7www.facebook.com8www.linkedin.com9www.ontotext.com/kim10http://proton.semanticweb.org40Some efforts are even directed at moreexpressive OWL-DL support (Witte et al, 2010).In the scope of our framework, we exploit similarefforts, we further follow  our proposedworkflow strategy and as a consequence, wereach an automatic or at least semi-automaticcreation of the semantic annotations thataccordingly lead to the population of ourexpressive domain ontologies with datacompatible with existing relevant SN ontologies(FOAF11, SIOC12, etc.
).4.2 User and NLP-Assisted Workflow forSocial Data ManagementIn an ideal situation, a straightforward fullyautomatic ontology population with instancesassigned based on the ontology-aware NLPgrammars allows the populated ontology to bereadily exploitable by the different OWLreasoners.
Constraints and considerations relatedto the length of the massive social data inquestion, as well as to the level of expressivityand complexity of the ontology's semanticsstimulates the conceptualization and adoption ofa more flexible and beneficial strategy andworkflow, illustrated in Figure 2, that aims atovercoming or at least limiting the differentconstraints' significance.As a particular processing aspect that isproper to our overall previously describedframework, a more progressive role held by theSN User is highlighted.
A user is accordinglyencouraged to explicitly authenticate and evencommunicate meaningful expressive rules basedon provided suggestions.
We describe such a rolewith the terminology of "rules tagging"assignment, enthused by the different SN taggingsystems - for instance Flickr13 and Del.icio.us14 -that make it possible for users to tag their photos,documents and webpages with simple descriptivetaxonomies.For a more comprehensive interpretation ofFigure 2, we start by considering the mainconstraints to be taken into account a priori,those being the concerns related to the amount ofdata to be processed, and the complexity of theontology grammar.Unless the availability of massive amounts ofdata to handle is not deemed problematic,11www.foaf-project.org12www.sioc-project.org13www.flickr.com14http://www.delicious.com/predefined mostly impacting subsets of theoriginal data can be arranged in accordance with:?
The blog or forum post title?
The first sentence or paragraph?
The last sentence or paragraph?
A preset number of lines?
A preset number of sentences orparagraphs?
The blogs and forums relevant to aparticular SNS that is known to bemostly dedicated to our domain or sub-domain in question?
The blogs and forums satisfying acertain chronological period?
The blogs and forums containingspecific keywords (domain criticalelements)?
Combinations of the above elementsFigure 2: Workflow IllustrationConversely, unless it is estimated moreadvantageous to deal with the full ontology, or atleast the ensemble of axioms accepted by theemployed NLP tool and appropriately developedgrammars, semantic strategies can be adopted todeal with expressivity and complex ontologyconstructs concerns based on:41?
DL particular less expressivesublanguages, typically the OWL 2profiles already introduced?
DL specific types of constructs,assessed as mostly critical for the globalflow?
Most significant ontology classes orconcepts?
Particular key axioms or expressions?
Preset number of levels to go deep inthe ontology hierarchy?
A particular branch or set of branches inthe ontology hierarchy?
The set of axioms and expressionsrelevant to  certain given concept/s?
Proper combinations of the aboveTo note that all these conditions and strategiesare made possible through the backbonerepository's already introduced "meta-semantics"structures.As a result of all the above, and based on thepresented inputs, constraints and limitations,different scenarios can be arranged, and we endup with one of four "possible sub-approaches" asdenoted in the illustration:?
Full text processing and open semanticsapproach, which encompasses thoroughanalysis and semantic matching coveringcomplicated rules and grammars, whichincreases implementation complexity,performance and accuracy concerns.?
Open semantics on restricted dataapproach, in which the originally largeamount of data to be processed isminimized.?
Full text processing with semanticsrestrictions approach, in which we canafford managing large amounts of data,but require a low degree of developmentcomplexity, and correspondingly a highaccuracy of the attained results.?
Data and semantics restricted approach,which minimizes the large amounts ofprocessable data, as well as performanceand accuracy concerns.These defined NLP-assisted approaches havecorresponding meta structures in our metadatarepository.
Such structures retain informationrelated to the source data's SNS Web 2.0platforms, to their related conditions andparameters for data and semantics restrictions.Having reached this stage, the availability orabsence of the SNS user collaboration willdetermine whether the overall strategy towardsontology population is fully or semi automatic.Back to the role of the user in his "rule tagging"assignment, and to lay more emphasis on thisrole, we highlight the provisional output resultingfrom the described NLP strategy, which mainlyconsists of constructed templates of preliminarynon-validated sets of semantics, includingidentity relations and rules, thus made availablein a user friendly questionnaire form tooptionally confirm, correct or even add moreexpressive axioms and details.
Although notmandatory, this semi-automatic approach thatincludes a user intervention is deemed extremelyadvantageous, especially for the open semanticscase where the available NLP technology hassevere restrictions upon dealing with somewhatcomplex and expressive vocabularies andontologies.
Nevertheless, it is the overallflexibility provided at both the data andsemantics level that will limit the accuracyconcerns encountered in traditional NLPapproaches.5 Proof of Concept and ApplicationScenariosOur efforts are being carried out under the scopeof parents' awareness and orientation.
UsefulSNS data sources typically beneficial for ourdomain are "Mom Bloggers".
While these sitesare extremely active and abundant, most of ourdata is extracted based on Babycenter15 (whichalone counts more than 20 million users), CanadaMoms Blog 16 , Raising Children Network 17 ,among others.As part of the Brain-to-Society (BtS) (Dub?
etal., 2008) research endeavors that call for awhole-of-society (WoS) transformation, centeredon the indivudual, the Childhood Obesity[Knowledge] Enterprise (COPE) ontology wasconceived (Shaban-Nejad et al, 2011) with theaim of allowing cross-sectional analysis of theobesity domain and consequently generating bothgeneric and customized preventiverecommendations.
Figure 3 depicts anOntoGraf18 visualization of a  partial view of itsmajor concepts and relationships.15www.babycenter.com16www.canadamomsblog.com17www.
raisingchildren.net.au18http://protegewiki.stanford.edu/wiki/OntoGraf42COPE?s data sources (mainly relevant to TBoxand RBox ontological data, apart from theassertional ABox data generated from ourontology population workflow) are: RAMQ 19 ,Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS20)(population health database), CARTaGENE 21 ,which offer information on medical history,genealogical data, lifestyles, etc..The COPE ontology was extended andenriched with OWL 2 constructs to maximize itsrichness and expressivity and be able to takeadvantage of different language projection andreasoning facilities provided by our real-timeknowledge architecture and modeling platform.It has hence served as a source for oursemantically aware NLP grammars andInformation Extraction algorithms.To concretize a possible approach from thealready proposed strategic workflow (the dataand semantics restricted approach),  a hybridmethodology that considers the full ontologicaldata related to childhood obesity risks for postsreported in 2012, performs a first phase ofprocessing in which the filtering of all textualdata compliant with the specified datarestrictions occurs, and then proceeds to theremaining detailed semantics-based analysis.19R?gie de l'assurance maladie du Qu?bec:http://www.ramq.gouv.qc.ca/index_en.shtml20Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS):http://www.statcan.gc.ca/concepts/health-sante/index-eng.htm21http://www.cartagene.qc.ca/index.php?lang=englishTable 1 below provides  sample generatedsemantics (represented in DL axioms) along withtheir contextual natural language interpretation.DL Axiom Possible Interpretation?hasRegulatoryDietGoal.Self User has a goal/plan to goon a diet?hasDaughter.hasAge(6 m) User is a  parent of a 6months-old baby?hasChild.Overweight All user's children areoverweight?experienceProblem(Fatigue  ?
AbdominalPain)Is experiencing healthproblems consisting infatigue and abdominalpainlivesIn(MarySt,Grimbsy) MarySt lives in GrimbsyTable 1: Illustrated sample semantics with theircontextual natural language interpretationThe rest of the flow depends on an optionaluser validation phase that will precede thepopulation of our knowledge base with thedetected ABox assertional data.
Interoperabilityis ensured through an established link betweendetected individuals and existing FOAF userswithin the SIOC communities.Having reached this stage, reasoningprocedures can be applied in order to attain therequired  services for our awareness andorientation recommender systems related tochildhood obesity surveillance.
Redirectionmechanisms, based on the projected languagesFigure 3 Partial view of the COPE major concepts and their interactions43and fragments, target advanced and powerfulreasoners and rule engines.
For example, Pellet(Sirin et al, 2007) can handle OWL 2 DL andRL, RacerPro (Haarslev and M?ller, 2001;Haarslev et al, 2008) can manage a subset OWL2 DL and OWL 2 EL, HermiT (Motik et al,2007) and FacT++ (Tsarkov et al, 2006) cancope with OWL 2 DL.
On the other hand, theJena framework (2007) and the database Oracle11g enable the processing of OWL 2 RL rules,whereas Quill (Thomas and Pan, 2009) a TrOWL(Thomas et al, 2010) component provide OWL 2QL querying capabilities.6 ConclusionsApart from providing a maximal set of consistentand accurate semantics, fostering such a user andNLP-assisted workflow can prove to beadvantageous at many levels.
We can underline afew extra issues, by considering for example the"Open World Assumption" which is evidentlyappropriate for the context of textual bloginformation dealt with in this research: astatement or fact not explicitly mentioned in ablog does not disprove its existence.Nevertheless, to deal with certain critical rulesand axioms, for which the availability of accuratedata is deemed much more valuable for ourworking framework, an exclusive approach canbe embraced in order to possibly "close theworld" related to these critical facts.
Closingaxioms can be identified in our backbonerepository, and presented to the user, invitingthem to key in their exact input.
Furthermore, theintensional reasoning required in any applicationinvolving natural language processing presentsDL-safety restrictions, due to conclusionsreferring to unnamed objects.
By offering thisuser rule tagging facility, we can limit the effectsof such constraints.
In all cases, relying on acollective effort through which rules andsemantics are gathered and validated, beforebecoming instance and ontology enrichmentelements is a much more profitable and effectiveapproach.A well-populated knowledge base,henceforth enriched with semanticallyengineered social data, is consequentlyaccessible for further extensive reasoning andanalysis.
The outcome reached surpasses by farthe sum of its social and semantic datacomponents, typically leading to significantservices and recommender systems.Taking into consideration the applicableinvolved reasoning, the opportunity ofidentifying, creating and expanding social andsemantic networks is presented.
Implementedalgorithms allow opinion mining, detection ofties and similarities between people, leading toconnections via shared interests or any possiblecommon ground areas.
For instance, semanticnetworks are initiated based on the algorithms'ability to retrieve people with same or similargoals, tastes, origins, backgrounds, etc., and tofurther apply advanced reasoning with theintention of providing suggestions,recommendations, possible solutions, feedbacks,openings, and so on.
More straightforward WebSocial Networks can be deduced through theusers' joint actions and interactions, their created,commented upon, linked to, or similarlyannotated contents.Many aspects of the conclusions and findingswill thus be related to the concept of "object-centered sociality", which connects people viathe common interests associated with theiroccupations, hobbies, jobs, etc.Analogous features accessible through thissemantically engineered social data and possiblyserving the purposes of recommender systemsinclude the ability to perform:?
User profiling, clustering andsegmentation based on certain traits andcriteria, all of which are endeavorsconsidered closely related to opinionmining undertakings?
Tracking processes to identify a user?sWeb history from different Web 2.0platforms, outlining this user?s generaloverall contributions to the Web andreporting their different activities, goalsand problems?
Improved quality of the search process,with ego-centric algorithms and searchesto identify a key user?s associated orclosely related nodes, as well ascommunity detection algorithms to tracetwo or more key users?
surroundingcommunityIn terms of future work, we plan to pursuefostering our different efforts that includeimplementation and verification tools, lookingfor the incorporation of maximized sets of rulesand Description Logics-based fragments,providing further validating ground for thewidest set of the aforementioned potentials andpromises.44ReferencesA.
Passant, P. Laublet.
Meaning Of A Tag: Acollaborative approach to bridge the gap betweentagging and Linked Data.
In Proceedings of theWWW2008 Workshop Linked Data on the Web(LDOW2008), Beijing, China, Apr 2008A.
Shaban-Nejad, D. Buckeridge, D, L.
Dub?, COPE:Childhood Obesity Prevention [Knowledge]Enterprise.
in Proceedings of AIME 2011, pp.
225-229B.
Grosof, I. Horrocks, R. Volz, S. Decker,Description Logic Programs: Combining LogicPrograms with Description Logic, In Proceedingsof the 12th Int.
World Wide Web Conference(WWW 2003), Budapest, Hungary, 2003B.Motik, R. Shearer, I. Horrocks, Optimizedreasoning in description logics usinghypertableaux, in: CADE-07, 2007D.
Calvanese, G.D. Giacomo, D. Lembo, M.Lenzerini, R. Rosati, Tractable reasoning andefficient query answering in description logics: theDL-Lite family, Journal of Automated Reasoning,vol.9, pp.
385-429, 2007D.
Tsarkov, I. Horrocks, FaCT++ description logicreasoner: system description, In Proceedings of theIJCAR 2006, Seattle,WA, USA, 2006D.
Miller, D. Brickley, FOAF VocabularySpecification, Friend of a Friend Project,http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/, 9 August 2010E.
Sirin, B. Parsia, B.C.
Grau, A. Kalyanpur, Y. Katz,Pellet: a practical OWL-DL reasoner, Journal ofWeb Semantics, vol.
5, no.
2, pp.
51-53, 2007E.
Thomas, J.
Z. Pan, R-Quill: Reasoning with aBillion Triples, In 8th International Semantic WebConference (ISWC2009), 2009.E.
Thomas, J. Pan, and Y. Ren, TrOWL: TractableOWL 2 Reasoning Infrastructure, In Proceedingsof the Extended Semantic Web Conference.Springer, 2010F.
Baader, S. Brandt, C. Lutz, Pushing the ELenvelope, In Proceedings of the IJCAI 2005, 2005F.
Baader, D. Calvanese, D.L.
McGuinness, D. Nardi,P.F.
Patel-Schneider, The Description LogicHandbook: Theory, Implementation andApplications, Cambridge University Press, 2006.H.
Cunningham, GATE, a General Architecture forText Engineering, Journal of Computers and theHumanities, vol.
36, pp.
223-254, 2002H.
J. ter Horst, Completeness, decidability andcomplexity of entailment for RDF Schema and asemantic extension involving the OWL vocabulary,The Journal of Web Semantics, vol.
3, no.2-3, pp.79-115, 2005J.G.
Breslin, A. Passant, S. Decker, The SocialSemantic Web, Springer, October 2009Jena - A Semantic Web Framework for Java, URL:http://jena.sourceforge.net, 2007Object Management Group OMG, MOF Support forSemantic Structures (SMOF) Revised JointSubmission, OMG Document formal/2010-08-06,http://www.omg.org/spec/SMOF/1.0/Source/10-08-06.pdf, 2010R.
Witte, N. Khamis, J. Rilling.
Flexible OntologyPopulation from Text: The OwlExporter, TheSeventh International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2010), pp.3845-3850, May 19-21, 2010, Valletta, Malta.Systemised Nomenclature of Medicine - ClinicalTerms (SNOMED-CT), URL:http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/S.
Auer, C. Bizer, G. Kobilarov, J. Lehmann, R.Cyganiak, and Z. Ives, DBpedia: A Nucleus for aWeb of Open Data.
6th International SemanticWeb Conference, November 2007The KIM Platform, URL:http://www.ontotext.com/kim/The PROTON Ontology, URL:http://proton.semanticweb.orgU.
Bojars, J.G.
Breslin, V. Peristeras, G. Tummarello,S.
Decker, Interlinking the Social Web withSemantics, IEEE Intelligent Systems, vol.
23, no.3, pp.
29-40, 13 May 2008V.
Haarslev, R. M?ller, RACER system description,in Proceedings of the IJCAR 2001, Siena, Italy,2001.V.
Haarslev, R. M?ller, and S. Wandelt, The revivalof structural subsumption in tableau-baseddescription logic reasoners, In Proceedings of the2008 International Workshop on DescriptionLogics, 2008.World Wide Web Consortium W3C, OWL 2 WebOntology Language Document Overview,http://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/, W3CRecommendation, 27 October 200945
