The 7th Workshop on the Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 80?85,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsPREFER: Using a Graph-Based Approach to Generate Paraphrases forLanguage LearningMei-Hua Chen*, Shih-Ting Huang+, Chung-Chi Huang*, Hsien-Chin Liou**, Jason S. Chang+* Institute of Information Systems and Applications+ Department of Computer Science**  Department of Foreign Languages and LiteratureNational Tsing Hua UniversityHsinChu, Taiwan, R.O.C.
30013{chen.meihua,koromiko1104,u901571,hsienchin,jason.jschang}@gmail.comAbstractParaphrasing is an important aspect of languagecompetence; however, EFL learners have longhad difficulty paraphrasing in their writingowing to their limited language proficiency.Therefore, automatic paraphrase suggestionsystems can be useful for writers.
In this paper,we present PREFER1, a paraphrase referencetool for helping language learners improve theirwriting skills.
In this paper, we attempt totransform the paraphrase generation probleminto a graphical problem in which the phrasesare treated as nodes and translation similaritiesas edges.
We adopt the PageRank algorithm torank and filter the paraphrases generated by thepivot-based paraphrase generation method.
Wemanually evaluate the performance of ourmethod and assess the effectiveness ofPREFER in language learning.
The resultsshow that our method successfully preservesboth the semantic meaning and syntacticstructure of the query phrase.
Moreover, thestudents?
writing performance improve mostwith the assistance of PREFER.1.
IntroductionParaphrasing, or restating information usingdifferent words, is an essential part of productivelanguage competence (Fuchs, 1980; Mel?
?uk, 1992;Martinot, 2003).
However, EFL learners havedifficulty paraphrasing in their writing partly1 http://140.114.89.231/PREFERbecause of their insufficient lexical knowledge(Abasi et al 2006; Chandrasoma et al 2004).
Ifthey are provided with direct and substantialsupport while writing, they may be able to expresstheir thoughts more fluently.
Unfortunately, fewparaphrase reference tools have been developed toprovide instant assistance to learners in theirwriting process.
In the light of the pressing needfor paraphrase reference tools, we developPREFER, a paraphrasing assistant system to helpEFL learners vary their expression during writing.Over the past decade, paraphrasing techniqueshave played an important role in many areas ofNatural Language Processing, such as machinetranslation, and question answering.
However, veryfew studies have been conducted concerning theapplication of automatic paraphrase generationtechniques in language learning and teaching.In this paper, we treat the paraphrase generationproblem as a graph-related problem.
We adopt thePageRank algorithm (Page et al, 1999) to generateparaphrases based on the assumption that a pagewith more incoming links is likely to receive ahigher rank.
Meanwhile, a page which is linked bya higher ranked page should transitively be rankedhigher.
We take advantage of transitivity ofrelevance to rank and filter the paraphrasesgenerated by the pivot-based method (i.e., phraseare treated as paraphrases if they share the sametranslations) of Bannard and Callison-Burch(2005).The advantage of the pivot approach is that thegenerated paraphrases are exactly semanticallyequivalent to the query phrase.
However, its80quality of the paraphrases highly correlates withthat of the techniques of bilingual alignment.
Toovercome such limitation, we use the PageRankalgorithm to refine the generated paraphrases.
Inother words, we leverage the PageRank algorithmto find more relevant paraphrases that preserveboth meaning and grammaticality for languagelearners.
The results of a manual evaluation and asystem assessment show that our approach andsystem perform well.2.
Related WorkA number of studies have investigated EFL leaners?paraphrase competence.
For example, Campbell(1987) reveals that language proficiencysignificantly affects paraphrasing competence.McInnis (2009) reports that paraphrasing task ismore difficult for L2 students than that for L1students.
According to Milicevic (2011), L2learners propose less valid paraphrases than nativespeakers.
These findings indicate that EFL studentshave problems in paraphrasing.
In view of this, wedevelop PREFER, a paraphrase reference tool, forhelping English learners with their writing.Paraphrase generation, on the other hand, hasbeen an area of active research and the relatedwork has been thoroughly surveyed inAndroutsopoulos and Malakasiotis (2010) as wellas in Madnani and Dorr (2010).
In the rest of thissection, we focus on reviewing the methods relatedto our work.One prominent approach to paraphrasegeneration is based on bilingual parallel corpora.For example, Bannard and Callison-Burch (2005)propose the pivot approach to generate phrasalparaphrases from an English-German parallelcorpus.
With the advantage of its parallel andbilingual natures of such a corpus, the outputparaphrases do preserve semantic similarity.Callison-Burch (2008) further places syntacticconstraints on generated paraphrases to improvethe quality of the paraphrases.
In this paper, wegenerate paraphrases adopting the pivot-basedmethod proposed by Bannard and Callison-Burch(2005) in the first round.
Then we use agraph-based approach to further ensure paraphrasecandidates preserve both meaning andgrammaticality.In a study more closely related to our work,Kok and Brockett (2010) take a graphical view ofthe pivot-based approach.
They propose the HittingTime Paraphrase algorithm (HTP) to measuresimilarities between phrases.
The smaller thenumber of steps a random walker goes from onenode to the other, the more likely these two nodesare paraphrases.
The main difference between theirwork and ours lies in the definition of the graph.While they treat multilingual phrases as nodes, wetreat only English phrases as nodes.
Besides, wedefine the edges between nodes as semanticrelation instead of bilingual alignment.In contrast to the previous work, we present agraph-based method for refining the paraphrasesgenerated by the pivoting approach.
Our goal is toconsolidate the relation between paraphrases toprovide learners with more and better paraphraseswhich are helpful in expanding their lexicalknowledge.3.
Graph-Based Paraphrase GenerationIn this section, we describe how we use thePageRank algorithm to rank and filter theparaphrases generated by the pivot-based method.3.1 Graph ConstructionWe first exploit the pivot-based method proposedby Bannard and Callison-Burch (2005) to populateour graph G using of candidate paraphrasescP={             } from a bilingual parallelcorpus B for a query phrase q.
Each phrase in cP isalso represented as a node in G. Note that thequery phrase q is excluded from cP.Figure 1.
A simple graph G. Note that the cp1 andwill be linked iffis the paraphrase of qand is also the paraphrase ofqcP81Graph G only contains the paraphrases cpiwhose probabilities are higher than a certainthreshold ?2  as nodes.
In addition, each cpi islinked to the query phrase q with edge e which isweighted by the probability  (   | ).
Furthermore,we establish the edges among the phrases in cP.An example graph is shown in Figure 1.
Byrepeating the previous steps, for each phrase cp1,cp2,... in cP, we find their correspondingparaphrases,and?., and discard theparaphrases that are not in cP.
Once the phrases arelinked with their paraphrases, the graph G iscreated.In this paper, we also place a constraint that aparaphrase of a phrase q must neither be asubstring nor a superstring of q.
These strings areusually aligned with the same foreign languagephrase while they are not paraphrases at all.
Forexample, ?play an important?
and ?play animportant role in?
are excluded for ?play animportant role?.
This has the effect of reducingsome of the noise generated by the pivot-basedmethod.3.2 Graph-Based Paraphrase GenerationWe then refine the generated paraphrases adoptingthe PageRank algorithm proposed by Page et al(1999).
Consider a graph consisting of a set ofwebpages on the Web V and a set of hyperlinks E.The PageRank algorithm assigns a value PR toeach webpage as their importance measurement.The PR value of a certain page u is definediteratively as the following equation:( )   ?
( )( )( )where Bu is a set of pages linked to u and L(.
)denotes the number of outbound links from a pagev.Intuitively, by using formula (1) iteratively, weare able to calculate the PR values for all nodesand thus extract relatively important paraphrases.However, the original PageRank algorithm doesnot take the weight of each edge into consideration.That is, the PageRank algorithm treats all linksequally when distributing rank scores.
Treating alllinks equally in paraphrase generation task might2 We set ?
to be 0.01.lose some linguistic properties.
For this, weconsider the importance of edges of the nodes andweight the edges based on the paraphraseprobability in the pivot-based approach using(      )  ?
( |  ) ( |  )( )Formula (2) represents the probability that thephrase u is the paraphrase of the phrase v. f refersto shared translations of v and u.
Then for eachiteration of the PageRank calculation, we reassignthe PR value for all u in V to be PR?
(u) as:( )   ?
(   )  ( )( )( )Instead of treating all edges equally, formula (3)integrates the weights of inbound link andoutbound link edges (see Section 4 for theperformance differences with and withoutweighting edges).4.
ResultsIn this section, we first present our experimentalsetting.
Then evaluation results are reported.4.1 Experimental SettingIn this paper, word alignments were produced byGiza++ toolkit (Och and Ney, 2003) over a set ofDanish-English section (containing 1,236,427sentences) of the Europarl corpus, version 2(Koehn, 2002).We compared our graph-based approach with astrong baseline, the pivot-based method withsyntactic constraint (SBP) (Callison-Burch, 2008)utilizing the same Danish-English corpus.
We alsoinvestigate the contribution of adding the edgeweights to the PageRank algorithm by buildingtwo models, PR representing the method of thePageRank algorithm without weights and PRwrepresenting the method of the weighted PageRankalgorithm, for comparison.To assess the performance of our method, weconducted a manual evaluation.
We asked anexperienced English lecturer to randomly select100 most commonly used and meaningful phrasesfrom 30 research articles in the discipline ofComputer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL).
Atotal of 88 unique phrases were used as our test setfor evaluation excluding 12 phrases not existing inthe Europarl corpus.
For each phrase, we extracted82the corresponding candidate paraphrases and chosetop 5 for evaluation.
Two raters, provided with asimplified scoring standard used by Callison-Burch(2008), manually evaluate the accuracy of the topranked paraphrases of each phrase by score 0, 1and 2.
It is worth noting that the raters were askedto score each paraphrase candidate by consideringits appropriateness in various contexts.
In thisevaluation, we strictly deemed a paraphrase to becorrect if and only if both raters scored 2.
Theinter-annotator agreement was 0.63.The coverage was measured by the number ofcorrect answers within top 5 candidates.
Theprecision was measured by the number of correctanswers within the returned answers.On the other hand, to assess the effectiveness ofPREFER in language learning, we carried out anexperiment with 55 Chinese-speaking EFL collegefreshmen, who had at least six years of formalinstruction from junior to senior high schools andwere estimated to be at the intermediate levelregarding their overall English competence.
Thestudents were randomly divided into three groups.They were asked to paraphrase seven shortparagraphs in the pre-test with no system support,and then paraphrase another seven shortparagraphs in the post-test using three differenttools: PREFER (P), LONGMAN Dictionary ofContemporary English Online (L), andThesaurus.com (T).
A total of 22 default phrases(http://140.114.75.22/share/examples.htm) wereembedded in the paragraphs in the pre- andpost-tests, targeted at comparing the quality andquantity of students?
paraphrasing performance.Students were not restricted to paraphrase theseembedded phrases.
Instead, they were encouragedto replace any possible phrases or even restructuresentences.
We had two experienced native-speakerTESL (Teaching English as a Second Language)lecturers to score the students?
paraphrasingperformance.4.2 Experimental Results4.2.1 Manual EvaluationAs shown in Table 1, PRw achieved both goodprecision and coverage.
Moreover, PR and PRwperformed better than SBP in both coverage andprecision.
Also, the result that the performance ofPRw is better than that of PR implies that PRw isable to generate more semantically andsyntactically correct paraphrases.
However, theprecision of 0.19 indicates that there is still room toimprove the paraphrase generation model.PR PRw SBPCoverage 0.17 0.18 0.07Precision 0.17 0.19 0.10Table 1: The measurement of paraphrases.Additionally, Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) isalso reported.
Here, MRR is defined as a measureof how much effort needed to locate the firstappropriate paraphrase for the given phrase in theranked list of paraphrases.
The MRR score of PRw(0.53) outperformed PR (0.51) and SBP (0.47).
Itdemonstrated that the PRw model facilitates thehigh ranking of good paraphrases (i.e., paraphraseswith meaning and grammaticality preserved wouldbe ranked high).4.2.2.
Evaluation on Language LearningThe second evaluation is to assess the effectivenessof PREFER applied to CALL.
We used acomparison method to measure the extent to whichEFL learners achieved good performance inparaphrasing.Table 2.
Comparison of paraphrasing performanceamong students using three different reference tools.As seen in the first row of Table 2, the students?writing performance improved most with theassistance of PREFER (i.e., group P), comparedwith group L and group T. We further analyzedand compared the number of the rephrased phrasesand the correct paraphrases, and the rate ofP L Timprovement of paraphrasingtask38.2% -31.6% -6.2%allparaphrasablephrasesrephrased 38.4% -23.2% 9.5%correct 53.3% -17.5% 4.6%correctness rate  7.9% 4.9% -3.1%22 defaultphrasesrephrased 68% -16% 28%correct 100% -5% 31%correctness rate 13.6% 7.9% 1.5%83correctness students achieved using differentreference tools among our testing paraphrasecandidates (see the middle and bottom panels ofTable 2).
Obviously, the students consultingPREFER achieved substantial paraphrasingimprovement in all three aspects of both all anddefault phrases.
But the other two groups seemedunable to manage well the paraphrasing task withtraditional way of phrase information.
This limitedinformation seems insufficient to enable studentsto familiarize themselves with proper usages ofphrases which might lead to improperparaphrasing.In short, PREFER outperformed the other tworeference tools in assisting EFL learners in theirparaphrasing task.5.
Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper, we treat the paraphrase generationproblem as a graphical problem.
We utilize thePageRank algorithm to rank and filter theparaphrases generated using the pivot-basedmethod.
The results show that our methodsignificantly produces better paraphrases in bothprecision and coverage compared with thesyntactically-constrained pivot method ofCallison-Burch (2008).
Additionally, PREFERdoes benefit learners?
writing performance.In order to conduct a more comprehensiveevaluation, we plan to adapt the in-contextevaluation metric introduced by Callison-Burch et.al (2008).
A larger test set would be generatedmanually to evaluate the performance of ourparaphrase system.
In addition, we will implementvarious kinds of baseline systems such as Kok andBrockett (2010) and Chan et al (2011) to provide amore competitive comparison.Many avenues exist for future research andimprovement.
For example, we would like toextend paraphrasing consecutive n-gram phrases toinconsecutive ones such as ones with incompletetransitive verbs (e.g., ?provide someone withsomething?).
Besides, we are interested inweighting edges using syntactic and semanticrelation in our graph-based method to furtherimprove the quality of generated paraphrases.ReferencesAli R. Abasi, Nahal Akbari, and Barbara Graves.
2006.Discourse appropriation, construction of identities,and the complex issue of plagiarism: ESL studentswriting in graduate school.
Journal of SecondLanguage Writing, 15, 102?117.Ion Androutsopoulos and Prodromos Malakasiotis.
2010.A Survey of Paraphrasing and Textual EntailmentMethods.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research38, 135?187.Colin Bannard and Chris Callison-Burch.
2005.Paraphrasing with bilingual parallel corpora.
InProceedings of ACL, pp.
597-604.Chris Callison-Burch.
2008.
Syntactic constraints onparaphrases extracted from parallel corpora.
InProceedings of EMNLP, pp.
196?205.Chris Callison-Burch, Trevor Cohn, and Mirella Lapata.2008.
ParaMetric: an automatic evaluation metric forparaphrasing.
In Proceedings of the 22ndInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
97-104.Cherry Campbell.
1990.
Writing with others?
words:Using background reading text in academiccompositions.
In B. Kroll (Ed.
), Second languagewriting: Research insights for the classroom (pp.211-30).
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge UniversityPress.Tsz Ping Chan, Chris Callison-Burch and Benjamin VanDurme.
2011.
Reranking Bilingually ExtractedParaphrases Using Monolingual DistributionalSimilarity.
In Proceedings of the GEMS 2011Workshop on GEometrical Models of NaturalLanguage Semantics, pp.
33-42.Ranamukalage Chandrasoma, Celia Thompson, andAlastair Pennycook.
2004.
Beyond plagiarism:Transgressive and nontransgressive intertextuality.Journal of Language, Identity, and Education, 3(3),171?194.Catherine Fuchs.
1980.
Paraphrase et th?orie dulangage.
Contribition ?
une histoire des theorieslinguistiques contemporaines et ?
la constructiond?une th?orie ?nonciative de la paraphraase.
Th?sede doctorat.
Paris: Universit?
Paris VII.Philipp Koehn.
2002.
Europarl: A multilingual corpusfor evaluation of machine translation.
Unpublished,http://www.isi.edu/~koehn/europarl/.Stanley Kok and Chris Brockett.
2010.
Hitting the rightparaphrases in good time.
In Proceedings ofNAACL/HLT, pp.
145-153.84Nitin Madnani and Bonnie J. Dorr.
2010.
Generatingphrasal and sentential paraphrases: A survey ofdata-driven methods.
Computational Linguistics,36(3):341?388.Claire Martinot.
2003.
Pour une linguistique del?acquisition.
La reformulation: du concept descriptifau concept explicatif.
Langage et Soci?t?, 2(104);147-151.Lara McInnis.
2009.
Analyzing English L1 and L2Paraphrasing Strategies through Concurrent VerbalReport and Stimulated Recall Protocols.
MA Thesis.Toronto: University of Toronto.Igor Mel??uk.
1992.
Paraphrase et lexique: la th?orieSens-Texte et le Dictionnaire explicatif etcombinatoire.
In: Mel?
?uk, I. et al, Dictionnaireexplicatif et combinatoire du fran?ais contemporain.Recherches lexico-s?mantiques III.
Montr?al: Pressesde l?Universit?
de Montr?al; 9-59.Jasmina Mili?evi?
and Alexandra Tsedryk.
2011.Assessing and Improving Paraphrasing Competencein FSL.
In Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Meaning- Text Theory, pp.
175-184.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A systematiccomparison of various statistical alignment models.Computational Linguistics, 29(1): 19-51.Lawrence Page, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani, TerryWinograd.
1999.
The PageRank Citation Ranking:Bringing Order to the Web.
Technical Report.
pp.1999-66, Stanford University InfoLab.85
