Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Models of Language Acquisition and Loss, pages 23?25,Avignon, France, April 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn annotated English child language databaseAline Villavicencio?
?, Beracah Yankama?, Rodrigo Wilkens?,Marco A. P.
Idiart?, Robert Berwick?
?Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil)?MIT (USA)alinev@gmail.com, beracah@mit.edu, rswilkens@gmail.com, marco.idiart@gmail.com, berwick@csail.mit.edu1 IntroductionThe use of large-scale naturalistic data has beenopening up new investigative possibilities for lan-guage acquisition studies, providing a basis forempirical predictions and for evaluations of alter-native acquisition hypotheses.
One widely usedresource is CHILDES (MacWhinney, 1995) withtranscriptions for over 25 languages of interac-tions involving children, with the English corporaavailable in raw, part-of-speech tagged, lemma-tized and parsed formats (Sagae et al, 2010; But-tery and Korhonen, 2005).
With a recent increasein the availability of lexical and psycholinguisticresources and robust natural language processingtools, it is now possible to further enrich child-language corpora with additional sources of infor-mation.In this paper we describe the English CHILDESVerb Database (ECVD), which extends the orig-inal lexical and syntactic annotation of verbsin CHILDES with information about frequency,grammatical relations, semantic classes, and otherpsycholinguistic and statistical information.
Inaddition, these corpora are organized in a search-able database that allows the retrieval of data ac-cording to complex queries that combine differentsources of information.
This database is also mod-ular and can be straightforwardly extended withadditional annotation levels.
In what follows, wediscuss the tools and resources used for the anno-tation (?2), and conclude with a discussion of theimplications of this initial work along with direc-tions for future research (?3).2 Linguistic and StatisticalPropertiesThe English CHILDES Verb Database con-tains information about the English corpora inCHILDES parsed using three different pipelines:(1) MEGRASP; (2) RASP; and (3) the CHILDESTreebank.
In the first, made available as part ofthe CHILDES distribution1, the corpora are POS1http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/tagged (in %mor), and parsed using MEGRASP(Sagae et al, 2010) which provides informationabout dependency parses and grammatical rela-tions (in %gra):2*MOT: I said (.)
Adam you could have a bananaand offer Robin and Ursula one (.
)would you?%mor: pro|I v|say&PAST n:prop|Adam pro|youaux|could v|have det|a n|banana ...%gra: 1|2|SUBJ 2|6|CJCT 3|2|OBJ 4|6|SUBJ5|6|AUX 6|9|COORD 7|8|DET 8|6|OBJ ...In the second pipeline, the RASP system(Briscoe et al, 2006) is used for tokenisation,tagging, lemmatization and parsing of the inputsentences, outputting syntactic trees (in %ST)and grammatical relations (%GR).3 In bothexamples each GR denotes a relation, along withits head and dependent:*MOT: oh no # he didn?t say anything about win-dow .%ST: (T Oh:1 no:2 ,:3 (S he:4 (VP do+ed:5not+:6 say:7 anything:8 (PP about:9 (N1window:10)))) .
:11)%GR: (|ncsubj| |say:7 VV0| |he:4 PPHS1| )(|aux| |say:7 VV0| |do+ed:5 VDD|)(|ncmod| |say:7 VV0| |not+:6 XX|)(|iobj| |say:7 VV0| |about:9 II|) (|dobj||say:7 VV0| |anything:8 PN1|) (|dobj||about:9 II| |window:10 NN1|)The third focuses on the Adam corpus fromthe Brown data set (Brown, 1973) and usesthe Charniak parser with Penn Treebank stylepart of speech tags and output, followed byhand-curation, as described by Pearl and Sprouse(2012):(S1 (SBARQ (WHNP (WP who)) (SQ (VP (COP is)(NP (NN that)))) (.
?
)))2In an evaluation MEGRASP produced correct depen-dency relations for 96% of the relations in the gold stan-dard, with the dependency relations being labelled with thecorrect GR 94% of the time.3The data was kindly provided by P. Buttery and A.Korhonen and generated as described in (Buttery and Ko-rhonen, 2005).23The use of annotations from multiple parsersenables the combination of the complementarystrengths of each in terms of coverage and ac-curacy, similar to inter-annotator agreement ap-proaches.
These differences are also useful for op-timizing search patterns in terms of the sourcewhich produces the best accuracy for a particu-lar case.
Information about corpora sizes and theannotated portions for each of the parsers is dis-played in table 1.Information SentencesTotal Raw 4.84 millionMEGRASP & RASP Raw 2.5 millionMEGRASP Parsed 109,629RASP Parsed 2.21 millionCHILDES Treebank 26,280MEGRASP & RASP Parsed 98,456Table 1: Parsed SentencesThe verbs in each sentence are also annotatedwith information about shared patterns of mean-ing and syntactic behavior from 190 fine-grainedsubclasses that cover 3,100 verb types (Levin,1993).
This annotation allows searches definedin terms of verb classes, and include all sentencesthat contain verbs that belong to a given class.For instance, searching for verbs of running wouldreturn sentences containing not only run but alsorelated verbs like slide, roll and stroll.Additional annotation of properties linked tolanguage use and recognition include extrinsic fac-tors such as word frequency and intrinsic factorssuch as the length of a word in terms of sylla-bles; age of acquisition; imageability; and familiar-ity.
Some of this annotation is obtained from theMRC Psycholinguistic Database (Coltheart, 1981)which contains 150,837 entries with informationabout 26 properties, although not all propertiesare available for every word (e.g.
IMAG is onlyavailable for 9,240 words).For enabling complex search functionalitiesthat potentially combine information from severalsources, the annotated sentences were organizedin a database, and Tables 2 and 3 list some of theavailable annotations.
Given the focus on verbs,for search efficiency each sentence is indexed ac-cording to the verbs it contains.
In addition, verbsand nouns are further annotated with informationshown in table 3 whenever it is available in theexisting resources.These levels of annotation allow for complexsearches involving for example, a combination ofinformation about a verb?s lemma, target gram-matical relations, and occurrence of Levin?s classesin the corpora.Not all sentences have been successfully ana-lyzed, and the comments field contains informa-FieldsSentence IDCorpusSpeakerFileRaw sentenceMOR and POST tagsMEGRASP dep.
and GRsRASP syntactic treeRASP dep.
and GRsCommentsTable 2: Information about SentencesFieldsWord IDSentence IDLevin?s classesAge of acquisitionFamiliarityConcretenessFrequencyImageabilityNumber of syllablesTable 3: Information about Wordstion about the missing annotations and cases ofnear perfect matches that arise from the parsersusing different heuristics for e.g.
non-words, meta-characters and punctuation.
These required morecomplex matching procedures for identifying thecorresponding cases in the annotations of theparsers.3 Conclusions and future workThis paper describes the construction of the En-glish CHILDES Verb Database.
It combines in-formation from different parsing systems to capi-talize on their complementary recall and precisionstrengths and ensure the accuracy of the searches.It also includes information about Levin?s classesfor verbs, and some psycholinguistic informationfor some of the words, like age of acquisition,familiarity and imageability.
The result is alarge-scale integrated resource that allows com-plex searches involving different annotation lev-els.
This database can be used to inform analysis,for instance, about the complexity of the languageemployed with and by a child as her age increases,that can shed some light on discussions about thepoverty of the stimulus.
This is an ongoing projectto make the annotated data available to the re-search community in a user-friendly interface thatallows complex patterns to be specified in a simpleway.AcknowledgementsThis research was partly supported by CNPqProjects 551964/2011-1, 202007/2010-3,24305256/2008-4 and 309569/2009-5.ReferencesE.
Briscoe, J. Carroll, and R. Watson.
2006.
Thesecond release of the rasp system.
In Proceedingsof the COLING/ACL 2006 Interactive PresentationSessions, Sydney, Australia.R.
Brown.
1973.
A first language: The earlystages.
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts.P.
Buttery and A. Korhonen.
2005.
Large-scale anal-ysis of verb subcategorization differences betweenchild directed speech and adult speech.
In Proceed-ings of the Interdisciplinary Workshop on the Iden-tification and Representation of Verb Features andVerb Classes.M.
Coltheart.
1981.
The MRC psycholinguisticdatabase.
Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psy-chology, 33A:497?505.B.
Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions - a preliminary investigation.
The Universityof Chicago Press.B.
MacWhinney.
1995.
The CHILDES project: toolsfor analyzing talk.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, second edition.L.
Pearl and J. Sprouse, 2012.
Experimental Syntaxand Islands Effects, chapter Computational Modelsof Acquisition for Islands.
Cambridge UniversityPress.K.
Sagae, E. Davis, A. Lavie, B. MacWhinney, andS.
Wintner.
2010.
Morphosyntactic annotation ofCHILDES transcripts.
Journal of Child Language,37(03):705?729.25
