Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 88?96,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSocial Network Analysis of Alice in WonderlandApoorv Agarwal1* Augusto Corvalan1** Jacob Jensen1?
Owen Rambow2?1 Department of Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA2 Center for Computational Learning Systems, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA* apoorv@cs.columbia.edu ** ac3096@columbia.edu?jej2120@columbia.edu ?rambow@ccls.columbia.eduAbstractWe present a network analysis of a literarytext, Alice in Wonderland.
We build noveltypes of networks in which links betweencharacters are different types of social events.We show that analyzing networks based onthese social events gives us insight into theroles of characters in the story.
Also, staticnetwork analysis has limitations which be-come apparent from our analysis.
We proposethe use of dynamic network analysis to over-come these limitations.1 IntroductionIn recent years, the wide availability of digitized lit-erary works has given rise to a computational ap-proach to analyzing these texts.
This approach hasbeen used, sometimes in conjunction with more tra-ditional literary analysis techniques, to better graspthe intricacies of several literary works.
As thefield matured, new approaches and ideas gave riseto the use of techniques, like social networks, usu-ally reserved for quantitive fields in order to gainnew insights into the works.
Recently, Elson et al(2010) extracted networks from a corpus of 19thcentury texts in order to debunk long standing hy-potheses from comparative literature (Elson et al,2010).
Moretti (2011) examined a social event net-work constructed from Hamlet in order to delvedeeper into its infamously dense character network.While this approach is clearly powerful, it is notwithout drawbacks.
As Moretti (2011) points out,undirected and unweighted networks are blunt in-struments and limited in their use.
While, as dis-cussed below, some researchers have sought to rec-tify these limitations, few have done so with a strictand specific rubric for categorizing interactions.In this paper, we annotate Lewis Carroll?s Alice inWonderland using a well-defined annotation schemewhich we have previously developed on newswiretext Agarwal et al (2010).
It is well suited to dealwith the aforementioned limitations.
We show thatusing different types of networks can be useful by al-lowing us to provide a model for determining point-of-view.
We also show that social networks allowcharacters to be categorized into roles based on howthey function in the text, but that this approach islimited when using static social networks.
We thenbuild and visualize dynamic networks and show thatstatic networks can distort the importance of char-acters.
By using dynamic networks, we can build afuller picture of how each character works in a liter-ary text.Our paper uses an annotation scheme that is well-defined and has been used in previous computationalmodels that extract social events from news articles(Agarwal and Rambow, 2010).
This computationalmodel may be adapted to extract these events fromliterary texts.
However, the focus of this paper isnot to adapt the previously proposed computationalmodel to a new domain or genre, but to first demon-strate the usefulness of this annotation scheme forthe analysis of literary texts, and the social networksderived from it.
All results reported in this paperare based on hand annotation of the text.
Further-more, we are investigating a single text, so that wedo cannot draw conclusions about the usefulness ofour methods for validating theories of literature.We summarize the contributions of this paper:?
We manually extract a social network from Al-88ice in Wonderland based on the definition of so-cial events as proposed by us in (Agarwal et al,2010).?
We use static network analysis (in a bottom-upapproach) for creating character sketches.
Weshow that exploiting the distinction betweendifferent types of social events (interaction andobservation), we are able to gain insights intothe roles characters play in this novel.?
We point certain limitations of the static net-work analysis and propose the use of dynamicnetwork analysis for literary texts.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
InSection 2, we present previous work.
In Section 3,we present a brief overview of social events.
In Sec-tion 4, we discuss the data and annotation scheme.In Section 6, we present results on static networkanalysis, and results on dynamic network analysis inSection 7.
We conclude and present future directionof research in Section 8.2 Literature ReviewThe power of network analysis in the field of liter-ature is evidenced by the rapid rise of work and in-terest in the field in recent years.
Network extrac-tion and analysis has been performed on subjectsas varied as the Marvel universe (Alberich et al,2002), Les Mise?rables (Newman and Girvan, 2004),and ancient Greek tragedies (Rydberg-Cox, 2011).Elson et al (2010) has looked at debunking com-parative literature theories by examining networksfor sixty 19th-century novels.
Elson et al (2010)used natural language processing techniques to at-tribute quoted speech to characters in the novels,and then used this data to create networks that al-lowed the researchers to make novel observationsabout the correlation between setting and the num-ber of characters.
Because the study was limited toquoted speech, however, a large chunk of interac-tions (such as non-quoted dialog, observations andthoughts) were missing from the network and sub-sequent analysis.
Our work specifically addressesthese missed cases, and in that sense our techniquefor creating social networks is complementary tothat of Elson et al (2010).Several other researchers have found network the-ory to be useful in the study of literature.
In his studyof Dicken?s Bleak House, Sack refines the granu-larity of interaction types by breaking down linksby the purpose of the interaction, differentiating be-tween conversations meant, for example, for legalinvestigation vs. philanthropy.
Sack (2006) also ex-pands on the definition of ties, including face-to-faceinteraction as well as what he terms ?weak ties?,which includes interactions like being involved inthe same legal suit.
His links are a hybrid of quanti-tative and qualitative.
Characters are linked by inter-action, but how these interactions are then classifiedare subjective according to Sack (2006).
Thus, theydo not follow a strictly defined rubric.
Celikyilmazet al (2010) have also worked along a similar track,analyzing networks built based on topical similarityin actor speech.A theorist who has grappled with the limitationsof network analysis is Franco Moretti.
In NetworkTheory Plot Analysis, Moretti (2011) takes a sim-ilar path as Elson et al (2010), where the act ofspeech signifies interaction.
Moretti (2011) pointsout that his close reading of the network extractedfrom Hamlet is limited by several factors.
First,edges are unweighted, giving equal importance tointeractions that are a few words and long, moreinvolved conversations.
Second, edges have no di-rection, which eliminates who initiated each inter-action.
Moretti (2011) concludes that more rigorousnetwork analysis tools are needed in order to makefurther headway in the field.
In this paper we ex-tract two types networks from Alice in Wonderland,one directed and the other undirected, both of whichare weighted.
We show that indeed discriminatingbetween uni-directional and bi-directional linkagesgives us insight into the character profiles and theirrole in the novel.Overall, the previous work has primarily focusedon turning time into space, flattening out the actionin order to bring to light something that was ob-fuscated previously.
However, time and its passageplays a crucial role in literature.
Literature is, afterall, built in layers, with successive scenes stackingup on each other.
Texts reveal information not allat once, like a network, but in spurts.
This is notmerely an unfortunate side-effect of the medium, buta central element that is manipulated by authors and89is central in extracting ?meaning?
(Perry, 1979).However, the static social network (SSN) mediumitself is not suited to clearly reveal these changes.Dynamic social networks (DSN), on the other hand,can go beyond the summary statistics of SSN.
More-over, because of their flattening effect, SSNs canlead to inaccurate or inexact information (Berger-Wolf et al, 2006).
The DSN approach has many ap-plications, from analyzing how terrorist cells evolveover time (Carley, 2003), to mapping the interac-tions in the writing community (Perry-Smith andShalley, 2003).
One of the obstacles to using DSNsis that they are not as straight-forward to visualize asSSNs.
In this paper, we use a visualization outlinedin Moody et al (2005).
While the visualization maynot be novel, to the best of our knowledge, DSNshave not yet been used to observe networks extractedfrom literary texts.
Our goal is to push beyond thelimitations of static network analysis of literature byadding the crucial element it lacks: dynamism.3 Social EventsA text may describe a social network in two ways:explicitly, by stating the type of relationship betweentwo individuals (e.g.
Mary is John?s wife), or implic-itly, by describing an event whose repeated instanti-ation may lead to a stronger social relationship (e.g.John talked to Mary).
These latter types of eventsare called social events (Agarwal et al, 2010).
Agar-wal et al (2010) defined two broad types of socialevents: interaction (INR), in which both parties areaware of each other and of the social event, e.g.,a conversation, and observation (OBS), in whichonly one party is aware of the other and of the inter-action, e.g., thinking of or talking about someone.An important aspect of annotating social events istaking into consideration the intention of the author:does the author want us to notice an event betweencharacters or is he/she simply describing a setting ofa plot?
Since our definition of social events is basedon cognitive states of characters, as described by theauthor, we do not annotate a social event in Exam-ple (2) below since there is no evidence that eitherAlice or the Rabbit are aware of each other.
How-ever, in Example (1), there is clear evidence that Al-ice notices the Rabbit but there is no evidence thatthe Rabbit notices Alice as well.
Therefore, therein only a one-directional social event between theseentities called the observation (OBS) event.1.
(1) Then [Alice] {saw} the [White Rabbit] runby her.
OBS2.
(2) The [White Rabbit] ran by [Alice].
Nosocial eventAgarwal et al (2010) have defined finer sub-typesof these two coarse types of events.
These sub-typesinclude recording physical proximity of characters,verbal and non-verbal interactions, recording if thethought process of thinking about the other entity isinitiated by a previous event or by reading a mag-azine or other social medium.
Many of these sub-types are irrelevant for this literary text simply be-cause it does not describe use of technology.
Thereare no emails being sent (which would be a verbalinteraction which does not happen in close physicalproximity), no one is watching the other on televi-sion etc.
Therefore, for this paper, we only focuson two broad social event types: interaction versusobservation.
For details and examples of other sub-categories please refer to (Agarwal et al, 2010).4 DataWe annotate an abridged version of Alice in Wonder-land from project Gutenberg.1 This version has tenchapters, 270 paragraphs and 9611 words.Agarwal et al (2010) trained two annotators toannotate social events in a well known news corpus ?Automated Content Extraction (ACE2005, (Walker,2005)).
Once trained, we used one of the annotatorsto annotate the same events in Alice in Wonderland.Unlike the ACE corpus, we did not have previousgold annotations for entity mentions or mention res-olution.
However, since we are primarily interestedonly in social events, we instructed the annotator toall and only record entity mentions that participatein a social event.Since the text is fairly short, the authors of this pa-per checked the quality of annotations during the an-notation process.
After the annotation process wascomplete, one of the authors went over the annota-tions as an adjudicator.
He did not propose deletionof any annotation.
However, he proposed adding a1http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/1955190couple of annotations for chapter 3 for the mousedrying ceremony.
In this scene, the mouse instructsa group of birds to dry themselves.
Lewis Carrollrefers to groups of birds using them, they.
Our an-notation manual does not handle such group forma-tions.
Do we introduce a part-of relation and asso-ciate each bird in the group with the group mention(marking the group mention as a separate entity) ornot?
If yes, and if the group loses one entity (birdin this case), do we mark another group entity andassociate the remaining birds with this new groupor not?
In general, the problem of such groups ishard and, to the best of our knowledge, not handledin current entity recognition manuals.
We postponehandling the annotation of such groups for futurework.Another point that the adjudicator raised, whichis out of scope for our current annotation manual, isthe way of handling cases where one entity interactswith the other but mistakenly thinking that the entityis someone else.
For example, the Rabbit interactswith Alice thinking that she is Mary Ann.5 Social Network Analysis (SNA) metricsIn this section we briefly describe some of thewidely used SNA metrics that we use throughout thepaper for drawing conclusions about the social net-work of Alice in Wonderland.Notation: A network or graph, G = (N,E) isgiven by a set of nodes in the network, N and a setof edges, E. G can be represented as an adjacencymatrix A such that Ai,j = I((i, j) ?
E).
Followingare the metrics we use:Degree centrality (Newman, 2010): A node?s degreecentrality is equal to the total number of its incomingand outgoing edges.
The number of connections isoften a good proxy for a node?s importance.In-degree centrality (Newman, 2010): Degree cen-trality, but summing only a node?s incoming edges.In the undirected case, this reduces to Degree cen-trality.Out-Degree centrality (Newman, 2010): Degreecentrality, but summing only a node?s outgoingedges.
In the undirected case, this reduces to Degreecentrality.Hubs (Kleinberg, 1999): A node?s hub score is its el-ement in the largest eigenvector of AA?.
This quan-tifies how well it reliably points to high-scoring au-thorities.
Intuitively, a high Hub score means a gooddirectory of important nodes.Authorities (Kleinberg, 1999): A node?s authorityscore is its element in the largest Eigenvector ofA?A.
This quantifies how much attention it getsfrom high-scoring hubs.
Intuitively, a high author-ity score means a node of importance.6 Static Network AnalysisIn this section we present results for static networkanalysis of the different types of networks extractedfrom Alice in Wonderland.
We use a bottom-up ap-proach.
We extract different types of social networksand look at the profiles of characters based on thesenetworks and network analysis metrics.
We observethat the profiles of some characters are strikingly dif-ferent.
In this paper, we discuss three characterswhose profiles we found most interesting.
We areable to show that making a distinction between typesof networks based on directionality (who is observ-ing whom) is indeed useful.6.1 Data VisualizationWe calculate hubs and authority weights of all thecharacters in Alice in Wonderland.
Since we areusing a bottom-up approach, there is a lot of datato look at along different dimensions.
We developa data visualization scheme that makes it easy forus to compare profiles of characters along differentdimensions and to compare their profiles with eachother.Following are the different dimensions that weare interested in: 1) type of network, denoted byset N = {OBS, INR}, 2) network analysis metric,denoted by the set M = {Hub weight, Authorityweight}, 3) rank of a character based on type of net-work and network analysis metric used, denoted bythe set R = {1, 2, 3, .
.
.
52}, and 4) absolute sepa-ration of consecutively ranked characters for a par-ticular network analysis metric, denoted by a con-tinuous set S = [0, 1].
We need this last dimensionsince one character may be ranked higher than an-other, yet the separation between the absolute valuesof the network analysis metric is fairly small.
Wetreat characters with such small separations in abso-lute values as having the same rank.
There are a to-91(a) Alice (b) White Rabbit (c) MouseFigure 1: Static networks analysis plots for three characters of Alice in Wonderland.
X-axis denotes network types,OBS, INR, Verbal and Non-verbal (inorder), Y-axis denotes network analysis metrics, Authority weight and Hubweight.
Color coding: Blue = rank 1, Green = rank 2, Red = rank 3 and all other ranks are color Black.
Size of the dotis directly proportional to separation from next lower rank, in terms of the network analysis value.tal of four dimensions for each character, and a totalof 2 ?
2 ?
52 = 208 data points to look at (ignor-ing the last dimension, absolute separation from theconsecutively ranked character).
We represent thesefour dimensions dimensions in a 2-D scatter plot asfollows:X-axis: We plot the network types along the X-axis.Y-axis: We plot the network analysis metric alongthe Y-axis.Color: Color of a dot denotes the rank of the char-acter.
We choose the following color coding.
Bluedenotes rank one, Green denotes rank two, Red de-notes rank three and all the remaining ranks are de-noted by color Black.
After rank three the absolutevalue of the metrics plummet and are very close toone another i.e.
the separation between absolute val-ues (of network analysis metrics) for consecutivelyranked characters is less than 0.001.Size: The size of a dot denotes the fourth dimen-sion i.e.
the absolute separation in network analy-sis metric of the character under consideration to thenext lower ranked character.
For example, in Fig-ure 1, rank of the Rabbit for network type OBS whenlooking at the authority weight is 1 and the sepa-ration from ranked 2 character, the Mouse, is high,as denoted by the larger circle.
Alternatively, whenlooking at rank for Rabbit as a hub for network typeOBS, he is ranked 3, but there is very little separa-tion between him and the next lowest ranked char-acter.This visualization enables us to compare a lot ofnumbers conveniently, out of which arise three in-teresting character profiles.
These profiles yield in-formation as to how each character functions in thestory.6.2 Point-of-ViewAlice: Alice has the highest centrality for everynetwork which, using the definition of protago-nist given by Moretti (2011), makes her the pro-tagonist of the text.
However, from our analysiswe are also able to conclude that the story is be-ing told from Alice?s perspective.
Note that pro-tagonist and perspective-holder are not always thesame.
For example, The Great Gatsby is narratedby Nick Carraway, but the protagonist is Jay Gatsby.Even though to a reader of the text, the perspectiveholder(s) might be easy to identify, to the best of ourknowledge there are no network analysis approachesthat can do this.
We show that by treating interac-tion and observation events in isolation, we are ableto conclude that Alice is the only perspective holderin the story.The perspective, or point of view, is the ?mode (ormodes) established by an author by means of whichthe reader is presented with the characters, dialog,92actions, setting and events?
(Abrams, 1999).
Thereare four of these:1.
First-Person: The story is being told from theperspective of a narrator that refers to itself as?I?
(or ?we?).2.
Second-Person: Similar to first-person, but thenarrator refers to a character(s) in the story as?you?.
This form of narration is not common.3.
Third-Person Limited: Here, the narrator isnot a character in the story, but an out-side entity that refers to other characters as?he/she/it/they?.
However, in limited, this en-tity is limited to one focal character that thenarrator follows.4.
Third-Person Omniscient: A type of third-person narration where the narrator has accessto the thoughts and actions of multiple charac-ters.For first, second and third-person limited, it isexpected that the character who is observing othercharacters is the perspective holder.
In order to iso-late observations from mentions, the OBS networkshould be built ignoring quoted speech.
Computa-tionally, we believe this would be a fairly easy task.In terms of the terminology we introduce, the per-spective holder will have observation links point-ing to other characters but will not receive observa-tion links.
In a first-person narration, this characterwill be an ?I?
or a name if the ?I?
is named.
Thesame case for second-person and ?you.?
In third-person limited, while an entity is narrating the story,there is one focal character whose perspective lim-its and sometimes colors the narration.
Thus, thatcharacter will still be the one with observation linksemanating but not receiving.
In third-person omni-scient, since the narrator has access to every charac-ter?s thoughts and actions, it is expected that manycharacters would receive and emanate observationlinks, while there would be an absence of charac-ters who are emanating observation links but not re-ceiving any.
Therefore, the behavior of perspectiveholding character is consistent across different typesof narrations ?
it is the character that emanates ob-servation type of links but does not receive any.
Thisanalysis extends to the case where there are multiplecharacter perspectives being used by seeing whichcharacters are sending but not receiving OBS linksand which are not.
However, in the rare case wherean actor whose point-of-view is being received over-hears himself being mentioned, this will be anno-tated as having him receive a OBS link, therebythrowing off the categorization.
We ignore this rarecase for now.Looking at hub and authority weights of Alice?sOBS network (Figure 1(a)), it is apparent that all theobservation links are pointing outwards from Alice.Alice is ranked one (color of the dot is blue) andhas a high separation from the second ranked en-tity (size of the dot) for Hub-weight metric.
A highhub-weight rank means that most of the links areemanating from this character.
In comparison, Al-ice?s authority-weight of OBS network is low.
Thismeans that other characters are not talking about Al-ice.
Thus, the story must be being told from thepoint-of-view of Alice.It should be noted that for concluding who is theperspective holder, it is important to only look at theOBS network.
The same conclusion cannot be madeif we look at the INR network.
This supports oureffort to make a distinction between uni-directionalversus bi-directional links.6.3 Character Sketch for Minor CharactersWhite Rabbit: The White Rabbit has a very differentprofile when we look at its OBS network in com-parison to Alice (figure 1(b)).
Rabbit is ranked onebut as an authority, instead of as a hub, in the OBSnetwork.
This means that most of the observationlinks are leading to Rabbit i.e.
Rabbit is being ob-served or talked about by other characters.
On theother hand Rabbit is ranked third in INR (for whichhub and authority have the same value, since INRis non-directional).
Thus, Rabbit is frequently ob-served and talked about, yet remains insular in hisinteractions with other characters.
This suggests thatRabbit is playing some sort of unique role in the text,where importance is being placed on his being ob-served rather than his interactions.Mouse: Mouse has yet another kind of profile.
ForMouse, both hub and authority weights are rankedtwo and have a clear separation from the next rankedcharacter.
We may observe that Mouse not only in-teracts with many characters, but mentions and is93mentioned in abundance as well.
This makes hima very important and well-connected character inthe story, behind only Alice.
Thus, we can suggestthat his role in the text is as a connector betweenmany characters.
Mouse mentions many charactersto other characters, interacts with them and is in turnmentioned by them.6.4 Need for Dynamic AnalysisThe need for a dynamic analysis model is madeclear in the case of Mouse.
His huge importance(overshadowing more traditionally popular charac-ters such as the Queen and Mad Hatter) was an un-expected result.
However, this is not the whole story:Mouse actually only appears in one scene in chap-ters 2-3.
In the scene, Alice has created a large lakewith her tears and meets Mouse, who introduces herto many minor characters during a drying ceremony.Outside of this ceremony, Mouse does not reappearin the text.
This one scene, while important, shouldnot be enough to overshadow characters such as theQueen, who is responsible for Alice?s life or deathduring the climax of the text.
Thus, it is clear fromthe formation of these character profiles that certaininformation is being skewed by static network anal-ysis.
Most notably, the importance of time as it flowsin text is being lost.
This observation is the impetusfor a new model that addresses these issues, as out-lined in the following section.7 Dynamic Network AnalysisFigure 2 presents plots for dynamic network analy-sis of the different types of networks extracted fromAlice in Wonderland.
We look at interaction (INR)and observation (OBS) networks, as we did for theprevious section, except we do this for each of the10 chapters independently of all other chapters.
Thesocial network metrics we consider are: degree, in-degree and out-degree centrality.
Note that for anundirected network (i.e.
INR), all three networkanalysis metrics are the same.
In this section wepresent insights about the three characters consid-ered in the previous section (Alice, Mouse and Rab-bit), that are lost in static network analysis.From Figure 2, it is clear that Alice (dotted blueline) is not the most central character in every chap-ter, something that is lost in the static network.
Con-sider figure 2(a) i.e.
degree centrality of INR net-work.
Alice ranks 2 in chapters 3, 4 (the dryingceremony mentioned above) and 9.
In chapter 9,Alice is overshadowed by The Hatter and Rabbit.This makes sense, as this chapter concerns Rabbitand The Hatter being witnesses at Alice?s trial.
Bybreaking the story down chapter by chapter like this,it becomes evident that although Alice is a very ac-tive character throughout, there are moments, suchas the trial, where she is inactive, indeed powerless.Yet as soon as the trial is over and Alice is back inher own world in chapter 10, we see a spike as sheagain takes an active role in her fate.Figure 2(b) shows in-degree centrality for theOBS network.
This represents how often a characteris thought about or talked about by another charac-ter.
Notice that Alice is completely absent in thisnetwork: no one thinks about or mentions her.
Thisis to be expected, as Alice is our guide through Won-derland.
No one mentions her because she is presentin every scene, thus any dialog about her will be-come an interaction.
Likewise, no one thinks of herbecause the reader is not presented with other char-acter?s thoughts, only Alice?s.
This is consistent withearlier observations made in the static network.
In-terestingly, Queen (solid black line) comes to dom-inate the later chapters, as she becomes the focus ofAlice?s thoughts and mentions.
Again, this spike inQueen?s influence (Figure 2(b)) is lost in the staticnetwork.
But it is Queen who ultimately has thepower to decide the final punishment for Alice at theend of the trial, so it is fitting that Alice?s thoughtsare fixated with her.Figure 2(c) shows the out-degree centrality of theOBS network, a starkly different picture.
Here, wesee why Mouse (dashed red line) has such impor-tance in the static network.
Over the course of thedrying ceremony in chapter 2 and 3, he mentions avery large number of characters.
The dynamic net-work allows us to see that while Mouse does playa key role at one point of the story, his influence islargely limited to that one section.
Other charactersovershadow him for the rest of the text.
ComparingMouse?s role in the in-degree centrality graph (fig-ure 2(b)) vs. out-degree centrality (figure 2(c)), wecan see that much of Mouse?s influence comes notfrom entities referring to him (in-degree), but ratherthe number of entities he mentions.
His importance941 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10024681012Chapter NumberIndegree CentralityNetwork TypeINRAliceMouseQueenRabbitHatter(a) Degree centrality measure for INRnetwork1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1001234567Chapter NumberIndegree CentralityNetwork TypeCOGAliceMouseQueenRabbitHatter(b) In-degree centrality measure for OBSnetwork1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1002468101214161820Chapter NumberOutdegree CentralityNetwork TypeCOGAliceMouseQueenRabbitHatter(c) Out-degree centrality measure forOBS networkFigure 2: Dynamic network analysis plots for all 10 chapters of Alice in Wonderland.
Each plot presents the change ofcentrality values (Degree, In-degree, Out-degree) in different types of network (INR and OBS).
X-axis has the chapternumbers (one through ten) and Y-axis has the value of the relevant centrality measure.in the piece, then, appears to be isolated to a keychapter where he acts as a guide to introduce manyentities to the reader.Likewise, tracing Rabbit (dash-dotted green line)across in- and out-degree centrality of the OBS net-work (figure 2(b) and 2(c)) gives a more fine-grainedview of how he works in the text.
He is the mostmentioned in chapters 1 and 4, chapters that sand-wich a big event, the drying ceremony of chapters2 and 3.
Likewise, he reemerges for another bigevent, Alice?s trial (chapter 8, 9, 10).
As previouslymentioned, Queen is the primary concern in Alice?smind during the length of the trial.
However, Queenis absent from the out-degree graph?she makes noreference to off-screen characters.
Rabbit, who hasa large spike in out-degree links during these chap-ters, is the one who actually mentions a large numberof characters, while Queen focuses on interactingwith those already present.
Thus, Rabbit is a charac-ter that concerns Alice during large set-pieces, onewhose primary purpose comes in noticing and beingnoticed.We see that using a dynamic network can pro-vide a more subtle view than using a static network.Characters who are key in certain sections are nolonger overshadowed, like Queen, nor are their im-portance exaggerated, like Mouse.
It can also pro-vide us with a better view of when and how a protag-onist is most important throughout the text.
Finally,analyzing across data dimensions can provide a veryspecific idea of how a character is functioning, asseen with Rabbit.8 ConclusionIn this paper we have motivated a computational ap-proach to dynamic network analysis.
We have hand-annotated Lewis Carrol?s Alice in Wonderland usinga strict and well-defined annotation scheme and cre-ated social event networks from these annotations.From these, we have shown the usefulness of usingdifferent types of networks to analyze different as-pects of a text.
We derive point-of-view from a so-cial network.
We also break down important charac-ters into certain roles that describe how they functionin the text.
Ultimately, we find that these roles arelimited by the static nature of social networks andcreate dynamic networks.
From these, we extracta clearer picture of how these roles work, as wellas other characters overshadowed in the static net-work.
Having shown the value of such analysis, fu-ture work will focus on adapting our computationalmodel (Agarwal and Rambow, 2010) for extractingsocial events from a different domain (news articles)to this new domain (literary text).
We will then in-vestigate a large number of literary texts and inves-tigate how we can use our machinery to empiricallyvalidate theories about literature.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank three anonymous reviewersfor very useful comments and suggestions, some ofwhich we intend to pursue in future work.
This workis supported by NSF grant IIS-0713548.95ReferencesM.H.
Abrams.
1999.
A Glossary of Literary Terms.
Har-court Brace College Publisher.Apoorv Agarwal and Owen Rambow.
2010.
Automaticdetection and classification of social events.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing.Apoorv Agarwal, Owen C. Rambow, and Rebecca J. Pas-sonneau.
2010.
Annotation scheme for social networkextraction from text.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Lin-guistic Annotation Workshop.R.
Alberich, J. Miro-Julia, and F. Rossello.
2002.
Marveluniverse looks almost like a real social network.
eprintarXiv:cond-mat/0202174, February.Berger-Wolf, Tanya Y., and Jared Saia.
2006.
A frame-work for analysis of dynamic social networks.
InProceedings of the 12th ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery and data min-ing, KDD ?06, pages 523?528, New York, NY, USA.ACM.K.
M. Carley.
2003.
Dynamic network analysis.
InR.
Breiger, K. M. Carley, and P. Pattison, editors, Dy-namic Social Network Modeling and Analysis: Work-shop Summary and Papers, pages 133?145, Washing-ton, DC.Asli Celikyilmaz, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Hua He, GregKondrak, and Denilson Barbosa.
2010.
The actor-topic model for extracting social networks in literarynarrative.
Proceedings of the NIPS 2010 Workshop ?Machine Learning for Social Computing.David K. Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen R. McK-eown.
2010.
Extracting social networks from literaryfiction.
Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages138?147.Jon M. Kleinberg.
1999.
Authoritative sources in ahyperlinked environment.
J. ACM, 46(5):604?632,September.James Moody, Daniel McFarland, and Skye Benderde-Moll.
2005.
Dynamic network visualization.
Ameri-can Journal of Sociology, 110(4):1206?1241, January.Franco Moretti.
2011.
Network theory, plot analysis.New Left Review.M.
E. J. Newman and M. Girvan.
2004.
Finding andevaluating community structure in networks.
Phys.Rev.
E, 69(2), February.Mark Newman.
2010.
Networks: An Introduction.
Ox-ford University Press, Inc., New York, NY, USA.Jill E. Perry-Smith and Christina E. Shalley.
2003.
Thesocial side of creativity: A static and dynamic socialnetwork perspective.
The Academy of ManagementReview, 28(1):89?106.Menakhem Perry.
1979.
Literary dynamics: How theorder of a text creates its meanings [with an analy-sis of faulkner?s ?a rose for emily?].
Poetics Today,1(1/2):35?361, October.Jeff Rydberg-Cox.
2011.
Social networks and the lan-guage of greek tragedy.
Journal of the Chicago Collo-quium on Digital Humanities and Computer Science,1(3).Alexander Graham Sack.
2006.
Bleak house and weaksocial networks.
unpublished thesis, Columbia Uni-versity.Christopher R Walker, 2005.
ACE (Automatic ContentExtraction) English Annotation Guidelines for EventsVersion 5.4.3 2005.07.01.
Linguistic Data Consor-tium.96
