Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 29?37,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsTemporal Classification of Medical EventsPreethi Raghavan?, Eric Fosler-Lussier?, and Albert M.
Lai?
?Department of Computer Science and Engineering?Department of Biomedical InformaticsThe Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA{raghavap, fosler}@cse.ohio-state.edu, albert.lai@osumc.eduAbstractWe investigate the task of assigning medi-cal events in clinical narratives to discretetime-bins.
The time-bins are defined to cap-ture when a medical event occurs relative tothe hospital admission date in each clinicalnarrative.
We model the problem as a se-quence tagging task using Conditional Ran-dom Fields.
We extract a combination of lexi-cal, section-based and temporal features frommedical events in each clinical narrative.
Thesequence tagging system outperforms a sys-tem that does not utilize any sequence infor-mation modeled using a Maximum Entropyclassifier.
We present results with both hand-tagged as well as automatically extracted fea-tures.
We observe over 8% improvement inoverall tagging accuracy with the inclusion ofsequence information.1 IntroductionThere has been a lot of interest in building timelinesof medical events from unstructured patient narra-tives (Jung et al, 2011; Zhou and Hripcsak, 2007).Creating a timeline from longitudinal clinical textrequires learning temporal relations such as before,simultaneous, includes, overlaps, begins, ends andtheir inverses between medical events found withinand across patient narratives (Allen, 1981).
How-ever, learning temporal relations for fine-grainedtemporal ordering of medical events in clinical textis challenging: the temporal cues typically found inclinical text may not always be sufficient for thistask.An important characteristic of a clinical narrativeis that the medical events in the same narrative aremore or less semantically related by narrative dis-course structure.
However, medical events in thenarrative are not ordered chronologically.
Thus, theclinical narrative structure is not always temporallycoherent.Moreover, extracting precise temporal featuresfor highly accurate temporal ordering of medicalevents is difficult as the temporal relationship be-tween medical events is varied and complicated.Zhou and Hripcsak (2007) identify six major cate-gories of temporal expressions from a corpus of dis-charge summaries: ?date and time,?
?relative dateand time,?
?duration,?
?event-dependent temporalexpression,?
?fuzzy time,?
and ?recurring times.
?Their study of temporal expressions in clinical textindicates that relative time (e.g., ever since theepisode 2 days ago) may be more prevalent than ab-solute time (e.g., 06/03/2007).
Further, temporal ex-pressions may be fuzzy where ?history of cocaineuse?
may imply that cocaine use started 2 years agoor 10 years ago.In this paper, we address a relatively simpler taskof assigning medical events to coarsely defined time-bins.
The time-bins, way before admission, beforeadmission, on admission, after admission, after dis-charge, are defined based on the relative temporaldistance of the medical event from the admissiondate, which is the only explicit date almost alwaysfound in each clinical narrative.
We extract fea-tures based on narrative structure as well as tempo-ral expressions to label a sequence of medical eventsfrom each clinical narrative with a highly probable29HISTORY   PHYSICAL                                 DATE:  06/03/2007NAME:  Smith Jack                           MR#:  XXX-XX-XXXXATTENDING PHYSICIAN:  Bill Payne  MD             DOB:  02/28/1960CHIEF COMPLAINTChest pain and arm infection.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESSPatient is a 48-year-old male with history of cocaine use hypertension who presents with chest painwhich started 2 days ago .
He did not having  chest pain yesterday but ever since the episode 2 days agohe has felt a little weaker.
He did have chest pain today and this is what prompted him to come to theER.
He also  notices that he has had some infections under his arms.
He states that he had to have anabscess I and D 3 or 4 months ago under his arm and 2 to 3 weeks ago he noticed some more spots andthese spots have now grown and now are under both arms.
Currently he is chest pain free.
His bloodpressure upon presentation was 189/106.REVIEW OF SYSTEMSOn exam initial blood pressure was 189/106 current blood pressure 148/83 with heart rate of 74respirations  16.
Heart regular rhythm.
No murmurs.
Arms:  He does have tender areas right greaterthan left under the arm.
Difficult to tell if there is any erythema but  obvious cellulitis sludge abscessunder the right arm which is tender.ASSESSMENT/PLAN1.
Chest pain history of cocaine with T-wave inversions in the inferior leads.
Currently he is chest pain free.
We will check a 2-D echocardiogram.
Consult Cardiology for a stress test.2.
Axillary abscesses.
Consult Surgery for I and D.  We will place on IV vancomycin pain control.3.
Cocaine abuse.
Encouraged to quit.123456789Figure 1: Excerpt from a de-identified clinical narrative(cn1) written for a patient in 2007.
Medical events areunderlined.
Enumerated events (in circles) are used as anexample later in Table 1.sequence of time-bins using Conditional RandomFields (CRFs).
The learned time-bins can be usedas an informative temporal feature for tasks suchas fine-grained temporal ordering of medical eventsand medical event coreference resolution.2 MotivationClinical narratives are medical reports that containunstructured text documenting the medical historyof the patient.
Medical events are temporally-relatedconcepts in clinical narratives that describe medicalconditions affecting the patient?s health, or tests andprocedures performed on a patient.
Sample excerptsfrom two different clinical notes (cn1 and cn2) ofthe same patient, generated over time, are shown inFigures 1 and 2.
We can see from the examples thatnarrative structure moves back and forth in time andis not temporally coherent.
We use cn1 and cn2 asrunning examples throughout the paper.The medical events assigned to time-bins in eachclinical narrative allow us to derive a coarse tempo-ral order between medical events within and acrossthe longitudinal medical history of the patient.
Sincewe learn time-bins centered around admission ineach narrative and we also know the admission dateand perhaps the discharge dates in cn1 and cn2, wecan derive a coarse partial order across the medi-HISTORY   PHYSICAL                                 DATE:  06/17/2007NAME:  Black Jack                           MR#:  XXX-XX-XXXXATTENDING PHYSICIAN:  Jack Payne MD             DOB:  02/28/1960He is a 48-year-old African American gentleman with a history of cocaine use and hypertension.
Hehas hidradenitis of both axilla resected.
The patient is MRSA positive on IV antibiotics at the presenttime.
The patient's physical condition is excellent but he had MRSA in the axilla for hidradenitis thatwas devastating.
The wounds now are very large but he is wound vac and being changed to alginate.Both axilla show major wounds of 20-25 cm in diameter and 4 -5 cm deep in overall size and he hasexcoriations on his chest from the tape.
The plan is to change him from vac to alginate and see himin a week.Figure 2: Excerpt from another de-identified clinical nar-rative (cn2) for the same patient written in later in 2007.Medical events are underlined.cal events in cn1 and cn2.
This is shown in Fig-ure 3.
Even if the discharge dates are not known,we still know that the admission date (A1) of cn1is 6/03/2007 and A2 of cn2 is 06/17/2007.
Thus,A2 > A1, and all the time-bins in cn2 that are on orafter admission would have happened after A2.
Thepartially ordered time-bins can now be used for taskssuch as medical concept coreference resolution.In cross narrative coreference resolution tasks,we can prune the space of candidate pairs of med-ical events by ruling out portions of clinical nar-ratives that will not have any coreferring medicalevents.
For example, in the timeline shown in Fig-ure 3, the medical events in time-bins admission, af-ter admission and discharge of cn2 will not coreferwith any medical event in cn1.
Further, when men-tions of the same medical events occur in differenttime-bins, it could mean that they are the same in-stance of the medical event and they corefer.
Forinstance, cocaine abuse and cocaine use.
Similarly,MRSA positive is assigned to time-bin on admissionwhereas MRSA is assigned to before admission andboth mentions of MRSA corefer.3 Related WorkThe Timebank (Pustejovsky et al, 2003) corpus ofannotated newswire text is widely used for tempo-ral relation learning.
The TempEval challenges haveoften focused on extracting different types of tempo-ral relations from Timebank (Verhagen et al, 2009).In Timebank, events are typically verbs that denotechange in state.
Since the notion of an event in Time-bank is different from medical events in clinical text,it is not possible to directly train models on Time-bank and apply them to clinical text.
The THYMEwork (Savova et al, 2009) extends TimeML to the30A1 D1A2 D2cocaine use  hypertensionchest pain   abscesschest pain         arm  infectionheart regular  rhythmcellulitis2-D echocardiogramstress testMRSA positivehidradenitis of axilla  resected   MRSA in the axilla for hidradenitiswoundswound vacIV antibioticsalginate cocaine use  hypertensionway before before admission after dischargebefore admission after discharge way beforep1-cn1p1-cn2Figure 3: Medical events in clinical narratives cn1 and cn2 for patient p1 assigned to time-bins.
A1 is the admissiondate in cn1 and D1 is the discharge date.
Similarly A2 is the admission date in cn2 and D2 is the discharge date.
Thus,we have, A1 < D1, D1 < A2, A2 < D2medical domain to create layered annotation to beused for event linking.
Boland et al (2012) identifythe temporal knowledge representation requirementsof clinical eligibility criteria and develop a frame-based representation designed to support semanticannotation for temporal expressions in eligibility cri-teria.
However, the nature of data found in eligibilitycriteria is different from clinical narratives.Previous attempts at learning temporal relationsbetween medical events in clinical text include Junget al (2011) and Zhou et al (2006).
Gaizauskas etal.
(2006) learn the temporal relations before, after,is included between events from a corpus of clinicaltext much like the event-event relation TLINK learn-ing in Timebank (Pustejovsky et al, 2003).
How-ever, the corpora used in these studies are not freelyavailable.
A comprehensive survey of temporal rea-soning in medical data is provided by Zhou andHripcsak (2007).The task addressed in this paper is at a higherlevel than the temporal relation learning or tempo-ral ordering task.
Without getting into fine-grainedtemporal ordering, we define coarse time-bins andclassify medical events into one of the time-bins.We work with a similar motivation of being ableto answer clinical trial eligibility criteria with tem-poral constraints.
However, while they model thetemporal information in eligibility criteria, we pro-cess the temporal information and medical eventsin the clinical narrative to assign events to time-bins.
The learned time-bins are a step towards fine-grained temporal ordering of medical events in clin-ical text.
More importantly, we also demonstratehow automatic feature extraction for this task givesus promising results, though not as good as usinghand-tagged features.4 Problem DescriptionA patient could have multiple clinical narratives,generated over a period of time, representing the pa-tient?s longitudinal medical history.
Returning to theexamples in Figures 1 and 2, in this section we de-scribe how such clinical narratives are translated intoa temporal-bin assignment problem.4.1 Medical event representationMedical events in clinical narratives often have atime duration with a corresponding start and stoptime, for example, history of hypertension (Zhou etal., 2006).
In this example, hypertension started atsome point before admission and is present to thecurrent date.
Time duration based representation isessential to learning the exact fine-grained tempo-ral order of medical events within and across clin-ical narratives.
In order to keep the task of classi-fying medical events into coarse time-bins relativelysimple and easy to learn, we use a time-point nota-tion for representing medical events.
Each mentionof a medical event is assigned to a time-bin with-out taking into consideration whether it denotes thebeginning or end of that event.
We also do not dif-ferentiate between coreferences of the same medicalevent.
Thus, if chest pain is mentioned in the pastmedical history and the same chest pain continuesto persist in the after admission time-bin, the twodifferent mentions of chest pain get anchored to dif-31ferent time-bins.
Similarly, cocaine use started inthe history of the patient and cocaine abuse still per-sists.
We assign the two different mentions of thismedical event into different time-bins.4.2 Time-binsAs mentioned earlier, we learn to classify medicalevents into one of the following time-bins: way be-fore admission, before admission, on admission, af-ter admission, after discharge.
The intuition behindeach time-bin label is as follows.
The time-bin waybefore admission is intended to capture all medicalevents that happened in the past medical history ofthe patient but are not mentioned as being directlyrelated to the present illness.
Before admission cap-tures events that occurred before admission and arerelated to the present illness.
On admission capturesmedical events that occur on the day of admission.After admission captures medical events that occurbetween admission and discharge (during the hospi-tal stay or clinic visit).
Finally, medical events thatare supposed to occur in the future after the patientis discharged belong to the class after discharge.Further, the time duration of each time-bin variesbased on the patient.
For instance, the hospital stayof a patient could be 4 days or 1 month or a year.This makes it very difficult to define exact time-binsbased on the intuitions described above.
In orderto make the problem more precise and consistentacross different patients, we restrict way before ad-mission to events that happened more than a yearago and before admission to events that occurred inthe same year before admission.
If it is unclear asto when in the past the medical event occurred, weassume it happened way before admission.5 Learning time-bin assignmentsWe model the problem of classifying medical eventsto time-bins as a sequence tagging task using CRFs(Lafferty et al, 2001).
CRFs are a joint model oflabel sequence conditioned on the observation.For the task proposed in this paper, an observationsequence is composed of medical events in the orderin which they appear in a clinical narrative, and thestate sequence is the corresponding label sequenceof time-bins.
Each label in the label sequence couldbe any one of the time-bins way before admission(wa), before admission (ba), on admission (a), afteradmission (aa), after discharge (ad).
Thus, givena sequence of medical events in narrative order welearn a corresponding label sequence of time-bins{wb, b, a, aa, ad}.The probability of time-bin (label) sequence y,given a medical event (input) sequence x, is givenby,P (Y |X) = exp?i(S(x, y, i) + T (x, y, i)) (1)where i is the medical event index and S and T arethe state and transition features respectively.
Statefeatures S consider the label of a single medicalevent and are defined as,S(x, y, i) =?j?jsj(y, x, i) (2)Transition features consider the mutual dependenceof labels yi?1 and yi (dependence between the time-bins of the current and previous medical event in thesequence) and are given by,T (x, y, i) =?k?ktk(yi?1, yi, x, i) (3)where sj and tk are the state and transition featurefunctions.
Above, sj is a state feature function, and?j is its associated weight and tj is a transition func-tion, and ?j is its associated weight.
In contrast tothe state function, the transition function takes as in-put the current label as well as the previous label,in addition to the data.
The mutual dependence be-tween the time-bins of the current and previous med-ical events is observed frequently in sections of thetext describing the history of the patient.
Around40% of the medical events in gold standard corpusdemonstrate such dependencies.The Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) model (Bergeret al, 1996) estimates the probability of a time-bingiven the observed medical event.
In this case, weare interested in finding the time-bin with the maxi-mum estimated probability.6 Feature SpaceWe extract features from medical event sequencesfound in each clinical narrative.
The extractedfeature-set captures narrative structure in terms ofthe narrative type, sections, section transitions, and32position in document.
The medical event and thecontext in which it is mentioned is captured withthe help of lexical features.
The temporal featuresresolve temporal references and associate medicalevents with temporal expressions wherever possible.6.1 Section-based featuresDetermining the document-level structure of a clin-ical narrative is useful in mapping medical eventsto time-bins.
This can be achieved by identifyingdifferent sections in different types of clinical narra-tives and relating them to different time-bins.
Thesection in which the medical event is mentionedtells us something about when it occurred.
Li et al(2010) train a hidden Markov model (HMM) to mapa sequence of sections to 15 possible known sectiontypes in free-text narratives with high accuracy.Commonly found sections in discharge sum-maries and history and physical reports include:?past medical history,?
?history of present illness,?
?findings on admission,?
?physical examination,?
?review of systems,?
?impression,?
and ?assess-ment/plan.?
On the other hand, radiology notes tendto have sections describing ?indication,?
??com-parison,?
?findings?
and ?impression?.
Similarly,pathology notes may have sections including ?clini-cal history,?
?specimen received,?
?laboratory data?and ?interpretation.?
While some sections talk aboutpatient history, some other sections describe the pa-tient?s condition after admission, or plans after dis-charge.
However, some clinical notes like cn2 inFigure 2 may not have any section information.The combined feature representing the type ofclinical narrative along with the section can be infor-mative.
Section transitions may also indicate a tem-poral pattern for medical events mentioned acrossthose sections.
For instance, ?past medical history?
(way before admission), followed by ?history ofpresent illness?
(way before admission), followed by?findings on admission?
(on admission), followedby ?physical examination?
(after admission), fol-lowed by ?assessment/plan?
(discharge).
Medicalevents in different types of sections may also exhibitdifferent temporal patterns.
A ?history of present ill-ness?
section may start with diseases and diagnoses30 years ago and then proceed to talk about them inthe context of a medical condition that happened fewyears ago and finally describe the patient?s conditionon admission.In addition to the section information, we also useother features extracted from the clinical narrativestructure such as the position of the medical conceptin the section and in the narrative.6.2 Lexical featuresBigrams are pairs of words that occur in close prox-imity to each other, and in a particular order.
Thebigrams preceding the medical event in the narra-tive can be useful in determining when it occurred.For instance, ?history of cocaine use and hyper-tension,?
?presents with chest pain,?
?have chestpain,?
?since the episode,?
etc.
If the preceding bi-gram contains a verb, we also extract the tense of theverb as a feature.
However, tense is not always help-ful in learning the time of occurrence of a medicalevent.
Consider the following line from cn2 in Fig-ure 2, ?He has hidradenitis of both axilla resected.
?Though ?has?
is in present tense, the medical eventhas actually occurred in the history and is only beingobserved and noted now.
Additionally, we also ex-plicitly include the preceding bigrams and the tenseof verb for the previous and next medical event as afeature for the current medical event.Every medical event that occurs above a certainfrequency threshold in all the clinical narratives ofa particular patient is also represented as a binaryfeature.
More frequent medical events tend to occurin the history of the patient, for example, cocaineuse.
We use a threshold of 3 in our experiments.The medical event frequency in also calculated incombination with other features such as the type ofclinical narrative and section type.6.3 Dictionary featuresThe UMLS1 includes a large Metathesaurus of con-cepts and terms from many biomedical vocabular-ies and a lexicon that contains syntactic, morpho-logical, and orthographic information for biomed-ical and common words in the English language.We map each medical event to the closest conceptin the UMLS Metathesaurus and extract its seman-tic category.
The semantic categories in UMLS in-clude Finding, Disease or Syndrome, Therapeuticor Preventative procedure, Congenital abnormality,1https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/home.html33and Pathologic Function.
The intuition behind this isthat medical events associated with certain semanticcategories may be more likely to occur within cer-tain time-bins.
For instance, a medical event classi-fied as ?Congenital abnormality?
may be more likelyto occur way before admission.6.4 Temporal featuresTemporal features are derived from any explicitdates that fall in the same sentence as the medicalconcept.
The gold-standard corpus contains anno-tations for temporal anchors for events.
Althoughthere are no explicit dates in cn1 and cn2, there maybe narratives where there are mentions of dates suchas fever on June 7th, 2007.
In some cases, theremay also be indirect references to dates, which tellus when the medical event occurred.
The referencedate with respect to which the indirect temporal ref-erence is made depends on the type of note.
In caseof history and physical notes, the reference date isusually the admission date.
For instance, chest painwhich started 2 days ago, this would mean chestpain which started 2 days before admission.
Sincethe admission date is 06/03/2007, chest pain wouldhave started on 06/01/2007.
Similarly, 3 to 4 monthsago resolves to February 2007 or March 2007 and 2to 3 weeks ago resolves to first or second week ofMay 2007.
Whenever, the exact date is fuzzy, we as-sume the date that is farthest from the reference dateas accurate.
So in case of these examples, February2007 and first week of May 2007 are assumed to becorrect.
We also calculate the difference between ad-mission date and these dates associated with medicalevents.
Another fuzzy temporal expression is ?his-tory of,?
where history could mean any time framebefore admission.
We assume that any medical eventmentioned along with ?history of?
has occurred waybefore admission.Other implicit temporal expressions can be foundin phrases such as upon presentation yesterday, to-day, at the present time, and now.
Upon presen-tation, at the present time, today, and now resolveto the admission date 06/03/2007 and yesterdayresolves to the day before admission 06/02/2007.There are some other implicit temporal expressionsexpressed relative to medical events, for example,ever since the episode 2 days ago he has felt a littleweaker.
Here, episode refers to chest pain and sincechest pain happened 2 days ago, ever since then upto the present time would resolve to the time periodbetween 06/01/2007 and 06/03/2007.
This time pe-riod is associated with weaker.7 CorpusWe use annotators that are students or recently grad-uated students from diverse clinical backgroundswith varying levels of clinical experience to anno-tate a corpus of clinical narratives from the medicalcenter.
The corpus consists of narratives specificallyfrom MRSA cases and consists of admission notes,radiology and pathology reports, history and physi-cal reports and discharge summaries.
The featuresmarked by the annotators include medical events;corresponding time-bin; corresponding UMLS con-cept identifier; the UMLS semantic category; tem-poral expressions; the link between temporal expres-sions and medical events, if any; and the section un-der which the medical event is mentioned, if any.The annotators marked 1854 medical events across5 patients and 51 clinical narratives.
The annotationagreement across our team of annotators is high; allannotators agreed on 89.5% of the events and ouroverall inter-annotator Cohen?s kappa statistic (Con-ger, 1980) for medical events was 0.865.While we found the inter-annotator agreementfor medical event UMLS concept identifiers to belower than for medical events and temporal expres-sions, agreement was still very high.
We discov-ered that in many cases there was either a dis-crepancy in the granularity to which the medicalevents were coded or whether or not clinical judg-ment was used in selecting the concept identifier.For example, all of our annotators marked ?B-CellCLL?
as an event.
Three of them coded this termas ?C0023434: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia.
?Two others coded this event as ?C0475774: B-cellchronic lymphocytic leukemia variant.?
While bothcould be considered correct annotations for ?B-CellCLL,?
C0475774 is the more specific term.
Inanother example, all of the annotators marked thephrase ?white blood cell count of 10,000.?
For thissituation, one of them selected ?C0750426: whiteblood cell count increased,?
while another selected?C0023508: White Blood Cell count procedure.?
Incontrast, the other three selected different concept34identifiers, applying clinical judgment to the medi-cal events.
One other annotator selected ?C0860797:differential white blood cell count normal.
?We use this gold-standard corpus for our exper-iments.
We conduct two sets of experiments withthe clinical narratives in this corpus: 1) Medicalevent, Time-bin experiments using hand-tagged fea-tures from the corpus and 2) Medical event, Time-bin experiments using automatically extracted fea-tures from the corpus.8 ExperimentsWe first conducted experiments using the hand-tagged features in our corpus.
Based on thesefeatures, we generated the section-based, lexical,dictionary and temporal features described in theprevious sections.
We used 10-fold cross vali-dation in all our experiments.
We use the Mal-let2 implementation of CRFs and MaxEnt.
CRFsare trained by Limited-Memory Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (BFGS) for our experiments.
Theper-class accuracy values of both sequence taggingusing CRFs and using a MaxEnt model are indicatedin Table 3.When modeled as a multi-class classification taskusing MaxEnt, we get an average precision of 81.2%and average recall of 71.4% whereas using CRFs weobtain an average precision of 89.4% and averagerecall of 79.2%.
In order to determine the utilityof temporal features, we do a feature ablation studywith the temporal features removed.
In this casethe average precision of the CRF is 79.5% and av-erage recall is 67.2%.
Similarly, when we removethe section-based features, the average precision ofthe CRF is 82.7% and average recall is 72.3%.
Thesection-based features seems to impact the precisionof the on admission and after admission time-binsthe most.We compare our approach for classifying medi-cal events to time-bins with the following baselinemodel.
We assign medical events to time-bins basedon the type of narrative, any explicit dates and sec-tion in which they occur.
Each section is associatedwith a pre-defined time-bin.
In the case of the sec-tions in cn1, any medical event under ?history ofpresent illness?
is before admission, ?review of sys-2http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/Medical Event Baseline MaxEnt CRF Gold1?cocaine use ba wa wa wa2?hypertension ba wa wa wa3?chest pain ba ba ba ba4?episode ba ba ba ba5?chest pain ba ba a a6?infections ba wa ba ba7?abscess ba ba ba ba8?spots ba ba ba ba9?chest pain free ba wa a aTable 1: Time-bin predictions by the section baselinemethod, MaxEnt model and CRF for a subset of medi-cal events marked in cn1 in Figure 1.Class(time-bin) Section baselineP Rway before admission (wa) 56.3 61.4before admission (ba) 60.2 57.5on admission (a) 63.8 59.1after admission (aa) 57.5 68.2after discharge (ad) 52.3 55.1Table 2: Per-class precision (P) and recall (R) for medicalevents, time-bins using hand-tagged extracted features.tems?
is after admission and ?assessment/plan?
isdischarge.
If the narrative has a ?past medical his-tory?
or a similar section, the events mentioned un-der it would be assigned to way before admission.Partial results of (medical event, time-bin) assign-ment in cn2 as per this baseline can be seen in Table1.
However, this baseline does not work for clinicalnarratives like cn2 that do not have any section in-formation.
This model gives us an average precisionof 58.02% and average recall of 60.26% across the 5time-bins.
Per-class predictions for the baseline areshown in Table 2.The most common false positives for the beforeadmission class are medical events belonging to onadmission.
This may be due to lack of temporal fea-tures to indicate that the event happened on the sameday as admission.
Frequently, medical events thatbelong to the aa, ba and wa time-bin get classifiedas after discharge.
One of the reasons for this couldbe misleading section information in case of histori-cal medical events mentioned in the assessment/plansection.Next, we conduct experiments using automati-cally extracted features.
This is done as follows.
Themedical events are extracted using MetaMap, whichrecognizes medical concepts and codes them using35Class(time-bin) MaxEnt CRFP R P Rway before admission (wa) 72.4 63.5 79.8 66.7before admission (ba) 83.4 80.8 92.0 92.4on admission (a) 76.6 72.1 87.5 75.2after admission (aa) 88.6 82.1 93.6 99.1after discharge (ad) 85.2 58.7 94.3 62.5Table 3: Per-class precision (P) and recall (R) for medicalevents, time-bins using hand-tagged extracted features.UMLS (Aronson, 2001).
Based on this UMLS code,we can extract the semantic category associated withthe code.
Compared to the 1854 medical eventsmarked by the annotators, MetaMap identifies 1257medical events, which are a subset of the 1854.
TheUMLS coding by the annotators is more contextu-ally relevant and precise.
We use a rule-based al-gorithm to identify and extract document structurebased features such as sections from clinical narra-tives.
The rules are formulated based on commonlyoccurring sections in our corpus.
We extract linesthat are all upper-case, and longer than a word anduse their stemmed representation to sort them by fre-quency of occurrence in the corpus.
While parsingthe text in each clinical narrative, on encounteringa line that matches a section title from the frequentlist, all subsequent lines are associated with that titleuntil a new section title is encountered.
In case of thelexical features, we extract bigrams and calculate thetense of the verb preceding the medical event usingthe Stanford NLP software.3 The temporal featuresare extracted with the help of TimeText developedby Zhou and Hripcsak (2007) that automatically an-notates temporal expressions in clinical text.
How-ever, it is not able to capture many of the implicittemporal references.
Following this, a temporal ex-pression is linked to a medical event if it occurs inthe same sentence as the medical event.The average precision and recall of the Max-Ent model using automatically extracted features is74.3% and 66.5% respectively.
Sequence taggingusing CRFs gives us an average precision and recallof 79.6% and 69.7% respectively.
Although the re-sults are not as good as using hand-tagged features,they are certainly promising.
One reason for the lossin accuracy could be because the automatically cal-culated temporal features are not as precise as the3http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/Gold-standard FeaturesP RME 81.2 71.4CRF 89.4 79.2CRF(no temp.
feats) 79.5 67.2CRF(no section feats) 82.7 72.3Automatic FeaturesP RME 74.3 66.5CRF 79.6 69.7Baseline (P;R) 58.02 60.26Table 4: Overall Result Summary: Average precision(P) and recall (R) with manually annotated gold-standardfeatures, automatically extracted features and the base-line.hand-tagged ones.
These results are summarized inTable 4.9 ConclusionWe investigate the task of classifying medical eventsin clinical narratives to coarse time-bins.
We de-scribe document structure based, lexical and tempo-ral features in clinical text and explain how thesefeature are useful in time-binning medical events.The extracted feature-set when used in a sequencetagging framework with CRFs gives us high accu-racy when compared with a section-based baselineor a MaxEnt model.
The learned time-bins canbe used as an informative feature for tasks such asfine-grained ordering of medical events and medicalevent coreference resolution.
We also experimentwith hand-tagged vs. automatically extracted fea-tures for this task and observe that while automati-cally extracted features show promising results, theyare not as good as using hand-tagged features for thistask.AcknowledgmentsThe project described was supported by theNational Center for Research Resources,Grant UL1RR025755, KL2RR025754, andTL1RR025753, and is now at the NationalCenter for Advancing Translational Sciences,Grant 8KL2TR000112-05, 8UL1TR000090-05,8TL1TR000091-05.
The content is solely the re-sponsibility of the authors and does not necessarilyrepresent the official views of the NIH.36ReferencesJames F. Allen.
1981.
An interval-based representationof temporal knowledge.
In IJCAI, pages 221?226.Alan R. Aronson.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomed-ical text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.
Proc of AMIA Symposium, pages 17?21.Adam Berger, Stephen Della Pietra, and Vincent DellaPietra.
1996.
A maximum entropy approach to nat-ural language processing.
Computational Linguistics,22:39?71.Mary Regina Boland, Samson W. Tu, Simona Carini, IdaSim, and Chunhua Weng.
2012.
EliXR: An Approachto Eligibility Criteria Extraction and Representation.Proc of AMIA Clinical Research Informatics Summit.Anthony J. Conger.
1980.
Integration and generalizationof kappas for multiple raters.
In Psychological Bul-letin Vol 88(2), pages 322?328.Rob Gaizauskas, Henk Harkema, Mark Hepple, and An-drea Setzer.
2006.
Task-oriented extraction of tem-poral information: The case of clinical narratives.In Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Sym-posium on Temporal Representation and Reasoning,TIME ?06, pages 188?195.Hyuckchul Jung, James Allen, Nate Blaylock, Willde Beaumont, Lucian Galescu, and Mary Swift.
2011.Building timelines from narrative clinical records: ini-tial results based-on deep natural language under-standing.
In Proceedings of BioNLP 2011 Workshop,BioNLP ?11, pages 146?154.John D. Lafferty, Andrew McCallum, and Fernando C. N.Pereira.
2001.
Conditional random fields: Probabilis-tic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data.In Proceedings of the Eighteenth International Con-ference on Machine Learning, ICML ?01, pages 282?289.Ying Li, Sharon Lipsky Gorman, and Noemie Elhadad.2010.
Section classification in clinical notes using su-pervised hidden markov model.
In IHI, pages 744?750.James Pustejovsky, Jose?
M. Castan?o, Robert Ingria,Roser Sauri, Robert J. Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer,Graham Katz, and Dragomir R. Radev.
2003.TimeML: Robust specification of event and temporalexpressions in text.
In New Directions in Question An-swering ?03, pages 28?34.Guergana Savova, Steven Bethard, Will Styler, JamesMartin, Martha Palmer, James Masanz, and WayneWard.
2009.
Towards temporal relation discoveryfrom the clinical narrative.
Proc of AMIA Symposium,pages 568?572.Marc Verhagen, Robert J. Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder,Mark Hepple, Jessica Moszkowicz, and James Puste-jovsky.
2009.
The TempEval challenge: identifyingtemporal relations in text.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 43(2):161?179.Li Zhou and George Hripcsak.
2007.
Temporal rea-soning with medical data - a review with emphasison medical natural language processing.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, pages 183?202.Li Zhou, Genevieve B. Melton, Simon Parsons, andGeorge Hripcsak.
2006.
A temporal constraint struc-ture for extracting temporal information from clinicalnarrative.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics, pages424?439.37
