INLG 2012 Proceedings of the 7th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 17?21,Utica, May 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsMinkApp: Generating Spatio-temporal Summaries for Nature ConservationVolunteersNava Tintarev, Yolanda Melero, Somayajulu Sripada,Elizabeth Tait, Rene Van Der Wal, Chris MellishUniversity of Aberdeen{n.tintarev, y.melero, yaji.sripada,elizbeth.tait, r.vanderwal, c.mellish@abdn.ac.uk}@abdn.ac.ukAbstractWe describe preliminary work on generat-ing contextualized text for nature conservationvolunteers.
This Natural Language Genera-tion (NLG) differs from other ways of describ-ing spatio-temporal data, in that it deals withabstractions on data across large geographi-cal spaces (total projected area 20,600 km2),as well as temporal trends across longer timeframes (ranging from one week up to a year).We identify challenges at all stages of the clas-sical NLG pipeline.1 IntroductionWe describe preliminary work on summarizingspatio-temporal data, with the aim to generate con-textualized feedback for wildlife management vol-unteers.
The MinkApp project assesses the useof NLG to assist volunteers working on the Scot-tish Mink Initiative (SMI).
This participatory initia-tive aims to safeguard riverine species of economicimportance (e.g., salmon and trout) and species ofnature conservation interest including water voles,ground nesting birds and other species that are ac-tively preyed upon by an invasive non-native species- the American mink (Bryce et al, 2011).2 BackgroundOur test ground is one of the world?s largestcommunity-based invasive species managementprograms, which uses volunteers to detect, and sub-sequently remove, American mink from an area ofScotland set to grow from 10,000 km2 in 2010 to20,600 km2 by the end of 2013 (Bryce et al, 2011).Such a geographical expansion means that an in-creasing share of the monitoring and control work isundertaken by volunteers supported by a fixed num-ber of staff.
An important contribution of volunteersis to help collect data over a large spatial scale.Involving members of the public in projects suchas this can play a crucial role in collecting observa-tional data (Silvertown, 2009).
High profile exam-ples of data-gathering programmes, labelled as cit-izen science, include Galaxy Zoo and Springwatch(Raddick et al, Published online 2010; Underwoodet al, 2008).
However, in such long-term and wideranging initiatives, maintaining volunteer engage-ment can be challenging and volunteers must getfeedback on their contributions to remain motivatedto participate (Silvertown, 2009).
NLG may servethe function of supplying this feedback.3 Related workWe are particularly interested in summarizing rawgeographical and temporal data whose semanticsneed to be computed at run time ?
so called spatio-temporal NLG.
Such extended techniques are stud-ied in data-to-text NLG (Molina and Stent, 2010;Portet et al, 2009; Reiter et al, 2005; Turner etal., 2008; Thomas et al, Published online 2010).Generating text from spatio-temporal data involvesnot just finding data abstractions, but also determin-ing appropriate descriptors for them (Turner et al,2008).
Turner et.
al (2008) present a case study inweather forecast generation where selection of spa-tial descriptors is partly based on domain specific(weather related) links between spatial descriptors17and weather phenomena.
In the current project wesee an opportunity to investigate such domain spe-cific constraints in the selection of descriptors overlarger temporal and spatial scales.4 Current StatusOver 600 volunteers currently notify volunteer man-agers of their ongoing mink recording efforts.
Ourwork is informed by in-depth discussions and inter-views with the volunteer managers, as well as 58(ground level) volunteers?
responses to a question-naire about their volunteering experience.
The set ofvolunteers involves different people, such as conser-vation professionals, rangers, landowners and farm-ers with the degree of volunteer involvement varyingamong them.
Most volunteers check for sightings:footprints on a floating platform with a clay-basedtracking plate (raft hereafter) readily used by mink,or visual sightings on land or water.
Others set andcheck traps, and (much fewer volunteers) dispatchtrapped mink.1 In terms of feedback, volunteers cur-rently receive regional quarterly newsletters, but tai-lored and contextualized feedback is limited to spo-radic personal communication, mostly via email.24.1 Why NLG in this context?Where the initiative has been successful, mink sight-ings are sparse.
Such a lack of sightings can be de-motivating for volunteers and leads to a situation inwhich negative records are seldom recorded (Beirne,2011).
As one volunteer stated: ?Nothing much hap-pens on my raft so my enthusiasm wanes.?
Also,73% of the volunteers who completed the ques-tionnaire said they checked their raft at the recom-mended frequency of every two weeks.
Similarly,72% said that they got in touch with their managerrarely or only every couple of months ?
when theyneeded more clay or saw footprints.
NLG basedfeedback could motivate volunteers by informingthem about the value of negative records.
If theywere to stop because of a lack of interest, mink arelikely to reinvade the area.1Traps are only placed once a sighting has occurred.
Onceplaced, by law a trap must be checked daily.2In this project, we are using a corpus based on newslettersfrom the North Scotland Mink Project and the Cairngorms Wa-ter Vole Conversation Project.In addition, volunteers who work alone can beisolated and lack natural mechanisms for informa-tion exchange with peers.
We postulate that givingthe volunteers contextualized feedback for an areagives them a better feeling for their contribution tothe project and a better sense of how the initiative isgoing overall.
A need for this has already been feltby volunteers: ?Knowing even more about progressin the catchment would be good - and knowing in de-tail about water vole returning and latest mink sight-ings.
It would be helpful to learn about other neigh-boring volunteers captures sightings in ?real time?.
?5 ApproachIn this section we describe the generation of text interms of a classic NLG pipeline, (Reiter and Dale,2000), while addressing the additional tasks of in-terpreting the input data (from volunteers) to mean-ingful messages that achieve the desired communi-cation goals: providing information to, as well asmotivating volunteers.
The NLG system which willgenerate these texts is actively under development.5.1 Gold standardOur nearest comparison is a corpus of domain spe-cific conservation newsletters containing text suchas the one below.
These newsletters give us an ideaof the type of structure and lexical choice appliedwhen addressing volunteers, using both temporaland spatial summaries.
However, these texts are notcontextualized, or adapted to a particular volunteer.
?With an ever expanding project area, weare progressing exceptionally well achiev-ing and maintaining areas free of breed-ing mink through-out the North of Scot-land.
Currently, the upper Spey, upperDee and Ythan appear to be free of breed-ing mink, with only a few transients pass-ing through...?We would like to improve on these existing textsand aim to generate texts that are tailored and con-sider the context of the volunteer.
The text below isdeveloped from a template supplied from a volunteermanager in the process of corpus collection.
In thefollowing sections we describe the steps and chal-lenges involved in the process of generating such atext.18?Thank you for your helpful contribution!You may have not seen any signs this time,but in the last week two people in the Speycatchment have seen footprints on theirrafts.
This means there might be a femalewith a litter in your neighborhood ?
pleasebe on the lookout in the coming weeks!Capturing her could mean removing up to6 mink at once!
?5.2 Example inputThe data we receive from volunteers includes pos-itive and negative records from raft checks (every14 days), visual sightings, and mink captures.
Eachrecord contains a geographical reference (x and y co-ordinate) and a timestamp.
In addition, for trappedmink we may know the sex (male, female, or un-known) and age (juvenile, adult, or unknown).5.3 Data analysis and interpretationSpatial trends.
The current version of the systemcan reason over geographical information, defin-ing various notions of neighborhood.3 For a givenpoint the following attributes can be used to describeits neighborhood: geographical region (catchmentand subcatchment), Euclidean distance from anotherpoint, and relative cardinal direction to another point(north, south, east, west).
The system reasons aboutsightings and captures using facts such as:?
This point (on land or water) is in the Deecatchment.?
Three neighbors have seen footprints (within agiven time window).?
One neighbor has caught a mink (within a giventime window).?
The nearest mink footprint is 15 km north eastof this point.The definition of neighborhood will differ accord-ing to domain specific factors.
Euclidean distanceappears to be the most likely candidate for use, be-cause sightings may belong to different geographic3The reasoning is performed using the opensource GISJava library Geotools, http://geotools.org, retrievedJan 2012regions (catchments) but be very close to each other.More importantly, the definition of neighborhood islikely to depend on the geographic region (e.g.
ar-eas differ in terms of mink population density withmountainous regions less likely to be utilized thancoastal regions).Temporal trends.
Aside from geographic trends,the system will also be used to portray temporaltrends.
These look at the change in sightings be-tween two time intervals, identifying it as a falling,rising or steady trend in mink numbers.
We areprimarily observing trends between different years,but also taking into consideration the ecology of themink including their behavior in different seasonsand for quantification.
For example, we need to beable to decide if an increase from 0 to 5 mink sight-ings in an area during breeding is worth mentioning?
most likely it is, as this a common size for a litter.Another example is the definition of a ?cleared?
area- Example 1 below describes a stable zero trend overa longer period of time....Currently, the upper Spey, upper Dee and Ythanappear to be free of breeding mink...(1)5.4 Document planningContent determination While useful on its own,the text that could be generated from the data analy-sis and interpretation described above is much moreuseful when domain specific rules are applied.
Ex-ample 2 describes a significant year-on-year increasefor a given definition of neighborhood, during breed-ing season.IF ( (month >= 6 AND month <9)AND sightingsLastYear(area) == 0AND sightingsThisYear >= 5 )THEN feedback +=?It looks like the area has been reinvaded.We should get ready to trap them to keep thisarea mink free.?
(2)Example rule 2 is applied in the breeding season (caJune-Aug.).
It will be given a score which signi-fies its relative importance compared to other de-rived content to allow prioritization.
For example,19if there are both female and male captures in a re-gion, it would be more important to speak about thefemale capture.
This is because the capture of breed-ing mink has a much larger positive impact on thesuccess of the initiative.4 This importance shouldbe reflected in texts such as: ...Capturing her couldmean removing up to 6 mink at once!...Document structuring Since our goal is to moti-vate as well as inform, the structure of the text willbe affected.
If we consider the example text in Sec-tion 5.1, we can roughly divide it into three summarytypes:?
Personal - ?Thank you for your helpful contri-bution!
You may have not seen any signs thistime.??
Neighbor - ?In the last week two people in theSpey catchment have seen small footprints ontheir rafts.??
Biology - ?There might be a female with a litterin your neighborhood ... Capturing her couldmean removing up to 6 mink at once!
?If, in contrast to the previous example, a volun-teer would capture a mink, then the neighborhoodsummary can be used to emphasize the importanceof rare captures.
?IF currentMonth == August ANDcapture == true AND nCapturesInSummer == 0?
(3)The feedback for rule 3 might read somethinglike: ?Well done!
So far, this was the only mink cap-tured during the breeding season in the Spey catch-ment!
?5.5 MicroplanningMicroplanning will need to consider the aggrega-tion of spatio-temporal data that happens on a deeperlevel e.g., for a given catchment and year.
This ag-gregation is likely to result in a surface aggregationas well deeper data aggregation, such as the catch-ments in Example 1.
In terms of lexical choice, thesystem will have to use domain appropriate vocabu-lary.
The latter example refers to ?breeding mink?,4Established adult females with litters.which informs the reader that their capture has alarge impact on population control.
Another exam-ple of lexical choice may be ?quieter autumn?
to de-note a decrease in mink for an area.The best way to communicate neighborhood tovolunteers is still an open question.
The texts inour corpus describe neighborhoods in terms of geo-graphic regions (catchments and subcatchments, e.g.Spey).
However, Euclidean distance may be moreinformative, in particular close to catchment bound-aries.6 ChallengesThere are several key challenges when generatingmotivating text for nature conservation volunteers,using spatio-temporal NLG.One challenge is to tailor feedback texts to in-dividuals according to their motivations and infor-mation needs.
In line with previous research inaffective NLG (de Rosis and Grasso, 2000; Belz,2003; Sluis and Mellish, 2010; Tintarev and Mas-thoff, 2012; Mahamood and Reiter, 2011), we con-tinue to study the factors which are likely to havean effect on volunteer motivation.
So far we haveworked together with volunteer managers.
We col-lected a corpus of texts, written by the managers,that are tailored to motivate different volunteer per-sonas, and conducted interviews and a focus groupwith them.
While we found that the mink managerstailored texts to different personas, interviews indi-cated that the biggest factor to tailor for was the def-inition of neighborhood.
Some volunteers are inter-ested in a local update, while others are interested ina larger overview.A second, related challenge, regards correctlydefining the reasoning over spatio-temporal factse.g., quantifying the magnitude of significantchanges (increases and decreases in sightings andcaptures) for different seasons, regions, and the timeframes over which they occur.
We believe this willlead to generating text referring to more compoundabstractions such as mink free areas, or re-invasion.A final challenge brought out by the interviewsis to supply varied feedback that helps volunteers tocontinue to learn about mink and their habitat.
Thisis a challenge for both content determination and mi-croplanning.20ReferencesChristopher Beirne.
2011.
Novel use of mark-recaptureframework to study volunteer retention probabilitieswithin an invasive non-native species managementproject reveals vocational and temporal trends.
Mas-ter?s thesis, University of Aberdeen.Anja Belz.
2003.
And now with feeling: Developmentsin emotional language generation.
Technical ReportITRI-03-21, Information Technology Research Insti-tute, University of Brighton.Rosalind Bryce, Matthew K. Oliver, Llinos Davies, He-len Gray, Jamie Urquhart, and Xavier Lambin.
2011.Turning back the tide of american mink invasion at anunprecedented scale through community participationand adaptive management.
Biological Conservation,144:575?583.Fiorella de Rosis and Floriana Grasso, 2000.
AffectiveInteractions, volume 1814 of Lecture Notes in Artifi-cial Intelligence, chapter Affective Natural LanguageGeneration.
Springer-Verlag.Saad Mahamood and Ehud Reiter.
2011.
Generating af-fective natural language for parents of neonatal infants.In ENLG.Martin Molina and Amanda Stent.
2010.
A knowledge-based method for generating summaries of spatialmovement in geographic areas.
International Journalon Artificial Intelligence Tools, 19(3):393?415.Francois Portet, Ehud Reiter, Albert Gatt, Jim Hunter,Somayajulu Sripada, Yvonne Freer, and Cindy Sykes.2009.
Automatic generation of textual summariesfrom neonatal intensive care data.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 173:789?816.M.
Jordan Raddick, Georgia Bracey, Pamela L. Gay,Chris J. Lintott, Phil Murray, Kevin Schawinski,Alexander S. Szalay, and Jan Vandenberg.
Publishedonline 2010.
Galaxy zoo: Exploring the motivationsof citizen science volunteers.
Astronomy EducationReview, 9(1), 010103, doi:10.3847/AER2009036.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building naturallanguage generation systems.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Ehud Reiter, Somayajulu Sripada, Jim Hunter, Jin Yu,and Ian Davy.
2005.
Choosing words in computer-generated weather forecasts.
Artificial Intelligence,167:137?169.Jonathan Silvertown.
2009.
A new dawn for citizen sci-ence.
Trends in Ecology & Evolution, 24:467?471.Ielka Van der Sluis and Chris Mellish, 2010.
Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Generation, volume5980 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, chap-ter Towards Empirical Evaluation of Affective TacticalNLG.
Springer, Berlin / Heidelberg.Kavita E. Thomas, Somayajulu Sripada, and Matthijs L.Noordzij.
Published online 2010.
Atlas.txt: Ex-ploring linguistic grounding techniques for commu-nicating spatial information to blind users.
Journalof Universal Access in the Information Society, DOI10.1007/s10209-010-0217-5.Nava Tintarev and Judith Masthoff.
2012.
Evaluatingthe effectiveness of explanations for recommender sys-tems: Methodological issues and empirical studies onthe impact of personalization.
User Modeling andUser-Adapted Interaction, (to appear).Ross Turner, Somayajulu Sripada, Ehud Reiter, and IanDavy.
2008.
Using spatial reference frames to gener-ate grounded textual summaries of georeferenced data.In INLG.Joshua Underwood, Hilary Smith, Rosemary Luckin, andGeraldine Fitzpatrick.
2008.
E-science in the class-room towards viability.
Computers & Education,50:535?546.21
