Proceedings of the ACL-2012 Workshop on Extra-Propositional Aspects of Meaning in Computational Linguistics (ExProM-2012),pages 10?18, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 13 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsHow do Negation and Modality Impact on Opinions?Farah Benamara1 Baptiste Chardon1,2 Yannick Mathieu3 Vladimir Popescu1 Nicholas Asher11 IRIT, Univ.
Toulouse, France{benamara,popescu,asher}@irit.fr2 Synapse De?veloppement, Toulouse, Francebaptiste.chardon@synapse-fr.com3 LLF-CNRS, Paris, Franceyannick.mathieu@linguist.jussieu.frAbstractIn this paper, we propose to study the effectsof negation and modality on opinion expres-sions.
Based on linguistic experiments in-formed by native speakers, we distill these ef-fects according to the type of modality andnegation.
We show that each type has a spe-cific effect on the opinion expression in itsscope: both on the polarity and the strength fornegation, and on the strength and/or the degreeof certainty for modality.
The empirical re-sults reported in this paper provide a basis forfuture opinion analysis systems that have tocompute the sentiment orientation at the sen-tence or at the clause level.
The methodologywe used for deriving this basis was appliedfor French but it can be easily instantiated forother languages like English.1 IntroductionNegation and modality are complex linguistic phe-nomena widely studied in philosophy, logic and lin-guistics.
From an NLP perspective, their analy-sis has recently become a new research area.
Infact, they can be beneficial to several NLP appli-cations needing deep language understanding, suchas sentiment analysis, textual entailment, dialoguesystems and question answering.
Handling negationand modality in NLP applications roughly involvestwo sub-tasks: (i) identifying these expressions andtheir scope and (ii) analyzing their effect on mean-ing and how this effect can help to improve text un-derstanding.
In this paper, we deal with the secondtask focusing on fine-grained sentiment analysis ofFrench opinion texts.Negation and modality function as operators mod-ifying the meaning of the phrases in their scope.Negation can be used to deny or reject statements.It is grammatically expressed via a variety of forms:using prefixes (?un-?, ?il-?
), suffixes (?-less?
), nega-tor words, such as ?not?
and negative polarity items(NPIs), which are words or idioms that appear innegative sentences, but not in their affirmative coun-terparts, or in questions, but not in assertions, forexample ?any?, ?anything?, ?ever?.
Negation canalso be expressed using some nouns or verbs wherenegation is part of their lexical semantics (as ?abate?and ?eliminate?
), or expressed implicitly without us-ing any negative words, as in ?this restaurant wasbelow my expectations?.
Modality can be used toexpress possibility, necessity, permission, obligationor desire.
It is grammatically expressed via adver-bial phrases (?maybe?, ?certainly?
), conditional ver-bal moods and some verbs (?must?, ?can?, ?may?
).Adjectives and nouns can also express modality (e.g.
?a probable cause?
).Negation and modality can aggregate in a va-riety of ways: (1) multiple negatives, e.g, ?Thisrestaurant never fails to disappoint on flavor?.
Insome languages, double negatives cancel the effectof negation, while in negative-concord languageslike French, double negations usually intensify theeffect of negation.
(2) cumulative modalities, as in?You definitely must see this movie?
and (3) bothnegation and modality, as in ?you should not go seethis movie?.Several reports have shown that negations andmodalities are sentiment-relevant (Wiegand et al,2010).
Kennedy and Inkpen (2006) point out that10negations are more sentiment-relevant than dimin-ishers.
Wilson et al (2009) show that modalities aswell as negations are good cues for opinion identifi-cation.
Given that the sentiment-relevance of nega-tions and modalities is an established fact, this paperaims to go further by exploring how this relevance isdistilled according to the semantics of each operator.To this end, we first study several taxonomiesalong with their associated categories of both modal-ity and negation given by the linguistic literature.Among these categories, we decide to choose thecategories of (Godard, to appear) for negations.
Formodalities, we rely on the categories of (Larreya,2004) and (Portner, 2009).
We thus distinguishthree types of negation: negative operators, negativequantifiers and lexical negations and three types ofmodality: buletic, epistemic and deontic.
We showthat each type has a specific effect on the opinionexpression in its scope: both on the polarity andthe strength for negation, and on the strength and/orthe degree of certainty for modality.
These effectsare structured as a set of hypotheses that we empiri-cally validated via several linguistic experiments in-formed by native speakers.
This evaluation method-ology has already been used in sentiment analysis.Greene and Resnik (2009) chose psycholinguisticmethods for assessing the connection between sen-tence structure and implicit sentiment.
Taboada etal.
(2011) used Mechanical Turk to check subjectivedictionaries for consistency.The empirical results reported in this paper pro-vide a basis for future opinion analysis systems thathave to compute the sentiment orientation at the sen-tence or at the clause level.
The methodology weused for deriving this basis was applied for Frenchbut it can be easily instantiated for other languageslike English.
In this paper, all examples are inFrench along with their direct translation in English.Note however that there are substantial semantic dif-ferences between the two languages.2 Related Work2.1 Negation in Sentiment AnalysisResearch efforts using negation in sentiment anal-ysis can be grouped according to three main crite-ria: the effect of negation on opinion expressions,the types of negation used and the method employedto update the prior polarity of opinion expressions.According to the first criterion, most approachestreat negation as polarity reversal (Polanyi and Za-enen, 2006; Wilson et al, 2005; Moilanen and Pul-man, 2007; Choi and Cardie, 2008).
However, nega-tion cannot be reduced to reversing polarity.
For ex-ample, if we assume that the score of the adjective?excellent?
is +3, then the opinion score in ?this stu-dent is not excellent?
cannot be -3.
It rather meansthat the student is not good enough.
Hence, dealingwith negation requires to go beyond polarity rever-sal.
Liu and Seneff (2009) propose a linear additivemodel that treats negations as modifying adverbs.
Inthe same way, in (Taboada et al, 2011), the negationof an opinion expression shifts the value of its scoreto the opposite polarity by a fixed amount.
Thus a +2adjective is negated to a -2, but the negation of a verynegative adjective is only slightly positive.
Basedon (Taboada et al, 2011)?s shift model, Yessenalinaand Cardie (2011) propose to represent each wordas a matrix and combine words using iterated ma-trix multiplication, which allows for modeling bothadditive (for negations) and multiplicative (for in-tensifiers) semantic effects.
In our framework, weassume, as in (Liu and Seneff, 2009) and (Taboadaet al, 2011), that negation affects both the polarityand the strength of an opinion expression.
However,unlike other studies, we distill that effect dependingon the type of the negation.Two main types of negation were studied inthe literature: negators such as ?not?
and contentword negators such as ?eliminate?
(Choi and Cardie,2008).
Wilson et al (2009) also consider negatorsand in addition distinguish between positive polarityshifters and negative polarity shifters since they onlyreverse a particular polarity type.
Few studies takeinto account other types of negation.
Among them,Taboada et al (2011) treat NPIs (as well as modali-ties) as ?irrealis blockers?
by ignoring the semanticorientation of the word in their scope.
For example,the opinion word ?good?
will just be ignored in ?anygood movie in this theater?.
We think that ignoringNPIs is not suitable and a more accurate analysis isneeded.
In addition, to our knowledge, no studieshave investigated the effect of multiple negatives onopinions.Finally, methods dealing with negation can beclassified into three categories (Wiegand et al,112010).
In the shallow approach, negation is embed-ded into a bag-of-words model which is then usedby supervised machine-learning algorithms for po-larity classification (Pang et al2002; Ng et al 2006).This method, rather simple, seems linguistically in-accurate and increases the feature space with moresparse features.
The second approach concerns alocal contextual analysis of valence shifter termswhere negation modifies the prior scores of thoseterms (Taboada et al, 2011; Wilson et al, 2009).The last approach uses semantic composition wherethe polarities of words within the sentence are aggre-gated (Moilanen and Pulman, 2007).
In this paper,we provide a way of treating negation and modalityin a semantic composition framework.2.2 Modality in Sentiment AnalysisIn sentiment analysis, the presence of modalities canbe used as a feature in a machine learning settingfor sentence-level opinion classification.
Among thefew research efforts in this direction, Wilson et al(2009) use a list of modal words.
In (Kobayakawaet al, 2009), modalities are defined in a flat taxon-omy: request, recommendation, desire, will, judg-ment, etc.
According to the reported results, the gainbrought by the modalities seems difficult to assess.However, to our knowledge, no work has investi-gated how modality impacts on opinions.In NLP, modality is less addressed than other lin-guistic operators, such as negations.
Most of thecomputational studies involving modality are fo-cused on: (i) building annotated resources in termsof factuality information and (ii) uncertainty mod-eling and hedge detection in texts.
Among anno-tated resources, we cite the FactBank corpus (Saur?
?and Pustejovsky, 2009) and the BioScope corpus(Vincze et al, 2008).
In the second research strand,the efforts go from detecting uncertainty in texts(Rubin, 2010), to finding hedges and their scopesin specialized corpora (Vincze et al, 2008; Gan-ter and Strube, 2009; Zhao et al, 2010).
However,there is only partial overlapping between hedges andmodal constructions.
Hedges are linguistic meanswhereby the authors show that they cannot backtheir opinions with facts.
Thus, hedges includecertain modal constructions (especially epistemic),along with other markers such as indirect speech,e.g., ?According to certain researchers,...?.
On theother hand, there are modal constructions which arenot hedges, e.g.
when expressing a factual possibil-ity, without uncertainty on behalf of the speaker, e.g.may in ?These insects may play a part in the repro-duction of plants as well?.3 Dealing with NegationNegation has been well studied in linguistics (Horn,1989; Swart, 2010; Giannakidou, 2011).
ForFrench, we cite (Muller, 1991; Moeschler, 1992;Corblin and Tovena, 2003) and (Godard, to ap-pear)?s work as part of the ?Grande Grammairedu franc?ais?
project (Abeille?
and Godard, 2010).Our treatment of negation is based on the lexical-syntactic classification of (Godard, to appear) thatdistinguishes three types of negation in French:?
Negative operators, denoted by NEG: theyare the adverbs ?pas?
(?not?
), ?plus?
(?nomore?
), ?non?
(?no one?
), the preposition?sans?
(?without?)
and the conjunction ?ni?(?neither?).
These operators always appearalone in the sentence and they cannot be com-bined with each other.?
Negative quantifiers, denoted by NEG quant,express both a negation and a quantifica-tion.
They are, for example, the nounsand pronouns ?aucun?
(?none?
), ?nul?
(?no?),?personne?
(?nobody?
), ?rien?
(?nothing?
)and the adverbs ?jamais?
(?never?)
and?aucunement?/?nullement?
(?in no way?
).Neg quant have three main properties: (i)they can occur in positive sentences (that is notnegated), particularly in interrogatives, whenthey are employed as indefinite or when theyappear after the relative pronoun ?que?
(?that?
)(ii) in negative contexts, they are always associ-ated to the adverb ?ne?
(?not?)
and (iii) they canbe combined with each other as well as withnegative operators.
Here are some examplesof this type of negation extracted form our cor-pus: ?on ne s?ennuie jamais?
(?you will neverbe bored?
), ?je ne recommande cette se?rie a`personne?
(?I do not recommend this movie toanyone?).?
Lexical negations denoted by NEG lex whichare implicit negative words, such as ?manque12de?
(?lack of?
), ?absence de?
(?absence of?),?carence?
(?deficiency?
), ?manquer de?
(?tolack?
), ?
de?nue?
de?
(?deprived of?).
NEG lexcan be combined with each other as well aswith the two previous types of negation.This classification does not cover words such asfew or only, since we consider them as weak inten-sifiers (strength diminishers) rather than negations.For each opinion expression exp, OP(exp)indicates that the expression exp is in thescope of the negation OP ?
NEG, NEG quant,NEG lex.
Multiple negations are denoted byOP i(OP j((exp))).
In French, there are atmost three negative words in a multiple negative.However, this case is relatively rare in opinion texts;this is why, we only deal with two negatives.
Usu-ally, multiple negatives preserve polarity, except forthose composed of NEG lex and NEG quant orNEG which cancel the effect of NEG lex.
For ex-ample, in ?manque de gou?t?
(?lack of taste?
), i.eNEG lex(taste), the polarity is negative, whilein ?il ne manque pas de gou?t?
(roughly, ?no lack oftaste?
), i.e.
NEG(NEG lex(taste)), the opin-ion is positive.
This property was also observedin (Rowan et al, 2006).
Thus, multiple negativespreserving negation concern the following combina-tions:NEG quant(NEG quant(exp)),NEG quant(NEG(exp)),NEG(NEG quant(exp)).We analyse the frequency of our negation cate-gories in a corpus of French opinion texts.
We use amanually built subjective lexicon (Benamara et al,2011) that contains 95 modalities and 21 negations.An analysis of a corpus of 26132 French movie re-views (about 863 TV series) extracted from the al-locine?
web site1 shows that around 26 % of reviewscontain NPIs and/or multiple negations.3.1 HypothesesThe effects of each negation type are based on thefollowing hypotheses:N1.a The negation always reverses the polarityof an opinion expression, that is a positive opinionexpression becomes negative when in the scope of1http://www.allocine.fra negation.
For example, ?exceptionnel?
(?excep-tional?)
and ?pas exceptionnel?
(?not exceptional?
).N1.b The strength of an opinion expression in thescope of a negation, is not greater than of the opin-ion expression alone.
For example, for the adjec-tive ?exceptionnel?
(?exceptional?
), the strength ofits negation, that is ?pas exceptionnel?
(?not excep-tional?
), is lower.N2.
The strength of an expression when in thescope of a NEG quant is greater than when in thescope of a NEG.
For instance: ?jamais exceptionnel?
(?never exceptional?)
is stronger than ?pas excep-tionnel?
(?not exceptional?).N3.
NEG lex has the same effect as NEG, as forlack of taste and no taste.N4.
The strength of an expression when in thescope of multiple negatives is greater than when inthe scope of each negation alone.
For example, ?plusjamais bon?
(?no longer ever good?)
is stronger than?plus bon?
(?no longer good?
).3.2 The experimental setupThe previous hypotheses have been empirically val-idated by volunteer subjects through two protocols:Protocol 1 for N1.a and N1.b, and Protocol 2 for N2to N4 2.Both protocols are based on a set of questions thatwe built so that: (1) they reflect the most frequentlinguistic structures found in our corpus, and (2)they do not contain words or expressions on whichpeople have prior opinions for/against.
In addition,the number of questions within each protocol wasdesigned so that we ensure a trade-off between theamount of data needed for proving our hypothesesand the quality of the data, subjects have to remainfocused in order to avoid errors due to tiredness.Protocol 1.
A set of six questions are shown tosubjects.
In each question, an opinionated sentenceis presented, along with its negation using negativeoperators, as in ?This student is brilliant?
and ?Thisstudent is not brilliant?.
The strengths of the opin-ions vary from one question to another on a dis-crete scale.
Several types of scales have been usedin sentiment analysis research, going from continu-ous scales (Benamara et al, 2007) to discrete ones2They are respectively available at:http://goo.gl/CQzKy and http://goo.gl/YnZPS.13Figure 1: Empirical validation of N1 to N4.
(Taboada et al, 2011).
Since our negation hypothe-ses have to be evaluated against human subjects, thechosen length of the scale has to ensure a trade-offbetween a fine-grained categorisation of subjectivewords and the reliability of this categorisation withrespect to human judgments.
We thus use in ourframework a discrete 7-point scale, going from ?3(which corresponds to ?extremely negative?
opin-ions) to +3 (for ?extremely positive?
ones) to quan-tify the strength of an opinion expression.
Note that0 corresponds to cases where in the absence of anycontext, the opinion expression can be neither posi-tive nor negative.
A set of 81 native French speakerswere asked to indicate the strength of each sentencein a question on the same 7-point scale.Protocol 2.
Eight questions are shown.
Eachquestion contains a pair of sentences: one contain-ing a negative operator, the other having either anegative quantifier or a lexical negation, or multi-ple negatives, as in ?This student is not brilliant?and ?This student is never brilliant?.
Subjects areasked to compare the strengths of the sentences ineach pair.
A set of 96 native French speakers partic-ipated in this study.3.3 ResultsThe results of these assessments are shown in Fig-ure 1, as the average agreement and disagreementbetween the subjects?
answers and our hypotheses.The results show that all four hypotheses are vali-dated.
For N1.a, we obtain an average agreement of90.7 % when excluding the answers correspondingto the strength 0 (20.37 % of all answers).
We notethat for opinion strengths from ?1 to +2 (that is,?mildly negative?
to ?very positive?
opinions), N1.ais 100 % verified.
The same trend is observed for?2(?very negative?)
and +3 opinion strengths (87.8 %and 93 % agreement, respectively).
However, for?extremely negative?
opinions, e.g., ?l?acteur estnullisime?
(?the actor is worthless?
), we observe thatonly 48.8 % of subjects reverse its polarity.
The re-sults for N1.b are shown in Table 1.
The rows cor-respond to opinion strenghts given by subjects forsentences without negation and the columns, and thesubjects?
answers to the same sentences, this timenegated.
In this table, we discarded the row forthe subjects?
answers to the 0-strength original sen-tences (without negation) because the number of in-stances was very low.+3 +2 +1 0 -1 -2 -3+3 0 0 4.7 32.9 58.9 3.5 0+2 0 0 0 4.9 82.0 13.1 0+1 0 0 0 0 84.3 14.5 1.2-1 0 0 62.5 37.5 0 0 0-2 0 1.2 51.9 39.5 7.4 0 0-3 0 1.4 26.4 43.0 23.6 5.6 0Table 1: Results (in percents) for N1.bWe observe that the hypothesis N1.b is verifiedfor all configurations of strengths.
In addition, anon-negligible percentage of the subjects assign a 0strength to the negation of all negative opinion ex-pressions.
This is particularly salient for extremelynegative expressions.
The same goes for extremelypositive expressions.N2 is verified at 67 %.
This might me because thegap between the strength of NEG quant (exp)and NEG(exp) is rather small.N3 is verified at 43 %.
This low result reflects thefact that, as expected, for ?lack of?
(i.e., ?manquede?, very frequent in French movie reviews) N3 isnot validated: 81 % of the subjects consider theopinion in the scope of this lexical negation to beless negative than the opinion in the scope of thenegative operator ?not?.
This disparity in the resultsshow that a thorougher study has to be undertaken inorder to better distill the effect of lexical negationson opinion expressions.Finally, N4 is verified at almost 64 %.
Thedisagreement comes from the question testing theeffect of the NEG quant (NEG quant) com-bination.
We think this might come from the14fact that NEG quant already boosts the strengthof an opinion expression, hence adding moreNEG quant does not necessarily yield an evenstronger opinion expression.4 Dealing with ModalityDrawing partly on (Portner, 2009) and on (Larreya,2004) for French, we have chosen to split modalityin three categories:?
buletic, denoted by Mod B ?
it indicates thespeaker?s desires/wishes.
This type of modalityis expressed via a closed set of verbs denotinghope e.g.
?I wish he were kind?.?
epistemic, denoted by Mod E ?
it indicates thespeaker?s belief in the propositional content heasserts.
It is expressed via doubt, possibil-ity or necessity adverbs, such as ?peut-e?tre?(?perhaps?
), ?de?cide?ment?
(?definitely?
), ?cer-tainement?
(?certainly?
), etc., and via the verbs?devoir?
(?have to?
), ?falloir?
(?need to/must?
)and ?pouvoir?
(?may/can?
), e.g.
?The moviemight be good?,?
deontic, denoted by Mod D ?
it indicates apossibility or an obligation (with their con-trapositives, impossibility and permission, re-spectively).
It is only expressed via the samemodal verbs as for epistemic modality, but witha deontic reading, e.g., ?You must go see themovie?.Note that this classification takes into accountneither evidential usage of modality nor epistemicmodalities expressed in conditional verb moodssince these usages are less frequent in our corpus.Just like for negations, we project these categorieson our corpus of French movie reviews and we ob-serve that 53 % of the reviews contain at least onemodal construction.
In addition, the most frequentmodals in those reviews are in decreasing order ofoccurrence: the epistemic and deontic verbs ?de-voir?
and ?pouvoir?, buletic modal verbs and epis-temic adverbs.Unlike for negations, for the moment we do nottake into account cumulative effects of modalities onan opinion expression, like in: ?You definitely mustsee the movie!?
as well as combination of negationsand modalities.We consider that each modal expression has a se-mantic effect on opinions.
Unlike negation, this ef-fect is not on both the polarity and the strength ofopinions, but only on their strength ?
for instance,the strength of the recommendation ?You must gosee the movie, it?s a blast?
is greater than for ?Gosee the movie, it?s a blast?, and certainty degree ?for instance, ?This movie is definitely good?
has agreater certainty than ?This movie is good?.
In ourframework, the strength is discretized on a three-level scale, going from 1 (minimal strength) to 3(maximal strength).
The certainty degree also hasthree possible values, in line with standard literature(Lyons, 1977; Saur??
and Pustejovsky, 2009): pos-sible, probable and certain.
However, we considerthat, in an opinion analysis context, the frontier be-tween the first two values is rather vague, hence weconflate them into a value that we denote by uncer-tain.
We thus obtain two certainty degrees, fromwhich we built a three-level scale, by inserting be-tween these values a ?default?
certainty degree forall expressions which are neither a modal nor in thescope of a modal.4.1 HypothesesWe will now specify the semantic effect of eachmodality type, on the strength and/or certainty de-gree of the opinion expressions.
These effects arestructured as a set of six hypotheses:M1.
Mod B alters the certainty degree of opinionexpressions in its scope.
Thus, the certainty degreeof an opinion expression in the scope of a Mod Bis weaker than the certainty degree of the opinionexpression itself.
e.g.
in ?I hope this movie is funny?there is less certainty than in ?This movie is funny?.M2.1 Mod E alters the certainty degree of opinionexpressions in its scope.
For adverbial Mod E, thisdegree is altered according to the certainty of the re-spective adverb: if the latter is uncertain, then thecertainty of the opinion in the scope of the adverb isreduced; otherwise, the certainty is augmented.
Forinstance, ?Le film est probablement bon?
(?Proba-bly the film is good?)
is less certain than ?Le film estbon?
(?The film is good?
), which is, in turn, less cer-tain than ?Le film est de?cide?ment bon?
(?The film isdefinitely good?
).15M2.2 The certainty of opinion expressions whenin the scope of a verbal Mod E is always lower thanwhen alone.
It varies according to the certainty ofthe respective verb, from pouvoir ?
lowest certainty,to devoir and falloir ?
greater certainty.
For instance,the certainty of ?Le film peut e?tre bon?
(?the filmmight be good?)
is lower than of ?Le film doit e?trebon?
(?the film must be good?
), which, in turn, islower than of ?Le film est bon?
(?the film is good?
).M2.3 The certainty degrees of opinion expres-sions in the scope of epistemic devoir and falloir arethe same.M3.1 Mod D alters the strength of opinion expres-sions in its scope.
Hence, strength varies accordingto the verb: pouvoir reduces the strength of the opin-ion, whereas devoir and falloir boost it.M3.2 The strengths of opinion expressions in thescope of deontic devoir and falloir are the same.4.2 The experimental setupWe empirically validated the previous hypothesesthrough the same methodology as for negation.
Wedesigned three protocols, Protocol 1 for M1, Proto-col 2 for M2.1 to M2.3, and Protocol 3 for M3.1 andM3.2.Protocol 1.
In this protocol, five questions areproposed.
In one of them, the subject is presentedan opinionated sentence without modality.
In eachof the other questions, we present a subjective sen-tence with buletic modality.
For each question, wethen ask the subject to specify whether the author ofthe sentence has an established opinion (positive ornegative), e.g., ?I saw this movie yesterday.
I hopeit will be a blockbuster.
?, or ?The movie is interest-ing.
?, or hasn?t an established opinion yet ?I hopethis movie is interesting?.
78 native French speakersparticipated in this protocol.Protocol 2.
Eight questions are proposed to sub-jects.
In each question we present an opinionatedsentence.
The first one is a sentence without modal-ity, e.g.
?The movie is good?.
Each of the othersentences contains an epistemic modality of differ-ent certainty degree, either ?uncertain?
or ?certain?.111 native French speakers were asked whether themodal sentence was less, more or as certain as thesentence without modality.Protocol 3.
Four questions are presented.
In eachquestion we show a pair of opinionated sentences:Figure 2: Empirical validation of M1 to M3.2.one sentence without modality, and another one witha deontic modality, as in ?Go see this movie, itis good?
and ?You should go see this movie, it isgood?.
We ask subjects compare the strengths of thesentences in each pair.
A set of 78 native Frenchspeakers participated in this study.4.3 ResultsWe show the results of these assessments in Figure2.
M1 is validated at 86.5 %.
More specifically,when the phrase in the scope of the buletic modalitydenotes an event, all subjects consider it to vehic-ulate an opinion.
This, in French at least, usuallycorresponds to an implicit opinion3.
Moreover, ac-cording to all subjects, buletic modality cancels theopinion in its scope, when the phrase expressing thelatter denotes a state.
Therefore, subjective wordsdo not make sentences like ?I hope her husband iskind?
opinionated.M2.1 is validated at around 72 % for both cer-tainty degrees (?certain?
and ?uncertain?
), whichshows that, in addition to polarity and strength, cer-tainty is a relevant feature of an opinion expres-sion.
Concerning M2.2, almost 79 % of the subjectsvalidated that a phrase when outscoped by ?pou-voir?
is less certain than when outscoped by ?de-voir?, whereas only 23 % of them consider that ?de-voir?
lowers the certainty degree of the phrase in itsscope.
M2.3 is validated at around 57 % overallsince for ?devoir?
(?have to?)
and ?falloir?
(?needto?/?must?)
subjects considered them as having the3Implicit opinions, also called opinionated sentences (Liu,2010), are sentences that express positive or negative opinionsand do not contain any explicit subjective clues.
Here are someexamples: ?The movie is not bad, although some persons leftthe auditorium?
or ?Laborious and copy/paste of the first part?.16same effect.M3.1 is validated to a lesser extent: 54 %.
62.5 %of the subjects agreed with the hypothesis that deon-tic ?pouvoir?
(?may?/?can?)
reduces the strength ofthe opinion in its scope.
This might be explained bythe ambiguity between deontic and epistemic read-ings of these three verbs.
The strengths of ?devoir?and ?falloir?
are deemed identical (M3.2) at 60 %.The rest of 40 % are evenly split between ?devoir?being stronger than ?falloir?
and vice versa.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we showed that the effects of modalityand negation on opinion expressions in their scopedepend on the type of these operators.
Based on aset of protocols, we empirically validated that nega-tion affects both polarity and strength, and that neg-ative quantifiers and multiple negations boost thestrength of the negation.
We also empirically vali-date that modality affects the strength, in case of de-ontic modality, and the certainty degree for buleticand epistemic modality.
Our approach is novel intwo ways:?
Our treatment of negation goes beyond the ap-proaches of (Wilson et al, 2009)(Taboada etal., 2011) and (Liu and Seneff, 2009) since wepropose a specific treatment for negative polar-ity items and for multiple negatives.
In addi-tion, our results for negative operators confirm,as in (Taboada et al, 2011) and (Liu and Seneff,2009), that the strength of an opinion expres-sion in the scope of a negation, is not greaterthan of the opinion expression alone.?
For modality, to our knowledge, our approachis the first study dealing with the semantics ofmodality for sentiment analysis.The empirical results reported in this paper pro-vide a basis for future opinion analysis systems thathave to compute the sentiment orientation at the sen-tence or at the clause level.In further work, we plan to study the effect ofcumulative modalities, as in ?you definitely mustsee this movie?, and of co-occurring negation andmodality, as in ?
you should not go see this movie?,on opinion expressions.
We also plan to evaluateto what extent our empirical results extrapolate toother languages.
Finally, we will plug our resultsto a computational model in order to determine thecontextual polarity of opinion expressions at the sen-tence or clause level.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by a DGA-RAPID projectunder grant number 0102906143.
We also thank allthe volunteers for participating in the experiments.ReferencesAnne Abeille?
and Danie`le Godard.
2010.
The grandegrammaire du franc?ais project.
In Proceedings ofLREC?10.Farah Benamara, Carmine Cesarano, Antonio Picariello,Diego Reforgiato, and V. S. Subrahmanian.
2007.Sentiment analysis: Adjectives and adverbs are betterthan adjectives alone.
In Proceedings of ICWSM.Farah Benamara, Baptiste Chardon, Yannick Mathieu,and Vladimir Popescu.
2011.
Towards context-basedsubjectivity analysis.
In Proceedings of 5th Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Process-ing, pages 1180?1188.Yejin Choi and Claire Cardie.
2008.
Learning withcompositional semantics as structural inference forsubsentential sentiment analysis.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP?08, pages 793?801.Francis Corblin and Lucia Tovena.
2003.
L?expressionde la ne?gation dans les langues romanes.
In D.
Go-dard., editor, Les langues romanes : proble`mes de laphrase simple.
Paris: CNRS Editions.V.
Ganter and M. Strube.
2009.
Finding hedges by chas-ing weasels: Hedge detection using wikipedia tags andshallow linguistic features.
In Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP?09, pages 173?176.Anastasia Giannakidou.
2011.
Positive polarity itemsand negative polarity items: variation, licensing, andcompositionality.
Semantics: An International Hand-book of Natural Language Meaning.Danie`le Godard.
to appear.
Les ne?gateurs.
In La GrandeGrammaire du franc?ais, chapter 10.Stephan Greene and Philip Resnik.
2009.
More thanwords: Syntactic packaging and implicit sentiment.
InProceedings of HLT-NAACL?09, pages 503?511.Laurence Horn.
1989.
A natural history of negation.University of Chicago Press.Alistair Kennedy and Diana Inkpen.
2006.
Sentimentclassification of movie and product reviews using con-textual valence shifters.
Computational Intelligence,22(2):110?125.17Takeshi S. Kobayakawa, Tadashi Kumano, HidekiTanaka, Naoaki Okazaki, Jin-Dong Kim, and Jun ichiTsujii.
2009.
Opinion classification with tree kernelsvm using linguistic modality analysis.
In Proceed-ings of CIKM?09, pages 1791?1794.Paul Larreya.
2004.
L?expression de la modalite?
enfranc?ais et en anglais (domaine verbal).
Revue belgede philologie et d?histoire, 82(3):733?762.Jingjing Liu and Stephanie Seneff.
2009. Review senti-ment scoring via a parse-and-paraphrase paradigm.
InProceedings of EMNLP?09, pages 161?169.Bing Liu.
2010.
Sentiment analysis and subjectivity.
InNitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau, editors, Hand-book of Natural Language Processing, Second Edi-tion.
CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group, Boca Ra-ton, FL.J.
Lyons.
1977.
Semantics.
vol.
2.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Jacques Moeschler.
1992.
The pragmatic aspects of lin-guistic negation: Speech act, argumentation and prag-matic inference.
Argumentation, 6(1):51?76.Karo Moilanen and Stephen Pulman.
2007.
Sentimentcomposition.
In Proceedings of RANLP?07, pages378?382.Claude Muller.
1991.
La ne?gation en franc?ais.
Syntaxe,se?mantique et e?le?ments de comparaison avec les autreslangues romanes:.
Droz, Gene`ve.Livia Polanyi and Annie Zaenen.
2006.
Contextual va-lence shifters.
In Computing Attitude and Affect inText: Theory and Applications, The Information Re-trieval Series, pages 1?10.
Springer-Verlag.Paul Portner.
2009.
Modality, volume 1.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, USA.Nairn Rowan, Cleo Condoravdi, and Lauri Karttunen.2006.
Computing relative polarity for textual infer-ence.
In Proceedings of ICoS-5.Victoria Rubin.
2010.
Epistemic modality: From uncer-tainty to certainty in the context of information seekingas interactions with texts.
Information Processing andManagement, 46(5):533?540.Roser Saur??
and James Pustejovsky.
2009.
FactBank:a corpus annotated with event factuality.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 43(3):227?268.Henriette De Swart.
2010.
Expression and interpreta-tion of negation.
An OT typology.
Studies in NaturalLanguage and Linguistic Theory, 77.Maite Taboada, Julian Brooke, Milan Tofiloski, KimberlyVoll, and Manfred Stede.
2011.
Lexicon-based meth-ods for sentiment analysis.
Computational Linguis-tics, 37:267?307.V.
Vincze, G. Szarvas, R. Farkas, G. Mo?ra, and J. Csirik.2008.
The bioscope corpus: biomedical texts anno-tated for uncertainty, negation and their scopes.
BMCbioinformatics, 9(Suppl 11):S9.Michael Wiegand, Alexandra Balahur, Benjamin Roth,Dietrich Klakow, and Andre?s Montoyo.
2010.
A sur-vey on the role of negation in sentiment analysis.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Negation and Specu-lation in Natural Language Processing, pages 60?68.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-levelsentiment analysis.
In Proceedings of HLT?05, pages347?354.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2009.
Recognizing contextual polarity: An explo-ration of features for phrase-level sentiment analysis.Computational Linguistics, 35(3):399?433.Ainur Yessenalina and Claire Cardie.
2011.
Composi-tional matrix-space models for sentiment analysis.
InProceedings of EMNLP?11, pages 172?182.Q.
Zhao, C. Sun, B. Liu, and Y. Cheng.
2010.
Learningto detect hedges and their scope using crf.
In Proceed-ings of CoNLL?10, pages 100?105.18
