Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2012), pages 122?129,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsWhat can NLP tell us about BioNLP?Attapol Thamrongrattanarit, Michael Shafir, Michael Crivaro, Bensiin Borukhov, Marie MeteerDepartment of Computer ScienceBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA 02453, USA{tet, mshafir, mcrivaro, bborukhov, mmeteer}@brandeis.eduAbstractThe goal of this work is to apply NLP tech-niques to the field of BioNLP in order to gaina better insight into the field and show connec-tions and trends that might not otherwise beapparent.
The data we analyzed was the pro-ceedings from last decade of BioNLP work-shops.
Our findings reveal the prominent re-search problems and techniques in the field,their progression over time, the approachesthat researchers are using to solve those prob-lems, insightful ways to categorize works inthe field, and the prominent researchers andgroups whose works are influencing the field.1 IntroductionThanks to improving technology and the discoveryof stronger statistical methods, natural language pro-cessing techniques have more power than ever togive us insights into real datasets too large for hu-mans to efficiently process.
In the field of BioNLP,we see that natural language processing has a widerange of applications within the medical domainfrom analysis of clinical data to literature.
Withthe increasing amount of publications in this grow-ing field, building a classification structure is help-ful both for categorizing papers in a sensible wayand for recognizing the trends that brought the fieldto where it is today.
Understanding the current na-ture of the field can show us where the most effortis needed, while taking a look at where the field hasbeen can highlight successes and even unansweredquestions.As the use of NLP in the medical domain has ex-panded in recent years so has the amount of freely-available online research.
With this wealth of infor-mation comes a problem, however, as it is not trulyfeasible for humans to read through all the researchout there and classify it in a way that will capture theless-obvious trends and the finer relationships be-tween seemingly-disconnected works.
Instead, wepropose that statistical methods can help us discoverboth the most reasonable way to partition the fieldand also see how the research has changed over thepast decade.
The longer term goal for the work is tocontribute to a ?map?
of the field that can be a com-munity resource, such as www.medlingmap.org, de-scribed in Meteer, et al (2012).Schuemie et al (2009) used clustering techniquesto analyze the domain of Medical Informatics.
Theyprocessed a large number of Medline abstracts tofind a subset of the journals classified as ?MedicalInformatics?
whose content was sufficiently relatedto constitute a basis for the field.
Using hierarchi-cal clustering, they determined that such a group ofjournals exists and, as we might expect, the rest ofthe journals were largely disconnected.
They alsoused this cluster of journals as the basis for a topicmodeling task.
Analyzing the articles from their newbasis of journals, they found three very strong, topic-based clusters, each comprised of three sub-clusters.Overall, Schuemie et al (2009) demonstrated how itis possible to gain a great deal of insight into the na-ture of a field by using statistical methods over thatfield?s literature.
More recently, Gupta and Manning(2011) used automatic methods to tag documents for?focus,?
?technique,?
and ?domain?
by examining122over 15,000 ACL abstracts.
This level of categoriza-tion is useful because it expands beyond the simplenotion of the ?topic?
to implicitly show if a work,for example, is about an application of named-entityrecognition or if it simply uses NER to achieve agreater task.
The techniques demonstrated by Guptaand Manning could be very enlightening if appliedto the BioNLP proceedings, though in this paper werefrain from drawing conclusions about individualpapers.
Instead, we will relate them through the top-ics extracted from the full-text proceedings.For our task, we look to the ACL and NAACL-associated workshops on NLP applications in themedical domain.
Entering its 11th year, the BioNLPworkshop (under a variety of names) has givenus ten rich and varied proceedings in addition toa pair of more focused shared tasks.
All in all,the workshops have produced over 270 unique pa-pers.
Our data of 270 documents was small relativeto (Schuemie et al, 2009) 6.3 million documents;therefore, we chose to expand our analysis to thefull text of the documents instead of just the ab-stracts.
Additionally, using the full papers allowedus to capture information about document contentthat abstracts alone could not provide.2 Methods and Results2.1 Pipeline ArchitectureWe implemented a document processing pipelinethat would allow our approaches to be generaliz-able, easily reproducible, and extendable.
Eachof our analytic processes was integrated into thispipeline and parameterized to allow us proper flex-ibility for empirical experimentation.
The pipelineworks by managing the interaction between a con-figurable set of data layers and a configurable setof processing stages over those layers.
It supportssaving and loading its internal state between stages.In addition, layers and stages follow specific tem-plates that reduce the amount of code to write andmaintain.
The ordering and activation of each stageis also parameterized.
This pipeline allowed us toquickly and efficiently experiment with various ap-proaches and combine them.
The sample imple-mentation of this pipeline is available publicly atgithub.com/attapol/mapping bionlp.Topic proportionsyntaxCRFbiological tasksbacteria taskhedginggraphcoreference resolutionword/phrase methodssemantic knowledgeclinical dataq&aentity relationsinformation retrievalWSDlexical categoriesclinical codingparsingcorpus annotationUMLSdocument structurename normalizationprotein interactionNERevent extractionclassificationevent triggersmodeling/trainingresearchresult/analysisresult presentation0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15Figure 1: Average topic proportion across all the docu-ments output by the LDA model2.2 PreprocessingThe papers from the BioNLP workshop are all avail-able freely from the ACL Anthology Archive 1.
Wefirst extracted the text from the PDF files usingpdf2text unix tool and then tagged them all for title,authors, places of origin, abstract, content, and ref-erences.
In all cases, the abstract, content, and refer-ences were separated automatically using a script,and the places had to be hand-annotated.
Papersfrom 2004 onward (starting with the first BioLINKworkshop) have complete BibTeX entries that al-lowed us to automatically extract the titles and au-thors, but for 2002 and 2003 this work had to bedone manually.
Since we wanted to perform ouranalysis solely on the prose of the papers, and not onany of the numerical data, we filtered out portions ofthe text containing elements such as tables, graphs,footnotes, and URLs.
We also filtered out stopwords(as defined by the NLTK package (Bird and Loper,2004) for Python).1aclweb.org1232.3 Topic ModelingUsing the Mallet toolkit (McCallum, 2002), we wereable to generate topics from our cleaned data usingthe Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model.
Thisapproach allows us to represent each document as avector of topic proportions instead of a bag of words,which prevents the problem of sparsity.
When weset the number of topics to 30, the system output aset of distinct topics that seem to describe a rangeof tasks and methods within the domain of BioNLP.The topics generated by the LDA model reflect areasof study that are being pursued, techniques that arebeing applied, and resources that are being consultedin the field.
A list of the generated topics along withthe associated keywords is shown in Table 1 and thedistributions of the topics across the entire documentset is displayed in Figure 1.Additionally, we found that the topics generatedby LDA were more informative about the full con-tent of a work than those generated by TF-IDF asTF-IDF would often give too much weight to spe-cific examples over general concepts.
For exam-ple, TF-IDF tended to select specific names of re-sources and ontologies rather than general terms.For example, it selected ?Frame-net?
instead ?ontol-ogy?
and ?RadLex?
instead of ?lexicon?.
We con-cluded that, while interesting, TF-IDF results werenot strongly suited for capturing an overall glimpseof the field.
However, we think that TF-IDF can bemuch more useful in its more traditional capacity offinding document-specific keywords; we aim to usethese indices to partially automate keyword genera-tion for MedlingMap (Meteer et al, 2012), which isour accompanying project.2.4 Topic CorrelationWhile looking at the topic proportions for each ofour LDA topics overall can help us paint a broadpicture of the field, it can also help to look at therelationship between these topics as they occur inthe documents.
Some topics appear highly rankedin nearly all papers, such as the topic that is char-acterized by terms such as ?system?
and ?results?,and the topic that includes ?precision?
and ?recall?because they reflect the performance evaluation con-vention in the field.
However, most topics are onlydominant in a small subset of the papers.
SomeTopicCount02468101214parsing graph lexical categories semantic knowledgeFigure 2: The bar plot shows the frequency of the co-occurrences between the event extraction topic and someof the method-related topics.topics refer to tasks (e.g.
named-entity recognition,hedging) and others refer to techniques (e.g.
CRFs,parsing).
We can look at how often pairs of task-related topic and method-related topic co-occur tosee if researchers in the community are using certaintechniques in conjunction with solving certain prob-lems.
We first turned a topic proportion vector into abinary vector where each element indicates whichtopic is discussed more extensively than average.Then, we counted the co-occurrences of tasks andmethods of interest.
To demonstrate this, we com-puted the number of papers that substantially discussevent extraction in conjunction with parsing, graph,lexical categories, or semantic knowledge (Figure2).
This topic comparison method provides a meansof visualizing how researchers in the field are ap-proaching BioNLP problems.
It reveals that parsingand graph-based methods are commonly used in bio-logical event extraction, while lexical categories andsemantic knowledge are not as central to many of theapproaches to this task.
Moving forward, trackinghow these correlations change over time will pro-vide an insightful reflection of the field?s progresson the task in a more meaningful way than evalu-ation scores alone.
While a deeper analysis of allof such trends is beyond the scope of this paper, itcertainly warrants further investigation.124Table 1: The resulting topics and their associated keywords generated by LDA model with 30 topicsTopic Name KeywordsEvent Extraction event, task, extraction, types, data, annotationCoreference Resolution anaphora, resolution, referring, links, antecedentGraph graph, relationships, nodes, edges, path, constraint, semanicsClinical Coding medical, data, codes, patients, notes, reportsHedging negation, scope, cues, speculative, hedge, lexicalClinical Data condition, historical, clinical, temporal, reports, contextBacteria Task bacteria, names, location, organisms, taxonomic, host, roles, typeEntity Relations relations, entities, feature, static, renaming, annotated, pairsDocument Structure Analysis rst, classification, abstracts, identification, data, termsQ&A question, answer, structure, passage, evidence, purposeEvent Triggers triggers, dependency, binding, type, training, token, detectionSemantic Knowledge semantic, frame, structures, argument, patterns, domain, typesProtein Interaction protein, patterns, interaction, extraction, biologicalParsing dependency, parser, tree, syntactic, structures, grammar, linkName Normalization gene, names, dictionary, normalization, protein, database, synonymsNamed Entity Recognition entity, named, word, recognition, features, class, proteinInformation Retrieval search, queries, interface, text, retrieval, documentCorpus Annotation corpus, annotation, guidelines, agreement, papersLexical Categories semantic, categories, resources, simstring, lexical, gazetteer, featuresResearch text, figure, knowledge, domain, research, complex, processingCRF crf, skip, chain, linear, dependency, words, edges, sentenceResult Discussion system, based, results, set, table, test, shown, approachBiological Tasks species, disease, mutation, mentions, features, entities, acronymUMLS terms, semantic, phrases, umls, concepts, ontology, corpusWord/Phrase Methods words, measures, morphological, tag, token, chunking, formWSD disambiguation, sense, word, semantic, wsd, ambiguousResult Analysis found, number, precision, recall, cases, high, related, resultsClassification features, training, data, classification, set, learning, svmModeling/Training training, data, model, tagger, performance, corpus, annotatedSyntax attachment, pps, np, fragments, pp, noun, vp, nos, pattern2.5 Trends within the subdisciplines inBiomedical NLP LiteratureOur analysis of temporal trends builds on the ideaproposed by (Hall et al, 2008) in their analysis ofthe changing trends in the field of computational lin-guistics over time.
In their approach, they attempted,among other things, to analyze which topics were upand coming in the field and which were becomingless popular.
Given their sound results, we decidedto perform the same kind of trend analysis over theBioNLP topics.
For many of our 30 topics, therewas little change in the topic frequency over time.Considering the relative youth of the BioNLP field,this result is not entirely surprising.
We did, how-ever, find a few topics that have undergone notablechanges in these past ten years, as observable in Fig-ure 3.
In particular, we found that two topics haveseen surges of activity in recent years, whereas therewere three topics that started out strong in the earlyyears but that have since petered off.
The two top-ics that have gained popularity in the past few yearsboth involve biomedical events.
Specifically, onesuch topic is primarily about event extraction tasks,and the other is about event triggers and the morefine-grained roles one needs to tag to categorize suchevents.
The popularity of these two tasks is hardlysurprising, given that they were the focus of the 2009and 2011 shared tasks which were about workingwith events in both general and detailed ways.
Wedo notice, however, that the growing trends continuein 2010 as well, when there was no shared task, andso we can see that events are of great interest inthe field at present even without the added incen-tive of the shared tasks.
It is reasonable to suggestthat the 2009 BioNLP Shared Task in event extrac-tion generated interest in the topic that continuedthrough 2010 and 2011.
Two more topics originallysaw their popularity rise in the early years, but have125YearTopicproportion0.000.050.100.15Event extractionO OO O O O OOOO2002 2006 2010Named?entity recognitionOOOOOO OO O O2002 2006 2010UMLSOOOO O OO O O O2002 2006 2010Event triggersO O O O O O OOOO2002 2006 2010Protein interactionOOOOOOO OOO2002 2006 2010Figure 3: Topic proportions for some topics have gone through dramatic changes, which reflect how research interestand methodology evolve over time.since seen it fade.
Each of these is a specific task:named-entity recognition, which dropped off after2004, and protein interaction, which saw a sharp de-cline after 2005.
Although a detailed causal analysisis beyond the scope of this paper, we might wonderwhat accounts for these drops in topic proportion.The explanation that seems most likely is that greatstrides were made in these areas early on, but wehave since reached a plateau in advancements.
Assuch, the research has moved elsewhere.
The onlytopic to see a steady decrease from the start was thetopic associated with the Unified Medical LanguageSystem.
In general, we can view a trend associatedwith a resource differently from one associated witha task.
Above, when discussing tasks, we saw wherethe research currently has been heading and where ithas been.
With a resource, we could consider an up-ward trend to represent either an increased numberof applications to a task or perhaps an expansion ofthe resource itself.
In the case of UMLS, the down-ward trend likely suggests that the field has movedaway from this particular resource, either because itdoes not apply as well to newer tasks or because ithas been replaced with something more powerful.2.6 Cluster AnalysisOur next step with the LDA-generated topics wasto run a k-means clustering algorithm.
We used thesame topic proportion vector and a Euclidean met-ric to create the feature space for clustering.
Weused the standard k-means function in the statisti-cal language R (R Development Core Team, 2010).The assumption of the LDA model biases each topicproportion vector to be sparse (Blei et al, 2003), andthis turns out to be true in our data set.
Therefore, wechose the number of clusters to match the number oftopics so that the document space can be partitionedproportionally to its dimensionality.
This clusteringprovides us with a useful schema for document clas-sification within the domain of BioNLP.
We can usethe clusters as a guide for how to organize the cur-rent papers, and we can also view the clusters as aguide for how to select relevant research to build fu-ture work on.
Clusters bring together related papersfrom different research groups and multiple work-shops, such as those shown in Table 2.
In all of theseexamples, the selection of these sets of papers sim-ply based on keyword search would be very difficult,since many of the key terms are going to be presentin a much larger set of documents.2.7 Author Relation AnalysisAs an additional task, we investigated the connec-tions between authors in the BioNLP proceedings.Eggers et al (2005) used a graph to visualize whowas being cited by whom in ISI publications.
There,the hope was to identify which authors workedwithin the same subdisciplines by examining clus-ters within the citation graph.
By examining whocited whom in the BioNLP publications, we hopedinstead to uncover the authors of the most influen-tial papers, both within our own clusters and outsidethe scope of the BioNLP workshops.
In our model,which can be viewed in Figure 4, we constructed a126List of papers assigned to the cluster where the most discussed topic is parsing (44.74% on average)A Comparative Study of Syntactic Parsers for Event ExtractionAnalysis of Link Grammar on Biomedical Dependency Corpus Targeted at Protein-Protein InteractionsOn the unification of syntactic annotations under the Stanford dependency schemeA Transformational-based Learner for Dependency Grammars in Discharge SummariesA Study on Dependency Tree Kernels for Automatic Extraction of Protein-Protein InteractionList of papers assigned to the cluster where the most discussed topic is clinical data (48.74% on average)Applying the TARSQI Toolkit to Augment Text Mining of EHRsTemporal Annotation of Clinical TextExtracting Distinctive Features of Swine (H1N1) Flu through Data Mining Clinical DocumentsConText: An Algorithm for Identifying Contextual Features from Clinical TextDistinguishing Historical from Current Problems in Clinical Reports ?
Which Textual Features Help?Table 2: Two sample clusters from running k-means clustering algorithm on the corpusFigure 4: Citation relation graph.
Each node represents an author whose papers are either published in the BioNLPproceedings or are cited by one of the papers in the proceedings.
Each edge represents a citation activity.directed graph of author citations from the BioNLPworkshops and shared tasks.
We disregarded the au-thor ordering within each paper and gave the sameweights for all authors whose names appear on thepaper.
In this graph, a node points to another node ifthat author cited the other author at least three times.Additionally, a white node signifies an author whopublished in the BioNLP workshop between 2008and 2011, whereas a grey node is someone who didnot, but was cited in papers during that time span.
Ascan be seen in Figure 4 above, which is itself onlya piece of the complete graph, this graph is ratherlarge and complex, showing us a large degree of in-terconnectedness and interdependence in the field.Simply from the density of the lines, we can findsome of the most influential figures, such as Jun?ichiTsujii, shown in Region 3 and Yoshimasa Tsuruoka,shown in Region 2.
Unsurprisingly, Tsujii?s node isbustling with activity, as a very large number of au-thors cite works with Tsujii as an author, and his ownprolific authorship (or co-authorship) naturally hashim citing a variety of authors.
The white nodes nearhis own show the authors who published BioNLPpapers and primarily referenced his works, whereasthe grey nodes near his show people who didn?t pub-lish, but who Tsujii cited in the proceedings multiple127times.
Thus, proximity can also be very telling in agraph like this.
Since nodes with a heavier relianceon one another tend to end up closer to one another,we can also observe something of a ?citation hierar-chy?
in sections of the graph.
Region 2 is a primeexample of this notion.
We observe Ananiadou atthe bottom with a large number of incoming edges.Above her node, we see Korhonen, who cites Ana-niadou but is also cited by a number of other authorsherself.
Finally, above Korhonen there are a seriesof single nodes who cite her (and Ananiadou) but arewithout incoming edges of their own.
We can thinkof this as something of a ?local hierarchy?, consist-ing of authors who are closely connected, with themore heavily-cited (and heavily-citing) easy to pickout.3 Next StepsThe work described here provides a snapshot intothe field.
Underlying the work is a toolset able toreproduce the results on new sets of data to continuetracking the trends, topics, and collaborations.
How-ever, to be really useful to the research community,the results need to be captured in a way that can fa-cilitate searches in this domain and support ongoingresearch.
In order to do this, we are in the process ofincorporating the results presented here in a contentmanagement system, MedLingMap (Meteer et al,2012), which supports faceted indexing.
Researchin search interface design has shown that techniqueswhich can create hierarchical faceted metadata stuc-tures of a domain significantly increase the ability ofusers to efficiently access documents in the collec-tion (Stoica et al, 2005).
The techniques describedhere can be fed into MedLingMap to create muchof the metadata required to efficiently navigate thespace.4 ConclusionIn this report, we have outlined a variety of meth-ods that can be used to gain a better understand-ing of BioNLP as a field.
Our use of topic model-ing demonstrates that the field already has severalwell-defined tasks, techniques, and resources, andwe showed that we can use these topics to gain in-sight into the major research areas in the field andhow those efforts areas are progressing.
We put forththat this analysis could be powerful in recogniz-ing when a problem has been effectively ?solved?,when a technique falls out of favor, and when a re-source grows outdated.
At the same time, we cansee rising trends, such as how the 2009 shared taskspurred an obvious 2010 interest in event extraction,and the correlations in the field between certain ap-proaches and certain tasks.
Through clustering, wewere able to show that these topics also can help usseparate the documents from the field into distinc-tive groups with a common theme, which can aid inbuilding a database for current documents and clas-sifying future ones.
Finally, we ended with an anal-ysis of author relations based on citation frequencyand demonstrated how such a structure can be usefulin identifying influential figures through their works.As a further benefit of this work, we propose touse it to create a more lasting resource for the com-munity that makes these results available to supportsearch and and navigation in the bio-medical NLPfield.ReferencesAndrew McCallum.
2002.
MALLET: A Machine Learn-ing for Language Toolkit.
http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.David Blei, Andrew Ng, and Michael Jordan.
2003.
La-tent Dirichlet alocation.
Journal of Machine LearningResearch, 3:993-1022David Hall, Dan Jurafsky, and Christopher D. Manning.2008.
Studying the history of ideas using topic mod-els.
In EMNLP.MJ Schuemie, JL Talmon, PW Moorman, and JA Kors2009.
Mapping the domain of medical informatics.Methods Inf Med 48:76-83.Marie Meteer, Bensiin Borukhov, Michael Crivaro,Michael Shafir, and Attapol Thamrongrattanarit 2012.MedLingMap: Growing a resource for the Bio-Medical NLP field.R Development Core Team 2010.
R: A language andenvironment for statistical computing.
http://www.R-project.org.S.
Eggers, Z. Huang, H. Chen, L. Yan, C. Larson, A.Rashid, M. Chau, and C. Lin.
2005 Mapping MedicalInformatics Research Medical Informatics: Knowl-edge Management and Data Mining in BioMedicine.Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.S Gupta, and C. Manning 2011.
Analyzing the dynam-ics of research by extracting key aspects of scientificpapers.
Proceedings of IJCNLP.128Steven Bird, Edward Loper, and Ewan Klein.
2009.
Nat-ural Language Processing with Python.
OReilly Me-dia Inc.Emilia Stoica, Marti A. Hearst, and Megan Richardson.2007.
Automating creation of hierarchical facetedmetadata structure.
Human Language Technologies:The Annual Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(NAACL-HLT 2007).129
