Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Deception Detection, pages 86?90,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsModelling Fixated Discourse in Chats with CyberpedophilesDasha BogdanovaUniversity ofSaint Petersburgdasha.bogdanova@gmail.comPaolo RossoNLE Lab.
- ELiRF,Univ.
Polite?cnica de Valenciaprosso@dsic.upv.esThamar SolorioUniversity ofAlabama at Birminghamsolorio@cis.uab.eduAbstractThe ability to detect deceptive statements inpredatory communications can help in the iden-tification of sexual predators, a type of deceptionthat is recently attracting the attention of the re-search community.
Due to the intention of a pe-dophile of hiding his/her true identity (name, age,gender and location) its detection is a challenge.According to previous research, fixated discourseis one of the main characteristics inherent to thelanguage of online sexual predation.
In this pa-per we approach this problem by computing sex-related lexical chains spanning over the conversa-tion.
Our study shows a considerable variation inthe length of sex-related lexical chains accordingto the nature of the corpus, which supports ourbelief that this could be a valuable feature in anautomated pedophile detection system.1 IntroductionChild sexual abuse is not a rare problem.
The statisti-cal analysis by the National Incident-Based ReportingSystem data (FBI, 1995) revealed that in the majorityof all sexual assaults (67%) the victims were under-age (Snyder, 2000).
Child sexual abuse and pedophiliaare related to each other and both are of great socialconcern.
On the one hand, law enforcement is work-ing on prosecuting and preventing child sexual abuse.On the other hand, psychologists and mental special-ists are investigating the phenomenon of pedophilia.Even though pedophilia has been studied from differ-ent research perspectives, it remains to be a very im-portant problem that requires further research.The widespread availability of the Internet, and theanonymity enabled by it has brought about new formsof crime.
According to the research conducted byMitchell (2001), 19% of children have been sexuallyapproached over the Internet.
However, only 10% ofsuch cases were reported to the police.
Attempts to so-licit children have become common in chat rooms, butmanual monitoring of each conversation is impossible,due to the massive amount of data and privacy issues.Therefore, development of reliable tools for detectingpedophilia in social media is of great importance.Another related issue is that Internet makes it veryeasy to provide false personal information.
There-fore, many online sexual predators create false profileswhere they hide their identity and age.
Thus, detec-tion of online sexual predation also involves age andgender detection in chats.From the Natural Language Processing (NLP) per-spective, there are additional challenges to this prob-lem because of the chat data specificity.
Chat conver-sations are very different, not only from the writtentext, but also from other types of Internet communi-cation, such as blogs and forums.
Since online chat-ting usually involves very fast typing, mistakes, mis-spellings, and abbreviations occur frequently in chats.Moreover, specific slang (e.g.
?kewl?
is used insteadof ?cool?
and ?asl?
stands for ?age/sex/location?)
andcharacter flooding (e.g.
greeeeeat!)
are used.
There-fore, modern NLP tools often fail to provide accurateprocessing of chat language.Previous research on cyberpedophiles reports thatthey often copy juveniles?
behavior (Egan et al, 2011),in particular, they often use colloquialisms and emoti-cons.
Other important characteristics reported previ-ously include the unwillingness of the predator to stepout of the sex-related conversation, even if the poten-tial victim wants to change the topic.
This is calledfixated discourse (Egan et al, 2011).
In this paperwe present preliminary experiments on modelling thisphenomenon.
To approach the problem we apply lex-ical chaining techniques.
The experiments show thedifference in the length of sex-related lexical chainsbetween different datasets.
We believe this fact couldbe then utilized in detecting pedophiles.The following section overviews related work on thetopic.
Section 3 briefly describes previous researchon pedophiles, the language of online sexual preda-tion and the fixated discourse phenomenon in partic-ular.
Our approach to modelling fixated discourse ispresented in Section 4.
We describe the data set usedin the experiments in Section 5, followed by prelim-inary experiments presented in Section 6.
We finallydraw some conclusions and plans for future work inSection 7.862 Related WorkThe problem of detecting pedophiles in social mediais difficult and relatively novel.
New ways of meet-ing new friends are offered: chatting with webcam(http://chatroulette.com/) or picking another user atrandom and let you have a one-on-one chat with eachother (http://omegle.com/) in a completely anonymousway.Some chat conversations with online sexual preda-tors are available at www.perverted-justice.com.
Thesite is run by adult volunteers who enter chat roomsas juveniles (usually 12-15 year old) and if they aresexually solicited by adults, they work with the po-lice to prosecute this.
Related to the problem of pe-dophile detection in social media, a study of PervertedJustice Foundation revealed that since 2007, they havebeen working on identifying sex offenders on Myspaceand in 2008, they expanded that effort to Facebook.The results are sadly staggering in terms of sex of-fenders that have misused the two social media: Mys-pace (period 2007- 2010) and Facebook (2008-2010)deleted respectively 10,746 and 2,800 known sex of-fenders.
Although both social media have been helpfuland responsive towards removing danger users fromtheir communities, an automatic identification of sexoffenders would certainly help and make the processfaster.Only few attempts to automatic detection of on-line sexual predation have been done.
Pendar (2007)proved that it is possible to distinguish between preda-tor and pseudo-victim with quite high accuracy.
Theexperiments were conducted on perverted-justice data.The authors used a kNN classifier to distinguish be-tween lines written by predators and the lines postedby pseudo-victims.
As features they used word uni-grams, bigrams and trigrams.Another attempt has been done by McGhee et al(2011).
They manually annotated the chat lines fromperverted-justice.com with the following labels:1.
Exchange of personal information2.
Grooming3.
Approach4.
None of the above listed classesIn order to distinguish between these types of linesthey used both a rule-based and a machine learn-ing (kNN) classification approach.
Their experimentsshowed that the machine learning approach providesbetter results and achieves up to 83% accuracy.Another research work closely related to detectionof cyberpedophilia has been carried by Peersman etal.
(?).
As it was already mentioned, pedophiles oftencreate false profiles and pretend to be younger or ofanother gender.
Moreover, they try to copy children?sbehaviour.
Therefore, there is a need to detect age andgender in chat conversation.
Peersman et al (?)
haveanalyzed chats from Belgium Netlog social network.Discrimination between those who are older than 16from those who are younger based on Support VectorMachine classification yields 71.3% accuracy.
The ac-curacy is even higher with increasing the gap betweenthe age groups (e.g.
the accuracy of classifying thosewho are less than 16 from those who are older than25 is 88.2%).
They have also investigated the issues ofthe minimum required dataset.
Their experiments haveshown that with 50% of the original dataset the accu-racy remains almost the same and with only 10% it isstill much better than random baseline performance.3 Profiling the PedophilePedophilia is a ?disorder of adult personality and be-haviour?
which is characterized by sexual interest inprepubescent children (International statistical classifi-cation of diseases and related health problems, 1988).Even though solicitation of children is not a medi-cal diagnosis, Abel and Harlow (2001) reported that88% of child sexual abuse cases are committed by pe-dophiles.
Therefore, we believe that understanding be-haviour of pedophiles could help detecting and pre-venting online sexual predation.
Even though onlinesexual offender is not always a pedophile, in this paperwe use these terms as synonyms.3.1 Predator?s Linguistic BehaviorThe language sexual offenders use was analyzed byEgan et al (2011).
The authors considered the chatspublished at www.perverted-justice.com.
The analysisof the chats revealed several characteristics of preda-tors?
language:?
Fixated discourse.
Predators impose a sex-relatedtopic on the conversation and dismiss attemptsfrom the pseudo-victim to switch topics.?
Implicit/explicit content.
On the one hand, preda-tors shift gradually to the sexual conversation,starting with more ordinary compliments.
On theother hand, conversation then becomes overtly re-lated to sex.
They do not hide their intentions.?
Offenders often understand that what they are do-ing is not moral.?
They transfer responsibility to the victim.?
Predators often behave as children, copying thelanguage: colloquialisms often appear in theirmessages.?
They try to minimize the risk of being prosecuted:they ask to delete chat logs and warn victims notto tell anyone about the talk, though they finallystop being cautious and insist on meeting offline.87In this paper we consider only the first charac-teristic: fixated discourse.
The conversation below,taken from perverted-justice.com, illustrates fixateddiscourse: the predator almost ignores what the victimsays and comes back to the sex-related conversation:Predator: licking dont hurtPredator: its like u lick ice creamPseudo-victim: do u care that im 13 in marchand not yet?
i lied a little bit b4Predator: its all coolPredator: i can lick hard4 Our ApproachWe believe that lexical chains are appropriate to modelthe fixated discourse of the predators chats.4.1 Lexical ChainsA lexical chain is a sequence of semantically relatedterms (Morris and Hirst, 1991).
It has applicationsin many tasks including Word Sense Disambiguation(WSD) (Galley and McKeown, 2003) and Text Sum-marization (Barzilay and Elhadad, 1997).To estimate semantic similarity we usedtwo metrics: the similarity of Leacock andChodorow (Leacock and Chodorow, 2003), and thatof Resnik (Resnik, 1995).
Leacock and Chodorow?ssemantic similarity measure is defined as:SimL&Ch(c1, c2) = ?loglength(c1, c2)2 ?
depthwhere length(c1, c2) is the length of the shortest pathbetween the concepts c1 and c2 and depth is depth ofthe taxonomy.The semantic similarity measure that was proposedby Resnik (Resnik, 1995) relies on the InformationContent concept:IC(c) = ?logP (c)where P(c) is the probability of encountering theconcept c in a large corpus.
Thus, Resnik?s similaritymeasure is defined as follows:SimResnik(c1, c2) = IC(lcs(c1, c2))where lcs(c1, c2) is the least common subsumer ofc1 and c2.4.2 Modelling Fixated DiscourseTo model the fixated discourse phenomenon, we esti-mate the length of the longest sex-related lexical chainin a text.
In particular, we start the construction of achain with an anchor word ?sex?
in the first WordNetmeaning: ?sexual activity, sexual practice, sex, sex ac-tivity (activities associated with sexual intercourse)?.Then we continue the chain construction process untilthe end of the text.
We compare the relative lengths (inpercentage to the total number of words) of the con-structed chains: we believe that the presence of a longsex-related lexical chain in a text indicates fixated dis-course.5 DataPendar (2007) has summarized the possible types ofchat interactions with sexually explicit content:1.
Predator/Other(a) Predator/Victim (victim is underage)(b) Predator/Volunteer posing as a children(c) Predator/Law enforcement officer posing asa child2.
Adult/Adult (consensual relationship)The most interesting from our research point of viewis data of the type 1(a), but obtaining such data is noteasy.
However, the data of type 1(b) is freely avail-able at the web site www.perverted-justice.com (PJ).For our study, we have extracted chat logs from theperverted-justice website.
Since the victim is not real,we considered only the chat lines written by predators.As the negative dataset, we need data of type 2.Therefore, we have downloaded cybersex chat logsavailable at www.oocities.org/urgrl21f/.
The archivecontains 34 one-on-one cybersex logs.
We have sep-arated lines of different authors, thereby obtaining 68files.We have also used a subset of the NPS chat cor-pus (Forsythand and Martell, 2007), though it is notof type 2, we believe it will make a good comparison.We have extracted chat lines only for those adult au-thors who had more than 30 lines written.
Finally theNPS dataset consisted of 65 authors.6 ExperimentsWe carried out preliminary experiments on estimatingthe length of lexical chains with sexually related con-tent in PJ chats, and compare our results with the cor-pora described above.
Our goal is to explore the fea-sibility of including fixated discourse as a feature inpedophile detection.We used Java WordNet Similarity library (Hope,2008), which is a Java implementation of Perl Word-net:Similarity (Pedersen et al, 2008).
The averagelength of the longest lexical chains (with respect to thetotal number of words in a document) found for dif-ferent corpora are presented in Table 1 and Table 2.As we expected, sex-related lexical chains in the NPScorpus are much shorter regardless of the similaritymetric used.
The chains in the cybersex corpus areeven longer than in PJ corpus.
This is probably due88Threshold0.5 0.7mean st.dev.
mean st.dev.PJ 12.21 3.63 9.3 5.68Cybersex 18.28 16.8 9.98 12.76NPS 5.66 5.9 2.42 4.77Table 1: Average length of the longest lexical chain (percent-age in the total number of words) computed with Leacockand Chodorow semantic similarity.Threshold0.5 0.7mean st.dev.
mean st.dev.PJ 8.24 4.51 6.68 5.06Cybersex 12.04 15.86 9.13 11.64NPS 0.67 0.96 0.41 0.66Table 2: Average length of the longest lexical chain (per-centage in the total number of words) computed with Resniksemantic similarity.to the fact that whilst both corpora contain conver-sations about sex, cyberpedophiles are switching tothis topic gradually, whereas cybersex logs are entirelysex-related.7 Conclusions and Future WorkDetection of online sexual predation is a problem ofgreat importance.
In this small scale study we havefocused on modelling fixated discourse using lexicalchains as a potential feature in the automated detec-tion of online sex predators.
The preliminary experi-ments revealed that the lengths of sex-related lexicalchains vary with the nature of the corpus, with the pe-dophiles logs having longer lexical chains than chatlogs not related to sex, while the cybersex chat logshad the longest sex-related lexical chains of the threecorpora.As it was mentioned in Section 1, chat languageis very informal and has a lot of abbreviations, slangwords, mistakes etc.
Hence a fair amount of wordsused there do not appear in WordNet and, therefore,can not be included into the lexical chains.
For exam-ple, the word ?ssex?
is obviously related and shouldappear in the chain, though because of the differentspelling it is not found in WordNet and, therefore, isnot included into the chain.
We plan to add a normal-ization step prior to computing lexical chains.
We haveused only one anchor word (?sex?)
to start the lexicalchain.
But several other words could also be good can-didate for this.Fixated discourse is not only about keeping the sex-ual topic throughout all the conversation, it is alsoabout unwillingness to step out of the sexual conver-sation and ignoring victim?s attempts to do it.
There-fore, the chat lines of the pseudo-victim should be an-Figure 1: Average length of lexical chains calculated withLeacock and Chodorow semantic similarityFigure 2: Average length of lexical chains calculated withResnik semantic similarityalyzed as well in order to find out if there were failedattempts to switch the topic.
This may also help to dis-tinguish predation from cybersex conversation, sincein the cybersex conversation both participants want tofollow the topic.
However, during this preliminary ex-periments we have not yet considered this.
Moreover,perverted-justice is run by volunteers posing as poten-tial victims.
It is then possible that the volunteers?
be-havior differ from the responses of real children (Eganet al, 2011).
Their goal is to build a legal case againstthe pedophile and, therefore, they are more willing toprovoke the predator than to avoid sex-related conver-sation.Another way to distinguish cybersex fixed topicfrom the predator?s unwillingness to step out of it iscould be to use emotion classification based on theLeary Rose model proposed by Vaassen and Daele-mans (Vaassen and Daelemans, 2011).
Their approachis based on Interpersonal Circumplex suggested byLeary (Leary, 1957).
This is a model of interpersonalcommunication that reflects whether one of the par-ticipants is dominant and whether the participants arecooperative.
It was already mentioned that cyberpe-dophiles tend to be dominant.
Therefore, we believethat the Leary Rose model can be useful in detectingonline sexual predation.89Once the model of fixated discourse is improved,we plan to use it as an additional feature to detect pe-dophiles in social media.AcknowledgementsThe first author was partially supported by a GoogleResearch Award and by a scholarship from the Uni-versity of St. Petersburg.
The second authorwas supported by WIQ-EI IRSES project (grant no.269180) from the European Commission, within theFP 7 Marie Curie People, the MICINN researchproject TEXT-ENTERPRISE 2.0 TIN2009-13391-C04-03(Plan I+D+i), and the VLC/CAMPUS Micro-cluster on Multimodal Interaction in Intelligent Sys-tems.
The last author was partially supported by theUPV program PAID-02-11, award no.
1932.ReferencesGene G. Abel and Nora Harlow.
The Abel and Harlowchild molestation prevention study.
Philadelphia, Xlibris,2001.Regina Barzilay and Michael Elhadad.
Using lexical chainsfor text summarization.
In Proceedings of the IntelligentScalable Text Summarization Workshop, 1997.Vincent Egan, James Hoskinson, and David Shewan.
Per-verted justice: A content analysis of the language used byoffenders detected attempting to solicit children for sex.Antisocial Behavior: Causes, Correlations and Treat-ments, 2011.Eric N Forsythand and Craig H Martell.
Lexical and dis-course analysis of online chat dialog.
International Con-ference on Semantic Computing ICSC 2007, pages 19?26,2007.Michel Galley and Kathleen McKeown.
Improving wordsense disambiguation in lexical chaining.
In Proceedingsof IJCAI-2003, 2003.David Hope.
Java wordnet similarity library.http://www.cogs.susx.ac.uk/users/drh21.Claudia Leacock and Martin Chodorow.
C-rater: Automatedscoring of short-answer questions.
Computers and theHumanities, 37(4):389?405, 2003.Timothy Leary.
Interpersonal diagnosis of personality; afunctional theory and methodology for personality evalu-ation.
Oxford, England: Ronald Press, 1957.India McGhee, Jennifer Bayzick, April Kontostathis, LynneEdwards, Alexandra McBride and Emma Jakubowski.Learning to identify Internet sexual predation.
Interna-tional Journal on Electronic Commerce 2011.Kimberly J. Mitchell, David Finkelhor, and Janis Wolak.Risk factors for and impact of online sexual solicitationof youth.
Journal of the American Medical Association,285:3011?3014, 2001.Jane Morris and Graeme Hirst.
Lexical cohesion computedby thesaural relations as an indicator of the structure oftext.
Computational Linguistics, 17(1):21?43, 1991.Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Nibrs flatfile tape masterrecord descriptions.
1995.Ted Pedersen, Siddharth Patwardhan, Jason Michelizzi,and Satanjeev Banerjee.
Wordnet:similarity.
http://wn-similarity.sourceforge.net/.Nick Pendar.
Toward spotting the pedophile: Telling vic-tim from predator in text chats.
pages 235?241, Irvine,California, 2007.Philip Resnik.
Using information content to evaluate seman-tic similarity in a taxonomy.
In IJCAI, pages 448?453,1995.Howard N. Snyder.
Sexual assault of young children as re-ported to law enforcement: Victim, incident, and offendercharacteristics.
a nibrs statistical report.
Bureau of JusticeStatistics Clearinghouse, 2000.Frederik Vaassen and Walter Daelemans.
Automatic emo-tion classification for interpersonal communication.
InProceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Ap-proaches to Subjectivity and Sentiment Analysis (WASSA2.011), pages 104?110.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 2011.World health organization, international statistical classi-fication of diseases and related health problems: Icd-10section f65.4: Paedophilia.
1988.90
