Proceedings of the ACL-2012 Workshop on Extra-Propositional Aspects of Meaning in Computational Linguistics (ExProM-2012),pages 65?69, Jeju, Republic of Korea, 13 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating the Focus of Negation in terms of Questions Under DiscussionPranav AnandDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of California, Santa CruzSanta Cruz, CA 95064 USApanand@ucsc.eduCraig MartellDepartment of Computer ScienceNaval Postgraduate SchoolMonterey, CA USAcmartell@nps.eduAbstractBlanco & Moldovan (Blanco and Moldovan,2011) have empirically demonstrated thatnegated sentences often convey implicit pos-itive inferences, or focus, and that these in-ferences are both human annotatable and ma-chine learnable.
Concentrating on their anno-tation process, this paper argues that the focus-based implicit positivity should be separatedfrom concepts of scalar implicature and neg-raising, as well as the placement of stress.
Weshow that a model making these distinctionsclear and which incorporates the pragmaticnotion of question under discussion yields ?rates above .80, but that it substantially de-flates the rates of focus of negation in text.1 IntroductionThe recent paper by Blanco & Moldovan (Blancoand Moldovan, 2011) has highlighted the fact thatnegation in natural language is more that just apropositional logic operator.
The central claims ofthe paper are that negation conveys implicit positiv-ity more than half of the time and that such positivityis both reliably annotatable by humans and promis-ingly learnable by machine.
In this paper, we eval-uate their annotation process and propose a differ-ent model that incorporates the pragmatic conceptthat discourse is guided by questions under discus-sion (QUDs), often implicit issues that hearers andspeakers are attending to.
We concentrate on thecorpus used in (Blanco and Moldovan, 2011), PB-FOC.11PB-FOC was released as part of *SEM 2012Shared Task: Resolving the Scope and Focus of Nega-Our animating concern can be seen concretely bycomparing the examples2 from the corpus providedbelow.
(1) a.
?They were willing to mistreat us be-cause we hadn?t shown any moxie, anyresistance,?
says William Queenan, aDC-10 pilot and 14-year Federal vet-eran.
(ex.
939)b.
?I won?t be throwing 90 mph, but I willthrow 80-plus,?
he says.
(ex.
1)c. ?Some shows just don?t impress, hesays, and this is one of them.?
(ex.
30)d. ?But we don?t believe there is enoughof a difference to be clinically signifi-cant,?
Dr. Sobel said.
(ex.
426)We believe these examples are incorrectly anno-tated, but in somewhat different ways.
FollowingBlanco & Moldovan, assume that focus of negationis diagnosed by an implication that some alternativeto the focus would make a sentence true.
Then in(1a), in which the focus is annotated as being on thenegative polarity item any moxie, any resistance, itis not clear that there is focus at all.
If there were,the sentence would imply that the pilots in ques-tion showed something but not some moxie.
Thisdoesn?t seem to be the meaning intended.
In con-trast, in (1b), we agree that focus is present, buttake it to be on the phrase 90 mph, as is confirmedtionhttp://www.clips.ua.ac.be/sem2012-st-neg/2The citation (ex.
n) will refer to the nth annotated instancein the PB-FOC dataset.
In these and following examples, weindicate the PB-FOC focus by emboldening and our suggestedalternative (if present) by italics65by the overt contrast that follows.
Finally, (1c) and(1d) both show something more complex; in (1c) thescalar quantifier some is not in the scope of negation(lest it mean no shows impress), and thus cannot bea focus.
Nonetheless, we agree that a positive im-plicature arises here (namely, that some shows doimpress), but we suggest that this is simply a factabout scalar implicatures.
Finally, in (1d), in whichthe verb believe is a so-called neg-raiser (a predicateP such that ?P (x) ?
P (?x)), the implicit posi-tivity about a belief the doctors have is not due topragmatic focus, but a lexical property of the verb inquestion.In sum, what worried us was the variety of con-structions being considered equivalent.
In order torespond to these concerns, we reannotated 2304 sen-tences from the development subcorpus, being care-ful to try to tease apart the relevant distinctions men-tioned above.
This paper documents that effort.
Ourcentral finding is that the PB-FOC data contains anoverabundance of focus-marked phrases (i.e., caseslike (1a)): the PB-FOC rate of focus marking in oursubcorpus is 74% (somewhat higher than the 65%for the whole dataset), while we observed a rate of50%.
Although the reduction in focus-marking oc-curs across all Propbank role types, we show that itis highest with the A1 and AM-MNR roles.
Onecentral reason for the overmarking, we argue, isthat the definition of focus of negation Blanco &Moldovan use is somewhat vague, allowing one toconfuse emphasis with implicit positivity.
We ar-gue instead that although they are right to correlatestress with focus (by and large), focus is connectedto referencing a QUD (Rooth, 1996; Roberts, 1996;Kadmon, 2001), and only indirectly leads to positiv-ity.2 Delimiting Focus of Negation2.1 What Focus of Negation isFollowing (Huddleston and Pullman, 2002), Blanco& Moldovan define the focus of negation as ?thatpart of the scope [of negation] that is most promi-nently or explicitly negated.?
They further argue thatwhen there is a focus of negation, it yields a cor-responding positive inference.
This idea has rootsin Jackendoff?s seminal theory of focus (Jackendoff,1972).
Jackendoff proposes a) that focus in general(with or without negation) partitions a sentence intoa function, obtained by lambda abstracting over thefocused constituent and b) that negation is a focus-sensitive operator, stating that the function applied tothe focused constituent yields falsity.
To capture thepositive inference cases, Jackendoff initially claimsthat focus always presupposes that there is some el-ement in the function?s domain (i.e., there is someway to make the sentence true).
(2) Bill likes Mary.
7?
?
?x Bill likes x, Mary?
(3) not(?f, x?)
= 0.
(4) focus presupposition: ?y[f(y) = 1].While 4 might be correct for focus-sensitive op-erators like only, it is clearly not for negation.
AsJackendoff himself points out, the sentence(5) Bill doesn?t like anybody.clearly does not lead to the inference that Bill likessomeone, even when anybody is strongly stressed.More contemporary work (Rooth, 1996; Roberts,1996) has instead argued that what focus presup-poses is that there is a relevant question under dis-cussion (QUD).
In the case of 2, it is the question(6) Who does Bill like?The QUD model assumes that dialogue is struc-tured in terms of currently relevant (often implicit)questions, which serve to explain how a coherentdiscourse arises.
Focus is thus coherent in contextif the corresponding QUD is relevant.
This serves toexplain Jackendoff?s counterexample (5) ?
anybodyis focused because the question (6) is currently rele-vant.
Under this account, focus of negation does notautomatically yield an existential positive inference,but only if the corresponding QUD is assumed to ex-clude negative answers (i.e., if it is assumed that noone is not a suitable answer to Who does Bill like?
).Adopting the QUD model thus means that in deter-mining the positive inferences from a negated sen-tence, we must ask two questions:a) What is the relevant QUD for this sentence/sub-sentence?b) Does that QUD in context prohibit negative an-swers?662.2 What isn?t Focus of NegationThus, we see that the positive inference resultingfrom a negated sentence is the result of an inter-play of the general meaning of focus (referencinga relevant QUD) and context (furnishing an assump-tion that some non-negative answer to the QUD ex-ists).
However, there is another way of yielding pos-itive inferences to negated sentences, relying merelyon the familiar theory of scalar implicature.
Con-sider (7) below, which involves the scalar expres-sion much (roughly equivalent to a lot).
In positiveassertions, using the quantifier a lot entails the corre-sponding alternative with some, and using all entailsa lot.
In the scope of negation, these patterns reverse,giving rise to opposite implicatures.
Thus, (7) impli-cates that the stronger alternative (8) is false and thus(9) ?
that some but not much of a clue is given.
(7) assertion: However, it doesn?t give much ofa clue as to whether a recession is on thehorizon.
(ex.
122)(8) stronger alternative: It doesn?t give any clueas to whether a recession is on the horizon.
(9) implicature: It gives some clue as to whetherthe recession is on the horizon.A different problem occurs with ?neg-raising?predicates like believe, expect, think, seem, andwant.
Since (Filmore, 1963), it has been noted thatsome clausal embedding predicates seem to interpreta superordinate negation inside their scope ?
that is,BILL DOESN?T THINK MARY IS HERE seems to beequivalent to BILL THINKS MARY ISN?T HERE.While neg-raising is defeasible in certain contextsand its explanation is contentious (see (Gajewski,2007) for discussion), it does not seem to be depen-dent on focus per se.
In particular, putting focus onany element in the complement clause seems to en-gender a different positive inference.
For example,in (10), this would give rise to the inference that Billwants to talk to someone else, not simply that hewants to not talk to Mary.
(10) Bill doesn?t want to talk to Mary.In short, neg-raising cases should be consideredmore properly to be cases where the scope of nega-tion is semantically lower than it appears, not casesof focus driven inference.3 ReannotationWe annotated 2304 examples from the shared tasktraining corpus.
As in the original study, annotatorswere shown a target sentence as well as the priorand following sentence and were asked to mark thefocus of negation in the target.
Annotators followeda three step process.
First, they were instructed to?move?
the negation around the sentence to variousconstituents, as exemplified below, introducing anexistential quantificational some.
.
.
but not.
(11) a.
[She]A0 didn?t have [hot water]A1 [forfive days]AM?TMP .
(ex.
1925)b.
Someone but not her had hot water forfive days.c.
She had something but not hot water forfive days.d.
She had hot water but not for five days.They were then asked to determine which if anyof these was most relevant, given the surroundingcontext and mark that as the focus.
In determiningwhich was most relevant, annotators asked whetherthe question corresponding to each altered sentence(e.g., Who had hot water for five days?)
appeared tobe under discussion in context.3Three linguist annotators were selected andtrained on 20 examples randomly drawn from thetraining set, including 5 examples of scalar ?focus?,3 of neg-raising, and 5 instances of no focus.
An-notators were given explicit feedback on each trialannotated.
The annotators then annotated the re-maining 2284 examples in our subcorpus with 100%overlap and 2 annotators per token.3.1 ResultsFigure 1 summarizes the differences between PB-FOC and our annotation by role4.
Our annotatorsachieved a pairwise ?
of 0.82.
Our agreement withPB-FOC was significantly lower: ?
= 0.48 if weexclude scalars and neg-raisers and 0.59 if we countthem as focused.3The QUD model in general allows multiple foci, e.g., Whohad hot water when?
We did not consider multiple foci in thepresent study.4Other consists of C-A1, AM-PNC, AM-LOC, A4, R-A1,AM-EXT, A3, R-A0, AM-DIR, AM-DIS, R-AM-LOC67PB-FOC ROLE COUNT AGREED SCALAR NEG-RAISING NO FOCUS OTHERA1 920 332 54 101 372 61NO FOCUS 591 532 0 0 AGREED 59AM-TMP 160 116 0 0 29 15AM-MNR 125 51 28 0 40 6A2 112 43 1 0 47 21A0 88 24 20 0 23 21AM-ADV 77 30 3 0 26 18No Role 69 42 2 0 19 6Other 161 42 8 20 75 16TOTAL 2303 1212 116 121 631 223Figure 1: Overall comparison of rolesAs Figure 1 shows, the central reason for thisdiscrepancy is the 631 examples where our annota-tors did not find focus where PB-FOC indicated thatthere was some; in contrast, only 59 examples thatPB-FOC labeled as focusless were disagreed with.There are two interesting trends.
First, we foundan abundance of cases where the the question pro-duced by the PB-FOC focus yielded an uninforma-tive question (12% of disagreements), often in casescontaining predicates of possession (e.g., have, con-tain).
For example, in (12), the PB-FOC label wouldbe answer the question What do American Brandsconclude they have under the contract?, which doesnot seem relevant in context.
(12) possession (7%): ?We have previously haddiscussions with representatives of Pinker-ton?s Inc. concerning the (sale of the com-pany) and we concluded that we did not haveliability under the contract,?
says AmericanBrands.
(ex.
181)An additional 4% of the disagreements involvedidiomatic expressions, where neither the syntacticnor the semantic sub-constituents could be mean-ingfully separated; in (13), take kindly to that as awhole is negated, and focusing on any one part willupset the idiom.
Although of small number, the bi-ased questions exemplified in (14) are illustrative ofnegation?s chimerical lives; in these questions, nega-tion?s function is at the discourse level and it has nopropositional negative force.
(13) idioms (4%): But media-stock analystRichard J. MacDonald of MacDonaldGrippo Riely says Wall Street won?t takekindly to that.
(ex.
2081)(14) biased questions (10 instances): Butwouldn?t a president who acted despite Sen-ate objections be taking grave politicalrisks?
(ex.
489)4 ConclusionWe have argued that while the study of the focus ofnegation is of compelling interest to the computa-tional community, more work is needed at theory-and annotation-building levels before we can effec-tively ask machine learning questions.
We have sug-gested that one promising route for pursuing thisis to operationalize the question under discussionmodel of focus?s contribution to a sentence, andthat such a procedure yields a marked decrease inthe prevalence of focus of negation in PB-FOC.This partly follows from our decision on linguisticgrounds to separate focus of negation from scalarimplicature and neg-raising.
From an engineeringperspective, if our goal is to extract any positive in-ference from negated clauses, such distinctions maybe academic.
We suspect, however, that the linguis-tic heterogeneity substantially complicates annota-tor?s task.
We have shown that by explicitly tellingannotators what the differences are, agreement rises,and we think future work should incorporate such amodel.
Finally, we plan on annotating foci that donot yield positive inferences, since it has the hope ofgiving us a window into when and how focus givesrise to positivity.68ReferencesEduardo Blanco and Dan Moldovan.
2011.
SemanticRepresentation of Negation Using Focus Detection.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies (ACL-HLT 2011), Portland, OR,USA.Charles Filmore.
1963.
The position of embedding trans-formations in grammar.
Word, 19:208?231.Jan Robert Gajewski.
2007.
Neg-raising and polarity.Linguistics and Philosophy, 30:289?328.Rodney Huddleston and Geoffrey K. Pullman.
2002.
TheCambridge Grammar of the English Langauge.
Cam-bridge University Press.Ray Jackendoff.
1972.
Semantic Interpretation in Gen-erative Grammar.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Nirit Kadmon.
2001.
Formal Pragmatics: Seman-tics, Pragmatics, Presupposition, and Focus.
Wiley-Blackwell.Craige Roberts.
1996.
Information structure: Towardsan integrated theory of formal pragmatics.
In Jae-HakYoon and Andreas Kathol, editors, OSU Working Pa-pers in Linguistics, Volume 49: Papers in Semantics,pages 91?136.
The Ohio State University Departmentof Linguistics.Mats Rooth.
1996.
Focus.
In Shalom Lappin, editor, TheHandbook of Contemporary Semantic Theory, pages271?298.
Blackwell, Oxford.69
