Proceedings of the 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 61?66,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Generic Framework for Multiword Expressions Treatment:from Acquisition to ApplicationsCarlos RamischFederal University of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil)GETALP ?
LIG, University of Grenoble (France)ceramisch@inf.ufrgs.brAbstractThis paper presents an open and flexible method-ological framework for the automatic acquisition ofmultiword expressions (MWEs) from monolingualtextual corpora.
This research is motivated by theimportance of MWEs for NLP applications.
Af-ter briefly presenting the modules of the framework,the paper reports extrinsic evaluation results con-sidering two applications: computer-aided lexicog-raphy and statistical machine translation.
Both ap-plications can benefit from automatic MWE acquisi-tion and the expressions acquired automatically fromcorpora can both speed up and improve their quality.The promising results of previous and ongoing ex-periments encourage further investigation about theoptimal way to integrate MWE treatment into theseand many other applications.1 IntroductionMultiword expressions (MWEs) range over linguisticconstructions such as idioms (to pay an arm and a leg),fixed phrases (rock ?n?
roll) and noun compounds (dryice).
There is no unique and widely accepted definitionfor the term multiword expression.
It can be an ?arbi-trary and recurrent word combination?
(Smadja, 1993)or ?a syntactic and semantic unit whose exact and un-ambiguous meaning or connotation cannot be derived di-rectly from the meaning or connotation of its compo-nents?
(Choueka, 1988) or simply an ?idiosyncratic inter-pretation that crosses word boundaries (or spaces)?
(Saget al, 2002).
MWEs lie in the fuzzy zone between lexi-con and syntax, thus constituting a real challenge for NLPsystems.
In addition, they are very pervasive, occurringfrequently in everyday language as well as in specialisedcommunications.
Some common properties of MWEsare:11These are not binary yes/no flags, but values in a continuum goingfrom flexible word combinations to prototypical fixed expressions.SRC I paid my poor parents a visitMT J?ai pay?
mes pauvres parents une visiteREF J?ai rendu visite ?
mes pauvres parentsSRC Students pay an arm and a leg to park on campusMT Les ?tudiants paient un bras et une jambe pourse garer sur le campusREF Les ?tudiants paient les yeux de la t?te pour segarer sur le campusSRC It shares the translation-invariance and homo-geneity properties with the central momentMT Il partage la traduction-invariance et propri?t?sd?homog?n?it?
avec le moment centralREF Il partage les propri?t?s d?invariance par trans-lation et d?homog?n?it?
avec le moment centralTable 1: Examples of SMT errors due to MWEs.?
Arbitrariness: sometimes valid constructions arenot acceptable because people do not use them.Smadja (1993, p. 143?144) illustrates this by pre-senting 8 different ways of referring to the DowJones index, among which only 4 are used.?
Institutionalisation: MWEs are recurrent, as theycorrespond to conventional ways of saying things.Jackendoff (1997) estimates that they compose halfof the entries of a speaker?s lexicon, and Sag et al(2002) point out that this may be an underestimate ifwe consider domain-specific MWEs.?
Limited semantic variability: MWEs do not un-dergo the same semantic compositionality rules asordinary word combinations.
This is expressed interms of (i) non-compositionality, as the meaningof the whole expression often cannot be directly in-ferred from the meaning of the parts composing it,(ii) non-substitutability, as it is not possible to re-place part of an MWE by a related (synonym/equiv-alent) word or construction, and (iii) no word-for-word translation.61?
Limited syntactic variability: standard grammati-cal rules do not apply to MWEs.
This can be ex-pressed in terms of (i) lexicalisation, as one can-not list all MWEs in the lexicon (undergeneration)nor include them all in the grammar (overgenera-tion) and (ii) extragrammaticality, as MWEs areunpredictable and seem ?weird?
for a second lan-guage learner who only knows general rules.2?
Heterogeneity: MWEs are hard to define becausethey encompass a large amount of phenomena.Thus, NLP applications cannot use a unified ap-proach and need to rely on some typology3.In this paper, I adopt the definition by Calzolari et al(2002), who define MWEs as:different but related phenomena [which] can bedescribed as a sequence4 of words that acts as asingle unit at some level of linguistic analysis.This generic and intentionally vague definition can benarrowed down according to the application needs.
Forexample, for the statistical machine translation (MT) sys-tem5 used in the examples shown in Table 1, an MWE isany sequence of words which, when not translated as aunit, generates errors: ungrammatical or unnatural verbalconstructions (sentence 1), awkward literal translations ofidioms (sentence 2) and problems of lexical choice andword order in specialised texts (sentence 3).
These ex-amples illustrate the importance of correctly dealing withMWEs in MT applications and, more generally, MWEscan speed up and help remove ambiguities in many cur-rent NLP applications, for example:?
Lexicography: Church and Hanks (1990) used alexicographic environment as their evaluation sce-nario, comparing manual and intuitive research withthe automatic association ratio they proposed.?
Word sense disambiguation: MWEs tend to beless polysemous than simple words.
Finlayson andKulkarni (2011) exemplify that the word world has9 senses in Wordnet 1.6, record has 14, but worldrecord has only 1.?
POS tagging and parsing: recent work in parsingand POS tagging indicates that MWEs can help re-move syntactic ambiguities (Seretan, 2008).?
Information retrieval: when MWEs like pop starare indexed as a unit, the accuracy of the system im-proves on multiword queries (Acosta et al, 2011).2Examples of MWEs that breach standard grammatical rules includekingdom come and by and large.3For example, Smadja (1993) classifies them according to syntacticfunction while Sag et al (2002) classify them according to flexibility.4Although they define MWEs as ?sequences?, assuming contiguity,we assume ?sets?
of words for greater generality.5Automatic translations (MT) by Google (http://translate.google.com/) on 2012/02/18.
Reference (REF) by native speaker.2 Thesis contributionsDespite the importance of MWEs in several applications,they are often neglected in the design and constructionof real-life systems.
In 1993, Smadja pointed out that?.
.
.
although disambiguation was originally consideredas a performance task, the collocations retrieved have notbeen used for any specific computational task.?
Mostof the recent and current research in the MWE commu-nity still focuses on MWE acquisition instead of integra-tion of automatically acquired or manually compiled re-sources into applications.
The main contribution of mythesis is that it represents a step toward the integrationof automatically extracted MWEs into real-life applica-tions.
Concretely, my contributions can be classified intwo categories: first, I propose a unified, open and flexi-ble methodological framework (?
3) for automatic MWEacquisition from corpora; and second, I am performingan intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation of MWE acquisition(?
4), dissecting the influence of the different types of re-sources employed in the acquisition on the quality of theMWEs.
The results of ongoing experiments are interest-ing but further work is needed to better understand thecontributions of MWEs to the systems (?
5).Methodological Framework To date, there is noagreement on whether there is a single best method forMWE acquisition, or whether a different subset of meth-ods works better for a given MWE type.
Most of recentwork on MWE treatment focuses on candidate extractionfrom preprocessed text (Seretan, 2008) and on the auto-matic filtering and ranking through association measures(Evert, 2004; Pecina, 2010), but few authors provide awhole picture of the MWE treatment pipeline.
One ofthe advantages of the framework I propose is that it mod-els the whole acquisition process with modular tasks thatcan be chained in several ways, each task having multipleavailable techniques.
Therefore, it is highly customisableand allows for a large number of parameters to be tunedaccording to the target MWE types.
Moreover, the tech-niques I have developed do not depend on a fixed lengthof candidate expression nor on adjacency assumptions,as the words in an expression might occur several wordsaway.
Thanks to this flexibility, this methodology canbe easily applied to virtually any language, MWE typeand domain, not strictly depending on a given formal-ism or tool6.
Intuitively, for a given language, if somepreprocessing tools like POS taggers and/or parsers areavailable, the results will be much better than running themethods on raw text.
But since such tools are not avail-able for all languages, the methodology was conceived tobe applicable even in the absence of preprocessing.6However, it is designed to deal with languages that use spaces toseparate words.
Thus, when working with Chinese, Japanese, or evenwith German compounds, some additional preprocessing is required.62Evaluation of MWE Acquisition Published resultscomparing MWE extraction techniques usually evaluatethem on small controlled data sets using objective mea-sures such as precision, recall and mean average preci-sion (Schone and Jurafsky, 2001; Pearce, 2002; Evert andKrenn, 2005).
On the one hand, the results of intrinsicevaluation are often vague or inconclusive: although theyshed some light on the optimal parameters for the givenscenario, they are hard to generalise and cannot be di-rectly applied to other configurations.
The quality of ac-quired MWEs as measured by objective criteria dependson the language, domain and type of the target construc-tion, on corpus size and genre, on already available re-sources7, on the applied filters, preprocessing steps, etc.On the other hand, extrinsic evaluation consists of insert-ing acquired MWEs into a real NLP application and eval-uating the impact of this new data on the overall perfor-mance of the system.
For instance, it may be easier to aska human annotator to evaluate the output of an MT sys-tem than to ask whether a sequence of words constitutesan MWE.
Thus, another original contribution of my the-sis is application-oriented extrinsic evaluation of MWEacquisition on two study cases: computer-aided lexicog-raphy and statistical machine translation.
My goal is toinvestigate (1) how much the MWEs impact on the appli-cation and (2) what is (are) the best way(s) of integratingthem in the complex pipeline of the target application.3 MWE ExtractionAmong early work on developing methods for MWEidentification, there is that of Smadja (1993).
He pro-posed and developed a tool called Xtract, aimed atgeneral-purpose collocation extraction from text using acombination of n-grams and a mutual information mea-sure.
On general-purpose texts, Xtract has a precision ofaround 80%.
Since then, many advances have been made,either looking at MWEs in general (Dias, 2003), or focus-ing on specific MWE types, such as collocations, phrasalverbs and compound nouns.
A popular type-independentapproach to MWE identification is to use statistical as-sociation measures, which have been applied to the taskwith varying degrees of success (Evert and Krenn, 2005).One of the advantages of this approach is that it is lan-guage independent.
This is particularly important sincealthough work on MWEs in several languages has beenreported, e.g.
Dias (2003) for Portuguese and Evert andKrenn (2005) for German, work on English still seems topredominate.I propose a new framework called mwetoolkit, de-scribed in Figure 1, which integrates multiple techniquesand covers the whole pipeline of MWE acquisition.
Onecan preprocess a raw monolingual corpus, if tools are7It is useless to acquire MWEs already present in the dictionary.raw corpus preprocessedcorpusPREPROCESSING  * POS tagging  * Lemmatisation  * Dependency parsing indexedcorpusINDEXINGMWEcandidatesextractionpatternsCANDIDATE EXTRACTION  * n-grams  * POS sequences     (multilevel RegExp)  * syntaxFilteredcandidatesweb as corpusfilteringpatternsCANDIDATE FILTERING  * Counting  * Statistical features  * Filters:    - Stopwords    - Patterns    - Thresholds  * Ranking and cropingValidatedcandidatesVALIDATION  * Sampling  * Human annotation  * Comparison with     gold standardMWE acquisitionmodel NLPapplicationLEARNINGContributivedictionarymanagementFigure 1: Framework for MWE acquisition from corporaavailable for the target language, enriching it with POStags, lemmas and dependency syntax.
Then, based onexpert linguistic knowledge, intuition, empiric observa-tion and/or examples, one defines multilevel patterns in aformalism similar to regular expressions to describe thetarget MWEs.
The application of these patterns on an in-dexed corpus generates a list of candidate MWEs.
Forfiltering, a plethora of methods is available, ranging fromsimple frequency thresholds to stopword lists and sophis-ticated association measures.
Finally, the resulting fil-tered candidates are either directly injected into an NLPapplication or further manually validated before applica-tion.
An alternative use for the validated candidates isto train a machine learning model which can be appliedon new corpora in order to automatically identify and ex-tract MWEs based on the characteristics of the previouslyacquired ones.
For further details, please refer to thewebsite of the framework8 and to previous publications(Ramisch et al, 2010a; Ramisch et al, 2010b).4 Application-oriented evaluationIn this section, I present summarised results of extrinsicquantitative and qualitative evaluation of the frameworkfor MWE acquisition propose in ?
3.
The target applica-tions are computer-aided lexicography (?
4.1) and statis-tical machine translation (?
4.2).8http://mwetoolkit.sf.net63Language Type Corpus (words) Candidates Final MWEs PublicationEnglish PV Europarl (13M) 5.3K 875 (Ramisch et al, 2012)French NC Europarl (14.5M) 104K 3,746 (Ramisch et al, 2012)Greek NC Europarl (26M) 25K 815 (Linardaki et al, 2010)Portuguese CP PLN-BR-FULL (29M) 407K 773 (Duran et al, 2011)Table 2: MWE acquisition applied to lexicography4.1 Computer-aided LexicographyIn this evaluation, I collaborated with colleagues who areexperienced linguists and lexicographers, in order to cre-ate new lexical resources containing MWEs.
The lan-guages of the resources are English, French, Greek andPortuguese.
Table 2 summarises the outcomes of eachevaluation.
The created data sets are freely available.9, 10We extracted English phrasal verbs (PVs) from the En-glish portion of the Europarl corpus11.
We considered aPV as being formed by a verb (except to be and to have)followed by a prepositional particle12 not further than 5words after it13 This resulted in 5,302 phrasal verb candi-dates occurring more than once in the corpus, from which875 were automatically identified as true PVs and the oth-ers are currently under manual validation.
Analogously,the French noun compounds (NCs) were extracted fromEuroparl using the following pattern: a noun followed byeither an adjective or a prepositional complement14.
Af-ter filtering out candidates that occur once in the corpus,we obtained 3,746 MWE candidates and part of the re-maining candidates will be manually analysed in the fu-ture.For Greek, in particular, considerable work has beendone to study the linguistic properties of MWEs, butcomputational approaches are still limited (Fotopoulouet al, 2008).
In our experiments, we extracted fromthe POS-tagged Greek part of the Europarl corpuswords matching the following patterns: adjective-noun,noun-noun, noun-determiner-noun, noun-preposition-noun, preposition-noun-noun, noun-adjective-noun andnoun-conjunction-noun.
The candidates were counted intwo corpora and annotated with four association mea-sures, and the top 150 according to each measure whereannotated by three native speakers, that is, each annotatorjudged around 1,200 candidates and in the end the anno-tations were joined, creating a lexicon with 815 Greeknominal MWEs.9http://multiword.sourceforge.net/PHITE.php?sitesig=FILES&page=FILES_20_Data_Sets10http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/~ceramisch/?page=downloads/mwecompare11http://statmt.org/europarl12up, off, down, back, away, in, on.13Even though the particle might occur further than 5 positions away,such cases are sufficiently rare to be ignored in this experiment.14Prepositions de, ?
and en followed by optionally determined noun.Finally, the goal of the work with Portuguese com-plex predicates (CPs) was to perform a qualitativeanalysis of these constructions.
Therefore, we POS-tagged the PLN-BR-FULL corpus15 and extractedsequences of words matching the patterns: verb-[determiner]-noun-preposition, verb-preposition-noun,verb-[preposition/determiner]-adverb and verb-adjective.The extraction process resulted in a list of 407,014candidates which were further filtered using statisticalassociation measures.
Thus, an expert human annotatormanually validated 12,545 candidates from which 699were annotated as compositional verbal expressionsand 74 as idiomatic verbal expressions.
Afterwards,a fine-grained analysis of each extraction pattern wasconducted with the goal of finding correlations betweensyntactic flexibility and semantic properties such ascompositionality.4.2 Statistical Machine Translation (SMT)Incorporating even simple treatments for MWEs inSMT systems can improve translation quality.
For in-stance, Carpuat and Diab (2010) adopt two complemen-tary strategies for integrating MWEs: a static strategyof single-tokenisation that treats MWEs as word-with-spaces and a dynamic strategy that adds a count for thenumber of MWEs in the source phrase.
They found thatboth strategies result in improvement of translation qual-ity, which suggests that SMT phrases alone do not modelall MWE information.
Morin and Daille (2010) obtainedan improvement of 33% in the French?Japanese trans-lation of MWEs with a morphologically-based composi-tional method for backing-off when there is not enoughdata in a dictionary to translate a MWE (e.g.
chronic fa-tigue syndrome decomposed as [chronic fatigue] [syn-drome], [chronic] [fatigue syndrome] or [chronic] [fa-tigue] [syndrome]).
For translating from and to mor-phologically rich languages like German, where a com-pound is in fact a single token formed through concate-nation, Stymne (2011) splits the compound into its sin-gle word components prior to translation and then appliessome post-processing, like the reordering or merging ofthe components, after translation.
She obtains improve-ments in BLEU from 21.63 to 22.12 in English?Swedishand from 19.31 to 19.73 in English?German.15www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/plnbr64% Good % Acceptable % IncorrectBaseline 0.53 0.36 0.11TOK 0.55 0.29 0.16PV?
0.50 0.39 0.11PART 0.53 0.36 0.11VERB 0.53 0.36 0.11BILEX 0.50 0.29 0.20Table 3: Evaluation of translation of phrasal verbs in test set.In the current experiments, a standard non factoredphrase-based SMT system was built using the open-source Moses toolkit with parameters similar to those ofthe baseline system for the 2011 WMT campaign.
16.For training, we used the English?Portuguese Europarlv6 (EP) corpus, with 1.7M sentences and around 50Mwords.
The training data contains the first 200K sen-tences tokenized and lowercased, resulting in 152,235parallel sentences and around 3.1M words.
The wholePortuguese corpus was used as training data for 5-gramlanguage model built with SRILM.
Phrasal verbs wereautomatically identified using the jMWE tool and a dic-tionary of PVs.
We compared the following five strate-gies for the integration of automatically identified phrasalverbs in the system:?
TOK: before translation, rearrange the verb and theparticle in a joint configuration and transform theminto a single token with underscore (e.g.
call him upinto call_up him).?
PV?
: add a binary feature to each bi-phrase indicat-ing whether a source phrasal verb has been detectedin it or not.?
PART: replace the particle by the one most fre-quently used with the target verb, using a web-basedlanguage model with a symmetric windows of 1 to 5words around the particle.?
VERB: modify the form of the Portuguese verb(gerund or infinitive), according to the form detectedon the English side.?
BILEX (or bilingual lexicon): augment the phrase ta-ble of the baseline system with 179,133 new bilin-gual phrases from an English?Portuguese phrasalverb lexicon.Table 3 shows the preliminary results of a human eval-uation performed on a test set of 100 sentences.
The sen-tences were inspected and we verified that, while sometranslations improve with the integration strategies, oth-ers are degraded.
No absolute improvement was ob-served, but we believe that this is due to the fact that ourevaluation needs to consider more fine-grained classes of16www.statmt.org/wmt11/baseline.htmlphrasal verbs instead of mixing them all in the same testset.
Additionally, we would need to annotate more datain order to obtain more representative results.
These hy-potheses motivate us to continue our investigation in or-der to obtain a deeper understanding the impact of eachintegration strategy on each step of the SMT system.5 Future Experiments and PerspectivesIn this paper, I described an open framework for the au-tomatic acquisition of MWEs from corpora.
What dis-tinguishes it from related work is that it provides anintegrated environment covering the whole acquisitionpipeline.
For each module, there are multiple availabletechniques which are flexible, portable and can be com-bined in several ways.
The usefulness of the frameworkis then presented in terms of extrinsic application-basedevaluation.
I presented summarised results of ongoingexperiments in computer-aided lexicography and in SMT.Although our results are promising, the experimentson SMT need further investigation.
I am currently apply-ing syntax-based identification and analysing word align-ment and translation table entries for a set of prototypi-cal MWEs, in order to obtain a better understanding ofthe impact of each integration strategy on the system.Moreover, I would like to pursue previous experimentson bilingual MWE acquisition from parallel and compa-rable resources.
Finally, I would like to experiment onMWE simplification (e.g.
replacing a multiword verb likego back by its simplex form regress) as preprocessing forSMT, in order to improve translation quality by makingthe source language look more like the target language.Asthese improvements depend in the MT paradigm, I wouldalso like to evaluate strategies for the integration of verbalMWEs in expert MT systems.In spite of a large amount of work in the area, thetreatment of MWEs in NLP applications is still an openand challenging problem.
This is not surprising, giventheir complex and heterogeneous behaviour (Sag et al,2002).
At the beginning of the 2000?s, Schone and Juraf-sky (2001) asked whether the identification of MWEs wasa solved problem, and the answer that paper gave was ?no,it is not?.
The MWE workshop series have shown that thisis still the case, listing several challenges in MWE treat-ment like lexical representation and application-orientedevaluation.
Therefore, I believe that my thesis will be asignificant step toward the full integration of MWE treat-ment in NLP applications, but there is still a long road togo.AcknowledgementsThis work was partly funded by the CAMELEON project(CAPES?COFECUB 707-11) and by a Ph.D. grant from theFrench Ministry for Higher Education and Research.
I would65like to thank my supervisors Aline Villavicencio and ChristianBoitet, as well as the colleagues who contributed to this work:Evita Linardaki, Valia Kordoni, Magali Sanchez Duran and Vi-tor De Araujo.ReferencesOtavio Acosta, Aline Villavicencio, and Viviane Moreira.
2011.Identification and treatment of multiword expressions ap-plied to information retrieval.
In Valia Kordoni, CarlosRamisch, and Aline Villavicencio, editors, Proc.of the ALCWorkshop on MWEs: from Parsing and Generation to theReal World (MWE 2011), pages 101?109, Portland, OR,USA, Jun.
ACL.Nicoleta Calzolari, Charles Fillmore, Ralph Grishman, NancyIde, Alessandro Lenci, Catherine Macleod, and AntonioZampolli.
2002.
Towards best practice for multiword ex-pressions in computational lexicons.
In Proc.
of the ThirdLREC (LREC 2002), pages 1934?1940, Las Palmas, CanaryIslands, Spain, May.
ELRA.Marine Carpuat and Mona Diab.
2010.
Task-based evaluationof multiword expressions: a pilot study in statistical machinetranslation.
In Proc.
of HLT: The 2010 Annual Conf.
of theNAACL (NAACL 2003), pages 242?245, Los Angeles, Cali-fornia, Jun.
ACL.Yaacov Choueka.
1988.
Looking for needles in a haystack orlocating interesting collocational expressions in large textualdatabases.
In RIAO?88, pages 609?624.Kenneth Ward Church and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Word asso-ciation norms mutual information, and lexicography.
Comp.Ling., 16(1):22?29.Ga?l Dias.
2003.
Multiword unit hybrid extraction.
In FrancisBond, Anna Korhonen, Diana McCarthy, and Aline Villavi-cencio, editors, Proc.
of the ACL Workshop on MWEs: Anal-ysis, Acquisition and Treatment (MWE 2003), pages 41?48,Sapporo, Japan, Jul.
ACL.Magali Sanches Duran, Carlos Ramisch, Sandra Maria Alu?sio,and Aline Villavicencio.
2011.
Identifying and analyzingbrazilian portuguese complex predicates.
In Valia Kordoni,Carlos Ramisch, and Aline Villavicencio, editors, Proc.of theALC Workshop on MWEs: from Parsing and Generation tothe Real World (MWE 2011), pages 74?82, Portland, OR,USA, Jun.
ACL.Stefan Evert and Brigitte Krenn.
2005.
Using small randomsamples for the manual evaluation of statistical associationmeasures.
Comp.
Speech & Lang.
Special issue on MWEs,19(4):450?466.Stefan Evert.
2004.
The Statistics of Word Cooccur-rences: Word Pairs and Collocations.
Ph.D. thesis, Institutf?r maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, University of Stuttgart,Stuttgart, Germany.Mark Finlayson and Nidhi Kulkarni.
2011.
Detecting multi-word expressions improves word sense disambiguation.
InValia Kordoni, Carlos Ramisch, and Aline Villavicencio, ed-itors, Proc.of the ALC Workshop on MWEs: from Parsingand Generation to the Real World (MWE 2011), pages 20?24, Portland, OR, USA, Jun.
ACL.Aggeliki Fotopoulou, Giorgos Giannopoulos, Maria Zourari,and Marianna Mini.
2008.
Automatic recognition and ex-traction of multiword nominal expressions from corpora (ingreek).
In Proceedings of the 29th Annual Meeting, De-partment of Linguistics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki,Greece.Ray Jackendoff.
1997.
Twistin?
the night away.
Language,73:534?559.Evita Linardaki, Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, andAggeliki Fotopoulou.
2010.
Towards the construction oflanguage resources for greek multiword expressions: Extrac-tion and evaluation.
In Stelios Piperidis, Milena Slavcheva,and Cristina Vertan, editors, Proc.
of the LREC Workshopon Exploitation of multilingual resources and tools for Cen-tral and (South) Eastern European Languages, pages 31?40,Valetta, Malta.
May.Emmanuel Morin and B?atrice Daille.
2010.
Compositionalityand lexical alignment of multi-word terms.
Lang.
Res.
&Eval.
Special Issue on Multiword expression: hard going orplain sailing, 44(1-2):79?95, Apr.Darren Pearce.
2002.
A comparative evaluation of collocationextraction techniques.
In Proc.
of the Third LREC (LREC2002), Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Spain, May.
ELRA.Pavel Pecina.
2010.
Lexical association measures and colloca-tion extraction.
Lang.
Res.
& Eval.
Special Issue on Multi-word expression: hard going or plain sailing, 44(1-2):137?158, Apr.Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, and Christian Boitet.2010a.
Multiword expressions in the wild?
the mwetoolkitcomes in handy.
In Yang Liu and Ting Liu, editors, Proc.of the 23rd COLING (COLING 2010) ?
Demonstrations,pages 57?60, Beijing, China, Aug.
The Coling 2010 Orga-nizing Committee.Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, and Christian Boitet.2010b.
mwetoolkit: a framework for multiword expressionidentification.
In Proc.
of the Seventh LREC (LREC 2010),Malta, May.
ELRA.Carlos Ramisch, Vitor De Araujo, and Aline Villavicencio.2012.
A broad evaluation of techniques for automatic acqui-sition of multiword expressions.
In Proc.
of the ACL 2012SRW, Jeju, Republic of Korea, Jul.
ACL.Ivan Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, Ann Copestake, andDan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword expressions: A pain in theneck for NLP.
In Proc.
of the 3rd CICLing (CICLing-2002),volume 2276/2010 of LNCS, pages 1?15, Mexico City, Mex-ico, Feb. Springer.Patrick Schone and Daniel Jurafsky.
2001.
Is knowledge-freeinduction of multiword unit dictionary headwords a solvedproblem?
In Lillian Lee and Donna Harman, editors, Proc.of the 2001 EMNLP (EMNLP 2001), pages 100?108, Pitts-burgh, PA USA, Jun.
ACL.Violeta Seretan.
2008.
Collocation extraction based on syn-tactic parsing.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Geneva, Geneva,Switzerland.Frank A. Smadja.
1993.
Retrieving collocations from text:Xtract.
Comp.
Ling., 19(1):143?177.Sara Stymne.
2011.
Pre- and postprocessing for statistical ma-chine translation into germanic languages.
In Proc.
of theACL 2011 SRW, pages 12?17, Portland, OR, USA, Jun.
ACL.66
