Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 8?17,Montre?al, Canada, June 8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Computational Analysis of Style, Affect, and Imagery in ContemporaryPoetryJustine KaoPsychology DepartmentStanford UniversityStanford, CA 94305, USAjustinek@stanford.eduDan JurafskyLinguistics DepartmentStanford UniversityStanford, CA 94305, USAjurafsky@stanford.eduAbstractWhat makes a poem beautiful?
We usecomputational methods to compare the stylis-tic and content features employed by award-winning poets and amateur poets.
Buildingupon existing techniques designed to quanti-tatively analyze style and affect in texts, weexamined elements of poetic craft such as dic-tion, sound devices, emotive language, andimagery.
Results showed that the most impor-tant indicator of high-quality poetry we coulddetect was the frequency of references to con-crete objects.
This result highlights the influ-ence of Imagism in contemporary professionalpoetry, and suggests that concreteness may beone of the most appealing features of poetry tothe modern aesthetic.
We also report on otherfeatures that characterize high-quality poetryand argue that methods from computationallinguistics may provide important insights intothe analysis of beauty in verbal art.1 IntroductionPoetry is nerved with ideas, blooded with emotions,held together by the delicate, tough skin of words.
?Paul Engle (1908 -1991)Many people have experienced the astoundingand transformational power of a beautiful poem.However, little empirical research has been done toexamine the textual features or mental processes thatengender such a sensation.
In this paper, we pro-pose a computational framework for analyzing tex-tual features that may be responsible for generatingsensations of poetic beauty.
We built a poetry cor-pus consisting of poems by award-winning profes-sional poets and amateur poets, and compared po-ems in the two categories using various quantita-tive features.
Although there are many reasons whysome poems are included in prestigious anthologiesand others are never read, such as a poet?s fame,we assume that the main distinction between poemsin well-known anthologies and poems submitted byamateurs to online forums is that expert editors per-ceive poems in the former category as more aesthet-ically pleasing.
Given this assumption, we believethat the kind of comparison we propose should bethe first step towards understanding how certain tex-tual features might evoke aesthetic sensations morethan others.The next sections review previous computationalwork on poetry and motivate the features we use; wethen introduce our corpus, our analyses, and results.2 Computational aestheticsPrevious research on the computational analysis ofpoetry focused on quantifying poetic devices suchas rhyme and meter (Hayward, 1996; Greene et al,2010; Genzel et al, 2010), tracking stylistic influ-ence between authors (Forstall et al, 2011), or clas-sifying poems based on the poet and style (Kaplan& Blei, 2007; He et al, 2007; Fang et al, 2009).These studies showed that computational methodscan reveal interesting statistical properties in poeticlanguage that allow us to better understand and cate-gorize great works of literature (Fabb, 2006).
How-ever, there has been very little work using computa-tional techniques to answer an important question in8both poetics and linguistics (Jakobson, 1960): whatmakes one poem more aesthetically appealing thananother?One such attempt is the ?aesthetic measure?
pro-posed by mathematician G.D. Birkhoff, who for-malized beauty as a ratio between order and com-plexity (Birkhoff, 1933).
Birkhoff found interest-ing correlations between the measure and people?saesthetic judgments of shapes, sounds, and poems.While the aesthetic measure enjoyed some successin the domain of visual arts (Rigau et al, 2008),it ran into problems of semantics when applied tolanguage.
Birkhoff?s aesthetic measure judges apoem?s beauty based solely on phonemic features,such as alliterations and assonance, rhymes, and mu-sical vowels.
The formula does not capture the sub-tlety of word choice or richness of meaning in po-etry.
Since Birkhoff?s measure only considers pho-netic features, it fails to fully quantify the aestheticvalue of meaningful poetic texts.In this paper, we aim to combine computationallinguistics with computational aesthetics.
We in-troduce a variety of theoretically-motivated featuresthat target both poetic style and content, and exam-ine whether each feature is a distinguishing char-acteristic of poems that are considered beautiful bymodern experts and critics.3 Elements of CraftOne demands two things of a poem.
Firstly, it mustbe a well-made verbal object that does honor to thelanguage in which it is written.
Secondly, it must saysomething significant about a reality common to usall, but perceived from a unique perspective?W.
H. Auden (1907 - 1973)We review several elements of craft that creativewriters and critics reference in their analysis and ap-preciation of poetry.
For each feature that we con-sider in our model, we provide theoretical motiva-tion from creative writing and literary criticism.
Wethen describe how we computed the values of eachfeature using tools from computational linguistics.3.1 DictionAristotle argued that good writing consists of a bal-ance of ordinary words that make the writing com-prehensible and strange words that make the writ-ing distinguished (Aristotle, 1998).
Several hun-dred years later, Longinus argued that ?noble dic-tion and elevated word arrangement?
is one of theprimary sources of aesthetic language (Earnshaw,2007; Longinus, 2001).
These early scholars of po-etic craft passed down the belief that poetic beautystems from the level of individual words.
In herinfluential creative writing textbook titled, ?Imagi-native Writing: The Elements of Craft,?
Burroway(2007) describes poetry as a high-density form oflanguage.
Poetic language is usually intentionallyambiguous and often packs several meanings intoa compact passage (Addonizio & Laux, 1997).
Asa result, each word in a poem carries especiallyheavy weight and must be carefully selected and di-gested.
Based on these ideas, we decided to examinewhether or not good poetry is defined by the use ofsophisticated vocabulary.Diction can be evaluated from two different per-spectives: word frequency, a measure of difficulty,and type-token ratio, a measure of diversity.Word frequency: Psychologists, linguists, andtesting agencies often use word frequency to esti-mate the difficulty and readability of words and sen-tences (Marks, Carolyn B. et al, 1974; Breland,1996).
Based on these studies, it is reasonable topredict that poems written by professional poets maycontain more difficult words and lower average wordfrequencies than poems written by amateur poets.We measured average word frequency using a listof top 500,000 most frequent words from the Cor-pus of Contemporary American English (COCA)(Davies, 2011).
An average log word frequency wasobtained for each poem by looking up each word inthe poem in the word list and summing up the logword frequencies.
The total log frequency was thendivided by the number of words in the poem to ob-tain the average.Type-token ratio: Readability measures and au-tomatic essay grading systems often use the ra-tio of total word types to total number of wordsin order to evaluate vocabulary sophistication, withhigher type-token ratios indicating more diverse andsophisticated vocabulary (Ben-Simon & Bennett,2007; Pitler & Nenkova, 2008).
We predict thatprofessional poets utilize a larger and more variedvocabulary and avoid using the same word severaltimes throughout a poem.
A type-token ratio score9was calculated for each poem by counting all theseparate instances of words and dividing that num-ber by the total number of words in the poem.3.2 Sound DevicePoetry has a rich oral tradition that predates liter-acy, and traces of this aspect of poetic history canbe found in sound devices such as rhyme, repeti-tion, and meter.
How a poem sounds is critical tohow it is perceived, understood, and remembered.Indeed, most contemporary creative writing hand-books devote sections to defining various sound de-vices and analyzing notable poetry according to in-teresting patterns of sound (Burroway, 2007; Ad-donizio & Laux, 1997).The sound device features described below werecomputed using Kaplan?s 2006 PoetryAnalyzer.
Po-etryAnalyzer utilizes the Carnegie Mellon Pro-nouncing Dictionary to obtain pronunciations ofwords in each poem and identify patterns indicativeof poetic sound devices.Perfect and slant end rhyme: Rhyme is one ofthe most well-known and popular sound devices inpoetry.
The earliest poets used strict rhyme schemesas a mnemonic device to help them memorize andrecite long poems.
Research in psychology has con-firmed poets?
intuitions about the powerful effectsof rhyme on perception and learning.
For example,an aphorism that contains a rhyme is more likely tobe perceived as true than a non-rhyming aphorismwith the same meaning (McGlone & Tofighbakhsh,2000).
Exposure to rhymes also enhances phono-logical awareness in young children and can lead tobetter reading performances (Bryant et al, 1990).The PoetryAnalyzer identifies end rhymes in po-ems by examining the phoneme sequences at the endof lines.
A window of four line endings is analyzedat a time.
If two words in the window have differentinitial consonants but identical phoneme sequencesfrom the stressed vowel phoneme onward, then aninstance of a perfect end rhyme instance is recorded.The final count of perfect end rhymes in a poem isnormalized by the total number of words.
If twowords in the window of four line endings have thesame stressed vowel but different phonemes follow-ing the stressed vowel, then an instance of a slantend rhyme is recorded.
The final count of slant endrhymes in a poem is normalized by the total numberof words.Alliteration and consonance: Alliteration is therepetition of consonant sounds at the beginning ofwords, and consonance is the repetition of conso-nant sounds elsewhere.
In addition to rhyme, allit-eration was used as a powerful mnemonic device inancient epic poetry (Rubin, 1995).
Researchers inpsychology and discourse analysis have shown thatalliteration reactivates readers?
memories for previ-ous information that was phonologically similar tothe cue (Lea et al, 2008).The PoetryAnalyzer identifies alliteration andconsonance as follows.
If the initial phoneme of twoconsecutive words are identical consonants, the allit-eration count is incremented.
The total count is thendivided by the total number of words to obtain a al-literation score for each poem.
If there are at leasttwo identical consonant phonemes in a window ofnine syllables, the consonance count is incremented.The count is divided by the total number of words ina poem to obtain a consonance score.Assonance: Assonance is the repetition of vowelsounds.
Similar to consonants, different vowelsounds also have their own characteristics and ef-fects.
Long vowels take longer to utter and draw outthe rhythm and pacing of the line, while short vow-els feel brief and urgent (Burroway, 2007).We calculated an assonance score for each poemin the same fashion as we did for the consonancescore, except the target phonemes are vowels insteadof consonants.3.3 AffectStudies have shown that poetry allows mental healthpatients to explore and reinterpret their emotionsin useful ways.
Through reading and writing po-etry, patients are able to freely express their thoughtswithout the constraints of form and logic (Harrower,1972).
On the other hand, critics of poetry therapyhave suggested that writing poetry may be harmfulto psychological health, because it allows the poetto immerse herself in an inexplicable emotion with-out having to make sense or order out of it (Stirman& Pennebaker, 2001).
For example, Silverman &Will (1986) claimed that Sylvia Plath?s poetry mayhave undermined her control mechanisms and con-tributed to her death.
If reading good poetry is foundto be cathartic and therapeutic, do skilled poets make10more references to psychological states and explorethe emotional world with more depth and intensity?We examine this question using several existingsentiment lexicons available for sentiment analy-sis research.
One is the Harvard General Inquirer,which consists of 182 word categories, includingbasic sentiment categories, categories for concreteobjects, and categories for abstract concepts (Stoneet al, 1966).
Another sentiment lexicon is theLinguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) (Pen-nebaker et al, 2001).
While the General Inquirerwas designed for content analysis, LIWC was de-signed to facilitate the understanding of individuals?cognitive and emotional states through text analy-sis.
As a result, most of the categories in LIWC in-volve mental activity, with over 4, 500 words relatedto affective, social, and cognitive processes.
Six cat-egories from the Harvard General Inquirer and twocategories from LIWC were selected because theyare most suitable for our purpose of analyzing el-ements of poetic craft.
These features are summa-rized in Table 1.3.4 ImageryOne of the most important and oft-repeated piece ofadvice for writers is the following: ?Show, don?ttell.?
Burroway (2007) interprets this as meaning:?Use concrete, significant details that address thesenses.?
Effective imagery allows readers to bringin their own associations to understand and truly ex-perience a new emotion, and skilled poets and writ-ers are able to pick out specific sensory details thatevoke deeper abstractions and generalizations.The appeal of concrete imagery may have roots inprocesses that facilitate learning and memory.
Previ-ous research has shown that concrete noun pairs areeasier to memorize than abstract noun pairs, whichsuggests that imagery can enhance the learning ofword pairings (Paivio et al, 1966).
Other studieshave shown that mental imagery facilitates relationalassociation between concepts (Bower, 1970).
Fur-thermore, Jessen et al (2000) found neural corre-lates that suggest that concrete nouns are processeddifferently in the brain than abstract nouns.
One ofthe reasons why we find poetic imagery striking maybe due to the psychological power of imagery toevoke rich associations formed by culture and per-sonal experience.Feature ExamplesWord frequency ?Type-token ratio ?Perfect end rhyme floor / storeSlant end rhyme bred / endAlliteration frozen fieldConsonance brown skin hungAssonance shallower and yellowedPositive outlook able; friendNegative outlook abandon; enemyPositive emotion happiness; loveNegative emotion fury; sorrowPhys.
wellbeing alive; eatPsych.
wellbeing calm; adjustObject boat; leafAbstract day; loveGeneralization none; allTable 1: Summary of featuresAnother reason why imagery is an essential ele-ment of poetic craft is that it allows writers to avoidfalling into cliche, which is the bane of the creativewriter?s existence.
Burroway (2007) writes, ?flatwriting is.
.
.
full of abstractions, generalizations, andjudgments.
When these are replaced with nouns thatcall up a sense image and with verbs that representactions we can visualize, the writing comes alive.
?Many abstract and common concepts can be embod-ied or evoked by surprising imagery.
In our analy-sis, we predict that skilled poets are more likely todescribe concrete objects and less likely to referenceabstract concepts.
We measure the degree to whicha poem contains concrete details rather than abstrac-tions and generalizations using categories from theHarvard General Inquirer (see Table 1).4 Methods4.1 MaterialsIn order to test the defining features of beautiful po-etry described in the section above, we constructeda corpus containing poems that vary in quality and?beauty?
by some established standard.
One wayto do this would be to randomly sample poems fromvarious sources and ask experts to rate them for qual-ity and beauty.
However, such a method can be ex-pensive and time-consuming.
A more efficient way11of achieving a similar effect is to sample poems frompre-existing categories, such as poems written byskilled professional poets versus poems written byamateur poets.
We assume that award-winning poetsproduce poems that experts would consider ?better?and more beautiful than poetry written by amateurs.Although there might be exceptions, since for ex-ample experts may consider some poems written byamateur poets to be very beautiful and sophisticated,these pre-existing categories for the most part shouldbe a good approximation of expert opinions.One hundred poems were selected from sixty-seven professional poets whose work was publishedin a collection of Contemporary American Poetry(Poulin & Waters, 2006).
The poets produced mostof their work towards the middle and end of the 20thcentury and are considered some of the best contem-porary poets in America (e.g., Louise Gluck, MaryOliver, Mark Strand, etc.).
All of the poets are listedin the website of the Academy of American Poetsand many have won prestigious awards.
This servesas confirmation that the poets in this collection arewidely acclaimed and that their craft is acknowl-edged and celebrated by poetry experts and literarycritics.We randomly selected one to three poems fromeach poet, proportionate to the number of poemseach poet had in the collection.
When an excessivelylong poem (over 500 words) was selected, we re-moved it and replaced it with a different poem fromthe same poet.
This served as a rough control for thelength of the poems in the corpus.
The final selectionof one hundred professional poems ranged from 33to 371 words in length with an average length of 175words.
We believe that these poems are a good rep-resentation of work produced by the best and mostcelebrated poets of our time.In addition, one hundred poems were selectedfrom amateur poets who submitted their workanonymously to a free and open-to-all website,aptly called ?Amateur Writing?
(www.amateur-writing.com).
At the time of selection, the websitehad over 2500 amateur poem submissions by regis-tered users.
The website contains a diverse set ofpoems submitted by amateur writers with a widerange of experience and skill levels.
We randomlyselected one hundred poems from the website andcorrected for misspellings and obvious grammaticalerrors in the poems to control for the effect of basiclanguage skills.
The final selection of amateur po-ems ranged from 21 to 348 words in length with anaverage length of 136 words.4.2 ProceduresWe implemented the 16 features described in sec-tion 3, each of which target one of three separatedomains: style, sentiment, and imagery.
The sounddevice scores were computed using PoetryAnalyzer(Kaplan & Blei, 2007).
For each category takenfrom the General Inquirer, scores were calculatedusing the General Inquirer system available on aserver (Inquirer, 2011).
A score for a certain cat-egory is the number of words in a poem that ap-pear in the category normalized by the length of thepoem.
For the two categories taken from LIWC,scores were calculated by counting the number ofwords in each poem that match a word stem in theLIWC dictionary and dividing it by the total numberof words.
A score for each of the features was de-rived for every poem in the poetry corpus.
All scoreswere then standardized to have zero mean and unitvariance across poems.5 Results and AnalysisTo measure the effect of each variable on the like-lihood of a poem being written by a professionalor an amateur poet, we constructed a logistic re-gression model in R (R: A Language and Environ-ment for Statistical Computing).
For model selec-tion, we used the step-wise backward eliminationmethod.
This method begins by building a model us-ing all 16 feature variables.
It then recursively elim-inates variables that do not significantly contributeto explaining the variance in the data according tothe Akaike information criterion (AIC), which mea-sures the amount of information lost when using acertain model.
The selection method stops when fur-ther eliminating a variable would result in significantloss of information and model fit.
The final logisticregression model for the predictors of professionalversus amateur poetry is summarized in the formulaabove (Table 2).
Note that the variables included inthe final model might not all be statistically signifi-cant.Results show that poem type (professional or am-12Probability(poem type = professional |X), whereX?
?0.6071 =?0.5039 * average log word frequency +0.6646 * type token ratio +0.4602 * slant end rhyme frequency +?2.1 * perfect end rhyme frequency +?0.6326 * alliteration frequency +?1.0701 * positive outlook words +?0.7861 * negative emotional words +?0.5227 * psychological words +1.3124 * concrete object words +?1.2633 * abstract concept words +?0.836 * generalization wordsTable 2: Model formulaateur) is significantly predicted by eight differentvariables (p < 0.05): type token ratio, perfectend rhyme frequency, alliteration frequency, positiveoutlook words, negative emotional words, concreteobject words, abstract concept words, and general-ization words.
The other nine variables: average logword frequency, slant end rhyme frequency, asso-nance, consonance, negative outlook words, positiveemotional words, physical well-being words, andpsychological words did not have significant predic-tive value.
While positive outlook and positive emo-tion were highly correlated (r = 0.54), as were neg-ative outlook and negative emotion (r = 0.53), therewas no collinearity among the variables in the finallogistic regression model selected by the backwardelimination method.The model predicts the likelihood of the poemtype (professional or amateur) using the formula de-scribed in Table 2.
The influence of each feature isrepresented by the coefficient ?
for each variable.A positive value for a coefficient increases the like-lihood of a poem being written by a professional.For example, type token ratio and concrete objectwords have positive coefficient values; thus highertype token ratios and more concrete object words in-crease the likelihood of a poem being a professionalpoem.
A negative value for a coefficient decreasesthe likelihood of a poem being written by a profes-sional.
For example, perfect end rhyme frequencyhas a negative coefficient value, and thus higher per-fect end rhyme frequencies decrease the likelihoodof a poem being written by a professional poet.
TheFeature variable Odds p-valuetype token ratio 1.94 0.0308perfect end rhyme frequency 0.12 5.06e?7alliteration frequency 0.53 0.0188positive outlook words 0.34 0.0130negative emotional words 0.46 0.0244concrete object words 3.72 0.0002abstract concept words 0.28 0.0027generalization words 0.43 0.0035Table 3: Odds ratios and p values of significant predictorsof professional poetryProfessional AmateurWord Count Word Counttree 29 thing 40room 20 wall 12thing 18 bed 11grass 17 clock 7wall 14 room 7flower 13 tree 6glass 13 leave 6floor 13 gift 5car 12 mirror 4dirt 11 flower 4[.
.
.]
538 [.
.
.]
103Proportion 4.1% Proportion 1.5%Type count 250 Type count 85Table 4: Concrete wordsrelative odds and p-values of each significant predic-tor variable are presented in Table 3.In summary, professional poems have signifi-cantly higher type-token ratios, contain fewer per-fect end rhymes, fewer instances of alliteration,fewer positive outlook words, fewer negative emo-tional words, more references to concrete objects,less references to abstract concepts, and fewer gen-eralizations.
From the odds ratios, we can see thatthe most significant predictors of professional poetryare fewer perfect end rhymes and more references toconcrete objects.6 DiscussionWhat are skilled poets doing differently from ama-teurs when they write beautiful poetry?
Based on re-sults from our regression model, it appears that Aris-13Professional AmateurWord Count Word Countday 40 day 54night 31 time 33year 25 beauty 25time 20 soul 16death 11 night 15new 9 new 14morning 8 moment 13childhood 7 christmas 12hour 7 think 11afternoon 7 future 9[.
.
.]
139 [.
.
.]
143Proportion 1.8% Proportion 2.6%Type count 82 Type count 75Table 5: Abstract wordsProfessional AmateurWord Count Word Countall 63 all 82nothing 26 never 46never 19 always 43always 14 nothing 21every 11 every 15any 10 forever 14anything 5 anything 7nobody 5 any 6everything 5 everything 5forever 3 everyone 4Proportion < 1% Proportion 1.8%Table 6: Generalization wordstotle may have been wrong about diction, at leastfor modern poetry.
The words in professional po-etry are not significantly more unusual or difficultthan words used by amateur writers.
This suggeststhat contemporary poets are not interested in flowerydiction or obscure words, but are focused on usingordinary words to create extraordinary effects.However, professional poets do use more distinctword types.
The 100 poems written by professionalpoets contain a total of 18, 304 words and 4, 315 dis-tinct word types (23.57%).
The 100 poems writtenby amateur poets contain a total of 14, 046 wordsand 2, 367 distinct word types (16.85%), a muchsmaller portion.
In aggregate, professional poetshave a larger and more varied vocabulary than am-ateur poets.
Moreover, professional poets use a sig-nificantly larger number of word types within eachpoem.
Although professional poets do not use moredifficult and unusual words, higher type-token ra-tio is a significant predictor of professional poetry,suggesting that professional poems may be distin-guished by a richer set of words.The results on sound devices provide interestinginsight into the current stylistic trends of contempo-rary professional poetry.
While sound devices have along history in poetry and are considered a feature ofpoetic beauty, contemporary professional poets nowuse these devices much less often than amateur po-ets.
Sound devices that were traditionally importantin poetry for mnemonic purposes, such as rhymeand alliteration, are more prevalent in amateur po-ems.
Even subtle and sophisticated sound deviceslike slant rhyme, consonance, and assonance are notsignificant indicators of professional poetry.
Theseresults suggest that repetition of sound is becominga less aesthetically significant poetic device amongcontemporary masters of poetry.In terms of affect, our results suggest that po-ems by professional poets are not more negativelyemotional?at least not explicitly.
On the contrary,amateur poets are significantly more likely to ref-erence negative emotions than professional poets.Our results reveal an interesting distinction betweenwords with positive and negative outlooks and con-notations versus words that reference positive andnegative emotions.
While the two pairs of cate-gories are strongly correlated, they capture differentaspects of a text?s emotional content.
The positive14and negative outlook categories contain many wordsthat are not emotions but may evoke certain emo-tional attitudes, such as clean and death.
The factthat professional poets are significantly less likely touse explicitly negative emotion words than amateurpoets, but not significantly less likely to use nega-tively connotative words, suggests that professionalpoets may evoke more negative sentiment throughconnotation rather than explicit descriptions.As predicted, poems written by professional poetscontain significantly more words that reference ob-jects and significantly less words about abstract con-cepts and generalizations.
This result suggests thatprofessional poets follow the sacred rule of ?show,don?t tell?
and let images instead of words con-vey emotions, concepts, and experiences that stickto readers?
minds.
Professional poets not only usemore object words than amateur poets (698 countsversus 205), but they also use a larger and more di-verse set of object words (250 types versus 85), asshown in Table 4.
Professional poets reference natu-ral objects very often, such as tree, grass, and flower.On the other hand, the most frequent concrete objectword in amateur poems is the extremely vague wordthing.
This suggests that even when amateur poetsreference concrete objects, they do not use wordsthat provide specific sensory details.Our analysis supports the idea that Imagism hasstrongly influenced the ways in which modern poetsand literary critics think about literary writing.
Lit-erary critic I.A.
Richards argued that image clustersand patterns of imagery are keys to deeper meaningin literary works, and that critics should pay close at-tention to these patterns in order to understand ?thelanguage of art?
beneath the surface ordinary lan-guage (Richards, 1893).
Not only are concrete im-ages able to render the world in spectacular detail,they also provide windows into particular experi-ences on which readers can project their own per-ceptions and interpretations.Consistent with our predictions and with the aes-thetic ideals of Imagism, professional poets alsomake significantly fewer direct references to abstractand intangible concepts (Table 5).
If the deepermeaning of a poem is conveyed through imagery, ab-stract words are no longer needed to reference con-cepts and experiences explicitly.
Moreover, amateurpoets use significantly more words concerned withgeneralizations, as shown in Table 6.
While amateurpoets embrace the human impulse to generalize, theskilled poet must learn to extract and report uniquedetails that single out each experience from the rest.Overall, our results suggest that professional po-ets are more likely to show, while amateur poetshave a tendency to tell.
This difference marks themost significant distinction between contemporaryprofessional and amateur poetry in our analysis andmay be an essential aspect of craft and poetic beauty.7 Future directionsCategorizing poetry as professional or amateur is arather coarse measure of quality.
In order to iden-tify defining features of more fine-grained levelsof poetic skill, future work could compare award-winning poetry with poems written by less presti-gious but also professionally trained poets.
Exper-imenting with different databases and lexicons foraffect and imagery could also be helpful, such asword-emotion associations (Mohammad & Turney,2011) and imageability ratings (Coltheart, 1981).
Inaddition, more sophisticated methods that considersense ambiguities and meaning compositionality inaffective words (Socher et al, 2011) should be ap-plied to help enhance and improve upon our currentanalyses.While our approach reveals interesting patternsthat shed light on elements of poetic sophistication,conclusions from the analysis need to be tested us-ing controlled experiments.
For example, does mod-ifying a professional poem to include less concretewords make people perceive it as less beautiful?
In-vestigating these questions using psychology exper-iments could help identify causal relationships be-tween linguistic elements and sensations of poeticbeauty.In summary, our framework provides a novel wayto discover potential features of poetic beauty thatcan then be experimentally tested and confirmed.
Byapplying both stylistic and content analyses to thequantitative assessment of contemporary poetry, wewere able to examine poetic craft on a representativeset of poems and reveal potential elements of skilland sophistication in modern poetry.15AcknowledgmentsWe are deeply grateful for David Kaplan?s generos-ity in sharing the code for the PoetryAnalyzer pro-gram, on which a substantial part of our analysis isbased.
We would also like to thank Lera Boroditsky,Todd Davies, and the anonymous reviewers for theirextremely helpful feedback.ReferencesAddonizio, K., & Laux, D. (1997).
The Poet?s Com-panion: A guide to the pleasures of writing po-etry.
W. W. Norton and Company.Aristotle (1998).
Poetics.
The Critical Tradition:Classical Texts and Contemporary Trends.Ben-Simon, A., & Bennett, R. E. (2007).
Towardmore substantively meaningful automated essayscoring.
The journal of Technology, Learning, andAssessment.Birkhoff, G. (1933).
Aesthetic Measure.
KessingerPublishing.Bower, G. (1970).
Imagery as a relational organizerin associative learning.
Journal of Verbal Learn-ing and Verbal Behavior, 9(5), 529?533.Breland, H. M. (1996).
Word frequency and worddifficulty: A comparison of counts in four cor-pora.
Psychological Science, 7(2), pp.
96?99.Bryant, P., Maclean, M., Bradley, L., & Crossland,J.
(1990).
Rhyme and alliteration, phoneme de-tection, and learning to read.
Developmental Psy-chology, 26(3).Burroway, J.
(2007).
Imaginative Writing: The Ele-ments of Craft.
Pearson, 2 ed.Coltheart, M. (1981).
The mrc psycholinguisticdatabase.
The Quarterly Journal of Experimen-tal Psychology, 33(4), 497?505.Davies, M. (2011).
Word frequency datafrom the Corpus of Contemporary Ameri-can English (COCA).
Downloaded fromhttp://www.wordfrequency.info on May 10, 2011.Earnshaw, S.
(Ed.)
(2007).
The Handbook of Cre-ative Writing.
Edinburgh University Press.Fabb, N. (2006).
Generated metrical form and im-plied metrical form.
Formal approaches to poetry,(pp.
77?91).Fang, A. C., Lo, F., & Chinn, C. K. (2009).
Adapt-ing nlp and corpus analysis techniques to struc-tured imagery analysis in classical chinese poetry.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Adaptation ofLanguage Resources and Technology to New Do-mains, AdaptLRTtoND ?09, (pp.
27?34).Forstall, C., Jacobson, S., & Scheirer, W. (2011).Evidence of intertextuality: investigating paul thedeacon?s angustae vitae.
Literary and LinguisticComputing, 26(3), 285?296.Genzel, D., Uszkoreit, J., & Och, F. (2010).
Po-etic statistical machine translation: rhyme andmeter.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Conferenceon Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing, (pp.
158?166).
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Greene, E., Bodrumlu, T., & Knight, K. (2010).
Au-tomatic analysis of rhythmic poetry with applica-tions to generation and translation.
In Proceed-ings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP?10, (pp.
524?533).Harrower, M. (1972).
The therapy of poetry.
Oryx,London.Hayward, M. (1996).
Analysis of a corpus of poetryby a connectionist model of poetic meter.
Poetics,24(1), 1?11.He, Z., Liang, W., Li, L., & Tian, Y.
(2007).
Svm-based classification method for poetry style.
InMachine Learning and Cybernetics, 2007 Inter-national Conference on, vol.
5, (pp.
2936?2940).IEEE.Inquirer, H. G. (2011).
How the general inquirer isused and a comparison of general inquirer withother text-analysis procedures.Jakobson, R. (1960).
Closing statement: Linguisticsand poetics.
Style in language, 350, 377.Jessen, F., Heun, R., Erb, M., Granath, D. O., Klose,U., Papassotiropoulos, A., & Grodd, W. (2000).The concreteness effect: Evidence for dual cod-ing and context availability.
Brain and Language,74(1), 103 ?
112.Kaplan, D. (2006).
Computational analysis and vi-sualized comparison of style in american poetry.Unpublished undergraduate thesis.16Kaplan, D., & Blei, D. (2007).
A computational ap-proach to style in american poetry.
In IEEE Con-ference on Data Mining.Lea, R., Rapp, D., Elfenbein, A., Mitchel, A., &Romine, R. (2008).
Sweet silent thought: Allit-eration and resonance in poetry comprehension.Psychological Science, 19(709).Longinus (2001).
On sublimity.
The Norton Anthol-ogy of Theory and Criticism.Marks, Carolyn B., Doctorow, Marleen J., & Wit-trock, M. C. (1974).
Word frequency and readingcomprehension.
The Journal of Educational Re-search, 67(6), 259?262.McGlone, M., & Tofighbakhsh, J.
(2000).
Birds ofa feather flock conjointly (?
): Rhyme as reason inaphorisms.
Psychological Science, 11, 424?428.Mohammad, S., & Turney, P. (2011).
Crowdsourc-ing a word?emotion association lexicon.
Compu-tational Intelligence, 59(000), 1?24.Paivio, A., Yuille, J., & Smythe, P. (1966).
Stimu-lus and response abstractness, imagery, and mean-ingfulness, and reported mediators in paired-asscoiate learning.
Canadian Journal of Psychol-ogy, 20(4).Pennebaker, J., Francis, M., & Booth, R. J.
(2001).Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC):LIWC2001.
Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.Pitler, E., & Nenkova, A.
(2008).
Revisiting read-ability: A unified framework for predicting textquality.
In Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, (pp.
186?195).Poulin, A., & Waters, M. (2006).
ContemporaryAmerican Poetry.
Houghton Mifflin Company,eighth ed.Richards, I.
(1893).
Practical criticism: a study ofliterary judgment.
Transaction Publishers.Rigau, J., Feixas, M., & Sbert, M. (2008).
Infor-mational aesthetics measures.
In IEEE ComputerGraphics and Applications.Rubin, D. (1995).
Memory in oral traditions:The cognitive psychology of epic, ballads, andcounting-out rhymes.
New York: Oxford Univer-sity Press.Silverman, M., & Will, N. (1986).
Sylvia plath andthe failure of emotional self-repair through poetry.Psychoanal Q, 55, 99?129.Socher, R., Pennington, J., Huang, E., Ng, A., &Manning, C. (2011).
Semi-supervised recursiveautoencoders for predicting sentiment distribu-tions.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Process-ing, (pp.
151?161).
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Stirman, S. W., & Pennebaker, J.
(2001).
Word usein the poetry of suicidal and nonsuicidal poets.Psychosomatic Medicine, 63(4), 517?22.Stone, P., Dunphry, D., Smith, M., & Ogilvie, D.(1966).
The General Inquirer: A Computer Ap-proach to Content Analysis.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.17
