INLG 2012 Proceedings of the 7th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 141?145,Utica, May 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsKBGen ?
Text Generation from Knowledge Bases as a New Shared TaskEva Banik1, Claire Gardent2, Donia Scott3, Nikhil Dinesh4, and Fennie Liang51ebanik@comp-ling.co.uk, Computational Linguistics Ltd, London, UK2claire.gardent@loria.fr, CNRS, LORIA, Nancy, France3D.R.Scott@sussex.ac.uk, School of Informatics, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK4dinesh@ai.sri.com, SRI International, Menlo Park, CA5fennie.liang@cs.man.ac.uk, School of Computer Science, University of Manchester, UK1 IntroductionIn this paper we propose a new shared task, KB-Gen, where the aim is to produce coherent descrip-tions of concepts and relationships in a frame-basedknowledge base (KB).
We propose to use the AURAknowledge base for the shared task which containsinformation about biological entities and processes.We describe how the AURA KB provides an appli-cation context for NLG and illustrate how this ap-plication context generalizes to other biology KBs.We argue that the easy availability of input data anda research community ?
both domain experts andknowledge representation experts ?
which activelyuses these knowledge bases, along with regular eval-uation experiments, creates an ideal scenario for ashared task.2 Application Context and MotivationOne of the research challenges in the knowledge rep-resentation community is to model complex knowl-edge in order to be able to answer complex ques-tions from a knowledge base (see e.g.
the DeepKnowledge Representation Challenge Workshop atKCAP 20111).
There are several applications ofsuch knowledge bases, perhaps most recently andmost prominently in the bioinformatics and educa-tional informatics domain, where there are availableknowledge bases and reasoners that help scientistsanswer questions, explain connections between con-cepts, visualize complex processes, and help stu-dents learn about biology.
These uses of a knowl-edge base are however difficult to implement with-1http://sites.google.com/site/dkrckcap2011/homeout presenting the resulting answers and explana-tions to the user in a clear, concise and coherent way,which often requires using natural language.2.1 The AURA Knowledge BaseThe AURA biology knowledge base developed bySRI International (Gunning et al, 2010) encodes in-formation from a biology textbook (Reece et al,2010)2.
The purpose of this knowledge base isto help students understand biological concepts byallowing them to ask questions about the materialwhile reading the textbook.
The KB is built on topof a generic library of concepts (CLIB, Barker et al,2001), which are specialized and/or combined to en-code biology-specific information, and it is orga-nized into a set of concept maps, where each con-cept map corresponds to a biological entity or pro-cess.
The KB is being encoded by biologists andcurrently encodes over 5,000 concept maps.The AURA KB and its question answering sys-tem is integrated with an electronic textbook appli-cation3.
The applicaton allows the students to askcomplex questions about relationships between con-cepts, which are answered by finding a possible pathbetween the two concepts.
The results are presentedto the students as graphs, for example the answerproduced by the system in response to the question?what is the relationship between glycolysis and glu-cose??
is illustrated in Fig 1.These graphs are simplified representations of2The development of the AURA knowledge base and relatedtools and applications was funded by Vulcan Inc.3A demo of the application will be presented in the demosession at INLG 2012141Figure 1: Relationship between glycolysis and glucosea path in the knowledge base that connects twoconcepts, because presenting the full concept mapwhere the path was found would make it difficult forthe students to clearly see the relationship.
However,this simplification often obscures the connection bynot showing relevant information.Given the inclusion of a few more relations fromthe concept map of glycolysis (Fig 2), the answer tothe question could be generated as a complex sen-tence or a paragraph of text, for example: ?Phos-phorylation of glucose is the first step of the energyinvestment phase of glycolysis?
or ?In the first stepof the energy investment phase of glycolysis, calledphosphorylation, hexokinase catalyses the synthesisof glucose-6-phosphate from glucose and a phos-phate ion.
?2.2 BioCycAnother situation in which graph-based representa-tions are presented to the user is metabolic pathwayand genome databases, such as the BioCyc knowl-edge base.
BioCyc describes the genome, metabolicpathways, and other important aspects of organismssuch as molecular components and their interactionsand currently contains information from 1,763 path-Figure 2: Concept map of glycolysisway/genome databases4.When users query parts of the BioCyc knowledgebase, the system automatically produces a graphto visualize complex biological processes.
For ex-ample, Fig 3 illustrates an automatically generatedgraph from the knowledge base which shows theprocess of glycolysis in an E. coli cell.
Hovering themouse over the ?
and 	 signs on the graph bringsup popups with additional information about geneexpressions , detailed chemical reactions in the pro-cess, enzymes activated by certain chemicals, etc..Figure 3: The process of glycolysis in E.coli3 Input Data for GenerationAlthough there is a clear benefit from visualizingcomplex processes in a graph form, one also has to4http://www.biocyc.org142be well-versed in the notation and details of biolog-ical processes in order to make sense of these rep-resentations.
Students of biology and non-expertswould certainly benefit from a more detailed ex-planation of the process, presented as a few para-phraphs of text along with graphs to emphasize themost salient features of processes.The paths and relations returned by reasoning al-gorithms also present a good opportunity to pro-vide inputs for natural language generation.
Thesechunks of data typically contain the right amount ofdata because they consist of the information neededto answer a question or describe a concept.
Ad-ditionally, many knowledge bases (including bothBioCyc and AURA) are encoded in a frame-basedrepresentation, which has the advantage that framesnaturally correspond to linguistic units.Frame-based systems (Minsky, 1981) are basedaround the notion of frames or classes which repre-sent collections of concepts.
Each frame has an as-sociated set of slots or attributes which can be filledeither by specific values or by other frames.
Intu-itively, frames correspond to situations, and each ter-minal in the frame corresponds to answers to ques-tions that could be asked about the situation, in-cluding the participants in the situation, causes andconsequences, preceding and following situations,purpose, etc.
Frame-based representations may ei-ther contain frames of generic concepts or instanceframes which represent information about particularinstances.
Frames also have a kind-of slot, whichallows the assertion of a frame taxonomy, and theinheritance of slots.In the knowledge representation community,frame-based representations are popular becausethey make the encoding process more intuitive.From a natural language generation perspective,each frame (or a set of slots) corresponds to a lin-guistic unit (sentence, noun phrase, clause, verbphrase, etc), depending on the type of the frame andthe slots it contains.
This organization of conceptsand relations in the knowledge base makes it easierto select chunks of data from which coherent textscan be generated.Slots in these frame-based representations alsonaturally correspond to the kind of flat semanticrepresentations and dependency structures that haveserved as input to surface realization (Koller andStriegnitz, 2002; Carroll and Oepen, 2005; White,2006; Gardent and Kow, 2007; Nakatsu and White,2010).4 The shared taskWe propose two tracks for the KBGen shared task: a?complex surface realization?
track, where the taskis to generate complex sentences from shorter in-puts, and a ?discourse generation?
track, where thetask is to generate longer texts made up from severalparagraphs.
In the following, we describe the dataset from which the input to generation will be se-lected; the methology we plan to use to extract textsize input for the generation challenge; and the twotracks making up the KBGen challenge.4.1 The AURA knowledge base as InputDatasetWe propose to use the AURA knowledge base asinput data for the shared task for several reasons.AURA contains a number of relations and thereforeprovides varied input for generation5.
The AURAknowledge base contains linguistic resources thatcan be used for generation (a morphological lexi-con and a list of synonyms for each concept) andthe electronic textbook provides an application con-text to evaluate the generated texts.
There are regularevaluation efforts to assess the educational benefitsof using the textbook application, and the next roundof these experiments will involve over 400 studentsand biology teachers who will use the applicationover an extended period of time.
The evaluation ofthe outputs generated for the shared task could formpart of these experiments.4.2 Selecting Text Size Content for the SharedTaskWe propose to select data from the knowledge basemanually or semi-automatically, by selecting a setof concepts to be described and including relevantrelations associated with the concepts.
We wouldfirst select a set of concept maps that are encoded inmost detail and have been reviewed by the encodersfor quality assurance.
The input data for each con-cept will then be a manually selected set of frames5If there is interest, the systems developed to generate fromAURA could also be applied to the BioCyc data, which has amore restricted set of relations.143from the concept map.
The selected relations will bereviewed one more time for quality and consistencyto filter out any errors in the data.If there is interest in the community, we canalso envision a content selection challenge whichcould provide input to the generation task.
Althoughframes in the knowledge base correspond well tochunks of data for generation of descriptions, con-tent selection for other communicative goals is farfrom a trivial problem.
One such challenge couldbe for example comparing two concepts, or explain-ing the relation between a process and its sub-type(another process that is taxonomically related, butdifferent in certain parts).4.3 Complex Surface Realization TrackFor the complex surface realization track, a smallnumber of frames would be selected from the knowl-edge base along with a small number of other rel-evant relations (e.g., important parts or propertiesof certain event participants, or certain relations be-tween them, depending on the context).
The outputtexts to be generated would be complex sentencesdescribing the central entity/event in the data, or therelationship between two concepts, such as the gly-colysis example in section 2.1.
This task wouldinvolve aggregation and generating intrasententialpronouns governed by syntax where necessary, butit would not require the generation of any discourseanaphora or referring expressions.This track will differ from the deep generationtrack of the Surface Realization Shared Task both inform and in content.
The form of the KBGen inputis a concept map extracted from an ontology ratherthan a deep semantics extracted by conversion fromdependency parse trees.
Similarly, its content is thatof a biology knowledge base rather than that of thePenn Treebank textual corpus.4.4 Discourse Generation TrackInputs for the discourse generation task would in-clude most frames from the concept map of an entityor process.
The output would be longer paragraphsor 2-3 paragraphs of text, typically a description ofthe subevents, results, etc, of a biological process,or the description of the structure and function of anentity.
This task would involve text structuring andthe generation of pronouns.4.5 Lexical Resources and potentialmultilingual tracksThe knowledge base provides a mapping from con-cepts to lexical items and a list of synonyms.
Italso provides information about how specific slotsin event frames are mapped onto prepositions.If there is interest in the community, the lex-ical resources corresponding to the selected con-tent could be translated to different languages semi-automatically: the translation could be attemptedfirst automatically, with the help of available biol-ogy/medical lexicons, and then the output would behand-corrected.
Candidate languages for a multilin-gual challenge would be French and Spanish.
Torun the multilingual tracks we would need to createmultilingual development and test data and wouldneed to have access to French/Spanish speaking bi-ologists.5 EvaluationEvaluation of the generated texts could be done bothwith automatic evaluation metrics and using humanjudgements.
Automatic evaluation metrics could in-clude BLUE (Papineni et al, 2002) or measuringLevenshtein distance (Levenshtein, 1966) from hu-man written texts.
To obtain human judgements, bi-ologists will be asked to compose texts conveyingthe same content as the input for the generated texts.The human-written texts will be presented to sub-jects along with the generated outputs to obtain flu-ency judgements, but the subjects will not be toldwhich kind of text they are judging.
The evaluationcampaign could be coordinated with the evaluationof the knowledge base and the electronic textbookapplication, and/or publicized on social networkingsites or mechanical turk.6 Next StepsWe invite feedback on this proposal with the aimof refining our plan and discussing a suitable inputrepresentation for the shared task in the next fewmonths.
If there is sufficient interest in the sharedtask, we would make the input data available in theagreed format in late 2012, with the first evaluationtaking place in 2013.
We would like to hear anycomments/suggestions/critisisms about the plan andwe are actively looking for people who would be in-144terested in getting involved in planning and runningthe challenge.ReferencesBarker, K., B. Porter, and P. Clark.
2001.
A library ofgeneric concepts for composing knowledgebases.In Proceedings of the 1st Int Conf on KnowledgeCapture (K-Cap?01), 14?21.Carroll, J., and S. Oepen.
2005.
High efficiency real-ization for a wide-coverage unification grammar.2nd IJCNLP .Gardent, C., and E. Kow.
2007.
A symbolic ap-proach to near-deterministic surface realisationusing tree adjoining grammar.
In In 45th AnnualMeeting of the ACL.Gunning, D., V. K. Chaudhri, P. Clark, K. Barker,Shaw-Yi Chaw, M. Greaves, B. Grosof, A. Leung,D.
McDonald, S. Mishra, J. Pacheco, B. Porter,A.
Spaulding, D. Tecuci, and J. Tien.
2010.Project halo update - progress toward digital aris-totle.
AI Magazine Fall:33?58.Koller, Alexander, and Kristina Striegnitz.
2002.Generation as dependency parsing.
In Proceed-ings of ACL.Levenshtein, Vladimir I.
1966.
Binary codes capableof correcting deletions, insertions, and reversals.Soviet Physics Doklady 10:707?710.Minsky, Marvin.
1981.
Mind design, chapter AFramework for Representing Knowledge, 95?128.
MIT Press.Nakatsu, Crystal, and Michael White.
2010.
Gen-erating with discourse combinatory categorialgrammar.
submitted to Linguistic Issues in Lan-guage Technology .Papineni, Kishore, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei jing Zhu.
2002.
Bleu: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
311?318.Reece, Jane B., Lisa A. Urry, Michael L. Cain,Steven A. Wasserman, Peter V. Minorsky, andRobert B. Jackson.
2010.
Campbell biology.
Pear-son Publishing.White, Michael.
2006.
Ccg chart realization fromdisjunctive inputs.
In Proceedings of the FourthInternational Natural Language Generation Con-ference, 12?19.
Sydney, Australia: Associationfor Computational Linguistics.145
