Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 25?29,Avignon, France, April 23 - 24 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsFirst steps in checking and comparing Princeton WordNet and Esto-nian WordnetAhti LohkTallinn University of Tech-nologyRaja 15-117Tallinn, ESTONIA[ahti.lohk@ttu.ee]Kadri VareUniversity of TartuLiivi 2-308Tartu, ESTONIA[kadri.vare@ut.ee]Leo V?handuTallinn University of Tech-nologyRaja 15-117Tallinn, ESTONIA[leov@staff.ttu.ee]AbstractEach expanding and developing systemrequires some feedback to evaluate thenormal trends of the system and also theunsystematic steps.
In this paper two lexical-semantic databases ?
Princeton WordNet(PrWN) and Estonian Wordnet (EstWN)- arebeing examined from the visualization pointof view.
The visualization method isdescribed and the aim is to find and to pointto possible problems of synsets and theirsemantic relations.1 IntroductionWordnets for different languages have beencreated for a quite a long time 1 ; also thesewordnets have been developed further andupdated with new information.
Typically there isa special software for editing wordnets, forexample VisDic2, WordnetLoom (Piasecki et al2010), Polaris (Louw, 1998).
These editing toolsoften present only one kind of view of the datawhich might not be enough for feedback or fordetecting problematic synsets/semantic relations.The visualization method described here can beused separately from the editing tool; therefore itprovides an additional view to data present inwordnet.For initial data PrWN version 3.03  andEstWN version 63 4  have been taken.
PRWNcontains of 117 374 synsets and EstWn of 51 688synsets.
The creation of EstWN started in 1998within the EuroWordNet project5.
At present the1http://www.globalwordnet.org/2http://deb.fi.muni.cz/clients-debvisdic.php3http://wordnet.princeton.edu/4http://www.cl.ut.ee/ressursid/teksaurus/5http://www.illc.uva.nl/EuroWordNet/main goal is to increase EstWN with new con-cepts and enrich EstWN with different kinds ofsemantic relations.
But at the same time it isnecessary to check and correct the concepts al-ready present (Kerner, 2010).The main idea and basic design of allwordnets in the project came from PrincetonWordNet (more in Miller et al1990).
Eachwordnet is structured along the same lines: syno-nyms (sharing the same meaning) are groupedinto synonym sets (synsets).
Synsets are connect-ed to each other by semantic relations, likehyperonymy (is-a) and meronymy (is-part-of).As objects of analysis only noun synsets andhyperonymy-hyponymy relations are considered(of course, it is possible to extend the analysisover different word classes and different seman-tic relations).
So, due to these constraints wehave taken 82 115 synsets from PRWN (149 309different words in synsets) and 41 938 synsetsfrom EstWN (64 747 different words in synsets).2 MethodWe will explain our method's main idea with asmall artificial example.
Let us have a small sep-arated subset presented as a matrix:Figure 1.
Relation-matrix and bipartite graphIn the rows of that table we have synsetsand in columns hyperonyms.
On the right side of25that figure we have presented the same data as abipartite graph where all column numbers arepositioned on the upper line and all rows on thelower line.
Every connecting line on the rightside has been drawn between every ?1?-s columnand row number.
As we see a lot of line cross-ings there exist even in our very small example.It is possible to reorder the rows and columns ofthat table into optimal positions so that the num-ber of line crossings would be minimal possible.If there is full order then there will be no cross-ings of lines.Generally this crossing number minimi-zation is a NP-complete task.
We are using theidea of Stephan Niermann's (2005) evolutionaryalgorithm to minimize the number of line cross-ings.In our example the optimal result will be:Figure 2.
Reordered (arranged) relation-matrix andbipartite graphAs we can see there are no crossings andall connections are separated into two classes ?let?s call them closed sets.
We have got a niceand natural ordering for rows and columns.
Withthat kind of picture the relations between words(synsets) are easier to see and understand.
Wewill present real cases from PrWN and EstWNlater.3 Practical application of the methodNext we will describe the steps that should betaken in order to obtain visual pictures forlexicographers.?
First the word class and a semantic relationof interest is chosen from wordnet.
For nounsand verbs hyperonymy and hyponymy areprobably the most informative relations, foradjectives and adverbs near_synonymy (butof course this method allows us to choosedifferent semantic relations in combinationwith different word classes).?
In order to find closed sets we use theconnected component separating algorithmfor graphs given in D. Knuth (1968).
Forexample using hyponym-hyperonym relationand word classes of nouns then there will be7 907 closed sets for EstWN and 15 452closed sets for PrWN.
Every closed set ispresented in a table as a row with differentlengths.
An arbitrary closed set is similar tothe following picture in Figure 3.SS1 - synset 1, SS2 - synset 2, ...Figure 3.
Example of a closed set?
As a next step we use all connections forthose two sets in a wordnet to get the relationmatrix as it is shown in Figure 1 left part.?
Then the minimal crossing algorithm is used(result is seen on the right side of Figure 2).?
As the last step a lexicographer analyzes thefigures.It is still important to mention that ourapproach is not quite useful for analyzing thelarge closed sets.
The reason is that in Nierman?sevolutionary algorithm if the size of the matrixgrows than the time increases with the speedO(n2).
For example, to solve the 30x30 matrix, ittakes 3 minutes and to solve 60x60 matrix, ittakes 60 minutes.
That is the reason why in thispaper only closed sets that do not exceed the 30hyponym sets are considered.
The pictures fromclosed sets (Figure 4, 5, 6) were solved as fol-lows: Figure 4 (3 x 5 matrix) 0,28sec, Figure 5 (4x 11 matrix) 1,5sec, Figure 6 (4 x 12 matrix)1,7sec.For larger closed sets it is better to usethe modified Power Iteration Clustering methodby Lin and Cohen (2010) instead of Niermann?salgorithm.As a matter of fact, the largest closed setin EstWN has 4103 hyponyms-synsets x 405hyperonym-synsets and  the largest closed set inPrWN has 2371 hyponyms-synsets x 167hyperonym-synsets (Figure 3).
As for largeclosed sets, it could be sensible to use only therelation matrix (Figure 2, left side) to detectwhere possible problematic places occur.4 Intermediate resultsIn this paper we focus on the synsets having twoor more hyperonyms, which is the reason ofclosed sets, since it is more likely to find prob-lematic places in these synsets.26For example in EstWN only onehyperonym for a synset should ideally exist(Vider, 2001).
In EstWN there are currently1 674 concepts with two hyperonyms, 145 con-cepts with three or more hyperonyms and theconcept which has the most hyperonyms - 9 - is?alkydcolour?.In PrWN there are 1 442 concepts withtwo hyperonyms, 34 concepts with three or morehyperonyms and the concept with the mosthyperonyms ?
5 ?
is 'atropine'.Of course in wordnets a synset can havemultiple hyperonyms in many cases, in EstWNmany of the onomatopoetic words, for example(typically they have hyperonyms which denotemovement and sound).
But also there are caseswhere one of the hyperonyms is in some waysmore suitable than another.
Even if a synset hasmultiple hyperonyms a cluster still often presentsa homogeneous semantic field.One of the purposes of the visual picturesis to help in detecting so called human errors, forexample:?
in a situation where in the lexicographic(manual) work a new and more precisehyperonym is added during editing processbut the old one is not deleted;?
lexicographer could not decide whichhyperonym fits better;?
lexicographer has connected completelywrong senses (or words) with hyperonymyrelation;?
lexicographer has not properly completed thedomain-specific synsets etc.The first three points can indicate thereason of why one synset has multiplehyperonym-synsets.For example, in Figure 4 all the membersof the cluster seem to form a typical set of aller-gic and hypersensitivity conditions and illnesses.In EstWN currently allergies and diseases causedby allergies do not form such a cluster, becausethey do not share hyperonyms.
But also differentclusters exist where some problems can appear.For example, in Figure 5 where all theother characters (suicide bomber, terrorist, spyetc) except ?programmer?
are bad or criminal bytheir nature.
This leads to a thought that maybe?programmer?
as a hyperonym to ?hacker?
and?cracker?
is not the best; it might be that ?pro-grammer?
is connected with some other semanticrelation.Figure 4.
Rearranged bipartite graph, PrWNFigure 5.
Rearranged bipartite graph, PrWN27Figure 6.
Rearranged bipartite graph, EstWNHyperonym-synsets:1. ettepanek, pakkumine - proposal2.
rituaal, talitus, ... - rituaal3.
sakrament - sacrament4.
v?idmine - unction, anoitingHyponym-synsets:4. paaripanek - marriage ritual6.
riitus - rite7.
viljakusrituaal - fertility rite3.
armulaud - Holy Communion10.
ordinatsioon - ordination12.
ristimine - baptism9.
konformatsioon, ... - confirmation11.
piht, pihtimine - confession8.
haigete salvimine, ... - extreme unction2.
rats, ratsionaliseerimisettepanek - proposalfor rationalization1.
kosjaminek, kosjareis, ... - a visit to bride'shouse to make a marriage proposal5.
religioosne rituaal - religious ritualFrom EstWN many problematic synsets and/orsemantic relations were discovered by using thismethod.
In Figure 6, for example, from EstWNthere is an example of a closed set for nouns.
Itcan be seen that the word ratsionaliseerimis-ettepanek (?proposal to rationalization?)
does notbelong to this semantic field (this semantic fieldcan be named ?different kinds of rituals?
for ex-ample).
It is strange that wordsratsionaliseerimisettepanek (?proposal to ration-alization?)
and kosjak?ik (?a visit to bride?s houseto make a marriage proposal?)
belong to the sameclosed set.
Both these synsets share a hyperonymettepanek (?proposal?
), but kosjak?ik should beconnected to ettepanek (?proposal?)
byis_involved relation and the hyperonym tokosjak?ik should be ?ritual?
instead.Also the relation of hyperonymsv?idmine ('unction') and sakrament ('sacrament').should be interesting.
It can be seen that all thesemantic relations of hyperonym v?idmine('unction') belong actually to sakrament('sacrament').
So it is possible to state that sacra-ment should be hyperonym to unction.
Anotherquestion arises with the word armulaud ('HolyCommunion').
In principle, this word is correctlyconnected to both sacrament and ritual, but still ?all of the hyponyms of sacrament are some sortsof services.
These connections are probablymissing from the system.In addition, a minor detail ?
althoughabielu ('marriage') belongs to sacrament, it is inEstWN categorized only as a ritual and not evendirectly but implicitly by the word paaripanek('marriage ritual')5 ConclusionIn order to find mistakes from closed sets it is notnecessary to use a bipartite graph.
In some casesonly the relation-matrix will be enough (Figure1,2 left side).
Clear created groupings can beconsidered as an advantage of bipartite graphs,which present the hyponym synsets connectingthe hyperonym synsets.
Often these connectionscan turn out as the problematic ones.
Sometimesit is necessary to use the wordnet database inorder to move a level up to understand the mean-ing of a synset.Out of the 20 arbitrarily extracted closedsets 6 seemed to have some problems.
And inPrWN there were 185 closed sets withhyperonym synsets having at least threehyperonyms.
This seems to be a promising starttowards using visual pictures.
The situation issimilar in EstWN, and since EstWN is far from?being completed?
then this method has already28proven useful for lexicographers in the revisionwork.To conclude, the structured bipartitefigures are informative in following ways:?
It is possible to use different kinds ofsemantic relations to create closed sets.?
It is possible to detect subgroups.?
It is possible to detect wrong and missingsemantic relations.AcknowledgmentsIn this paper Kadri Vare is supported by META-NORD project (CIP-ICT-PSP.2010-4 Theme 6:Multilingual Web: Machine translation for themultilingual web); Estonian Ministry of Educa-tion and Research (Target financed researchtheme SF0180078s08, "Development and im-plementation of formalisms and efficient algo-rithms of natural language processing for theEstonian language") and National Programme forEstonian Language Technology.ReferencesAshok K. Chandra, Dexter C. Kozen, and LarryJ.Stockmeyer.
1981.
Alternation.
Journal of theAssociation for Computing Machinery, 28(1):114-133.Association for Computing Machinery.
1983.Computing Reviews, 24(11):503-512.Dan Gusfield.
1997.
Algorithms on Strings, Trees andSequences.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Donald E. Knuth.
1968, Fundamental Algorithms, vol.1 of Art of Computer Programming (Reading, MA,Addison-Wesley), ?2.3.3.Frank Lin and William W. Cohen.
2010.
PowerIteration Clustering in ICML-2010.George Miller, Richard Beckwith, ChristianeFellbaum, Derek Gross and Kathrine Miller.
1990.Introduction to WordNet: An On-line Lexicaldatabase.
?
International Journal of Lexicography3, 235-312.Kadri Kerner, Heili Orav and Sirli Parm.
2010.Growth and Revision of Estonian WordNet.
In:Principles, Construction and Application ofMultilingual Wordnets.
Proceeding of the 5thGlobal Wordnet Conference: 5th Global WordnetConference; Mumbai, India.
(Ed.)
Bhattacha-ryya,P.
; Fellbaum, Ch.
; Vossen, P. Mumbai, India:Narosa Publishing House, pp 198-202.Kadri Vider.
2001.
Eesti keele tesaurus - teooria jategelikkus Leksikograafiaseminar "S?na t?nap?evamaailmas" Leksikografinen seminaari "Sanatnykymaailmassa".
Ettekannete kogumik.
Toim.
M.Langemets.
Eesti Keele Instituudi toimetised 9.Tallinn, lk 134-156.Michael Louw.
1998.
Polaris User's Guide.
Technicalreport, Lernout & Hauspie .
Antwerp, Belgium.Maciej Piasecki, Michal Marcinczuk, Adam Musial,Radoslav Ramocki and Marek Maziarz.
2010.WordnetLoom: a Graph-based Visual WordnetDevelopment Framework.
In Proceedings ofIMCSIT, 469-476.Stefan Niermann.
2005.
Optimizing the Ordering ofTables With Evolutionary Computation.
TheAmerican Statistician, 59(1):41-46.29
