Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation, pages 74?81,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntegrating morpho-syntactic features in English-Arabic statisticalmachine translationInes Turki KhemakhemMIRACL Laboratory,ISIM Sfax,p?le Technologique,Route de Tunis Km 10, B.P.242 Sfax 3021, TunisieInes_turki@yahoo.frSalma JamoussiMIRACL Laboratory,ISIM Sfax,p?le Technologique,Route de Tunis Km 10, B.P.242 Sfax 3021, TunisieSalma.jammoussi@isimsf.rnu.tnAbdelmajid Ben Hama-douMIRACL Laboratory,ISIM Sfax,p?le Technologique,Route de Tunis Km 10, B.P.242 Sfax 3021, Tunisieabdelmajid.benh--amadou@isimsf.rnu.tnAbstractThis paper presents a hybrid approach to theenhancement of English to Arabic statisticalmachine translation quality.
Machine Transla-tion has been defined as the process that utiliz-es computer software to translate text from onenatural language to another.
Arabic, as a mor-phologically rich language, is a highly flex-ional language, in that the same root can leadto various forms according to its context.
Sta-tistical machine translation (SMT) engines of-ten show poor syntax processing especiallywhen the language used is morphologicallyrich such as Arabic.
In this paper, to overcomethese shortcomings, we describe our hybridapproach which integrates knowledge of theArabic language into statistical machine trans-lation.
In this framework, we propose the useof a featured language model SFLM (Sma?li etal., 2004) to be able to integrate syntactic andgrammatical knowledge about each word.
Inthis paper, we first discuss some challenges intranslating from English to Arabic and we ex-plore various techniques to improve perfor-mance on this task.
We apply a morphologicalsegmentation step for Arabic words and wepresent our hybrid approach by identifyingmorpho-syntactic class of each segmentedword to build up our statistical feature lan-guage model.
We propose the scheme for re-combining the segmented Arabic word, anddescribe their effect on translation.1 IntroductionArabic is characterized by complex morphologyand rich vocabulary.
It is a derivational, flexionallanguage.
In addition, Arabic is an agglutinativelanguage.
In fact, most Arabic words are madeup by the concatenation of certain morphemestogether.
An Arabic corpus will therefore havemore surface forms than an English corpus of thesame size.On the other hand, many Arabic words are hom-ographic: they have the same orthographic form,but they have not the same meaning.
This prop-erty can reduce the size of the translation vo-cabulary and has an important implication forstatistical modeling of the Arabic language.These factors affect the performance of English-Arabic Statistical Machine Translation (SMT).To overcome these weaknesses of SMT, we pro-pose a hybrid approach that seeks to integrate thelinguistic information and enrich the lexical andsyntactic resources in the statistical machinetranslation.Arabic language translation has been widelystudied recently.
Most of the time, the rich mor-phology of Arabic language is seen as a seriousproblem that must be resolved to build up an ef-ficient translation system.
It has been proven thatpre-processing Arabic data and integrating itsmorpho-syntactic features is useful to improvemachine translation results.
The use of similartechniques for English-to-Arabic SMT requiresrecombination of the target side into valid sur-face forms, which is not a trivial task.In this paper, we describe an initial set of exper-iments on English-to-Arabic machine translation:we apply a morphological segmentation step forArabic words and we present our hybrid ap-proach by identifying morpho-syntactic class ofeach segmented word to build up our statisticalfeature language model.
We propose the schemefor recombining the segmented Arabic, and de-scribe their effect on translation.74This paper is organized as follows: section 2gives a brief description of some related worksusing hybrid approach to Machine Translation tointroduce morpho-syntactic features in a machinetranslation process.
Section 3 describes the base-line system.
Then, section 4 presents the usedmorphological analyzer MORPH2 for Arabictexts, able to recognize word composition and toprovide more specific morphological informationabout it.
Next, we give information about Arabicsyntax and morphology in section 5; in the re-mainder of this section, we discuss the complexi-ty of the Arabic morphology and the challenge ofrecombining the translated and segmented Ara-bic words in to their surface forms.
The Statisti-cal Feature Language Model (SFLM) is ex-plained in section 6, when used it aims to inte-grate morpho-syntactic knowledge about word inthe language model.
We propose in section 7 ascheme for recombining the translated and seg-mented Arabic words in to their surface forms.Section 8 gives a short overview of the data andtools used to build up our SMT system andshows the experimental details of our systemusing SFLM and the morphological analyzerMORPH2.
Section 9 discusses the obtained re-sults and, finally, section 10 presents some con-clusions.2 Related workArabic language translation has been widelystudied recently.
Most of the time, the rich mor-phology of Arabic language is seen as a seriousproblem that must be resolved to build up an ef-ficient translation system.
Research into machinetranslation hybridization has increased over thelast few years particulary with the statistical ap-proach for machine translation.
Habash et al(Habash et al 2006) boost generation-heavymachine translation (GHMT) with statistical ma-chine translation components.
They use hybridi-zation approach from the opposite direction byincorporating SMT components into rule-basedsystems.
In (Sawaf, 2010), authors described anovel approach on how to deal with Arabic noisyand dialectal data.
They normalize the input textto a commun form to be able to process it.In recent years, the overall quality of machinetranslation output has been improved greatly.Still, SMT engines often show poor results intheir syntactic forms.
Hybrid approach try toovercome these typical errors by integratingknowledge of Arabic language.
It has been prov-en that pre-processing Arabic data and integrat-ing its features such as morphological infor-mation and syntactic structure is useful to im-prove machine translation results.In the next, we review this body of research.
Ourown research differs in that how to integrate in-formation into SMT components systems.Most of the related work is on Arabic-to-EnglishSMT.
In prior work (Lee, 2004) (Habash andSadat, 2006), it has been shown that morphologi-cal segmentation of the Arabic source benefitsthe performance of Arabic-to-English SMT.
In(Lee, 2004), the author uses a trigram languagemodel to segment Arabic words.
He then pro-ceeds to deleting or merging some of the seg-mented morphemes in order to make the seg-mented Arabic source align better with the Eng-lish target.
Habash and Sadat (Habash and Sadat,2006) compared the use of the BAMA (Buck-walter, 2002. )
and MADA (Habash and Ram-bow, 2005) toolkits to segment the Arabic sourceas well as simple pattern matching to do morpho-logical analysis for Arabic-English SMT, andwere able to improve translation for tasks without-of-domain training corpora.
Sadat and Ha-bash (Sadat and Habash.
2006) also showed thatit was possible to combine the use of several var-iations of morphological analysis both while de-coding (combining multiple phrase tables) andrescoring the combined outputs of distinct sys-tems.Introducing morphological analyzers in Arabicmachine translation process is very present in theliterature.
The recent work (Besacier et al 2008)conducted in depth a study of the influence ofArabic segmenters on the translation quality ofan Arabic to English phrase-based system usingthe Moses decoder.
In this work, authors demon-strate that the use of the morphology informationin the SMT has a great impact in improving re-sults.
They believe that simultaneously usingmultiple segmentations is a promising way toimprove machine translation of Arabic.Arabic is an inflected language with severalhomonyms words, consequently linguistic fea-tures are very useful to reduce statistical machinetranslation errors due to this phenomena.
Someresearch works have been conducted in this area(Bilmes and Kirchhoff, 2003) (Schwenk and D?-chelotte, 2007).
The factored language model(FLM) approach of Bilmes and Kirchhoff(Bilmes and Kirchhoff, 2003) is a more linguisti-75cally-informed modeling approach than the n-gram one.
FLM are an extension of standard lan-guage model where the prediction is based upona set of features (and not only on previous occur-rences of the predicted word).
FLM addresses theproblems of data-sparsity in morphologicallycomplex languages by representing words asbundles of features, thus one can easily capturedependencies between subword parts of adjacentwords.
Some other works have been proposed tointegrate linguistic information such as part-of-speech, morphology and shallow syntax in con-ventional phrase-based statistical translation(Koehn and Hoang.
2007).
These translationmodels allow integrating multiple levels of in-formation into the translation process instead ofincorporating linguistic markers in either prepro-cessing or postprocessing steps.
For example, inmorphologically rich languages it may be prefer-able to translate lemma, part-of-speech and mor-phological information separately and combinethe information on the target side to generate theoutput surface words.
In this model the transla-tion process is broken up into three steps.
Trans-late input lemmas into output lemmas in a firststep.
Then, translate morphological and POS fac-tors in a second step.
Finally, generate surfaceforms given the lemma and the linguistic factors.These factored translation models have beenused to improve the word level translation accu-racy by incorporating the factors in phrase-basedtranslation.
In (Schwenk and D?chelotte.
2007),authors focus on incorporating morpho-syntacticfeatures in the translation model for the English-Spanish machine translation process.
In thiswork, authors propose the use of augmentedunits in the translation model instead of simplewords.
These units are composed by surfaceword forms combined with their morpho-syntactic categories.
This method allows lexicaldisambiguation of words using their roles andtheir grammatical contexts.Previous works on English-to-Arabic SMT usingfactored models were proposed in (Sarikaya andDeng.
2007) and (Badr et al 2008).
The firstuses shallow segmentation, and does not makeuse of contextual information.
In this work au-thors use Joint Morphological-Lexical LanguageModels to rerank the output.
The second workshows that morphological decomposition of theArabic text is beneficial, especially for smaller-size corpora, and investigates different recombi-nation techniques.
In this work, authors proposethe use of factored translation models for Englishto Arabic translation.
The factors on the Englishside are POS tags and the surface word.
On theArabic side, they use the surface word, the stemand the POS tag concatenated to the segmentedclitics.In (Kholy and Habash.
2010), authors empha-sized on the sparsity problem of English-Arabictranslation.
They considered the tokenization andnormalization of Arabic data to improve English-to-Arabic SMT.3 Phrase-Based Machine TranslationStatistical machine translation methods haveevolved from using the simple word based mod-els (Brown et al 1993) to phrase based models(Marcu and Wong, 2002; Och and Ney.
2003).The SMT has been formulated as a noisy channelmodel in which the target language sentence, s isseen as distorted by the channel into the foreignlanguage t. In that, we try to find the sentence twhich maximizes the  P(t|s) probability:argmaxtP(t|s) = argmaxtP(s|t)P(t)   (1)Where P(t) is the language model and P(s|t) is thetranslation model.
We can get the language mod-el from a monolingual corpus (in the target lan-guage).
The translation model is obtained by us-ing an aligned bilingual corpus.The translation model is combined together withthe following six additional feature models: thetarget language model, the word and the phrasebonus and the source-to-target and target-to-source lexicon model and the reordering model.These models are optimized by the decoder1.
Inour case, we use the open source Moses decoderdescribed in (Koehn et al 2007).4 Segmentation for Arabic translationArabic is a morphologically complex language.Compared with English, an Arabic word cansometimes correspond to a whole English sen-tence (Example: the Arabic word "???????????"
corre-sponds in English to: "Do you remember us").The aim of a morphological analysis step is torecognize word composition and to provide spe-cific morphological information about it.
For1 http://www.statmt.org/moses/76Example: the word "??????"
(in English: theyknow) is the result of the concatenation of theprefix "?"
indicating the present and suffix "??
"indicating the plural masculine of the verb ???"
"(in English: to know).
The morphological ana-lyzer determines for each word the list of all itspossible morphological features.In Arabic language, some conjugated verbs orinflected nouns can have the same orthographicform due to absence of vowels (Example: non-voweled Arabic word "???"
can be a verb in thepast "???????"
(He dismissed), or a masculine noun"  ??????"
(chapter / season), or a concatenation ofthe coordinating conjunction " ???"
(then)?with theverb "??
": imperative of the verb (bind)).In order to handle the morphological ambigui-ties, we decide to use MORPH2, an Arabic mor-phological analyzer developed at the Miracl la-boratory2.
MORPH2 is based on a knowledge-based computational method.
It accepts as inputan Arabic text, a sentence or a word.
Its morpho-logical disambiguation and analysis method isbased on five steps:?
A tokenization process is applied in a firststep.
It consists of two sub-steps.
First, thetext is divided into sentences, using thesystem Star (Belguith et al 2005), an Ar-abic text tokenizer based on contextualexploration of punctuation marks and con-junctions of coordination.
The second sub-step detects the different words in eachsentence.?
A morphological preprocessing step whichaims to extract clitics agglutinated to theword.
A filtering process is then applied tocheck out if the remaining word is a parti-cle, a number, a date, or a proper noun.?
An affixal analysis is then applied to de-termine all possible affixes and roots.
Itaims to identify basic elements belongingto the constitution of a word (the root andaffixes i.e.
prefix, infix and suffix).?
The morphological analysis step consistsof determining for each word, all its pos-sible morpho-syntactic features (i.e, partof speech, gender, number, time, person,etc.).
Morpho-syntactic features detectionis made up on three stages.
The first stageidentifies the part-of-speech of the word2 http://www.miracl.rnu.tn(i.e.
verb "???
", noun "???
", particle "????
"and proper noun "????
???").
The secondstage extracts for each part-of-speech a listof its morpho-syntactic features.
A filter-ing of these feature lists is made in thethird stage.?
Vocalization and validation step: eachhandled word is fully vocalized accordingto its morpho-syntactic features deter-mined in the previous step.5  Challenges on English-Arabic SMTIn this section, we briefly explore the challengesthat prevent the construction of successful SMT.The divergence of Arabic and English puts arocky barrier in building a prosperous machinetranslation system.
Morphological and syntacticpreprocessing is important in order to convergethe two languages.Arabic is a highly agglutinative language with arich set of suffixes.
Inflectional and derivationalproductions introduce a big growth in the num-ber of possible word forms.
In Arabic, articles,prepositions, pronouns, etc.
can be affixed to ad-jectives, nouns, verbs and particles to which theyare related.
The richness in morphology intro-duces many challenges to the translation problemboth to and from Arabic.In general, ambiguities in Arabic word are main-ly caused by the absence of the short vowels.Thus, a word can have different meanings.
Thereare also the usual homographs of uninflectedwords with/without the same pronunciation,which have different meanings and usually dif-Iosoe ?326?h.?
))s?o[DPpOo?
so?Z)sG?"???
", cancorrespond in English to: "gold" or to: "go".
InArabic there are four categories of words: noun,proper noun, verbs and particles.
The absence ofshort vowels can cause ambiguities within thesame category or cross different categories.
Forexample: the word "???"
corresponds to manycategories (table 1).meanings of a word "???"
Categoriesafter Particuleremoteness Nounremove Verbgo away VerbTable 1: Different meanings of the word "???
"77In table 1, there exist four different analyses forthe word "???".
This ambiguity can be resolvedonly in the phrase context.Due to the Arabic is an agglutinative language,the morphological decomposition is required.
Soas mentioned above, both training and decodinguse segmented Arabic.
The final output of thedecoder must therefore be recombined into a sur-face form.
This proves to be a non-trivial chal-lenge for a reason that Arabic uses diverse sys-tems of prefixes, suffixes, and pronouns that areattached to the words (Soudi et al 2007).
Forexample, the Arabic sentence "???????????"
canbe recombined as presented in table 2.Table 2: Ambiguity in recombining sentence6 Statistical Feature Language ModelOne of the problems of statistical language mod-els is to consider that the word is depending onlyon its previous history (words or classes).
But infact, in natural language the appearance of aword depends not only on its history but also onsome others features.
The word "???"
(write) and"???"
(books) are two different words, but weFDe?
?
psoG,F ?
soP?
,I?Zo?G)e?
?Ne)Z?
so,s?IoDtures and their contexts.In order to settle such problem we are trying tointroduce knowledge about the word features byusing a featured statistical language model: Sta-tistical Feature Language Model (Sma?li et al2004).Arabic is an inflected natural language, linguis-tic features are very useful to reduce translationerrors due to homonyms.
By employing SFLM,each word is considered as an array of m fea-tures:wi1..m =(f1if2i..fmi )(2)Each fji is a linguistic characteristic of wi.
Thesecharacteristics or features could be the surfaceword, its syntactic class, its gender, its number,its semantic class, ...(Sma?li et al 2004) substitute in the classical n-gram language model, the words by their featurearrays which contain surface words and theirlinguistic characteristics.
Thus, a SFLM modelis built up by analogy with the classical n-grammodel given by:P(w1, w2, ?
,wL) =?
P(wi|wi?1Li=1 ?wi?n+1)          (3)To define SFLM model it is enough to replaceeach word wi by its feature array  (f1i , f2i , ?
, fmi )tas follows:P(w11..m, w21..m, ?
,wL1..m) =?
P((f1if2i..fmi )|(f1i?1f2i?1..fmi?1)Li=1 ?
(f1i?n+1f2i?n+1..fmi?n+1))           (4)Where (f1i , f2i , ?
, fmi )t is the feature array corre-sponding to the ith word.
This model is very sim-ple to implement with classical language model-ing toolkits like CMU (Clarkson and Rosenfeld,1997) and SLRIM (Stolcke, 2002).
In fact, wereplace each word in the Arabic training and testcorpora by its feature array.
Thus the followingnotation is adopted:wi1?m = f1i_f2i , ?
, _fmi               (5)The feature array f1i__f2i , ?
, __fmi  will be treatedlike only one string.
In our experiments, we de-cided to employ a SFLM with two features.
Wechoose to consider the word itself as first featureand its syntactic class (category) as second one.In this case, a word wi is represented like theconcatenation of the two strings wi and C(wi) asfollows:wi_C(wi )                  (6)where  ?(?? )
represents the morpho-syntacticclass of ?
?.7 Arabic recombinationAs mentioned in Section 1, Arabic is character-ized by a rich morphology.
In addition to beinginflected for gender and number, words can beattached to various clitics for conjunction "?
"(and), the definite article ??""
?
( so(i?
psop)h, ,)eh?(o.e?"?. "
(by/with), "?"
(for), "?"
(as)) and objectpronouns (e.g.
"??"
(their/them)).Recombined  sentence meanings??????????
Before exposure?????????
Accepted the offer78We apply decomposition before aligning thetraining data, by splitting off each clitic and affixagglutinated to the word separately, such thatany given word is split into at most five parts:Proclitic + prefix+ stem +suffix + enclitic.Then, the stem is associated with its morpho-syntactic feature.
For example the word"?????????"
(in English: "do you  know them" isreplaced by:??????????_??????????
?So in both training and decoding processes, seg-mented Arabic words are used.
The final outputof the decoder will be also a list of segmentedwords.
Therefore this output must be recombinedinto a surface form to be able to evaluate thetranslation result by using the right surfacewords.This proves to be a non-trivial challenge for areason of order ambiguity:  a segmented wordcan be recombined into two grammatically cor-rect forms.
Clitics can correspond to enclitic orproclitic.
For example: in the segmented words:" ????????
?????????
?? "
the clitic "?"
can be recom-bined with the previous word ("?
": enclitic).
Sothe segmented words " ????
??
??
?????????
?? "
can berecombined to " ????
????????????
", in English: "Igave this book".The clitic "?"
can be recombined also with thefollowing word ("?
": proclitic), in this case, thesegmented words " "???????????
can be recombinedto " ???????????
????
", in English: "I also gave thebook".Those two sentences have the same segmentedform, but they have different meanings.
By in-troducing morphological features (e.g.
proclitic,prefix, stem, suffix and enclitic) for each seg-ment, we may remove this ambiguity:Therefore we apply reconstruction of the Arabicsegmented words by agglutinating the morpho-logical segments in the following order:?_?proclitic??_?prefix??_???_???????suffix??_?
?enclitic8 Experiments8.1 Used dataIn this paper, we consider the translation task oftexts from English into Arabic.
We usedIWSLT2010 data as a parallel corpus.
Fortraining the translation models, the train part ofthe IWSLT10 data was used which contains19972 sentence pairs.
For testing, we used asubset data made up of 469 sentences (there were1 Arabic reference translation for each Arabicsentence).
All BLEU scores presented in thispaper are case-sensitive and includepunctuations.
For the Arabic language model weuse trigrams to build up the baseline system anda 7-grams to build up our translation system.
Infact, we use a 7-gram language model because inour system, each word in the training Arabiccorpus is replaced by its list of morphologicalsegments: proclitic, prefix, stem, suffix andenclitic.8.2 Baseline systemThe English-Arabic baseline system is built uponthe open-source MT toolkit Moses (Koehn et al2007).
Phrase pairs are extracted from wordalignments generated by GIZA++ (Och and Ney.2003).
The phrase-based translation model pro-vides direct and inverted frequency-based andlexical-based probabilities for each phrase pair.To train the trigram language models, SRILM(Stolcke, 2002) was used.
The performances re-ported in this paper were measured using theBLEU score (Papineni et al 2002).8.3 Experimental results?
Arabic word  segmenter:In our method, each Arabic word, from the targettraining data, is replaced by its segmented form.For example: the word "????????"
(in English: "andwe have known them") is the result of the con-catenation of the proclitic "???"
(then): coordinat-ing conjunction, the suffix "??"
for the presentmasculine plural, enclitic "??"
(for the masculineplural posession pronoun), and the rest of theword "???"
indicating the stem.
So, the word"????????"
will be replaced by:"????????????????"?
SFLM for introducing Morpho-syntacticfeatures:For introducing morpho-syntactic features intothe English-Arabic translation system, we usepart of speech tagging provided by MORPH2.We believe that using these features can improve79our language modeling when used with theSFLM model.In our proposed method, each Arabic word, fromthe target Arabic training data, is replaced by thereduced word (obtained by removing its cliticsand its affixes), combined with its syntactic class(category), where clitic and affix are featuredwith their morphological classes (e.g.
proclitic,prefix, suffix and enclitic).For example : the word "???????"
(in English: "hewill notify them") is the result of the concatena-tion of the proclitic "?"
indicating the future,  theprefix "?"
for the present, enclitic "??"
(for themasculine plural posession pronoun),  and therest of the word "???"
such as its syntactic class isverb: "???".
So, the word "???????"
will be re-placed by:"_?
proclitic?_?
prefix?_???_??????
"encliticIn this notation, its morpho-syntactic feature (asverb "???
", noun "???
", particle "????"
and propernoun "???????").
The language model is then gen-erated using the so obtained target Arabic train-ing data, by the standard SRILM toolkit.
The soobtained Arabic corpus in then used for training(without any change on the English side).?
Arabic post-processingAs mentioned above, both training and decodingphases use Arabic segmented words.
The finaloutput of the decoder will be also composed ofsegmented words.
Therefore these words must berecombined into their surface forms.
Thereforewe apply reconstruction of the Arabic segmentedwords just by agglutinating the morphologicalsegments in the following order:Proclitic + prefix+ stem +suffix + enclitic.The English-Arabic translation performance ofthis new system is reported in table3, and com-pared to the baseline system.BleuBaseline 12.58%SMT hybrid 13.16%Table 3: Comparison of the English-Arabic transla-tion systemsTable 3 shows a significant improvement of theBLEU score when we use segmentation and in-troduce morpho-syntactic features into the Eng-lish-Arabic translation system by using SFLM.The BLEU score increases from 12.58% to13.16%.These results attest that the use of morpho-syntactic features within SMT system can en-hance translation performances, especially foragglutinative and inflectional languages, such asArabic.
Also, using the word category concate-nated to the word, can avoid the problem ofhomographics and can improve language model-ing efficacity.9 ConclusionEnglish-to-Arabic machine translation has been achallenging research issue for many researchersin the field of Arabic Natural Language Pro-cessing.
In this study, we have evaluated the ef-fectiveness of morphological decomposition ofthe Arabic text and SFLM language modelingmethod to integrate morpho-syntactic features inEnglish to Arabic machine translation.
We alsopresented our method for recombining the seg-mented Arabic target.
Our results suggest thatmorphological decomposition of the Arabic textis beneficial and that using morpho-syntactic fea-tures is a promising way to improve English toArabic machine translation.
The use of recombi-nation of the target side technique is beneficial toovercome ambiguity in recombining Arabic text.ReferencesBadr I., Zbib R. and Glass J.
2008.
Segmentation forEnglish-to-Arabic statistical machine translation.Proceedings of the 46th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics on HumanLanguage Technologies, Columbus, Ohio, 153-156.Belguith L., Baccour L. and Mourad G. 2005.
Seg-mentation des textes arabes bas?e sur l'analyse con-textuelle des signes de ponctuations et de certainesparticules".
Actes de la 12?me Conf?rence annuellesur le Traitement Automatique des Langues Natu-relles, 451-456.Besacier L., Ben-Youcef A. and Blanchon H. 2008.The LIG Arabic / English Speech Translation Sys-tem.
IWSLT08.
Hawai.
USA, 58-62.Bilmes J. and Kirchhoff K. 2003.
Factored languagemodels and generalized parallel backoff".
In Pro-ceeding of Human Language Technology Confer-ence, Edmonton, Canada.
4?6.Brown P., Della Pietra V., Della Pietra S., and MercerR.
1993.
The mathematics of statistical machine80translation: parameter estimation, ComputationalLinguistics, 19(1): 263?311.Buckwalter T. 2002.
Buckwalter Arabic morphologi-cal analyzer version 1.0.
Linguistic Data Consorti-um, University of Pennsylvania.Carpuat M, Marton Y, and Habash N. 2010.
Improv-ing arabic-to-english statistical machine translationby reordering post-verbal subjects for alignment.
InProceedings of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2010) Conference Short Papers,Uppsala, Sweden, 178?183.Clarkson P. and Rosenfeld R. 1997, Statistical lan-guage modeling using the CMU-Cambridgetoolkit.
In Proceedings of the European Conferenceon Speech Communication and Technology,Rhodes, Greece, 2707-2710.David Chiang, Yuval Marton, and Philip Resnik.2008.
Online large-margin training of syntactic andstructural translation features.
In Proceedings of theConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-eXDeo?3s)Fohh,eei?(01/3?
?i??233, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.Habash N. and Rambow O.
2005.
Arabic Tokeniza-tion, Part-of-Speech Tagging and MorphologicalDisambiguation in One Fell Swoop.
In Proc.
of the43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL), Ann Arbor, MI,573?580.Habash N. and Sadat F. 2006.
Arabic PreprocessingSchemes for Statistical Machine Translation.
InProc.
of the Human Language Technology Confer-ence of the NAACL, Companion Volume: ShortPapers, New York City, NY, 49?52.Habash N., Dorr B., and Monz C. 2006.
Challenges inBuilding an Arabic-English GHMT System withSMT Components.
In Proceedings of the 11th an-nual conference of the European Association forMachine Translation (EAMT-2006), Norway, 56-65.Kholy A. and Habash N. 2010.
Techniques for arabicmorphological detokenization and orthographicdenormalization.
In Proceedings of the seventh In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC), Valletta, Malta.Koehn P. and Hoang H. 2007.
Factored translationmodels.
In Proceedings of the 2007 Joint Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing and Computational Natural LanguageLearning, Prague, 868?876.Koehn P., Hoang H., Birch A., Callison-Burch C.,Federico M., Bertoldi N., Cowa B., Shen W., Mo-ran C., Zens R., Dyer C., Bojar O., Constantin A.,and Herbst E., 2007.
Moses: Open source toolkitfor statistical machine translation, in Proceedingsof the ACL-2007 Demoand Poster Sessions, Pra-gue, Czeck Republic, 177?180.Lee Y. S. 2004.
Morphological Analysis for Statisti-cal Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of HLT-NAACL: Short Papers on XX, Boston, Massachu-setts, 57-60.Marcu D. and Wong W. 2002.
A Phrase-Based, JointProbability Model for Statistical Machine Transla-tion.
Proceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP-2002), Philadelphia, PA, 133-139.Och F. J., and Ney H., 2003.
A Systematic compari-son of various statistical alignment models, Com-putational Linguistics, 29(1): 19-51.Papineni K. A., Roukos S., Ward T., and Zhu W.J.,2002.
Bleu: a method for automatic evaluation ofmachine translation.
The Proc.
of the 40th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Philadelphia, 311?318.Sadat F. and Habash N. 2006.
Combination of Arabicpreprocessing schemes for statistical machinetranslation".
In Proceedings of the 21st Internation-al Conference on Computational Linguistics andthe 44th annual meeting of the ACL (Coling$&/?(i?6\Geo\i?$Xh sDO,Di??8.Sarikaya R. and Deng Y.
2007.
Joint Morphological-Lexical Language Modeling for Machine Transla-tion.
In Proc.
of NAACL HLT, Rochester, NY,145-148.Sawaf H. 2010.
Arabic Dialect Handling in HybridMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of the Con-ference of the Association for Machine Translationin the Americas (AMTA 2010), Denver, Colorado.Schwenk H., D?chelotte D. 2007.
Bonneau-MaynardH.
and Allauzen A., "Mod?les statistiques enrichispar la syntaxe pour la traduction automatique".TALN 2007, Toulouse-France.
253-262.Sma?li K., Jamoussi S., Langlois D. and Haton J. P.2004.
Statistical feature language model.
INTER-SPEECH, Korea, 1357-1360.Soudi A., Bosch A. and Neumann G. 2007, ArabicComputational Morphology: Knowledge-based andEmpirical Methods.
In Arabic Computational Mor-phology,  Springer, 3-14.Stolcke A., 2002.
SRILM an Extensible LanguageModeling Toolkit.
The Proc.
of the Intl.
Conf.
onSpoken Language Processing, Denver, CO, USA,901?904.81
