Proceedings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop & Interoperability with Discourse, pages 122?130,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsApplicative Structures and Immediate Discourse in the TurkishDiscourse BankI?
?n Demir?ahin, Adnan ?zt?rel, Cem Boz?ahin, and Deniz ZeyrekDepartment of Cognitive Science, Informatics InstituteMiddle East Technical University{disin,ozturel,bozsahin,zeyrek}@metu.edu.trAbstractVarious discourse theories have argued for da-ta structures ranging from the simplest trees tothe most complex chain graphs.
This paper in-vestigates the structure represented by the ex-plicit connectives annotated in the multiple-genre Turkish Discourse Bank (TDB).
The de-pendencies that violate tree-constraints are an-alyzed.
The effects of information structure inthe surface form, which result in seeminglycomplex configurations with underlying sim-ple dependencies, are introduced; and thestructural implications are discussed.
The re-sults indicate that our current approach to localdiscourse structure needs to accommodateproperly contained arguments and relations,and partially overlapping as well as shared ar-guments; deviating further from simple trees,but not as drastically as a chain graph structurewould imply, since no genuine cases of struc-tural crossing dependencies are attested inTDB.1 IntroductionA variety of structures for discourse representa-tion has been proposed, including successivetrees of varying sizes connected and occasionallyintertwined at the peripheries (Hobbs, 1985), asingle tree structure (Rhetorical Structure Theo-ry, RST, Mann & Thompson, 1988), entitychains (Knott et al2001), tree-adjoining gram-mars (Discourse-Lexicalized Tree AdjoiningGrammar, D-LTAG, Webber, 2004), directedacyclic graphs (Lee et al 2006, 2008) and chaingraphs (Wolf & Gibson, 2005).The simplest of these structures is a tree,which treats discourse structure simpler thansentence-level syntax.
The most complex repre-sentation, chain graphs that allow for crossingdependencies and other tree-violations, treatsdiscourse as more complex than sentence level.We know since the work of Shieber (1985) andJoshi (1985) that sentence-level structures re-quire more than context-free power, but not tothe extent of dealing with general graphs, or withstrings that grow out of constant control.
It is ofgeneral interest to discover whether such com-plexity occurs in natural discourses, because wewould like to know how far discourse structuresdeviate from applicative semantics.
(Applicativestructures are binary operations on data; for ex-ample a connective?s meaning depending only ontwo arguments.
A system is applicative if it onlymakes use of function application, but not e.g.graph reduction or general function composition.The concepts are distinct but related: functionapplication can be linked to applicative structuresby currying.)
If more complex structures arefound, we must go above applicative semantics,and we must worry about function compositionsand graph reductions, which are known to re-quire more computational power.2 Turkish Discourse BankTurkish Discourse Bank (TDB) is the first large-scale publicly available language resource withdiscourse level annotations for Turkish built on a~ 400,000-word sub-corpus of METU TurkishCorpus (MTC) (Say et al 2002), annotated inthe style of Penn Discourse Tree Bank (PDTB)(Prasad et al 2008).
The TDB Relations areannotated for explicit discourse connectives,which link two spans of text that can be inter-preted as Abstract Objects (Asher, 1993).
Con-nectives are annotated together with their modi-fiers and arguments,and with supplementarymaterials for the arguments (Zeyrek & Webber,2008; Zeyrek et al 2010).
The first release ofTDB is available at http://medid.ii.metu.edu.tr/.122As in PDTB, the connectives in TDB comefrom a variety of syntactic classes (Zeyrek &Webber, ibid).
The coordinating and subordinat-ing conjunctions such as ve ?and?
and i?in ?for?and ?in order to?, respectively, are consideredstructural connectives, meaning that they takeboth arguments structurally.
Discourse adverbialsand phrasal expressions that are built by combin-ing a discourse-anaphoric element with a subor-dinating conjunction are considered to be ana-phoric connectives, meaning that they only takethe argument that is syntactically related, and theother argument is interpreted anaphorically.
InPDTB and TDB style, the syntactically relatedargument is called the second argument (Arg2),and the other argument is called the first argu-ment (Arg1), for both structural and anaphoricconnectives.
The syntactic class of the discourseconnective will be included in the further releas-es of TDB along with the sense of the discourserelations, and some morphological features forthe arguments of subordinating conjunctions(Demir?ahin et al 2012).3 Discourse Relation Configurations inTurkishLee et al(2006) identified independent relationsand fully embedded relations as conforming tothe tree structure, and shared arguments, proper-ly contained arguments, pure crossing, and par-tially overlapping arguments as departures fromthe tree structure in PDTB.
Although most depar-tures from the tree structure can be accounted forby non-structural explanations, such as anaphoraand attribution, Lee et al(2006, 2008) state thatshared arguments may have to be accepted indiscourse structure.Akta?
et al(2010) identified similar structuresin TDB, adding nested relations that do not vio-late tree structure constraints, as well as properlycontained relations that introduce further devia-tions from trees.
Following their terminology, wewill reserve the word relation to discourse rela-tions (or coherence relations), and use the termconfiguration to refer to relations between dis-course relations.1.1 Independent, Fully Embedded andNested RelationsThe first release of TDB consists of 8,484 explic-it relations.
The argument spans of some dis-course connectives do not overlap with those ofany other connectives in the corpus.
We callthem independent relations.
All others are callednon-independent relations.
We have identified2,548 non-independent configurations consistingof 3,474 unique relations, meaning that 5,010relations (59.05%) are independent.
Table 1shows the distribution of 2,548 non-independentconfigurations.Configuration # %Full Embedding 695 27.28Nested Relations 138 5.42Total Non-violatingConfigurations 833 32.69Shared Argument 489 19.19Prop.
Cont.
Argument 194 7.61Prop.
Cont.
Relation 1018 39.95Pure Crossing 2 0.08Partial Overlap 12 0.47Total ViolatingConfigurations 1715 67.31Total 2548 100.00Table 1: Distribution of non-independent config-urationsSince full embedding and nested relations con-form to tree structure, these configurations willnot be discussed further.
The following subsec-tions discuss the suitability of explanations in-volving anaphora and attribution to tree-violatingconfigurations.
Those that cannot be completelyexplained away must be accommodated by thediscourse structure.1.2 Shared ArgumentsLee et al(2006, 2008) state that shared argu-ment is one of the configurations that cannot beexplained away, and should be accommodated bydiscourse structure.
Similarly, Egg & Redeker(2008) admit that even in a corpus annotatedwithin RST Framework, which enforces treestructure by annotation guidelines, there is agenre-specific structure that is similar to theshared arguments in Lee et al(2006).Figure 1 - Shared Argument123Of the 489 shared arguments in TDB, 331 be-long to anaphoric discourse relations (i.e.
rela-tions in which at least one of the connectivesinvolved is either a discourse adverbial or aphrasal expression) (67.69%).
In the remaining158 relations (32.31%), arguments are shared bystructural connectives.
(1) is an example of ashared argument.
(1) 00001131-2&3(a) Vazge?mek kolayd?, ertelemek de.
Amat?rmanmaya ba?land?
m?
bitirilmeli!
??nk?
herseferinde ac?mas?z bir geriye d?n??
vard?.
?It was easy to give up, so was to postpone.
Butonce you start climbing you have to go all theway!
Because there was a cruel comebackeverytime.?
(b) Vazge?mek kolayd?, ertelemek de.
Amat?rmanmaya ba?land?
m?
bitirilmeli!
??nk?
herseferinde ac?mas?z bir geriye d?n??
vard?.
?It was easy to give up, so was to postpone.
Butonce you start climbing you have to go all theway!
Because there was a cruel comebackeverytime.
?All examples are from TDB; the first line indi-cates the file name (00077211 in (1)), and thebrowser index of the connectives involved in theconfiguration (2 & 3 in (1)).
The first arguments(Arg1) of the connectives are in italic, the secondarguments (Arg2) are in bold.
The connectivesthemselves are underlined.
For the sake of sim-plicity, the modifiers of the connectives are dis-played as part of the connective, and the sharedtags are omitted when they are immaterial to theconfiguration being discussed.In (1), the first argument of but (relation 2)annotated in (a) completely overlaps with thefirst argument of because (relation 3), annotatedin (b) on the same text for comparison.
The resultis a shared argument configuration.1.3 Properly Contained Relations and Ar-gumentsIn TDB there are 1,018 properly contained rela-tions, almost half of which (471 relations;46.27%) are caused by anaphoric relations.Properly contained relations where anaphoricconnectives are not involved can be caused byattribution, complement clauses, and relativeclauses.
(2) is a relation within a relative clause(a), which is part of another relation in the matrixclause (b).
The result is a properly containedrelation.
(2) 00001131-27&28(a) Sabah ?ok erken saatte bir ?nceki ak?amg?n batmadan hemen ?nce ast???
?ama?
?rlar?toplamaya ?
?k?yordu ve do?al olarak da g?nbatmadan o g?nk?
?ama??rlar?
asmak i?ingeliyordu.
?She used to go out to gather the clean laundryshe had hung to dry right before the sun wentdown the previous evening, and naturally shecame before sunset to hang the laundry of theday.?
(b) Sabah ?ok erken saatte bir ?nceki ak?am g?nbatmadan hemen ?nce ast???
?ama?
?rlar?toplamaya ?
?k?yordu ve do?al olarak da g?nbatmadan o g?nk?
?ama??rlar?
asmak i?ingeliyordu.
?She used to go out to gather the clean laundryshe had hung to dry the previous evening rightbefore the sun went down, and naturally shecame before sunset to hang the laundry of theday.?a.
Full Embeddingb.
Properly Contained RelationFigure 2 - Properly Contained Relation vs. FullEmbeddingSometimes a verb of attribution is the only el-ement that causes proper containment.
Lee et al(2006) argue that since the relation between theverb of attribution and the owner of the attribu-tion is between an abstract object and an entity,and not between two abstract objects, it is not a124relation on the discourse level.
Therefore, thosestranded verbs of attribution should not be re-garded as tree-structure violations.
In (3) theproperly contained relations occur in a quote, butthe intervening materials are more than just verbsof attribution.
Because the intervening materialsin (3) are whole sentences that participate incomplex discourse structures, we believe that (3)is different than the case proposed by Lee et al(2006) and should be considered a genuine caseof properly contained relation.
(3) 00003121-10, 11&13(a) "Evet, k??
?k amcamd?
o, nur i?inde yats?n,yetmi?lik bir rak?y?
devirip ipi sek sek ge?meyekalkm??
; kaptan olan amcam ise kocaman birgemiyi sulara g?md?.
Aylardan kas?md?, ben?ocuktum, ?ok iyi an?ms?yorum, f?rt?nal?
birgecede, Karadeniz?in bat?s?nda batm?
?lard?.Kaptand?, ama y?zme bilmezdi amcam.
Birnamaz tahtas?na sar?lm??
olarak k?y?yavurdu?unda kollar?n?
zor a?m?
?lar, yar?
yar?yadonmu?.
Belki de o anda Tanr?
?ya yakar?pyard?m istiyordu, ??nk?
?ok dindar bir adamd?.Ama art?k de?il; k?p gibi i?ip meyhanelerdekeman ?al?yor."
Sonra da Nesli?nin ilgiyle?at?lm??
aln?na bak?p g?l?yor: "?ok istavritsin!
"?Yes, he was my younger uncle, may he rest inpeace, he tried to hop on the tightrope afterquaffing down a bottle of raki; my other unclewho was a captain, on the other hand, sank awhole ship.
It was October, I was a child, I re-member it vividly, in a stormy night, they sankby the west of the Black Sea.
He was a captain,but he couldn?t swim, my uncle.
When hewashed ashore holding onto a piece of driftwood,they pried open his arms with great difficulty, hewas half frozen.
Maybe at that moment he wasbegging God for help, because he was a veryreligious man.
But not anymore, now he hits thebottle and plays the violin in taverns.?
Then hesees Nesli?s interested frown and laughs:?You?re so gullible!?
(b) "Evet, [...] Ama art?k de?il; k?p gibi i?ipmeyhanelerde keman ?al?yor."
Sonra daNesli?nin ilgiyle ?at?lm??
aln?na bak?p g?l?yor:"?ok istavritsin!
"?Yes, [...]But not anymore, now he hits the bottleand plays the violin in taverns.?
Then he seesNesli?s interested frown and laughs: ?You?reso gullible!
?Whereas attribution can be discarded as a non-discourse relation, a discourse model based ondiscourse connectives should be able to accom-modate partially contained relations resultingfrom relations within complements of verbs andrelative clauses.Figure 3 - Properly Contained ArgumentAs in properly contained relations, properlycontained arguments may arise when an abstractobject that is external to a quote is in a relationwith an abstract object in a quote.
Likewise, adiscourse relation within the complement of averb or a relative clause can cause properly con-tained arguments.
Anaphoric connectives ac-count for the 129 (66.49%) of the 194 properlycontained arguments in TDB.1.4 Partial OverlapThere are only 12 partial overlaps in TDB, and3 of them involve anaphoric relations.Figure 4 - Partial OverlapIn (4), the argument span of in order to par-tially overlaps with the argument span of to.
Thisis a partial overlap of the arguments of two struc-tural connectives.
(4) 20630000-44&45(a) H?k?metin, 1998?de kapat?lankumarhaneleri, kaynak sorununa ?
?z?mbulmak amac?yla yeniden a?mak i?in hareketege?mesi, tart?
?ma yaratt?.
?The fact that the governtment took action inorder to reopen the casinos that were closeddown in 1998 in order to come up with a solu-tion to the resource problem caused argu-ments.?
(b) H?k?metin, 1998?de kapat?lankumarhaneleri, kaynak sorununa ?
?z?mbulmak amac?yla yeniden a?mak i?in hareketege?mesi, tart?
?ma yaratt?.125?The fact that the governtment took action inorder to reopen the casinos that were closeddown in 1998 in order to come up with a solu-tion to the resource problem caused argu-ments.
?The first argument of relation 44 (a) properlycontains the first argument of 45 (b), whereas thesecond argument of (b) properly contains thesecond argument of (a).
This double containmentresults in a complicated structure that will beanalyzed in detail in ?3.5.In (5) the second argument of but (relation 42(a)) contains only one of the two conjoinedclauses, whereas the first argument of after (rela-tion 43 (b)) contains both of them.
The mostprobable cause for this difference in annotationsis the combination of ?blind annotation?
with the?minimality principle.?
This principle guides theparticipants to annotate the minimum text spanrequired to interpret the relation.
Since the anno-tators cannot see previous annotations, they haveto assess the minimum span of an argumentagain when they annotate the second relation.Sometimes the minimal span for one relation isannotated differently than the minimal span re-quired for the other, resulting in partial overlaps.
(5) 00001131-42&43(a) Yine istedi?i ki?iyi bir t?rl?
g?rememi?ti, amaaylarca sabrettikten sonra g?zetledi?i birkad?n solu?unu daraltt?, t?yleri diken dikenoldu.
?Once again he couldn?t see the person he want-ed to see, but after waiting patiently formonths, a woman he peeped at took his breathaway, gave him goose bumps?.
(b) Yine istedi?i ki?iyi bir t?rl?
g?rememi?ti,ama aylarca sabrettikten sonra g?zetledi?i birkad?n solu?unu daraltt?, t?yleri diken diken oldu.
?Once again he couldn?t see the person he want-ed to see, but after waiting patiently formonths, a woman he peeped at took his breathaway, gave him goose bumps.
?1.5 Pure CrossingThere are only 2 pure crossing examples in thecurrent release of TDB, a number so small that itis tempting to treat them as negligible.
However,the inclusion of pure crossing would result in themost dramatic change in discourse structure,raising the complexity level to chain graph andmaking discourse structure markedly more com-plex than sentence level grammar.
Therefore, wewould like to discuss both examples in detail.
(6) 00010111-54&55(a) Sonra ans?z?n sesler gelir.
Ayak sesleri.
Biri-lerinin ya i?i vard?r, aceleyle y?r?rler, yako?arlar.
O zaman k?z kat?la?
?r ans?z?n.
O?landa kat?la?
?r ve her ko?unun gizli bir iste?i var.
?And then suddenly there is a sound.
Footsteps.Someone has an errand to run, they walk hurried-ly or run.
Then the girl stiffens suddenly.
Theboy stiffens, too; and every run has a hiddenwish.?
(b) Sonra ans?z?n sesler gelir.
Ayak sesleri.
Biri-lerinin ya i?i vard?r, aceleyle y?r?rler, yako?arlar.
O zaman k?z kat?la?
?r ans?z?n.
O?lan dakat?la?
?r ve her ko?unun gizli bir iste?i var.
?And then suddenly there is a sound.
Footsteps.Someone has an errand to run, they walk hur-riedly or run.
Then the girl stiffens suddenly.The boy stiffens, too; and every run has a hid-den wish.
?In (6), the discourse relation encoded by thenis not only anaphoric -and therefore not determi-nant in terms of discourse structure- but also thecrossing annotation does not necessarily arisefrom the coherence relation of the connective?sarguments.
It is more likely imposed by lexicalcohesive elements (Halliday & Hasan, 1976), asthe annotators apparently made use of the repeti-tions of ans?z?n ?suddenly?
and ko?
?run?
in thetext when they could not interpret the intendedmeaning.Figure 5 - Pure CrossingThe other example, given in (7), is not ana-phoric.
It is more interesting as it points to a pe-culiar structure similar to (4) in ?3.4, a surfacecrossing which is frequent in the subordinatingconjunctions of Turkish.
(7) 20510000-31,32&34(a) Ceza, Telekom?un iki farkl?
internet alyap?s?
pazar?nda tekel konumunu k?t?yekulland???
i?in ve uydu istasyonu i?letmecili?ipazar?nda art?k tekel hakk?
kalmad???
halderakiplerinin faaliyetlerini zorla?t?rd???
i?inverildi.126?The penalty was given because Telekomabused its monopoly status in the two differ-ent internet infrastructure markets and be-cause it caused difficulties with its rivals?
activi-ties although it did not have a monopoly status inthe satellite management market anymore.?
(b) Ceza, Telekom?un iki farkl?
internet alyap?s?pazar?nda tekel konumunu k?t?ye kulland???
i?inve uydu istasyonu i?letmecili?i pazar?ndaart?k tekel hakk?
kalmad???
halde rakiplerininfaaliyetlerini zorla?t?rd???
i?in verildi.
?The penalty was given because Telekom abusedits monopoly status in the two different internetinfrastructure markets and because it causeddifficulties with its rivals?
activities although itdid not have a monopoly status in the satellitemanagement market anymore.?
(c) Ceza, Telekom?un iki farkl?
internet alyap?s?pazar?nda tekel konumunu k?t?ye kulland???
i?inve uydu istasyonu i?letmecili?i pazar?ndaart?k tekel hakk?
kalmad???
halde rakiplerininfaaliyetlerini zorla?t?rd???
i?in verildi.
?The penalty was given because Telekom abusedits monopoly status in the two different internetinfrastructure markets and because it causeddifficulties with its rivals?
activities although itdid not have a monopoly status in the satellitemanagement market anymore.
?A closer inspection reveals that the pure cross-ings in (7) are caused by two distinct reasons.The first reason is the repetition of the subor-dinator i?in ?because?.
Had there been only therightmost subordinator, the relation would be asimple case of Full Embedding, where ve ?and?in (b) connects the two reasons for the penalty,while the rightmost subordinator connects thecombined reasons to the matrix clause (see Fig-ure 6).
However, since both subordinators werepresent, they were annotated separately.
Theyshare their first arguments, and take differentspans as their second arguments, which are alsoconnected by ve ?and?, resulting in an apparentpure crossing.Our alternative analysis is that ve ?and?
actual-ly takes the subordinators i?in ?because?
in itsscope, and it should be analyzed similar to anassumed single-subordinator case.
This kind ofannotation was not available in TDB because theannotation guidelines state that the discourseconnectives at the peripheries of the argumentsshould be left out.
Machine Learning can help usspot these instances.The second reason for crossing is the wrap-ping of the first arguments of (a) and (c) aroundthe subordinate clause.
This crossing is in factnot a configuration-level dependency, but a rela-tion-level surface phenomenon confined withinthe relation anchored by i?in ?because?, withoutunderlying complex discourse semantics.
Exam-ple (8) is a simpler case where the surface cross-ing within the relation can be observed.a.
Double-subordinator (as-is)b. Single-subordinator (hypothetical)Figure 6 - Configuration for (7) as is, and the hypothetical single-subordinator version127(8) 10380000-31882?de ?stanbul Ticaret Odas?, bir zahire veticaret borsas?
kurulmas?
i?in giri?imdebulunuyor ama sonu?
alam?yor.
?In 1882, ?stanbul Chamber of Commerce makesan attempt for founding a Provisions andCommodity Exchange Market but cannot ob-tain a result.
?Subordinators in Turkish form adverbialclauses (Kornfilt, 1997), so they can occupy anyposition that is legitimate for a sentential adverb.Wrapping in discourse seems to be motivatedinformation-structurally.
In the unmarked posi-tion, the subordinate clause comes before thematrix clause and introduces a theme.
However,the discourse constituents can occupy differentpositions or carry non-neutral prosodic featuresto express different information structures(Demir?ahin, 2008).
In (7), wrapping takes ceza?penalty?
away from the rheme and makes it partof the theme, at the same time bringing the caus-al discourse relation into the rheme.As is clear from the gloss in (7) and itsstringset, this is function application, where cezaverildi ?penalty was given?
wraps in the firstargument as a whole.
Double occurrence of the?connective?
within the wrapped-in argument iscausing the apparent crossing, but there is in factone discourse relation.Figure 7 - WrappingWrapping in discourse is almost exclusive tosubordinating conjunctions, possibly due to theiradverbial freedom in sentence-level syntax.
Thesubordinators make up 468 of the total of 479wrapping cases identified in TDB.
However,there are also four cases of coordinating conjunc-tions with wrapping.
Two of them result in sur-face crossing as in (9), and the other two build anested-like structure, as in (10) and (11).
Thelatter two are both parentheticals.
(9) 10690000-32Bezirci?nin sonradan elimize ge?en ve1985?lerde yapt???
antoloji haz?rl??
?nda, [?
]?In the preparation for an anthology whichBezirci made during 1985?s and which cameinto our possession later[?
]?In (9) ve ?and?
links two relative clauses, oneof which seems to be embedded in the other.
Itshould be noted that the first part of Arg1(Bezirci-nin) has an ambiguous suffix.
The suffixcould be the agreement marker of the relativeclause, as reflected in the annotation, or it couldbe the genitive marked complement of the geni-tive-possessive construction Bezirci?nin antolojihaz?rl???
?Bezirci?s anthology preparation?.
Thelatter analysis does not cause wrapping.
(10) 00003121-26Biz yasalar kar?
?s?nda evli say?lacak, amager?ekte evli iki insan gibi de?il de (evliliklers?radanla?
?yordu ?
?nk?, tekd?ze ve s?k?c?yd?
;biz farkl?
olacakt?k), ayn?
evi payla?an iki?
?renci gibi ya?ayacakt?k.
?We would be married under the law, but in real-ity we would live like two students sharing thesame house rather than two married people (be-cause marriages were getting ordinary, (theywere) monotonous and boring; we would bedifferent).?
(11) 00008113-10Masa ya da duvar saatleri bulunmayan, ezanseslerini her zaman duyamay?p zaman?
?
?renmeki?in erkeklerin (evde olduklar?
zaman, tabii) cepsaatiyle do?an?n ??
?k saatine ve kendii?g?d?leriyle tahminlerine bel ba?layan bir?okaile, ya?amlar?n?
bu top sesine g?re ayarlarlard?.
?Lots of families who didn?t have a table clockor a wall clock and couldn?t always hear theprayer calls, who relied upon the men?s pocketwatch (when they were home, of course) andtheir instincts and guesses to learn the time ad-justed their lives according to this cannon shot.
?Both (10) and (11) are parentheticals, resultingin a double-wrapping-like construction (Figure8).
However, parentheticals move freely in theclause and occupy various positions, so we be-lieve that this construction should be taken as apeculiarity of the parenthetical, rather than thestructural connectives involved in the relation.Figure 8 - Double-wrap-like Parenthetical Con-struction for (10)1284 ConclusionIn this paper we presented possible deviationsfrom the tree structure in the first release ofTDB.
Following Lee et al(2006, 2008) andAkta?
et al(2010).
We have scanned the corpusfor shared arguments, properly contained rela-tions and arguments, partial overlaps, and purecrossings.
Overall, about half of these configura-tions can be accounted for by anaphoric rela-tions, i.e.
they are not applicative structures (seeTable 2).
Note that if one of the relations in aconfiguration is anaphoric, we treat the configu-ration as anaphoric.Configuration Struc-turalAna-phoric TotalShared Argument 158 331 48932.31% 67.69% 100.00%Prop.
Cont.
Arg.
65 129 19433.51% 66.49% 100.00%Prop.
Cont.
Rel.
547 471 101853.73% 46.27% 100.00%Pure Crossing 1 1 250.00% 50.00% 100.00%Partial Overlap 9 3 1275.00% 25.00% 100.00%Total 780 935 171545.48% 54.52% 100.00%Table 2: Distribution of anaphoric relationsamong tree-violating configurationsIn addition to the shared arguments that wereaccepted in discourse structure by Lee et al wehave also come up with partially contained rela-tions arising from verbal complements and rela-tive clauses.
These structures can be treated dif-ferently in other frameworks; for instance inRST, they are treated as discourse constituentstaking part in coherence relations.
However, forthe connective-based approach adopted in thisstudy, they need to be accommodated as devia-tions from tree structure.The few partial overlaps we have encounteredcould mostly be explained away by wrapping andby different interpretations of annotation guide-lines by the annotators, especially the minimalityprinciple.
Recall that wrap has applicative se-mantics.
Of the two pure crossing examples wehave found, one was also anaphoric, whereas theother could be explained in terms of information-structurally motivated relation-level surfacecrossing, rather than configuration-level crossingdependency.
In other words, if we leave the pro-cessing of information structure to other process-es, the need for more elaborate annotation disap-pears.
In Joshi?s (2011) terminology, immediatediscourse in the TDB appears to be an applica-tive structure, which, unlike syntax, seems to bein no need of currying.As a result, we can state that pure crossing (i.e.crossing of the arguments of structural connec-tives) is not genuinely attested in the currentrelease of TDB.
The annotation scheme need notbe enriched to allow more complex algorithms todeal with unlimited use of crossing.
There seemsto be a reason in every contested case to go backto the annotation, and revise it in ways to keepthe applicative semantics, without losing much ofthe connective?s meaning.In summary, our preliminary analysis showsthat discourse structure may have to accommo-date partial containment and wrap in addition toshared arguments.
TDB has an applicative struc-ture.Taking into account that independent relations,fully embedded relations and nested relations arefrequent in discourse structure, and that the dis-course structure should accommodate sharedarguments and partial containments; we are cur-rently inclined to think of discourse structure asHobbs (1985) does: local trees of various sizesconnected and occasionally intertwined at theedges.
Further complications within trees are anopen field for further studies.ReferencesBerfin Akta?, Cem Boz?ahin, Deniz Zeyrek.
2010.Discourse  Relation  Configurations  in  Turkishand  an Annotation  Environment.
Proc.
LAW  IV-  The Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to Abstract Objectsin Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.I?
?n Demir?ahin.
2008.
Connective Position, Argu-ment Order and Information Structure of DiscourseConnectives in Written Turkish Texts.
Un-published MS Thesis, Cognitive Science Program,Middle East Technical University.I?
?n Demir?ahin, Ay?????
Sevdik-?all?, Hale ?gelBalaban, Ruket ?ak?c?
and Deniz Zeyrek.
2012.Turkish Discourse Bank: Ongoing Developments.Proc.
LREC 2012.
The First Turkic LanguagesWorkshop.Markus Egg, Gisela Redeker.
2010.
How Complex isDiscourse Structure?
Proc.
7th International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2010) pp.
1619?23.129Michael A. K. Halliday, Ruqaiya Hasan.
1976.
Cohe-sion in English.
London: LongmanJerry R. Hobbs.
1985.
On the Coherence and Struc-ture of Discourse.
Report CSLI-85-37, Center forStudy of Language and Information.Aravind K. Joshi.
1985.
How Much Context-sensitivity is Necessary for Characterizing Struc-tural Descriptions: Tree Adjoining Grammars.
InDavid Dowty, Lauri Karttunen and Arnold Zwicky(eds.)
Natural Language Parsing .
Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Aravind K. Joshi.
2011.
Some Aspects of Transitionfrom Sentence to Discourse.
Keynote address, In-formatics Science Festival, Middle East TechnicalUniversity, Ankara, June 9.Alistair  Knott,  Jon  Oberlander,  Michael  O?Donnel,Chris Mellish.
2001.
Beyond elaboration: The in-teraction of relations and focus in coherent text.
InTed Sanders, Joost Schilperoord and WilbertSpooren (Eds.
), Text Representation: Linguisticand  psycholinguistic  aspects (181-196): JohnBenjamins Publishing.Jacqueline Kornfilt.
1997.
Turkish.
New York:Routledge.Alan Lee, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind K. Joshi, NikhilDinesh, Bonnie Webber.
2006.
Complexity of de-pendencies in discourse: are dependencies in dis-course more complex than in syntax?
Proc.
5thWorkshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theory(TLT?06 ).Alan  Lee,  Rashmi  Prasad,  Aravind  K.  Joshi,Bonnie Webber.
2008.
Departures from tree struc-tures in discourse.
Proc.
Workshop on Constraintsin Discourse III.William C. Mann, Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhe-torical structure theory: Toward a functional theoryof text organization.
Text, 8(3),  243-281.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, EleniMiltsakaki,  Livio  Robaldo,  Aravind  K.  Joshi,Bonnie Webber.
2008.
The  Penn DiscourseTreebank  2.0.
Proc.
LREC?08 - The sixth interna-tional conference on Language Resources andEvaluation.Bilge Say, Deniz Zeyrek, Kemal O fl azer, and Umut?zge.
2002.
Development of a Corpus and a Tree-bank for Present-day Written Turkish.
Proc.
Elev-enth International Conference on Turkish Linguis-tics (ICTL 2002).Stuart Shieber.
1985.
Evidence against the Context-Freeness of Natural Language.
Linguistics andPhilosophy: 8:333-343.Bonnie Webber.
2004.
D-LTAG: Extending Lexical-ized TAG to Discourse.
Cognitive Science,  28(5),751-779.Florian Wolf, Edward Gibson.
2005.
Representingdiscourse  coherence:  a corpus-based  study.Computational Linguistics 31: 249?87.Deniz Zeyrek, Bonnie Webber.
2008.
A DiscourseResource for Turkish: Annotating Discourse Con-nectives in the METU Turkish Corpus.
Proc.
6 thWorkshop on Asian Language Resources, TheThird International Joint Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing (IJNLP).Deniz  Zeyrek,  I?
?n  Demir?ahin,  Ay?????
Sevdik-?all?, Hale ?gel Balaban, ?hsan Yal?
?nkaya, ?mitDeniz Turan.
2010.
The annotation scheme ofTurkish discourse bank and an evaluation of incon-sistent annotations.
Proc.
4th  Linguistic  Annota-tion  Workshop (LAW IV).130
