Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 204?205,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsLOR-KBGEN, A Hybrid Approach To Generating from the KBGenKnowledge-BaseBikash GyawaliUniversite?
de Lorraine, LORIA, UMR 7503Vandoeuvre-le`s-Nancy, F-54500, Francebikash.gyawali@loria.frClaire GardentCNRS, LORIA, UMR 7503Vandoeuvre-le`s-Nancy, F-54500, Franceclaire.gardent@loria.frAbstractThis abstract describes a contributionto the 2013 KBGen Challenge fromCNRS/LORIA and the University of Lor-raine.
Our contribution focuses on anattempt to automate the extraction of aFeature Based Tree Adjoining Grammarequipped with a unification based compo-sitional semantics which can be used togenerate from KBGen data.Introduction Semantic grammars, i.e., gram-mars which link syntax and semantics, have beenshown to be useful for generation and for seman-tic parsing.
This abstract outlines an attempt toautomatically extract from the KBGen data, a Fea-ture Based Tree Adjoining Grammar which can beused for generation from the KBGen data.Data The KBGen data consists of sets of triplesextracted from the AURA knowledge base whichencodes knowledge contained in a college-levelbiology textbook.
Each set of triple was selectedto be verbalisable as a simple, possibly complexsentence.
For instance, the input shown in Fig-ure 1 can be verbalised as1:(1) The function of a gated channel is to releaseparticles from the endoplasmic reticulumSketch of the Overall Grammar Extraction andGeneration Procedure To generate from theKBGen data, we parsed each input sentence us-ing the Stanford parser; we aligned the semanticinput with a substring in the input sentence; we ex-tracted a grammar from the parsed sentences pro-vided with the input triples; and we generated us-ing an existing surface realiser.
In addition someof the input were preprocessed to produce a se-mantics more compatible with the assumption un-derlying the syntax/semantic interace of SemTAG;1For space reasons, we slightly simplified the KBGen in-put and removed type information.
:TRIPLES ((|Release-Of-Calcium646||object| |Particle-In-Motion64582|)(|Release-Of-Calcium646||base| |Endoplasmic-Reticulum64603|)(|Gated-Channel64605||has-function||Release-Of-Calcium646|)(|Release-Of-Calcium646||agent| |Gated-Channel64605|)):INSTANCE-TYPES(|Particle-In-Motion64582||instance-of| |Particle-In-Motion|)(|Endoplasmic-Reticulum64603||instance-of| |Endoplasmic-Reticulum|)(|Gated-Channel64605||instance-of| |Gated-Channel|)(|Release-Of-Calcium646||instance-of| |Release-Of-Calcium|))and a procedure was used to guess missing lexicalentries.Alignment and Index Projection Given a Sen-tence/Input pair (S, I) provided by the KBGenChallenge, we match each entity and event vari-able in I to a substring in S. Matching uses thevariable name, the name of the unary predicatetrue of that variable and the word form assignedto that predicte in the KBGen lexicon.
Digits oc-curring in the input are removed and the string inthe input sentence which is closest to either of theused units is decorated with that variable.
Indexvariables are then projected up the syntactic treesto reflect headedness.
For instance, the variableindexed with a noun is projected to the NP level;and the index projected to the NP of a preposi-tional phrase is project to the PP level.Grammar Extraction Grammar extraction pro-ceeds in two steps as follows.
First, the subtreeswhose root node are indexed with an entity vari-able are extracted.
This results in a set of NP andPP trees anchored with entity names and associ-ated with the predication true of the indexing vari-able.Second, the subtrees capturing relations be-tween variables are extracted.
To perform this ex-204traction, each input variableX is associated with aset of dependent variables i.e., the set of variablesY such that X is related to Y (R(X,Y )).
Theminimal tree containing all and only the dependentvariables D(X) of a variable X is then extractedand associated with the set of literals ?
such that?
= {R(Y,Z) | (Y = X?Z ?
D(X))?
(Y,Z ?D(X))}.
This procedure extracts the subtrees re-lating the argument variables of a semantics func-tors such as an event or a role.The extracted grammar is a Feature-BasedTree Adjoining Grammar with a Unification-basedcompositional semantics as described in (Gardent,2008).
Each entry in the grammar associates a nat-ural language expression with a syntactic tree anda semantic representation thereby allowing bothfor semantic parsing and for generation.
Figure 1shows the tree extracted for the release predicatein Example 1.Pre-Processing The parse trees produced by theStanford parser are pre-processed to better matchTAG recursive modeling of modification.
Inparticular, the flat structure assigned to relativeclauses is modified into a recursive structure.The input semantics provided by the KBGentask is also preprocessed to allow for aggregationand to better match the assumptions underlying thesyntax/semantics interface of SemTAG.For aggregation, we use a rewrite rule of theform shown below to support the productionof e.g., A cellulose-synthase which contains apolypeptide and two glucose synthesizes cellu-lose..R(X,Y1), .
.
.
, R(X,Yn), P (Y 1), .
.
.
, P (Yn)?
R(X,Y ), P (Y ), quantity(Y, n)For relative clauses, we rewrite input of theform plays(X Y),in-event(Y E), P(E), R(E X) toplays(X Y),in-event(Y E), P(E), R(E Y).
This cap-tures the fact that in sentences such as A biomem-brane is a barrier which blocks the hydrogen ionof a chemical., the entity variable bound by the rel-ative clause is that associated with barrier, not thatof the main clause subject biomembrane.Guessing Missing Lexical Entries To handleunseen input, we start by partitioning the in-put semantics into sub-semantics corresponding toevents, entities and role.
We then search the lexi-con for an entry with a matching or similar seman-tics.
An entry with a similar semantics is an entrywith the same number and same type of literals(literals with same arity and with identical rela-tions).
Similar entries are then adapted to createlexical entries for unseen data.ReferencesClaire Gardent.
2008.
Integrating a unification-basedsemantics in a large scale lexicalised tree adjoininggrammar for french.
In COLING?08, Manchester,UK.205
