Proceedings of the Workshop on Discourse in Machine Translation (DiscoMT), pages 19?26,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 9, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsImplicitation of Discourse Connectives in (Machine) TranslationThomas MeyerIdiap Research Institute and EPFLMartigny and Lausanne, Switzerlandthomas.meyer@idiap.chBonnie WebberUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh, UKbonnie@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractExplicit discourse connectives in a sourcelanguage text are not always translated tocomparable words or phrases in the tar-get language.
The paper provides a corpusanalysis and a method for semi-automaticdetection of such cases.
Results showthat discourse connectives are not trans-lated into comparable forms (or even anyform at all), in up to 18% of human refer-ence translations from English to Frenchor German.
In machine translation, thishappens much less frequently (up to 8%only).
Work in progress aims to cap-ture this natural implicitation of discourseconnectives in current statistical machinetranslation models.1 IntroductionDiscourse connectives (DCs), a class of frequentcohesive markers, such as although, however, forexample, in addition, since, while, yet, etc., are es-pecially prone to ?translationese?, i.e.
the use ofconstructions in the target language (TL) that dif-fer in frequency or position from how they wouldbe found in texts born in the language.
That is,?translationese?
makes DCs prone to being trans-lated in ways that can differ markedly from theiruse in the source language.
(Blum-Kulka, 1986;Cartoni et al 2011; Ilisei et al 2010; Halverson,2004; Hansen-Schirra et al 2007; Zufferey et al2012).
For cohesive markers and DCs, Koppel andOrdan (2011) and Cartoni et al(2011) have shownthat they may be more explicit (increased use) orless explicit (decreased use) in translationese.
Thepaper focuses on the latter case, but the same de-tection method can be applied in reverse, in orderto find increased use (explicitation) as well.In English about 100 types of explicit DCs havebeen annotated in the Penn Discourse TreeBank,or PDTB (Prasad et al 2008) (We say more aboutthis in Section 3.1).
The actual set of markers orconnectives is however rather open-ended (Prasadet al 2010).
DCs signal discourse relations thatconnect two spans of text and can be ambiguouswith respect to the discourse relation they convey.Moreover, the same DC can simultaneously con-vey more than one discourse relation.
For exam-ple, while can convey contrast or temporality, orboth at the same time.
On the other hand, dis-course relations can also be conveyed implicitly,without an explicit DC.Human translators can chose to not translate aSL DC with a TL DC, where the latter would be re-dundant or where the SL discourse relation wouldmore naturally be conveyed in the TL by othermeans (cf.
Section 2).
We will use the term ?zero-translation?
or ?implicitation?
for a valid transla-tion that conveys the same sense as a lexically ex-plicit SL connective, but not with the same form.As we will show, current SMT models either learnthe explicit lexicalization of a SL connective toa TL connective, or treat the former as a ran-dom variation, realizing it or not.
Learning othervalid ways of conveying the same discourse rela-tion might not only result in more fluent TL text,but also help raise its BLEU score by more closelyresembling its more implicit human reference text.The paper presents work in progress on a cor-pus study where zero-translations of DCs havebeen semi-automatically detected in human refer-ence and machine translations from English (EN)to French (FR) and German (DE) (Section 3).Two types of discourse relations that are very fre-quently omitted in FR and DE translations arestudied in detail and we outline features on howthese omissions could be modeled into currentSMT systems (Section 4).192 Implicitation of connectives intranslationFigure 1 is an extract from a news article in thenewstest2010 data set (see Section 3.2).
It con-tains two EN connectives ?
as and otherwise ?that were annotated in the PDTB1.
Using the set ofdiscourse relations of the PDTB, as can be said tosignal the discourse relation CAUSE (subtype Rea-son), and otherwise the discourse relation ALTER-NATIVE.
This is discussed further in Section 3.1.EN: The man with the striking bald head wasstill needing a chauffeur, 1. as the town was stillunknown to him.
2.
Otherwise he could havedriven himself ?
3. after all, no alcohol wasinvolved and the 55-year-old was not drunk.FR-REF: L?homme, dont le cra?ne chauveattirait l?attention, se laissa conduire 1.
0dans la ville qui lui e?tait encore e?trange`re.
2.Autrement notre quinquage?naire aurait puprendre lui-me?me le volant ?
3.
0 il n?avaitpas bu d?alcool et il n?e?tait pas non plus ivre debonheur.DE-REF: Der Mann mit der markantenGlatze liess sich 1. wegen/Prep der ihm nochfremden Stadt chauffieren.
2.
Ansonsten ha?tteer auch selbst fahren ko?nnen ?
Alkohol war 3.schliesslich/Adv nicht im Spiel, und besoffenvor Glu?ck war der 55-ja?hrige genauso wenig.Figure 1: Examples of EN source connectivestranslated as zero or by other means in human ref-erence translations.The human reference translations do not trans-late the first connective as explicitly.
In FR thereis no direct equivalent, and the reason why theman needed a driver is given with a relative clause:...dans la ville qui...
(lit.
: in the town that was stillforeign to him).
In DE as is realized by means ofa preposition, wegen (lit.
: because of).
The sec-ond EN connective otherwise, maintains its formin translation to the target connective autrement inFR and ansonsten in DE.On the other hand, baseline SMT systems for1The excerpt contains a third possible connective after allthat was not annotated in the PDTB, and our data as a wholecontains other possible connectives not yet annotated there,including given that and at the same time.
We did not analysesuch possible connectives in the work described here.EN/FR and EN/DE (Section 3.2) both translatedthe two connectives as and otherwise explicitly bythe usual target connectives, in FR: comme, sinonand in DE wie, sonst.3 Semi-automatic detection ofzero-translations3.1 MethodThe semi-automatic method that identifies zero- ornon-connective translations in human referencesand machine translation output is based on a listof 48 EN DCs with a frequency above 20 in thePenn Discourse TreeBank Version 2.0 (Prasad etal., 2008).
In order to identify which discourse re-lations are most frequently translated as zero, wehave assigned each of the EN DCs the level-2 dis-course relation that it is most frequently associatedwith in the PDTB corpus.
The total list of EN con-nectives is given in Table 1.For every source connective, we queried itsmost frequent target connective translations fromthe online dictionary Linguee2 and added them todictionaries of possible FR and DE equivalents.With these dictionaries and Giza++ word align-ment (Och and Ney, 2003), the SL connectivescan be located and the sentences of its transla-tion (reference and/or automatic) can be scannedfor an aligned occurrence of the TL dictionaryentries.
If more than one DC appears in thesource sentence and/or a DC is not aligned with aconnective or connective-equivalent found in thedictionaries, the word position (word index) ofthe SL connective is compared to the word in-dexes of the translation in order to detect whethera TL connective (or connective-equivalent fromthe dictionaries) appears in a 5-word window toits left and right.3.
This also helps filtering outcases of non-connective uses of e.g.
separatelyor once as adverbs.
Finally, if no aligned entryis present and the alignment information remainsempty, the method counts a zero-translation andcollects statistics on these occurrences.After a first run where we only allowed for ac-tual connectives as translation dictionary entries,we manually looked through 400 cases for each,FR and DE reference translations, that were output2http://www.linguee.com3The method extends on the ACT metric (Hajlaoui andPopescu-Belis, 2013) that measures MT quality in terms ofconnectives in order to detect more types of DCs and theirequivalents.20Figure 2: Percentage of zero-translations in newstest2010+2012 for EN/FR per discourse relation andtranslation type: human reference (Ref) or MT output (MT).as zero-translations (in the newtest2012 data, seeSection 3.2).
We found up to 100 additional casesthat actually were not implicitations, but conveyedthe SL connective?s meaning by means of a para-phrase, e.g.
EN: if ?
FR: dans le cas ou` (lit.
: incase where) ?
DE: im Falle von (lit.
: in case of).For example, the EN connective otherwise endedup with the dictionary entries in Figure 3.EN: otherwise ALTERNATIVE :FR: autrement|sinon|car|dans un autrecas|d?une autre manie`reDE: ansonsten|andernfalls|anderenfalls|anderweitig|widrigenfalls|andrerseits|andererseits|anders|sonstFigure 3: Dictionary entries of FR and DE connec-tives and equivalents for the EN connective other-wise.3.2 DataFor the experiments described here, we con-catenated two data sets, the newstest2010 andnewstest2012 parallel texts as publicly availableby the Workshop on Machine Translation4.
Thetexts consist of complete articles from variousdaily news papers that have been translated fromEN to FR, DE and other languages by translationagencies.In total, there are 5,492 sentences and 117,799words in the SL texts, of which 2,906 are tokens4http://www.statmt.org/wmt12/of the 48 EN connectives.
See Table 1 for the con-nectives and their majority class, which aggregateto the detailed statistics given in Table 2.Rel.
TC Rel.
TCAlternative 30 Conjunction 329Asynchrony 588 Contrast 614Cause 308 Instantiation 43Concession 140 Restatement 14Condition 159 Synchrony 681Table 2: Total counts (TC) of English dis-course connectives (2,906 tokens) from thenewstest2010+2012 corpora, whose majoritysense conveys one of the 10 PDTB level-2 dis-course relations (Rel.)
listed here.To produce machine translations of the samedata sets we built EN/FR and EN/DE base-line phrase-based SMT systems, by using theMoses decoder (Koehn et al 2007), with the Eu-roparl corpus v7 (Koehn, 2005) as training andnewtest2011 as tuning data.
The 3-gram languagemodel was built with IRSTLM (Federico et al2008) over Europarl and the rest of WMT?s newsdata for FR and DE.3.3 ResultsIn order to group the individual counts of zero-translations per DC according to the discourse re-lation they signal, we calculated the relative fre-quency of zero-translations per relation as percent-ages, see Figures 2 for EN/FR, and 4 for EN/DE.21Figure 4: Percentage of zero-translations in newstest2010+2012 for EN/DE per discourse relation andtranslation type: human reference (Ref) or MT output (MT).The total percentage of zero-translations in the ref-erences and the baseline MT output is given inTable 3.A first observation is that an MT system seemsto produce zero-translations for DCs significantlyless often than human translators do.
Human FRtranslations seem to have a higher tendency to-ward omitting connectives than the ones in DE.Figures 2 and 4 also show that the discourse re-lations that are most often rendered as zero are de-pendent on the TL.
In the FR reference transla-tions, SYNCHRONY, ALTERNATIVE and CONCES-SION account for most implicitations, while in theDE reference translations, CONDITION, ALTER-NATIVE and CONCESSION are most often left im-plicit.Translation Type C %EN/FR Ref 508 17.5MT 217 7.5EN/DE Ref 392 13.5MT 129 4.4Table 3: Counts (C) and relative frequency (%)of zero-translations for EN/FR and EN/DE in hu-man references (Ref) and MT output (MT) overnewstest2010+2012.The results are to some extent counterintuitiveas one would expect that semantically dense dis-course relations like CONCESSION would need tobe explicit in translation in order to convey thesame meaning.
Section 4 presents some non-connective means available in the two TLs, bywhich the discourse relations are still established.We furthermore looked at the largest implicita-tion differences per discourse relation in the hu-man reference translations and the MT output.
ForEN/FR for example, 13.8% of all CONDITION re-lations are implicitated in the references, by mak-ing use of paraphrases such as dans le momentou` (lit.
: in the moment where) or dans votre cas(lit.
: in your case) in place of the EN connectiveif.
The MT system translates if in 99.4% of allcases to the explicit FR connective si.
Similarly,for INSTANTIATION relations and the EN connec-tive for instance in the references, the translatorsmade constrained use of verbal paraphrases suchas on y trouve (lit.
: among which we find).
MT onthe other hand outputs the explicit FR connectivepar exemple in all cases of for instance.For EN/DE, there is the extreme case, whereALTERNATIVE relations are, in human referencetranslations, quite often implicitated (in 23.3% ofall cases), whereas the MT system translates allthe instances explicitly to DE connectives: wenn(unless), sonst (otherwise) and statt, stattdessen,anstatt (instead).
The translators however makeuse of constructions with a sentence-initial verb inconditional mood (cf.
Section 4.2) for otherwiseand unless, but not for instead, which is, as withMT, always explicitly translated by humans, mostoften to the DE connective statt.
The very op-posite takes place for the RESTATEMENT relation22and the EN connective in fact.
Here, MT leavesimplicit just as many instances as human transla-tors do, i.e.
14.3% of all cases.
Translators useparaphrases such as in Wahrheit (lit.
: in truth) oru?brigens (lit.
: by the way), while the translationmodel tends to use im Gegenteil (lit.
: opposite),which is not a literal translation of in fact (usuallyin der Tat or tatsa?chlich in DE), but reflects thecontrastive function this marker frequently had inthe Europarl training data of the baseline MT sys-tem.4 Case studies4.1 Temporal connectives from EN to FRThe most frequent implicitated discourse relationfor EN/FR translation is SYNCHRONY, i.e.
con-nectives conveying that their arguments describeevents that take place at the same time.
However,since the situations in which SYNCHRONY rela-tions are implicitated are similar to those in whichCONTRAST relations are implicitated, we discussthe two together.We exemplify here cases where EN DCs thatsignal SYNCHRONY and/or CONTRAST are trans-lated to FR with a ?en/Preposition + Verb inGerund?
construction without a TL connective.The EN source instances giving rise to such im-plicitations in FR are usually of the form ?DC +Verb in Present Continuous?
or ?DC + Verb in Sim-ple Past?, see sentences 1 and 2 in Figure 5.Out of 13 cases of implicitations for while in thedata, 8 (61.5%) have been translated to the men-tioned construction in FR, as illustrated in the firstexample in Figure 5, with a reference and machinetranslation from newstest2010.
The DC while hereambiguously signals SYNCHRONY and/or CON-TRAST, but there is a second temporal marker(at the same time, a connective-equivalent not yetconsidered in this paper or in the PDTB), that dis-ambiguates while to its CONTRAST sense only orto the composite sense SYNCHRONY/CONTRAST.The latter is conveyed in FR by en me?prisant, withCONTRAST being reinforced by tout (lit.
: all).In Example 2, from newstest2012, the sentence-initial connective when, again signaling SYN-CHRONY, is translated to the very same construc-tion of ?en/Preposition + Verb in Gerund?
in theFR reference.In the baseline MT output for Example 1, nei-ther of the two EN DCs is deleted, while is literallytranslated to alors que and at the same time to dans1.
EN: In her view, the filmmaker ?is askinga favour from the court, while at the same timeshowing disregard for its authority?.FR-REF: Pour elle, le cine?aste ?demande unefaveur a` la cour, tout en/Prep me?prisant/V/Gerson autorite?
?.FR-MT*: Dans son avis, le re?alisateur de?demande une faveur de la cour, alors que dansle me?me temps une marque de me?pris pour sonautorite??.2.
EN: When Meder looked through theweather-beaten windows of the red, white andyellow Art Nouveau building, she could seeweeds growing up through the tiles.FR-REF: En/Prep jetant/V/Ger un coupd?
?il par la fene?tre de l?immeuble-art nou-veau en rouge-blanc-jaune, elle a observe?l?e?panouissement des mauvaises herbes entre lescarreaux.FR-MT*: Lorsque Meder semblait weather-beaten a` travers les fene?tres du rouge, jaune etblanc de l?art nouveau ba?timent, elle pourraitvoir les mauvaises herbes qui grandissent par lestuiles.Figure 5: Translation examples for the EN tempo-ral connectives while and when, rendered in the FRreference as a ?preposition + Verb in Gerund?
con-struction.
MT generates the direct lexical equiva-lents alors que and lorsque.le me?me temps.
While the MT output is not totallywrong, it sounds disfluent, as dans le me?me tempsafter alors que is neither necessary nor appropri-ate.In the baseline MT output for Example 2, the di-rect lexical equivalent for when ?
lorsque is gen-erated, which is correct, although the translationhas other mistakes such as the wrong verb sem-blait and the untranslated weather-beaten.To model such cases for SMT one could usePOS tags to detect the ?DC + Present Continu-ous/Simple Past?
in EN and apply a rule to trans-late it to ?Preposition + Gerund?
in FR.
Further-more, when two DCs follow each other in EN,and both can signal the same discourse relations,a word-deletion feature (as it is available in theMoses decoder via sparse features), could be usedto trigger the deletion of one of the EN connec-tives, so that only one is translated to the TL.
We23will examine in future work whether there are sys-tematic patterns in the translation of such ?dou-ble?
connectives in SL and TL.
Another possibilitywould be to treat cases like while at the same timeas a multi-word phrase that is then translated to thecorresponding prepositional construction in FR.4.2 Conditional connectives from EN to DEOut of the 41 cases involving a CONDITION re-lation (10.5% of all DE implicitations), 40 or97.6% were due to the EN connective if not be-ing translated to its DE equivalents wenn, falls,ob.
Instead, in 21 cases (52.5%), the humanreference translations made use of a verbal con-struction which obviates the need for a connec-tive in DE when the verb in the if -clause ismoved to sentence-initial position and its moodis made conditional, as in Figure 6, a refer-ence translation from newstest2012, with the DEverb wa?re (lit.
: were) (VMFIN=modal finite verb,Konj=conditional).
This construction is also avail-able in EN (Were you here, I would...), but seemsto be much more formal and less frequent than inDE where it is ordinarily used across registers.
Inthe baseline MT output for this sentence, if wastranslated explicitly to the DE connective wenn,which is in principle correct, but the syntax of thetranslation is wrong, mainly due to the position ofthe verb tun, which should be at the end of the sen-tence.The remaining 19 cases of EN if were eithertranslated to DE prepositions (e.g.
bei, wo, lit.
: at,where) or the CONDITION relation is not expressedat all and verbs in indicative mood make the use ofa conditional DE connective superfluous.Of the 21 tokens of if whose reference transla-tions used a verbal construction in DE, 14 (66.7%)were tokens of if whose argument clause explic-itly referred to the preceding context ?
e.g., if theywere, if so, if this is true etc.
These occurrencescould therefore be identified in EN and could bemodeled for SMT as re-ordering rules on the ver-bal phrase in the DE syntax tree after constituentparsing in syntax-based translation models.5 ConclusionThis study showed that human translators do nottranslate explicit EN discourse connectives as FRor DE discourse connectives in up to 18% of allcases.
In MT output this happens about 3 timesless often.
We thus plan to examine how to pro-EN: If not for computer science, they would bedoing amazing things in other fields.DE-REF: 0 Wa?re/VMFIN/Konj esnicht die Computerbranche gewesen, wu?rdensie in anderen Bereichen fantastische Dingeschaffen.DE-MT*: Wenn nicht fu?r die Informatik,wu?rden sie tun, erstaunlich, Dinge auf anderenGebieten.Figure 6: Translation example for the EN connec-tive if, rendered in the DE reference as a construc-tion with a sentence-initial verb in conditionalmood.
MT generates the direct lexical equivalentwenn.duce higher-scoring translations without a targetlanguage connective but with some other syntacticpattern that conveys the same source language dis-course relation.
Depending on the features identi-fied, movements of syntactical constituents or re-ordering of POS tags at the phrase and/or sub-treelevel will be implemented for hierarchical syntac-tic or phrase-based SMT models.AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to the Swiss National ScienceFoundation (SNSF) for partially funding this workand the research visit to Edinburgh with theCOMTIS Sinergia project, n. CRSI22 127510(see www.idiap.ch/comtis/) and to thethree anonymous reviewers for their helpful com-ments.ReferencesShoshana Blum-Kulka.
1986.
Shifts of Cohesion andCoherence in Translation.
In Juliane House andShoshana Blum-Kulka, editors, Interlingual and In-tercultural Communication.
Discourse and cogni-tion in translation and second language acquisition,pages 17?35.
Narr Verlag, Tu?bingen, Germany.Bruno Cartoni, Sandrine Zufferey, Thomas Meyer, andAndrei Popescu-Belis.
2011.
How Comparableare Parallel Corpora?
Measuring the Distribution ofGeneral Vocabulary and Connectives.
In Proceed-ings of 4th Workshop on Building and Using Compa-rable Corpora (BUCC), pages 78?86, Portland, OR.Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi, and Mauro Cet-tolo.
2008.
IRSTLM: an Open Source Toolkit for24Handling Large Scale Language Models.
In Pro-ceedings of Interspeech, Brisbane, Australia.Najeh Hajlaoui and Andrei Popescu-Belis.
2013.Assessing the Accuracy of Discourse ConnectiveTranslations: Validation of an Automatic Met-ric.
In 14th International Conference on IntelligentText Processing and Computational Linguistics (CI-CLING), Samos, Greece.Sandra Halverson.
2004.
Connectives as a TranslationProblem.
In H. et al(Eds.)
Kittel, editor, Encyclo-pedia of Translation Studies, pages 562?572.
Walterde Gruyter, Berlin/New York.Silvia Hansen-Schirra, Stella Neumann, and ErichSteiner.
2007.
Cohesive Explicitness and Explicita-tion in an English-German Translation Corpus.
Lan-guages in Contrast, 7:241?265.Iustina Ilisei, Diana Inkpen, Gloria Pastor Corpas, andRuslan Mitkov.
2010.
Identifcation of Transla-tionese: A Machine Learning Approach.
In A. Gel-bukh, editor, Computational Linguistics and Intelli-gent Text Processing Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ence.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, Germany.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, Alexan-dra Constantin, and Evan Herbs.
2007.
Moses:Open Source Toolkit for Statistical Machine Trans-lation.
In Proceedings of 45th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL),Demonstration Session, pages 177?180, Prague,Czech Republic.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus forStatistical Machine Translation.
In Proceedings ofMT Summit X, pages 79?86, Phuket, Thailand.Moshe Koppel and Noam Ordan.
2011.
Translationeseand its Dialects.
In Proceedings of ACL-HLT 2011(49th Annual Meeting of the ACL: Human LanguageTechnologies, pages 1318?1326, Portland, OR.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A System-atic Comparison of Various Statistical AlignmentModels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0.In Proceedings of 6th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC), pages2961?2968, Marrakech, Morocco.Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, and Bonnie Webber.2010.
Realization of Discourse Relations by OtherMeans: Alternative Lexicalizations.
In Proceedingsof the 23rd International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics (COLING), pages 1023?1031,Beijing, China.Sandrine Zufferey, Liesbeth Degand, Andrei Popescu-Belis, and Ted Sanders.
2012.
Empirical Valida-tions of Multilingual Annotation Schemes for Dis-course Relations.
In Proceedings of ISA-8 (8thWorkshop on Interoperable Semantic Annotation),pages 77?84, Pisa, Italy.25EN conn.
Majority rel.
Tokens EN conn.
Majority rel.
Tokensafter Asynchrony 575/577 just as Synchrony 13/14also Conjunction 1735/1746 later Asynchrony 90/91although Contrast *157/328 meanwhile Synchrony 148/193as Synchrony 543/743 moreover Conjunction 100/101as a result Cause 78/78 nevertheless Concession *19/44as if Concession *4/16 nonetheless Concession 17/27as long as Condition 20/24 now that Cause 20/22as soon as Asynchrony 11/20 once Asynchrony 78/84because Cause 854/858 on the other hand Contrast 35/37before Asynchrony 326/326 otherwise Alternative 22/24but Contrast 2427/3308 previously Asynchrony 49/49by contrast Contrast 27/27 separately Conjunction 73/74even if Concession *41/83 since Cause 104/184even though Concession 72/95 so that Cause 31/31finally Asynchrony *14/32 still Concession 83/190for example Instantiation 194/196 then Asynchrony 312/340for instance Instantiation 98/98 therefore Cause 26/26however Contrast 355/485 though Concession *156/320if Condition 1127/1223 thus Cause 112/112in addition Conjunction 165/165 unless Alternative 94/95indeed Conjunction 54/104 until Asynchrony 140/162in fact Restatement *39/82 when Synchrony 594/989instead Alternative 109/112 while Contrast 455/781in turn Asynchrony 20/30 yet Contrast 53/101Table 1: English connectives with a frequency above 20 in the PDTB.
Also listed are the level-2 majorityrelations with the number of tokens out of the total tokens of the connective in the PDTB (counts includ-ing the majority relation being part of a composite sense tag).
*For some connectives there is no level-2majority because some instances have only been annotated with level-1 senses.
We did not consider theconnectives and and or (too many non-connective occurrences for automatic detection).26
