Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2013 Workshop, pages 99?103,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsBioNLP Shared Task 2013: Supporting ResourcesPontus Stenetorp 1 Wiktoria Golik 2 Thierry Hamon 3Donald C. Comeau 4 Rezarta Islamaj Dog?an 4 Haibin Liu 4 W. John Wilbur 41 National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan2 French National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), Jouy-en-Josas, France3 University Paris 13, Paris, France4 National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine,National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USApontus@nii.ac.jp wiktoria.golik@jouy.inra.fr thierry.hamon@univ-paris13.fr{comeau,islamaj,liuh11,wilbur}@ncbi.nlm.nih.govAbstractThis paper describes the technical con-tribution of the supporting resources pro-vided for the BioNLP Shared Task 2013.Following the tradition of the previoustwo BioNLP Shared Task events, the taskorganisers and several external groupssought to make system development easierfor the task participants by providing auto-matically generated analyses using a vari-ety of automated tools.
Providing analy-ses created by different tools that addressthe same task also enables extrinsic evalu-ation of the tools through the evaluation oftheir contributions to the event extractiontask.
Such evaluation can improve under-standing of the applicability and benefitsof specific tools and representations.
Thesupporting resources described in this pa-per will continue to be publicly availablefrom the shared task homepagehttp://2013.bionlp-st.org/1 IntroductionThe BioNLP Shared Task (ST), first organised in2009, is an ongoing series of events focusing onnovel challenges in biomedical domain informa-tion extraction.
In the first BioNLP ST, the or-ganisers provided the participants with automat-ically generated syntactic analyses from a varietyof Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools (Kimet al 2009) and similar syntactic analyses havesince then been a key component of the best per-forming systems participating in the shared tasks.This initial work was followed up by a similar ef-fort in the second event in the series (Kim et al2011), extended by the inclusion of software toolsand contributions from the broader BioNLP com-munity in addition to task organisers (Stenetorp etal., 2011).Although no formal study was carried out to es-timate the extent to which the participants utilisedthe supporting resources in these previous events,we note that six participating groups mention us-ing the supporting resources in published descrip-tions of their methods (Emadzadeh et al 2011;McClosky et al 2011; McGrath et al 2011;Nguyen and Tsuruoka, 2011; Bjo?rne et al 2012;Vlachos and Craven, 2012).
These resources havebeen available also after the original tasks, andseveral subsequent studies have also built on theresources.
Van Landeghem et al(2012) applied avisualisation tool that was made available as a partof the supporting resources, Vlachos (2012) em-ployed the syntactic parses in a follow-up studyon event extraction, Van Landeghem et al(2013)used the parsing pipeline created to produce thesyntactic analyses, and Stenetorp et al(2012) pre-sented a study of the compatibility of two differentrepresentations for negation and speculation anno-tation included in the data.These research contributions and the overallpositive reception of the supporting resourcesprompted us to continue to provide supporting re-sources for the BioNLP Shared Task 2013.
Thispaper presents the details of this technical contri-bution.2 OrganisationFollowing the practice established in theBioNLP ST 2011, the organisers issued anopen call for supporting resources, welcomingcontributions relevant to the task from all authorsof NLP tools.
In the call it was mentioned thatpoints such as availability for research purposes,support for well-established formats and access99Name Annotations AvailabilityBioC Lemmas and syntactic constituents SourceBioYaTeA Terms, lemmas, part-of-speech and syntactic constituencies SourceCocoa Entities Web APITable 1: Summary of tools/analyses provided by external groups.to technical documentation would consideredfavourable (but not required) and each supportingresource provider was asked to write a briefdescription of their tools and how they couldpotentially be applied to aid other systems in theevent extraction task.
This call was answeredby three research groups that offered to providea variety of semantic and syntactic analyses.These analyses were provided to the sharedtask participants along with additional syntacticanalyses created by the organisers.However, some of the supporting resourceproviders were also participants in the main eventextraction tasks, and giving them advance accessto the annotated texts for the purpose of creatingthe contributed analyses could have given thosegroups an advantage over others.
To address thisissue, the texts were made publicly available oneweek prior to the release of the annotations foreach set of texts.
During this week, the supportinganalysis providers annotated the texts using theirautomated tools and then handed the analyses tothe shared task organisers, who made them avail-able to the task participants via the shared taskhomepage.3 Analyses by External GroupsThis section describes the tools that were appliedto create supporting resources by the three exter-nal groups.
These contributions are summarised inTable 1.BioC Don Comeau, Rezarta Islamaj, HaibinLiu and John Wilbur of the National Center forBiotechnology Information provided the output ofthe shallow parser MedPost (Smith et al 2004)and the BioLemmatizer tool (Liu et al 2012),supplied in the BioC XML format1 for annota-tion interchange (Comeau et al 2013).
The BioCformat address the problem of interoperability be-tween different tools and platforms by providing aunified format for use by various tools.
Both Med-Post and BioLemmatizer are specifically designed1http://bioc.sourceforge.net/for biomedical texts.
The former annotates parts-of-speech and performs sentence splitting and to-kenisation, while the latter performs lemmatisa-tion.
In order to make it easier for participantsto get started with the BioC XML format, theproviders also supplied example code for parsingthe format in both the Java and C++ programminglanguages.BioYaTeA Wiktoria Golik of the French Na-tional Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA)and Thierry Hamon of University Paris 13 pro-vided analyses created by BioYaTeA2 (Golik etal., 2013).
BioYaTeA is a modified version of theYaTeA term extraction tool (Aubin and Hamon,2006) adapted to the biomedical domain.
Workingon a noun-phrase level, BioYaTeA provides anno-tations such as lemmas, parts-of-speech, and con-stituent analysis.
The output formats used were asimple tabular format as well as BioYaTeA-XML,an XML representation specific to the tool.Cocoa S. V. Ramanan of RelAgent Private Ltdprovided the output of the Compact cover anno-tator (Cocoa) for biological noun phrases.3 Co-coa provides noun phrase-level entity annotationsfor over 20 different semantic categories such asmacromolecules, chemicals, proteins and organ-isms.
These annotations were made available forthe annotated texts for the shared task along withthe opportunity for the participants to use the Co-coa web API to annotate any text they may con-sider beneficial for their system.
The data formatused by Cocoa is a subset of the standoff formatused for the shared task entity annotations, and itshould thus be easy to integrate into existing eventextraction systems.4 Analyses by Task OrganisersThis section describes the syntactic parsers ap-plied by the task organisers and the pre-processing2http://search.cpan.org/?bibliome/Lingua-BioYaTeA/3http://npjoint.com/100Name Model AvailabilityEnju Biomedical BinaryStanford Combination Binary, SourceMcCCJ Biomedical SourceTable 2: Parsers used for the syntactic analyses.and format conversions applied to their output.The applied parsers are listed in Table 2.4.1 Syntactic ParsersEnju Enju (Miyao and Tsujii, 2008) is a deepparser based on the Head-Driven Phrase Struc-ture Grammar (HPSG) formalism.
Enju analysesits input in terms of phrase structure trees withpredicate-argument structure links, represented ina specialised XML-format.
To make the analysesof the parser more accessible to participants, weconverted its output into the Penn Treebank (PTB)format using tools included with the parser.
Theuse of the PTB format also allow for its output tobe exchanged freely for that of the other two syn-tactic parsers and facilitates further conversionsinto dependency representations.McCCJ The BLLIP Parser (Charniak and John-son, 2005), also variously known as the Charniakparser, the Charniak-Johnson parser, or the Brownreranking parser, has been applied in numerousbiomedical domain NLP efforts, frequently usingthe self-trained biomedical model of McClosky(2010) (i.e.
the McClosky-Charniak-Johnson orMcCCJ parser).
The BLLIP Parser is a con-stituency (phrase structure) parser and the appliedmodel produces PTB analyses as its native out-put.
These analyses were made available to par-ticipants without modification.Stanford The Stanford Parser (Klein and Man-ning, 2002) is a widely used publicly availablesyntactic parser.
As for the Enju and BLLIPparsers, a model trained on a dataset incorporatingbiomedical domain annotations is available alsofor the Stanford parser.
Like the BLLIP parser,the Stanford parser is constituency-based and pro-duces PTB analyses, which were provided to taskparticipants.
The Stanford tools additionally in-corporate methods for automatic conversion fromthis format to other representations, discussed fur-ther below.4.2 Pre-processing and ConversionsTo create the syntactic analyses from the Enju,BLLIP and Stanford Parser systems, we first ap-plied a uniform set of pre-processing steps in orderto normalise over differences in e.g.
tokenisationand thus ensure that the task participants can eas-ily swap the output of one system for another.
Thispre-processing was identical to that applied in theBioNLP 2011 Shared Task, and included sentencesplitting of the annotated texts using the GeniaSentence Splitter,4 the application of a set of post-processing heuristics to correct frequently occur-ring sentence splitting errors, and Genia Treebank-like tokenisation (Tateisi et al 2004) using a to-kenisation script created by the shared task organ-isers.
5Since several studies have indicated that repre-sentations of syntax and aspects of syntactic de-pendency formalism differ in their applicability tosupport information extraction tasks (Buyko andHahn, 2010; Miwa et al 2010; Quirk et al 2011),we further converted the output of each of theparsers from the PTB representation into threeother representations: CoNNL-X, Stanford De-pendencies and Stanford Collapsed Dependencies.For the CoNLL-X format we employed the con-version tool of Johansson and Nugues (2007), andfor the two Stanford Dependency variants we usedthe converter provided with the Stanford CoreNLPtools (de Marneffe et al 2006).
These analyseswere provided to participants in the output for-mats created by the respective tools, i.e.
the TAB-separated column-oriented format CoNLL and thecustom text-based format of the Stanford Depen-dencies.5 Results and DiscussionJust like in previous years the supporting resourceswere well-received by the shared task participantsand as many as five participating teams mentionedutilising the supporting resources in their initialsubmissions (at the time of writing, the camera-ready versions were not yet available).
This levelof usage of the supporting resources by the partici-pants is thus comparable to what was observed forthe 2011 shared task.Following in the tradition of the 2011 support-4https://github.com/ninjin/geniass5https://github.com/ninjin/bionlp_st_2013_supporting/blob/master/tls/GTB-tokenize.pl101ing resources, to aim for reproducibility, the pro-cessing pipeline containing pre/post-processingand conversion scripts for all the syntactic parseshas been made publicly available under an openlicence.6 The repository containing the pipelinealso contains detailed instructions on how to re-produce the output and how it can potentially beapplied to other texts.Given the experience of the organisers inanalysing medium-sized corpora with a variety ofsyntactic parsers, many applied repeatedly overseveral years, we are also happy to report that therobustness of several publicly available parsers hasrecently improved noticeably.
Random crashes,corrupt outputs and similar failures appear to betransitioning from being expected to rare occur-rences.In this paper, we have introduced the supportingresources provided for the BioNLP 2013 SharedTask by the task organisers and external groups.These resources included both syntactic and se-mantic annotations and were provided to allow theparticipants to focus on the various novel chal-lenges of constructing event extraction systems byminimizing the need for each group to separatelyperform standard processing steps such as syntac-tic analysis.AcknowledgementsWe would like to give special thanks to RichardJohansson for providing and allowing us to dis-tribute an improved and updated version of his for-mat conversion tool.7 We would also like to ex-press our appreciation to the broader NLP com-munity for their continued efforts to improve theavailability of both code and data, thus enablingother researchers to stand on the shoulders of gi-ants.This work was partially supported by theQuaero programme funded by OSEO (the Frenchagency for innovation).
The research of DonaldC.
Comeau, Rezarta Islamaj Dog?an, Haibin Liuand W. John Wilbur was supported by the Intra-mural Research Program of the National Institutesof Health (NIH), National Library of Medicine(NLM).6https://github.com/ninjin/bionlp_st_2013_supporting7https://github.com/ninjin/pennconverterReferencesSophie Aubin and Thierry Hamon.
2006.
Improvingterm extraction with terminological resources.
InAdvances in Natural Language Processing, pages380?387.
Springer.Jari Bjo?rne, Filip Ginter, and Tapio Salakoski.
2012.University of Turku in the BioNLP?11 Shared Task.BMC Bioinformatics, 13(Suppl 11):S4.Ekaterina Buyko and Udo Hahn.
2010.
Evaluatingthe Impact of Alternative Dependency Graph Encod-ings on Solving Event Extraction Tasks.
In Proceed-ings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing, pages 982?992,Cambridge, MA, October.Eugene Charniak and Mark Johnson.
2005.
Coarse-to-fine n-best parsing and MaxEnt discriminativereranking.
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meet-ing on Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 173?180.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Donald C. Comeau, Rezarta Islamaj Dog?an, Paolo Ci-ccarese, Kevin Bretonnel Cohen, Martin Krallinger,Florian Leitner, Zhiyong Lu, Yifan Peng, Fabio Ri-naldi, Manabu Torii, Alfonso Valencia, Karin Ver-spoor, Thomas C. Wiegers, Cathy H. Wu, andW.
John Wilbur.
2013.
BioC: A minimalist ap-proach to interoperability for biomedical text pro-cessing.
submitted.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, andChristopher D. Manning.
2006.
Generating typeddependency parses from phrase structure parses.
InProceedings of LREC, volume 6, pages 449?454.Ehsan Emadzadeh, Azadeh Nikfarjam, and GracielaGonzalez.
2011.
Double layered learning for bio-logical event extraction from text.
In Proceedingsof the BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop, pages153?154.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Wiktoria Golik, Robert Bossy, Zorana Ratkovic, andClaire Ne?dellec.
2013.
Improving Term Extractionwith Linguistic Analysis in the Biomedical Domain.In Special Issue of the journal Research in Comput-ing Science, Samos, Greece, March.
14th Interna-tional Conference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics.Richard Johansson and Pierre Nugues.
2007.
Ex-tended constituent-to-dependency conversion forEnglish.
In Proc.
of the 16th Nordic Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (NODALIDA), pages105?112.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overviewof BioNLP?09 Shared Task on Event Extraction.
InProceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop Com-panion Volume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder,Colorado, June.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.102Jin-Dong Kim, Yue Wang, Toshihisa Takagi, and Aki-nori Yonezawa.
2011.
Overview of Genia EventTask in BioNLP Shared Task 2011.
In Proceedingsof BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop.Dan Klein and Christopher D Manning.
2002.
Fast ex-act inference with a factored model for natural lan-guage parsing.
Advances in neural information pro-cessing systems, 15(2003):3?10.Haibin Liu, Tom Christiansen, William Baumgartner,and Karin Verspoor.
2012.
BioLemmatizer: alemmatization tool for morphological processing ofbiomedical text.
Journal of Biomedical Semantics,3(1):3.David McClosky, Mihai Surdeanu, and Christopher DManning.
2011.
Event Extraction as DependencyParsing for BioNLP 2011.
In Proceedings of theBioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop, pages 41?45.Association for Computational Linguistics.David McClosky.
2010.
Any domain parsing: Auto-matic domain adaptation for natural language pars-ing.
Ph.D. thesis, Brown University.Liam R McGrath, Kelly Domico, Courtney D Cor-ley, and Bobbie-Jo Webb-Robertson.
2011.
Com-plex biological event extraction from full text us-ing signatures of linguistic and semantic features.In Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2011Workshop, pages 130?137.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Makoto Miwa, Sampo Pyysalo, Tadayoshi Hara, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2010.
Evaluating Dependency Rep-resentations for Event Extraction.
In Proceedingsof the 23rd International Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 779?787,Beijing, China, August.Yusuke Miyao and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2008.
Feature for-est models for probabilistic HPSG parsing.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 34(1):35?80.Nhung TH Nguyen and Yoshimasa Tsuruoka.
2011.Extracting bacteria biotopes with semi-supervisednamed entity recognition and coreference resolution.In Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2011Workshop, pages 94?101.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Chris Quirk, Pallavi Choudhury, Michael Gamon, andLucy Vanderwende.
2011.
MSR-NLP Entry inBioNLP Shared Task 2011.
In Proceedings ofBioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop, pages 155?163, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.Larry Smith, Thomas Rindflesch, and W. John Wilbur.2004.
MedPost: a part-of-speech tagger for biomedical text.
Bioinformatics, 20(14):2320?2321.Pontus Stenetorp, Goran Topic?, Sampo Pyysalo,Tomoko Ohta, Jin-Dong Kim, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.2011.
BioNLP Shared Task 2011: Supporting Re-sources.
In Proceedings of BioNLP Shared Task2011 Workshop, pages 112?120, Portland, Oregon,USA, June.Pontus Stenetorp, Sampo Pyysalo, Tomoko Ohta,Sophia Ananiadou, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2012.Bridging the gap between scope-based and event-based negation/speculation annotations: a bridge nottoo far.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Extra-Propositional Aspects of Meaning in ComputationalLinguistics, pages 47?56.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Y Tateisi, T Ohta, and J Tsujii.
2004.
Annotation ofpredicate-argument structure on molecular biologytext.
Proceedings of the Workshop on the 1st In-ternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (IJCNLP-04).Sofie Van Landeghem, Kai Hakala, Samuel Ro?nnqvist,Tapio Salakoski, Yves Van de Peer, and Filip Gin-ter.
2012.
Exploring biomolecular literature withEVEX: connecting genes through events, homology,and indirect associations.
Advances in Bioinformat-ics, 2012.Sofie Van Landeghem, Jari Bjo?rne, Chih-Hsuan Wei,Kai Hakala, Sampo Pyysalo, Sophia Ananiadou,Hung-Yu Kao, Zhiyong Lu, Tapio Salakoski, YvesVan de Peer, et al2013.
Large-scale event extrac-tion from literature with multi-level gene normaliza-tion.
PloS one, 8(4):e55814.Andreas Vlachos and Mark Craven.
2012.
Biomedicalevent extraction from abstracts and full papers usingsearch-based structured prediction.
BMC Bioinfor-matics, 13(Suppl 11):S5.Andreas Vlachos.
2012.
An investigation of imita-tion learning algorithms for structured prediction.
InWorkshop on Reinforcement Learning, page 143.103
