Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Teaching Natural Language Processing, pages 1?8,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsRosetta Stone Linguistic ProblemsBozhidar BozhanovProblem CommitteeInternational Linguistics Olympiadbozhidar.bozhanov@gmail.comIvan DerzhanskiProblem CommitteeInternational Linguistics Olympiadiad58g@gmail.comAbstractThis paper describes the process of composingproblems that are suitable for competitions inlinguistics.
The type of problems described is?Rosetta Stone?
?a bilingual problem wheretypically one of the languages is unknown, andthe other is the native language of the personsolving the problem.
The process includes se-lecting phenomena, composing and arrangingthe data and assignments in order to illustratethe phenomena, and verifying the solvabilityand complexity of the problem.1 Introduction1.1 What is a linguistic problem?Linguistic problems are a genre of compositionthat presents linguistic facts and phenomena inenigmatic form (Derzhanski, Payne 2009).
Asan entertaining way of learning about lan-guage(s) and linguistics, they are suitable for ageneral audience (witness their occasional ap-pearance in popular science journals, e.g., Naukai zhizn?
1980.10, 2012.6) and can also be usefulin the classroom or in linguistic textbooks as il-lustrations or exercises for the reader (cf., e.g.,Testelets 2001), but at present their most com-mon purpose is to be assigned to (usually) sec-ondary-school students at contests such as theMoscow Traditional Olympiad in Linguistics, theNorth American Computational LinguisticsOlympiad or the International Linguistics Olym-piad (IOL).Each problem may present phenomena fromone or several subfields of the study of lan-guage?phonology, morphology, syntax, seman-tics, historical and comparative linguistics, writ-ing systems, pragmatics, discourse analysis, etc.There are two important requirements of thegenre:?
The problem must be self-sufficient: itshould contain all the necessary informa-tion for its solving, not expecting fromthe solver any prior knowledge (of lan-guages, linguistics, mathematics, etc.
)beyond what is commonly included intothe secondary school curriculum.?
The problem must be unambiguous: itshould not allow more than one plausibleexplanation of the data.1.2 What is a ?Rosetta Stone?
linguisticproblem?In a ?Rosetta Stone?
linguistic problem1 the ma-terial has the form of ordered matching expres-sions of two languages or language-like symbolicsystems, so chosen as to enable deducing theregularities behind the correspondences, which isthe essence of the problem.In the most common subtype of Rosetta Stonethe solver is given expressions (words, phrases,sentences) in an unfamiliar language and theirtranslations into ?Solverese?
(a familiar workinglanguage, usually the solver?s native language)2and, in most cases, asked to translate more ex-pressions in both directions (from the unfamiliarlanguage to Solverese and vice versa).
Less of-ten the assignments require one to choose trans-lations from a list, produce alternative transla-1 This term was introduced by Ivan Derzhanski in 2004 andgained currency within IOL?s Problem Committee.
Theidea is that the way to solve such a problem (by comparingmatching structures in different languages) resembles Jean-Fran?ois Champollion?s method of deciphering AncientEgyptian with the aid of a parallel Egyptian and Greek textinscribed on a granodiorite stele that had been discoverednear the town of Rashid (Rosetta) in the Nile Delta.
An-other term for this type of problem is bilingua, used by theteam of the Moscow Linguistic Olympiad.2 This term was also invented by Ivan Derzhanski in 2008and became part of the jargon of the Problem Committee ofIOL.
It is modelled upon language names such as Chinese,but is also inspired by Motherese ?speech used by adultswhen talking to infants?
and similar coinages.1tions, judge the well-formedness of phrases orsentences in the unknown language, locate er-rors, or explain the meanings of words or phrasesthat don?t translate readily into Solverese.If the material of the unfamiliar language con-sists of number names, their meanings can begiven in figures instead of Solverese expressions.Problems on number names are often thought toform a separate type, but arguably (Zhurinsky1993; Derzhanski 2007) they are ordinary prob-lems on a somewhat peculiar discrete domain ofsemantics.As such, Rosetta Stones contrast with ?Chaosand Order?
problems, in which the expressions inthe two languages are not ordered and matchingthem is part of the solution, or problems on infer-ring the laws of a single system (a fragment of alanguage?s grammar, a poetic genre, a mnemonicsystem) without comparing it to another.In all cases solving the problem involves dis-covering and analysing the regular correspon-dences and deriving a mini-grammar and vo-cabulary of the unfamiliar language from thedata before proceeding to the assignments.The genre described above is the bread-and-butter type of problem at linguistic contests.
Al-though the classification of a linguistic problemis often a fuzzy issue, among the 50 problemsthat have been assigned at the individual contestsof the first ten instalments of IOL, 18 (36%) canbe counted as classical Rosetta Stones, as areeight (40%) of the 20 problems in (Derzhanski2009).
Not surprisingly, experienced solvers arebetter prepared to handle these than problems ofother types: at all eight IOLs where such prob-lems were assigned, the best-solved problem wasalways one of them, and the worst-solved prob-lem never was one.
This can be seen in Table 1,which presents the contestants?
average scoresfor the problems of IOL1?10, ordered from high-est to lowest within each year, with the classicalRosetta Stones marked by ???
and boldface.
(The maximal possible score for each problemwas 20.
There were two exceptions at IOL1, butin the table the scores for those problems havebeen normalised to enable comparison with theothers.)
Or it can be observed that none of theten worst-solved problems at IOL1?10 have beenclassical Rosetta Stones, whilst among the 40others they are evenly distributed, meaning thatthey are relatively well received, but not triviallyeasy.Some increasingly non-prototypical subtypesof Rosetta Stones include problems in which:?
the unfamiliar language is not a speak-able human language but a symbolic sys-tem such as a pasigraphy (e.g., Linzbach?s?Transcendental Algebra?3);?
or the two matching sets of data are notexpressions in an unfamiliar language andin Solverese but expressions in two unfa-miliar languages;?
or they are words or sentences of a singlelanguage written in two scripts, or in or-thography and a transcription, and one hasto derive the rules of spelling and pronun-ciation;?
or they are cognate words (or loanwordsand their sources) of two languages or dia-lects, and the rules to derive are phoneticcorrespondences;?
or both sets are non-language datawhich, however, share some importantcharacteristics with human language andthus can be said to be of linguistic interest3 IOL1, problem 1 (Ksenia Gilyarova).IOL1 IOL2 IOL3 IOL4 IOL5?4 15.24 ?1 15.26 ?1 12.90 ?1 12.63 #5 14.62#1 14.85 #4 15.17 #2 11.98 #2 9.17 #2 14.17#5 14.06 #2 11.78 ?4 11.56 ?5 8.81 #1 11.80#3 11.56 #5 8.87 ?3 10.66 ?4 8.77 #4 3.80#2 6.88 #3 3.85 #5 4.84 #3 6.79 #3 3.43IOL6 IOL7 IOL8 IOL9 IOL10?4 13.00 ?1 14.77 #1 15.49 ?3 13.62 ?5 9.60#3 12.96 #2 11.29 #3 14.29 #2 9.13 ?4 8.92#1 12.94 ?5 9.28 #4 9.55 ?1 6.38 ?2 7.69?5 9.78 #3 4.38 #5 9.43 #4 4.75 ?1 6.41#2 5.75 #4 1.33 #2 7.38 #5 4.64 #3 6.29Table 1.
IOL1?10: the average scores for the problems (ordered from highest to lowest).2(e.g., messenger RNA sequences and thecorresponding polypeptide chains4).In some problems there are more than twolanguages (or language-like systems) involved:the data may consist of parallel sentences in twounfamiliar languages and in Solverese, or in anunfamiliar language in two scripts (or in orthog-raphy and transcription) as well as Solverese5, orof cognate words of several languages.With the concept so extended, the ratio of Ro-setta Stones at the first ten IOLs rises to morethan a half (27 of 50).
However, although allsubtypes of Rosetta Stone share the same generalmethod, all are not equal in linguistic content.What follows will concentrate on the classicalsubtype.2 Selecting phenomenaLike most other types of problems, a RosettaStone problem is normally built around an inter-esting linguistic phenomenon that is not presentin Solverese.
6   In order to illustrate that phe-nomenon, some side phenomena must be in-cluded which allow forming actual sentences,phrases, or word forms.It is characteristic of the classical subtype ofRosetta Stone that the Solverese expressions aregiven for the sake of their meaning only, so thebilingual analysis involves matching componentsof the structure of each expression in the un-known language with components of the mean-ing of its translation.
Overestimating the impor-tance of the structure of the Solverese (and treat-ing the unfamiliar language as a code forSolverese) is an error frequently made even byexperts in the field.
Thus solving a problem ofthis type always involves some amount of se-mantic analysis of the Solverese expressions.2.1 The main phenomenonHaving a single main phenomenon in a problemis not a rule?there may be two of them?buthaving more usually makes the problem too hardto solve in a limited timeframe.
The main phe-nomenon is usually something interesting and4 IOL8, problem 4 (Alexander Berdichevsky).5 As in Champollion?s original Rosetta Stone, which was infact a trilingua, featuring Ancient Egyptian in hieroglyphicand demotic script as well as Greek.6 In the case of a problem intended for a multilingual contestsuch as IOL, this means that the main phenomenon must beabsent from all working languages which will be used at thecurrent instalment.
With respect to the side phenomena thisrequirement is relaxed.intriguing that the author of the problem hasstumbled upon while researching (or sometimesauthoring, typically on the basis of fieldwork) adescription of the unfamiliar language.Some phenomena pertain to the ways inwhich the unfamiliar language expresses infor-mation that is also present in the translations(though likely not in the same form), others donot.
Here are some examples of the former:?
semantically determined noun classes;?
ergativity (and split ergativity);?
direct?inverse argument marking;?
obviative (fourth person);?
overcounting in numerals.The latter include phonological processes such asdistant assimilation or dissimilation and sandhi,as well as complex allophony and allomorphy.Sometimes a problem illustrates variation, i.e.,is built on the fact that a class of Solverese ex-pressions can be translated in more than one wayinto the unfamiliar language (which may or maynot reflect an ambiguity of Solverese that is re-solved there), or vice versa (in such case the dataare often introduced as Solverese expressionswith their translations into the other language).2.2 The side phenomenaSide phenomena are included in order to prop-erly construct examples that demonstrate themain phenomenon and to achieve the desiredlevel of complexity.
As a rule they are of lesserinterest than the main phenomenon, but still re-quire deducing from the data.
They often con-cern such things as:?
word order;?
agreement;?
number or case marking;?
person and number marking;?
marking of verb tense and mood;?
relatively straightforward allomorphy.The side phenomena can vary in difficulty.Some may be trivial (e.g., a plural affix) andsome may be harder to discover (e.g., assimila-tion).
There is no strict distinction between mainand side phenomena.
For example, assimilationmay be a main phenomenon in a simpler problemand a side phenomenon in a more complex one.The author should balance the number of theside phenomena: too few may make the mainphenomenon too conspicuous and the problemtoo easy; too many may obscure the main phe-nomenon.33 Constructing the dataThe data in a problem is the language material(word forms, phrases or sentences) that is fullygiven to the solver?in the unfamiliar languageand in Solverese.
This material must representall the chosen phenomena without any unac-countable exceptions.For a phenomenon to be unambiguously dis-coverable, it must be illustrated by several exam-ples in the data.
The bare minimum, sufficientfor simpler side phenomena, is two; the mainphenomenon takes more.
A statistical measureof the sufficiency of the material is developed in(Testelets 1994), but to the best of our knowl-edge neither this theoretical method nor anyother is applied in practice to evaluate the qualityof new problems.3.1 Techniques for constructing the dataHere is a non-exhaustive list of frequently usedtechniques and approaches to constructing thedata:?
Preselect a number of words that are us-able in the problem?i.e., meet the re-quirements for representing the phenom-ena.
For instance, if the phenomenoninvolves direct vs.  indirect objects, tran-sitive verbs will be needed.?
Make a table (or tables) of all possibleforms of the chosen words that can ap-pear in the problem, and choose some forthe data, leaving some for the assign-ments.?
Group the words you have preselectedaccording to their properties.
For exam-ple, put stems ending in vowels and inconsonants in separate groups if the suf-fixes depend on the final sound.?
If working with phrases or sentences,don?t focus on the meaning.
In general,it is sufficient if they aren?t so absurd asto confuse the solver.?
Consider using assignments on transla-tion from the unfamiliar language toSolverese to complement the data inshowing that certain forms are possible.This process often requires extensive searchin dictionaries and work with reference gram-mars or informants (the latter is very desirable,but seldom done, for practical reasons).Simplifying the grammatical patterns of thelanguage or changing them in any other way isconsidered impermissible, but some parts may beconcealed in order to make certain regular por-tions stand out.3.2 The size of the datasetThere is no strict requirement for the number ofexamples presented to the solver.
There havebeen problems with as few as 4 given sentencesand as many as 25 word forms.
The main factorto consider is phenomenon density.
If the authorcan properly illustrate all the selected phenomenain a couple of sentences, then the number of ex-amples is low, but the phenomenon density ishigh.
Contrariwise, if an example may containonly a single instance of one of the phenomena,then the density is low, and many examples arerequired.3.3 Parasitic solutionsA parasitic solution is one that correctly andplausibly accounts for the data in the problem butdiffers from the fact of the language.
Althoughthe plausibility of a parasitic solution can some-times be a matter of debate, in general it indi-cates a flaw of the problem.
If discovered bytest-solving the problem, it can be blocked, usu-ally by adding a specific example which it doesnot account for.For example, a problem on split ergativityin Inuktitut7 had an early version which allowedone to think that the ergative construction wasused whenever the verb begins with a vowel(whereas in fact its use is triggered by semanticproperties of the object).
That would have beenan unlikely explanation, but as pointed out inSection 1 the solver is not expected to possesslinguistic proficiency and may not be able to tella plausible hypothesis from an implausible one.Therefore an example was added where an erga-tive construction was used with a verb startingwith a consonant.
In that way the parasitic solu-tion was no longer accounted for the data.3.4 Scrambling the dataIf the complexity of a Rosetta Stone problem isdeemed insufficient, it may be increased byscrambling the data, that is, presenting the mate-rial without indicating which Solverese expres-sion corresponds to each expression of the unfa-miliar language.
In this way the Rosetta Stoneproblem is turned into a problem of another type,Chaos and Order.
Chaos and Order problems arebeyond the scope of this article, so suffice it tosay here that the prevailing expert opinion is that7 IOL6, problem 5 (Bozhidar Bozhanov).4this technique should be reserved for occasionswhere the possibility of presenting a phenome-non as a problem depends on it, and not used foradding mere technical complexity to an easyRosetta Stone (section 6.1).4 Constructing the assignmentsThe assignments are exercises on using the rulesthat the solver is expected to have deduced fromthe data.
Their purpose is to verify that this hasbeen done correctly, which is why they must notbe doable by using simple analogy with the data;they must ask the solver to construct forms (orcombinations of forms) that have not been givenpreviously.
Sometimes the assignments includemore explicit material that will be used in thembut could not have been given in the data.
Forexample, if the data has the form of sentencesand one of the phenomena is that the semanticsof a noun determines its class which in turn de-termines the choice of an obligatory article, theassignments may include a short list of nouns incitation form for the solver to classify and use intranslations (including them in the data wouldhave revealed the articles).As noted before, an assignment on translatingfrom the unknown language to Solverese mayalso be used as a way of showing more examplesof some phenomenon, thus reducing the numberof examples required in the data.
Any sentences(or phrases) assigned for translation from theunknown language should, however, be reasona-bly intuitive; an improbable translation maycause the solver to unduly question the rules.
8As also noted, apart from the most common?translate from X to Y?
assignments, there canbe assignments of other, less common types.This usually happens when the understanding ofthe main phenomenon is hard to assess only onthe basis of translations.
Questions of the form?Can you translate the following?
If so, how?
Ifnot, why not??
may be asked, or an additional?story?
may be told, with new pairs of matchingexplanations presented, especially if the phe-nomenon is a complex one and should be de-duced in parts.
Of course, formulations shouldbe kept as simple as possible.8 A sentence meaning ?The dog shot itself?
was nearly as-signed for translation from Inuktitut into Solverese in IOL6,problem 5 (Bozhidar Bozhanov), but was eliminated in thefinal version.5 Auxiliary informationApart from data and assignments, a problemnearly always contains an introductory text, andfrequently notes as well.
Both may contain valu-able information about the data or hints to thesolver.5.1 Introductory textIn most cases this is a mere clich?
such as ?Hereare sentences in Such-and-Such language andtheir translations?, also indicating whether thetranslations are ordered or scrambled and some-times making other useful statements, e.g., thatcertain parts of the data are there for complete-ness but can be ignored when solving the prob-lem, that the transcription has been simplified,etc.
Such statements are usually made directly; itis not common for information to be expressed inthis text in oblique ways.5.2 NotesIn most cases notes (footnotes or endnotes) con-tain information on the language and descriptionsof unknown sounds, and sometimes also expla-nations of unfamiliar concepts.The information about the language usuallycontains taxonomy information, locality andnumber of speakers, for the solver?s edificationand for putting the problem in context.
It is rare-ly useful for solving the problem.9If the note mentions unfamiliar sounds (orspellings), it may do one of the following:?
simply state that these are sounds of thefeatured language, as a way of sayingthat they (or the letters used to writethem) should be distinguished from oth-ers (and as a hint that their precise pho-netic value is immaterial);?
give rough approximations to familiarsounds, usually with the only purpose ofmaking it easier to read the problem9 The popular notion that the solver should strive touse independently acquired knowledge about lan-guage families in order to guess what phenomena maybe present in the problem is at variance with the prin-ciple of self-sufficiency: information that is neitherpart of the problem nor common knowledge is as like-ly to be harmful as to be beneficial.
On the otherhand, the author may expect the reader to apply, forexample, some generally known fact of geographyalong with the information from the note on where thelanguage is spoken in order to deduce somethingabout its lexicon.5(many people find it easier to handlewords if they have some idea as to whatthey sound like);?
explain the phonetic characteristics ofthe sounds, often (though not always) toindicate a phonological phenomenon.6 Assessing the complexity of the prob-lemAs was said above, there is no objective way ofassessing the complexity of a problem; test-solving is the only procedure.
However, one cantry to estimate the complexity on the basis of thetriviality or obscurity of the main phenomenon,the number of side phenomena, and the quantityof the assignments.
This can put the probleminto the broad categories of ?easy?, ?medium?and ?hard?.The assessment of complexity is needed, first,in order to choose an appropriate forum and au-dience for the problem, and second, to design ascoring system if it is to be used at a competitionwhere the scoring must be devised a priori.
As arule, finding the main phenomenon is harder thanfinding any of the side phenomena, and translat-ing from the unfamiliar language is easier thantranslating into it.6.1 Types of complexityThere are two types of complexity of a prob-lem?linguistic complexity and technical com-plexity.The former is the complexity related to figur-ing out the linguistic phenomena and deducingthe grammar?grouping the examples into cate-gories, determining the structure of the sen-tences, segmenting the word forms into mor-phemes, identifying phonological processes, etc.The latter is about the technical complexity ofdoing the above and involves mechanical or log-ical tasks rather than linguistic ones.
For exam-ple, unscrambling translations given out of order(a stage of solving Chaos and Order problems) isa purely technical task, done on the basis of thenumber of occurrences of the instances of thephenomena.
This type of complexity simplymakes the problem harder without adding any-thing linguistically interesting to it.In a problem linguistic complexity is favouredupon technical complexity.
Rosetta Stone prob-lems rarely exhibit undesirable amounts of tech-nical complexity, and this is one of the reasonsfor which they are the dominant type of problemsat contests.6.2 Specifics of scoringDesigning a scoring scheme is a process separatefrom composing the problem (in most cases theauthor doesn?t even know at what contest theproblem will be used and what the scoring sys-tem will be there, nor has any control over it;different contests seldom score a problem in thesame way).
In the case of a Rosetta Stone pointsmay be allocated for finding the phenomena (as arule, more for the main one and fewer for theside ones), as well as the assignments (reflectingan assessment of their relative importance andcomplexity).
A study of the point counts won bythe participants in the first ten instalments of IOLshows that, while on the average for each prob-lem about ?
of all contestants had scores in themiddle third of the actual range and the rest wereequally divided between high and low scorers,for classical Rosetta Stones the middle scorersoutweighed the low ones.
Table 2 presents theratio of high to middle to low scorers for eachproblem, again with the classical Rosetta Stonesmarked by ???
and boldface.IOL1 IOL2 IOL3 IOL4 IOL5#1 52:33:15 ?1 70:17:13 ?1 58:26:16 ?1 61:24:16 #1 49:13:38#2 24:03:73 #2 57:24:20 #2 54:10:36 #2 27:37:35 #2 66:28:07#3 56:16:28 #3 09:09:83 ?3 48:16:36 #3 24:25:51 #3 10:11:79?4 67:27:06 #4 61:17:22 ?4 40:44:16 ?4 18:49:33 #4 15:02:84#5 73:06:21 #5 04:36:60 #5 22:06:72 ?5 27:27:45 #5 52:30:18IOL6 IOL7 IOL8 IOL9 IOL10#1 55:34:10 ?1 67:23:09 #1 76:18:06 ?1 18:38:43 ?1 13:31:56#2 19:16:64 #2 45:27:28 #2 32:08:60 #2 23:38:38 ?2 36:13:51#3 60:27:13 #3 20:05:76 #3 69:23:08 ?3 61:22:17 #3 17:24:60?4 51:33:16 #4 03:05:92 #4 45:07:47 #4 13:13:74 ?4 17:47:36?5 30:39:31 ?5 30:42:28 #5 27:35:37 #5 06:22:72 ?5 37:47:16Table 2.
IOL1?10: ratio of high:middle:low scorers for each problem.605101520251 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 4905101520251 3 5 7 9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 37 39 41 43 45 47 49The reason for this is the inclusion of multiplephenomena.
Finding a side phenomenon andusing it in the assignments carries a portion ofthe points, even though the main phenomenonmay not have been discovered; Rosetta Stonesare almost never ?all-or-none?
problems.This is an important factor when consideringthe complexity of a problem within a problemset.
?All-or-none?
problems create the danger ofanomalies in the end results of a competition(contestants scoring lower than their abilities dueto random factors) and of discouraging less ex-perienced participants.Figure 1 further illustrates the difference in thedistribution of scores.
The problem on the leftwas a Chaos and Order on Lango.
10  The one onthe right was a classical Rosetta Stone onYoruba.
11  The contestants?
average scores forthe two problems were extremely close (11.98and 11.56, respectively), but the Rosetta Stonetook less insight, though more work on thewhole, and this made for a smoother ranking.7 Co-authoring a problemIt is not uncommon for a problem to be authoredby two people.
This sometimes means that theauthorship has been divided chronologically: oneperson wrote a problem that the other thoroughlyrevised (to an extent thought to amount to co-authorship).
Or else they may have workedjointly on creating the problem from the idea andthe original data, possibly dividing among them-selves the tasks, which include (in the case of aRosetta Stone problem) selecting side phenom-ena, selecting material, constructing the table ofusable forms, and constructing assignments.This modularity of the authoring process greatlyfacilitates co-authoring.10 IOL3, problem 2 (Ksenia Gilyarova).11 IOL3, problem 4 (Ivan Derzhanski).The common-sense iterative procedure forcollaborative work when the two authors are notphysically present in one place and cannot holddiscussions while constructing the problem (eachauthor in turn making changes and sending themover to the other to review) has some specifics inthis case?changes must be explicitly accountedfor, so that one does not by accident remove anexample that the other thought necessary for il-lustrating a phenomenon.8 Problem approval processWhen the problem is finished it has to gothrough an approval process before being used incompetitions.
The formality of the process de-pends on the contests and the rules of problemcommittee.
Some steps are:?
Idea validation: not every language phe-nomenon can be used for a linguisticproblem at all.?
Pretesting/beta-testing: no amount ofreasoning can substitute for people?s ac-tual attempts to solve the problem, as away of evaluating its difficulty and veri-fying its unambiguity.?
Assessing suitability for a given compe-tition: a problem which is good in prin-ciple may be deemed unsuitable for aspecific place or time.
It may be toohard for an introductory round (or tooeasy for an advanced one), or it maycontain phenomena that are very similarto ones used at a recent instalment of thesame contest.
If judged usable in princi-ple but not momentarily, the problemmay be put in a repository, where it issaved for future competitions.This is a generic process that applies to all prob-lem types, but some details are relevant specifi-cally to Rosetta Stones.Figure 1.
The distribution of scores for two IOL problems.78.1 Beta-testingThe process of beta-testing is the most importantstep before finalising a problem.
A solution (ornon-solution) usually leads to modifications inthe problem and a further version is released,which should be beta-tested again.
Modifica-tions carried out as result of test solutions in-clude:?
blocking parasitic solutions;?
showing more examples of an under-represented phenomenon;?
removing or adding side phenomena inorder to reduce or augment the complex-ity of the problem;?
amending assignments in order to pre-vent them from being doable by analogywith the data;?
clarifying assignments that are hard tounderstand.The process continues until no more changes arerequired.8.2 Translating problemsLinguistic problems have always been translatedfor a variety of purposes, from using problemsmade in one country at contests (or in lectures) inanother through accommodating overseas guestcompetitors to running international contests.This is not always easy.
The new Solverese maymake some things less or more evident, it mayshare the main phenomenon with the featuredlanguage (which means that the problem ceasesbeing a genuine problem in translation), or thesolution may depend on recalling some facts ofthe original Solverese that are lost in translation.Often the choice is between an awkward wordingand a problem that is not functionally equivalentto the original.12  Which is preferable may de-pend on the occasion: an old foreign problem isworth translating and reusing only if it soundsnatural in translation; it may be acceptable forguest participants in another country?s nationalcontest to be at a slight disadvantage, but at aninternational competition equality is crucial.Rosetta Stone problems often involve phrasesor sentences, which means that in principle theycontain more opportunities for untranslatability.12 This may happen, for instance, when translatingglosses of sentences from Russian, which lacks arti-cles, into a language that has them: if some nounsbecome definite and others indefinite, this will createa new opposition that the solver will have to consider.In light of this it may seem a paradox that theyare so frequent at IOL.
Yet it appears that prob-lems of other types, and especially unclassifiableproblems, are harder to make work equally wellin several languages than Rosetta Stones are.The type wins out thanks to its familiarity.9 ConclusionComposing linguistic problems is a challengingtask, which involves many steps and considera-tions.
A good problem is unambiguous, containswell-presented interesting phenomena, does nothave parasitic solutions and has prevailing lin-guistic complexity.A Rosetta Stone problem enables authors to il-lustrate the most interesting linguistic phenom-ena, allows for smoothly distributed and fine-grained results and, as described above, has arelatively straightforward and well-defined com-position workflow.
No surprise, then, that it hasbecome an expected feature at every linguisticcontest.ReferencesIvan A. Derzhanski.
2007.
Mathematics in LinguisticProblems.
In: L. Dimitrova and L. Pavlov (eds.
),Mathematical and Computational Linguistics.Jubilee International Conference, 6 July 2007,Sofia, 49?52.Ivan A. Derzhanski.
2009.
Linguistic Magic andMystery.
Union of Bulgarian Mathematicians,Sofia.Ivan A. Derzhanski and Thomas E. Payne.
2009.The Linguistics Olympiads: Academic competi-tions in linguistics for secondary school students.In: K. Denham and A. Lobeck (eds.
), Linguisticsat School: Language Awareness in Primaryand Secondary Education, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK, 213?226.Yakov G. Testelets.
1994.
Linguistic Problems andthe ?Presumption of the Author?s Mildness?.
In:V.I.
Belikov, E.V.
Muravenko and N.V. Pertsov(resp.
eds.
), Sign: A collection of papers on lin-guistics, semiotics and poetics in memoriam ofA.N.
Zhurinsky (in Russian), Russian EducationalCentre, Moscow, 213?224.Yakov G. Testelets.
2001.
An Introduction toGeneral Syntax (in Russian).
Russian State Uni-versity for the Humanities, Moscow.Alfred N. Zhurinsky.
1993.
Word, Letter, Number:A discussion of self-sufficient linguistic prob-lems with an analysis of a hundred samples ofthe genre (in Russian).
Nauka, Moscow.8
