Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 157?161,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGeneration of Quantified Referring Expressions:Evidence from Experimental DataDale BarrDept.
of PsychologyUniversity of Glasgowdale.barr@glasgow.ac.ukKees van DeemterComputing Science Dept.University of Aberdeenk.vdeemter@abdn.ac.ukRaquel Ferna?ndezILLCUniversity of Amsterdamraquel.fernandez@uva.nlAbstractWe present the results from an elicitationexperiment in which human speakers wereasked to produced quantified referring ex-pressions (QREs), as in ?The crate with10 apples?, ?The crate with many apples?,etc.
These results suggest that some sub-tle contextual factors govern the choice be-tween different types of QREs, and thatnumerals are highly preferred for subitiz-able quantities despite the availability ofcoarser-grained expressions.1 IntroductionSpeakers can express quantities in different ways.For instance, a speaker may specify a meeting timewith the expression ?in the morning?
or with themore precise, numeric expression ?at 10:30am??
;she may choose to specify a temperature as ?5 de-grees Celsius?
or instead use the less precise butmore qualifying expression ?cold?.
One area ofNLG where these choices are important is the gen-eration of referring expressions.
In particular, areferent may be identified by means of some quan-titative value or other (e.g., ?the tall man; ?the manwho is 198cm tall?
), or by means of the numberof other entities to which it is related.
Hence-forth, let?s call these quantified referring expres-sions (QREs).
An example of a QRE arises, forinstance, when a person is identified by means ofthe number of his children (?the man with 5 daugh-ters?
), when a directory is identified by meansof the number of files in it (?the directory with520/many PDF files in it?
), or when a crate is iden-tified by means of the number of apples in it (?thecrate with 7 /a few apples?
).Green and van Deemter (2011) asked underwhat circumstances it might be beneficial, fora reader or hearer, for referring expressions ofthis kind to contain vague expressions (e.g., likemany).
The present paper addresses the same phe-nomena focussing, more broadly, on all the differ-ent ways in which reference may be achieved; un-like these previous authors, we shall address thisquestion from the point of view of the speaker,asking how human speakers refer in such cases,rather than how useful a given referring expressionis to a hearer (e.g., as measured by their responsetimes in a manipulation task).We start by making our research questions moreprecise in the next section.
We then describe theproduction experiment we run online in Section 3and present an analysis of the data in Section 4.We end with some pointers on how our resultscould inform an NLG module for QREs.2 Research QuestionsSuppose you want to point out one crate amongstseveral crates with different numbers of apples.You may use a numeral (?the crate with seven ap-ples?)
or, if the crate in question is the one withthe largest or smallest amount of apples, you mayuse superlatives (?the crate with the most apples?
),comparatives (?with more apples?)
or vague quan-tifiers (?with many apples?
); if your crate is theonly one with any apples in it at all, you mightsimply say ?the crate with apples?).
In many situ-ations, several of these options are applicable.
Itis not obvious, however, which of these is pre-ferred.
The Gricean Maxim of Quantity (Grice,1975) urges speakers to make their contribution asinformative as, but not more informative than, it isrequired for the current purposes of the exchange.This might be taken to predict that speakers willtend to use the most coarsely grained expressionthat identifies the referent (unless they want somenontrivial implicatures to be inferred).
This wouldpredict, for example that it is odd to say ?the boxwith 27 apples?
when ?the box with apples?
suf-fices, because the latter contains a boolean prop-erty (contains apples), whereas the former relies157Figure 1: Sample stimuli in contexts X , XY , XYY with big gap, and XYZ with small gap.on a special case on what is essentially much morefinely grained property (contains x apples).Our hunch, however, was that this is not thewhole story.
For example, the literature on humannumber processing suggests that numbers below 5or 6 are handled almost effortlessly; these num-bers are called subitizable (Kaufman et al 1949)Furthermore, we hypothesized that it matters towhat extent the number of apples in the target crate?stands out?.
We had the following expectations:1.
Speakers do not always use the coarsest-grained level that is sufficient.2.
Whether a quantity is subitizable or not inter-feres with the speakers?
choice.3.
The frequency of vague forms (such as ?many?
)will be higher in contexts where the gap be-tween the target quantity and the quantities inthe distractors is large than when it is small.1We wanted to put these ideas to the test and, moregenerally, find out how human speakers use QREsin different contexts.
Our interest was also in cre-ating a corpus of human-produced QREs that canserve future research.3 Experimental SetupThe elicitation experiment was run online.
Sub-jects first encountered a screen with instructions.They were told that they would be presented withsituations consisting of three squares, with each ofthem having none, one or more shapes in it.
Ineach of these situations, one of the three squareswould be highlighted and subjects were asked todescribe this target square in a way that would en-able a reader of their expression to identify it.
Sub-jects were told that the recipient of their descrip-tion may see the three squares arranged differentlyon the screen with their contents possibly beingscrambled around.
That is, they were indirectlyasked to concentrate on the quantity of shapes in1Later on we refer to vague forms as ?base?, a commonterm used to describe the vague, unmodified form of relativescalar adjectives (e.g., tall) as opposed to their comparative(taller) and superlative (tallest) forms.the squares (rather than on their relative position oron the spatial configuration of the shapes in them).Figure 1 shows some sample stimuli.The experiment included a total of 20 items,generated according to the following parameters:?
Subitizability: the amount of shapes in the tar-get is within the subitizable range (SR) (1-4shapes) or within a non-subitizable range (NR);we included three non-subitizable ranges, witharound 10, 20, and 30 shapes, respectively.?
Context: we considered four types of scenarios:1.
X : only the target square is filled.2.
XY : two squares are filled.3.
XYY: all squares filled; with two ranges.4.
XYZ: all squares filled; with three ranges.The symbol X in the first position stands for thereferent square, while the symbols in the othertwo positions indicate for each of the other twosquares whether it contains a number of shapeswithin the same range as the referent square(X), within a different range (Y/Z), or whetherit does not contain any shapes at all ( ).?
Relative Size: the target contains either thesmallest or the largest amount of shapes.?
Gap Size: there is either a big or a small quan-tity difference between the target and othersquares.
A big gap size is only possible withtarget squares that contain the largest amount ofshapes within a non-subitizable range and thosethat contain the smallest amount of shapeswithin a subitizable range.Participants were recruited by publishing a callin the Linguist List.
A total of 82 subjects par-ticipated in the experiment, including participantswho only responded to some items.
We eliminated6 sessions where the participant had responded toless than 10 items.
The final dataset includes 76participants and a total of 1508 descriptions.4 ResultsEach description produced by the participants wasannotated with one of the categories in Table 1.158Category ExamplesABS [absolute] the one with pacmans / the square that?s not blankBASE [base] the square with lots of dark dashes / it has a few crosses in itCOMP [comparative] the one with fewer dashes / the square with more crosses in itNUM [numeric] the square with 11 black dots / 3 grey ovalsSUP [superlative] it has the largest number of purple squares / the square with the least minusesOTH [other] about a dozen blue diamonds / big droup of circles in the centreTable 1: Categories used to code the expressions produced by the participants.The classification was first done automatically bypattern matching and then revised manually.To analyse the data, we used mixed-effects lo-gistic regression with crossed random effects forsubjects and items (Baayen et al 2008).
Allmodels had by-subject and by-item random in-tercepts, and by-subject random slopes for thewithin-subject factors of context and range (subiti-zability).
The models were fit using maximumlikelihood estimation with p-values derived fromlikelihood ratio tests.
Model estimation was per-formed using the lme4 package (Bates et al 2013)of R statistical software (R Core Team, 2013).Table 2 shows the overall distribution of expres-sion types used by the participants.
As can beseen, numerical expressions were the most com-mon type of expression used overall (65%).
Wefound, however, that there was a strong subiti-zability effect in the use of these expressions:for non-subitizable targets, subjects used numer-ical expressions only 39% of the time, while forsubitizable targets they did so 90% of the time.This main effect of subitizability was significant(?2(1) = 47.92, p < .001).
There was highvariability across subjects in the effect (?2(1) =25.00, p < .001), with a higher rate of numeri-cal expressions associated with a smaller effect ofsubitizability (r = ?.61).
Note that 17 of the 82subjects (?
20%) always used numerical expres-sions, even when the target was not subitizable.
Ofthe remaining 65 subjects, 64 show a very signif-icant preference for using numeric expressions todescribe targets within the subitizable range.Figure 2 shows the proportion of expressiontypes for each type of context and subitizabil-ABS BASE COMP NUM SUP OTH TotalNR 73 33 26 294 308 17 751SR 51 1 0 684 21 0 757Total 124 34 26 978 329 17 1508Table 2: Row counts of expression types for non-subitizable (NR) and subitizable (SR) targets.ity condition.2 Sensitivity to context differed forsubitizable and non-subitizable targets, supportedby a reliable interaction between these factors(?2(1) = 17.31, p < .001).
Despite the strongoverall preference for numerical expressions withsubitizable targets, the effect of context was stillreliable (?2(1) = 22.63, p < .001).
For subiti-zable targets (Figure 2, bottom row), numeric ex-pressions were almost always used (96%) exceptin contexts where the target was the only filledsquare (X ).
In this context, participants occa-sionally used absolute expressions instead (e.g.
theone with shapes) 33% of the time.
In sum, subiti-zable targets overwhelmingly triggered the use ofnumerals, predominating even when a Gricean ac-count would prefer coarser-grained expressions.For non-subitizable targets (first row of plotsin Figure 2), in contexts without distractors (X )absolute expressions were preferred over numer-ical ones; this differed from the behaviour ofsubitizable targets in this context, where numer-ical expressions predominated (?2(1) = 4.25,p = .039).
In contexts with non-empty distrac-tors (XY , XYY, and XYZ), expressions other thannumeric are used significantly more often thanthey were for subitizable targets (?2(1) = 52.93,p < .001).
Superlative expressions (e.g.
thesquare with the least dots) were preferred in con-texts where the three squares were filled (?2(1) =7.74, p = .005).
In contexts with one distractor(XY ), superlatives were also rather common, andcomparative expressions (e.g.
the one with fewerdashes) occurred at higher rates than in other typesof context (?2(1) = 42.34, p < .001).The comparison between the contexts with twodistractors (XYY and XYZ) suggests that they dif-fered largely in the use of vague expressions(BASE; e.g.
the one with many diamonds), whichhad a higher rate in context XYY where therewere only two quantity ranges (?2(1) = 5.01,2Category OTH (other) is not shown in Figure 2 to avoidclutter.
Table 2 shows the row counts for all categories.159ABS BASE COMP NUM SUPX__non?subitizable range0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6ABS BASE COMP NUM SUPXY_0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6ABS BASE COMP NUM SUPXYY0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6ABS BASE COMP NUM SUPXYZ0.00.10.20.30.40.50.6ABS BASE COMP NUM SUPsubitizable range0.00.20.40.60.81.0ABS BASE COMP NUM SUP0.00.20.40.60.81.0ABS BASE COMP NUM SUP0.00.20.40.60.81.0ABS BASE COMP NUM SUP0.00.20.40.60.81.0Figure 2: Proportion of expression types in each context for subitizable and non-subitizable targets.p = .025).
For this context we also found an ef-fect of gap size (see Figure 3): the relative oddsof choosing a vague expression over a numeric orsuperlative one is significantly higher when thereis a big difference between the target quantity andthe distractor quantities (?2(1) = 5.68, p = .017);that is, when the chance of there being borderlinecases is reduced.
A small gap between the quanti-ties makes the preference for superlative (and thusnon-vague) expressions stronger.Figure 3: The effect of gap size.5 ConclusionsIn line with our expectations (see Section 2), ourdata are not easy to reconcile with the type ofGricean account that predicts a preference for themost coarsely grained QRE that identifies the tar-get.
The most obvious deviation from this Griceanaccount arises from the subitizable items in ourstudy, where numerical expressions turned out tobe much preferred over other QREs.
The natu-ral explanation seems to be that such expressionscome naturally to speakers (and to hearers too asshown by Green and van Deemter (2011)).
Inother words, our study suggests an intriguing vari-ant on Grice, in which the most relevant factor isnot one of informativeness ?
as Grice?s writingssuggest ?
but one of effort.
It suggests that speak-ers tend to produce expressions that identify thereferent with least effort.Our expectation 3 was also confirmed: vagueforms (BASE) are more frequent with big gapsizes, although they are not produced with highfrequency.
(The same pattern of results was foundby van Deemter (2004)).
Thus, in the scenarioswe considered vague QREs are never the mostfavoured option.
The high frequency of superla-tives over comparatives is also noteworthy.
Com-paratives are used very seldom overall but aremore frequent in contexts with only one distractor(XY ).
This indicates that some speakers opt fora less strong expression than a superlative (an ex-pression that means more than x rather than morethan any other x) in contexts where this does notlead to ambiguity.
However, numerals and su-perlatives are still largely preferred in those con-texts.These observations suggest that a given type ofsituation (i.e., a given context + subitizability con-dition) should not always map to the same type ofQRE.
If human QRE behaviour is to be mimicked,the best approach seems to be to use a stochasticNLG program that seeks to replicate the frequen-cies that are found in human usage.The collected data is freely available at http://www.illc.uva.nl/?raquel/xprag/.160ReferencesR.
Baayen, D. Davidson, and D. Bates.
2008.
Mixed-effects modeling with crossed random effects forsubjects and items.
Journal of memory and lan-guage, 59(4):390?412.D.
Bates, M. Maechler, and B. Bolker, 2013. lme4:Linear mixed-effects models using S4 classes.
Rv.
0.999999-2.M.
Green and K. van Deemter.
2011.
Vaguenessas cost reduction: An empirical test.
In Proc.
ofProduction of Referring Expressions workshop atCogSci 2011.H.
P. Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In TheLogic of Grammar, pages 64?75.
Dickenson.E.
Kaufman, M. Lord, T. Reese, and J. Volkmann.1949.
The discrimination of visual number.
Ameri-can Journal of Psychology, 62(4):498?525.R Core Team, 2013.
R: A Language and Environmentfor Statistical Computing.
R Foundation.
v. 3.0.0.K.
van Deemter.
2004.
Finetuning NLG through ex-periments with human subjects: the case of vaguedescriptions.
In Proc.
of the 3rd INLG Conference.161
