Proceedings of the 2th Workshop of Natural Language Processing for Improving Textual Accessibility (NLP4ITA), pages 20?28,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsTools for non-native readers: the case for translation and simplificationMaxine Eskenazi Yibin LinLanguage Technologies Institute  Language Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon University  Carnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh PA 15213  Pittsburgh PA 15213max@cmu.edu   yibinl@cs.cmu.eduOscar SazLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh PA 15213osaz@cs.cmu.eduAbstractOne of the populations that often needs someform of help to read everyday documents isnon-native speakers.
This paper discusses aidat the word and word string levels and focuseson the possibility of using translation andsimplification.
Seen from the perspective ofthe non-native as an ever-learning reader, weshow how translation may be of more harmthan help in understanding and retaining themeaning of a word while simplification holdspromise.
We conclude that if reading every-day documents can be considered as a learn-ing activity as well as a practical necessity,then our study reinforces the arguments thatdefend the use of simplification to make docu-ments that non-natives need to read more ac-cessible.1 IntroductionThere are many tools that natural languageprocessing (NLP) can offer disadvantaged readersto aid them in understanding a document.
Readersmay be at a disadvantage due to poor sight, to cog-nitive disabilities, or simply to reading in a lan-guage other than their native one (L1).
This paperaddresses that last case.
For non-native readers,there are a number of aids that could be madeavailable to them.
Some aids help on the wordlevel, assuming that the understanding of a specificword is what is impeding comprehension.
Othersaddress a more global level, presuming that theunderstanding blockage is due lack of comprehen-sion of the meaning of a group of words.
Our workaddresses learning English vocabulary, for whichwe have conducted studies on both word-level andhigher-level aids.
We argue that our findings caninform what can be done to make documents moreunderstandable in general for non-natives.In the past, we have studied the effect ofaids such as ordered definitions (Dela Rosa andEskenazi, 2011) and synthesized speech (DelaRosa et al 2010) on learning vocabulary from webdocuments.
These aids have been aimed at theword level and have been shown to help learning.We explored the wider context around an unknownword in an effort to give the non-native reader anunderstanding of the several-word context aroundan unknown word in order to help understanding ofthe meaning of the text.Reading documents to learn a language is avery different activity from reading an everydaydocument (like a rental agreement) out of neces-sity.
Yet we find that there are similarities betweenthe two activities.
We believe that, unlike for someother categories of disadvantaged readers, eachdocument that a non-native reads is a learningmoment and that they learn the target languagemore with each encounter.
These incremental addi-tions to the readers?
knowledge enable them to beincreasingly capable of tackling future unknowndocuments.
It also reflects on the manner with20which readers tackle a document since some un-derstanding of the words has to take place in orderfor the document to be understood.
We believe thatthese similarities warrant using learning findings toguide the choice of NLP tools used in documentprocessing for non-native readers.
The learningenvironment is used in this paper to measuredocument understanding.2 BackgroundUsing learning as a means of estimatingthe usefulness of NLP techniques in making textsmore accessible, we can examine the positions thatthe learning community has taken on the educa-tional value of several of these techniques.Translation (the use of L1 in second lan-guage (L2) vocabulary acquisition) is the area inwhich we find the greatest controversy.
Models ofL2 lexical acquisition represent acquisition of newL2 words as an assimilation through an L1 lemmathat is generalized and applied to concepts in L2(Jiang, 2000; Kroll and Sunderman, 2003).
Exces-sive use of L1 is believed to reduce L2 fluency andto fossilize errors.
Context, dictionary definitionsand examples of other sentences in which a wordcould be used are commonly considered to be themost effective tools since students can interiorizethe concept of the new word without reliance onL1.
This implies that the use of such techniquescan lead to better learning and improved fluencythan direct use of L1 translation.
This claim hasbeen challenged by Grace (1998), showing thatthat when translation is provided, there are higherscores on vocabulary tests both in the short-termand long-term use of the new words.
Prince (1996)also claimed that the more proficient studentsbenefit more from translation on short-term lexicalrecall tasks, since it is easier for them to get rid ofthe L1 scaffolding.
These studies and others havebeen hampered by the ability to accurately measurethe extent of the subjects?
use of translation.
TheREAP software described below has afforded amore precise estimate of use and of retention ofvocabulary items.Simplification has had more widespreadacceptance.
Simplified texts have often been pro-vided to language learners either along with theoriginal text or alone (Burstein et al2007, Peter-sen and Ostendorf, 2007).
These texts have beenused as reading comprehension exercises or text-book reading materials (Crossley, et al2007).
Ac-cording to Oh (2008), simplification typically usesshorter sentences, simpler grammar and controlledvocabulary.
The use of simplified texts has beenshown to significantly help students?
reading com-prehension (Yano, et al1994, Oh 2008).
However,there has not been any research specifically aboutwhether reading the simplified texts, rather thanthe original ones, will affect the students?
vocabu-lary acquisition.
There are a few disadvantagesrelated to simplifying texts for ESL students.
Yanoet al(1994) note that simplified texts may appearunnatural, giving them a lack of flow, thus makingthem difficult to read.
They may also lack thecomplex grammar structures that commonly existin the real world (that students should be exposedto).
The simplified texts used in these studies werecreated by hand and are usually written with theexpress intention of featuring certain vocabularyand/or syntactic elements for the purpose of beingused by a non-native learner.To address the link between vocabularyand comprehension of a text, the literature oftenreveals mastery of vocabulary as the key.
Perfetti(2010) emphasized the vocabulary-comprehensionlink.
Increased vocabulary has been shown to in-crease comprehension.
Thus text comprehensionfor non-natives could depend on either presentingonly words that they can understand or offering anaid for understanding any challenging words thatthey may encounter.2.1 NLP techniquesAssuming that we can aid a non-native inunderstanding a document by using natural lan-guage processing techniques, numerous possibili-ties present themselves.
We can help the studentboth on the word level and on a more global (con-textual) level.
On the word level, the one aid thatdoes not appear to need any processing is diction-ary definitions.
Access to an online dictionarywould give the student definitions to any word inquestion.
However, many words are polysemous,often having several meanings for the same part ofspeech (like ?bank?).
In that case, the reader has tochoose which one of the meanings is the right onefor the context of the text at hand.
This dilemma(and possible incorrect choice) can be avoided byusing word sense disambiguation (Dela Rosa andEskenazi 2011).
We showed that when definitions21are presented in an ordered list, according to thebest fit in the context, students learned words bet-ter.
Another word-level aid is the use of speechsynthesis to speak the word to the reader (DelaRosa 2010).
Non-natives know some words au-rally, but have never seen them in written form.This aid is especially helpful when the orthographyof an unknown word makes it difficult to deducethe pronunciation (as in ?thought?).
Another aidpresents a word in other contexts.
Giving the stu-dent the ability to compare several contexts withtheir contrasting meanings is helpful for learning.These contexts can be found by searching for sen-tences with a target word and a set of commonlyco-occurring context words.While research in vocabulary acquisitionover the years has shown positive results for manyword-centric learning aids, it is interesting to ex-pand the offerings to context-level aids.
We werealso curious to see if the use of the REAP platform(Brown and Eskenazi, 2005) could help add to theknowledge of the role of translation in L2 vocabu-lary learning.
This is what brought us to examinethe effect of translation and simplification onlearning.
These two techniques, thanks to the useof NLP, could be totally automated in the future.Research in machine translation (MT) goes backseveral decades and many types of statistical mod-els have been employed (Koehn, 2010).
If all ofthe documents to be translated are in one givendomain, then sufficiently good automatically trans-lations can be obtained.Automated simplification is a newer do-main.
There has been significant progress in sim-plifying documents for use by specificdisadvantaged populations (Alusio et al010,Bach et al2011, Chandrasekar and Srinivas, 1997,Inui et al2003, Medero and Ostendorf, 2011,Yaskar et al010).
Like Alusio and colleagues,who work with low-literacy populations, and a fewother authors, we are concerned not only about thequality of the simplification, but also aboutwhether the simplified documents actually helpdisadvantaged readers.We could have also looked at summariza-tion, which uses some of the same techniques thatare used for simplification.
In some early unpub-lished studies, we found that students experienceddifficulty when asked to summarize a passage.They usually responded by simply cutting andpasting the first sentence of that passage.
Thiscould have meant that students just could not pro-duce a well-structured sentence and thus avoideddoing so.
But non-natives, who are asked to iden-tify the appropriate summary out of four possibili-ties in a multiple choice question, also had muchdifficulty.
Thus, rather than giving a very high-level overview of a passage through summariza-tion, we chose to look at the intermediate level aidsthat would also contribute to vocabulary under-standing: translation and simplification of localcontexts.Translation and simplification can both becharacterized as relating to overall context, operat-ing effectively on a string of several words ratherthan on only one word.
They both aid in under-standing the meaning of the whole string as op-posed to just one target word, and their help forunknown words is through making the context ofthe word clear enough to surmise the meaning ofthe word.
Besides its controversial status, transla-tion had also attracted our interest when we ob-served the students?
efforts to get translations fortasks in class.
We wanted to find out if translationhad different properties from all other aids.
Trans-lation is different from the aids that we had used inthe past in two ways:?
it uses L1?
it covers several-word contexts, ratherthan just one word.To tease apart these two characteristics, we becameinterested in simplification, which shares the sec-ond characteristic, but not the first.3 The REAP tutorThe studies in this paper used the CMUREAP intelligent tutor.
That tutor provides curricu-lum for vocabulary acquisition for non-native stu-dents while serving as a platform for researchstudies (Brown and Eskenazi, 2005).
REAP givesstudents texts retrieved from the Internet that arematched to their reading level and their preferences(Heilman et al 2008) and helps them acquire newwords from context (Juffs et al 2006).
REAP in-corporates several features like pop-up word defi-nitions, examples of the word in other contexts,text-to-speech synthesis of words and translation ofwords to the student?s native language.REAP presents the reading in any webbrowser (see Figure 1).
Upon registration, studentsenter their native language.
To get a definition,22clicking on a word brings up a pop-up windowshowing the definition and examples of use of thatword and a button for hearing the pronunciation ofthe word.
Focus words, the words that the teacherhas chosen for the students to learn, are highlightedin the text.From the beginning, REAP has shown thatit can improve students?
acquisition of new vo-cabulary in English (Heilman et al 2006).
Fea-tures embedded in REAP have been validated inseveral experimental studies which showed thelearning outcomes achieved by the students.
REAPhas been used to study motivation as well as learn-ing gains.Figure 1.
REAP interface and features for astudent whose native language is Mandarin.4 The translation studyREAP was used to study whether transla-tion helped students to learn vocabulary (Lin, Sazand Eskenazi, in review).
These studies exploredwhether the students both learned more and be-came more fluent when they use translation.
It ischallenging to measure fluency.
While it is impos-sible to record everything that the student says inher everyday conversations and then measure theaverage rapidity of response, one can measure theincrease in the rapidity of response from the mo-ment an item (post-test question) appears on thescreen to when the student clicks on the answerand can compare results for that student as well asacross groups of students.
The documents used inthis study were gathered from a crawl of the inter-net for documents containing certain focus wordsthat students were to learn.
The documents werefiltered to be at the level of the students and thetopics were varied, from sports to current events,for example.
The translation (bilingual dictionary)of the words in this study was provided byWordReference.com and the Bing Translator(http://www.microsofttranslator.com/) for thedocuments (contexts) in the study.
The translationsof all of the focus words in all of the students?
L1swere manually checked by native speakers to makesure that the translated word corresponded with thespecific context in which it appeared.
If necessary,a change in the translation was made to make itcontext-appropriate.All studies described in this paper wereincluded as regular curricula at the English Lan-guage Institute of the University of Pittsburgh.
Thefirst study involved 27 students taking the Level 5Reading course (high-intermediate learners); 25were native speakers of Arabic, 1 spoke Spanishand 1 spoke Turkish.
The second study involved26 students in Level 5: 22 of them were nativeArabic speakers, 2 were Mandarin Chinese speak-ers and 2 were Korean speakers.
There were twostudies to determine whether the way that the stu-dents requested translations had an effect on theamount of translations they asked for.For both studies, the first session consistedof a pre-test which measured knowledge of a set offocus words in multiple-choice cloze questions(Taylor 1953), where the target word was removedfrom a full, meaningful sentence.
There were 2questions per focus word.
Post-reading (immedi-ately after reading a document) and post-test (afterall the training sessions were over) questions hadthe same form as the pre-test and involved com-pletely different sentences.In each training session, students had one400-500 word reading.
After each reading, theytook the post-reading test where they answered 2previously unseen cloze questions per focus word.The students were shown their results along withthe correct answers to the cloze questions at theend of each post reading test.
In the last session,the students took a post-test with content similar tothe pre-test, 2 new unseen questions per focusword.The first study took place for 8 weeks inthe fall of 2011.
Each reading session had onereading prepared for the students with 4 focuswords, for a total of 24 focus words.
The second23study took place for 6 weeks in the spring of 2012.There were also 24 focus words in this study.The main difference in the setup of bothstudies was how the students accessed a transla-tion.
For the fall 2011 study students had to type orcopy and paste one or more words into a box at thebottom of the screen to get the translation.
In thespring 2012 study they used a left mouseclick toget the translation.
In both studies, the studentscould click (left mouseclick in fall 2011 and rightmouseclick in spring 2012) to obtain the definitionfrom the Cambridge Advanced Learners?
Diction-ary (CALD, Walter, 2005) and to listen to text-to-speech synthesis of the word (Cepstral, 2012).The accuracy of each student at the pre-test, post-reading and post-test was calculated asthe percentage of correct answers over the totalnumber of questions in the test.
The fluency wascalculated as the median response time of a givenstudent to answer each question.
To measure flu-ency, we used the median and not the mean of theresponse times since the mean was distorted by afew instances of very long response duration for afew questions (possibly due to distractions).
Wealso used comparative measures, such as gain andnormalized gain in accuracy between two differentassessment tasks (for instance, from pre-test topost-test) (Hake, 1998).
A positive value of thegain and the normalized gain means that the stu-dent achieved higher scores in the post-test.We note that only 14 (17%) of the transla-tions are for focus words.The results show that students used transla-tion when it was easier (clicking instead of typing),in detriment to using dictionary definitions.
Stu-dents did not request definitions or translations forall of the focus words.
This may indicate that theyare not indiscriminately clicking on words, as hassometimes been seen in the past.
Rather they maybe making an effort to click on words they felt theydid not know well.Dictionary TranslationAllwordsFocuswordsAllwordsFocuswordsFall?11 5.29 2.35 2.31 0.64Spring?12 1.78 0.84 8.15 2.35Table 1.
Use of dictionary and translation (4 focuswords/reading in Fall?11, 3 focus words/reading inSpring?12).
Average is per student and per reading.We then examined the accuracy of the stu-dents for just the words that they chose to translate.Table 2 shows that accuracy increases in post-reading tests and post-tests with respect to the pre-test for both studies.
But there is a drop in the post-test scores with respect to the post-reading tests inspring 2012.
Furthermore, there is an increase inresponse time in the post-test, which is more pro-nounced for spring 2012.
These are the first indica-tions of possible differences in studentperformance related to their patterns in the use oftranslations.Accuracy FluencyScores (mean and standard deviation) Responsetime (medianvalue)Pre-test Post-readingPost-test Pre-testPost-testFall?110.35?0.15 0.67?0.11 0.65?0.08 20sec.22sec.Spring?120.48?0.25 0.74?0.16 0.62?0.17 18sec.23.5sec.Table 2.
Accuracy and fluency results for translatedwords.To find whether the amount of translationactually affected this result, spring 2012 studentswere separated into 2 groups: the 13 students whoused the least number of translations overall andthe 13 students who used the most translations.Figure 2 shows the normalized gains in post-reading tests and post-tests over the pre-test forthese 2 groups.
Both groups present a similar gainin post-reading (approximately 0.35) and, whilethis gain was lower for groups on the post-test, thestudents who used translation the most had a largerloss.
Although not significant (p = 0.48), this dif-ference, which is approximately 0.07 in normalizedgain, indicates that these students are having moredifficulty transferring the knowledge they mayhave acquired in the longer term.
The low signifi-cance is mainly due to the relatively small numberof participants in the study.5 The simplification studyIn this study the setup, using REAP as theplatform, was similar to the translation study.
Thestudents could click right for translations or left forsimplifications and could type a word in a box atthe bottom of the screen for definitions.
Transla-tions and simplifications could be for one or sev-24eral words at a time.
The number of questions onfocus words (24 words this time), over the pretest,post-reading test and the post-test remained thesame.
There were 20 students in this study.
Therewere 11 speakers of Arabic, 3 of Japanese, 2 eachof Korean and Chinese and one each of Spanishand Serbo-Croatian.FIGURE 2.
Gains in post-reading and post-test de-pending on the amount of translation usedAgain, the translations were carried outautomatically as described above, with a humanverification pass.
The simplifications were createdby one of the authors by replacing less frequentwords with appropriate more frequent ones (Leroyand Endicott, 2011) and splitting complex sen-tences into shorter ones.
An example of a simplifi-cation:for: ?
They began immigrating in large numbers in the1960s for economic reasons and now make up a third ofthe population?but there are also Africans, West Indi-ans, Pakistanis, Indians, Turks, Chinese, and EasternEuropeans.
?the simplified form was: ?They began immigrating inlarge numbers in the 1960s for economic reasons.
Thesepeople now make up a third of the population.
There arealso Africans, West Indians, Pakistanis, Indians, Turks,Chinese, and Eastern Europeans.
?Overall, they requested 218 simplifications, 82translations and 79 dictionary lookups.
This wassurprising to us.
Given the large number of transla-tion requests in the past two studies, we were pre-pared to see overwhelmingly more clicks fortranslations than for simplifications.
This result isimportant in deciding what aids can be given tonon-native readers.
While we thought that a readerwould prefer an aid that involved translation, thisresult shows an acceptance of the L2 aid.
Non-natives probably realize the educational value ofthe L2 tool and voluntarily choose to use it.Only 14 (17%) of the translations con-tained focus words while 102 (47%) of the simpli-fications did.
Given the small number of focusword translations, results cannot be significant.REAP significantly helps students to learn focuswords in general ( p<0 .05 ).
Post-reading testsshow lower accuracy than the post-test.
The t-testshows that the difference here is not statisticallysignificant ( p= 0 .
2 6 ).To control for the quality of the study, wecompared overall learning gains from this studywith that of the two translation studies above onTable 3 and found them to be similarNormalized GainPre-test to Post-readingPre-test to post-testFall?12 0.10 ?
0.24 0.17 ?
0.28Fall?11 0.31 ?
0.33 0.31 ?
0.28Spring?12 0.35 ?
0.28 0.22 ?
0.21Table 3.
Learning Outcome: Gains (gain + deviation)Figure 3 shows the number of requests forsimplification and translation for each of the sixdocuments in the study compared to their readabil-ity level (Heilman 2008).
We note that the hardestdocument (#6) was not the one for which the mostaid was requested.
This could simply be due to thedecreasing number of requests for aid over time.Figure 3: Readability vs number of translations andsimplifications25To control for any outlier document, wealso looked at whether any one of the six docu-ments required more translation than simplifica-tion.
Figure 3 also shows that the trend to requestmore simplification held true for all of the docu-ments.
We note that this can only be called a trenddue to the significant standard deviation which, inturn, is due to the low number of participants.
Thefirst document was where the requests for the twowere almost equal.
This could be due to the stu-dents trying out both possibilities to see what theyliked or to the fact that over a short time they real-ized the greater value of the L2 aid.Table 4 shows the normalized gains forfocus words that were translated or simplified.
Thelow number of translation requests lead to resultsthat are not significant.
We note that for simplifica-tion there is a trend implying learning gains at boththe post-reading test and, in long term retention,for the post-test.Normalized gainAid pre-test to post-readingpre-test to post-testNo.itemsTranslation -0.07 ?
0.15 0.22 ?
0.13 14Simplification 0.27 ?
0.17 0.28 ?
0.18 98Table 4: Normalized Gain (average and standarddeviation) for focus words that were translated orsimplified and number of clicks on focus wordsNormalized GainPre-test to post-readingPre-test to post-testno.
ofquestionsFocus wordsnot translated0.06?0.26 0.17?0.30 946Focus wordsnot simplified0.06?0.26 0.18?0.31 862Table 5: Normalized Gain (average and standarddeviation) for focus words that were not translatedor simplified and number of questionsIn the case of non-translated and non-simplifiedfocus words, although there was also some roomfor improvement (and at first, it would seem thatthe learning gains are larger), there are some vari-ables that have not been taken into account here.One is that a subject could have often requesteddefinitions.
Some subjects may benefit more fromthe use of the definitions than from other types ofhelp.
We will test this hypothesis in the future,when we have more data, to see if the benefitsfrom each type of help are greater for some sub-jects than for others.
While we are not convincedthat this is the cause for the differences we seehere, we do believe that hearing the words whenworking through the documents may be a factor.Since the students only have the written form ofthe word at pre-test time, they may know the wordto hear it, but not by sight.
In past years in our useof REAP in the classroom, we have noticed manystudents suddenly recognizing a word after hearingit (from clicking on the synthesis option).
Againdue to lack of sufficient data, we cannot explorethis further for this dataset, but plan to look at thisand any other possible variables in the near future.6 Conclusions and further directionsWe have argued that exploring the learningresults of non-natives when using various aids forlearning vocabulary through context may guide ourchoices of reading aids for this population.We have specifically explored the use oftranslation and of simplification.
Both simplifica-tion and translation are voluntarily used by stu-dents and when both are available, students tend toprefer simplification.
This should make the use ofsimplified documents in real life reading situationsvery acceptable to non-natives.The overuse of translation contributes to adecline in long term retention of new vocabularywhile the use of simplification appears to aid inretention.
This could mean that reading any simpli-fied document may benefit the ever-learning non-native when encountering future documents.In REAP, we collect documents from theInternet and characterize them by reading level.We also characterize them by topic (sports, health,etc).
While we choose these documents to keep upthe students?
interest, they in no way represent thereal challenges of dealing with a rental agreement,a bank loan document, etc.
While REAP does in-still fundamentals of vocabulary understanding, itdoes not have the student apply this knowledge tothe situations that are encountered in the realworld.
This is an essential need that can be fulfilledby members of the NLP community working to-gether to create a database of real life challengingdocuments that can be annotated and used as a ba-sis of comparison of research results.
These docu-ments should also be annotated for readability, etc.Such a realistic database can then serve the com-26munity as a whole as it develops novel and robustsimplification tools.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work is supported through the Re-finement and Fluency Thrust of the Pittsburgh Sci-ence of Learning Center which is funded by the USNational Science Foundation under grant numberSBE-0836012.
Any opinions, findings, and conclu-sions or recommendations expressed in this mate-rial are those of the authors and do not necessarilyreflect the views of the NSF.
Oscar Saz was sup-ported with a Fulbright/MEX fellowship.ReferencesAlusio, S., Specia, L., Gasperin, C., Scarton, C., 2010,Readability Assessment for Text Simplification, ProcNAACL HLT Fifth Workshop on Innovative Use ofNLP for  Building Educational Applications, p. 1-9.Bach, N., Gao, Q.,Vogel, S., Waibel A., 2011, TriS: AStatistical Sentence Simplifier with Log-linear Mod-els and Margin-based Discriminative Training  InProceedings of the 5th International Joint Conferenceon Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP 2011),Chiang Mai, Thailand.Brown, J., Eskenazi, M., 2005, Student, text and cur-riculum modeling for reader-specific document re-trieval, In Hamza, M.-H.
(Ed.)
Proceedings of theIASTED International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (pp.
44-47).
Anaheim, CA:Acta Press.Burstein, J., Shore, J., Sabatini, J., Lee, Y., Ventura, M.,2007, The automated text adaptation tool, in Demoproceedings of NAACL-HLT, Rochester.Cepstral Text-to-Speech, 2000, Retrieved Sep. 8, 2012,from http://www.cepstral.com/.Chandrasekar, R. and Srinivas, B., 1997, Automaticinduction of rules for text simplification.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 10(3):183--190.Coxhead, A., 2000, A New Academic Word List.TESOL Quarterly, 34(2), pp.
213-238.doi:10.2307/3587951Crossley, S. A., Louwerse, M. M., McCarthy, P. M., &McNamara, D. S., 2007, A linguistic analysis of sim-plified and authentic texts.
The Modern LanguageJournal, 91(1), 15-30.Dela Rosa, K., Eskenazi, M., 2011, Impact of WordSense Disambiguation on Ordering Dictionary Defi-nitions in Vocabulary Learning Tutors, Proceedingsof the 24th International FLAIRS Conference.Dela Rosa, K., Parent, G.,Eskenazi, M., 2010, Multimo-dal learning of words: A study on the use of speechsynthesis to reinforce written text in L2 languagelearning, Proceedings of the ISCA Workshop onSpeech and Language Technology in Education(SLaTE 2010).Geer, P., 2011, GRE Verbal Workbook.
Hauppauge,NY: Barron?s Educational Series.Grace, C. A., 1998, Retention of Word Meanings In-ferred from Context and Sentence-Level Transla-tions: Implications for the Design of Beginning-Level CALL Software.
The Modern Language Jour-nal, 82, 533?544.
doi: 10.1111/j.1540-4781.1998.tb05541.xHake, R., 1998, Interactive-engagement versus tradi-tional methods: a six-thousand- student survey ofmechanics test data for introductory physics courses.American Journal of Physics, 66, 64 ?
74.Heilman, M., Collins-Thompson, K., Callan, J. and Es-kenazi, M., 2006, Classroom success of an IntelligentTutoring System for lexical practice and readingcomprehension.
Proceedings of the Ninth Interna-tional Conference on Spoken Language Processing(pp.
829-832).
Pittsburgh, PA.Heilman, M., Zhao, L., Pino, J., and Eskenazi, M., 2008,In Tetreault, T., Burstein, J.  and  De Felice, R.
(Ed.
)Retrieval of Reading Materials for Vocabulary andReading Practice.
Proceedings of the 3rd Workshopon Innovative Use of NLP for Building EducationalApplications (pp.80-88), Columbus, OH: Associationfor Computational Linguistics.doi:10.3115/1631836.1631846Inui, K., A. Fujita, T. Takahashi, R. Iida and T. Iwakura,2003, Text simplification for reading assistance: aproject note, Proceedings of the second internationalworkshop on paraphrasing-volume 16, pages 9--16.Association for Computational Linguistics.Jiang, N., 2000, Lexical representation and developmentin a second language.
Applied Linguistics, 21(1), 47-77. doi: 10.1093/applin/21.1.47Juffs, A., Wilson, L., Eskenazi, M., Callan, J., Brown,J., Collins-Thompson, K., Heilman, M., Pelletreau,T.
and Sanders, J., 2006, Robust learning of vocabu-lary: investigating the relationship between learnerbehaviour and the acquisition of vocabulary.
Paperpresented at the 40th Annual TESOL Convention andExhibit (TESOL 2006), Tampa Bay, FL.Koehn, P., 2010, Statistical machine translation.
Cam-bridge University Press.Kroll, J. F. and Sunderman, G., 2003, Cognitive Proc-esses in Second Language Learners and Bilinguals:27The Development of Lexical and Conceptual Repre-sentations.
In C.J.
Doughty and M. H. Long (Ed.
),The Handbook of Second Language Acquisition.
Ox-ford, UK: Blackwell Publishing Ltd,.
doi:10.1002/9780470756492.ch5Leroy, G., Endicott, J.E., 2011, Term familiarity to indi-cate perceived and actual difficulty of text in medicaldigital libraries (ICADL 2011), Beijing.Lin, Y., Saz, O., Eskenazi, M. (in review) Measuringthe impact of translation on the accuracy and fluencyof vocabulary acquisition of EnglishMedero, J., Ostendorf, M.,  2011, Identifying Targetsfor Syntactic Simplification," Proc.
ISCA SLaTEITRW Workshop.Oh, S-Y, 2008, Two types of input modification andEFL reading comprehension: simplification versuselaboration, TQD 2008, vol.35-1.Perfetti, C.C., 2010, Decoding, vocabulary and compre-hension: the golden triangle of reading skill, in M.G.McKeown and L. Kucan (Eds), Bringing reading re-searchers to life: essays in honor of Isabel Beck, pp.291-303, New York: Guilford.Petersen, S., Ostendorf, 2007, Text simplification forlanguage learners: a corpus analysis, Proc ISCASLaTE2007, Farmington PAPrince, P., 1996, Second Language Vocabulary Learn-ing: The Role of Context versus Translations as aFunction of Proficiency.
Modern Language Journal,80(4), 478-493. doi:10.2307/329727Taylor, W.L., 1953, Cloze procedure: a new tool formeasuring readability, Journalism Quarterly, vol.30,pp.
415-433.Walter, E., 2005, Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dic-tionary, 2nd Edition.
Cambridge, UK: CambridgeUniversityYano, Y., Long, M. H., & Ross, S., 1994, The effects ofsimplified and elaborated texts on foreign languagereading comprehension, Language Learning, 44(2),189-219.Yatskar, M., Pang, B., Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, C.,Lee, L., 2010, For the sake of simplicity : unsuper-vised extraction of lexical simplifications fromWikipedia, Proc.
NAACL 2010, p. 365-368.28
