Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation, pages 1?6,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsWorkshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation:Overview and DevelopmentsMarta R. Costa-jussa`, Rafael E. BanchsInstitute for Infocomm Research1Patrik LambertBarcelona Media3Kurt EberleLingenio GmbH4Reinhard RappAix-Marseille Universite?, LIF2Bogdan BabychUniversity of Leeds51{vismrc,rembanchs}@i2r.a-star.edu.sg, 2reinhardrapp@gmx.de,3patrik.lambert@barcelonamedia.org, 4k.eberle@lingenio.de,5b.babych@leeds.ac.ukAbstractA current increasing trend in machinetranslation is to combine data-driven andrule-based techniques.
Such combinationstypically involve the hybridization of dif-ferent paradigms such as, for instance,the introduction of linguistic knowledgeinto statistical paradigms, the incorpora-tion of data-driven components into rule-based paradigms, or the pre- and post-processing of either sort of translation sys-tem outputs.
Aiming at bringing togetherresearchers and practitioners from the dif-ferent multidisciplinary areas working inthese directions, as well as at creating abrainstorming and discussion venue forHybrid Translation approaches, the Hy-Tra initiative was born.
This paper givesan overview of the Second Workshop onHybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra2013) concerning its motivation, contentsand outcomes.1 IntroductionMachine translation (MT) has continuously beenevolving from different perspectives.
Early sys-tems were basically dictionary-based.
These ap-proaches were further developed to more complexsystems based on analysis, transfer and genera-tion.
The objective was to climb up (and down)in the well-known Vauquois pyramid (see Figure1) to facilitate the transfer phase or to even mini-mize the transfer by using an interlingua system.But then, corpus-based approaches irrupted, gen-erating a turning point in the field by putting asidethe analysis, generation and transfer phases.Although there had been such a tendency rightfrom the beginning (Wilks, 1994), in the lastFigure 1: Vauquois pyramid (image fromWikipedia).years, the corpus-based approaches have reacheda point where many researchers assume that rely-ing exclusively on data might have serious limi-tations.
Therefore, research has focused either onsyntactical/hierarchical-based methods or on try-ing to augment the popular phrase-based systemsby incorporating linguistic knowledge.
In addi-tion, and given the fact that research on rule-basedhas never stopped, there have been several propos-als of hybrid architectures combining both rule-based and data-driven approaches.In summary, there is currently a clear trend to-wards hybridization, with researchers adding mor-phological, syntactic and semantic knowledge tostatistical systems, as well as combining data-driven methods with existing rule-based systems.In this paper we provide a general overviewof current approaches to hybrid MT within thecontext of the Second Workshop on Hybrid Ap-proaches to Translation (HyTra 2013).
In ouroverview, we classify hybrid MT approaches ac-cording to the linguistic levels that they address.We then briefly summarize the contributions pre-sented and collected in this volume.1The paper is organized as follows.
First, we mo-tivate and summarize the main aspects of the Hy-Tra initiative.
Then, we present a general overviewof the accepted papers and discuss them withinthe context of other state-of-the-art research in thearea.
Finally, we present our conclusions and dis-cuss our proposed view of future directions forHybrid MT research.2 Overview of the HyTra InitiativeThe HyTra initiative started in response to the in-creasing interest in hybrid approaches to machinetranslation, which is reflected on the substantialamount of work conducted on this topic.
An-other important motivation was the observationthat, up to now, no single paradigm has been ableto successfully solve to a satisfactory extent all ofthe many challenges that the problem of machinetranslation poses.The first HyTra workshop took part in conjunc-tion with the EACL 2012 conference (Costa-jussa`et al 2012).
The Second HyTra Workshop, whichwas co-organized by the authors of this paper, hasbeen co-located with the ACL 2013 conference(Costa-jussa` et al 2013).
The workshop has beensupported by an extensive programme committeecomprising members from over 30 organizationsand representing more than 20 countries.
As theoutcome of a comprehensive peer reviewing pro-cess, and based on the recommendations of theprogramme committee, 15 papers were finally se-lected for either oral or poster presentation at theworkshop.The workshop also had the privilege to be hon-ored by two exceptional keynote speeches:?
Controlled Ascent: Imbuing Statistical MTwith Linguistic Knowledge by Will Lewis andChris Quirk (2013), Microsoft research.
Theintersection of rule-based and statistical ap-proaches in MT is explored, with a particularfocus on past and current work done at Mi-crosoft Research.
One of their motivationsfor a hybrid approach is the observation thatthe times are over when huge improvementsin translation quality were possible by sim-ply adding more data to statistical systems.The reason is that most of the readily avail-able parallel data has already been found.?
How much hybridity do we have?
by Her-mann Ney, RWTH Aachen.
It is pointedout that after about 25 years the statisticalapproach to MT has been widely acceptedas an alternative to the classical approachwith manually designed rules.
But in prac-tice most statistical MT systems make useof manually designed rules at least for pre-processing in order to improve MT quality.This is exemplified by looking at the RWTHMT systems.3 Hybrid Approaches Organized byLinguistic Levels?Hybridization?
of MT can be understood as com-bination of several MT systems (possibly of verydifferent architecture) where the single systemstranslate in parallel and compete for the best re-sult (which is chosen by the integrating meta sys-tem).
The workshop and the papers do not fo-cus on this ?coarse-grained?
hybridization (Eiseleet al 2008), but on a more ?fine grained?
onewhere the systems mix information from differ-ent levels of linguistic representations (see Fig-ure 2).
In the past and mostly in the frameworkof rule-based machine translation (RBMT) it hasbeen experimented with information from nearlyevery level including phonetics and phonologyfor speech recognition and synthesis in speech-to-speech systems (Wahlster, 2000) and includ-ing pragmatics for dialog translation (Batliner etal., 2000a; Batliner et al 2000b) and text coher-ence phenomena (Le Nagard and Koehn, 2010).With respect to work with emphasis on statisti-cal machine translation (SMT) and derivations ofit mainly those information levels have been usedthat address text in the sense of sets of sentences.As most of the workshop papers relate to thisperspective - i.e.
on hybridization which is de-fined using SMT as backbone, in this introduc-tion we can do with distinguishing between ap-proaches focused on morphology, syntax, and se-mantics.
There are of course approaches whichdeal with more than one of these levels in an in-tegrated manner, which are commonly refered toas multilevel approaches.
As the case of treat-ing syntax and morphology concurrently is espe-cially common, we also consider morpho-syntaxas a separate multilevel approach.3.1 Morphological approachesThe main approaches of statistical MT that ex-ploit morphology can be classified into segmen-tation, generation, and enriching approaches.
The2Figure 2: Major linguistic levels (image fromWikipedia).first one attempts to minimize the vocabulary ofhighly inflected languages in order to symmetrizethe (lexical granularity of the) source and the tar-get language.
The second one assumes that, dueto data sparseness, not all morphological formscan be learned from parallel corpora and, there-fore, proposes techniques to learn new morpho-logical forms.
The last one tries to enrich poorlyinflected languages to compensate for their lack ofmorphology.
In HyTra 2013, approaches treatingmorphology were addressed by the following con-tributions:?
Toral (2013) explores the selection of data totrain domain-specific language models (LM)from non-domain specific corpora by meansof simplified morphology forms (such aslemmas).
The benefit of this technique istested using automatic metrics in the English-to-Spanish task.
Results show an improve-ment of up to 8.17% of perplexity reductionover the baseline system.?
Rios Gonzalez and Goehring (2013) proposemachine learning techniques to decide on thecorrect form of a verb depending on the con-text.
Basically they use tree-banks to train theclassifiers.
Results show that they are ableto disambiguate up to 89% of the Quechuaverbs.3.2 Syntactic approachesSyntax had been addressed originally in SMT inthe form of so called phrase-based SMT with-out any reference to linguistic structures; duringthe last decade (or more) the approach evolvedto or, respectively, was complemented by - workon syntax-based models in the linguistic sense ofthe word.
Most such approaches can be classi-fied into three different types of architecture thatare defined by the type of syntactic analysis usedfor the source language and the type of generationaimed at for the target language: tree-to-tree, tree-to-string and string-to-tree.
Additionally, thereare also the so called hierarchical systems, whichcombine the phrase-based and syntax-based ap-proaches by using phrases as translation-units andautomatically generated context free grammars asrules.
Approaches dealing with the syntactic ap-proach in HyTra 2013 include the following pa-pers:?
Green and Zabokrtsky?
(2013) study three dif-ferent ways to ensemble parsing techniquesand provide results in MT.
They compute cor-relations between parsing quality and transla-tion quality, showing that NIST is more cor-related than BLEU.?
Han et al(2013) provide a framework forpre-reordering to make Chinese word ordermore similar to Japanese.
To this purpose,they use unlabelled dependency structures ofsentences and POS tags to identify verbalblocks and move them from after-the-objectpositions (SVO) to before-the-object posi-tions (SOV).?
Nath Patel et al(2013) also propose a pre-reordering technique, which uses a limitedset of rules based on parse-tree modificationrules and manual revision.
The set of rules isspecifically listed in detail.?
Saers et al(2013) report an unsupervisedlearning model that induces phrasal ITGs bybreaking rules into smaller ones using mini-mum description length.
The resulting trans-lation model provides a basis for generaliza-tion to more abstract transduction grammarswith informative non-terminals.3.3 Morphosyntactical approachesIn linguistic theories, morphology and syntax areoften considered and represented simultaneously(not only in unification-based approaches) and thesame is true for MT systems.3?
Laki et al(2013) combine pre-reorderingrules with morphological and factored mod-els for English-to-Turkish.?
Li et al(2013) propose pre-reordering rulesto be used for alignment-based reordering,and corresponding POS-based restructuringof the input.
Basically, they focus on tak-ing advantage of the fact that Korean hascompound words, which - for the purpose ofalignment - are split and reordered similarlyto Chinese.?
Turki Khemakhem et al(2013) presentwork about an English-Arabic SMT sys-tem that uses morphological decompositionand morpho-syntactic annotation of the targetlanguage and incorporates the correspond-ing information in a statistical feature model.Essentially, the statistical feature languagemodel replaces words by feature arrays.3.4 Semantic approachesThe introduction of semantics in statistical MT hasbeen approached to solve word sense disambigua-tion challenges covering the area of lexical seman-tics and, more recently, there have been differenttechniques using semantic roles covering shallowsemantics, as well as the use of distributional se-mantics for improving translation unit selection.Approaches treating the incorporation of seman-tics into MT in HyTra 2013 include the followingresearch work:?
Rudnick et al(2013) present a combina-tion of Maximum Entropy Markov Modelsand HMM to perform lexical selection inthe sense of cross-lingual word sense disam-biguation (i.e.
by choice from the set of trans-lation alternatives).
The system is meant tobe integrated into a RBMT system.?
Boujelbane (2013) proposes to build a bilin-gual lexicon for the Tunisian dialect us-ing modern standard Arabic (MSA).
Themethodology is based on leveraging the largeavailable annotated MSA resources by ex-ploiting MSA-dialect similarities and ad-dressing the known differences.
The authorstudies morphological, syntactic and lexicaldifferences by exploiting Penn Arabic Tree-bank, and uses the differences to developrules and to build dialectal concepts.?
Bouillon et al(2013) presents two method-ologies to correct homophone confusions.The first one is based on hand-coded rulesand the second one is based on weightedgraphs derived from a pronunciation re-source.3.5 Other multilevel approachesIn a number of linguistic theories informationfrom the morphological, syntactic and semanticlevel is considered conjointly and merged in cor-responding representations (a RBMT example isLFG (Lexical Functional Grammars) analysis andthe corresponding XLE translation architecture).In HyTra 2013 there are three approaches dealingwith multilevel information:?
Pal et al(2013) propose a combination ofaligners: GIZA++, Berkeley and rule-basedfor English-Bengali.?
Hsieh et al(2013) use comparable corporaextracted from Wikipedia to extract parallelfragments for the purpose of extending anEnglish-Bengali training corpus.?
Tambouratzis et al(2013) describe a hybridMT architecture that uses very few bilingualcorpus and a large monolingual one.
Thelinguistic information is extracted usingpattern recognition techniques.Table 1 summarizes the papers that have beenpresented in the Second HyTra Workshop.
Thepapers are arranged into the table according to thelinguistic level they address.4 Conclusions and further workThe success of the Second HyTra Workshop con-firms that research in hybrid approaches to MTsystems is a very active and promising area.
TheMT community seems to agree that pure data-driven or rule-based paradigms have strong lim-itations and that hybrid systems are a promisingdirection to overcome most of these limitations.Considerable progress has been made in this arearecently, as demonstrated by consistent improve-ments for different language pairs and translationtasks.The research community is working hard, withstrong collaborations and with more resources athand than ever before.
However, it is not clear4Morphological (Toral, 2013) Hybrid Selection of LM Training Data Using Linguistic Information and Perplexity(Gonzales and Goehring, 2013) Machine Learning disambiguation of Quechua verb morphologySyntax (Green and Zabokrtsky?, 2013) Improvements to SBMT using Ensemble Dependency Parser(Han et al 2013) Using unlabeled dependency parsing for pre-reordering for Chinese-to-Japanese SMT(Patel et al 2013) Reordering rules for English-Hindi SMT(Saers et al 2013) Unsupervised transduction grammar induction via MDLMorpho-syntactic (Laki et al 2013) English to Hungarian morpheme-based SMT system with reordering rules(Li et al 2013) Experiments with POS-based restructuring and alignment based reordering for SMT(Khemakhem et al 2013) Integrating morpho-syntactic feature for English Arabic SMTSemantic (Rudnick and Gasser, 2013) Lexical Selection for Hybrid MT with Sequence Labeling(Boujelbane et al 2013) Building bilingual lexicon to create dialect Tunisian corpora and adapt LM(Bouillon et al 2013) Two approaches to correcting homophone confusions in a hybrid SMT based systemMultilevels (Pal et al 2013) A hybrid Word alignment model for PBSMT(Hsieh et al 2013) Uses of monolingual in-domain corpora for cross-domain adaptation with hybrid MT approaches(Tambouratzis et al 2013) Overview of a language-independent hybrid MT methodologyTable 1: HyTra 2013 paper overview.whether technological breakthroughs as in the pastare still possible are still possible, or if MT will beturning into a research field with only incremen-tal advances.
The question is: have we reachedthe point at which only refinements to existing ap-proaches are needed?
Or, on the contrary, do weneed a new turning point?Our guess is that, similar to the inflection pointgiving rise to the statistical MT approach duringthe last decade of the twentieth century, once againthere might occur a new discovery which will rev-olutionize further the research on MT.
We cannotknow whether hybrid approaches will be involved;but, in any case, this seems to be a good and smartdirection as it is open to the full spectrum of ideasand, thus, it should help to push the field forward.AcknowledgmentsThis workshop has been supported by the Sev-enth Framework Program of the European Com-mission through the Marie Curie actions HyghTra,IMTraP, AutoWordNet and CrossLingMind andthe Spanish ?Ministerio de Econom?
?a y Competi-tividad?
and the European Regional DevelopmentFund through SpeechTech4all.
We would like tothank the funding institution and all people whocontributed towards making the workshop a suc-cess.
For a more comprehensive list of acknowl-edgments refer to the preface of this volume.ReferencesAnton Batliner, J. Buckow, Heinrich Niemann, ElmarNo?th, and Volker Warnke, 2000a.
The ProsodyModule, pages 106?121.
New York, Berlin.Anton Batliner, Richard Huber, Heinrich Niemann, El-mar No?th, Jo?rg Spilker, and K. Fischer, 2000b.
TheRecognition of Emotion, pages 122?130.
New York,Berlin.Pierrette Bouillon, Johanna Gerlach, Ulrich Germann,Barry Haddow, and Manny Rayner.
2013.
Two ap-proaches to correcting homophone confusions in ahybrid machine translation system.
In ACL Work-shop on Hybrid Machine Approaches to Translation,Sofia.Rahma Boujelbane, Mariem Ellouze khemekhem, Si-war BenAyed, and Lamia HadrichBelguith.
2013.Building bilingual lexicon to create dialect tunisiancorpora and adapt language model.
In ACL Work-shop on Hybrid Machine Approaches to Translation,Sofia.Marta R. Costa-jussa`, Patrik Lambert, Rafael E.Banchs, Reinhard Rapp, and Bogdan Babych, edi-tors.
2012.
Proceedings of the Joint Workshop onExploiting Synergies between Information Retrievaland Machine Translation (ESIRMT) and Hybrid Ap-proaches to Machine Translation (HyTra).
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, Avignon,France, April.Marta R. Costa-jussa`, Patrik Lambert, Rafael E.Banchs, Reinhard Rapp, Bogdan Babych, and KurlEberle, editors.
2013.
Proceedings of the Sec-ond Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation(HyTra).
Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.Andreas Eisele, Christian Federmann, Hans Uszkoreit,Herve?
Saint-Amand, Martin Kay, Michael Jelling-haus, Sabine Hunsicker, Teresa Herrmann, andYu Chen.
2008.
Hybrid machine translation archi-tectures within and beyond the euromatrix project.In John Hutchins and Walther v.Hahn, editors, 12thannual conference of the European Association forMachine Translation (EAMT), pages 27?34, Ham-burg, Germany.Annette Rios Gonzales and Anne Goehring.
2013.Machine learning disambiguation of quechua verbmorphology.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid MachineApproaches to Translation, Sofia.Nathan Green and Zdenek Zabokrtsky?.
2013.
Im-provements to syntax-based machine translation us-ing ensemble dependency parsers.
In ACL Work-shop on Hybrid Machine Approaches to Translation,Sofia.5Dan Han, Pascual Martinez-Gomez, Yusuke Miyao,Katsuhito Sudoh, and Masaaki NAGATA.
2013.Using unlabeled dependency parsing for pre-reordering for chinese-to-japanese statistical ma-chine translation.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid Ma-chine Approaches to Translation, Sofia.An-Chang Hsieh, Hen-Hsen Huang, and Hsin-HsiChen.
2013.
Uses of monolingual in-domain cor-pora for cross-domain adaptation with hybrid mt ap-proaches.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid Machine Ap-proaches to Translation, Sofia.Ines Turki Khemakhem, Salma Jamoussi, and Abdel-majid Ben Hamadou.
2013.
Integrating morpho-syntactic feature in english-arabic statistical ma-chine translation.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid Ma-chine Approaches to Translation, Sofia.La?szlo?
Laki, Attila Novak, and Borba?la Siklo?si.
2013.English to hungarian morpheme-based statisticalmachine translation system with reordering rules.
InACL Workshop on Hybrid Machine Approaches toTranslation, Sofia.Ronan Le Nagard and Philipp Koehn.
2010.
Aidingpronoun translation with co-reference resolution.
InProceedings of the Joint Fifth Workshop on Statisti-cal Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, pages252?261, Uppsala, Sweden, July.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Will Lewis and Chris Quirk.
2013.
Controlled ascent:Imbuing statistical mt with linguistic knowledge.
InACL Workshop on Hybrid Machine Approaches toTranslation, Sofia.Shuo Li, Derek F. Wong, and Lidia S. Chao.2013.
Experiments with pos-based restructuring andalignment-based reordering for statistical machinetranslation.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid MachineApproaches to Translation, Sofia.Santanu Pal, Sudip Naskar, and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.2013.
A hybrid word alignment model for phrase-based statistical machine translation.
In ACL Work-shop on Hybrid Machine Approaches to Translation,Sofia.Raj Nath Patel, Rohit Gupta, Prakash B. Pimpale, andSasikumar M. 2013.
Reordering rules for english-hindi smt.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid MachineApproaches to Translation, Sofia.Alex Rudnick and Michael Gasser.
2013.
Lexical se-lection for hybrid mt with sequence labeling.
In ACLWorkshop on Hybrid Machine Approaches to Trans-lation, Sofia.Markus Saers, Karteek Addanki, and Dekai Wu.
2013.Unsupervised transduction grammar induction viaminimum description length.
In ACL Workshop onHybrid Machine Approaches to Translation, Sofia.George Tambouratzis, Sokratis Sofianopoulos, andMarina Vassiliou.
2013.
Language-independent hy-brid mt with presemt.
In ACL Workshop on HybridMachine Approaches to Translation, Sofia.Antonio Toral.
2013.
Hybrid selection of languagemodel training data using linguistic information andperplexity.
In ACL Workshop on Hybrid MachineApproaches to Translation, Sofia.Wolfgang Wahlster, editor.
2000.
Verbmobil: Foun-dations of Speech-to-Speech Translation.
Springer,Berlin, Heidelberg, New York.Yorick Wilks.
1994.
Stone soup and the frenchroom: The empiricist-rationalist debate about ma-chine translation.
Current Issues in ComputationalLinguistics: in honor of Don Walker, pages 585?594.
Pisa, Italy: Giardini / Dordrecht, The Nether-lands: Kluwer Academic.6
