Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 17?22,Atlanta, Georgia, June 14, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsTradition and Modernity in 20th Century Chinese PoetryRob VoigtCenter for East Asian StudiesStanford Universityrobvoigt@stanford.eduDan JurafskyLinguistics DepartmentStanford Universityjurafsky@stanford.eduAbstractScholars of Chinese literature note thatChina?s tumultuous literary history in the20th century centered around the uncomfort-able tensions between tradition and modernity.In this corpus study, we develop and auto-matically extract three features to show thatthe classical character of Chinese poetry de-creased across the century.
We also find thatTaiwan poets constitute a surprising excep-tion to the trend, demonstrating an unusuallystrong connection to classical diction in theirwork as late as the ?50s and ?60s.1 IntroductionFor virtually all of Chinese history through the fallof the Qing Dynasty, poetry was largely written inClassical Chinese and accessible to a small, edu-cated fraction of the population.
With the rise of theMay Fourth Movement in 1919, prominent intellec-tuals such as Hu Shi and Lu Xun began to advocatefor and produce a fresh vernacular literature.This upheaval of tradition has been much dis-cussed in literary studies; Michelle Yeh calls ver-nacular poetry ?a self-proclaimed iconoclast strug-gling against a formidable predecessor: the heritageof three millennia of classical poetry?
(Yeh, 1991).While some propose that the May Fourth intel-lectuals ?abolished the classical language and all ofits literary genres?
(Hockx and Smits, 2003), othersmake more measured claims: Mao Chen, for exam-ple, maintains that ?a special relationship to tradi-tion informs all phases of cultural activity during theMay Fourth period?
(Chen, 1997).Julia Lin notes that the period following the MayFourth Movement through 1937 saw ?the most ex-citing and diverse experimentation in the history ofmodern Chinese poetry?
(Lin, 1973).
Much of thisexperimentation was concerned with the questionof modernity versus tradition, wherein some poets?adapt[ed] the reality of the modern spoken lan-guage to what they felt was the essence of the oldclassical Chinese forms?
(Haft, 1989).The founding of the People?s Republic of Chinain 1949 was a second major turning point in thecentury, when ?the Communists in one cataclysmicsweep [...] ruthlessly altered the course of the arts?and poetry ?became totally subservient to the dic-tates of the party?
(Lin, 1973).
With the ?physi-cal removal of the old cultural leadership,?
many ofwhom fled to Taiwan, this period saw a substantial?vacuum in literature and the arts?
(McDougall andLouie, 1997).Post-Mao, publication restrictions gradually loos-ened and earlier cultural journals re-entered circu-lation.
Poetry began to reclaim its audience, and aChinese avant-garde associated with the ?Misty Po-ets?
developed (McDougall and Louie, 1997).However, we lack broad-scale empirical evidenceof the linguistic features that constituted the shiftfrom tradition to modernity.
Therefore, we proposea study that asks: To what extent were classical po-etic forms and classical language immediately dis-carded with the advent of vernacular poetry?
Whatis the status of classical language after 1949 andamidst the Maoist era, when we might expect its to-tal absence?
Does more contemporary poetry stilldraw connections to classical language?172 Prior Work on Chinese Poetry in NLPThe majority of existing studies in NLP on Chinesepoetry deal exclusively with the classical language.Jiang and Zhou (2008) explore the problem ofclassical Chinese poetic couplets, and to develop asystem to generate them automatically using tech-niques from machine translation.Fang et al(2009) use an ontology of imagery de-veloped by Lo (2008) to identify imagery in classicalChinese poems, and develop a parser that is able toextract tree structures that identify complex imagis-tic language in the same.More recent work develops useful resources forunderstanding classical poetry.
Lee (2012) developsa corpus of classical Chinese poems that are word-segmented and annotated with nested part-of-speechtags that allow for different interpretations of ?word-hood?
- a non-trivial concept in considering Chinesetexts classical and modern.
Lee and Kong (2012)introduce a large-scale dependency treebank anno-tated on a corpus of 8th-century poems.To our knowledge, there is no existing computa-tional work that attempts to understand the develop-ment of modern Chinese poetry over time.3 Data CollectionFor this project, we use a corpus of modern po-ems collected on the site ?Chinese Poetry Treasury?(????
?, www.shigeku.com) entitled the ?Se-lected Database of Chinese Modern Poetry?
(???????????).
It is important to note thatthe poems in this collection were hand-selected bythe group running the site for their canonicity, so ourdata are biased towards those poems that have, in asense, ?stood the test of time?
in the eyes of a main-land Chinese readership.This corpus is distributed through their site as acollection of html documents, one page per poet,which include brief biographical information for thepoet and a collection of their works.
We use unixcommand-line tools (sed, tr, iconv, grep) and basicpython scripting to process these documents into ausable corpus with each poem as a separate, cleanfile, segmented character-by-character.
11Scripts and further information are available here:http://nlp.stanford.edu/robvoigt/chpoetry/The site categorizes poets by their ?most active?decade, from the 1920s through the 1990s, and weextract this metadata to allow for comparisons overtime.
In our analysis, however, a methodological im-pediment arose: namely, the Cultural Revolution.As discussed in the introduction, this tumultuousperiod severely disrupted the developmental path ofmodern Chinese literature.
Indeed, we find in ourcorpus that almost none of the poets tagged as activein the ?50s and ?60s were mainland Chinese, but in-stead Taiwanese poets who fled to the island at theclimax of the Chinese Civil War.For this reason, combined with the potential nois-iness induced by the fact that decade tags are per-poet instead of per-poem, we manually identify Tai-wan poets and divide our corpus into three subsetsfor analysis: ?early modern?
poetry in the 1920s and?30s; ?late modern?
poetry in the ?40s interrupted bythe Maoist era but resuming in the late ?70s, ?80s,and ?90s; and ?Taiwan?
poetry by Taiwan nativesand transplanted mainlanders in Taiwan post-1949.After pre-processing, our full corpus for analysis(denoted Eval in Table 1) contains 3,611 poems by305 poets, with a total of 1,128,428 Chinese charac-ters.
This size is large enough for meaningful com-putational results, but small enough to allow for sig-nificant qualitative analysis.We will later define metrics for evaluating the?classicality?
of individual characters and radicals,so we process auxiliary corpora (denoted Aux in Ta-ble 1) of classical poetry and contemporary prose.For classical Chinese, we use a large corpus, fromthe same source (www.shigeku.com), of poems fromthe Tang Dynasty (618-907 AD), often consideredthe greatest classical era for Chinese poetry.
Formodern Chinese, we use a subset of a machine trans-lation bi-text, comprised primarily of contemporarynewswire, legal, and other prose texts.2Since we aim to discover the overall ?classicality?of association for individual characters, our auxil-iary corpora are cross-genre to exaggerate the ef-fects ?
a high ?classicality?
score will indicate botha period-specific classicality and a classical poeticgenre association.2From the BOLT Phase 1 Evaluation training data; seehttp://www.nist.gov/itl/iad/mig/bolt p1.cfm18Table 1: Corpus inventory.Poems Chars VocabEval Early 351 89,226 3,299Taiwan 513 126,369 3,878Late 2,747 912,833 4,852Aux Classical 2,712,685 6,263Modern 9,405,549 5,5174 MethodologySpeak in the language of the time in which you live.?
Hu Shi, 1917As suggested in the introduction, modern poetryis distinguished linguistically from classical poetryin its explicit shift to the use of vernacular language.Classical poetry is formalized, concise, and imagis-tic.
We propose three features to operationalize thisclassicality and computationally observe the shift toa poetic vernacular across the 20th century.Final Rhyme Classical Chinese poetry in generalhas a highly regular structure, following strict metri-cal and rhyming conventions, and most prominentlyemploys a highly consistent end-rhyme.
We use theCJKLIB python library3 to obtain the pronunciationfor the last character in each line of each poem.
Thepronunciation of a given Chinese character may bedivided into precisely one consonant (known as an?initial?)
and one vowel (known as a ?final?
).We therefore qualify a given line as ?rhyming?
ifthe last character of any line within a 3-line windowshares its vowel final pronunciation, and for eachpoem calculate the proportion of rhyming lines.Character-based Probability Ratio Inspired bythe work of Underwood and Sellers (2012) in track-ing shifts in literary diction in English poetry, we useour auxiliary corpora of Tang Dynasty poems andmodern Chinese language text to create two simplemetrics for understanding the ?classicality?
of poeticdiction.The extreme concision of classical poetry ?fo-cuses attention on the characters themselves?
(Hin-ton, 2010), with common classical forms containingas few as ten or twenty characters.
To analyze clas-sical diction, for each character we aim to get a ratiodescribing how classical it sounds.3http://code.google.com/p/cjklib/For this metric, we calculate the probability ofeach character occurring in its respective corpus us-ing add-one smoothing.
We then define the scorefor a given character as the difference of the char-acter?s log likelihood of occurring in the classicalauxiliary corpus with its log likelihood of occur-ring in the modern auxiliary corpus.
Scores rangefrom -8 to +8, where a higher score indicates a more?classically?-tinged character.We find these scores match up well with intu-ition.
In the highly negative range, we find recently-invented, conversational, and grammatical charac-ters unique to the modern vernacular.
In the highlypositive range, we find rareified literary, poeticcharacters.
In the range surrounding 0.0, we findmany common, persistent characters whose mean-ings have changed little over time.
Selected exam-ples of these scores can be seen in Table 2.Table 2: Example classicality scores for selected charac-ters on the Character-based Probability Ratio metric.Character Meaning ScoreHIGHLY CLASSICAL?
yu To meet; to encounter 7.94?
qin A thin quilt used to cover 6.42a corpse in a coffin?
xiao A type of bamboo flute 5.99?
liu Willow 4.68SIMILAR ACROSS PERIODS?
ting Listen; hear 0.64?
qu?
To go; towards 0.61?
zhi Directly -0.11?
shou To receive; to harvest -0.53HIGHLY MODERN?
ni Second-person pronoun -4.49?
gou Sufficient; enough -6.02?
ne Sentence-final particle -6.67?
ta Third-person female pronoun -7.82We calculate a score for a given poem on this met-ric by simply taking the average of the character-based probability ratio for each character in thepoem.
These results are denoted Char in Table 4.Radical-based Probability Ratio This metric isfundamentally similar to the above character-basedmethod, but offers the potential to provide a differentkind of insight.
The majority of Chinese charactersare compositional, with a semantic component and aphonetic component.19We start from the intuition that contemporarytexts will be more likely to use characters that con-tain the ?
(kou, ?mouth?)
radical as their seman-tic component, because this radical is commonlyfound in modern conversational particles that werenot used in ancient texts.
We generalize this hypoth-esis and consider that the use of characters with cer-tain semantic radicals is correlated with the classi-cality of a text.We again use the CJKLIB python library to pro-cess our auxiliary corpora, extracting the seman-tic component radical from each character and cal-culating the ratio of its probability of occurrence,with add-one smoothing, in the auxiliary classicaland modern corpora.
As above, we obtain the ratioscores for each radical, and score each poem in ourcorpus by averaging these scores for each characterin the poem.While these scores are less immediately acces-sible to intuition than those of the character-basedmetric, the radical-based scores, with examples seenin Table 3, demonstrate a consistency that parallelsthe character-based scores.The semantic radicals most prevalent in classicalpoetry include those signifying bird, horse, valley,mountain, ghost, dragon, and so on; classical po-etry has a pastoral and mythological aesthetic thatis directly reflected in the distribution of its radi-cals.
Conversely, modern prose is more likely to usesemantic radicals related to work, family, money,speech, and movement; they convey the practical re-alism of contemporary conversational speech.Table 3: Example classicality scores for selected seman-tic radicals on the Radical-based Probability Ratio metric.Radical Meaning ScoreHIGHLY CLASSICAL?
gui Ghost 2.18?
shan Mountain 2.09?
chong Insect 1.43SIMILAR ACROSS PERIODS?
nu?
Female 0.01?
wen Culture; language -0.02?
sheng Life; birth -0.01HIGHLY MODERN?
shou Hand -0.48?
yan Words; speech -0.61?
li Force; work -0.944.1 Diachronic Statistical AnalysisWe began from the hypothesis that each of the met-rics described above will demonstrate, broadly, thatthe classical nature of Chinese poetry decreased overthe course of the 20th century.
The raw statisticalcounts for our features can been seen in Table 4.Table 4: Raw feature statistics across sub-corpora.Higher values in the AVG rows indicate a greater ?classi-cality.?
For all three features, classicality decreased overthe century, with the exception of Taiwan.Early Taiwan LateRhyme AVG 0.281 0.244 0.226STDDEV 0.193 0.169 0.152Char AVG -0.695 -0.620 -0.882STDDEV 0.494 0.446 0.404Radical AVG -0.072 -0.081 -0.116STDDEV 0.121 0.105 0.097We calculate the presence of the ?classical?
fea-tures defined above for each subset, and computea binary logistic regression with the scikit-learnpython library (Pedregosa et al 2011)4 to find cor-relation coefficients for those features between the?early modern?
and ?late modern?
subsets.5 Results and DiscussionSeveral claims from the literary community are well-supported by our results.Logistic regression reveals a significant down-ward trend for our features as we shift from ?earlymodern?
to ?late modern?
poetry (R2 = 0.89), in-dicating decreased use of end-rhyme, increased useof modern characters, and increased prevalence ofmodern semantic radicals over the course of the cen-tury.Though the early works use more classical char-acters on the whole, we also observe a higher statisti-cal variance for all metrics in the ?20s and ?30s, sup-porting the literary hypothesis that the May Fourthperiod was one of increased experimentation thatlater settled into a somewhat more consistent moder-nity.We find, however, less support for the idea thatChinese modern poets ?abolished the classical lan-guage?
in their work (Hockx and Smits, 2003).4http://scikit-learn.org20Throughout the century we find repeated instancesof highly classical language, with individual poemsreaching a maximum character-based probability ra-tio of 0.70 in the ?early?
works, 0.76 in the ?late?works, and 0.87 in the ?Taiwan?
works; comparethese with an average score of 1.20 for the auxiliaryclassical dataset overall.
Considering that a score of0.0 would indicate an equal distribution of weightbetween ?classical?
and ?modern?
characters, it?sclear that these 20th-century poems still contain asubstantial proportion of characters drawn from theclassical language.Poems from Taiwan in the ?50s and ?60s offerperhaps the most interesting results in this study.It?s notable in the first place that poets in our cor-pus selected as worth remembering by contempo-rary mainland Chinese from the most authoritarianperiod of Communist control are almost exclusivelyfrom Taiwanese authors.
Furthermore, the dip to-wards modernity we see in ?40s mainland poetry wasrejected in the next decade by those mainland poetswho found themselves in Taiwan after 1949; the Tai-wan poems bear far greater resemblance to the earlysubset of our data than to the late.This finding parallels work on this period from lit-erary scholars.
Yvonne Chang writes that in ?50sand ?60s Taiwan, valorization of traditional Chi-nese culture and romanticization of the early 20th-century Nationalist period in mainland China washeavily encouraged.
In particular, the concept of ?????
(chun wenxue, ?pure literature?)
gained pop-ularity in Taiwan?s literary circles, and with it camea resurgence of more traditional diction and forms(Chang, 1993).Fangming Chen further describes poetry in post-war Taiwan as a political outlet for the Kuomintang,the sole ruling party of Taiwan at the time, as they?forcefully brought Chinese nationalism?
to the is-land.
Poets who demonstrated a deep ?nostalgia?
forthe ?motherland?
of mainland China were far morelikely to be rewarded with cultural resources such asgrants and publication money, being that the govern-ment had a vested interest in keeping the public onboard with plans to ?reclaim the homeland?
(Chen,2007).
It is fascinating, then, that we observe thistendency computationally with a return to the levelsof classicality seen in ?20s and ?30s mainland China.In spite of these encouraging results, this work hasseveral limitations.
Our reliance on decade-based la-bels applied to poets, rather than poems, introducessignificant noise.
The outlier behavior observed inTaiwan poets is indicative of the need for a betterunderstanding of regional differences, and a com-parison with a similarly isolated Sinophone regionsuch as Hong Kong would be productive in this re-gard.
In both cases, information extraction tech-niques might allow us to tag poems with their date ofpublication and poets with their hometown, facilitat-ing fine-grained analysis, as would a broader datasetthat goes beyond the modern canon.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we computationally operationalizedthree features that successfully track the declininginfluence of classical poetic style and language in20th-century Chinese poetry.
We identified Taiwanpoets as an outlier in the dataset, and found empiri-cal evidence for the political externalities of the ?50sand ?60s that called for a return to a nostalgic clas-sicism.
In this way, this work presents a promisingfirst step to a thorough empirical understanding ofthe development of modern Chinese poetry.AcknowledgmentsThanks to three anonymous reviewers for detailedand insightful comments.
This research was sup-ported in part by the Foreign Language and AreaStudies Fellowships, United States Department ofEducation.ReferencesSung-sheng Yvonne Chang.
1993.
Modernism and theNativist Resistance.
Duke University Press: Durhamand London.Fangming Chen.
2007.
Postmodern or Postcolonial?
AnInquiry into Postwar Taiwanese Literary History.
InWriting Taiwan, David Der-wei Wang and Carlos Ro-jas, eds.
Duke University Press, Durham and London.Mao Chen.
1997.
Between Tradition and Change.
Uni-versity Press of America, Lanham, MA.Alex Chengyu Fang, Fengju Lo, and Cheuk Kit Chinn.2009.
Adapting NLP and Corpus Analysis Techniquesto Structured Imagery Analysis in Classical ChinesePoetry.
In Workshop Adaptation of Language Re-sources and Technology to New Domains, Borovets,Bulgaria.21Lloyd Haft.
1989.
A Selective Guide to Chinese Litera-ture: 1900-1949.
E.J.
Brill, New York.David Hinton, ed.
2010.
Classical Chinese Poetry: AnAnthology.
Farrar, Straus, and Giroux.Michel Hockx and Ivo Smits, eds.
2003.
Reading EastAsian Writing: The Limits of Literary Theory.
Rout-ledgeCurzon, London and New York.Long Jiang and Ming Zhou.
2008.
Generating ChineseCouplets using a Statistical MT Approach.
In COL-ING.John Lee.
2012.
A Classical Chinese Corpus withNested Part-of-Speech Tags.
In Proceedings of the 6thEACLWorkshop on Language Technology for CulturalHeritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, Avignon,France.John Lee and Yin Hei Kong.
2012.
A Dependency Tree-bank of Classical Chinese Poems.
In NAACL-HLT,Montreal, Canada.Julia Lin.
1973.
Modern Chinese Poetry: An Introduc-tion.
University of Washington Press, Seattle, WA.Fengju Lo.
2008.
The Research of Building a SemanticCetegory System Based on the Language Characteris-tic of Chinese Poetry.
In Proceedings of the 9th Cross-Strait Symposium on Library Information Science.Lu Zhiwei.
1984.
Five Lectures on Chinese Poetry.
JointPublishing Co., Hong Kong.Bonnie McDougall and Kam Louie, eds.
1997.
The Lit-erature of China in the Twentieth Century.
Hurst andCompany, London.Fabian Pedregosa, Gae?l Varoquaux, Alexandre Gram-fort, Vincent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier Grisel,Mathieu Blondel, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vin-cent Dubourg, Jake Vanderplas, Alexandre Passos,David Cournapeau, Matthieu Brucher, Matthieu Per-rot, and E?douard Duchesnay.
2011.
Scikit-learn: Ma-chine Learning in Python.
Journal of Machine Learn-ing Research.
12:2825-2830Ted Underwood and Jordan Sellers.
2012.The Emergence of Literary Diction.
TheJournal of Digital Humanities, 1(2).http://journalofdigitalhumanities.org/1-2/the-emergence-of-literary-diction-by-ted-underwood-and-jordan-sellers/Michelle Yeh.
1991.
Modern Chinese Poetry: Theoryand Practice since 1917.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, CT.22
