Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 92?93,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsNatural Language Generation and Summarization at RALIGuy LapalmeRALI - DIROUniversite?
de Montre?alC.P.
6128, Succ.
Centre-VilleMontre?al, Que?bec, Canada, H3C 3J7lapalme@iro.umontreal.caProcessing language in written or spoken form,in a mother tongue or in another language is a verycomplex and important problem.
Hence the ideaof building automatic or semi-automatic tools tosupport people during their attempt to understandwhat they read or to translate a given message intoan adequate linguistic form.
Since the eighties,I have worked with my students on many NLPprojects, this talk focusses on some of them, pastand present, dealing with generation and summa-rization.We have always thrived to produce working sys-tems that deal with real texts or use data to pro-duce texts that can be easily understood by hu-mans.
This fundamental motivation imposes somechallenging constraints but also produces interest-ing payoffs.
Given the fact that our lab is in Frenchspeaking university in a mostly English speakingcountry, we have often worked in either of theselanguages and often in both.1 GenerationPRE?TEXTE (Gagnon and Lapalme, 1996) was asystem for generating French texts conveying tem-poral information.
Temporal information and lo-calization expressed by temporal adverbial andverbal phrases was represented with DRT.
Sys-temic Grammar Theory was used to translate theDRT representation into a syntactic form to pro-duce the final text.SPIN (Kosseim and Lapalme, 2000) deals witha fundamental problem in natural language gener-ation: how to organize the content of a text in acoherent and natural way.
From a corpus analy-sis of French instructional texts, we determined 9senses typically communicated in these texts and7 rhetorical relations used to present them.
Wethen developed presentation heuristics to deter-mine how the senses should be organized rhetor-ically to create a coherent and natural text.POSTGRAPHE (Fasciano and Lapalme, 2000)generated a report integrating graphics and textfrom a set of writer?s intentions.
The system wasgiven data in tabular form and a declaration of thetypes of values in the columns of the table.
Alsoindicated were intentions to be conveyed in thegraphics (e.g., compare two variables or show theevolution of a set of variables) and the system gen-erated a report in LATEX.
PostGraphe also gener-ated the accompanying text to help the reader fo-cus on the important points of the graphics.SIMPLENLG-EN-FR (Vaudry and Lapalme,2013) is a bilingual adaptation of the English real-izer SimpleNLG.
Its French grammatical coverageis equivalent to the English one and covers the es-sential notions that are taught to learners of Frenchas a second language as defined by Le franc?aisfondamental (1er Degre?).
The French lexicon con-tains a commonly used French vocabulary, includ-ing function words.
JSREAL is a work in progressdescribing a French text realizer in Javascript thatcan be easily embedded in a web browser.
Its mainoriginality is the fact that it produces DOM ele-ments and not text strings so that they can easilyproduce parts of web pages from JSON inputs sentby the server for example.In a project of interactive generation, we de-velop a cognitively inspired methodology to as-sist people during the production process, asthe route between input and output can be fullof hurdles and quite long.
For each step, wewant to develop web based applications that ad-dress a specific problem and help induce somepattern reaction in the production of language.For the moment we have produced two proto-types: DRILLTUTOR (Zock and Lapalme, 2010)which is goal-oriented multilingual phrasebookand WEBREG (Zock et al 2012) to practice thegeneration of appropriate referring expressions.922 SummarizationSummarization is in principle strongly related toNLG because it implies reading and understand-ing one or many documents in order to produce ashort text describing the main ideas of the original.Summarization approaches are often classified aseither abstractive or extractive, the former beingthe selection of the most important sentences fromthe original documents.In much the same way as NLG has sufferedfrom the fact that it is often possible to trick thereaders with canned text or formatted templates,abstractive summarization had to compete with ac-ceptable results produced by scorers of sentences,the ones with the best scores being then concate-nated to produce a summary.
In our group, wetried to stay away from such approaches that in ourview did not give any new insights even though itdid not always allow us to win the summarizationcompetitions at DUC or TAC.SUMUM (Saggion and Lapalme, 2002) ex-plored the idea of dynamic summarization by tak-ing a raw technical text as input and produced anindicative-informative summary.
The indicativepart of the summary identifies the topics of thedocument, and the informative part elaborates onsome of these topics according to the reader?s in-terest.
SumUM motivates the topics, describes en-tities, and defines concepts.
This is accomplishedthrough a process of shallow syntactic and seman-tic analysis, concept identification, and text regen-eration.LETSUM (Farzindar and Lapalme, 2004) de-veloped an approach for the summarization of le-gal documents by helping a legal expert determinethe key ideas of a judgment.
It is based on theexploration of the document?s architecture and itsthematic structures in order to build a table stylesummary for improving coherency and readabilityof the text.
Although LetSUM extracted full sen-tences from the original document, it reorganized,merged and displayed different parts in order tobetter give an idea of the document and focus thereader, a legal expert, to the important parts.ABSUM (Genest and Lapalme, 2013) intro-duces a flexible and scalable methodology for ab-stractive summarization that analyzes the sourcedocuments using a knowledge base to identify pat-terns in the the source documents and generatesummary text from them.
This knowledge-basedapproach allows for implicit understanding andtransformation of the source documents?
contentbecause it is carefully crafted for the summariza-tion task and domain of interest.3 ConclusionThese examples illustrate some links that we haveestablished between generation and summariza-tion over the last few years and that are promisingfor the future of these two research areas.ReferencesAtefeh Farzindar and Guy Lapalme.
2004.
Legal textssummarization by exploration of the thematic struc-tures and argumentative roles.
In Stan SzpakowiczMarie-Francine Moens, editor, Text SummarizationBranches Out: Proceedings of the ACL-04 Work-shop, pages 27?34, Barcelona, Spain, July.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.M.
Fasciano and G. Lapalme.
2000.
Intentions inthe coordinated generation of graphics and text fromtabular data.
Knowledge and Information Systems,2(3):310?339, Aug.M.
Gagnon and G. Lapalme.
1996.
From conceptualtime to linguistic time.
Computational Linguistics,22(1):91?127, March.Pierre-Etienne Genest and Guy Lapalme.
2013.
Ab-sum: a knowledge-based abstractive summarizer.Computational Linguistics, page 30 pages, July.
Inpreparation.L.
Kosseim and G. Lapalme.
2000.
Choosing rhetor-ical structures to plan instructional texts.
Computa-tional Intelligence, 16(3):408?445, Aug.Horacio Saggion and Guy Lapalme.
2002.
Generatinginformative and indicative summaries with SumUM.Computational Linguistics, 28(4):497?526, Dec.Pierre-Luc Vaudry and Guy Lapalme.
2013.
Adapt-ing SimpleNLG for bilingual English-French real-isation.
In 14th European Conference on NaturalLanguage Generation, Sofia, Bulgaria, Aug. Thisvolume.Michael Zock and Guy Lapalme.
2010.
A generic toolfor creating and using multilingual phrasebooks.
InBernadette Sharp and Michael Zock eds., editors,Proceedings of NLPCS 2010 (Natural LanguageProcessing and Cognitive Science), pages 79?89,Funchal, Madeira - Portugal, Jun.Michael Zock, Guy Lapalme, and Mehdi Yousfi-Monod.
2012.
Learn to speak like normal peopledo: the case of object descriptions.
In 9th Interna-tional Workshop on Natural Language Processingand Cognitive Science (NLPCS 2012), pages 120?129, Wraclow, jun.93
