Proceedings of the 2013 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2013), pages 89?97,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploring word class n-grams to measurelanguage development in childrenGabriela Ram?
?rez de la Rosa and Thamar SolorioUniversity of Alabama at BirminghamBirmingham, AL 35294, USAgabyrr,solorio@cis.uab.eduManuel Montes-y-Go?mezINAOESta.
Maria Tonantzintla, Puebla, Mexicommontesg@ccc.inaoep.mxYang LiuThe University of Texas at DallasRichardson, TX 75080, USAyangl@hlt.utdallas.eduAquiles IglesiasTemple UniversityPhiladelphia, PA 19140, USAiglesias@temple.eduLisa Bedore and Elizabeth Pen?aThe University of Texas at AustinAustin, TX 78712, USAlbedore,lizp@mail.utexas.eduAbstractWe present a set of new measures designedto reveal latent information of languageuse in children at the lexico-syntacticlevel.
We used these metrics to analyzelinguistic patterns in spontaneous narra-tives from children developing typicallyand children identified as having a lan-guage impairment.
We observed signif-icant differences in the z-scores of bothpopulations for most of the metrics.
Thesefindings suggest we can use these metricsto aid in the task of language assessmentin children.1 IntroductionThe analysis of spontaneous language samples isan important task across a variety of fields.
For in-stance, in language assessment this task can helpto extract information regarding language profi-ciency (e.g.
is the child typically developing orlanguage impaired).
In second language acqui-sition, language samples can help determine ifa child?s proficiency is similar to that of nativespeakers.In recent years, we have started seeing a grow-ing interest in the exploration of NLP techniquesfor the analysis of language samples in the clinicalsetting.
For example, Sahakian and Snyder (2012)propose a set of linguistic measures for age pre-diction in children that combines three traditionalmeasures from language assessment with a set offive data-driven measures from language samplesof 7 children.
A common theme in this emerg-ing line of research is the study of the syntax inthose language samples.
For instance, to annotatedata to be used in the study of language develop-ment (Sagae et al 2005), or to build models tomap utterances to their meaning, similar to whatchildren do during the language acquisition stage(Kwiatkowski et al 2012).
In addition, languagesamples are also used for neurological assessment,as for example in (Roark et al 2007; Roark etal., 2011) where they explored features such asYngve and Frazier scores, together with featuresderived from automated parse trees to model syn-tactic complexity and surprisal.
Similar featuresare used in the classification of language samplesto discriminate between children developing typ-ically and children suffering from autism or lan-guage impairment (Prud?hommeaux et al 2011).In a similar line of research, machine learning andfeatures inspired by NLP have been explored forthe prediction of language status in bilingual chil-dren (Gabani et al 2009; Solorio et al 2011).More recent work has looked at the feasibility ofscoring coherence in story narratives (Hassanali etal., 2012a) and also on the inclusion of coherence89as an additional feature to boost prediction accu-racy of language status (Hassanali et al 2012b).The contribution of our work consists on newmetrics based on n-grams of Part of Speech (POS)tags for assessing language development in chil-dren that combine information at the lexical andsyntactic levels.
These metrics are designed tocapture the lexical variability of specific syntac-tic constructions and thus could help to describethe level of language maturity in children.
For in-stance, given two lists of examples of the use ofdeterminer + noun: ?the dog, the frog, the tree?and ?this dog, a frog, these trees?
we want to beable to say that the second one has more lexicalvariability than the first one for that grammaticalpattern.Our approach to compute these new metricsdoes not require any special treatment on the tran-scripts or special purpose parsers beyond a POStagger.
On the contrary, we provide a set of mea-sures that in addition to being easy to interpret bypractitioners, are also easy to compute.2 Background and MotivationTo establish language proficiency, clinical re-searchers and practitioners rely on a variety ofmeasures, such as number of different words,type-token ratio, distribution of part-of-speechtags, and mean length of sentences and words perminute (Lu, 2012; Yoon and Bhat, 2012; Chen andZechner, 2011; Yang, 2011; Miller et al 2006), toname a few.
Most of these metrics can be cate-gorized as low-level metrics since they only con-sider rates of different characteristics at the lexi-cal level.
These measures are helpful in the so-lution of several problems, for example, buildingautomatic scoring models to evaluate non-nativespeech (Chen and Zechner, 2011).
They can alsobe used as predictors of the rate of growth of En-glish acquisition in specific populations, for in-stance, in typically developing (TD) and languageimpaired (LI) bilingual children (Rojas and Igle-sias, 2012; Gutie?rrez-Clellen et al 2012).
Amongthe most widely used metrics are mean length ofutterance (MLU), a measure of syntactic complex-ity (Bedore et al 2010), and measures of lexi-cal productivity, such as the number of differentwords (NDW) and the child?s ratio of functionalwords to content words (F/C) (Sahakian and Sny-der, 2012).MLU, NDW, F/C and some other low-levelmeasures have demonstrated to be valuable in theassessment of language ability considering thatpractitioners often only need to focus on produc-tivity, diversity of vocabulary, and sentence or-ganization.
Although useful, these metrics onlyprovide superficial measures of the children?s lan-guage skills that fail to capture detailed lexico-syntactic information.
For example, in addition toknowing that a child is able to use specific verbforms in the right context, such as, third personsingular present tense or regular past tense, knowl-edge about what are the most common patternsused by a child, or how many different lexicalforms for noun + verb are present in the child?sspeech is needed because answering these ques-tions provides more detailed information about thestatus of grammatical development.
To fill in thisneed, we propose a set of measures that aim to cap-ture language proficiency as a function of lexicalvariability in syntactic patterns.
We analyze theinformation provided by our proposed metrics ona set of spontaneous story retells and evaluate em-pirically their potential use in language status pre-diction.3 Proposed measuresTo present the different metrics we propose in thisstudy we begin with the definition of the followingconcepts:A syntactic pattern p is an n-gram of part-of-speech tags denoted as p = ?t1 t2 ...
tn?, whereti indicates the part-of-speech tag correspondingto the word at position i.
For simplicity we usetpi to indicate the tag at position i from pattern p.Two examples of syntactic patterns of length twoare ?DT NN?
and ?DT JJ?
1.A lexical form f is an n-gram of words.
It is de-fined as f = ?w1 w2 ...
wn?, where wi is the wordat position i.
Similarly to the previous definition,we use wfi to indicate the word at position i in alexical form f .A lexical form f corresponds to a syntacticpattern p if and only if |f | is equal to |p| and?ktag(wfk ) = tpk, where tag() is a function that re-turns the part-of-speech of its argument.
The set oflexical forms in a given transcript corresponding toa syntactic pattern p is denoted by LF p. Two ex-amples of lexical forms from the syntactic pattern?DT NN?
are ?the cat?
and ?the frog?.1We use the Penn Treebank POS tagset90DT the (62), a (17), all (8), no(2), that (1)NN frog (16), boy(7), dog (6), boat (4), name (3), place (2), house (2), water (2), rabbit (2), noise (2), stick (1), tree(1), bye(1), floor (1), um (1), baby (1), forest (1), room (1), foot (1), rock (1), squirrel (1), back (1), rabb (1),card (1), one (1), present (1), dress (1), box (1), family (1)VBD saw (7), dropped (4), said (4), started (4), looked (3), kicked (3), called (3), found (2), took (2), got (2), jumped(2), heard (2), thought (1), turned (1), fell (1), waked (1), stood (1), wa (1), touched (1), told (1), scared (1), tur(1), haded (1), opened (1), shh (1)DT NN the frog (3), the dog (2), the place (2), the water (2), the boat (2), a noise (2), the forest (1), the rock (1), a tree(1), a present (1), a um (1), the card (1), the box (1), the rabb (1), the floor (1), the back (1), no one (1)DT VBD all started (2), all heard (1)Table 1: Example of 5 syntactic patterns with their lists of lexical forms and the number of repetitionsof each of them.
This information corresponds to an excerpt of an example transcript.
DT is the part-of-speech tag for determiner, NN for noun, and VBD for verb in past tense.The bag-of-words associated to a syntactic pat-tern p is denoted as W p. This set is composedof all the words from the lexical forms that corre-spond to the syntactic pattern p. It is formally de-fined as follows: W p = {w|w ?
f, f ?
LF p}.For example, the bag-of-words of the syntacticpattern ?DT NN?
with lexical forms ?the cat?
and?the frog?
is {the, cat, frog}.Table 1 shows five syntactic patterns of a tran-script?s fragment.
For each syntactic pattern in thetranscript we show the list of its lexical forms andtheir frequency.
We will use this example in thedescription of the measures in the following sub-sections.3.1 Number of different lexical forms(NDLF)Analogous to the number of different words(NDW), where words in the transcript are consid-ered atomic units, we propose a metric where theatomic units are lexical forms.
Then, we measurethe number of different lexical forms used for eachsyntactic pattern in the transcript.
Formally, givena syntactic pattern p and its set of lexical formsLF p, the number of different lexical forms is com-puted as follows:NDLF(p) = |LF p| (1)This measure gives information about the num-ber of different ways the child can combine wordsin order to construct a fragment of a speech thatcorresponds to a specific grammatical pattern.
Re-search in language assessment has shown thatwhen children are in the early acquisition stagesof certain grammatical constructions they will usethe patterns as ?fixed expressions?.
As childrenmaster these constructions they are able to usethese grammatical devices in different contexts,but also with different surface forms.
Thereby, wecould use this measure to discriminate the syntac-tic patterns the child has better command of fromthose that might still be problematic and used in-frequently or with a limited combination of sur-face forms.
For example, from the informationon Table 1 we see that NDLF(DT NN) = 17, andNDLF(DT VBD) = 2.
This seems to indicate thatthe child has a better command of the grammaticalconstruction determiner + noun (DT NN) and canthus produce more different lexical forms of thispattern than determiner + verb (DT + VBD).
Butalso, we may use this measure to identify rare pat-terns, that are unlikely to be found in a typicallydeveloping population.3.2 Lexical forms distribution (LFdist)Following the idea of lexical forms as atomicunits, NDLF allows to know the different lexicalforms present in the transcripts.
But we do notknow the distribution of use of each lexical formfor a specific syntactic pattern.
In other words,NDLF tells us the different surface forms observedfor each syntactic pattern, but it does not measurethe frequency of use of each of these lexical forms,nor whether each of these forms are used at similarrates.
We propose to use LFdist to provide infor-mation about the distribution of use for LF p, theset of lexical forms observed for the syntactic pat-tern p. We believe that uniform distributions canbe indicative of syntactic structures that the childhas mastered, while uneven distributions can re-veal structures that the child has only memorized(i.e.
the child uses a fixed and small set of lex-ical forms).
To measure this distribution we usethe entropy of each syntactic pattern.
In particu-lar, given a syntactic pattern p and its set of lexicalforms LF p, the lexical form distribution is com-puted as follows:91LFdist(p) = ?
?fi?LF pprob(fi) log prob(fi)(2)whereprob(fi) =count(fi)?fk?LF p count(fk)(3)and count() is a function that returns the fre-quency of its argument.
Larger values of LFdistindicate a greater difficulty in the prediction ofthe lexical form that is being used under a spe-cific grammatical pattern.
For instance, in the ex-ample of Table 1, LFdist(DT VBD) = 0.91 andLFdist(DT NN) = 3.97.
This indicates that thedistribution in the use of lexical forms for deter-miner + noun is more uniform than the use oflexical forms for determiner + verb, which im-plies that for determiner + verb there are somelexical forms that are more frequently used thanothers2.
Syntactic patterns with small values ofLFdist could flag grammatical constructions thechild does not feel comfortable manipulating andthus might still be in the acquisition stage of lan-guage learning.3.3 Lexical variation (LEX)Until now we are considering lexical forms asatomic units.
This could lead to overestimatingthe real lexical richness in the sample, in particu-lar for syntactic patterns of length greater than 1.To illustrate this consider the syntactic pattern p =?DT NN?
and suppose we have the following setof lexical forms for p = {?the frog?, ?a frog?, ?adog?, ?the dog?}.
The value for NDLF (p) = 4.But how many of these eight words are in fact dif-ferent?
That is the type of distinction we want tomake with the next proposed measure: LEX, thatis also an adaptation of type-token ratio (Lu, 2012)used in the area of communication disorders butcomputed over each grammatical pattern.
For thisexample, we want to be able to find that the lex-ical variation of ?DT NN?
is 0.5 (because thereare only four different words out of eight).
For-mally, given a syntactic pattern p, its set of lexicalforms LF p, and the bag-of-words W p, the lexicalvariation is defined as shown in Equation 4.2We recognize that this is an oversimplification of the en-tropy measure since the number of outcomes will most likelybe different for each syntactic pattern.LEX(p) =|W p||LF p| ?
n(4)Note that |LF p| = NDLF(p), and n is thelength of the syntactic pattern p. In Table 1 the lex-ical variation of the pattern ?determiner + noun?
(DT+NN) is equal to 0.58 ( 2017?2 ), and for deter-miner + verb (DT+VBD) is equal to 0.75 ( 32?2 ).That means 58% of total words used under the pat-tern ?DT+NN?
are different, in comparison withthe 75% for ?DT+VBD?.
In general, the closer thevalue of LEX is to 1, there is less overlap betweenthe words in the lexical forms for that pattern.Our hypothesis behind this measure is that for thesame syntactic pattern TD children may have lessoverlap of words than children with LI, e.g.
lessoverlap indicates the use of a more diverse set ofwords.3.4 Lexical use of syntactic knowledge(LexSyn)With LEX we hope to accomplish the character-ization of lexical richness of syntactic patternsassuming that each part-of-speech has a similarnumber of possible lexical forms.
We assume aswell that less overlap in the words used for thesame grammatical pattern represents a more devel-oped language than that with more overlap.
How-ever the definition of LEX overlooks a well knownfact about language: different word classes havea different range of possibilities as their lexicalforms.
Consider open class items, such as nounsand verbs, where the lexicon is large and keepsgrowing.
In contrast, closed class items, such asprepositions and determiners are fixed and have avery small number of lexical forms.
Therefore itseems unfair to assign equal weight to the overlapof words for these different classes.
To accountfor this phenomenon, we propose a new measurethat includes the information about the syntacticknowledge that the child shows for each part ofspeech.
That is, we weigh the level of overlapfor specific grammatical constructions accordingto the lexicon for the specific word classes in-volved.
Since we limit our analysis to the languagesample at hand, we define the ceiling of the lexi-cal richness of a specific word class to be the to-tal number of different surface forms found in thetranscript.
In particular, given a syntactic patternp = ?t1 t2 ...
tn?, with its set of lexical formsLF p, the lexical use of syntactic knowledge is de-fined as:92LexSyn(p) =1nn?i=1|wfi |f ?
LFp|NDLF(tpi )(5)where the numerator is the size of the set ofwords in the i-th position in all the lexical forms.Note that this measure does not make sense forsyntactic patterns of length < 2.
Instead, syn-tactic patterns of length 1 were used to identifythe syntactic knowledge of the child by using theNDLF of each POS in p. In the example of Ta-ble 1, LexSyn(DT NN) = 0.59.
This value corre-sponds to the sum of the number of different de-terminers used in position 1 for LF p divided bythe total number of different determiners that thischild produced in the sample (for this case, thenumber of determiners that this child produced isgiven by NDLF(DT), that is 5), plus the numberof different nouns used under this syntactic pat-tern over the total number of nouns produced bythe child (NDLF(NN)=29).
The complete calcula-tion of LexSyn(DT NN) = 12 ?
(35+1729) = 0.59.This contrasts with the value of LexSyn for the pat-tern ?determiner + verb?, LexSyn(DT VBD) =12 ?
(15 +225) = 0.14 that seems to indicate that thechild has more experience combining determinersand nouns than determiners and verbs.
Perhapsthis child has had limited exposure to other pat-terns combining determiner and verb, or this pat-tern is at a less mature stage in the linguistic reper-toire of the child.Children with LI tend to exhibit a less devel-oped command of syntax than their TD cohorts.Syntactic patterns with large values of LexSynshow a high versatility in the use of those syntacticpatterns.
However, since the syntactic reference istaken from the same child, this versatility is rela-tive only to what is observed in that single tran-script.
For instance, suppose that the total num-ber of different determiners observed in the child?stranscript is 1.
Then any time the child uses thatdeterminer in a syntactic pattern, the knowledge ofthis class, according to our metric, will be 100%,which is correct, but this might not be enough todetermine if the syntactic knowledge of the childfor this grammatical class corresponds to age ex-pectations for a typically developing child.
In or-der to improve the measurement of the lexical useof syntactic knowledge we propose the measureLexSynEx, that instead of using the informationof the same child to define the coverage of use fora specific word class, it uses the information ob-served for a held out set of transcripts from TDchildren.
This variation allows the option of mov-ing the point of reference to a specific cohort, ac-cording to what is needed.4 Data setThe data used in this research is part of an ongoingstudy of language impairment in Spanish-Englishspeaking children (Pen?a et al 2003).
From thisstudy we used a set of 175 children with a meanage of about 70 months.
Language status of thesechildren was determined via expert judgment bythree bilingual certified speech-language pathol-ogists.
At the end of the data collection period,the experts reviewed child records in both lan-guages including language samples, tests proto-cols, and parent and teacher questionnaire data.They made independent judgments about chil-dren?s lexical, morphosyntactic, and narrative per-formance in each language.
Finally, they made anoverall judgment about children?s language abil-ity using a 6 point scale (severely language im-paired to above normal impairment).
If at least twoexaminers rated children?s language ability withmild, moderate or severe impairment they were as-signed to the LI group.
Percent agreement amongthe three examiners was 90%.
As a result of thisprocess, 20 children were identified by the clinicalresearchers as having LI, while the remaining 155were identified as typically developing (TD).The transcripts were gathered following stan-dard procedures for collection of spontaneous lan-guage samples in the field of communication dis-orders.
Using a wordless picture book, the chil-dren were asked to narrate the story.
The twobooks used were ?A boy, a dog, and a frog?
(Mayer,1967) and ?Frog, where are you??
(Mayer, 1969).For each child in the sample, 4 transcripts of storynarratives were collected, 2 in each language.
Inthis study we use only the transcripts where En-glish was the target language.5 ProcedureThe purpose of the following analysis is to inves-tigate the different aspects in the child?s languagethat can be revealed by the proposed metrics.
Allour measures are based on POS tags.
We used theCharniak parser (Charniak, 2000) to generate thePOS tags of the transcripts.
For all the results re-ported here we removed the utterances from theinterrogators and use all utterances by the chil-93dren.
From the 155 TD instances, we randomly se-lected 20, that together with the 20 instances withLI form the test set.
The remaining 135 TD in-stances were used as the normative population, ourtraining set.After the POS tagging process, we extracted theset of syntactic patterns with length equal to 1, 2, 3and 4 that appear in at least 80% of the transcriptsin the training set.
The 80% threshold was chosenwith the goal of preserving the content that is mostlikely to represent the TD population.6 Analysis of the proposed measures andimplicationsFigure 1 shows 5 plots corresponding to each ofour proposed measures.
Each graph shows a com-parison between the average values of the TD andthe LI populations.
The x-axis in the graphs rep-resents all the syntactic patterns gathered from thetraining set that appeared on the test data, and they-axis represents the difference in the z-score val-ues of each measure from the test set.
The x-axisis sorted in descending order according to the z-score differences between values of TD and LI.The most relevant discovery is that NDFL,LFdist, LexSyn and LexSynEx show a wider gapin the z-scores between the TD and LI popula-tions for most of the syntactic patterns analyzed.This difference is easy to note visually as most ofthe TD patterns tend to have larger values, whilethe ones for children with LI have lower scores.Therefore, it seems our measures are indeed cap-turing relevant information that characterizes thelanguage of the TD population.Analyzing LEX from Figure 1, we see that mostof the LEX values are positive, for both TD andLI instances, and we cannot observe marked dif-ferences between them.
That might be a con-sequence of assuming all word classes can havean equivalent number of different lexical forms.Once we weigh each POS tag in the pattern by theword forms the child has used (as in LexSyn andLexSynEx), noticeable differences across the twogroups emerge.
When we include syntactic knowl-edge of a group of children (as in LexSynEx), thosesimilarities disappear.
This behavior highlights theneed for a combined lexico-syntactic measure thatcan describe latent information about language us-age in children.For building an intervention plan that helps toimprove child language skills, practitioners couldLFdistverb (3rd person singular present)verb (past tense) + personal pronounpersonal pronoun + auxiliary verb + adverbverb (gerund)NDLFthere + auxiliary verbpersonal pronoun + auxiliary verb + adverbadjective + nounverb (3rd person singular present)LexSynverb (past tense) + personal pronounpersonal pronoun + verb (past tense) + personal pronounpersonal pronoun + auxiliary verb + adverbthere + auxiliary verbLexSynExpersonal pronoun + auxiliary verb + adverbpersonal pronoun + verb (past tense) + personal pronounverb (past tense) + personal pronounthere + auxiliary verbTable 2: List of syntactic patterns with the biggestdifference between LI and TD in 4 measures:LFdist, NDLF, and LexSyn and LexSynEx.use the knowledge of specific grammatical con-structions that need to be emphasized ?those thatseem to be problematic for the LI group.
Thesestructures can be identified by pulling the syntac-tic patterns with the largest difference in z-scoresfrom the TD population.
Table 2 shows a list ofsyntactic patterns with small values for LI and thelargest differences between LI and TD instancesin the test set.
As the table indicates, most of thesyntactic patterns have length greater than 1.
Thisis not surprising since we aimed for developingmeasures of higher-order analysis that can com-plement the level of information provided by com-monly used metrics in language assessment (as inthe case of MLU, NDW or F/C).
The table alsoshows that while each measure identifies a differ-ent subset of syntactic patterns as relevant, somesyntactic patterns emerge in all the metrics.
Forinstance, personal pronoun + auxiliary verb + ad-verb and there + auxiliary verb.
This repetitionhighlights the importance of those grammaticalconstructions.
But the differences also show thatthe metrics complement each other.
In general,the syntactic patterns in the list represent complexgrammatical constructions where children with LIare showing a less advanced command of languageuse.Table 3 shows some statistics about the lexicalforms present under pronoun + verb (3rd personsingular present) + verb (gerund or present par-ticiple) (PP VBZ VBG) in all our data set.
The last94-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.811.2z-scoreSyntactic patternsDifference (TD-LI)(a) NDLF-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.811.2z-scoreSyntactic patternsDifference (TD-LI)(b) LFdist-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.811.2z-scoreSyntactic patternsDifference (TD-LI)(c) LEX-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.811.2z-scoreSyntactic patternsDifference (TD-LI)(d) LexSyn-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.811.2z-scoreSyntactic patternsDifference (TD-LI)(e) LexSynExFigure 1: Performance comparison of the proposed measures for the TD and LI groups.
Each data pointrepresents the difference in z-scores between the average values of the TD and LI instances in the testset.row in that table presents an example of the lexi-cal forms used by two children.
Note that for thechild with LI, there is only one lexical form: he istouching.
On the other hand, the TD child is usingthe grammatical pattern with six different surfaceforms.
Clinical practitioners can take this infor-mation and design language tasks that emphasizethe use of ?PP VBZ VBG?
constructions.6.1 Analysis of correlations among measuresTo analyze the level of overlap between our mea-sures we computed correlation coefficients amongthem.
The results are shown in Table 4.The results from the correlation analysis are notthat surprising.
They show that closely relatedmeasures are highly to moderately correlated.
Forinstance, LEX and eLEX have a correlation ofTD LInumber of PP 6 5number of VBZ 3 2number of VBG 7 4Example (instances: she is putting he is touchingtd-0156 and li-3022) she is goinghe is pushingshe is lookingshe is carryingshe is playingTable 3: Statistics of the surface forms for thegrammatical pattern PP VBZ VBG.0.69, and LexSynEx and LexSyn have a correla-tion of 0.61.
NDLF and LFdist showed a posi-tive correlation score of 0.81.
This high correla-tion hints to the fact that as the number of lexicalforms increases, so does the gap between their fre-95LFdist NDLF LEX eLEX LexSyn LexSynExLFdist 1.00NDLF 0.81 1.00LEX -0.53 -0.31 1.00eLEX -0.54 -0.43 0.69 1.00LexSyn 0.07 0.02 -0.23 -0.10 1.00LexSynEx -0.02 -0.03 -0.08 -0.03 0.61 1.00Table 4: Correlation matrix for the proposed metrics.quency of use.
While this may be a common phe-nomenon of language use, it does not have a neg-ative effect since the same effect will be observedin both groups of children and we care to see thedifferences in performance between a TD and anLI population.For all other pairs of measures, the correlationscores were in the range of [?0.5, 0.1].
It was in-teresting to note that LexSyn showed the lowestcorrelation with the rest of the measures (between[?0.11, 0.01]).Correlation coefficients between our metricsand MLU, NDW, and F/C were computed sepa-rately for syntactic patterns of different lengths.However all the different matrices showed thesame correlation patterns.
We found a high cor-relation between MLU and NDW, but low cor-relation with all our proposed measures, exceptfor one case: NDW and LexSyn seemed to behighly correlated (?-0.7).
Interestingly, we notedthat despite the high correlation between MLU andNDW, MLU and LexSyn showed weak correlation(?-0.4).
Overall, the findings from this analysissupport the use of our metrics as complimentarymeasures for child language assessment.7 Conclusions and future workWe proposed a set of new measures that were de-veloped to characterize the lexico-syntactic vari-ability of child language.
Each measure aims tofind information that is not captured by traditionalmeasures used in communication disorders.Our study is still preliminary in nature and re-quires an in depth evaluation and analysis with alarger pool of subjects.
However the results pre-sented are encouraging.
The set of experimentswe discussed showed that TD and LI children havesignificant differences in performance accordingto our metrics and thus these metrics can be used toenrich models of language trajectories in child lan-guage acquisition.
Another potential use of met-rics similar to those proposed here is the design oftargeted intervention practices.The scripts to compute the metrics as describedin this paper are available to the research commu-nity by contacting the authors.
However, the sim-plicity of the metrics makes it easy for anyone toimplement, and it certainly makes it easy for clin-ical researchers to interpret.Our proposed metrics are a contribution to theset of already known metrics for language assess-ment.
The goal of these new metrics is not toreplace existing ones, but to complement what isalready available with concise information abouthigher-order syntactic constructions in the reper-toire of TD children.We are interested in evaluating the use of ourmetrics in a longitudinal study.
We believe theyare a promising framework to represent languageacquisition trajectories.AcknowledgmentsThis research was partially funded by NSF underawards 1018124 and 1017190.
The first authoralso received partial funding from CONACyT.ReferencesLisa M. Bedore, Elizabeth D. Pen?a, Ronald B. Gillam,and Tsung-Han Ho.
2010.
Language sample mea-sures and language ability in Spanish-English bilin-gual kindergarteners.
Journal of CommunicationDisorders, 43:498?510.Eugene Charniak.
2000.
A maximum-entropy-inspired parser.
In Proceedings of the 1st NorthAmerican chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics conference, NAACL 2000, pages132?139, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Miao Chen and Klaus Zechner.
2011.
Computingand evaluating syntactic complexity features for au-tomated scoring of spontaneous non-native speech.In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics: HumanLanguage Technologies - Volume 1, HLT ?11, pages722?731, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.96Keyur Gabani, Melissa Sherman, Thamar Solorio,Yang Liu, Lisa M. Bedore, and Elizabeth D. Pen?a.2009.
A corpus-based approach for the predictionof language impairment in monolingual English andSpanish-English bilingual children.
In Proceedingsof Human Language Technologies: The 2009 An-nual Conference of the North American Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics,NAACL ?09, pages 46?55, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.V.
Gutie?rrez-Clellen, G. Simon-Cereijido, andM.
Sweet.
2012.
Predictors of second languageacquisition in Latino children with specific languageimpairment.
American Journal of Speech LanguagePathology, 21(1):64?77.Khairun-nisa Hassanali, Yang Liu, and ThamarSolorio.
2012a.
Coherence in child language narra-tives: A case study of annotation and automatic pre-diction of coherence.
In Proceedings of 3rd Work-shop on Child, Computer and Interaction (WOCCI2012).Khairun-nisa Hassanali, Yang Liu, and ThamarSolorio.
2012b.
Evaluating NLP features for auto-matic prediction of language impairment using childspeech transcripts.
In Interspeech.Tom Kwiatkowski, Sharon Goldwater, Luke Zettel-moyer, and Mark Steedman.
2012.
A probabilis-tic model of syntactic and semantic acquisition fromchild-directed utterances and their meanings.
InProceedings of the 13th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 234?244, Avignon, France.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Xiaofei Lu.
2012.
The relationship of lexical richnessto the quality of ESL learners?
oral narratives.
TheModern Language Journal, 96(2):190?208.Mercer Mayer.
1967.
A boy, a dog, and a frog.
DialPress.Mercer Mayer.
1969.
Frog, where are you?
DialPress.Jon F. Miller, John Heilmann, Ann Nockerts, AquilesIglesias, Leah Fabiano, and David J. Francis.
2006.Oral language and reading in bilingual children.Learning Disabilities Research and Practice, 21:30?43.Elizabeth D. Pen?a, Lisa M. Bedore, Ronald B. Gillam,and Thomas Bohman.
2003.
Diagnostic markersof language impairment in bilingual children.
Grantawarded by the NIDCH, NIH.Emily T. Prud?hommeaux, Brian Roark, Lois M.Black, and Jan van Santen.
2011.
Classification ofatypical language in autism.
In Proceedings of the2nd Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 88?96, Portland, Oregon,USA, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Brian Roark, Margaret Mitchell, and Kristy Holling-shead.
2007.
Syntactic complexity measures fordetecting mild cognitive impairment.
In Biologi-cal, translational, and clinical language processing,pages 1?8, Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Brian Roark, Margaret Mitchell, John-Paul Hosom,Kristy Hollingshead, and Jeffrey Kaye.
2011.
Spo-ken language derived measures for detecting mildcognitive impairment.
IEEE Transcations on Au-dio, Speech, and Language Processing, 19(7):2081?2090, September.Rau?l Rojas and Aquiles Iglesias.
2012.
The languagegrowth of Spanish-speaking English language learn-ers.
Child Development.Kenji Sagae, Alon Lavie, and Brian MacWhinney.2005.
Automatic measurement of syntactic devel-opment in child language.
In Proceedings of the43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, ACL ?05, pages 197?204,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Sam Sahakian and Benjamin Snyder.
2012.
Automat-ically learning measures of child language develop-ment.
In ACL, pages 95?99.
The Association forComputational Linguistics.Thamar Solorio, Melissa Sherman, Y. Liu, LisaBedore, Elizabeth Pen?a, and A. Iglesias.
2011.
An-alyzing language samples of Spanish-English bilin-gual children for the automated prediction of lan-guage dominance.
Natural Language Engineering,pages 367?395.Charles Yang.
2011.
A statistical test for grammar.In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on CognitiveModeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 30?38, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Su-Youn Yoon and Suma Bhat.
2012.
Assessment ofESL learners?
syntactic competence based on sim-ilarity measures.
In EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 600?608.
Association for Computational Linguistics.97
