Proceedings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop & Interoperability with Discourse, pages 131?134,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsTURKSENT: A Sentiment Annotation Tool for Social MediaGu?ls?en Eryig?itDep.
of Computer Eng.Istanbul Technical Universitygulsen.cebiroglu@itu.edu.trFatih Samet C?etin and Meltem Yan?kDep.
of Information TechnologyTurkcell Global Bilgifatih.cetin@global-bilgi.com.trmeltem.yanik@global-bilgi.com.trTanel TemelDep.
of Information TechnologyTurkcell Global Bilgitanel.temel@global-bilgi.com.trI?lyas C?ic?ekliDep.
of Computer Eng.Hacettepe Universityilyas@cs.hacettepe.edu.trAbstractIn this paper, we present an annotation tooldeveloped specifically for manual senti-ment analysis of social media posts.
Thetool provides facilities for general and tar-get based opinion marking on differenttype of posts (i.e.
comparative, ironic,conditional) with a web based UI whichsupports synchronous annotation.
It isalso designed as a SaaS (Software as aService).
The tool?s outstanding featuresare easy and fast annotation interface, de-tailed sentiment levels, multi-client sup-port, easy to manage administrative mod-ules and linguistic annotation capabilities.1 IntroductionToday, monitoring social media is a vital need forcompanies and it has a high commercial value.
Soalmost all companies have social media accountsand departments for following the social mediaabout their business sectors.
In recent decade,the studies on sentiment analysis has gained highpopularity and several academic (Pang and Lee,2007; Liu, 2012) and commercial (Radian6, 2013;Lithium, 2013) projects emerged in this field.
Al-though there are many works (Bosco et al 2013;Wiebe et al 2005) on creating sentiment corpora,up to our knowledge there are no publicly avail-able and professional sentiment annotation tools.A huge contact center communicates with thecustomers for different trade marks on behalfof them and provides detailed CRM1, impact1CRM: Customer Relationship Managementand competitor analysis reports.
With this pur-pose, they employ thousands of customer rep-resentatives among which an increasing percent-age should deal with social media monitoring, thenew channel of communication.
In such an envi-ronment, the monitoring should be done via pro-fessional and synchronous UIs (user interfaces)where the performance of each human agent hashigh importance.
Most of the current commercialmonitoring tools leaks the following features:- a detailed sentiment analysis interface forfeature based and comparative opinion dec-larations,- an effective and synchronous annotation in-terface,- on-demand data loading,- linguistic annotation modules,- detailed data analyses for corpus creation (tobe used in supervised machine learning).The aim of our work is to fulfill all of the abovelisted requirements and provide a platform for ef-fective annotation of social media data.
The toolhas the following sentiment and linguistic annota-tion layers:- general and target based sentiment- text normalization- named entity- morphology- syntaxThe sentiment annotation module of TURK-SENT may operate multilingually whereas the lin-guistic annotation module is initially configured131specific to Turkish following the work in ITUTreebank Annotation Tool (Eryig?it, 2007).
It isalso possible to adapt this part to other languagesby plugging relevant linguistic adapters (for semi-automatic annotation).TURKSENT will be freely available for aca-demic projects as a SaaS.Figure 1: Application Flow2 ArchitectureFigure 1 gives an idea about the flow of our appli-cation.
In our system, the web data is monitoredcontinuously.
It is first of all filtered accordingto the target sector by the ?sector filter?
and it isthen stored in the relevant database domains.
Inour system, each domain represents a workspacewhich consists of the related sector data (collectedvia web or uploaded manually to the system), anadministrator and a bunch of human annotators.2.1 Sentiment AnnotationOur choice of SaaS design has the following goals:- Platform independence (No special machineor no special operating system)- Accessibility (Accessible from anywhereanytime by multiple users)- No installation effort (Browser based appli-cation)- No need to deploy updates to clientsFigure 2 gives a sample sentiment annota-tion screen-shot on an example Tweet (?SamsungGalaxy S4?s hardware features are amazing butsoftware is not stable as Iphone?).
The upperhalf of the screen (up to the table) show the gen-eral sentiment part which is tagged as both2 (theambivalent smiley).
General sentiment taggingmeans identifying the sentimental class regardlessof a target.
In other words, extracting dominantsentimental class of an instance.
In this stage theannotator is also expected to select an appropriatecomment category and sentence type.The lower half is for target based sentiment an-notation.
These deep sentiments are representedas tuples consisting of the brand, product/service,feature and sentiment tags.
For example, the firsttuple in the sample Tweet will be composed asthe following: <Samsung, Galaxy S4, hardware,positive>which means the hardware feature of theSamsung Brand?s product Galaxy S4 had a posi-tive impact on the Tweet?s author.2.2 Linguistic AnnotationRecent researches on sentiment analysis show thatit is not possible to really understand the sentimentof a sentence without any natural language pro-cessing (NLP).
And the addition of NLP featuresto these systems increases the success ratios ofthe automatic analyzers dramatically.
In order tobe able to prepare a sentiment corpus, being ableto annotate the focus data within the same plat-form is an important issue.
Furthermore, the webdata has severe differences when compared to for-mal natural language text and it needs additionalpreprocessing before linguistic phases.
With thisneed, we added a linguistic annotation interface toour application which is basically a reimplementa-tion and adaptation of a previous academic study(Eryig?it, 2007) according to our needs.In this layer, the linguistic expert annotator isasked to first normalize the instances (i.e.
mis-spellings, exaggerations, web jargon), and then de-termine the entities (ex: ?Galaxy S4?
), select theappropriate postag categories for words and anno-tate the syntactic parts of a post.
It is also possibleto operate this layer semi-automatically by usingthe pretrained linguistic tools and outputting their2Other options are: positive, negative and neutral(no sen-timental expression at all).132Figure 2: Sentiment annotationresults to the human experts and taking their cor-rections.
This speed-up procedure is only avail-able for Turkish now, but the tool is developed asa pluggable architecture to support further studieson other languages.
Figure 3 shows some samplescreenshots for the linguistic layer.2.3 Administrative OperationsTURKSENT has a simple and easy-to-use admininterface.
A user who has administration rights hasthe ability to perform the actions listed below:- Creating a workspace (with a focus data andannotator group)- Determining the data subsets for linguisticannotation- Controlling/Changing the ongoing annota-tions- Defining configurable items (sentence types,comment categories, product/service list, fea-ture list, brand list)- Defining linguistic tags (pos tags, named en-tity types, dependency types)3 UsabilityThe usability is seriously taken into account dur-ing the design and development of our application.The spent time per post is a high concern withinbig operations.
End-user software tests are accom-plished and observed for each step.
On the finalUI design, every action can be done via keyboardwithout the need of mouse usage.
Almost everytext areas has strong auto-completion feature in it-self.
While an annotator is working on an issue,it is possible to deliver any idea-suggestion to theadministrator within seconds.
And if an annotatorneed to browse his/her previous annotations, caneasily search and find within them.4 ConclusionIn this work, we presented a professional sen-timent annotation tool TURKSENT which sup-ports synchronous annotations on a web-basedplatform.
The study is a part of an automatic sen-timent analysis research project.
That is why, itboth aims to manually annotate the sentiments ofweb posts and to create a sentiment corpus alsoannotated linguistically (to be used in automatic133Figure 3: Linguistic Annotationssentiment analysis).
With this purpose it consistsdifferent layers of annotation specific to web data.It serves as a SaaS and designed as dynamic aspossible for future use on different sectors and lan-guages.AcknowledgmentThis work is accomplished as a part of aTUBITAK-TEYDEB (The Scientific and Tech-nological Research Council of Turkey - Tech-nology and Innovation Funding Programs Direc-torate) project (grant number: 3120605) in ?Turk-cell Global Bilgi?
Information Technology De-partment.
The authors want to thank DeryaDo?nmez and Mehmet Osmanog?lu for design andimplementation.ReferencesCristina Bosco, Viviana Patti, and Andrea Bolioli.2013.
Developing corpora for sentiment analysisand opinion mining: the case of irony and senti-tut.Intelligent Systems.Gu?ls?en Eryig?it.
2007.
ITU Treebank Annotation Tool.In Proceedings of the ACL workshop on LinguisticAnnotation (LAW 2007), Prague, 24-30 June.Lithium.
2013.
Lithium.
http://www.lithium.com/.Bing Liu.
2012.
Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Min-ing.
Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Tech-nologies.
Morgan and Claypool Publishers.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2007.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and Trends in In-formation Retrieval, 2(1-2):1?135.Radian6.
2013.
Radian 6. http://www.salesforcemarketingcloud.com/products/social-media-listening/.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.2005.
Annotating expressions of opinions and emo-tions in language.
Language Resources and Evalu-ation, 39(2-3):165?210.134
