Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Teaching Natural Language Processing, pages 46?50,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsCorrespondence Seminar: Bringing Linguistics to High SchoolsMate?j KorvasCharles University in PragueFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsInstitute of Applied and Formal Linguisticskorvas@ufal.mff.cuni.czVojte?ch DiatkaCharles University in PragueFaculty of ArtsDepartment of LinguisticsVojta.Diatka@gmail.comAbstractWe present the concept of a correspon-dence seminar as a way to complementand support one-time contests, especiallyolympiads.
We evaluate specific payoffsof this way of teaching linguistics, andcompare its nature to that of a linguisticsolympiad.
We believe that the correspon-dence seminar is a great way to introducetalented high school students to linguis-tics.1 IntroductionAt high schools in the Czech Republic, linguisticsis taught only marginally or not at all.
Studentstalented in linguistics thus tend to focus their tal-ent on other areas, not even knowing what linguis-tics is like.
We have struggled to change the stateof affairs, and provide an alternative to the statesystem in delivering linguistic education to highschool students.Up until recently, we exposed the high schoolstudents to linguistics only through a correspon-dence seminar.
By the term correspondence semi-nar, we mean a form of voluntary education wherestudents and teachers exchange assignments andtheir solutions by postal correspondence (or morerecently, via electronic communication in a similarway).
This concept is described in more detail inSection 2.
However, as IOL1 (International Lin-guistics Olympiad; Radev et al(2008)) came toour attention, we learned that despite the strongCzech linguistic tradition (Vachek and Du?kov?,1983), there was no contest organised to selectthe Czech team for IOL.
Hence we started theCzech Linguistic Olympiad (C?LO)2 last year, andwe have since observed some notable differences1http://www.ioling.org2http://lingol.czin the nature of the two formats, which we shallsummarise in this paper.We will start by giving a brief overview ofthe history of correspondence seminars, includingPralinka, the seminar in linguistics.
In fact, corre-spondence seminar is not a new concept.
The old-est contest based on postal correspondence, to ourknowledge, is the Hungarian High School Math-ematics and Physics Journal.3 It dates back to asearly as 1894, and with two interruptions, it sur-vived up to the present.
Thanks to the fact that it istranslated into English, it is open to internationalaudiences.To the best of our knowledge, most correspon-dence seminars are organised in the area of for-mer Czechoslovakia.
The Slovak seminars in-clude KMS4 (mathematics), FKS5 (physics), andSTROM6 (mathematics).
The last mentioned oneclaims to have the longest tradition in the area offormer Czechoslovakia, having been establishedin 1976.
Correspondence seminars organised inthe Czech Republic include MKS7 (mathemat-ics; founded 1981), FYKOS8 (physics; 1986),and KSICHT9 (chemistry; 2002; cf.
R?ezanka etal.
(2012)).
The seminars mentioned above havegrown very popular ?
they commonly have severalhundred participants each year.Our correspondence seminar in linguistics iscalled Pralinka.10 It was founded in 2008 andhas about 14 participants each year, this low num-ber being one significant difference to olympiads.During the five years, over 100 linguistic problems3http://www.komal.hu/info/bemutatkozas.e.shtml4http://www.kms.sk5http://fks.sk/english/english.php6http://seminar.strom.sk/7http://mks.mff.cuni.cz8http://fykos.org/9http://ksicht.natur.cuni.cz/o-ksichtu10http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pralinka/english.php46have been created and published in Pralinka.The contents and workings of the correspon-dence seminar are explained in detail in the fol-lowing section.
In Section 3, we point out differ-ences between the correspondence seminar and anolympiad.
In Section 4, we show sample problemscreated for Pralinka, and conclude with plans forthe future in Section 5.2 The Concept of a CorrespondenceSeminarWe will present the concept of a correspondenceseminar on the concrete example of Pralinka.
InPralinka, we publish four issues featuring variouslinguistics problems each year.
Students are sup-posed to solve as many problems as they can, andthey have about six weeks to send us their solu-tions.
We mark and comment on the solutionsbefore sending them back to the participants.
Ina few weeks?
time, a new issue is put togetherfrom new problem specifications and authors?
so-lutions to previous problems.
The specificationsof the individual problems are linked together witha story, partly to provide motivation for the prob-lems, partly to make the booklet more attractivefor the reader.The first issue is sent with other faculty prop-agation materials, including other correspondenceseminars, in the printed form to high school teach-ers countrywide.
This is the only occassion whenPralinka uses traditional post.
Every issue is pub-lished on our web page as a PDF, and participants?solutions and their corrections are submitted to anintegrated system again as document files.
An ap-propriately formatted PDF of each issue is pro-vided so that whoever is interested, can easily printout the booklet at their site.
Apart from the sys-tem for collecting problem submissions and theircorrections, another online interface of Pralinka isits Facebook page where every new issue is an-nounced and participants can discuss with the or-ganisers.An essential motivation for the participants arepoints we give them for their solutions.
Seminarswith a higher number of participants use the rank-ing of participants to select the ones eligible for theseminar summer school.
Pralinka also has a shortsummer school each year, but we have no need tocut the number of its participants.
Still, we rewardthe best ranking ones for their efforts with a prize.Problems we publish in Pralinka can be dividedinto three classes: single problems, thematic prob-lems and running tasks.
Single problems are one-off tasks that typically include little or no theory.They usually require the students to discover a pat-tern in the provided linguistic data, or expand on agiven topic.Thematic problems form a completely differentgenre.
Their constitutive feature is that they godeep into the topic.
Every year, a different topicis chosen to be investigated by the students underthe supervision of the organisers.
Theory for thetopic is extended in each issue of the seminar, anda very open formulation of a problem to solve isgiven.
The problem specification in the next is-sue is largely determined by the students?
contri-butions.
Students are thus introduced to the se-lected branch of linguistics step by step, both the-oretically and practically.
Thematic problems inthe history of Pralinka examined topics like mean-ing of words in context or verbal aspects and theiruse.Lastly, running tasks or series are similar to the-matic problems in many respects.
They are on aselected topic each year, and gradually build upthe theory.
In contrast to thematic problems, as-signments in each instance of the running task areprecisely specified and solvers?
answers do not in-fluence the future direction of the series.
Somerunning tasks explore phenomena from differentlayers of linguistic description using an artificiallanguage as the subject, others have the form ofa textbook text split into chapters, providing ex-ercises for each chapter.
The latter kind coveredtopics such as language universals, Arabic (an in-troduction to the language) or semantics.An important feature of the correspondenceseminar is the individual attitude to students andtheir solutions.
Correcting solutions does not con-sist only of assigning the appropriate number ofpoints.
More important is the feedback in the formof advice and questions related to the contestant?sown text.3 Comparison to OlympiadsWe now turn to the comparison of a correspon-dence seminar and an olympiad as two alternativeways of promoting linguistics among gifted highschool students.
We will discuss the following as-pects: time required for solving the problems, na-ture of the problems, attitude to linguistic knowl-edge, use of external information sources, and at-47type Plka 10/11 Plka 12/13 C?LO 12/13total 22 (100%) 18 (100%) 14 (100%)seg+al 5 (23%) 7 (39%) 11 (79%)theory 15 (68%) 7 (39%) 0 (0%)open 16 (73%) 10 (56%) 4 (29%)Table 1: Types of tasks in a sample from C?LO andPralinkatype Plka 10/11 Plka 12/13 C?LO 12/13total 114 (100%) 119 (100%) 2393 (100%)seg+al 23 (20%) 55 (46%) 2268 (95%)theory 58 (51%) 43 (36%) 0 (0%)open 86 (75%) 79 (66%) 665 (28%)Table 2: Number of students that attempted solv-ing different types of problems in a sample fromC?LO and Pralinkatractiveness to students.Linguistic olympiads are generally one-timeevents whose participants are given just a fewhours to solve a number of problems.
They arethus motivated to quickly discover just as manyfeatures of the problem as needed to find answersfor the questions posed.
It is likely that solvingsuch a problem involves just the short term mem-ory, and the related ideas are much easier to for-get.
In contrast, participants of a correspondenceseminar have lots of time to think each problemover, therefore, firstly, the problems need to pro-vide enough food for thought, and secondly, thisleads the solvers to internalise the ideas behind theproblem much better.For typically large numbers of participants ofolympiads, especially in school rounds, olympiadsneed to have a clear grading scheme, hence closed-ended questions are the best suited.
In contrast,problems in a correspondence seminar can be(and, in Pralinka, they often are) open-ended.
Thisagain supports deeper thinking about the problem.The different composition of Pralinka versusC?LO in terms of problem types is quantified in Ta-ble 1.
We counted problems from the 2010/2011(the last school year before we launched C?LO) and2012/2013 (this year; one issue could not yet be in-cluded) editions of Pralinka and this year?s C?LO.We assessed for each problem whether:1. it is solved by applying the common patternof establishing a segmentation of the linguis-tic data (e.g.
words into morphemes, Chinesecharacters into two parts) and then aligningthe corresponding segments (row ?seg+al?
inthe table);2. theory is explained as part of the problem(?theory?);3.
an open-ended question is posed (?open?
).Table 2 follows the same layout but lists counts ofstudents that attempted to solve each problem.11The numbers justify our claim that problems inPralinka are more often open-ended than thosein the olympiad.
They also show that there ismuch more space for presenting theory as part ofthe problems in Pralinka, which we expand onin the following paragraph.
Another fact illus-trated by the numbers is that we adjusted Pralinkaproblems to be more similar to olympiad prob-lems when C?LO was founded, in order to preparePralinka solvers for the olympiad.
Lastly, the dif-ference in the number of attempted solutions be-tween Pralinka and C?LO is huge, as evident fromTable 2.
We try to explain this fact in the para-graphs below.Another important difference regards theamount of linguistic knowledge presented to-gether with the problems and required to solvethem.
The olympiad is primarily concerned withtesting the contestant?s skills in analysing anunknown language, often their analytical thinkingin general.
On the other hand, the correspondenceseminar puts stress on teaching not only skills, butalso knowledge, in order to widen contestants?horizons.
To this end, problems published inPralinka often comprise two parts: a theoreticalone and a practical one, the latter part helping thesolver practise immediately what was expoundedin the former part.The two formats differ also with respect to theapproach to various external sources of knowl-edge.
Olympiads strictly forbid using them,whereas in the correspondence seminar, their useis welcome.
O.
?teffl, a prominent Czech educa-tion specialist, claims that ?.
.
.
the accessibility ofinformation has dramatically changed.
If I type?coelenterate?
into Google, what appears in a fewseconds are BBC documentaries, pictures, expla-nations, curiosities, and I can search for contextand links in this topic.
?12 Situation is the same forlinguistic knowledge.
There is a vast amount of11Entries in Table 2 are measured in student-problems.12source (original in Czech): respekt.ihned.cz/c1-55775590-jsme-posedli-selekci-deti48linguistic information accessible on the Internet.In Pralinka, even though we usually aim to cre-ate problems that cannot be simply solved by con-sulting Wikipedia or other sources, we are pleasedto hear when our participants bother to use on-line resources, or even borrow a grammar book ofa language in order to understand the topic moredeeply, as provoking students to study on theirown is one of our goals.Finally, it is remarkable how few students getinvolved in the correspondence seminar, comparedto the olympiad.
The olympiad started only lastyear and it already has an order of magnitude moreparticipants.
This can be attributed to a simple factthat general awareness of linguistics as an interest-ing discipline among Czech high school studentsis very poor compared to mathematics or physics.Students thus do not show active interest in lin-guistics, although they get involved once theirteachers give them linguistic problems at schoolduring the olympiad school round.We believe that participants of Pralinka are gen-erally more interested in linguistics than partici-pants of C?LO, and hence are more likely to en-roll in a linguistics study programme at the uni-versity and be successful in it.
Unfortunately, datawe could use to test this hypothesis is not collectedyet, although currently there is an effort of the Fac-ulty of Mathematics and Physics to quantify theeffectivity of its propagation activities includingPralinka.4 Sample ProblemsIn this section, we present two examples of prob-lems that appeared in Pralinka, which we think areparticularly suitable for a correspondence seminar.4.1 Labovian cupsIn this problem, we motivate the participants toreplicate Labov?s famous experiment with table-ware (Labov, 1973).
General introduction to thetopic of categories which do not have clear-cutboundaries is given through a simple dialogue ledby two characters, rather than a technical expo-sition.
Participants are then presented with tasksconnected to two pictures of tableware (see Fig-ure 1).Tasks were as follows:1.
Do you think that the content of a containerwould influence whether it is called cup,(a) (b)Figure 1: Labov?s tableware experiment inPralinkabowl, or vase?
We could fill it with flowers,tea or mashed potatoes.2.
Do your own experiment.
Print out the pic-tures (those shown in Figure 1) and ask atleast three people to name the objects.
Showthem first the container without contents, andthen the same container with contents.
Makesure that you show only one container at atime.
Instruction could be that simple: ?Tellme what you see.?
Write down the answersand expand on them.4.2 Word alignmentIn this problem, we present the concept of wordalignment as used in machine translation (Koehn,2007, pp.
113?124), and ask the students to elabo-rate on possible configurations in word alignmenttables.The task is motivated by the main character ofPralinka constructing a dictionary, trying to cap-ture all translation options for every phrase.This problem is clearly not suitable forolympiads, whereas it fits nicely the format of acorrespondence seminar.
Let us now comment onhow well some students can cope with such prob-lems, using two quite different kinds of analysis.One participant performed a principled anal-ysis of the possible configurations of alignmentpoints, distinguishing cases with a single align-ment point in the row and column, multiple pointsin a row or column, and multiple points in thesame row and column.
He illustrates his clas-sification using examples including those shownin Figure 2.
The first two examples in Figure 2(the first one meaning ?my country?)
are based on49?n orsz?g-omm?zeme?
?el jsemIhavegonel?ska na prvn?
pohledcoupdefoudreFigure 2: Examples of alignments from Solver 1different ways grammatical categories are markedin different languages, including the first personand possessive markers in the first example, andfirst person and the tense in the second example.The third example (?love at first sight?)
shows twophrases that are translation of each other but can-not be analysed into smaller units that would alsotranslate one to the other.Another participant focuses in her solution onthe most interesting cases, showing typical prop-erties of different languages, such as the tendencytowards analytic or synthetic forms, and differentword order.
Even though she does not come upwith a classification system, she gives a compre-hensive overview of particular interesting exam-ples.
A few of her alignment examples are shownin Figure 3.
The first example again demonstratesI do not want tonechciEntlassungsproduktivit?tproduktivitavdu?sledkupropou?te?n???????
??
????
????
?de?latzkom?ravelbloudaFigure 3: Examples of alignments from Solver 2(a more extreme) difference in expressing gram-matical categories in a flective (Czech) and an iso-lating (English) language.
The second example(?productivity resulting from layoffs?)
illustratesthe same meaning being expressed using multiplewords in Czech, as compared to the synthetic Ger-man.
The last example (?make a mountain out ofa molehill?)
is parallel to the example with coupde foudre, but the phrases decompose in this case,even though they result in the mosquito?mouseand camel?elephant translation pairs.5 Future WorkIt is our ambition to make Pralinka international,either by organising the summer school jointly forCzech and foreign students, or by translating ourproblems into English and inviting foreign stu-dents to solve them.
However, the latter couldmeet with a larger response than the existing or-ganising team can handle, thus we greatly wel-come any helpers before that transition is made,both to participate in the organisation, and help inpromoting the seminar.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Le?ra Ivanova and Adam Posp?
?il forthe consent to cite their problem solutions, andOndr?ej Du?ek, Luk??
?ilka and the anonymousreviewers for their corrections and helpful com-ments.
Pralinka has been supported by the Facultyof Mathematics and Physics of the Charles Univer-sity, C?LO has been supported jointly by the Fac-ulty of Mathematics and Physics and the Facultyof Arts of the Charles University.ReferencesPhilipp Koehn.
2007.
Statistical Machine Translation.Univ.
Pr., Cambridge.William Labov.
1973.
The boundaries of words andtheir meanings.
In Bailey and R. W. Shuy, editors,New Ways of analyzing variation in English, pages340?373.
Washington, D.C.: Georgetown Univer-sity Press.Dragomir R. Radev, Lori S. Levin, and Thomas E.Payne.
2008.
The North American ComputationalLinguistics Olympiad (NACLO).
In Proceedingsof the Third Workshop on Issues in Teaching Com-putational Linguistics, TeachCL ?08, pages 87?96,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Michal R?ezanka, Pavel R?ezanka, Lude?k M?ka, PavlaPerl?kov?, and Karel Berka.
2012.
Korespon-denc?n?
semin?r?
inspirovan?
chemickou tematikou(KSICHT) [Correspondence seminar inspired bychemistry topics (KSICHT)].
In Chemick?
listy, vol-ume 106, page 319?322, Prague, Czech Republic,April.Josef Vachek and Libu?e Du?kov?.
1983.
Praguiana:some basic and less known aspects of the PragueLinguistic School.
Number v. 12 in Linguis-tic & literary studies in Eastern Europe (LLSEE).J.Benjamins, Amsterdam ; Philadelphia.50
