Proceedings of the Seventeenth Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning, pages 231?240,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsAcquisition of Desires before Beliefs: A Computational InvestigationLibby Barak, Afsaneh Fazly, and Suzanne StevensonDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Canada{libbyb,afsaneh,suzanne}@cs.toronto.eduAbstractThe acquisition of Belief verbs lags be-hind the acquisition of Desire verbs inchildren.
Some psycholinguistic theo-ries attribute this lag to conceptual differ-ences between the two classes, while oth-ers suggest that syntactic differences areresponsible.
Through computational ex-periments, we show that a probabilisticverb learning model exhibits the pattern ofacquisition, even though there is no dif-ference in the model in the difficulty ofthe semantic or syntactic properties of Be-lief vs.
Desire verbs.
Our results pointto the distributional properties of variousverb classes as a potentially important, andheretofore unexplored, factor in the ob-served developmental lag of Belief verbs.1 IntroductionPsycholinguistic studies have shown great inter-est in the learning of Mental State Verbs (MSVs),such as think and want, given the various cogni-tive and linguistic challenges in their acquisition.MSVs refer to an entity?s inner states, such asthoughts and wishes, which the language learnermust be able to perceive and conceptualize appro-priately.
Moreover, such verbs often appear in aSentential Complement (SC) construction, whichis complex for children because of the embeddedclause.Despite some shared properties, MSVs area heterogeneous group, with different types ofverbs exhibiting different developmental patterns.Specifically, a wealth of research shows that chil-dren produce Desire verbs, such as want andwish, earlier than Belief verbs, such as think andknow (Shatz et al 1983; Bartsch and Wellman,1995; Asplin, 2002; Perner et al 2003; de Vil-liers, 2005; Papafragou et al 2007; Pascual et al2008).
Some explanations for this pattern positthat differences in the syntactic usages of Desireand Belief verbs underlie the observed develop-mental lag of the latter (de Villiers, 2005; Pas-cual et al 2008).
In particular, Desire verbs oc-cur mostly with an infinitival SC (as in I want(her) to leave), while Belief verbs occur mostlywith a finite SC (a full tensed embedded clause,as in I think (that) she left).
Notably, infiniti-vals appear earlier than finite SCs in the speechof young children (Bloom et al 1984, 1989).Others suggest that Desire verbs are conceptu-ally simpler (Bartsch and Wellman, 1995) or prag-matically/communicatively more salient (Perner,1988; Fodor, 1992; Perner et al 2003).
Propo-nents of the conceptual and pragmatic accounts ar-gue that syntax alone cannot explain the delay inthe acquisition of Belief verbs, because childrenuse finite SCs with verbs of Communication (e.g.,say) and Perception (e.g., see) long before theyuse them with Belief verbs (Bartsch and Wellman,1995).We use a computational model of verb argu-ment structure acquisition to shed light on the fac-tors that might be responsible for the developmen-tal gap between Desire and Belief verbs.
Impor-tantly, our model exhibits the observed pattern oflearning Desire before Belief verbs, without hav-ing to encode any differences in difficulty betweenthe two classes in terms of their syntactic or con-ceptual/pragmatic requirements.
The behaviour ofthe model can thus be attributed to its probabilisticlearning mechanisms in conjunction with the dis-tributional properties of the input.
In particular, weinvestigate how the model?s learning mechanisminteracts with the distributions of several classesof verbs ?
including Belief, Desire, Perception,Communication, and Action ?
in the finite andinfinitival SC syntax to produce the observed pat-tern of acquisition of Desire and Belief verbs.
Us-ing a computational model can reveal the poten-231tial effects of interactions of verb classes in hu-man language acquisition which would be difficultto investigate experimentally.
Our results suggestthat the distributional properties of relevant verbclasses are a potentially important, and heretoforeunexplored, factor in experimental studies of thedevelopmental lag of Belief verbs.2 The Computational ModelWe require an incremental model in which wecan examine developmental patterns as it gradu-ally learns relevant aspects of argument structures.This task calls for an ability to represent the se-mantic and syntactic properties of verb usages, in-cluding those containing MSVs and other kinds ofverbs taking sentential complements (SCs).
Mostcomputational models of verb argument structureacquisition have largely focused on physical ac-tion verbs (Alishahi and Stevenson, 2008; Chang,2009; Perfors et al 2010; Parisien and Steven-son, 2011).
Recently, Barak et al(2012) ex-tended the incremental Bayesian model of Al-ishahi and Stevenson (2008) to include the syntac-tic and semantic features required for the process-ing of MSVs and other verbs that take SCs.
WhileBarak et al(2012) modeled some developmentalpatterns of MSVs overall, their work did not ac-count for the difference between Desire and Be-lief verbs.
In this section, we present their model,which we adopt for our experiments.
In Section 3,we describe how we modify the representation ofthe input in Barak et al(2012) to enable our inves-tigation of the differences among the MSV classes.2.1 Overview of the ModelThe input to the Barak et al(2012) model is asequence of frames, where each frame is a col-lection of syntactic and semantic features repre-senting what the learner might extract from an ut-terance s/he has heard paired with a scene s/hehas perceived.
In particular, we consider syntacticproperties, including syntactic pattern, argumentcount, and complement type, as well as seman-tic properties, including event primitives and eventparticipants.
Table 1 presents a sample frame il-lustrating possible values for these features.The model incrementally groups the inputframes into clusters that reflect probabilistic as-sociations of the syntactic and semantic featuresacross similar verb usages.
Each learned clusteris a probabilistic (and possibly noisy) representa-head predicate thinkother predicate makeSyntactic Features:syntactic pattern arg1 verb arg2 verb arg3argument count 3complement type SC-finSemantic Features:event primitives { state, consider , cogitate, action }event participants { experiencer , perceiver , considerer}{ agent , animate}{ theme, changed}Table 1: An example input frame.
The Syntactic featuresreflect an utterance such as He thinks Mom made pancakes:i.e., syntactic pattern ?arg1 verb arg2 verb arg3?, 3 arguments,and finite SC.
The Semantic features reflect a correspondingconceptualized belief event with a physical action describedin the SC ({state, consider , cogitate, action}) whose?arg1?
participant ({experiencer , perceiver , considerer})perceives the ?arg2?
({agent , animate}) acting on the ?arg3?
({theme, changed}).tion of an argument structure construction: e.g.,a cluster containing frames corresponding to us-ages such as I eat apples, She took the ball, andHe got a book, etc., represents a Transitive Actionconstruction.1 Note that a cluster operates as morethan simply a set of similar frames: The modelcan use the probabilistic associations among thevarious features of the frames in a cluster to gen-eralize over the individual verb usages that it hasseen.
For example, if the model is presented with aframe corresponding to a transitive utterance usinga verb it has not observed before, such as She gor-ped the ball, the example cluster above would leadthe model to predict that gorp has semantic eventprimitives in common with other Action verbs likeeat, take, and get.
Such probabilistic reasoning isespecially powerful because clusters involve com-plex interactions of features, and the model rea-sons across all such clusters to make suitable gen-eralizations over its learned knowledge.2.2 Algorithm for Learning ClustersThe model groups input frames into clusters onthe basis of the overall similarity in the values oftheir syntactic and semantic features.
Importantly,the model learns these clusters incrementally; thenumber and type of clusters is not predetermined.The model considers the creation of a new clusterfor a given frame if the frame is not sufficientlysimilar to any of the existing clusters.
Formally,the model finds the best cluster for a given input1Note that, because the associations are probabilistic, aconstruction may be represented by more than one cluster.232frame F as in:BestCluster(F ) = argmaxk?ClustersP (k|F ) (1)where k ranges over all existing clusters and a newone.
Using Bayes rule:P (k|F ) = P (k)P (F |k)P (F ) ?
P (k)P (F |k) (2)The prior probability of a cluster P (k) is estimatedas the proportion of frames that are in k out ofall observed input frames, thus assigning a higherprior to larger clusters, representing more frequentconstructions.
The likelihood P (F |k) is estimatedbased on the match of feature values in F and inthe frames of k (assuming independence of thefeatures):P (F |k) =?i?FeaturesPi(j|k) (3)where i refers to the ith feature of F and j refersto its value, and Pi(j|k) is calculated using asmoothed version of:Pi(j|k) =counti(j, k)nk(4)where counti(j, k) is the number of times featurei has the value j in cluster k, and nk is the numberof frames in k.2.3 Attention to Mental ContentOne factor proposed to play an important role inthe acquisition of MSVs is the difficulty childrenhave in being aware of (or perceiving the salienceof) the mental content of a scene that an utterancemay be describing (Papafragou et al 2007).
Thisdifficulty arises because the aspects of a scene as-sociated with an MSV ?
the ?believing?
or the?wanting?
?
are not directly observable, as theyinvolve the inner states of an event participant.
In-stead, younger children tend to focus on the phys-ical (observable) parts of the scene, which gener-ally correspond to the event described in the em-bedded clause of an MSV utterance.
For instance,young children may focus on the ?making?
actionin He thinks Mom made pancakes, rather than onthe ?thinking?.A key component of the model of Baraket al(2012) is a mechanism that simulates thegradually-developing ability in children to attendto the mental content rather than solely to the (em-bedded) physical action.
This mechanism basi-cally entails that the model may ?misinterpret?
aninput frame containing an MSV as focusing on thesemantics of the action in the sentential comple-ment.
Specifically, when receiving an input framewith an MSV, as in Table 1, there is a probability pthat the frame is perceived with attention to the se-mantics corresponding to the physical action verb(here, make).
In this case, the model correctly in-cludes the syntactic features as in Table 1, on theassumption that the child can accurately note thenumber and pattern of arguments.
However, themodel replaces the semantic features with thosethat correspond to the physical action event and itsparticipants.
At very early stages, p is very high(close to 1), simulating the much greater saliencyof physical actions compared to mental events foryounger children.
As the model ?ages?
(i.e., re-ceives more input), p decreases, giving more andmore attention to the mental content, gradually ap-proaching adult-like abilities.3 Experimental Setup3.1 Generation of the Input CorporaBecause there are no readily available large cor-pora of actual child-directed speech (CDS) associ-ated with appropriate semantic representations, wegenerate artificial corpora for our simulations thatmimic the relevant syntactic properties of CDSalong with automatically-produced semantic prop-erties.
Importantly, these artificial corpora havethe distributional properties of the argument struc-tures for the verbs under investigation based onan analysis of verb usages in CDS.
To accomplishthis, we adopt and extend the input-generation lex-icon of Barak et al(2012), which is used to au-tomatically generate the syntactic and semanticfeatures of the frames that serve as input to themodel.
Using this lexicon, each simulation cor-pus is created through a probabilistic generation ofargument structure frames according to their rela-tive frequencies of occurrence in CDS.
Since thecorpora are probabilistically generated, all exper-imental results are averaged over simulations on100 different input corpora, to ensure the resultsare not dependent on idiosyncratic properties of asingle generated corpus.Our input-generation lexicon contains 31 verbsfrom various semantic classes and different fre-quency ranges; these verbs appear in a variety233Semantic Verb Frequency % Relativeclass frequency withSC-fin SC-infBelief think 13829 100 -bet 391 100 -guess 278 76 -know 7189 61 -believe 78 21 -Desire wish 132 94 -hope 290 86 -want 8425 - 76like 6944 - 51need 1690 - 60Communication tell 2953 64 -say 8622 60 -ask 818 29 10speak 62 - -talk 1322 - -Perception hear 1370 21 25see 9717 14 -look 5856 9 -watch 1045 - 27listen 413 33 2Action go 20364 - 5get 16493 - 14make 4165 - 10put 8794 - -come 6083 - -eat 3894 - -take 3239 - -play 2565 - -sit 2462 - -give 2341 - -fall 1555 - -Table 2: The list of our 31 verbs from the five semanticclasses, along with their overall frequency, and their rela-tive frequency with the finite SC (SC-fin) or the infinitivalSC (SC-inf).of syntactic patterns including the sentential com-plement (SC) construction.
Our focus here is onlearning the Belief and Desire classes; however,we include verbs from other classes to have a re-alistic context of MSV acquisition in the presenceof other types of verbs.
In particular, we include(physical) Action verbs because of their frequentusage in CDS, and we include Communicationand Perception groups because of their suggestedrole in the acquisition of MSVs (Bloom et al1989; de Villiers, 2005).
Table 2 lists the verbs ofeach semantic class, along with their overall fre-quency and their relative frequency with the finite(SC-fin) and infinitival SC (SC-inf) in our data.For each of these 31 verbs, the distributional in-formation about its argument structure was manu-ally extracted from a random sample of 100 CDSusages (or all usages if fewer than 100) from eightcorpora from CHILDES (MacWhinney, 2000).2The input-generation lexicon then contains theoverall frequency of each verb, as well as the rela-tive frequency with which it appears with each ofits argument structures.
Each argument structureentry for a verb also contains the values for all thesyntactic and semantic features in a frame (see Ta-ble 1 for an example), which are determined fromthe manual inspection of the usages.The values for syntactic features are based onsimple observation of the order and number ofverbs and arguments in the usage, and, if an ar-gument is an SC, whether it is finite or infiniti-val.
We add this latter feature (the type of theSC) to the syntactic representation used by Baraket al(2012) to allow distinguishing the syntac-tic properties associated with Desire and Beliefverbs.
Note that this feature does not incorporateany potential level of difficulty in processing aninfinitival vs. finite SC; the feature simply recordsthat there are three different types of embedded ar-guments: SC-inf, SC-fin, or none.
Thus, whileDesire and Belief verbs that typically occur withan SC-inf or SC-fin have a distinguishing feature,there is nothing in this representation that makesDesire verbs inherently easier to process.
Thissyntactic representation reflects our assumptionsthat a learner: (i) understands basic syntactic prop-erties of an utterance, such as syntactic categories(e.g., noun and verb) and word order; and (ii) dis-tinguishes between a finite complement, as in Hethinks that Mom left, and an infinitival, as in Hewants Mom to leave.The values for the semantic features of a verband its arguments are based on a simple taxonomyof event and participant role properties adaptedfrom several resources, including Alishahi andStevenson (2008), Kipper et al(2008), and Dowty(1991).
In particular, we assume that the learner isable to perceive and conceptualize the general se-mantic properties of different kinds of events (e.g.,state and action), as well as those of the event par-ticipants (e.g., agent, experiencer, and theme).
Inan adaptation of the lexicon of Barak et al wemake minimal assumptions about shared seman-tics across verb classes.
Specifically, to encodesuitable semantic distinctions among MSVs, andbetween MSVs and other verbs, we aimed for arepresentation that would capture reasonable as-2Brown (1973); Suppes (1974); Kuczaj (1977); Bloomet al(1974); Sachs (1983); Lieven et al(2009).234sumptions about high-level similarities and differ-ences among the verb classes.
As with the syn-tactic features, we ensured that we did not simplyencode the result we are investigating (that chil-dren have facility with Desire verbs before Be-lief verbs) by making the representation for Desireverbs easier to learn.In the results presented in Section 4, ?ourmodel?
refers to the computational model of Baraket al(2012) together with our modifications to theinput representation.3.2 Simulations and Verb PredictionPsycholinguistic studies have used variations ofa novel verb prediction task to examine howstrongly children (or adults) have learned to asso-ciate the various syntactic and semantic propertiesof a typical MSV usage.
In particular, the typicalDesire verb usage combines desire semantics withan infinitival SC syntax, while the typical Beliefverb usage combines belief semantics with a finiteSC syntax.
In investigating the salience of theseassociations in human experiments, participantsare presented with an utterance containing a nonceverb with an SC (e.g., He gorped that his grand-mother was in the bed), sometimes paired with acorresponding scene representing a mental event(e.g., a picture or a silent video depicting a think-ing event with heightened saliency).
An experi-menter then asks each participant what the nonceverb (gorp) ?means?
?
i.e., what existing Englishverb does it correspond to (see, e.g., Asplin, 2002;Papafragou et al 2007).
The expectation is that,e.g., if a participant has a well-entrenched Beliefconstruction, then they should have a strong as-sociation between the finite-SC syntax and beliefsemantics, and hence should produce more Beliefverbs as the meaning of a novel verb in an finite-SC utterance (and analogously for infinitival SCsand Desire verbs).We perform simulations that are based on suchpsycholinguistic experiments.
After training themodel on some number of input frames, we thenpresent it with a test frame in which the main verb(head predicate) is replaced by a nonce verb likegorp (a verb that doesn?t occur in our lexicon).Analogously to the human experiments, in orderto study the differences in the strength of associ-ation between the syntax and semantics of Desireand Belief verbs, we present the model with twotypes of test frames: (i) a typical desire test frame,with syntactic features corresponding to the infini-tival SC syntax, optionally paired (depending onthe experiment) with semantic features associatedwith a Desire verb in our lexicon; and (ii) a typi-cal belief test frame, with syntactic features corre-sponding to the finite SC syntax, optionally pairedwith semantic features from a Belief verb.3Given a test frame Ftest, we use the clusterslearned by the model to calculate the likelihood ofeach of the 31 verbs v as the response of the modelindicating the meaning of the novel verb, as in:P (v|Ftest) (5)=?k?ClustersPhead(v|k)P (k|Ftest)?
?k?ClustersPhead(v|k)P (Ftest|k)P (k)where Phead(v|k) is the probability of the headfeature having the value v in cluster k, calculatedas in Eqn.
(4); P (Ftest|k) is the probability of thetest frame Ftest given cluster k, calculated as inEqn.
(3); and P (k) is the prior probability of clus-ter k, calculated as explained in Section 2.2.What we really want to know is the likelihoodof the model producing a verb from each of thesemantic classes, rather than the likelihood of anyparticular verb.
For each test frame, we calculatethe likelihood of each semantic class by summingthe likelihoods of the verbs in that class:P (Class|Ftest) =?vc?ClassP (vc|Ftest)where vc is one of the verbs in Class, and Classranges over the 5 classes in Table 2.
We averagethe verb class likelihoods across the 100 simula-tions.4 Experimental ResultsThe novel verb prediction experiments describedabove have found differences in the performanceof children across the two MSV classes (e.g., As-plin, 2002; Papafragou et al 2007).
For exam-ple, children performed better at predicting that anovel verb is a Desire verb in a typical desire con-text (infinitival-SC utterance paired with a desirescene), compared to their performance at identify-ing a novel verb as a Belief verb in a typical belief3Table 2 shows that, in our data, Belief verbs occur ex-clusively with finite clauses in an SC usage.
Although Desireverbs occur in both SC-inf and SC-fin usages, the former out-number the latter by almost 30 to 1 over all Desire verbs.235context (finite-SC utterance accompanied by a be-lief scene).
In Section 4.1, we examine whetherthe model exhibits this behaviour in our verb classprediction task, thereby mimicking children?s lagin facility with Belief verbs compared to Desireverbs.Recall that some researchers attribute theabove-mentioned developmental gap to the con-ceptual and pragmatic differences between the twoMSV classes, whereas others suggest it is due to adifference in the syntactic requirements of the twoclasses.
As noted in Section 3.1, we have tailoredour representation of Desire and Belief verbs tonot build in any differences in the ease or difficultyof acquiring their syntactic or semantic properties.Moreover, the possibility in the model for ?misin-terpretation?
of mental content as action semantics(see Section 2.3) also applies equally to both typesof verbs.
Thus, any observed performance gap inthe model reflects an interaction between its pro-cessing approach and the distributional propertiesof CDS.
To better understand the role of the in-put, in Section 4.2 we examine how the distribu-tional pattern of appearances of various semanticclasses of verbs (including Belief, Desire, Com-munication, Perception and Action verbs) with thefinite and infinitival SC constructions affects thelearning of the two types of MSVs.4.1 Verb Prediction SimulationsHere we compare the verb prediction responses ofthe participants in the experiments of Papafragouet al(2007) (PCG), with those of the model whenpresented with a novel verb in a typical desire orbelief test frame.
(See Section 3.2 for how we con-struct these frames.)
PCG report verb responsesfor the novel verb meaning as desire, belief, or ac-tion, where the latter category contains all otherverb responses.
Looking closely at the latter cat-egory in PCG, we find that most verbs are whatwe have termed (physical) Action verbs.
We thusreport the verb class likelihoods of the model forthe Belief, Desire, and Action verbs in our lexi-con.
To compare the model?s responses with thoseof the children and adults in PCG, we report theresponses of the model to the test frames at twotest points: after training the model with 500 in-put frames, resembling the ?Child stage?, and afterpresenting the model with 10, 000 input frames,representing the ?Adult stage?.Figure 1(a) gives the percent verb types from(a) Human participants in Papafragou et al(2007)(b) The modelFigure 1: (a) Percent verb types produced by adult andchild participants given a desire or belief utterance and scene.
(b) The model?s verb class likelihoods given a desire or be-lief test frame.
Child stage is represented by 500 input framescompared to the 10, 000 input frames for Adult stage.PCG;4 Figure 1(b) presents the results of themodel.
Similarly to the children in PCG, themodel at earlier stages of learning (?Child stage?
)is better at predicting Desire verbs for a desire testframe (.56) than it is at predicting Belief verbs fora belief test frame (.42) ?
cf.
59% Desire vs.41% Belief prediction for PCG.
In addition, as forboth the children and adult participants of PCG,the model produces more Action verbs in a desirecontext than in a belief context at both stages.We note that although the adult participants ofPCG perform well at identifying both Desire andBelief verbs, the model does not identify Beliefverbs with the same accuracy as it does Desireverbs, even after processing 10, 000 input frames(i.e., the ?Adult stage?).
In Section 4.2, we will seethat this is due to the model forming strong asso-ciations between the Communication and Percep-tion verbs and the SC-fin usage (the typical syn-tax of Belief verbs).
These associations might be4Based on results presented in Table 4, Page 149 in Pa-pafragou et al(2007), for the utterance and scene condition.236overly strong in our model because of the limitednumber of verbs and verb classes ?
an issue wewill need to address in the future.
We also notethat, unlike the results of PCG, the model onlyrarely produces Desire verbs in a Belief context.This also may be due to our choice of Desire verbs,which have extremely few SC-fin usages overall.To summarize, similarly to children (Asplin,2002; Papafragou et al 2007), the model per-forms better at identifying Desire verbs comparedto Belief verbs.
Moreover, we replicate the ex-perimental results of PCG without encoding anyconceptual or syntactic differences in difficulty be-tween the two types of verbs.
Specifically, becausethe representation of Desire and Belief classes inour experiments does not build in a bias due to theease of processing Desire verbs, the differentialresults in the model must be due to the interac-tion of the different distributional patterns in CDS(see Table 2) and the processing approach of themodel.
Although this finding does not rule out therole of conceptual or syntactic differences betweenDesire and Belief verbs in delayed acquisition ofthe latter, it points to the importance of the dis-tributional patterns as a potentially important andrelevant factor worth further study in human ex-periments.
We further investigate this hypothesisin the following section.4.2 A Closer Look at the Role of SyntaxThe goal of the experiments presented here is tounderstand how an interaction among the 5 dif-ferent semantic classes of verbs, in terms of theirdistribution of appearance with the two types ofSC constructions, coupled with the probabilistic?misinterpretation?
of MSVs in the model, mightplay a role in the acquisition of Desire before Be-lief verbs.
Because our focus is on the syntacticproperties of the verbs, we present the model withpartial test frames containing a novel verb and syn-tactic features that correspond to either a finite SCusage (the typical use of a Belief verb) or an infini-tival SC usage (the typical use of a Desire verb).5We refer to the partial test frames as SC-fin or SC-inf test frames.
We test the model periodically,over the course of 10, 000 input frames, in orderto examine the progression of the verb class like-5Verb prediction given an isolated utterance has been per-formed with adult participants (e.g., Gleitman et al 2005;Papafragou et al 2007).
Here we simulate the settings ofsuch experiments, but do not compare our results with theexperimental data, since they have not included children.
(a) Model?s likelihoods given SC-inf test frame(b) Model?s likelihoods given SC-fin test frameFigure 2: The model?s verb class likelihoods for the indi-vidual semantic classes.lihoods over time.First, we examine the verb class prediction like-lihoods, given an SC-inf test frame; see Fig-ure 2(a).
We can see that all through training,the likelihoods are mainly divided between Desireand Action verbs, with the Desire likelihood im-proving over time.
Looking at Table 2, we notethat the Desire and Action verbs have the highestfrequency of occurrence with SC-inf (taking intoaccount both the overall frequency of verbs, andtheir relative frequency with SC-inf), contributingto their strength of association with the infinitival-SC syntax.
Note that the very high likelihood ofAction verbs given an SC-inf test frame, especiallyat the earlier stages of training, cannot be solelydue to their occurrence with SC-inf, since theseverbs mostly occur with other syntactic patterns.Recall that the model incorporates a mechanismthat simulates a higher probability of erroneouslyattending to the physical action (as opposed to themental event) at earlier stages, simulating what hasbeen observed in young children (see Section 2.3for details).
We believe that this mechanism is re-237sponsible for some of the Action verb responses ofthe model for an SC-inf test frame.Next, we look at the pattern of verb class likeli-hoods given an SC-fin test frame; see Figure 2(b).We can see that the likelihoods here are dividedacross a larger number of classes ?
namely, Ac-tion, Communication, and Perception ?
com-pared with Figure 2(a) for the SC-inf test frame.Since Action verbs do not occur in our data withSC-fin (see Table 2), their likelihood here comesfrom the misinterpretation of mental events (ac-companied with SC-fin) as action.
The initiallyhigh likelihoods of Communication and Percep-tion verbs results from their high frequency of oc-currence with SC-fin.
Because at this stage Beliefverbs are not always correctly associated with SC-fin due to the high probability of misinterpretingthem as action, we see a lower likelihood of pre-dicting Belief verbs.
Eventually, the model pro-duces more Belief responses than any other verbclass, since Beliefs have the highest frequency ofoccurrence with the finite-SC syntax.To summarize, our results here confirm our hy-pothesis that the distributional properties of theverb classes with the finite and infinitival SC pat-terns, coupled with the learning mechanisms ofthe model, account for the observed developmen-tal pattern of MSV acquisition in our model.5 DiscussionWe use a computational model of verb argumentstructure learning to shed light on the factors thatmight underlie the earlier acquisition of Desireverbs (e.g., wish and want) than Belief verbs (e.g.,think and know).
Although this developmental gaphas been noted by many researchers, there are atleast two competing theories as to what might bethe important factors: differences in the concep-tual/pragmatic requirements (e.g., Fodor, 1992;Bartsch and Wellman, 1995; Perner et al 2003),or differences in the syntactic properties (e.g., deVilliers, 2005; Pascual et al 2008).
Using a com-putational model, we suggest other factors thatmay play a role in an explanation of the observedgap, and should be taken into account in experi-mental studies on human subjects.First, we show that the model exhibits a simi-lar pattern to children, in that it performs better atpredicting Desire verbs compared to Belief verbs,given a novel verb paired with typical Desire orBelief syntax and semantics, respectively.
Thisdifference in performance suggests that the modelforms a strong association between the desire se-mantics and the infinitival-SC syntax ?
one thatis formed earlier and is stronger than the associa-tion it forms between the belief semantics and thefinite-SC syntax.
Importantly, the replication ofthis behaviour in the model does not require anexplicit encoding of conceptual/pragmatic differ-ences between Desire and Belief verbs, nor of adifference between the two types of SC syntax (fi-nite and infinitival) with respect to their ease ofacquisition.
Instead, we find that what is responsi-ble for the model?s behaviour is the distribution ofthe semantic verb classes (Desire, Belief, Percep-tion, Communication, and Action) with the finiteand infinitival SC syntactic patterns in the input.Children are also found to producesemantically-concrete verbs, such as Com-munication (e.g., say) and Perception verbs (e.g.,see), with the finite SC before they produce(more abstract) Belief verbs with the same syntax.Psycholinguistic theories have different viewson what this observation tells us about the delayin the acquisition of Belief verbs.
For example,Bartsch and Wellman (1995) suggest that theearlier production of Communication verbs showsthat even when children have learned the finite-SCsyntax (and use it with more concrete verbs),they lack the required conceptual developmentto talk about the beliefs of others.
Our resultssuggest a different take on these same findings:because Communication (and Perception) verbsalso frequently appear with the finite-SC syntax inthe input, the model learns a relatively strong as-sociation between each of these semantic classesand the finite SC.
This in turn causes a delay inthe formation of a sufficiently-strong associationbetween the Belief verbs and that same syntax,compared with the association between the Desireverbs and the infinitival SC.de Villiers (2005) suggests that associatingCommunication verbs with the finite-SC syntaxhas a facilitating effect on the acquisition of Be-lief verbs.
In our model, we observe a competi-tion between Communication and Belief verbs, interms of their association with the finite-SC syn-tax.
To further explore the hypothesis of de Vil-liers (2005) will require expanding our model withenriched semantic representations that enable us toinvestigate the bootstrapping role of Communica-tion verbs in the acquisition of Beliefs.238ReferencesAfra Alishahi and Suzanne Stevenson.
2008.
Acomputational model of early argument struc-ture acquisition.
Cognitive Science, 32(5):789?834.Kristen N. Asplin.
2002.
Can complement frameshelp children learn the meaning of abstractverbs?
Ph.D. thesis, UMass Amherst.Libby Barak, Afsaneh Fazly, and Suzanne Steven-son.
2012.
Modeling the acquisition of mentalstate verbs.
NAACL-HLT 2012.Karen Bartsch and Henry M. Wellman.
1995.Children talk about the mind.
New York: Ox-ford Univ.
Press.Lois Bloom, Lois Hood, and Patsy Lightbown.1974.
Imitation in language development:If, when, and why.
Cognitive Psychology,6(3):380?420.Lois Bloom, Matthew Rispoli, Barbara Gartner,and Jeremie Hafitz.
1989.
Acquisition of com-plementation.
Journal of Child Language,16(01):101?120.Lois Bloom, Jo Tackeff, and Margaret Lahey.1984.
Learning to in complement constructions.Journal of Child Language, 11(02):391?406.Roger Brown.
1973.
A first language: The earlystages.
Harvard Univ.
Press.Nancy Chih-Lin Chang.
2009.
Constructinggrammar: A computational model of the emer-gence of early constructions.
Ph.D. thesis, Uni-versity of California, Berkeley.Jill G. de Villiers.
2005.
Can language acquisi-tion give children a point of view.
In Why Lan-guage Matters for Theory of Mind, pages 199?232.
Oxford Univ.
Press.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic Proto-Roles andArgument Selection.
Language, 67(3):547?619.Jerry A Fodor.
1992.
A theory of the child?s theoryof mind.
Cognition, 44(3):283?296.Lila R. Gleitman, Kimberly Cassidy, RebeccaNappa, Anna Papafragou, and John C.Trueswell.
2005.
Hard words.
LanguageLearning and Development, 1(1):23?64.Karin Kipper, Anna Korhonen, Neville Ryant, andMartha Palmer.
2008.
A large-scale classifica-tion of English verbs.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 42(1):21?40.A.
Kuczaj, Stan.
1977.
The acquisition of regularand irregular past tense forms.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior, 16(5):589?600.Elena Lieven, Dorothe?
Salomo, and MichaelTomasello.
2009.
Two-year-old children?s pro-duction of multiword utterances: A usage-basedanalysis.
Cognitive Linguistics, 20(3):481?507.B.
MacWhinney.
2000.
The CHILDES project:Tools for analyzing talk, volume 2.
PsychologyPress.Anna Papafragou, Kimberly Cassidy, and LilaGleitman.
2007.
When we think about think-ing: The acquisition of belief verbs.
Cognition,105(1):125?165.Christopher Parisien and Suzanne Stevenson.2011.
Generalizing between form and meaningusing learned verb classes.
In Proceedings ofthe 33rd Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Sci-ence Society.Bele?n Pascual, Gerardo Aguado, Mar?
?a Sotillo,and Jose C Masdeu.
2008.
Acquisition of men-tal state language in Spanish children: a longitu-dinal study of the relationship between the pro-duction of mental verbs and linguistic develop-ment.
Developmental Science, 11(4):454?466.Amy Perfors, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Eliz-abeth Wonnacott.
2010.
Variability, negativeevidence, and the acquisition of verb argu-ment constructions.
Journal of Child Language,37(03):607?642.Josef Perner.
1988.
Developing semantics for the-ories of mind: From propositional attitudes tomental representation.
Developing theories ofmind, pages 141?172.Josef Perner, Manuel Sprung, Petra Zauner, andHubert Haider.
2003.
Want That is understoodwell before Say That, Think That, and False Be-lief: A test of de Villiers?s linguistic determin-ism on German?speaking children.
Child devel-opment, 74(1):179?188.Jacqueline Sachs.
1983.
Talking about the Thereand Then: The emergence of displaced refer-ence in parent?child discourse.
Children?s lan-guage, 4.Marilyn Shatz, Henry M. Wellman, and SharonSilber.
1983.
The acquisition of mental verbs:A systematic investigation of the first referenceto mental state.
Cognition, 14(3):301?321.239Patrick Suppes.
1974.
The semantics of children?slanguage.
American psychologist, 29(2):103.240
