Proceedings of the 2013 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2013), pages 27?35,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying pathological findings in German radiology reports using asyntacto-semantic parsing approachClaudia Bretschneider1,2, Sonja Zillner1 and Matthias Hammon31 Siemens AG, Corporate Technology, 81739 Munich, Germany2 University Munich, Center for Information and Language Processing, 80538 Munich, Germany3 University Hospital Erlangen, Department of Radiology, 91054 Erlangen, Germany{claudia.bretschneider.ext,sonja.zillner}@siemens.com,matthias.hammon@uk-erlangen.deAbstractIn order to integrate heterogeneous clinicalinformation sources, semantically correlatinginformation entities have to be linked.
Ourdiscussions with radiologists revealed thatanatomical entities with pathological findingsare of particular interest when linking radi-ology text and images.
Previous research toidentify pathological findings focused on sim-plistic approaches that recognize diseases ornegated findings, but failed to establish a holis-tic approach.
In this paper, we introduce oursyntacto-semantic parsing approach to clas-sify sentences in radiology reports as eitherpathological or non-pathological based on thefindings they describe.
Although we operatewith an incomplete, RadLex-based linguisticresource, the obtained results show the effec-tiveness of our approach by identifying a recallvalue of 74.3% for the classification task.1 IntroductionIn radiology, descriptions of the patient?s health statusare stored in heterogeneous formats.
They range fromradiology images - which are the primary source for ra-diologists - over dictated reports about the image find-ings up to written texts.Although the various data items describe the samestatus, they are distributed in non-linked systems.
Thisis hindering the radiologist?s workflow.
Especiallywhen reading reports, radiologists want to link backfrom the described finding (in the text) to the relatedbody location (in the images).
Today, they establishthe link manually.
This is obviously time-consumingwhen state-of-the-art imaging modalities deliver a massof stacked images.In order to link radiology images and reports, eachinformation source needs to be annotated with seman-tic meta-information about the anatomical entities theydescribe.
The necessary semantic image annotationsfor the integration have been made available as a resultof the Theseus MEDICO project (Seifert, 2010).
Intro-duced algorithms automatically detect anatomical en-tities in radiology images and annotate those with thecorresponding RadLex IDs (Seifert et al 2009).
Thesemantic annotations from the reports have to be in linewith those image annotations.
Therefore, the final re-sult of the text analysis system need to be anatomicalannotations based on RadLex.
We introduce a mecha-nism that extracts those semantic annotations from theradiology reports to enable the integration.We identified three challenges, which a text analy-sis system has to consider when extracting the relevantanatomical entities from text:1.
The linguistic characteristics of the reports differsignificantly from standard free-text,2.
the underlying German linguistic resource (theRadLex taxonomy) is incomplete and3.
only a subset of the named anatomical entities inthe reports are relevant for annotating.First, the special linguistic characteristics of the han-dled German reports have to be taken into account.While the linguistic characteristics English radiologyreports have been intensively studied (Friedman et al1994; Friedman et al 2002; Sager et al 1994), Ger-man ones are still a young research area.
German re-ports are comparable to English ones when it comesto structural particularities.
One can observe two char-acteristics in both languages: syntactic shortness andreduced semantic complexity.
But the reports differ inrichness of the language used.
German language is richin inflection form; the same is true for German medicallanguage.
Additionally, clinical texts extend the vari-ety in inflection forms by introducing a huge amount ofGreek- and Latin-rooted vocabulary.
Further linguisticparticularities will be introduced in a later section.Second, the anatomical annotations will be es-tablished based on the controlled vocabulary of theRadLex taxonomy.
Anatomical annotations of the im-ages (based on RadLex) are already available and henceimpose the mandatory condition to use RadLex annota-tions for the reports.
We operate on German radiologyreports that is why we use the German RadLex taxon-omy.
Compared to the English version, the GermanRadLex is lacking in terminology.
This is an obstacle,we have to overcome.Third, we have to find a way to filter relevantanatomical annotations.
According to the radiolo-gists we worked with, it is inappropriate to extract all27anatomical entities from the text to link them with theimage annotations.
A large portion of the anatomiesis described with normal or absent findings, which donot describe pathologies.
Those findings are includedin the reports in order to exclude differential diag-noses.
However, radiologists are interested in imagesof anatomical entities described with pathological find-ings.
Thus, a crucial part of our work is to extract theanatomical entities with pathological findings in orderto link only those with the image positions.The core contribution of this paper is the descrip-tion of a syntacto-semantic parsing approach to identifythe sentences that describe pathological findings by us-ing the German version of the RadLex taxonomy.
Theresults of this approach are used to integrate relevantsemantic information from heterogeneous data sourcesand support radiologists significantly in their work rou-tine.To introduce our solution, the remainder of this pa-per is organized as follows: Section 2 refers to relatedwork in the field and shows where sub-problems arestill unsolved.
In Section 3, we analyze the linguisticcharacteristics of the reports.
Section 4 introduces thetext analysis system for integrating radiology text andimages.
The system handles both the linguistic partic-ularities of the reports and the shortcomings of RadLexas linguistic resource and filters relevant anatomical en-tities from the reports.
Section 5 evaluates and dis-cusses the classification and extraction results.
Finally,Section 6 concludes with possible future work.2 Related workMedical grammar-based text analysis systems In-formation extraction from medical texts is a well-researched task in medical natural language processing(Meystre et al2008).
Especially radiology reports playan important role.Theoretical work in the linguistic characteristics ofthe medical sublanguage has been conducted on theadaption of theories of Harris by (Friedman et al2002).
Early systems of (Sager et al 1994; Friedmanet al 1994) are adaptations of the theories and imple-ment own (context-free) medical language grammar forradiology reports.
They show that parsing of medicaltexts based on a combined semantic-syntactic grammarcan be successfully conducted ?
but they conductedtheir research using English reports.
Even today, ad-vances in grammar-based parsing of medical texts arereached (Fan et al 2011).More recently, sophisticated semantic medical textanalysis systems have integrated a component to parsetexts.
(Savova et al 2010) They take the output of theparsing process to extract semantic relationships be-tween the medical concepts described.All those systems work with elaborated lexicons thatfully cover the vocabulary used in English report.Detecting diseases and Negated finding Most sys-tems cover the problem of detecting pathological find-ings in the reports just partially: In order to detectpathologies, they automate the assignment of codes fordiseases listed in ontologies such as UMLS (Aronson,2001; Lindberg, 1990; Long, 2005) or ICD (Computa-tional Medicine Center, 2007; Pestian et al 2007).Non-pathological findings are identified using nega-tion detection algorithms.
Available approaches rangefrom simple algorithms based on dictionary lookup andregular expressions (Chapman et al 2001; Mutalik etal., 2001) through machine learning (Goryachev et al2006) up to advanced approaches that apply a context-free ?negation grammar?
(Huang, 2007).Gap analysis While the grammar-based analysis ofradiology reports has proven to be successful with com-plete lexical resources, we have to face the shortcom-ings of an incomplete lexicon.
Furthermore, in othersystems the grammar is used to analyze the syntax ofthe reports.
Our approach to use it for classification isnovel and has not been applied so far.Working with German clinical texts is another chal-lenge in the field.
English texts have been made avail-able by a number of shared tasks and gained more andmore interest in the last decade.
Medical corpora inlanguages other than English are not available to thatextent.That is perhaps also the reason for the tremendouslack of German medical ontologies.
While great effortis put into the advance of English ontologies, Germanlanguage versions are rare.Terminology acquisition and semantic classificationSemantic classifications beyond the hierarchical infor-mation encoded in taxonomies and ontologies are stillrare for ontology concepts.
In particular, semantic clas-sifications such as information about the pathologicalnature of the concepts are missing so far.Several approaches address this lack of semantic in-formation: Corpus-based approaches base their meth-ods on statistical analyses about the coverage and us-age frequency of UMLS ontology concepts (Liu et al2012; Wu et al 2012).
(Johnson, 1999) derives seman-tic classes from ontology mapping and disambiguatesmultiple senses in contexts of discharge summaries.
(Campbell et al 1999) applies pattern-based rules andcombines them with UMLS concepts to acquire newand semantically classified terminology.
However, thisapproach is limited to noun phrases.Finally, (Zweigenbaum et al 2003) introduce ap-proaches to automatically extending the existing En-glish UMLS ontology with non-English concepts basedon statistical algorithms.3 Corpus analysis3.1 Reference corpusSince a publicly available corpus of German radiologyreports is missing, we build our own annotated corpus28based on 2713 de-identified reports from our clinicalpartner, the University Hospital Erlangen.
The reportsresult from radiology examinations of lymphoma pa-tients and range from April 2002 to July 2007.
Eachreport contains two free-text sections: The first one de-scribes findings observed in the images.
In the secondsections, the radiologist provides an overall evaluationabout the findings, derives probable diagnoses and ex-cludes differential diagnoses.3.2 Development set of reportsFrom the corpus, we selected 174 reports for the devel-opment set.
They are uniformly distributed across timeand length.The development set serves multiple purposes:1.
It is used for the linguistic analysis.2.
We use it for grammar derivation.3.
And pathology classifications and additional vo-cabulary are learned from the sentences.A radiologist classified each of the contained sentenceseither as pathological or non-pathological.
This is donebased on the characteristics of the findings described inthe sentence.
Sentences describing normal or negatedfindings are classified as ?non-pathological?
and thosecontaining descriptions of abnormalities are classifiedas ?pathological?.
In cases where sentences includeboth types of findings, they are classified as ?patholog-ical?.
Hence, each sentence in the development set wasannotated with the classification information.3.3 Statistics of the development setThe 174 reports in the development set contain 4295sentences of which less than half are classified as?pathological?.
This ratio is in line with the radiol-ogists?
experience.
As from their intuition, the ma-jority of the findings described in radiology reports isnoted as absent or has normal status.
In the reports,they complement pathological findings in order to notethe absence of finding and to exclude suspected dis-eases.
However, those sentences classified as ?non-pathological?
are irrelevant for our setting of linkingthe containing anatomies to the images.Table 1 shows additional results of the statistical cor-pus analysis.Sentence classificationnon-Corpus characteristic pathological pathologicalSentences 1943 2352Tokens used 16437 11572Average sentence length 8.46 4.92Distinct word types 2398 1581Table 1: Results of statistical corpus analysis based onthe development setAnother significant characteristic of the sentences istheir average length.
Pathological sentences are aboutas twice as long as non-pathological ones and thus aremore complex in their syntax.
The pathology classifierhas to cover this complexity.Furthermore, from comparing the distinct wordtypes used, we conclude that the description of patho-logical findings requires a richer language than those ofnormal states and absent findings in non-pathologicalsentences.
The linguistic resource has to cover this re-quired rich language.3.4 Semantic and syntactic characteristicsOne of the most apparent syntactic characteristics ofthe reports is the elliptical style of the sentences.
Thetexts are rich in omission of verbs; verbs are dispens-able as they only underline the absence or presenceof symptoms.
An example that illustrates the facts isshown below.General languageIn der Lunge sind keine Ergu?sse zu finden.In the lung, there are no effusions found.Radiologist?s styleLunge: Kein Erguss.Lung: No effusions.The observation of the syntactic structure of the sen-tences is in line with (Friedman et al 2002) and willsimplify the classification of the sentences.The second observation we made is that the medicallanguage uses a high amount of domain-specific vocab-ulary.
This vocabulary is rarely used in every-day lan-guage and is highly connected with (implicit) medicaldomain knowledge.
Thus, the linguistic handling ofthe reports requires a domain-specific lexicon.
Further-more, the vocabulary can be categorized into only a fewsemantic classes representing the content, such as mea-surements, dates, anatomies, modifier of the anatomies,diseases, etc.Third, one feature of the medical language is verydomain-specific: It uses a high amount of Greek- andLatin-rooted words.
This is important, because thoseterms follow their own specific inflection forms.
Fur-thermore, for many terms there exist both German andLatin-/Greek-rooted descriptions which are used inter-changeably (e.g.
descriptions of anatomical entities ordiseases).
However, most lexicons only contain a sin-gle term - not the complete list of synonyms.Like the German language, the medical lan-guage is also rich in compound terms such asNasenseptumdeviation (deviation of the nasal septum)or Glukosestoffwechselsteigerung (increase in glucosemetabolism).
Especially radiologists use a high num-ber of compounds to describe pathological findings.They will be of particular importance for the identifi-cation of pathological findings.
In many cases, onlyafter determining the pathology classification of each29subtoken, the classification of the compound can be de-termined.Systems that mine information from radiology re-ports have to consider the named syntactic and se-mantic characteristics and handle them as language-specifics.
In particular, the short length of the sentencessimplifies the development of a grammar with a limitednumber of rules.4 Methods4.1 Grammar-based classification approachBased on the observations from the corpus analysis,we derive and apply a semantic context-free grammar(CFG) to classify sentences.Using a grammar to classify the sentences may notseem intuitive for every-day language sentences.
Nev-ertheless, the language used in radiology reports allowsthis approach.
There are several facts that support theusage of a grammar.1.
The structure of the sentences created by radiol-ogists differs significantly from the structure ofgeneral German language.
To model this languagean own (sublanguage) grammar is necessary.2.
Since the sentences are short in length, a relativelysmall number of grammar rules can represent theirsyntax.
In particular, the omission of verbs allowsus to create and use a simplified grammar.3.
As already researched by (Friedman et al 2002),the sentences contain a limited number of seman-tic classes which are combined into few rules.These observations support the approach to create agrammar with few rules to classify the sentences.4.2 Overview of the building blocks of the textanalysis systemAfter having analyzed the linguistic characteristics, wedesigned a text analysis system to extract the rele-vant information from the reports.
The classification isbased on a grammar whose components are setup first:The grammar rules are created and lexicon is setup.To overcome the incompleteness of the lexicon and toenhance the grammar with probabilities, we introducean additional learning step.
These first three steps canbe regarded as preparation steps for the subsequent in-tegration steps: Finally, the system is able to classifyreport sentences and extracts anatomical annotationsfrom the sentences classified as ?pathological?.
In theend, the semantic annotations from text and images arelinked across the data sources.
The described steps ofthe target system are shown in Figure 1.This paper focuses on the details of the created gram-mar: how the parsing algorithm is adapted to learn newlinguistic knowledge and how the probabilistic parsingalgorithm is used to derive a classification for an inputsentence.DerivegrammarCreatelexiconLearnfrom thedevelopment setPreparation stepsClassifyExtractandLinkIntegration stepsFigure 1: Processing steps in text analysis systemThe following sections describe the details of the in-dividual processing steps.4.3 Derive grammarThe core component of the text processing system isthe grammar.
Our grammar has two functions:1.
It is used to describe the structure of a given inputsentence, and2.
using the results of the parsing process, an inputsentence can be classified as either ?pathological?or ?non-pathological?.We use a semantic grammar for the description ofthe syntactic structure of the sentences.
That means,instead of mapping syntactic categories from part-of-speech tags as non-terminal symbols, we use se-mantic representations of the content.
E.g., the termNiere [spleen] gets assigned the non-terminal symbolANATOMIE.Following the proposal of (Friedman et al 1994),we create semantic classes that represent the contentof the radiology reports.
However, we do not needtheir fine-grained semantic class definition.
Our task ofpathology classification requires only a reduced num-ber of classes.
We drop classes that do not change thepathology classification result (such as degree, quan-tity, technique, etc.)
and introduce the generalized se-mantic classes MOD (modifier) and TERM.
The list ofsemantic classes derived is shown in Table 2.The grammar has to fulfill one condition to be able toclassify sentences.
Only non-terminal symbols used forclassification are directly derived from the start symbol(S).
We use the non-terminal symbols PATH for clas-sifying sentences as ?pathological?
and NOPATH forclassifying as ?non-pathological?.
Hence, the followingunary rules designate the classification in our grammar:S ?
PATHS ?
NOPATHAny subsequent rules have to be hierarchically embed-ded into those rules.During the subsequent (manual) grammar derivationprocess, we use the listed semantic classes as non-terminal symbols and derive the grammar rules from30Structural non-terminalsROOTSKOMMAENUMFIND CONNECTClassification non-terminalsPATH Constituents(sentence-level,modifier and term)with pathologyclassificationinformationNOPATHMOD PATHMOD NOPATHTERM PATHTERM NOPATHFINDING NOPATHFINDING PATHSemantic non-terminalsLOCATIONNon-terminalsrepresentingconstituents withspecific semanticmeaningDATEMEASUREMENTANATOMIENEGATIONDISEASELinguistic non-terminalsARTICLE Article non-terminalARTICLE GENITIVPREP DATE Prepositionnon-terminalsindicating differentsemantic unitsPREP LOCATIONPREP MEASUREMENTMapping semantic class - regular expressionDATE VALUEMEASUREMENT VALUEIMAGE VALUETable 2: List of semantic non-terminalsthe development corpus.
Because of the limited num-ber of semantic classes and the elliptical sentence style,a small set of 238 grammar rules suffices to describethe sentence syntax.
The resulting grammar rules con-sider the syntactic complexity of the sentences describ-ing pathological findings: 52% of the rules model theconstituent structure of pathological sentences.4.4 Create lexiconThe linguistic resource of our system is a lexicon, cre-ated based on the German version of the RadLex tax-onomy.RadLex (RSNA, 2012) is a taxonomy published bythe Radiological Society of North America (RNSA) inorder to deliver a uniform controlled vocabulary for in-dexing and retrieval of radiology information sources.The current English version 3.8 contains 39976 classes.A German version has been worked-out (Marwede etal., 2009) in 2007.
The contained terms are organizedin 13 major categories: anatomical entity as one amongothers such as treatment, image observation and imag-ing observation characteristics.
But as the developmentof the German language version has been stopped, thelatest version 2.0 contains only a subset of classes(n=10003).
This lack in terminology is an obstacle toovercome.Linguistic resource From the German RadLex wecreated a lexicon (n=9479), which we use as linguisticresource.
Each entry is represented by a list of proper-ties.Besides the structural properties label and RID, weapply several steps of linguistic and semantic process-ing to enrich the lexical entries.
The normalized stemof each entry results from an own tokenization, normal-ization and stemming algorithm.The normalization aligns German and Latin stylespellings (e.g.
Karzinom/Carzinom, Okzipitallappen/-Occipitallappen).
The stemmer adapts the GermanPorter stemmer and incorporates additional rules forsuffixes and inflection that are derived from Latin andGreek.
E.g., this extension enabled the mapping of Me-diastinum and mediastinal to the same stem mediastin-,which would not have been possible with the GermanPorter stemmer.Furthermore, during lexicon setup each entry is en-riched with semantic classification information.
Thesemantic class is used during parsing.
We use rea-soning methods and the hierarchical is-a structure ofthe RadLex taxonomy in order to deduct a semanticclass for each entry from the major categories.
For ex-ample, this mechanism enables us to assign to deductthe semantic class ANATOMIE for sub-entities of themajor category ?Anatomical entity?
(such as Prostata[prostate]).We apply a similar reasoning mechanism for thepathology classification.
As the lexicon entries are ini-tially unclassified according to their pathological in-formation, we analyzed them and found the followingmechanism: It is feasible to classify each of the majorcategories unambiguously either as ?pathological?
or?non-pathological?.
For example, entries with semanticclass ANATOMIE are classified as ?non-pathological?.This pathological classification information is added to10 out of 13 major RadLex categories and inferred toall hyponyms.
For three of the categories, the classifi-cation is ambiguous.
The determination of the pathol-ogy classification results in the distribution shown inTable 3.Classification #non-pathological 6001 63.3%pathological 1714 18.1%not to be determined 1764 18.6%9479 100%Table 3: Results of the initial pathology classificationof RadLex-based lexicon entriesThe algorithm is able to classify 81.4 % of the lexicon31S?
PATHS?
NOPATHPATH?
FIND PATHNOPATH?
FIND NOPATHFIND PATH?MOD PATH ANATOMIEFIND NOPATH?MOD NOPATH ANATOMIE?
?
vergro??ertANATOMIE?
ProstataVergro?
?erte(enlarged)Prostata(prostate)MOD PATH MOD NOPATH ANATOMIEFIND PATHPATHFIND NOPATHNOPATHSFigure 2: Learning lexical knowledge from sentence Vergro?
?erte Prostata (enlarged prostate)entries.
We have to find a way to classify the remain-ing unclassified entries.
Only when all the lexical en-tries are classified, the sentence classification algorithmproduces reliable results.The finally derived lexical resource contains 9479entries with 23588 tokens of which 6326 are distinct.Comparing this number with the distinct word typesused in the development set (n=3172), one assumes thatthe lexicon could cover the vocabulary used in the re-ports.
However, this is not the case.
Important termsthat occur quite frequently in the development set andhave high relevance for the pathology classification areeither not included in the lexicon (e.g.
La?sion/lesion)or are included but are not classified (e.g.
sklerosiert |RID 5906 [sclerosing]).That is why we argue that an additional corpus-basedlearning step to extend the vocabulary and its classifi-cation is mandatory.4.5 Learn from the development setWe introduce an additional learning step to extend thelexicon with missing items and to classify existingitem missing a pathology classification.
At the sametime, the probabilities of the grammar rules are trainedduring this step.
The learning is conducted using anadapted probabilistic CKY algorithm.Extending the lexical resource How parsing isadapted to learn from the sentences is illustrated in Fig-ure 2.
The sentence Vergro?
?erte Prostata [Enlargedprostate] is input to the learning.
From the sentence?sannotation, we know that this sentence describes apathological finding (PATH).
The subset of the gram-mar necessary to parse this sentence is shown on theleft-hand side of the figure.
The non-terminal mappingof the words is shown below the grammar rules.
Cur-rently, only the mapping of the word Prostata to thenon-terminal symbol ANATOMIE can be derived fromthe lexicon.
Mapping vergro?
?ert is not possible.
Thelexical entry has a semantic classification (Modifier) as-signed, but no pathology classification.
However, inthis case both information items are necessary to deter-mine the non-terminal mapping.
In order to learn themissing pathology classification of this word, we applyan adapted CKY parsing algorithm.The standard CKY algorithm (Kasami, 1965) oper-ates bottom-up and uses two complete components todetermine the parse tree of a given input sentence:1.
A complete lexicon to determine the non-terminalmapping of the words, and2.
a complete list of all grammar rules.Our setting is missing the complete lexicon.
That iswhy we adapt the standard algorithm and introduce atop-down analysis in order to extend the linguistic re-source while parsing.There are two possible non-terminal mappings forthe word vergro?
?ert: MOD PATH (indicating a mod-ifier for pathologies) or MOD NOPATH (indicating amodifier not describing pathologies).
Both of the op-tions are used to determine the parse tree of the sen-tence.
The ambiguity is resolved at the top-most pars-ing level: The sentence is annotated as ?pathological?,hence, only rewritings that include the correspondingnon-terminal symbol PATH are allowed.
Finally, theparse tree of the sentence can be derived (as shown inFigure 3).SPATHFIND PATHMOD PATHVergro?
?erte(enlarged)ANATOMIEProstata(prostate)Figure 3: Parse tree derived from sentence Vergro?
?erteProstata (Enlarged prostate)In addition, the (formerly unknown) non-terminalmapping of the word vergro?
?ert to MOD PATH is de-ducted from the parse tree and the corresponding lexi-cal entry is updated.
Using this algorithm, we are alsoable to learn vocabulary that was not available in thelexicon before.32Training the grammar?s probabilities The parsetree is also used as input for extending the grammarto a probabilistic context-free grammar.
Each of thegrammar rules used to form the parse tree is used tore-calculate the probabilities of the grammar rules.After the learning step, the lexicon is extended to10344 entries (before 9479).
But even more impor-tant, the overall amount of lexicon entries classified as?pathological?
increased by 18.8 % to now 2036 entries(before 1714).
We consider this a key success of thelearning, as our classification depends on this encodedknowledge.4.6 ClassifyAfter conducting the previous steps,1.
the extended lexicon,2.
the trained P-CFG, and3.
the standard probabilistic CKY parsing algorithmare applied to parse unclassified sentences.The sentence classification is conducted based on thelexicon and the grammar rules.
The lexicon helps to as-sign non-terminal symbols to the words in the sentence.Depending on non-terminal symbols assigned and thegrammar rules applied during the subsequent parsingprocess, the parse tree will reveal the classification ofthe sentence.As parsing algorithm we apply the standard prob-abilistic CKY (P-CKY) algorithm.
It resolves bothsyntactic and classification ambiguities.
In case, thesentence contains unknown words, the probabilisticparsing feature helps to disambiguate the non-terminalassignment.
The derived parse tree describes boththe syntactic structure of the sentence and the derivedpathology classification.4.7 Extract and LinkFinally, in case a sentence is classified as ?patholog-ical?, the contained anatomical entities are extracted.The sentences are annotated with the extracted anatom-ical information.
An external system combines theanatomical annotations from images and reports.
Thus,links are created successfully and the correlating im-age positions for pathological findings can be accessedfrom the text.5 EvaluationWe evaluate the classification system using 40randomly-chosen reports containing 1296 sentences.5.1 Precision and recall measurementsWe evaluate the classification results and the successof the alignment of radiology reports and images usingprecision and recall values.
Only for sentences classi-fied as ?pathological?, the contained anatomical entitiesare extracted and anatomical annotations are created.That is why we prefer high recall values.
If sentencesare misclassified as ?pathological?
?
although they de-scribe non-pathological findings (FP) ?
this is a minorissue.
This misclassification results in alignment ofanatomical entities in text and images without patho-logical findings.
We accept lower precision values thatyield those additional, but not intended alignments.5.2 Baseline evaluationWe compare the evaluation results of the classifica-tion system with the results of a semantically-informedbaseline algorithm.
This algorithm detects nega-tions and classifies the containing sentences as ?non-pathological?.
Sentences containing diseases (deter-mined based on Latin suffixes such as -itis, -ose, etc.
)or a pathological RadLex concepts (as determined dur-ing the lexicon creation step) are classified as ?patho-logical?.
Any remaining sentences are assumed to de-scribe non-pathological findings.The results of the baseline classification are shownin Table 4.
The headings denote ?non-pathological?sentences (NOPATH) respectively ?pathological?
sen-tences (PATH).expected classificationPATH NOPATHobserved PATH 17 0classification NOPATH 446 833Table 4: Classification results using baseline algorithmThis baseline approach has the advantage of 100% pre-cision value.
However, it produces a low recall valueof 3.67 %, which shows that this approach is not appli-cable for the alignment of text and images.
The resultsshow that the identification of pathologies is not feasi-ble by only using (1) suffixes to determine diseases and(2) available pathology descriptions from the RadLextaxonomy.5.3 Evaluation of the parsing-based classificationresultsTable 5 shows the system results of classifying the 1296report sentences using the syntacto-semantic parsingapproach.expected classificationPATH NOPATHobserved PATH 344 288classification NOPATH 119 545Table 5: Sentence classification results using syntacto-semantic parsing approachTaking into account the impact of the (still) incom-plete lexicon, the recall value of 74.3 % indicates thatthe chosen approach to classify pathological sentencesis successful.
However, the precision value of 54.4 %33indicates that the classification of almost half of the?pathological?
sentences is incorrect.Compared to the baseline, the acquisition of addi-tional, pathology classified vocabulary and its incorpo-ration into a parsing-based approach significantly im-proves the recall value.
That is why we regard the en-richment of the lexicon at the crucial step for (further)improvement of the classification results.
However, alarge amount of sentences was classified incorrectly as?pathological?.
The error analysis will reveals somecauses.5.4 Error analysisWe identified four error types that produce incorrectlyclassified results.1.
Some of the pathology classification of the seman-tic knowledge acquired during learning is incor-rect.Terms that do not describe pathological proper-ties such as Voraufnahme [previous examination]or Lymphknoten [lymph node] were classified as?pathological?
; also, pathological findings such asLa?sion [lesion] or Infiltrat [infiltrate] could not beclassified correctly.
Because of their high usagefrequency (26, 116, 20, 7 times), these four termsare accountable for 169 of the misclassified sen-tences (both FP and FN) from the evaluation.The disambiguation of (word-level) pathologyclassification using sentence-level annotations isobviously very vague and imprecise.
In order toimprove the terminology acquisition results, wewill include distribution information and proba-bilistic features into the learning process as futurework.2.
The terminology acquisition leads to an extendedlexicon, but still, terminology remains uncovered.In particular, the description of pathological find-ings requires a richer language, its lack inhibitstheir correct classification.
Even though our cor-pus is limited to reports of lymphoma patients(i.e., contains limited medical vocabulary), still,the test set contains vocabulary that is not used inthe training set.
For a further elaborated lexicon,the training set has to be extended in size and alsoin content.3.
Furthermore, the majority of long sentences isnot successfully parsed because of missing gram-mar rules.
Those long sentences are more likelydescribing pathological findings, which leads tofalse negatives.
We found that sentences longerthan 8 tokens are rather incorrectly classified thancorrectly; nevertheless, this concerns only 8 %(99/1296) of all sentences.
Thus, we regard thisas a minor issues.4.
Finally, our assumption of covering the seman-tics with a limited number of non-terminals wasdisproven.
The oversimplification of semanticclasses is insufficient to parse the complex sen-tence structures in the reports.
In particular, thestructure of long sentences requires a wider rangeof non-terminals (and more grammar rules) in or-der to disambiguate the pathology classification.E.g., the defined semantic classes do nor distin-guish modifiers of locations or size for anatomi-cal entities or temporal modifier for pathologies.Their introduction will increase the resolution ofdependencies in complex sentences and the over-all classification.The learning step is the crucial step for improvementof the classification results.
It enriches the vocabulary.If the pathology classification of the learned vocabularyis optimized, the system will deliver even better results.The optimization of the vocabulary learning step willbe future work.6 ConclusionWe designed and implemented a system that alignsfindings from radiology reports to findings in imagesbased on semantic annotations.
Providing the system,we assume to reduce the time necessary to find corre-lating descriptions of one finding in heterogeneous datasources.We build our system on tailored NLP algorithmsthat extract relevant anatomical annotations with patho-logical findings.
To identify sentences that describepathological findings, we introduce a new, semanticgrammar-based classification approach.
To bridge thegap of the incomplete German terminology, a vocabu-lary acquisition step is introduced.
Incorporating thisnewly learned vocabulary, the grammar-based classifi-cation delivers a recall value of 74.3%.We identified a major issue relevant for further workon German clinical texts: The evaluation results reveala large gap in coverage between the vocabulary used innon-English radiology texts and the controlled vocabu-lary delivered by RadLex.
Furthermore, we believe thatlexicons will be crucial resources for language process-ing in the medical domain.
We will focus our futurework on enriching existing lexicons and establishingnew resources for linguistic analysis.AcknowledgementsThis research has been supported in part by the THE-SEUS Program in the MEDICO Project, which isfunded by the German Federal Ministry of Economicsand Technology under grant number 01MQ07016.
Theresponsibility for this publication lies with the authors.ReferencesA.
R. Aronson.
2001.
Effective mapping of biomedi-cal text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: the MetaMapprogram.
Proc AMIA Symp, 17?21.34D.
A. Campbell, S. B. Johnson.
1999.
A techniquefor semantic classification of unknown words usingUMLS resources.. Proc AMIA Symp, 716?20.W.
W. Chapman, W. Bridewell, P. Hanbury, G. F.Cooper, and B. G. Buchanan.
2001.
A simple algo-rithm for identifying negated findings and diseasesin discharge summaries.
J Biomed Inform, 34:301?310.W.
W. Chapman, W. Bridewell, P. Hanbury, G. F.Cooper, and B. G. Buchanan.
2001.
Evaluation ofnegation phrases in narrative clinical reports.
ProcAMIA Symp., 105-109.Computational Medicine Center.
2007.
Inter-national Challenge: Classifying Clinical FreeText Using Natural Language Processing..http://www.computationalmedicine.org/challenge/index.php.J.
W. Fan and C. Friedman.
2011.
Deriving a proba-bilistic syntacto-semantic grammar for biomedicinebased on domain-specific terminologies.. J BiomedInform, 44(5):805?14.C.
Friedman, P. O. Alderson, J. H. M. Austin, J. J.Cimino, and S. B. Johnson.
1994.
A GeneralNatural-Language Text Processor for Clinical Radi-ology.
J Am Med Inform Assoc, 1:161?174.C.
Friedman, P. Kra, and A. Rzhetksy.
2002.
Twobiomedical sublanguages: a description based on thetheories of Zellig Harris.
J Biomed Inform, 35:222?235.S.
Goryachev, M. Sordo, Q. T. Zeng, and L. Ngo.2006.
Implementation and evaluation of four differ-ent methods of negation detection.. Technical report,DSG.Y.
Huang and H. J. Lowe.
2007.
A Novel HybridApproach to Automated Negation Detection in Clin-ical Radiology Reports.
J Am Med Inform Assoc,14:304?311.S.
B. Johnson.
1999.
A semantic lexicon for medi-cal language processing.. J Am Med Inform Assoc,6(3):205-18.T.
Kasami.
1965.
An efficient recognition and syntax-analysis algorithm for context-free languages.
Sci-entific Report AFCRL-65-758, Air Force CambridgeResearch Lab.C.
Lindberg.
1990.
The Unified Medical Lan-guage System (UMLS) of the National Library ofMedicine.. J Am Med Rec Assoc, 61(5):40?42.H.
Liu, S. T. Wu, D. Li, S. Jonnalagadda, S. Sohn, K.Wagholikar, P. J. Haug, S. M. Huff, and C. G. Chute.2012.
Towards a semantic lexicon for clinical nat-ural language processing.. AMIA Annu Symp Proc,568-576.W.
Long.
2005.
Extracting diagnoses from dischargesummaries.
AMIA Annu Symp Proc, 470?4.D.
Marwede, P. Daumke, K. Marko, D. Lobsien, S.Schulz, and T. Kahn.
2009.
RadLex - Germanversion: a radiological lexicon for indexing imageand report information.
Fortschr Ro?ntgenstr, 181(1):38?44.S.
M. Meystre, G. K. Savova, K. C. Kipper-Schuler,and J. F. Hurdle.
2008.
Extracting Information fromTextual Documents in the Electronic Health Record:A Review of Recent Research.
Yearb Med Inform,24(11):128?144.P.
G. Mutalik, A. Deshpande, P. M. Nadkarni.
2001.Use of general-purpose negation detection to aug-ment concept indexing of medical documents: aquantitative study using the UMLS.. J Am Med In-form Assoc, 8(6):598?609.J.
P. Pestian, C. Brew, P. Matykiewicz, D. J. Hover-male, N. Johnson, K. B. Cohen, and W. Duch.
2007.A Shared Task Involving Multi-label Classificationof Clinical Free Text.. BioNLP 2007: Biological,translational, and clinical language processing..Radiological Society of North America.
2012.RadLex.
http://rsna.org/RadLex.aspx.N.
Sager, M. Lyman, C. Bucknall, N. Nhan, and L. J.Tick.
1994.
Natural Language Processing and theRepresentation of Clinical Data.
J Am Med InformAssoc, 1:142?160.G.
K. Savova, J. J. Masanz, P. V. Ogren, J. Zheng,S.
Sohn, K. C. Kipper-Schuler, and C. G. Chute.2010.
Mayo clinical Text Analysis and KnowledgeExtraction System (cTAKES): architecture, compo-nent evaluation and applications.. J Am Med InformAssoc, 17(5):507?13.S.
Seifert.
2010.
THESEUS-Anwendungsszenario MEDICO.
http://www.joint-research.org/das-theseus-forschungsprogramm/medico/.S.
Seifert, A. Barbu, K. Zhou, D. Liu, J. Feulner, M.Huber, M. Suehling, A. Cavallaro, and D. Comani-ciu.
2009.
Hierarchical Parsing and Semantic Nav-igation of Full Body CT Data.
SPIE Medical Imag-ing.S.
T. Wu, H. Liu, D. Li, C. Tao, M. A. Musen, C. G.Chute, N. H. Shah.
2012.
Unified Medical Lan-guage System term occurrences in clinical notes: alarge-scale corpus analysis.. J Am Med Inform As-soc, 19(1):149?56.P.
Zweigenbaum, R. Baud, A. Burgun, F. Namer, E.Jarrousse N. Grabar, P. Ruch, F. Le Duff, B. Thirion,and S. Darmoni.
2003.
UMLF: a Unified MedicalLexicon for French.
AMIA Annu Symp Proc, 1062.35
