Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 103?104,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsNarrative Composition: Achieving the Perceived Linearity of NarrativePablo Gerva?sUniversidad Complutense de Madrid, Ciudad Universitaria, 28040 Madrid, Spainpgervas@sip.ucm.esThe last few years have seen an increased in-terest in narrative within the field of Natural Lan-guage Generation (Reiter et al 2008; Elson andMcKeown, 2010; Siddharthan et al 2012; Lester,2012).
Narrative is generally acknowledged as afundamental mode of presenting and communicat-ing information between humans, with differentmanifestations across media but with a very signif-icant presence in textual form.
Yet efforts in Nat-ural Language Generation research have generallyside stepped the issue.
Aside from the pioneer-ing work of (Callaway, 2002) and an early attemptto bridge the gap between narratology and natu-ral language generation (Lo?nneker, 2005), the fieldhad mostly avoided narrative until recent times.Two possible arguments may be considered as anexplanation of this: one based on the need to re-strict initial work within a field to the simpler chal-lenges before tackling the difficult ones, and an-other based on an assumption that the peculiaritiesof narrative have already been covered by existingwork.
Both arguments can be shown to be inap-propriate.With respect to the first argument, the field ofnatural language generation has for many yearsoperated under the tacit assumption that state ofthe art technology can only aspire to generatingtexts within a limited range of domains and genres.These have over the years been defined in differentways, but in spite of changes, literary texts haveusually been considered to be outside the rangeof possible candidates.
From an engineering pointof view, this kind of restriction made sense whenthe field was starting, for two important reasons.One, the technological solutions available at thetime for the various tasks involved in natural lan-guage generation were in their infancy, and the lin-guistic complexity of literary text might have beenbeyond their scope.
Two, natural language gener-ation arose from a desire to extend the studies thathad been carried out for computational analysis oflanguage to the task of generation, and what wasknown about language from a computational pointof view concerned simple texts.
Most of the stud-ies on language and computation had applied sim-ilar simplifying assumptions.
However, such re-stricting assumptions are no longer necessary andmay be inhibiting progress.
In terms of technol-ogy, the field has matured significantly over theintervening years.
The current state of the art pro-vides a wide range of solutions that may be wellsuited to address some of the more complex phe-nomena involved in literary text.
Additional ob-jections may be made on the grounds that we donot know enough about these phenomena.
Suchobjections, however valid they might have beenoriginally, are no longer valid either.
Many ofthe phenomena that were considered beyond com-putational treatment (metaphor, emotion, tempo-ral reasoning, dialogue...) have been the subjectof serious and sustained study over the same timeperiod.
Many approaches to their computationalmodelling and treatment have become available.More to the point, the last few years have seena rise of interest on literary text within the natu-ral language processing community.
This is ev-idenced by the number of workshops addressingtopics related to literature: Workshop on Com-putational Approaches to Linguistic Creativity atNAACL HLT 2009 and 2010, Computational Lin-guistics for Literature Workshop at NAACL HLT2012 and 2013, Computational Models of Narra-tive events held as AAAI Fall symposium in 2010,as LREC workshop in 2012, and as satellite work-shop of CogSci 2013, just to name a few.With respect to the second argument, the recentreappearance of narrative as a research topic forNLG should be enough to dispel the notion thatall its problems have already been solved.
Narra-tive has many peculiarities that set it apart fromother kinds of text, and the body of work address-ing narrative as a research topic within NLG has103at most uncovered and staked out a set of prob-lems and challenges that area waiting further ex-ploration.
Of these various open problems in thetreatment of narrative, my talk will focus on theproblem of narrative composition.Research on narrative is plagued by the diffi-culty of establishing a definition of the term thatis both sufficiently formal to act as foundation forscientific rigour, and sufficiently rich to cover thefundamental aspects that people associate with theterm.
At the present stage of development, tenta-tive definition need to be established, to be laterconfirmed on the basis of empirical work and suc-cesful evaluation of results.
The talk will out-line some of the possibilities that must be con-sidered (arising from established definitions in thefield of narratology) and some of the restrictionsthat arise from the computational nature of thetask.
From the combination of these constraints,a working model of narrative structure will be out-lined.
However, it is clear that such a model mustdocument the relation between a semantic descrip-tion of the content of the narrative (what is usuallytermed the fabula) and its rendition as a sequentialdiscourse.
The task of narrative composition willbe specified as the task of constructing such a dis-course (or discourse plan) for a given semantic de-scription of fabula.
This discourse should be sus-ceptible of being converted into text and it shouldappropriately conveys the set of events in the fab-ula in such a way that satifies a number of tra-ditionally accepted requirements (like having anidentifiable theme, a certain temporal and causalcoherence, a recognisable set of characters...).
Anumber of basic narratological concepts will bedescribed where they provide tools for breakingdown the task into computationally tractable sub-problems.
Of particular interest is the conceptof focalization, which is used by narratologists todescribe the way certain segments of a narrativefollow a particular character, and which providesa useful computational representation of both thegranularity and the shift in focus employed duringthe process of converting the semantics of the fab-ula into a linear discourse.As part of the talk, narrative composition will beframed in terms of the accepted task breakdownfor natural language generation, considering thatit may involve a combination of content determi-nation and discourse planning that cannot be seg-regated into separate subtasks.
The talk will alsodiscuss the relation of the task of narrative compo-sition with a number of existing research problemssuch as story generation (which could correspondto the construction of fabula but is sometimes sim-plified down to construction of a discourse di-rectly) and creativity (which has been addressedwith respect to story generation but may also con-stitute a fundamental ingredient of the composi-tion task).AcknowledgmentsThe work on which this talk is based was partiallysupported by the Ministerio de Educacio?n y Cien-cia (TIN2009-14659-C03-01).ReferencesCharles B. Callaway.
2002.
Narrative prose genera-tion.
Artificial Intelligence, 139(2):213?252.David K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2010.Tense and aspect assignment in narrative discourse.In Proceedings of the 6th International Natural Lan-guage Generation Conference, INLG ?10, pages 47?56, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.James Lester.
2012.
Expressive nlg for next-generation learning environments: language, affect,and narrative.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Inter-national Natural Language Generation Conference,INLG ?12, pages 2?2, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Birte Lo?nneker.
2005.
Narratological Knowledge forNatural Language Generation.
In Graham Wilcock,Kristiina Jokinen, Chris Mellish, and Ehud Reiter,editors, Proceedings of the 10th European Workshopon Natural Language Generation (= ENLG 2005),pages 91?100, Aberdeen, Scotland, August.Ehud Reiter, Albert Gatt, Franc?ois Portet, and Marianvan der Meulen.
2008.
The importance of narra-tive and other lessons from an evaluation of an nlgsystem that summarises clinical data.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth International Natural LanguageGeneration Conference, INLG ?08, pages 147?156,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Advaith Siddharthan, Matthew Green, Kees vanDeemter, Chris Mellish, and Rene?
van der Wal.2012.
Blogging birds: generating narratives aboutreintroduced species to promote public engagement.In Proceedings of the Seventh International NaturalLanguage Generation Conference, INLG ?12, pages120?124, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.104
