Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 152?156,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsMIME - NLG in Pre-Hospital CareAnne H. Schneider Alasdair Mort Chris Mellish Ehud Reiter Phil WilsonUniversity of Aberdeen{a.schneider, a.mort, c.mellish, e.reiter, p.wilson}@abdn.ac.ukPierre-Luc VaudryUniversite?
de Montre?alvaudrypl@iro.umontreal.caAbstractThe cross-disciplinary MIME project aimsto develop a mobile medical monitoringsystem that improves handover transac-tions in rural pre-hospital scenarios be-tween the first person on scene and am-bulance clinicians.
NLG is used to pro-duce a textual handover report at any time,summarising data from novel medical sen-sors, as well as observations and actionsrecorded by the carer.
We describe theMIME project with a focus on the NLGalgorithm and an initial evaluation of thegenerated reports.1 IntroductionApplications of Natural Language Generation(NLG) in the medical domain have been manifold.A new area where NLG could contribute to the im-provement of services and to patient safety is pre-hospital care: care delivered to a patient before ar-rival at hospital.
There are many challenges in de-livering pre-hospital care, making it different fromcare taking place in the controlled circumstancesof emergency departments or hospital wards.Some Ambulance Services have developed in-novative models to care for patients whilst an am-bulance is en-route.
Community First Responder(CFR) schemes recruit volunteers from local com-munities and give them the necessary training andequipment to deal with a limited range of medicalemergencies.
The premise is that even those withbasic first-aid skills can save a life.
It is their taskto attend the casualty while waiting for the am-bulance and to record their observations and ac-tions on a paper patient report form (PRF).
Theymay also assess the patient?s physiological mea-surements (e.g.
heart rate).
In practice, due totime constraints, a verbal handover is performedand the PRF is filled in later.
Physiological mea-surements may be written in ink on the back of aprotective glove, and are rarely passed on in anysystematic way.The MIME (Managing Information in MedicalEmergencies)1 project is developing technology tosupport CFRs in the UK when they respond to pa-tients.
The project aims to enable CFRs to capturea greater volume of physiological patient data, giv-ing them a better awareness of a patient?s medicalstatus so they can deliver more effective care.There are two parts to our work: the use of novellightweight wireless medical sensors that are sim-ple and quick to apply, and the use of novel soft-ware that takes these inherently complex sensordata, along with some other information inputtedby the user (e.g.
patient demographics or actionsperformed) on a tablet computer, and present itvery simply.
We are working with two sensors thatprovide measurements of the patient?s respiratoryrate, heart rate and blood oxygen saturation.
Oursoftware can use NLG to produce a textual han-dover report at any time.
This can be passed to anarriving paramedic to give a quick summary of thesituation and can accompany the patient to informlater stages of care.
We anticipate that our sys-tem will also provide some basic decision supportbased upon the patients clinical condition.2 Related WorkMany situations arise in the medical domain wherevast amounts of data are produced and their correctinterpretation is crucial to the lives of patients.
In-terpreting these data is usually a demanding andcomplex task.
Medical data are therefore oftenpresented graphically or preferably in textual sum-maries (Law et al 2005) making NLG importantfor various applications in the medical domain.A number of systems address the problem ofpresenting medical information to patients in aform that they will understand.
Examples are1www.dotrural.ac.uk/mime152STOP (Reiter et al 2003), PILLS (Bouayad-Aghaet al 2002), MIGRANE (Buchanan et al 1992),and Healthdoc (Hirst et al 1997).
Other systems,such as TOPAZ (Kahn et al 1991) and Suregen(Hu?ske-Kraus, 2003), aim to summarise informa-tion in order to support medical decision-making.In the case of MIME, the challenge is to sum-marise large amounts of sensor data, in the contextof carer observations and actions, in a coherentway that supports quick decision making by thereader.
The problem of describing the data relatesto previous work on summarising time series data(e.g.
(Yu et al 2007)).
In many ways, though, ourproblem is most similar to that of Babytalk BT-Nurse system (Hunter et al 2012), which gener-ates shift handover reports for nurses in a neona-tal intensive care unit.
The nature of the recipi-ent is, however, different.
Whereas BabyTalk ad-dresses clinical staff in a controlled environment,MIME is aimed at people with little training whomay have to deal with emergency situations veryquickly.
Further, while BT-Nurse works with anexisting clinical record system, which does not al-ways record all actions and observations whichideally would be included in a report, in MIMEusers enter exactly the information which MIMEneeds.
This simplifies the NLG task, at the cost ofadding a new task (interface construction).3 The MIME projectIn the first stage of MIME, we have developeda desktop application to prototype the generationof handover reports.
We used simulated scenar-ios, where a panel of medical experts determinedthe sequence of events and predicted the stream ofdata from the simulated sensors.The generated reports must provide a quickoverview of the situation but at the same time besufficiently comprehensive, while the format mustenhance the readability.
A general structure forthe handover reports was determined in a user-centred development process together with ambu-lance clinicians.
After the demographic descrip-tion of the casualty and incident details (entered bythe responder whenever they have an opportunity),two sections of generated text follow: the initialassessment section and the treatments and findingssection.
The initial assessment contains informa-tion on the patient gathered by the CFRs just afterthe sensors are applied and also any observationsmade during the first minute after the applicationof the sensors.
The treatment and findings sectionis a report on the observations and actions of theCFRs while they waited for the ambulance to ar-rive.
This includes a paragraph that sums up thecondition of the patient at the time of handover.Using sensors to capture physiological datacontinuously introduces the problem that irrele-vant information needs to be suppressed in ordernot to overload the ambulance clinicians and hin-der interpretation.
The NLG algorithm that gen-erates short as well as comprehensive handover re-ports accomplishes text planning in the two stagesof document planning and micro-planning (Re-iter and Dale, 2000).
Document planning is re-sponsible for the selection of the information thatwill be mentioned in the generated report.
Eventsthat will be mentioned in the text are selectedand structured into a list of trees (similar to treesin Rhetorical Structure Theory (Scott and Siecke-nius de Souza, 1990)).
In the micro-planning stepthe structure of the document plan is linearised andsentences are compiled using coordination and ag-gregation.Whereas some parts of the handover document(e.g.
patient demographics) are relatively stylised,the main technically demanding part of the NLGinvolves the description of the ?treatment and find-ings?, which describes the events that happenwhilst the patient is being cared for and relevantparts of the sensor data (see Figure 1).
For thissection of the report, the document planning al-gorithm is based on that of (Portet et al 2007),which identifies a number of key events and cre-ates a paragraph for each key event.
Events thatare explicitly linked to the key event or events thathappen at the same time are added to the relevantparagraph.
This is based on the earlier work of(Hallett et al 2006).4 EvaluationIn an initial evaluation we sought to assess howour reports would be received in comparison withthe current situation ?
either short verbal reportsor paper report forms (PRFs)?
and also in com-parison with what might be regarded as a ?goldstandard?
report produced by an expert.Materials: Two videos were produced indepen-dently of the NLG team, based on two scenariosof medical incidents typical of a CFRs caseload.These scenarios, a farm injury and chest pain, in-cluded a short description of the incident, similar153At 02:12, after RR remained fairlyconstant around 30 bpm for 4 minutes,high flow oxygen was applied, she tookher inhaler and RR decreased to 27bpm.
However, subsequently RR oncemore remained fairly constant around30 bpm for 8 minutes.At 02:15 she was feeling faint.At 02:15 the casualty was moved.At 02:17 the casualty was once moremoved.Figure 1: Part of the ?Treatment and Findings?
for anasthma scenario.to the initial information a CFR would receive, atime line of events that happened before the ambu-lance arrived as well as simulated sensor data fromthe patient.
The videos showed an actor in therole of CFR and another as patient, with the sce-nario time displayed in one corner.
When the CFRperformed readings of the physiological measuresthey were shown as subtitles.The videos were presented to two CFRs and aparamedic, who were asked to imagine themselvesin the situation of the CFR in the video, and toproduce a handover report.
Each video was onlyplayed once in order to produce more realistic re-sults.
We asked one CFR to construct a written?verbal?
handover for the first scenario and to fillout a PRF for the other scenario, and the otherCFR to do the ?verbal?
handover for the secondscenario and to fill out the PRF for the first.
Toanonymise the PRF it was transcribed into a digi-tal version.
The paramedic received a blank sheetof paper and was requested to produce a handoverreport that he would like to receive from a CFRwhen arriving at the scene.
Based on the scenarioswe also generated two reports with the MIME sys-tem.
This process resulted in four reports for eachof the two scenarios, one transcribed verbal han-dover and a PRF from a CFR, a written handoverreport from a paramedic and the generated report.Hypotheses: Our hypothesis was that the gen-erated reports would improve on the current prac-tice of verbal handovers and PRFs, and thatparamedics would perceive them to be more suit-able, hence rank them higher than the CFRs?
ver-bal or PRF reports.
The paramedic handover re-port might be regarded as a gold standard pro-duced by an expert and we were interested in howthe generated reports fared in comparison.
Fur-ther, we hoped to gain information on how to im-prove our generated reports.Participants: We approached paramedics inthe Scottish Ambulance Service to participate inour study.
Nine paramedics responded (eight maleand one female; age range 32?56 years with 10?24years?
service).Procedure: Participants received an invitationemail with a link to a brief online survey and theeight reports as attachments.
After an introductionand consent form they were forwarded to one ofthe two scenario descriptions and asked to rank therespective four reports.
After that the participantwas asked to rate the accuracy, understandabilityand usefulness of the generated report for this sce-nario on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from verygood to very bad and to indicate what they likedor disliked about it in a free text box.
This processwas repeated for the second scenario.4.1 ResultsRanking: An overview of the rankings can befound in Table 1.
Apart from the rankings of par-ticipant 7 and 8, no large differences in how thereports were ranked could be observed betweenthe two scenarios.
We performed a Friedmantest (Friedman, 1937) (farm injury scenario: chi-squared=4.3, df=3, p=0.23; chest pain scenario:chi-squared=12.44, df=3, p=0.006): some reportswere ranked consistently higher or lower than oth-ers.
The verbal CFR report was ranked worst in allbut five cases.
There is a high disparity in the rank-ings for the PRF, which was ranked first on eightoccasions and in the other ten instances in thirdor fourth place.
The generated report was rankedin first place only once, but eleven times in sec-ond place and in third place the other six times.
Ingeneral the paramedic report, which was regardedas the ?gold standard?, was ranked better than thegenerated report, but in five cases the generatedreport was ranked better.Rating: An overview of the ratings for the gen-erated reports can be found in Table 2.
The rat-ings for both scenarios were good on average, witha majority of ratings lying between very good tomoderate.
Only one rating (the accuracy of thegenerated report for the farm injury scenario) wasbad; none was very bad.
The ratings for the gen-erated report of the chest pain scenario were onaverage better than those for the farm injury sce-nario.
Accuracy had better ratings than usefulnessand understandability in both scenarios.154Participant: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 med min maxfarm injury scenarioParamedic 2 2 3 1 1 3 3 2 1 2 1 3Generated 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 3CFR PRF 1 1 1 3 4 1 4 4 3 3 1 4CFR verbal 4 4 4 4 3 4 1 1 4 4 1 4chest pain scenarioParamedic 2 2 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 3Generated 3 3 2 2 2 3 1 2 2 2 1 3CFR PRF 1 1 1 3 4 1 4 3 3 3 1 4CFR verbal 4 4 4 4 3 4 3 4 4 4 3 4Table 1: Overview of the ranking results (most preferred(1) to least preferred (4)), median (med), maximum (max)and minimum (min) values for the patient report form (CFRPRF), paramedic report (Paramedic), generated report (gen-erated) and verbal report (verbal CFR).Participant: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 med min maxfarm injury scenarioaccuracy 1 2 1 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 4useful.
3 3 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 2 1 3unders.
2 3 2 2 1 3 3 1 1 2 1 3chest pain scenarioaccuracy 2 2 1 1 1 3 1 2 1 1 1 3useful.
2 3 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 3unders.
2 3 2 1 1 3 2 1 1 2 1 3Table 2: Overview of the rating results, median (med), max-imum (max) and minimum (min) values for accuracy, useful-ness (useful.)
and understandability (unders.)
of the gener-ated reports, on a Likert scale (very good (1) to very bad (5)).4.2 DiscussionWe hypothesised that the generated reports wouldfare better than the verbal handovers and the PRFs.Results confirm a preference for the generated re-ports over the verbal handover.
The paramedicreports, which were regarded as our ?gold stan-dard?
were ranked higher than the generated re-ports.
Interestingly, in almost half the cases therewas a clear preference for the PRF and in the othercases the PRF ranked badly.
This may have beenaffected by the familiarity of this medium and per-haps by the background assumption that this ishow handover reports ?should?
be presented.We regard this as a tentative confirmation thatthe generated texts compete favourably with thestatus quo.
In a real world scenario the paramedicsoften get a verbal handover instead of the PRF andit should be noted that the PRF was printed and nothandwritten.
Furthermore, although the CFRs andparamedics only saw the scenario video once theywere under no time pressure to submit the reports.Hence the quality of all the human reports in ourexperiment is likely to be better than normal.Although each individual generally providedconsistent responses across the two scenarios,there were variations between individuals.
Thesedifferent preferences may be merely stylisticchoices or they may reflect in task performance.Preferences are not necessarily an indication ofusefulness for a task (cf.
(Law et al 2005)).In general the accuracy, understandability andusefulness of the generated reports received goodratings.
Although participation was low, the qual-itative data we gathered were valuable, every par-ticipant offered comments in the free text box onwhat they liked or disliked about the generated re-port.
In general there seemed to be an impres-sion that some sections were longer than neces-sary.
One participant observed that reporting onobservations a long time later is only useful ifthings have changed significantly.
The structureand organisation of the report received some posi-tive comments.
For example one participant statedthat he liked ?the separate sections for informa-tion?
and another commented that the report was?logically laid out?, that it was ?easy to obtaininformation?
from the report and that it ?clearlystates intervention and outcome of intervention?.5 Conclusion and Future WorkDespite the fact that the experiment reported hereinvolved a small number of participants, whichimplies that its results need to be interpreted withsome caution, the generated reports produced bythe MIME system appear to improve on the cur-rent practice of verbal handover.
We aim to col-lect more responses and repeat the evaluation thathas been presented.
Our next step in evaluating thereport generator will be to carry out a task basedevaluation to see whether the preference ratingswe have gathered can be reflected in performancemeasures.We are now moving into the second stage ofMIME and have started developing a new proto-type, a mobile device that gets signals from twolightweight sensors.
Here we will collect datafrom real emergency ambulance callouts by hav-ing a researcher join ambulance crews for theirnormal activity, which will be used to modify theNLG system (e.g.
in order to allow for more reli-able handling of noise).6 AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by the RCUK dot.ruralDigital Economy Research Hub, University of Ab-erdeen (Grant reference: EP/G066051/1)155ReferencesN.
Bouayad-Agha, R. Power, D. Scott, and A. Belz.2002.
PILLS: Multilingual generation of medicalinformation documents with overlapping content.
InProceedings of LREC 2002, pages 2111?2114.B.
Buchanan, J. Moore, D. Forsythe, G. Banks, andS.
Ohlsson.
1992.
Involving patients in health care:explanation in the clinical setting.
In Proceedings ofthe Annual Symposium on Computer Application inMedical Care, pages 510?514, January.M.
Friedman.
1937.
The Use of Ranks to Avoid theAssumption of Normality Implicit in the Analysisof Variance.
Journal of the American Statistical As-sociation, 32(200):675?701.C.
Hallett, R. Power, and D. Scott.
2006.
Summari-sation and visualisation of e-Health data repositoriesConference Item Repositories.
In UK E-Science All-Hands Meeting, pages 18?21.G.
Hirst, C. DiMarco, E. Hovy, and K. Parsons.
1997.Authoring and Generating Health-Education Docu-ments That Are Tailored to the Needs of the Individ-ual Patient.
In Anthony Jameson, Ce?cile Paris, andCarlo Tasso, editors, User Modeling: Proceedingsof the Sixth International Conference, UM97, pages107?118.
Springer Wien New York.J.
Hunter, Y.
Freer, A. Gatt, E. Reiter, S. Sripada, andC Sykes.
2012.
Automatic generation of naturallanguage nursing shift summaries in neonatal in-tensive care: BT-Nurse.
Artificial Intelligence inMedicine, 56:157?172.D.
Hu?ske-Kraus.
2003.
Suregen-2: A Shell System forthe Generation of Clinical Documents.
In Proceed-ings of the 10th Conference of the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(EACL-2003), pages 215?218.M.
Kahn, L. Fagan, and L. Sheiner.
1991.
Combiningphysiologic models and symbolic methods to inter-pret time-varying patient data.
Methods of informa-tion in medicine, 30(3):167?78, August.A.
Law, Y.
Freer, J.
Hunter, R. Logie, N. McIntosh,and J. Quinn.
2005.
A comparison of graphical andtextual presentations of time series data to supportmedical decision making in the neonatal intensivecare unit.
Journal of clinical monitoring and com-puting, 19(3):183?94, June.F.
Portet, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter, and S. Sripada.
2007.Automatic generation of textual summaries fromneonatal intensive care data.
In In Proccedingsof the 11th Conference on Artificial Intelligence inMedicine (AIME 07).
LNCS, pages 227?236.E.
Reiter and R. Dale.
2000.
Building Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems.
Studies in Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Cambridge University Press.E.
Reiter, R. Robertson, and L. Osman.
2003.
Lessonsfrom a failure: Generating tailored smoking cessa-tion letters.
Artificial Intelligence, 144(1-2):41?58,March.D.
Scott and C. Sieckenius de Souza.
1990.
Get-ting the message across in rst-based text genera-tion.
In R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock, editors,Current Research in Natural Language Generation.Academic Press.J.
Yu, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter, and C. Mellish.
2007.Choosing the content of textual summaries of largetime-series data sets.
Natural Language Engineer-ing, 13(1):25?49.156
