Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 11?20,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntroducing PersPred, a Syntactic and Semantic Database for PersianComplex PredicatesPollet Samvelian and Pegah FaghiriUniversite?
Sorbonne Nouvelle & CNRS18, rue des Bernardins75005, Paris, France{pollet.samvelian, pegah.faghiri}@univ-paris3.frAbstractThis paper introduces PersPred, the firstmanually elaborated syntactic and seman-tic database for Persian Complex Predicates(CPs).
Beside their theoretical interest, Per-sian CPs constitute an important challenge inPersian lexicography and for NLP.
The firstdelivery, PersPred 11, contains 700 CPs, forwhich 22 fields of lexical, syntactic and se-mantic information are encoded.
The seman-tic classification PersPred provides allows toaccount for the productivity of these combi-nations in a way which does justice to theircompositionality without overlooking their id-iomaticity.1 IntroductionPersian has only around 250 simplex verbs, halfof which are currently used by the speech commu-nity2.
The morphological lexeme formation processoutputting verbs from nouns (e.g.
xa?b ?sleep?
>xa?b-idan ?to sleep?
; raqs ?dance?
> raqs-idan ?todance?
), though available, is not productive.
Theverbal lexicon is mainly formed by syntactic com-binations, including a verb and a non-verbal ele-ment, which can be a noun, e.g.
harf zadan ?to talk?(Lit.
?talk hit?
), an adjective, e.g.
ba?z kardan ?toopen?
(Lit.
?open do?
), a particle, e.g.
bar da?s?tan?to take?
(Lit.
?PARTICLE have?
), or a prepositional1PersPred 1 is freely available under the LGPL-LR li-cense, http://www.iran-inde.cnrs.fr/ (Language Resources forPersian).2Sadeghi (1993) gives the estimation of 252 verbs, 115 ofwhich are commonly used.
Khanlari (1986) provides a list of279 simplex verbs.
The Bijankhan corpus contains 228 lemmas.phrase, e.g.
be ka?r bordan ?to use?
(Lit.
?to worktake?).
These combinations are generally referred toas Complex Predicates (CPs), Compound Verbs orLight Verb Constructions (LVCs).New ?verbal concepts?
are regularly coined ascomplex predicates (CPs) rather than simplex verbs,for instance yonize kardan ?to ionize?
(Lit.
?ionizeddo?)
instead of yon-idan3.Several studies have focused on the dual nature ofPersian CPs, which exhibit both lexical and phrasalproperties (Goldberg, 2003; Vahedi-Langrudi, 1996;Karimi, 1997; Karimi-Doostan, 1997; Megerdoo-mian, 2002, among others).
Indeed, these combi-nations display all properties of syntactic combina-tions, including some degree of semantic compo-sitionality, which makes it impossible to establisha clearcut distinction between them and ?ordinary?verb-object combinations for instance (cf.
2.1).
Onthe other hand, these sequences also have word-likeproperties, since CP formation has all the hallmarksof a lexeme formation process, such as lexicaliza-tion (cf.
2.2).
Thus, in the same way as the ver-bal lexicon of English includes all its simplex verbs,the inventory of the verbal lexicon in Persian, andconsequently dictionaries, must include these com-3In reality, there are verbs formed from nouns or adjectives,but they are mainly created by the Academy of Persian Lan-guage and Literature, who suggests and approves equivalentsfor the foreign general or technical terms.
The verb ra?yidan ?tocompute?, for instance, is a recent creation by the Academy.However, it should be noted that these creations, which arefar less numerous than spontaneous creations, are not easilyadopted by native speakers, who almost systematically preferusing the CP counterpart, e.g.
kampyut kardan (Lit.
?computa-tion do?)
instead of ra?yidan.11binations.
However, despite several attempts, thistask has not been carried out in a systematic wayand such a resource is cruelly missing.
Althoughdictionaries mention some of the lexicalized combi-nations, either under the entry associated to the verb,or to the non verbal element, the underlying criteriain the choice of combinations is far from being clearand the resulting list significantly varies from onedictionary to another.Computational studies have also mentioned thelack of large-scale lexical resources for Persian andhave developed probabilistic measures to determinethe acceptability of the combination of a verb and anoun as a CP (Taslimipoor et al 2012).PersPred is a syntactic and semantic database,which aims to contribute to fill this gap by propos-ing a framework for the storage and the descriptionof Persian CPs.
Its first delivery, PersPred 1., con-tains more than 700 combinations of the verb zadan?hit?
with a noun, presented in a spreadsheet.PersPred is not only a lexicographic resource, it isalso the implementation of a theoretical view on Per-sian CPs.
Adopting a Construction-based approach(cf.
4), PersPred sheds a new light on some crucialand closely related issues in CP formation:- The way the productivity of these combinationscan be accounted for despite their idiomatic-ity and the link generally established betweencompositionality and productivity (cf.
3).- The relation between ?lexical?
and ?light?verbs and the validity of such a distinction fora great number of Persian verbs.The fact that Persian has only around 250 sim-plex verbs has a very obvious consequence whichhas generally been overlooked by theoretical stud-ies: Almost all Persian verbs are light verbs, or,more precisely, are simultaneously light and lexicalverbs.
In other words, if one establishes a scale ofspecificity in the verbal meaning (Ritter and Rosen,1996) going from highly specific verbs (e.g.
google,milk) to lowly specific ones (e.g.
do, make), mostPersian verbs are located somewhere in the middleof the scale.
Consequently, in many CPs, the verbhas a lexical semantic content and cannot be consid-ered as a light verb sensu stricto.
This also entailsthat Persian CPs are not always as idiomatic as En-glish LVCs, for instance, and that many aspects oftheir formation can be accounted for via composi-tionality.
By providing a fine-grained semantic clas-sification for Persian CPs, PersPred proposes a solu-tion that does justice to the compositionality of thesecombinations, thus allowing to account for their pro-ductivity.2 Persian CPs as Multiword ExpressionsSeveral studies, including those in computationallinguistics, treat Persian CPs like LVCs in languagessuch as English and French, and thus as MWEs (Fa-zly et al 2007, among others).
However, the factthat Persian CPs are generally formed by a ?bare?
(non-determined, non-referential) noun and a verb,in an adjacent position, makes them far more cohe-sive than English LVCs for instance, and leads somestudies to treat these combination as words by de-fault (Goldberg, 1996).2.1 Phrasal PropertiesIt has been shown by several studies (Karimi-Doostan, 1997; Megerdoomian, 2002; Samvelian,2012) that the two elements in a CP are clearly sep-arate syntactic units: a) All inflection is prefixedor suffixed on the verb, as in (1), and never on thenoun.
b) The two elements can be separated by thepronominal clitics, (2), the future auxiliary, (3), oreven by clearly syntactic constituents, (4).
c) Boththe noun and the verb can be coordinated, (5) and(6) respectively.
d) The noun can be extracted, (7).e) CPs can be passivized, (8).
In this case, the nomi-nal element of the CP can become the subject of thepassive construction, as does the Direct Object of atransitive construction.
f) Finally, the noun can heada complex NP, (9).
(1) MaryamMaryamba?withOmidOmidharftalkne-mi-zan-adNEG-IPFV-hit-3S?Maryam does not talk to Omid.
?4(2) Dust=as?friend=3Sda?r-amhave-1S?I like her/him/it.
?4DDO = definite direct object marker; EZ = Ezafe particle;IPFV = imperfective, NEG = negation, PP = past participle.12(3) MaryamMaryamOmid=ra?Omid=DDOdustfriendxa?h-adAUX-3Sda?s?thad?Maryam will like Omid.?
(4) Dasthandbetobegol-ha?flower-PLna-zanNEG-hit?Don?t touch the flowers.?
(5) Mu-ha?=yas?=ra?hair-PL=3S=DDOborosbrushya?ors?a?necombzadhit?
(S)he brushed or combed her hair.?
(6) OmidOmidsilislapzadhitvaandxordstrike?Omid gave and received slaps.?
(7) Dasthandgoft-amsaid-1Sbetogol-ha?flower-PLna-zanNEG-hit?I told you not to touch the flowers.?
(8) a. MaryamMaryambetoOmidOmidtohmatslanderzadhit?Maryam slandered Omid.?b.
BetoOmidOmidtohmatslanderzadehit.PPs?odbecome?Omid was slandered.?
(9) [Inthisxabar=enews=EZmohem]=ra?important=DDObetoma?usda?dgave?
(S)he gave us this important news.
?These observations show that the syntactic prop-erties of CPs are comparable to regular Object-Verbcombinations.
While the noun in a CP is more cohe-sive with the verb than a bare direct object (in termsof word order, differential object marking, pronom-inal affix placement), it is impossible to draw a cat-egorical syntactic distinction between the two typesof combinations.2.2 Lexical and Idiomatic PropertiesWhile clearly being syntactic combinations, PersianCPs display several lexeme like properties (Bonamiand Samvelian, 2010).
From a semantic point ofview, their meaning can be unpredictable (i.e.
con-ventional).
From a morphological point of view, thewhole sequence behaves like a word in the sense thatit feeds lexical formation rules.
Finally, the associa-tion of a given noun and a given verb is more or lessidiomatic.CPs are lexicalized.
In many cases, the meaningof a CP is not fully predictable from the meaningof its components.
N-V combinations are subject tovarious levels of lexicalization.In some cases, the CP meaning is a specializationof the predictable meaning of the combination.
Forinstance c?a?qu zadan ?to stab?
(Lit.
?knife hit?)
is notonly to hit somebody with a knife; dast da?dan ?toshake hands?
(Lit.
?hand give?)
does not only im-ply that you give your hand to somebody; a?b da?dan,?to water?
(Lit.
?water give?)
is not just pouringwater on something; s?ir da?dan ?to breastfeed?
(Lit.
?milk give?)
is not just the action of giving milk tosomebody.
These particular specializations have tobe learned, in the same way as one has to learn themeaning of the verbs such as water or towel in En-glish.In other examples semantic drift has taken place,either by metaphor or by metonymy.
The link be-tween the compositional meaning and the lexical-ized meaning is sometimes still recoverable syn-chronically.
For instance, the lexicalized meaningof gus?
kardan ?to listen?
(Lit.
?ear do?)
can be recov-ered via metonymy.
The CP designates the prototyp-ical action done by ears.
Likewise, in zanjir zadan?to flagellate?
(Lit.
?chain hit?
), the elliptical elementof the meaning, pos?t ?shoulder?, can also be recov-ered.
The CP comes in fact from ba?
zanjir (be) pos?tzadan ?to hit one?s shoulders with chains?.However, in numerous other cases, the initial linkis no more perceivable by speakers.
For instance, rugereftan ?to become cheeky?
(Lit.
?face take?)
anddast anda?xtan ?to mock?
(Lit.
?hand throw?)
consti-tute opaque sequences in synchrony.CPs feed lexeme formation rules.
The fact thatN-V combinations serve as inputs to further lexemeformation rules has been noted in several studies (cf.Introduction) and has been considered by some ofthem as an argument to support the ?wordhood?
ofthese sequences.
For instance, the suffix -i formsabilitative adjectives from verbs, e.g.
xordan ?eat?
>xordani ?edible?
(and by further conversion > xor-dani ?food?).
This suffix combines with CPs, inde-pendently of whether they are compositional or not:dust das?tan ?to love?
> dustdas?tani ?lovely?
; xat xor-dan ?to be scratched?
> xatxordani ?scratchable?
; jus?xordan ?to bind?
> jus?xordani ?linkable?.13(Non-)predictibility of the verb.
Finally, thecombination of a particular verb with a particularnoun is idiosyncratic in the sense that there is some-times no semantic justification for the choice of aparticular verb.
Thus, two semantically close or evensynonymous nouns can be combined with two dif-ferent verbs to give rise to almost synonymous CPs:hesa?dat kardan (Lit.
?jealousy do?)
vs. ras?k bor-dan (Lit.
?jealousy take?)
both mean ?to envy?, ?tobe jealous?
; sohbat kardan (Lit.
?talk do?)
vs. harfzadan (Lit.
?talk hit?)
both mean ?to talk?, ?to speak?.3 Productivity of Persian CPsAlthough Persian CPs are idiomatic, they are alsohighly productive.
Several theoretical studies havesuggested that compositionality is the key to thisproductivity and put forward hypotheses on how thecontribution of the verb and the noun must be com-bined to obtain the meaning of the predicate (Folliet al 2005; Megerdoomian, 2012).
However, as(Samvelian, 2012) extensively argues, these ?radicalcompositional?
accounts are doomed, because theywrongly assume that a given verb and a given nouneach have a consistent contribution through all theircombinations to form a CP.
In this study, we assumethat:1.
Persian CPs do not constitute a homogenousclass, ranging from fully compositional com-binations to fully idiomatic phrases.2.
Compositionality and productivity constitutetwo distinct dimensions and thus productivitydoes not necessarily follow from composition-ality.3.
A part of Persian CPs can receive a composi-tional account, provided compositonality is de-fined a posteriori.
For these cases, composi-tionality does account for productivity.4.
For some other cases, analogical extension onthe basis of the properties of the whole CP isresponsible for productivity.3.1 Compositionality-Based ProductivityWith respect to their compositionality, Persian CPsare comparable to Idiomatically Combining Expres-sions (Nunberg et al 1994), idioms whose partscarry identifiable parts of their idiomatic meanings(p. 496).
In other words, the verb and the non-verbalelement of a CP can be assigned a meaning in thecontext of their combination.
Thus, the CP is com-positional (or decompositional), in the sense that themeaning of the CP can be distributed to its compo-nents, and yet it is idiomatic, in the sense that thecontribution of each member cannot be determinedout of the context of its combination with the otherone.
This is the line of argumentation used by (Nun-berg et al 1994) to support a compositional view ofexpressions such as spill the beans.Table 1 below illustrates this point.
Each line con-tains a set of CPs formed with kes?idan ?to pull?,where the verb can be assigned a meaning compa-rable to that of a lexical verb in English.Examples of CPs with Kes?idandiva?r ?
?to build a wall?,ja?dde ?
?to build a road?, pol ?
?to build a bridge?> ?build?lule ?
?to set up pipes?, sim ?
?to install cables?, narde ?
?toset up a fence?> ?set up?siga?r ?
?to smoke a cigarette?,pip ?
?to smoke a pipe?,tarya?k ?
?to smoke opium?>?smoke?c?a?qu ?
?to brandish a knife?,haftir ?
?to brandish a re-volver?, s?ams?ir ?
?to brandish asword?>?brandish?ranj ?
?to suffer?, dard ?
?tosuffer from pain?, bixa?bi ?
?tosuffer from insomnia?, setam ?
?to suffer from injustice?>?suffer from?da?d ?
?to scream?, farya?d ?
?toscream?, arbade ?
?to yell?>?emit?harf ?
?to extort information?,e?tera?f ?
?to extort a confes-sion?, eqra?r ?
?to extort a con-fession?>?extort?Table 1: Meanings of kes?idan in the context of its CPsGiven that kes?idan alone cannot convey any ofthese meanings, these combinations can be consid-ered as ICEs.
On the basis of the meaning assignedto kes?idan and the meaning of the CP as a whole,14new combinations can be produced and interpreted.For instance, the newly coined s?abake kes?idan ?toinstall a network?
can be interpreted given the CPka?bl kes?idan ?to install cables?
in Table 1.3.2 Analogical ProductivityCPs such as s?a?ne kes?idan ?to comb?, kise kes?idan?to rub with an exfoliating glove?, ja?ru kes?idan ?tobroom?
and bros kes?idan ?to brush?
constitute arather coherent paradigm.
They all denote an ac-tion carried out using an instrument in its conven-tional way.
However, it is impossible to assign alexical meaning to kes?idan.
Indeed, kes?idan doesnot mean ?to use?, but to use in a specific manner,which cannot be defined without resorting to thenoun kes?idan combines with.
Nevertheless, the factthat these instrumental CPs exist enables speakers tocreate CPs such as ses?ua?r kes?idan ?to do a brushing?(Lit.
?hairdryer pull?)
on an analogical basis.In the same way, CPs such as telefon zadan ?tophone?
(Lit.
?phone hit?
), telegra?f zadan ?to senda telegraph?
(Lit.
?telegraph hit?
), bisim zadan ?towalkie-talkie?, ?to communicate by means of awalkie-talkie?
(Lit.
?walkie-talkie hit?)
constitute arather coherent paradigm.
However, it is impossibleto assign a meaning to zadan in these combinations.Nevertheless recent combinations such as imeylzadan ?to email?
or esemes zadan ?to text, to sms?have been created by analogical extension.4 A Construction-Based ApproachBuilding on the conclusions presented in theprevious section, Samvelian (2012) proposes aConstruction-based approach of Persian CPs.
AConstruction, in the sense of Goldberg (1995) andKay and Fillmore (1999), is a conventional associ-ation between a form and a meaning.
Given thatPersian CPs are MWEs, they each correspond to aConstruction.
Constructions can be of various lev-els of abstractness and can be organized hierarchi-cally, going from the most specific ones (in our casea given CP, ja?ru zadan ?to broom?)
to more abstractones (e.g.
Instrumental CPs).Samvelian (2012) applies this Contruction-basedperspective to the CPs formed with zadan ?to hit?and provides a set of abstract Constructions group-ing these CPs on the basis of their semantic and syn-tactic similarities.Although zadan is not the most frequent verb5 inthe formation of CPs compared to kardan ?to do?
ors?odan ?to become?, it is nevertheless a productiveone, in the sense that it regularly forms new CPs:imeyl zadan ?to email?, la?yk zadan ?to like (on Face-book)?, tredmil zadan ?to run on a treadmill?, epi-leydi zadan ?to use an epilator?.
Besides, zadan hasa more consistent semantic content than kardan ?todo?
or s?odan ?to become?, which function more orless like verbalizers with no real semantic contribu-tion, similarly to conversion or derivation.
Zadan,on the contrary, can convey several lexical mean-ings, such as ?hit?, ?beat?, ?cut?, ?put?, ?apply?...
Con-sequently, CPs formed with zadan provide an inter-esting case study to highlight the continuum goingfrom lexical verbs to light verbs (or from free syn-tactic combinations to idiomatic combinations), aswell as the way new combinations are coined on thebasis of semantic groupings.Each class is represented by a partially fixed Con-struction.
Here are two examples of Constructions:(10) Instrumental-zadan ConstructionN0Agent(be) N1PatientNInstrumentzadan?N0 accomplishes the typical action forwhich N is used (on N1)?N zadan: bil ?
?to shovel?, boros ?
?to brush?, ja?ru ?
?to broom?, mesva?k ?
?to brush one?s teeth?, otu ?
?toiron?, s?a?ne ?
?to comb?, soha?n ?
?to file?, suzan ?
?tosew?, qeyc?i ?
?to cut with scissors?...
(11) Forming-zadan ConstructionN0Location/ThemeNThemezadan?N is formed on N0?/ ?N0 is changed into N?N zadan: java?ne ?
?to bud?, jus?
?
?to sprout?, ka-pak ?
?to go moldy?, s?abnam ?
?to dew?, s?okufe ?
?tobloom?, tabxa?l ?
?to develop coldsore?, ta?val ?
?to5To give a rough approximation, the most frequent verb inthe Bijankhan corpus (see section 5.1) is kardan with 30k oc-currences, zadan stands in 21st place with 1k occurrences15blister?, yax ?
?to freeze?, zang ?
?to rust?, pine ?
?tobecome calloused?, nam ?
?to dampen?...Note that these semantic groupings do not exclu-sively lie on the semantic relatedness of the nounsoccurring in the CPs, but involve the Constructionas a whole.
While semantic relatedness of the nounsis indeed a good cue for grouping CPs, it does notalways allow to account for the relatedness of other-wise clearly related CPs.
For instance, kapak zadan?go moldy?
(Lit.
?mold hit?
), java?ne zadan ?bud?(Lit.
?bud hit?
), jus?
zadan ?sprout?
(Lit.
?spot hit?
),s?abnam zadan ?dew?
(Lit.
?dew hit?
), zang zadan?rust?
(Lit.
?rust hit?)
can be grouped together (see11 above) on the basis of the fact that they all denotea change of state generally resulting in the forma-tion, development or outbreak of an entity (denotedby the nominal element of the CP) on another en-tity (denoted by the grammatical subject of the CP).However mold, bud, spot, dew and rust, ice, damp-ness and blister do not form a natural class.Constructions can be structured in networks,reflecting different relationships such as hy-ponymy/hyperonymy (subtypes vs supertypes), syn-onymy, valency alternations.Semantic Subtypes and Supertypes.
Some se-mantic classes can be grouped together into a moreabstract class.
In this case, the Construction that isassociated to them is the subtype of a less specificConstruction.
For instance the CPs associated to theSpreading-zadan Construction, e.g.
rang zadan ?topaint?
(Lit.
?paint hit?
), can be considered as Lo-catum (or Figure) CPs.
Locatum verbs, e.g.
paint,salt (Clark and Clark, 1979), incorporate a Figure(i.e.
the noun to which the verb is morphologicallyrelated) and have a Ground argument realized as anNP or a PP: ?to paint sth?
= ?to put paint (= Figure)on sth (= Ground).
In the case of Persian LocatumCPs, the Figure is the nominal element of the CP.Apart from the Spreading-zadan Construction,Locatum-zadan Construction has several other sub-types: Incorporation-zadan Construction, e.g.
na-mak zadan ?to salt?
(Lit.
?salt hit?
), Putting-zadanConstruction, e.g.
dastband zadan ?to put hand-cuffs?
(Lit.
?handcuff hit?)
and Wearing-zadan Con-struction, e.g.
eynak zadan ?to wear glasses?
(Lit.
?glasses hit?
).Synonymous constructions.
The same Construc-tion can be realized by different verbs, e.g.
kardan?to do?
and kes?idan ?to pull?
also form Instrumen-tal predicates, e.g.
ja?ru kardan and ja?ru kes?idan ?tobroom?.
So, along with Instrumental-zadan Con-struction, there is also an Instrumental-kes?idan Con-struction and an Instrumental-kardan Construction.These three partially fixed Constructions are sub-types of a more abstract Construction, with no lexi-cally fixed element, namely Instrumental Construc-tion.
Synonymy rises when the same noun occurs inthe same Construction realized by different verbs.Valency alternating Constructions.
The sameConstruction can display valency alternations.
Forinstance, in an Instrumental Construction, the Agentargument can be mapped to the grammatical sub-ject and the Patient to the grammatical object, inwhich case we obtain an ?Active?
Instrumental Con-struction, or the Patient can be mapped to the gram-matical subject, which gives rise to a ?Passive?
In-strumental Construction.
This valency alternation isoften realized by a verb alternation in the CP: otuzadan ?to iron?
vs. otu xordan ?to be ironed (Lit.
?iron collide?
); a?tas?
zadan ?to set fire?
vs. a?tas?
geref-tan ?to take fire?
(Lit.
?fire take?
).For a detailed description of Constructions andtheir hierarchical organization see Samvelian (2012)and Samvelian and Faghiri (to appear).5 PersPred?s Database ConceptionBuilding on Samvelian (2012), PersPred 1 invento-ries the CPs formed with zadan and a nominal ele-ment.
Its first delivery includes around 700 combi-nations grouped in 52 classes and 9 super classes.
22fields are annotated for each combination.5.1 Input DataAs Samvelian (2012) extensively argues, the deci-sion whether a given Noun-Verb combination in Per-sian must be considered as a CP (or LVC) or a freeObject-Verb is not straightforward and this opposi-tion is better conceived of in terms of a continuumwith a great number of verbs functioning as semi-lexical or semi-light verbs.
Consequently, a combi-nation such as namak zadan ?to salt?
(Lit.
?salt hit?
)can be viewed either as a CP or as the combinationof a lexical verb ?
zadan meaning ?to put?, ?to add?16or ?to incorporate?
?
and its object.
Hence, the ex-istence of felfel zadan ?to pepper?, zarc?ube zadan?to add tumeric?
and many others, which constitutean open class.
So, our main concern in the elabora-tion of PersPred is not to solve this insolvable prob-lem.
We rather intend to provide a sufficiently richdescription of the totally idiomatic combinations aswell as semi-productive and even totally productiveones, allowing a precise characterization of the lexi-cal semantics of the simplex verbs in Persian.
Wethus aim to ultimately elaborate a comprehensiveverbal lexicon for Persian.PersPred is built up, and continues to be enriched,from different types of resources and through com-plementary methods, in a permanent back-and-forthmovement.1) A first list was established on the basis ofSamvelian (2012), which proposes a manually ex-tracted list of CPs from various lexicographic re-sources, literature, media and the Web, along withtheir semantic classification.2) This initial list was enriched in two ways, auto-matic extraction from the Bijankhan corpus6 and bymanually adding semantically related combinations.Automatic extraction.
We used the Bijankhancorpus (Bijankhan, 2004), a freely available corpusof 2.6m tokens, from journalistic texts, annotated forPOS.
We first lemmatized the verbs (228 types, 185ktokens)7 and then extracted CP candidates accord-ing to the following pattern : N-V or P-N-V, since,as also mentioned by Tamsilipoor et al(2012), theN-V pattern can be considered to be the prototypicalpattern of the CP construction in Persian.
Addition-ally, in order to include prepositional CPs, e.g.
darnazar gereftan ?take into account?
(Lit.
in view take)or be zamin zadan ?make fall?
(Lit.
to ground hit),we also took into account the noun?s preceding ele-ment if it was a preposition.
In total, we extracted aset of 150k combinations (37k types) regardless ofthe verbal lemma with, as expected, a large numberof hapaxes (25k).
For zadan, we have 1056 com-binations of 386 types with 267 hapaxes.
It should6http://ece.ut.ac.ir/dbrg/bijankhan/7We took the verbal periphrasis into account in the way thata complex conjugation of, for example, three tokens such asxa?nde xa?had s?od ?will be read?
or two tokens such as zade ast?have hit?, are lemmatized and counted as one verb.be noted that low frequency does not imply the ir-relevance of the combination since the frequencyis corpus-dependent, for instance well establishedCPs such as pelk zadan ?blink?, neq zadan ?nag?,hava?r zadan ?scream?
or neyrang zadan ?deceive?have only one occurrence in the corpus.
Hence, themanual validation of all the extracted combinationtypes is necessary.
To do so, we stored all the candi-dates in a spreadsheet sorted by descending order oftype frequency and manually filtered out irrelevantsequences.Manual enrichment.
Given the existing classes,we considered a set of new candidates to expandeach class on the basis of semantic relatedness.
Weused a simple heuristic ?
based on Google searchresults for the exact expression formed by the nounand the verb in its infinitive form ?
combined withour native speaker intuition to decide whether a can-didate should be retained or not.
For instance, giventhe existence of the class labeled Communicatingwith members such as telefon zadan ?to phone?
orfaks zadan ?to fax?, we considered combinationssuch as imeyl zadan ?to email?
and esemes zadan ?toSMS?, ?to text?.Note that for totally productive classes (e.g.
In-coporating class with members such namak zadan?salt?
(see above), listing all potential combinationswas useless, since the verb selects the noun it com-bines with in the same way as a lexical verb selectsits complements, i.e.
via restricting its conceptualclass.
So, the actual size of a class in PersPred 1does not necessarily reflect its real extension.5.2 Encoded InformationPersPred 1 contains 22 different fields which areconceived to capture different types of lexical, syn-tactic and semantic information.
Tables 2, 3 and 4below illustrate these fields via the example of theCP a?b zadan ?wet?.
Note that 2 extra fields provide(at least) one attested example in Persian script andits phonetic transcription.Lemma information.
9 fields provide informa-tion on the lemma of the CP and its combiningparts, including French and English translations ofthe Noun, the Verb and the CP.CP-Lemma indicates the lexical identity of theCP.
Consequently there are as many lemmas asso-17Field ExampleVerb (V in Persian script)Noun (N in Persian script)N-transcription a?bV-transcription zadanCP-lemma a?b-zadan0N-FR-translation eauN-EN-translation waterCP-FR-translation mouillerCP-EN-translation to wetTable 2: Lemma fields for a?b zadan ?to wet?ciated to the same combination as meanings.
ThusCP-Lemma allows to distinguish homonymous CPson the one hand and to group polysemous and syn-tactically alternating CPs on the other hand.
Thenotation used is as follows: The CP-lemma is en-coded by the concatenation of the nominal and theverbal element, linked by a hyphen and followedby a number, beginning from 0.
Homonymous CPsare formed with the same components but refer toclearly different events or situations.
For instance,suzan zadan (Lit.
needle hit) means either to sewor to give an injection.
A different lemma is associ-ated to each meaning in this case, suzan-zadan0and suzan-zadan1.
We have adopted an approachfavoring grouping of polysemous CPs, by assigningthe same lemma to polysemous CPs.
Polysemy ishence accounted for by creating multiple lexical en-tries.Subcategorization and syntactic information.
8fields represent the syntactic construction of the CPand its English equivalent through an abstract syn-tactic template inspired, as mentioned above, byGross (1975).
Valency alternations and synonymyare also represented through 3 fields, Intransitive,Transitive and Synonymous Variants.The subcatgorization frame is provided bySynt-Construction combined with PRED-N,Prep-Form-N1, Prep-Form-N2, where N standsfor a bare noun or a nominal projection (i.e.
NP)and the number following N indicates the oblique-ness hierarchy among nominal elements: N0 is the1st argument (subject); N1 the direct object; PrepN1 the prepositional object and so on.The nominal element of the CP, indicated byPRED-N, is also assigned a number.
Even though,this element does not display the typical semanticproperties of an argument, from a syntactic pointof view it can undergo different operations, whichmeans that it has a syntactic function and mustthus be taken into account in the obliqueness hi-erarchy.
PRED-N specifies which constituent inSynt-Construction is the nominal element ofthe CP (i.e.
forms a CP with the verb), and thustakes as its value either N0, N1, N2 or N3 or PrepNx, in case the nominal of the CP is introduced bya preposition.
Prep-Form-N1 and Prep-Form-N2indicate either the lemma of the preposition whichintroduces N1 and N2, in case the preposition is lex-ically fixed, or its semantic value:Field ExampleSynt-Construction N0 Prep N1 N2 VPRED-N N2Prep-N1 bePrep-N2 NONEConstruction-trans-En N0 wets N2Intrans-Var xordanTrans-Var NONESyn-Var NONETable 3: Syntactic fields for a?b zadan ?to wet?Alternations in the argument realization (i.e.
di-rect vs prepositional) give rise to several entries.For instance, the second argument of a?b zadan?to wet?, can either be realized as an NP or aPP (i.e.
Dative shift alternation).
Consequently,a?b zadan has two entries which differ with re-spect to their Synt-Construction feature value:N0 Prep N1 N2 V vs N0 N1 N2 V. Note that thesetwo entries are considered to be two different real-izations of the same lemma (i.e.
they have the samevalue for CP-Lemma).Construction-EN-Trans simultaneously pro-vides the English translation of the CP and the waythe arguments of the Persian CP (as encoded inSynt-Construction) are mapped with the gram-matical functions in the English translation.Intrans-Variant, Trans-Variant andSyn-Variant provide information about valencyalternations and synonymy.
The value of these18features is either a verbal lemma or NONE, if thereis no attested variant.
Intrans-Variant providesthe lemma of one or several verbs that can be usedto produce a CP where the Patient (N1 or N2) argu-ment is assigned the subject function, i.e.
becomesN0.
This alternation is somehow comparable tothe passive alternation.
Trans-Variant gives thelemma of the verb(s) used to add an extra argument(or participant) to the CP.
This external participantgenerally has a Cause interpretation and is realizedas the subject of the ?transitive/Causative?
CP.
Thefirst argument of the initial CP is mapped in thiscase onto the Object function.
Syn-Variant givesthe lemma of the set of verbs forming a synonymouspredicate with the same noun.Semantic information.
5 fields are dedicated tosemantic information, e.g.
the semantic subtypeand supertype and the type of meaning extension(metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche), if applicable.Field ExampleSem-Class SpreadingSem-Super-Class LocatumConstant-Sem LiquidSubject-Sem HumanMeaning-Exension NONETable 4: Semantic fields for a?b zadan ?to wet?Sem-Class and Sem-Super-Class give the se-mantic classification of the CP, i.e.
the semanticclass and the semantic superclass which the CP is amember of (cf.
Section 4 for a detailed explanation).The value of Sem-Class corresponds to the mostspecific partially fixed Construction of which the CPis an instance.
The value of Sem-Super-Classis the less specific Construction of which the CPis an instance.
These feature allow for a hierarchi-cal organization of CPs in classes and super-classes,implementing the Construction networks mentionedin Section 4.
CPs which do not pertain to any ofthe classes are nevertheless considered as the onlymember of the class they represent.
All these sin-gleton classes are assigned the value ?isolated?
forSem-Super-Class.Subject-Sem and Constant-Sem give the se-mantic class of the subject and the nominal elementof the CP.
Our classification is more fine-grainedthan the one adopted in Wordnet, but it can easilybe converted into a Wordnet-type classification.Meaning-Extension indicates if a CP has un-dergone semantic drift, mainly metaphor, metonymyor synecdoche.
In the case of a metaphoric exten-sion, the concerned CP is linked to the CP fromwhich it is metaphorically driven.The integration of a given CP into a given classhas been decided on the basis of its most salientsemantic properties or some of its meaning compo-nents.
It should be noted that some meaning compo-nents cut across the classes identified in PersPred 1and consequently, the CPs that display these mean-ing components can be cross-classified in differentclasses8.
At this stage, only one specific class (i.e.Construction) is mentioned for each CP.
One of thefuture developments of PersPred will be to includemultiple class memberships.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented PersPred 1, which in-augurates the elaboration of a large-scale syntac-tic and semantic database for Persian CPs.
Per-sPred 1 is dedicated to CPs formed with zadan ?tohit?.
We plan to extend its coverage by integratingCPs formed with da?dan ?to give?, gereftan ?to take?and xordan ?to collide?
shortly.
Bearing in mindthat integrating new verbs will have an impact onthe semantic classes and their networks, and giventhe fact that our main difficulties so far have beenthe semantic classification and the time-consumingtask of manual annotation, we are currently elabo-rating semi-automatic annotating methods in orderto achieve a satisfactory pace in the future develop-ment of PersPred.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the bilateral project Per-Gram, funded by the ANR (France) and the DGfS(Germany) [grant no.
MU 2822/3-I] and is related tothe work package LR4.1 of the Labex EFL (fundedby the ANR/CGI).
We would like to thank Gwen-doline Fox and the anonymous reviewers for theirhelpful comments.8See (Levin, 1993) for similar remarks on English verbclasses.19ReferencesMohammad Bijankhan.
2004.
The role of the corpusin writing a grammar : An introduction to a software.Iranian Journal of Linguistics, 10(2).Olivier Bonami and Pollet Samvelian.
2010.
Persiancomplex predicates: Lexeme formation by itself.
Pa-per presented at Septie`mes De?cembrettes MorphologyConference, Toulouse, December 3.Eve V. Clark and Herbert H. Clark.
1979.
When nounssurface as verbs.
Language, 55(4):767?811.Afsaneh Fazly, Suzanne Stevenson, and Ryan North.2007.
Automatically learning semantic knowledgeabout multiword predicates.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 41:61?89.Raffaella Folli, Heidi Harley, and Simin Karimi.
2005.Determinants of event type in Persian complex predi-cates.
Lingua, 115:1365?1401.Adele E. Goldberg.
1995.
A Construction Grammar Ap-proach to Argument Structure.
University of ChicagoPress, Chicago.Adele E. Goldberg.
1996.
Words by default: Optimiz-ing constraints and the Persian complex predicate.
InAnnual Proceedings of the Berkeley Linguistic Society22, pages 132?146.
Berkeley.Adele E. Goldberg.
2003.
Words by default: The Per-sian complex predicate construction.
In E. Francisand L. Michaelis, editors, Mismatch: Form-FunctionIncongruity and the Architecture of Grammar, pages117?146.
CSLI Publications, Stanford.Maurice Gross.
1975.
Me?thodes en syntaxe : re?gime desconstructions comple?tives.
Hermann, Paris.Gholamhossein Karimi-Doostan.
1997.
Light Verb Con-structions in Persian.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Es-sex.Simin Karimi.
1997.
Persian complex verbs: Idiomaticor compositional.
Lexicology, 3:273?318.Paul Kay and Charles J. Fillmore.
1999.
Grammati-cal constructions and linguistic generalizations: TheWhat?s X doing Y?
construction.
Language, 75(1?33).Parviz Khanlari.
1986.
Tarix-e zaba?n-e farsi (A Historyof the Persian Language).
Editions Nashr-e Now.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alterna-tions.
The University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Karine Megerdoomian.
2002.
Beyond Words andPhrases: A Unified Theory of Predicate Composition.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Southern California.Karine Megerdoomian.
2012.
The status of the nominalin persian complex predicates.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 30(1):179?216.Geoffrey Nunberg, Ivan A.
Sag, and Thomas Wasow.1994.
Idioms.
Language, 70:491?538.Elizabeth Ritter and Sara Rosen.
1996.
Strong and weakpredicates: Reducing the lexical burden.
LinguisticAnalysis, 26:1?34.Ali Ashraf Sadeghi.
1993.
On denominative verbs inPersian.
In Farsi Language and the Language of Sci-ence, pages 236?246.
University Press, Tehran.Pollet Samvelian and Pegah Faghiri.
to appear.
Re-thinking compositionality in persian complex predi-cats.
In Proceedings of the 39th Berkeley LinguisticsSociety.
Linguistic Society of America, Berkeley.Pollet Samvelian.
2012.
Grammaire des pre?dicats com-plexes.
Les constructions nom-verbe.
Lavoisier.Shiva Taslimipoor, Afsaneh Fazly, and Ali Hamzeh.2012.
Using noun similarity to adapt an acceptabilitymeasure for persian light verb constructions.
In Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation Conference (LREC2012), Istanbul.Mohammad-Mehdi Vahedi-Langrudi.
1996.
The syntax,Semantics and Argument Structure of Complex Pred-icates in Modern Farsi.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofOttawa.20
