Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 2?11,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsExpressivity and comparison of models of discourse structureAntoine Venant1 Nicholas Asher2 Philippe Muller1 Pascal Denis3 Stergos Afantenos1(1) IRIT, Toulouse University, France, (2) IRIT, CNRS, France (3) Mostrare, INRIA, France ?AbstractSeveral discourse annotated corpora now ex-ist for NLP.
But they use different, not eas-ily comparable annotation schemes: are thestructures these schemes describe incompati-ble, incomparable, or do they share interpre-tations?
In this paper, we relate three typesof discourse annotation used in corpora or dis-course parsing: (i) RST, (ii) SDRT, and (iii)dependency tree structures.
We offer a com-mon language in which their structures can bedefined and furnished a range of interpreta-tions.
We define translations between RST andDT preserving these interpretations, and intro-duce a similarity measure for discourse repre-sentations in these frameworks.
This will en-able researchers to exploit different types ofdiscourse annotated data for automated tasks.1 IntroductionComputer scientists and linguists now largely agreethat representing discourse structure as a hierarchicalrelational structure over discourse units linked by dis-course relations is appropriate to account for a varietyof interpretative tasks.
There is also some agreementover the taxonomy of discourse relations ?almost allcurrent theories include expressions that refer to rela-tions like Elaboration, Explanation, Result, Narration,Contrast, Attribution.
Sanders, Spooren, and Noord-man 1992; Bateman and Rondhuis 1997 discuss corre-spondences between different taxonomies.Different theories, however, assume different sets ofconstraints that govern these representations; some ad-vocate trees: RST Mann and Thompson 1987, DLTAGWebber et al1999; others, graphs of different sorts:SDRT Asher and Lascarides 2003, Graphbank Wolfand Gibson 2005.
Consider:(1) [?he was a very aggressive firefighter.
]C1 [heloved the work he was in,?
]C2 [said acting firechief Lary Garcia.
]C3 .
[?He couldn?t be bestedin terms of his willingness and his ability to dosomething to help you survive.?
]C4 (from Eggand Redeker 2010)Using RST, Egg and Redeker 2010 provide the tree an-notated with nuclearity features for this example (givenby the linear encoding in (s1)), while SDRT provides?This research was supported by ERC grant 269427.a different kind of structure (s2).
Dependency trees(DTs), similar to syntactic dependency trees and usedin Muller et al2012 for automated parsing, give yet an-other representation (s3).
Elab stands for elaboration,Attr for attribution, and Cont for continuation.Elab1(Attr(Elab2(C1N ,C2S )N ,C3S )N ,C4S ) (s1)Attr(pi,C3) ?
pi :Elab(C1, pi1) ?
pi1 :Cont(C2,C4) (s2)Elab1(C1,C2) ?
Attr(C1,C3) ?
Elab(C1,C4) (s3)Several corpora now exist annotated with such struc-tures: RSTTB Carlson, Marcu, and Okurowski 2002,Discor Baldridge, Asher, and Hunter 2007, Graph-Bank1.
But how exactly do these annotations compare?In the illustrative example chosen and for the relationtypes they agree on (Elaboration and Attribution), dif-ferent annotation models and theoretical frameworksinvoke different numbers of instances of these relationsand assign the instances different arguments or differ-ent scopes, at least on the surface.
In this paper we de-velop a method of comparing the scopes of relations indifferent types of structures by developing a notion ofinterpretation shared between different structures.
Thisinterpretation specifies the set of possible scopes of re-lations compatible with a given structure.
This theoret-ical work is important for furthering empirical researchon discourse.
Discourse annotations are expensive.
Itbehooves researchers to use as much data as they can,annotated in several formalisms, while pursuing pre-diction or evaluation in their chosen theory.
This paperprovides a theoretical basis to do this.What a given structure expresses exactly is often notclear; some discourse theories are not completely for-malized or lack a worked out semantics.
Neverthe-less, in all of them rhetorical relations have semanticconsequences bearing on tasks like text summarization,textual entailment, anaphora resolution, as well as thetemporal, spatial and thematic organization of a textHobbs, Stickel, and Martin 1993; Kehler 2002; Asher1993; Lascarides and Asher 1993; Hobbs, Stickel, andMartin 1993; Hitzeman, Moens, and Grover 1995, interalia.
Theories like SDRT or Polanyi et al2004 adopt aconception of discourse structure as logical form.
Dis-course structures are like logical formulae and relations1The Penn Discourse Treebank Prasad et al2008 couldalso be considered as a corpus with partial dependency struc-tures.2function like logical operators on the meaning of theirarguments.
Hence their exact scope has great semanticimpact on the phenomena we have mentioned, in ex-actly the way the relative scope of quantifiers make agreat semantic difference in first order logic.
By con-centrating on exact meaning representations, however,the syntax-semantics interface becomes quite complex:as happens with quantifiers at the intra sentential level,discourse relations might semantically require a scopethat is, at least a priori, not determined by syntacticconsiderations alone and violates surface order (see s2).Other theories like Polanyi?s Linguistic DiscourseModel (LDM) of Polanyi 1985; Polanyi and Scha 1984,and DLTAG Webber et al1999 explicitly adopt asyntactic point of view, and RST with strongly con-strained (tree-shaped) structures is subject to parsingapproaches duVerle and Prendinger 2009; Sagae 2009;Subba and Di Eugenio 2009 that adhere to the syntac-tic approach in adopting decoding strategies of syntac-tic parsing.
In such theories, discourse structure repre-sentations, subject to syntactic constraints (e.g.
domi-nance of spans of text one over another) respect surfaceorder but do not always and unproblematically yield asemantic interpretation that fits intuitions.
Accordingto Marcu 1996, an RST tree is not by itself sufficient togenerate desired predictions; he employs the nuclearityprinciple, NP, as an additional interpretation principleon scopes of relations.We focus on two theories: RST, which offers themodel for the annotations of the RST treebank Carl-son, Marcu, and Okurowski 2002 and the Potsdamcommentary corpus Stede 2004, and on SDRT, whichcounts several small corpora annotated with semanticscopes, Discor Baldridge, Asher, and Hunter 2007 andAnnodis Afantenos et al2012.
We describe these the-ories in section 2.
We will also compare these two the-ories to dependency tree representations of discourseMuller et al2012.
Section 3 introduces a language fordescribing semantics scopes of relations that is power-ful enough to: i) compare the expressiveness (in termsof what different scopes can be expressed) of the dif-ferent formalisms considered; ii) give a formal targetlanguage that will provide comparable interpretationsof the different structures at stake.
Section 4 discussesMarcu?s nuclearity principle and proposes an alterna-tive way to interpret an RST tree as a set of differentpossible scopes expressed in our language.
Section 5provides intertranslability results between the differentformalisms.
Section 6 defines a measure of similarityover discourse structures in different formalisms.2 Discourse formalismsThese formalisms we introduce here all require the in-put text to be segmented into elementary units (EDUs).The definition of what an EDU is varies slightly withthe formalism, but roughly corresponds to the clauselevel in RST, SDRT and other theories.
We assume asegmentation common to the different formalisms anduse examples with a non controversial and intuitivesegmentation.Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST), the theory un-derlying the RST-Treebank is the most used corpus fordiscourse parsing, cf.
duVerle and Prendinger 2009,Subba and Di Eugenio 2009, inter alia.In its Mann and Thompson 1987 formulation, RSTbuilds a descriptive tree for the discourse by the recur-sive application of schemata in a bottom-up procedure.Each schema application ideally reflects the most plau-sible relation the writer intended between two contigu-ous spans of text, as well as hierarchical informationabout the arguments of the relation, distinguishing be-tween nuclei as essential arguments of a relation andsatellites as more contingent parts.
The set of RS Treesis inductively defined as follows:1- An EDU is a RS Tree.2- if R is a nucleus-statellite relation symbol, s1 ands2 are both RS Trees with contiguous spans (the left-most leaf in s2 is textually located right after the right-most one in s1), and ?a1, a2?
?
{?N, S ?
; ?S ,N?}
thenR(t1 a1, t2 a2) is an RS Tree.3- if R is a multinuclear relation symbol and?s1, .
.
.
, sn?
are n RS Trees with contiguous spans thenR(s1 N, .
.
.
, sn N) is an RS Tree.Following Mann and Thompson 1987 a complete RStree makes explicit the content the author intended tocommunicate.
RS Trees are graphically representedMarcu 1996 with intermediate nodes labelled with re-lation names, leaves with symbols referring to EDUs,and edges with nucleus/satellite distinctions.Segmented Discourse Representation Theory(SDRT), our second case-study theory, inherits aframework from dynamic semantics and enrichesit with rhetorical relations.
The set of SDRSs isinductively defined as follows:Assume a set of rhetorical relations R, distinguishedbetween coordinating and subordinating relations.- Any EDU is an SDRS.- Any Complex Discourse Unit (CDU) is a SDRS.- a CDU is an acyclic labelled graph (A, E) whereevery node is a discourse unit (DU) or SDRS and eachlabelled edge is a discourse relation such that:(i) every node is connected to some other node;(ii) no two nodes are linked by subordinating and co-ordinating relations,(iii) given EDUs a1, .
.
.
, an+1 in their textual orderthat yield a CDU (A, E) = G, each EDU a j+1 j < n islinked either: (a) to nodes on the right frontier of theCDU G?
a subgraph of G constructed from a1, .
.
.
, a j;or (b) to one or more nodes in G?
= (A?,G?
), a subgraphof G, which linked to one or more nodes on the rightfrontier of the graph G?, and where G?
is constructedfrom a subset of a j+2, .
.
.
an.The right frontier of a graph G consists of the nodesa that are not the left arguments to any coordinatingrelation and for which if any node b is linked to somenode dominating a, then there is a path of subordinating3relations from b to a.A Segmented Discourse Representation Structure(SDRS), is assigned a recursively computed meaningin terms of context-change potential (relation betweenpairs of ?
world, assignation function ?)
in the tradi-tion of dynamic semantics.
The semantics of a complexconstituent is compositionally defined from the seman-tics of rhetorical relations and the interpretation of itssubconstituents.
In the base case of an EDU, the se-mantics is given in dynamic semantics.We also consider dependency trees (DTs).
Mulleret al2012 derive DTs from the SDRSs of the ANN-ODIS corpus to get a reduced search space, simplify-ing automated discourse parsing.
A DT is an SDRSin which there are no CDUs and there is a unique arcbetween any two nodes.
Muller et al2012 providea procedure from SDRSs to DTs, which we slightlymodify to respect the Frontier Contraint that they use.?
works in a bottom-up fashion replacing every CDUX that is an argument of a rhetorical relation in ?
bytheir top-most immediate sub-constituent which do notappear on the right of any relation in X, or distributingthe top relation when necessary to preserve projectivity.To give a simple example: ?(R([R?
(a, [R??
(b, c)])], d)) =?(R([R?
(a, b) ?
R??
(b, c)], d)) = R(a, d) ?
R?
(a, b) ?R??
(b, c).
(1) provides a more complicated example wediscuss in Section 6).3 Describing the scope of relationsWe provide here a language expressive and generalenough to express the structures of the 3 theories.
Allour case-study theories involve structures described bya list of rhetorical relations and their arguments.
Twothings may vary: first, the nature of the arguments.SDRT for instance, introduces complex constituentsas arguments of relations (e.g.
{pi : Rsubord(b, c)Rsubord(a, pi) ),which finds a counterpart within RS Trees, where arelation may directly appear as argument of another(R(aN ,R(bN , cS )S )) but not within dependency trees.Second, the set of constraints that restrict the possi-ble lists of such relations can vary across theories (e.g.right frontier, or requirement for a tree structure).To deal with the first point above, we remark thatit suffices to list, for each instance of a discourse rela-tion, the set of elementary constituents that belong to itsleft and right scope in order to express the three kindsof structures.
We do this in a way that an isomorphicstructure can always be recovered.
Models of our com-mon language will be a list of relation instances and el-ementary constituents, together with a set of predicatesstating what is in the scope of what.
As for the secondpoint, we axiomatize each constraint in our commonlanguage, thereby describing each of the 3 types of dis-course structures as a theory in our language.Our language contains only binary relations.
Amongdiscourse formalisms, only RST makes serious (andempirical) use of n?ary discourse relations.
Neverthe-less, such RST structures are expressible in our frame-work, if we assume certain semantic equivalences.RST allows for two cases of non-binary trees: (i) nu-cleus with n satellites, each one linked to the nucleusby some relation Rn.
Such a structure is semanticallyequivalent to the conjunction of n-binary relations Rnbetween the nucleus and the nth satellite, which is ex-pressible in our framework.
(ii) RST also allows for n-ary multinuclear relations such as List and Sequence.
Inour understanding, multinuclear relations R(a1, .
.
.
an),essentially serve a purpose of expressiveness, and suchan n-ary tree is an equivalent to the split non-treeshaped structure R(a1, a2) ?
R(a2, a3) .
.
.R(a(n?1), an).This seems clear for the Sequence relation, whichstates that a1 .
.
.
an are in temporal sequence and canbe equivalently formulated as ?each ai precedes ai+1?.This might appear less obvious for the List relation.The semantics (as it appears on the RST website http://www.sfu.ca/rst/) of this relation requires the ai tobe ?comparable?, and as far as this is a transitive prop-erty, we can split the relation into a set of binary ones.Formally, our scope language Lscopes is a fragment ofthat of monadic second order logic with two sorts of in-dividuals: relation instances (i), and elementary consti-tuants (l).
Below, we assume R is the set of all relationnames (elaboration, narration, justification, .
.
.
).Definition 1 (Scoping language).
Let S be the set {i, l}.The set of primitive, disjoint types of Lscopes consists ofi, l and t (type of formulae).
For each of the types inS , we have a countable set of variable symbols Vi (Vl).Two additional countable sets of variable symbols V?i,t?and V?l,t?
range over sets of individuals.
These four setsof variable symbols are pairwise disjoint.The alphabet of our language is constituted by Vi, Vs,a set of predicates, equality, connector and quantifiersymbols.
The set of predicate symbols is as follows:1) For each relation symbol r in R, LR is a unarypredicate of type ?i, t?
?i.e., LR : ?i, t?
.2) unary predicates, sub, coord and sub?1 : ?i, t?.3) binary predicates ?l and ?r : ?i, l, t?.4) two equality relations, =s : ?s, s, t?
for s ?
{i, l}.Logical connectors, and quantifiers are as usual.The sets of terms ?i,?l and ?t are recursively defined:1.
Vi ?
?i, Varl ?
?l.
2.
For v ?
Vs,t, v : ?s, t?.
3.
Foreach symbol ?
of type ?u1, .
.
.
, un?
in the alphabet, forall (t1, .
.
.
, tn?1) ?
?u1??
?
??
?un?1, ?
[t1, .
.
.
, tn?1] ?
?un .
?t is the set of well formed formulae of the scope lan-guage.The predicates ?l and ?r take a relation instance r oftype i and a elementary constituent x of type l as argu-ments.
Intuitively, they mean that x has to be includedin the left (for ?l) or right (for ?r) scope of r. For eachrelation symbol R such as justification or elaboration,the predicate LR takes a relation instance r has argu-ment and states that r is an instance of the rhetorical re-lation R. Predicates sub, coord and sub?1 apply to a re-lation instance r, respectively specifying that r?s left ar-gument hierarchically dominate its right argument, that4both are of equal hierarchical importance, or that theleft one is subordinate to the right one.Definition 2 (Scope structure and Interpretation).A scope structure is an Lscopes-structure M =?Di,Dl, |.|M?.
Di and Dl are disjoint sets of individu-als for the sorts i and l respectively, and |.|M assigns toeach predicate symbol P of type ?u1, .
.
.
, un, t?
a func-tion |.|P : Du1??
?
?
?Dun 7?
{0, 1}.
Variables of type ?i, t?are assigned subsets of Di and similarly for variables oftype ?l, t?, The predicates =i and =s are interpreted asequality over Di and Dl respectively.The interpretation ~?Mv of a formula ?
?
?S is thestandard interpretation of a monadic second order for-mula w.r.t to a model and a valuation (interpretation offirst order quantifiers and connectors is as usual, quan-tification over sets is over all sets of individuals).
Va-lidity |= also follows the standard definition.These scope structures offer a common frameworkfor different discourse formalisms.
Given one of thethree formalisms, we say that two structures S 1 and S 2are equivalent iff there is an encoding from one struc-ture into a scoped structure or set of scoped structuresand a decoding back from the scoped structure or set ofscoped structures into S 2Fact 1.
One can define two algorithms I and E suchthat:?
from a given structure s which is a RS Tree, aSDRS or a DT, I computes a scope structure I(s).?
given such a computed structure, E allow to re-trieve the original structure s (E(I(s)) = s).RST Encoding and Decoding To flesh out I and Efor RST, we need to define dominance.
Set lArgs(r) ={e ?
Dl | (r, e) ?
|?l|M}; rArgs(r) is defined analogously(where ?r replaces ?l).
The left and right dominancerelations vl and vr are defined as follows: r vl r?
iff(Args(r) ?
lArgs(r?
)).- r vl r?
?
?z : l((z ?l r)?
z ?r r))?
z ?l r?)
with r vr r?defined analogously.Dominance v is: v=vl ?
vr.- lArgs(r, X)?
?z : l(z ?l r) ?
z ?
X), with rArgs(r, X)similar and-Args(r, X)?
?z : l((z ?l r) ?
z ?r r))?
z ?
X).The NS, NN and NS schemes of RST will be re-spectively encoded by the predicates sub, coord andsub?1.
We proceed recursively.
If t is an EDU e, re-turn Mt = ?Di = ?,Dl = {e}, ?
where  is the inter-pretation that assigns the empty set to each predicatesymbol.
If the root of t is a binary node instantiatinga relation R(t1a1 , t2a2 ), let Tr ?
{sub, coord, sub?1} bethe predicate that encodes the schema a1a2, let Mt1 =?D1i ,D1l , |.|1?
and Mt2 = ?D2i ,D2l , |.|2?.
The algorithm re-turns Mt = ?D1i ?
D2i ?
{r},D1l ?
D2l , |.|Mt ?
where r is a?fresh?
relation instance variable not in D1i or D2i , and|.|Mt is updated in the appropriate fashion to reflect theleft and right arguments of r. Finally, if the root of t isan n-ary node, split it into a sequence of binary relationR1(t1, t2),R2(t2, t3), .
.
.
, proceed to recursively computethe scope-structures Mi for each of the relations using2 (take care to introduce a ?fresh?
relation instance in-dividual for each relation of the sequence), then returnthe union of the models Mi.RST Decoding Given a finite scope structure M =?Di,Dl, |.|M?, for each relation instance r compute theleft arguments of r and its right arguments.
We thenidentify L(r), the unique relation symbol R such thatr ?
|LR|M.
If that fails, the algorithm fails.
Similarlyretrieve the right nuclearity schema from the adequatepredicate that applies to r. Then compute the domi-nance relations for r. If the input structure M = I(t)for some RS Tree t then there is at least one maximalrelation instance for the dominance relation.
If t theroot node of t is a binary relation, there is exactly onemaximal element in the dominance relation.
If thereis none, then we return fail.
If there is exactly one,recursively compute the two RS Trees obtained fromthe models computed from the left and right argumentsand descendants of r. If there is more than one, the rootnode of the encoded RS Tree was a n-ary relation andone has to reconstruct the n-ary node if that is possi-ble; if not the algorithm fails (but that means the inputstructure was not obtained from a valid RS Tree).SDRT Encoding and Decoding: This is similar tothe RST encoding and decoding; for the encoding al-gorithm, we proceed recursively top down.
A SDRSs is a complex constituent that contents a graph g =?V, E?
whose edges are relations holding between sub-constituents, simple or complex as well.
First comeup with an encoding of the set E of all edges thathold between two sub-constituents of s, i.e.
a struc-ture M = ?Di = Ei,Dl = V, {LR}, ?l, ?r?, where, foreach edge e ?
Ei, LR encodes its relation type, and?l1 and ?r1 consists of all the pairs (x, e) of left andright nodes x of the edges e ?
E. Finally, for eachcomplex immediate sub-constituent of s in Dl, updateM as follows: for c such a subconsituent, recursivelycompute its encoding Mc, then add everything of Mcto M, finally remove c from M but add instead foreach relation r scoping over c to the right (left), allthe pairs {(r, x) | x is a constituent in Mc}.
The decod-ing works again similarly to the one for RST, top-downonce again: one recursively retrieves immediate con-tent of the current complex constituent at each levelthen moves to inner constituents.DT: Dependency trees are syntactically a special caseof SDRSs; there is only one CDU whose domain isonly EDUs.The scope language allows us to axiomatize threeclasses of scope structures corresponding to RS Trees,SDRSs and DTs.
Not every scope structure will yielda RS Tree when fed to the RST decoding algorithm,only those obtainable from encoding an RS tree.
As notall scope structures obey these axioms, our language is5strictly more expressive than any of these discourse for-malisms.As an example of an axiom, the following formulaexpresses that a relation cannot have both left and rightscope over the same elementary constituent:Strong Irreflexivity:?r : i?x : l?
(x ?l r ?
x ?r r)) (A0)Strong irreflexivity entails irreflexivity; a given relationinstance cannot have the same (complete) left and rightscopes.
All discourse theories validate A0.In the Appendix, we define left and right strong dom-inance relations vl(r) as well as n-ary RS trees andCDUs of SDRT.
We exploit these facts in the Appendixto express axioms (A1-A9) that axiomatize the struc-tures corresponding to RST, SDRT and DTs.
AxiomA1 says that every discourse unit is linked via some dis-course relation instance.
Axiom A2 insures that all ourrelation instances have the right number of arguments;Axioms A3 and A4 ensure acyclicity and no crossingdependencies.
A5a and A5b restrict structures to a tree-like dominance relation with a maximal dominating el-ement, while A6 defines the Right Frontier constraintfor SDRT, and A7 fixes the domain for SDRT con-straints on CDUs.
A8 ensures that no coordinating andsubordinating relations have the same left and right ar-guments, while A9 provide the restrictions needed todefine the set of DTs.
We use the encoding and decod-ing maps to show:Fact 2.1.
The theory TRS T ={A0, A1, A2, A3, A4, A5a, A5b, A8}characterizes RST structures in the sense that:- E applied to any structure M such that M |= TRS Tyield an RST Tree.- for any RST Tree t, I(t) |= TRS T .2.
The theory TS DRT ={A0, A1, A2, A3, A6, A7, A8}similarly characterizes SDRSs.3.
The theory TDT =TS DRT ?
{A9a, A9b} similarlycharacterizes Dependency Trees structures.4 Different Interpretations of ScopeThe previous section defined the set of scope structuresas well as the means to import, and then retrieve, RStrees, DTs, or SDRs into, and from, this set.
Some ofthese scope structures export both into RST and SDRT,yielding a 1 ?
1 correspondence between a subset ofSDRT and RST structures.
But what does this corre-spondence actually tell us about these two structures?In mathematics, the existence of an isomorphism relieson a bijection that preserves structure.
Our correspon-dence preserves the immediate interpretation of the se-mantic scopes of relations.Immediate Interpretation Consider a scope struc-tureM (validating A0, A1, A2).
The predicates lArgs(r)and rArgs(r) are the sets of all units in the left or rightscope of a relation instance r. Whether r, labelled byrelation name R holds of two discourse units or notin M, depends on the semantic content of its left andright arguments, recursively described by lArgs(r) andall relations r?
such that r?
@l r, and rArgs(r) and allrelations r?
such that r?
@r r. Algorithm I computeswhat we call the immediate interpretation of an inputstructure.
Intuitively, in this interpretation the semanticscope of relations is directly read from the structuresthemselves; a node R(t1, t2) in a RS Tree expresses thatR holds between contents expressed by the whole sub-structures t1 and t2.
Similarly, for SDRT and DTs, im-mediate interpretation of an edge pi1 ?R pi2 is that Rholds between the whole content of pi1 and pi2.While this immediate interpretation is standard inSDRT, it is not in RST.
Consider again (1) from theintroduction or:(2) [In 1988, Kidder eked out a $ 46 mil-lion profit,]31 [mainly because of severe costcutting.
]32 [Its 1,400-member brokerage oper-ation reported an estimated $ 5 million loss lastyear,]33 [although Kidder expects to turn a profitthis year]34 (RST Treebank, wsj 0604).
(3) [Suzanne Sequin passed away Saturday at thecommunal hospital of Bar-le-Duc,]3 [where shehad been admitted a month ago.
]4 [.
.
. ]
[Her fu-neral will be held today at 10h30 at the churchof Saint-Etienne of Bar-le-Duc.
]5 (annodis cor-pus).These examples involve what are called long distanceattachments.
(2) involves a relation of contrast, or com-parison between 31 and 33, but which does not involvethe contribution of 32 (the costs cutting of 1988).
(3)displays something comparable.
A causal relation likeresult, or at least a temporal narration holds between3 and 5, but it should not scope over 4 if one doesnot wish to make Sequin?s admission to the hospitala month ago a consequence of her death last Saturday.Finally in (1) C4 elaborates on C1, but not on the factthat C1 is attributed to chief Garcia, so the correspond-ing elaboration relation should not scope over C3.It is impossible however, to account for long distanceattachment using the immediate interpretation of RSTtrees.
(2), for instance, also involves an explanationrelation between 31 and 32, which should include noneof 33 or 34 in its scope.
Since 31 is in the scope of boththe explanation and the contrast relation, Axiom A5a ofthe previous section entails than an RST tree involvingthe two relations has to make one of the two relationsdominates the other.Marcu?s Nuclearity Principle (NP) Marcu 1996 pro-vides an alternative to the immediate interpretation andcaptures some long distance attachments Danlos 2008;Egg and Redeker 2010.
According to the NP, a rela-6tion between two spans of text, expressed at a node ofa RS Tree should hold between the most salient partsof these spans.
Most salient part is recursively defined:the most salient part of an elementary constituent is it-self, for a multinuclear relation R(t1N , .
.
.
, tkN) its mostsalient part is the union of the most salient parts of theti2.
Following Egg and Redeker 2010, the NP, or weakNP is a constraint on which RST trees may correctlycharacterize an input text; it is not a mechanism forcomputing scopes.
Given their analysis of (1) given inthe introduction, NP entails that Elab1 holds betweenC1 and C4, accounting for the long distance attach-ment, and that Attribution holds between C1 and C4which meets intuition in this case.
There is however norequirement that Attribution do not hold between thewider span [C1,C2] and C3, as there is no requirementthat Elab1 does not hold between [C1,C2,C3] and C4.In order to accurately account for (1), the former mustbe true and the latter false.However, this interpretation of NP together with anRST tree does not determine the semantic scope of allrelations.
Danlos 2008 reformulates NP as a MixedNuclearity Principle (MNP) that outputs determinatescopes for a given structure.
The MNP requires for agiven node, that the most salient parts of his daughtersfurnish the exact semantic scope for the relation at thatnode.
The MNP transforms an RST tree t into a scopestructureMt, which validates A0 ?
A3 but also A6.3, A7and A8.
HenceM could be exported back to SDRT andthe MNP would yield a translation from RST-trees toSDRSs.But when applied to the RST Treebank, the MNPyields wrong, or at least incomplete, semantic scopesfor intuitively correct RS Trees.
The mixed principleapplied to the tree of s1 gives the Attribution scopeover C1 only, but not C2, which is incorrect.
Focus-ing on the attribution relation which is the second mostfrequent in the RST Treebank, we find out that, regard-less of whether we assign Attribution?s arguments Sand N or N and S, this principle makes wrong predic-tions 86% of the time in a random sampling of 50 casesin which we have attributions with multi-clause secondargument spans.
Consider the following example fromthe RST Treebank:(4) [Interprovincial Pipe Line Co. said]1 [it will de-lay a proposed two-step, 830 million Canadian-dollar [(US$705.6 million)]3 expansion of itssystem]2 [because Canada?s output of crude oilis shrinking.
]4Applied to the annotated RS Tree for this example (fig-2Except for Sequence which only retains the most salientpart of tk3That A6 is valid in the resulting model is not immediate.Assume a multinuclear (coordinating) relation instance r hasscope over xn and xn+k later in the textual order.
Then it isimpossible to attach with r?
a later found constituent xn+k+l toxn alone, for it would require that xn+1 escapes the scope of r?from the MNP which it will not do by multinuclearity of r.attribution1Sreasonrestatement2N3SN5SNFigure 1: Annotated RST Tree for example (4).ure 1), the MNP yields an incorrect scope of the attribu-tion relation over 2 only, regardless of whether the at-tribution is annotated N-S or S -N. The idea behind theweak NP provides a better fit with intuitions.
The prin-ciple gives minimal semantic requirements for scopingrelations; everything beyond those requirements is leftunderspecified.
We formalize this as the relaxed Nu-clearity Principle (RNP), which does not compute onestructure where each relation is given its exact scope,but a set of such structures.The target structures are not trees any more, but wewant them to still reflect the dominance informationpresent in the RS Tree.
We therefore define a notionof weak dominance over structures of the scoping lan-guage: for two sets of constituents, X  Y iff X ?
Y orthere is a subordinating relation whose left argument isX and right one Y .
Weak dominance is given by tran-sitive closure ?
of .
For two relations, r ?l r?
iff theleft argument of r weakly dominates both argumentsof r?.
?r is symmetrically defined.
Finally, structurescomputed by the RNP have to validate the weakenedversion of A5: if two relations scope over the same el-ementary constituent one has to weakly dominates theother.
Let AW5 denote this axiom.Definition 3 (Relaxed Nuclearity Principle).
One canassign to an RS Tree t a formula of the scoping lan-guage ?t = ?x??r?
?t ?
?t such that:1?
?t is a formula specifying that all individualsquantified in x?
and r?
are pairwise distinct, and that thereis no other individuals that the ones just mentioned.
?talso specifies for each intermediate node n that the cor-responding relation instance rn is labelled with the ad-equate relation symbol R and relation type (subordinat-ing if N-S .
.
.
).2?
?t encodes the nuclearity principle applied to t:for all intermediate nodes ni and n j in t such that nl isthe left (resp.
right) daughter of ni, ?t specifies that nimust scope to the left (resp.
right) over the nucleus ofn j.The interpretation ~t is defined as the set of struc-turesM that validate ?t and A0, A1, A2, A3, AW5 (they allhave |t| individuals, as fixed by ?t).
Moreover, it canbe shown that each model of this set validates TS DRT ;so we have a interpretation of an RS-Tree into a set ofSDRSs.5 Intertranslability between RST/DTsDTs are a restriction of SDRSs to structures withoutcomplex constituents.
So the ?
function of section 27can transform distinct SDRSs transform into the sameDT with a consequent loss of information.a?R1 pipi : b?R2 c | a?R1 b?R2 c |pi?R2 bpi : a?R1 b (1)Each of the SDRSs above yields the same DT after sim-plification, namely the second one a?R1 b?R2 c.The natural interpretation of a DT g describes theset of fully scoped SDRS structures that are compat-ible with these minimal requirements, i.e that wouldyield g by simplification.
To get this set, every edger(x, y) in g, r, must be assigned left scope among thedescendants of x in g (and right scope among those ofy); this is a consequence of i) x and y being heads of theleft and right arguments of r and ii) the SDRSs that arecompatible with g do not admit relations with a rightargument in one constituent and a left one outside of it.Definition 4.
Assume that we map each node4 x of ginto a unique variable vx ?
Vl and each edge e into aunique variable symbol re ?
Vi.
Define x?
and r?
in ananalogous way as in definition 3.For a given dependency tree g, we compute a for-mula ?g = ?x??r?
?g ?
?g such that?
?g is defined analogously as in definition 3, defin-ing the set of relation instances and EDUs.?
?g is the formula stating the minimal scopes foreach relation instance: for all edge in e = R(x, y)in g, ?g entails i) re has vx in its left scope andvy in its right scope and ii) let Des(x) be the setof variable symbols for all the descendants of x ing, ?g entails that if re has left scope over some vzthen vz is in Des(x) (symmetrically for y and rightscope).The interpretation ~g of a DT is: {M | M |=?g, A0-A3, A6, A7}.
The DT a ?R1 b ?R2 c for in-stance, is interpreted as a set of three structures iso-morphic to the ones in (1) above.We now relate DTs to RS Trees interpreted with theRNP.
To this aim, we focus on a restricted class of DTs,those who involve i) coordinating chains of 3 edus ormore only if they involve a single coordinating relation:x1 ?R1 x2 ?R2 ?
?
?
?Rn?1 xn may appear only for n >2 if all the Ri are the same coordinating relation, andii) subordinating nests of 3 edus or more only if theyinvolve a single subordinating relation:xy1R1.
.
.
ynRnis allowed for n > 1 only if all Riare labelled with the same subor-dinating relation.This restricted class of DTs corresponds exactly withthe set of RS-Trees interpreted with the RNP, providedthat we restrict the interpretation of a DT in the fol-lowing way: a principle called Continuing DiscoursePattern, CDP Asher and Lascarides 2003 must apply,4Recall that unlike RS Trees, DTs have EDUs as nodesand relations as edges.who states that whenever a sequence of coordinatingrelation Ric originates as a node which appear to bealso in the right scope of a subordinating relation Rs,Rs must totally include all the Ric in its right scope.
Asecond principle is required, who states that whenevertwo subordinating relations R0s and R?s originate at thesame node in the DT, and the right argument of R?s islocated after the right argument of Rs, any structure inthe interpretation of the DT must verify R?s l Rs.
Thetranslation needs these requirements to work, because:i) with the NP a relation scoping over a multinuclearone must includes all the nucleus in RST, and ii)a nodein a RS Tree cannot scope over something that is not itsdescendant).
Let CDP+ denote these requirements.Using the restricted interpretation of a DT g;~gCDP = {M | M |= A0-A3, A6, A7,CDP+}, we trans-form an RS Tree t into a dependency graph G(t) suchthat ~t = ~G(t)CDP:Definition 5 (RS Trees to dependency graphs).
Thetranslation G takes a RS Tree t as input and outputsa pair ?G, n?, where G = ?Nodes, Edges?
is the corre-sponding dependency graph, and n an attachment pointused along the recursive definition of G.?
If t is an EDU x then (G)(t) = ?
({x}, {}), x?.?
If t = R(t1N , t2S ) then let ?G1, n1?
= G(t1) and?G2, n2?
= G(t2).G(t) = ?
(G1 ?G2 ?
{Rsubord(n1, n2))}; n1??
If t = R(t1S , t2N) then G(t) = G(R(t2N , t1S ))?
If t = R(t1N , .
.
.
, tkN) (multinuclear), let ?Gi, ni?
=G(ti), let G be the result of adding a chainn1 ?Rcoord ?
?
?
?Rcoord nk to the union of the Gi,G(t) = ?G; n1??
If t is a nuclear satellite relation with several satel-lites R(t1S , .
.
.
t jN , .
.
.
tkS ), compute the Gi has inthe previous case, then add to the union of the Githe nest of k ?
1 subordinating relations R linkingn j to each of the ni, i , j.Recall RS Tree (s1).
Applying G to this tree yieldsthe dependency tree (s3): Elab1(C1,C2)?Attr(C1,C3)?Elab2(C1,C4).
~s3 supports any reading of (s1) pro-vided by RNP, but also an additional one where Attrscopes over [C1,C2,C4].
This is however forbiddenby CDP+ for C4 is after C3 in the textual order butElab(C1,C4) l Attr(C1,C3).6 Similarities and distancesThe framework we have presented yields a notion ofsimilarity that applies to structures of different for-malisms.
To motivate our idea, recall example (1);the structure in (s3) in which Attribution just scopesover C1 differs from the intuitively correct interpreta-tion only in that Attribution should also scope over C28as in (s2), while a structure that does this but in whichC3 is in the scope of the Elaboration relation is intu-itively further away from the correct interpretation.Our similarity measure Sim over structures M1 andM2 assumes a common set of elementary constituentsand a correspondence between relation types in thestructures.
We measure similarity in terms of thescopes given to the relations.
The intuition, is that givena map f from elements of relation instances inM1 re-lation instances in M2, we achieve a similarity scoreby counting for each relation instance r the number ofEDUs that are both in the left scope of one element ofr and in f (r), then divide this number by the total num-ber of diffrents constituents in the left scope of r1 andr2, and do the same for right scopes as well.
The globalsimilarity is given by the correspondence which yieldsthe best score.Given a relation r1 ?
M1 and a relation r2?M2, let?
(r1, r2) ={ 1 if r1 and r2 have the same label0 otherwise .
De-fine Cl(r1, r2) = |{x : l | M1 |= x ?l r1 ?M2 |= x ?l r2}|,the number of constituents over which r1 and r2 scopeand Dl(r1, r2) = |{x : l |M1 |= x ?l r1?M2 |= x ?l r2}|.Define Cr and Dr analogously and assume thatM1 hasless relation instances thanM2.
Let Inj(D1i ,D2i ) be theset of injections of relations instances of M1 to thoseofM2.S im(M1,M2) = 12Max(|M1|, |M2|)?Maxf?Inj(D1i ,D2i )?r:i?
(r, f (r)) ?
( Cl(r, f (r))Dl(r, f (r)) +Cr(r, f (r))Dr(r, f (r)) )If M2 has more relation instances, Invert argumentsand use the definition above.
If they have same numberof instances, both directions coincide.d(M1,M2)=1 ?
S im(M1,M2)For a discourse structureM, S im(M,M) = 1; Simranges between 1 and 0. d is a Jaccard-like met-ric obeying symmetry, d(x, x) = 0 d(x, y) , 0 forx , y, and the triangle equality.
One can further definethe maximal or average similarity between any pair ofstructures of two sets S 1 and S 2.
This gives an ideaof the similarity between two underspecified interpre-tations, such as the ones provided by RNP of section 4.For example, the maximal similarity between (s2) in-terpreted as itself (immediate interpretation) and a pos-sible scope structure for the DT (s3), interpreted withthe underspecified ~ of section 5, is 7/12.
It is pro-vided by the interpretation of (s3) where Attr is givenleft scope over C1,C2,C4, Elab1 holds between C1 andC2, and the second Elab fails to match the continua-tion of (s3).
sim(~s2, ~?
(s2) = 7/12 also, because?
must distribute [2, 4] in s2 to avoid crossing depen-dencies; so ~?
(s2)  ~s3.
The maximal similaritybetween the RS tree in (s1) with RNP (or equivalently,(3) with ~CDP+) and (s2) is 19/36, achieved when bothC1 and C2 are left argument of Attr (though not C4).With MNP, the similarity is 17/36.Given our results in sections 4 and 5, we have:Fact 3.
(i) For any DT g without a > 3 length flat se-quence and interpreted using CDP+, there an RS treet interpreted with RNP such that S im(g, t) = 1.
(ii)For any RS tree with RNP there is a DT g such thatS im(t, g) = 1.To prove (i) construct a model using Definition 4 andthen use RST decoding.
To prove (ii) construct a modelgiven Definition 3 and use DT encoding.
Our similaritymeasure provides general results for SDRSs and DTTs(and a fortiori SDRSs and RS trees) (See Appendix).7 Related WorkOur work shares a motivation with Blackburn, Gardent,and Meyer-Viol 1993: Blackburn, Gardent, and Meyer-Viol 1993 provides a modal logic framework for for-malizing syntactic structures; we have used MSO andour scope language to formalize discourse structures.While many concepts of discourse structure admit ofa modal formalization, the fact that discourse relationscan have scope over multiple elementary nodes eitherin their first or second argument makes an MSO treat-ment more natural.
Danlos 2008 compares RST, SDRTand Directed Acyclic Graphs (DAGs) in terms of theirstrong generative capacity in a study of structures andexamples involving 3 EDUS.
We do not consider gen-erative capacity, but we have given a generic and gen-eral axiomatization of RST, SDRT and DT in a formalinterpreted language.
We can translate any structure ofthese theories into this language, independent of theirlinguistic realization.
We agree with Danlos that theNP does not yield an accurate semantic representationof some discourses.
We agree with Egg and Redeker2010 that the NP is rather a constraint on structures, andwe formalize this with the relaxed principle and showhow it furnishes a translation from RS trees to sets ofscoped structures.
Danlos?s interesting correspondencebetween restricted sets of RST trees, SDRSs and DAGsassumes an already fixed scope-interpretation for eachkind of structure: SDRSs and DAGs are naturally in-terpreted as themselves, and RS Trees are interpretedwith the mixed NP Our formalism allows us both todescribe the structures themselves and various ways ofcomputing alternate scopes for relations.With regard to the discussion in Egg and Redeker2008; Wolf and Gibson 2005 of tree vs. graph struc-tures, we show exactly how tree based structureslike RST with or without the NP compare to graphbased formalisms like SDRT.
We have not investigatedGraphbank here, but the scope language can axioma-tize Graphbank (with A0-A3, A8).8 ConclusionsWe have investigated how to determine the semanticscopes of discourse relations in various formalisms by9developing a canonical formalism that encodes scopesof relations regardless of particular assumptions aboutdiscourse structure.
This provides a lingua franca forcomparing discourse formalisms and a way to measuresimilarity between structures, which can help to com-pare different annotations of a same text.ReferencesAfantenos, S. et al(2012).
?An empirical resource fordiscovering cognitive principles of discourse organ-isation: the ANNODIS corpus?.
In: Proceedings ofLREC 2012.
ELRA.Asher, N. and A. Lascarides (2003).
Logics of Conver-sation.
Cambridge University Press.Asher, N. (1993).
Reference to Abstract Objects in Dis-course.
Studies in Linguistics and Philosophy 50.Dordrecht: Kluwer.Baldridge, J., N. Asher, and J.
Hunter (2007).
?Anno-tation for and Robust Parsing of Discourse Structureon Unrestricted Texts?.
In: Zeitschrift fr Sprachwis-senschaft 26, pp.
213?239.Bateman, J. and K. J. Rondhuis (1997).
?Coherence re-lations : Towards a general specification?.
In: Dis-course Processes 24.1, pp.
3?49.Blackburn, P., C. Gardent, and W. Meyer-Viol (1993).
?Talking about Trees?.
In: EACL 6, pp.
21?29.Carlson, L., D. Marcu, and M. E. Okurowski (2002).RST Discourse Treebank.
Linguistic Data Consor-tium, Philadelphia.Danlos, L. (2008).
?Strong generative capacity of RST,SDRT and discourse dependency DAGSs?.
English.In: Constraints in Discourse.
Ed.
by A. Benz and P.Kuhnlein.
Benjamins, pp.
69?95.duVerle, D. and H. Prendinger (2009).
?A Novel Dis-course Parser Based on Support Vector MachineClassification?.
In: Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP2009.
ACL, pp.
665?673.Egg, M. and G. Redeker (2008).
?Underspecified dis-course representation?.
In: PRAGMATICS AND BE-YOND NEW SERIES 172, p. 117.?
(2010).
?How Complex is Discourse Structure??
In:Proceedings of LREC?10.
Ed.
by N. Calzolari et alELRA.Hitzeman, J., M. Moens, and C. Grover (1995).
?Algo-rithms for Analyzing the Temporal Structure of Dis-course?.
In: Proceedings of the 7th Meeting of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pp.
253?260.Hobbs, J. R., M. Stickel, and P. Martin (1993).
?In-terpretation as Abduction?.
In: Artificial Intelligence63, pp.
69?142.Kehler, A.
(2002).
Coherence, Reference and the The-ory of Grammar.
CSLI Publications.Lascarides, A. and N. Asher (1993).
?Temporal In-terpretation, Discourse Relations and CommonsenseEntailment?.
In: Linguistics and Philosophy 16,pp.
437?493.Mann, W. C. and S. A. Thompson (1987).
?RhetoricalStructure Theory: A Framework for the Analysis ofTexts?.
In: International Pragmatics Association Pa-pers in Pragmatics 1, pp.
79?105.Marcu, D. (1996).
?Building up rhetorical structuretrees?.
In: Proceedings of the thirteenth nationalconference on Artificial intelligence - Volume 2.AAAI?96.
Portland, Oregon: AAAI Press, pp.
1069?1074.
isbn: 0-262-51091-X.Muller, P. et al(2012).
?Constrained decoding fortext-level discourse parsing?.
Anglais.
In: COLING- 24th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Mumbai, Inde.Polanyi, L. (1985).
?A Theory of Discourse Structureand Discourse Coherence?.
In: Papers from the Gen-eral Session at the 21st Regional Meeting of theChicago Linguistics Society.
Ed.
by P. D. K. W. H.Eilfort and K. L. Peterson.Polanyi, L. and R. Scha (1984).
?A Syntactic Ap-proach to Discourse Semantics?.
In: Proceedings ofthe 10th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING84).
Stanford, pp.
413?419.Polanyi, L. et al(2004).
?A Rule Based Approachto Discourse Parsing?.
In: Proceedings of the 5thSIGDIAL Workshop in Discourse and Dialogue,pp.
108?117.Prasad, R. et al(2008).
?The penn discourse tree-bank 2.0?.
In: Proceedings of the 6th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2008), p. 2961.Sagae, K. (2009).
?Analysis of Discourse Structurewith Syntactic Dependencies and Data-Driven Shift-Reduce Parsing?.
In: Proceedings of IWPT?09.
ACL,pp.
81?84.Sanders, T., W. Spooren, and L. Noordman (1992).
?Toward a taxonomy of coherence relations?.
In:Discourse processes 15.1, pp.
1?35.Stede, M. (2004).
?The Potsdam Commentary Cor-pus?.
In: ACL 2004 Workshop on Discourse Annota-tion.
Ed.
by B. Webber and D. K. Byron.
Barcelona,Spain: Association for Computational Linguistics,pp.
96?102.Subba, R. and B.
Di Eugenio (2009).
?An effective Dis-course Parser that uses Rich Linguistic Information?.In: Proceedings of HLT-NAACL.
ACL, pp.
566?574.Webber, B. et al(1999).
?Discourse Relations: AStructural and Presuppositional Account Using Lex-icalised TAG?.
In: Proceedings of the 37th ACLConference.
College Park, Maryland, USA: Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
41?48.
doi:10.3115/1034678.1034695.Wolf, F. and E. Gibson (2005).
?Representing Dis-course Coherence: A Corpus Based Study?.
In:Computational Linguistics 31.2, pp.
249?287.AppendixIn what follows, let @ denotes the irreflexive part ofv We assume that we have access to the textual order10of EDUs as a function f : EDUs ?
N with an associ-ated strict linear ordering < over EDUs.
We also ap-peal to the notion of a chain over EDUs {x1, x2, .
.
.
xn}with a set of relation instances r1, .
.
.
, rn} all of whichare instances of an n-ary relation type, of the formx1 ?r1 x2 ?r2 .
.
.
?rn xn which can be defined inMSO.
To handle RST relations with multiple satellites,we define a nest: Nest(X,R) iff all r ?
R have the sameleft argument in X but take different right arguments inX.
Finally, we define CDUs:cdu(X,R)?
?rArgs(r, X)??r?
(?x x ?r r?
?
x ?
X)?
r?
?
RAxiomatization?x : l ?r : i (x ?l r) ?
(x ?r r)(A1:Weak Connectedness)?r?x, y(x ?r r) ?
y ?l r))(A2 :Properness of the relation)?X : (l, t)(X , 0?
?y?X ?n?y ?l n(A3 :Acyclicity or Well Foundedness)No crossing dependencies using the textual order < ofEDUs:?x, y, z,w((x < y < z < w) ?
?m, n?
(x ?l n ?
z ?r n?
y ?l m ?
w ?r m)) (A4)Tree Structures.
Define scopes(r, x) := x ?l r ?
x ?r r.?r, r?
((?
(?X,R r, r?
?
R ?
chain(X,R) ?
nest(X,R))?
(?x scopes(r, x) ?
scopes(r?, x)))?
(r v r?
?
r?
v r))(A5a)?R : (i, t)?
!r : i ?r?
?
R r?
v r (A5b)Right Frontier:?n, xn, xn+1?r ((xn+1 ?r r)?
(xn ?l r) ?
(?xn ?l r?
?X,R(chain(X,R) ?
?r?(r?
?
R?
sub(r?))?
?y ?
X?z?k ?m, j ?
R (scopes( j, y) ?
acc(z, y)?
scopes(m, xn) ?
z ?l k ?
k ?
?xn+1)))) (A6)(The definition of SDRS accessibility acc is easy)CDUs or EDUs and no overlapping CDUs:?
!x : l ?
?X,R cdu(X,R)??X,Y,R,R?
(cdu(X,R) ?
cdu(Y,R?)?
(R ?
R?
, 0?
(R ?
R?
?
R?
?
R))(A7)The same arguments cannot be linked by subordinatingand coordinating relations.
The formal axiom is evi-dent.Finally, two axioms for restricting SDRSs to depen-dency trees:?r?x, y((x ?l r) ?
y ?l r))?
(x ?r r) ?
y ?r r)))?
x = y(A9a : NoCDUs.)?r?r?
?X,Y(lArgs(r, X) ?
rArgs(r,Y)?
lArgs(r?, X) ?
rArgs(r?,Y))?
r = r?
(A9b :unique arc)We note that as a consequence of A5a and A5b we haveno danglers or contiguous spans:?x, y, n (x ?l n ?
y ?l n ?
x , y)?
?
?m?z (x ?l m ?
z ?r m?
?
(z ?l n ?
z ?r n))We also note that A5a and A5b entail A7, A8 and A9b,though not vice-versa.Fact 4.
Where ?
is any SDRS and ?
: S DRS ?
DT asin section 2, set R1 = {r : i : |{x : M?
|= x ?l r)}| > 1},R2 = {r : i : |{x : M?
|= x ?r r)}| > 1}, andR{x,y} = {r|?r?
: i(x ?l r?
?
y ?r r?
?
r?
, r}.
Assume theimmediate interpretation of ?
and ?(?
):S im(?, ?(?
))=2|I| ?
|(R1 ?
R2) ?
?x,y?D2l X{x,y}|2|I|+12|I| {?r?R11|x : M?
|= x ?l r)}|+?r?R21|x : M?
|= x ?r r)}| }Explanation: We suppose that I is the number of re-lation instances in the SDRS.
?
removes CDUs in anSDRS and attaches all incoming arcs to the CDUs tothe head of the CDU.
It also removes multiple arcsinto any given node.
So for any node m such that|{r : m ?r r}| = a > 1, then the information containedin the a ?
1 arcs will be lost.
In addition ?
will restrictthat one incoming arc that in the SDRS has in its scopeall the elements in the CDU to just the head.
So thescope information concerning all the other elements inthe CDU will be lost.11
