Proceedings of the The 1st Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 47?51,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnnotating Change of State for Clinical EventsLucy VanderwendeOne Microsoft WayRedmond, WA 98052lucyv@microsoft.comFei XiaUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA 98195fxia@uw.eduMeliha Yetisgen-YildizUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA 98195melihay@uw.eduAbstractUnderstanding the event structure of sentencesand whole documents is an important step inbeing able to extract meaningful informationfrom the text.
Our task is the identification ofphenotypes, specifically, pneumonia, fromclinical narratives.
In this paper, we considerthe importance of identifying the change ofstate for events, in particular, events thatmeasure and compare multiple states acrosstime.
Change of state is important to the clini-cal diagnosis of pneumonia; in the example?there are bibasilar opacities that are un-changed?, the presence of bibasilar opacitiesalone may suggest pneumonia, but not whenthey are unchanged, which suggests the needto modify events with change of state infor-mation.
Our corpus is comprised of chest X-ray reports, where we find many descriptionsof change of state comparing the volume anddensity of the lungs and surrounding areas.We propose an annotation schema to capturethis information as a tuple of <location, attrib-ute, value, change-of-state, time-reference>.1 IntroductionThe narrative accompanying chest X-rays containsa wealth of information that is used to assess thehealth of a patient.
X-rays are obviously a singlesnapshot in time, but the X-ray report narrativeoften makes either explicit or, more often, implicitreference to a previous X-ray.
In this way, the se-quence of X-ray reports is used not only to assess apatient?s health at a moment in time but also tomonitor change.
Phenotypes such as pneumoniaare consensus-defined diseases, which means thatthe diagnosis is typically established by humaninspection of the data rather than by means of atest.
Our recent efforts have focused on building aphenotype detection system.
In order to train andevaluate the system, we asked medical experts toannotate the X-ray report with phenotype labelsand to highlight the text snippets in the X-ray re-port that supported their phenotype labeling.Analysis of the text snippets that support the la-beling of pneumonia and the Clinical PulmonaryInfection Score (CPIS) reveal that most of thesesnippets mention a change of state or the lack of achange of state (i.e.
persistent state).
This is un-derstandable given our task, which is to monitorpatients for ventilator associated pneumonia(VAP), which can develop over time as a patient iskept on a ventilator for medical reasons.Change of state (COS) is most often understoodas an aspectual difference that is reflected in verbmorphology (Comrie, 1976), where a state is de-scribed as initiating, continuing or terminating (seealso Quirk et al 1973, Section 3.36).
In our cor-pus, however, COS is often reflected not in verbs,but more frequently in nouns.
A careful analysis ofour data indicates that the states expressed asnouns don?t have the traditional aspects but ratherexhibit COS more closely associated with compar-atives, as they are susceptible to subjective and toobjective measurement (Quirk et al 1973, Section5.38).
These events compare two states acrosstime or comparing one state against an acceptednorm.
Monitoring the state of the patient, and47therefore comparing current state with previousstates, is of paramount importance in the clinicalscenario.
We therefore propose in this paper to ex-pand the annotation of COS to include the compar-ison of states over time.2 The TaskEarly detection and treatment of ventilator associ-ated pneumonia (VAP) is important as it is themost common healthcare-associated infection incritically ill patients.
Even short?term delays inappropriate antibiotic therapy for patients withVAP are associated with higher mortality rates,longer?term mechanical ventilation, and excessivehospital costs.
Interpretation of meaningful infor-mation from the electronica medical records at thebedside is complicated by high data volume, lackof integrated data displays and text-based clinicalreports that can only be reviewed by manualsearch.
This cumbersome data management strate-gy obscures the subtle signs of early infection.Our research goal is to build NLP systems thatidentify patients who are developing critical ill-nesses in a manner timely enough for early treat-ment.
As a first step, we have built a system thatdetermines whether a patient has pneumonia basedon the patient?s chest X-ray reports; see Figure 1for an example.01 CHEST, PORTABLE 1 VIEW02 INDICATION:03 Shortness of breath04 COMPARISON: July 16 10 recent prior05 FINDINGS:06 Left central line, tip at mid-SVC.07 Cardiac and mediastinal contours as before08 No pneumothorax.09 Lungs: Interval increase in right lung base10 pulmonary opacity with air bronchograms,11 increasing  pneumonitis / atelectasis.Figure 1.
Sample chest X-ray report2.1 AnnotationTo train and evaluate the system, we created a cor-pus of 1344 chest X-ray reports from our institu-tion (Xia and Yetisgen-Yildiz, 2012).
Twoannotators, one a general surgeon and the other  adata analyst in a surgery department, read eachreport and determined whether the patient haspneumonia (PNA) and also what the clinical pul-monary infection score (CPIS) is for the patient.The CPIS is used to assist in the clinical diagnosisof VAP by predicting which patients will benefitfrom obtaining pulmonary cultures, an invasiveprocedure otherwise avoided.
There are three pos-sible labels for PNA: (2a) no suspicion (negativeclass), (2b) suspicion of PNA, and (2c) probablePNA (positive class).
Likewise, there are three la-bels for CPIS: (1a) no infiltrate, report can includemention of edema or pleural effusion, (1b) diffuseinfiltrate or atelectasis (i.e.
reduced lung volume),and (1c) localized infiltrate, where one opacity isspecifically highlighted and either PNA or infec-tion is also mentioned.In addition to the labels, we also asked the anno-tators to highlight the text snippet they used to as-sign the CPIS and PNA categories to reports (see(Yu et al 2011) for similar approach to capturingexpert knowledge).
Thus, the snippets represent thesupport found for the CPIS and PNA label deter-mination.
The snippet found in lines 9-11, in figure1, for example, was support for both the CPIS (1c)and the PNA label (2c).2.2 Preliminary ResultsWe used this corpus to train two SVM classifiers,one for CPIS and the other for PNA, and evaluatedthem using 5-fold cross validation (for details, seeTepper et al 2013).
The micro F1-score of theCPIS classifier was 85.8% with unigram featuresand 85.2% with unigram+bigram features.
Themicro F1-score of the PNA classifier was 78.5%with unigrams and 78.0% with unigram+bigrams.We analyzed errors made by the CPIS and PNAclassifiers and observed that many of them weredue to lack of in-depth semantic analysis of text.Consider the snippet ?The previously noted rightupper lobe opacity consistent with right upper lobecollapse has resolved?, which is labeled in the goldstandard 1A (no infiltrate).
The system mislabeledit 1C, (localized infiltrate), because the snippetsupports 1C entirely up until the crucial words ?hasresolved?.
This error analysis motivated the clini-cal event annotation task described in this paper.3 Change of State for Clinical EventsIn our data, clinically relevant events are often ex-pressed as nouns.
A text that mentions ?a clear48lung?, for instance, implicitly describes the eventof checking the lung density for that patient andfinding it to be clear1.
The TimeML annotationguidelines (Saur?
et al 2012) specify that statesare to be annotated when they ?identifiably changeover the course of a document being marked up?.In our scenario, where the document is the collec-tion of the patient?s medical notes during hospitalstay, a noun phrase such as ?lung capacity?
is thena state that can certainly change over the course ofthe document.Our corpus contains radiology reports and high-lighted snippets of text where annotators foundsupport for their finding.
It is noteworthy that thesesnippets frequently describe observations ofchange, either in lung volume or in density.
In fact,these changes of state (henceforth COS) appearmore often in these snippets than non-snippets.Taking a random sample of 100 snippets, we foundthat 83/100 included some signal for COS, while arandom sample of 100 non-snippet sentences in-cluded only 61/100 mentions of COS.Let us consider some examples of snippets inwhich the clinical events, in italics, are referred tousing nouns, a shorthand for examination / meas-urement of the noun in question.
We have markedthe signal words expressing a comparison acrosstime in bold.1.
The lungs are clear.2.
Lungs: No focal opacities.3.
The chest is otherwise unchanged.4.
Left base opacity has increased and rightbase opacity persists which could repre-sent atelectasis, aspiration, or pneumonia.Snippets 1 and 2 describe states in the current X-ray report and do not express a COS. A close lookat 3 and 4, however, reveals language that indicatesthat the experts are comparing the state in the cur-rent X-ray with at least one other X-ray for thatpatient and in doing so, are describing a COS.Consider the phrases ?otherwise unchanged?
insnippet 3, and ?increased?
and ?persists?
in snippet1 The guidelines for the 2012 i2b2 temporal relation challengedefine events as ?clinically relevant events and situations,symptoms, tests, procedures, ??
(Sun et al 2013)4.
Such words signal that the radiologist is examin-ing more than one report at a time and makingcomparisons across these X-rays, without explicitreference to the other X-rays.
There are other ex-amples which exhibit explicit reference, for exam-ple, snippets 5 and 6, where the signal words andthe explicit reference are in boldface, and the clini-cal events in italics:5.
Bilateral lower lobe opacities are similarto those seen on DATE6.
Since the prior examination lung vol-umes have diminishedPrevious COS analyses (e.g., (Sun et al 2013;Saur?, 2005)) have largely been limited to an anal-ysis where events are expressed as verbs, and so isusually restricted to aspectual distinctions such asstart, stop, and continue.
In our data, however,many of the events are expressed as nouns and sowe propose to extend the COS analysis to includemeasurements comparing two or more successivestates and so will include concepts such as more,less, and equal2.4 Annotating change of stateWhile previous event annotation (Uzuner et al2010; Uzuner et al 2011; Albright et al 2013)marks multiple types of events, temporal expres-sions, and event relations, our annotation focuseson tracking changes in a patient?s medical condi-tions.
An event in our corpus is represented as a(loc, attr, val, cos, ref) tuple, where loc is the ana-tomical location (e.g., ?lung?
), attr is an attributeof the location that the event is about (e.g., ?densi-ty?
), val is a possible value for the attribute (e.g.,?clear?
), cos indicates the change of state for theattribute value compared to some previous report(e.g., ?unchanged?
), and ref is a link to the re-port(s) that the change of state is compared to (e.g.,?prior examination?).
Not all the fields in the tuplewill be present in an event.
When a field is absent,either it can be inferred from the context or it isunspecified.2 In English, the morphology provides evidence, though rarely,that the comparative is a property of the change of state of anadjective.
Consider the verb ?redden?, a derived form of theadjective ?red?, which means ?to become more red?, combin-ing the inchoative and comparative (Chris Brockett, pc.
)49The annotations for Snippets 1-6 are as follows:a dash indicates that the field is unspecified, and<?> indicates the field is unspecified but can beinferred from the location and the attribute value.For instance, the attribute value clear when refer-ring to the location lungs implies that the attributebeing discussed is the density of the lung.Ex1: (lungs, <density>, clear, -, -)Ex2: (lungs, <density>, no focal opacities, -, -)Ex3: (chest, -, -, unchanged, -)Ex4: (left base, <density>, opacity, increased, -),and (right base, <density>, opacity, persists, -)Ex5: (Bilateral lower lobe, <density>, opacities,similar, DATE)Ex6: (lung, volumes, -, diminished, prior examina-tion)A few points are worth noting.
First, the mappingfrom the syntactic structure to fields in event tuplesis many-to-many.
For example, a noun phrase con-sisting of an adjective and noun may correspond toone or more fields in an event tuple.
For instance,in the NP left base opacity in example 4, left baseis loc, and opacity is val.
In example 6, the NPlung volumes will be annotated with lung as locand volumes as attr, but no val.
Similarly, an adjec-tive can be part of a loc (e.g., bilateral in example5), a val (e.g., clear in example 1), or a cos (e.g.,unchanged in example 3).
Finally, the cos fieldmay also be filled by a verb (e.g., increase andpersists, in example 4).
Making such distinctionswill not be easy, especially for annotators with nomedical training.Second, events often have other attributes suchas polarity (positive or negative) and modality(e.g., factual, conditional, possible).
Most events inX-ray reports are positive and factual.
We will addthose attributes to our representations if needed.5 SummaryAnnotating events in a general domain withouttargeting a particular application can be challeng-ing because it is often not clear what should bemarked as an event.
Our annotation focuses on themarking of COS in medical reports because COS isan important indicator of the patient?s medicalcondition.
We propose to extend COS analysis toinclude comparison of state over time.We are currently annotating a corpus of X-rayreports with the COS events.
Once the corpus iscomplete, we will use it to train a system to detectsuch events automatically.
The events identified bythe event detector will then be used as features forphenotype detection.
We expect that the COS fea-tures will improve phenotype detection accuracy,in the same way that using features that encodenegation and assertion types improves classifica-tion results as demonstrated by Bejan et al(2012).Our ultimate goal is to use event detection, phe-notype detection, and other NLP systems to moni-tor patients?
medical conditions over time andprompt physicians with early warning, and thusimprove patient healthcare quality while reducingthe overall cost of healthcare.AcknowledgmentsWe wish to thank the anonymous reviewers fortheir comments and also our colleagues HeatherEvans at UW Medicine, and Michael Tepper,Cosmin Bejan and Prescott Klassen at the Univer-sity of Washington.
This work is funded in part byMicrosoft Research Connections and University ofWashington Research Royalty Fund.ReferencesDaniel Albright, Arrick Lanfranchi, Anwen Fredriksen,William F. Styler IV, Colin Warner, Jena D. Hwang,Jinho D. Choi, Dmitry Dligach, Rodney D. Nielsen,James Martin, Wayne Ward, Martha Palmer, andGuergana K. Savova.
2013.
Towards comprehensivesyntactic and semantic annotations of the clinicalnarrative.
Journal of American Medical InformaticsAssociation (JAMIA).
[Epub ahead of print].Cosmin A. Bejan, Lucy Vanderwende, Fei Xia, andMeliha Yetisgen-Yildiz.
2013.
Assertion modelingand its role in clinical phenotype identification.
Jour-nal of Biomedical Informatics, 46(1):68-74.Bernard Comrie.
1976.
Aspect.
Cambridge Textbooksin Linguistics.Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech,and Jan Svartvik, 1973.
A Grammar of Contempo-rary English.
.
Longman Group Ltd, LondonRoser Saur?, Jessica Littman, Bob Knippen, Robert Gai-zauskas, Andrea Setzer, and James Pustejovsky.2005.
TimeML Annotation Guidelines Version 1.2.1.Manuscript, Available athttp://www.timeml.org/site/publications/specs.htmlWeiyi Sun, Anna Rumshisky, Ozlem Uzuner.
2013.Evaluating temporal relations in clinical text: 2012i2b2 Challenge.
In Journal of the American Medical50Informatics Association (JAMIA).
Published OnlineFirst: 5 April 2013 10.1136/amiajnl-2013-001628.Michael Tepper, Heather.
Evans, Fei Xia, and MelihaYetisgen-Yildiz.
2013.
Modeling Annotator Ration-ales with Application to Pneumonia Classification.
InProceedings of Expanding the Boundaries of HealthInformatics Using AI Workshop in conjunction withAAAI'2013.
?zlem Uzuner, Imre Solti, Fei Xia, and Eithon Cadag.2010.
Community annotation experiment for groundtruth generation for the i2b2 medication challenge.Journal of American Medical Informatics Associa-tion (JAMIA), 17(5):519-23.?zlem Uzuner, Brent R. South, Shuying Shen, and ScottL.
DuVall.
2011.
2010 i2b2/VA challenge on con-cepts, assertions, and relations in clinical text.
Jour-nal of American Medical Informatics Association(JAMIA), 18(5):552-556.Fei Xia and Meliha Yetisgen-Yildiz.
2012.
Clinicalcorpus annotation: challenges and strategies.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third Workshop on Building andEvaluating Resources for Biomedical Text Mining(BioTxtM'2012) in conjunction with the InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC), Istanbul, Turkey.Shipeng Yu, Faisal Farooq, Balaji Krishnapuram, andBharat Rao.
2011.
Leveraging Rich Annotations toImprove Learning of Medical Concepts from ClinicalFree Text.
In Proceedings of the ICML workshop onLearning from Unstructured Clinical Text.
Bellevue,WA.51
