Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 93?100,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Pronominal Verbs: Towards AutomaticDisambiguation of the Clitic se in PortugueseMagali Sanches Duran?, Carolina Evaristo Scarton?,Sandra Maria Alu?
?sio?, Carlos Ramisch??
University of Sa?o Paulo (Brazil)?
Joseph Fourier University (France)magali.duran@uol.com.br, carol.scarton@gmail.comsandra@icmc.usp.br, carlosramisch@gmail.comAbstractA challenging topic in Portuguese languageprocessing is the multifunctional and ambigu-ous use of the clitic pronoun se, which impactsNLP tasks such as syntactic parsing, semanticrole labeling and machine translation.
Aimingto give a step forward towards the automaticdisambiguation of se, our study focuses on theidentification of pronominal verbs, which cor-respond to one of the six uses of se as a cliticpronoun, when se is considered a CONSTITU-TIVE PARTICLE of the verb lemma to whichit is bound, as a multiword unit.
Our strategyto identify such verbs is to analyze the resultsof a corpus search and to rule out all the otherpossible uses of se.
This process evidencedthe features needed in a computational lexiconto automatically perform the disambiguationtask.
The availability of the resulting lexiconof pronominal verbs on the web enables theirinclusion in broader lexical resources, such asthe Portuguese versions of Wordnet, Propbankand VerbNet.
Moreover, it will allow the revi-sion of parsers and dictionaries already in use.1 IntroductionIn Portuguese, the word se is multifunctional.
POStaggers have succeeded in distinguishing between seas a conjunction (meaning if or whether) and se asa pronoun (see Martins et al(1999) for more detailson the complexity of such task).
As a clitic1 pro-1A clitic is a bound form, phonologically unstressed, at-tached to a word from an open class (noun, verb, adjective, ad-verbial).
It belongs to closed classes, that is, classes that havegrammatical rather than lexical meaning (pronouns, auxiliaryverbs, determiners, conjunctions, prepositions, numerals).noun, however, se has six uses:1. marker of SUBJECT INDETERMINATION:Ja?
se falou muito nesse assunto.
*Has-SE already spoken a lot about this matter.One has already spoken a lot about this matter.2.
marker of pronominal PASSIVE voice (syn-thetic passive voice):Sugeriram-se muitas alternativas.
*Have-SE suggested many alternatives.Many alternatives have been suggested.3.
REFLEXIVE pronoun (-self pronouns):Voce?
deveria se olhar no espelho.
*You should look-SE on the mirror.You should look at yourself on the mirror.4.
RECIPROCAL pronoun (each other):Eles se cumprimentaram com um aperto de ma?o.
*They greeted-SE with a handshake.They greeted each other with a handshake.5.
marker of causative-INCHOATIVE alternation2:Esse esporte popularizou-se no Brasil.
*This sport popularED-SE in Brazil.This sport became popular in Brazil.6.
CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE of the verb lexicalitem (pronominal verb):Eles se queixaram de dor no joelho.
*They complained-SE about knee pain.They complained about knee pain.2Causative-inchoative alternation: a same verb can be usedtwo different ways, one transitive, in which the subject positionis occupied by the argument which causes the action or processdescribed by the verb (causative use), and one intransitive, inwhich the subject position is occupied by the argument affectedby the action or process (inchoative use).93Clitic se uses SyntacticfunctionSemanticfunctionSUBJECT INDE-TERMINATIONNO YES3PASSIVEYES YES3REFLEXIVEYES YESRECIPROCALYES YESINCHOATIVEYES NOCONSTITUTIVEPARTICLENO NOTable 1: Uses of the clitic se from the point of view ofsyntax and semantics.The identification of these uses is very importantfor Portuguese language processing, notably for syn-tactic parsing, semantic role labeling (SRL) and ma-chine translation.
Table 1 shows which of these sixuses support syntactic and/or semantic functions.Since superficial syntactic features seem not suffi-cient to disambiguate the uses of the pronoun se, wepropose the use of a computational lexicon to con-tribute to this task.
To give a step forward to solvethis problem, we decided to survey the verbs un-dergoing se as an integral part of their lexical form(item 6), called herein pronominal verbs, but alsoknown as inherent reflexive verbs (Rosa?rio Ribeiro,2011).
Grammars usually mention this kind of verbsand give two classical examples: queixar-se (to com-plain) and arrepender-se (to repent).
For the best ofour knowledge, a comprehensive list of these multi-word verbs is not available in electronic format forNLP uses, and not even in a paper-based format,such as a printed dictionary.An example of the relevance of pronominal verbsis that, in spite of not being argumental, that is, notbeing eligible for a semantic role label, the use of seas a CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE should integrate theverb that evokes the argumental structure, as may beseen in Figure 1.The identification of pronominal verbs is not atrivial task because a pronominal verb has a nega-3In these cases, the clitic may support the semantic role labelof the suppressed external argument (agent).Figure 1: Sentence The broadcasters refused to apologizeincludes pronominal verbs negar-se (refuse) and retratar-se (apologize) that evoke frames in SRL.tive definition: if se does not match the restrictionsimposed by the other five uses, so it is a CONSTI-TUTIVE PARTICLE of the verb, that is, it composes amultiword.
Therefore, the identification of pronom-inal verbs requires linguistic knowledge to distin-guish se as a CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE from theother uses of the the pronoun se (SUBJECT INDE-TERMINATION, PASSIVE, REFLEXIVE, RECIPRO-CAL and INCHOATIVE.
)There are several theoretical linguistic studiesabout the clitic pronoun se in Portuguese.
Some ofthese studies present an overview of the se pronounuses, but none of them prioritized the identificationof pronominal verbs.
The study we report in this pa-per is intended to fill this gap.2 Related WorkFrom a linguistic perspective, the clitic pronounse has been the subject of studies focusing on:SUBJECT INDETERMINATION and PASSIVE uses(Morais Nunes, 1990; Cyrino, 2007; Pereira-Santos,2010); REFLEXIVE use (Godoy, 2012), and IN-CHOATIVE use (Fonseca, 2010; Nunes-Ribeiro,2010; Rosa?rio Ribeiro, 2011).
Despite none of theseworks concerning specifically pronominal verbs,they provided us an important theoretical basis forthe analysis undertaken herein.The problem of the multifunctional use of cliticpronouns is not restricted to Portuguese.
Romancelanguages, Hebrew, Russian, Bulgarian and oth-ers also have similar constructions.
There are94crosslinguistic studies regarding this matter reportedin Siloni (2001) and Slavcheva (2006), showingthat there are partial coincidence of verbs takingclitic pronouns to produce alternations and reflexivevoice.From an NLP perspective, the problem of theambiguity of the clitic pronoun se was studied byMartins et al(1999) to solve a problem of catego-rization, that is, to decide which part-of-speech tagshould be assigned to se.
However, we have notfound studies regarding pronominal verbs aiming atPortuguese automatic language processing.Even though in Portuguese all the uses of the cliticpronoun se share the same realization at the surfaceform level, the use as a CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE ofpronominal verbs is the only one in which the verband the clitic form a multiword lexical unit on itsown.
In the other uses, the clitic keeps a separatesyntactic and/or semantic function, as presented inTable 1.The particle se is an integral part of pronominalverbs in the same way as the particles of Englishphrasal verbs.
As future work, we would like to in-vestigate possible semantic contributions of the separticle to the meaning of pronominal verbs, as doneby Cook and Stevenson (2006), for example, who tryto automatically classify the uses of the particle up inverb-particle constructions.
Like in the present pa-per, they estimate a set of linguistic features whichare in turn used to train a Support Vector Machine(SVM) classifier citecook:2006:mwe.3 MethodologyFor the automatic identification of multiwordverb+se occurrences, we performed corpus searcheson the PLN-BR-FULL corpus (Muniz et al 2007),which consists of news texts extracted from a ma-jor Brazilian newspaper, Folha de Sa?o Paulo, from1994 to 2005, with 29,014,089 tokens.
The cor-pus was first preprocessed for sentence splitting,case homogenization, lemmatization, morphologi-cal analysis and POS tagging using the PALAVRASparser (Bick, 2000).
Then, we executed the corpussearches using the mwetoolkit (Ramisch et al2010).
The tool allowed us to define two multilevelword patterns, for proclitic and enclitic cases, basedon surface forms, morphology and POS.
The pat-terns covered all the verbs in third person singular(POS=V*, morphology=3S) followed/preceded bythe clitic pronoun se (surface form=se, POS=PERS).The patterns returned a set of se occurrences, thatis, for each verb, a set of sentences in the corpus inwhich this verb is followed/preceded by the clitic se.In our analysis, we looked at all the verbs tak-ing an enclitic se, that is, where the clitic se is at-tached after the verb.
We could as well have in-cluded the occurrences of verbs with a proclitic se(clitic attached before the verb).
However, we sus-pected that this would increase the number of occur-rences (sentences) to analyze without a proportionalincrease in verb lemmas.
Indeed, our search for pro-clitic se occurrences returned 40% more verb lem-mas and 264% more sentences than for the encliticse (59,874 sentences), thus confirming our hypothe-sis.
Moreover, as we could see at a first glance, pro-clitic se results included se conjunctions erroneouslytagged as pronouns (when the parser fails the cate-gorial disambiguation).
This error does not occurwhen the pronoun is enclitic because Portuguese or-thographic rules require a hyphen between the verband the clitic when se is enclitic, but never when itis proclitic.We decided to look at sentences as opposed tolooking only at candidate verb lemmas, because wedid not trust that our intuition as native speakerswould be sufficient to identify all the uses of theclitic se for a given verb, specially as some verbsallow more than one of the six uses we listed herein.For performing the annotation, we used a tablewith the verb lemmas in the lines and a column foreach one of the six uses of se as a clitic pronoun.Working with two screens (one for the table and theother for the sentences), we read the sentences and,once a new use was verified, we ticked the appro-priate column.
This annotation setup accelerated theanalyses, as we only stopped the reading when weidentified a new use.
The annotation was performedmanually by a linguist, expert in semantics of Por-tuguese verbs, and also an author of this paper.After having summarized the results obtainedfrom corpus analysis, we realized that some cliti-cized verb uses that we know as native speakers didnot appear in the corpus (mainly reflexive and recip-rocal uses).
In these cases, we added a comment onour table which indicates the need to look for the use95in another corpus aiming to confirm it.For example, the most frequent cliticized verb,tratar-se has no occurrence with the meaning of totake medical treatment.
We checked this meaning inanother corpus and found one example: O senadorse tratou com tecido embriona?rio.
.
.
(*The senatortreated himself with embryonic tissue.
.
.
), provingthat our intuition may help us to improve the resultswith specific corpus searches.
A comparative multi-corpus extension of the present study is planned asfuture work.The strategy we adopted to analyze the sentencesin order to identify pronominal verbs was to make aseries of questions to rule out the other possible seuses.Question 1 Does the se particle function as amarker of PASSIVE voice or SUBJECT INDETERMI-NATION?In order to answer this question, it is important toknow that both uses involve the suppression of theexternal argument of the verb.
The difference is that,in the pronominal PASSIVE voice, the remaining NP(noun phrase) is shifted to the subject position (andthe verb must then be inflected according to suchsubject), whereas in SUBJECT INDETERMINATION,the remaining argument, always a PP (prepositionalphrase), remains as an indirect object.
For example:?
Pronominal PASSIVE voice:Fizeram-se va?rias tentativas.
*Made-SE several trials.Several trials were made.?
SUBJECT INDETERMINATION:Reclamou-se de falta de hygiene.
*Complained-SE about the lack of hygiene.One has complained about the lack of hygiene.Question 2 Is it possible to substitute se for a simesmo (-self )?If so, it is a case of REFLEXIVE use.
A clue forthis is that it is always possible to substitute se foranother personal pronoun, creating a non-reflexiveuse keeping the same subject.
For example:?
Ele perguntou-se se aquilo era certo.He asked himself whether that was correct.?
Ele perguntou-me se aquilo era certo.He asked me whether that was correct.Question 3 Is it possible to substitute se for um aooutro (each other)?If so, it is a case of RECIPROCAL use.
A clue forthis interpretation is that, in this case, the verb is al-ways in plural form as the subject refers to more thanone person.
RECIPROCAL uses were not included inthe corpus searches, as we only looked for cliticizedverbs in third person singular.
However, aiming togather data for future work, we have ticked the tableevery time we annotated sentences of a verb that ad-mits reciprocal use.
The reciprocal use of such verbshave been later verified in other corpora.?
Eles se beijaram.They kissed each other.Question 4 Has the verb, without se, a transi-tive use?
If so, are the senses related to causative-inchoative alternation?
In other words, is the mean-ing of the transitive use to cause X become Y?If so, it is a case of INCHOATIVE use, for example:?
A porta abriu-se.The door opened.Compare with the basic transitive use:?
Ele abriu a porta.He opened the door.It is important to mention that verbs which allowcausative-inchoative alternation in Portuguese maynot have an equivalent in English that allows this al-ternation, and vice-versa.
For example, the inchoa-tive use of the verb tornar corresponds to the verbto become and the causative use corresponds to theverb to make:?
Esse fato tornou-se conhecido em todo omundo.This fact became known all around the world.?
A imprensa tornou o fato conhecido em todo omundo.The press made the fact known all around the world.If the verb being analyzed failed the four tests, theclitic se has neither semantic nor syntactic functionand is considered a CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE of theverb, for example:96?
Ele vangloriou-se de seus talentos.He boasted of his talents.Therefore, we made the identification of pronom-inal verbs based on the negation of the other possi-bilities.4 DiscussionThe corpus search resulted in 22,618 sentences ofcliticized verbs, corresponding to 1,333 verb lem-mas.
Some verbs allow only one of the uses ofthe clitic se (unambiguous cliticized verbs), whereasothers allow more than one use (ambiguous cliti-cized verbs), as shown in Table 2.
Therefore, alexicon can only disambiguate part of the cliticizedverbs (others need additional features to be disam-biguated).The analysis of the verbs?
distribution reveals that10% of them (133) account for 73% of the sentences.Moreover, among the remaining 90% verb lemmas,there are 477 hapax legomena, that is, verbs that oc-cur only once.
Such distribution indicates that com-putational models which focus on very frequentlycliticized verbs might significantly improve NLP ap-plications.Contrary to our expectations, very frequentlycliticized verbs did not necessarily present high pol-ysemy.
For example, the most frequent verb of ourcorpus is tratar, with 2,130 occurrences.
Althoughtratar-se has more than one possible use, only oneappeared in the corpus, as a marker of SUBJECT IN-DETERMINATION, for example:?
Trata-se de uma nova tende?ncia.It is the case of a new tendency.Despite being very frequent, when we search fortranslations of tratar-se de in bilingual (parallel)Portuguese-English corpora and dictionaries avail-able on the web,4,5,6 we observed that there are sev-eral solutions to convey this idea in English (deter-mining a subject, as English does not allow subjectomission).
Six examples extracted from the Com-para corpus illustrate this fact:4http://www.linguateca.pt/COMPARA/5http://www.linguee.com.br/portugues-ingles6http://pt.bab.la/dicionario/portugues-inglesse uses Unamb.
Amb.
TotalSUBJECT INDE-TERMINATION17 6 23PASSIVE467 630 1097REFLEXIVE25 333 358INCHOATIVE190 64 254RECIPROCAL0 33 33CONSTITUTIVEPARTICLE83 104 187Total 782 1170 1952Table 2: Proportion of unambiguous (Unamb.)
and am-biguous (Amb.)
verbs that allow each se use.?
Trata-se de recriar o pro?prio passado.It?s a question of re-creating your own past.?
Mas o assunto era curioso, trata-se do casa-mento, e a viu?va interessa-me.But the subject was a curious one; it was about hermarriage, and the widow interests me.?
Na?o ha?
mais du?vidas, trata-se realmente de umlouco.There?s no longer any doubt; we?re truly dealingwith a maniac.?
Trata-se realmente de uma emerge?ncia, Sr.Hoffman.This really is a matter of some urgency, Mr Hoff-man.?
Trata-se de um regime repousante e civilizado.It is a restful, civilized re?gime.?
Trata-se de um simples caso de confusa?o deidentidades, dizem voce?s.(??)
Simple case of mistaken identity.In what concerns specifically pronominal verbs,our analysis of the data showed they are of threekinds:1.
Verbs that are used exclusively in pronominalform, as abster-se (to abstain).
This does notmean that the pronominal form is unambigu-ous, as we found some pronominal verbs thatpresent more than one sense, as for example theverb referir-se, which means to refer or to con-cern, depending on the subject?s animacy status[+ human] or [?
human], respectively;972.
Verbs that have a non-pronominal and a pro-nominal form, but both forms are not related,e.g.
: realizar (to make or to carry on, whichallows the passive alternation realizar-se); andthe pronominal form realizar-se (to feel ful-filled);3.
Verbs that have pronominal form, but acceptclitic drop in some varieties of Portuguesewithout change of meaning, as esquecer-se andesquecer (both mean to forget)We did not study the clitic drop (3), but we un-covered several pronominal verbs of the second kindabove (2).
The ambiguity among the uses of se in-creases with such cases.
The verb desculpar (toforgive), for example, allows the REFLEXIVE usedesculpar-se (to forgive oneself ), but also consti-tutes a pronominal verb: desculpar-se (to apolo-gize).
The verb encontrar (to find) allows the RE-FLEXIVE use (to find oneself, from a psychologicalpoint of view) and the PASSIVE use (to be found).The same verb also constitutes a pronominal verbwhich means to meet (1) or functions as a copulaverb, as to be (2):1.
Ele encontrou-se com o irma?o.He met his brother.2.
Ele encontra-se doente.He is ill.In most sentences of cliticized verbs?
occurrences,it is easy to observe that, as a rule of thumb:7?
SUBJECT INDETERMINATION uses of se do notpresent an NP before the verb, present a PP af-ter the verb and the verb is always inflected inthe third person singular;?
PASSIVE uses of se present an NP after the verband no NP before the verb;?
INCHOATIVE uses of se present an NP beforethe verb and almost always neither a PP nor aNP after the verb;?
CONSTITUTIVE PARTICLE uses of se presentan NP before the verb and a PP after the verb;7Syntactic clues do not help to identify REFLEXIVE verbs.The distinction depends on the semantic level, as the reflexiveuse requires a [+ animate] subject to play simultaneously theroles of agent and patient.?
RECIPROCAL uses of se only occur with verbstaking a plural inflection.Problems arise when a sentence follows none ofthese rules.
For example, subjects in PASSIVE useof se usually come on the right of the verb.
Thus,when the subject appears before the verb, it looks, ata first glance, to be an active sentence.
For example:?
O IDH baseia-se em dados sobre renda, esco-laridade e expectativa de vida.
*The HDI bases-SE on income, education and lifeexpectancy data.The HDI is based on income, education and life ex-pectancy data.These cases usually occur with stative passives(see Rosa?rio Ribeiro (2011, p. 196)) or with ditran-sitive action verbs8 when a [?
animate] NP takesthe place usually occupied by a [+ animate] NP.
Se-mantic features, again, help to disambiguate and toreveal a non-canonical passive.The opposite also occurs, that is, the subject, usu-ally placed on the left of the verb in active voice,appears on the right, giving to the sentence a falsepassive appearance:?
Desesperaram-se todos os passageiros.
*Fell-SE into despair all the passengers.All the passengers fell into despair.Sometimes the meaning distinctions of a verb arevery subtle, making the matter more complex.
Inthe following sections, we comment two examplesof difficult disambiguation.4.1 Distinguishing Pronominal PASSIVE Voicefrom Pronominal VerbsThe verb seguir (to follow) conveys the idea of obey-ing when it has a [+ human] subject in the activevoice (an agent).
The passive voice may be con-structed using se, like in (2).
Additionally, this verbhas a pronominal active use, seguir-se, which meansto occur after, as shown in (3):1.
Active voice:?
[Eles]Agent seguem [uma se?rie de conven-c?o?es]Theme - thing followed.They follow a series of conventions.8Ditransitive verbs take two internal arguments: an NP asdirect object and a PP as indirect object.982.
PASSIVE voice:?
Segue-se [uma se?rie de conven-c?o?es]Theme - thing followed.A series of conventions are followed.3.
Pronominal verb ?
active voice:?
[A queda]Theme - thing occurring after seguiu-se [a` divulgac?a?o dos dados de desempregoem o pa?
?s]Theme - thing occurring before.The drop followed the announcement of unem-ployment figures in the country.The preposition a introducing one of the argu-ments in (3) distinguishes the two meanings, as thePASSIVE voice presents an NP and not a PP imme-diately after or before the verb.4.2 Distinguishing REFLEXIVE, INCHOATIVEand PASSIVE UsesThe verb transformar, when cliticized, may be in-terpreted as a PASSIVE (to be transformed), as a RE-FLEXIVE (to transform oneself ) or as an INCHOA-TIVE use (to become transformed).
The PASSIVEvoice is identified by the subject position, after theverb (1).
The difference between the REFLEXIVE (2)and INCHOATIVE (3) uses, on its turn, is a semanticfeature: only a [+ human] subject may act to be-come something (REFLEXIVE use):1.
PASSIVE:Transformou-se o encontro em umagrande festa.The meeting was transformed into a big party.2.
REFLEXIVE:?
A mulher jovem transformou-se em umapessoa sofisticada.The young woman transformed herself into asophisticated person.3.
INCHOATIVE:?
O encontro transformou-se em uma gran-de festa.The meeting transformed into a big party.5 Conclusions and Future WorkThe lexicon gathered through this research will par-tially enable disambiguating the uses of the cliticpronoun se, as there are several verbs that allow onlyone of the se clitic uses.
For the other verbs, whosepolysemy entails more than one possible use of se, itis necessary to add further information on each verbsense.The analysis we reported here evidenced the needfor enriching Portuguese computational lexicons,encompassing (a) the semantic role labels assignedby each verb sense, (b) the selectional restrictionsa verb imposes to its arguments, and (c) the alter-nations a verb (dis)allows.
The semantic predicatedecomposition used by Levin (1993) has proved tobe worthy to formalize the use of se in reflexive con-structions (Godoy, 2012) and we think it should beadopted to describe other uses of the pronoun se.Another alternative is to construct a detailed com-putational verb lexicon along the lines suggestedby Gardent et al(2005), based on Maurice Gross?lexicon-grammar.The data generated by this study can also be usedto automatically learn classifiers for ambiguous usesof the clitic se.
On the one hand, the annotationof uses can be semi-automatically projected on thesentences extracted from the corpus.
On the otherhand, the findings of this work in terms of syntac-tic and semantic characteristics can be used to pro-pose features for the classifier, trying to reproducethose that can be automatically obtained (e.g., sub-categorization frame) and to simulate those that can-not be easily automated (e.g., whether the subjectis animate).
For these future experiments, we in-tend to compare different learning models, based onSVM and on sequence models like conditional ran-dom fields (Vincze, 2012).As languages are different in what concerns al-lowed alternations, the use of clitic se in Portuguesebecomes even more complex when approached froma bilingual point of view.
Depending on how differ-ent the languages compared are, the classification ofse adopted here may be of little use.
For example,several verbs classified as reflexive in Portuguese,like vestir-se (to dress), barbear-se (to shave) anddemitir-se (to resign) are not translated into a re-flexive form in English (*to dress oneself, *to shaveoneself and *to dismiss oneself ).
Similarly, typicalinchoative verb uses in Portuguese need to be trans-lated into a periphrasis in English, like surpreender-se (to be surprised at), orgulhar-se (to be proud of )and irritar-se (to get angry).
Such evidences lead99us to conclude that it would be useful to count ona bilingual description not only of pronominal, butalso of the other se uses.The results of this work are available at www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/portlex.AcknowledgmentsThis study was funded by FAPESP (process2011/22337-1) and by the CAMELEON project(CAPES-COFECUB 707-11).ReferencesEckhard Bick.
2000.
The parsing system Palavras.Aarhus University Press.
411 p.Paul Cook and Suzanne Stevenson.
2006.
Classifyingparticle semantics in English verb-particle construc-tions.
In Proceedings of MWE 2006, pages 45?53,Sydney, Australia.Sonia Maria Lazzarino Cyrino.
2007.
Construc?o?es comSE e promoc?a?o de argumento no portugue?s brasileiro:Uma investigac?a?o diacro?nica.
Revista da ABRALIN,6:85?116.Paula Fonseca.
2010.
Os verbos pseudo-reflexos emPortugue?s Europeu.
Master?s thesis, Universidade doPorto.Claire Gardent, Bruno Guillaume, Guy Perrier, and In-grid Falk.
2005.
Maurice gross?
grammar lexicon andnatural language processing.
In Proceedings of the2nd Language and Technology Conference, Poznan?,Poland.Luisa Andrade Gomes Godoy.
2012.
A reflexivizac?a?o noPB e a decomposic?a?o sema?ntica de predicados.
Ph.D.thesis, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alterna-tions: a preliminary investigation.
The University ofChicago Press, Chicago, USA.Ronaldo Teixeira Martins, Gisele Montilha, Lucia He-lena Machado Rino, and Maria da Grac?a Volpe Nunes.1999.
Dos modelos de resoluc?a?o da ambiguidade cat-egorial: o problema do SE.
In Proceedings of IVEncontro para o Processamento Computacional daL?
?ngua Portuguesa Escrita e Falada (PROPOR 1999),pages 115?128, E?vora, Portugal, September.Jairo Morais Nunes.
1990.
O famigerado SE: umaana?lise sincro?nica e diacro?nica das construc?o?es comSE apassivador e indeterminador.
Master?s thesis,Universidade Estadual de Campinas.Marcelo Muniz, Fernando V. Paulovich, RosaneMinghim, Kleber Infante, Fernando Muniz, RenataVieira, and Sandra Alu??sio.
2007.
Taming the tigertopic: an XCES compliant corpus portal to generatesubcorpus based on automatic text topic identification.In Proceedings of The Corpus Linguistics Conference(CL 2007), Birmingham, UK.Pablo Nunes-Ribeiro.
2010.
A alterna?ncia causativano Portugue?s do Brasil: a distribuic?a?o do cl?
?tico SE.Master?s thesis, Universidade Federal do Rio Grandedo Sul.Jose?
Ricardo Pereira-Santos.
2010.
Alterna?ncia pas-siva com verbos transitivos indiretos do portugue?s doBrasil.
Master?s thesis, Universidade de Bras?
?lia.Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, and ChristianBoitet.
2010.
Multiword expressions in the wild?the mwetoolkit comes in handy.
In Proceedings ofthe 23rd COLING (COLING 2010) - Demonstrations,pages 57?60, Beijing, China.S?
?lvia Isabel do Rosa?rio Ribeiro.
2011.
Estruturascom ?se?
Anafo?rico, Impessoal e Decausativo em Por-tugue?s.
Ph.D. thesis, Faculdade de Letras da Universi-dade de Coimbra.Tal Siloni.
2001.
Reciprocal verbs.
In Online Proceed-ings of IATL 17, Jerusalem, Israel.Milena Slavcheva.
2006.
Semantic descriptors: Thecase of reflexive verbs.
In Proceedings of LREC 2006,pages 1009?1014, Genoa, Italy.Veronika Vincze.
2012.
Light verb constructions in theszegedparalellFX English?Hungarian parallel corpus.In Proceedings of LREC 2012, Istanbul, Turkey.100
