Proceedings of the Workshop on Language in Social Media (LASM 2013), pages 20?29,Atlanta, Georgia, June 13 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Preliminary Study of Tweet Summarization using Information ExtractionWei Xu, Ralph Grishman, Adam MeyersComputer Science DepartmentNew York UniversityNew York, NY 10003, USA{xuwei,grishman,meyers}@cs.nyu.eduAlan RitterComputer Science and EngineeringUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA 98125, USAaritter@cs.washington.eduAbstractAlthough the ideal length of summaries dif-fers greatly from topic to topic on Twitter, pre-vious work has only generated summaries ofa pre-fixed length.
In this paper, we proposean event-graph based method using informa-tion extraction techniques that is able to cre-ate summaries of variable length for differenttopics.
In particular, we extend the Pagerank-like ranking algorithm from previous work topartition event graphs and thereby detect fine-grained aspects of the event to be summarized.Our preliminary results show that summariescreated by our method are more concise andnews-worthy than SumBasic according to hu-man judges.
We also provide a brief survey ofdatasets and evaluation design used in previ-ous work to highlight the need of developing astandard evaluation for automatic tweet sum-marization task.1 IntroductionTweets contain a wide variety of useful informationfrom many perspectives about important events tak-ing place in the world.
The huge number of mes-sages, many containing irrelevant and redundant in-formation, quickly leads to a situation of informa-tion overload.
This motivates the need for automaticsummarization systems which can select a few mes-sages for presentation to a user which cover the mostimportant information relating to the event withoutredundancy and filter out irrelevant and personal in-formation that is not of interest beyond the user?simmediate social network.Although there is much recent work focusing onthe task of multi-tweet summarization (Becker et al2011; Inouye and Kalita, 2011; Zubiaga et al 2012;Liu et al 2011a; Takamura et al 2011; Harabagiuand Hickl, 2011; Wei et al 2012), most previouswork relies only on surface lexical clues, redun-dancy and social network specific signals (e.g.
userrelationship), and little work has considered takinglimited advantage of information extraction tech-niques (Harabagiu and Hickl, 2011) in generativemodels.
Because of the noise and redundancy insocial media posts, the performance of off-the-shelfnews-trained natural language process systems is de-graded while simple term frequency is proven pow-erful for summarizing tweets (Inouye and Kalita,2011).
A natural and interesting research questionis whether it is beneficial to extract named entitiesand events in the tweets as has been shown for clas-sic multi-document summarization (Li et al 2006).Recent progress on building NLP tools for Twitter(Ritter et al 2011; Gimpel et al 2011; Liu et al2011b; Ritter et al 2012; Liu et al 2012) makesit possible to investigate an approach to summariz-ing Twitter events which is based on Information Ex-traction techniques.We investigate a graph-based approach whichleverages named entities, event phrases and theirconnections across tweets.
A similar idea has beenstudied by Li et al(2006) to rank the salienceof event concepts in summarizing news articles.However, the extreme redundancy and simplicity oftweets allows us to explicitly split the event graphinto subcomponents that cover various aspects of theinitial event to be summarized to create comprehen-20Work Dataset (size of each clus-ter)System Output Evaluation MetricsInouye andKalita (2011)trending topics (approxi-mately 1500 tweets)4 tweets ROUGE and human (over-all quality comparing tohuman summary)Sharifi et al(2010)same as above 1 tweet same as aboveRosa et al(2011)segmented hashtag top-ics by LDA and k-meansclustering (average 410tweets)1, 5, 10 tweets Precision@k (relevance totopic)Harabagiu andHickl (2011)real-word event topics (aminimum of 2500 tweets)top tweets until a limit of250 words was reachedhuman (coverage and co-herence)Liu et al(2011a)general topics and hash-tag topics (average 1.7ktweets)same lengths as of thehuman summary, varyfor each topic (about 2 or3 tweets)ROUGE and human (con-tent coverage, grammat-icality, non-redundancy,referential clarity, focus)Wei et al(2012)segmented hashtag top-ics according to burstiness(average 10k tweets)10 tweets ROUGE, Precison/Recall(good readability and richcontent)Takamura et al(2011)specific soccer games(2.8k - 5.2k tweets)same lengths as the hu-man summary, vary foreach topic (26 - 41tweets)ROUGE (consideringonly content words)Chakrabarti andPunera (2011)specific football games(1.8k tweets)10 - 70 tweets Precision@k (relevance totopic)Table 1: Summary of datasets and evaluation metrics used in several previous work on tweet summarizationsive and non-redundant summaries.
Our work is thefirst to use a Pagerank-like algorithm for graph parti-tioning and ranking in the context of summarization,and the first to generate tweet summaries of variablelength which is particularly important for tweet sum-marization.
Unlike news articles, the amount of in-formation in a set of topically clustered tweets variesgreatly, from very repetitive to very discrete.
For ex-ample, the tweets about one album release can bemore or less paraphrases, while those about anotheralbum by a popular singer may involve rumors andrelease events etc.
In the human study conducted byInouye and Kalita (2011), annotators strongly preferdifferent numbers of tweets in a summary for dif-ferent topics.
However, most of the previous workproduced summaries of a pre-fixed length and hasno evaluation on conciseness.
Liu et al(2011a)and Takamura et al(2011) also noticed the ideallength of summaries can be very different from topicto topic, and had to use the length of human refer-ence summaries to decide the length of system out-puts, information which is not available in practice.In contrast, we developed a system that is capableof detecting fine-grained sub-events and generatingsummaries with the proper number of representativetweets accordingly for different topics.Our experimental results show that with informa-tion extraction it is possible to create more mean-ingful and concise summaries.
Tweets that containreal-world events are usually more informative andreadable.
Event-based summarization is especiallybeneficial in this situation due to the fact that tweetsare short and self-contained with simple discoursestructure.
The boundary of 140 characters makes itefficient to extract semi-structured events with shal-low natural language processing techniques and re-21Tweets (Date Created) Named Entity Event Phrases Date MentionedNooooo..
Season premiere of Doctor Who is onSept 1 world wide and we?ll be at World Con(8/22/2012)doctor who,world conseason, is on,premieresept 1(9/1/2012)guess what I DON?T get to do tomorrow!WATCH DOCTOR WHO (8/31/2012)doctor who watch tomorrow(9/1/2012)As I missed it on Saturday, I?m now catching upon Doctor Who (9/4/2012)doctor who missed,catching upsaturday(9/1/2012)Rumour: Nokia could announce two WP8 de-vices on September 5 http://t.co/yZUwDFLV (via@mobigyaan)nokia, wp8 announce september 5(9/5/2012)Verizon and Motorola won?t let Nokia have allthe fun ; scheduling September 5th in New Yorkhttp://t.co/qbBlYnSl (8/19/2012)nokia, verizon,motorola,new yorkscheduling september 5th(9/5/2012)Don?t know if it?s excitement or rooting for theunderdog, but I am genuinely excited for Nokiacome Sept 5: http://t.co/UhV5SUMP (8/7/2012)nokia rooting,excitedsept 5(9/5/2012)Table 2: Event-related information extracted from tweetsduces the complexity of the relationship (or no re-lationship) between events according to their co-occurrence, resulting in differences in constructingevent graphs from previous work in news domain(Li et al 2006).2 Issues in Current Research on TweetSummarizationThe most serious problem in tweet summarizationis that there is no standard dataset, and conse-quently no standard evaluation methodology.
Al-though there are more than a dozen recent works onsocial media summarization, astonishingly, almosteach research group used a different dataset and adifferent experiment setup.
This is largely attributedto the difficulty of defining the right granularity of atopic in Twitter.
In Table 1, we summarize the exper-iment designs of several selective works.
Regardlessof the differences, researchers generally agreed on :?
clustering tweets topically and temporally?
generating either a very short summary for afocused topic or a long summary for large-sizeclusters?
difficulty and necessity to generate summariesof variable length for different topicsAlthough the need of variable-length summarieshave been raised in previous work, none has pro-vide a good solution (Liu et al 2011a; Takamuraet al 2011; Inouye and Kalita, 2011).
In this pa-per, our focus is study the feasibility of generatingconcise summaries of variable length and improv-ing meaningfulness by using information extractiontechniques.
We hope this study can provide new in-sights on the task and help in developing a standardevaluation in the future.3 ApproachWe first extract event information including namedentities and event phrases from tweets and constructevent graphs that represent the relationship betweenthem.
We then rank and partition the events usingPageRank-like algorithms, and create summaries ofvariable length for different topics.3.1 Event Extraction from TweetsAs a first step towards summarizing popular eventsdiscussed on Twitter, we need a way to identifyevents from Tweets.
We utilize several natural lan-guage processing tools that specially developed fornoisy text to extract text phrases that bear essentialevent information, including named entities (Ritteret al 2011), event-referring phrases (Ritter et al222012) and temporal expressions (Mani and Wilson,2000).
Both the named entity and event taggers uti-lize Conditional Random Fields models (Lafferty,2001) trained on annotated data, while the temporalexpression resolver uses a mix of hand-crafted andmachine-learned rules.
Example event informationextracted from Tweets are presented in Table 2.The self-contained nature of tweets allows effi-cient extraction of event information without deepanalysis (e.g.
co-reference resolution).
On the otherhand, individual tweets are also very terse, oftenlacking sufficient context to access the importanceof events.
It is crucial to exploit the highly redun-dancy in Twitter.
Closely following previous workby Ritter et al(2012), we group together sets oftopically and temporally related tweets, which men-tion the same named entity and a temporal refer-ence resolved to the same unique calendar date.
Wealso employ a statistical significance test to measurestrength of association between each named entityand date, and thereby identify important events dis-cussed widely among users with a specific focus,such as the release of a new iPhone as opposed to in-dividual users discussing everyday events involvingtheir phones.
By discarding frequent but insignifi-cant events, we can produce more meaningful sum-maries about popular real-world events.3.2 Event GraphsSince tweets have simple discourse and are self-contained, it is a reasonable assumption that namedentities and event phrases that co-occurred togetherin a single tweet are very likely related.
Given a col-lection of tweets, we represent such connections bya weighted undirected graph :?
Nodes: named entities and event phrases arerepresented by nodes and treated indifferently.?
Edges: two nodes are connected by an undi-rected edge if they co-occurred in k tweets, andthe weight of edge is k.We find it helpful to merge named entities andevent phrases that have lexical overlap if they are fre-quent but not the topic of the tweet cluster.
For ex-ample, ?bbc?, ?radio 1?, ?bbc radio 1?
are combinedtogether in a set of tweets about a band.
Figure 1shows a very small toy example of event graph.
Inthe experiments of this paper, we also exclude theedges with k < 2 to reduce noise in the data andcalculation cost.Figure 1: A toy event graph example built from the threesentences of the event ?Nokia - 9/5/2012?
in Table 23.3 Event Ranking and PartitioningGraph-based ranking algorithms are widely used inautomatic summarization to decide salience of con-cepts or sentences based on global information re-cursively drawn from the entire graph.
We adapt thePageRank-like algorithm used in TextRank (Mihal-cea and Tarau, 2004) that takes into account edgeweights when computing the score associated with avertex in the graph.Formally, let G = (V,E) be a undirected graphwith the set of vertices V and set of edges E, whereE is a subset of V ?
V .
For a given vertex Vi, letAd(Vi) be the set of vertices that adjacent to it.
Theweight of the edge between Vi and Vj is denoted aswij , and wij = wji.
The score of a vertex Vi isdefined as follows:S(Vi) = (1  d) + d?
XVj2Ad(Vi)wij ?
S(Vj)PVk2Ad(Vj) wjkwhere d is a damping factor that is usually set to 0.85(Brin and Page, 1998), and this is the value we arealso using in our implementation.23Starting from arbitrary values assigned to eachnode in the graph, the computation iterates until con-vergence.
Note that the final salience score of eachnode is not affected by the choice of the initial val-ues assigned to each node in the graph, but rather theweights of edges.In previous work computed scores are then useddirectly to select text fractions for summaries (Li etal., 2006).
However, the redundancy and simplic-ity of tweets allow further exploration into sub-eventdetection by graph partitioning.
The intuition is thatthe correlations between named entities and eventphrases within same sub-events are much strongerthan between sub-events.
This phenomena is moreobvious and clear in tweet than in news articles,where events are more diverse and complicated re-lated to each other given lengthy context.As theoretically studied in local partitioning prob-lem (Andersen et al 2006), a good partition of thegraph can be obtained by separating high ranked ver-tices from low ranked vertices, if the nodes in thegraph have ranks that are distinguishable.
Utilizinga similar idea, we show that a simple greedy algo-rithm is efficient to find important sub-events andgenerate useful summaries in our tasks.
As shownin Figure 2 and 3, the high ranked nodes (whosescores are greater than 1, the average score of allnodes in the graph) in tweet event graphs show thedivisions within a topic.
We search for strongly con-nected sub-graphs, as gauged by parameter ?, fromthe highest ranked node to lower ranked ones.Theproportion of tweets in a set that are related to asub-event is then estimated according to the ratio be-tween the sum of node scores in the sub-graph ver-sus the entire graph.
We select one tweet for eachsub-event that best covers the related nodes with thehighest sum of node scores normalized by length assummaries.
By adding a cutoff (parameter  ) onproportion of sub-event required to be included intosummaries, we can produce summaries with the ap-propriate length according to the diversity of infor-mation in a set of tweets.In Figure 2, 3 and 4, the named entity which isalso the topic of tweet cluster is omitted since it isconnected with every node in the event graph.
Thesize of node represents the salience score, while theshorter, straighter and more vertical the edge is, thehigher its weight.
The nodes with rectangle shapesAlgorithm 1 Find important sub-eventsRequire: Ranked event graph G = (V,E), thenamed entity V0 which is the topic of eventcluster, parameters ?
and   that can be settowards user preference over development data1: Initialize the pool of high ranked nodesV?
{Vi|8Vi 2 V, S(Vi) > 1}   V0 and thetotal weight W  PVi2V?
S(Vi)2: while V?
6= ; do3: Pop the highest ranked node Vm from V?4: Put Vm to a temporary sub-event e  {Vm}5: for all Vn in V?
do6: if wmn/w0m > ?
and w0n/w0m > ?then7: e  e [ {Vn}8: end if9: end for10: We  PVi2e S(Vi)11: if We/W >   then12: Successfully find a sub-event e13: Remove all nodes in e from V?14: end if15: end whileare named entities, while round shaped ones areevent phrases.
Note that in most cases, sub-eventscorrespond to connected components in the eventgraph of high ranked nodes as in Figure 2 and 3.However, our simple greedy algorithm also allowsmultiple sub-events for a single connected compo-nent that can not be covered by one tweet in thesummary.
For example, in Figure 4, two sub-eventse1 = {sell, delete, start, payment} and e2 ={facebook, share user data, privacy policy, debut}are chosen to accommodate the complex event.4 Experiments4.1 DataWe gathered tweets over a 4-month period spanningNovember 2012 to February 2013 using the TwitterStreaming API.
As described in more details in pre-vious work on Twitter event extraction by Ritter etal.
(2012), we grouped together all tweets whichmention the same named entity (recognized using24Figure 2: Event graph of ?Google - 1/16/2013?, an example of event cluster with multiple focusesFigure 3: Event graph of ?Instagram - 1/16/2013?, an example of event cluster with a single but complex focus25Figure 4: Event graph of ?West Ham - 1/16/2013?, anexample of event cluster with a single focusa Twitter specific name entity tagger1) and a refer-ence to the same unique calendar date (resolved us-ing a temporal expression processor (Mani and Wil-son, 2000)).
Tweets published during the whole pe-riod are aggregated together to find top events thathappen on each calendar day.
We applied the G2test for statistical significance (Dunning, 1993) torank the event clusters, considering the corpus fre-quency of the named entity, the number of times thedate has been mentioned, and the number of tweetswhich mention both together.
We randomly pickedthe events of one day for human evaluation, that isthe day of January 16, 2013 with 38 events and anaverage of 465 tweets per event cluster.For each cluster, our systems produce two ver-sions of summaries, one with a fixed number (setto 3) of tweets and another one with a flexible num-ber (vary from 1 to 4) of tweets.
Both ?
and   areset to 0.1 in our implementation.
All parameters areset experimentally over a small development datasetconsisting of 10 events in Twitter data of September2012.1https://github.com/aritter/twitter_nlp4.2 BaselineSumBasic (Vanderwende et al 2007) is a simpleand effective summarization approach based on termfrequency, which we use as our baseline.
It usesword probabilities with an update function to avoidredundancy to select sentences or posts in a socialmedia setting.
It is shown to outperform three otherwell-known multi-document summarization meth-ods, namely LexRank (Erkan and Radev, 2004),TextRank (Mihalcea and Tarau, 2004) and MEAD(Radev et al 2004) on tweets in (Inouye and Kalita,2011), possibly because that the relationship be-tween tweets is much simpler than between sen-tences in news articles and can be well captured bysimple frequency methods.
The improvement overthe LexRank model on tweets is gained by consid-ering the number of retweets and influential users isanother side-proof (Wei et al 2012) of the effective-ness of frequency.EventRank?Flexible EventRank?Fixed SumBasicAnnotator 1012345 compactnesscompletenessoverallEventRank?Flexible EventRank?Fixed SumBasicAnnotator 2012345 compactnesscompletenessoverallFigure 5: human judgments evaluating tweet summariza-tion systems26Event System Summary- Google ?s home page is a Zamboni game in celebration of Frank Zam-boni ?s birthday January 16 #GameOnEventRank(Flexible)- Today social , Tomorrow Google !
Facebook Has Publicly RedefinedItself As A Search Company http://t.co/dAevB2V0 via @saiGoogle1/16/2013- Orange says has it has forced Google to pay for traffic .
The Head ofthe Orange said on Wednesday it had ... http://t.co/dOqAHhWi- Tomorrow?s Google doodle is going to be a Zamboni!
I may have totake a vacation day.SumBasic - the game on google today reminds me of hockey #tooexcited #saturday- The fact that I was soooo involved in that google doodle game sayssomething about this Wednesday #TGIW You should try it!EventRank(Flexible)- So Instagram can sell your pictures to advertisers without u knowingstarting January 16th I?m bout to delete my instagram !- Instagram debuts new privacy policy , set to share user data with Face-book beginning January 16Instagram1/16/2013- Instagram will have the rights to sell your photos to Advertisers as ofjan 16SumBasic - Over for Instagram on January 16th- Instagram says it now has the right to sell your photos unless you deleteyour account by January 16th http://t.co/tsjic6yAEventRank(Flexible)- RT @Bassa_Mufc : Wayne Rooney and Nani will feature in the FA Cupreplay with West Ham on Wednesday - Sir Alex FergusonWest Ham1/16/2013- Wayne Rooney could be back to face West Ham in next Wednesday?sFA Cup replay at Old Trafford.
#BPLSumBasic - Tomorrow night come on West Ham lol- Nani?s fit abd WILL play tomorrow against West Ham!
Sir Alex con-firmed :)Table 3: Event-related information extracted from tweets4.3 Preliminary ResultsWe performed a human evaluation in which two an-notators were asked to rate the system on a five-point scale (1=very poor, 5=very good) for com-pleteness and compactness.
Completeness refers tohow well the summary cover the important contentin the tweets.
Compactness refers to how muchmeaningful and non-redundant information is in thesummary.
Because the tweets were collected ac-cording to information extraction results and rankedby salience, the readability of summaries generatedby different systems are generally very good.
Thetop 38 events of January 16, 2013 are used as testset.
The aggregate results of the human evaluationare displayed in Figure 5.
Agreement between an-notators measured using Pearson?s Correlation Co-efficient is 0.59, 0.62, 0.62 respectively for compact-ness, completeness and overall judgements.Results suggest that the models described in thispaper produce more satisfactory results as the base-line approaches.
The improvement of EventRank-Flexible over SumBasic is significant (two-tailedp < 0.05) for all three metrics according to stu-dent?s t test.
Example summaries of the events inFigure 2, 3 and 4 are presented respectively in Table3.
The advantages of our method are the follow-ing: 1) it finds important facts of real-world events2) it prefers tweets with good readability 3) it in-cludes the right amount of information with diversityand without redundancy.
For example, our systempicked only one tweet about ?West Ham -1/16/2013?that convey the same message as the three tweets to-27gether of the baseline system.
For another example,among the tweets about Google around 1/16/2013,users intensively talk about the Google doodle gamewith a very wide range of words creatively, givingword-based methods a hard time to pick up the di-verse and essential event information that is less fre-quent.5 Conclusions and Future WorkWe present an initial study of feasibility to gen-erate compact summaries of variable lengths fortweet summarization by extending a Pagerank-likealgorithm to partition event graphs.
The evalua-tion shows that information extraction techniquesare helpful to generate news-worthy summaries ofgood readability from tweets.In the future, we are interested in improving theapproach and evaluation, studying automatic met-rics to evaluate summarization of variable lengthand getting involved in developing a standard eval-uation for tweet summarization tasks.
We wonderwhether other graph partitioning algorithms may im-prove the performance.
We also consider extendingthis graph-based approach to disambiguate namedentities or resolve event coreference in Twitter data.Another direction of future work is to extend theproposed approach to different data, for example,temporal-aware clustered tweets etc.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported in part by NSF grantIIS-0803481, ONR grant N00014-08-1-0431, andDARPA contract FA8750- 09-C-0179, and carriedout at the University of Washington?s Turing Center.We thank Mausam and Oren Etzioni of Universityof Washington, Maria Pershina of New York Univer-sity for their advice.ReferencesReid Andersen, Fan Chung, and Kevin Lang.
2006.Local graph partitioning using pagerank vectors.
InFoundations of Computer Science, 2006.
FOCS?06.47th Annual IEEE Symposium on, pages 475?486.IEEE.Hila Becker, Mor Naaman, and Luis Gravano.
2011.
Se-lecting quality twitter content for events.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth International AAAI Conference onWe-blogs and Social Media (ICWSM?11).Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page.
1998.
The anatomy of alarge-scale hypertextual web search engine.
Computernetworks and ISDN systems, 30(1):107?117.Deepayan Chakrabarti and Kunal Punera.
2011.
Eventsummarization using tweets.
In Proceedings of theFifth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs andSocial Media, pages 66?73.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational linguis-tics, 19(1):61?74.G?nes Erkan and Dragomir R. Radev.
2004.
Lexrank:Graph-based lexical centrality as salience in text sum-marization.
J. Artif.
Intell.
Res.
(JAIR), 22:457?479.Kevin Gimpel, Nathan Schneider, Brendan O?Connor,Dipanjan Das, Daniel Mills, Jacob Eisenstein, MichaelHeilman, Dani Yogatama, Jeffrey Flanigan, andNoah A. Smith.
2011.
Part-of-speech tagging for twit-ter: Annotation, features, and experiments.
In ACL.Sanda Harabagiu and Andrew Hickl.
2011.
Relevancemodeling for microblog summarization.
In Fifth In-ternational AAAI Conference on Weblogs and SocialMedia.David Inouye and Jugal K Kalita.
2011.
Comparing twit-ter summarization algorithms for multiple post sum-maries.
In Privacy, security, risk and trust (passat),2011 ieee third international conference on and 2011ieee third international conference on social comput-ing (socialcom), pages 298?306.
IEEE.John Lafferty.
2001.
Conditional random fields: Proba-bilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequencedata.
pages 282?289.
Morgan Kaufmann.Wenjie Li, Wei Xu, Chunfa Yuan, Mingli Wu, and QinLu.
2006.
Extractive summarization using inter- andintra- event relevance.
In Proceedings of the 21st In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguisticsand the 44th annual meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, ACL-44, pages 369?376,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Fei Liu, Yang Liu, and Fuliang Weng.
2011a.
Why is?sxsw?
trending?
exploring multiple text sources fortwitter topic summarization.
ACL HLT 2011, page 66.Xiaohua Liu, Shaodian Zhang, Furu Wei, and MingZhou.
2011b.
Recognizing named entities in tweets.In ACL.Xiaohua Liu, Furu Wei, Ming Zhou, et al2012.
Quick-view: Nlp-based tweet search.
In Proceedings of theACL 2012 System Demonstrations, pages 13?18.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Inderjeet Mani and GeorgeWilson.
2000.
Robust tempo-ral processing of news.
In Proceedings of the 38th An-28nual Meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics, ACL ?00, pages 69?76, Stroudsburg, PA,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Rada Mihalcea and Paul Tarau.
2004.
Textrank: Bring-ing order into texts.
In Proceedings of EMNLP, vol-ume 4, pages 404?411.
Barcelona, Spain.Dragomir Radev, Timothy Allison, Sasha Blair-Goldensohn, John Blitzer, Arda Celebi, StankoDimitrov, Elliott Drabek, Ali Hakim, Wai Lam, DanyuLiu, et al2004.
Mead-a platform for multidocumentmultilingual text summarization.
In Proceedings ofLREC, volume 2004.Alan Ritter, Sam Clark, Mausam, and Oren Etzioni.2011.
Named entity recognition in tweets: An experi-mental study.Alan Ritter, Mausam, Oren Etzioni, and Sam Clark.2012.
Open domain event extraction from twitter.
InKDD, pages 1104?1112.
ACM.Kevin Dela Rosa, Rushin Shah, Bo Lin, Anatole Gersh-man, and Robert Frederking.
2011.
Topical clusteringof tweets.
Proceedings of the ACM SIGIR: SWSM.Beaux Sharifi, Mark-Anthony Hutton, and Jugal KKalita.
2010.
Experiments in microblog summariza-tion.
In Proc.
of IEEE Second International Confer-ence on Social Computing.Hiroya Takamura, Hikaru Yokono, and Manabu Oku-mura.
2011.
Summarizing a document stream.
Ad-vances in Information Retrieval, pages 177?188.Lucy Vanderwende, Hisami Suzuki, Chris Brockett, andAni Nenkova.
2007.
Beyond sumbasic: Task-focusedsummarization with sentence simplification and lex-ical expansion.
Information Processing & Manage-ment, 43(6):1606?1618.Furu Wei, Ming Zhou, and Heung-Yeung Shum.
2012.Twitter topic summarization by ranking tweets usingsocial influence and content quality.
In COLING.Arkaitz Zubiaga, Damiano Spina, Enrique Amig?, andJulio Gonzalo.
2012.
Towards real-time summariza-tion of scheduled events from twitter streams.
In Pro-ceedings of the 23rd ACM conference on Hypertextand social media, pages 319?320.
ACM.29
