Proceedings of the 4th Biennial International Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, pages 100?109,Sofia, Bulgaria, 8-9 August 2013. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdapting the PULS Event Extraction Frameworkto Analyze Russian TextLidia Pivovarova,1,2 Mian Du,1 Roman Yangarber11 Department of Computer ScienceUniversity of Helsinki, Finland2St.
Petersburg State University, RussiaAbstractThis paper describes a plug-in componentto extend the PULS information extractionframework to analyze Russian-languagetext.
PULS is a comprehensive frameworkfor information extraction (IE) that is usedfor analysis of news in several scenariosfrom English-language text and is primar-ily monolingual.
Although monolingual-ity is recognized as a serious limitation,building an IE system for a new languagefrom the bottom up is very labor-intensive.Thus, the objective of the present work isto explore whether the base framework canbe extended to cover additional languageswith limited effort, and to leverage the pre-existing PULS modules as far as possible,in order to accelerate the development pro-cess.
The component for Russian analysisis described and its performance is evalu-ated on two news-analysis scenarios: epi-demic surveillance and cross-border secu-rity.
The approach described in the papercan be generalized to a range of heavily-inflected languages.1 Introduction1.1 Problem StatementPULS1 is a framework for information extractionfrom text (IE), designed for decision support invarious domains and scenarios.
To date, workon PULS has mostly concentrated on English-language text, though some effort has gone intoadapting PULS to other languages, (Du et al2011).
This paper describes a component that isused to extend PULS to analyze Russian-languagetext, and demonstrates its performance on two IEscenarios: infectious epidemics and cross-border1http://puls.cs.helsinki.fisecurity.
The epidemics scenario is built to pro-vide an early warning system for professionalsand organizations responsible for tracking epi-demic threats around the world.
Because infor-mation related to outbreaks of infectious diseaseoften appears in news earlier than it does in offi-cial sources, text mining from the Web for medi-cal surveillance is a popular research topic, as dis-cussed in, e.g., (Collier et al 2008; Huttunenet al 2002; Rortais et al 2010; Zamite et al2010).
Similarly, in the security scenario, the sys-tem tracks cross-border crime, including illegalmigration, smuggling, human trafficking, as wellas general criminal activity and crisis events; textmining for this scenario has been previously re-ported by (Ameyugo et al 2012; Atkinson et al2011).
The new component monitors open-sourcemedia in Russian, searching for incidents relatedto the given scenarios.
It extracts informationfrom plain, natural-language text into structureddatabase records, which are used by domain spe-cialists for daily event monitoring.
The structureof the database records (called templates) dependson the scenario.
For the epidemics scenario thesystem extracts the fields: disease name, locationof the incident, date, number of victims, etc.
In thesecurity domain, the template contains the type ofevent, date and location, the perpetrator, numberof victims (if any), goods smuggled, etc.Monolinguality is a serious limitation for IE,since end-users are under growing pressure tocover news from multiple languages, (Piskorskiet al 2011).
The Russian-language componentthat we describe here is an experiment in extend-ing PULS to multi-lingual coverage.
Our aim is toexplore whether a such an extension can be builtwith limited effort and resources.1.2 Prior work on IE from RussianIE in Russian has been the topic of several recentstudies.
For example, (Piskorski et al 2011) uses100Russian among other languages to study infor-mation fusion across languages.
Extraction tech-niques are used for ontology learning in (Bocharovet al 2010) and (Schumann, 2012).
The Uni-versity of Sheffield?s GATE system, (Bontchevaet al 2003), which supports multi-lingual IE, hasbeen adapted to Russian as part of the MUSE-3project, (though little is published on functional-ity available in Russian).
HP Labs have recentlystarted adaptation of their information extractionsolutions to Russian, (Solovyev et al 2012).Much literature devoted to Russian-languageinformation extraction is published only in Rus-sian; a brief review can be found in (Khoro-shevsky, 2010).
The majority of existing appli-cations for Russian IE, and Natural Language Pro-cessing (NLP) in general, are commercially based,and are either published in Russian only, or notat all.
One major player in Russian text min-ing is Yandex, the leading Russian search engine.Yandex uses IE to support its main search ser-vice, e.g., to underline addresses and persons insearch results, and in a service called ?Press Por-traits,?2 which builds profiles for various personal-ities found in the news.
A profile may include theprofession, biographical facts, news that s/he is in-volved in, and related people?using informationautomatically extracted from on-line Russian me-dia.
Yandex also recently unveiled an open-sourcetoolkit Tomita, for developing IE systems based oncontext-free grammars.Dictum, a company that builds applications forNLP and sentiment analysis in Russian, providesa toolkit for Russian morphological, syntactic andsemantic analysis.
Their Fact Extraction compo-nent3 finds persons, organizations, locations, etc.,and creates simple facts about persons: corporateposts, date of birth, etc.RCO, a company focused on research and de-velopment of text analysis solutions, provides theRCO Fact Extractor tool4, which performs fact ex-traction from unstructured text.
One common us-age scenario is setting up a list of target objects(persons, companies) and extracting all eventswhere these objects are mentioned as participants.The tool also includes a module that allows theuser to adjust search patterns.With the exception of Tomita and AOT (see Sec-2http://news.yandex.ru/people3http://dictum.ru/en/object-extraction/blog4http://www.rco.ru/eng/product.asption 3), few resources are available in open-source.2 The Baseline English SystemThe PULS news-tracking pipeline consists of threemain components: a Web-crawler that tries toidentify potentially relevant articles using a broadkeyword-based Web search; a rule-based Informa-tion Extraction system that uses patterns acquiredthrough semi-supervised learning, that determinesexactly what happened in the article, creating astructured record that is stored in the database;and a relevance classifier that determines the rele-vance of the selected articles?and events that theydescribe?to the particular use-case scenario andthe users?
needs.
This paper will mostly focus onthe IE component, as other two components arelanguage-independent.The IE system contains modules for lower-level?morphological and syntactic?analysis, aswell as higher-level?semantic?analysis, andproduces filled templates on output, extractedfrom an input document, (Du et al 2011).PULS follows a classic IE processing pipeline:?
Pre-processing,?
Lexical markup,?
Shallow syntactic analysis/chunking,?
Semantic pattern matching?
Reference resolution and logical inferencePre-processing includes tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, processing of punctuation, nu-meric expressions, etc.Lexical markup is tagging of lexical units foundin text with semantic information found in a dictio-nary and/or ontology.
PULS uses several domain-independent and domain-specific lexicons and on-tologies.
The ontology is a network of con-cepts organized in a hierarchy by several rela-tions, among which the ?is-a?
relation is the mostcommon.
One key factor that enables the addi-tion of new languages efficiently is that the on-tology is language-independent.
The system usesthe lexicons to map words into concepts.
A lex-icon consists of word-forms and some commonmulti-word expressions (MWEs), which appear intext and represent some ontology concept.
Weassume that within a given domain each word or101MWE in the lexicon represents exactly one con-cept, (Yarowsky, 1995).
A concept may be rep-resented by more than one word or MWE.5 Eachscenario has its own scenario-specific ontologyand lexicons; the Epidemics ontology consists ofmore than 4000 concepts (which includes somedisease names).
Diseases are organized in a hi-erarchy, e.g., ?hepatitis?
is a parent term for ?hep-atitis A?.
The Security ontology consists of 1190concepts.The domain-specific lexicon is a collection ofterms that are significant for a particular scenario,mapped to their semantic types/concepts.
The Se-curity and Epidemics scenarios use a common lo-cation lexicon, that contains approximately 2500names of countries, cities and provinces.
Loca-tions are organized according the ?part-of?
rela-tion: cities are part-of provinces, which are part-ofstates, etc.Syntactic analysis is implemented as a cascadeof lower-level patterns.
PULS uses shallow anal-ysis (chunking), which does not try to build com-plete syntactic tree for a sentence but recognizeslocal grammatical structures?in particular, thenoun and verb groups.
This phase also identi-fies other common constructions needed for IE,(names, dates, etc.).
As a result of the syntacticanalysis, each sentence is represented as a set offragments.The pattern base is the main component of theIE system, responsible for finding factual informa-tion in text.
A pattern is a set of semantic, syntacticand morphological constraints designed to matchpieces of natural-language text.
When a patternfires it triggers an action, which creates an abstractlogical entity based on the text matched by the pat-tern.
The entity is added to an internal pool ofentities found in the document so far.
Facts pro-duced by the system are based on the entities inthis pool.
The patterns are arranged in a cascadesuch that the results produced by one pattern areused by subsequent patterns to form more com-plex entities.Patterns operate on a sentence-by-sentence ba-sis.
To link information in the surrounding sen-tences PULS uses concept-based reference reso-lution and logical inference rules.
The referenceresolution component is a set of rules for merging5By default, words that appear only in the general-purposedictionary, and do not appear in any domain-specific lexicon,are automatically identified with a concept having an identi-cal name.mentions of the same object and events.Inference rules work on a logical level (ratherthan text), operating on entities found at the pre-ceding stages of analysis.
These entities can beused to fill slots in an event description, for exam-ple, to find event time and location, or to performlogical inference.
For example, if the event type ishuman-trafficking and a concept related to organ-transplantation is mentioned in the sentence, aninference rule may specialize the event type tohuman-trafficking-organs.3 Russian Morphology and SyntaxTo speed development, we use pre-existing toolsfor tokenization, morphological and syntacticanalysis in Russian.
The range of freely-available,open-source tools for Russian is quite narrow, es-pecially for syntactic analysis.
Significant effortsfor overcoming this situation have been the focusof the recent ?Dialogue?
series of conferences6,which organized workshops on Russian morphol-ogy, (Astaf?eva et al 2010), and syntax, (Toldovaet al 2012).
Workshops take the form of compe-titions, where the participants tackle shared tasks.Eight teams participated in the latest workshop,devoted to syntax.
However, only one?AOT7?offers their toolkit under the GNU LGPL license.The AOT toolkit, (Sokirko, 2001) is a collec-tion of modules for NLP, including libraries formorphological, syntactic, and semantic analysis,language generation, tools for working with dic-tionaries, and GUIs for visualization of the anal-ysis.
Due to its open availability and high qual-ity of linguistic analysis, AOT is currently a de-facto standard for open-source Russian-languageprocessing.The AOT morphological analyzer, called?Lemm?, analyzes text word by word; its outputfor each word contains: an index, the surface form,the base lemma, part of speech, and morphologi-cal tags.
Lemm works on the morphological levelonly, and leaves all morphological ambiguity in-tact, to be resolved by later phases.Lemm uses a general-purpose Russian mor-phological dictionary, which can be edited andextended (e.g., with neologisms, domain-specificterms, etc.).
To add a new lemma into thedictionary, one needs to specify its inflectional6Dialogue?International Conference of ComputationalLinguistics (http://www.dialog-21.ru/en/)7The AOT project (?Automatic Processing of Text?
inRussian)?www.aot.ru102paradigm.
For Russian IE, we had to add tothe dictionary certain words and terms that des-ignate scenario-specific concepts, for example?????????
(migrant) and ??????????????
(gas-tarbaiter), which have become common usage inrecent Russian-language media.The syntactic analyzer in AOT, ?Synan?, usesa hybrid formalism, a mix of dependency treesand constituent grammars.
The output for a sen-tence contains two types of syntactic units: binaryparent-child relations, and ?groups?, which are to-ken sequences not analyzed further but treated asan atomic expression.
This approach is theoret-ically natural, since certain syntactic units maynot have a clear root, for example, complex nameexpressions (?Aleksey Sokirko?)
or numeric ex-pressions (?forty five?).
To make it compatiblewith the overall PULS structure, we transform allSynan output into dependency-tree form; groupssimply become linked chains.
Synan attempts toproduce a complete, connected parse structure forthe entire sentence; in practice, it produces a set offragments, consisting of relations and groups.
Inthe process, it resolves morphological ambiguity,when possible.To unify the results of Lemm and Synan, webuilt a special ?wrapper,?
(Du et al 2011).
Thewrapper takes every binary (syntactic) relation inthe Synan output, finds the items correspondingto the relation?s parent and child in Lemm?s out-put, and resolves their morphological ambiguity(if any) by removing all other morphological read-ings.
If the lemma for parent or child is null?as,e.g., when the corresponding element is a group?we infer information from Lemm output for theelement that is missed in Synan.
If a word doesnot participate in any relation identified by Synan,its analysis is based only on Lemm output, pre-serving all unresolved morphological ambiguity?to be potentially resolved at a later stage, typicallyby scenario-specific patterns.
Finally, the wrapperassembles the resulting analysis for all words intoa set of tree fragments.4 Russian Information Extraction4.1 Ontology and DictionariesThe ontology, a network of semantic classes, islanguage-independent, and in Russian IE, we usedthe pre-existing domain ontologies for the epi-demics and security domains, with minor mod-ifications.
Most of the changes centered on re-moving vestiges of English language-specific in-formation, e.g., by making explicit the distinctionsamong certain concepts that may be confoundedin English due to ambiguity of English lexicalunits.
For example, in English, the word ?convict?means both the verb and the convicted person (pa-tient nominalization), so it may be tempting to rep-resent them by the same concept.
In Russian, as inmany other languages, these are different conceptsas well as distinct lexemes.A Russian domain-specific lexicon was addedto the system.
Russian IE uses a shared lex-icon for epidemics and security.
The lexiconcontains not only translations of the correspond-ing English words, but also includes MWEs thatappear in Russian media and correspond to thedomain-specific concepts.
The current Russiandomain-specific lexicon contains approximately1000 words and MWEs.
Constructing the multi-word lexicon for Russian is more complicated thanfor English because Russian has a rich morphol-ogy and complex grammatical agreement.
Forexample, to find a simple Adjective+Noun col-location in text, the system needs to check thatthe adjective agrees with the noun in gender,case, and number.
To resolve this problem, webuilt a special set of low-level patterns, whichmatch MWEs.
These patterns are subdividedinto several classes, according to their syntacticform: Adjective+Noun, Noun+Noun, Verb+Noun,Verb+Preposition+Noun, etc.
The grammaticalconstraints are coded only once for each classof pattern, and apply to all patterns in the class.For example, in the Noun+Noun class, the secondnoun must be in genitive case (a genitive modifierof the head noun), e.g., ??????
???????
(cirrho-sis of the liver), or in the instrumental case, e.g.,?????????
???????
(human trafficking).
Thissimplifies adding new MWEs into the dictionary.We use the multilingual GeoNamesdatabase, (www.geonames.org) as the sourceof geographic information in Russian.
Thedisease dictionary is mapped into Russian usingthe International Classification of Diseases.8 Thesystem also identifies common animal diseases:anthrax, African swine fever, rabies, etc.4.2 Pattern BasesThe pattern base is the main component of the IEsystem for extracting higher-level logical objects.8ICD10: http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en/103Syntactic variant Example Syntactic variant ExampleI Verb + Object ??????????
????????
II Object + Verb ????????
??????????
(active clause) [someone] arrested a migrant (reverse word order) (same meaning)III Participle + Object ?????????
???????
IV Object + Participle ???????
?????????
(passive clause) migrant is arrested [by someone] (reverse word order) (same meaning)V Noun + Object ?????
????????
VI (reverse word order is ?
(nominalization) arrest of a migrant rare, unlikely in news)Table 1: Examples of syntactic variants for a single pattern RussianPatterns are language-dependent and domain-dependent, which means that patterns must cap-ture the lexical, syntactic and stylistic features ofthe analyzed text.
It was not possible to directlytranslate or map the English pattern base into Rus-sian for at least two reasons.The first reason is technical.
PULS?s Englishpattern base has over 150 patterns for the epi-demics domain, and over 300 patterns for secu-rity.9 These patterns were added to the systemthrough an elaborate pattern-acquisition process,where semi-supervised pattern acquisition for En-glish text was used, (Greenwood and Stevenson,2006; Yangarber et al 2000), to bootstrap manypattern candidates from raw text based on a smallset of seed patterns; the candidates were sub-sequently checked manually and included in thesystem.
Many of these patterns are typically in?base-form?, i.e., simple active clauses; the En-glish system takes each active-clause, ?subject-verb-object?
pattern, and generalizes it to multi-ple syntactic variants, including passive clauses,relative clauses, etc.
Thus we created the Rus-sian domain-specific patterns directly in PULS?spattern-specification language.
A pattern consistsof a regular expression trigger and action code.The second reason is theoretical.
Unlike En-glish, Russian is a heavily inflected, free word-order language.
In English, the active ?subject-word-object?
clause has only one form, whereasin Russian all six permutations of the three el-ements are possible, depending on the informa-tion structure and pragmatic focus.
This meansthat we would need 6 pattern variants to matcha single active clause, and many more to processother clausal types.
The free word-order makesit difficult to generate syntactic clausal variants;it also complicates the bootstrapping of patternsfrom seeds.Therefore, for Russian we used a different strat-9The difference is partly due to the fact that the securityscenario has several event types?illegal migration, human-trafficking, smuggling, general crisis?and sub-types, whileepidemics deals with one event type.egy, close to that used by (Tanev et al 2009) forRomance languages.
In this approach, the patternsfirst create ?shallow?, incomplete events whereonly 1?2 slots are filled.
Then, the inference rulemechanism attempts to fill the remaining slots andcomplete the events.
The majority of Russian pat-terns currently consist of two elements (such asverb and object, or verb and subject), so that onlytwo word-order variants are possible.
Currently,the Russian patterns match five syntactic construc-tions.
These are listed in Table 1, along with ex-amples from the security scenario.
All examplephrases have the same meaning (?migrant was ar-rested?)
but different syntactic form.
The activeclause and the passive clause in Russian may haveeither V?O word order?types I and III?or O?V,?types II and IV.
The difference between theactive and the passive variants is in the grammati-cal features only, which are marked by flexions.Types I, III, and V in the table can be capturedby one simple pattern:class(ARREST) noungroup(MIGRANT)This pattern matches when a content phrase?belonging to any part of speech (noun, verb,or participle)?whose semantic head is the con-cept ?ARREST?
governs (i.e., in this case, pre-cedes) a noun group headed by the concept ?MI-GRANT?.
The pattern primitives?class, noun-group and others?build on top of the POS, syn-tactic, and morphological tags that are returned bythe AOT wrapper.
Types II and IV show variantsof the pattern in reverse order.
Note that the pat-terns use general ontology classes?shared withEnglish?rather than literal words.10When a pattern fires, the system checks the con-straints on grammatical features (e.g., case andnumber agreement) on the matched phrases orwords.
We introduce three types of constraints:accusative object-case agreement for type I and10NB: in practice, the patterns are more complex becausethey allow various sentence modifiers to appear between verband object, which is a standard extension to this basic formof the pattern.104Concept Event typeorgan-transplant Human-Trafficking-Organsborder-guard Migration-Illegal-Entrycustoms-officer SmugglingTable 2: Examples of concepts found in contextthat trigger rules to specialize the event typeII, for nominative subject-case agreement for typeIII and IV, and and genitive-case nominalizationagreement for type V. If the constraints are satis-fied, the event is created?that is, the same eventstructure for any of the five pattern types.For the security scenario the system currentlyhas 23 such ?basic?
patterns.
Most of them ini-tially produce an event of a general class CRI-SIS and fire when the text mentions that some-one was arrested, sentenced, jailed, etc.
If addi-tional security-related concepts are found in textnearby, inference rules will fill additional slots inthe event template, and specialize the type of theevent.
The Russian security scenario uses exactlythe same set of inference rules as does the EnglishSecurity Scenario.
Example rules are shown in Ta-ble 2.
For example, when an inference rule findsin the context of an event a semantic concept thatis a sub-type of the type given in the left column,the Type of the event is specialized to the corre-sponding value in the right column, Table 2.For the epidemics scenario, the system currentlyuses only 7 patterns.
Two produce an under-specified event, when the text mentions that some-one has become sick.
The actual disease name isagain found by inference rules from nearby con-text; if no disease is mentioned, the event is dis-carded.
Two additional patterns work ?in reverse?
:they match in cases when the text mentions an out-break or case of a disease.
Then the inferencerules try to find who is suffering from disease andthe number of victims.
The inference rules areagain fully shared between English and Russian.Some of the patterns are ?negative?
?they matchsuch statements as ?there is no threat of epidemic?,which appear often in official reports.In addition, the Russian pattern base contains41 lower-level patterns, common for the securityand epidemics domains.
These include, for exam-ple, patterns to match date expressions, to analyzecollective-partitive noun groups (?a group of mi-grants?, ?a team of doctors?, and so on), whichhave general applicability.Slot English system Russian systemrec pre F rec pre FEvent Type 67 72 69.41 70 57 62.83Suspect 46 52 48.81 52 44 47.67Total 27 71 46.47 44 37 40.20Countries 56 55 55.49 48 40 43.63Time 29 29 29.00 29 22 25.02All 53 58 53.31 55 45 49.09Table 3: Border Security scenario evaluationEnglish RussianEvent type test suite test suiteCRISIS 19 28HUMAN-TRAFFICKING 4 4ILLEGAL-MIGRATION 34 34SMUGGLE 10 2Total 67 68Table 4: Distribution of event types in the testsuites for the Security scenario5 Evaluation5.1 SecurityFor evaluation, we used a test corpus of 64Russian-language documents.
Several assessorsannotated 65 events, and approximately one thirdof the documents contained events.
We comparedthe Russian-language IE system with the English-language system.
The English test suite consistsof 50 documents with 70 events.Evaluation results for the security domain arepresented in table 3, with scores given for themain slots: Event Type (one of Migration, HumanTrafficking, Smuggling, and Crisis), Suspect, Total(number of suspects), Countries (a list of one ormore countries involved in event), and Time (eventdate).
The table shows that currently the Rus-sian system achieves a lower overall score than theEnglish system?the F-measure for all slots is 4?5% lower, with precision being consistently lowerthan recall for the Russian system.Note that the development of a correct andwell-balanced test suite is in itself a challengingtask, and hence the evaluation numbers may bebiased.
In the test suites used for these experi-ments, shown in table 4, the English security sce-nario includes more events of type SMUGGLEthan the Russian validation suite, and both vali-dation suites contain few events of type HUMAN-TRAFFICKING.5.2 Epidemic SurveillanceFor evaluation, we used a test corpus of 75 Rus-sian documents.
We asked several assessors to105Slot name English system Russian systemr p F r p FDisease 74 74 74.00 93 81 86.58Country 65 67 65.98 91 86 88.42Total 68 79 73.09 30 78 43.33Time 56 58 56.98 38 52 43.91Status 77 75 75.99 93 81 86.58All Slots 68 69 68.83 70 71 70.44Table 5: Epidemics scenario evaluation.correct events found by the system and add miss-ing events in case they were not found by sys-tem.
Assessors annotated 120 events.
We comparethe Russian-language IE system with the English-language system.
The PULS English validationsuite for Epidemics currently consists of 60 docu-ments with 172 events.Evaluation results are shown in table 5, wherethe scores are given for the main slots: Dis-ease, Country, Total (number of victims), Status(?dead?
or ?sick?)
and Time.
Results for the Rus-sian system are somewhat better than for English.This is due in part to the bias in the process whichwe used to select documents for the test suite: theassessors marked documents in which the systemfound events, rather than searching and annotatingdocuments from scratch.
(This aspect of the evalu-ation will be corrected in future work.)
The eventsthat the system found could be relevant, spurious,or erroneous; in case the system missed an event,the assessor?s job was to add it to the gold-standardanswers.
Note that in general the amount of irrele-vant documents processed by PULS is much largerthan the amount of relevant documents (only about1% of all documents that contain keywords rele-vant to epidemics contain useful events).
Thus itis impractical to ask assessors to read raw docu-ments.
As a consequence, the scores for the mainslots, such as Disease or Country, may be over-stated: the majority of documents mention onlyone disease, and since an event was found by thesystem in most documents selected for the testsuite, the Disease slot is usually filled correctly.The results for the auxiliary slots, e.g., Time, To-tal, are closer to our expectation.5.3 Comparison of Languages and ScenariosIn general, the epidemics scenario performs muchbetter than security, both in Russian and English.This is due to fact that the task definition for epi-demics is simpler, better formalized, and dealswith one type of event only.
As noted in (Hut-Event Type English RussianEpidemic SurveillanceDISEASE 31 5HARM 825 412Total 856 417Border SecurityCRISIS 694 476HUMAN-TRAFFICKING 10 12ILLEGAL-MIGRATION 32 31SMUGGLE 7 19Total 743 538Table 6: Number of events found by IE systems inparallel English-Russian news corpus.tunen et al 2002), event representation in textmay have different structure depending on the sce-nario: the ?classic?
IE scenarios, such as the MUCManagement Succession or Terror Attacks, de-scribe events that occur at a specific point in time,whereas other scenarios, such as Natural Disastersor Disease Outbreaks describe a process that isspread out in time and space.
Consequently, eventsin the latter (?nature?)
scenarios are more com-plex, may have hierarchical structure, and mayeven overlap in text.
From the theoretical point ofview it would be interesting to compare how theevents representation, (Pivovarova et al 2013),differs in different languages.
Moreover, such dif-ferences can be important in cross-language infor-mation summarization, (Ji et al 2013).We use a freely-available comparable news cor-pus, (Klementiev and Roth, 2006), to investigatethe difference of event representation in Englishand Russian.
The corpus contains 2327 BBC mes-sages from the time period from 1 January 2001 to10 May 2005, and their approximate translationsfrom the Lenta.ru website; the translations may bequite different from their English sources and arestylistically similar to standard Russian news.
Weprocessed the corpora with the security and epi-demics IE systems, using the respective language;the results are presented in the Table 6.The table shows that for both scenarios the En-glish system finds more events than the Russian,which probably means that coverage of the Rus-sian IE is lower.
We have yet to conduct a thor-ough evaluation of the events found.
It is also clearfrom the table that specific events are much morerare than general events; for the security scenario,the majority of events have type CRISIS, which isa general type that indicates some incident relatedto crime; in the epidemics scenario, the majorityof events have type HARM, i.e., which is a gen-106Figure 3: Monthly frequency of events for the fourtop-reported diseases in Russiaeral type indicating that there are victims (e.g., hu-mans) suffering from some cause, not only harmcaused by infections.
The distributions of eventtypes are similar in English and Russian corpora,which may hint that a lack of specific events maybe a property of the scenarios, irrespective of thelanguage.
This agrees with the expectation that themajority of retrieved documents are not relevant.6 DiscussionThe Russian-language processing pipeline pre-sented above is compatible with the working, pre-existing PULS IE system.
It is worth noting again,that the output of the Russian-language analysishas the same form as that of the English-languagePULS event extraction, that is, all fills for the tem-plate slots are output in English (except in the caseof person names).
This is made possible by theshared, language-independent ontology.
An im-portant benefit of this sharing is that the end-useris not required to understand Russian in order todetermine whether the extracted facts and docu-ments are relevant to her/his need.
Thus, the slotfills may be presented in English, as shown in Fig-ure 1.
The document text, however, may be pre-sented in Russian; users who can read Russian cansee the original article text where event elementsare indicated (by highlighting or underlining).Figure 2 shows a summary-style list of eventsfound from the news stream.
The user can seeevents extracted from documents in a mix of lan-guages (identified by the language tag in the left-most column).
The database representation forevents is shared and independent of the language;this permits the user get a grasp of current situa-tion in the domain of interest, in more than onelanguage.We checked the impact of the Russian compo-nent on the system?s coverage over the geographicarea of the former USSR, which includes regions(outside Russia) where Russian may be used asa lingua franca, and may be common in press.Figure 3 shows the total number of events foundin Russia, using both the Russian- and English-language IE systems for the four most frequentlyreported diseases.
The check was conducted onnews streams over 2011?2012.
The number ofevents increases dramatically after deploying theRussian component, at the end of 2011 (near themiddle of the timeline).6.1 ConclusionWe have presented a ?plug-in?
extension to PULS,an English-language IE system, to cover Russian-language text.
We currently handle two scenarios:Security and Epidemic Surveillance.
The amountof effort needed to develop the Russian componentwas modest compared to the time and labour spenton the English-language IE system.
The Russiansystem demonstrates a comparable level of per-formance to the baseline English IE: F-measureis about 4% lower for the Security scenario and2% higher for the Epidemic Surveillance.
We be-lieve that this success is due to two main factors:first, the re-use of as many existing modules andknowledge bases as possible from the pre-existingEnglish-language system; second, the use of shal-low, permissive patterns in Russian in combinationwith logical inference rules.In future research, we plan to further expand thepattern sets and lexicons, to analyze more kinds ofsyntactic and lexical phenomena in Russian.
Weplan to compare structural differences between theSecurity and Epidemics scenarios and their repre-sentation in Russian and English, to find language-dependent and language-independent features ofthe event representations.
We plan to use cross-lingual analysis to obtain advances in two direc-tions: first, pre-IE automatic pattern and para-phrase acquisition for free-word-order languages;second, post-IE aggregation of extracted informa-tion to improve overall quality by use of cross-document context, (Chen and Ji, 2009; Yangarberand Jokipii, 2005; Yangarber, 2006).AcknowledgementsWe thank Peter von Etter and Mikhail Novikov forhelp with the implementation; students of the De-partment of Information Systems, St. PetersburgState University, for annotating evaluation data.Work was funded in part by Frontex, Project onAutomated Event Extraction, and the ALGODANCenter of Excellence of the Academy of Finland.107Figure 1: Document view and template view: a Smuggling event from the Security domainFigure 2: Summary view: a list of events in the Security domain.
The tool-tip under the mouse shows asnippet of the original text, from which the event was extracted.ReferencesAmeyugo, G., Art, M., Esteves, A. S., and Piskorski,J.
(2012).
Creation of an EU-level information ex-change network in the domain of border security.In European Intelligence and Security InformaticsConference (EISIC).
IEEE.Astaf?eva, I., Bonch-Osmolovskaya, A., Garejshina,A., Grishina, J., D?jachkov, V., Ionov, M., Korol-eva, A., Kudrinsky, M., Lityagina, A., Luchina,E., Sidorova, E., Toldova, S., Lyashevskaya, O.,Savchuk, S., and Koval?, S. (2010).
NLP evaluation:Russian morphological parsers.
In Proceedings ofDialog Conference, Moscow, Russia.Atkinson, M., Piskorski, J., van der Goot, E., and Yan-garber, R. (2011).
Multilingual real-time event ex-traction for border security intelligence gathering.In Wiil, U. K., editor, Counterterrorism and OpenSource Intelligence, pages 355?390.
Springer Lec-ture Notes in Social Networks, Vol.
2.Bocharov, V., Pivovarova, L., Rubashkin, V., andChuprin, B.
(2010).
Ontological parsing of encyclo-pedia information.
Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing.Bontcheva, K., Maynard, D., Tablan, V., and Cunning-ham, H. (2003).
GATE: A Unicode-based infras-tructure supporting multilingual information extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of Workshop on InformationExtraction for Slavonic and other Central and East-ern European Languages, Borovets, Bulgaria.Chen, Z. and Ji, H. (2009).
Can one language boot-strap the other: a case study on event extraction.
InProceedings of the NAACL-HLT Workshop on Semi-Supervised Learning for Natural Language Process-ing.Collier, N., Doan, S., Kawazoe, A., Goodwin, R. M.,Conway, M., Tateno, Y., Ngo, Q.-H., Dien, D.,Kawtrakul, A., Takeuchi, K., Shigematsu, M., andTaniguchi, K. (2008).
BioCaster: detecting publichealth rumors with a Web-based text mining system.Bioinformatics, 24(24).Du, M., von Etter, P., Kopotev, M., Novikov, M., Tar-beeva, N., and Yangarber, R. (2011).
Building sup-108port tools for Russian-language information extrac-tion.
In Habernal, I. and Matous?ek, V., editors, Text,Speech and Dialogue, volume 6836 of Lecture Notesin Computer Science.
Springer Berlin / Heidelberg.Greenwood, M. and Stevenson, M. (2006).
Improv-ing semi-supervised acquisition of relation extrac-tion patterns.
In Proceedings of Workshop on Infor-mation Extraction Beyond The Document, COLING-ACL, volume 3808, pages 29?35.
Springer, LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence, Sydney, Australia.Huttunen, S., Yangarber, R., and Grishman, R. (2002).Diversity of scenarios in information extraction.In Proceedings of the Third International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2002), Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.Ji, H., Favre, B., Lin, W.-P., Gillick, D., Hakkani-Tur, D., and Grishman, R. (2013).
Open-domainmulti-document summarization via information ex-traction: Challenges and prospects.
In Multi-source,Multilingual Information Extraction and Summa-rization.
Springer.Khoroshevsky, V. F. (2010).
Ontology driven multilin-gual information extraction and intelligent analytics.In Web Intelligence and Security: Advances in Dataand Text Mining Techniques for Detecting and Pre-venting Terrorist Activities on the Web.
IOS Press.Klementiev, A. and Roth, D. (2006).
Weakly su-pervised named entity transliteration and discoveryfrom multilingual comparable corpora.
In Proceed-ings of the 21st International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics and the 44th annual meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, Syd-ney, Australia.Piskorski, J., Belyaeva, J., and Atkinson, M. (2011).Exploring the usefulness of cross-lingual informa-tion fusion for refining real-time news event ex-traction: A preliminary study.
In Proceedings ofRANLP: 8th Conference on Recent Advances in Nat-ural Language Processing, Hissar, Bulgaria.Pivovarova, L., Huttunen, S., and Yangarber, R. (2013).Event representation across genre.
In Proceedins ofthe 1st Workshop on Events: Definition, Detection,Coreference, and Representation, NAACL HLT, At-lanta, Georgia.Rortais, A., Belyaeva, J., Gemo, M., van der Goot, E.,and Linge, J. P. (2010).
Medisys: An early-warningsystem for the detection of (re-)emerging food- andfeed-borne hazards.
Food Research International,43(5):1553?1556.Schumann, A.-K. (2012).
Towards the automated en-richment of multilingual terminology databases withknowledge-rich contexts?experiments with russianeurotermbank data.
In CHAT 2012: The SecondWorkshop on Creation, Harmonization and Applica-tion of Terminology Resources, Madrid, Spain.Sokirko, A.
(2001).
Semantic dictionaries in automatictext analysis, based on DIALING system materials.PhD thesis, Russian State University for the Human-ities, Moscow.Solovyev, V., Ivanov, V., Gareev, R., Serebryakov,S., and Vassilieva, N. (2012).
Methodology forbuilding extraction templates for Russian languagein knowledge-based IE systems.
Technical ReportHPL-2012-211, HP Laboratories.Tanev, H., Zavarella, V., Linge, J., Kabadjov, M.,Piskorski, J., Atkinson, M., and Steinberger, R.(2009).
Exploiting machine learning techniques tobuild an event extraction system for Portuguese andSpanish.
Linguamatica, 2.Toldova, S. J., Sokolova, E. G., Astaf?eva, I.,Gareyshina, A., Koroleva, A., Privoznov, D.,Sidorova, E., Tupikina, L., and Lyashevskaya, O. N.(2012).
NLP evaluation 2011?2012: Russian syn-tactic parsers.
In Proceedings of Dialog Conference,Moscow, Russia.Yangarber, R. (2006).
Verification of facts across doc-ument boundaries.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Intelligent Information Access(IIIA-2006), Helsinki, Finland.Yangarber, R., Grishman, R., Tapanainen, P., and Hut-tunen, S. (2000).
Automatic acquisition of do-main knowledge for information extraction.
InProceedings of the 18th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING 2000),Saarbru?cken, Germany.Yangarber, R. and Jokipii, L. (2005).
Redundancy-based correction of automatically extracted facts.
InProceedings of HLT-EMNLP: Conference on Empir-ical Methods in Natural Language Processing, Van-couver, Canada.Yarowsky, D. (1995).
Unsupervised word sense dis-ambiguation rivaling supervised methods.
In Pro-ceedings of the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, Cambridge,MA.
ACM Press.Zamite, J., Silva, F., Couto, F., and Silva, M. (2010).MEDCollector: Multisource epidemic data collec-tor.
In Khuri, S., Lhotska?, L., and Pisanti, N., ed-itors, Information Technology in Bio- and MedicalInformatics, ITBAM 2010.
Springer Berlin.109
