Proceedings of the BioNLP Shared Task 2013 Workshop, pages 121?124,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Hybrid Approach for Biomedical Event ExtractionXuan Quang PhamFaculty of InformationTechnologyUniversity of ScienceHo Chi Minh City, Vietnampxquang@fit.hcmus.edu.vnMinh Quang LeFaculty of InformationTechnologyUniversity of ScienceHo Chi Minh City, Vietnammquang88@gmail.comBao Quoc HoFaculty of InformationTechnologyUniversity of ScienceHo Chi Minh City, Vietnamhbquoc@fit.hcmus.edu.vnAbstractIn this paper we propose a system which useshybrid methods that combine both rule-basedand machine learning (ML)-based approachesto solve GENIA Event Extraction of BioNLPShared Task 2013.
We apply UIMA1 Frame-work to support coding.
There are three mainstages in model: Pre-processing, trigger detec-tion and biomedical  event  detection.
We usedictionary and support vector machine classifi-er to detect event triggers.
Event detection isapplied on syntactic patterns which are com-bined with features extracted for classification.1 IntroductionThe data in biomedicine is continuously biggerand bigger because of the incredible growth ofliteratures, researches or documents in that field.This huge resource has been attracted a signifi-cant interest on developing methods to automati-cally extract biological relations from text.
Mostof them are binary relation such as protein-pro-tein  interactions,  gene-disease  and drug-proteinrelations.
However  there  are  more  complexevents  in  origin  biomedical  data.
The  BioNLPShared Task (BioNLP-ST) is one of the efforts topromote extracting fine-grained and complex re-lations in biomedical domain.BioNLP Shared Task 2013 has the six eventextraction tasks such as GENIA Event Extraction(GE), Cancer Genetics (CG), Pathway Curation(PC),  Gene Regulation Ontology (GRO),  GeneRegulation  Network  (GRN)  and  BacteriaBiotopes (BB).
The GE task has three subtasks,task 1 is detection of events with their main argu-ments,  task 2 extends this to detection of sitesdefining the exact molecular location of interac-tions, and task 3 adds the detection of whether1 http://uima.apache.org/events are stated in a negated or speculative con-text.In event extraction, common approaches useRule-based (Kaljurand et al 2009; Kilicoglu andBergler,  2011),  Machine  Learning  (ML)-based(Bj?rne at al., 2009; Miwa et al 2010) and hy-brid methods (Ahmed et al 2009; Riedel, Mc-Closky  et  al.,  2011).
Recently,  (Riedel  et  al.,2011) present an approach based on optimizationof  scoring  sets  of  binary variables.
The  modeland a variant model  (hybrid model)  gained thesecond and first place in BioNLP-ST 2011, prov-ing the effect of their approach.
According to thesummaries of BioNLP-ST 2009 and 2011 (Kim.,2011), the results of ML-based method are betterthan the rule-based method.
However ML is non-trivial to apply.
The summary also indicates thathigh  precision,  for  simple  events,  can  beachieved by Rule-based approach.In  this  paper,  we  present  our  work  for  GEtask.
We try to apply our knowledge from gener-al  information  extraction  to  a  specific  domain,biomedicine.
We propose a system which useshybrid methods that combine both rule-based andmachine learning (ML)-based approaches.2 Proposed approachWe use the UIMA framework to support all stepsof  the  model.
The  UIMA  is  an  open  sourceframework  for  analyzing  general  unstructureddata.
This framework is applied mainly to saveour time of coding.
Thanks to it, we can take ad-vantage of some developed modules and improvethem easier.
All modules are described in detailin the following sections.2.1 Pre-processingAt first, we need to convert input texts into ob-jects of the framework to store and process later.121From this part to the end, all analyzed and anno-tated results will be stored in those objects.
Sec-ondly, natural language processing (NLP) is ap-plied.
It  includes splitting sentences, tokenized,POS tagger and deep parser.
There are various li-braries in NLP, both general and specific domainbut  we  select  the  McClosky-Charniak-JohnsonParser2 for syntactic analyses.
That parser is im-proved  from  the  Stanford  parser  with  a  self-trained  biomedical  model.
According  to  theshared task?s  statistics  (Kim et  al.,  2011),  it  isused by groups achieving high results.
In addi-tion, the NLP data of all datasets are prepard andprovided for  participants.
We read and convertthe  given results  into our  framework to  use  infurther processing.
We also add other informa-tion on the token such as stems of single token(using the Snowball stemmer), id in the sentenceand the nearest dependent/governor token.Finally, we convert all the annotated proteinsof input into UIMA.
These proteins are candidatearguments for events.
Similar  to NLP data, theannotations  are  provided by the shared task assupporting resources.
Each single file has a sepa-rate list  of given proteins appearing in its  con-tent.2.2 Trigger detectionIn the shared task 2011, we used simple rules anddictionaries to annotate triggers or entities (Le,M.Q.,  2011), but  there were many ambiguities.Furthermore, a candidate trigger can belong to afew types.
Consequently, the performance of thatmethod  was  fairly  poor.
Thus,  we  decided  tochange to  a  machine  learning  approach,  whichneeds less domain knowledge, in the shared task2013.We need to classify a token into one of elevengroups (nine for  Event  Trigger,  one  for  Entityand one for nothing).
We separate tokens insteadof  phrases  for  the  following  reasons.
Firstly,Event Triggers and Entities which cover singletoken  are  more  popular.
Secondly,  the  officialevaluation  of  the  shared  task  is  approximatespan.
The given span belonging to extended goldspan is acceptable, so we detect only single to-kens for simplification.
In order to simplify andrestrict the number of tokens needed to classify,some heuristic restrictions are applied.
We justconsider  those  tokens  having  part-of-speech(POS) tags of noun, verb and adjective.
Althoughtriggers or entities have various POS tags, thesethree types take the largest proportion.
Proteins2 http://bllip.cs.brown.edu/resources.shtmlin each sentence are replaced by a place holder?PROTEIN?
instead of the original text.
Thosetokens related to protein (spans of a token and aprotein are overlapped) are ignored.
Instead weuse a simple dictionary built from training data tocheck whether or not those tokens are triggers.We classify tokens by their syntactic contextand morphological contents.
Features for detec-tion include the candidate token; two immediateneighbors on both the left and right hand sides;POS tags of these tokens; and the nearest depen-dent and governor from the syntactic dependencypath  of  the  candidate  token.
All  covered  textused in classification is in lemmatized form.2.3 Event detectionAfter trigger detection, we combined rule-basedwith feature-based classifiers for event detection.We first run the rule-base system and then con-tinued  to  combine  with  SVM based  using  theoutput  of  the rule-based system in order to in-crease  the  performance  of  our  system.
At  theSVM based phase, we generate features for allshortest  dependency  paths  between  predictedtrigger  and  argument  (protein  or  event).
Eachshortest  path  example  is  classified  as  positiveand negative events.
The overall best-performingsystem is the combination of all  events of rulebase and feature-based classifiers.2.3.1 Rule-based approachIn this stage, rule-based approaches are applied.In order to add a supplement to our method, weattempt  to  combine  two  directions,  bottom upand top down.
Both of them use linguistic infor-mation, mostly syntactic and dependency graph.Two approaches  are  run  separately;  finally  thetwo result sets are combined.The first approach is based on patterns of syn-tactic graph.
It follows the approach of (Bj?rne etal.,  2009),  (Casillas  et  al.,  2011).
The  originalparse  tree  of  each  sentence  containing  at  leastone  trigger  is  retrieved.
Nodes  with  only  onebranch are pruned and the top node is kept to re-tain the most important parts.
Concepts of candi-date arguments  (name role)  and the trigger areassigned to appropriate tree-nodes according totheir spans in the text.
Next, we find the closestparent  of  all  arguments.
The  patterns  are  thestring form of the sub-tree of the modified parsetree.
Then the patterns are compared with thoseextracted from training data.The second approach considered a part of syn-tactic graph.
Because of some similar propertiesbetween extracting events and protein-protein in-122teractions (Bui et al 2011), we construct somepatterns  connecting  arguments  and  triggers.There  are  two  kinds  of  patterns:  noun  phrases(NP) and verb phrases (VP).
Each phrase has tohave one trigger and at least one Protein.
In thecase of the NP, it contains two nouns without anyother phrase or it  includes a preposition phrase(PP) and the trigger has to be the head of this NP.In the second pattern, we find a VP which is a di-rect parent of the trigger.
If there is a Protein inthose  phrases,  we  annotate  an  Event  with  thetrigger and the Protein as core argument.2.3.2 Feature-based classifierFor the featured-based classifier, we use a dictio-nary of pairs of trigger - trigger, pairs of trigger ?protein and event triggers.
These dictionaries arebuilt  from  the  training  and  development  data.Additionally, we extract features for all shortestdependency paths between trigger and argument(protein or event) by using used in the work of(Bj?rne et al 2009) and (Maha Amami, 2012).Element  features:  trigger/argument  word,trigger/argument type and trigger/argument POS.N-gram features:  n-grams  of  dependencies,n-grams  of  words  and  n-gram  of  consecutivewords representing governor-dependent relation-ship.Frequency  features:  length  of  the  shortestpath  between  trigger  and  argument  (protein  orevent), number of arguments and event triggersper type in the sentence.Dependency  features:  Directions  of  depen-dency edges relative to the shortest path, types ofdependency edges relative to the shortest path.2.4 Post processingIn this section, we only scan all the annotated ob-jects which are stored in the framework.
Argu-ments  of  events  are  arranged  and  duplicatedevents  are  limited.
Each  valid  detected  EventTrigger/Entity and Event will be written into theresult file according to the standard format of theshared task.3 Experimental resultIn order to perform evaluation, we implementedour event extraction system.
Table 1 shows thelatest results of our system as computed by theshared task organizers.
We achieved an F-scoreof only 34.98%, ranked 10th among 10th partici-pants and the result is far from satisfactory (thebest result  of the shared task 2013 is 50.97%).We need a better solution of post-processing stepto improve performance and restrict unexpectedresults.
Improving  results  of  trigger  detectionalso contributes to reduce false positive events.However, the gold data of the test set is not pro-vided.
It is therefore difficult to evaluate the ef-fectiveness of the trigger annotation step and itsimpact on the event annotation step.Event class Recall Precision F-scoreGene_expressionTranscriptionProtein_catabolismLocalizationPhosphorylationBindingRegulationPositive_regulationNegative_regulation78.8432.6764.2932.3277.5038.749.7219.9124.3361.7750.7752.9452.4657.6726.9910.2219.5826.1869.2739.7658.0640.0066.1331.819.9619.7525.22ALL-TOTAL 36.23 33.80 34.98Table 1: Evaluation results on test set4 ConclusionIn this paper we present an event extraction sys-tem based on combining rule-base with supportvector machine modeling.
Our system used theGENIA corpus as the input for the pre-process-ing phase such as Tokenization, Part-of-Speech,stop word removal and Stemming.
In the triggerannotation,  we  extract  the  features  for  trainingand test  data  by using  support  vector  machineclassifier.
In order to annotate events, firstly weuse rule-based and then build the nested featuresusing support vector machine classifier for eventclassification.
The goal  of  this  system is to in-crease the performance in F-score of the eventextraction system.In future work, we plan to try to add more fea-tures to improve our system both of trigger andevent annotation and post-processing.ReferencesCasillas, A., Ilarraza, A.D., Gojenola, K., Oronoz, M.,Rigau, G.: Using Kybots for Extracting Events inBiomedical  Texts.
In Proceedings  of  BioNLPShared Task 2011 Work-shop, pp.
138-142.
(2011).Kilicoglu, H., Bergler, S.: Adapting a General Seman-tic  Interpretation  Approach  to  Bio-logical  EventExtraction.
In Proceedings of BioNLP Shared Task2009 Workshop, pp.
173-182.
(2011).Bjorne,  J.,  Heimonen,  J.,  Ginter,  F.,  Airola,  A.,Pahikkala,  T.,  Salakoski,  T.:  Extracting  ComplexBiological Events with Rich Graph-Based Feature123Sets.
In Proceedings of BioNLP Shared Task 2009Workshop, pp.
10-18.
(2009)Kim, J.D., Ohta, T., Pyysalo, S., Kano, Y., Tsujii, J.:Overview  of  BioNLP?09  Shared  Task  on  EventExtraction.
In Proceedings  of  BioNLP   SharedTask 2011 Workshop, pp.
1-9.
(2011).Kim,  J.D.,  Wang,  Y.,  Takagi,  T.,  Yonezawa,  A.:Overview  of  the  Genia  Event  task  in  Bi-oNLPShared  Task  2011.
In Proceedings  of  BioNLPShared Task 2011 Workshop, pp.
7-15.
(2011).Kaljurand, K., Schneider, G., Rinaldi, F.: UZurich inthe BioNLP 2009 Shared Task.
In Proceedings ofBioNLP Shared Task 2009 Workshop,  pp.
28-36.
(2009).Miwa, M., S?tre, R., Kim, J.D., Tsujii, J.: Event Ex-traction with Complex Event Classification UsingRich  Features.
In Journal  of  Bioinformatics  andComputational  Biology,  vol.
8,  pp.
131-146.
(2010).Bui,  Q.C.,  Sloot,  P.M.A.
:  Extracting  BiologicalEvents from Text Using Simple Syntactic Patterns.In Proceedings  of  BioNLP  Shared  Task  2011Workshop, pp.
143-146.
(2011).Le,  M.Q.,  Nguyen,  T.S.,  Ho,  B.Q.
:  A  Pattern  Ap-proach for Biomedical Event Annotation.
In Pro-ceedings of BioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop,pp.
149-150.
(2011).Riedel, S., McCallum, A.: Robust Biomedical EventExtraction with Dual Decomposition and MinimalDomain  Adaptation.
In  Proceedings  of  BioNLPShared Task 2011 Work-shop, pp.
46-50.
(2011).Riedel, S., McClosky, D., Surdeanu, M., McCallum,A., Manning, C.D.
: Model Combination for EventExtraction  in  BioNLP  2011.
In Proceedings  ofBioNLP Shared Task 2011 Workshop,  pp.
51-55.
(2011).Maha Amami, Rim Faiz, Aymen Elkhlifi:  A frame-work  for  biological  event  extraction  from  text.Copyright  2012  ACM,  978-1-4503-0915-8/12/06.WIMS?
12 June 13-15, 2012 Craiova, Romania124
