Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 132?137,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsConstructional Intensifying Adjectives in ItalianSara BerlandaUniversit?
Roma TreVia Ostiense, 234Rome, Italysara.berlanda@gmail.comAbstractGrading is a primary cognitive operation thathas an important expressive function.
Infor-mation on degree is grammatically relevantand constitutes what Lazard (2006) calls aprimary domain of grammaticalization: Ac-cording to typological studies (Cuzzolin &Lehmann, 2004), many languages of theworld have in fact at their disposal multiplegrammatical devices to express gradation.
InItalian, the class of superlativizing structuresalternative to the morphological superlative isvery rich and consists, among others, of ad-verbs of degree, focalizing adverbs and proto-typical comparisons.
This contribution dealswith a particular analytic structure of superla-tive in Italian that is still neglected in the liter-ature.
This is what we will call ConstructionalIntensifying Adjectives (CIAs), adjectiveswhich modify the intensity of other adjectiveson the basis of regular semantic patterns, thusgiving rise to multiword superlative construc-tions of the type: ADJX+ADJINTENS.
A com-parative quantitative corpus analysisdemonstrates that this strategy, though para-digmatically limited, is nonetheless widelyexploited: From a distributional point of view,some of these CIAs only combine with one ora few adjectives and form MWEs that appearto be completely lexicalized, while some oth-ers modify wider classes of adjectives thusdisplaying a certain degree of productivity.1 IntroductionThe functional category of degree formally ex-presses the intensity with which a property or, to alesser extent, a state of affairs, applies to an entity.Adjectives are gradable words par excellenceand, indeed, all adjectival inflections in languages?
except those expressing agreement with the head?
have to do with grading (Croft, 1991: 134-135).Even when gradation is not realized through mor-phology, languages show numerous alternativeanalytical forms for expressing the extent to whichthe quality expressed by the adjective applies to anentity.In this paper we will focus on a particular strate-gy of absolute superlative in Italian: The absolutesuperlative indicates that the quality expressed bythe predicate is present at the highest degree, with-out making any comparison with other entities(1a), or at least to a very high degree on the scaleof the corresponding values  (Sapir, 1944), (1b):1) a. Questo libro ?
bellissimo.
?this book is very beautiful?b.
Il tuo bambino ?
molto vivace.
?your child is very lively?Due to the ?human fondness of exaggeration?
(Bolinger, 1972), the array of processes employedto realize the superlative degree is very wide, bothcross- and intralinguistically.
As for morphologicalstrategies, the highest grade is generally formed bymeans of reduplication or affixation; however, themost common process to form the superlativeamong the world?s languages is the use of an un-bound lexeme.
Indeed, ?almost every language hasa word meaning roughly very which, preposed orpostposed, combines with the adjective?
(Cuzzolin& Lehmann, 2004: 1215).Section 2 briefly describes the most exploitedanalytical and synthetic superlative forms in Ital-ian, which will be part of the quantitative compari-son carried out in our research, and then focuses onCIAs, a multiword strategy still largely unexplored1321Affixessuperlative suffixationAdj + -issimo (or irregular superlative suffixes)bellissimo 'very beautiful', acerrimo 'very bitter'2 superlative prefixationstra-/ultra-/arci-/super-/?
+ Adjstraricco 'very rich', arcinoto 'very famous'3Intensifiersadverbs of quantity molto buono 'very good', troppo stupido 'very stupid'4 adverbs of degree terribilmente solo 'terribly lonely'5a resultative adverbs particolarmente comodo 'particularly comfortable'5b adverbs of completeness interamente solo 'completely lonely'6 indexical expressions cos?
brusco 'very abrupt'7 multiword adverbs del tutto nuovo 'totally new'8 prototypical comparisonsNX+Adj+come+NProtoypeNX pieno come un uovo 'full as an egg'?Tab.1 Absolute superlative forms in Italian?in the literature.
In Section 3 the tools and themethodology used for data extraction and analysiswill be introduced; the results will be presentedand discussed in Section 4.
The conclusion (Sec-tion 5) offers an overview of possible future devel-opments of the present research.2 The Absolute Superlative in Italian2.1 Adverbial DevicesItalian, like other Romance languages, forms theabsolute superlative with the Latin-derived suffix-issimo (Tab.1 #1) or with some intensifying pre-fixes derived from Greek or Latin, limited to col-loquial varieties (Tab.1 #2).Adjectives can also be graded by means of lexi-cal elements (?degree words?
(Bolinger, 1972),?degree modifiers?
(Kennedy & Nally, 2005) or?adverbs of degree?)
which intensify them by scal-ing upwards the property they express.
As Klein(1998: 26-27) suggests, the class of intensifierscomprises elements that, from a crosslinguisticperspective, always seem to derive from the samesources.
Consequently, in Italian as in many otherlanguages, the prototypical intensifiers are repre-sented by the closed class of adverbs of quantity(Tab.1 #3).
Then we find derived adverbs of de-gree in ?mente (Tab.1 #4), ?implicitly grading?
(Bosque, 1999) since they contain the feature of?maximum?
in their semantics.
Similarly, resulta-tive adverbs, which include the subset of those de-noting completeness, assume a grading functionafter a ?semantic bleaching?
(Lorenz, 2002) of theoriginal lexical motivation that their morphologywould suggest (Tab.1 #5a,b).Adverbs derived from indexical and compara-tive expressions are other common devices capableof attributing the highest degree (Bolinger, 1972)(Tab.1 #6), as well as the large class of multiwordadverbs (Tab.1 #7), and the so-called prototypicalcomparisons (Guil, 2006) ?
formally similativeconstructions relating two entities, one of which isprototypical with respect to a particular property,and in which the comparison with a prototype trig-gers a hyperbolizing, and thus superlativizing, in-terpretation (Tab.1 #8).2.2 Constructional Intensifying AdjectivesIntensifiers forming the absolute superlative inItalian (cf.
list in Tab.1) are generally adverbialand preferably occur in pre-adjectival position.CIAs, on the other hand, are adjectives that in-tensify their adjectival head by placing themselvesin the typical position of prepositional comple-ments, as in (2):2) [ADJX + ADJINTENS]MW-AbsSupThere are about a dozen constructional adjec-tives that are employed to attribute the value ofmaximum degree to the adjective they combinewith, leading to superlative MWEs:1333) Bagnato fradicio, ?soaking wet?
; sudato fradicio?very sweaty?
; ubriaco fradicio, ?dead-drunk?
; buiofitto, ?very dark?
; buio pesto, ?very dark?
; mortostecchito, ?stone dead?
; nuovo fiammante, ?brandnew?
; incazzato nero, ?very pissed off?
; innamoratopazzo, innamorato cotto, innamorato perso, ?crazyin love?
; pieno zeppo, ?crammed full?
; riccosfondato, ?very wealthy?
; sporco lurido, ?verydirty?
; stanco morto, ?dead tired?
; stufo marcio, ?sickand tired?.1While some of these CIAs can hardly be used tointensify adjectives other than the ones that nor-mally select them lexically, there are others whichshow a certain degree of productivity.
So CIAs caneither be used to form a single, fixed MWE or tomodify wider classes, as shown in (4):4) a. X ADJ + perso > innamorato perso ?crazy inlove?, sbronzo perso ?dead-drunk?, ?b.
X ADJ + marcio > ubriaco marcio ?dead-drunk?, spocchioso marcio ?very arrogant?, ?c.
X ADJ + fradicio > geloso fradicio ?very gea-lous?, innamorato fradicio ?crazy in love?, ?2The phenomenon of grading an adjective by us-ing another adjective is also known to other lan-guages ?
also limited to few adjectives.
Evidenceof similar constructions can be found in Spanish(5a), English (5b), German (5c), Afrikaans (5d)and Dutch (5e):5) a. Sp.
histerica perdida, ?extremely hysterical?
;quieto parado ?extremely quiet?
(Guil, 2006);b. Eng.
dead-tired (Bolinger, 1972); bored stiff(Cacchiani, 2010);c. Ger.
schwerreich, ?very rich?
; gesteckt voll,?crammed full?;d.
Afr.
dolgelukkig, ?very happy?
; malverlief,?madly in love?;e.
Dut.
doodmoeg, ?very tired?
(Klein, 1998).But while in Italian and Spanish the componentsof these MWEs tend to keep part of their morpho-1We provide below the translation of the CAIs only:Cotto, ?cooked?, (fig.)
?very much in love?
; fiammante, ?flam-ing?, (fig.)
?new?
; fitto, ?thick?, ?dense?
; fradicio, ?soaked?,?rotten?
; lurido, ?filthy?
; marcio, ?rotten?
; morto, ?dead?
; nero,?black?, (fig.)
?very angry?
; pazzo, ?crazy?
; perso, ?lost?
; pesto,(fig.)
?dense?
; sfondato, ?bottomless?, (fig.)
?limitless?
; stec-chito, ?skinny?, (fig.)
?dead?
; zeppo, ?packed?.2Even if these CIAs happen to modify similar classes of ad-jectives, there seem to be differences in their semantics, hav-ing marcio and fradicio a more negative connotation thanperso.syntactic and phonological autonomy (i.e.
agree-ment and accent), in the other languages they ra-ther give rise to compound words.3 Data Extraction3.1 Corpora and ToolsThe data used in our analysis were extractedfrom two of the main corpora of written Italian,namely CORIS-CODIS (120 million tokens) andLaRepubblica (380 million tokens), both lemma-tized and morphosyntactically annotated.
Startingfrom these resources, a list of superlatives formedwith CIAs was built and intensifiers able to modifymore than one base adjective were isolated.
Theautomatic identification was facilitated by thestrong syntactic cohesion of the investigated struc-tures: CIAs occur always in post-adjectival posi-tion and the resulting superlative MWEs neveradmit any insertion between the two composingelements.We then cross-checked the data in GRADIT(GRAnde Dizionario ITaliano dell?uso), used as agold standard to verify the results and the lexico-graphical status of every combination.The objects of the present research mostly be-long to colloquial Italian and, in general, to a non-standard variety.
In order to verify their effectivevitality in the Italian lexicon, we considered itworthwhile to exploit the web as a corpus in thecase of intensifiers that were scarcely representedin the corpora.Sketch Engine (Kilgarriff et al 2004) was alsoused as a basis for our comparative analysis:?Word sketch?
tables were in fact employed to ver-ify the most frequent superlativizing strategies foreach ADJX.3.2 MethodologyFirstly, occurrences of each MW superlative in(3) were compared to the occurrences of the gen-eral intensifying strategies (cf.
Table 1) applicableto the same adjective.When useful and possible, such comparison wasdifferentiated depending on ADJX and further ex-tended to each one?s most typical intensificationdevice ?
according to the data suggested by SketchEngine tables ?
and to the superlative  obtained bycombining ADJX with the adverbial intensifier cor-134?Tab.2 Data from CORIS-CODIS (here CC) and LaRepubblica (here LaR) standardized to 100%?responding to the ADJINTENS.
To give an example,occurrences of pieno zeppo were compared tothose of pienissimo, molto pieno, tanto pieno, ...(cf.
Tab.1) but also to those of completamente pie-no and pieno fino all?orlo, which Sketch Engineindicates as the most typical modifications of thisadjective; since an adverb derived from zeppo doesnot exist (>*zeppamente), this last comparison wasnot possible in this specific case (cf.
however in-namorato pazzo ~ innamorato pazzamente).4 Comparative Quantitative Analysis4.1 DistributionThe comparative quantitative analysis showedthat CIAs are generally much exploited as com-pared to their rival strategies, even though wemainly considered a written variety of Italian.
Aswe can notice from Tab.2, MWEs as buio pesto,pieno zeppo, stufo marcio, morto stecchito, bagna-to fradicio, ubriaco fradicio seem to be the mostused strategies compared to other superlative de-vices for the same ADJX taken individually.In other cases, (buio fitto, incazzato nero, sudatofradicio), this MW strategy seems to competeagainst the ?canonical?
means of intensification,i.e.
morphological superlative and degree adverbs,or appears just slightly less frequently than those(stanco morto).
Cases where the CIAs are scarcelyrepresented seem to depend on the fact that theybelong to some particularly marked expression (asfor the MWE sporco lurido, ?very filthy?, which isdiatopically marked).
A comparison with web datasuggests that they have however a pretty highnumber of occurrences in proportion to the otherstrategies.These results appear of even greater interest ifone considers that the analyzed corpora were writ-ten.
Furthermore, while the occurrences we count-ed for the patterns in (3) reflect pretty accuratelythe effective number of uses (since they are fixedand easily identifiable), the margin of error for thealternative strategies is higher, since they have of-ten been computed together with occurrences be-longing to similar but not equal syntacticstructures3.It is also worth noting that in cases like nuovofiammante or ricco sfondato, where the modifiedadjective is highly polysemic, the great differenceswith the alternative superlatives taken into accountis mainly due to the fact that the intensifier hereacts on the grade of ADJX only in one of its possi-ble senses, while the traditional strategies appear3This is particularly true for the web data, where the searchtools do not allow to automatically exclude some interferingconstructions, such as the verbal MWE essersi innamoratopazzo, ?to fall crazy in love?.135more ?neutral?
in this sense and tend to modify theADJX?s degree in all or most of its senses.4.2 ProductivityAt a second stage, we tested whether CIAs in (3)could extend their grading function to other adjec-tives.
As a result, the intensifiers in (4) were isolat-ed.
In cases like nero and fradicio, the intensifiercombines with the synonyms of the main bases (forexample, arrabbiato and incavolato, both syno-nyms of incazzato, can occur with nero).
Further-more, regarding fradicio, its use can not only beextended metaphorically and metonymically to thewhole semantic field of bagnato (cf.
its bases in 3)but it can also be employed with adjectives denot-ing emotions or behaviours (maybe for one of itssenses?
synonymy with marcio, which alreadymodifies the same category): Geloso/emozionato/...fradicio.4.3 CIAs as Constructions: Semantic ModelsCIAs are primitive or participial modifiers de-noting a quality which triggers the intensity of themodified adjective?s quality according to two mainabstract semantic schemes:a) Semantic feature copying (Lorenz, 2002).
Thetwo adjectives of the construction share the sameproperty and are thus associated to the same grad-ing scale; but ADJINTENS is on a higher position,since it represents the implicit superlative of ADJX.See bagnato fradicio, innamorato cotto, pieno zep-po among others.
This highly iconic pattern givesrise to completely specified constructions whichoften appear as already registered in the lexicon.b) Metonymic/metaphoric scale association.
Theextreme degree of intensity is here expressed bythe contiguity between two scales that are normallyassociated to different semantic fields.
Thanks to asemantic shift, the property of one scale is per-ceived as designating the maximum grade of aproperty which actually identifies a different scaleof values.
A typical example is the metaphoricalprocess ?NEGATIVE FEELING - DARKCOLOUR?, according to which nero represents thehighest expression of being incazzato.
Other ex-amples are buio pesto, buio fitto, stufo marcio.
Asubclass of this group is formed by couples of ad-jectives which display a metonymical ?CAUSE ?EFFECT?
relation.
If we talk about an innamoratopazzo, we intend somebody who is so much in loveto become/look like crazy.The origin of these modifiers, which especiallyin this latter case seem to be very productive, isclearly propositional (Bosque, 1999): Their statusof intensifiers is fulfilled by means of a formerly?consecutive?
interpretation (stanco morto, ?deadtired?
indicate somebody who is so tired that sheis/looks as if she was dead).5 ConclusionsWe focused on CIAs as lexical elements whichcontribute to the creation of superlative construc-tions.
As revealed by the distributional analysis,this strategy, though paradigmatically limited, isnevertheless extremely interesting given its largeexploitation if compared to its competing strate-gies.
As for the productivity, semantic regularitieswhere noticed in the relation between the compo-nents of each MWE, and the schemas which under-lie the most productive patterns were identified.As this kind of word formation seems to func-tion through analogy or semantic contiguity (Siller-Runggaldier, 2006), it is legitimate to think that itappears firstly in the discourse space and then intothe system (in Coseriu?s sense; cf.
Coseriu, 1962).That?s why a direct follow up of this researchcould be that of extending the analysis to othercorpora representative of those language varietieswhich are more sensitive to experimentation.4Moreover, the computational comparison be-tween competitive superlative constructions couldbe deepened in order to understand which kind ofsyntactic or pragmatic constraints influence the useof different strategies: In this perspective a collo-structional analysis (Stefanowitsch and Gries,2003) ought to be more informative of the dataextracted so far.
Such a method could also profita-bly be extended to the analysis of analogous inten-sification strategies applied to different parts ofspeech.
Indeed, many nouns show intensificationpatterns comparable to the one presented here(freddo polare, idiota completo) and also someverbs exists which are often intensified by meansof oblique uses of some particular adjectives(studiare duro, lavorare sodo).4First experiments with the web-derived corpus Pais?
(250million tokens) showed however that this corpus is considera-bly closer to written than to spoken language.136ReferencesPaul K. Andersen.
1992.
Gradation.
In William Bright(Ed.
), International Encyclopedia of Linguistics , Vol.2:79.
Oxford University Press, New York, Oxford.Dwight Bolinger.
1972.
Degree Words.
Mouton, DenHaag.Ignacio Bosque.
1999.
El sintagma adjetival.
Modifica-dores y complementos del adjetivo.
Adjetivo y parti-cipio.
In Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte (Eds.
),Gram?tica descriptiva de la Lengua Espa?ola, Vol.
I:217-230.
Espasa Calpe, Madrid.Karl B?hler.
1983[1934].
Teoria del linguaggio.
Ar-mando, Roma.Silvia Cacchiani.
2009.
Lexico-functional categoriesand complex collocations.
The case of intensifiers.
InUte R?mer and Rainer Schulze (Eds.
), Exploring theLexis-Grammar Interface: 229-246.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam.Silvia Cacchiani.
2010.
A CL perspective on complexintensifying adjectives.
In TEXTUS 2010/3:601-618.Eugenio Coseriu.
1962.
Teor?a del lenguaje y ling?
?sti-ca general.
Gredos, Madrid.William Croft.
1991.
Syntactic Categories and Gram-matical Relations: The Cognitive Organization of In-formation.
The University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Pierluigi Cuzzolin and Christian Lehmann.
2004.
Com-parison and gradation.
In Gerd Booij et al(Eds.),Morphologie.
Ein internationales Handbuch zur Fle-xion und Wortbiltung, 2:1212-1220.
Mouton de Gruy-ter, Berlin.Charles J. Fillmore, Paul Kay and Catherine O?Connor1988, Regularity and idiomaticity in grammatical con-structions: The case of let ale.
In Language, 64:501-538.Adele Goldberg.
2006.
Constructions at work.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford.Jos?
Manuel Gonz?lez Calvo.
1984.
Sobre la expresi?nde lo superlativo en espa?ol.
In Anuario de EstudiosFilol?gicos.
C?ceres, VII:173-205.
Universidad deExtremadura.Pura Guil.
2006.
Modificatori dell?aggettivo.
In Ema-nuela Cresti (Ed.
), Prospettive nello studio del lessicoitaliano, Atti SILFI 2006, Vol.
2:491-496.
FUP, Fi-renze.Christopher Kennedy and Louise McNally.
2005.
ScaleStructure, Degree Modification, and the Semantics ofGradable Predicates.
In Language, 81:345-381.Adam Kilgarriff, Pavel Rychly et alThe Sketch En-gine.
In Proc EURALEX 2004:105-116.
Lorient,France.Henny Klein.
1998.
Adverbs of Degree in Dutch andRelated Language.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Gilbert Lazard.
2006.
La qu?te des invariantes inter-langues.
La linguistique est-elle une science?
Honor?Champion, Paris.Alessandro Lenci, Nicoletta Montemagni and Vito Pir-relli.
2005.
Testo e computer.
Elementi di linguisticacomputazionale.
Roma, Carocci.Gunter Lorenz.
2002.
A corpus-based approach to thedelexicalization and grammaticalization of intensifiersin Modern English.
In Ilse Wischer and Gabriele Die-wald (Eds.
), New Reflections on Grammaticalization.John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Edward Sapir.
1944.
Grading: A Study in Semantics.
InPhilosophy of Science, 11:93-116.Heidi Siller-Runggaldier.
2006.
Le collocazioni lessica-li: strutture sintagmatiche idiosincratiche?
In Emanue-la Cresti (Ed.
), Prospettive nello studio del lessicoitaliano, Atti SILFI 2006, Vol.
2:591-598.
FUP, Fi-renze.Raffaele Simone.
2010.
Verbi sintagmatici come cate-goria e costruzione.
In Monica Cini (Ed.
), Verbi sin-tagmatici: 13-30.
Peter Lang, Berlin.Anatol Stefanowitsch and Stefan.
Th.
Gries.
2003.
Col-lostructions: Investigating the interaction of words andconstructions.
In International Journal of Corpus Lin-guistics, 8.2: 209-43.Tullio De Mauro (Ed.).
1999.
GRADIT = Grande dizio-nario italiano dell?uso.
UTET, Torino.Corpora and ToolsCORIS-CODIS ?
CORpus di Riferimento di ItalianoScritto.
http://corpora.dslo.unibo.it/TCORIS.LaRepubblica Corpus.
http://sslmit.unibo.it/repubblica.Pais?.
Corpus.
http://www.corpusitaliano.it.Sketch Engine.
http://www.sketchengine.co.uk.137
