Proceedings of the 4th Biennial International Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, page 1,Sofia, Bulgaria, 8-9 August 2013. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsInvited Talk: Ontologies and Linked Open Data for Acquisition andExploitation of Language ResourcesKiril SimovLinguistic Modelling Deparment, IICT-BASAcad.
G. Bonchev 25A, 1113 Sofia, Bulgariakivs@bultreebank.orgRecent developments in Natural Language Pro-cessing (NLP) are heading towards knowledgerich resources and technology.
Integration oflinguistically sound grammars, sophisticated ma-chine learning settings and world knowledge back-ground is possible given the availability of the ap-propriate resources: deep multilingual treebanks,representing detailed syntactic and semantic in-formation; and vast quantities of world knowl-edge information encoded within ontologies andLinked Open Data datasets (LOD).
Thus, the addi-tion of world knowledge facts provides a substan-tial extension of the traditional semantic resourceslike WordNet, FrameNet and others.
This exten-sion comprises numerous types of Named Entities(Persons, Locations, Events, etc.
), their properties(Person has a birthDate; birthPlace, etc.
), relationsbetween them (Person works for an Organization),events in which they participated (Person partic-ipated in war, etc.
), and many other facts.
Thishuge amount of structured knowledge can be con-sidered the missing ingredient of the knowledge-based NLP of 80?s and the beginning of 90?s.The integration of world knowledge within lan-guage technology is defined as an ontology-to-textrelation comprising different language and worldknowledge in a common model.
We assume thatthe lexicon is based on the ontology, i.e.
the wordsenses are represented by concepts, relations or in-stances.
The problem of lexical gaps is solved byallowing the storage of not only lexica, but alsofree phrases.
The gaps in the ontology (a miss-ing concept for a word sense) are solved by appro-priate extensions of the ontology.
The mappingis partial in the sense that both elements (the lex-icon and the ontology) are artefacts and thus ?they are never complete.
The integration of the in-terlinked ontology and lexicon with the grammartheory, on the other hand, requires some additionaland non-trivial reasoning over the world knowl-edge.
We will discuss phenomena like selectionalconstraints, metonymy, regular polysemy, bridg-ing relations, which live in the intersective ar-eas between world facts and their language reflec-tion.
Thus, the actual text annotation on the basisof ontology-to-text relation requires the explica-tion of additional knowledge like co-occurrence ofconceptual information, discourse structure, etc.Such knowledge is mainly present in deeplyprocessed language resources like HPSG-based(LFG-based) treebanks (RedWoods treebank,DeepBank, and others).
The inherent character-istics of these language resources is their dynamicnature.
They are constructed simultaneously withthe development of a deep grammar in the corre-sponding linguistic formalism.
The grammar isused to produce all potential analyses of the sen-tences within the treebank.
The correct analy-ses are selected manually on the base of linguis-tic discriminators which would determine the cor-rect linguistic production.
The annotation processof the sentences provides feedback for the gram-mar writer to update the grammar.
The life cycleof a dynamic language resource can be naturallysupported by the semantic technology behind theontology and LOD - modeling the grammaticalknowledge as well as the annotation knowledge;supporting the annotation process; reclassificationafter changes within the grammar; querying theavailable resources; exploitation in real applica-tions.
The addition of a LOD component to thesystem would facilitate the exchange of languageresources created in this way and would supportthe access to the existing resources on the web.1
