Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 58?63,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Analysis of Annotation of Verb-Noun Idiomatic Combinationsin a Parallel Dependency Corpus?Zdenka Uresova and Jana Sindlerova and Eva Fucikova and Jan HajicCharles University in PragueFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics?
{uresova,sindlerova,fucikova,hajic}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractWhile working on valency lexicons for Czechand English, it was necessary to define treat-ment of multiword entities (MWEs) with theverb as the central lexical unit.
Morphologi-cal, syntactic and semantic properties of suchMWEs had to be formally specified in order tocreate lexicon entries and use them in treebankannotation.
Such a formal specification hasalso been used for automated quality controlof the annotation vs. the lexicon entries.
Wepresent a corpus-based study, concentrating onmultilayer specification of verbal MWEs, theirproperties in Czech and English, and a com-parison between the two languages using theparallel Czech-English Dependency Treebank(PCEDT).
This comparison revealed interest-ing differences in the use of verbal MWEs intranslation (discovering that such MWEs areactually rarely translated as MWEs, at leastbetween Czech and English) as well as someinconsistencies in their annotation.
AddingMWE-based checks should thus result in bet-ter quality control of future treebank/lexiconannotation.
Since Czech and English are typo-logically different languages, we believe thatour findings will also contribute to a betterunderstanding of verbal MWEs and possiblytheir more unified treatment across languages.?
This work has been supported by the Grant No.GPP406/13/03351P of the Grant Agency of the Czech Repub-lic.
The data used have been provided by the LINDAT/Clarininfrastructural project LM2010013 supported by the MSMT CR(http://lindat.cz).?
Authors?
full address: Institute of Formal and AppliedLinguistics, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Mathe-matics and Physics, Malostranske nam.
25, 11800 Prague 1,Czech Republic1 Introduction: Valency and MWEsValency is a linguistic phenomenon which plays acrucial role in the majority of today?s linguistic the-ories and may be considered a base for both lexi-cographical and grammatical work.
After valencywas first introduced into linguistics by L. Tesni?re(1959), the study of valency was taken up by manyscholars, with a wealth of material now available;cf.
(?gel et al 2006).
In the theoretical frameworkof Functional Generative Description (Sgall et al1986), the following researchers have substantiallycontributed to valency research: J. Panevov?
(1977;1998); P. Sgall (1998), M. Lopatkov?
(2010), V. Ket-tnerov?
(2012), Z. Ure?ov?
(2011a; 2011b).In general, valency is understood as a specificability of certain lexical units - primarily of verbs- to open ?slots?
to be filled in by other lexical units.By filling up these slots the core of the sentencestructure is built.
Valency is mostly approached syn-tactically, semantically or by combining these twoperspectives.
Valency terminology is not consistent(cf.
valency, subcategorization, argument structure,etc.
), however, valency as a verbal feature seems tobe language universal (Goldberg, 1995).MWEs are expressions which consist of morethan a single word while having non-compositionalmeaning.
They can be defined (Sag et al 2002) as?idiosyncratic interpretations that cross word bound-aries.?
As the MWE Workshop itself attests, MWEsform a complex issue, both theoretically and practi-cally in various NLP tasks.
Here, we will concen-trate on certain types of verbal MWEs only.Verbal MWEs can be divided into several groups58(cf.
Sect.
1.3.2 in (Baldwin and Kim, 2010)):?
verb-particle constructions (VPCs), such astake off, play around, or cut short,?
prepositional verbs (PVs), such as refer to, lookfor, or come across,?
light-verb constructions (LVCs or verb-complement pairs or support verb construc-tions, see e.g.
(Calzolari et al 2002)), such asgive a kiss, have a drink, or make an offer,?
verb-noun idiomatic combinations (VNICs orVP idioms), such as the (in)famous kick thebucket, spill the beans, or make a face.While (Baldwin and Kim, 2010) define VNICs asbeing ?composed of a verb and noun in direct objectposition,?1 we found that their syntax can be morediverse and thus we will include also constructionslike be at odds or make a mountain out of a mole-hill into this class.
Our goal is to look mainly atthe surface syntactic representation of MWEs, there-fore, we will follow the above described typologyeven though the exact classification might be morecomplex.2 Verbal Valency and MWEs inDependency TreebanksIn the Prague Dependency Treebank family ofprojects (PDT(s)) annotated using the Tectogram-matical Repesentation of deep syntax and seman-tics (B?hmov?
et al 2005), valency information isstored in valency lexicons.
Each verb token in PDTsis marked by an ID (i.e., linked to) of the appropri-ate valency frame in the valency lexicon.
For Czech,both the PDT (Hajic?
et al 2012a) and the Czech partof the PCEDT 2.0 (Hajic?
et al 2012b)2 use PDT-Vallex3; for English (the English part of PCEDT,i.e.
the texts from the Wall Street Journal portion ofthe Penn Treebank (WSJ/PTB), cf.
(Marcus et al1993)) we use EngVallex,4 which follows the same1(Baldwin and Kim, 2010), Sect.
1.3.2.42Also available from LDC, Catalog No.
LDC2012T08.3http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/lindat/PDT-Vallex4http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/lindat/EngVallex; since it was cre-ated for the WSJ/PTB annotation, the starting point was Prop-Bank (Palmer et al 2005) to which it is also linked.principles, including entry structure, labeling of ar-guments etc.Here is an example of a valency lexicon entry (forthe base sense of to give, simplified):give ACT(sb) PAT(dobj) ADDR(dobj2)The verb lemma (give) is associated with its ar-guments, labeled by functors: ACT for actor (deepsubject), PAT for Patient (deep object), and ADDRfor addressee.5In the valency lexicon entries, two more argumentlabels can be used: effect (EFF) and origin (ORIG).In addition, if a free modifier (e.g.
adverbial, prepo-sitional phrase, etc.)
is so tightly associated to bedeemed obligatory for the given verb sense, it isalso explicitly put into the list of arguments.
TheP(CE)DT use about 35 free modifications (such asLOC, DIR1, TWHEN, TTILL, CAUS, AIM, ...), mostof which can be marked as obligatory with certainverbs (verb senses).At each valency slot, requirements on surface syn-tactic structure and inflectional properties of the ar-guments may be given.
This is much more complexin inflective languages but it is used in English too,often as a ?code?
assigned to a verb sense, e.g.
inOALDCE (Crowther, 1998).For details of surface-syntactic structural andmorphological requirements related to Czech va-lency and subcategorization in Czech, see e.g.
Ure-?ov?
(2011a; 2011b).For the annotation of (general) MWEs (Bejc?ekand Stran?
?k, 2010) in the P(CE)DT, the followingprinciple have been chosen: each MWE is repre-sented by a single node in the deep dependencytree.
This accords with our principles that ?deep?representation should abstract from (the peculiari-ties and idiosyncrasies of) surface syntax and rep-resent ?meaning.
?6 The syntactic (and related mor-phological) representation of MWEs is annotated ata ?lower?, purely syntactic dependency layer (here,each word token is represented by its own node).5We say that a verb has (zero or more) valency slots; theverb give as presented here has three.6Under this assumption, each node in such a dependencytree should ideally represent a single unit of meaning, andthe ?meaning?
of the tree - typically representing a sentence- should be derived compositionally from the meanings of theindividual nodes and their (labeled, dependency) relations (i.e.functors, as they are called in the PDT-style treebanks).59Subsequently, the two representations are linked.However, here arises a problem with modifiableMWEs (such as lose his/my/their/... head): if thewhole MWE is represented as a single node, themodifier relation to the MWE would be ambiguousif put simply as the dependent of the MWE (i.e.,which part of the MWE does it modify?).
There-fore, a rather technical, but unambiguous solutionwas adopted: the verb as the head of the verbalMWE is represented by a node, and the ?rest?
ofthe MWE gets its own appropriately marked node(technically dependent on the verb node).
Such a re-lation is labeled with the DPHR functor (?Dependentpart of a PHRase?).
The modifier of the MWE canthus be unambiguously attached as either the depen-dent node of the verb (if it modifies the whole MWE,such as a temporal adverbial in hit the books on Sun-day), or to the DPHR node (if it modifies only thatpart of the MWE, such as in hit the history books).7We believe that this solution which allows the flex-ibility of considering also modifiable verbal VNICsto be annotated formally in the same way as fullyfixed VNICs is original in the PDT family of tree-banks, since we have not seen it neither in the PennTreebank nor in other treebanks, including depen-dency ones.Since DPHR is technically a dependent node, itcan then be formally included as a slot in the va-lency dictionary, adding the surface syntactic and/ormorphological representation in the form of an en-coded surface dependency representation, such as inthe following example of an English VNIC:make DPHR(mountain.Obj.sg[a],out[of,molehill.Adv.sg[a])In Czech, the formal means are extended, e.g.
forthe required case (1 - nominative, 6- locative):8be?hat DPHR(mr?z.S1,po[z?da.P6])7One can argue that in very complex MWEs, this simplesplit into two nodes might not be enough; in the treebanks wehave explored no such multiple dependent modifiers exist.8The repertoire of possible syntactic and morphological con-straints, which can be used for the description of possible formsof the fixed part of the idiomatic expression, covers all aspectsof Czech word formation: case, number, grammatical gender,possessive gender and number, degree of comparison, nega-tion, short/long form of certain adjectives, analytical depen-dency function etc.makePREDcomplex va mountain out of a molehillDPHRdphr n.denot..makingPredaAuxAmountainObjoutAuxPofAuxPaAuxAmolehillAdvFigure 1: Verbal MWE: tectogrammatical (left) and syn-tactic (right) annotation of a VNICIn Fig.
1, the phrase making a mountain out of amole is syntactically annotated in the following way:?
mountain is annotated as the syntactic directobject of making,?
out of a molehill is annotated as a prepositionalphrase (with the preposition as the head)On the tectogrammatical layer of annotation, theverb is the head and the defining part of the MWEgets a separate node (marked by DPHR).In the corpus-based analysis of verbal MWEs inthe valency lexicons and the treebanks presentedhere, we concentrate mainly on VNICs (see Sect.
1)and briefly mention LVCs, since the boundary be-tween them is often a bit grayish.
In the P(CE)DTtreebanks, LVCs are always represented as twonodes: the (light) verb node and the noun com-plement node.
Formally, the representing structureis the same for both mentioned groups of MWEs,but it differs in the labels of the verb arguments:CPHR (Compound PHRase) for LVCs vs. DPHR forVNICs.
Whereas lexical units marked as DPHRs aremostly limited to a fixed number of words and there-fore are listed in the lexicon, lexical units markedas CPHRs are often not limited in their number andtherefore it does not make sense to list them all inthe lexicon.60A possible solution to the problem of automaticidentification of (general) MWEs in texts using theannotation found in the PDT, which is related to thetopic described in this paper but goes beyond itsscope, can be found in (Bejcek et al 2013).3 Corpus AnalysisTo compare annotation and use of VNICs in Czechand English, we have used the PCEDT.
The PCEDTcontains alignment information, thus it was easy toextract all cases where a VNIC was annotated (i.e.where the DPHR functor occurs).9We found a total of 92890 occurrences of aligned(non-auxiliary) verbs.
Czech VNICs were alignedwith English counterparts not annotated as a VNICin 570 cases, and there were 278 occurrences of En-glish VNICs aligned with Czech non-VNICs, andonly 88 occurrences of VNICs annotated on bothsides were aligned.10 These figures are surpris-ingly small (less than 1.5% of verbs are markedas VNICs), however, (a) it is only the VNIC type(e.g., phrasal verbs would account for far more), and(b) the annotator guidelines asked for ?conservative-ness?
in creating new VNIC-type verb senses.11Ideally (for NLP), VNICs would be translated asVNICs.
However, as stated above, this occurredonly in a 88 cases only (a few examples are shownbelow).
(1) (wsj0062) toc?it[turn] se[oneself-acc.]z?dy[back-Noun-sg-instr.
]:thumb(ing) its nose(2) (wsj0989) podr?ez?vat[saw down]si[oneself-dat.]
pod[under]sebou[oneself-instr.]ve?tev[branch-Noun-sg-acc.
]:bit(ing) the hand that feeds them9The alignment is automatic, the Czech and English tec-togrammatical annotation (including verb sense/frame assign-ment) is manual.10The total number of Czech VNICs in the PCEDT (1300) ishigher than the sum of extracted alignments (570+88=658).
Thedifference is due to many of the Czech VNICs being aligned toa node which does not correspond to a verb, or which is notlinked to an English node, or where the alignment is wrong.11By ?conservative?
approach we mean that splitting of verbsenses into new ones has been discouraged in the annotationguidelines.Manual inspection of these alignments revealed(except for a few gray-area cases) no errors.
We havethus concentrated on the asymmetric cases by man-ually exploring 200 such cases on each side.
Theresults are summarized in Tab.
1.Direction / VNIC VNICAnnotated as in En, in Cz, Examples(by type) not Cz not EnCorrectly annotated (as non-VNIC)LVC 26 4 l?mat[break]rekordy:set recordsnon-MWE 138 124 pr?eru?it[interrupt]:cut shortAnnotation Error (should have been VNIC)LVC 7 17 dr?et[hold]krok[step]:keep abreastnon-MWE 28 52 zlomit (mu)srdce: breaksb?s heartother error 1 3Table 1: Breakdown of VNICs linked to non-VNICs3.1 English VNICs Linked to Non-VNIC CzechThe first column of counts in Tab.
1 refers to caseswhere the verb in the English original has been an-notated as VNIC, but the Czech translation has beenmarked as a non-VNIC.
We have counted cases,where we believe that the annotation is correct, evenif it is not annotated as a VNIC (164 in total) andcases which should have been in fact annotated as aVNIC (35 cases).
Within these two groups, we sep-arately counted cases where the translation has notbeen annotated as a VNIC, but at least as a LVC,another MWE type (total of 33 such cases).
Theproportion of errors (approx.
18%) is higher thanthe 5.5% rate reported for semantic relation annota-tion (?te?p?nek, 2006).
Typically, the error would becorrected by adding a separate idiomatic verb senseinto the valency lexicon and adjusting the annotation(verb sense and the DPHR label) accordingly.613.2 Czech VNICs Linked to Non-VNIC EnglishThe second column of counts in Tab.
1 shows thesame breakdown as described in the previous sec-tion, but in the opposite direction: Czech VNICswhich in the English original have been annotateddifferently.
The first difference is in the numberof erroneously annotated tokens, which is visiblyhigher (approx.
twice as high) than in the oppositedirection both for LVCs (17) and for constructionswhich have not been marked as MWEs at all (52).This suggests that the authors of the English va-lency lexicon and the annotators of the English deepstructure have been even more ?conservative?
thantheir Czech colleagues by not creating many VNIC-typed verb senses.12 Second, there are only 4 casesof VNICs translated into and correctly annotated asLVCs, compared to the English ?
Czech direction(26 cases).4 ConclusionsWe have described the treatment of (an enriched setof) verb-noun idiomatic combinations (and brieflyother types of MWEs) in the PDT style treebanksand in the associated valency lexicons.
We haveexplored the PCEDT to find interesting correspon-dences between the annotation and lexicon entriesin the English and Czech annotation schemes.We have found that VNICs, as one of thetypes of MWEs, are translated in different ways.A translation of a VNIC as a VNIC is rare,even if we take into account the annotation errors(88+7+17+28+52=192 cases of the 936 extracted).By far the most common case of translating a VNICin both directions is the usage of a completely non-MWE phrase.
There is also a substantial amountof errors in each direction, higher in cases wherethe Czech translation was annotated as a VNIC andthe English original was not.
While the low overallnumber of VNICs found in the parallel corpus can beexplained by not considering standard phrasal verbsfor this study and by the required conservatism inmarking a phrase as a true VNIC, we can only specu-late why only a small proportion of VNICs are trans-lated as VNICs in(to) the other language: manual12None of the annotators of the English side of the paralleltreebank was a fully native English speaker, which might alsoexplain this ?conservatism.
?inspection of several cases suggested (but withouta statistically significant conclusions) that this doesnot seem to be caused by the specific nature or genreof the Wall Street Journal texts, but rather by the factthat the two languages explored, Czech and English,went generally through different developments un-der different circumstances and contexts throughoutthe years they evolved separately.While this paper describes only an initial analy-sis of multiword expressions (of the verb-noun id-iomatic combination type) in parallel treebanks, weplan to apply the same classification and checks asdescribed here to the whole corpus (perhaps auto-matically to a certain extent), to discover (presum-ably) even more discrepancies and also more corre-spondence types.
These will again be classified andcorrections in the data will be made.
Eventually, wewill be able to get a more reliable material for a thor-ough study of the use of MWEs in translation, withthe aim of improving identification and analysis ofMWEs (e.g., by enriching the approach taken by anddescribed in (Bejcek et al 2013)).
We would alsolike to improve machine translation results by iden-tifying relevant features of MWEs (including but notlimited to VNICs) and using the associated informa-tion stored in the valency lexicons in order to learntranslation correspondences involving MWEs.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the four reviewers,especially reviewer #4, for helpful comments whichhopefully have lead to a clearer version of this pa-per.
Also, we would like to thank to all the anno-tators and technical support staff who made our re-search possible by creating the treebanks and lexi-cons which we can now build upon.ReferencesVilmos ?gel, Ludwig M. Eichinger, Hans-Werner Eroms,Peter Hellwig, Hans J?rgen Heringer, Henning Lobin,and Guta Rau.
2006.
Dependenz und Valenz.
Walterde Gruyter, Berlin & New York.Timothy Baldwin and Su Nam Kim.
2010.
Multiwordexpressions.
In Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau,editors, Handbook of Natural Language Processing,Second Edition.
CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group,Boca Raton, FL.
ISBN 978-1420085921.62Eduard Bejc?ek and Pavel Stran??k.
2010.
Annotationof multiword expressions in the prague dependencytreebank.
Language Resources and Evaluation, 44(1-2):7?21.Eduard Bejcek, Pavel Pecina, and Pavel Stranak.
2013.Syntactic Identification of Occurrences of MultiwordExpressions in Text using a Lexicon with DependencyStructures.
In Workshop on Multiword Expressions(NAACL 2013, this volume), New Jersey.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Alena B?hmov?, Silvie Cinkov?, and Eva Hajic?ov?.2005.
A Manual for Tectogrammatical Layer An-notation of the Prague Dependency Treebank (En-glish translation).
Technical report, ?FAL MFF UK,Prague, Czech Republic.Nicoletta Calzolari, Charles J. Fillmore, Ralph Grishman,Nancy Ide, Alessandro Lenci, Catherine Macleod, andAntonio Zampolli.
2002.
Towards best practice formultiword expressions in computational lexicons.
InLREC.Jonathan Crowther.
1998.
Oxford Advanced Learner?sDictionary.
Cornelsen & Oxford, 5th edition.A.E.
Goldberg.
1995.
Constructions: A ConstructionGrammar Approach to Argument Structure.
Univer-sity of Chicago Press.Jan Hajic?, Eduard Bejc?ek, Jarmila Panevov?, Jir?
?M?rovsk?, Johanka Spoustov?, Jan ?te?p?nek, PavelStran?
?k, Pavel ?id?k, Pavl?na Vimmrov?, Eva?t?astn?, Magda ?evc?
?kov?, Lenka Smejkalov?, PetrHomola, Jan Popelka, Mark?ta Lopatkov?, LucieHrabalov?, Natalia Klyueva, and Zdene?k ?abokrt-sk?.
2012a.
Prague Dependency Treebank 2.5.https://ufal-point.mff.cuni.cz/xmlui/handle/11858/00-097C-0000-0006-DB11-8.Jan Hajic?, Eva Hajic?ov?, Jarmila Panevov?, Petr Sgall,Ondr?ej Bojar, Silvie Cinkov?, Eva Fuc?
?kov?, MarieMikulov?, Petr Pajas, Jan Popelka, Jir??
Semeck?, Jana?indlerov?, Jan ?te?p?nek, Josef Toman, Zden?ka Ure-?ov?, and Zdene?k ?abokrtsk?.
2012b.
AnnouncingPrague Czech-English Dependency Treebank 2.0.
InProceedings of the 8th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2012),pages 3153?3160, I?stanbul, Turkey.
ELRA, EuropeanLanguage Resources Association.V?clava Kettnerov?.
2012.
Lexik?lne?-s?mantick?
kon-verze ve valenc?n?m slovn?ku.
Ph.D. thesis, CharlesUniversity, Prague, Czech Republic.Mark?ta Lopatkov?.
2010.
Valency Lexicon of CzechVerbs: Towards Formal Description of Valency andIts Modeling in an Electronic Language Resource.Prague.Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building a Large AnnotatedCorpus of English: The Penn Treebank.
COMPUTA-TIONAL LINGUISTICS, 19(2):313?330.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The Proposition Bank: An Annotated Cor-pus of Semantic Roles.
Computational Linguistics,31(1):71?106.Jarmila Panevov?.
1998.
Je?te?
k teorii valence.
Slovo aslovesnost, 59(1):1?14.Jarmila Panevov?.
1977.
Verbal Frames Revisited.
ThePrague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, (28):55?72.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword Ex-pressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Proc.
ofthe 3rd International Conference on Intelligent TextProcessing and Computational Linguistics (CICLing2002), pages 1?15.Petr Sgall, Eva Hajic?ov?, and Jarmila Panevov?.
1986.The Meaning of the Sentence in Its Semantic andPragmatic Aspects.
Dordrecht, Reidel, and Prague,Academia.Petr Sgall.
1998.
Teorie valence a jej?
form?ln?
zpracov-?n?.
Slovo a slovesnost, 59(1):15?29.Jan ?te?p?nek.
2006.
Post-annotation Checking of PragueDependency Treebank 2.0 Data.
In Lecture Notesin Artificial Intelligence, Text, Speech and Dialogue.9th International Conference, TSD 2006, Brno, CzechRepublic, September 11?15, 2006, volume 4188 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 277?284,Berlin / Heidelberg.
Springer.Lucien Tesni?re.
1959.
?l?ments de syntaxe structurale.Editions Klincksieck, Paris.Zden?ka Ure?ov?.
2011a.
Valence sloves v Pra?sk?mz?vislostn?m korpusu.
Studies in Computational andTheoretical Linguistics.
?stav form?ln?
a aplikovan?lingvistiky, Prague.Zden?ka Ure?ov?.
2011b.
Valenc?n?
slovn?k Pra?sk?hoz?vislostn?ho korpusu (PDT-Vallex).
Studies in Com-putational and Theoretical Linguistics.
?stav form?ln?a aplikovan?
lingvistiky, Prague.63
