Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 82?86,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploring MWEs for Knowledge Acquisitionfrom Corporate Technical DocumentsBell Manrique Losada Carlos M. Zapata Jaramillo Diego A. BurgosUniversidad de Medell?n Universidad Nacional de Colombia Wake Forest UniversityCra.
87 30-65 Bel?n Cra.
80 65-223 Robledo Greene Hall, P.O.
Box 7566Medell?n, AQ, Colombia Medell?n, AQ, Colombia Winston Salem, NC 27109, USAbmanrique@udem.edu.co cmzapata@unal.edu.co burgosda@wfu.eduAbstractHigh frequency can convert a word sequenceinto a multiword expression (MWE), i.e., acollocation.
In this paper, we use collocationsas well as syntactically-flexible, lexicalizedphrases to analyze ?job specification docu-ments?
(a kind of corporate technical docu-ment) for subsequent acquisition of automatedknowledge elicitation.
We propose the defini-tion of structural and functional patterns ofspecific corporate documents by analyzing thecontexts and sections in which the expressionoccurs.
Such patterns and its automated pro-cessing are the basis for identifying organiza-tional domain knowledge and businessinformation which is used later for the first in-stances of requirement elicitation processes insoftware engineering.1 IntroductionIn software engineering, business knowledge andthe needs of a system?s users are analyzed andspecified by a process called requirement elicita-tion (RE).
Traditionally, RE has been carried outby human analysts through techniques such asinterviews, observations, questionnaires, etc.
Theinformation obtained by the analyst is then con-verted to a controlled language used further stagesof software implementation.
These techniques,however, necessarily increase costs and imply acertain degree of subjectivity.
Sometimes, as analternative approach for RE, human analysts elicitrequirement from documents instead of from cli-ents or users.
The present work, proposes the usemultiword expressions (MWEs) such as colloca-tions and syntactically-flexible, lexicalized phrasesto detect relevant patterns in ?job specificationdocuments?
(a kind of corporate technical docu-ment).
The approach contributes to the task ofgenerating controlled language used in subsequentautomated knowledge representation.MWEs are lexical items which can be decom-posed into multiple lexemes with lexical, syntactic,semantic, pragmatic, and/or statistical idiomaticity(Baldwin et al 2010).
According to Bauer (1983),MWEs can be broadly classified into lexicalizedphrases and institutionalized phrases.
Institutional-ized phrases, or collocations, basically require ahigh frequency of co-occurrence of their compo-nents.
Lexicalized phrases (LP), on the other hand,may present other kind of idiomaticity, but notonly statistical.
Along with collocations, out of theset of lexicalized phrase types, we find syntactical-ly-flexible, lexicalized phrases and semi-fixedphrases of special interest for the present work.Based on an experimental corpus, we identifywhen and how a MWE is used in order to identifypatterns, infer organizational relationships, andgenerate corporate information and/or conceptualmodels for further requirement elicitation.We propose context analysis?in which MWEsoccur?would contribute by adding essential in-formation to the pattern definition.
Such patternsare conceived from the structural and functionalcomponents inherent to corporate documents.
Thismeans that we classify MWEs according to thesection in the document where they prevail.
Weexpect the automated processing of such patternshelps in the identification and understanding ofdomain knowledge and business information froman organization.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows: in Section 2 we describe the conceptual82framework and background.
Section 3 presentsexamples and analysis of the MWEs used for thisstudy.
Last, Section 4 draws conclusions and out-lines future work.2 Conceptual Framework and Back-groundTwo main lines converge on this study, namelyrequirements elicitation belonging to softwareengineering and linguistic description and parsingrelated to natural language processing.Requirements elicitation (RE) is the initial pro-cess from requirement engineering in the softwaredevelopment process lifecycle.
RE involves seek-ing, uncovering, capturing, and elaborating re-quirements, based on activities of the businessanalysis initially performed.
This process compris-es functional, behavioral, and quality properties ofthe software to be developed (Castro-Herrera et al2008).
In order to accomplish RE, an analystshould increasingly and iteratively develop severalactions involving natural language analysis andmodeling (Li et al 2003).On the other hand, a user of a language hasavailable a large number of pre-constructedphrases conforming single choices, even thoughthey might appear to be analyzable into segments(Sinclair, 1991).
Such phrases are known as lexicalphrases (LPs) and may have a pragmatic function.According to P?rez (1999), the importance of LPslies in their usage and domain, which constitute anintegral part of the communicative competence.
Inthe same line of thought, L?pez-Mezquita (2007)categorizes LPs into polywords, institutionalizedexpressions, phrasal constraints, and sentencebuilders.For this study, we use the classification ofMWEs proposed by Baldwin et al(2010).
Thisand other classifications have been used in naturallanguage processing techniques for text-miningand information extraction.
They also have beenapplied to the analysis of many kinds of docu-ments, e.g., technical documents, patents, andsoftware requirement documents.Cascini et al(2004) present a functional analy-sis of patents and their implementation in the PAT-Analyzer tool.
They use techniques based on theextraction of the interactions between the entitiesdescribed in the document and expressed as sub-ject-action-object triples, by using a suitable syn-tactic parser.R?sner et al(1997) use techniques to automat-ically generate multilingual documents fromknowledge bases.
The resulting documents can berepresented in an interchangeable, reusable way.The authors describe several techniques forknowledge acquisition from documents by usingparticular knowledge structures from particularcontexts.
Breaux et al(2006) describe the extrac-tion of rights and obligations from regulation textsrestated into restricted natural language statements.In this approach, the authors identify normativephrases that define what stakeholders are permittedor required to do, and then extract rights and obli-gations by using normative phrases.For knowledge acquisition, several authorshave applied NLP techniques for handling MWEs.Jackendoff (1997) and Aussenac-Gilles et al(2000) extract knowledge from existing documentsand demonstrate its usage on the ontological engi-neering research domain.Some other contributions are related to the ex-traction of multiword expressions from corpora,empirical work on lexical semantics in compara-tive fields, word sense disambiguation, and ontolo-gy learning (Bannard, 2005).
In the intersection ofNLP and requirement elicitation, Lee and Bryant(2002) use contextual techniques to overcome theambiguity and express domain knowledge in theDARPA agent markup language (DAML).
Theresulting expression from the linguistic processingis a formal representation of the informal naturallanguage requirements.For processing technical and organizationaldocumentation, Dinesh et al(2007) propose thedescription of organizational procedures and thevalidation of their conformance to regulations,based on logical analysis.
L?vy et al(2010) pre-sent an environment that enables semantic annota-tions of document textual units (e.g., words,phrases, paragraphs, etc.)
with ontological infor-mation (concepts, instances, roles, etc.).
This ap-proach provides an ontology-driven interpretationof the document contents.Some work has been also developed to performcorpus-based analysis from several technical doc-uments, as follows: for the use of frequency andconcordance data from a corpus, Flowerdew(1993) work on English biology lectures; Lam(2007) propose the processing of English tourism83documents looking for pedagogical implications ofits usage; and Henry and Roseberry (2001) observeEnglish application letters.In other lines of thought, we found languagemodels accounting for documents oriented to auditlinguistic expertise and analyze communicativeand health texts (Fern?ndez & Garc?a, 2009).3 Exploration of MWEs in CorporateDocuments3.1 Corpus and Analysis ToolsWe collected and analyzed a set of documentsfrom the corporate domain in different subjectfields such as medicine, forestry, and laboratory.The corpus used as the basis for this preliminarystudy consists of 25 English-written documentswith independence of its variety.The documents selected are a small sample be-longing to the ?Job Specification Document?
(JSD)category and were collected following representa-tiveness and ecological criteria, i.e., looking for thecollection of documents produced, created, orpromoted in the corporate or business environ-ment.
All the documents were taken from differentcorporations and sum 31627 tokens and 3839types.The initial exploration of this experimental cor-pus was supported by AntConc 3.3.5w?
(Anthony,2009) and TermoStatWeb?
(Drouin, 2003).AntConc was used to manually and systematicallyfind frequent expressions and select their contexts,and TermoStatWeb?
was used to list most fre-quent verbs, nouns, and adjectives which couldbecome part of MWEs.3.2 Identification of Relevant MWEsRelevant MWEs are identified in the experimentalcorpus according to the flow chart shown in Figure1.
From each technical document belonging to thecorpus, we carried out the task of LP extraction(institutionalized expressions or lexicalized expres-sions) and classification (analysis by categories).We classify the extracted expressions based onthe document section where they prevail (see Table1).
Each section corresponds to a structural com-ponent of the JSD which also reflects the commu-nicative intention of the writer.Figure 1.
Flow chart for identifying MWEsNo.
Description sectioni Job purpose / objectiveii Main responsibilites / functionsiii Knowledge and skillsiv RequirementsTable 1.
Sections of JSDTable 2 shows the relevant MWEs identified, asfollows: i) the selected expressions with the corre-sponding MWE category (C) according to the clas-sification proposed by Baldwin et al(2010); ii) thefrequency (F) of occurrence for each expression;and, iii) the section number (S) where the expres-sion prevails in the JSD (from the Table 1).C MWEs F S1.Statistically-idio-maticphrasesbe Able to 13 iiibe required to 13 iiare required to 7 ivbe responsible for 5 ii- knowledge of 49 iii- experience in 15 iv- ability to 61 iiirelated duties as 11 Iithe duties of 6 iiskills and abilities 11 iiilevel experience - 12 ivjob code - 4 ijob description - 9 ijob specification - 7 ioffice equipment - 5 ii,iiiworking relationships with 12 ii,iiiat all times 10 iias well as 11 ii2.Syntactically-flexiblephrasesbe [adquired] on 5 ivto [support] the 29 iithe [priority] and[schedule]of24ii,iiithe [work] of [others] 12 iii,ivby [giv]ing [time] 11 iii,ivin [contacts]with the[public]13ii3.Semi-fixedphrases- work in 7 ii,iii- work of 6 ii- work with 5 iii- may be 30 ii- may have 5 iv- follow up 4 i,ii- carry out 9 i,Table 2.
Extracted MWEsLP extraction ClassificationInstitut.phrasesLexicalizedphrasesDoc_1Doc_2Doc_nAnalysisbycategoriesTechnicaldocuments84We use brackets for indicating semi-fixedphrases or variable uses of the expression (they cantake values with the same conjugation).
In this way,we identify and prioritize the most frequentsMWEs and patterns in each category, as follows:1. ability to, knowledge of, experience in, be able to,be required to2.
to-V-the, the-N-and-N-of, in-N-with-the-N3.
may be, carry out, work in, work ofLikewise, we also found useful identifying themost frequent lexical items that could become partof MWEs and alternate with the expressions andpatterns presented above.
For that purpose, Ter-moStatWeb was used to generate a map with themost frequent verbs, nouns, and adjectives.
Someexamples are shown in Figure 2.Figure 2.
Some frequent verbs, nouns, and adjectives.The high frequency of these items in the corpussuggests that they could probably be part of MWEsconveying corporate information.
Also, whenplaced in the slots of the patterns observed in Table2, they increase their chance to become relevantMWEs useful to detect specific corporateknowledge.The following paragraph is an example of howthis can happen.
The source text belongs to a JSDfrom our corpus and shows how two frequent items(evaluate and work) co-occur in a collocation.Then, identified corporate information is expectedto be generated by other means into specific organ-izational information in a controlled language:Source paragraph?A City Manager plans, organizes, evaluates, and controlsthe work of all City departments to ensure that operationsand services comply with the policies?Generated organizational information:[City_manager plans work.
City_manager organizes work.City_manager evaluates work City_manager controls work][City_department has work] [City_manager ensures opera-tions] [City_department has operations] [City_departmenthas services] [operations comply policies]In terms of organizational knowledge, an analystcan find information from JSDs about roles, re-sponsibilities, actions, and constraints, as an ap-proach for understanding an organizationaldomain.
Such entities are expressed in a JSD assubject, actions, and object triples, as suggested bysome instances in Table 2.
This information can berepresented either into models or controlled lan-guage discourses, among other specifications.4 ConclusionsThis study aims at characterizing JSDs by reveal-ing key MWEs used in an English corpus.
Weproposed a set of MWEs of a JSD, as a corporatetechnical document, which can be processed asinput for further knowledge engineering processes.The appropriateness of JSDs in requirements elici-tation was verified with this study.The analysis shows frequencies and patterns ofrelevant MWEs as well as their contexts and in-flectional forms extracted via a concordance tool.The performed analysis is a preliminary study forknowledge acquisition and understanding of organ-izational domains.
Such knowledge is expected tobe readily available to future applications in specif-ic domains in order to validate the findings andthen to automate the process.As future work, we expect to increase the num-ber of documents in the corpus and refine the studyof lexical and textual features.
Statistical associa-tion measures can be also considered as a way toreinforce MWEs and term identification and ex-traction in the frame of knowledge acquisitionfrom corporate documents.
Likewise, given theimportance of the syntactic structure given by thetriple subject-verb-object, dependency parsingseems to be a promising approach for the identifi-cation of roles and responsibilities in JSDs.AcknowledgmentsThis work is funded by the Vicerrector?a de Investiga-ci?n from both the Universidad de Medell?n and theUniversidad Nacional de Colombia, under the project:?M?todo de transformaci?n de lenguaje natural a len-guaje controlado para la obtenci?n de requisitos, apartir de documentaci?n t?cnica?.Verbs?Record?Report?Maintain?Verify?
perform?
provide?
involve?
direct?
develop?
ensure?work?
evaluate?
require?prepareNouns?
Order?
Accounting?
skill?
Knowledge?
Business?
Invoice?
Department?
Operation?
Employee?
Information?
ability?
work?
regulation?
code?
development?
taskAdjectives?
applicable?
effective?
essential?
administrative?
accurate85ReferencesAnthony, L. 2009.
Issues in the design and developmentof software tools for corpus studies: The case for col-laboration.
Contemporary corpus linguistics, Lon-don: P. Baker Ed.
: 87-104.Aussenac-Gilles, N. Bi?bow, B. and Szulman, S. 2000.Revisiting Ontology Design: A Method Based onCorpus Analysis.
Knowledge Engineering andKnowledge Management.
Methods, Models, andTools, 1937:27?66.Baldwin, Timothy and Su Nam Kim (2010) MultiwordExpressions, in Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J.
Damerau(eds.)
Handbook of Natural Language Processing,Second Ed., CRC Press, USA, pp.
267-292.Bannard, C. 2005.
Learning about the meaning of verb?particle constructions from corpora.
ComputerSpeech & Language, 19(4): 467-478.Bauer, L. 1983.
English Word-Formation.
London:Cambridge University Press, 311.Breaux, T.D., Vail, M.W.
and Ant?n, A.I.
2006.
To-wards Regulatory Compliance: Extracting Rights andObligations to Align Requirements with Regulations.North Carolina State University TR-2006-6.Cascini, G. Fantechi, A. and Spinicci, E. 2004.
NaturalLanguage Processing of Patents and Technical Doc-umentation.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,3163:508-520.Castro-Herrera, C., Duan, C., Cleland-Huang, J. andMobasher, B.
Using data mining and recommendersystems to facilitate large-scale, open, and inclusiverequirements elicitation processes.
Proceedings of16th IEEE Inter.
Requirements Eng.
Conference,pp.165?168, 2008.Dinesh, N. Joshi, A. Lee, I. and Sokolski, O.
2007.Logic-based regulatory conformance checking.
In14th Monterey Workshop, ScholarlyCommons Penn.Drouin, P. 2003.
TermoStat Web 3.0.
D?sormais utilisa-ble qu'apr?s enregistremen.
Available in:http://olst.ling.umontreal.ca/~drouinp/termostat_web/Fern?ndez, L. and Garc?a, F.J. 2009.
Texto y empresa.Applied Linguistics Now: Understanding Languageand Mind, pp.655-665.
Universidad de Almer?a, Es-pa?a.Flowerdew, J.
1993.
Concordancing as a Tool in CourseDesign.
System, 21(2): 231-244.Henry, A. and Roseberry, R.L.
2001.
Using a SmallCorpus to Obtain Data for Teaching a Genre.
InGhadessy/Henry/Roseberry: 93-133.Jackendoff, R. 1997.
The architecture of the languagefaculty.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA.Lam, P. Y.
2007.
A Corpus-driven L?xico-grammaticalAnalysis of English Tourism Industry Texts and theStudy of its Pedagogic Implications in ESP.
In Hidal-go/Quereda/Santana: 71-90.Lee, B. and Bryant, B. R. 2002.
Contextual NaturalLanguage Processing and DAML for UnderstandingSoftware Requirements Specifications.
In 19th Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics,Taipei, Taiwan.Levy, F. Guisse, A. Nazarenko, A. Omrane, N. andSzulman, S. 2010.
An Environment for the JointManagement of Written Policies and Business Rules.22nd IEEE International Conference on Tools withArtificial Intelligence.
IEEE Computer Society,2:142-149.Li, K., Dewar, R.G.
and Pooley, R.J. Requirementscapture in natural language problem statements.
Her-iot-Watt University, 2003.
Available inhttp://www.macs.hw.ac.uk:8080/techreps/docs/files/HW-MACS-TR-0023.pdfL?pez-Mezquita, M.T.
2007.
La evaluaci?n de la com-petencia l?xica: tests de vocabulario.
Su fiabilidad yvalidez.
Centro de Investigaci?n y Documentaci?nEducativa, 177(1): 488.L?pez  Rodr?guez,  C.  I., Faber,  P., Le?n- Ara?z,  P.,Prieto,  J.
A. and  Tercedor, M. 2010.
La  Terminolo-g?a  basada  en marcos y su aplicaci?n a las cienciasmedioambientales: los proyectos MarcoCosta y Eco-sistema.
Arena Romanistica, 7 (10): 52-74.Peleg, M. Gutnik, L.A.
Snow, V. and Patel, V.L.
2005.Interpreting procedures from descriptive guidelines.Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 39(1):184?195.Perez, C. 1999.
La ense?anza del vocabulario desdeuna perspectiva lingufstica y pedagogica.
In S. Sala-berri (Ed.
), Lingutstica Aplicada a las Lenguas Ex-tranjeras, Almer?a: Univ.
de Almer?a: 262-307.R?sner, D., Grote, B., Hartmann, K. and H?fling.
B.1997.
From Natural Language Documents to Shara-ble Product Knowledge: A Knowledge EngineeringApproach.
Journal of Universal Computer Science.3(8): 955-987.Sinclair, J.
1991.
Corpus, concordance, colloca-tion.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Soler, C. and Gil, I.
2010.
Posibilidades y l?mites de lostesauros frente a otros sistemas de organizaci?n delconocimiento: folksonom?as, taxonom?as y ontolo-g?as.
Revista Interamericana de Bibliotecolog?a,33(2): 361-377.86
