Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 304?308,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsLaughter and Topic Transition in Multiparty ConversationEmer Gilmartin, Francesca Bonin, Carl Vogel, Nick CampbellTrinity College Dublin{gilmare, boninf, vogel, nick}@tcd.ieAbstractThis study explores laughter distributionaround topic changes in multiparty conver-sations.
The distribution of shared and sololaughter around topic changes was examinedin corpora containing two types of spoken in-teraction; meetings and informal conversation.Shared laughter was significantly more fre-quent in the 15 seconds leading up to topicchange in the informal conversations.
A sam-ple of informal conversations was then anal-ysed by hand to gain further insight into linksbetween laughter and topic change.1 IntroductionHuman spoken interaction comprises a bundle ofsignals and cues, together and separately providinginformation relevant to the topic or task at hand, andserving to build or maintain social bonds.
Dialogueis multifunctional, serving social as well as informa-tion transfer goals.
Laughter is predominantly socialrather than a solo activity, is universally present inhumans, part of the ?universal human vocabulary?,innate, instinctual, and inherited from primate an-cestors (Provine, 2004; Glenn, 2003).
In conversa-tion, it predominantly punctuates rather than inter-rupts speech.
Accounts of laughter?s role range fromresponse to humour to a social cohesion or bondingmechanism used since our primate days.
It has beensuggested that laughter is often a co-operative mech-anism which can provide clues to dialogue structure(Holt, 2011).
Herein, we investigate the relevance oflaughter to topic change by analysing two corpora ofconversational speech in terms of temporal distribu-tion of laughter, first through statistical analysis oflaughter and topic change distribution, then by man-ual study of an hour of spontaneous conversation.2 Laughter and Topic ChangeConversation analysis has highlighted connectionsbetween laughter and topic change; many conver-sations in the Holt corpus of mostly two person tele-phone dialogues include laughter at topic closings(Holt, 2010).
Laughter has been linked to topicclosure in situations where one participant producesjokes or laughs, thus inviting others to join in, withthis invitation open to refusal if interlocutors con-tinue speaking on the topic at hand (Jefferson, 1979).Holt (2010) suggests that laughter may arise at topicchanges because turns consisting only of laughterare backwards looking, not adding to the last topic,and thus constituting a signal that the current topichas been exhausted and that the conversation is ata topic change relevant point.
We hypothesise thatthese laughter turns form a ?buffer?
allowing partic-ipants a reassuring moment of social bonding.
Ina meeting, there is a set agenda, a chairperson, andprotocols for moving from topic to topic.
In socialdialogue, the goal is to pass time together, and top-ics are not lined up ready for use.
Aversion to poten-tially embarrassing silence may be more pertinent ininformal conversation; thus laughter preceding topicchange may be more likely in informal dialogue.Although there is much mention of laughter inconversation analysis, it is difficult to find quanti-tative data on its distribution in spoken interaction.Previous work (Bonin et al 2012b) established thatlaughter, particularly shared laughter, is less likelyto occur in the first quarter of a topic than in the fi-nal quarter, and that this distinction is greater in so-304cial conversation.
In this work we test the hypothe-sis that laughter should be frequently found beforerather than simply around topic changes.
We ex-amine the frequency of laughter within a range ofdistances from either side of a topic change, to in-vestigate if there is a period of higher laughter fre-quency independent of topic length.
We are alsointerested in exploring whether the turns leadingto topic change follow the observations on topicchange sequences and laughter distribution in twoparty conversations in the literature.
If there areidentifiable sequences involving laughter leading totopic change, knowledge of their architecture willaid in creating algorithms for discourse recognitionand segmentation in multiparty conversation.The notion of topic in discourse has been stud-ied extensively but a concise definition is diffi-cult to find.
Topic has been described at sen-tence level (Lambrecht, 1996), at discourse level(Van Dijk, 1981); as a manifestation of speakers in-tentions (Passonneau and Litman, 1997), and as co-herent segments of discourse about the same thing(Van Dijk, 1996).
Here, we consider topic at dis-course level as a chunk of coherent content.3 CorporaWe analysed two datasets to cover free natural inter-action and more structured meetings.3.1 Topic annotation in TableTalk and AMIBoth TableTalk and AMI have topic annotationsfreely available.
TableTalk topics were annotatedmanually by two labellers at a single level; AMIannotations include top-level or core topics whosecontent reflects the main meeting structure, andsubtopics for small digressions inside the core top-ics.
Here we use the core topic segmentation whichis more in line with the TableTalk annotation.3.2 TableTalkThe TableTalk corpus contains multimodal record-ings of free flowing natural conversations amongfive participants, recorded at the Advanced Telecom-munication Research Labs in Japan (Campbell,2009).
In order to collect as natural data as possi-ble, neither topics of discussion nor activities wererestricted in advance.
Three sessions were recordedover three consecutive days in an informal settingover coffee, by three female (Australian, Finnish,and Japanese) and two male (Belgian and British)participants (Jokinen, 2009).
The conversations arefully transcribed and segmented for topic, and alsoannotated for affective state of participants and forgesture and postural communicative functions us-ing MUMIN (Allwood et al 2007).
Table-talk hasbeen analyzed in terms of engagement and laugh-ter (Bonin et al 2012a) and lexical accommodation(Vogel and Behan, 2012).
Our analyses used tran-scripts of the entire corpus: about 3h 30, 31523 to-kens and 5980 turns.
Laughter was transcribed inintervals on the speech transcription tier as @w, (un-less inserted as part of a longer utterance).
The totalnumber of laughs is 713.
Shared laughter was auto-matically annotated as described in ?4.3.3 AMIThe AMI (Augmented Multi-party Interaction)Meeting Corpus is a multimodal data set of 100hours of meeting recordings (McCowan et al2005).
The corpus contains real and scenario-drivenmeetings.
We base our analysis on the scenariobased meetings, with a total of 717,239 tokens.
Eachmeeting has four participants, and the same subjectsmeet over four different sessions to discuss a designproject.
The sessions correspond to four differentproject steps (Project kick-off meeting, FunctionalDesign, Conceptual Design and Detailed Design).Each participant is given a role to play (projectmanager, marketing expert, industrial designer anduser interface designer) and keeps this role until theend of the scenario.
Conversations are all in En-glish, with 91 native speakers and 96 non-nativespeakers participating.
There are 11,277 instancesof laughter, annotated in the transcripts as vocal-sounds/laugh.
About 25% of these laughs are anno-tated with start time only.4 Analytical methodologies4.1 Automated and manual analysesBoth corpora were also analysed automatically, anda one-hour sample of the TableTalk corpus was anal-ysed on a case-by-case basis to investigate if laugh-ter around topic change did indeed follow the pat-terns proposed in the literature.For the initial stages of ongoing manual analysis305to gain more insight into the mechanisms underly-ing laughter and topic change, a one-hour stretch ofconversation from the second day of the TableTalkwas selected for study.
The mechanism outlinedby Holt, based on Jefferson?s work on laughter andSchegloff?s topic final sequences (Schegloff, 2007),hinges on whether a laughter invitation is taken upan interlocutor in two party dialogue.
If it is, thenone or more laughter turns ensue and the likelihoodof topic change is high.
The opposite occurs whenthe interlocutor does not take up the invitation butrather continues with further talk on the topic, avert-ing topic change.
We were interested in observing ifthis phenomenon occurred in multiparty conversa-tion, and if subsequent topic change was dependenton how many of the group took up the invitation tolaugh.
As analysis of the two corpora showed higherlikelihood of laughter before topic change in moreinformal conversation, we chose to examine a sam-ple of TableTalk for preliminary study.This sample contained 1834 utterances, 36 T-event or topic change instants, and 329 laughsamong the five participants, of which 76 were solowhile the remainder contributed to a total of 68shared laugh events, all of which were manually an-notated on separate laughter tiers.
For each instanceof laughter, we also annotated the number of partic-ipants who laughed and the distance from the laugh-ter to the next topic commencement.4.2 Temporal definitions and measurementWe use an algorithm resulting from earlier work toannotate shared and solo laughter.
The algorithmwas motivated by the observation that in both cor-pora laughter was sometimes annotated with starttime only, and also that laughter in response to thesame stimulus should be considered shared laugh-ter.
These two factors taken together allow us torecover shared laughter that may be missed if wesimply count overlapping laughs of distinct speak-ers.
The algorithm defines shared laughter as: (a)overlapping laughs of distinct speakers; or (b) con-secutive laughs of distinct speakers within distance?.
We calculate ?
using the probability distributionthat successive laughs with observation of start timeonly are part of a shared laugh event, trained on asubset of overlapping laughs from the corpora.Topic changes (T-events) are the annotated timepoints where topic shifts in conversation.
Wecounted the frequency of laughter, shared laughter,and solo laughter into 5-second bins at T-event mi-nus multiples of 5 seconds (T-5, T-10, T-15, T-20) inorder to look at the laughter trend near topic termi-nation.
A meaningful threshold emerges (T-15 sec-onds) where a change in the laughter trend is vis-ible.
Hence we counted the frequency of laughterbetween T-15 and T, and T and T+15.5 Results5.1 Automated processingWe counted the frequency of laughter, shared laugh-ter, and solo laughter in 5-second bins at T- eventtime T minus multiples of 5 seconds (T-5, T-10,T-15, T-20).
Fig.
1 shows the mean frequency oflaughs per bin in TableTalk.
While in AMI the distri-bution over the bins does not show significant trends,in TableTalk, we noticed a significant change at T-15.1 Hence we take T-15 as a rational thresholdmarking some change in the laughter distribution be-fore a topic boundary in informal chat.Then we analyzed the frequency of laughter be-tween T-15 and T (we call this segment wt) andT+15 (wb).
As shown in Fig.
2, we notice a signifi-cant difference in the amount of both shared and sololaughter between topic terminations (wt) and topicbeginnings (wb).
In particular topic terminationsshow a higher frequency of laughter than topic be-ginnings.
The result holds in AMI and in TableTalk.5.2 Manual processingThe first observation from the manual analysis isthat the shared/solo laugh ratio is heavily skewed to-wards shared laughter (253 laughs were shared vs 79solo).
Laughs were combined into laugh events ac-cording to the number of participants involved.
Thelength of laugh events was significantly shorter forone-person laugh events than for shared laughter, seeFig.
3.
Distance to next topic change and number of1The laughter counts in the bins for each of T-5, T-10 and T-15 are significantly greater than random samples of 5 sec.
con-versation slices (Wilcox directed test, p < 0.002); the countsfor T-20 are not significantly greater than random slices.
Fur-ther, the counts for T-20 are significantly less than those in eachof T-15 (p < 0.02), T-10 (p < 0.02) and T-5 (p < 0.005), whilethe pairwise differences among T-15, T-10 and T-5 are not sign-ficant.
We conclude that T-15 contains an inflection point.306T?20 T?15 T?10 T?5Bin of 5 seconds from T?20 to TMean # of Laugh0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.4Figure 1: Frequency of laughter in TableTalk between T-20 and T in 5-second bins.
Bars represent the mean laughcount per binSH in wb SH in wt SO in wb SO in wtMean # of Laugh0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.4Figure 2: Shared (sh) and Solo (so) laughs in topictermination (wt) and topic beginning segments (wb)-TableTalklaughers in a laugh event, seen in Fig.
4, showed sig-nificant negative correlation (p < 0.05).6 Discussion and ConclusionOur results indicate a likelihood of shared laugherappearing in the final 15 seconds before a new topiccommences.
This is in line with the literature whichreports laughter at topic transition relevant places,and thus before a topic change.
We have also seenthat the number of people sharing laughter is re-lated to reducing distance from the laughter to thenext topic change, and that laugh events are longer1 2 3 4 5Mean length of laugh event- sec02468Figure 3: Laughter event length by number of laughers.1 2 3 4 5Mean distance tonexttopic - sec02468Figure 4: Distance to next topic by number of laughers.as more participants join in.
Models of a complex-ity adequate to predict human behaviour require ex-haustively detailed analysis of stretches of conver-sation in addition to broad statistical analysis.
Ourcombination of approaches has proven fruitful.
Sev-eral observations from the preliminary close exami-nation of the TableTalk data provide fruit for furtherresearch.
Many of the short solo laughs may be seenas responses to one?s own or another participant?scontent, while stronger solo laughs may tend to in-vite longer and stronger laughter from others, lead-ing to topic change possibilities.
An acoustic anal-ysis of the laughter will investigate this.
We alsoobserved that shared laughter among several partic-ipants which did not result in topic change were fre-quently interpretable as attempts to draw an ongo-ing topic to a close.
This merits investigation tosee whether these laugh events can be consideredtopic transition relevant places.
Analysis of speakerchanges and turn retrieval in and around these laugh-ter events is underway to model these events.307AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by the Innovation Bursaryof Trinity College Dublin, the Speech Communica-tion Lab at TCD, and by the SFI FastNet project09/IN.1/1263.
We are grateful to the anonymous re-viewers for helpful feedback.ReferencesJens Allwood, Loredana Cerrato, Kristiina Jokinen,Costanza Navarretta, and Patrizia Paggio.
2007.
Themumin coding scheme for the annotation of feedback,turn management and sequencing phenomena.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, 41(3-4):273?287.Francesca Bonin, Ronald Bo?ck, and Nick Campbell.2012a.
How do we react to context?
annotation ofindividual and group engagement in a video corpus.In SocialCom/PASSAT, pages 899?903.Francesca Bonin, Nick Campbell, and Carl Vogel.
2012b.Laughter and topic changes: Temporal distribution andinformation flow.
In Cognitive Infocommunications(CogInfoCom), 2012 IEEE 3rd International Confer-ence on, pages 53?58.Nick Campbell.
2009.
An audio-visual approach to mea-suring discourse synchrony in multimodal conversa-tion data.
In Proceedings of Interspeech 2009.P.
Glenn.
2003.
Laughter in Interaction.
Studies in Inter-actional Sociolinguistics.
Cambridge University Press.Elizabeth Holt.
2010.
The last laugh: Shared laugh-ter and topic termination.
Journal of Pragmatics,42:1513?1525.Elizabeth Holt.
2011.
On the nature of ?laughables?
:laughter as a response to overdone figurative phrases.Pragmatics, 21(3):393?410, September.Gail Jefferson.
1979.
A technique for inviting laugh-ter and its subsequent acceptance/declination.
InG Psathas, editor, Everyday language: Studies in eth-nomethodology., pages 79?96.
Irvington Publishers:New York,NY.Kristiina Jokinen.
2009.
Gaze and gesture activityin communication.
In Constantine Stephanidis, ed-itor, Universal Access in Human-Computer Interac-tion.
Intelligent and Ubiquitous Interaction Environ-ments, volume 5615 of Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-ence, pages 537?546.
Springer Berlin / Heidelberg.K.
Lambrecht.
1996.
Information Structure and Sen-tence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental Represen-tations of Discourse Referents.
Cambridge Studies inLinguistics.
Cambridge University Press.I.
McCowan, G. Lathoud, M. Lincoln, A. Lisowska,W.
Post, D. Reidsma, and P. Wellner.
2005.
The amimeeting corpus.
In In: Proceedings Measuring Be-havior 2005, 5th International Conference on Meth-ods and Techniques in Behavioral Research.
L.P.J.J.Noldus, F. Grieco, L.W.S.
Loijens and P.H.
Zimmer-man (Eds.
), Wageningen: Noldus Information Tech-nology.Rebecca J. Passonneau and Diane J. Litman.
1997.
Dis-course segmentation by human and automated means.Computational Linguistics, 23(1):103?139.Robert R. Provine.
2004.
Laughing, tickling, and theevolution of speech and self.
Current Directions inPsychological Science, 13(6):215?218.E.A.
Schegloff.
2007.
Sequence Organization in Inter-action: Volume 1: A Primer in Conversation Analysis.Cambridge University Press.Teun A.
Van Dijk, 1981.
Sentence Topic versus Dis-course Topic, pages 177?194.
Mouton.Teun A.
Van Dijk.
1996.
Discourse, power and ac-cess.
In Carmen Rosa Caldas-Coulthard and MalcolmCoulthard, editors, Texts and Practices, Readings inCritical Discourse Analysis, pages 84?104.
Routledge.Carl Vogel and Lydia Behan.
2012.
Measuringsynchrony in dialog transcripts.
In Anna Espos-ito, Antonietta M. Esposito, Alessandro Vinciarelli,Ru?diger Hoffmann, and Vincent C. Mu?ller, edi-tors, Behavioural Cognitive Systems, pages 73?88.Springer, LNCS 7403.308
