Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 52?57,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatically Assessing Whether a Text Is Cliche?d,with Applications to Literary AnalysisPaul CookDepartment of Computing and Information SystemsThe University of MelbourneVictoria 3010, Australiapaulcook@unimelb.edu.auGraeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, ON, Canada M5S 3G4gh@cs.toronto.eduAbstractCliche?s, as trite expressions, are predom-inantly multiword expressions, but not allMWEs are cliche?s.
We conduct a prelimi-nary examination of the problem of determin-ing how cliche?d a text is, taken as a whole, bycomparing it to a reference text with respectto the proportion of more-frequent n-grams, asmeasured in an external corpus.
We find thatmore-frequent n-grams are over-representedin cliche?d text.
We apply this finding to the?Eumaeus?
episode of James Joyce?s novelUlysses, which literary scholars believe to bewritten in a deliberately cliche?d style.1 Cliche?sIn the broadest sense a cliche?
is a tired, overused,unoriginal idea, whether it be in music, in the vi-sual arts, in the plot of a novel or drama, or in thelanguage of literature, journalism, or rhetoric.
Here,we are interested only in cliche?s of linguistic form.Cliche?s are overused, unoriginal expressions that ap-pear in a context where something more novel mighthave reasonably been expected, or which masquer-ade as something more original, more novel, or morecreative than they actually are.
A cliche?
is a kind ofersatz novelty or creativity that is, ipso facto, unwel-come or deprecated by the reader.
Cliche?s appear tobe intuitively recognized by readers, but are difficultto define more formally.Cliche?s are predominantly multiword expressions(MWEs) and are closely related to the idea of formu-laic language, which for Wray (2002, 2008, summa-rized in 2009) is a psycholinguistic phenomenon: aformula is stored and retrieved as a single prefabri-cated unit, without deeper semantic analysis, even ifit is made up of meaningful smaller units and regard-less of whether it is or isn?t semantically transparent.She demonstrates that formulaic language is a het-erogeneous phenomenon, encompassing many typesof MWEs including fixed expressions (Sag et al2002, e.g., whys and wherefores), semi-fixed expres-sions (e.g., hoist with/by his own petard ?injuredby that with which he would injure others?
), andsyntactically-flexible expressions (e.g., sb1 haul sb2over the coals ?reprimand severely?, allowing alsothe passive sb2 was hauled over the coals (by sb1)).Formulaic language can exhibit any of the types ofidiomaticity required by Baldwin and Kim (2010)for an expression to be considered an MWE, i.e.,lexical (de rigueur), syntactic (time and again), se-mantic (fly off the handle ?lose one?s temper?
), prag-matic (nice to see you), and statistical idiomaticity(which many of the previous examples also exhibit).Another theme relating formulaic language toMWEs is that of a common or preferred (thoughnot necessarily invariable) way for native speakers toexpress an idea, i.e., institutionalization; for exam-ple, felicitations to someone having a birthday areusually expressed as happy birthday or (largely inBritish English) many happy returns rather than anyof the many other semantically similar possibilities(#merry birthday; cf.
merry Christmas).However, formulaic language, including cliche?s,goes beyond the typical view of MWEs in that ithas a cultural aspect as well as a purely linguis-tic aspect, as it includes catchphrases and allusionsto language in popular culture, such as well-known52lines from songs, jokes, advertisements, books, andmovies (curiouser and curiouser from Lewis Car-roll?s Alice?s Adventures in Wonderland; go ahead,make my day ?I dare you to attack me or do some-thing bad, for if you do I will take great pleasure indefeating and punishing you?
from the 1983 ClintEastwood movie Sudden Impact).Furthermore, not all formulaic language iscliche?d; a weather forecast, for example, has no pre-tensions of being linguistically creative or original,but it would be a mistake to think of it as cliche?d,no matter how formulaic it might be.
Conversely,a cliche?
might not be formulaic from Wray?s psy-cholinguistic perspective ?
stored and recognizedas a single unit ?
even if its occurrence is at leastfrequent enough in relevant contexts for it to be rec-ognized as familiar, trite, and unoriginal.Finally, not all MWEs are cliche?s.
Verb?particleconstructions such as look up (?seek information ina resource?)
and clear out are common expressions,but aren?t unoriginal in the sense of being tired andover-used.
Moreover, they are not attempts at cre-ativity.
On the other hand, cliche?s are typicallyMWEs.
Some particularly long cliche?s, however,are more prototypical of proverbs than MWEs (e.g.,the grass is always greener on the other side).
Sin-gle words can also be trite and over-used, althoughthis tends to be strongly context dependent.This paper identifies cliche?s as an under-studiedproblem closely related to many issues of interestto the MWE community.
We propose a preliminarymethod for assessing the degree to which a text iscliche?d, and then show how such a method can con-tribute to literary analysis.
Specifically, we applythis approach to James Joyce?s novel Ulysses to of-fer insight into the ongoing literary debate about theuse of cliche?s in this work.2 Related workLittle research in computational linguistics hasspecifically addressed cliche?s.
The most relevantwork is that of Smith et al(2012) who propose amethod for identifying cliche?s in song lyrics, anddetermining the extent to which a song is cliche?d.Their method combines information about rhymesand the df-idf of trigrams (tf-idf, but using docu-ment frequency instead of term frequency) in songlyrics.
However, this method isn?t applicable for ourgoal of determining how cliche?d an arbitrary text iswith a focus on literary analysis, because in this caserhyming is not a typical feature of the texts.
More-over, repetition in song lyrics motivated their df-idfscore, but this is not a salient feature of the texts weconsider.In his studies of cliche?s in Ulysses, Byrnes (2012)has drawn attention to the concept of the cliche?
den-sity of a text, i.e., the number of cliche?s per unitof text (e.g., 1000 words).
Byrnes manually iden-tified cliche?s in Ulysses, but given a comprehensivecliche?
lexicon, automatically measuring cliche?
den-sity appears to be a straightforward application ofMWE identification ?
i.e., determining which to-kens in a text are part of an MWE.
Although muchresearch on identification has focused on specifickinds of MWEs (Baldwin and Kim, 2010), whereascliche?s are a mix of types, simple regular expres-sions could be used to identify many fixed and semi-fixed cliche?s.
Nevertheless, an appropriate cliche?lexicon would be required for this approach.
More-over, because of the relationship between cliche?sand culture, to be applicable to historical texts, suchas for the literary analysis of interest to us, a lexiconfor the appropriate time period would be required.Techniques for MWE extraction could potentiallybe used to (semi-) automatically build a cliche?
lex-icon.
Much work in this area has again focusedon specific types of MWEs ?
e.g., verb?particleconstructions (Baldwin, 2005) or verb?noun com-binations (Fazly et al 2009) ?
but once more theheterogeneity of cliche?s limits the applicability ofsuch approaches for extracting them.
Methods basedon strength of association ?
applied to n-gramsor words co-occurring through some other relationsuch as syntactic dependency (see Evert, 2008, foran overview) ?
could be applied to extract a widerrange of MWEs, although here most research hasfocused on two-word co-occurrences, with consid-erably less attention paid to longer MWEs.
Evenif general-purpose MWE extraction were a solvedproblem, methods would still be required to distin-guish between MWEs that are and aren?t cliche?s.533 Cliche?-density of known-cliche?d textFrequency per se is not a necessary or defining crite-rion of formulaic language.
Wray (2002) points outthat even in quite large corpora, many undoubted in-stances of formulaic language occur infrequently ornot at all; for example, Moon (1998) found that for-mulae such as kick the bucket and speak for your-self!
occurred zero times in her 18 million?wordrepresentative corpus of English.
Nevertheless ina very large corpus we?d expect a formulaic ex-pression to be more frequent than a more-creativeexpression suitable in the same context.
Viewingcliche?s as a type of formulaic language, we hypoth-esized that a highly-cliche?d text will tend to containmore n-grams whose frequency in an external cor-pus is medium or high than a less-cliche?d text of thesame size.We compared a text known to contain manycliche?s to more-standard text.
As a highly-cliche?d text we created a document consistingsolely of a sample of 1,988 cliche?s from a web-site (clichesite.com) that collects them.1 For areference ?standard?
text we used the written por-tion of the British National Corpus (BNC, Burnard,2000).
But because a longer text will tend to containa greater proportion of low-frequency n-gram types(as measured in an external corpus) than a shortertext, it is therefore crucial to our analysis that wecompare equal-size texts.
We down-sampled ourreference text to the same size as our highly-cliche?dtext, by randomly sampling sentences.For each 1?5-gram type in each document (i.e.,in the sample of cliche?s and in the sample of sen-tences from the BNC), we counted its frequency inan external corpus, the Web 1T 5-gram Corpus (Web1T, Brants and Franz, 2006).
Histograms for the fre-quencies are shown in Figure 1.
The x-axis is thelog of the frequency of the n-gram in the corpus,and the y-axis is the proportion of n-grams that hadthat frequency.
The dark histogram is for the sam-ple from the BNC, and the light histogram is for thecliche?s; the area where the two histograms overlap ismedium grey.
For 1-grams, the two histograms arequite similar; hence the following observations are1Because we don?t know the coverage of this resource, itwould not be appropriate to use it for an MWE-identificationapproach to measuring cliche?-density.not merely due to simple differences in word fre-quency.
For the 3?5-grams, the light areas show thatthe cliche?s contain many more n-gram types withmedium or high frequency in Web 1T than the sam-ple of sentences from the BNC.
For each of the 3?5-grams, the types in the sample of cliche?s are signif-icantly more frequent than those in the BNC usinga Wilcoxon rank sum test (p  0.001).
The his-togram for the 2-grams, included for completeness,is beginning to show the trend observed for the 3?5-grams, but there is no significant difference in meanfrequency in this case.This finding supports our hypothesis that cliche?dtext contains more higher-frequency n-grams thanstandard text.
In light of this finding, in the follow-ing section we apply this n-gram?based analysis tothe study of cliche?s in Ulysses.4 Assessing cliche?-density for literaryanalysisUlysses, by James Joyce, first published in 1922, isgenerally regarded as one of the greatest English-language novels of the twentieth century.
Itis divided into 18 episodes written in widelyvarying styles and genres.
For example, someepisodes are, or contain, long passages of stream-of-consciousness thought of one of the characters;another is written in catechism-style question-and-answer form; some parts are relatively conventional.Byrnes (2010, 2012) points out that it has longbeen recognized that, intuitively, some parts of thenovel are written in deliberately formulaic, cliche?dlanguage, whereas some other parts use novel, cre-ative language.
However, this intuitive impressionhad not previously been empirically substantiated.Byrnes took the simple step of actually counting thecliche?s in four episodes of the book and confirmedthe intuition.
In particular, he found that the ?Eu-maeus?
episode contained many more cliche?s thanthe other episodes considered.
However, these re-sults are based on a single annotator identifying thecliche?s ?
Byrnes himself ?
working with an infor-mal definition of the concept, and possibly biasedby expected outcomes.
By automatically and objec-tively measuring the extent to which ?Eumaeus?
iscliche?d, we can offer further evidence ?
of a verydifferent type ?
to this debate.54Figure 1: Histograms for the log frequency of n-grams in a sample of sentences from the BNC and a collection ofknown cliche?s.
1?5-grams are shown from left to right, top to bottom.We compared ?Eumaeus?
to a background textconsisting of episodes 1?2 and 4?10 of Ulysses,which are not thought to be written in a markedstyle.
Because formulaic language could vary overtime, we selected an external corpus from the timeperiod leading up to the publication of Ulysses ?the Google Books NGram Corpus (Michel et al2011) for the years 1850?1910 (specifically, the?English 2012?
version of this corpus).
We down-sampled each episode, by randomly sampling sen-tences, to the size of the smallest, to ensure that wecompared equal-size texts.Figures 2 and 3 show histograms for the fre-quencies in the external corpus of the 1?5-gramsin ?Eumaeus?
and in the background episodes.
If?Eumaeus?
is more-cliche?d than the backgroundepisodes, then, given our results in Section 3 above,we would expect it to contain more high-frequencyhigher-order n-grams.
We indeed observe this in thehistograms for the 3- and 4-grams.
The differencesfor each of the 3?5-grams are again significant us-ing Wilcoxon rank sum tests (p 0.001 for 3- and4-grams, p < 0.005 for 5-grams), although the ef-fect is less visually striking than in the analysis inSection 3, particularly for the 5-grams.
One possi-ble reason for this difference is that in the analysisin Section 3 the known-cliche?d text was artificial inthe sense that it was a list of expressions, as opposedto natural text.We further compared the mean frequency of the3-, 4-, and 5-grams in ?Eumaeus?
to that of each in-dividual background episode, again down-samplingby randomly sampling sentences, to ensure thatequal-size texts are compared.
In each case we findthat the mean n-gram frequency is highest in ?Eu-maeus?.
These results are consistent with Byrnes?sfinding that ?Eumaeus?
is written in a cliche?d style.5 ConclusionsCliche?s are an under-studied problem in computa-tional linguistics that is closely related to issues ofinterest to the MWE community.
In our prelimi-nary analysis, we showed that a highly-cliche?d textcontains more higher-frequency n-gram types than amore-standard text.
We then applied this approachto literary analysis, confirming beliefs about the useof cliche?s in the ?Eumaeus?
episode of Ulysses.55Figure 2: Histograms for the log frequency of n-grams inthe ?Eumaeus?
episode of Ulysses and episodes knownto be non-cliche?d.
1-, and 2-grams are shown on the topand bottom, respectively.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Timothy Baldwin and Bahar Salehi fortheir insightful comments on this work.
This workwas supported financially by the Natural Sciencesand Engineering Research Council of Canada.ReferencesTimothy Baldwin.
2005.
The deep lexical acquisi-tion of English verb-particle constructions.
Com-puter Speech and Language, Special Issue onMultiword Expressions, 19(4):398?414.Timothy Baldwin and Su Nam Kim.
2010.
Multi-word expressions.
In Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J.Figure 3: Histograms for the log frequency of n-grams inthe ?Eumaeus?
episode of Ulysses and episodes knownto be non-cliche?d.
3-, 4-, and 5-grams are shown on thetop, middle, and bottom, respectively.56Damerau, editors, Handbook of Natural Lan-guage Processing, Second Edition, pages 267?292.
CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA.Thorsten Brants and Alex Franz.
2006.
Web 1T 5-gram Corpus version 1.1.Lou Burnard.
2000.
The British National CorpusUsers Reference Guide.
Oxford University Com-puting Services.Robert Byrnes.
2010.
A statistical analysis ofthe ?Eumaeus?
phrasemes in James Joyce?sUlysses.
In Actes des 10es Journe?es inter-nationales d?Analyse statistique des Donne?esTextuelles / Proceedings of the 10th InternationalConference on Textual Data Statistical Analysis,pages 289?295.
Rome, Italy.Robert Byrnes.
2012.
The stylometry of cliche?density and character in James Joyce?s Ulysses.In Actes des 11es Journe?es internationalesd?Analyse statistique des Donne?es Textuelles /Proceedings of the 11th International Conferenceon Textual Data Statistical Analysis, pages 239?246.
Lie`ge, Belgium.Stefan Evert.
2008.
Corpora and collocations.
InCorpus Linguistics.
An International Handbook.Article 58.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.Afsaneh Fazly, Paul Cook, and Suzanne Stevenson.2009.
Unsupervised type and token identificationof idiomatic expressions.
Computational Linguis-tics, 35(1):61?103.Jean-Baptiste Michel, Yuan Kui Shen, Aviva PresserAiden, Adrian Veres, Matthew K. Gray, WilliamBrockman, The Google Books Team, Joseph P.Pickett, Dale Hoiberg, Dan Clancy, Peter Norvig,Jon Orwant, Steven Pinker, Martin A. Nowak, andErez Lieberman Aiden.
2011.
Quantitative anal-ysis of culture using millions of digitized books.Science, 331(6014):176?182.Rosamund Moon.
1998.
Fixed Expressions andIdioms in English: A Corpus-Based Approach.Clarendon Press.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiwordexpressions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third International Conferenceon Intelligent Text Processing and ComputationalLinguistics (CICLING 2002), pages 1?15.Alex G. Smith, Christopher X. S. Zee, and Alexan-dra L. Uitdenbogerd.
2012.
In your eyes: Iden-tifying cliche?s in song lyrics.
In Proceedings ofthe Australasian Language Technology Associa-tion Workshop 2012, pages 88?96.
Dunedin, NewZealand.Alison Wray.
2002.
Formulaic Language and theLexicon.
Cambridge University Press.Alison Wray.
2008.
Formulaic Language: Pushingthe Boundaries.
Oxford University Press.57
