Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 1?8,Atlanta, Georgia, June 14, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Tale of Two Cultures:Bringing Literary Analysis and Computational Linguistics TogetherAdam HammondDept of EnglishUniversity of Torontoadam.hammond@utoronto.caJulian BrookeDept of Computer ScienceUniversity of Torontojbrooke@cs.toronto.eduGraeme HirstDept of Computer ScienceUniversity of Torontogh@cs.toronto.eduAbstractThere are cultural barriers to collaborative effortbetween literary scholars and computational lin-guists.
In this work, we discuss some of theseproblems in the context of our ongoing researchproject, an exploration of free indirect discoursein Virginia Woolf?s To The Lighthouse, ulti-mately arguing that the advantages of takingeach field out of its ?comfort zone?
justifies theinherent difficulties.1 IntroductionWithin the field of English literature, there is a grow-ing interest in applying computational techniques, asevidenced by the growth of the Digital Humanities(Siemens et al 2004).
At the same time, a subfieldin Computational Linguistics that addresses a rangeof problems in the genre of literature is gaining mo-mentum (Mani, 2013).
Nevertheless, there are sig-nificant barriers to true collaborative work betweenliterary and computational researchers.
In this pa-per, we discuss this divide, starting from the classicrift between the two cultures of the humanities andthe sciences (Snow, 1959) and then focusing in on asingle aspect, the attitude of the two fields towardsambiguity.
Next, we introduce our ongoing collab-orative project which is an effort to bridge this gap;in particular, our annotation of Virginia Woolf?s Tothe Lighthouse for free indirect discourse, i.e.
mix-tures of objective narration and subjective speech,requires a careful eye to literary detail, and, whilenovel, interacts in interesting ways with establishedareas of Computational Linguistics.2 Background2.1 The ?Two Cultures?
ProblemSince the publication of C. P. Snow?s influentialThe Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution(Snow, 1959), the phrase ?the two cultures?
beenused to signify the rift?perceived and generallylamented?between scientific and humanities intel-lectual cultures.
The problem, of course, is the igno-rance of each culture with regard to the methods andassumptions of the other, and the resulting impos-sibility of genuine dialogue between them, prevent-ing them from working together to solve importantproblems.
Many scholars describing the recent riseof the Digital Humanities?the area of research andteaching concerned with the intersection of comput-ing and humanities disciplines?have argued that iteffects a reconciliation of the two alienated spheres,bringing scientific methodology to bear on problemswithin the humanities, many of which had previ-ously been addressed in a less-than-rigorous manner(Hockey, 2004).From within the discipline of English literature,however, the application of computational meth-ods to literary analysis has frequently been?andcontinues to be?a matter of considerable contro-versy (Hoover, 2007; Flanders, 2009).
This con-troversy arises from the perception of many tradi-tional humanists that computational analysis, whichaims to resolve dilemmas, seeking singular truthand hard-and-fast answers, is incompatible with theaims of humanistic research, which is often focusedon opening up questions for debate rather than re-solving them decisively, and often premised on the1idea that there are no right answers, only well- andpoorly-supported arguments.
Critics have respondedto these views by arguing that the best computationalliterary analysis participates in this project of open-ing up meaning, arguing that it is not a rejection ofliterary reading but rather a method for carrying itout more efficiently and extending it to more texts(Ramsay, 2007), and that computational modelling,even when unsuccessful, allows for the applicationof the scientific method and thus carries the poten-tial for intellectual advancement not possible withpurely anecdotal evidence (McCarty, 2005).
Despitesuch counter-arguments, however, the fear remainswidespread among traditional literary scholars thatthe rise of computational analysis will entail the lossof certain sacred assumptions of humanistic inquiry.2.2 Ambiguity Across the ?Cultures?We argue, though, that these fears are not withoutbasis, particularly when one considers the very dif-ferent approaches to the question of ambiguity inthe two specific disciplines involved in our project:English Literature and Computational Linguistics.Here, the rift of the two cultures remains evident.A major focus of literary scholarship since theearly twentieth century has been the semantic mul-tiplicity of literary language.
Such scholarship hasargued that literature, distinct from other forms ofdiscourse, may be deliberately ambiguous or poly-semous and that literary analysis, distinct from otheranalytic schools, should thus aim not to resolve am-biguity but to describe and explore it.
This was acentral insight of the early twentieth-century school,the New Criticism, advanced in such works asWilliam Empson?s Seven Types of Ambiguity (Emp-son, 1930) and Cleanth Brooks?s The Well WroughtUrn (Brooks, 1947), which presented ambiguity andparadox not as faults of style but as important po-etic devices.
New Criticism laid out a method ofliterary analysis centred on the explication of thecomplex tensions created by ambiguity and para-dox, without any effort to resolve them.
Also inthe first half of the twentieth century, but indepen-dently, the Russian critic Mikhail Bakhtin developedhis theory of dialogism, which valorized ?double-voiced?
or polyphonic works that introduce multi-ple, competing perspectives?particularly voices?that present conflicting ideologies (Bakhtin, 1981).Bakhtin, who wrote his seminal work ?Discourse inthe Novel?
under a Stalinist sentence of exile, par-ticularly valued works that enacted the free compe-tition of ideologically opposed voices.
In a simi-lar spirit, but independently of Bakhtin, the Germancritic Erich Auerbach described the ?multi-personalrepresentation of consciousness?, a narrative tech-nique in which the writer, typically the narrator ofobjective facts, is pushed entirely into the back-ground and the story proceeds by reflecting the in-dividual consciousnesses of the characters; Auer-bach argued that this was a defining quality of mod-ernist (early twentieth-century) literature (Auerbach,1953).
In the second half of the twentieth century,this critical emphasis on ambiguity and paradox de-veloped in an extreme form into the school of de-constructive criticism, which held a theory of thelinguistic sign according to which determinate lin-guistic meaning is considered logically impossible.Deconstructive literary analysis proceeds by seekingout internal contradictions in literary texts to supportits theory of infinitely ambiguous signification.In Computational Linguistics, by contrast, ambi-guity is almost uniformly treated as a problem to besolved; the focus is on disambiguation, with the as-sumption that one true, correct interpretation exists.In the sphere of annotation, for instance, there isan expectation that agreement between annotators,as measured by statistics such as kappa (Di Euge-nio and Glass, 2004), reach levels (generally 0.67 orhigher) where disagreements can be reasonably dis-missed as noise; the implicit assumption here is thatsubjectivity is something to be minimized.
The chal-lenge of dealing with subjectivity in CL has beennoted (Alm, 2011), and indeed there are rare exam-ples in the field where multiple interpretations havebeen considered during evaluations?for instance,work in lexical cohesion (Morris and Hirst, 2005)and in using annotator disagreements as an indicatorthat two words are of similar orientation (Taboadaet al 2011)?but they are the exception.
Work inCL focused on literary texts tends towards aspectsof the texts which readers would not find particu-larly ambiguous, for example identifying major nar-rative threads (Wallace, 2012) or distinguishing au-thor gender (Luyckx et al 2006).23 A Collaborative Research AgendaThe obvious solution to the problem of the ?twocultures?
?and one that has often been proposed(Friedlander, 2009)?is interdisciplinary collabora-tion.
But while there are many computational lin-guists working in literary topics such as genre,and many literary scholars performing computa-tional analysis of literature, genuine collaborationbetween the disciplines remains quite rare.
Over thepast two years, we have undertaken two collabora-tive projects?one mostly complete, one ongoing?which aim at such genuine collaboration, and in sodoing seek to bridge the real rift between scientificand humanities cultures.1 Each of these projectsis multi-faceted, seeking (a) to produce meaningfulresearch within both disciplines of ComputationalLinguistics and English Literature; (b) to provideeducational experience which broadens the disci-plinary horizons of the undergraduate students in-volved in the projects; and (c) to provide a modelof collaborative research that will spur further such?culture-spanning?
projects.Each of our projects was launched in the contextof a course entitled ?The Digital Text?
offered by theDepartment of English at the University of Toronto.The first author, whose background is in English Lit-erature, is instructor of the course, while the sec-ond author, a graduate student in Computer Science,was assigned as a teaching assistant.
Working to-gether with the third author, we have designed theseprojects collaboratively.The first project, which we call ?He Do thePolice in Different Voices?,2 was carried out in2011?12 (Hammond, 2013).
Focused on a ?multi-personal?
poem, The Waste Land (1922) by T.S.Eliot, it encompassed each of the three aspects ofour projects outlined above; in particular, it was mo-tivated by a research question of interest to both dis-ciplines: could we identify the points in The WasteLand where the style changes, where one ?voice?gives way to another?
A computational approach1In addition, the third author was part of a separate collabo-rative project between our departments (Le et al 2011), thoughthe aim of that project was not literary analysis.2This is a reference to Eliot?s working title for The WasteLand, which in itself is a reference to a talented storyteller inOur Mutual Friend by Charles Dickens; another Dickens novelis alluded to in the title of this paper.promised to bring added rigor as well as a degreeof objectivity to this question, which humanitiesmethods had proven unable to resolve in almost acentury of debate.
Both because poetry is densein signification, and because the multiple voices inThe Waste Land are a deliberate effect achieved bya single author rather than a disguised piecing to-gether of the works of multiple authors, the ques-tion provided a meaningful challenge to the com-putational approach, an unsupervised vector-spacemodel which first segments by identifying pointsof stylistic change (Brooke et al 2012) and thenclusters the resulting segments together into voices(Brooke et al 2013).This research project was tightly integrated intothe curriculum of ?The Digital Text?.
Students wereinstructed in the use of the Text Encoding Initiative(TEI) XML guidelines,3 and each of the studentsprovided one annotation related to voice as part ofa marked assignment.
Students also participated inan online poll in which they indicated every instancein which they perceived a vocal switch in the poem,and their responses were used in the construction ofa gold standard for the evaluation of our computa-tional approach.Once they were complete, we developed our re-sults into a publicly accessible website.4 This web-site promises to encourage collaboration betweenliterary scholars and computational linguists by ex-plaining the project and our results in language ac-cessible to both, and by producing a new digital edi-tion of the poem based on our findings.
Human andcomputer readings of the poem are presented side-by-side on the website, to demonstrate that each in-terprets the poem in different ways, but that neitherof these methods is absolutely valid.
Rather, we en-courage website visitors to decide for themselveswhere they believe that the vocal switches occur,and we provide an interactive interface for divid-ing the poem up according to their own interpreta-tion.
In addition to serving as a model of collabora-tion between English Literature and ComputationalLinguistics?and also serving as a teaching tool forinstructors of The Waste Land at any level?the siteis thus useful to us as a source of further data.3http://www.tei-c.org/Guidelines/4http://www.hedothepolice.org34 The ?Brown Stocking?
Project4.1 Free Indirect Discourse in To theLighthouseOur second, ongoing project, ?The Brown Stock-ing?, focuses on a literary text deliberately chosenfor its deeply ambiguous, polysemous, dialogic na-ture: Virginia Woolf?s (1927) To the Lighthouse(TTL).
Woolf?s novel was produced at the same timethat critical theories of ambiguity and polyvocalitywere being developed, and indeed was taken as acentral example by many critics.
Our project takesits title from the final chapter of Erich Auerbach?sMimesis, in which Auerbach presents TTL as therepresentative text of modernist literature?s ?mul-tipersonal representation of consciousness?
(Auer-bach, 1953).
For Auerbach, there are two prin-cipal distinguishing features in Woolf?s narrativestyle.
The first is the tendency, already noted, to ?re-flect?
incidents through the subjective perspectivesof characters rather than presenting them from theobjective viewpoint of the author; thus TTL becomesa work in which there is more than one order and in-terpretation.
Woolf?s technique not only introducesmultiple interpretations, however, but also blurs thetransitions between individual perspectives, makingit difficult to know in many instances who is speak-ing or thinking.Woolf achieves this double effect?multiple sub-jective impressions combined with obscuring of thelines separating them from the narrator and from oneanother?chiefly through the narrative technique offree indirect discourse (also known as free indirectstyle).
Whereas direct discourse reports the actualwords or thoughts of a character, and indirect dis-course summarizes the thoughts or words of a char-acter in the words of the entity reporting them, freeindirect discourse (FID) is a mixture of narrative anddirect discourse (Abrams, 1999).
As in indirect dis-course, the narrator employs third-person pronouns,but unlike indirect discourse, the narrator includeswords and expressions that indicate subjective orpersonalized aspects clearly distinct from the narra-tor?s style.
For example, in the opening sentences ofTTL:?Yes, of course, if it?s fine tomorrow,?
said Mrs.Ramsay.
?But you?ll have to be up with thelark,?
she added.
To her son these words con-veyed an extraordinary joy, as if it were settled,the expedition were bound to take place, andthe wonder to which he had looked forward, foryears and years it seemed, was, after a night?sdarkness and a day?s sail, within touch.we are presented with two spans of objective nar-ration (said Mrs. Ramsay and she added) and twopassages of direct discourse, in which the narratorintroduces the actual words of Mrs. Ramsay (?Yes,of course, if it?s fine tomorrow?
and ?But you?ll haveto be up with the lark?).
The rest of the passage ispresented in FID, mixing together the voices of thenarrator, Mrs. Ramsay, and her son James: while theuse of third-person pronouns and the past tense andclearly indicates the voice of the narrator, phrasessuch as for years and years it seemed clearly presenta subjective perspective.In FID?s mixing of voices, an element of uncer-tainty is inevitably present.
While we can be con-fident of the identity of the voice speaking certainwords, it remains unclear whether other words be-long to the narrator or a character; in this case, itis not clear whether for years and years it seemedpresents James?s actual thoughts, Mrs. Ramsay?ssummary of her son?s thoughts, the narrator?s sum-mary of James?s thoughts, the narrator?s summaryof Mrs. Ramsay?s summary of James?s thoughts, etc.Abrams (1999) emphasizes uncertainty as a definingtrait of FID: the term ?refers to the way, in many nar-ratives, that the reports of what a character says andthinks shift in pronouns, adverbs, and grammaticalmode, as we move?or sometimes hover?betweenthe direct narrated reproductions of these events asthey occur to the character and the indirect repre-sentation of such events by the narrator?.
FID, withits uncertain ?hovering?, is used throughout TTL;it is the principal technical means by which Woolfproduces ambiguity, dialogism, and polysemy in thetext.
It is thus the central focus of our project.In Literary Studies, Toolan (2008) was perhapsthe first to discuss the possibility of automatic recog-nition of FID, but his work was limited to a verysmall, very informal experiment using a few a pri-ori features, with no implementation or quantita-tive analysis of the results.
Though we are notaware of work in Computational Linguistics thatdeals with this kind of subjectivity in literature?FID is included in the narrative annotation schema4of Mani (2013), but it is not given any particularattention within that framework?there are obviousconnections with sentence-level subjectivity analy-sis (Wilson et al 2005) and various other stylis-tic tasks, including authorship profiling (Argamonet al 2007).
Since the subjective nature of thesepassages is often expressed through specific lexicalchoice, it would be interesting to see if sentimentdictionaries (Taboada et al 2011) or other stylisticlexical resources such as dictionaries of lexical for-mality (Brooke et al 2010) could be useful.4.2 Our ApproachOur project is proceeding in four stages: an initialround of student annotation, a second round of stu-dent annotation, computational analysis of these an-notations, and the development of a project website.In the first stage, we had 160 students mark up a pas-sage of between 100?150 words in accordance withTEI guidelines.
Students were instructed to use theTEI said element to enclose any instance of char-acter speech, to identify the character whose speechis being introduced, and to classify each of these in-stances as either direct, indirect, or free indirect dis-course and as either spoken aloud or thought silently.Because there are often several valid ways of inter-preting a given passage, and because we are inter-ested in how different students respond to the samepassage, each 100?150 word span was assigned tothree or four students.
This first round of annotationfocused only on the first four chapters of TTL.
Rawaverage agreement of the various annotations at thelevel of the word was slightly less than 70%,5 andthough we hope to do better in our second round,levels of agreement typically required are likely tobe beyond our reach due to the nature of the task.For example, all four sudents responsible for thepassage cited above agreed on the tagging of the firsttwo sentences; however, two students read the thirdsentence as FID mixing the voices of the narratorand Mrs. Ramsay, and two read it as FID mixingthe voice of the narrator and James.
Though theydisagree, these are both valid interpretations of the5Since each passage was tagged by a different set of stu-dents, we cannot apply traditional kappa measures.
Raw agree-ment overestimates success, since unlike kappa it does notdiscount random agreement, which in this case varies widelyacross the different kinds of annotation.passage.In the second round of annotation, with 160 dif-ferent student annotators assigned slightly longerspans of 200?300 words, we are focusing on thefinal seven chapters of TTL.
We have made sev-eral minor changes to our annotation guidelines, andtwo significant changes.
First, we now ask that inevery span of text which students identify as FID,they explicitly identify the words that they regardas clearly coming from the subjective perspectiveof the character.
We believe this will help studentsmake a valid, defensible annotation, and it may alsohelp with the computational analysis to follow.
Sec-ond, we are also allowing embedded tags, for in-stances of direct or indirect discourse within spansof FID, which were confusing to students in the ini-tial round.
For instance, students would now be ableto tag the above-cited passage of as a span of FIDmixing the narrator?s and Mrs. Ramsay?s words, in-side of which Mrs. Ramsay introduces an indirect-discourse rendering of her son?s thoughts.
Movingfrom a flat to a recursive representation will natu-rally result in additional complexity, but we believeit is necessary to capture what is happening in thetext.Once this second round of tagging is complete, wewill begin our computational analysis.
The aim is tosee whether we can use supervised machine learn-ing to replicate the way that second-year studentsenrolled in a rigorous English literature program re-spond to a highly complex text such as TTL.
Weare interested to see whether the subjective, messydata of the students can be used to train a usefulmodel, even if it is inadequate as a gold standard.If successful, this algorithm could be deployed onthe remaining, untagged sections of TTL (i.e.
ev-erything between the first four and last seven chap-ters) and produce meaningful readings of the text.It would proceed by (a) identifying passages of FID(that is, passages in which it is unclear whether aparticular word belongs to the narrator or a char-acter); (b) making an interpretation of that passage(hypothesizing as to which particular voices are be-ing mixed); and (c) judging the likely validity ofthis interpretation.
It would seek not only to identifyspans of vocal ambiguity, but also to describe them,as far as possible.
It would thus not aim strictlyat disambiguation?at producing a right-or-wrong5reading of the text?but rather at producing the bestpossible interpretation.
The readings thus generatedcould then be reviewed by an independent expert asa form of evaluation.Finally, we will develop an interactive website forthe project.
It will describe the background and aimsof the project, present the results from the first threestages of the project, and also include an interfaceallowing visitors to the site to annotate the text forthe same features as the students (via a Javascript in-terface, i.e.
without having to manipulate the XMLmarkup directly).
This will provide further annota-tion data for our project, as well as giving instruc-tors in English Literature and Digital Humanities aresource to use in their teaching.5 DiscussionWe believe our approach has numerous benefits onboth sides of the divide.
From a research perspec-tive, the inter-disciplinary approach forces partici-pants from both English Literature and Computa-tional Linguistics to reconsider some of their funda-mental disciplinary assumptions.
The project takeshumanities literary scholarship out of its ?comfortzone?
by introducing alien and unfamiliar method-ologies such as machine learning, as well as by itsbasic premise that FID?by definition, a momentof uncertainty where the question of who is speak-ing is unresolved?can be detected automatically.Even though many of these problems can be linkedwith classic Computational Linguistics research ar-eas, the project likewise takes Computational Lin-guistics out of its comfort zone by seeking not toresolve ambiguity but rather to identify it and, as faras possible, describe it.
It presents an opportunityfor a computational approach to take into account aprimary insight of twentieth-century literary schol-arship: that ambiguity and subjectivity are often de-sirable, intentional qualities of literary language, notproblems to be solved.
It promises literary scholar-ship a method for extending time-consuming, labo-rious human literary readings very rapidly to a vastnumber of literary texts, the possible applications ofwhich are unclear at this early stage, but are surelygreat.While many current major projects in computer-assisted literary analysis operate on a ?big-data?model, drawing conclusions from analysis of vastnumbers of lightly annotated texts, we see advan-tages in our own method of beginning with a fewheavily-annotated texts and working outward.
Tra-ditional literary scholars often object that ?big-data?readings take little or no account of subjective, hu-man responses to literary texts; likewise, they findthe broad conclusions of such projects (that the nine-teenth century novel moves from telling to show-ing (Heuser and Le-Khac, 2012); that Austen ismore influential than Dickens (Jockers, 2012)) dif-ficult to test (or reconcile) with traditional literaryscholarship.
The specific method we are pursuing?taking a great number of individual human read-ings of a complex literary text and using them asthe basis for developing a general understanding ofhow FID works?promises to move literary analysisbeyond merely ?subjective?
readings without, how-ever, denying the basis of all literary reading in indi-vidual, subjective responses.
Our method indeed ap-proaches the condition of a multi-voiced modernistliterary work like TTL, in which, as Erich Auerbachperceived, ?overlapping, complementing, and con-tradiction yield something that we might call a syn-thesized cosmic view?.
We too are building our syn-thetic understanding out of the diverse, often contra-dictory, responses of individual human readers.Developing this project in an educationalcontext?basing our project on readings developedby students as part of marked assignments for?The Digital Text?
?is likewise beneficial to bothcultures.
It forces humanities undergraduatesout of their comfort zone by asking them to turntheir individual close readings of the text into anexplicit, machine-readable representation (in thiscase, XML).
Recognizing the importance of asharable language for expressing literary featuresin machine-readable way, we have employed thestandard TEI guidelines mark-up with as fewcustomizations as possible, rather than developingour own annotation language from the ground up.The assignment asks students, however, to reflectcritically on whether such explicit languages canever adequately capture the polyvalent structuresof meaning in literary texts; that is, whether therewill always necessarily be possibilities that can?tbe captured in the tag set, and whether, as such, analgorithmic process can ever really ?read?
literature6in a useful way.
At the same time, this methodhas potentially great benefits to the developmentof such algorithmic readings, precisely by makingavailable machine-readable approximations of howreaders belonging to another ?culture?
?humanitiesundergraduates?respond to a challenging literarytext.
Such annotations would not be possible froma pool of annotators trained in the sciences, butcould only come from students of the humanitieswith a basic understanding of XML.
We do notbelieve, for example, workers on Amazon Mechan-ical Turk could reliably be used for this purpose,though it might be interesting to compare our?studentsourcing?
with traditional crowdsourcingtechniques.Our approach also faces several important chal-lenges.
Certainly the largest is whether an algo-rithmic criticism can be developed that could cometo terms with ambiguity.
The discipline of literarystudies has long taught its students to accept whatthe poet John Keats called ?negative capability, thatis, when a man is capable of being in uncertainties,mysteries, doubts, without any irritable searching af-ter fact and reason?
(Keats, 2002).
Computationalanalysis may simply be too fundamentally premisedon ?irritable searching after fact and reason?
to becapable of ?existing in uncertainty?
in the manner ofmany human literary readers.
Even if we are able todevelop a successful algorithmic method of detect-ing FID in Woolf, this method may not prove appli-cable to other literary texts, which may employ thedevice in highly individual manners; TTL may provesimply too complex?and employ too much FID?to serve as a representative sample text.
At a morepractical level, even trained literature students do notproduce perfect annotations: they make errors bothin XML syntax and in their literary interpretation ofTTL, a text that proves elusive even for some spe-cialists.
Since we do not want our algorithm to baseits readings on invalid student readings (for instance,readings that attribute speech to a character clearlynot involved in the scene), we face the challenge ofweeding out bad student readings?and we will facethe same challenge once readings begin to be sub-mitted by visitors to the website.
These diverse read-ings do, however, also present an interesting possi-bility, which we did not originally foresee: the de-velopment of a reader-response ?map?
showing howhuman readers actually interpret (and in many casesmisinterpret) complex modernist texts like TTL.6 ConclusionDespite the philosophical and technical chal-lenges that face researchers in this growing multi-disciplinary area, we are increasingly optimistic thatcollaboration between computational and literary re-searchers is not only possible, but highly desirable.Interesting phenomena such as FID, this surprisingmelding of objective and personal perspective thatis the subject of the current project, requires expertsin both fields working together to identify, annotate,and ultimately model.
Though fully resolving therift between our two cultures is not, perhaps, a feasi-ble goal, we argue that even this early and tentativecollaboration has demonstrated the potential benefitson both sides.AcknowledgementsThis work was financially supported by the So-cial Sciences and Humanities Research Council ofCanada and the Natural Sciences and EngineeringResearch Council of Canada.ReferencesM.
H. Abrams.
1999.
A Glossary of Literary Terms.Harcourt Brace, Toronto, 7th edition.Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm.
2011.
Subjective natural lan-guage problems: Motivations, applications, charac-terizations, and implications.
In Proceedings of the49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,pages 107?112.Shlomo Argamon, Casey Whitelaw, Paul Chase, Sob-han Raj Hota, Navendu Garg, and Shlomo Levitan.2007.
Stylistic text classification using functional lex-ical features.
Journal of the American Society for In-formation Science and Technology, 7:91?109.Erich Auerbach.
1953.
Mimesis: The Representationof Reality in Western Literature.
Princeton UniversityPress, Princeton, NJ.Mikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtin.
1981.
Discourse inthe novel.
In Michael Holquist, editor, The DialogicImagination: Four Essays, pages 259?422.
Austin:Univeristy of Texas Press.Julian Brooke, Tong Wang, and Graeme Hirst.
2010.
Au-tomatic acquisition of lexical formality.
In Proceed-7ings of the 23rd International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics (COLING ?10), Beijing.Julian Brooke, Adam Hammond, and Graeme Hirst.2012.
Unsupervised stylistic segmentation of poetrywith change curves and extrinsic features.
In Proceed-ings of the 1st Workshop on Computational Literaturefor Literature (CLFL ?12), Montreal.Julian Brooke, Graeme Hirst, and Adam Hammond.2013.
Clustering voices in the Waste Land.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Computational Lit-erature for Literature (CLFL ?13), Atlanta.Cleanth Brooks.
1947.
The Well Wrought Urn.
HarcourtBrace, New York.Barbara Di Eugenio and Michael Glass.
2004.
The kappastatistic: a second look.
Computational Linguistics,30(1):95?101, March.T.S.
Eliot.
1971.
The Waste Land.
In The CompletePoems and Plays, 1909?1950, pages 37?55.
HarcourtBrace Jovanovich, New York.William Empson.
1930.
Seven Types of Ambiguity.Chatto and Windus, London.Julia Flanders.
2009.
Data and wisdom: Electronic edit-ing and the quantification of knowledge.
Literary andLinguistic Computing, 24(1):53?62.Amy Friedlander.
2009.
Asking questions and build-ing a research agenda for digital scholarship.
Work-ing Together or Apart: Promoting the Next Generationof Digital Scholarship.
Report of a Workshop Cospon-sored by the Council on Library and Information Re-sources and The National Endowment for the Human-ities, March.Adam Hammond.
2013.
He do the police in differentvoices: Looking for voices in The Waste Land.
Sem-inar: ?Mapping the Fictional Voice?
American Com-parative Literature Association (ACLA).Ryan Heuser and Long Le-Khac.
2012.
A quantita-tive literary history of 2,958 nineteenth-century Britishnovels: The semantic cohort method.
Stanford Lit-erary Lab Pamphlet No.
4. http://litlab.stanford.edu/LiteraryLabPamphlet4.pdf .Susan Hockey.
2004.
The history of humanities com-puting.
In Ray Siemens, Susan Schreibman, and JohnUnsworth, editors, A Companion to Digital Humani-ties.
Blackwell, Oxford.David L. Hoover.
2007.
Quantitative analysis and lit-erary studies.
In Ray Siemens and Susan Schreib-man, editors, A Companion to Digital Literary Studies.Blackwell, Oxford.Matthew L. Jockers.
2012.
Computing and visualiz-ing the 19th-century literary genome.
Presented at theDigital Humanities Conference.
Hamburg.John Keats.
2002.
Selected Letters.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford.Xuan Le, Ian Lancashire, Graeme Hirst, and ReginaJokel.
2011.
Longitudinal detection of dementiathrough lexical and syntactic changes in writing: Acase study of three British novelists.
Literary and Lin-guistic Computing, 26(4):435?461.Kim Luyckx, Walter Daelemans, and Edward Vanhoutte.2006.
Stylogenetics: Clustering-based stylistic analy-sis of literary corpora.
In Proceedings of the 5th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC ?06), Genoa, Italy.Inderjeet Mani.
2013.
Computational Modeling of Nar-rative.
Morgan & Claypool.Willard McCarty.
2005.
Humanities Computing.
Pal-grave Macmillan, New York.Jane Morris and Graeme Hirst.
2005.
The subjectivityof lexical cohesion in text.
In James G. Shanahan, YanQu, and Janyce M. Wiebe, editors, Computing Attitudeand Affect in Text.
Springer, Dordrecht, The Nether-lands.Stephen Ramsay.
2007.
Algorithmic criticism.
In RaySiemens and Susan Schreibman, editors, A Companionto Digital Literary Studies.
Blackwell, Oxford.Ray Siemens, Susan Schreibman, and John Unsworth,editors.
2004.
A Companion to Digital Humanities.Blackwell, Oxford.C.
P. Snow.
1959.
The Two Cultures and the ScientificRevolution.
Cambridge University Press, New York.Maite Taboada, Julian Brooke, Milan Tofiloski, KimberlyVoll, and Manfred Stede.
2011.
Lexicon-based meth-ods for sentiment analysis.
Computational Linguis-tics, 37(2):267?307.Michael Toolan.
2008.
Narrative progression in the shortstory: First steps in a corpus stylistic approach.
Nar-rative, 16(2):105?120.Byron Wallace.
2012.
Multiple narrative disentangle-ment: Unraveling Infinite Jest.
In Proceedings of the2012 Conference of the North American Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-man Language Technologies, pages 1?10, Montre?al,Canada, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-levelsentiment analysis.
In Proceedings of the conferenceon Human Language Technology and Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, HLT/EMNLP?05, pages 347?354.Virginia Woolf.
1927.
To the Lighthouse.
Hogarth, Lon-don.8
