Proceedings of the The 1st Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 38?46,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Semantic Tool for Historical EventsRyan ShawSchool of Information and Library ScienceUniversity of North Carolina at Chapel Hillryanshaw@unc.eduAbstractI present a set of functional requirements for aspeculative tool informing users about eventsin historical discourse, in order to demonstratewhat these requirements imply about how weshould define and represent historical events.The functions include individuation, selection,and contextualization of events.
I concludethat a tool providing these functions wouldneed events to be defined and represented asfeatures of discourses about the world ratherthan objectively existing things in the world.1 IntroductionMost work in NLP on detecting and representingevents tacitly adopts a theory of events that can betraced to Donald Davidson.
The advantage of thistheory is that it promises to provide a solid founda-tion for consensus on how to define and individuateevents.
But that consensus will be useful for spe-cific domains of application only to the extent thatit aligns with the way events are conceptualized inthose domains.
In domains where events serve con-ceptual functions that differ significantly from theones assumed by that consensus, it may actually re-tard the development of practical tools.History is one such domain.
Automatic detectionof events and their coreference relations would bea powerful tool for working with and learning fromcollections of historical texts.
But events as concep-tualized by historians differ in significant ways fromevents as theorized by analytic philosophers.
Ratherthan attempting to formulate an alternative theory, Iinstead present a set of high-level requirements fora speculative tool that would benefit from automaticdetection of historical events and their coreferencerelations.
That is, rather than looking for a founda-tional theory to guide the definition and representa-tion of events, I start by envisioning a useful tool andthen try to determine how events would need to bedefined and represented in order to create that tool.The speculative vision I present is a semantictool for informing users about events in historicaldiscourse.
A semantic tool is any instrument thatcan inform its users about concepts of interest insome domain, various names or terms associatedwith those concepts, and relationships among con-cepts (Hj?rland, 2007).
Examples include dictionar-ies, gazetteers, taxonomies, thesauri, and ontologies.I have purposefully chosen to present a highlyspeculative, ?blue sky?
vision for two reasons.
First,I want to ensure the relevance of my points to theNLP community by describing a tool that wouldonly be feasible to build given successful automaticdetection and representation of historical events andtheir coreference relations.
Second, a less ambitiousvision would not as clearly demonstrate the gap sep-arating historians?
conceptualizations of events fromthose of analytic philosophers.2 Individuating EventsThe first requirement is individuation.
To be able toindividuate entities is to be able to distinguish themfrom others.
Any system that consists of individualrecords describing entities presumes some way ofindividuating those entities.
But in practice individ-uation is far from simple.
Bibliographic organiza-tion, for example, is plagued by the problem of when38to consider two documents to be ?the same?.
Theproblem is worse for conceptual resources such asevents.
A semantic tool consisting of records iden-tifying and describing events needs to employ someprinciples of individuation.
The principles need toresult in records with values sufficiently differentthat a user can distinguish between them and selectthe one he wants.Philosophers have long debated how to individu-ate events.
The problem is a deep one, as it is relatedto debates over the ontological status of events.
Tocrudely simplify these debates, I characterize twobasic positions, one which takes events to be con-crete individual items in the world, and one whichtakes events to be products of language (specificallynarrative language).
My goal here is not to get intothe specifics of the ontological debate but only togive a sense of the spectrum of different possible ap-proaches to the individuation of events.2.1 Events as Concrete Individual ThingsThe philosopher Donald Davidson believed that thestructure of our natural language reflects the struc-ture of reality.
He argued that successful com-munication depends upon the communicators hav-ing ?a largely correct, shared, view of the world?and that, since natural language is successfully usedfor communication, we can reach conclusions aboutthe nature of the world by studying natural lan-guage (Davidson, 1977, p. 244).
Using this ap-proach to metaphysics, Davidson wrote a famous se-ries of essays on the nature of events as indicatedby our use of language (Davidson, 2001).
The cruxof his argument was that our use of language seemsto indicate a difference between events and descrip-tions of events.
Consider the following sentences:1.
Barack Obama signed the health care reformbill.2.
Barack Obama joyfully signed the health carereform bill with 22 pens in the East Room ofthe White House on March 23, 2010 (Stolbergand Pear, 2010).Davidson argued that, intuitively, we want to saythat these sentences all describe or refer to ?the sameevent.?
If we trust our intuition we are led to be-lieve that there is something in reality?the event?to which all these sentences refer.
Davidson soughtto bolster that intuition by demonstrating that, with-out the notion of an event as a concrete entity with alocation in space and time, we cannot make sense ofcertain logical relationships among statements, forexample the fact that each sentence in the list aboveis understood to entail the previous sentences.Davidson argued that natural language sentencessuch as these can be translated into a ?logical form?that captures their meanings and the relationshipsbetween their meanings.
The logical form of a sen-tence is expressed using first-order logic.
First-orderlogic is distinguished by its use of quantifiers to en-able the expression of generalizations like Every-thing that thinks is alive (universal quantification)and assertions like There is something that thinks(existential quantification).
Davidson held that sen-tences like the ones above existentially quantify overevents.
For example, the logical form of the sec-ond sentence above would be something like (para-phrasing first-order logic) There exists something Xsuch that it is the event of Barack Obama signing thehealth care reform bill, and X was done joyfully, andX was done with 22 pens.
What the logical formsof the sentences above have in common, Davidsonbelieved, was this X, the event that is their sharedreferent and the existence of which they commonlyassert, despite the different modifications that followthis assertion (Davidson, 2001a).2.2 Events as Abstractions from NarrativesDavidson?s argument, which I have not done justiceto here, is a strong one and has become the main-stream position on events among analytic philoso-phers.
Ideas like Davidson?s lie behind efforts toautomatically ?detect?
and ?extract?
events by ana-lyzing texts.
Certainly given sentences like the onesabove, and the kinds of sentences Davidson typicallyuses as examples, the intuition that the sentences all?refer?
to the same concrete event is strong.
Butconsider the following sentences:3.
On March 23, 2010, with the strokes of 22pens, Barack Obama transformed the UnitedStates into a socialist country.4.
On March 23, 2010, with the strokes of 22pens, Barack Obama ensured a more equitablefuture for the children of the United States.39Do these sentences ?refer?
to ?the same event?as the previous sentences?
Let?s assume that thecontext of these last two sentences is such that itis clear that the writer intended to comment uponthe health care reform bill, and not something elseBarack Obama did with a pen that day.
On the onehand, it seems correct to say that these sentencestoo refer to the same event as the earlier sentences.But on the other hand, it doesn?t seem incorrect tosay that these sentences refer to two different events.The first event is one in which a closet radical whohas managed to fool a capitalist country into elect-ing him president finally realizes the first step in hissecret agenda.
The second event is one in which aliberal hero finally overcomes the forces of wealthand power to strike a blow for the little guy.Sentences 3 and 4 are notable for their strongpoint of view.
In that sense, they are more typ-ical of the kind of sentences found in historicalnarratives.
As the philosopher of history FrankAnkersmit (1983, p. 173) noted, ?the differences be-tween descriptions given by historians of what is stillfelt to be the same event may be of a more dramaticnature than in the case of scientific descriptions.
?As a result, the question of whether events can beseparated from sentences becomes a little less clear.It becomes even less clear when one considers notjust individual sentences, but whole texts.
The histo-rian William Cronon (1992) compared two books onthe long drought that struck the Midwestern plainsof the U.S. in the 1930s, known as the Dust Bowl.Cronon found that despite covering the same span oftime and region of space, the two books constructedtwo very different Dust Bowls: one a triumph of hu-man spirit over natural disaster, the other a human-wrought ecological disaster.It was these kinds of contrasts that led the philoso-pher Louis Mink (1978) to claim thatwe cannot without confusion regarddifferent narratives as differently emplot-ting the ?same?
events.
We need a dif-ferent way of thinking about narrative.?Events?
(or more precisely, descriptionsof events) are not the raw material out ofwhich narratives are constructed; rather anevent is an abstraction from a narrative.
(p.147)Mink argued, contrary to Davidson, that eventsare not concrete things existing apart from and re-ferred to by sentences, but are ways of summariz-ing sets of sentence organized into narratives.
Ofcourse, with his qualifying ?more precisely, descrip-tions of events?
Mink left the door open to the claimthat he too was making a distinction between con-crete events existing in the world and the sentencesor parts of sentences describing those events.
Mink?spoint, however, was that in history events and de-scriptions of events are interchangeable; we cannotidentify events except by narrating them and decid-ing whether or not to conclude that two narrativesare, in the abstract, sufficiently similar to say thatthey emplot the ?same?
events.2.3 Criteria for Individuating EventsMy view on the nature of events is closer to Mink?sthan it is to Davidson?s.
Yet Davidson is clearlyright that there are times when we wish to say thattwo sentences refer to the same event, or that twotexts have the same event as their subject.
Withoutconclusively settling questions about the ontologicalstatus of events, we can nevertheless conclude thatthe criteria for individuating events can vary.
Wecan see this by looking at how the two positions onthe nature of events lead to different criteria for in-dividuating them.Davidson claimed that events are concrete indi-vidual things that we can count.
He recognized thatthis claim, to be credible, required some principlefor counting?some principle for deciding whetherthere is one event or two.
In practice, David-son (2001c) noted, we do seem to successfullycount events, since ?rings of the bell, major wars,eclipses of the moon and performances of Lulu canbe counted as easily as pencils, pots and people?
(p.180).
So, he asked, what are the criteria of individu-ation?
He argued thatEvents are identical if and only ifthey have exactly the same causes and ef-fects.
Events have a unique position inthe framework of causal relations betweenevents in somewhat the way objects havea unique position in the spatial frameworkof objects.
(Davidson, 2001c, p. 179)Davidson?s proposal is interesting because it40seems to suggest that Mink was correct when heargued that two narratives cannot differently em-plot the ?same?
event.
If to emplot an event is toplace it in a nexus of causal and contingent rela-tions, then two differently emplotted events are, un-der Davidson?s criteria, two different events.
ButDavidson did not consider narratives to establishtrue causal relations.
When Davidson wrote of the?causal nexus,?
he seemed to have in mind some-thing like what Laplace?s demon might see: the onetrue set of causal relations as determined by scien-tific laws.
Historical narratives, on the other hand,he considered to be just ?causal stories?
or ?rudi-mentary causal explanations?
and not true causal re-lations, and thus presumably not suitable for indi-viduating events (Davidson, 2001b, p. 161?162).Later Davidson (1985), in response to a critiqueby Quine (1985), abandoned his proposal that causalrelations individuate events.
He accepted (withsome reservations) the alternative criteria suggestedby Quine that events are the same if they occupy thesame space at the same time.
This raises the problemof deciding deciding how, or whether, events occupyspace and time.
But both Quine and Davidson re-mained wedded to the idea that events are concreteindividual things, and thus that there are some trueset of individuation criteria for events, even thoughthose criteria may be complex, and even though inmany cases we may not be able to actually satisfythose criteria well enough to ascertain identity.
Incontrast, consider the historian Paul Veyne?s (1984)declaration thatevents are not things, consistent ob-jects, substances; they are a de?coupage wefreely make in reality, an aggregate of theprocesses in which substances, men, andthings interact.
Events have no naturalunity; one cannot .
.
.
cut them accord-ing to their true joints, because they havenone.
(p. 36?37)Veyne argued that individuation criteria are notgiven by nature or language but are what we makeof them.
That is the position I take here.
A seman-tic tool would need to propose some criteria for in-dividuation, but there is no ?true?
set of criteria itmust adhere to.
Of course, the kinds of criteria sug-gested by Davidson and Quine are useful ones andthe authors of a semantic tool might choose to usethem, particularly if they wished to advocate a more?scientific?
viewpoint.
But these are not the only cri-teria, and authors might choose others or even morethan one set of criteria.
The main requirement is thatauthors document the choices they make.An example of best practice for documentingindividuation criteria was provided by Doerr etal.
(2010) in the design of their time period the-saurus.
Rather than assume that spatiotemporal lo-cation alone suffices to individuate periods, theymade a distinction between the characteristics usedto individuate time periods and the spatiotemporalregions associated with those periods.
This madethe thesaurus robust to new archaeological discover-ies.
For example, if a period were defined as beingassociated with the prevalence of a certain kind ofpottery, then the later discovery that said pottery wasin use earlier than was previously known would onlyresult in a change to the temporal bounds associatedwith the period, not its individuation criteria.3 Selecting Events and DocumentsThere are two main reasons why one might use a se-mantic tool to select event records.
First, one maybe interested in using the tool as a kind of referenceresource, to acquire some basic knowledge of theevent and its relations.
Or one may wish to explicitlylink a document to a particular event.
For instance,a blogger who wishes to label a blog post as beingabout the Soweto Uprising might use a semantic toolto find a standard identifier for that event, which hecan then use to link his post to the event record.
Ineither case, the user would use some attribute or re-lation to select the event of interest.3.1 Selecting EventsMost obviously, one can look for events by name.But most events do not have names, and in thesecases, the event would need to be looked up via someentities or concepts to which it is related.
There area number of possibilities here.
One might be inter-ested in events involving some character, for exam-ple events in the life of Emma Goldman or events in-volving the Confederate States of America.
Or onemay be looking for events associated with or por-trayed as occurring in a particular place or setting,41such as Ireland or the American Midwest.
Finally,one may look for events that are directly related toanother event in some way that doesn?t necessarilyinvolve shared characters or settings.
For example,one might seek events that have been portrayed ascauses or consequences of the Battle of the Boyne,or all events that have been emplotted as leading upto, part of, or following from the French Revolution.In addition to selecting events through their rela-tionships to other concepts and entities, a semantictool would support selecting events using the ab-stract grid of space and time.
For example, onemight be interested in events that took place within agiven geographical area or that encompassed a givenpoint on the globe.
Similarly, one might look forevents that took place during the 19th century or thatwere ongoing on June 4th, 2009.
Finding events inspace and time requires that events be resolvable tolocations in a spatiotemporal reference system.Finally, users might wish to select events of acertain type, such as battles or social movements.Given that one man?s riot is another man?s revolt,this can be more complicated than it first appears.To select events that have been typed a certain way,one would need to specify both a taxonomy of eventtypes and possibly a party responsible for assign-ing types to events.
Given the lack of standardevent type taxonomies, it may be easier to rely onevent name queries to approximate queries by type.Since named events often have types integrated intotheir names (e.g.
the Watts Riot or the Battle of theBoyne), searches on event names may help selectevents of a certain type, especially if alternate nameshave been specified for events.
For unnamed events,however, keyword searches on textual descriptionsare unlikely to provide precise or complete results,and querying using an explicit type from a taxon-omy would be preferable.3.2 Selecting Documents Related to EventsBut selecting an event may not be a user?s goal but ameans of finding an event-related document of somesort.
A document can stand in two kinds of relationto an event.
First, it may have been transformed intoevidence for an event through the process of histori-cal inquiry.
In other words, some historian has stud-ied the document, made a judgment about the statusof the document as a survival from the past, and onthe basis of that study and that judgment has inferredan event.The historian Henri-Ire?ne?e Marrou (1966, pp.133?137) enumerated a number of forms this infer-ence from document-as-evidence to event can take.In some cases the inference may be very direct, aswhen the event in question involves the documentitself, e.g.
when it was produced, or when a certainword or phrase was first used.
A slightly less directform of inference moves from the document to somemental event, e.g.
an intention, of the document?screator.
Yet further afield are inferences made aboutthe general milieu of the document?s creator, infer-ences made on the basis of ideas expressed or theway they are expressed, regardless of the creator?sspecific intention.
Finally there are those inferencesmade to events localized in time and space: thingsthat characters in the past did or had happened tothem.
This last category of inferences is the leastcertain, despite the seemingly ?concrete?
or ?fac-tual?
nature of the events inferred.The second kind of relation that a document canbear to an event arises when the historian articulateshis inferred event by producing a historical narra-tive.
A historical monograph, historical documen-tary film, or a historical museum exhibit is a docu-ment that portrays an inferred event.It is possible for a document to be both a portrayalof an event and evidence for some event.
An eyewit-ness account is a portrait of an event, and if a his-torian has judged it to be authentic and accurate, itis also evidence for that event.
Yet a document thatis both portrait and evidence need not bear both re-lations to the same event.
Marrou (1966, p. 135)gave the example of the work of fourth-century Ro-man historian Ammianus Marcellinus, which por-trays events during the reigns of Constantius II andJulian the Apostate, yet which may be used as evi-dence for very different events, such as the appear-ance of particular ways of thinking or acting amonga certain class of Roman men of that time, inferredfrom the language of the document.When looking for documents related to an event,one may not be concerned with the kind of relationat all.
In this case, if the event of interest is named, itmay be sufficient to look for (variations of) the eventname using full-text search of textual documents orof written descriptions of non-textual documents.42But this approach is unlikely to be either precise orcomprehensive.
Besides the well-known vocabularyproblems that plague full-text search, there is theproblem that documents which portray or evince anevent may not use any names of that event.
Expand-ing queries to include the names of people, places orother concepts related to the event may help, but tobe reliably findable such documents would need tobe explicitly linked to an identifier for the event.Explicit linking to an event record would be in-dispensable if the kind of relation between the doc-ument and the event were important.
One wouldneed to be able to narrow down the set of all relateddocuments to those that were related as evidence orthose that are related as portraits, or to those thatwere related as both evidence and portrait.
It mightbe desirable to further narrow the set by specifyingwho treated the documents as evidence or who cre-ated the portraits.
The latter is a basic function ofany bibliographic instrument.
The former is rarelyfound in current tools, but will be increasingly im-portant as the publishing of historical data becomesmore widespread.4 Contextualizing EventsWhile individuation and selection are necessary anduseful functions, the effort of constructing a seman-tic tool for historical events would not be justifiedby these functions alone.
Another key function ofsuch a tool would be to provide context in an un-familiar historical domain.
As the historian AnnRigney (1990) observed,There is a certain difficulty in-volved for a twentieth-century reader?particularly a reader who is not French?in following these nineteenth-century his-tories of the French Revolution (or indeedmore recent ones) since they depend solargely on the reader?s foreknowledge of aparticular cultural code to which the prin-cipal elements of the Revolution alreadybelong.
(p. 40 n. 22)A semantic tool could potentially help such areader understand this code by linking events totime, place and related concepts, as well as puttingthem in the context of the narratives for which theyact as mnemonics.
To navigate this labyrinth ofnested contexts, one needs a map:What information searchers need aremaps that inform them about the world(and the literature about that world) inwhich they live and act.
They need suchmaps in order to formulate questions inthe first instance .
.
.
This is probablyespecially so in the humanities, whereconcepts are more clearly associated withworldviews.
(Hj?rland, 2007, p. 393)A semantic tool for historical events would be amap informing users about the past and discoursesabout the past.
Like a map of space, it could be usedfor both exploration and orientation.4.1 Exploring the PastA semantic tool for historical events would make itpossible to learn about the past by following connec-tions among events, characters and other concepts.The idea that the past is best understood through anetwork of contextual relations was dubbed ?con-textualism?
by Hayden White (1973):The informing presupposition of Con-textualism is that events can be explainedby being set within the ?context?
of theiroccurrence.
Why they occurred as theydid is to be explained by the revelationof the specific relationships they bore toother events occurring in their circumam-bient historical space .
.
.
(p. 17)A semantic tool for contextualizing historicalevents would thus be comparable to an outline ofsubjects for a history course, or a higher-level frame-work for organizing a series of syllabuses for historyeducation.
A syllabus or framework provides a mapto help teachers and students find their way througha web of events and explanations.
As students getolder and become more capable, more detail can beadded to the map.
Any history is such a map in acertain sense.
Ankersmit (1983) suggested that whatmakes historical narratives useful is that, like maps,they strip away the overwhelming detail of actual ex-perience, leaving an intelligible form:43A map should not be a copy of reality;if it were we could just as well look at re-ality itself.
Being an abstraction of realityis just what makes maps so useful.
Thesame goes for historiographies: we expectthe historian to tell us only what was im-portant in the past and not the ?total past?.(p.
51)The intelligible form of a geographical map con-sists of the spatial relations made evident in its lay-out.
One can look at a map to see where places arerelative to other places.
The map provides spatialcontext.
A history provides historical context.
Onecan read or watch history to learn how events hap-pened relative to other events.
The relations thus ar-ticulated in a history compose its intelligible form.Just as a simple hand-drawn route map can be easierto follow than a photorealistic one, a semantic toolwould make these relations clearer through furtherabstraction.The analogy with geographic maps raises thequestion of aggregation.
Geographic maps of differ-ent regions can be transformed and projected ontoa common system of coordinates.
Can we expectto be able to merge semantic tools covering differ-ent domains of history to obtain a master tool cover-ing a superset of these domains?
According to PaulRic?ur (1984), we expect thatthe facts dealt with in historical works,when they are taken one at a time, inter-lock with one another in the manner of ge-ographical maps, if the same rules of pro-jection and scale are respected .
.
.
A se-cret dream of emulating the cartographer.
.
.
animates the historical enterprise.
(p.176)Indeed, isn?t the promise of being able to linktogether fragments of history into a collaborativewhole one of the great motivations to develop stan-dardized schematic representations of historical re-lationships?
But we should not expect a single co-herent past to emerge from such interlinking.
Wemust remember that the relations in a semantic toolfor historical events would be abstractions from his-torical narratives, which portray the past but are notthe past itself.
Different narratives express differentpoints of view that do not necessarily combine intointelligible wholes.Aggregating events into a larger framework wouldnot yield a more complete view of the past, becausethere is no ?whole view?
of the past to be completed.However, a more complete view of discourse aboutthe past could be achieved by juxtaposing differ-ent portraits made from different perspectives.
Todo this a semantic tool would need to accommodateconflicting views without trying to resolve them.4.2 Orienting Oneself in Historical DiscourseA semantic tool that informed users about varyingand possibly conflicting interpretations of past couldbe used for orientation.
One may use a map toorient oneself by determining one?s own positionrelative to something else.
The philosopher Jo?rnRu?sen (2005, 1) has proposed that history is a ?cul-tural framework of orientation?
in time.
Accordingto Ru?sen, we make the passage of time intelligiblethrough reflecting on our experiences, interpretingand telling stories about them.
Through such in-terpretation, the otherwise unintelligible passage oftime acquires meaning and becomes history.
Historyorients us in time: it tells us who we are and how werelate to what has come before.According to Ru?sen?s theory, one way that peo-ple orient themselves using history is by tracing thekinds of threads White described in his account ofcontextualism.
Genealogy, or seeking one?s originsby tracing back through a web of births and mar-riages, is a good example of this.
Other examplesare stories told of the founding of an institution ofwhich one is a member: the story of how Yahoo!
?sfounders started the company in a trailer at StanfordUniversity is regularly recounted to new employees.These stories directly relate their audiences to his-torical characters and events, in effect making theaudience members characters too.But, as Ru?sen showed, history does not performits function of orientation only at this level of di-rect genealogical relations with the past.
More of-ten, history orients its audience at the level of in-terpretation, where histories are treated as storiesrather than as transparently presenting inferred rela-tions.
For example, historians often allude to histor-ical events as instructive examples for understand-ing current events.
Consider the historian of early44twenty-first century economic inequality in the U.S.,who references the Gilded Age of the late nineteenthcentury.
He does so not necessarily because he in-tends to trace causal relations between the earlier pe-riod and the later one.
Rather he does so because hewishes to imply that the narrative that presents thebest perspective for understanding the current situ-ation is one that has a form similar to a particular,conventionally accepted narrative of the Gilded Age.He is making an analogy.While analogies like the one above draw uponconventionally accepted narratives, other historiesseek to re-orient their audiences by criticizing con-ventionally accepted narratives.
To a certain extent,nearly every history attempts to do this?if the con-ventional story were perfectly adequate, why pro-duce a new one?
But certain histories specificallyaim to dislodge a dominant narrative and replace itwith a new one.
Where analogies with the past ap-peal to a kind of continuity of form, critical historiestry to break that continuity.Finally, there are histories that try to orient theiraudiences not by directly linking them into histor-ical narratives, nor by analogizing with or criti-cizing accepted historical narratives, but by givingaccounts of changes in the narratives themselves.These histories re-establish continuity by portrayinga higher-level process of change.
An exemplary caseis Thomas Kuhn?s The Structure of Scientific Revo-lutions (1962), in which he posited that discontin-uous change in scientific thought is itself a steadyfactor, something his late twentieth-century read-ers could use as a reference point for understandingtheir present situation.What is important about Ru?sen?s typology of his-tory is that it shows how history functions to ori-ent us at the level of discourse and not simply atthe level of direct chains of causal relation to thepast.
A semantic tool that was intended only to helppeople understand the past through exploration ofthe threads among events and characters and theirsettings would not need to refer to the stories thatspun those threads.
But if the tool were intendedto help people orient themselves by understandingdiscourse about the past, it would need to representnot only events and characters and places but alsothe narratives that emplot them, and relations amongthese narratives.Drawing upon Ru?sen?s ideas, Peter Lee (2004)developed a set of requirements for a frameworkfor history education that would not only help stu-dents contextualize historical events but also de-velop their ?metahistorical?
understanding.
Lee ar-gued that students should understand not only whathappened, but how we explain what happened.
Leeargued that history education should simultaneouslydevelop both students?
conceptions of the past andtheir understanding of history as a discipline and dis-course.
These are the two functions that I have la-beled ?exploration?
(of conceptions of the past) and?orientation?
within historical discourse.A semantic tool intended primarily to provide ac-cess to a homogeneous collection of documents, orto enable exploration of a narrowly defined slice ofhistory, might simply summarize a single consensusstory of the past.
But a semantic tool for orientingusers to a wider historical discourse would need toaid their understanding of the variety of stories toldabout the past, and to do so it would need to repre-sent not only the contents of those stories?events,characters, settings?but the stories themselves.5 ConclusionThe issues that I have raised here may seem far afieldfrom the practical concerns of present day NLP re-search in medical informatics, topic detection andtracking, or natural language understanding.
Cer-tainly the development of a semantic tool for histor-ical events is likely to be a much lower research pri-ority than many other more immediate applicationsof automatic event detection and representation.
ButI have focused here on historical discourse simplybecause it puts the issues discussed into sharp focus,not because these issues are unique to the histori-cal domain.
No matter what the domain, NLP re-searchers working on systems for detecting and rep-resenting events will be forced to resolve the ques-tion of whether they are detecting and representingobjectively existing things in the world or features ofdiscourses about the world.
And I believe that eventhe most ?objective?
areas of application that appearto need the former will eventually, like history, turnout to need the latter.45ReferencesFrank R. Ankersmit.
1983.
Narrative Logic: A SemanticAnalysis of the Historian?s Language.
M. Nijhoff, TheHague.William Cronon.
1992.
A place for stories: Nature, his-tory, and narrative.
The Journal of American History,78(4):1347?1376.Donald Davidson.
1977.
The method of truth in meta-physics.
Midwest Studies in Philosophy, 2(1):244?254.Donald Davidson.
1985.
Reply to Quine on events.In E. LePore and B. P. McLaughlin (Eds.
), Actionsand Events: Perspectives on the Philosophy of DonaldDavidson (pp.
172?176).
Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Donald Davidson.
2001.
Essays on Actions and Events(2nd ed.).
Clarendon Press, Oxford.Donald Davidson.
2001a.
The logical form of actionsentences.
In Essays on Actions and Events (2nd ed.,pp.
105?122).
Clarendon Press, Oxford.Donald Davidson.
2001b.
Causal relations.
In Essays onActions and Events (2nd ed., pp.
149?162).
ClarendonPress, Oxford.Donald Davidson.
2001c.
The individuation of events.In Essays on Actions and Events (2nd ed., pp.
163?180).
Clarendon Press, Oxford.Martin Doerr, Athina Kritsotaki, and Steven Stead.
2010.Which period is it?
A methodology to create thesauriof historical periods.
In Beyond the Artefact: DigitalInterpretation of the Past.
Archaeolingua, Budapest.Birger Hj?rland.
2007.
Semantics and knowledge orga-nization.
Annual Review of Information Science andTechnology, 41:367?405.Henri-Ire?ne?e Marrou.
1966.
The Meaning of History.Helicon, Baltimore.Thomas Kuhn.
1962.
The Structure of Scientific Revolu-tions.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Peter Lee.
2004.
?Walking backwards into tomorrow?
:Historical consciousness and understanding history.International Journal of Historical Learning, Teach-ing and Research, 4(1).Louis O. Mink.
1978.
Narrative form as a cognitive in-strument.
In R. H. Canary and H. Kozicki (Eds.
), TheWriting of History: Literary Form and Historical Un-derstanding (pp.
129?149).
University of WisconsinPress, Madison, Wisconsin.Willard Van Orman Quine.
1985.
Events and reification.In E. LePore and B. P. McLaughlin (Eds.
), Actionsand Events: Perspectives on the Philosophy of DonaldDavidson (pp.
162?171).
Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Paul Ric?ur.
1984.
Time and Narrative, volume 1.
Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Chicago.Ann Rigney.
1990.
The Rhetoric of Historical Represen-tation: Three Narrative Histories of the French Revo-lution.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Jo?rn Ru?sen.
2005.
History: Narration, Interpretation,Orientation.
Berghahn Books, New York.Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert Pear.
2010, March 23.Obama signs health care overhaul bill, with a flourish.New York Times.Paul Veyne.
1984.
Writing History: Essay on Epistemol-ogy.
Wesleyan University Press, Middletown, Con-necticut.HaydenWhite.
1973.
Metahistory: The Historical Imag-ination in Nineteenth-Century Europe.
Johns HopkinsUniversity Press, Baltimore.46
