Proceedings of the 9th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages 87?92,Atlanta, Georgia, 13-14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsMWE in Portuguese: Proposal for a Typologyfor Annotation in Running TextSandra Antunes and Am?lia MendesCentro de Lingu?stica da Universidade de LisboaAv.
Prof. Gama Pinto, 21649-003 Lisboa, Portugal{sandra.antunes, amalia.mendes}@clul.ul.ptAbstractBased on a lexicon of Portuguese MWE, thispresentation focuses on an ongoing work thataims at the creation of a typology that de-scribes these expressions taking into accounttheir semantic, syntactic and pragmatic prop-erties.
We also plan to annotate each MWE-entry in the mentioned lexicon according tothe information obtained from that typology.Our objective is to create a valuable resource,which will allow for the automatic identifica-tion MWE in running text and for a deeperunderstanding of these expressions in theircontext.1 IntroductionAs it is widely known, the lexicon does not consistmainly of simple lexical items but appears to bepopulated with numerous chunks, more or lesspredictable, though not fixed (Firth, 1955).
In fact,the development of computer technologies andcorpus-based approaches has enabled the identifi-cation of complex patterns of word associations,proving that the speakers use a large number ofpreconstructed phrases that constitute single choic-es (Sinclair, 1991:110).
Several studies have alsoshown that great part of a speaker?s lexicon iscomposed by these word associations (Jackendoff,1997; Fellbaum, 1998).
These multiword expres-sions (MWE)1 appear in every kind of spoken and1The term multiword expression will be used to refer to anysequence of words that act as a single unit, embracing all dif-ferent types of word combinations (collocations, compoundnouns, light verbs, institutionalized phrases, idioms, etc.
).written discourse and, despite the fact that theydon?t pose any problems from the speaker?s pointof view (we easily recognize that they function as asingle unit that may have a specific meaning), nat-ural language processing (NLP) applications, onthe other hand, find notorious difficulties whendealing with them (Sag et al 2000).Bearing in mind the extreme importance of thestudy of this linguistic phenomenon for the im-provement of NLP systems, this paper will addressan ongoing analysis that aims to create a typologyfor MWE in Portuguese (based on a MWE lexiconpreviously extracted from a 50 million word writ-ten corpus) that will be used to enrich that lexiconwith extensive information regarding these expres-sions.
This annotated lexicon will be a resourcethat will allow for the annotation of these expres-sions in running text (Hendrickx et al 2010a).This presentation will briefly discuss compila-tion of the lexicon and the methodology adoptedfor MWE selection and organization (section 2),the typology based on syntactic, semantic and sta-tistic criteria (section 3), the annotation proposal ofthe lexicon (section 4) and applications of the work(section 5).2 MWE: Corpus and LexiconThe work we are going to present used the lexiconof word combinations2 that was created within thescope of the project COMBINA-PT ?
Word Com-binations in Portuguese Language3.
The corpusused for their extraction was 50 million word writ-2The lexicon is available at Meta-Share repository:http://www.meta-net.eu/meta-share.3https://www.clul.ul.pt/en/research-teams/187-combina-pt-word-combinations-in-portuguese-language87ten corpus extracted from the Reference Corpus ofContemporary Portuguese4, and has the constitu-tion presented in Table 1 (Mendes et al 2006):CORPUS CONSTITUTIONNewspapers   30.000.000Books   10.917.889Magazines7.500.000Miscellaneous   1.851.828Leaflets   104.889Supreme court verdicts   313.962Parliament sessions   277.586TOTAL   50.966.154Table 1.
Constitution of the corpusThe MWE in the lexicon are organized in orderto identify a main lemma (from which the MWEwas selected) and a group lemma, which corre-sponds to the canonical form of the MWE andcovers all the variants that occurred in the corpus.Concordances lines for each MWE are also avail-able in KIWIC format.
Table 2 illustrates someMWE that were identified when analyzing thelemma fogo ?fire?.Main Lemmafogo ?fire?Group Lemmaarma de fogo ?firearm?Concordancesuma arma de fogo relativamente leve?a relatively light firearm?800 mil portugueses possuem armas de fogo?800 thousand Portuguese have firearms?Group Lemmabaptismo de fogo ?baptism of fire?Concordancesteve o seu baptismo de fogo no assalto?he had his baptism of fire in a robbery?Group Lemmafogo cruzado ?crossfire?Concordancescivis apanhados no fogo cruzado entre o ex?rcito?civilians were caught in a crossfire between the army?Group Lemmafogo de artif?cio ?firework?Concordancesespect?culos de fogo de artif?cio?firework shows??
1 hora haver?
fogos de artif?cio?there will be fireworks at 1:00 a.m.?Table 2.
Example of MWE for the lemma fogo ?fire?4CRPC is a monitor corpus of 311 million words, constitutedby sampling from several types of written and spoken text andcomprising all the national and regional varieties of Portu-guese (https://www.clul.ul.pt/en/research-teams/183-reference-corpus-of-contemporary-portuguese-crpc).In all, the lexicon comprises 1.180 main lemmas,14.153 group lemmas and 48.154 word combina-tions.Mendes et al(2006) describe the criteria usedfor MWE selection: following the results of previ-ous studies (Evert and Krenn, 2001; Pereira andMendes, 2002), the authors first selected groupswith MI5 values between 8 and 10, and, throughoutmanual validation, applied several criteria uponwhich usually relies the definition of a MWE:a) lexical and syntactic fixedness that can be ob-served through the possibility of replacing ele-ments, inserting modifiers, changing thesyntagmatic structure or gender/number features;b) total or partial loss of compositional meaning,which means that the meaning of the expressionscan not be predicted by the meaning of the parts;c) frequency of occurrence, which means that theexpressions may be semantically compositional butoccur with high frequency, revealing sets of fa-voured co-occurring forms, which could tell thatthey may be in their way to a possible fixedness.3 Data Analysis: Towards a TypologyIn contrast to languages for which there is a widerange of studies regarding MWE both from a lin-guistic and a computational point of view, for Por-tuguese little work has been done so far.
Great partof the existing studies had paid more attention toidiomatic expressions and compound nouns ingeneral, relegating the analysis of other types ofexpressions to the morphossyntactic properties ofits elements (Mac?rio Lopes, 1992; Chacoto, 1994;Baptista, 1994; Vilela, 2002; Ranchhod, 2003)6.Considering the existence of different types ofMWE with different degrees of syntactic and se-mantic cohesion, our analysis tries to categorizethese expressions taking into account their lexical,syntactic, semantic and pragmatic properties.
Thus,from a semantic standpoint, three major classeswere considered: (i) expressions with composition-al meaning (p?o de centeio ?rye bread?
); (ii) ex-pressions with partial idiomatic meaning, i.e., atleast one of the elements keeps its literal meaning5Statistical association measure (Church and Hanks, 1990).6Some research has been carried out regarding the identifica-tion and annotation of Complex Predicates, usually called inthe literature Light Verb Constructions or Support Verb Con-structions (Hendrickx et al 2010b; Duran et al 2011; Zellerand Pad?, 2012).88(vontade de ferro ?iron will?
); (iii) expressions withtotal idiomatic meaning (p?s de galinha ?crow?sfeet?
).Note, however, that one may find notorious dif-ficulties regarding the evaluation of the meaning ofcertain expressions that seems to be linked to twomajor factors: (i) the polysemous nature of thewords (it is necessary to establish a boundary be-tween compositional and figurative meanings.
Ifwe consider the literal meaning to be the first pro-totypical meaning of a word, this restrictive defini-tion will trigger us to consider a large number ofMWE as idiomatic); (ii) the awareness of the se-mantic motivation that had led to the idiomaticmeanings, which depends on cultural and socialfactors.This semantic criterion implies that the sametype of MWE may occur in different classes.
It isthe case with compound nouns.
Although we triedto accentuate the different degrees of lexicalizationof this type of expressions, we are acutely awarethat drawing this dividing line neither is easy norallows for accurate definitions and divisions.Within each of these three semantic categories,the expressions are also analyzed according to theirgrammatical category and lexical and syntacticfixedness.
Regarding the latest aspect, the expres-sions may be: (i) fixed (no variation); (ii) semi-fixed (nominal/verbal inflection)7; (iii) with varia-tion: lexical (permutation, replacement of ele-ments, insertion of modifiers) and/or syntactic(constructions with passives, relatives, pronouns,extraction, adjectival vs. prepositional modifiers).Our typology relies, then, on several categories,some of which we will briefly present.Expressions with Compositional Meaning Favoured co-occurring forms ?
expressions thatoccurred with high frequency in the corpus, reveal-ing a tendency to co-occur in certain contexts (p?oseco ?dry bread?, desvendar o mist?rio ?unravel themystery?).
Expressions with full lexical and syn-tactic variation8. Compound nouns ?
expressions that represent asingle concept (noite de n?pcias ?wedding night?,cama de casal ?double bed?, cavalo alaz?o9 ?chest-nut horse?, Idade do Ferro ?Iron Age?).
Usually,7Since Portuguese is a highly inflectional language, practical-ly all the verbs and nouns that occur in MWE inflect.8More examples of variation will be included in Section 4.9?Lexikalische Solidarit?ten?
(Coseriu, 1967).these expressions are semi-fixed.
However, wealso observed that some combinations may occurin a small distributional paradigm (cama desolteiro ?single bed?)
that allows for predicativeconstructions (a cama ?
de solteiro lit.
?the bed issingle?).
Entities are fixed. Institutionalized expressions ?
expressions ob-served with higher frequency than any alternativelexicalization of the same concept (lufada de arfresco ?breath of fresh air?, condenar ao fracasso?doomed to failure?, abrir um precedente ?set aprecedent?).
Apart from inflection, since there arealternative expressions, we also observed lexicalvariation, such as substitution (rajada de ar fresco?rush of fresh air?
), insertion of modifiers(condenar este projecto ao fracasso lit.
?to doomthis project to failure?)
and change in the syntag-matic structure (o precedente foi aberto ?a prece-dent has been set?, abertura de um precedente lit.
?the opening of a precedent?
). Ligh verb constructions ?
expressions wherethe noun is used in a normal sense and the verbmeaning appears to be bleached (dar um passeio?take a walk?).
Expressions with lexical and syn-tactic variation (substitution, insertion of modifi-ers, change in the syntagmatic structure). proverbs (no poupar ?
que est?
o ganho ?profitis in saving?).
Despite our conception of proverbsas frozen expressions, the fact is that speakers?
lex-ical creativity may result in the production of ex-pressions such as noanunciar/atacar/descontar/esperar/comparar ?que est?
o ganho ?profit is in announc-ing/attacking/discounting/waiting/comparing?.Expressions with Partial Idiomatic Meaning Expressions with an additional meaning thatcan not be derived from the meaning of its parts10,(cintur?o negro ?black belt?
+ martial arts expert,abrir a boca ?open the mouth?
+ to speak/to yawn,deitar as m?os ?
cabe?a lit.
?throw the hands in thehead?
(throw one?s hands up) + despair).
Nominalexpressions are semi-fixed while verbal expres-sions may undergo inflection and lexical variation,such as substitution (levar/lan?ar as m?os ?cabe?a lit.
?put/lay the hands in the head?)
and in-sertion of modifiers (deitou logo as m?os ?
cabe?alit.
?put immediately his hands in his head?
).10Quasi-phrasemes or quasi-idioms (Mel?cuk, 1998).89 Compound nouns: (i) the meaning does not oc-cur in any other combination (sorriso amarelo lit.
?yellow smile?
?
yellow = wry); (ii) the meaningmay occur in different combinations (caf?
fresco?fresh coffe?, p?o fresco ?fresh bread?
?
fresh =recent); (iii) periphrastic nouns11 (continente negro?black continent?
= Africa); (iv) entities (dama deferro ?iron lady?).
Apart from inflection, some ex-pressions are subject to lexical and syntactic varia-tion, namely insertion of modifiers (sorriso muitoamarelo lit.
?smile very yellow?
), alternation be-tween simple elements and elements with suffixes(sorrisinho amarelo lit.
?little yellow smile?)
andalternation between adjectival and prepositionalmodifiers (sil?ncio mortal ?deadly silence?,sil?ncio de morte ?silence of death?).
Entities arefixed.Expressions with Total Idiomatic Meaning Expressions transposed to another semanticfield by metaphoric process (balde de ?gua fria?cold shower?, faca de dois gumes ?double-edgeknife?, esticar o pernil ?kick the bucket?, deitar?gua na fervura ?pour oil on troubled waters?, asangue frio ?in cold blood?).
Adverbial expressionsare fixed.
Some of the nominal and verbal struc-tures may undergo lexical and syntactic variation,such as substitution (arma/espada/pau de doisgumes ?double-edge weapon/sword/stick?
), inser-tion of modifiers (deitar mais ?gua na fervura?pour more oil on troubled waters?
), permutation(estar de m?os e p?s atados ?bound hand and foot?,estar de p?s e m?os atados ?bound foot and hand?
(helpless)) and occurrence both in negative andaffirmative sentences (ter olhos na cara lit.
?haveeyes in the face?
(put things in perspective), n?o terolhos na cara lit.
?do not have eyes in the face?
). Compound nouns (flor de estufa ?greenhouseplant?
(delicate person); m?o de ferro ?iron fist?
).Apart from inflection, we observed alternation be-tween simple elements and elements with suffixes. Proverbs (gr?o a gr?o enche a galinha o papolit.
?grain by grain the hen fills its belly?
(littlestrokes fell great oaks)).
As in compositional prov-erbs, we also observed lexical variation (gr?o agr?o enche muita gente o papo lit.
?grain by grainlots of people fill their bellies?).11Cf.
Sanrom?n, 2000.In what idiomatic expressions are concerned, itis important to note the fact that the transpositionof an expression to another semantic field is a syn-chronic process that usually implies that at somepoint in time (including the present day) the ex-pressions may simultaneously present composi-tional and idiomatic meanings (porto de abrigo?harbor?
; ?safe haven?).
Curiously, from a statisti-cal point of view, our study showed that the idio-matic meaning is the one that usually presents highfrequency of occurrence.
This information, togeth-er with the interpretation of the context, may helpthe automatic systems to decide whether they facea compositional or idiomatic expression.In a sweeping look at the data, we observed thatMWE show particular properties according to theirsyntactic pattern.
Thus, at the sentence level (prov-erbs and aphorisms), MWE usually do not acceptsyntactic changes (the possible change seems to belexical, when speakers substitute one or more ele-ments), while verb phrases admit much moremorphossyntactic variation.
Noun phrases, on theother hand, raise specific issues.
Compositionalgroups can behave as idiomatic ones and it is notalways easy to distinguish them.
The modifiers ofthe noun can express different semantic relations(part of, made of, used for) that may interact withthe meaning (literal or idiomatic) of the noun.4 Annotation of the LexiconThe information presented on our typology willallow us to enrich the lexicon mentioned in Section2.
Our purpose is to have each MWE entry in thelexicon labeled regarding: (i) canonical form of theexpression; (ii) definition of idiomatic expressionsthrough synonyms or literal paraphrases; (iii)grammatical category of both the expression andits elements; (iv) idiomatic property and additionalmeanings; (v) possible variation; (vi) function ofMWE parts (e.g., obligatory, optional, free).As we have seen before, MWE have differenttypes of variation for which we have to accountfor.
We will briefly discuss our proposal for han-dling the annotation of some cases of lexical andsyntactic variation in the lexicon.Lexical Variation Insertion of modifiers ?
lexical elements (usual-ly with an emphatic function) that do not belong tothe canonical form are not part of the MWE and90are not labeled (sorriso muito amarelo lit.
?smilevery yellow?
). Lexical substitution ?
This variation is restrict-ed to limited set of alternatives.
This set is record-ed in the MWE lexicon as ?obligatory parts of theMWE and member of a set list?
(com-er/vender/comprar/impingir/levar gato por lebrelit.
?eat/sell/buy/impose/take a cat instead of ahare?
(buy a pig in a poke)). Free lexical elements ?
These elements aremarked in the lexicon with, e. g., a pronoun(ALGU?M ?someone?, ALGUM ?something?)
or aparticular phrase (NP, PP) (estar nas m?os deALGU?M  ?to be in the hands of someone?
).There are also cases where parts of the MWE mayfreely vary, while other parts remain fixed (aeduca?
?o ?
a m?e de todas as civiliza?
?es ?educa-tion is the mother of all civilizations?, a liberdade ?a m?e de todas as virtudes ?liberty is the mother ofall virtues?).
These cases are treated likewise(ALGO ?
a m?e de todas as NOUN-PL ?somethingis the mother of all NOUN-PL?
)Also, since creative use of language can lead toMWEs that only partly match the canonical MWE(cf.
proverbs), we label these parts as 'differentfrom canonical form'.Syntactic Variation Pronouns/Possessives ?
These elements will bemarked up as part of the MWE, but will have anadditional label to signal that they are optional(estar nas m?os dele/estar nas suas m?os ?to be inthe hands of him?/?to be in his hands?
). From active to passive voice ?
Auxiliary verbsare not labeled as part of the MWE (passar ALGOa pente fino/ALGO foi passado a pente fino lit.
?pass something with a fine tooth-comb?/?something was passed with a fine tooth-comb?
(to scrutinize)).According to Hendrickx et al(2010a), this an-notated lexicon could be the basis for the annota-tion of idiomatic MWE in running text12.
EachMWE encountered in the corpus would be annotat-ed with a link to the corresponding entry in thelexicon.
Linking each MWE to its canonical form12The authors?
approach is to annotate CINTIL corpus, a 1Mword corpus of both spoken and written data from differentsources that has been previously annotated with linguisticinformation such as part-of-speech, lemma, inflection, propernames, etc.
(http://cintil.ul.pt/pt/).would allow for an easier detection of all occur-rences of one particular MWE and check its varia-tion in the corpus.
The annotation process wouldcombine automatic retrieval with manual valida-tion in order to better account for variable expres-sions.
Without doubt, the corpus would containmany MWE that were not yet listed in the lexicon.Therefore, each sentence would need to be checkedmanually for new MWE and the newly discoveredexpression would be manually added to the lexi-con.5 ConclusionThis paper has shown the ongoing research thataims to describe, as detailed as possible, the syn-tactic and semantic properties of different types ofPortuguese MWE.
During our analysis, we en-countered two major problems: (i) the evaluationof the meaning of certain expressions (composi-tional or idiomatic); (ii) the attempt to account forall possible lexical and syntactic variation.
Theinformation obtained from the typology will beused to annotate a MWE lexicon.
Having a re-source with such information (that includes addi-tional meanings, possible variation that accountsfor obligatory and optional elements, etc.)
will beof extreme value for the development and evalua-tion of automatic MWE identification systems.ReferencesBaptista Jorge.
1994.
Estabelecimento e Formaliza?
?ode Classes de Nomes Compostos.
MA Thesis, Facul-dade de Letras da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon.Chacoto Lu?sa.
1994.
Estudo e Formaliza?
?o das Pro-priedades L?xico-Sint?cticas das Express?es FixasProverbiais.
MA Thesis, Faculdade de Letras daUniversidade de Lisboa, Lisboa.Church Kenneth and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Word Asso-ciation Norms, Mutual Information and Lexico-graphy.
Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.
Van-couver, Canada, pp.
76-83.Coseriu Eugenio.
1967.
Lexikalische Solidarit?ten.
Poe-tica 1. pp.
293-303.Duran Magali Sanches, Carlos Ramish, Sandra MariaAlu?sio and Aline Villavicencio.
2011.
Identifyingand Analyzing Brazilian Portuguese Complex Predi-cates.
Proceedings of the Workshop on MultiwordExpressions.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.
Portland, Oregon, USA, pp.
74-82.91Evert Stephan and Brigitte Krenn.
2001.
Methods forthe Qualitative Evaluation of Lexical AssociationMeasures.
Proceedings of the 39th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics.Toulouse, France, pp.
188-195.Fellbaum Christiane.
1998.
An WordNet Electronic Lex-ical Database.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Firth R. John.
1955.
Modes of meaning.
Papers in Lin-guistics 1934-1951.
London, Oxford UniversityPress, pp.
190-215.Hendricks Iris, Am?lia Mendes and Sandra Antunes.2010a.
Proposal for Multi-word Expression Annota-tion in Running Text.
Proceedings of the fourth Lin-guistic Annotation Workshop.
Association forComputational Linguistics.
Uppsala, Sweden, pp.152-156.Hendricks Iris, Am?lia Mendes, S?lvia Pereira, AnabelaGon?alves and In?s Duarte.
2010b.
Complex Predi-cates annotation in a corpus of Portuguese.
Proceed-ings of the fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop.Association for Computational Linguistics.
Uppsala,Sweden, pp 100-108.Jackendoff Ray.
1997.
The Architecture of the Lan-guage Faculty.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Mac?rio Lopes Ana Cristina.
1992.
Texto ProverbialPortugu?s: elementos para uma an?lise sem?ntica epragm?tica.
PhD Dissertation, Universidade deCoimbra, Coimbra.Mel?
?uk Igor.
1998.
Collocations and Lexical Func-tions.
Cowie, A. P.
(ed.
), Phraseology.
Theory,Analysis, and Applications.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, pp.
23-53.Mendes Am?lia, Sandra Antunes, Maria Fernanda Bace-lar do Nascimento, Jo?o M. Casteleiro, Lu?sa Pereiraand Tiago S?.
2006.
COMBINA-PT: A Large Cor-pus-extracted and Hand-checked Lexical Database ofPortuguese Multiword Expressions.
Proceedings ofthe Fifth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation.
Genoa, Italy, pp.
1900-1905.Pereira Lu?sa and Am?lia Mendes.
2002.
An ElectronicDictionary of Collocations for European Portuguese:Methodology, Results and Applications.
Braasch, A.and C. Povlsen (eds.
), Proceedings of the 10th Inter-national Congress of the European Association forLexicography.
Copenhagen, Denmark, vol.
II, pp.841-849.Ranchhod Elisabete.
2003.
O Lugar das Express?es?Fixas?
na Gram?tica do Portugu?s.
Castro, I. and I.Duarte (eds.
), Raz?es e Emo??o.
Miscel?nea deEstudos oferecida a Maria Helena Mira Mateus.Imprensa Nacional Casa da Moeda, Lisboa, pp.
239-254.Sag Ivan, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, Ann Copes-take and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword Expres-sions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
Gelbukh A.
(ed.
),Proceedings of the Third International Conferenceon Intelligent Text Processing and ComputationalLinguistics.
Mexico City, Mexico, pp.
1-15.Sanrom?n A. Iriarte.
2000.
A Unidade Lexicogr?fica.Palavras, Coloca?
?es, Frasemas, Pragmatemas.PhD Dissertation, Universidade do Minho, Braga.Sinclair John.
1991.
Corpus, Concordance and Colloca-tion.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Vilela M?rio.
2002.
Met?foras do Nosso Tempo.
Alme-dina, Coimbra.Zeller Britta and Sebastian Pad?.
2012.
Corpus-BasedAcquisition of Support Verb Constructions for Por-tuguese.
Proceedings of the 10th International Con-ference on Computational Processing of thePortuguese Language.
Coimbra, Portugal, pp.
73-84.92
