Proceedings of the 14th European Workshop on Natural Language Generation, pages 167?171,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGreetings Generation in Video Role Playing GamesBjo?rn Schlu?nderRuhr-Universita?t BochumDepartment of LinguisticsGermanybjoern.schluender@rub.deRalf KlabundeRuhr-Universita?t BochumDepartment of LinguisticsGermanyralf.klabunde@rub.deAbstractWe present first results of our project onthe generation of contextually adequategreeting exchanges in video role playinggames.
To make greeting exchanges com-putable, an analysis of the factors influ-encing greeting behavior as well as thefactors influencing greeting exchanges isgiven.
Based on the politeness model pro-posed by Brown & Levinson (1987) wedevelop a simple algorithm for the gener-ation of greeting exchanges.
An evalua-tion, comparing dialog from the video roleplaying game Skyrim to dialog determinedby our algorithm, shows that our algorithmis able to generate greeting exchanges thatare contextually more adequate than thosefeatured by Skyrim.1 IntroductionThough there has been a steep rise in interest invideo games during the past decade, both cultur-ally as well as commercial, little has been done ingetting language technology involved in game de-velopment.
There is a huge contrast between thesteep development of almost every other aspect ofgame development and the usage of language tech-nology.
To our knowledge there is not one gameof one of the major game companies that usessophisticated NLG-methods for the generation ofcontextually adequate utterances.
Modern gamesfeature rich voice acting, but often lack realisticconversational situations.
Voice acting, which be-came standard in commercial productions aroundthe year 2000, hampered usage of language tech-nology for quite some time, since e.g.
speech syn-thesis did not reach sufficient quality and thereforewould hurt immersion.
Since then not only qualityof synthesis systems has increased, but synthesis-like voice acting has also been used in successfulproductions (e.g.
Portal 1 & 2).There is some work in the NLG community onNLG in games (e.g., Koller et al2004; Khosmoodand Walker 2010), but an intimate cooperation be-tween game design and NLG does not exist on acommercial level.
Research in the fields of NLG& game design is e.g.
conducted at ExpressiveIntelligence Studio at UC Santa Cruz, with cur-rent projects (e.g.
SpyFeet) focussing on combin-ing NLG methods and computational dialog man-agement in simple role playing games (Reed et al2011).By nature of their modern design, video games,especially of the role playing genre, provide de-tailed information on the spatial and social envi-ronment, the agent types, their behavior and moti-vation, the progress on and steps in certain goalsetc., so that context-related language generationshould be a feasible task.In our paper, we show by means of an appar-ently simple generation task, viz.
the genera-tion of greetings in greeting exchange situations,how more appropriate linguistic expressions canbe generated if context features are taken into ac-count.
Our examples will be taken from the videorole playing game The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim,which shall henceforth simply be referenced asSkyrim.2 Video Role Playing Games (VRPGs)Video games involve two kinds of players oragents, respectively: player characters are agentsacting in the virtual game environment on behalfof and controlled by the player, and non-playercharacters (NPCs) are agents controlled by thegame software.
Both agents interact with eachother by non-verbal and verbal means, the lattertypically realized by the selection of canned textfrom an agent-dependent discourse tree.The ultimate goal of a video game is immer-sion: the player should get emotionally involvedwith the environment, the NPCs and his charac-167ter.
Text presented in video games is vital to theimmersion process.
Form and content of the textspresented depend on the player types and the storytelling method.The essential features of VRPGs are the highnumber of appearing NPCs, their multifacetedmodels (skills, attributes, ?karma?, etc.
), a branch-ing story line and the possibility to take differentapproaches to solve problems, many of the for-mer being conversational.
As a result, in VRPGsconversations mostly take place directly withinthe games virtual environment (as opposed tocutscenes in many action games, i.e.
episodes theplayer is not able to control), which leads to thehigh immersion factor of the genre.2.1 Text in Video GamesGame texts are the major component in telling anddriving a game?s story.
In most recent games theyare fully voice acted.
Game texts can either becategorized as storytelling text, written documentsappearing in the game, or dialog, which can befurther categorized as either scripted or interactivedialog.
The latter is mostly featured in games ofthe branching storytelling type like VRPGs.
Thesegames make rich use of interactive dialogue anduse it to fuel their story.
Players have multiplechoices in dialogs and are able to use different ver-bal approaches to solve conversational problems.Nevertheless all possible dialog lines are still pre-written during development ?
there is just a lotmore of them.
According to web sources Skyrimcomprises more than 60,000 dialog lines.This demonstrates that game developers mustuse an enormous amount of text that will be pre-sented in the different episodes of a story.
How-ever, there is little variation within these texts tokeep development costs down.
As a result, con-versations may get an inappropriate character bymeans of an iterated use of one and the sametext unit in subsequent scenes, or the constant,inappropriate avoidance of ingame variables thatwould bloat the number of dialog lines (e.g.
gen-der of agents).In Skyrim this leads to constant skipping of realconversation openers and real passing greetings.As our evaluation below shows, even a minimal-istic greeting exchange will be perceived as moreappropriate and therefore improve immersion.3 Greeting ExchangesGreeting exchanges are social practices that agentsin VRPGs should be able to master.
According toFirth (1972) the aim of a greeting exchange is toestablish or reestablish social relations in case ofconversation openers, or in case of passing greet-ings ?
if the agents are strangers ?
guaranteeing asafe passage.
Both may also serve acknowledge-ment of a different allocation of status.Politeness is a central aspect of every type ofgreeting exchange.
Greeting exchanges as ad-jacency pairs comprise a linguistic, a sociolin-guistic, and an anthropological aspect (Williams2001).
Some of the variables influencing form andcontent of a greeting exchange are:?
Attention of player and agents (e.g.
are theagents facing each other?)?
Time since last encounter between the twoparties (e.g.
Skyrim?s NPCs do not make adifference between the character leaving forfive minutes and leaving for days)?
Gender as social variable (e.g.
in the soci-ety in question, is a woman supposed to greetfirst?)?
Physical variables: time of the day, physicaldistance, noisiness of surroundings, crowd-edness of the immediate environment.
E.g.,the last three variables influence wether averbal or a gestural greeting should be per-formed.In Skyrim, instantiations of these variables areavailable during runtime because they are trackedfor various other functions of the game engine, butonly gender (?Hello master / mistress?)
and dis-tance (passing greetings will only occur in the im-midiate vicinity of the player character) are actu-ally utilized for greeting purposes.
Also the nec-essary variables underlying the politeness effect ofa greeting are implicitly given in a game; e.g.
inSkyrim the player will encounter kings as well aspeasants, and the sum of her deeds for certain fac-tions are also tracked.4 Computing Greeting ExchangesBrown & Levinson?s (1987) well-known polite-ness model uses the concepts of negative and pos-itive face to explain polite behavior.
The nega-tive face comprises the want of every agent thathis actions be unimpeded by others.
The positive168Trait Par.
Value Motivationshy ?
1.2 misinterprets social distance?
1.3 afraid of authority?
1.8 fears social impositions morethan anything elseuncouth ?
0.2 unaware of social distance?
1.6 does recognize and respectpower?
0.2 does not mind the impositions ofthe FTATable 1: Values of ?-, ?- and ?-parameters for shyand uncouth stereotypesface is the want of every agent that his wants bedesirable to at least some others.
Face threatingacts (FTAs) threaten the positive and/or the nega-tive face of the addressee and/or the speaker.
Po-liteness is just a verbal or non-verbal means to at-tenuate the FTA.
According to Brown & Levinson(1987) the weight Wx of a FTA x is calculated asfollows:Wx = D(S,H) + P (H,S) +Rxwhere D is the social distance between speaker Sand hearer H , P is the relative power the hearerhas over the speaker, and Rx is the ranking of theimpositions of a particular FTA x.In Skyrim the background information for thegeneration of appropriate greetings is available inthe course of the game, but the software makesvery limited use of the variables at its disposal.Time since the last encounter is not taken into ac-count as well as attention: Characters might havebeen gone for days of ingame time and will hearthe same phrases as if they just left the room.
Thecharacter is also addressed by NPCs while they arepassing behind his back or sometimes while talk-ing to other NPCs.
This is clearly impolite greet-ing behavior that is not licensed by urgency andrudeness as an agent?s trait, since this affects allNPCs.More information available could be used tocalculate the social distance D and power P .
Thesocial distance could be calculated by taking intoaccount the interacting agent?s ethnicities, theirprofession, social skills etc., while relative powercould be calculated through factors like rank in orstanding with an organisation.Finally and most importantly personal influ-ences are implemented by the use of parameterswhich simply adjust the impact of the social vari-ables:Wx = ?
?D(S,H) + ?
?
P (H,S) + ?
?RxThis allows for easy contrasting between char-acter types.
If we assume that a ?normal?
greetingbehavior is based on a value of 1 for each of ?, ?and ?, we assume exemplary values for the param-eters for stereotypical shy and uncouth as seen inTable 1.As a result, our method not only generates dif-ferent greetings w.r.t.
different instantiations ofthe physical and social variables, but also differ-ent greetings for different agent types.
Our algo-rithm outlined in Table 2 generates a simple pass-ing greeting exchange or a simple conversationopener.We assume that for every pair of agents (char-acter and NPC) there is a Question Under Discus-sion (QUD) stack of information that has not yetbeen resolved (see, e.g., Djalali et al2011).
AQUD-model for short-term discourse history canalso be utilized to lock the NPC in a certain con-versational state (urgent quests), therefore givingaccess to the notion of urgency which mitigates theimpact of impolite behavior, e.g.
skipping greetingexchanges, and also helps to keep discourse coher-ent.Besides the QUD stack we assume a databasewhich keeps record of the discourse history be-yond the QUD-stack.
Elements resolved (poppedfrom the stack) are stored in the database.
Thisdatabase also helps to keep track of relations be-tween the two agents and directly affects the so-cial distance component.
Relative power is un-touched.
The database also keeps track of agent-specific information like faction, rank, and othersas well as agent-pair specific data, like time sincelast encounter.Since we do not have access to Skyrim?s sourcecode, our algorithm has not been implemented yet.However, given greetings from Skyrim, the out-lined algorithm can be used to determine mod-ified greetings whose quality has been evalu-ated by players.
For example, when enteringan alchemist?s store the following example dialogmight occur in Skyrim (A being the alchemist, Pbeing the player character):A: You look rather pale.
Could be Ataxia.
It?squite a problem back home in Cyrodiil.P: [not realized]P: [initiates conversation; not realized]A: Pardon me, but do I detect a case of the Rat-tles?
I?ve got something for that.1691 check for possibility of a greeting exchange: 13 if greeting character is a player character:2 ?
checking agent type (normal, shy, uncouth) 14 ?
generate passing greeting or conversational opener.3 ?
line of sight between agents?
15 ?
present player with options to choose from.4 ?
agents paying attention to e.o.?
16 ?
add greeting phrase to discourse history.5 ?
distance between agents appropriate?
17 ?
check for circumstances that might reduce impactof FTA (e.g.
urgency)6 ?
one of agents trying to hide?
18 ?
apply politeness impact on standing and/or karma.7 gather possible and situationally fitting greetingphrases / schemes for either.
.
.19 else if greeting character is a NPC:8 ?
A passing greeting or 20 ?
choose greeting according to NPCs role and model9 ?
A conversation opener 21 ?
generate chosen phrase.10 look for physical modifiers that influence mode ofgreeting (e.g.
noisiness of surrounding)22 ?
add chosen phrase to discourse history11 look for situational modifiers that override politenesscalculation22 output to player12 calculate politeness with regards to agent typesTable 2: Proposed algorithm for greeting exchange generation.P: [not realized]P: [chooses from variety of conversation topics]Utilizing our algorithm, the following dialogmight unfold.A: Good morning and welcome to my store.P: Good morning.A: How may I serve you?P: [chooses from variety of conversation topics]One can see that while the pre-written dialog linesgive a lot of background information about thegame world, their usage in the initial dialog stagesseems a bit odd.5 EvaluationTo evaluate the suggested method of computinggreeting exchanges, we designed a questionnairecontaining descriptions (in a pen & paper RPGstyle) of five different situations from Skyrim.These situations have been chosen because of theirunfitting pragmatic realisation.
For each situa-tion, we presented a set of follow-up dialog sit-uations which contained the original dialog fromSkyrim, dialog determined by our algorithm (mi-nus urgency, as it would allow to skip greeting ex-changes) as well as by a simple approach that onlytook into account attention and minimalistic greet-ings.We used transcripts from the original dialogto eliminate potential bias from different meth-ods of presentation as well as to ensure that sub-jects would not recognize the original dialog fromSkyrim.
The subjects were then asked to evaluatethe dialog situations according to appropriateness,politeness, social distance, relative power as wellas feeling a sense of urgency.
In addition we askedthe subjects for a short self-evaluation of their ex-perience with video and role playing games aswell as their experience with Skyrim.
Out of sevenparticipants two did not have any experience withvideo or role playing games.
Two participants hadplayed Skyrim.
They evaluated the overall linguis-tic realisation with a score of 7 out of 9 and wereable to recognize the situations as well as the dia-log options from Skyrim.
Table 3 shows the over-all evaluation results.very medium notSkyrim 1.4 1.4 4.2simple 2 4 1our alg.
4.2 1.4 1.2Skyrim 0.2 1.8 5simple 1.6 4 1.4our alg.
4.6 1.6 0.8Table 3: Average no.
of choices for appropriate-ness (above) and politeness (below)In this setting, Skyrim?s passing greetings andconversation openers generally were perceived asmuch less appropriate than the alternatives pre-sented, while greetings determined by our algo-rithm were perceived as the most appropriate inall scenarios by the majority of all participants.Skyrim?s greeting exchanges were also mostly as-sociated with only little social distance and wereperceived as relatively impolite.
The opposite wastrue for greetings determined by our algorithm: inevery scenario the majority of participants chosethem as the most polite one.170ReferencesPenelope Brown and Stephen C. Levinson.
1987.
Po-liteness: Some universals in language usage.
Cam-bridge University Press, CambridgeAlex Djalali, David Clausen, Sven Lauer, Karl Schultzand Christopher Potts.
2011.
Modeling Expert Ef-fects and Common Ground Using Questions UnderDiscussion.
Proceedings of the AAAI Workshop onBuilding Representations of Common Ground withIntelligent Agents.Raymond Firth.
1972.
Verbal and Bodily Rituals ofGreeting and Parting.
The Interpretation of Ritual:1?38.J.S.
La Fontaine (Ed.).
1972.
The Interpretation ofRitual.
Tavistock Publications, London.Alexander Koller, Ralph Debusmann, Malte Gabsdiland Kristina Striegnitz.
2004.
Put my galakmid coininto the dispenser and kick it: Computational Lin-guistics and Theorem Proving in a Computer Game.Journal of Logic, Language and Information, 13 (2):187?206.Foaad Khosmood and Marilyn Walker.
2010.Grapevine: a gossip generation system.
Proceed-ings of the 5th International Conference on theFoundations of Digital Games, New York, NY, USA:92?99.Aaron A. Reed, Ben Samuel, Anne Sullivan, RickyGrant, April Grow, Justin Lazaro, Jennifer Mahal,Sri Kurniawan, Marilyn Walker and Noah Wardrip-Fruin.
2011.
SpyFeet: An Exercise RPG.
Pro-ceedings of the 6th International Conference on theFoundations of Digital Games.Jesse Schell.
2008.
The Art of Game Design: A bookof lenses.
Elsevier/Morgan Kaufmann, Amsterdamand Boston.Kenneth E. Williams.
2001.
An Evaluation of Greet-ing Exchanges in Textbooks and Real Life Settings.Sophia Junior College Faculty Journal, 21:49?64.171
