Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis, pages 115?119,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsSentiment Classification using Rough Set based Hybrid FeatureSelectionBasant Agarwal Namita MittalDepartment of Computer Engineering Department of Computer EngineeringMalaviya National Institute Technology Malaviya National Institute TechnologyJaipur, India Jaipur, Indiathebasant@gmail.com nmittal@mnit.ac.inAbstractSentiment analysis means to extract opinionof users from review documents.
Sentimentclassification using Machine Learning (ML)methods faces the problem of high dimen-sionality of feature vector.
Therefore, a fea-ture selection method is required to eliminatethe irrelevant and noisy features from thefeature vector for efficient working of MLalgorithms.
Rough Set Theory based featureselection method finds the optimal featuresubset by eliminating the redundant features.In this paper, Rough Set Theory (RST) basedfeature selection method is applied for sen-timent classification.
A Hybrid feature selec-tion method based on RST and InformationGain (IG) is proposed for sentiment classifi-cation.
Proposed methods are evaluated onfour standard datasets viz.
Movie review,product (book, DVD and electronics) reviewdataset.
Experimental results show that Hy-brid feature selection method outperformsthan other feature selection methods for sen-timent classification.1 IntroductionSentiment analysis is to extract the users?
opinionby analysing the text documents (Pang et al2008).
Nowadays people are using web for writ-ing their opinion on blogs, social networkingwebsites, discussion forums etc.
Hence, it is verymuch needed to analyse these web contents.Thus, it increases the demand of sentiment analy-sis research.
Sentiment analysis has been veryimportant for the users as well as for businesswith the drastic increase of online content.
Forusers, it is important to know past experiencesabout some product or services for taking deci-sion in purchasing products.
Companies can usesentiment analysis in improving their productsbased on the users?
feedback written about theirproducts on blogs.
E-commerce based companiesknow the online trends about the products.
Ex-ample of sentiment analysis is - knowing whichmodel of a camera is liked by most of the users.Sentiment classification can be considered as atext classification problem.
Bag-of-Words(BOW) representation is commonly used for sen-timent classification using machine learning ap-proaches.
The words present in all the documentscreate the feature vector.
Generally, this featurevector is huge in dimension that is used by ma-chine learning methods for classification.
Thishigh dimensional feature vector deteriorates theperformance of machine learning algorithm.Rough set theory has been used for reducing thefeature vector size for text classification (Jensenet al2001; Jensen et al2009; Wakaki et al2004).
However, it has not been investigated forsentiment analysis yet.Contribution of this paper:-1.
Rough Set theory based feature selectionmethod is applied for sentiment classification.2.
Hybrid Feature selection method is proposedbased on Rough Set and Information Gain whichperforms better than other feature selection meth-ods.3.
Proposed methods are experimented with fourdifferent standard datasets.The paper is organized as follows: A brief discus-sion of the earlier research work is given in Sec-tion 2.
Section 3 describes the feature selectionsmethod used for sentiment classification.
Dataset,Experimental setup and results are discussed inSection 4.
Finally, Section 5 describes conclu-sions.1152 Related WorkMachine Learning methods have been widelyapplied for sentiment analysis (Pang et al2008;Pang et al2002; Tan et al2008).
Pang and Lee(2004) experimented with various features likeunigrams, bi-grams and adjectives for sentimentclassification of movie reviews using differentmachine learning algorithms namely Na?ve Bayes(NB), Support Vector Machines (SVM), andMaximum-Entropy (ME).
Feature selectionmethods improve the performance of sentimentclassification by eliminating the noisy and irrele-vant features from feature vector.
Tan et al(2008) investigated with various feature selectionmethods with different machine learning algo-rithm for sentiment classification.
Their experi-mental results show that IG performs better ascompared to other feature selection methods andSVM is best machine learning algorithms.
Cate-gorical Probability Proportion Difference (CPPD)feature selection method is proposed which com-putes the importance of a feature based on itsclass discriminating ability for sentiment classifi-cation (Agarwal et al2012).
Various features areextracted from the text for sentiment classifica-tion.
Further, Minimum Redundancy MaximumRelevancy (mRMR) and IG feature selectionmethods are used to select prominent features forbetter sentiment classification by machine learn-ing algorithms (Agarwal et al2013).Rough set based dimensionality reduction methodis applied for data reduction to characterizebookmarks and it is compared with conventionalentropy based reduction method (Jensen et al2009).
Dimension reduction method based onfuzzy-rough sets and Ant Colony Optimization(ACO) method is proposed (Jensen et al2006),which is applied to the web categorisation prob-lem.
Experimental result show significant reduc-tion in the data redundancy.
Rough set theory isapplied to select relevant features for web-pageclassification.
Their experimental results showthat the rough set based feature selection methodwith SVM gives better accuracy (Wakaki et al2004).
Applicability of RS theory for various ex-isting text classification techniques are discussedin detail with e-mail categorization as an exampleapplication (Chouchoulas et al2001).3 Methodology Used3.1 Rough Set Attribute Reduction (RSAR)Rough Sets Theory (RST) (Jensen et al2007) isa mathematical tool to make attribute reductionby eliminating redundant condition attributes(features).
The rough set is the approximation of avague concept (set) by a pair of precise concepts,called lower and upper approximations.
RoughSet Attribute Reduction (RSAR) (Jensen et al2007) is a filter based method by which redun-dant features are eliminated by keeping theamount of knowledge intact in the System.
Basicintuition behind RSAR is that objects belongingto the same category (same attributes) are not dis-tinguishable (Jensen et al2009).RSAR algorithm finds the vague attributes whichdo not have important role in the classification.Therefore, it is needed to remove redundant fea-tures without changing the knowledge embeddedin the information system.
An important issue indata analysis is to discover dependencies betweenthe attributes.
QUICKREDUCT method (Jensenet al2007; Jensen et al2009) calculate a mini-mal reduct without exhaustively generating allpossible subsets, it is used in our experiments forobtaining optimal feature subset.
Main advantageof RSAR is that it does not require any additionalparameter to operate like threshold is required incase of IG.3.2 Information Gain (IG)Information gain (IG) is one of the important fea-ture selection techniques for sentiment classifica-tion.
IG is used to select important features withrespect to class attribute.
It is measured by thereduction in the uncertainty in identifying theclass attribute when the value of the feature isknown.
The top ranked (important) features areselected for reducing the feature vector size inturn better classification results.3.3.
Proposed Hybrid Approach to FeatureSelectionThe usefulness of an attribute is determined byboth its relevancy and redundancy.
An attribute isrelevant if it is predictive to the class attribute,otherwise it is irrelevant.
An attribute is consid-116ered to be redundant if it is correlated with otherattributes.
Hence, The Aim is to find the attrib-utes that are highly correlated with the class at-tribute, but not with other attributes for a goodattribute subset (Jensen et al2007).Information Gain based feature selection methodsdetermine the importance of a feature in the doc-uments.
But, it has disadvantage that thresholdvalue is required initially which is not knowngenerally.
This method does not consider the re-dundancy among the attributes.
In addition, it willreturn large number of features when massiveamount of documents are to be considered.
RSARcan reduce most of the irrelevant and noisy fea-tures.
It reduces the redundancy among the fea-tures.
It has advantage that it considers thedependency of combination of features on deci-sion attribute in contrast to other conventionalfeature selection methods (Jensen et al2007).However, it has some disadvantages.
Firstly, toget an optimal reduct is a NP-hard problem, someheuristic algorithms are used to get approximatereduction (Jensen et al2004; Jensen et al2009).Secondly, it is very time consuming.
Therefore,an integrated method is developed which can re-duce most of the redundant features and get theminimal feature set with reduced time complexityfor sentiment classification.Proposed Algorithm works in two steps.
Firstly,Information Gain (IG) of each feature is comput-ed and all the features are taken which has infor-mation gain value to be greater than 0.
So thatinitially irrelevant and noisy features are removedfrom the feature vector, by this a lot computation-al efforts are reduced.
Main assumption and mo-tivation behind this step is that IG wouldeliminate the features which are likely to be noisyand irrelevant features.
Further, Reduced featureset is sent to the RSAR feature selection methodto get optimal feature subset.
So, by combiningboth the methods a feature selection is proposedwhich is more efficient in terms of computationaland time complexity.4 Dataset Used and Experimental SetupFor the evaluation of the proposed method, one ofthe most popular publically available movie re-view dataset (Pang et al2004) is used.
Thisstandard dataset contains 2000 reviews compris-ing 1000 positive and 1000 negative reviews.Product review dataset consisting amazon prod-ucts reviews is also used provided by Blitzer et al(2007).
We used product reviews of books, DVDand electronics for experiments.
Each domain has1000 positive and 1000 negative labelled reviews.Documents are initially pre-processed as follows:(i) Negation handling is performed as Pang et al(2002), ?NOT_?
is added to every words occur-ring after the negation word (no, not, isn?t, can?t,never, couldn?t, didn?t, wouldn?t, don?t) and firstpunctuation mark in the sentence.
(ii) Words occurring in less than 3 documents areremoved from the feature set.Binary weighting scheme has been identified as abetter weighting scheme as compared to frequen-cy based schemes for sentiment classification(Pang et al2002); therefore we also used binaryweighting method for representing text.
In addi-tion, there is no need of using separate discretisa-tion method in case of binary weighting schemeas required by RSAR feature selection algorithm.Noisy and irrelevant features are eliminated fromthe feature vector generated after pre-processingusing various feature selection methods discussedbefore.
Further, prominent feature vector is usedby machine learning algorithms.
Support VectorMachine (SVM) and Na?ve Bayes (NB) classifi-ers are the mostly used for sentiment classifica-tion (Pang et al2002; Tan et al2008).Therefore, we report the classification results ofSVM and NB classifier for classifying reviewdocuments into positive or negative sentimentpolarity.
For the evaluation of proposed methods10 fold cross validation method is used.
F-measure value is reported as a performancemeasure of various classifiers (Agarwal et al2013)4.1 Experimental results and discussionsInitially, unigram features are extracted from thereview documents.
Feature set without using anyfeature selection method is taken as a baseline.Further, various feature selection algorithms areused for selecting optimal feature subset.
IG isused for comparison with the proposed featureselection method as it has been considered as oneof the best feature selection method for sentimentclassification (Pang et al2008; Tan et al2008).Feature subsets obtained after applying RSAR, IG117and proposed hybrid feature selection algorithmare called Rough features, IG features and HybridIG-Rough features respectively.
Feature vectorlengths for various features used for sentimentclassification of different datasets are shown inTable 1.
In the experiments, Firstly, RSAR algo-rithm is applied to get the best optimal featuresubset.
Further, according to the feature subsetsize obtained from RSAR method, threshold is setfor IG based to get the feature vector, which isfurther used for classification.
Experiments areconducted in this way so that results of Roughfeatures and IG features can be compared.Movie Book DVDElectron-icsUnigramFeatures9045 5391 5955 4270Rough Fea-tures263 310 350 371IG Features 263 310 350 371Hybrid IG-Rough Fea-tures339 410 403 405Table 1.
Feature Length for Various Features UsedWith Four DatasetsExperimental results show that both feature selec-tion methods (RSAR and IG) are able to improvethe performance from baseline (as shown in Table2).
For example from Table 2, F-measure is in-creased from 84.2% to 85.9% (+2.1) and 85.6%(+1.6) for Rough features and IG features respec-tively with SVM classifier when movie reviewdataset is considered.
Similarly, when electronicsdataset is used, SVM classifier increased the per-formance from 76.5% to 82.9% (+8.3) and 81.1%(+6.01) for Rough and IG features.
It is due to thefact that RSAR algorithm removes the redundan-cy and selects the prominent feature subset, andIG selects the top ranked features by its im-portance to the class attribute.When hybrid features selection approach is usedfor movie review dataset, F- measure is increasedfrom 84.2% to 87.7 (+4.15) for SVM classifier asgiven in Table 1.
Hybrid IG-Rough features givesbetter classification results as compare to otherfeatures with very small feature vector length.
Itis due to the fact that IG in its first phase elimi-nates the irrelevant and noisy features and in se-cond phase RSAR algorithm decreases theredundancy among features and extracts the op-timal feature subset.
By combining both themethods, a more robust feature selection methodis developed for sentiment classification which ismore efficient in selecting optimal feature set formassive dataset.
Because when dataset size wouldbe very large, RSAR algorithm will take muchtime and IG algorithm would be having problemof large feature size and pre-setting the thresholdvalue.Uni-gramFea-turesroughFea-turesIGFea-turesHybridIG-RoughFea-turesMovieSVM 84.285.9(+2.1)85.6(+1.6)87.7(+4.15)NB 77.178.7(+2.1)78.6(+2.0)80.9(+4.9)BookSVM 76.278.0(+2.3)77.0(+1.0)80.2(+5.2)NB 74.474.9(+0.1)76.3(+2.5)79.1(+6.3)DVDSVM 77.380.4(+4.0)79.1(+2.3)83.2(+7.6)NB 74.276.5(+3.1)75.1(+1.2)78.1(+5.2)Elec-tronicsSVM 76.582.9(+8.3)81.1(+6.0)83.5(+9.1)NB 74.975.5(+0.1)75.2(+.04)78.1(+4.2)Table 2 F-measure (in %) for various features withfour datasets5 ConclusionRough set based dimension reduction method isapplied for sentiment analysis.
It is capable ofreducing the redundancy among the attributes.Rough set based methods computes the best fea-ture subset based on minimized redundancy incontrast to information gain which computes theimportance of the attribute based on the entropy.Hybrid feature selection method is proposedwhich is based on RSAR and IG.
Experimentalresults show that Hybrid feature selection methodwith very less number of features produces betterresults as compared to other feature selectionmethods.
All the methods are experimented usingfour standard datasets.
In future, more methodscan be explored for making rough set based fea-ture selection method computationally more effi-cient by incorporating evolutionary approaches inselecting feature subsets.118ReferencesAlexios Chouchoulas, Qiang Shen, ?Rough set-aidedkey- word reduction for text categorization?, AppliedArtificial Intelligence, Vol.
15, No.
9, pp.
843-873.2001.Basant Agarwal, Namita Mittal, ?Categorical Probabil-ity Proportion Difference (CPPD): A Feature SelectionMethod for Sentiment Classification?, In Proceedingsof the 2nd Workshop on Sentiment Analysis where AImeets Psychology (SAAIP), COLING 2012, pp 17?26,2012.Basant Agarwal, Namita Mittal, ?Optimal Feature Se-lection Methods for Sentiment Analysis?, In 14th In-ternational Conference on Intelligent Text Processingand Computational Linguistics (CICLing 2013), Vol-7817,pp:13-24, 2013.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee.
?Opinion mining and sentimentanalysis?, Foundations and Trends in InformationRetrieval, Vol.
2(1-2):pp.
1?135, 2008.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, Shivakumar Vaithyanathan,?Thumbs up?
Sentiment classification using machinelearning techniques?, In the Proceedings of the Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP), pp.
79?86.
2002.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, ?A sentimental education: sen-timent analysis using subjectivity summarization basedon minimum cuts?, In the Proceedings of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2004, pp.271?278.
2004.John Blitzer, Mark Dredze, Fernando Pereira, ?Biog-raphies, Bollywood, Boom-boxes and Blenders: Do-main Adaptation for Sentiment Classification?, InProc.
Assoc.
Computational Linguistics.
ACL Press,pp 440-447, 2007.Richard Jensen, Qiang Shen, ?Fuzzy-Rough Sets As-sisted Attribute Selection?, In IEEE Transactions onFuzzy Systems, Vol.
15, No.
1, February 2007.Richard Jensen, Qiang Shen, ?A Rough Set-AidedSystem for Sorting WWW Bookmarks?.
In N. Zhonget al(Eds.
), Web Intelligence: Research and Devel-opment.
pp.
95-105,  2001.Richard Jensen, Qiang Shen, ?New Approaches toFuzzy-Rough Feature Selection?, In the IEEE Trans-actions on Fuzzy Systems, vol.
17, no.
4, pp.
824-838,2009.Richard Jensen, Qiang Shen, ?Webpage Classificationwith ACO-enhanced Fuzzy-Rough Feature Selection?,In the Proceedings of the Fifth International Confer-ence on Rough Sets and Current Trends in Computing(RSCTC 2006), LNAI 4259, pp.
147-156.
2006Richard Jensen, Qiang Shen ?Fuzzy-Rough AttributeReduction with Application to Web Categorization?.In the Transaction on Fuzzy Sets and Systems 141(3),pp.
469-485.
2004.Songbo Tan , Jin Zhang ?An empirical study of senti-ment analysis for chinese documents?, In Expert Sys-tems with Applications , pp:2622?2629 (2008).Toshiko Wakaki, Hiroyuki  Itakura, Masaki Tamura,?Rough Set-Aided Feature Selection for AutomaticWeb-Page Classification?.
In Proceedings of theIEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on WebIntelligence, Pages 70-76, 2004119
