Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Predicting and Improving Text Readability for Target Reader Populations, pages 39?48,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsText Modification for Bulgarian Sign Language UsersSlavina Lozanova?
Ivelina Stoyanova?
Svetlozara Leseva?slavinal@abv.bg iva@dcl.bas.bg zarka@dcl.bas.bgSvetla Koeva?
Boian Savtchev?svetla@dcl.bas.bg bsavtchev@gmail.com?
AssistNet, Sofia, Bulgaria?
Department of Computational Linguistics, IBL, BAS, Sofia, Bulgaria?
Cambridge Language Assessment Centre BG015, Sofia, BulgariaAbstractThe paper discusses the main issues re-garding the reading skills and compre-hension proficiency in written Bulgarianof people with communication difficulties,and deaf people, in particular.
We considerseveral key components of text compre-hension which pose a challenge for deafreaders and propose a rule-based systemfor automatic modification of Bulgariantexts intended to facilitate comprehensionby deaf people, to assist education, etc.
Inorder to demonstrate the benefits of such asystem and to evaluate its performance, wehave carried out a study among a group ofdeaf people who use Bulgarian Sign Lan-guage (BulSL) as their primary language(primary BulSL users), which comparesthe comprehensibility of original texts andtheir modified versions.
The results showsa considerable improvement in readabilitywhen using modified texts, but at the sametime demonstrates that the level of com-prehension is still low, and that a complexset of modifications will have to be imple-mented to attain satisfactory results.1 IntroductionThe individual development of deaf people de-pends on a complex of factors, which include thecause and the degree of hearing loss, the age ofhearing loss onset, educational background, lan-guage and communication methods, cultural iden-tification, disability preconceptions.
Hearing lossleads to a limited spoken language input, delaysin language acquisition and communication dif-ficulties.
Deaf children and adults demonstratelower reading achievements than hearing peopleregardless of the degree of hearing loss, and theuse (or lack) of high-performing hearing amplifi-cation devices (Paul, 1998; Conrad, 1979; Mussel-man, 2000; Traxler, 2000; Vermeulen AM, 2007),which shows that reading skills are influencedby complex social, linguistic and communication-related factors rather than by the sensory disabilityalone.The paper explores reading comprehension ofDeaf people1 who use Bulgarian Sign Language(BulSL) as their primary language.
Various re-search studies both in Bulgaria and abroad haveshown that hearing-impaired BulSL users havepoorer reading skills than their hearing peers.
Var-ious methods for text modification have been ex-plored to the end of obtaining texts that corre-spond to the proficiency of the readers.
Most ofthe modification methodologies have been focusedon simplifying the original texts and decreasingtheir complexity (Inui et al 2003).
Our approach,however, focuses not on simplification, but on theadaptation of the structure of the original texts tothe linguistic properties of BulSL.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2discusses the reading skills of BulSL users, payingattention to children?s and adult education in Bul-garia focused on the acquisition of Bulgarian andthe relationship between BulSL and verbal Bulgar-ian.
After outlining the main principles which un-derlie text adaptation aimed at fostering text com-prehensibility in the target population, we presenta rule-based method for automatic modification ofBulgarian written texts.
The method applies a setof linguistic transformations and produces modi-fied versions of the texts, which are better suitedto the needs of BulSL users (Section 3).
Section4 describes an experiment devised to explore thereading comprehension of BulSL users of originaland modified texts.
Section 5 draws conclusions1Capitalized ?Deaf?
is used to denote the community ofdeaf people who use Sign Language as their primary lan-guage.
The term emphasizes the socio-cultural model ofDeafness rather than the medical view of hearing impairment.39and outlines some directions for future work.2 Reading Skills of Hearing-ImpairedPeople2.1 EducationPrevious research has shown that deaf students lagbehind their hearing peers in reading comprehen-sion, because they experience difficulties with vo-cabulary (Paul, 1996), syntax (Kelly, 1996), andthe use of prior knowledge and metacognition(Trezek et al 2010).
In addition, reading com-prehension difficulties are often linked to lack ofgeneral knowledge due to inadequate educationand limited access to information (Lewis and Jack-son, 2001).
Two independently performed studies(Albertini and Mayer, 2011; Parault and William,2010) have found out that deaf college students?reading skills are below those of six-graders2.MacAnally et al(1999) support the hypothe-sis that using less complicated and more accessi-ble reading materials, consisting of language con-structions close or similar to sign language struc-ture can facilitate reading comprehension and mo-tivate deaf people to read.
In support of this claimBerent (2004) points out that deaf students wouldread more smoothly if the subject, verb, and objectare in a simple SVO (subject-verb-object) wordorder.
These studies provide evidence in favourof text adaptation that reflects features of the signlanguage and the development of modified teach-ing materials.Bulgarian education for the deaf is based en-tirely on the oral approach and no systematic efforthas been invested into exploring total communi-cation and bilingual approaches (Lozanova, 2002;Saeva, 2010).
Even in the specialized schoolsfor the deaf, where sign language communicationoccurs naturally, BulSL has not been integratedinto the school curriculum.
Besides, the linguis-tic analysis of BulSL has been limited to meredescriptions and presentation of signs: Bulgar-ian Sign Language dictionaries (1966, 1996); SignLanguage Dictionary in Civil Education (Stoy-anova et al 2003); Specialized Multimedia BulSLdictionary3 (2005).In order to improve education and the readingand communication skills of deaf people, a com-prehensive study of BulSL is necessary, that will211-12-year-olds.3http://www.signlanguage-bg.comprovide the basis for developing advanced meth-ods for automatic text modification directed to im-proving text readability for deaf BulSL users.2.2 Sign Language and Verbal LanguageResearch has shown that Deaf children of Deafparents (DCDP) with sign language as their pri-mary mode of communication outperform theirdeaf peers of hearing parents (DCHP) on differ-ent academic tests, including reading tests (May-berry, 2000).
Several studies have found a positivecorrelation between the advanced American SignLanguage (ASL) skills of deaf students and theirhigher reading skills (Hoffmeister, 2000; Paddenand Ramsey, 2000).
Evidence is not conclusive asto how sign languages relate to verbal languagesand what influence they have on the acquisitionof general communication skills and knowledgeabout the world.The extensive research on sign languages in thelast fifty years worldwide has shown that they areindependent linguistic systems which differ fromverbal languages (Stokoe, 1960; Stokoe, 1972;Sutton-Spence and Woll, 2003).
Being an inde-pendent language, a sign language affects the wayin which its users conceptualize the world, accord-ing to the principle of linguistic relativity, first for-mulated by Sapir and Whorf (Lee, 1996).
Dueto the fact that sign languages are very differentfrom verbal ones, many Deaf people attain a cer-tain level of proficiency in a verbal language at thestate of interlanguage4 (Selinker, 1972) but thatlevel is not sufficient to ensure successful socialintegration.2.3 Readability of Written Texts for NativeUsers of Sign LanguageReadability is measured mainly on the basis of vo-cabulary and sentence complexity, including wordlength and sentence length: the higher the letter,syllable and word count of linguistic units, thegreater the demand on the reader.
Some syntacticstructures also affect readability ?
negative and in-terrogative constructions, passive voice, complexsentences with various relations between the mainclause and the subordinates, long distance depen-dencies, etc.
Besides, readability improves if theinformation in a text is well-organized and effec-4The term ?interlanguage?
denotes the intermediate statein second language acquisition characterized by insufficientunderstanding and grammatical and lexical errors in languageproduction.40tively presented so that its local and global dis-course structure is obvious to the reader (Swann,1992).Text modification is often understood as simpli-fication of text structure but this may result in aninadequately low level of complexity and loss ofrelevant information.
Moreover, using a limitedvocabulary, avoiding certain syntactic structures,such as complex sentences, is detrimental to thecommunication and learning skills.The efforts towards providing equal access toinformation for Deaf people lack clear principlesand uniformity.
Firstly, there is no system of cri-teria for evaluation of text complexity in terms ofvocabulary, syntactic structure, stylistics and prag-matics.
Further, no standard framework and re-quirements for text modification have been estab-lished, which limits its applications.3 Text Modification of BulgarianLanguage modification for improved readability isnot a new task and its positive and negative aspectshave been extensively discussed (BATOD, 2006).One of the most important arguments against textmodification is that it requires a lot of resources interms of human effort and time.
An appealing al-ternative is to employ NLP methods that will facil-itate the implementation of automatic modificationfor improved readability of written texts aimed atthe BulSL community.3.1 General Principles of Text ModificationSeveral studies have observed different aspects oftext modification: splitting chosen sentences withexisting tools (Petersen and Ostendorf, 2007),?translating?
from complex to simplified sentenceswith statistical machine translation methods (Spe-cia, 2010), developing text simplification systems(Candido et al 2009), etc.
(Siddharthan, 2011)compares a rule-based and a general purpose gen-erator approaches to text adaptation.
Recently theavailability of the Simple English Wikipedia hasprovided the opportunity to use purely data-drivenapproaches (Zhu et al 2010).
The main oper-ation types both in statistical and in rule-basedapproaches are: change, delete, insert, and split(Bott and Saggion, 2011).Although text modification is a highly languagedependent task, it observes certain general princi-ples:?
Modified text should be identical or veryclose in meaning to the original.?
Modified text should be grammatically cor-rect and structurally authentic by preservingas much as possible of the original textual andsyntactic structure.?
In general, modified text should be character-ized by less syntactic complexity comparedwith the original text.
However, the purposeof the modification is not to simplify the textbut rather to make the information in it moreaccessible and understandable by represent-ing it in relatively short information chunkswith simple syntax without ellipses.?
It should be possible to extend the rangeof modifications and include other compo-nents which contribute to readability or intro-duce other functionalities that facilitate read-ing comprehension, such as visual represen-tations.3.2 Stages of Text ModificationAt present we apply a limited number of modifica-tions: clause splitting, simplification of syntacticstructure of complex sentences, anaphora resolu-tion, subject recovery, clause reordering and inser-tion of additional phrases.3.2.1 PreprocessingThe preprocessing stage includes annotation withthe minimum of grammatical information nec-essary for the application of the modificationrules.
The texts are sentence-split, tokenized,POS-tagged and lemmatized using the BulgarianLanguage Processing Chain5 (Koeva and Genov,2011).
Subsequently, clause splitting is appliedusing a general method based on POS tagging,lists of clause delimiters ?
clause linking wordsand multiword expressions and punctuation, and aset of language specific rules.We define a clause as a sequence of words be-tween two clause delimiters where exactly one fi-nite verb occurs.
A finite verb is either: (a) a sin-gle finite verb, e.g.
yade (eats); (b) or a finite verbphrase formed by an auxiliary and a full verb, e.g.shteshe da yade (would eat); or (c) a finite copu-lar verb phrase with a non-verbal subject comple-ment, e.g.
byaha veseli (were merry).We identify finite verbs by means of a set ofrules applied within a window, currently set up to5http://dcl.bas.bg/services/41two words to the left or to the right:Rule P1.
A single finite verb is recognized by thePOS tagger.
(Some smoothing rules are applied todetect the verb forms actually used in the context?
e.g.
forms with reflexive and negative particles).Rule P2.
If auxiliaries and a lexical verb formoccur within the established window, they form asingle finite verb phrase.
(This rule subsumes anumber of more specific rules that govern the for-mation of analytical forms of lexical verbs by at-taching auxiliary verbs and particles.
)Rule P3.
If an auxiliary (or a copular verb) but nota lexical verb form occurs within the establishedwindow, the auxiliary or copula itself is a singlefinite verb.Rule P4.
If a modal and/or a phase verb and a lex-ical verb form occur within the established win-dow, they form a single finite verb phrase.Rule P5.
If a modal (and/or a phase) verb butnot a lexical verb form occurs within the estab-lished window, the modal verb itself is a single fi-nite verb.A clause is labeled by a clause opening (CO)at the beginning and a clause closing (CC) at theend.
We assume that at least one clause boundary?
an opening and/or a close ?
occurs between anypair of successive finite verbs in a sentence.
EachCO is paired with a CC, even if it might not beexpressed by an overt element.We distinguish two types of COs with respect tothe type of clause they introduce: coordinate andsubordinate.
Most of the coordinating conjunc-tions in Bulgarian are ambiguous since they canlink not only clauses, but also words and phrases.On the contrary, most of the subordinating con-junctions, to the exception of several subordina-tors which are homonymous with prepositions,particles or adverbs, are unambiguous.Clause closing delimiters are sentence end,closing comma, colon, semicolon, dash.The following set of clause splitting rules areapplied (C1-C9):Rule C1.
The beginning of a sentence is a coordi-nate CO.Rule C2.
A subordinating clause linking word orphrase denotes a subordinate CO.Rule C3.
If a subordinate CO is on the top of thestack, we look to the right for a punctuation clausedelimiter (e.g.
comma) which functions as a CCelement.Rule C4.
If a subordinate CO is on the top of thestack, and the CC is not identified yet, we lookfor a coordinating clause linking word or phrasewhich marks a coordinate CO.Rule C5.
If a coordinate CO is on the top ofthe stack, we look for another coordinating clauselinking word or phrase which marks a coordinateCO.Rule C6.
If a coordinate CO is on the top ofthe stack and no coordinate CO is found, we lookfor a punctuation clause delimiter (e.g.
a comma)which functions as a CC element.Rule C7.
If no clause boundary has been identi-fied between two finite verbs, we insert a clauseboundary before the second finite verb.Rule C8.
All COs from the stack should have acorresponding CC.Rule C9.
The part of the sentence to the right ofthe last finite verb until the end of the sentenceshould contain the CCs for all COs still in thestack.3.2.2 Empty subject recoveryThe detection, resolution, and assignment of func-tion tags to empty sentence constituents have be-come subject of interest in relation to parsing(Johnson, 2002; Ryan Gabbard and Marcus, 2004;Dienes and Dubey, 2003), in machine translation,information extraction, automatic summarization(Mitkov, 1999), etc.
The inventory of empty cate-gories includes null pronouns, traces of extractedsyntactic constituents, empty relative pronouns,etc.
So far, we have limited our work to subjectrecovery.A common feature of many, if not all, sign lan-guages (BulSL among others) is that each sentencerequires an overt subject.
Moreover, each subjectis indexed by the signer by pointing to the denotedperson or thing if it is present in the signing area,or by setting up a point in space as a referenceto that person or thing, if it is outside the sign-ing area, and referring to that point whenever therespective person or object is mentioned.
In or-der to avoid ambiguity, different referents are as-signed different spatial points.
Deaf people findit difficult to deal with complex references in writ-ten texts where additional disambiguating markersare rarely available.
Being a pro(noun)-drop lan-guage, Bulgarian allows the omission of the sub-ject when it is grammatically inferable from thecontext.So far the following rules for subject recoveryhave been defined and implemented:42Rule SR1.
In case the verb is in the first or sec-ond person singular or plural and the clause lacks anominative personal pronoun that agrees with thefinite verb, a personal pronoun with the respectiveagreement features is inserted in the text.Rule SR2.
In case the verb is in the third personsingular or plural and the clause lacks a noun ora noun phrase that a) precedes the verb; and b)agrees with the verb in person, number and gen-der, the closest noun (a head in a noun phrase) inthe preceding clause that satisfies the agreementfeatures of the verb is inserted in the text.
(Theprecision of the rule for singular verbs is low.
)3.2.3 Anaphora ResolutionWith respect to text modification regardinganaphora resolution, we focus on a limited typesof pronominal anaphors ?
personal, relative andpossessive pronouns.Bulgarian personal pronouns agree in genderand number with their antecedent.
Possessive pro-nouns express a relation between a possessor anda possessed item, and agree both with their an-tecedent (through the root morpheme) and with thehead noun (through the number and gender fea-tures of the inflection).
For instance in the sen-tence Vidyah direktora v negovata kola (I saw thedirector in his car), the possessive pronoun negovindicates that the possessor is masculine or neutersingular and the inflection -a ?
that the possessedis feminine gender, singular.
The agreement withthe possessor is a relevant feature to text modifica-tion.
Some relative pronouns koyto (which) (typeone) agree with their antecedent in gender andnumber while others (type two) ?
chiyto (whose)agree with the noun they modify and not with theirantecedent.We have formulated the following rules foranaphora resolution:Rule AR1.
The antecedent of a personal or a pos-sessive pronoun is the closest noun (the head in thenoun phrase) within a given window to the left ofthe pronoun which satisfies the agreement featuresof the pronoun.Rule AR2.
The antecedent of a relative pronounis the nearest noun (the head in the noun phrase)in the preceding clause that satisfies the agreementfeatures of the pronoun.The following rules for modification ofanaphora can be used:Rule R1.
The third personal pronoun is replacedwith the identified antecedent.Rule R2.
The possessive pronoun is replaced witha prepositional phrase formed by the prepositionna (of ) and the identified antecedent.Rule R3.
A relative pronoun of type one isreplaced with the identified antecedent.Rule R4.
The relative pronoun chiyto (whose)is replaced with a prepositional phrase formedby the preposition na (of) and the identifiedantecedent.Rule R5.
The relative pronoun kakavto (suchthat) is replaced by a noun phrase formed bya demonstrative pronoun and the identifiedantecedent takava chanta (that bag).3.2.4 Simplification of Complex SentencesComplex sentences are one of the main issuesfor deaf readers because in BulSL, as well as inother sign languages, they are expressed as sep-arate signed statements and the relation betweenthem is explicit.
(Van Valin and LaPolla, 1997) observe that theelements in complex sentences (and other con-structions) are linked with a different degree ofsemantic and syntactic tightness, which is re-flected in the Interclausal Relations Hierarchy.The clauses in a sentence have different degree ofindependence, which determines whether they canbe moved within the sentence or whether they canform an individual sentence.Temporally related events in BulSL most oftenare represented in a chronological order, and therelation between them is expressed by separatesigns or constructions (Example 1).Example 1.Zabavlyavayte se, dokato nauchavate i novineshta.Have fun while you learn new things.Signed sentence:Vie se zabavlyavate.
Ednovremenno nauchavatenovi neshta /ednovremenno/.You have fun.
Simultaneously, you learn newthings /simultaneously/.
(the sign ?simultaneously?
can be repeated at theend of the sentence again)Chambers et al(2007) and Tatu and Srikanth(2008) identify event attributes and event-eventfeatures which are used to describe temporal re-lations between events.
Attributes include tense,grammatical aspect, modality, polarity, event43class.
Further, the event-event features include thefollowing: before, includes, begins, ends, simul-taneously, and their respective inverses (Cham-bers et al 2007), as well as sameActor (bi-nary feature indicating that the events share thesame semantic role Agent), eventCoref (binary at-tribute capturing co-reference information), one-Sent (true when both events are within the samesentence), relToDocDate (defining the temporalrelation of each event to the document date) (Tatuand Srikanth, 2008).
(Pustejovsky et al 2003) also introduce tempo-ral functions to capture expressions such as threeyears ago, and use temporal prepositions (for,during) and temporal connectives (before, while).Three types of links are considered: TLINK (tem-poral link between an event and a moment or pe-riod of time); SLINK (subordination link betweentwo events); and ALINK (aspectual link betweenaspectual types).The structure of the complex sentences is sim-plified by clause reordering that explicitly reflectsthe chronological order of the described events.The preposition or postposition of clauses withtemporal links if, before, after, etc.
may not matchthe actual causal order.
In such cases the order ofclauses is simply reversed based on rules of thetype:Temporal link sled kato /when, after/Construction CL1 temporal link CL2Modification(s) CL2.
Sled tova /then/ CL1.3.2.5 Post-editingPost editing aims at providing grammatically cor-rect and semantically complete modified text.Clause reordering might lead to inappropriate useof verb tenses.
Coping a subject from the previoussentence might require a transformation from anindefinite to a definite noun phrase.
Thus, severalchecks for grammaticality and text cohesion areperformed and relevant changes to verb forms andnoun definiteness are made.
Specific expressionsare introduced to highlight temporal, causative,conditional and other relations and to serve as con-nectives.Example 2 shows a fully modified text.Example 2.Original:Vaz osnova na doklada ot razsledvaneto, sled katolitseto e bilo uvedomeno za vsichki dokazatelstvai sled kato e bilo izslushano, organat e izdalrazreshenie.Based on the report from the investigation,after the person has been notified about allevidence and after /he/ has been heard, theauthorities have issued a permit.Modified:Litseto e bilo uvedomeno za vsichki dokazatelstva.Litseto e bilo izslushano.Sled tova vaz osnova na doklada ot razsledvaneto,organat mozhe da dade razreshenie.The person has been notified about all evi-dence.The person has been heard.After that based on the report from the investiga-tion, the authorities may issue a permit.3.3 Evaluation of System PerformanceThe evaluation of performance is based on theBulgarian part of the Bulgarian-English Clause-Aligned Corpus (Koeva et al 2012) whichamounts to 176,397 tokens and includes severalcategories: administrative texts, fiction, news.
Theoverall evaluation of the system performance is as-sessed in terms of the evaluation of all subtasks(Section 3.2) as presented in Table 1.
The evalu-ation of finite verbs and anaphora recognition, aswell as subject identification is performed manu-ally on a random excerpt of the corpus.
Clausesplitting is evaluated on the basis of the manualannotation of the corpus.
We assess the precisionand recall in terms of full recognition and partialrecognition.
In the first case the entire verb phrase,clause, anaphora, or dropped subject is recognizedcorrectly, while in the latter ?
only a part of therespective linguistic item is identified.
We ac-count for partial recognition since it is often suf-ficient to produce correct overall results, e.g.
par-tial verb phrase recognition in most cases yieldscorrect clause splitting.4 Experiments and Evaluation ofReadability of Modified Texts4.1 Outline of the Experiment4.1.1 Aims and ObjectivesThe objective of the experiment was to conduct apilot testing of original and modified texts in order44Task Precision Recall F1Finite verb phrases(full)0.914 0.909 0.912Finite verb phrases(partial)0.980 0.975 0.977Clauses borders 0.806 0.827 0.817Clauses (begin-ning)0.908 0.931 0.919Anaphora (full) 0.558 0.558 0.558Anaphora (partial) 0.615 0.615 0.615Subject (full) 0.590 0.441 0.504Subject (partial) 0.772 0.548 0.671Table 1: Evaluation of different stages of textmodificationto determine and confirm the need of text modi-fication for deaf people whose primary languageis BulSL and the verbal language is acquired as asecond language.The rationale was to identify and distinguish be-tween levels of comprehension of original and au-tomatically modified texts.4.1.2 Respondents?
ProfileThe participants were selected regardless of theirdegree and onset of hearing loss.
The experimenttargeted the following group of people:?
Socially active adults (18+);?
BulSL users;?
People with developed reading skills.4.2 Pilot Test Design Methodology andImplementation4.2.1 Text SelectionWe decided to use original and modified versionsof journalistic (e.g.
news items) and administra-tive (e.g.
legal) texts.
The guiding principle wasto select texts that are similar in terms of length,complexity, and difficulty.The selected news refer to topics of general in-terest such as politics in neighbouring countries,culture, etc.
The administrative texts representreal-life scenarios, rather than abstract or rare le-gal issues.
In general, selected texts do not includedomain-specific terms and professional jargon.Regarding text modification the main objectivewas to preserve the meaning of the original text incompliance with the principles of textual and fac-tual accuracy and integrity, and appropriate com-plexity.
The result from the automatic modifica-tions has been manually checked and post-editedto ensure grammaticality.4.2.2 MethodologyThe testing is conducted either online via tests ine-form (predominantly), or using paper-based ver-sions.
Respondents are given texts of each type,i.e.
two original and two modified texts.
Eachtext is associated with two tasks, which have to becompleted correctly after the reading.
The tasksseek to check the level of understanding of themain idea, details, purpose, implication, temporalrelations (the sequence of events), and the abilityto follow the text development.?
Task-type 1: Sequence questions.
The re-spondents have to arrange text elements (sen-tences and clauses) listed in a random se-quence into a chronological order.
The taskcovers temporal, causative, conditional, andother relations, and its goal is to test readingcomprehension which involves temporal andlogical relations and inferences.?
Task-type 2: Multiple response questions(MRQ) for testing general reading com-prehension.
MRQ are similar to Multiplechoice questions (MCQs) in that they providea predefined set of options, but MRQ allowany number and combinations of options.Text Type Version #sen-tences#clauses#tem-poralshifts1 News Original 2 6 22 News Modified 5 6 03 Admin Original 1 4 24 Admin Modified 4 4 0Table 2: Structure of the test4.2.3 Structure of the TestThe test consists of four different texts, each ofthem with two subtasks ?
for checking the com-prehension of temporal relations and the logicalstructure of the events in the text (type 1), and gen-eral comprehension (type 2).The number of sentences, clauses and temporalshifts for each text is presented in Table 2.454.3 Analysis of Results19 deaf adults proficient in BulSL have taken partin the pilot test study.
The results are presented inTable 3 and on Figure 1.Task Type Version correct all %1.1 News Original 5 19 26.322.1 News Modified 9 19 47.373.1 Admin Original 6 19 31.584.1 Admin Modified 10 19 52.631.2 News Original 7 19 36.842.2 News Modified 9 19 47.373.2 Admin Original 7 19 36.844.2 Admin Modified 10 19 52.63Table 3: Results of chronological order sub-tasks (1.1-4.1) and general comprehension sub-tasks (1.2-4.2)We recognize the fact that the small numberof respondents does not provide sufficient datato draw conclusions regarding the improvementof readability when using modified texts.
How-ever, the results show a significant improvement(t = 2.0066 with p = 0.0485 < 0.05) in the over-all comprehension (chronological order and gen-eral understanding) when using the modified textsin comparison with the original texts.Figure 1: Results in % of correct answers for orig-inal and modified textsStill, the improvement in readability after thetext modification is very low and not sufficient toprovide reliable communication strategies and ac-cess to information.
Further work will be aimed atmore precise methodology for testing the readingskills of deaf people.5 ConclusionsAs the pilot test suggests, the limited number ofmodifications is not sufficient to compensate forthe problems which deaf people experience withreading.
A wider range of text modifications arenecessary in order to cover the problematic areasof verbal language competence.
Other issues in-clude the use of personal and possessive pronouns,in particular clitics, which are often dropped, thecorrect use of auxiliary verbs and analytical verbforms.
Additional problems such as adjective andnoun agreement, subject and verb agreement, etc.need to be addressed specifically, since these havea very different realization in sign languages (e.g.,subject and verb are related spatially).It should be emphasized that there has not beenany systematic effort for studying BulSL so far.The detailed exploration of the linguistic proper-ties of BulSL in relation to Bulgarian can give adeeper understanding about the problems in theacquisition of Bulgarian and in particular, thereading difficulties experienced by deaf readers.Directions for future work include:?
To explore the relationship between readingcomprehension and social, educational andother factors;?
To explore the dependence between readingskills and proficiency in BulSL;?
To analyze problems in relation to vocabularywith relation to reading;?
To build a detailed methodology for testingof reading comprehension;?
To explore further the potential of text modi-fication with respect to BulSL in relation tothe comparative analyses of the features ofBulSL and verbal Bulgarian language.ReferencesJ.
Albertini and C. Mayer.
2011.
Using miscue analy-sis to assess comprehension in deaf college readers.Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf Education, 16:35?46.BATOD.
2006.
Training materials for language modi-fication.Gerald Berent.
2004.
Deaf students?
command of En-glish relative clauses (Paper presented at the annualconvention of Teachers of English to Speakers ofOther Languages).46Stefan Bott and Horacio Saggion.
2011.
Spanish textsimplification: An exploratory study.
In XXVII Con-greso de la Sociedad Espaola para el Procesamientodel Lenguaje Natural (SEPLN 2011), Huevla, Spain.Arnaldo Candido, Erick Maziero, Caroline Gasperin,Thiago A. S. Pardo, Lucia Specia, and SandraAluisio.
2009.
Supporting the adaptation of textsfor poor literacy readers: a text simplification ed-itor for Brazilian Portuguese.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP forBuilding Educational Applications, pages 34?42.Nathanael Chambers, Shan Wang, and Dan Juraf-sky.
2007.
Classifying temporal relations betweenevents.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo andPoster Sessions, Prague, June 2007, pages 173?176.R.
Conrad.
1979.
The deaf schoolchild.
London:Harper and Row.Peter Dienes and Amit Dubey.
2003.
Deep syntac-tic processing by combining shallow methods.
InProceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, volume 1.R.
J. Hoffmeister.
2000.
A piece of the puzzle: ASLand reading comprehension in deaf children.
InC. Chamberlain, J. P. Morford, and R. I. Mayberry,editors, Language acquisition by eye, pages 143?163.
Mahwah, NJ: Earlbaum.Kentaro Inui, Atsushi Fujita, Tetsuro Takahashi, RyuIida, and Tomoya Iwakura.
2003.
Text simplifi-cation for reading assistance: A project note.
InPARAPHRASE ?03 Proceedings of the second in-ternational workshop on Paraphrasing, volume 16,pages 9?16.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Mark Johnson.
2002.
A simple pattern-matching al-gorithm for recovering empty nodes and their an-tecedents.
In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics.L.
Kelly.
1996.
The interaction of syntactic compe-tence and vocabulary during reading by deaf stu-dents.
Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf Education,1(1):75?90.S.
Koeva and A. Genov.
2011.
Bulgarian languageprocessing chain.
In Proceedings of Integration ofmultilingual resources and tools in Web applica-tions.
Workshop in conjunction with GSCL 2011,University of Hamburg.Svetla Koeva, Borislav Rizov, Ekaterina Tarpomanova,Tsvetana Dimitrova, Rositsa Dekova, Ivelina Stoy-anova, Svetlozara Leseva, Hristina Kukova, and An-gel Genov.
2012.
Bulgarian-english sentence- andclause-aligned corpus.
In Proceedings of the SecondWorkshop on Annotation of Corpora for Researchin the Humanities (ACRH-2), Lisbon, 29 November2012, pages 51?62.
Lisboa: Colibri.Penny Lee.
1996.
The Logic and Development ofthe Linguistic Relativity Principle.
The Whorf The-ory Complex: A Critical Reconstruction.
John Ben-jamins Publishing.Margaret Jelinek Lewis and Dorothy Jackson.
2001.Television literacy: Comprehension of program con-tent using closed-captions for the deaf.
Journal ofDeaf Studies and Deaf Education, 6(1):43?53.Slavina Lozanova.
2002.
Predpostavki za razvitiena bilingvizma kato metod za obuchenie na detsa suvreden sluh.
Spetsialna pedagogika.R.
I. Mayberry.
2000.
Cognitive development ofdeaf children: The interface of language and percep-tion in cognitive neuroscience.
In Child Neuropsy-chology, Volume 7 of handbook of neuropsychology,pages 71?107.
Amesterdam: Elsvier.P.
McAnally, S. Rose, and S. Quigley.
1999.
Readingpractices with deaf learners.
Austin, TX: Pro-Ed.Ruslan Mitkov.
1999.
Anaphora resolution: thestate of the art; working paper, (based on the col-ing?98/acl?98 tutorial on anaphora resolution).Carol Musselman.
2000.
How do children who can?thear learn to read an alphabetic script?
a review ofthe literature on reading and deafness.
Journal ofDeaf Studies and Deaf Education, 5:9?31.C.
Padden and C Ramsey.
2000.
American SignLanguage and reading ability in deaf children.
InC. Chamberlain, J. P. Morford, and R. I. Mayberry,editors, Language acquisition by eye, pages 165?189.
Mahwah, NJ: Earlbaum.S.
J. Parault and H. William.
2010.
Reading motiva-tion, reading comprehension and reading amount indeaf and hearing adults.
Journal of Deaf Studies andDeaf Education, 15:120?135.Peter Paul.
1996.
Reading vocabulary knowledge anddeafness.
Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf Educa-tion, 1(1):3?15.Peter Paul.
1998.
Literacy and deafness: The develop-ment of reading, writing and literate thought.
Need-ham, MA: Allyn & Bacon.Sarah Petersen and Mari Ostendorf.
2007.
Naturallanguage processing tools for reading level assess-ment and text simplification for bilingual education.University of Washington Seattle, WA.James Pustejovsky, Jose?
Casta no, Robert Ingria, RoserSaur?
?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, GrahamKatz, and Dragomir Radev.
2003.
TimeML: RobustSpecification of Event and Temporal Expressions inText.
Technical report, AAAI.Seth Kulick Ryan Gabbard and Mitchell Marcus.
2004.Using linguistic principles to recover empty cate-gories.
In Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Meetingon Association For Computational Linguistics, page184191.47S.
Saeva.
2010.
Gluhota i Bilingvizam.
Aeropres BG.L.
Selinker.
1972.
Interlanguage.
International Re-view of Applied Linguistics, 10:209?231.Advaith Siddharthan.
2011.
Text simplification usingtyped dependencies: A comparison of the robustnessof different generation strategies.
In Proceedings ofthe 13th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration (ENLG) , pages 211, September.L.
Specia.
2010.
Translating from complex to simpli-fied sentences.
In 9th International Conference onComputational Processing of the Portuguese Lan-guage (Propor-2010), Porto Alegre, Brazil, vol-ume 6001 of Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence,pages 30?39.
Springer.William Stokoe.
1960.
Sign language structure: Anoutline of the visual communication systems of theamerican deaf.
Studies in linguistics: Occasionalpapers, 8.William Stokoe.
1972.
Semiotics and Human SignLanguages.
NICI, Printers, Ghent.Ivelina Stoyanova, Tanya Dimitrova, and Viktorija Tra-jkovska.
2003.
A handbook in civil education with asign language dictionary.
In Social and EducationalTraining for Hearing Impaired youths: A Handbookin Civil Education with a Sign Language Dictionary.Petar Beron, Sofia.
(in Bulgarian).Rachel Sutton-Spence and Bencie Woll.
2003.
TheLinguistics of British Sign Language: An Introduc-tion.
Cambridge University Press, 3rd edition.W.
Swann.
1992.
Learning for All: Classroom Diver-sity.
Milton Keynes: The Open University.Marta Tatu and Munirathnam Srikanth.
2008.
Experi-ments with reasoning for temporal relations betweenevents.
In COLING ?08 Proceedings of the 22nd In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, volume 1, pages 857?864.C.
B. Traxler.
2000.
The stanford achievement test, 9thedition: National norming and performance stan-dards for deaf and hard-of-hearing students.
Journalof Deaf Studies and Deaf Education, 5:337348.Beverly Trezek, Ye Wang, and Peter Paul.
2010.
Read-ing and deafness: Theory, research and practice.Clifton Park, NY: Cengage Learning.Robert Van Valin and Randy LaPolla.
1997.
Syntax:Structure, Meaning, and Function.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Schreuder R Knoors H Snik A. Vermeulen AM, vanBon W. 2007.
Reading comprehension of deaf chil-dren with cochlear implants.
Journal of Deaf Stud-ies and Deaf Education, 12(3):283?302.Zhemin Zhu, Delphine Bernhard, and Iryna Gurevych.2010.
A monolingual tree-based translation modelfor sentence simplification.
In Proceedings of The23rd International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Beijing, China, pages 1353?1361.48
