Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 151?153,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Multithreaded Conversational Interface for Pedestrian Navigation andQuestion AnsweringSrinivasan Janarthanam1, Oliver Lemon1, Xingkun Liu1, Phil Bartie2,William Mackaness2, Tiphaine Dalmas31Interaction Lab, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh2 School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh3School of Informatics, University of Edinburghsc445,o.lemon,x.liu@hw.ac.uk, philbartie@gmail.com,william.mackaness@ed.ac.uk, tiphaine.dalmas@aethys.comAbstractWe demonstrate a conversational interfacethat assists pedestrian users in navigat-ing within urban environments and acquir-ing tourist information by combining spo-ken dialogue system, question-answering(QA), and geographic information sys-tem (GIS) technologies.
In contrast toexisting mobile applications which treatthese problems independently, our An-droid agent addresses the problem of navi-gation and touristic question-answering inan integrated fashion using a shared dia-logue context with multiple interleaved di-alogue threads.
In this paper, we presentthe architecture and features of our lat-est system, extended from an earlier ver-sion which was built and evaluated withreal users (Janarthanam et al 2013).
Thenew features include navigation based onvisible landmarks, navigation adapted tothe user?s previous route knowledge, andtourist information pushing based on vis-ible and proximal points-of-interest.
Thesystem also uses social media to infer?popularity?
of geographical entities.1 IntroductionWe demonstrate a conversational interface that ad-dresses the problems of pedestrian navigation andQuestion Answering (QA) in urban environments,which is an extended version of the system eval-uated in (Janarthanam et al 2013).
Our systembrings together Spoken Dialogue Systems (SDS)and Question Answering (QA) with GeographicInformation Systems (GIS) for user positioningand tracking, city modelling and urban visibilitymodelling.
There has been little prior work thataddresses these problems - navigation, visibility,and tourist information provision - in an integratedway.
By navigation, we refer to the problem offinding appropriate destinations to go to and thetask of wayfinding to reach them (Golledge, 1992;Raubal and Winter, 2002) and by tourist informa-tion provision we refer to the problem of meet-ing the informational needs of a user about enti-ties such as museums, statues, famous personal-ities, etc.
With the proliferation of smartphones,there has been a number of mobile apps developedto address these problems.
However, these appshave the following problems: first, they demandthe user?s visual attention because they predom-inantly present information on a mobile screen.This can be dangerous in urban environments, aswell as being distracting.
Second, these apps ad-dress the problems of navigation and tourist infor-mation independently and do not employ a sharedinteraction context.
This means that users cannotswitch between tourist information and navigationtasks in a natural and fluid manner.User1: Take me to the National Museum.System2: The National Museum is about 300 meters away ...System3: At the KFC, turn left on to South Bridge ...System4 : Near you is the statue of David Hume.User2: Who is David Hume.System5: David Hume was a Scottish philosopher....User3: Tell me more about David Hume.System6: He was one of the most important figures in.. ...System7: You should be able to see the museum in front of you.User4: Tell me more about the museum.System8: The National Museum of Scotland is a....Table 1: An example interaction with SpaceBookIn contrast to existing mobile apps, we presenta system that has a speech-only interface and ad-dresses navigation and QA in an integrated way.Table 1 presents an example interaction withour system showing the integrated use of navi-gation and question-answering capabilities.
Ut-151terance System4-8 shows the system?s capabilityto push information from the QA system aboutnearby points-of-interest (PoI) during a navigationtask, which the user can then follow-up on (in ut-terances User2 and User3).
The final 3 utterancesshow a natural switch between navigation to an en-tity and QA about that entity.2 Related workMobile applications such as Siri, Google MapsNavigation, Sygic, etc.
address the problem ofnavigation while applications like Triposo, Guide-pal, Wikihood, etc.
address the problem of touristinformation by presenting the user with descrip-tive information about various points of interest(PoI) in the city.
While some exploratory applica-tions present snippets of information about a pre-compiled list of PoI, others applications dynam-ically generate a list of PoI arranged based ontheir proximity to the users.
Users can also ob-tain specific information about PoI using Searchapplications.
Also, since these navigation and ex-ploratory/search applications do not address bothproblems in an integrated way, users need toswitch between them and therefore lose interac-tion context.While most applications address these twoproblems independently, some like Google Now,Google Field Trip, etc, mix navigation with ex-ploration.
However, such applications present in-formation primarily visually on the screen for theuser to read.
In contrast, our system has the objec-tive of keeping the user?s cognitive load low andpreventing users from being distracted (perhapsdangerously so) from walking in the city (Kray etal., 2003).
Also, our system allows users to inter-leave the two sub-tasks seamlessly and can keepentities discussed in both tasks in shared context(as shown in Table 1).Several systems have addressed the issue ofpedestrian navigation (Malaka and Zipf, 2000;Dale et al 2003; Heinroth and Buhler, 2008).Some dialogue systems deal with presenting in-formation concerning points of interest (Ko et al2005; Misu and Kawahara, 2007; Kashioka et al2011).
In contrast to all these earlier work, wedemonstrate a system that deals with both naviga-tion and tourist information issues in an integratedfashion.Figure 1: System Architecture3 Multithreaded dialogue managementThe architecture of the current system is shownin figure 1.
The Interaction Manager (IM) isthe central component of this architecture, whichprovides the user with navigational instructions,pushes PoI information and manages QA ques-tions.
It receives the user?s input in the form ofa dialogue act (DA) from the ASR module andthe user?s location (latitude and longitude), orien-tation and speed from the Pedestrian Tracker mod-ule.
Based on these inputs and the dialogue con-text, the IM responds with a system output dia-logue act.
The Interaction Manager manages theconversation using five coversational threads: di-alogue control, response, navigation, question an-swering, and PoI pushing.
These different threadsrepresent the state of different dimensions of theuser-system conversation that interleave with eachother.
Each of these threads generates a dialogueaction based on a dialogue policy.
A dialogue pol-icy is a mapping between dialogue states and dia-logue actions, which are semantic representationsof what the system wants to say next.
Dialogueactions from the five threads are stored in five sep-arate queues.The queues are assigned priorities that decidethe order in which items from the queues willbe popped.
For instance, informing the user ofa PoI could be delayed if the user needs to begiven an instruction to turn at the junction he isapproaching.
For this reason, priority is assignedto dialogue threads as follows.Priority 1.
Dialogue control (calibration phase,repeat request, clarifications etc)Priority 2.
Responding to user requestsPriority 3.
System initiated navigation task actionsPriority 4.
Responses to User initiated QA actionsPriority 5.
PoI Push actions152Dialogue control The IM initiates the conversa-tion with a calibration phase where the user?s ini-tial location and orientation are obtained.
In thisphase, the IM requests the user to walk a few yardsso that the pedestrian tracker can sense the user?slocation and orientation.
During the course of thecoversation, the IM uses this thread to managerepeat requests, issues with unparsed user utter-ances, utterances that have low ASR confidence,and so on.
The dialogue control thread is used tomanage reference resolution in cases where refer-ring expressions are underspecified.Navigation The IM identifies the location of thedestination entity and queries the City Model for aroute plan.
The plan provides information such asnumbers of exits at junctions, the exit number theuser should take, turn angle, popularity index ofthe street, and the slope of the road.
In an attemptto adapt the route instructions to user route knowl-edge, the IM first picks the most popular street inthe plan and asks the users if they can get to thestreet on their own.
Also, the IM queries the Visi-bility Engine (VE) for highly salient visible land-marks (computed using Flickr tags) that can usedto direct the user.
Instructions based on visiblelandmarks are given whenever possible.Question Answering The system also answersad hoc questions from the user (e.g.
?Who is DavidHume?
?, ?What is the Old College?
?, etc).
Theseare sent to the QA server and answered based onresponses from the QA server.
The dialogue pol-icy here is to answer the user?s question with thefirst snippet available and ask the user to requestfor more if interested.Pushing PoI Information When the user is mo-bile, the IM identifies points of interest on theroute based on two factors: proximity and visibil-ity.
Proximity push is done by checking for PoIsnear the user using high-scoring ones when thereare many, based on tourist popularity ratings in theCity Model.
Visibility push is done by queryingthe VE for salient entities visible to the user thatmay be worth pushing.
The dialogue policy is tointroduce the PoI entity along with visual descrip-tors if available.
The IM queries the QA server forsnippets on entity and if available, pushes them thefirst snippet to the user.
The user is encouraged toask for more if interested.4 ConclusionWe demonstrate a mobile conversational systemto support pedestrian users in navigation andquestion-answering tasks in urban environments.The system is a speech-only interface and inter-leaves navigation and tourist information in an in-tegrated way, using a shared dialogue context.
Forexample, using the navigational context, our sys-tem can push point-of-interest information whichcan then initiate touristic exploration tasks usingthe QA module.
An evaluation of an earlier ver-sion was reported in (Janarthanam et al 2013).AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results was funded by the Eu-ropean Commission?s Framework 7 programme under grantagreement no.
270019 (SPACEBOOK project).ReferencesR.
Dale, S. Geldof, and J. Prost.
2003.
CORAL : Using Nat-ural Language Generation for Navigational Assistance.
InProceedings of ACSC2003, South Australia.R.
G. Golledge.
1992.
Place recognition and wayfinding:Making sense of space.
Geoforum, 23.T.
Heinroth and D. Buhler.
2008.
Arrigator: evaluation ofa speech-based pedestrian navigation system.
In Proceed-ings of 4th International Conference on Intelligent Envi-ronments, 2008.S.
Janarthanam, O.
Lemon, P. Bartie, T. Dalmas, A. Dick-inson, X. Liu, W. Mackaness, and B. Webber.
2013.Evaluating a city exploration dialogue system combiningquestion-answering and pedestrian navigation.
In Proc.ACL 2013.H.
Kashioka, T. Misu, E. Mizukami, Y. Shiga, K. Kayama,C.
Hori, and H. Kawai.
2011.
Multimodal Dialog Systemfor Kyoto Sightseeing Guide.
In Asia-Pacific Signal andInformation Processing Association Conference.J.
Ko, F. Murase, T. Mitamura, E. Nyberg, M. Tateishi,I.
Akahori, and N. Hataoka.
2005.
CAMMIA: A Context-Aware Spoken Dialog System for Mobile Environments.In IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understand-ing Workshop.C.
Kray, K. Laakso, C. Elting, and V. Coors.
2003.
Present-ing route instructions on mobile devices.
In Proceedingsof IUI 03, Florida.R.
Malaka and A. Zipf.
2000.
Deep Map - challenging ITresearch in the framework of a tourist information sys-tem.
In Information and Communication Technologies inTourism 2000, pages 15?27.
Springer.T.
Misu and T. Kawahara.
2007.
An Interactive Frameworkfor Document Retrieval and Presentation with Question-Answering Function in Restricted Domain.
In Proc.
ofthe 26th IEA/AIE conference, pages 126?134.M.
Raubal and S. Winter.
2002.
Enriching wayfinding in-structions with local landmarks.
In Second InternationalConference GIScience.
Springer, Boulder, USA.153
