Proceedings of the Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 47?56,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational simulations of second language construction learningYevgen Matusevych Afra Alishahi Ad BackusDepartment of Department of Communication Department ofCulture Studies and Information Sciences Culture StudiesTilburg University, PO Box 90153, 5000 LE Tilburg, the NetherlandsY.Matusevych@uvt.nl A.Alishahi@uvt.nl A.M.Backus@uvt.nlAbstractThere are few computational models of sec-ond language acquisition (SLA).
At the sametime, many questions in the field of SLA re-main unanswered.
In particular, SLA patternsare difficult to study due to the large amount ofvariation between human learners.
We presenta computational model of second languageconstruction learning that allows manipulatingspecific parameters such as age of onset andamount of exposure.
We use the model tostudy general developmental patterns of SLAand two specific effects sometimes found inempirical studies: construction priming and afacilitatory effect of skewed frequencies in theinput.
Our simulations replicate the expectedSLA patterns as well as the two effects.
Ourmodel can be used in further studies of variousSLA phenomena.1 IntroductionComputational models have been widely used forinvestigating how humans learn and process theirnative language.
Various models of child languageacquisition have been applied to studies of speechsegmentation (e.g., ten Bosch, Hamme, & Boves,2008), word learning (e.g., Frank, Goodman, &Tenenbaum, 2009; Fazly, Alishahi, & Stevenson,2010), induction of linguistic structure (e.g., El-man, 1990), etc.
In comparison, the acquisition ofsecond language has received little attention fromthe modeling community.
Most of the child lan-guage acquisition models cannot be directly usedfor investigating how humans process and acquireforeign languages.
In order to do so, we have tomodel the existing knowledge of first language?i.e., bilingualism.Li (2013) provides a state-of-the-art overviewof models of bilingualism.
One of his claimsis that most existing models account for matureadult speaker?s knowledge and do not explain howforeign language develops in learners.
In otherwords, there are several computational models ofsecond language processing (e.g., Shook & Mar-ian, 2013; Roelofs, Dijkstra, & Gerakaki, 2013;Yang, Shu, McCandliss, & Zevin, 2013, etc.
), butonly few of Second Language Acquisition (SLA).The latter mostly simulate lexis and semantics ac-quisition (e.g., Li & Farkas, 2002; Li, 2009; Cup-pini, Magosso, & Ursino, 2013, etc.
), and thosethat address a higher level of language structureusually do not model the existing L1 knowledge(e.g., N. C. Ellis & Larsen-Freeman, 2009; Rap-poport & Sheinman, 2005; but see Monner, Vatz,Morini, Hwang, & DeKeyser, 2013).At the same time, a number of theoretical SLAissues are not well explained yet, including gen-eral questions such as how existing knowledge ofthe first language influences the acquisition of sec-ond language.
To give a specific example, it is notclear yet when L1 structures lead to interferenceand when they do not.In this paper, we use an existing model ofearly acquisition of argument structure construc-tions (Alishahi & Stevenson, 2008) and adapt itto bilingual input data, which allows us to inves-tigate the acquisition process in second languagelearners.
We demonstrate in a number of compu-tational simulations that our model replicates nat-ural L2 developmental patterns and two specificeffects observed in human L2 learners, thus allow-ing us to make certain predictions about the issuesunder investigation.2 Description of the modelA usage-based approach to language claims thathumans learn abstract linguistic regularities frominstances of language use.
Specifically, gen-eral argument structure constructions are predictedto emerge over time from individual verb us-ages which share syntactic and semantic proper-47ties.
Argument structure constructions, accordingto Goldberg, Casenhiser, and White (2007), are?pairings of form and meaning that provide themeans of expressing simple propositions in a lan-guage?
(p. 74).
Since nearly all human utterancescontain propositions, the learner?s knowledge ofargument structure constructions must reflect thelevel of his grammatical competence.The model of Alishahi and Stevenson (2008) isbased on this approach: the building block of themodel is an argument structure frame, a collec-tion of syntactic and semantic features which rep-resents a verb usage.
Abstract constructions areformed by detecting and clustering similar frames,and various linguistic tasks are simulated by hav-ing the model predict the most suitable values forthe missing features in a frame.
These componentsare described in the following sections.2.1 Argument structure framesIn our SLA model, each frame contains the fol-lowing features:?
Head verb in its infinitive form.?
Number of arguments that the verb takes.?
Semantic primitives of the verb represent-ing the conceptual characteristics of the eventthat the verb describes.?
Semantic properties of each argument rep-resenting its conceptual meaning, indepen-dently of the event that it participates in.?
Event-based properties of each argumentrepresenting the characteristics each argu-ment takes on in the particular event it is par-ticipating in.?
Syntactic pattern of the utterance.A sample frame is shown in Table 1.
In Section 3.3we will further explain how values for each framefeature are selected.Table 1: An example frame extracted from a verbusage Bill went through the maze.Head verb (V.) goNo.
of arguments 2V.
sem.
primitives act, move, walkArg.1 sem.
prop-s name, male, person, ...Arg.2 sem.
prop-s system, instrumentality, ...Arg.1 event prop-s volitional, sentient, ...Arg.2 event prop-s location, path, destinationSyntactic pattern AGENT V. through LOC.2.2 Learning ConstructionsAlishahi and Stevenson (2008) use an incrementalBayesian algorithm for clustering similar framesinto constructions.
Each input frame is comparedto all the existing constructions and a potentiallynew one, and is added to the best matching con-struction:BestConstruction(F) = argmaxkP(k|F) (1)where k ranges over the indices of all constructions(index 0 represents the new construction).
UsingBayes rule and dropping P(F) which is constantfor all k:P(k|F) =P(k)P(F |k)P(F)?
P(k)P(F |k) (2)The prior probability P(k) indicates the degree ofentrenchment of construction k:P(k) =NkN +1,P(0) =1N +1(3)where Nk is the number of frames already clus-tered in construction k, and N is the total numberof frames observed so far.
The posterior probabil-ity of a frame F is expressed in terms of the (sup-posedly independent) probabilities of its features:P(F |k) = ?i?Features(F)Pi( j|k) (4)where j is the value of the ith feature of F , andPi( j|k) is the probability of displaying value j onfeature i within construction k. This probability isestimated using a smoothed maximum likelihoodformula.12.3 Bilingual acquisitionWe accept the view that L1 and L2 learning havemore commonalities than differences (see, e.g.,MacWhinney, 2013), thus we do not explicitly en-code the difference between the two languages.
Asthe learner perceives a frame, he is not aware ofwhich language the frame belongs to.
All the in-put data are processed equally, so that construc-tions are formed in the same space and can containframes from both languages.
Such approach al-lows us to investigate how the existing L1 knowl-edge influences L2 acquisition.1For single-valued features such as the head verb, likeli-hood is calculated by simply counting those members of con-struction k whose value for feature i exactly matches value j.For features with a set value such as the semantic propertiesof the verb and the arguments, the likelihood is calculated bycomparing sets.482.4 Sentence productionWe use sentence production as our main evalua-tion task for SLA.
Given a frame which representsan intended meaning through the semantic prop-erties of an event (or verb) and its participants (orarguments), we want to predict the most probablevalues for the syntactic pattern feature.
FollowingAlishahi and Stevenson (2008), we estimate theprobability that feature i (in our case, the syntac-tic pattern) displays value j given other observedfeature values in a partial frame F asPi( j|F) =?kPi( j|k)P(k|F) (5)=?kPi( j|k)P(k)P(F |k)The probabilities P(k), P(F |k) and Pi( j|k) are esti-mated as before (see Equations 3 and 4).
Rangingover the possible values j of feature i, the value ofan unobserved feature can be predicted by maxi-mizing Pi( j|F)2:BestValuei(F) = argmaxjPi( j|F) (6)3 DataFor cognitively plausible computational simula-tions we had to prepare naturalistic input basedon the suitable corpora.
While there are availablecorpora that contain recordings of child-directedspeech (MacWhinney, 2000), the resources con-taining speech addressed to L2 learners appear tobe very limited.
Therefore, our choice of lan-guages (German as a L1, and English as a L2) wasmotivated first of all by the data availability.
Weextracted naturalistic L1 and L2 data from two dif-ferent sources.3.1 Data sourcesL2 English data were extracted from the Flens-burg classroom corpus (Ja?kel, 2010) that containstranscripts of lessons of English (as a foreign lan-guage) taught to children in German schools thatcover all school age groups.
We estimated the to-tal number of occurrences of different verbs in thecorpus.
From 20 most frequent verbs we selected6 that represented syntactically and semanticallydifferent linguistic constructions, since construc-tional variability was one of the crucial factors for2A non-deterministic alternative that we have to considerin the future is to sample the feature value from the estimateddistribution.the model.
The verbs are: go, come, read, show,look and put.
For each verb, we extracted all itsoccurrences from the corpus.For L1 we used German data extracted from theCHILDES database (MacWhinney, 2000), namelyfrom adults?
speech directed to three children:Caroline (age from 0;10 to 4;3; von Stutterheim,2004), Kerstin (from 1;3 to 3;4; M. Miller, 1979)and Leo (from 1;11 to 4;11; Behrens, 2006).
Inthe same manner as for the English data, we se-lected six verbs?machen ?to make?, kommen ?tocome?, gucken ?to look?, gehen ?to go?, sehen ?tosee?
and geben ?to give??
and extracted all theiroccurrences from the three corpora.
Since the cor-pora were of different size, the number of occur-rences for some verbs were incomparable betweenthe corpora, thus we balanced the size of the sam-ples used for further analysis by taking equal num-bers of random verb uses from each corpus.3.2 Data annotationSince the basic input unit for our computationalmodel was a frame, we manually annotated allthe verb occurrences in order to extract frames.Approximately 100 instances per verb were anno-tated using the following general guidelines.1.
Instance grouping is based on the semanticsof the main verb and its arguments as well ason the syntactic pattern.2.
We consider only arguments (both obligatoryand optional), but not adjuncts, since thereis evidence that the two are processed differ-ently (see, e.g., Kennison, 2002).3.
We discard all instances where the main verbwas represented by a compound form or byan infinitive, or appeared in a subordinateclause, since in all these cases the ?core?frame of the argument structure constructionmight obtain additional structural or semanticcharacteristics.4.
We do consider imperatives and questionswhose form does not contradict the previouspoint.5.
We treat German prefixed/particle verbs (e.g.,zumachen ?to close?)
and English compoundverbs as an instance of the base verb (in thiscase, machen ?to make?
), given that the pre-fixed/particle verb meaning is compositionaland the prefix/particle is actually separated.6.
Considering the previous point, each parti-cle/prefix in our instances represents an in-49dependent semantic component (see, e.g.,Dewell, 2011, for detailed explanation), andwe treat them as separate arguments.7.
We discard all the instances in which the verbis used in a formulaic sequence (e.g.,, Wiegeht?s?
?How are you??
), because formulaicsequences are believed to be processed andacquired as a whole (e.g., Wray, 2005; Ban-nard & Lieven, 2012).8.
Finally, we eliminate the case marking inGerman and use the Nominative case forall the arguments, because this feature isnot crucial for our model, and there is ev-idence that German children before the ageof 7 mostly rely on other features such asword order (Dittmar, Abbot-Smith, Lieven,& Tomasello, 2008).3.3 Frame extractionFrom the annotated data samples, for each verb weextracted frames and their respective frequenciesof occurrence.
Following Alishahi and Steven-son (2010), the semantic primitives of verbs andtheir arguments were semi-automatically extractedfrom WordNet (G. A. Miller, 1995), and the event-based properties of the arguments were manuallycompiled.The syntactic pattern of the frame not onlyshows the order of the arguments, but also im-plicitly includes information about their seman-tic roles, i.e., AGENT, THEME, LOCATION, etc.Note that these semantic labels are used only fordistinguishing between similar syntactic patternswith the verb in the same position but swappedarguments (cf.
[so] schnell geht es vs. es geht[so] schnell ?it goes [so] fast?
?both patterns oc-cur rather frequently in German).3Based on the manually extracted frames, an in-put corpus of verb uses was automatically gener-ated for each set of experiments.
The frequency ofoccurrence of each frame determined the probabil-ity of selecting this frame, and the same methodwas used for selecting specific arguments.3Although the inclusion of semantic labels into syntac-tic pattern makes the learning task easier, there is, in fact,no agreement yet on how exactly children acquire the non-canonical word order.
They must rely on pragmatics, and thisphenomenon most thoroughly has been studied in the gener-ative tradition under the name of scrambling, but still vari-ous explanations were proposed (see, e.g., Mykhaylyk & Ko,2011).
Due to this uncertainty, we found it acceptable to pro-vide the learner with the means to distinguish between thepatterns like in the example above, since it was highly impor-tant for German with its partially free word order.4 Simulations and resultsIn this section we report on computational simu-lations that we ran using our model and the de-scribed input data.
We investigate general L2 de-velopmental patterns, priming effects in SLA, andthe impact of skewed input on the learner?s L2 pro-ficiency.
Although the latter two are not SLA phe-nomena per se and can be observed in L1 learnersas well, they have been discussed in SLA domainand suit well our methodological framework.4.1 L2 general developmentDespite numerous attempts to capture and de-scribe the dynamics of SLA, scholars admit thatthere is no ?typical?
profile of general L2 develop-ment (for an overview, see Hasko, 2013).
This isbecause many variables are involved, such as thelearner?s L1, the age of L2 onset, amount of input,type of instruction (if any), etc.
They cause signif-icant differences between individual learners andspecific linguistic phenomena.Generally, L2 develops gradually, and secondlanguage learners rarely achieve native-like L2proficiency.
To demonstrate that our model fol-lows these patterns, we ran a number of simu-lations to compare how L1 and L2 proficiencychanges over time.
In our scenario, the learnerwas first presented 500 L1 verb uses in smallsteps (25 times 20 frames).
After each step hisL1 proficiency was tested in the following way.The learner was presented with 20 test frames inwhich the syntactic pattern was removed, and hadto predict the most suitable syntactic pattern, re-lying on his current knowledge.
We should notethat because German has partially free word or-der, our German data contained a substantial num-ber of frame groups consisting of two or moreframes that were almost identical and differed onlyin the order of arguments in their syntactic pat-terns (i.e., AGENT verb THEME and THEME verbAGENT).
These patterns are very close both lin-guistically (i.e., they carry very similar meanings)and algorithmically (i.e., the learner?s preferencefor one of them is determined only by their re-spective frequencies of occurrence in the input).Therefore, asking the learner to predict the exactpattern would not be a fair task.
For this reason,during the evaluation we only checked whether thepattern produced by the learner contained exactlythe same set of arguments (and, possibly, the samepreposition) as the target pattern.
Thus, AGENT50kommen THEME, kommen AGENT THEME, andTHEME kommen AGENT were considered equal forthe purpose of evaluation.After the initial 25 steps of L1 training and test-ing, the learner was presented 500 more frames(25 times 20) which could be either from L1 orfrom L2 data in proportion 3 (L1) to 1 (L2).
Thisway we simulated a common situation when achild starts learning a foreign language at school,thus being exposed to input from both languages,but L1 input prevails.
The results averaged over10 simulations (Figure 1) demonstrate that the L2proficiency does not achieve that of L1.40 10 20 30 40 50 600.00.51.0StepsAccuracy L1L2Figure 1: L1 and L2 development over timeWe explain the lower L2 proficiency by two fac-tors.
First, by the moment when the learner startedreceiving L2 input, L1 constructions were alreadyformed in his memory, so the L1 entrenchmentprevented L2 constructions to fully emerge.
Sec-ond, even within the period of SLA the amount ofL2 input was 3 times smaller compared to that ofL1.
To investigate whether both factors were in-deed important, we tried to eliminate each of themseparately, i.e., to present both L1 and L2 fromthe very beginning keeping the ratio 3:1 (Figure 2,left), or to set an equal ratio while keeping the lateage of L2 onset (Figure 2, right).
As we can see, inneither case does the L2 proficiency reach that ofL1.
However, when both factors are eliminated?that is, from the very beginning the learner re-ceives mixed L1/L2 input in equal proportion?he reaches comparable levels of L1 and L2 profi-ciency (Figure 3).Additionally, we tried to separately manipulateeach of the two parameters keeping the other oneconstant.
We expected that (1) the lower the L2age of onset, the higher the learner?s proficiency ateach moment of time with the L1/L2 ratio set at3:1, and (2) the smaller the L1/L2 ratio (down to1, when the amount of input is equal), the higher4After presenting 4,000 more L2 frames to the learner thispattern was still observed, and neither L1 nor L2 proficiencyconverged to 1.0 5 10 15 20 25 300.00.51.0StepsAccuracy L1L2 0 10 20 30 40 50 600.00.51.0StepsAccuracy L1L2Figure 2: L1 and L2 proficiency provided equalage of onset (left) or input ratio (right)0 5 10 15 20 25 300.00.51.0StepsAccuracy L1L2Figure 3: L1 and L2 proficiency provided equallearning conditionsthe learner?s proficiency at each moment of timewith the age of onset set at 500 frames.
We foundno evidence for either effect.
Part of the expla-nation might be that there was a substantial over-lap between L1 and L2 syntactic patterns (espe-cially considering we treated patterns as sets ofelements irrespective of word order).
Thereforethe learner?s existing L1 knowledge may indirectlyhave contributed to the L2 proficiency, in a patternknown as ?positive transfer?
(see, e.g., Benson,2002).
This can be demonstrated by comparingthe initial slopes of L2 development lines in Fig-ure 1 and Figure 2a.
In the former case, represent-ing L2 exposure after L1 constructions have al-ready been entrenched, L2 acquisition goes fasterin its initial stages, because the learner has, in fact,already acquired a number of syntactic patternsthat are shared by the two languages.
Monner et al(2013), who computationally studied the effect ofFrench L1 entrenchment on Spanish L2 grammat-ical gender learning, explain an exception in theirresults in similar fashion.
However, this requiresfurther investigation, possibly in simulations in-volving two languages that are typologically moredistant.4.2 Priming effects in L2Structural priming effects, when speakers tend torecreate a recently encountered linguistic structurein further language use, have been demonstratedboth in first (e.g., Bock, Dell, Chang, & Onishi,2007; Potter & Lombardi, 1998, etc.)
and in sec-ond language (e.g., McDonough, 2006; Gries &51Wulff, 2005) as well as across the two (e.g., Loe-bell & Bock, 2003; Vasilyeva et al 2010).
Someof these effects are explained in terms of construc-tion grammar?primes can activate the respectiveconstructions (see Goldberg & Bencini, 2005).To give a specific example, Gries and Wulff(2005) asked L1 German learners of English tocomplete sentence fragments after being exposedto a prime sentence, which contained either aprepositional dative (The racing driver showed thetorn overall to the team manager.)
or a ditransitiveconstruction (The racing driver showed the helpfulmechanic the damaged tyre).
The sentences pro-duced by the learners demonstrated the construc-tional priming effect in L2 acquisition, which wasalso supported by corpus and sorting evidence (seeGries & Wulff, 2005, for details).Since in our model we explicitly assume the ex-istence of constructions in learner?s memory, weshould be able to observe constructional primingeffects in L2.
To investigate this, we partially sim-ulated the experiment of Gries and Wulff (2005)computationally.
First the model was presentedwith 250 L1 verb uses5, after which, like in theprevious experiment, L2 was introduced in paral-lel with L1 in small steps (25 times 10 frames).After each step, the learner was additionally pre-sented with one of two primes.
Priming frames,which we took from the actual dataset, were usesof the verb show with variable arguments, and theonly difference between the two primes was thesyntactic pattern?a prepositional dative or a di-transitive (see Table 2).Table 2: The two primes used.Head verb (V.) showNo.
of arg.
3V.
sem.
prim.
act, cause, perceiveArg.1 sem.
prop.
varyArg.2 sem.
prop.
varyArg.3 sem.
prop.
varyArg.1 ev.
prop.
volitional, sentient, ...Arg.2 ev.
prop.
sentient, animate, ...Arg.3 ev.
prop.
perceivable, ...Synt.
patternAG.
show BENEF.
THEMEorAG.
show THEME to BENEF.5Since the impact of a single priming frame on the learnercould be insignificant, we used a smaller step size in thesesimulations.In the experiment by Gries and Wulff (2005)learners, after seeing a prime, were presented witha test fragment consisting of an agent and a verb(The racing driver showed ...), and were requiredto continue the sentence.
In terms of our model,the test frame consisted of the head verb (show)and its semantic primitives, total number of argu-ments, the first argument (pronoun you) and its se-mantic and event properties.
The other features(i.e., syntactic patterns and all the properties ofthe other two arguments) were missing, and thelearner had to predict the best syntactic pattern forthe test frame.
After the prediction was made, bothprime and test frame were discarded in order notto influence further results, and the learning con-tinued.Since we investigated priming effects in ditran-sitive (D) and prepositional dative (P) construc-tions, in the further analysis we only looked at thetwo respective syntactic patterns in the learner?sproduction.
That is, we calculated how many pat-terns of each type were produced after each prime(i.e., D-patterns after D-prime, P-patterns after D-prime, P-patterns after P-prime, and D-patternsafter P-prime).
Additionally, we ran an identi-cal baseline simulation where the learner was notprimed, being presented a test frame immediatelyafter each learning step.
Figure 4 shows how manyP- and D-patterns were produced in each of thethree conditions (P-prime, D-prime and no prime;the results are averaged over 100 simulations).0 5 10 15 20 25 300.00.51.0StepsFrequencyD?primeNo primeP?prime0 5 10 15 20 25 300.00.51.0StepsFrequency P?primeNo primeD?primeFigure 4: Frequency of prepositional (left) and di-transitive (right) pattern productionAs we can see, on the initial 5-10 steps ofdevelopment both P- and D-patterns were pro-duced substantially more often after the respectivematching prime (the jump of the dotted line oneach plot) than after the non-matching prime or af-ter no prime.
After some time, however, the prim-ing effect was leveled off, presumably because ofthe exposure to large amounts of training data, andthe frequency of production of each of the two pat-terns aligned with the actual frequency of occur-52rence of the respective pattern in the training data(31 for D-pattern, 3 for P-pattern).On the one hand, the presence of the primingeffect in our results is in line with the findings ofGries and Wulff (2005).
On the other hand, theirparticipants were advanced foreign learners of En-glish who must have achieved rather high profi-ciency in L2 by the moment of study, but they werestill sensitive to the priming effect?a result thatwe could not replicate computationally.4.3 Skewed vs. balanced L2 inputThere is an ongoing discussion in the literature onthe supposed facilitatory effect of skewed input onconstructional acquisition, summarized by Boydand Goldberg (2009).
In monolingual contexts, ithas been demonstrated that children (Casenhiser& Goldberg, 2005) and adults (Goldberg, Casen-hiser, & Sethuraman, 2004) acquire a novel con-struction with artificial verbs faster if one verb hashigher token frequency in the input compared tothe other verbs, and slower in case of balanced in-put, with all the verbs having equal token frequen-cies.As for SLA, N. C. Ellis and Ferreira-Junior (2009) showed that the distribution ofverbs/constructions in input to L2 learners is Zip-fian, and that the most frequent verb in each con-struction is acquired first.
However, they do notprovide evidence for a facilitatory effect of skeweddistribution on construction learning.
At the sametime, there is experimental evidence that hightype frequency facilitates the acquisition of wh-questions in L2 (McDonough & Kim, 2009).Year and Gordon (2009) experimentally studiedthe facilitatory effect of skewed verb frequencyin the input on L2 constructional learning.
Intheir study, L1 Korean learners of English werepresented with 5 English verbs in the ditransitiveconstruction, where either all the verbs appearedequally often (balanced input), or one verb ap-peared 6 times more often than the other (skewedinput).
The learners?
knowledge of the construc-tion was assessed in the elicited production andacceptability judgement task.
The exposure andtesting procedures were distributed over 8 weeks,or over 4 weeks, or over 4 days, depending on thegroup.
Surprisingly, in no group they found theevidence for the facilitatory effect of skewed in-put.
These findings contrast with those in the otherstudies that we mentioned.In order to address this issue computationally,we ran simulations using our model.
Unlike Yearand Gordon (2009) who investigated the acqui-sition of one construction only, we assessed thegeneral L2 knowledge of all constructions that thelearner was exposed to, since our model is per-fectly suited for this.The frequency distribution of verbs in our nat-uralistic L2 input was not uniform (79-81-61-58-48-29), however the most frequent verb appearedapproximately 3 times more often than the leastfrequent, which was not comparable to the ratioof 1:6 in the study by Year and Gordon (2009).Thus, in addition to the natural data we introducedtwo more conditions.
First, we estimated the dis-tribution of verbs over different constructions inour data and concluded that two verbs?go andshow?accounted for most syntactic patterns inthe input.
Therefore, to prepare truly skewed inputdata, we set the frequencies for these two verbs to30 and for the other verbs to 16.
Second, we pre-pared the balanced input data by setting the fre-quency of each verb to 1.Using the three types of input, we ran the exactsame simulations as for investigating the generaldevelopmental pattern, and compared the learner?sL2 proficiency over time in the three conditions.The results are shown in Figure 5.25 30 35 40 45 50 550.00.51.0StepsAccuracy NaturalBalancedSkewedFigure 5: L2 proficiency over time on skewed vs.balanced inputAs we can see, the learner?s proficiencies withthe natural and balanced input data do not dif-fer much.
However, the facilitatory effect ofthe skewed frequencies in the input is very ev-ident.
Thus, our findings constrast with the re-sults of Year and Gordon (2009), but are in linewith the general trend as summarized by Boyd and6Although the ratio of 30:1 is much higher than that inthe experiment being simulated, we had to account for thefact that individual frames within each verb were assignedtheir own frequencies, so a high-frequency frame of a low-frequency verb could still appear more often in the input thana low-frequency frame of a high-frequency verb.
We ex-cluded this possibility by setting the ratio to the high value.53Goldberg (2009).
We agree with Year and Gor-don?s (2009) explanation that the lack of facili-tatory effect that they found can be explained bythe presentation order of the high-frequency verbs.Goldberg et al(2007) demonstrated the effect ofthe presentation order of high- and low-frequencystimuli on the learners?
performance.
We believethat due to the rather large ratio 30:1 that we setin the skewed data, the two high-frequency verbsprevailed in the L2 input from the very initial stageof L2 learning, therefore our simulations werecloser to the ?skewed first?
condition of Goldberget al(2007) than to the ?skewed random?
condi-tion.We have to note, however, that the facilitatoryeffect observed in our experiment could also bedue to the fact that the distribution of the verbs inthe test frames was also different for each of thethree conditions, since the test data were sampledfrom the same distribution as the training data.
Wewill further investigate this issue in the future.5 DiscussionPatterns of second language development havebeen studied for decades, starting from the mor-pheme learning studies in 1970s (e.g., Wode,1976).
Although some classroom studies allowSLA theorists to make inferences about generalL2 developmental patterns (e.g., R. Ellis, 1994;VanPatten & Benati, 2010), scholars agree that atypical pattern of L2 development can hardly existdue to the inherent complexity of the SLA process.The enormous variability of L2 learning condi-tions makes it difficult to provide general conclu-sions about SLA development.
Partly for this rea-son, most longitudinal studies have been focusingon the development of specific linguistic featuresin small number of individuals (see an overviewby Ortega & Iberri-Shea, 2005).
DeKeyser (2013)emphasizes the methodological difficulties in thisdomain, especially when it comes to studying ageeffects in the second language of immigrant pop-ulation.
The inherent problems of documentingthe individuals?
language experience and samplingthose learners who match a number of specific cri-teria make the research in this field very laboriousand time-consuming.In contrast, a computational framework can beeffectively used for studying the complexities oflearning a second language, specifically in rela-tion to the characteristics of the first language.We present a computational model of second lan-guage acquisition which investigates grammaticalL2 development in connection with the existing L1knowledge, a setup that has not been properly ad-dressed by the existing computational models ofSLA (but see Monner et al 2013).We evaluate the model?s acquired grammati-cal knowledge (in the form of emergent argumentstructure constructions) through sentence produc-tion.
Our simulations replicate the expected pat-terns of L2 development, such as gradual emer-gence of constructions and increased proficiencyin sentence production.
Moreover, we investigatetwo specific SLA phenomena: construction prim-ing and the facilitative effect of skewed frequen-cies in the input.Priming effects have been demonstrated in sec-ond language learners (Gries & Wulff, 2005),although sometimes inconsistently (McDonough,2006).
We replicate a priming effect at the earlystages of learning in our simulations, but this ef-fect diminishes as the model receives more in-put.
Systematic manipulation of various (poten-tially relevant) factors via computational simula-tion will shed more light on the nature of primingin SLA.The facilitative effect of skewed input on con-struction learning has been subject of much debate(Boyd & Goldberg, 2009).
Our experiments showthat skewed frequencies in the input can improvethe performance of the model in sentence produc-tion, but more careful investigation of this patternis needed for a clear picture of the interaction be-tween different parameters.Although some of our results are inconclu-sive, we believe that our preliminary experimentsclearly demonstrate the opportunities of the modelfor SLA research.
In the future we plan investi-gating the described and other phenomena morethoroughly.
Applying additional methods such asanalysis of the frame categorization structure un-der different conditions, or quantitative compari-son of the production data obtained in computa-tional simulations and in the natural learner cor-pora (Gries & Wulff, 2005), could help us to drawspecific implications for the SLA theory.ReferencesAlishahi, A., & Stevenson, S. (2008).
A compu-tational model of early argument structure54acquisition.
Cognitive Science, 32(5), 789?834.Alishahi, A., & Stevenson, S. (2010).
A com-putational model of learning semantic rolesfrom child-directed language.
Languageand Cognitive Processes, 25(1), 50?93.Bannard, C., & Lieven, E. (2012).
Formulaic lan-guage in L1 acquisition.
Annual Review ofApplied Linguistics, 32, 3?16.Behrens, H. (2006).
The input-output relationshipin first language acquisition.
Language andCognitive Processes, 21(1-3), 2?24.Benson, C. (2002).
Transfer/cross-linguistic influ-ence.
ELT Journal, 56(1), 68?70.Bock, K., Dell, G. S., Chang, F., & Onishi, K. H.(2007).
Persistent structural priming fromlanguage comprehension to language pro-duction.
Cognition, 104(3), 437?458.Boyd, J. K., & Goldberg, A. E. (2009).
Inputeffects within a constructionist framework.The Modern Language Journal, 93(3), 418?429.Casenhiser, D., & Goldberg, A. E. (2005).
Fastmapping between a phrasal form and mean-ing.
Developmental Science, 8(6), 500?508.Cuppini, C., Magosso, E., & Ursino, M. (2013).Learning the lexical aspects of a second lan-guage at different proficiencies: A neuralcomputational study.
Bilingualism: Lan-guage and Cognition, 16, 266?287.DeKeyser, R. M. (2013).
Age effects in secondlanguage learning: Stepping stones towardbetter understanding.
Language Learning,63, 52?67.Dewell, R. (2011).
The Meaning of Particle /Prefix Constructions in German.
John Ben-jamins.Dittmar, M., Abbot-Smith, K., Lieven, E., &Tomasello, M. (2008).
German chil-dren?s comprehension of word order andcase marking in causative sentences.
ChildDevelopment, 79(4), 1152?1167.Ellis, N. C., & Ferreira-Junior, F. (2009).
Con-structions and their acquisition: Islands andthe distinctiveness of their occupancy.
An-nual Review of Cognitive Linguistics, 7(1),187?220.Ellis, N. C., & Larsen-Freeman, D. (2009).
Con-structing a second language: Analyses andcomputational simulations of the emergenceof linguistic constructions from usage.
Lan-guage Learning, 59, 90?125.Ellis, R. (1994).
The Study of Second LanguageAcquisition.
Oxford University Press.Elman, J. L. (1990).
Finding structure in time.Cognitive Science, 14(2), 179?211.Fazly, A., Alishahi, A., & Stevenson, S. (2010).
Aprobabilistic computational model of cross-situational word learning.
Cognitive Sci-ence, 34(6), 1017?1063.Frank, M. C., Goodman, N. D., & Tenenbaum,J.
B.
(2009).
Using speakers referentialintentions to model early cross-situationalword learning.
Psychological Science,20(5).Goldberg, A. E., & Bencini, G. M. L. (2005).Support from language processing for aconstructional approach to grammar.
InA.
Tyler (Ed.
), Language in Use: Cognitiveand Discourse Perspectives on Languageand Language Learning.
Georgetown Uni-versity Press.Goldberg, A. E., Casenhiser, D., & White, T.(2007).
Constructions as categories of lan-guage.
New Ideas in Psychology, 25(2), 70?86.Goldberg, A. E., Casenhiser, D. M., & Sethura-man, N. (2004).
Learning argument struc-ture generalizations.
Cognitive Linguistics,15(3), 289?316.Gries, S. T., & Wulff, S. (2005).
Do foreign lan-guage learners also have constructions?
An-nual Review of Cognitive Linguistics, 3(1),182?200.Hasko, V. (2013).
Capturing the dynamics of sec-ond language development via learner cor-pus research: A very long engagement.
TheModern Language Journal, 97(S1), 1?10.Ja?kel, O.
(2010).
Working with authentic ELT dis-course data: The Flensburg English Class-room Corpus.
In R. Vogel & S. Sahel (Eds.
),NLK Proceedings 2010 (pp.
65?76).
Uni-versita?t Bielefeld.Kennison, S. M. (2002).
Comprehending nounphrase arguments and adjuncts.
Journal ofPsycholinguistic Research, 31(1), 65?81.Li, P. (2009).
Lexical organization and competi-tion in first and second languages: compu-tational and neural mechanisms.
CognitiveScience, 33(4), 629?664.Li, P. (2013).
Computational modeling of bilin-55gualism: How can models tell us more aboutthe bilingual mind?
Bilingualism: Lan-guage and Cognition, 16, 241?245.Li, P., & Farkas, I.
(2002).
A self-organizing con-nectionist model of bilingual processing.
InR.
R. Heredia & J. Altarriba (Eds.
), Bilin-gual Sentence Processing (Vol.
134, pp.
59?85).
Elsevier Science.Loebell, H., & Bock, K. (2003).
Structural prim-ing across languages.
Linguistics, 41, 791?824.MacWhinney, B.
(2000).
The CHILDES project:Tools for analyzing talk (3rd ed.).
LawrenceErlbaum Associates.MacWhinney, B.
(2013).
The logic of the unifiedmodel.
In S. Gass & A. Mackey (Eds.
), TheRoutledge Handbook of Second LanguageAcquisition (pp.
211?227).
Taylor & Fran-cis Group.McDonough, K. (2006).
Interaction and syntacticpriming: English L2 speakers?
productionof dative constructions.
Studies in SecondLanguage Acquisition, 28(2), 179?207.McDonough, K., & Kim, Y.
(2009).
Syntacticpriming, type frequency, and EFL learners?production of wh-questions.
The ModernLanguage Journal, 93(3), 386?398.Miller, G. A.
(1995).
WordNet: A lexical databasefor English.
Communications of the ACM,38(11), 39?41.Miller, M. (1979).
The Logic of Language De-velopment in Early Childhood.
Springer-Verlag.Monner, D., Vatz, K., Morini, G., Hwang, S.-O.,& DeKeyser, R. M. (2013).
A neural net-work model of the effects of entrenchmentand memory development on grammaticalgender learning.
Bilingualism: Languageand Cognition, 16, 246?265.Mykhaylyk, R., & Ko, H. (2011).
Optionalscrambling is not random: Evidence fromEnglish-Ukrainian acquisition.
In M. An-derssen, K. Bentzen, & M.
Westergaard(Eds.
), Variation in the Input (Vol.
39, pp.207?240).
Springer.Ortega, L., & Iberri-Shea, G. (2005).
Longitudi-nal research in second language acquisition:Recent trends and future directions.
AnnualReview of Applied Linguistics, 25, 26?45.Potter, M. C., & Lombardi, L. (1998).
Syntac-tic priming in immediate recall of sentences.Journal of Memory and Language, 38(3),265?282.Rappoport, A., & Sheinman, V. (2005).
Asecond language acquisition model usingexample generalization and concept cate-gories.
In Proceedings of the Second Work-shop on Psychocomputational Models ofHuman Language Acquisition (pp.
45?52).Omnipress Inc.Roelofs, A., Dijkstra, T., & Gerakaki, S. (2013).Modeling of word translation: Activationflow from concepts to lexical items.
Bilin-gualism: Language and Cognition, 16,343?353.Shook, A., & Marian, V. (2013).
The bilingual lan-guage interaction network for comprehen-sion of speech.
Bilingualism: Language andCognition, 16, 304?324.ten Bosch, L., Hamme, H. V., & Boves, L. (2008).A computational model of language acquisi-tion: Focus on word discovery.
In Proceed-ings of Interspeech 2008 (pp.
2570?2573).ISCA.VanPatten, B., & Benati, A.
(2010).
Key Termsin Second Language Acquisition.
Blooms-bury.Vasilyeva, M., Waterfall, H., Ga?mez, P. B.,Go?mez, L. E., Bowers, E., & Shimpi, P.(2010).
Cross-linguistic syntactic primingin bilingual children.
Journal of Child Lan-guage, 37(5), 1047?1064.von Stutterheim, C. (2004).
German CarolineCorpus [Electronic database].
Retrievedfrom http://childes.psy.cmu.edu/data-xml/Germanic/German/Caroline.zip.Wode, H. (1976).
Developmental sequences innaturalistic L2 acquisition.
Working Paperson Bilingualism, 11, 1?31.Wray, A.
(2005).
Formulaic Language and theLexicon.
Cambridge University Press.Yang, J., Shu, H., McCandliss, B. D., & Zevin,J.
D. (2013).
Orthographic influences ondivision of labor in learning to read Chi-nese and English: Insights from computa-tional modeling.
Bilingualism: Languageand Cognition, 16, 354?366.Year, J., & Gordon, P. (2009).
Korean speakers?acquisition of the English ditransitive con-struction: The role of verb prototype, in-put distribution, and frequency.
The ModernLanguage Journal, 93(3), 399?417.56
