Proceedings of the First Workshop on Metaphor in NLP, pages 11?20,Atlanta, Georgia, 13 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsArgumentation-Relevant Metaphors in Test-Taker EssaysBeata Beigman Klebanov and Michael FlorEducational Testing Service{bbeigmanklebanov,mflor}@ets.orgAbstractThis article discusses metaphor annotation ina corpus of argumentative essays written bytest-takers during a standardized examinationfor graduate school admission.
The quality ofargumentation being the focus of the project,we developed a metaphor annotation proto-col that targets metaphors that are relevantfor the writer?s arguments.
The reliability ofthe protocol is ?=0.58, on a set of 116 es-says (the total of about 30K content-word to-kens).
We found a moderate-to-strong correla-tion (r=0.51-0.57) between the percentage ofmetaphorically used words in an essay and thewriting quality score.
We also describe en-couraging findings regarding the potential ofmetaphor identification to contribute to auto-mated scoring of essays.1 IntroductionThe goal of our project is to automatically scorethe quality of argumentation in essays written fora standardized graduate school admission exam.Metaphors being important argumentative devices,we report on annotating data for potential trainingand testing of metaphor detection software thatwould eventually be used for automated scoring ofessays.Metaphors of various kinds can be relevant to ar-gumentation.
Some metaphors create vivid imagesand function as examples or as organizing ideas be-hind a series of examples.
These are akin to picturesthat are worth a thousand words, and are highly po-tent rhetorical devices.
Metaphors of a less artisticcrafting ?
more conventionalized ones, metaphorsthat we ?live by?
according to Lakoff and John-son?s (1980) famous tenet ?
subtly organize ourthinking and language production in culturally co-herent ways.For an example of a vivid metaphor that helps or-ganize the essay, consider an essay on the relation-ship between arts and government funding thereof(see example 1).
The author?s image of a piece ofart as a slippery object that escapes its captor?s gripas a parallel to the relationship between an artist andhis or her patron/financier is a powerful image thatprovides a framework for the author?s examples (inthe preceding paragraph, Chaucer is discussed asa clever and subversive writer for his patron) andelaborations (means of ?slippage?, like veiled ima-gery, multiple meanings, etc).
(1) Great artistic productions, thus, tend torise above the money that bought them, tobite, as it were, the hand that fed them.This is not always so, of course.
Butthe point is that great art is too slipperyto be held in the grip of a governingpower.
Through veiled imagery, multiplemeanings, and carefully guarded language,a poem can both powerfully criticize a rulerand not blow its cover.For an example of a conventional metaphor, con-sider the metaphor of construction/building.
Theconnotation of foundations is something essential,old, solid, and lying deep, something that, once laid,remains available for new construction for a long pe-riod of time.
It is often used to explain emergence11of things ?
the existence of foundations (or support,or basis) is contrasted with the (presumed) idea ofappearance out of nothing.
Certain topics of discus-sion are particularly amenable for arguments fromconstruction-upon-foundation.
For example, con-sider an essay question ?Originality does not meanthinking something that was never thought before;it means putting old ideas together in new ways,?where an explanation of the emergence of somethingis required.
Examples 2-6 show excerpts from es-says answering this prompt that employ the founda-tion metaphor.
(2) The foundation of the United States wasalso based on a series of older ideas intowhich the fathers of our nation breathednew life.
(3) History is a progressive passing on of ideas,a process of building on the foundations laidby the previous generations.
New ideas can-not stand if they are without support fromthe past.
(4) New discoveries and ideas are also originalfor some time, but eventually they becomethe older, accepted pieces that are the build-ing blocks for originality.
(5) Original thinking can include old ideaswhich almost always are a basis forcontinued thought leading to new ideas.
(6) Humans are born of their ancestors, thrivefrom their intelligence, and are free to buildon the intellectual foundations laid.The two types of metaphors exemplified abovehave different argumentative roles.
The first orga-nizes a segment of an essay around it, firstly byimposing itself on the reader?s mind (a propertyrhetoricians call presence (Perelman and Olbrechts-Tyteca, 1969; Gross and Dearin, 2003; Atkinsonet al 2008)), secondly by helping select support-ing ideas or examples that are congruent with theparts of the target domain that are highlighted by themetaphor (this property is termed framing (Lakoff,1991; Entman, 2003)), such as the idea of evasive-ness purported by the ART AS A SLIPPERY OB-JECT metaphor that is taken up both in the precedingChaucer example and in an elaboration.By contrast, metaphors ?we live by?
without evennoticing, such as TIME IS MONEY or IDEAS AREBUILDINGS, are not usually accorded much readerattention; they are processed by using the conven-tional connotation of the word as if it were anadditional sense of that word, without invoking acomparison between two domains (for processingby categorization see (Bowdle and Gentner, 2005;Glucksbeg and Haught, 2006)).
Thus, the wordfoundation is unlikely to elicit an image of a con-struction site, but rather will directly invoke the con-cept of something essential and primary.
It is un-clear to what extent such highly conventionalizedmetaphors that are not deliberately construed asmetaphors have the framing property beyond fram-ing induced by any lexical choice ?
that of stress-ing the chosen over the un-chosen alternative (Bil-lig, 1996).
Therefore, the fact that an essay writerused a conventional metaphor is not in itself a markof rhetorical sophistication; it is possible, however,that, if certain metaphorical source domains are par-ticularly apt for the given target domain (as the do-main of construction to discuss emergence), usingthe metaphor is akin to choosing a solid though notparticularly original argument.Our interest being in metaphors that play a rolein argumentation, we attempted to devise an annota-tion protocol that would be specifically geared to-wards identification of such metaphors.
In whatfollows, we review the literature on approaches toannotating metaphors in a given discourse (sec-tion 2), we describe the protocol and the annotationprocedure (section 3), report inter-annotator agree-ment (section 4), quantify the relationship betweenmetaphorical density (percentage of metaphoricallyused words in an essay) and essay quality as mea-sured by essay score, as well as estimate the poten-tial usefulness of metaphor detection for automatedscoring of essays (section 5.2).2 Related WorkMuch of the contemporary work on metaphor in psy-chological and computational veins is inspired byLakoff and Johnson?s (1980) research on concep-tual metaphor.
Early work in this tradition concen-trated on mapping the various conceptual metaphorsin use in a particular culture (Lakoff and Johnson,121980; Lakoff and Ko?vecses, 1987; Ko?vecses, 2002).Examples for various conceptual mappings are col-lected, resulting in the Master Metaphor List (Lakoffet al 1991), showing common metaphorical map-pings and their instances of use.
For example, theLIFE IS A JOURNEY conceptual metaphor that mapsthe source domain of JOURNEY to the target domainof LIFE is used in expressions such as:?
He just sails through life.?
He is headed for great things.?
If this doesn?t work, I?ll just try a differentroute.?
She?ll cross that bridge when she comes to it.?
We?ve come a long way.While exemplifying the extent of metaphoricity ofeveryday English, such a list is not directly appli-cable to annotating metaphors in discourse, due tothe limited coverage of the expressions pertaining toeach conceptual metaphor, as well as of the concep-tual metaphors themselves.Studies of discourse metaphor conducted inthe Critical Discourse Analysis tradition (Musolff,2000; Charteris-Black, 2005) analyze a particulardiscourse for its employment of metaphors.
Forexample, an extensive database of metaphors inBritish and German newspaper discourse on Euro-pean integration in the 1990s was compiled by Mu-solff (2000); the author did not make it clear howmaterials for annotation were selected.A systematic but not comprehensive approach tocreating a metaphor-rich dataset is to pre-select ma-terials using linguistic clues (Goatly, 1997) for thepresence of metaphor, such as utterly or so to speak.Shutova and Teufel (2010) report precision statis-tics for using different clues to detect metaphoricsentences; expressions such as literally, utterly, andcompletely indicate a metaphorical context in morethan 25% of cases of their use in the British NationalCorpus.
Such cues can aid in pre-selecting data forannotation so as to increase the proportion of mate-rials with metaphors beyond a random sample.Another approach is to decide on the source do-mains of interest in advance, use a dictionary orthesaurus to detect words belonging to the domain,and annotate them for metaphoricity (Stefanowitsch,2006; Martin, 2006; Gedigan et al 2006).
Gedi-gan et al(2006) found that more than 90% ofverbs belonging to MOTION and CURE domains ina Wall Street Journal corpus were used metaphori-cally.
Fixing the source domain is potentially appro-priate if common metaphorically used domains in agiven discourse have already been identified, as in(Koller et al 2008; Beigman Klebanov et al 2008).A complementary approach is to fix the targetdomain, and do metaphor ?harvesting?
in a win-dow around words belonging to the target domain.For example, Reining and Lo?neker-Rodman (2007)chose the lemma Europe to represent the target do-main in the discourse on European integration.
Theyextracted small windows around each occurrence ofEurope in the corpus, and manually annotated themfor metaphoricity.
This is potentially applicable toanalyzing essays, because the main target domain ofthe discourse is usually given in the prompt, suchas art, originality.
The strength of this method isits ability to focus on metaphors with argumentativepotential, because the target domain, which is thetopic of the essay, is directly involved.
The weak-ness is the possibility of missing metaphors becausethey are not immediately adjacent to a string fromthe target domain.The Metaphor Identification Procedure (MIP) isa protocol for exhaustive metaphoricity annota-tion proposed by the Pragglejaz group (Pragglejaz,2007).
The annotator classifies every word in adocument (including prepositions) as metaphoricalif it has ?a more basic contemporary meaning?
inother contexts than the one it has in the current con-text.
Basic meanings are explained to be ?more con-crete, related to bodily action, more precise, and his-torically older.?
The authors ?
all highly qualifiedlinguists who have a long history of research collab-oration on the subject of metaphor ?
attained a kappaof 0.72 for 6 annotators for one text of 668 wordsand 0.62 for another text of 676 words.
Shutova andTeufel (2010) used the protocol to annotate contentverbs only, yielding kappa of 0.64 for 3 volunteerannotators with some linguistic background, on a setof sentences containing 142 verbs sampled from theBritish National Corpus.
It is an open question howwell educated lay people can agree on an exhaustivemetaphor annotation of a text.13We note that the procedure is geared towards con-ceptual metaphors at large, not necessarily argumen-tative ones, in that the protocol does not consider thewriter?s purpose in using the metaphor.
For example,the noun forms in ?All one needs to use high-speedforms of communication is a computer or televisionand an internet cable?
is a metaphor according tothe MIP procedure, because the basic meaning ?ashape of something?
is more concrete/physical thanthe contextual meaning ?a type of something,?
so aphysical categorization by shape stands for a moreabstract categorization into types.
This metaphorcould have an argumentative purport; for instance,if the types in question were actually very blurredand difficult to tell apart, by calling them forms (and,by implications, shapes), they are framed as beingmore clearly and easily separable than they actuallyare.
However, since the ease of categorization ofhigh-speed electronic communication into types isnot part of the author?s argument, the argumentativerelevance of this metaphor is doubtful.3 Annotation ProtocolIn the present study, annotators were given the fol-lowing guidelines:Generally speaking, a metaphor is a lin-guistic expression whereby something iscompared to something else that it isclearly literally not, in order to make apoint.
Thus, in Tony Blair?s famous ?Ihaven?t got a reverse gear,?
Tony Blair iscompared to a car in order to stress hisunwillingness/inability to retract his state-ments or actions.
We would say in thiscase that a metaphor from a vehicle do-main is used.. .
.
[more examples] .
.
.The first task in our study of metaphorin essays is to read essays and underlinewords you think are used metaphorically.Think about the point that is being madeby the metaphor, and write it down.
Notethat a metaphor might be expressed by theauthor or attributed to someone else.
Notealso that the same metaphor can be takenup in multiple places in a text.During training, two annotators were instructedto apply the guidelines to 6 top-scoring essays an-swering a prompt about the role of art in society.After they finished, sessions were held where theannotators and one of the authors of this paper dis-cussed the annotations, including explication of therole played by the metaphor in the essay.
A sum-mary document that presents a detailed consensusannotation of 3 of the essays was circulated to theannotators.
An example of an annotation is shownbelow (metaphors are boldfaced in the text and ex-plained underneath):F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote, ?There is a darknight in every man?s soul where it isalways 2 o?clock in the morning.?
Hiswords are a profound statement of humannature.
Within society, we operate under avariety of social disguises.
Some of thesemasks become so second nature that wefind ourselves unable to take them off.
(1) Dark night, 2 o?clock in the morning:True emotions are not accessible (at 2o?clock a person is usually asleep and un-aware of what is going on) and frighten-ing to handle on one?s own (scary to walkat night alone); people need mediation tohelp accessibility, and also company to al-leviate the fear.
Art provides both.
Thismetaphor puts forward the two main argu-ments: accessibility and sharing.
(2) Masks, take off, disguises: couldbe referring to the domain of the-ater/performance.
Makes the point thatwhat people do in real life to themselvesis superficially similar to what art (the-ater) does to performers ?
hiding their trueidentity.
In the theater, the hiding is tem-porary and completely reversible at will,there is really no such thing as inability totake off the mask.
The socially-inflictedhiding is not necessarily under the per-son?s control, differently from a theatricalmask.
Supports and extends the accessi-bility argument: not just lack of courageor will, but lack of control to access thetrue selves.14The actual annotation then commenced, on a sam-ple of essays answering a different question (thedata will be described in section 3.1).
Annotatorswere instructed to mark metaphors in the text using agraphical interface that was specially developed forthe project.
The guidelines for the actual annotationare shown below:During training, you practiced carefulreading while paying attention to non-literal language and saw how metaphorswork in their context.
At the annota-tion stage, you are not asked to expli-citly interpret the metaphor and identifyits argumentative contribution (or rather,its attempted argumentative contribution),only to mark metaphors, trusting your in-tuition that you could try to interpret themetaphor in context if needed.Note that we have not provided formal defini-tions of what a literal sense is in order to not inter-fere with intuitive judgments of metaphoricity (dif-ferently from Pragglejaz (2007), for example, whoprovide definition of a basic sense).
Neither havewe set up an explicit classification task, whereby an-notators are required to classify every single word inthe text as a metaphor or a non-metaphor (again, dif-ferently from Pragglejaz (2007)); in our task, anno-tators were instructed to mark metaphors while theyread.
This is in the spirit of Steen?s (2008) notion ofdeliberate metaphors ?
words and phrases that thewriter actually meant to produce as a metaphor, asopposed to cases where the writer did not have achoice, such as using in for an expression like intime, due to the pervasiveness of the time-as-spacemetaphor.
Note, however, that Steen?s notion iswriter-based; since we have no access to the writersof the essays, we side with an educated lay readerand his or her perception of a metaphorical use.The annotators were instructed to give the authorthe benefit of the doubt and *not* to assume that acommon metaphor is necessarily unintenional:When deciding whether to attribute to theauthor the intention of making a pointusing a metaphor, please be as liberal asyou can and give the author the benefitof the doubt.
Specifically, if something isa rather common metaphor that still hap-pens to fit nicely into the argument the au-thor is making, we assume that the authorintended it that way.To clarify what kinds of metaphors are excludedby our guidelines, we explained as follows:In contrast, consider cases where an ex-pression might be perhaps formally clas-sified as a metaphor, but the literal sensecannot be seen as relevant to the author?sargument.
For example, consider the fol-lowing sentence from Essay 2 from ourtraining material: ?Seeing the beauty ofnature or hearing a moving piece of musicmay drive one to perhaps try to replicatethat beauty in a style of one?s own.?
Lookat the italicized word ?
the preposition in.According to some theories of metaphor,that would constitute a metaphorical use:Literally, in means inside some container;since style is not literally a container, theuse of in here is non-literal.
Suppose nowthat the non-literal interpretation invitesthe reader to see style as a container.
Acontainer might have more or less room,can be full or empty, can be rigid or flex-ible, can contain items of the same or dif-ferent sorts ?
these are some potential im-ages that go with viewing something as acontainer, yet none of them seems to berelevant to whatever the author is sayingabout style, that is, that it is unique (one?sown) and yet the result is not quite original(replication).The two annotators who participated in the taskhold BA degrees in Linguistics, but have no back-ground in metaphor theory.
They were surprised andbemused by an example like in style, commentingthat it would never have occurred to them to mark itas a metaphor.
In general, the thrust of this proto-col is to identify metaphorical expressions that arenoticeable and support the author?s argumentativemoves; yet, we targeted a reasonable timeline forcompleting the task, with about 30 minutes per text,therefore we did not require a detailed analysis ofthe marked metaphors as done during training.153.1 DataAnnotation was performed on 116 essays written onthe following topic: ?High-speed electronic commu-nications media, such as electronic mail and tele-vision, tend to prevent meaningful and thought-ful communication.?
Test-takers are instructed topresent their perspective on the issue, using rele-vant reasons and/or examples to support their views.Test-takers are given 45 minutes to compose an es-say.
The essays were sampled from the dataset an-alyzed in Attali et al(2013), with oversamplingof longer essays.
In the Attali et al(2013) study,each essay was scored for the overall quality of En-glish argumentative composition; thus, to receive themaximum score, an essay should present a cogent,well-articulated analysis of the complexities of theissue and convey meaning skillfully.
Each essay wasscored by 16 professional raters on a scale of 1 to 6,allowing plus and minus scores as well, quantifiedas 0.33 ?
thus, a score of 4- is rendered as 3.67.
Thisfine-grained scale resulted in a high mean pairwiseinter-rater correlation (r=0.79).
We use the averageof 16 raters as the final score for each essay.
Thisdataset provides a fine-grained ranking of the essays,with almost no two essays getting exactly the samescore.For the 116 essays, the mean length was 478words (min: 159, max: 793, std: 142); mean score:3.82 (min: 1.81, max: 5.77, std: 0.73).
Table 1shows the distribution of essay scores.Score Number Proportionof Essays of Essays2 4 0.0343 33 0.2844 59 0.5095 19 0.1646 1 0.009Table 1: Score distribution in the essay data.
The firstcolumn shows the rounded score.
For the sake of pre-sentation in this table, all scores were rounded to integerscores, so a score of 3.33 was counted as 3, and a scoreof 3.5 was counted as 4.4 Inter-Annotator Agreement and Parts ofSpeechThe inter-annotator agreement on the total of 55,473word tokens was ?=0.575.
In this section, we inves-tigate the relationship between part of speech andmetaphor use, as well as part of speech and inter-annotator agreement.For this discussion, words that appear in theprompt (essay topic) are excluded from all sets.
Fur-thermore, we concentrate on content words only (asidentified by the OpenNLP tagger1).
Table 2 showsthe split of the content-word annotations by partof speech, as well as the reliability figures.
Wereport information for each of the two annotatorsseparately, as well as for the union of their anno-tations.
We report the union as we hypothesize thata substantial proportion of apparent disagreementsbetween annotators are attention slips rather thansubstantive disagreements; this phenomenon was at-tested in a previous study (Beigman Klebanov et al2008).POS Count A1 A2 A1?A2 ?All 55,473 2,802 2,591 3,788 0.575Cont.
29,207 2,380 2,251 3,211 0.580Noun 12,119 1,033 869 1,305 0.596Adj 4,181 253 239 356 0.525Verb 9,561 1,007 1,039 1,422 0.563Adv 3,346 87 104 128 0.650Table 2: Reliability by part of speech.
The column Countshows the total number of words in the given part ofspeech across the 116 essays.
Columns A1 and A2 showthe number of items marked as metaphors by annotators1 and 2, respectively, while Column A1?A2 shows num-bers of items in the union of the two annotations.
Thesecond row presents the overall figure for content words.Nouns constitute 41.5% of all content words; theyare 43.4% of all content-word metaphors for anno-tator 1, 38.6% for annotator 2, and 40.6% for theunion of the two annotations.
Nouns are thereforerepresented in the metaphor annotated data in theirgeneral distribution proportions.
Of all nouns, 7%-8.5% are identified as metaphors by a single annota-tor, while 10.8% of the nouns are metaphors in theunion annotation.1http://opennlp.apache.org/index.html16Verbs are 32.7% of all content words; they are42.3% of all content-word metaphors for annotator1, 46.2% for annotator 2, and 44.3% in the union.Verbs are therefore over-represented in the metaphorannotated data relative to their general distributionproportions.
Of all verbs, 10.5%-10.9% are identi-fied as metaphors by a single annotator, while 14.9%are metaphors in the union annotation.Adjectives are 14.3% of all content words; theyare 10.6% of all content-word metaphors for anno-tator 1, 10.6% for annotator 2, and 11.1% in theunion.
Adjectives are therefore somewhat under-represented in the metaphor annotated data with re-spect to their general distribution.
About 6% of ad-jectives are identified as metaphors in individual an-notations, and 8.5% in the union annotation.Adverbs are 11.5% of all content words; they are3.7% of all content-word metaphors for annotator 1and 4.6% for annotator 2, and 4% in the union.
Ad-verbs are heavily under-represented in the metaphorannotated data with respect to their general distri-bution.
Of all non-prompt adverbs, about 3-4% areidentified as metaphors.The data clearly points towards the propensity ofverbs towards metaphoricity, relative to words fromother parts of speech.
This is in line with reports inthe literature that identify verbs as central carriers ofmetaphorical vehicles: Cameron (2003) found thatabout 50% of metaphors in educational discourse arerealized by verbs, beyond their distributional propor-tion; this finding prompted Shutova et al(2013) toconcentrate exclusively on verbs.According to Goatly (1997), parts of speech dif-fer in the kinds of metaphors they realize in terms ofthe recognizability of the metaphorical use as such.Nouns are more recognizable as metaphors thanother word classes for the following two reasons:(1) Since nouns are referring expressions, they re-veal very strongly the clashes between conventionaland unconventional reference; (2) Since nouns of-ten refer to vivid, imaginable entities, they are moreeasliy recognized than metaphors of other parts ofspeech.
Moreover, morphological derivation awayfrom nouns ?
for example, by affixation ?
leads tomore lexicalized and less noticeable metaphors thanthe original nouns.Goatly?s predictions seem to be reflected in inter-annotator agreement figures for nouns versus adjec-tives and verbs, with nouns yielding higher reliabi-lity of identification than verbs and adjectives, withthe latter two categories having more cases whereonly one but not both of the annotators noticed ametaphorical use.
Since adverbs are the most distantfrom nouns in terms of processes of morphologicalderivation, one would expect them to be less eas-ily noticeable, yet in our annotation adverbs are themost reliably classified category.Inspecting the metaphorically used adverbs, wefind that a small number of adverbs cover the bulkof the volume: together (11), closer (11), away (10),back (8) account for 46% of the adverbs marked byannotator 1 in our dataset.
Almost all cases of to-gether come from a use in the phrasal verb bringtogether (8 cases), in expressions like ?bringing theworld together into one cyberspace without borders?or ?electronic mail could bring people closer to-gether?
or ?bringing society together.?
In fact, 6 ofthe 11 cases of closer are part of the constructionbring closer together, and the other cases have simi-lar uses like ?our conversations are more meaningfulbecause we are closer through the internet.
?Interestingly, the metaphorical uses of away alsocome from phrasal constructions that are used forarguing precisely the opposite point ?
that cyber-communications drive people away from each other:?email, instant messaging, and television support ashift away from throughful communication,?
?massmedia and communications drive people away fromone another,?
?by typing a message ... you can easilyget away from the conversation.
?It seems that the adverbs marked for meta-phoricity in our data tend to be (a) part of phrasalconstructions, and (b) part of a commonly made ar-gument for or against electronic communication ?that it (metaphorically) brings people together, or(metaphorically) drives them apart by making theactual togetherness (co-location) unnecessary forcommunication.
The adverbs are therefore not of thederivationally complex kind Goatly has in mind, andtheir noticeability might be enhanced by being partof a common argumentative move in the examinedmaterials, especially since the annotators were in-structed to look out for metaphors that support thewriter?s argument.175 Metaphor and Content ScoringIn order to assess the potential of metaphor detec-tion to contribute to essay scoring, we performedtwo tests: correlation with essay scores and a regres-sion analysis in order to check whether metaphor usecontributes information that is beyond what is cap-tured by a state-of-art essay scoring system.As a metaphor-derived feature, we calculatedmetaphorical density, that is, the percentage ofmetaphorically used words in an essay: All wordsmarked as metaphors in an essay were counted (con-tent or other), and the total was divided by essaylength.5.1 E-raterAs a reference system, we use e-rater (Attali andBurstein, 2006), a state-of-art essay scoring systemdeveloped at Educational Testing Service.2 E-ratercomputes more than 100 micro-features, which areaggregated into macro-features aligned with specificaspects of the writing construct.
The system in-corporates macro-features measuring grammar, us-age, mechanics, style, organization and develop-ment, lexical complexity, and vocabulary usage.
Ta-ble 3 gives examples of micro-features covered bythe different macro-features.Macro-Feature Example Micro-FeaturesGrammar, agreement errorsUsage, and verb formation errorsMechanics missing punctuationStyle passive, very long or very shortsentences, excessive repetitionOrganization use of discourse elements:and thesis, support, conclusionDevelopmentLexical average word frequencyComplexity average word lengthVocabulary similarity to vocabulary inhigh- vs low-scoring essaysTable 3: Features used in e-rater (Attali and Burstein,2006).E-rater models are built using linear regression onlarge samples of test-taker essays.
We use an e-ratermodel built at Educational Testing Service using2http://www.ets.org/erater/about/a large number of essays across different prompts,with no connection to the current project and itsauthors.
This model obtains Pearson correlationsof r=0.935 with the human scores.
The excellentperformance of the system leaves little room forimprovement; yet, none of the features in e-raterspecifically targets the use of figurative language, soit is interesting to see the extent to which metaphoruse could help explain additional variance.5.2 ResultsWe found that metaphorical density attains correla-tion of r=0.507 with essay score using annotationsof annotator 1, r=0.556 for annotator 2, and r=0.570using the union of the two annotators.
It is clearlythe case that better essays tend to have higher pro-portions of metaphors.We ran a regression analysis with essay score asthe dependent variable and e-rater raw score andmetaphor density in the union annotation as twoindependent variables.
The correlation with essayscore improved from 0.935 using e-rater alone to0.937 using the regression equation (the adjusted R2of the model improved from 0.874 to 0.876).
Whilethe contribution of metaphor feature is not statisti-cally significant for the size of our dataset (n=116,p=0.07), we are cautiously optimistic that metaphordetection can make a contribution to essay scoringwhen the process is automated and a larger-scaleevaluation can be performed.6 ConclusionThis article discusses annotation of metaphors ina corpus of argumentative essays written by test-takers during a standardized examination for grad-uate school admission.
The quality of argumenta-tion being the focus of the project, we developed ametaphor annotation protocol that targets metaphorsthat are relevant for the writer?s arguments.
Thereliability of the protocol is ?=0.58, on a set of 116essays (a total of about 30K content word tokens).We found a moderate-to-strong correlation(r=0.51-0.57) between the density of metaphorsin an essay (percentage of metaphorically usedwords) and the writing quality score as provided byprofessional essay raters.As the annotation protocol is operationally effi-18cient (30 minutes per essay of about 500 words),moderately reliable (?=0.58), and uses annotatorsthat do not possess specialized knowledge andtraining in metaphor theory, we believe it is fea-sible to annotate a large set of essays for the pur-pose of building a supervised machine learning sys-tem for detection of metaphors in test-taker essays.The observed correlations of metaphor use with es-say score, as well as the fact that metaphor use isnot captured by state-of-art essay scoring systems,point towards the potential usefulness of a metaphordetection system for essay scoring.ReferencesNathan Atkinson, David Kaufer, and Suguru Ishizaki.2008.
Presence and Global Presence in Genres of Self-Presentation: A Framework for Comparative Analysis.Rhetoric Society Quarterly, 38(3):1?27.Yigal Attali and Jill Burstein.
2006.
Automated Es-say Scoring With e-rater R?V.2.
Journal of Technology,Learning, and Assessment, 4(3).Yigal Attali, Will Lewis, and Michael Steier.
2013.
Scor-ing with the computer: Alternative procedures for im-proving reliability of holistic essay scoring.
LanguageTesting, 30(1):125?141.Beata Beigman Klebanov, Eyal Beigman, and DanielDiermeier.
2008.
Analyzing disagreements.
In COL-ING 2008 workshop on Human Judgments in Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 2?7, Manchester, UK.Michael Billig.
1996.
Arguing and Thinking: A Rhetor-ical Approach to Social Psychology.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge.Brian Bowdle and Dedre Gentner.
2005.
The career ofmetaphor.
Psychological Review, 112(1):193?216.Lynne Cameron.
2003.
Metaphor in Educational Dis-course.
Continuum, London.Jonathan Charteris-Black.
2005.
Politicians andrhetoric: The persuasive power of metaphors.
Pal-grave MacMillan, Houndmills, UK and New York.Robert Entman.
2003.
Cascading activation: Contestingthe white houses frame after 9/11.
Political Communi-cation, 20:415?432.Matt Gedigan, John Bryant, Srini Narayanan, and Bran-imir Ciric.
2006.
Catching metaphors.
In PProceed-ings of the 3rd Workshop on Scalable Natural Lan-guage Understanding, pages 41?48, New York.Sam Glucksbeg and Catrinel Haught.
2006.
On the rela-tion between metaphor and simile: When comparisonfails.
Mind and Language, 21(3):360?378.Andrew Goatly.
1997.
The Language of Metaphors.Routledge, London.Alan Gross and Ray Dearin.
2003.
Chaim Perelman.Albany: SUNY Press.Zoltan Ko?vecses.
2002.
Metaphor: A Practical Intro-duction.
Oxford University Press.Veronika Koller, Andrew Hardie, Paul Rayson, and ElenaSemino.
2008.
Using a semantic annotation tool forthe analysis of metaphor in discourse.
Metaphorik.de,15:141?160.George Lakoff and Mark Johnson.
1980.
Metaphors welive by.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.George Lakoff and Zoltan Ko?vecses.
1987.
Metaphorsof anger in japanese.
In D. Holland and N. Quinn, edi-tors, Cultural Models in Language and Thought.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.George Lakoff, Jane Espenson, Adele Goldberg,and Alan Schwartz.
1991.
Master MetaphorList, Second Draft Copy.
Cognitive LinguisicsGroup, Univeristy of California, Berkeley:http://araw.mede.uic.edu/?alansz/metaphor/METAPHORLIST.pdf.George Lakoff.
1991.
Metaphor and war: The metaphorsystem used to justify war in the gulf.
Peace Research,23:25?32.James Martin.
2006.
A corpus-based analysis of contexteffects on metaphor comprehension.
In Anatol Ste-fanowitsch and Stefan Gries, editors, Corpus-BasedApproaches to Metaphor and Metonymy.
Berlin: Mou-ton de Gruyter.Andreas Musolff.
2000.
Mirror images of Eu-rope: Metaphors in the public debate aboutEurope in Britain and Germany.
Mu?nchen:Iudicium.
Annotated data is available athttp://www.dur.ac.uk/andreas.musolff/Arcindex.htm.Cha?
?m Perelman and Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca.
1969.
TheNew Rhetoric: A Treatise on Argumentation.
NotreDame, Indiana: University of Notre Dame Press.Translated by John Wilkinson and Purcell Weaverfrom French original published in 1958.Group Pragglejaz.
2007.
MIP: A Method for IdentifyingMetaphorically Used Words in Discourse.
Metaphorand Symbol, 22(1):1?39.Astrid Reining and Birte Lo?neker-Rodman.
2007.Corpus-driven metaphor harvesting.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Computational Approaches to Figu-rative Language, pages 5?12, Rochester, New York.Ekaterina Shutova and Simone Teufel.
2010.
MetaphorCorpus Annotated for Source-Target Domain Map-pings.
In Proceedings of LREC, Valetta, Malta.Ekaterina Shutova, Simone Teufel, and Anna Korhonen.2013.
Statistical metaphor processing.
ComputationalLinguistics, 39(1).Gerard Steen.
2008.
The Paradox of Metaphor: WhyWe Need a Three-Dimensional Model of Metaphor.Metaphor and Symbol, 23(4):213?241.19Anatol Stefanowitsch.
2006.
Corpus-based approachesto metaphor and metonymy.
In Anatol Stefanow-itsch and Stefan Gries, editors, Corpus-Based Ap-proaches to Metaphor and Metonymy.
Berlin: Moutonde Gruyter.20
