Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature, pages 61?71,Atlanta, Georgia, June 14, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploring Cities in Crime: Significant Concordance and Co-occurrence inQuantitative Literary AnalysisJanneke Rauscher1 Leonard Swiezinski2 Martin Riedl2 Chris Biemann2(1) Johann Wolfgang Goethe UniversityGru?neburgplatz 1, 60323 Frankfurt am Main, Germany(2) FG Language Technology, Dept.
of Computer ScienceTechnische Universita?t Darmstadt, 64289 Darmstadt, Germanyj.rauscher@em.uni-frankfurt.de, floppy35@web.de,{riedl,biem}@cs.tu-darmstadt.deAbstractWe present CoocViewer, a graphical analy-sis tool for the purpose of quantitative lit-erary analysis, and demonstrate its use ona corpus of crime novels.
The tool dis-plays words, their significant co-occurrences,and contains a new visualization for signif-icant concordances.
Contexts of words andco-occurrences can be displayed.
After re-viewing previous research and current chal-lenges in the newly emerging field of quan-titative literary research, we demonstrate howCoocViewer allows comparative research onliterary corpora in a project-specific study, andhow we can confirm or enhance our hypothe-ses through quantitative literary analysis.1 IntroductionRecent years have seen a surge in Digital Human-ities research.
This area, touching on both thefields of computer science and the humanities, isconcerned with making data from the humanitiesanalysable by digitalisation.
For this, computationaltools such as search, visual analytics, text mining,statistics and natural language processing aid the hu-manities researcher.
On the one hand, software per-mits processing a larger set of data in order to assesstraditional research questions.
On the other hand,this gives rise to a transformation of the way re-search is conducted in the humanities: the possibil-ity of analyzing a much larger amount of data ?
yetin a quantitative fashion with all its necessary aggre-gation ?
opens the path to new research questions,and different methodologies for attaining them.Although the number of research projects in Dig-ital Humanities is increasing at fast pace, we stillobserve a gap between the traditional humanitiesscholars on the one side, and computer scientists onthe other.
While computer science excels in crunch-ing numbers and providing automated processingfor large amounts of data, it is hard for the com-puter scientist to imagine what research questionsform the discourse in the humanities.
In contrast tothis, humanities scholars have a hard time imaginingthe possibilities and limitations of computer technol-ogy, how automatically generated results ought tobe interpreted, and how to operationalize automaticprocessing in a way that its unavoidable imperfec-tions are more than compensated by the sheer sizeof analysable material.This paper resulted from a successful co-operation between a natural language processing(NLP) group and a literary researcher in the fieldof Digital Humanities.
We present the CoocVieweranalysis tool for literary and other corpora, whichsupports new angles in literary research throughquantitative analysis.In the Section 2, we describe the CoocViewertool and review the landscape of previously availabletools for our purpose.
As a unique characteristic,CoocViewer contains a visualisation of significantconcordances, which is especially useful for targetterms of high frequency.
In Section 3, we map thelandscape of previous and current quantitative re-search in literary analysis, which is still an emergingand somewhat controversial sub-discipline.
A use-case for the tool in the context of a specific projectis laid out in Section 4, where a few examples illus-61trate how CoocViewer is used to confirm and gen-erate hypotheses in literary analysis.
Section 5 con-cludes and provides an outlook to further needs intool support for quantative literary research.2 CoocViewer - a Visual Corpus BrowserThis section describes our CoocViewer visual cor-pus browsing tool.
After shortly outlining neces-sary pre-processing steps, we illustrate and moti-vate the functionality of the graphical user interface.The tool was specifically designed to aid researchersfrom the humanities that do not have a backgroundin computational linguistics.2.1 Related WorkWhereas there exist a number of tools for visualizingco-occurrences, there is, to the best of our knowl-edge, no tool to visualize positional co-occurrences,or as we also call them, significant concordances.In (Widdows et al 2002) tools are presented thatvisualize meanings of nouns as vector space repre-sentation, using LSA (Deerwester et al 1990) andgraph models using co-occurrences.
There is alsoa range of text-based tools, without any quantita-tive statistics, e.g.
Textpresso (Mu?ller et al 2004),PhraseNet1 and Walden2.
For searching words incontext, Luhn (1960) introduced KWIC (Key Wordin Context) which allows us to search for concor-dances and is also used in several corpus linguis-tic tools e.g.
(Culy and Lyding, 2011), BNCWeb3,Sketch Engine (Kilgarriff et al 2004), CorpusWorkbench4 and MonoConc (Barlow, 1999).
Al-though several tools for co-occurrences visualiza-tion exist (see e.g.
co-occurrences for over 200 lan-guages at LCC5), they often have different aims, ande.g.
do not deliver the functionality to filter on dif-ferent part-of-speech tags.2.2 Corpus PreprocessingTo make a natural language corpus accessible in thetool, a number of preprocessing steps have to be car-1http://www-958.ibm.com/software/data/cognos/manyeyes/page/Phrase_Net.html2http://infomotions.com/sandbox/network-diagrams/bin/walden/3http://bncweb.lancs.ac.uk/bncwebSignup/user/login.php4http://cwb.sourceforge.net5http://corpora.uni-leipzig.de/ried out for producing the contents of CoocViewer?sdatabase.
These steps consist of a fairly standardnatural language processing pipeline, which we de-scribe shortly.After tokenizing, part-of-speech tagging (Schmid,1994) and indexing the input data by document,sentence and paragraph within the document, wecompute signficant sentence-wide and paragraph-wide co-occurrences, using the tinyCC6 tool.
Here,the log-likelihood test (Dunning, 1993) is employedto determine the significance sig(A,B) of the co-occurrence of two tokens A and B.
To sup-port the significant concordance view (described inthe next section), we have extended the tool toalso produce positional significant co-occurrences,where sig(A,B, offset) is computed by the log-likelihood significance of the co-occurrence of Aand B in a token-distance of offset.
Since the sig-nificance measure requires the single frequencies ofA and B, as well as their joint frequency per po-sitional offset in this setup, this adds considerableoverhead during preprocessing.
To our knowledge,we are the first to extend the notion of positional co-occurrence beyond direct neighbors, cf.
(Richter etal., 2006).
We apply a sigificance threshold of 3.847and a frequency threshold of 2 to only keep ?interest-ing?
pairs.
The outcome of preprocessing is stored ina MySQL database schema similar to the one usedby LCC (Biemann et al 2007).
We store sentence-and paragraph-wide co-occurrences and positionalco-occurrences in separate database tables, and useone database per corpus.
The database tables are in-dexed accordingly to optimize the queries issued bythe CoocViewer tool.
Additionally, we map the part-of-speeches to E (proper names), N (proper nouns),A (adjectives), V (verbs), R (all other part-of-speechtags) for an uniform representation for different lan-guages.2.3 Graphical User InterfaceThe graphical user interface (UI) is built with com-mon web technologies, such as HTML, CSS andJavaScript.
The UI communicates via AJAX witha backend, which utilizes PHP and a MySQL6http://wortschatz.uni-leipzig.de/?cbiemann/software/TinyCC2.html, (Richter etal., 2006)7corresponding to 5% error probability62database.
This makes the approach flexible regard-ing the platform.
It can run on client computersusing XAMP8, a portable package of various Webtechnologies, including an Apache web server and aMySQL server.
Alternatively, the tool can operate asa client-server application over a network.
In partic-ular, we want to highlight the JavaScript data visual-ization framework D3 (Bostock et al 2011), whichwas used to layout and draw the graphs.
We deliber-ately designed the tool to match the requirements ofliterary researchers, who are at times overwhelmedby general-purpose visualisation tools such as e.g.Gephi9.
The UI is split into three parts: At the top amenu bar, including a search input field and searchoptions, a graph drawing panel and display optionsat the bottom of the page.Figure 1: Screenshot of the Coocviewer application usingthe concordance view.The menu bar allows switching between co-occurrence and concordance views (see Figure1).
The search field supports wildcards andtype-ahead autocompletion, immediately displayingwhich words exist in the corpus and match the cur-rent input.
Additionally, there are functionalities toexport the shown graph as SVG or PNG image, oras plain text, containing all relations, including theirfrequencies and significance scores.
Within the ad-vanced configuration windows (shown on the rightside) one can select different corpora, enable casesensitive/insensitive searches or filter words accord-8http://www.apachefriends.org/en/index.html9https://gephi.org/ing their part-of-speech tags (as described in Sec-tion 2.2).
The graph drawing panel visualizes thequeried term and its significant co-occurrences resp.concordances, significancy being visualized by thethickness of the lines.
In Figure 1, showing the con-cordances for bread, we can directly see words thatoccur often with bread in the context: E.g.
breadis often used in combination with butter, cheese,margarine (offset +2), but also the kind of differentbreads is described by the adjectives at offset -1.
Forthe same information, using the normal KWIC view,one has to count the words with different offset byhand to find properties for the term bread.
At thebottom, the maximal number of words shown in thegraph can be specified.
For the concordances displaythere is an additional option to specify the maximaloffset.
The original text (with provenance informa-tion) containing the nodes (words) or edges (wordpairs) shown in the graph can be retrieved by eitherclicking on a word itself or on the edge connectingtwo words, in a new window (see Figure 2) withinthe application.
This window also provides informa-Figure 2: Occurrences of a significant concordancetion about the frequencies of single words as well astheir co-occurrence, and also displays relative singleword frequencies in parts-per-million (ppm) to en-able comparisons between corpora of different sizes.Words in focus are highlighted and the contents ofthis window can also be exported as plain text.3 Quantitative Literary ResearchQuantitative research in literary analysis, althoughbeing conducted and discussed since at least the1960s, (Hoover, 2008), is still far from being a clearfield of research with a verified and acknowledgedmethodology.
Studies in this field vary widely withrespect to scope, methods applied and theoretical63background.
Until now, only the most basic defi-nition can be given that applies to these approaches:Quantitative research in literary analysis is generallyconcerned with the application of methods from cor-pus linguistics (and statistics) to the field of litera-ture to investigate and quantify general grammaticaland lexical features of texts.Most studies applying such methods to literary anal-ysis are carried out in the field of stylistics, buildinga relatively new research area of corpus stylistics,also called stylometry (Mahlberg, 2007; Hoover,2008; Biber, 2011).
The quantitative explorationof stylistic features and patterns is used for author-ship attribution, e.g.
(Burrows, 1992; Burrows,2007; Craig, 2004; Hoover, 2001; Hoover, 2002),exploring the specificity of one author?s style, e.g.
(Burrows, 1987; Hori, 2004; Fischer-Starcke, 2010;Mahlberg, 2012) or one certain text, often comparedto other texts of the same author or period, e.g.
(Craig, 1999; McKenna and Antonia, 2001; Stubbs,2005; Clement, 2008; Fischer-Starcke, 2009).
Somestudies focus on content-related questions such asthe analysis of plot or characterization and the ex-ploration of relations between and role of differentcharacters, e.g.
(Mahlberg, 2007; Culpeper, 2002;Culpeper, 2009), developing new ways of exploringthese literary features, e.g.
via the application of so-cial network analysis (Elson et al 2010; Moretti,2011; Agarwal et al 2012).
Besides this area, thereare numerous other approaches, like the attempt toinvestigate the phenomenon of ?literary creativity?
(Hoey, 2007) or ways for automatic recognition ofliterary genres (Allison et al 2011).Major methodological approaches of this field are,according to Biber (2011), Mahlberg (2007) andHoover (2008), the study of keywords and word-frequencies, co-occurrences, lexical clusters (alsocalled bundles or n-grams) and collocational as wellas concordance analysis.
Additionally, the need forcross-investigating and comparing the results withother corpora (be it a general corpus of one languageor other small, purpose-built corpora) is emphasizedto discuss the uniqueness of the results.But while especially the studies of Moretti (2000;2007; 2009), taking a quantitative approach of ?dis-tant reading?
on questions of literary history and theevolution of literary genres, are often received asgroundbreaking for the case, and despite the risinginterest in this field of research in the last decades,there still is much reluctance towards the imple-mentation of such methods.
The general argumentsraised frequently from the point of view of ?classi-cal?
literary analysis against a quantitative or compu-tational approach can be grouped around four cen-tral points: The uniqueness of each literary textthat quantitative analysis seems to underscore whentreating the texts just as examples of style or period,focussing on very general patterns; the emphasizeof technology and the relatively high threshold thatthe application, analysis and interpretation of thegenerated data contains (Potter, 1988); and the gen-eral notion that meaning in literary texts is highlycontext-related and context-dependent in differentways (Hoover, 2008).
Last but not least there iswhat can be called the ?so-what-argument?
: Quan-titative methods tend to produce sparse significantnew information compared with the classical ap-proach of close reading, generating insights and in-terpretations that could as well be reached by simplyreading the book (Mahlberg, 2007; Rommel, 2008).But the possibilities and advantages of corpus lin-guistics come to the foreground especially if one isnot interested in aspects of uniqueness or particu-larity but in commonalities and differences betweenlarge amounts of literary texts too many to be readand compared in the classical way.
This especiallyholds when it comes to questions of topics, themes,discourse analysis and the semantisation of certainwords.4 Empirical AnalysisThis section describes a few exemplary analysiswhich we carried out within our ongoing project ?Atthe crime scene: The intrinsic logic of cities in con-temporary crime novels?.
Settled between the dis-ciplines of sociology and literature, the project isembedded in the urban sociological research area ofthe ?Eigenlogik?
(intrinsic logic) of cities (Berking,2012; Lo?w, 2012; Lo?w, forthcoming).
The basic hy-pothesis is that there is no such thing as ?the?
city or?the?
urban experience in general, but that every cityforms its own contexts and complexes of meaning,the unquestioned and often subconsciously operat-ing knowledge of how things are done, respectivelymaking sense of the city.
To put it another way, we64want to find out if and in what way the respectivecity makes a difference and is forming distinctivestructures of thought, action and feeling.
This is ex-plored simultaneously in four different projects in-vestigating different fields (economic practices, citymarketing, problem discourses and literary field andtexts) in four different cities that are compared witheach other (Birmingham (UK), Glasgow, Frankfurton the Main and Dortmund).
If the hypothesis isright, the four different investigated fields shouldhave more in common within one city and across thefields than within one field across different cities.Our subproject is mainly concerned with the literaryand cultural imagination and representation of thecities in question.
One crucial challenge is the ex-ploration, analysis and comparison of 240 contem-porary crime novels, each of them set in one of thecities under examination.
The aim of this explorativestudy is to analyze the possibility and characteristicsof city-specific structures within the realm of liter-ary representations of cities.Dealing with such comparably large amounts of lit-erary texts, a tool was needed that facilitated us(laypeople in the field of corpus linguistics) to ex-plore the city-specific content and structures withinthese corpora, enabling a connection of qualitativeclose reading and quantitative methods.
Visualiza-tion was a major concern, apparently lowering theresistance of the literary research community to-wards charts and numbers and making the resultsreadable and interpretable without having much ex-pertise in corpus linguistics.
Moreover, the option ofgenerating significant concordances instead of sim-ple concordance lines (as e.g.
with KWIC) is verypromising: Confronted with very high word fre-quencies for some of our search terms, e.g.
morethan 2200 occurrences of ?Frankfurt?
in our Frank-furt corpus, completely manual analysis turned outto be painstaking and very time-consuming.
Auto-mated or manual reduction of the number of linesaccording to standard practices, as e.g.
suggestedby Tribble (2010), is not possible without potentialloss of information.
CoocViewer enables a sophis-ticated and automated analysis with concentrationon statistically significant findings through cluster-ing co-occurring words according to their statisticalsignificance in concordance lines.
Additionally, thepositionality of these re-occurring co-occurrences inCity lang.
#novels #tokens #sent.
#para.Birmingham engl.
41 4.8M 336K 142KGlasgow engl.
61 7.7M 496K 222KDortmund ger.
59 5.0M 361K 127KFrankfurt ger.
79 8.0M 546K 230KTable 1: Quantitative characteristics of our corporarelation to the search term (with a maximum rangefrom -10 to +10 around the node) gives a clearand immediate picture of patterns of usage withina corpus.
Via exploring the references of the re-sults we are still able to take account of the context-specificity of literary texts, as well as distinguishingauthor-specific results from those distributed moreequally across a corpus.After describing the corpus resources, we conducttwo exemplary analysis to show how the quantita-tive tool as described in Section 2 can be used to aidcomplex qualitative research interests in the human-ities through supporting the exploration and compar-ison of large corpora (Sect.
4.2), as well as investi-gating and comparing the semantization and seman-tic preference of words (Sect.
4.3).
The discussionof results shows how CoocViewer can support hy-pothesis building and testing on a quantitative basis,linking qualitative and quantitative approaches.4.1 CorpusThe selection of the crime novels was based on threecriteria: contemporariness (written and publishedwithin the past 30 years until 2010), the city in ques-tion (should play a major role resp.
be used as majorsetting), and genre (crime fiction in any variety).
Ina first step, the 240 novels (gathered as paperback-editions) had to be scanned and digitalized10.
Meta-data was removed and the remaining texts were pre-processed as described in Section 2.2.
The nov-els were compiled in different corpora according tothe city they are set in, and the database underly-ing them (sentence or paragraph).
Table 1 providesan overview of the quantitative characteristics of thefour city-specific corpora we discuss here.10We used ABBY FineReader 10 professional for opticalcharacter recognition, which generated tolerable but not perfectresults, making extensive proof reading and corrections neces-sary.654.2 Analysis 1: Exploring the Use of the City?sNameThe occurrence of the name of a city in crime nov-els can serve different purposes and functions inthe text.
It can be used, for example, to simply?place?
the plot (instead of or additionally to de-scribing the setting in further detail) or to indicatethe direction of movement of figures (?they drove toGlasgow?).
Often it is surrounded by informationabout city-specific aspects, e.g.
of history or mate-riality.
Searching for the respective proper names ofthe cities in the four corpora therefore seems to bea promising start to explore the possibility of city-specific structures of meaning in literary representa-tion.
If the ?Eigenlogik?-hypothesis is right, not onlythe content that is associated with the name (whatwould generally be expected) but also its frequentusages and functions (as pointer or marker, as start-ing point for further explanations of city life, etc.
)should differ systematically across cities.A first close reading of some exemplary crime nov-els already suggested that this could be the case.
Tocheck this qualitatively derrived impression we con-ducted CoocViewer searches for the top-15 signif-icant co-occurrences across all parts of speech foreach proper name in the respective corpus on sen-tence level (see Figure 3 for the cases of Glasgowand Frankfurt).
To interpret and compare these find-ings, we additionally looked at the significant con-cordances (with the same search parameters and anoffset from the node of -3/+3), which helps to ana-lyze and refine the findings in more depth.
In the fol-lowing, we discuss, compare and interpret the resultswith respect to our overriding project-hypothesis toverify or falsify some of our qualitative first impres-sions quantitatively.The corpora indeed tend not only to vary signif-icantly with respect to the sheer frequency of theusage of the proper name (with relative frequen-cies ranging from Glasgow (324ppm) and Frankfurt(286ppm) to Dortmund (187ppm) and Birmingham(154ppm)), but also in the usages and functions thatthe naming fulfills.
The graphs reveal not only dif-fering co-occurrences, but also differing proportionsof co-occurring word classes, each city revealing itsown distinct pattern.Especially the English cities tend to co-occur withFigure 3: Significant co-occurrences of ?Glasgow?
(up-per) and ?Frankfurt?
(lower) in their respective corporaproper names and common nouns (ten propernames, four common nouns in the case for Glas-gow, eight names and six nouns for Birmingham).11For Glasgow, these comprise parts of the inven-tory of the city (with ?City?
(sig.
of 695.57) aseither part of the name or city-specific institution(?City of Glasgow?, ?City Orchestra?)
or to referto different crime-genre specific institutions (as the?City of Glasgow Police?
or ?Glasgow City Mortu-ary?
)), the ?University?
(sig.
of 380.42), or the park?Glasgow Green?
(233.46).
There is also the nameof another city, the Scottish capital (and rival city)Edinburgh.
As the statistical concordances revealquickly, the ?Port?
(350.88) is, despite Glasgow?shistory as shipbuilding capital, not used to refer tothe cities industrial past.
Instead, as can bee seenfrom its positioning on -1 directly left to the node,it refers to the small nearby town Port Glasgow (see11The noun ?accent?
which both English cities names co-occur with (and for which no equivalent term can be found onthe German side) can be explained by a different lexicalizationof the concept, which is realized through derivation in German.66Fig.
4).
The co-occurrence of ?Royal?
and Glas-gow (being not a royal city) can also be easily ex-plained via the concordance view, showing that thisis mainly due to the ?Royal Concert Hall?
(forminga strong triangle on positions +1, +2 and +3 from thenode).
Besides these instances of places and institu-tions within and around the city, especially the con-nection to the pronoun ?its?
(82 instances with a sig.of 144) is interesting.
None of the other cities showsa top-significant co-occurrence with a comparablepronoun.
A look at the corresponding references inthe corpus shows that it is mainly used in statementsabout the quality or speciality of certain aspects ofthe city (indicated on graphic level through the con-nections between ?its?
and ?city?
or ?area?)
and inpersonifications (e.g.
?Glasgow could still reach outwith its persistent demands?).
This implies that theliterary device of anthropomorphization of the city(in direct connection with the proper name) occursmore often within Glasgow-novels than within thoseof the other cities, and that there are many explicitstatements about ?how this city (or a special part ofit) is?, showing a tendency to explain the city.
Fur-thermore, the exploration of the different referencesindicates a relatively ?coherent corpus?
(and, there-fore, relatively stable representation) with recurringinstances across many authors.Figure 4: Significant concordances of ?Glasgow?
inGlasgow corpusIn contrast to this, Birmingham?s co-occurringproper names mainly refer to (fictive) names ofnewspapers (the Birmingham ?Sentinel?, ?Post?
and?News?).
The inventory of the city is not veryprominently represented, with ?University?
(sig.
of152.52) and ?Airport?
(80.63) as the only instances.Furthermore, the University tends to be representedas region-, not city-specific (with a stronger connec-tion between ?University?
and ?Midlands?
(sig.
of200.49) than between both words to the city itself(?Midlands?
co-occurring with a sig.
of 68.68)).The rest of the proper names relates to not fur-ther specified parts of the city (?East?
(71.62) and?North-East?
(73.43)).
The word ?south?
appears asadverb, reflecting on graphic level that it is more of-ten used as in ?heading south?
than referring to the?south of Birmingham?.
Also, the noun ?city?
(sig.of 154.53) is often related to the ?city centre?
(indi-cated through the very strong link between those twowords), but also to make statements like ?Birming-ham is a city that?
or ?like other cities, Birminghamhas?.
The references reveal the quality of this expla-nations, rather stressing its ordinariness as city in-stead of personalizing it or emphasizing its unique-ness.
This indicates that the city itself is not stand-ing prominently in the foreground in its crime nov-els (in contrast to Glasgow and in accordance withour qualitatively derived prior results).
The propername is mainly used as part of other proper names(e.g.
?Birmingham Sentinel?
), fulfilling the functionof simply placing the plot, and there is very littlecity-specific information given on a statistical sig-nificant re-occurring level in the closer surroundingsof it.
Even the statements about Birmingham as acity tend to downplay its singularity.On the German side, the cities names co-occur withwords from a wider range of word classes.
Forboth cities, we find less co-occurring proper names:five for Frankfurt, only one of them referring to acity-specific aspect (the long version of the name?Frankfurt on the Main?
(sig.
of 585.09)); four forDortmund (again, only one city-specific, the nameof its soccer club ?Borussia?
(with only seven in-stances and a sig.
of 41.93)).
For both cities, therest of the proper names is composed of names ofother cities (in Frankfurt the two nearby cities ?Of-fenbach?
(139.49) and ?Darmstadt?
(105.73), and?Berlin?, ?Hamburg?
); for Dortmund only citiesfrom the same metropolitan area (the Ruhrgebiet),?Du?sseldorf?
(41.95), ?Werne?
(41.78) and ?Duis-burg?
(39.42)).
It seems that Dortmund is closelyconnected within the metropolitan area it is a partof, but looking at the references shows that onlyDu?sseldorf plays a role across different crime novelseries, while the rest mainly feature in one certainseries (being rated as author-specifc).67In the case of Frankfurt, the nouns that co-occur (seven) either denote city-specific aspects(Flughafen (airport) (96.83) and Eintracht (the lo-cal soccer club with a sig.
of 192.36)) or verygeneral instances (December, Jahren (years)).
Alook at the statistical concordances, ordered accord-ing not only to their position around the node butalso to their significance, displays that the noun?Kripo?
(short form for crime investigation unit)on the -1 position is more often used than the firstcity-specific instance, with a significance of 564.58(while ?police?
for Glasgow on the +1 position isrelatively ranked lower).
This prominent positionof the crime investigation unit (interpreted as im-pact of genre-related aspects) indicates that there aremany ?police-procedural?
crime novels in Frankfurt(which is true), giving insight into the sub-genrecomposition of the corpus.
As with the Englishcities, the word ?Stadt?
(city; sig.
of 245.63) co-occurs frequently, and as the references reveal itserves similar purposes: either to denote the politi-cal administration (the ?Stadt Frankfurt?)
or in com-bination with further explanations of ?how this cityis?
(as in Glasgow, but without personalization), or?Frankfurt is a city that?, but in contrast to Birming-ham not with a frequent downplaying of uniqueness.Additionally, we find instances where other citiesare compared to Frankfurt (?a city that, unlike/likeFrankfurt?).
This seems to point towards a moreflexible use of this combination resp.
to a varietyof ways of representation.
Frankfurt is representedas a city allowing for different semantizations anddifferent ways of depicting it without posing contra-dictions (as the differing uses occur not only acrossa wide range of authors, but within the same texts).Finally, taking a closer look at Dortmund, thefrequently co-occurring nouns nearly all are re-lated to genre-specific instances, referring to crimeinvestigation-related institutions (again ?Kripo?(sig.
of 88.91); ?Polizeipra?sidium?
(police head-quarters; sig.
of 35.15), ?Landgericht?
(dis-trict court; 37.25) and ?Sonderstaatsanwaltschaft?(34.63)).
This indicates that in this corpus the genre-specific structures seem to imprint themselves morethan the city-specific ones, putting the city itselfinto the background (similar to the case of Birm-ingham but with a highly differing pattern).
Butwe also have to consider the comparably low rel-ative frequency rates (ppm) that demand an expla-nation.
There might be another similarity betweenDortmund and Birmingham, both showing low rel-ative frequencies for their respective proper names.But as we take a closer look on the references ofthe occurrences of the names, we can see that theone series of crime novels that represents the biggestshare of the corpus (with 21 novels belonging to thisseries) does not mention ?Dortmund?
at all, whilefor Birmingham the use of the proper name is quiteequally distributed across all authors and series.
Alook inside one of this books of the series in ques-tion reveals a possible answer to the low frequencies:instead of using the proper name, the author conse-quently uses the nickname ?Bierstadt?
(Beer-city).Therefore, while it is possible to show that each cityunder investigation reveals a specific pattern of co-occurrences and differing uses and functions of itsproper name, as our hypothesis has suggested, thesearch for the proper name alone seems not suffi-cient to get the overall picture of the literary repre-sentation of a city, demanding further analysis.4.3 Analysis 2: Investigating Genre AspectsWhen it comes to questions of genre-conventions vs.city-conventions, the investigation of the semanticpreference of typically crime-related words is inter-esting.
If the specific city has an impact on genre-aspects, the graphs should show clear differences.Close reading of exemplary novels of Glasgow andBirmingham indicated that violence plays a greaterrole in Glasgow crime fiction than in that of Birm-ingham, therefore we expect to find differing attri-butions towards and meanings of ?violence?, show-ing a higher vocabulary richness in Glasgow than inBirmingham, taking into account its semantic pref-erence (for more details about this aspect see e.g.
(Hoey, 2007)).
We examine this hypothesis throughmaking ?violence?
the node of a search for signif-icant concordances, searching for the top-30 adjec-tives directly altering the noun within a range of -3to +3 around the node.As depicted in Figure 5, our initial hypothesis canbe verified.
While Glasgow (upper) has nine sig-nificantly co-occurring adjectives (six directly alter-ing the noun ?violence?
on pos.
-1), Birmingham(lower) only has five (four on pos.
-1).
Those that di-rectly alter the noun show a slightly differing seman-68Figure 5: Significant adjective concordances of ?vio-lence?, comparing Glasgow (upper) and Birmingham(lower) corporatic preference, with adjectives of ?kind of violence?
(domestic, physical) standing on top in both corpora.Next, we look at adjectives that bear a notion of?quality or intensity of violence?
: while Birming-ham only discriminates between mindless and latentviolence, the vocabulary of Glasgow is much richer(thuggish, mindless, sudden), one of them also bear-ing a notion of expectability (sudden).
Additionally,a temporal adjective is used to refer to ?past vio-lence?.
If we look at the instances on the -3 positionfor Glasgow (a position that is not filled for Birm-ingham), we can add random to the list of ?qual-ity of violence?, and find some instances of ?beingafraid of (physical) violence?
(as the link betweenthose words implies).
This verifies our close readinginterpretations.The adjectives to the right of the node (?own?on position +3 in Glasgow, ?old?
on position +2in Birmingham) pose a puzzle.
Through a look atthe references for this instances, we can see thatin the case of Birmingham, old is referring to vic-tims of violence (old people), while the picture forGlasgow is split between violence of its own type(which then could be added to the list of quality-adjectives) and violence that one experienced on hisown.
Through the interconnectedness of the adjec-tives settled on different positions for the case ofGlasgow and a look at the resources of the instances,we conclude that the patterns seem to be more estab-lished on city level (showing instances from varyingauthors for all adjective-noun combinations) thanthey are in Birmingham, where there are no cross-connections and the authors differ more among eachother (with ?physical violence?
being the only com-bination that occurs across different authors, whileall other adjective-noun combinations only appearwithin the work of a single author).5 Conclusion and Further WorkTo conclude the exemplary analysis, CoocViewerhelps not only to explore large corpora but also toverify or relativize impressions from classical quali-tative literary research.
It opens up new ways of ex-ploring topics, themes and relationships within largesets of literary texts.
Especially the combinationand linkage of co-occurrences and significant con-cordances simplifies the analysis and allows a finer-grained and more focused analysis than KWIC con-cordances or simple frequency counts.
The possi-bility to distinguish between these two viewpointson the data accelerates and improves the interpre-tation of results.
Additionally, the comparison be-tween corpora is much facilitated through the imme-diate visibility of differing patterns.
Further workcan proceed along a few lines.
We would liketo enable investigations of the wide context of co-occurrences through access from the references backto the whole crime-novel document.
Further, wewould like to automatically compare corpora of thesame language on the level of local co-occurrenceand concordance graphs to aid generating hypothe-ses.
This will make a change in the interface nec-essary to support a comparative view.
Furthermore,we want to extend the view of the original text (seeFigure 2) in our tool by centering the sentences ac-cording to the selected word or words, as done inKWIC views.
When clicking on a single word, thiswould lead to the normal KWIC view, but selectingan edge we then want to center the sentences accord-ing to the two words connected by the edge, whichmight be useful especially for the concordances.The tool and the pre-processing software is avail-able as an open source project12 and as a web demo.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been funded by the Hessian re-search excellence program Landes-Offensive zurEntwicklung Wissenschaftlich-O?konomischer Exzel-lenz (LOEWE) as part of the research center DigitalHumanities.12https://sourceforge.net/p/coocviewer69ReferencesApoorv Agarwal, Augusto Corvalan, Jacob Jensen, andOwen Rambow.
2012.
Social network analysis ofalice in wonderland.
In Workshop on ComputationalLinguistics for Literature, pages 88?96, Montre?al,Canada.Sahra Allison, Ryan Heuser, Mathhew Jockers, FrancoMoretti, and Michael Witmore.
2011.
QuantitativeFormalism: an Experiment.
Stanford Literary Lab.M.
Barlow.
1999.
Monoconc 1.5 and paraconc.
Interna-tional journal of corpus linguistics, 4(1):173?184.Helmuth Berking.
2012.
The distinctiveness of cities:outline of a research programme.
Urban Research &Practice, 5(3):316?324.Douglas Biber.
2011.
Corpus linguistics and the studyof literature.
back to the future?
Scientific Study ofLiterature, 1(1):15?23.Chris Biemann, Gerhard Heyer, Uwe Quasthoff, andMatthias Richter.
2007.
The Leipzig Corpora Col-lection - monolingual corpora of standard size.
InProceedings of Corpus Linguistics 2007, Birmingham,UK.Michael Bostock, Vadim Ogievetsky, and Jeffrey Heer.2011.
D3: Data-driven documents.
IEEE Trans.
Visu-alization & Comp.
Graphics (Proc.
InfoVis).John F. Burrows.
1987.
Computation into Criticism.
AStudy of Jane Austen?s Novels and an Experiment inMethod.
Clarendon, Oxford.John F. Burrows.
1992.
Computers and the study of liter-ature.
In Christopher S. Butler, editor, Computers andWritten Texts, pages 167?204, Oxford.
Blackwell.John F. Burrows.
2007.
All the way through: Testing forauthorship in different frequency strata.
Literary andLinguistic Computing, 22(1):27?47.Tanya E. Clement.
2008.
?A thing not beginning and notending?
: using digital tools to distand-read GertrudeStein?s The Making of Americans.
Literary and Lin-guistic Computing, 23(3):361?381.Hugh Craig.
1999.
Jonsonian chronology and the stylesof a tale of a tub.
In Martin Butler, editor, Re-Presenting Ben Jonson: Text, History, Performance,pages 210?232, Houndmills.
Macmillan.Hugh Craig.
2004.
Stylistic analysis and authorshipstudies.
In Susan Schreibman, Ray Siemens, and JohnUnsworth, editors, A Companion to Digital Humani-ties.
Blackwell.Jonathan Culpeper.
2002.
Computers, language andcharacterisation: An analysis of six characters inRomeo and Juliet.
In Ulla Melander-Marttala, CarinOstman, and Merja Kyt, editors, Conversation in Lifeand Literature: Papers from the ASLA Symposium,volume 15, pages 11?30, Uppsala.
Association Sue-doise de Linguistique Appliquee.Jonathan Culpeper.
2009.
Keyness: Words, parts-of-speech and semantic categories in the character-talk ofshakespeare?s romeo and juliet.
International Journalof Corpus Linguistics, 14(1):29?59.Chris Culy and Verena Lyding.
2011.
Corpus clouds - fa-cilitating text analysis by means of visualizations.
InZygmunt Vetulani, editor, Human Language Technol-ogy.
Challenges for Computer Science and Linguistics,volume 6562 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,pages 351?360.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg.Scott Deerwester, Susan T. Dumais, George W. Furnas,Thomas K. Landauer, and Richard Harshman.
1990.Indexing by latent semantic analysis.
Journal of theAmerican Society for Information Science, 41:391?407.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational Linguis-tics, 19(1):61?74, March.David K. Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen R. McK-eown.
2010.
Extracting social networks from literaryfiction.
In 48th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputer Linguistics, pages 138?147, Uppsala, Swe-den.Bettina Fischer-Starcke.
2009.
Keywords and fre-quent phrases of Jane Austen?s Pride and Prejudice: Acorpus-stylistc analysis.
International Journal of Cor-pus Linguistics, 14(4):492?523.Bettina Fischer-Starcke.
2010.
Corpus linguistics in lit-erary analysis: Jane Austen and her contemporaries.Continuum, London.Carsten Go?rg, Hannah Tipney, Karin Verspoor, Jr. Baum-gartner, William A., K. Bretonnel Cohen, John Stasko,and Lawrence E. Hunter.
2010.
Visualization andlanguage processing for supporting analysis across thebiomedical literature.
In Knowledge-Based and Intel-ligent Information and Engineering Systems, volume6279 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages420?429.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg.Michael Hoey.
2007.
Lexical priming and literary cre-ativity.
In Michael Hoey, Michaela Mahlberg, MichaelStubbs, and Wolfgang Teubert, editors, Text, Dis-course and Corpora.
Theory and Analysis, pages 31?56, London.
Continuum.David L. Hoover.
2001.
Statistical stylistics and author-ship attribution: an emprirical investigation.
Literaryand Linguistic Computing, 16(4):421?444.David L. Hoover.
2002.
Frequent word sequences andstatistical stylistics.
Literary and Linguistic Comput-ing, 17(2):157?180.David L. Hoover.
2008.
Quantitative analysis and liter-ary studies.
In Ray Siemens and Susan Schreibman,editors, A Companion to Digital Literary Studies, Ox-ford.
Blackwell.70Masahiro Hori.
2004.
Investigating Dicken?s Style:A Collocational Analysis.
Palgrave Macmillan, Bas-ingstoke.Adam Kilgarriff, Pavel Rychly, Pavel Smrz, and DavidTugwell.
2004.
The sketch engine.
In Proceedings ofEURALEX, pages 105?116, Lorient, France.Martina Lo?w.
2012.
The intrinsic logic of cities: towardsa new theory on urbanism.
Urban Research & Prac-tice, 5(3):303?315.Martina Lo?w.
forthcoming.
The city as experentialspace: The production of shared meaning.
Interna-tional Journal of Urban and Regional Research.H.
P. Luhn.
1960.
Key word-in-context index for tech-nical literature (KWIC index).
American Documenta-tion, 11(4):288?295.Michaela Mahlberg.
2007.
Corpus stylistics: bridg-ing the gap between linguistic and literary studies.
InMichael Hoey, Michaela Mahlberg, Michael Stubbs,and Wolfgang Teubert, editors, Text, Discourse andCorpora.
Theory and Analysis, pages 217?246, Lon-don.
Continuum.Michaela Mahlberg.
2012.
Corpus Stylistics andDicken?s Fiction.
Routledge advances in corpus lin-guistics.
Routledge, London.C.
W. F. McKenna and Alexis Antonia.
2001.
The sta-tistical analysis of style: Reflections on fom, meaning,and ideology in the ?Nausicaa?
episode of Ulysses.
Lit-erary and Linguistic Computing, 16(4):353?373.Franco Moretti.
2000.
Conjectures on world literature.New Left Review, 1(January/February):54?68.Franco Moretti.
2007.
Graphs, Maps, Trees.
AbstractModels for Literary History.
Verso, London / NewYork.Franco Moretti.
2009.
Style, Inc. reflections on seventhousand titels (British novels, 1740-1850).
CriticalInquiry, 36(1):134?158.Franco Moretti.
2011.
Network Theory, Plot Analysis.Stanford Literary Lab.Hans-Michael Mu?ller, Eimear E. Kenny, and Paul W.Sternberg.
2004.
Textpresso: An ontology-based in-formation retrieval and extraction system for biologi-cal literature.
Plos Biology, 2(11).Rosanne G. Potter.
1988.
Literary criticism and literarycomputing: The difficulties of a synthesis.
Computersand Humanities, 22:91?97.Matthias Richter, Uwe Quasthoff, Erla Hallsteinsdo?ttir,and Chris Biemann.
2006.
Exploiting the LeipzigCorpora Collection.
In Proceesings of the IS-LTC2006, Ljubljana, Slovenia.Thomas Rommel.
2008.
Literary studies.
In RaySiemens and Susan Schreibman, editors, A Compan-ion to Digital Literary Studies, Oxford.
Blackwell.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speech tag-ging using decision trees.
In International Conferenceon New Methods in Language Processing, pages 44?49, Manchester, UK.Michael Stubbs.
2005.
Conrad in the computer: exam-ples of quantitative stylistic methods.
Language andLiterature, 14(1):5?24.Christopher Tribble.
2010.
What are concordances andhow are they used?
In Anne O?Keeffe and MichaelMcCarthy, editors, The Routledge Handbook of Cor-pus Linguistics, pages 167?183, Abingdon.
Routledge.Dominic Widdows, Scott Cederberg, and Beate Dorow.2002.
Visualisation Techniques for Analysing Mean-ing.
In Fifth International Conference on Text, Speechand Dialogue (TSD-02), pages 107?114.
Springer.71
