Proceedings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop & Interoperability with Discourse, pages 103?111,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8-9, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGeneric noun phrases and annotation of coreference and bridging re-lations in the Prague Dependency TreebankAnna NedoluzhkoFaculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University in Praguenedoluzko@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThis paper discusses the problem of annotatingcoreference relations with generic expressionsin a large scale corpus.
We present and ana-lyze some existing theories of genericity,compare them to the approaches to genericsthat are used in the state-of-the-art coreferenceannotation guidelines and discuss how coref-erence of generic expressions is processed inthe manual annotation of the Prague Depend-ency Treebank.
After analyzing some typicalproblematic issues we propose some partialsolutions that can be used to enhance thequality and consistency of the annotation.1 IntroductionOne of the most problematic issues of anno-tating coreference in large scale corpora isprocessing coreference of generic expres-sions.
The decision to annotate generic nounphrases produces a significant decrease of inter-annotator agreement.
On the other hand, neglect-ing coreference relations between generic ex-pressions causes a significant loss of informationon the text coherence that is primordially the rea-son for annotating coreference relations at all.
Italso causes the inconsistency of annotationguidelines: due to relatively vague definition ofgenericity, it is almost impossible to exclude allcoreference relations between generics from theannotation.In the Prague Dependency Treebank (hence-forth PDT), we tried to distinguish coreferencerelations between nominal expressions with spe-cific and generic reading.
Comparing the inter-annotator agreement for these groups shows thatthe agreement for noun coreference with specificreading is significantly higher than the agreementfor the coreference of generic NPs (F1-measure0.705 for specific NPs and 0.492 for generics1).Moreover, the manual analysis of the cases ofdisagreement of specific NPs coreferencedemonstrates that most cases of disagreement arethose where NPs in question may be interpretedgenerically.Having formulated a set of criteria which helpidentifying generic expressions, there still re-mains a wide range of typical examples whichcan have generic interpretation, though not nec-essarily.
In this paper, we try to delimit the set ofgeneric NPs presenting the overview of someexisting theories of genericity (Sections 2 and3.1) and compare them to the stand-of-the-artcoreference annotation guidelines (Section 3.2).Then we present our approach to annotating co-reference with generic noun phrases in PDTwhere we apply the presented theories to coref-erence and bridging relations annotation (Section4).
We analyze typical problematic issues (Sec-tion 5) and discuss some possible solutions (Sec-tion 6).2 What are generics and can they co-refer?Generic reference is a term commonly used inlinguistic semantics to describe noun-phrase ref-erence to kinds of things (Carlson 2005).
In dif-ferent languages, generic reference may beexpressed by noun phrases with definite andindefinite articles and with determinerlessexpressions quite generally.
In languageswithout articles, the determinerless form istypically used (Carlson 2005, Hlavsa 1975;Padu?eva 1985, etc.
).1 F1-measure for generics is closer to inter-annotatoragreement for bridging relations (0.460 for all anno-tated data).103Compare some typical examples for genericnoun reference (different uses of a/the dog(s)) inEnglish, German and Czech:English:  Dogs bark ?
The dog has evolvedfrom the Jackal  ?
A dog knows when it is timefor his walk2.German: Hunde bei?en.
Der Hund stammtvom Schakal ab.
Ein Hund wei?// Hunde wissen,wenn es Zeit f?r seinen Spaziergang ist.Czech (non-article language): Psi ?t?kaj?.
?Pes je ?elma.The examples above demonstrate that genericnoun phrases cannot be recognized by theirforms (this fact  was pointed out in Lyons 1999,Carlson 2005, etc.).
While in English the pluralform of the definite can only marginally havegeneric reference, in German, which is closelyrelated to English, the plural definite may implygeneric reference quite easily.
In Romance lan-guages, the form of bare plural with generics isprohibited (Delfitto 2006) and even in languageswithout articles, generics with determiners arenot so rare (see e.g.
common examples withCzech in Nedoluzhko 2003) 3 .
This leads to asuggestion that genericity is not a primitive cate-gory of semantic or syntactic description.Theoretical studies like Carlson (1980) appealto typical examples with noun phrases referringto specific objects.
A discussion on his approach(Paducheva 1985, Delfitto 2006, Lyons 1999)concerns theoretical issues that are analyzed insimilar typical cases.When analyzing real corpus examples we en-counter a lot of cases indicating that not all ge-neric expressions are generic in the same way.Problems with processing generic expressionsarise also from the lack of a universally acceptedtheory of genericity which would be applicableto the real texts analysis.Generic reading is possible not only with re-ferring nouns, but also with mass nouns, groupnouns, abstract nouns, quantifiers anddeverbatives.
Look at the example (1).
Everyoneshould probably agree that the homeless is a ge-neric expression, but is the same true about thehomeless population?2  However, Carlson ?
Pelletier (1995) do not consid-er a dog in the last sentence to be generic, because itcannot be combined with kind-level predicates.3 It may be possible to determine generics in sentenc-es with so-called ?kind-level predicates?
(Carlson2005), they interact with aspectual distinctions inverbs (Lyons 1999) etc, but these approaches are notapplicable to real-text data.
(1) Your comments implied we had discov-ered that the principal cause of homeless-ness is to be found in the large numbers ofmentally ill and substance-abusing peoplein the homeless population.
[...] The studyshows that nearly 40% of the homeless pop-ulation is made up of women and childrenand that only 25% of the homeless exhibitssome combination of drug, alcohol andmental problems4.Another relevant question is if generic ex-pressions referring to the same kind can beconsidered coreferent in the same sense asnoun phrases with a specific reading.
Ac-cording to Carlson?s (1980) and Lyons?
(1999)claim, generics refer to classes in the similar wayas proper names refer to unique entities.
In thissense, coreference of generic expressions appearsto be obvious.
On the other hand, Carlson?s ob-servations seem to be quite language-specific.Arguing against a quantificational analysis ofbare plurals with generic meaning, he claims thatthe sentence Miles wants to meet policemen can-not be assigned a reading according to which?there are certain policemen that Miles wants tomeet,?
whereas this interpretation is naturallyavailable in the case of Miles wants to meet somepolicemen.
This is not the case of languageswithout articles where plural forms can be as-signed any reading regardless of the use of thequantifier5.
Generally, we suppose that quantifi-cational (or predicative) interpretation of genericexpressions in different languages is not impos-sible (see for example almost obligatory predica-tive reading of Czech exporters in (7)).
However,this fact does not necessarily exclude the coref-erence relation between them.
Eventually, thediscourse deixis as reference to events is alsooften considered and annotated as coreference.3 Recent research on genericsWe believe that it would not be a strong exag-geration to claim that theoretical and computa-tional linguistics have different goals as concernstheir approach to genericity.
The challenge oflinguistic research is to find out more about theessence of genericity.
The aim of annotating is to4 The example comes from the Prague English De-pendency Treebank (PEDT, Haji?
et al2009)5 Actually, even in English not all bare plurals shouldnecessarily refer to kinds.
In modern journalistic texts,the tendency to omit articles appears to be quitestrong.104make the group of generics as clear as possible,in order to  reach higher agreement and betterresults of automatic processing.It is also generally known that the features ofan annotation must be adapted to the task it isdesigned for.
However, the existing large-scaleannotated corpora (especially those prepared onuniversity basis) are often meant to be multi-purpose.
They serve both as train data for (dif-ferent!)
automatic tasks and as a rich manuallyannotated material for linguistic research.In what follows, we complete the theoreticaloverview (started in section 2), present the anno-tation approach and look for the common points.3.1 Linguistic researchThere is a rich variety of linguistic approaches togenericity.
Even as concerns the terminologywith generics, it is quite inconsistent and cannotbe relied on with much certainty.
According todifferent researchers, generic NPs are consideredto be either referring to classes (Carlson ?
Pelle-tier 1995, Mendoza 2004) or non-referring (ra-ther predicating) classifications over kinds(Paducheva 1985), beeing able to have specificand non-specific interpretation (Mendoza 2004,Smelev 1996) and divided from non-specific NPsas a separate group (Carlson ?
Pelletier 2005,Paducheva 1985).Carlson (1980) represents the most influentialapproach to genericity that has been elaboratedin the framework of formal semantics and gener-ative grammar.
Calson?s hypothesis is that gener-ics are kind-referring expressions, roughly namesfor kinds, as opposed to individual-referring ex-pressions that refer to individuals or groups ofindividuals.
In his approach, there is a differencebetween generic reference and individual non-specific reference, i.e.
reference to an open set ofindividual objects.
For example, NP lions thathave toothaches is not generic, its reference isindividual (i.e.
non-generic) and non-specific,which can be demonstrated by the fact that itcannot be substituted by the definite NP the lionthat has toothache (such NP can have only indi-vidual reading).
However, the problem with thiscriterion is that it is clearly language-specific (itcannot be applied at all to Czech, for instance).3.2 Annotation coreference with genericexpressionLet?s now have a look on how generic NPs areprocessed in annotation projects with anaphoricand coreference annotation.In some projects, e.g.
ARRAU and other corporabased on the MATE coreference annotationscheme (Poesio 2004), genericity is marked as apart of lexico-semantical information of the noun(an attribute generic-yes/no/undersp isapplied to each noun).
This information is con-templated in the annotation of identical corefer-ence.
Identical coreference for generics is alsoannotated in AnCora (Recasens 2010) and PDT(Nedoluzhko 2011).In other projects, annotation of coreferencewith generic NPs may be excluded from annota-tion schemes that are geared towards a reliableannotation of large text quantities.
For example,generics are not annotated for coreference in On-tonotes (Pradhan et al2007), T?BA-DZ (Hin-richs et al2004) and PoCoS (Krasavina-Chiarchos 2007).However, even if an annotation scheme ex-plicitly says that coreference of generic NPs isnot annotated, there are some borderline caseswhere coreference can still be annotated quitesystematically.
So, T?BA annotates coreferencewith the nominal expression if it appears repeat-edly in the text with the same interpretation.
InOntonotes, the explicit anaphora with it in theanaphoric position is commonly annotated forcoreference:(2) Still, any change in East Germany hasenormous implications, for both East andWest.
It raises the long-cherished hopes ofmany Germans for reunification6.Furthermore, systematic exclusion of genericexpressions from the annotation will force thecoders not to mark the cases like (3) and (4)7.From the point of view of applied tasks and au-tomatic coreference resolvers it will lead to theloss of relevant information and to an essentialcomplification of automatic tools.
(3) The sterilizing gene is expressed just be-fore the pollen is about to develop and itdeactivates the anthers of every flower inthe plant.
Mr. Leemans said this geneticmanipulation doesn't hurt the growth of thatplant.
(4) A workshop needs to be planned careful-ly.
Otherwise it may turn in a disaster.As far as we know, there are no significantprojects for annotating coreference separately for6 This example is taken from PEDT, to which the On-tonotes coreference was applied.7 Examples come from PEDT.105generic, unspecific non-generic and specific ex-pressions.4 Coreference annotation in PragueDependency TreebankIn this section we describe how generic expres-sions (or more precisely, what we decided toconsider generic expressions) are annotated inthe Prague Dependency Treebank.Annotation of coreference and discourse rela-tions is a project related to the Prague Dependen-cy Treebank 2.5 (PDT; Bej?ek et al2011).
Itrepresents a new manually annotated layer oflanguage description, above the existing layers ofthe PDT (morphology, analytic syntax and tecto-grammatics) and it captures linguistic phenome-na from the perspective of discourse structureand coherence.
This special layer of the treebankconsists of annotation of nominal coreferenceand bridging relations (Nedoluzhko et al2009),discourse connectives, discourse units linked bythem and semantic relations between these units(Mladov?
2011).Considering the fact that Czech has no definitearticle (hence no formal possibility to excludenon-anaphoric coreference), our annotation isaimed at coreference relations regardless to theiranaphoricity.Coreference relations are marked for nounphrases with specific and generic reference sepa-rately ?
coreference of specific noun phrases ?type SPEC, coreference of generic noun phrases?
type GEN8.
Bridging relations, which marksome semantic relations between non-coreferential entities, are also annotated in PDT.The following types of bridging relations are dis-tinguished: PART-OF (e.g.
room - ceiling),SUBSET (students - some students) and FUNCT(state - president) traditional relations, CON-TRAST for coherence relevant discourse oppo-sites (this year - last year), ANAF for explicitlyanaphoric relations without coreference or one ofthe semantic relations mentioned above (rainbow- that word) and the further underspecified groupREST9.As seen from the point of view of the annotat-ed groups, generic NPs are explicitly marked8 The reason for this decision is the lack of semanticinformation assigned to nouns themselves, as it isdone e.g.
for Gnome in MATE sceme (Poesio 2004).9  For detailed classification of identity coreferenceand bridging relations used in PDT, see e.g.
Ne-doluzhko et al2011.only with the second element of the coreferencerelation.
However, this distinction remains un-registered by bridging relations.
Moreover, itappears to be possible (and even not so uncom-mon) that a coreference relation was annotatedbetween a generic and a non-generic nounphrase.
These cases are interpreted as either (lin-guistically) ambiguous or insufficiently classifiedby the guidelines.
For example, in (5), the specif-ic noun phrase tento n?rod (=this nation) is core-ferent with generic plural Romy (=the Gipsies):(5) Nic z toho se v?ak nevyrovn?
m?
?ene?t?st?, kter?
Romy postihlo v letech druh?sv?tov?
v?lky.
Spolu se ?idy byli ozna?eniza m?n?cennou rasu a stali se objektem pa-tologick?ch fa?istick?ch opat?en?, jejich?
c?-lem byla ?pln?
genocida tohoto n?roda.
(=Nothing of this, however, compares to themisfortune that befell the Gipsies during theSecond World War.
Together with the Jews,they were called an inferior race and be-came the object of pathological fascistmeasures, their purpose being the completegenocide of the nation.
)Annotation rules for generics in PDT are de-scribed in detail in sections 4.1-4.3.4.1 Type coreference of generic NPsCoreference relations between the same typesare annotated as coreference of generic NPs (at-tribute coref_text, type GEN).
Cf.
(6)where antecedent generic drug is pronominalizedin the anaphoric position:(6) Droga je tedy tak ?
?inn?, ?e ten, kdo jiu?
?v?, se snadno dostane do ?pohody?
kou-?en?m nebo ??up?n?m.
(= The drug is so ef-fective that the person who takes it can easi-ly achieve the state of ?coolness?
by smok-ing or snorting.
)The ?generic coreference?
is more frequent forplural forms (7):(7) Nov?
striktn?
omezen?
vl?dy SR proti?esk?m export?r?m.
Ji?
n?kolik dn?
je v?eo-becn?
zn?mo, ?e ochran??sk?
opat?en?
slov-ensk?
vl?dy proti ?esk?m export?r?m sedot?kaj?
zejm?na oblasti obchodu s po-travinami a zem?d?lsk?mi produkty.
(= Thenew Slovak government's strict restrictionson Czech exporters.
It?s commonly knownfor several days that protective measures ofSlovakia's government against Czech ex-porters apply mostly to the trade of foodand agricultural products.
)106Textual coreference of type GEN is also anno-tated for the majority of abstract nouns (see moredetail in Section 5.5), cf.
(8):(8) T?mto faktorem je podnikatel-inov?tor,kter?
se sna??
o zisk, a proto logicky nem?
?eexistovat ve stavu statiky, kter?
nezn?
anizisk, ani ztr?tu.
(= This factor is the enter-preneur-innovator, who is trying to gainprofit, and hence, logically, cannot exist ina static state, where there is no profit orloss.)4.2.
Classes and subclassesThe relation ?category ?
sub-category?
ismarked as a bridging relation of the SUBSETtype.
Cf.
(9).
(9) I kdy?
konzervativn?
Anglie jeho ?in od-soudila, ?
Brit?nie se pro ?v?ka?ku stalabr?nou do Evropy.
Je?t?
jeden miln?k sizaslou??
zm?nku ?
zrod bublinov?
?v?ka?ky(= Although conservative England did notaccept it, ... for the gum, Britain has becomethe gateway to Europe.
Another milestone isworth mentioning, that is the birth of a bub-ble gum.
)Annotating the SUBSET relation with genericexpressions appears to be quite a serious prob-lem.
This relation has a different meaning com-pared to the SUBSET relation of noun phraseswith specific reading.
However, such relationsmay be quite relevant for cohesion.4.3 The relation ?type ?
entity?If a specific mention is used in the text af-ter a generic mention (or the contrary), therelation between them is annotated as abridging relation of the SUBSET type.
Cf.
(10):(10) Nov?
VW Golf je vybaven motoremo s?le... Dostali jsme mo?nost se nov?mgolfem projet.
(= The new VW Golf isequipped with an engine power ... Wehad an opportunity to ride a new golf.
)Similar, but not the same is the relation be-tween a set of specific objects and a non-specificelement in (11):(11) [volont?
?i] Absolvovali ?kolen?
v prvn?pomoci pro ?lov?ka v nouzi .
[?]Kdy?
d?t?zavol?, dostane bu?
radu hned, nebo si sn?m volont?r domluv?
dal??
hovor.
(=Thevolunteers have been trained in first aid forpeople in need.
[...] When a child calls, itwill get get an advice immediately, or a vol-unteer will arrange a meeting with him.
)5 Problem cases with generics in PDTAlthough the cases presented in sections 4.1-4.3do not look very reliable, they are still consid-ered to be relatively clear as compared to whatfollows in 5.1 -5.6.
The decisions made in anno-tation guidelines for these cases are often case-sensitive, might be in some cases contra-intuitive, and they result in high inter-annotatordisagreement.5.1 Non-generic non-specific NPsIn case of non-generic non-specific nounphrases, when antecedent and anaphoric nounphrases have the same t-lemmas and the samescope, but anaphoric NP does not have a deter-miner, coreference of type GEN is annotated.Although this kind of relation does not contributemuch to text coherence, we still tend to mark thisrelation, also for the reason that the border be-tween what should be annotated and what shouldnot is not always easy to determine.
(12) Kdy?
si d?t?
bude p?
?t, aby se o jehoprobl?mu nikdo z rodiny nebo ?koly ne-dozv?d?l, mus?me to respektovat, vysv?tlujeJana Drtilov?
.
[?]
V?t?inou se st?v?, ?ed?t?
ani nechce, aby se rodina  dozv?d?la, ?ese n?m ozval.
Linka by nem?la rodinunahrazovat, ale dopl?ovat.
(= If a child de-sires that no one from the family or schoolwould find out about his problems, we haveto respect that, says Jana Drtilova.
[?]
It isusually the case that the child does not evenwant for the family to know that he contact-ed us.
The hotline should not replace thefamily, but to supplement it.
)There are also cases of non-specific non-generic NPs the referential value of which isprovided by syntactic factors.
These are so-calledcontexts with removed assertiveness, e.g.
sen-tences with modal verbs (can, want, need), im-perative sentences, future tense, questions, nega-tions, disjunctions, irreality, uncertainty and soon.
Non-specific NPs are often used with per-formative verbs, propositional attitudes (want,think, consider) and some constructions as e.g.
inEnglish such as, in Czech jde o (=lit.
It is about),takov?
X (=such X), etc.
These contexts can givea non-specific reading to an expression, even if itactually has a specific meaning.
Cf (13), where107(13) Ale jedna v?c je jist?
- pal?c budestavebn?
p?ed?v?n letos na podzim.
[?
]Provoz tak obrovsk?
budovy p?ijde ro?n?na des?tky milion?
korun.
(=lit.
But onething is certain ?
the reconstruction ofthe palace will be finished this fall.
[...] Itwill cost tens of millions crowns, to runsuch a huge building.
)5.2 Borderline cases between coreference ofspecific and generic NPsIn some cases, it is hard to decide if a nounphrase has a specific or a generic reading.
Most-ly, both interpretations are possible.
There are nofirm rules for an unambiguous assignment of thetypes in those cases; the type is chosen on thebasis of the available context and the annotator?sconsideration.
Uncertainty of the choice betweengeneric and specific reference is common withsome typical groups of noun phrases, first of allwith those that have or may have modifications.Cf.
po?ad (=TV show) in (14) that may have atemporal modification.
The obligatoriness of thismodification influences the annotator?s decisionif (s)he should read it as a generic or a specificNP.
For this case, the specific reading was cho-sen.(14) K t?matu po?adu TV NOVA TABU?Zrak za b?lou h?l?
byl p?izv?n ke kon-zultaci Old?ich ??lek.
Kate?ina Hamrov?,dramaturgyn?
po?adu, TV NOVA.
(= Toconsult the topic of the TV NOVA show TA-BU "Vision for a white cane", Ulrich ?
?lekwas invited.
Catherine Hamrov?, the dram-atist of the show, TV NOVA)Also, for example for (15), the detergent Totocan be understood as a specific (a name for a de-tergent brand) or generic (the type of the deter-gent of such brand).
Also in this case, the specif-ic reference is preferred in PDT:(15) U detergentu Toto jsme nap?
?klad ?e?iliprobl?m s udr?en?m st?l?
kvality, proto?ejednotliv?
partie byly nevyv??en?.
In-vestovali jsme dva miliony korun do n?kupup?sov?ch vah, zp?esnili d?vkov?n?
a jakostprac?ho pr?
?ku stabilizovali.
(=For exam-ple, with the Toto detergent we face prob-lems with maintaining consistent quality...We invested two million crowns... and stabi-lized the quality of the detergent.
)5.3 Borderline cases between coreference ofgeneric NPs and zero relationThere is also a borderline between the cases ofcoreference of the generic NPs and the caseswhere it makes no sense to mark a coreferentialrelation.
We do not annotate ?generic corefer-ence?
if noun phrases have different scope (i.e.they refer to different sets of objects), e.g.
?eny(= women) ?
?eny v 19. stolet?
(= women in 19thcentury).
In this case, the bridging relation of thetype SUBSET is annotated instead.
In otherproblematic cases, annotators usually apply totheir intuition and the text coherence.
If both sayno, no coreference is annotated.5.4 Coreference with measure NPs and oth-er NPs with a ?container?
meaningIn PDT, a special group of numerals andnouns with a ?container?
meaning is singled out.They  have  the  modification  in  their  valencyframes denoting  the  content  (people,  things,substance etc.)
of a container expressed by thegoverning noun.
These ?container?
expressionsare e.g.
nouns and numerals denoting groups,number or amount, sets, collections, portions,etc.
(skupina lid?
(=group of people), po?et akci?
(=number of stocks), st?do krav (=herd of cows),dostatek financ?
(=abundance of finance),mili?ny ?id?
(=millions of Jews), sklenice piva(=glass of beer), deset procent obyvatel (=tenpercent of population)).The PDT convention on annotating corefer-ence by NPs with a ?container?
meaning followsthe maximum-scope rule, i.e., if possible, thegoverning (?container?)
node is linked by a co-reference link (16).
The modifications of con-tainers may be coreferential themselves inde-pendently of the ?containers?
(17)(16) Absolutn?
v?t?ina lid?
z?visl?ch na her-oinu je p??li?
mlad?
na to, aby si #PersPronpamatovala rozklad a zesl?blost generacesedmdes?t?ch let, tak?e odvr?cenou str?nku?fantastick?ho?
?ivota si #PersPronmnohdy v?bec neuv?dom?.
(=Absolute ma-jority of people addicted to heroin is tooyoung to remember the decomposition andenfeeblement of the generation of seventies,so they (lit.
?she?
referring to ?majority?)
donot realize the downside of the "fantastic"life.
)(17) V b?
?n?m vzorku sedmdes?t?ch let bylapouze 3?4 procenta ?ist?
suroviny.
b. Nyn?jsou k dost?n?
bal?
?ky obsahuj?c?
a?
80 pro-cent ?ist?ho heroinu.
(=In an average sam-108ple from the seventies, there were only 3-4percent of pure raw material.
Currently,one can get packages containing up to 80percent of pure heroin.
)Coreference of ?containers?
can be problemat-ic from the point of view of their generic or spe-cific interpretation.
Nouns referring to groupsmay refer generically to the elements belongingto that group or specifically to the group itself.
Inthe following example, there has been a disa-greement between annotators concerning the ge-neric/specific reading of the NP skupina(=group).
We believe that this kind of disagree-ment could be solved by separating the group ofnon-specific non-generic references.
(18) Podle v?zkum?
ve vysp?l?ch zem?ch seukazuje, ?e lid?, kte??
pot?ebuj?
speci?ln?slu?by, je daleko v?c.
U n?s by tuto skupinutvo?ilo asi tak 70000 osob.
Jsou to hlavn?star??
lid?
se zbytky zraku a slabozrac?.
Tatoskupina stoj?
?pln?
mimo a m?
tak ?ivotje?t?
v?ce zt?
?en?, proto?e mnoz?
o t?chtoslu?b?ch ani nev?d?.
(=According to the re-search in the developed countries, there aremany more people who need special ser-vices.
In our country, the group of suchpeople would count about 70,000 individu-als.
They are mainly older people sightedand visually impaired.
This group is com-pletely off, their life being even more diffi-cult, because they don?t even know aboutmany of these services.
)More complicated are the cases where coref-erence chains for ?containers?
and their modifica-tions intersect.
In (19), a coreference link for thestrikers in b. should lead to three and a halfthousand workers but in c., the number of strik-ers changes, so the container modification work-ers should be marked as coreferent with thestrikers in b.
For such cases, coreference of typeGEN is used in PDT.
(19) a.
T??
a p?l tis?ce d?ln?k?
vyhl?silist?vku.
b. St?vkuj?c?
??daj?
zv??en?
plat?
o?est procent.
c. Do 8. b?ezna se po?etst?vkuj?c?ch m?
?e zdvojn?sobit.
(a. Threeand a half thousand workers went on strike.b.
The strikers demand six percent of salaryincrease.
c. By 8 March, the number ofstrikers may double.
)However, in this case, the problem is ratherspecific.
Here, po?et st?vkuj?c?ch  (=the numberof strikers) does not actually refer to the strikers(as it would e.g.
in tis?c st?vkuj?c?ch (=thousandstrikers) but to the number itself and that is thereason for coreference annotation to strikers.
Insuch cases, the number does not serve as a ?con-tainer?
in proper sense.5.5 Coreference with abstract nounsProcessing coreference of abstract nounsseems to be in some respects close to that of ge-nerics.
Abstract nouns do not refer to a type, butto a notion.
However, this notion is unique in thesame way as type is unique to the generic ex-pression which refers to it.
Moreover, abstractnouns are close to predicative and quantification-al interpretation and there are no formal rulesdistinguishing them from concrete NPs anddeverbatives.
They also result in high ambiguitywhen annotated for coreference.There have been several changes in the guide-lines for the annotation of coreference and bridg-ing relations with abstract nouns.
Finally, wedecided to distinguish between ?specific?
and?generic?
abstracts.
If subjects to annotationhave complements with specific reference, orthey have unambiguously specific referencethemselves, coreference between them is anno-tated as textual coreference, type SPEC (20).
Incase of even a little doubt, we annotate textualcoreference, type GEN (8).
(20) Ve specifick?ch podm?nk?ch ?esk?ekonomiky r?st nezam?stnanosti v letech1991?1993 zna?n?
zaostal za poklesemHDP.
[?]
Nejm?n?
dvouprocentn?
r?st?esk?
ekonomiky  ji?
letos.
(=In the specificconditions of the Czech economy the growthof unemployment...
This year at least a twopercent growth of the Czech economy.
)5.6 Coreference with verbal nounsWith verbal nouns, both specifying and gener-ic reference are possible as well.
Textual corefer-ence with verbal nouns is annotated according tothe following strategy:- If both verbal nouns are specific, they re-fer to a specific situation and their possi-ble arguments are coreferential, the rela-tion between them is annotated as textualcoreference, type SPEC, cf.
(21);- If both verbal nouns are generic, or ratherif their arguments are generic, the relationbetween them is annotated as textual co-reference, type GEN. Cf.
(22);- If both verbal nouns are specific, but theirarguments are not coreferential, coreferen-109tial relation between them is not annotat-ed.
;- If one verbal noun is specific and the otheris generic, coreferential relation betweenthem is not annotated.
(21) Veden?
Poji?
?ovny Investi?n?
a Po?tov-n?
banky n?s upozornilo, ?e jejich poji?
?ov-na nebyla za?azena mezi ty, kter?
umo??uj??razov?
p?ipoji?t?n?, a?
tuto slu?bu posky-tuj?.
Omlouv?me se za toto nedopat?en?,doty?n?
redaktorka byla pokutov?na.
(=TheInsurance Investment and the Post Bankmanagement has notified us that their in-surance company was not included amongthose that allow casualty insurance, alt-hough it provides this service.
We apologizefor this oversight, the editor who made themistake was fined.
)(22) Rychl?, av?ak i bezpe?n?
vypo?
?d?n?.Rychlost vypo??d?n?
burzovn?ch obchod?
v?ase odpov?d?
podle Ji?
?ho B?ra pot?eb?m.
(= Fast, yet safe transaction.
According toJi?
?ho B?r?s opinion, the speed of transac-tion corresponds to the needs.
)However, such instructions are quite ambigu-ous themselves, because, firstly, it is not alwaysclear, what a specific verbal noun means and,secondly and most importantly, verbal nounsmay have more than one argument, one of thembeing generic and other ?
specific (Pergler 2010).Moreover, deverbatives themselves may refer tospecific events that has already happened (thustending to type SPEC if coreferent) or to hypo-thetic or typical ones (then, in case of corefer-ence, marked as GEN).6 DiscussionProcessing coreference of generic expressions,even in manual annotation, raises a number ofproblems, both theoretical and the applied, likecomplification of coreference resolving.
As wehave seen, the problem of generics is very lan-guage-specific.
Each resolving system trying toprocess coreference for generics will have to beoriented towards the specific linguistic descrip-tion of the language in question.
But even so,there are many possibilities of expressing genericexpressions in every language, thus making theformal problem of extracting generics even inone separate language extremely difficult.Generic expressions are analyzed relatively inmore detail for English (Carlson 1980, Carlson -Pelletier 1995).
However, this research reliesheavily on language forms, it is not based on alarge-scale corpus and it seems to be too theoret-ical to be easily adapted to a large corpus (manu-al or automatic) processing.
On the other hand,Carlson?s classification of the reference readingof nouns could be used in practice for the distinc-tion between generic and non-specific non-generic NPs.
Using our experience, we believethat it would make the annotation more con-sistent: there would be less ambiguity betweenspecific and generic readings.
However, beinghelpful in resolving the cases from section 5.1,this decision would not resolve the majority ofthe remaining problematic cases.
There still re-main borderline cases with specific noun expres-sions with possible valency frames (see 5.2), co-reference with abstract and verbal nouns and soon.
Separating the group of NPs with non-specific reading, the coders should concentrateon quite specific semantic issues when annotat-ing.
Moreover, annotating more groups of nounsis always a costly and time-consuming task.From the theoretical point of view, one couldimagine a scale: from noun expressions withconcrete meaning and specific reading (saynamed entities) up to abstract nouns anddeverbatives with generic reading.
However,such an approach will not help to process genericNPs in large-scale corpora.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we discussed the problem of anno-tating coreference with generic expressions.Considering theoretical approaches has revealedthat they tend to be very language specific.
State-of-the-art in annotating coreference relations forgeneric NPs needs unification but this is compli-cated, as the formal representation of genericitydiffers dramatically from language to languageand can be hardly unified.
We have presented anapproach to annotation of generic expressions inPDT and analyzed some typical problematic ex-amples.
We consider this issue to be far frombeing solved.
Both, theoretical research and largedata approaches should be further investigated.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge support from theGrant Agency of the Czech Republic (grantsP406/12/0658 and P406/2010/0875).110ReferencesEduard Bej?ek, Jan Haji?, Jarmila Panevov?, JanPopelka, Lenka Smejkalov?, Pavel Stra?
?k, Magda?ev?
?kov?, Jan ?t?p?nek, Josef Toman and Zden?k?abokrtsk?.
2011.
Prague Dependency Treebank2.5.
Data/software, Charles University in Prague,MFF, ?FAL, Praha, Czech Republic(http://ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.5/).Greg Carlson.
1980.
Reference to kinds in English.New York: Garland.Greg Carlson.
2005.
Generic Reference.
In The Ency-clopedia of Language and Linguistics, 2nd Ed.Elsevier.Greg Carlson and F.J. Pelletier (eds.).
1995.
The Ge-neric Book.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Denis Delfitto.
2006.
Bare plurals.
In Martin Everaertand Henk van Riemsdijk (eds.)
The BlackwellCompanion to Syntax.
Blackwell Publishing, pp.214-259.Erhard Hinrichs, Sandra K?bler, Karin Naumann,Heike Telljohann, Julia Trushkina und HeikeZinsmeister.
2004.
Recent Developments in Lin-guistic Annotations of the T?Ba?D/Z Treebank.
InProceedings of the third workshop on treebanksand linguistic theories (TLT 2004).
T?bingen.Jan Haji?, Silvie Cinkov?, Krist?na ?erm?kov?, LucieMladov?, Anja Nedolu?ko, Petr Pajas, Ji?
?Semeck?, Jana ?indlerov?, Josef Toman, Krist?naTom?
?, Mat?j Korvas, Magdal?na Rysov?,Kate?ina Veselovsk?, Zden?k ?abokrtsk?.
2009.Prague English Dependency Treebank 1.0.
Insti-tute of Formal and Applied Linguistics.
CharlesUniversity in Prague.Zden?k Hlavsa.
1975.
Denotace objektu a jej?prost?edky v sou?asn?
?e?tin?.
(Object denotationand its means in current Czech).
Prague, CzechRepublic.Olga Krasavina and Christian Chiarcos.
2007.
PoCoS?
Potsdam Coreference Scheme.
In Proceedings ofACL 2007, Prague, Czech Republic.Christopher Lyons.
1999.
Definiteness.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Lucie Mladov?.
2011.
Annotating Discourse in Pra-gue Dependency Treebank.
In Workshop of Anno-tation of Discourse Relations in Large Corpora atthe conference Corpus Linguistics 2011 (CL 2011).Birmingham, Great Britain, July 2011.Anna Nedoluzhko, Ji??
M?rovsk?, Radek Ocel?k, Ji??Pergler.
2009.
Extended Coreferential Relationsand Bridging Anaphora in the Prague DependencyTreebank.
In Proceedings of the 7th DiscourseAnaphora and Anaphor Resolution Colloquium(DAARC 2009).
Goa, India, 2009, pp.
1?16.Anna Nedoluzhko.
2003.
Ukazovac?
z?jmeno ?ten?
agenerick?
jmenn?
fr?ze v ?e?tin?.
In IV.mezin?rodn?
setk?n?
mlad?ch lingvist?
Olomouc2003: Jazyky v kontaktu, jazyky v konfliktu.
Olo-mouc: Univerzita Palack?ho v Olomouci, pp.
85 ?96.Anna Nedoluzhko.
2011.
Roz???en?
textov?
korefer-ence a asocia?n?
anafora.
Koncepce anotace?esk?ch dat v Pra?sk?m z?vislostn?m korpusu.
Pra-gue, ?FAL.
?lena V. Paducheva.
1985.
Vyskazyvanie i egosootnesennost s dejstvite?nos?ju.
Moskva.Ji??
Pergler.
2010.
Koreferen?n?
?et?zce s nespecific-kou a generickou referenc?
v ?e?tin?
(Coreferentialchains with non-specific and generic reference inCzech).
Unpublished bachelor thesis.
Prague.Massimo Poesio.
2004.
The MATE/GNOME Propo-sals for Anaphoric Annotation, Revisited.
In Pro-ceedings of SIGDIAL.Sameer S. Pradhan, Eduard Hovy, Mitch Marcus,Martha Palmer, Lance Ramshaw, and Ralph Weis-chedel.
2007.
Ontonotes: A unified relational se-mantic representation.
In Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on Se-mantic Computing(ICSC-07).
Washington, DC, pp.
517?526.Marta Recasens and Ant?nia Mart?.
2010.
AnCora-CO: Coreferentially annotated corpora for Spanishand Catalan.
In Language Resources and Evaluati-on.Uriel Weinreich.
1966.
On the Semantic Structure ofLanguage.
In Universals of Language, 2nd ed.Cambridge, Mass.111
