Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 96?101,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe (Un)faithful Machine TranslatorRuth JonesDept.
of French and Francophone StudiesUniversity of California Los AngelesAnn IrvineCenter for Language and Speech ProcessingJohns Hopkins UniversityAbstractApplying machine translation (MT) to lit-erary texts involves the same domain shiftchallenges that arise for any sublanguage(e.g.
medical or scientific).
However, italso introduces additional challenges.
Onefocus in the discussion of translation the-ory in the humanities has been on the hu-man translator?s role in staying faithful toan original text versus adapting it to makeit more familiar to readers.
In contrastto other domains, one objective in literarytranslation is to preserve the experience ofreading a text when moving to the targetlanguage.
We use existing MT systems totranslate samples of French literature intoEnglish.
We then use qualitative analy-sis grounded in translation theory and realexample outputs in order to address whatmakes literary translation particularly hardand the potential role of the machine in it.1 IntroductionThe question of how to translate, especially whenthe source text is valued for its perceived literarymerit, has been the focus of a discussion that isnearly as old as written text itself.
A key debate iswhether the translator should (1) adapt the sourcelanguage text as it is translated into the target lan-guage to make it familiar and understandable tothe reader, or (2) stay as faithful as possible to theoriginal.
Schleiermacher (2012) calls the formera free translation and the latter faithful.
The for-mer has also been referred to as domesticating thetext, or bringing the text to the reader, in contrastto foreignizing the text, or bringing the reader tothe text (Venuti, 2008; Berman, 1992).Consider the French phrase enculer lesmouches.
Staying as faithful to the originalFrench as possible, the first word, enculer trans-lates as the infinitive for the French word for analpenetration, while the second is the more banalflies.
Google translate gives to fuck flies.
However,idiomatically, it is, despite the strongly sexual firstterm, a not uncommon way to say to nitpick.
Thistranslation makes the text more understandable, atthe cost of staying faithful to the meanings of theindividual words of the original text.
Stylistic el-ements such as metaphor, alliteration, metonymy,and rhyme likewise require the translator to makeinterpretive choices beyond the literal meaningof the original, bringing the original text to thereader of the translation even at the expense oflosing some of the literal meaning of the source.Often multiple equally faithful translations ofa word or phrase exist, and the translator mustchoose one based on context, either local or morebroad.
For example, the French il neige can betranslated as it snows or it is snowing.1 In English,it is snowing suggests the narrative present, whileit snows suggests a habitual occurrence.Like human translators, a statistical machinetranslation (SMT) system may produce transla-tions that are relatively free or faithful and mustconstantly make translation choices in decoding.For SMT, choices are dependent on what is ob-served in training and language modeling data andtheir frequencies.
When systems are trained ondatasets that are similar to a test text, they are morelikely to make reasonable translation choices.
Ad-ditionally, if a model, either a priori or automat-ically, knows something about what the outputshould look like (e.g.
poetry should rhyme orhave rhythm), features could encourage free trans-lations to take a certain form.How much a translation sounds like an origi-nal text in its target language and how much itpreserves elements of its source language, whichmake it sound foreign, is in part an ethical choicemade by the human translator.
Still, even experi-enced human translators have difficulty recogniz-1There is no present progressive tense in French.96ing when they are being faithful and when theircultural experiences have influenced a translation.Current SMT models have no awareness of thisand no ability to make specific choices to bal-ance the two tendencies in the same output.
Ourwork shines a light on SMT from the perspectiveof translation theory based on a qualitative analy-sis of two translated samples of French literature,one prose and one poetry.
We compare SMT andhuman translations to address the following:?
What types of translation choices does themachine make, compared with humans??
Is there evidence for the need to encourage amachine to translate more freely??
Can SMT translate non-ethnocentrically?2 Background2.1 Translation TheorySchleiermacher (2012) raises the issue of a trans-lation?s approximation of its source language vs.its fluency or resemblance to an original work inits target language, referring to translations ?thatare faithful or free.?
Berman (1992), alternatively,outlined the need for an ethics and an analytics oftranslation.
For Berman, the translator has an im-perative to avoid ?freedom?
where it brings withit a tendency to alter the foreign text by making itresemble a work of literature created in the targetlanguage through adjustments to the original onthe levels of style, idiom, and content (both lexi-cal and explicative).
His is an argument for whatVenuti (2008) calls ?foreignization?
in translation,preserving the distance between the language ofthe original text and the language of the translationby creating a translation that is perceptibly differ-ent from an original work in the target language.He opposes this to domestication, which insteadprivileges fluency and readability.Venuti (2008) uses a similar critique to addressthe relative visibility or invisibility of the transla-tor.
For Venuti, part of the domestication of thetranslated text comes in the form of the invisi-bility of its translator in the finished (marketed)product.
Compare, for instance, Venuti?s exam-ple of the translator?s invisibility in the 2002 Pen-guin translation of the Anna Karenina, advertisedwith praise for the ?transparency?
of its translationwithout naming the translators, to Seamus Heany?s2000 translation of Beowulf, which includes bothoriginal and translated texts side-by-side and fea-tures the poet/translator?s name prominently onthe cover.
In the first case, the reader is asked toforget that she is not, in fact, reading Tolstoy inhis own words, while, in the second, Heany?s textis open to constant comparison with its original.2.2 MT of Non-Standard LanguagePrior work applying SMT to non-standard lan-guage focuses primarily on domain adaptation.
Inthat task, an MT system trained on, for example,newswire, is used to translate text in a differentdomain, such as science.
Much of this work hasfocused on up-weighting subsets of the training orlanguage modeling data that are most similar tothe new domain (Matsoukas et al 2009; Foster etal., 2010; Ananthakrishnan et al 2011; Niehuesand Waibel, 2010; Foster and Kuhn, 2007; Tiede-mann, 2010; Lavergne et al 2011).Other work has focused on literary texts (Reddyand Knight, 2011; Kao and Jurafsky, 2012; Roque,2012).
Most relevant is Greene et al(2010),which presents a model for translating Italian po-etry into English.
That work focuses on preserv-ing meaning as well as rhythm and is an interest-ing first attempt at integrating models of poetry(?how to say?)
and storyline (?what to say?)
gen-eration.
In many cases, it is hard to do both wellat once; simultaneously maintaining the meaningand rhythm of a poem is challenging.3 Experiments3.1 Data and SetupWe analyze translations of two samples of Frenchliterature, one prose and one poem (Figures 1-2).
The prose selection is a sample of the twen-tieth century novel L?E?tranger by Albert Camus(Camus, 1955).
We use the Camus and Ward(1989) English translation as a reference.
The po-etry selection is a sample of the twentieth cen-tury poem ?Jardin?
by Yves Bonnefoy (Bonnefoy,1968), from the collection De?but et fin de la neige,translated in Bonnefoy et al(2012).
We selectedthe passages because they use fairly simple lan-guage and have modern and well-known authors.We translate the two literary selections usingtwo SMT systems.
First, we train a phrase-basedMT model using the Hansard data.2 The corpuscontains over 8 million parallel lines of text andis one of the largest freely available parallel cor-pora for any language pair.
It contains proceed-ings of the Canadian parliament.
Recent work has2http://www.parl.gc.ca97shown that newswire corpora, the other commonbitext domain, is not very different from the par-liamentary domain.
Thus, a model trained on theHansard data reflects the status of a typical mod-ern SMT system trained on freely available data.We use the Moses SMT framework (Koehn et al2007), GIZA++ automatic word alignments (Ochand Ney, 2003), and the batch version of MIRAfor tuning (Cherry and Foster, 2012).
For compar-ison, we also present and analyze translations byGoogle translate.3In addition to our detailed manual analysis,we automatically evaluated outputs using case-insensitive BLEU and a single reference.
TheMoses system achieve a slightly higher BLEUscore than Google (16.62 vs. 11.25) on the Bon-nefoy selection and the opposite is true for the Ca-mus selection (26.03 vs. 30.05).
However, be-cause the selections are small, we don?t interpretthese results as particularly meaningful.3.2 AnalysisFigures 1 and 2 show the outputs.
Focusing onthe differences between the machine and humantranslations with respect to the originals revealsplaces where the human translators?
choices di-verged from the translations considered probableby the two SMT models.
Close reading of thesource text and human translation suggests pos-sible reasons for the translator?s choices.
Theprobabilities that the SMT model assigns to thehuman translations relative to those assigned tothe observed MT output highlights the need forprobabilistic translation models that are specific tothe domain of the particular texts or for literarytranslation more generally.
While differences oc-curred based on a variety of factors, for the sake ofbrevity, we only consider lexical variation and thequestion of time as an aspect of translation.
Wetake examples from Camus?
prose and Bonnefoy?spoem while keeping in mind the possibility of adefinable difference in domain between the two.Ward?s translation puts the plain language ofCamus?
text into a clear and conversational En-glish, a stylistic choice for fluency and domes-tication of the French.
The focus in this pas-sage is on the speaker, actively calming himselfafter the departure of the warden, and the ?re?of ?retrouve??
appears as ?again.?
The machinetranslations, looking at the words in the absence3translate.google.comlui parti, j' ai retrouv?
le calme.j' ?tais ?puis?
et je me suis jet?
sur ma couchette.je crois que j' ai dormi parce que je me suis r?veill?
avec des?toiles sur le visage.des bruits de campagne montaient jusqu' ?
moi.des odeurs de nuit , de terre et de sel rafra?chissaient mestempes.la merveilleuse paix de cet ?t?
endormi entrait en moi commeune mar?e.a ce moment, et ?
la limite de la nuit, des sir?nes ont hurl?.elles annon?aient des d?parts pour un monde qui maintenantm' ?tait ?
jamais indiff?rent.pour la premi?re fois depuis bien longtemps j' ai pens?
?maman.L?
?tranger - Albert Camushis party, i found the calm.i was exhausted and i had on my sleeper.i think i slept because i woke up with stars on your face.the campaign noise up to me.the smell of night of land and salt rafra?chissaient my tempes.the great peace of this summer asleep came into me as a tide.has this time, and the limit of the night of sirens screamed andyelled.they announced departures for a world that now was neverindifferent.for the first time in a long time i thought about mom.Hansard SMThe was gone, i found calm.i was exhausted and i threw myself on my bunk.i think i slept because i woke up with stars on her face.noises campaign amounted to me.the smell of night, earth and salt refreshed my temples.heavenly peace this summer sleeping entered me like a tide.at that time, and the limit of the night, sirens screamed .they announced departures for a world that now was neverindifferent to me.for the first time in ages i thought mom.Google SMTwith him gone , i was able to calm down again.i was exhausted and threw myself on my bunk.i must have fallen asleep, because i woke up with the stars inmy face.sounds of the countryside were drifting in.smells of night, earth, and salt air were cooling my temples.the wondrous peace of that sleeping summer flowed throughme like a tide.then, in the dark hour before dawn, sirens blasted.they were announcing departures for a world that now andforever meant nothing to me.for the first time in a long time i thought about maman.The Stranger, translation by Matthew WardFigure 1: The Stranger by Albert Camusof Camus?
protagonist, give ?found,?
eliminatingthe ?re.?
Ward translates ?se calmer?
exactly, ?tocalm (down).?
In contrast, the machine versionsgive ?found (the) calm.?
It is not the passive as-pect of Camus?
phrase that is problematic (?find-ing calm?
as opposed to ?calming down?
); rather,it is the return implied by the ?re?
that gives pause.Ward?s translation gives a plainer, more informalstyle than the translations offered by the SMT sys-tems, choosing to preserve the repetition of ?re?
(in ?retrouve??)
with ?again?
rather than the coremeaning of ?found?
in ?trouve?.
?Later in the passage (line 3), the phrase ?je98il neige.sous les flocons la porteouvre enfin au jardinde plus que le monde.j' avance.
mais se prendmon ?charpe ?
du ferrouill?, et se d?chireen moi l' ?toffe du songe.il neige.sous les flocons la porte ouvre enfin au jardin de plus que lemonde.j' avance.mais se prend mon ?charpe ?
du fer rouill?, et se d?chire enmoi l' ?toffe du songe.D?but et fin de la neige, Yves Bonnefoy, ?
Le jardin ?it snows.under the snowflakes the dooropens finally au jardinmore than the world.but is my point.my scarf to ironrusty tears,i think in character.it snows.under the cornflakes and opens the door au jardin de morethan the world.my point.but does my scarf to iron rusty, that tears character in methinking.Hansard SMTit snows.flakes under the doorfinally opens to the gardenover the world.i advance.
but takesmy scarf with ironrusty, and tearsin me the stuff of dreams.it snows.finally, in the snow the door opens to the garden over the world.i advance.but take my scarf of rusty iron, and tears in me the stuff ofdreams.Google SMTit?s snowing.beneath the snowflakes the gateopens at last on the gardenof more than the world.i enter.
but my scarfcatches on rusty iron,and it tears apart in methe fabric of the dream.it?s snowing.beneath the snowflakes the gate opens at last on the garden ofmore than the world.i enter.but my scarf catches on rusty iron, and it tears apart in me thefabric of the dream.Beginning and End of the Snow, Emily Grolsholz, ?The Garden?Figure 2: The Garden by Yves Bonnefoyme suis re?veille?
avec des e?toiles sur le visage?is translated as ?I woke up with the stars in myface?
in Ward?s translation, whereas the Hansardand Google translations drop the indefinite arti-cle and assume a second person in the scene, giv-ing ?i woke up with stars on {your, her} face.
?Later, the phrase ?des bruits de campagne?
(line4) also provides a source of linguistic confusion.It is ?sounds of the countryside?
in Ward, but?the campaign noise?
and ?noises campaign?
inHansard and Google, respectively.
Ward?s trans-lations make two distinct choices for the indefi-nite article ?des,?
converting it to a definite article(the) in the first instance while dropping it in thesecond.
Both examples again show Ward workingthe text into plain-spoken English prose by choos-ing the specific ?the stars?
over the general ?stars?for ?des e?toiles?
and the more conventional con-struction sounds of the coutryside over country-side sounds, which would preserve the unfamiliar(as shown by the difficulty of both MT systems intranslating this phrase) construction of ?des bruitsde campagne.?
The discrepancies between the hu-man and MT versions of Camus?
text suggest thatthe MT systems might, at the least, be able to iden-tify the difficulties of translating certain stylisticelements of the French.The translations of Bonnefoy?s poem revealslightly different concerns.
The translations of?e?toffe?
exemplify a lexical choice problem.
Grol-sholz?s choice of ?fabric?
has a lower transla-tion probability in the SMT models than ?stuff?
(Google translation).
Both meanings are possi-ble, but while ?stuff?
is more common, the sourcetext suggests an association between ?e?charpe?
(scarf) and ?e?toffe?
(stuff/fabric) that comes to thefore in Grolsholz?s translation.
Taken with simi-lar choices (?gate?
for ?door?, also ?snowflakes?for ?flocons,?
earlier in the poem), Grolsholz?stranslation reveals a preference for specificity overprobability that goes beyond rhythmic consistencyto effect the translated poem?s recreation of the im-ages present in the original.Temporality also appears as a difference be-tween Grolsholz?s and the machine translations.Specifically, Grolscholz translates ?il neige?
(line1) as ?it is snowing.?
Neither SMT model se-lected the present progressive.
Their translation,?it snows?
has a distinctly high probability in theHansard model, as the parliamentary proceedingsdeal most often with general conditions when dis-cussing weather (i.e.
?it snows in the prairies?
).While this is an adequate translation of the Frenchphrase, Grolsholz?s choice of the progressive an-chors the poem in a narrative present that is absentin the general expression ?it snows.?
This momentis key to understanding the poem in the context ofthe larger collection, as it gives the poet a definedposition in time that anchors the poem?s imagery.99The fact that neither MT system made this choicesuggests a difference between literary and nonlit-erary texts in terms of how each treats time and theexperience of duration.
Temporality functions insubtly different ways in French and English.
It isimportant to narrative and literary text and is par-ticularly difficult for the MT system.4 DiscussionDefining the type and degree of domesticationthat a literary translation should take is difficultto express, even to a human.
We can say thatWard?s translation, with its conversational styleand choice of sense and style over language play,is more domestic than Grolsholz?s, which tries toreflect the syntax of the original.
Indeed, if welook back to Venuti?s complaint about the transla-tion of Anna Karenina, Grolsholz is certainly themore visible of the two translators, each of hertranslations being accompanied by its original onthe facing page.
From a technical standpoint, wemay want a translation to take into considerationthe narrative of a text in order to describe events inthe narrative present (e.g.
choosing ?it is snowing?over ?it snows?).
However, defining the scope ofthe relevant narrative context is difficult and mayvary substantially from text to text.From the ethical perspective of the for-eign/domestic debate, deciding how much the nar-rative context needs to be explicated or alteredto be understandable in the translation is depen-dent on variables including the translator?s stanceon this issue, the author?s wishes (if the authoris living) and the publisher?s requirements.
Evenonce they have been determined, specifying suchpreferences precisely enough for a computationalmodel to follow is even harder.
For example,we could model a general preference for specifictranslations of nouns over more probable transla-tions (e.g.
?snowflakes?
instead of ?flakes?
), buttranslation rules are typically very noisy and anSMT system would likely be tempted by garbagetranslation rules (e.g.
in the Hansard system, ?flo-cons?
translates as ?cornflakes?
with higher prob-ability than ?snow?, ?flakes?, or ?snowflakes?).
Inshort, part of the human translator?s job is know-ing when to make exceptions to convention for thesake of the reader?s experience of the translatedtext, and the question of the exception is difficultfor the machine to account for.Even if the type and degree to which a textshould be domesticated could be accurately mod-eled, some types of free/fluent/flexible translationswill be easier for a machine to produce than oth-ers.
For example, idioms may be easy to inte-grate; if they are observed in training data, thena machine can easily produce them.
This, how-ever, requires in-domain training data, and domainis somewhat of a moving target in literature dueto extremely high variability.
In contrast to theease of memorizing static idioms, computationallychoosing correct, relevant, and appropriately spe-cific translations of individual nouns (e.g.
?porte?as ?gate?
instead of ?door?)
is difficult.We end our discussion on a note about visi-bility.
Introducing an SMT system into debatessurrounding literary translation by human transla-tors would seem to cause the translator to disap-pear entirely.
Indeed, according to Cronin (2012),?machine translation services would appear to ren-der invisible the labour of translation...?
How-ever, for Venuti, visibility is crucial to the ethicsof balancing domestication and foreignization tocreate non-ethnocentric translations in that it re-minds the reader to be attentive to the translationand to the translator as creative labourer.
As a levelof domestication is to be expected in fluent trans-lations, Venuti?s argument for visibility is also anargument for a disruption to the reader?s experi-ence that reinserts the distance of the foreignizingtranslation in a different way, suggesting that flu-ency, which hides the act of translation, might beethical under conditions of visibility.
Difficultiesencountered by an SMT system can constitute akind of visibility, because they expose problemsin the translation, which often come in the form ofdisfluencies.
However, these systems cannot con-sider translation in terms of domestication and for-eignization; the SMT objective is to use patternsobserved in training data example translations toproduce something that has the same meaning asthe source text and looks like the target language.There is a constant tradeoff between fluency andfaithfulness.
Although SMT can deal with fluency,it cannot handle ideas of domestic and foreign.Therefore, if we accept that domesticating and for-eignization is key to distinguishing visibility, thenthe relationship between visibility and invisibilityfor the human translator and the machine transla-tor must be different.
And this divergence, in turn,means that current approaches to SMT could notensure non-ethnocentric translations.100ReferencesSankaranarayanan Ananthakrishnan, Rohit Prasad, andPrem Natarajan.
2011.
On-line language model bi-asing for statistical machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of the Conference of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL).Antoine Berman.
1992.
The Experience of the For-eign: Culture and Translation in Romantic Ger-many.
State University of New York Press, NewYork.
Trans.
by S. Heyvaert.Y.
Bonnefoy, E. Grosholz, and F. Ostovani.
2012.
Be-ginning and End of the Snow / Debut Et Fin de laNeige: Followed by Where the Arrow Falls / Suivide La Ou Retombe la Fleche.
Rowman & LittlefieldPublishers, Incorporated.Yves Bonnefoy.
1968.
Selected poems.
Cape editions.Cape.A.
Camus and M. Ward.
1989.
The Stranger.
Every-man?s library.
Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group.A.
Camus.
1955.
L?e?tranger.
Appleton-Century-Crofts.Colin Cherry and George Foster.
2012.
Batch tuningstrategies for statistical machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (NAACL).Michael Cronin.
2012.
The Translation Age: Transla-tion, Technology, and the new Instrumentalism.
TheTranslation Studies Reader, Third Editions.
Rout-ledge, New York.George Foster and Roland Kuhn.
2007.
Mixture-model adaptation for smt.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation(WMT).George Foster, Cyril Goutte, and Roland Kuhn.
2010.Discriminative instance weighting for domain adap-tation in statistical machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing (EMNLP).Erica Greene, Tugba Bodrumlu, and Kevin Knight.2010.
Automatic analysis of rhythmic poetry withapplications to generation and translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).Justine Kao and Dan Jurafsky.
2012.
A computationalanalysis of style, affect, and imagery in contempo-rary poetry.
In NAACL Workshop on ComputationalLinguistics for Literature.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, AlexandraConstantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Opensource toolkit for statistical machine translation.
InProceedings of the Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL).T.
Lavergne, A. Allauzen, H. Le, and F. Yvon.2011.
LIMSI?s experiments in domain adapta-tion for IWSLT11.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Spoken Language Translation(IWSLT).Spyros Matsoukas, Antti-Veikko I. Rosti, and BingZhang.
2009.
Discriminative corpus weight estima-tion for machine translation.
In Proceedings of theConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing (EMNLP).Jan Niehues and Alex Waibel.
2010.
Domain adapta-tion in statistical machine translation using factoredtranslation models.
In Proceedings of the EuropeanAssociation for Machine Translation (EAMT).Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Comput.
Linguist., 29(1):19?51, March.Sravana Reddy and Kevin Knight.
2011.
Unsuper-vised discovery of rhyme schemes.
In Proceedingsof the Conference of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL).Antonio Roque.
2012.
Towards a computational ap-proach to literary text analysis.
In NAACL Workshopon Computational Linguistics for Literature.Fredreich Schleiermacher.
2012.
On different meth-ods of translating.
The Translation Studies Reader,Third Editions.
Routledge, New York.
Trans.
by Su-san Bernofsky.Jo?rg Tiedemann.
2010.
To cache or not to cache?experiments with adaptive models in statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings of the ACL Work-shop on Statistical Machine Translation and Metrics(MATR).Lawrence Venuti.
2008.
The Translator?s Invisibility:A History of Translation.
Routledge, New York.101
