Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities, pages 1?10,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGenerating Paths through Cultural Heritage CollectionsSamuel Fernando1, Paula Goodale2, Paul Clough2,Mark Stevenson1, Mark Hall2, Eneko Agirre31Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield2Information School, University of Sheffield3Computer Science Department, University of the Basque Country{s.fernando, p.goodale, p.d.clough,r.m.stevenson, m.mhall}@sheffield.ac.uke.agirre@ehu.esAbstractCultural heritage collections usually or-ganise sets of items into exhibitions orguided tours.
These items are oftenaccompanied by text that describes thetheme and topic of the exhibition and pro-vides background context and details ofconnections with other items.
The PATHSproject brings the idea of guided toursto digital library collections where a toolto create virtual paths are used to assistwith navigation and provide guides on par-ticular subjects and topics.
In this pa-per we characterise and analyse paths ofitems created by users of our online sys-tem.
The analysis highlights that mostusers spend time selecting items relevantto their chosen topic, but few users tooktime to add background information to thepaths.
In order to address this, we con-ducted preliminary investigations to testwhether Wikipedia can be used to au-tomatically add background text for se-quences of items.
In the future we wouldlike to explore the automatic creation offull paths.1 IntroductionPaths (or trails) have been studied as a means ofassisting users with the navigation of digital col-lections as an alternative to standard keyword-based search (Furuta et al 1997; Reich et al1999; Shipman et al 2000; White and Huang,2010).
Paths can be particularly useful to userswho are unfamilar with the content of digital col-lections (e.g.
historical documents) and may findit difficult to formulate appropriate queries (Wil-son et al 2010).
Paths can be used to assist userswith the navigation of collections through the pro-vision of narratives and subject guides.
From aneducational perspective paths can provide tangiblelearning objects, created by teachers and followedby students.
Alternatively from a cultural her-itage perspective paths can be used to create activ-ity trails and guided tours support exploration byvisitors through collections of cultural artefacts.This echoes the organised galleries and guidedtours found in physical museums.
The existanceof tools, such as Walden?s paths1, Trailmeme2 andStorify3, provide functionalities for users to recordand share paths through web resources and digitallibraries.
From this perspective everyone can takeon role of curator and provide access to their ownpersonal collections.We have developed an online system calledPATHS that allows curators and end-users to cre-ate and view paths to navigate through the Eu-ropeana4 cultural heriage collection.
As part ofevaluations of the prototype PATHS system par-ticipants have created paths on various topics.
Inthis paper we describe a number of these paths andtheir characteristics.
Analysing paths that are cre-ated manually and characterising them can be seenas a first step towards developing methods to sup-port the creation of paths automatically and semi-automatically.
Within the context of the PATHSproject this is being considered to deal with thefollowing limitations of manual creation of paths.Firstly, the effort required in generating them oftenmeans that a sufficient number of paths on a vari-ety of topics are not available.
Secondly, the man-ual creation of paths is a very time-consuming pro-cess that would benefit from computational sup-port in whatever form this might take.
This pa-per presents initial work in automatically creat-ing paths and provides the following novel con-1http://www.csdl.tamu.edu/walden/2http://open.xerox.com/Services/xerox-trails3http://storify.com/4http://www.europeana.eu/1tributions: (1) we present results of user stud-ies describing what people want from paths andhow they use them to navigate digital collections;(2) we analyse a set of manually-created pathsto identify their properties and be able to charac-terise them; and (3) we present work on automati-cally generating background text for sequences ofitems, thus providing an efficient way to enrichpaths with additional information with little man-ual input required.The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 de-scribes related work on the use of narratives in cul-tural heritage and previous approaches to automat-ically generate paths; Section 3 defines the prob-lem of generating paths and describes the datasetsused in the experiments; Section 4 presents analy-sis of manually-created paths; Section 5 shows re-sults of using automatic methods to generate back-ground text; and finally Section 6 concludes thepaper and provides avenues for further work.2 Related Work2.1 Narratives and Cultural HeritageThe potential of narrative in digital CH to sup-port learning, creativity and exploration is clear,providing opportunities for supporting a more ac-tive user interaction, including deeper engagementwith context, representation of the collecting pro-cess, and facilitation of a more entertaining expe-rience of learning (Mulholland and Collins, 2002).Walker et al(2013) also propose narrative as amajor element of interaction and informal learn-ing, suggesting that meaning is made when thelinks between people and artefacts, and interpreta-tion and ideas are surfaced, especially within so-cial groups.
Their experiments involve the useof mobile and handheld technologies in a physi-cal museum environment, capturing audio annota-tions, but have much in common with experimen-tal systems designed for path creation online.
In asimilar vein the StoryBank project utilises collec-tions of photographs and audio narratives to createand share stories as information in the developingworld (Frohlich and Rachovides, 2008).Whilst technologies have aided the creation andsharing of narratives in physical cultural encoun-ters, Manovich (1999) critiques the lack of narra-tive in digital cultural environments, offering thatonline collections and many CH web sites aredatabases with constantly changing content thatinevitably lack a cohesive and persistent story.However, since ?narrative is constructed by link-ing elements of this database in a particular or-der?
(Manovich, 1999), it is possible to offer usersany number of explicit ?trajectories?
(narratives)through a digital information space, and by merg-ing database and narrative in this way, creatinga more dynamic, discovery-led experience.
Thisview might be interpreted at its simplest level asa virtual representation of the guided tours rou-tinely offered in physical CH spaces, and indeedthere is a small strand of research into the creationof systems for generating and exploring online ex-hibitions and tours from items held within digitalcollections.
A scenario of users creating and edit-ing trails in a CH context is described by Walker(2006), including functionality for collecting, or-dering and annotating museum objects.2.2 Automatically Creating PathsGeneration of implicit trails through physical andvirtual museum spaces has been related to thelearning process (Peterson and Levene, 2003).
Inthis example, trails are automatically created byusers as they navigate their way through an infor-mation space, and may be used for individual orcollaborative purposes.
Research on the applica-tion of curated pathways in web environments hasoften focused on providing trails pre-prepared byexperts (e.g.
curators, educationalists) as a meansof assisting novice users to navigate informationonline (Shipman et al 2000).
Indeed, it has beenfound that domain knowledge or expertise canconsiderably enhance the quality of trails created(Yuan and White, 2012).
Automatic extractionand generation of trails in information spaces hasbeen explored as a means of harnessing the wis-dom of crowds, using the mass actions of earlieruser behaviour to establish relevance, and recom-mend content or navigation routes to later users.Such trails can be readily mined from search en-gine transaction logs and have been shown to pro-vide added value (White and Huang, 2010; Has-san and White, 2012; Liao et al 2012).
West andLeskovec (2012) take this notion a stage furtherand attempt to identify wayfinding strategies em-ployed by browsers in Wikipedia, with the goal ofassisting future users in their navigation by surfac-ing potentially useful hyperlinks.Guided tours or pathways are essentially morestructured, purposeful forms of trails, taking theuser through a specific sequence of information2nodes and may also be automatically generated,rather than manually curated as in the examplesabove.
Wheeldon and Levene (2003) offer an al-gorithm for generating trails from site-search, en-abling elements of structure and context to be in-corporated into the trails created in this way, butnoting potential scalability issues for web scalesearch tasks.
In the CH domain, a small num-ber of projects have attempted to automaticallygenerate digital content in the form of exhibi-tions, tours and trails.
Ma?kela?
et al(2007) de-scribe a system which utilises semantically an-notated content to generate personalised ?exhi-bitions?
from a structured narrative-based searchquery.
Similarly, Zdrahal et al(2008) demonstratehow pathways can be generated through a collec-tion of semantically related documents to providea means of exploration, using non-NLP cluster-ing and path creation techniques.
Sophisticatedapproaches such as linear programming and evo-lutionary algorithms have also been proposed forgenerating summaries and stories (McIntyre andLapata, 2010; Woodsend and Lapata, 2010).
Incontrast, Wang et al(2007) use a recommendersystem approach to generate museum tours onthe basis of ratings stored within a dynamic usermodel, and Pechenizkiy and Calders (2007) pro-pose the additional use of data mining techniqueson log data to improve this type of tour personali-sation.In summary, online tours and trails are madepossible either through manually curated contentgenerated through the efforts of experts or otherend users, or have been automatically generatedfrom the mining of large scale search logs, or fromcollections benefitting from semantically-linkedcontent and/or detailed user models.3 MethodologyThis study brings together work from several ar-eas of the PATHS project.
An analysis of whatpaths might be used for and what form they are ex-pected to take, has had implications for the systemdesign and functionality and evaluation measures.A user study focused upon evaluation of the firstprototype has provided manually-created paths asa basis for analysing path content and attributes,which in turn informs the desired characteristicsof automated paths and the algorithm designed forgenerating paths automatically.3.1 Utilisation of PathsInitial user requirements interviews with 22 ex-pert users in the heritage, education and profes-sional domains found a strong affinity with thepath metaphor, revealing a range of different in-terpretations of what it means in the CH contextand how they could be employed in an online en-vironment to engage with key audiences.
Eightinterpretations of the path metaphor emerged:1.
Path as search history2.
Path as information seeking journey3.
Path as linked metadata4.
Path as a starting point or way in5.
Path as a route through6.
Path as augmented reality7.
Path as information literacy journey / learn-ing process8.
Path as transaction processThe first three of these are closest to the ideaof hypertext trails, with trails defined by user in-teraction in 1 and 2, and trails defined automati-cally, by the system in 3.
Variations 4-6 are morecreative interpretations, all suggesting opportuni-ties for guiding the user into and through collec-tions, encouraging exploration and/or offering animmersive experience, conducive with our initialvision for the PATHS system.In addition to expert-defined routes, 5 also in-corporates the idea of users being able to see andfollow ?well-trodden path?
defined by the cumula-tive interactions of other users, thus extending theopportunities for utilizing search histories.
Con-versely, 7 and 8 are both process oriented, al-though 7 is experiential, user-defined, learning-oriented, typified by trial and error and unique tothe individual, whilst 8 is a rigid process designedto escort all users consistently through a standardprocess of pre-defined steps.A strong emphasis was placed on path contentbeing carefully selected or ?curated?
by the path-creator, with the addition of context and interpre-tation so that the objects within the path conveya narrative or meaning.
Content may be derivedfrom one collection, but there were seen to be sig-nificant benefits from including objects from di-verse collections, along with other materials fromexternal web sites.Paths facilitate topic-based information re-trieval typified by the berry-picking mode of in-teraction (Bates, 1989), rather than known itemsearching.
Furthermore, paths may be a useful tool3for personal information management in both for-mal and informal research scenarios, enabling theuser to record, reuse and share their research activ-ity, or helping them to organize their ideas.
Cre-ativity is also encouraged, as user-generated pathsprovide the means to repurpose CH objects intousers?
own narratives for private or public con-sumption.A summary of specific user scenarios high-lighted by participants is given below:?
Teachers/lecturers presentations and class-room activities?
Museum personnel curating collections, giv-ing an overview, or covering a topic in depth?
Leisure users browsing, collecting interest-ing and/or visually appealing content?
Researchers to aid image-based research,sharing and discussing findings with fellowresearchers and supervisors?
Non-academic specialists (e.g.
local histori-ans) collecting and sharing items of interestwith other enthusiasts3.2 Defining the ProblemTo create a path or narrative that guides a userthrough a set of items from a collection, whetheras a manual process or automatically, there arethree main activities: (1) the selection of items toinclude in the path; (2) the arrangement of itemsto form a path or narrative and (3) the annota-tion of the path to with descriptive text and back-ground information.
We envision techniques toautomate the entire process; however, a first step isto analyse existing manually-created paths to iden-tify their characteristics and inform the automaticcreation of similar structures.3.3 User StudyThe manually generated paths used for this studywere created as part of a more detailed user studyto evaluate the first prototype, conducted usinga protocol informed by the Interactive IR eval-uation framework (Borlund, 2003).
Twenty-twousers, including subject experts, students and gen-eral users (subject novices), each completed a 2-hour session, during which they participated in thefollowing activities:?
Profile questionnaire and cognitive style test?
Familiarisation with the system?
4x short information seeking tasks (5 minuteseach)?
1x long simulated work task - path creation(30 minutes)?
Task feedback questionnaire?
Session/system feedback questionnaire?
Think-after interview based upon the com-plex taskOf most interest here is the simulated work task,with associated observations, feedback and reflec-tions.
This task focused on the creation of a path,using a scenario adapted to the type of user.
Free-dom was given in choosing a subject for the path,and limited instructions were provided in whatmight be needed to complete the task, for exam-ple:?Imagine you are a student who has been askedto create a path as part of a university assignment.You have been asked to use primary source ma-terials to create a mini online exhibition suitablefor a target group within the general public and/orschool visitor categories.
Your goal is to introducea historical or art-focussed topic in a popular, ac-cessible way, and to encourage further use and ex-ploration of cultural heritage resources.
?Data on the tasks was captured via log files, aswell as screen recording and observations usingthe Morae usability software.
Detailed analysiswas undertaken of user behaviour in the process ofcompleting the task, and of the paths created, fromboth quantitative and qualitative perspectives.4 Analysing Manually-created PathsIn this section we describe the results of analysingthe 22 paths created manually in the PATHS pro-totype system.4.1 User behaviourOn average users spend 25.3 mins on creating apath (min=11.7; max=33.6) with an average of201 mouse clicks (min=53; max=380).
From theobservations, it was noted that some participantsspent quite a lot of time thinking about the taskand pondering their next move, whilst others en-gaged in more rapid fire activity in the face ofuncertainty.
Analysis of the screen recordingsshowed a variety of primary interaction styles forthis task, with a fairly even split between serialsearching (33%) and serial browsing (39%), as thetwo most popular strategies.
Serial searching in-volves repetitive search and reformulation, withonly a page or two of search results viewed beforesearching again, and serial browsing involves very4few searches, with large numbers of search re-sults pages viewed (over 50 pages in some cases).These are then in effect, polar opposites of interac-tion.
Only 6% engaged primarily in exploring be-haviour (using the explore and similar items con-tent), and 22% of participants occupied the middleground, utilising a mix of search, browse and ex-plore, with no strong preference for any one style.4.2 Properties of pathsThe mean number of items in a path was 10.7 (stddev=6.7 items) with a minimum of 5 items andmaximum of 29 items.
Most popular bin is 6-10 items in a path (59%).
We found 85% of theitems included in the paths included an image withthe metadata.
The paths created were manuallycategorised by theme to ascertain whether thereare any distinct preferences for the subject mat-ter of content included.
The most popular cate-gories were paths about places (23%), art subjects(23%) and history subjects (32%).
These themesare likely to have been influenced at least partlyby what content is currently available in our col-lection, although the amount of art-related contentis much less than for history, and also appear tohave been influenced by the topics covered in ex-isting paths in the system (e.g.
places, topics re-lated to the world wars).
There were, however asignificant number of expert users who attemptedto build paths related to their own research inter-ests, with varying degrees of success.4.3 Descriptions and orderingOnce items have been selected and they have beentransferred in the path creation workspace, usershave the opportunity to modify and enhance theirpath with a number of tools for adding content andmetadata, and for re-ordering the content.
On cre-ating the path, most users immediately went to themetadata fields and added information for the pathdescription and duration fields, as well as a num-ber of tags (or keywords).
A short 1-2 line de-scription of the path appears to be the norm andwas added in 91% of cases.
Tags were added by82% of users and a duration by only 46% of users.It is clear from further investigation that the tagswere added incorrectly (without commas betweenthem) by a significant number of users and a tipfor successful use is required.The items within a path can be annotated withthe user?s own contextual information, and can bere-ordered into a more meaningful sequence, suchas a chronological or narrative sequence.
Thesemore advanced features were used by significantlyfewer users, which could indicate a learning issue,a lack of need, or a time constraint.
On reviewingthe paths created by our evaluation participants itis found that in 41% of cases, contextual informa-tion was not added to any items in the path.
Thereare however 32% in which annotations were addedto all items (generally these were shorter pathswith fewer items), and a further 27% where anno-tations were added to some or most of the items.In 72% of cases the items in the paths createdwere re-ordered to some degree, with 17% spend-ing a considerable amount of time on this activity.This finding is encouraging, as the default is foritems to be included in the path in the order theywere saved to the workspace, and re-ordering in-dicates that users are thinking about their path as awhole and trying to make sense of the informationit is intended to convey.
Typical types of orderingincluded chronology (32%), narrative (23%), ge-ography (for example, a walking tour - 9%), theme(9%) and ?interestingness?
(5%).5 Enriching paths with backgroundinformationThis section describes preliminary work on thetask of semi-automated path creation.
In par-ticular we describe efforts to enrich paths withbackground contextual information using relevantWikipedia articles.
The related work describedin Section 2.2 shows that there have been previ-ous efforts to automatically select cultural heritageitems to form paths, trails and exhibitions.
How-ever to our knowledge no significant effort hasbeen made to automatically annotate such pathswith descriptive or contextual information.
Theinterviews described in Section 3.1 highlightedthe importance CH experts placed on having ad-ditional information to give context for the itemsin the path.
It was also noted during the manualpath-creation exercise (Section 4.3) that a signif-icant number of the users did not add any suchinformation to the path.
The reasons for this areunclear, but nevertheless there seems to be suffi-cient motivation to devise automatic methods forthis task.
Although the methods have previouslybeen well established in other tasks5 , we believe5INEX Tweet Contextualization Track (https://inex.mmci.uni-saarland.de/tracks/qa/)and Link-the-wiki Track (http://www.inex.otago.ac.nz/tracks/wiki-link/wiki-link.asp)5this is the first time they have been applied for thetask of annotating sequences of items in this way.5.1 MethodManually generated paths contain sequences ofitems selected from Europeana on some topic ortheme.
Creators provide their own title, subjectkeywords and description for the path.
To aidcreation of paths we explore whether backgroundinformation could be generated automatically forsuch paths.
An approach is presented here whichshows promise as a potential way to achieve thistask.
The input for this approach is a sequence ofitems and a key Wikipedia article which describesthe overall topic of the path.
The output comprisessentences taken from a relevant Wikipedia article.The aim is for this output to provide useful andinteresting additional background information re-lated to the items and theme of the path.
In thispaper experiments are focussed on how to selectgood quality text to present as additional informa-tion for the path.
For this reason the key Wikipediaarticle is manually chosen, and the task is to find agood approach for selecting the most relevant sen-tences from this key article for the text.Two methods are tested in this paper.
The firstmethod simply takes the first n sentences of thearticle and outputs this.
Since Wikipedia articlesare always structured to have a summary of thearticle in the first paragraph we can expect this textto perform well as a summary of the path topic.The second method is more advanced and at-tempts to find text in the article that is relevant tothe actual items that have been chosen for the path.This approach uses the Wikipedia Miner software(Milne and Witten, 2008) to add inline links tothe text in the items for this approach.
This soft-ware disambiguates terms in the text and then de-tects links using various features such as the com-monness of the term, the overall relatedness of theterms in the text and so on.
The result is text en-riched with inline links to relevant Wikipedia arti-cles.
Each link also has an associated confidencevalue which indicates how sure the software is thatthe link is correctly disambiguated and relevant tothe text.The approach works as follows for a sequenceof items S and a key article K. First WikipediaMiner is run over the items in S. The text input toWikipedia Miner comprises the title, subject anddescription fields of each item.
The output is a setof article titles W comprising the titles of all thelinked articles which were found in the text fieldsof S. For each title in W we also have the associ-ated confidence value for the link as calculated byWikipedia Miner.
The next step is to select fromK the most relevant sentences to output as the gen-erated text.
For each sentence in K a score is as-signed if any of the words in the sentence matchone of the titles in W .
The score is then simply thesum of the confidence values associated with thesetitles.
The top scoring sentences are then output asthe background text.
This method can be consid-ered to be a kind of query based summarisation(Jurafsky and Martin, 2008).5.2 ResultsThe automatic approaches for generating back-ground text were run over the items in the 22 man-ually created paths described in the previous sec-tion.
To ensure a fair test the user-added text waswas discarded and only the original Europeanametadata for the items was used as source for themethods.For each path a single key Wikipedia article wasmanually found which best captured the overalltheme or topic of the path.
For all paths at leastone reasonably good article was found, althoughfor some paths the articles were better matches forthe path topic than for others.
Some examples areshown in Table 1.With the input ready, the approaches describedwere run over the items and key articles to gener-ate the additional text.
This was limited to 3 sen-tences to provide a short but useful piece of textfor viewers of the paths.
For example one pathwas entitled ?Bronze Age metallurgy?.
The userprovided description was as follows:Bronze Age metalsmiths produce a variety ofobjects, however, we learn as much from the tools,leftover debris and the way in which objects weredeposited as we do from the finished objects them-selves.The key article chosen for the path was ?BronzeAge?.
The items in the path included various ar-tifacts and working debris from the Bronze Age.For the first approach the output is the first 3 sen-tences from this article:The Bronze Age is a period characterized bythe use of copper and its alloy bronze as the chiefhard materials in the manufacture of some imple-ments and weapons.
Chronologically, it stands be-6Path title Key Wikipedia articleCanals in England Canals of the United KingdomA brief history of Sheffield History of SheffieldArt and Criticism of John Ruskin John RuskinEarly medieval features in EnglishParish ChurchesArchitecture of the medieval cathedralsof EnglandBrooches through the ages BroochTable 1: Key articles for pathstween the Stone Age and Iron Age.
The term StoneAge implies the inability to smelt any ore, the termBronze Age implies the inability to smelt iron oreand the term Iron Age implies the ability to man-ufacture artifacts in any of the three types of hardmaterial.For the second approach the top 3 highest scor-ing sentences were output:A region could be in the Bronze Age either bysmelting its own copper and alloying with tin orby trading for bronze from production areas else-where.
The Bronze Age in Ireland commencedaround 2000 BC, when copper was alloyed withtin and used to manufacture Ballybeg type flat axesand associated metalwork.
The Bronze Age is aperiod characterized by the use of copper and itsalloy bronze as the chief hard materials in themanufacture of some implements and weapons.These sentences scored most highly since theycontained the most high-confidence terms fromthe items, for example terms such as ?copper?, ?al-loy?
and ?Bronze Age?.5.3 EvaluationTo evaluate the two approaches, 5 annotators werepresented with the paths and the text and asked torate each path on 3 dimensions:?
The relevance of the text to the theme anditems of the path.
Text which relates stronglyto the path is scored highly while off-topic orirrelevant text is given a low score.?
The coherence or quality of the text itself.Text which appears well-written and well-structured is scored highly, while poorly writ-ten or incoherent text is given a low score.?
The contextualisation of the text in relationto the path.
To achieve a high score thetext should offer useful or interesting addi-tional information which is not found else-where within the content, i.e.
the text helpsto provide a context for items in the path.Annotators were asked to grade from A (verygood) to E (very poor) on each dimension.
Theresults are shown in Figure 1.
The results forthe first 3 sentences are shown as First3 and forthe weighted approach as Weighted.
For each di-mension, the distribution of judgements across thepaths is shown.
The First3 approach was foundto be superior in every dimension.
For relevancescores 90% of the scores were either A or B com-pared to 63% for the Weighted approach.
Sim-ilarly for the coherence judgements 97% were Aor B compared to 62% for the weighted approach.The reason for this superior performance seems tobe that the first few sentences of Wikipedia arti-cles are deliberately created to give a short sum-mary introduction of the topic of the article.
Thisexplains the high scores for relevance and coher-ence.Both approaches scored lower on the contex-tualisation dimension, with First3 getting 67%A or B grades and the Weighted approach get-ting 43%.
There may be several reasons for this.Firstly one problem is that the auto-generated textsometimes repeats information that is already inthe path and item descriptions; thus the text failsto meet the requirement of ?useful additional in-formation?.
Secondly the text is sometimes quitegeneral and vague, rather than focussing on spe-cific details which might be most relevant to theitems chosen for the path.To measure the agreement among the annotatorsthe following approach was used.
First the scoreswere converted to numeric values; A to 1, B to 2and so on.
Then the scores for each annotator werecompared to the average of the scores of all theother annotators.
The correlation was computingusing Spearman?s correlation coefficient.
Thesescores were then averaged amongst all annotatorsto give a final agreement value.
The results areshown in Table 2.7Figure 1: Comparing the results of the two methods.First3 WeightedRelevance 0.57 0.57Coherence 0.28 0.56Contextualisation 0.56 0.78Table 2: Agreement amongst annotators.For both approaches there was good agreementon the Relevance dimension.
For the Coherencedimension the First3 approach got quite a lowscore.
This may be because one annotator gavelower scores for all paths, while the others all gaveconsistently high scores, which seems to haveskewed the correlation co-efficient.
For the con-textualisation dimension the correlation scores forhigh for both approaches, and the Weighted ap-proach in particular achieved a very high agree-ment value.6 ConclusionsThis paper presented results of interviews aboutcreating paths through cultural heritage collec-tions.
These results inform us on how peoplewant to navigate through cultural heritage collec-tions using the path metaphor, how they wish tomake use of paths for their work and education,and what information and qualities they considerit important for a path to contain.
The paper alsopresents results from studies using the PATHS pro-totype software where users were able to searchand explore a large digital library collection andcreate their own paths of items from the collectionon topics of their interest.From the interviews it was clear that the expertsconsidered it important that the paths contain ad-ditional information to convey contextual informa-tion to understand the meaning of the items in thepath.
The results from the user studies showed thatthis need was not being met in a significant num-ber of cases; users were putting items together ona topic but adding little or no descriptive text aboutthe topic and the items in the path.
Therefore weidentified this as a key task which might benefitfrom automatic methods.
The simpler approachwhich output the first n sentences from the keyWikipedia article was found to generate the bestresults.
The resulting generated text was found tobe relevant and coherent.
In most cases the textwas also found to add useful context about thetopic.Future work will further refine the text genera-tion approach.
The approach depends on success-fully identifying a good key article for each path.In these experiments the key article was manuallychosen, however we are devising methods to se-lect this article automatically.
To correct the prob-lem with repeated information a filtering approachcould eliminate information that is already con-tained within the paths.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results was car-ried out as part of the PATHS project (http://paths-project.eu) funded by the Eu-ropean Community?s Seventh Framework Pro-gramme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreementno.
270082.ReferencesMarcia J Bates.
1989.
The design of browsing andberrypicking techniques for the online search inter-8face.
Online Information Review.Pia Borlund.
2003.
The IIR evaluation model: aframework for evaluation of interactive informationretrieval systems.
Information research, 8(3).David M Frohlich and Dorothy Rachovides.
2008.
Us-ing digital stories for local and global informationsharing.
In Community and International Develop-ment, CHI 2008 Workshop.R.
Furuta, F.. Shipman, C. Marshall, D. Brenner, andH.
Hsieh.
1997.
Hypertext paths and the World-Wide Web: experiences with Walden?s Paths.
InProceedings of the eighth ACM conference on Hy-pertext, pages 167?176, New York, NY.Ahmed Hassan and Ryen W White.
2012.
Task tours:helping users tackle complex search tasks.
In Pro-ceedings of the 21st ACM international conferenceon Information and knowledge management, pages1885?1889.
ACM.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2008.
Speechand Language Processing (2nd Edition) (PrenticeHall Series in Artificial Intelligence).
Prentice Hall.Zhen Liao, Yang Song, Li-wei He, and Yalou Huang.2012.
Evaluating the effectiveness of search tasktrails.
In Proceedings of the 21st international con-ference on World Wide Web, pages 489?498.
ACM.Eetu Ma?kela?, Osma Suominen, and Eero Hyvo?nen.2007.
Automatic exhibition generation based onsemantic cultural content.
In Proc.
of the CulturalHeritage on the Semantic Web Workshop at ISWC+ASWC, volume 2007.Lev Manovich.
1999.
Database as symbolic form.Convergence: The International Journal of Re-search into New Media Technologies, 5(2):80?99.Neil McIntyre and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Plot induc-tion and evolutionary search for story generation.
InProceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 1562?1572.
Association for Computational Linguistics.D.
Milne and I.H.
Witten.
2008.
Learning to link withwikipedia.
In Proceeding of the 17th ACM confer-ence on Information and knowledge management,pages 509?518.
ACM.Paul Mulholland and Trevor Collins.
2002.
Using dig-ital narratives to support the collaborative learningand exploration of cultural heritage.
In Databaseand Expert Systems Applications, 2002.
Proceed-ings.
13th International Workshop on, pages 527?531.
IEEE.Mykola Pechenizkiy and Toon Calders.
2007.
Aframework for guiding the museum tours person-alization.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Per-sonalised Access to Cultural Heritage (PATCH07),pages 11?28.Don Peterson and Mark Levene.
2003.
Trail recordsand navigational learning.
London review of Educa-tion, 1(3):207?216.S.
Reich, L. Carr, D. De Roure, and W. Hall.
1999.Where have you been from here?
Trails in hypertextsystems.
ACM Computing Surveys, 31.Frank M Shipman, Richard Furuta, Donald Brenner,Chung-Chi Chung, and Hao-wei Hsieh.
2000.Guided paths through web-based collections: De-sign, experiences, and adaptations.
Journal ofthe American Society for Information Science,51(3):260?272.K.
Walker, A.
Main, and Fass.
J.
2013.
User-Generated Trails in Third Places.
In HCI-3P Work-shop on Human Computer Interaction for ThirdPlaces at Computer Human Interaction 2013.Kevin Walker.
2006.
Story structures.
building nar-rative trails in museums.
In Technology-MediatedNarrative Environments for Learning, pages 103?114.
Sense Publishers.Yiwen Wang, Lora M Aroyo, Natalia Stash, and LloydRutledge.
2007.
Interactive user modeling for per-sonalized access to museum collections: The ri-jksmuseum case study.
In User Modeling 2007,pages 385?389.
Springer.Robert West and Jure Leskovec.
2012.
Humanwayfinding in information networks.
In Proceed-ings of the 21st international conference on WorldWide Web, pages 619?628.
ACM.Richard Wheeldon and Mark Levene.
2003.
The besttrail algorithm for assisted navigation of web sites.In Web Congress, 2003.
Proceedings.
First LatinAmerican, pages 166?178.
IEEE.Ryen W White and Jeff Huang.
2010.
Assessing thescenic route: measuring the value of search trails inweb logs.
In Proceedings of the 33rd internationalACM SIGIR conference on Research and develop-ment in information retrieval, pages 587?594.
ACM.M.
Wilson, Kulesm B., M. Schraefel, and B. Schnei-derman.
2010.
From keyword search to explo-ration: Designing future search interfaces for theweb.
Foundations and Trends in Web Science,2(1):1?97.Kristian Woodsend and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Auto-matic generation of story highlights.
In Proceedingsof the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 565?574.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Xiaojun Yuan and Ryen White.
2012.
Building thetrail best traveled: effects of domain knowledge onweb search trailblazing.
In Proceedings of the 2012ACM annual conference on Human Factors in Com-puting Systems, pages 1795?1804.
ACM.9Zdenek Zdrahal, Paul Mulholland, and Trevor Collins.2008.
Exploring pathways across stories.
In Proc.of International Conference on Distributed Human-Machine Systems.10
