Proceedings of the The 1st Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 29?37,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvent representation across genreLidia Pivovarova, Silja Huttunen and Roman YangarberUniversity of HelsinkiFinlandAbstractThis paper describes an approach for investi-gating the representation of events and theirdistribution in a corpus.
We collect andanalyze statistics about subject-verb-objecttriplets and their content, which helps us com-pare corpora belonging to the same domainbut to different genre/text type.
We argue thatevent structure is strongly related to the genreof the corpus, and propose statistical proper-ties that are able to capture these genre differ-ences.
The results obtained can be used for theimprovement of Information Extraction.1 IntroductionThe focus of this paper is collecting data aboutcertain characteristics of events found in text, inorder to improve the performance of an Infor-mation Extraction (IE) system.
IE is a tech-nology used for locating and extracting specificpieces of information?or ?facts?
?from unstruc-tured natural-language text, by transforming thefacts into abstract, structured objects, called events.In IE we assume that events represent real-worldfacts and the main objective is to extract them fromplain text; the nature of the events themselves rarelyreceives in-depth attention in current research.Events may have various relationships to real-world facts, and different sources may have contra-dictory views on the facts, (Saur??
and Pustejovsky,2012).
Similarly to many other linguistic units, anevent is a combination of meaning and form; thestructure and content of an event is influenced byboth the structure of the corresponding real-worldfact and by the properties of the surrounding text.We use the notion of scenario to denote a setof structured events of interest in a real-world do-main: e.g., the MUC Management Succession sce-nario, (Grishman and Sundheim, 1996), within thebroader Business domain.The representation and the structure of events intext depends on the scenario.
For example, Huttunenet al(2002a; Huttunen et al(2002b) points out that?classic?
MUC scenarios, such as Management Suc-cession or Terrorist Attacks, describe events that oc-cur in a specific point in time, whereas other sce-narios like Natural Disaster or Disease Outbreakdescribe processes that are spread out across timeand space.
As a consequence, events in the latter,?nature?-related scenarios are more complex, mayhave a hierarchical structure, and may overlap witheach other in text.
Linguistic cues that have beenproposed in Huttunen et al(2002a) to identify theoverlapping or partial events include specific lexicalitems, locative and temporal expressions, and usageof ellipsis and anaphora.Grishman (2012) has emphasized that for fullyunsupervised event extraction, extensive linguisticanalysis is essential; such analysis should be ableto capture ?modifiers on entities, including quan-tity and measure phrases and locatives; modifiers onpredicates, including negation, aspect, quantity, andtemporal information; and higher-order predicates,including sequence and causal relations and verbs ofbelief and reporting.?
It is clear that such sophisti-cated linguistic analysis increases the importance oftext style and genre for Information Extraction.29The idea of statistical comparison between texttypes goes back at least as far as (Biber, 1991).
Itwas subsequently used in a number of papers on au-tomatic text categorization (Kessler et al 1997; Sta-matatos et al 2000; Petrenz and Webber, 2011).Szarvas et al(2012) studied the linguistic cuesindicating uncertainty of events in three genres:news, scientific papers and Wikipedia articles.
Theydemonstrate significant differences in lexical usageacross the genres; for example, such words as fearor worry may appear relatively often in news andWikipedia, but almost never in scientific text.
Theyalso investigate differences in syntactic cues: forexample, the relation between a proposition and areal-word fact is more likely to be expressed in thepassive voice in scientific papers (it is expected),whereas in news the same words are more likely ap-pear in the active.Because events are not only representations offacts but also linguistic units, an investigation ofevents should take into account the particular lan-guage, genre, scenario and medium of the text?i.e.,events should be studied in the context of a particu-lar corpus.
Hence, the next question is how corpus-driven study of events should be organized in prac-tice, or, more concretely, what particular statisticsare needed to capture the scenario-specific charac-teristics of event representation in a particular cor-pus, and what kind of markup is necessary to solvethis task.
We believe that answers to these questionswill likely depend on the ultimate goals of event de-tection.
We investigate IE in the business domain?thus, we believe that preliminary study of the corpusshould use exactly the same depth of linguistic anal-ysis as would be later utilized by the IE system.2 Problem Statement2.1 Events in the Business domainWe investigate event structure in the context ofPULS,1 an IE System, that discovers, aggregates,verifies and visualizes events in various scenarios.This paper focuses on the Business domain, in whichscenarios include investments, contracts, layoffs andother business-related events, which are collected ina database to be used for decision support.
In theBusiness domain, PULS currently handles two types1More information is available at: http://puls.cs.helsinki.fiFigure 1: Distributions of document length in the newsand business analysts?
reports corporaof documents: news reports and short summarieswritten by professional business analysts.
Thus,events extracted from both corpora relate to approx-imately the same real-world facts.Both corpora are in English (though some of theanalysts?
reports are based on news articles writtenin other languages).
We collected a corpus of re-ports containing 740 thousand documents over threeyears 2010-2012, and a news corpus containing 240thousand documents over the same period.The two corpora demonstrate significant linguis-tic differences.
First, the documents have differentlength: the average length of an analyst reports is 5.5sentences including the title, and 80% of the docu-ments have length between 4 and 7 sentences, (seeFigure 1).
News articles are on average 19 sentenceslong?and much more varied in length.The topical structure is also quite different for thetwo corpora.
Each analyst report is most typicallydedicated to a particular single real-world event.Also, the reports tend to have a standardized, formu-laic structure.
The analysts who generate these re-ports tend to follow a specific, strict style and struc-ture over time.By contrast, documents in the news corpus aremuch more heterogeneous.
These texts can followa wide variety of different styles?short messages,surveys, interviews, etc.
News documents can focusnot only strictly on business events but on relatedtopics as well.
For example, political events havecomplex interaction with and impact on business ac-30tivity, and therefore political news frequently appearin business news feeds.PULS aims to use the same processing chain forvarious types of input documents.
One key goal ofthe current work is to investigate whether differentIE processing approaches are needed for documentsbelonging to different text types, as exemplified byanalyst reports vs. articles from news feeds.To summarize, the goals of the present work are:?
investigate how text genre influences event rep-resentation;?
find formal markers able to capture and mea-sure the differences in corpus style/genre;?
propose a methodology for adaptating an IEsystem to a different text genre.2.2 System DescriptionIn this section we describe how the IE system is usedin a ?pattern-mining mode,?
to address the afore-mentioned problems.PULS is a pipeline of components, including:a shallow parser/chunker; domain ontologies andlexicons; low-level patterns for capturing domain-specific entities and other semantic units, such asdates and currency expressions; higher-level pat-terns for capturing domain-specific relations andevents; inference rules, which combine fragments ofan event that may be scattered in text?that a patternmay not have picked up in the immediate context(e.g., the date of the event); reference resolution formerging co-referring entities and events.The ontology and the lexicon for the Business do-main encode the taxonomic relations and supportmerging of synonyms: e.g., the ontology stores theinformation that cellphone and mobile phone aresynonymous, and that a super-concept for both isPRODUCT.Low-level patterns are used to extract entitiesfrom text, such as company names, dates, and lo-cations.
On a slightly higher level, there are pat-terns that match contexts such as range (collection,line, etc.)
of X and assign them the type of X. Forinstance, the phrase a collection of watches wouldbe assigned semantic type watch, etc.
The top-levelpatterns in all IE scenarios are responsible for find-ing the target events in text.In the pattern-mining mode we use the gen-eral pattern SUBJECT?VERB?OBJECT, where thecomponents may have any semantic type and areconstrained only by their deep syntactic function?the system attempts to normalize many syntacticvariants of the basic, active form: including passiveclauses, relative clauses, etc.2The idea of using very simple, local patternsfor obtaining information from large corpora inthe context of event extraction is similar to workreported previously, e.g., the bootstrapping ap-proaches in (Thelen and Riloff, 2002; Yangarber etal., 2000; Riloff and Shepherd, 1997).
Here, wedo not use iterative learning, and focus instead oncollecting and analyzing interesting statistics froma large number of S-V-O patterns.
We collectedall such ?generalized?
S-V-O triplets from the cor-pus and stored them in a database.
In addition tothe noun groups, we save the head nouns and theirsemantic classes.
This makes it easy to use sim-ple SQL queries to count instances of a particularpattern, e.g., all objects of a particular verb, or allactions that can be applied to an object of seman-tic class ?PRODUCT.?
For each triplet the databasestores a pointer the original sentence, making it pos-sible to analyze specific examples in their context.In the next two sections we present the statis-tics that we collected using the pattern-miningmode.
This information reflects significant differ-ences among the corpora genres and can be used tomeasure variety of genre.
We believe that in the fu-ture such data analysis will support the adaptation ofPULS to new text genres.3 Statistical Properties of the Corpora3.1 Personal pronounsPronouns play a key role in anaphoric relations; themore pronouns are present in the corpus, the morecrucial anaphora resolution becomes.
Analysis ofrelationships between frequencies of personal pro-nouns in text and the genre of the text is not new;it has been observed and studied extensively, going2By normalization of syntactic variants we mean, for in-stance, that clauses like ?Nokia releases a new cellphone?
(ac-tive), ?a new cellphone is released by Nokia?
(passive), ?a newcellphone, released by Nokia,...?
(relative), etc., are all reducedto the same S-V-O form.31Reports NewsPronoun Object Subject Object SubjectI/me 0.003 0.007 0.2 1.0we/us 0.001 0.001 0.4 1.7you 0.002 0.003 0.3 0.8he/him 0.05 0.4 0.6 2.2she/her 0.007 0.05 0.1 0.5they/them 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.3it 1.1 2.6 1.5 2.3Total 1.5 3.6 4.0 9.8Table 1: Personal pronouns appearing in the subject orobject position in the corpora.
The numerical values areproportions of the total number of verbs.back as far as, e.g., (Karlgren and Cutting, 1994).The analysis of pronoun distribution in our corporais presented in Table 1, which shows the proportionsof personal pronouns, as they appear in subject orobject position with verbs in the collected triples.The numbers are relative to the count of all verb to-kens in the corpus, i.e., the total number of the S?V?O triplets extracted from the corpus.
The total num-ber of triplets is approximately 5.7M in the reportcorpus and 11M in the news corpus.It can be seen from Table 1 that personal pro-nouns are much more rare in the report corpus thanin the news corpus.
Only 1.5% of verbs in the re-ports corpus have a pronoun as an object, and 3.6%as a subject.
By contrast, in the news corpus 4%of verbs have a personal pronoun as an object, and9.8% as a subject.
This corresponds to the observa-tion in (Szarvas et al 2012), that ?impersonal con-structions are hardly used in news media.
?It is interesting to note the distribution of the par-ticular pronouns in the two corpora.
Table 1 showsthat it is the most frequent pronoun, they and he areless frequent; the remaining pronouns are much lessfrequent in the report corpus, whereas in the newsthe remaining personal pronouns have a much moreeven distribution.
This clearly reflects a more re-laxed style of the news that may use rhetorical de-vices more freely, including citing direct speech anduse a direct addressing the reader (you).
It is alsointeresting to note that in the third-person singular,the feminine pronoun is starkly more rare in bothcorpora than the masculine, but roughly twice morerare among the analyst reports.Reports NewsSubject Object Subject ObjectAll 21.8 6.6 14.6 6.5Business 27.1 8.1 20.1 9.5Table 2: Distribution of proper names as subjects and ob-jects, as a proportion the total number of all verbs (toprow) vs. business-related verbs (bottom row).3.2 Proper NamesProper names play a crucial role in co-reference res-olution, by designating anaphoric relations in text,similarly to pronouns.
In the Business domain, e.g.,a common noun phrase (NP) may co-refer with aproper name, as ?the company?
may refer to thename of a particular firm.
A correctly extractedevent can be much less useful for the end-user if itdoes not contain the specific name of the companyinvolved in the event.A verbs is often the key element of a pattern thatindicates to the IE system the presence of an eventof interest in the text.
When the subject or ob-ject of the verb is a common NP, the correspondingproper name must be found in the surrounding con-text, using reference resolution or domain-specificinference rules.
Since reference resolution is itselfa phase that contributes some amount of error tothe overall IE process, it is natural to expect that ifproper-name subjects and objects are more frequentin the corpus, then the analysis can be more precise,since all necessary information can be extracted bypattern without the need for additional extra infer-ence.
Huttunen et al(2012) suggests that the com-pactness of the event representation may be used asone of the discourse cues that determine the eventrelevance.Table 2 shows the percentage of proper name ob-jects and subjects for the two corpora.
Proper-nameobjects have comparable frequency in both corpora,though proper-name subjects appear much more fre-quently in analyst reports than in news.
Further-more, for the business verbs, introduced below insection 4.1?i.e., the specific set of verbs that areused in event patterns in the Business scenarios?asseen in the second row of the table?proper-nameobjects and subjects are more frequent still.
Thissuggests that business events tend to mention propernames.32Percentage of business verbsCorpus Total Title 1st sentenceReports 49.5 7.6 13.8News 31.8 0.6 1.1Table 3: Business verbs in analyst reports and news cor-pora, as a proportion of the total number of verbs.4 Business Verbs4.1 Distribution of Business verbsThe set of business-related verbs is an important partof the system?s domain-specific lexicon for the Busi-ness domain.
These verbs are quite diverse: someare strongly associated with the Business domain,e.g., invest; some are more general, e.g., pay, make;many are ambiguous, e.g., launch, fire.
Inside ana-lyst reports these verbs always function as markersof certain business events or relations.
The verbsare the key elements of the top-level patterns and itis especially crucial to investigate their usage in thecorpora to understand how the pattern base shouldbe fine-tune for the task.Since the majority of these verbs fall in the am-biguous category, none of these verbs can by them-selves serve a sufficient indicator of the document?stopic.
Even the more clear-cut business verbs, suchas invest, can be used metaphorically in the non-business context.
However, their distribution in theparticular document and in the corpus as a whole canreflect the genre specificity of the corpus.Table 3 shows the overall proportion of the busi-ness verbs, and their proportion in titles and in thefirst sentence of a documents.
It suggests that almost50% of the verbs in the report corpus are ?business?verbs, and almost half of them are concentrated inthe beginning of a document.
By contrast, the frac-tion of business verbs in the news corpus is less thanone third and they are more scattered through thetext.
This fact is illustrated by the plot in Figure 2.The first sentence is often the most informa-tive part of text, since it introduces the topic ofthe document to the reader and the writer must dohis/her best to attract the reader?s attention.
It wasshown in (Huttunen et al 2012) that 65% of highly-relevant events in the domain of medical epidemicsappear in the title or in the first two sentences of anews article; Lin and Hovy (1997) demonstrated thatFigure 2: Percentage of business verbs in the text; sen-tence 0 refers to the title of the document.
The fraction ofverbs is presented as a percent of all verb instances in thecorpus.
Logarithmic scale is used for the x axis.about 50% of topical keywords are concentrated inthe titles.
We have noticed that some documents inthe news corpus have relevance to the business sce-nario, although relevant events still can be extractedfrom the second or third paragraphs of the text, men-tioned incidentally.
By contrast, each analyst reportis devoted to a specific business event, and theseevents are frequently mentioned as early as in thetitle.4.2 Case study: is ?launch?
a business verb?A set of verbs such as launch, introduce, release,present,3 etc., are used in the Business scenarios toextract events about bringing new products to mar-ket.
In the domain ontology they are grouped undera concept called LAUNCH-PRODUCT.
An exampleof a pattern that uses this concept is following:np(COMPANY) vg(LAUNCH-PRODUCT)np(ANYTHING)This pattern matches when a NP designating a com-pany is followed by a verb from the ontology, fol-lowed by any other NP.
This pattern matches, forexample, such sentence as: The Real Juice Companyhas launched Pomegranate Blueberry flavour to its lineof 100% juices.
However, this pattern also over-generates by matching sentences such as, e.g.
: Cen-3Note, the S-V-O triplet extraction also handles phrasalverbs, such as roll out, correctly, i.e., identifies them as a singlelinguistic unit, and treats them the same as single-word verbs.33tral bank unveils effort to manage household debt.
Evenamong analyst reports, approximately 14% of theNEW-PRODUCT events found by the system arefalse positives.
It is not feasible to collect a list ofall possible products to restrict the semantic typeof the object of the verb, since new, unpredictabletypes of products can appear on the market everyday.
It seemed more feasible to try to discover allnon-products that can appear in the object slot, dueto the ambiguity of the verbs in patterns?a kind of ablack-list.
We introduce an ontology concept NON-PRODUCT that groups nouns that can be matchedby the LAUNCH verbs but are in fact not products,e.g., budget, effort, plan, report, study.
The ontologysupports multiple inheritance, so any of these wordscan be attached to other parents as well, if necessary.If the <PRODUCT> slot in of event is filled byone of the black-listed concepts, the event is alsoblack-listed, and not visible to the end-user.
Theyare used as discourse features by learning algorithmsthat predict the relevance of other events from thesame documents (Huttunen et al 2012).The NON-PRODUCT class is populated in an ad-hoc manner over time.
The content of such a listdepends on the particular corpus; the more diversethe topical and stylistic structure of the corpus, themore time-consuming and the less tractable such de-velopment becomes.
Thus, an important task is toadjust the patterns and the class of NON-PRODUCTnouns to work for the news corpus, and to developa feasible methodology to address the false-positiveproblem.
We next show how we can use the pattern-mining mode to address these problems.We extract all instances of the LAUNCH-PRODUCT verbs appearing in the corpora from theS?V?O database.
In total 27.5% of all verb instancesin reports corpus are verbs from this semantic class,in comparison to 0.7% in the news corpus.
The num-ber of distinct objects are approximately the same inboth corpora: 3520 for reports and 3062 for news,see Table 4.
In total 247 different objects from thereport corpus attached to the semantic class PROD-UCT in PULS ontology, and 158 objects have thissemantic class in the news corpus.For 21% of launch verbs in the report corpus, and34% in the news corpus, the system is not able to ex-tract the objects, which may be a consequence of themore diverse and varied language of news.
Recall,LAUNCH- distinct PRODUCTCorpus PRODUCT objects objectsReports 204193 3520 247News 77463 3062 158Table 4: Distributions of LAUNCH-PRODUCT verbs inthe corporathat the system extracts a deep-structure verbal argu-ments, i.e., for a sentence like ?A new cell-phone hasbeen launched by company XYZ?
it identifies cell-phone as the (deep) object, and the agent companyXYZ as the (deep) subject.It is interesting to examine the particular sets ofwords that can appear in the object position.
We col-lected the 50 most frequent objects of the LAUNCH-PRODUCT verbs for each corpus; they are shown inTable 5 ranked by frequency (we show the top 30objects to save space).
The table shows the semanticclass according to our ontology.Of the 50 most frequent objects, 24 belong tothe semantic class PRODUCT in the report corpus,while only 8 objects do in the general news cor-pus.
By contrast, 20 objects belong to the NON-PRODUCT class in the news corpus and only 9 ob-jects in reports.
Moreover, 8 objects in the news cor-pus are not found in the ontology at all, in compari-son to only one such case from the report corpus.Some object classes may mean that the event isstill relevant for the business domain, though it doesnot belong to the NEW-PRODUCT scenario.
Forexample, when object is an advertising campaign theevent is likely to belong to the MARKETING sce-nario, when the object is a facility (factory, outlet,etc.)
it is likely INVESTMENT.
Inference rules maydetect such dependencies and adjust the scenario ofthese events in the Business domain.The inference rules are supported by the same do-main ontology, but can test domain- and scenario-specific conditions explicitly, and thus can be moreaccurate than the generic reference resolution mech-anism.
However, this also means that inference rulesare more sensitive to the corpus genre and may noteasily transfer from one corpus to another.In some cases an object type cannot be interpretedas belonging to any reasonable event type, e.g., ifit is an ORGANIZATION or PERSON.
Such casesmay arise due to unusual syntax in the sentence that34Rank Reports NewsObject Freq Class Object Freq Class1 Proper Name unspecified 19987 Proper Name unspecified 59712 product 7331 PROD report 1078 NON3 service 6510 PROD result 851 NON4 campaign 3537 CAMP plan 805 NON5 project 2870 PROD product 792 PROD6 range 2536 COLL service 648 PROD7 plan 2524 NON it 618 PRON8 organization 2450 ORG data 5529 system 2166 FAC campaign 510 CAMP10 line 1938 COLL organization 495 ORG11 model 1920 PROD statement 467 NON12 application 1345 PROD Proper Name person 449 PER13 website 1321 PROD program 43914 flight 1315 PROD Proper Name company 432 ORG15 Proper Name company 1232 ORG information 411 NON16 brand 1200 COLL detail 398 NON17 offer 1187 NON investigation 380 NON18 production 1112 NON website 373 PROD19 programme 998 NON measure 368 NON20 store 993 PROD they 363 PRON21 currency 958 CUR he 358 PRON22 route 954 PROD device 352 PROD23 drink 891 PROD system 340 FAC24 solution 883 NON smartphone 337 PROD25 smartphone 852 PROD attack 33526 fragrance 824 PROD figure 318 NON27 card 802 PROD opportunity 295 INV28 fund 801 PROD fund 290 NON29 scheme 773 NON currency 287 CUR30 facility 756 FAC model 286 COLLTable 5: The most frequent objects of LAUNCH verbs.
Class labels: PROD: product, NON: non-product (black-listed), CAMP: advertising campaign, INV: investment.
Domain independent labels: COLL: collective; PRON: pro-noun, FAC: facility, ORG: organization, PER: person, CUR: currency,confuses the shallow parser.In summary, the results obtained from the S-V-Opattern-mining can be used to improve the perfor-mance of IE.
First, the most frequent subjects andobjects for the business verbs can be added to theontology; second, inference rules and patterns areadjusted to handle the new concepts and words.It is very interesting to investigate?and we planto pursue this in the future?how this can be donefully automatically; the problem is challenging sincethe semantic classes for these news concepts de-pend on the domain and task; for example, someobjects are of type PRODUCT (e.g., ?video?
), andothers are of type NON-PRODUCT (e.g., ?attack?,?report?, etc.).
Certain words can be ambiguouseven within a limited domain: e.g., player may des-ignate a COMPANY (?a major player on the mar-ket?
), a PRODUCT (DVD-player, CD-player, etc.
),or a person (tennis player, football player, etc.
); thelast meaning is relevant for the Business domainsince sports personalities participate in promotioncampaigns, and can launch their own brands.
Au-tomating the construction of the knowledge bases isa challenging task.In practice, we found that the semi-automated ap-proach and the pattern-mining tool can be helpful foranalyzing genre-specific event patterns; it providesthe advantages of a corpus-based study.355 ConclusionWe have described an approach for collecting use-ful statistics about event representation and distribu-tion of event arguments in corpora.
The approachwas easily implemented using pattern-based extrac-tion of S-V-O triplets with PULS; it can be equallyefficiently implemented on top of a syntactic parser,or a shallow parser of reasonable quality.
An ontol-ogy and lexicons are necessary to perform domain-specific analysis.
We have discussed how the resultsof such analysis can be exploited for fine-tuning ofa practical IE scenario.The pattern-mining process collects deep-structure S?V?O triplets from the corpus?whichare ?potential?
events.
The triplets are stored ina database, to facilitate searching and groupingby words or by semantic class appearing as thearguments of the triplets.
This helps us quicklyfind all realizations of a particular pattern?forexample, all semantic classes that appear in thecorpus as objects of verbs that have semantic classLAUNCH-PRODUCT.
The subsequent analysis ofthe frequency lists can help improve the perfor-mance of the IE system by suggesting refinementsto the ontology and the lexicon, as well as patternsand inference rules appropriate for the particulargenre of the corpus.Our current work includes the adaptation of theIE system developed for the analyst reports to thegeneral news corpus devoted to the same topics.
Wealso plan to develop a hybrid methodology, to com-bine the presented corpus-driven analysis with open-domain techniques for pattern acquisition, (Cham-bers and Jurafsky, 2011; Huang and Riloff, 2012).The approach outlined here for analyzing the dis-tributions of features in documents is useful forstudying events within the context of a corpus.
Itdemonstrates that event structure depends on the textgenre, and that genre differences can be easily cap-tured and measured.
By analyzing document statis-tics and the output of the pattern-mining, we candemonstrate significant differences between the gen-res of analyst reports and general news, such as: sen-tence length, distribution of the domain vocabularyin the text, selectional preference in domain-specificverbs, word co-occurrences, usage of pronouns andproper names.The pattern mining collects other statistical fea-tures, beyond those that have been discussed in de-tail above.
For example, it showed that active voiceis used in 95% of the cases in the news corpus incomparison to 88% in the analyst report corpus.
Itis also possible to count and compare the usage ofother grammatical cues, such as verb tense, modal-ity, etc.
Thus, we should investigate not only lexicaland semantic cues, but also broader syntactic prefer-ences and selectional constrains in the corpora.In further research we plan to study how the for-mal representation of the genre differences can beused in practice, that is, for obtaining directly mea-surable improvements in the quality of event extrac-tion.
Taking into account the particular genre of thecorpora from which documents are drawn will alsohave implications for the work on performance im-provements via cross-document merging and infer-ence, (Ji and Grishman, 2008; Yangarber, 2006).The frequency-based analysis described in Sec-tion 4.2 seems to be effective.
Sharpening the resultsof the analysis as well as putting it to use in practicalIE applications will be the subject of further study.AcknowledgementsWe wish to thank Matthew Pierce and Peter von Et-ter for their help in implementation of the patternmining more described in this paper.
The work wassupported in part by the ALGODAN: AlgorithmicData Analysis Centre of Excellence of the Academyof Finland.ReferencesDouglas Biber.
1991.
Variation across speech and writ-ing.
Cambridge University Press.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2011.
Template-based information extraction without the templates.
InProceedings of ACL-HLT, pages 976?986.Ralph Grishman and Beth Sundheim.
1996.
Messageunderstanding conference-6: A brief history.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING, volume 96, pages 466?471.Ralph Grishman.
2012.
Structural linguistics and un-supervised information extraction.
Automatic Knowl-edge Base Construction and Web-scale Knowledge Ex-traction (AKBC-WEKEX 2012), pages 57?61.Ruihong Huang and Ellen Riloff.
2012.
Bootstrappedtraining of event extraction classifiers.
EACL 2012,pages 286?295.36Silja Huttunen, Roman Yangarber, and Ralph Grishman.2002a.
Complexity of event structure in IE scenarios.In Proceedings of the 19th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING 2002), Taipei,August.Silja Huttunen, Roman Yangarber, and Ralph Grishman.2002b.
Diversity of scenarios in information extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of the Third International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2002), Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain, May.Silja Huttunen, Arto Vihavainen, Mian Du, and RomanYangarber.
2012.
Predicting relevance of event ex-traction for the end user.
In T. Poibeau et al edi-tor, Multi-source, Multilingual Information Extractionand Summarization, pages 163?177.
Springer-Verlag,Berlin.Heng Ji and Ralph Grishman.
2008.
Refining event ex-traction through cross-document inference.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL-2008: HLT, pages 254?262, June.Jussi Karlgren and Douglas Cutting.
1994.
Recogniz-ing text genres with simple metrics using discriminantanalysis.
In Proceedings of the 15th Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 1071?1075, Kyoto,Japan, August.Brett Kessler, Geoffrey Numberg, and Hinrich Schu?tze.1997.
Automatic detection of text genre.
In Proceed-ings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and Eighth Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 32?38.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
1997.
Identifying top-ics by position.
In Proceedings of the fifth conferenceon Applied natural language processing, pages 283?290.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Philipp Petrenz and Bonnie Webber.
2011.
Stable clas-sification of text genres.
Computational Linguistics,37(2):385?393.Ellen Riloff and Jessica Shepherd.
1997.
A corpus-basedapproach for building semantic lexicons.
In Proceed-ings of the Second Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 117?124.Association for Computational Linguistics, Somerset,New Jersey.Roser Saur??
and James Pustejovsky.
2012.
Are you surethat this happened?
Assessing the factuality degree ofevents in text.
Computational Linguistics, 38(2):261?299.Efstathios Stamatatos, Nikos Fakotakis, and GeorgeKokkinakis.
2000.
Text genre detection using com-mon word frequencies.
In Proceedings of the 18thconference on Computational linguistics - Volume 2,COLING ?00, pages 808?814, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Gyo?rgy Szarvas, Veronika Vincze, Richa?rd Farkas,Gyo?rgy Mo?fra, and Iryna Gurevych.
2012.
Cross-genre and cross-domain detection of semantic uncer-tainty.
Computational Linguistics, 38(2):335?367.Mark Thelen and Ellen Riloff.
2002.
A bootstrappingmethod for learning semantic lexicons using extractionpattern contexts.
In Proceedings of the 2002 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing (EMNLP 2002).Roman Yangarber, Ralph Grishman, Pasi Tapanainen,and Silja Huttunen.
2000.
Automatic acquisi-tion of domain knowledge for information extrac-tion.
In Proceedings of the 18th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING 2000),Saarbru?cken, Germany, August.Roman Yangarber.
2006.
Verification of facts acrossdocument boundaries.
In Proceedings of the Inter-national Workshop on Intelligent Information Access(IIIA-2006), Helsinki, Finland, August.37
