Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Teaching Natural Language Processing, pages 42?45,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Swedish Model of Public Outreach of Linguistics tosecondary school Students through OlympiadsPatrik RoosYoung Scientists Stockholmroos@lingolympiad.orgHedvig Skirg?rdYoung Scientists Stockholmhedvig@lingolympiad.orgAbstractWhat is it that we want to achieve withour Linguistic Olympiads and how do thecontests vary in different countries?
TheSwedish Olympiad has been running for 7years now and is primarily focused on pub-lic outreach - spreading linguistics to sec-ondary school students.
The contest in-volves not only a test but also lectures,school visits and teaching material.
Theeffort is put on promoting the interest oflinguistics to students through fun ma-terial and good contact with teachers oflanguages.
This presentation contains anoverview of the Swedish version of Olympi-ads in Linguistics as well as some con-crete examples of workshop material on lin-guistic problems for secondary school stu-dents.1 IntroductionThis paper presents an overview of the way theOlympiad in Linguistics is run in Sweden and howone can go about public outreach of linguisticsto secondary school students.
This paper andpresentation intends to provide useful tips on howan olympiad of this kind can be organised andalso discuss how we in the linguistics communitycan spread linguistics to potential students and thenon-academic world.The Swedish Olympiad in Linguistics (??Lin-golympiaden??)
started in 2006 as a project withinYoung Scientists Stockholm.
The winners of theSwedish contest have participated in the Interna-tional Olympiad in Linguistics (IOL) since 2007and in 2010 Sweden was host country for IOL.There are a couple of things that set the Swedishcontest apart from most other olympiads of lin-guistics around the world:1. the contest takes place at the involved univer-sities themselves, not in classrooms in second-ary schools2.
the contest is a whole-day event with contestin the morning and lectures in the afternoon3.
there are fewer participants that many othercountries participating in IOL4.
the contest has a focus on public outreachrather than finding the best competitors forIOL5.
we engage in other public outreach activitiessuch as school visits, lectures and group as-signments for secondary school students6.
the primary audience is secondary school stu-dents that study languages, humanities andsocial science rather than the natural sciencesThe aim of Lingolympiaden is to spread linguisticsto secondary school students in a fun and educa-tional way.
While there are many extra curricularactivities for students of the natural sciences: suchas the other olympiads, summer schools, exhibi-tions etc there are relatively few alternatives forstudents of social sciences.
Lingolympiaden in-tends to fill that void, showing that science doesnot only consist of the natural sciences and thatlinguistics is a fun and exciting discipline.Lingolympiaden is run as a collaborative projectbetween the Young Scientists Stockholm (YSS)and the Linguistics departments at Stockholm Uni-versity and Lund University.
YSS is a youth volun-teer organisation devoted to spreading the interestof science and technology to the youth of Sweden(youth <26 years old).Lingolympiaden is funded by the universities,the county council of Stockholm, YSS and TheRoyal Swedish Academy of Letters, History andAntiquities.2 The different organisers aims andcontributionsThe university contributes with rooms and staff forcreating and coordinating the problem set as wellas correcting.The incentive for the universities tobe involved in this is primarily to make secondaryschool students aware that linguistics exists andpotentially acquire more students.YSS coordinates the entire project, contactsschools, applies for funding etc.
YSS also make42school visits, talking about linguistics and prob-lems from the olympiads with secondary schoolstudents.
The goal of YSS is to encourage theyouth of Sweden to be interested in science andtechnology and pursue college studies.
YSS re-ceives funding from the County Council of Stock-holm for this.The Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, Historyand Antiquities funds Sweden?s participation in theInternational contest.
The academy is interested inpromoting humanities and the social sciences to theyouth and as one of the very few enterprises thatactually does this Lingolympiaden receives theirfunding.As all of the involved parties in Lingolympiadenare interested in promoting linguistics to secondaryschool students rather than obtaining the highestscores in IOL our contest is more geared towardssparking interest than finding the best problemsolvers.
Lingolympiaden is more focused on find-ing secondary school students that are interested inlanguages and make them interested in social sci-ence and linguistics rather than making studentsthat are already interested in natural science andprogramming interested in languages.3 Target audience and contactLingolympiaden aims to reach secondary schoolstudents that are interested in languages and lin-guistics and encourage them to become interestedin studying social sciences, especially linguistics, atuniversity.
It has become apparent that studentswho are interested in the other olympiads and stu-dents that are very enthusiastic about natural sci-ences and programming seem to find the contesteven if there has been little effort to reach them.
Itis much harder to reach secondary school studentsenrolled in programmes of social sciences and hu-manities as they are generally less used to therebeing extra curricular activities for them to be in-volved in.
That being said, Lingolympiaden is ofcourse open to all students (including students ofnon-theoretical programmes), students from nat-ural science or programming backgrounds are morethan welcome - it is just that efforts are put wherethey seem to be needed (and wanted) the most.Lingolympiaden would also like to reach morestudents who come from families with little highereducation, but as these students are less likely tochoose theoretical secondary school programmesand also less likely to have passionate and driventeachers this has proved a very hard task indeed.The primary means of contact are teachers oflanguages at secondary schools.
In 2011 theSwedish government initiated a new secondaryschool programme of humanities that includes abasic course in linguistics as well as more classesin modern languages.
We can take no credit forthis, however, Lingolympiaden has established astable and good contact with the Swedish Lan-guage Teachers Association as well as with teachersinvolved in this new secondary school programme.This has been a very fruitful connection, not onlyin that the contest reaches the students but alsobecause the teachers have benefited from this intheir education.Lingolympiaden also provides teaching mater-ials in form of slides for classes in general lin-guistics, an IPA tutorial and adapted versions ofold problems from the contest.
Teachers and stu-dents are also able to ask questions about linguist-ics over email and Lingolympiaden gives advice onliterature and sites (WALS, Ethnologue, Univer-sals Archive, MultiTree, Omniglot, LangDoc, UN-ESCO Atlas of the World?s Languages in Danger,The Linguistics Podcasts by LinguistChris, TheFive Minute Linguist-podcast etc.)
that are usefulto the teachers in their education.
In addition tothis Lingolympiaden visits secondary schools, giv-ing lectures in linguistics and holding workshopson Olympiad problems for a nominal fee.
Theseservices are much appreciated by the teachers andstudents.Maintaining an active and good relation with theteachers is crucial in recruiting contestants to Lin-golympiaden as well as a perfect opportunity toprovide our first and foremost goal, to increase theinterest in linguistics among the secondary schoolstudents.4 The problems of LingolympiadenLingolympiaden aims to include problems fromcomputational linguistics, general linguistics(primarily grammatical typology), field linguistics,phonetics and psycho linguistics.
The staff atthe universities are encouraged to constructproblems on their area of expertise.
Since thereare many Ph.D. students who work on languagedescriptions and linguistic typology at Swedishuniversities there have been many problems onminor languages such as Kuot of Papua NewGuinea and interesting grammatical phenomenasuch as hodiernal tense.
The problem set of theSwedish contest has featured adapted and trans-lated problems from other olympiads and othersources (Speculative Grammarian for example),but as the staff at the universities improve withevery year there are less and less of these externalproblems.The problem constructors are advised to takeinto consideration that the problems are to besolvable by secondary school students with no lin-guistic training, but at the same time the problemsshouldn?t be based on pure logic alone.
This is atricky balance and it is impossible to make surethat no-one has an unfair advantage.43The problem set for the Swedish olympiad is de-pendent on who within the university staff has thetime to spend construction and testing problems.While the attention is to cover all areas within lin-guistics it is rare that staff from all sections areable to contribute.
This is not a problem that isunique to the Swedish contest, more internationalcollaboration will hopefully improve this situation.Translating Swedish problems into English, Rus-sian, Bulgarian, Italian or German is very feasible.4.1 Adaptation of problems into teachingmaterial - some examplesWhen visiting at school it isn?t always possible touse problems from the Swedish or Internationalolympiads directly as they were constructed - manyproblems need to be modified to better suit theconditions of the workshop.
When conductingworkshops it isn?t the aim to test the students butrather to discuss different approaches to the prob-lem and encourage their interest.
Here are someexamples of the problems that have been used inworkshops at secondary schools.Lingdoku by Trey JonesLingdoku is an IPA version of the Japanese num-ber game Sudoku.
This is very useful type of prob-lem since most students are already familiar withthe premises of Sudoku, it gives them a nice intro-duction to the variables necessary to define con-sonants and it is great for illustrating different ap-proaches of problem solving.
Since students en-rolled in the new humanities programme are re-quired to learn IPA this problem is also much ap-preciated by teachers.Lingdoku focuses only on pulmonic consonantsand two variables, manner and place.
The adapt-ation used in Lingolympiadens workshop has 4*4different symbols to place within the grid withoutrepeating the same manner or place in the 4 2*2-squares or any row or column.
The Lingdoku tablewill have some values filled in and by regulatingthese one can change the time necessary to solvethe problem and also change focus on what part ofthe problem solving we want to emphasise.Drehu & Cemuh?
by Ksenija GiljarovaThis problem comes from IOL-6 (2008 in SlanchevBryag).
It has proven to be a highly useful andappreciated problem to run with students.
It isquite illustrative of the kind of problems one mightencounter and it is not solvable by only applyingstraightforward logic.The problem consists of two sets of words in tworelated languages with translations into Swedish ina scrambled order.
There are also a few morphemesthat are translated are given as related in the twolanguages but with no Swedish translation.
Themethod of solving it involves applying several waysof comparing the languages, the students have tobe able to identify that the words have developeddifferently in the two languages and that conceptslike horizon, border, wall and beach share a certainsemantic component (??boundary??).
It serves asinspiration and proof to students that their know-ledge, experience and general feel for language andlinguistics is directly applicable to solving concretelinguistic problems.PSG Web Laboratory by Torbj?rn LagerThe Linguistics department at Gothenburg Uni-versity have developed a simple online tool for cre-ating context-free phrase structure grammars andtesting them out.
It was developed as an aid ina course on generative grammar and CFGs but ithas quickly spread to other departments.
It is ac-cessible through any web browser, no passwordsnecessary.
The tool is very useful when one wantsto illustrate the concepts of competence and per-formance as conceived by Chomsky, how syntactictrees can be applied and, if time permits, whatCFGs are.
This exercise does require a bit moreeffort as many students are unfamiliar with formallanguage, but it is quite easy to make it fun sincethe freedom in defining the lexicon is limitless -something that has proven to be quite amusing.Arongo, Arongo - why have you forsakenme?Patrick Littell constructed a problem about thelanguage on the island of Manam for NACLO in2008.
This problem deals with different ways ofexpressing location in space, turns out that thelanguage of the island of Manam has a rather un-usual system.
The students are given a map of theisland and some sentences in the language describ-ing the location of certain houses on the map.
Thisproblem has been adapted into a small role playinggame for the Lingolympiaden workshops.The students are playing a group of field lin-guists who arrive to the island to study the indigen-ous language.
There is only one person, Arongo,on the island with whom they have a common lan-guage (Tok Pisin).
He was supposed to meet himwhen they arrived, but since they were late due toa storm he has returned to his home.
They haveto locate him by deciphering what the natives aresaying to them, i.e.
the sentences from the the ori-ginal problem.
They do not receive all sentencesat once, they get them in small batches along withother clues (in step 2 they learn that there is a vol-cano).
This gives them smaller amount of text toprocess at the same time, which makes it look lessoverwhelming.
They also get to share their ideasand conclusions with each other and test their hy-pothesis on new data.
Thus, learning how to ap-proach a complex problem.If there is plenty of time there is also the possibil-44ity of discussing other problems that field linguistsmight encounter.5 ConclusionsThe aim of the organisers and nature of the sec-ondary school system determine the shape of theOlympiad of Linguistics in a specific country.
Inthe case of Sweden the olympiad is primarily fo-cused on reaching secondary school students withthe message that linguistics is fun and they shouldpursue it further.
An Olympiad more geared to-wards making students of natural sciences and pro-gramming interested in languages might look dif-ferent (but not necessarily).Lingolympiaden makes use of the expertise com-petence of the staff at the universities in the prob-lem construction but also for lectures and teach-ing material, the universities use Lingolympiadenas a way of reaching potential students.
YSS,the County Council of Stockholm and the RoyalAcademy of Letters support Lingolympiadens ef-forts to encourage the the youth of Sweden tobe interested in social sciences and humanitiesin general and linguistics in particular.
Teach-ers of modern languages and the new humanitiesprogramme use Lingolympiaden to improve theirclasses and provide extra-curricular activities fortheir students.
And lastly: the students of second-ary schools in Sweden use Lingolympiaden to tryout what linguistics is all about and whether it isfun.
It is their interest and their curiosity that isat the core of Lingolympiaden and other projectsby YSS.6 FutureAs the contest grows there will hopefully be moreopportunities to communicate with students andteachers of secondary schools and become moreinvolved in their education.
Lingolympiaden is asmall contest aimed at providing an all-day outingat the university for secondary school students, butif there is interest there might be local contests atthe schools themselves as well.The Swedish government is right now consid-ering whether or not to support Lingolympiadenin the same way that they support the SwedishOlympiad of Informatics, Lego Robot contest,Chemistry Olympiad etc.
If they do, that willbe a great leap towards acknowledgement of thevalue of social and human sciences alongside thenatural sciences.
Linguistics is an interdisciplinaryscientific field that covers classical humanities, so-cial and human sciences, natural sciences like neur-ology and biology, and computational disciplines.There is no reason why a Olympiad of Linguisticsshould be excluded from support of Olympiads ofScience.ReferencesGiljarova, Ksenija.
2008.
Problem for IOL 2008 inSlanchev Bryag.
Drehu & Cemuh?.
Available at:http://www.ioling.org/problems/2008/i3/Jones, Trey.
2006.
Speculative Grammarian, VolCLI, No 2.
Lingdoku?Like Sudoku, But ForLinguists.
L?
?cole de SpecGram, WashingtonD.C.Lager, Torbj?rn.
2002.
PSG Web Laborat-ory.
Available at: http://www.ling.gu.se/~lager/Labs/PSG-Lab/Litell, Patrick.
2008.
Problem for NACLO2008.
Manam, I?m Anam.
Available at:http://www.naclo.cs.cmu.edu/assets/problems/naclo08r2.pdf45
