Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation, pages 13?18,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 8, 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsMachine Learning Disambiguation of Quechua Verb MorphologyAnnette RiosInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zuricharios@ifi.uzh.chAnne Go?hringInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zurichgoehring@cl.uzh.chAbstractWe have implemented a rule-based proto-type of a Spanish-to-Cuzco Quechua MTsystem enhanced through the addition ofstatistical components.
The greatest dif-ficulty during the translation process is togenerate the correct Quechua verb form insubordinated clauses.
The prototype hasseveral rules that decide which verb formshould be used in a given context.
How-ever, matching the context in order to ap-ply the correct rule depends crucially onthe parsing quality of the Spanish input.As the form of the subordinated verb de-pends heavily on the conjunction in thesubordinated Spanish clause and the se-mantics of the main verb, we extractedthis information from two treebanks andtrained different classifiers on this data.We tested the best classifier on a set of 4texts, increasing the correct subordinatedverb forms from 80% to 89%.1 IntroductionAs part of our research project SQUOIA,1 we havedeveloped several tools and resources for CuzcoQuechua.
These include a treebank, currently con-sisting of around 500 sentences2, and a rule-basedMT system Spanish-Cuzco Quechua.
The tree-bank is currently being enhanced with more anno-tated text and should reach about 4000 sentencesupon project completion.As for the translation system, we want to en-hance the rule-based approach with statisticalmethods to overcome certain limitations of theprototype.
The main reason to build the core1http://tiny.uzh.ch/2Q2available through the PML query interface (S?te?pa?nek andPetr, 2010) at:http://kitt.ifi.uzh.ch:8075/app/formsystem with a rule-based architecture is the lackof parallel texts in Spanish and Quechua; thereis not enough parallel material to train a statisti-cal MT system of acceptable quality, as Mohlerand Mihalcea (2008) showed in their experiments.They trained an SMT system Spanish-Quechua ontranslations of the Bible, resulting in 2.89 BLEUpoints.
By increasing the size of their train-ing corpus with web-crawled parallel texts andadditional Bible translations, they achieved 4.55BLEU points.3 Although better, the overall qual-ity of the SMT system is still very low.There are at least two other projects that startedthe implementation of MT systems for the samelanguage pair, but in the opposite direction; theAVENUE project4 used elicited corpora to buildan MT system Quechua-Spanish.
Furthermore,the language pair Quechua-Spanish has recentlybeen added to the open-source MT platform Aper-tium.5 The translation system is still at a very earlystage in its development; at present, the grammarcontains 30 transfer rules and a morphological an-alyzer.2 Hybrid MT Spanish-Cuzco QuechuaThe core of our own Spanish-Quechua MT sys-tem is a classical rule-based transfer engine, basedon a reimplementation of the Matxin6 frameworkthat was originally developed for the translation ofSpanish to Basque (Mayor et al 2012).
As notall of the necessary disambiguation can be donesatisfactorily with rules alone, we plan to add sta-tistical modules at different stages of the transferto resolve the remaining ambiguities.
The mod-ule for the disambiguation of subordinated verb3both baseline and improved SMT systems evaluated onparts of the Bible4http://www.cs.cmu.edu/?avenue/5http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/Quechua_cuzqueno_y_castellano6http://matxin.sourceforge.net/13forms described in this paper is the first statisticalenhancement to the rule-based prototype.3 Quechua verb formsSubordinated clauses in Quechua are often non-finite, nominal forms.
There are several nomi-nalizing suffixes that are used for different clausetypes that will be illustrated in more detail in thissection.3.1 Switch-ReferenceA common type of subordination in Quechuais the so-called switch-reference: the subordi-nated, non-finite verb bears a suffix that indicateswhether its subject is the same as in the mainclause or not.
If the subject in the subordinatedclause is different, the non-finite verb bears a pos-sessive suffix that indicates the subject person.Consider the following examples7Same subject: Mikhuspa hamuni.
(1) Mikhueat-spa-SShamucome-ni.-1.Sg?When I finished eating, I?ll come.?(lit.
?My eating, I come.?
)Different subject: Mikhuchkaptiy pasakura.
(2) Mikhueat-chka-Prog-pti-DS-y-1.Sg.Posspasaleave-ku-Rflx-ra-Pst-?.-3.Sg?While I was eating, he left.?(lit.
?
[During] my eating, he left.?
)(Dedenbach-Salazar Sa?enz et al 2002, 168)In the Spanish source language, subordinatedverbs are usually finite.
An overt subject is notnecessary, as personal pronouns are used only foremphasis (?pro-drop?).
In order to generate thecorrect verb form, we need to find the subjectof the subordinated verb and compare it to themain verb.
For this reason, we included a mod-ule that performs co-reference resolution on sub-jects.
So far, the procedure is based on the sim-ple assumption that an elided subject is coreferent7Abbreviations used:Acc: accusative Add: additive (?too,also?
)Ben: benefactive (?for?)
Dir: directionalDirE: direct evidentiality DS: different subjectGen: genitive Imp: imperativeInch: inchoative Loc: locativeNeg: negation Obl: obligativePerf: perfect Poss: possessiveProg: progressive Pst: pastRflx: reflexive Sg: singularSS: same subject Top: topicwith the previous explicit subject, if this subjectagrees in number and person with the current verb.Of course, there are some exceptions that have tobe considered, e.g.
the subject of a verb in directspeech is not a good antecedent.3.2 Other Types of SubordinationGenerally, the relation of the subordinated clauseto the main clause is expressed through differentconjunctions in Spanish.
In Quechua, on the otherhand, a specific verb form in combination with acase suffix indicates the type of subordination.
Forexample, Spanish para que - ?in order to?
has tobe translated with a nominal verb form with thesuffix -na and the case suffix -paq (usually calledbenefactive, ?for?
):(3) Ventanata kichay wayraq haykurimunanpaq.Ventanawindow-ta-Acckichaopen-y-2.Sg.Impwayrawind-q-Genhaykuenter-ri-Inch-mu-Dir-na-Obl-n-3.Sg.Poss-paq.-Ben?Open the window, so the air comes in.?(lit.
?Open the window for his entering of the wind?
)(Cusihuama?n, 1976, 210)Finite verb forms are also possible in subordi-nated clauses; in this case, the relation of the sub-ordinated and the main clause is indicated througha ?linker?.
A linker often consists of a demon-strative pronoun combined with case suffixes orso-called independent suffixes; these are specialsuffixes that can be attached to any word classand their position is usually at the end of the suf-fix sequence.
The functions of the independentsuffixes include data source, polar question mark-ing and topic or contrast, amongst others (Adelaarand Muysken, 2004, 209).
In combination withdemonstrative pronouns, the independent suffixesare used for linking clauses, similar to Spanish orEnglish conjunctions.
For example, the combina-tion of demonstrative chay - ?this?
with the topicmarker -qa, chayqa, is used in the sense of ?if, incase that?
:(4) Munanki chayqa, Arekipatapis rinki makinapi.Munawant-nki-2.Sgchaythis-qa,-TopArekipaArequipa-ta-Acc-pis-Addrigo-nki-2.Sgmakinamachine-pi.-Loc?If you like, you can also go to Arequipa by train(machine).?
(Cusihuama?n, 1976, 264)A special case is indirect speech in the Spanishsource text; the Quechua equivalence of indirect14speech is direct speech.
The conversion from in-direct to direct speech is not trivial, because coref-erence resolution for the subject is required: if thesubject of the main verb is the same as in the indi-rect speech clause, the verb has to be generated asfirst person form in direct speech.8Furthermore, the form of the subordinated verbmay also depend on the semantics of the mainverb, e.g.
complement clauses of control verbsusually require -na, whereas with other verbs, thenominalizer -sqa is used:(5) Rigo-na-Obl-yki-2.Sg.Poss-ta-Accmunawant-ni.-1.Sg?I want you to leave.?(lit.
?I want your going.?
)(6) Amadon?t-n-DirEchaythisyachaknow-sqa-Perf-yki-2.Sg.Poss-ta-Accqunqaforget-nki-2.Sg-chu.-Neg?Don?t forget what you learned.?(lit.
?Don?t forget those your learnings.?
)(Cusihuama?n, 1976, 125)For all of these cases, the rule-based prototypehas a set of rules to match the given context, sothat the correct form can be assigned to each verb.3.3 Relative ClausesA special case of subordination are relativeclauses; the verb in the relative clause is a nom-inal form that is either agentive or non-agentive.The form depends on the semantics of the nomi-nal head and its semantic role within the relativeclause.
The MT system includes a specific rule-based module that uses semantic resources for thedisambiguation of relative clauses.
As their formdoes not depend on the main verb, relative clauseswill not be discussed further in this paper.4 Rule-based Disambiguation of VerbFormsThe disambiguation of subordinated verb formsdepends on the previously described steps: the dis-ambiguation of Spanish relative clauses, corefer-ence resolution of subjects, the recognition of thegiven type of subordination through the Spanishconjunction and the semantics of the main verb.Such a rule-based approach is prone to error, since8consider this English example:?John said he wanted to go fishing.
?if John = he : ?I want to go fishing?, John said.if John 6= he: ?He wants to go fishing?, John said.correct incorrectverb chunks to disambiguate: 219disambiguated chunks: 186 175 1185% 94% 6%left ambiguous for ML: 33Table 1: Evaluation of rule-based verb disambiguationit depends crucially on correct parse trees and cor-rectly tagged verbs and conjunctions.
As a pre-caution, we only use rule-based disambiguation incases that can be safely disambiguated, i.e.
if wefind the main verb and the Spanish conjunctionin the parse tree where they are to be expected.An evaluation on four texts from different gen-res9 shows that the rule-based module can disam-biguate 85% of the verb forms; of these, 94% arecorrect (see Table 1 for details).For subordinated clauses that cannot be disam-biguated with rules (15% in the 4 texts used forevaluation), we use the machine learning approachdescribed in the following section.5 Disambiguation with MachineLearning5.1 Training CorpusAs the form of the subordinated verb dependsmainly on the semantics of the main verb and theSpanish conjunction in the source text, we trainedand evaluated different classifiers based on thesefeatures.We extracted all verb pairs from our Quechuatreebank with their corresponding forms and, ifpresent, the linker.
The Quechua roots in the tree-bank contain one or more Spanish translations.We used the Spanish lemmas to create the in-stances for training, as we might not have accessto the Quechua translation of the Spanish verb dur-ing the transfer.
Furthermore, we use the stan-dardized Southern Quechua orthography (Cerro?n-Palomino, 1994) in our translation system; how-ever, the text in the treebank is written in a slightly9Texts:?
La catarata de la sirena - ?the waterfall of the siren?
(Andean story)?
first two chapters of ?The Little Prince??
article from the Peruvian newspaper ?El Diario??
Spanish Wikipedia article about Peru15different spelling.
By using the Spanish version ofthe verbs, we avoid mapping the Quechua verbsobtained from the transfer to the orthography usedin the treebank.
Since most Quechua roots in thetreebank contain more than one Spanish transla-tion, we can create an instance for every combi-nation of the Spanish translations.
With this ap-proach we extracted 444 instances from our tree-bank.Since this initial training set was too small toyield satisfactory results,10 we added synthetictraining data created from the translation of theSpanish AnCora treebank (Taule?
et al 2008) withthe prototype.
As the dependencies in AnCora arecorrectly annotated, the rules of the MT systemwill assign the correct Quechua verb forms withhigh precision.
We used these verb forms as ad-ditional instances for training the classifiers.
Thetotal number of instances obtained from AnCoraamounts to 7366.5.2 SetupWe used WEKA (Hall et al 2009) andSVMmulticlass (Joachims, 1999) to compute themachine learning models for our disambiguationtask.
We trained different classifiers on 7810 in-stances extracted from a Quechua and a translatedSpanish treebank.
The class variable form repre-sents the form of the subordinated verb; there are5 different classes:11?
perfect: nominal form with -sqa?
obligative: nominal form with -na?
agentive: nominal form with -q?
switch: nominal forms with -pti/spa?
finite5.3 EvaluationWe tested the classifiers on the ambiguous formsfrom the 4 texts that we used for the evaluationof the rule-based approach (see Table 1).
Addi-tionally, we extracted verb pairs from Quechuatexts (with their Spanish translations) and as-signed them the corresponding class number.
Withthis procedure, we collected 100 instances fortesting.
We trained and tested different classi-fiers: Na?
?ve Bayes, Nearest Neighbour (Martin,1995) and a multiclass support vector machine1036% accuracy achieved with Naive Bayes, on the sametest set used in the final evaluation (see Table 2).11Every instance contains the lemma of the main verb, thelemma of the subordinated verb, the linker and a number rep-resenting one of the 5 classes.
(Joachims, 1999).
Table 2 contains the best resultsfor each classifier.
The three WEKA classifierswere trained with default settings, whereas forSVMmulticlass we obtained the best results with=0.1 and c=0.02 (linear kernel).In an ideal case of disambiguation during trans-lation, we would have information about thelemma of the main verb (?head?)
and the Span-ish conjunction (?linker?
).12 In these ideal cases,we use the rule-based module to assign the sub-ordinated verb form.
In real translation scenar-ios, however, either the head or linker might bemissing; a common source for errors are polyse-mous conjunctions, such as que - ?that?
or como -?as?
, that the tagger erroneously labeled as rela-tive pronoun or preposition, respectively.
In thiscase, the linker cannot be retrieved from the parsetree and we have to guess the verb form basedonly on the lemmas of the main and the subordi-nated verb (?subV?).
Furthermore, we might havea clearly subordinated verb form with a linker thatthe parser attached to the wrong head.
Findingthe correct head automatically is not always possi-ble, especially within coordinations.
In this case,we need to guess the verb form based only on thelemma of the subordinated verb and the linker.Na?
?ve Bayes achieves the highest scores, bothon cross validation and on the test set (see Table 2for details).
From the 33 ambiguous verb forms inTable 1, only 22 were disambiguated with the clas-sifiers, as the rest were either nouns erroneouslytagged as verbs or had the wrong lemma, andtherefore can be counted as false without furtherprocessing.
From the 22 correctly tagged ambigu-ous verbs, Na?
?ve Bayes classified 20 instances cor-rectly.
The rules of the MT system disambiguated80% of the verb forms in the 4 evaluation textscorrectly.
Feeding the remaining ambiguous verbsto the classifier; we achieve an overall accuracy of89% (see the results in Table 3).The complete translation pipeline including theNaive Bayes classifier is illustrated in Fig.
1.6 Concluding remarksWe enhanced a purely rule-based machine trans-lation system for the language pair Spanish-Quechua with a classifier that predicts the formof subordinated verbs in the target languageQuechua, based on information collected from the12The Spanish lemma of the subordinated verb is alwaysknown, since this is the verb we want to disambiguate.16SVM LibSVM NBayes NNge=0.1,c=0.02 default: radialcross-validation, 10xhead,subV - 43% 58% 48%subV,linker - 59% 67% 60%head,subV,linker - 47% 81% 75%test set, 100 instanceshead,subV 31% 38% 57% 47%subV,linker 41% 61% 75% 68%head,subV,linker 46% 45% 84% 72%Table 2: Evaluation of ClassifiersAnalysis of Source Text:PoS TaggingDependency ParsingDisambiguation ofRelative Clauses(rule-based)Coreference Resolutionon Subjects(rule-based)Verb Disambiguation(rule-based)[main verb and linker found]Verb Disambiguation(Naive Bayes classifier)[main verb or linker not found]Lexical TransferSyntactic TransferSyntactic GenerationMorphological Generation(finite state)Figure 1: Translation Pipeline17correct incorrectrule based: 186 175 1180% 5%not disambiguated*: 11 11ML : 22 20 2total ?verb?
chunks: 219 195 2489% 11%Table 3: Evaluation of Hybrid Verb Disambiguation*11 of the ambiguous ?verbs?
are nouns that were erroneously tagged as verbs,had the wrong lemma or were relative clauses.
We did not run those throughdisambiguation with ML.Spanish input text.
The MT system has rules tomatch the context of the subordinated verb andassign a verb form for generation.
Due to pars-ing and tagging errors, the information needed forrule-based disambiguation cannot always be re-trieved.
In order to disambiguate these forms, weuse a classifier that predicts the verb form even ifall of the context information is not accessible.
Wetested three different machine learning algorithms,out of which Na?
?ve Bayes achieved the best re-sults.
In an evaluation on 4 texts from differentgenres, verb disambiguation was improved from80% (purely rule-based) to 89%, with a combina-tion of the rule-based module and the Na?
?ve Bayesclassifier.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank Rico Sennrich forhis helpful advise and David Harfield for proof-reading the first version of this paper.
This re-search is funded by the Swiss National ScienceFoundation under grant 100015 132219/1.ReferencesWillem F. H. Adelaar and Pieter Muysken.
2004.
TheLanguages of the Andes.
Cambridge Language Sur-veys.
Cambridge University Press.Rodolfo Cerro?n-Palomino.
1994.
Quechuasuren?o, diccionario unificado quechua-castellano,castellano-quechua.
Biblioteca Nacional del Peru?,Lima.Antonio G. Cusihuama?n.
1976.
Grama?tica Quechua:Cuzco-Collao.
Grama?ticas referenciales de lalengua quechua.
Ministerio de Educacio?n, Lima.Sabine Dedenbach-Salazar Sa?enz, Utta von Gleich,Roswith Hartmann, Peter Masson, and ClodoaldoSoto Ruiz.
2002.
Rimaykullayki - Unterrichtsmate-rialien zum Quechua Ayacuchano.
Dietrich ReimerVerlag GmbH, Berlin, 4. edition.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The WEKA data mining software: an update.SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1):10?18.Thorsten Joachims.
1999.
Making Large-Scale SVMLearning Practical.
In Bernhard Scho?lkopf, Christo-pher John C. Burges, and Alexander J. Smola, edi-tors, Advances in Kernel Methods - Support VectorLearning, pages 169?184, Cambridge, MA, USA.MIT Press.Brent Martin.
1995.
Instance-Based learning: Near-est Neighbor With Generalization.
Master?s thesis,University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand.Aingeru Mayor, In?aki Alegria, Arantza D?
?az de Ilar-raza, Gorka Labaka, Mikel Lersundi, and Kepa Sara-sola.
2012.
Matxin, an open-source rule-basedmachine translation system for Basque.
MachineTranslation, (25):53?82.Michael Mohler and Rada Mihalcea.
2008.
Baby-lon Parallel Text Builder: Gathering Parallel Textsfor Low-Density Languages.
In Nicoletta Cal-zolari, Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, JosephMariani, Jan Odijk, Stelios Piperidis, and DanielTapias, editors, Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC?08), Marrakech, Marroco.Mariona Taule?, M. Anto`nia Mart?
?, and Marta Re-casens.
2008.
AnCora: Multilevel Annotated Cor-pora for Catalan and Spanish.
In Nicoletta Calzo-lari, Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mar-iani, Jan Odijk, Stelios Piperidis, and Daniel Tapias,editors, Proceedings of the Sixth International Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Mar-rakech, Marroco.Jan S?te?pa?nek and Pajas Petr.
2010.
Querying DiverseTreebanks in a Uniform Way.
In Nicoletta Calzo-lari, Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mari-ani, Jan Odijk, Stelios Piperidis, Mike Rosner, andDaniel Tapias, editors, Proceedings of the 7th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2010), Valletta, Malta.18
