Proceedings of the 2013 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2013), pages 116?119,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsEffect of Out Of Vocabulary terms on inferring eligibility criteria for aretrospective study in Hebrew EHRRaphael Cohen*Computer Science Dept.Ben-Gurion University in the Negevcohenrap@bgu.ac.ilMichael ElhadadComputer Science Dept.Ben-Gurion University in the Negevelhadad@cs.bgu.ac.il1 BackgroundThe Electronic Health Record (EHR) containsinformation useful for clinical, epidemiologicaland genetic studies.
This information of patientsymptoms, history, medication and treatment isnot completely captured in the structured part ofthe EHR but is often found in the form of free-text narrative.A major obstacle for clinical studies is findingpatients that fit the eligibility criteria of thestudy.
Using EHR in order to automatically iden-tify relevant cohorts can help speed up both clin-ical trials and retrospective studies (Restificar,Korkontzelos et al2013).While the clinical criteria for inclusion andexclusion from the study are explicitly stated inmost studies, automating the process using theEHR database of the hospital is often impossibleas the structured part of the database (age, gen-der, ICD9/10 medical codes, etc.?)
rarely coversall of the criteria.Many resources such as UMLS (Bodenreider2004), cTakes (Savova, Masanz et al2010),MetaMap (Aronson and Lang 2010) and recentlyrichly annotated corpora and treebanks (Albright,Lanfranchi et al2013) are available for pro-cessing and representing medical texts in Eng-lish.
Resource poor languages, however, sufferfrom lack in NLP tools and medical resources.Dictionaries exhaustively mapping medical termsto the UMLS medical meta-thesaurus are onlyavailable in a limited number of languages be-sides English.
NLP annotation tools, when theyexist for resource poor languages, suffer fromheavy loss of accuracy when used outside thedomain on which they were trained, as is welldocumented for English (Tsuruoka, Tateishi etal.
2005; Tateisi, Tsuruoka et al2006).In this work we focus on the problem of clas-sifying patient eligibility for inclusion in retro-spective study of the epidemiology of epilepsy inSouthern Israel.
Israel has a centralized structureof medical services which include advancedEHR systems.
However, the free text sections ofthese EHR are written in Hebrew, a resourcepoor language in both NLP tools and hand-crafted medical vocabularies.Epilepsy is a common chronic neurologic dis-order characterized by seizures.
These seizuresare transient signs and/or symptoms of abnormal,excessive, or hyper synchronous neuronal activi-ty in the brain.
Epilepsy is one of the most com-mon of the serious neurological disorders (Hirtz,Thurman et al2007).2 CorpusWe collected a corpus of patient notes fromthe Pediatric Epilepsy Unit, an outpatient clinicfor neurology problems, not limited to epilepsy,in Soroka Hospital.
This clinic is the only availa-ble pediatric neurology clinic in southern Israeland at the time of the study was staffed by a sin-gle expert serving approximately 225,000 chil-dren.
The clinical corpus spans 894 visits to theChildren Epilepsy Unit which occurred in 2009by 516 unique patients.
The corpus contains226K tokens / 12K unique tokens.
?Supported by the Lynn and William Frankel Center forComputer Sciences, Ben Gurion University116The patients were marked by the attendingphysician as positive or negative for epilepsy.
Inthe study year, 2009, 208 patients were markedas positive examples and 292 as negative.
Theinclusion criteria were defined as history of morethan one convulsive episode excluding febrileseizures.
In practice, the decision for inclusionwas more complex as some types of febrile sei-zure syndromes are considered a type of epilepsywhile some patients with convulsion were ex-cluded from the study for various reasons.3 MethodWe developed a system to classify EHR notes inHebrew into ?epilepsy?
/ ?non-epilepsy?
classes,so that they can later be reviewed by a physicianas eligible candidates into a cohort.
The systemanalyzes the Hebrew text into relevant tokens byapplying morphological analysis and word seg-mentations, Hebrew words are then semi-automatically aligned to the UMLS vocabulary.The most important tagged Hebrew words arethen used as features fed to a statistical documentclassification system.
We evaluate the perfor-mance of the system on our corpus, and measurethe impact of Hebrew text analysis in improvingthe performance for patient classification.4 Out-Of-Vocabulary TermsThe complex rules of Hebrew word formationmake word segmentation the first challenge ofany NLP pipeline in Hebrew.
Agglutination offunction words leads to high ambiguity in He-brew (Adler and Elhadad 2006).
To performword segmentation, Adler and Elhadad (Adlerand Elhadad 2006) combine segmentation andmorpheme tagging using an HMM model over alattice of possible segmentations.
This learningmethod uses a lexicon to find all possible seg-mentations for all tokens and chooses the mostlikely one according to POS sequences.
Un-known words, a class to which most borrowedmedical terms belong, are segmented in all pos-sible ways (there are over 150 possible prefixesand suffixes in Hebrew) and the most likely formis chosen using the context within the same sen-tence.
Beyond word segmentation, the rich mor-phological nature of Hebrew makes POS taggingmore complex with 2.4 possible tags per tokenon average, compared to 1.4 for English.Out of 12K token types in the corpus 3.9K(30%) were not found in the lexicon used by theMorphological Disambiguator compared to only7.5% in the Newswire domain.
A sample of 2Kunknown token was manually annotated as:transliteration, misspelling and Hebrew wordsmissing in the lexicon.
Transliterated terms madeup most of the unknown tokens (71.5%) whilethe rest were misspelled words (16%) and wordsmissing from the lexicon (13.5%).Error analysis of the Morphological Disam-biguator in the medical domain corpora showsthat in the medical domain, Adler et al un-known model still performs well: 80% of theunknown tokens were still analyzed correctly.However, 88.5% of the segmentation errors werefound in unknown tokens.
Moreover, the translit-erated words are mostly medical terms importantfor understanding the text.5 Acquiring a Transliterations LexiconAs transliterations account for a substantialamount of the errors and are usually medicalterms, therefore of interest, we aim to automati-cally create a dictionary mapping transliterationsin our target corpus to a terminology or vocabu-lary in the source language.
In our case, thesource language is medical English which is amix of English and medical terms from Latin asrepresented by the UMLS vocabulary.The dictionary construction algorithm is basedon two methods: noisy transliteration of the med-ical English terms from the UMLS to Hebrewforms (producing all the forms an English termsmay be written in Hebrew, see (Kirschenbaumand Wintner 2009)) and matching the generatedFigure 1 ?
Decision Tree for inclusion/exclusion.
Sodium Valproate (dplpt) is a key term which isoften segmented incorrectly.117transliterations to the unknown Hebrew formsfound in our target corpus.
After creating a list ofcandidate pairs (Hebrew form found in the cor-pus and transliterated UMLS concept), we filterthe results to create an accurate dictionary usingvarious heuristic measures.The produced lexicon contained 2,507 trans-literated lemmas with precision of 75%.
The ac-quired lexicon reduced segmentation errors by50%.6 Experiments6.1 Experimental SettingsAn SVM classifier was trained using the 200most common nouns as features.
The noun lem-mas were extracted with the morphological dis-ambiguator in two settings: na?ve setting usingthe newswire lexicon and an adapted setting us-ing the acquired lexicon.We divided the corpus into training and testingsets of equal size, we report on the average re-sults or 10 different divisions of the data.6.2 ResultsThe classifier using the baseline lexicon achievedan average F-Score of 83.6%.
With the extendedin-domain transliterations lexicon the classifierachieves F-Score of 87%, an error reduction of20%.We repeated the experiment with decisiontrees for visualization for error analysis.
Withdecision trees we see an improvement from76.8% to 82.6% F-score.
In Figure 1, we see inthe resulting decision tree the most commonlyprescribed medication for epilepsy patients, So-dium Valproate ?depalept?
(???????).
This wordappears in three forms: ?depalept?, ?b+deplapet?and ?h+depalept?.
The acquired lexicon allowsbetter segmentation of this word thus removingnoise for documents containing the agglutinatedforms.7 ConclusionsWe presented the task of classifying patients?Hebrew free text EHR for inclusion/exclusionfrom a prospective study.
Transliterated tokensare an important feature in medical texts.
In lan-guages with compound tokens this is likely tolead to segmentation errors.Using a lexicon adapted for the domain im-pacts the number of segmentation errors, thiserror reduction translates into further improve-ments when using these data for down the lineapplications such as classification.Creating domain adaptation methods for re-source-poor languages can positively impact theuse of clinical records in these languages.AcknowledgmentsAdler, M. and M. Elhadad (2006).
Anunsupervised morpheme-based hmm forhebrew morphological disambiguation.Proceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguisticsand the 44th annual meeting of theAssociation for ComputationalLinguistics, Association forComputational Linguistics.Albright, D., A. Lanfranchi, et al(2013).
"Towards comprehensive syntactic andsemantic annotations of the clinicalnarrative."
Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association.Aronson, A. R. and F. M. Lang (2010).
"Anoverview of MetaMap: historicalperspective and recent advances."
Journalof the American Medical InformaticsAssociation 17(3): 229-236.Bodenreider, O.
(2004).
"The unified medicallanguage system (UMLS): integratingbiomedical terminology."
Nucleic AcidsResearch 32(Database Issue): D267.Hirtz, D., D. Thurman, et al(2007).
"HowFRPPRQ DUH WKH ?FRPPRQ? QHXURORJLFdisorders?"
Neurology 68(5): 326-337.Kirschenbaum, A. and S. Wintner (2009).
Lightlysupervised transliteration for machinetranslation.
Proceedings of the 12thConference of the European Chapter ofthe Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Association forComputational Linguistics.Restificar, A., I. Korkontzelos, et al(2013).
"Amethod for discovering and inferringappropriate eligibility criteria in clinicaltrial protocols without labeled data.
"BMC Medical Informatics and DecisionMaking 13(Suppl 1): S6.Savova, G. K., J. J. Masanz, et al(2010).
"Mayoclinical Text Analysis and KnowledgeExtraction System (cTAKES):architecture, component evaluation andapplications."
Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association 17(5):507-513.Tateisi, Y., Y. Tsuruoka, et al(2006).
Subdomainadaptation of a POS tagger with a smallcorpus.
Proceedings of the Workshop on118Linking Natural Language Processing andBiology: Towards Deeper BiologicalLiterature Analysis, Association forComputational Linguistics.Tsuruoka, Y., Y. Tateishi, et al(2005).
"Developing a robust part-of-speechtagger for biomedical text."
Advances ininformatics: 382-392.119
