Proceedings of the The 1st Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 11?20,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGAF: A Grounded Annotation Framework for EventsAntske Fokkens, Marieke van Erp, Piek VossenThe Network InstituteVU University Amsterdamantske.fokkens@vu.nlmarieke.van.erp@vu.nlpiek.vossen@vu.nlSara TonelliFBKTrento, Italysatonelli@fbk.euWillem Robert van HageSynerScope B.V.Eindhoven, The Netherlandswillem.van.hage@synerscope.comLuciano Serafini, Rachele SprugnoliFBKTrento, Italyserafini@fbk.eusprugnoli@fbk.euJesper HoeksemaThe Network InstituteVU University Amsterdamj.e.hoeksema@vu.nlAbstractThis paper introduces GAF, a grounded an-notation framework to represent events in aformal context that can represent informationfrom both textual and extra-textual sources.GAF makes a clear distinction between men-tions of events in text and their formal rep-resentation as instances in a semantic layer.Instances are represented by RDF compliantURIs that are shared across different researchdisciplines.
This allows us to complete textualinformation with external sources and facili-tates reasoning.
The semantic layer can inte-grate any linguistic information and is com-patible with previous event representations inNLP.
Through a use case on earthquakes inSoutheast Asia, we demonstrate GAF flexibil-ity and ability to reason over events with theaid of extra-linguistic resources.1 IntroductionEvents are not only described in textual documents,they are also represented in many other non-textualsources.
These sources include videos, pictures,sensors or evidence from data registration such asmobile phone data, financial transactions and hos-pital registrations.
Nevertheless, many approachesto textual event annotation consider events as text-internal-affairs, possibly across multiple documentsbut seldom across different modalities.
It followsfrom the above that event representation is not ex-clusively a concern for the NLP community.
It alsoplays a major role in several other branches of in-formation science such as knowledge representationand the Semantic Web, which have created their ownmodels for representing events.We propose a grounded annotation framework(GAF) that allows us to interconnect different waysof describing and registering events, including non-linguistic sources.
GAF representations can be usedto reason over the cumulated and linked sources ofknowledge and information to interpret the often in-complete and fragmented information that is pro-vided by each source.
We make a clear distinctionbetween mentions of events in text or any other formof registration and their formal representation as in-stances in a semantic layer.Mentions in text are annotated using the TerenceAnnotation Format (Moens et al 2011, TAF) on topof which the semantic layer is realized using Seman-tic Web technologies and standards.
In this semanticlayer, instances are denoted with Uniform ResourceIdentifiers (URIs).
Attributes and relations are ex-pressed according to the Simple Event Model (VanHage et al 2011, SEM) and other established on-tologies.
Statements are grouped in named graphsbased on provenance and (temporal) validity, en-abling the representation of conflicting information.External knowledge can be related to instances froma wide variety of sources such as those found in theLinked Open Data Cloud (Bizer et al 2009a).Instances in the semantic layer can optionally belinked to one or more mentions in text or to othersources.
Because linking instances is optional, our11representation offers a straightforward way to in-clude information that can be inferred from text,such as implied participants or whether an event ispart of a series that is not explicitly mentioned.
Dueto the fact that each URI is unique, it is clear thatmentions connected to the same URI have a coref-erential relation.
Other relations between instances(participants, subevents, temporal relations, etc.)
arerepresented explicitly in the semantic layer.The remainder of this paper is structured as fol-lows.
In Section 2, we present related work and ex-plain the motivation behind our approach.
Section 3describes the in-text annotation approach.
Our se-mantic annotation layer is presented in Section 4.Sections 5-7 present GAF through a use case onearthquakes in Indonesia.
This is followed by ourconclusions and future work in section 8.2 Motivation and BackgroundAnnotation of events and of relations between themhas a long tradition in NLP.
The MUC confer-ences (Grishman and Sundheim, 1996) in the 90sdid not explicitly annotate events and coreferencerelations, but the templates used for evaluating theinformation extraction tasks indirectly can be seenas annotation of events represented in newswires.Such events are not ordered in time or further relatedto each other.
In response, Setzer and Gaizauskas(2000) describe an annotation framework to createcoherent temporal orderings of events representedin documents using closure rules.
They suggest thatreasoning with text independent models, such as acalendar, helps annotating textual representations.More recently, generic corpora, such as Prop-bank (Palmer et al 2005) and the Framenet cor-pus (Baker et al 2003) have been built according tolinguistic principles.
The annotations aim at prop-erly representing verb structures within a sentencecontext, focusing on verb arguments, semantic rolesand other elements.
In ACE 2004 (Linguistic DataConsortium, 2004b), event detection and linking isincluded as a pilot task for the first time, inspired byannotation schemes developed for named entities.They distinguish between event mentions and thetrigger event, which is the mention that most clearlyexpresses its occurrence (Linguistic Data Consor-tium, 2004a).
Typically, agreement on the triggerevent is low across annotators (around 55% (Moenset al 2011)).
Timebank (Pustejovsky et al 2006b)is a more recent corpus for representing events andtime-expressions that includes temporal relations inaddition to plain coreference relations.All these approaches have in common that theyconsider the textual representation as a closed worldwithin which events need to be represented.
Thismeans that mentions are linked to a trigger eventor to each other but not to an independent semanticrepresentation.
More recently, researchers started toannotate events across multiple documents, such asthe EventCorefBank (Bejan and Harabagiu, 2010).Cross-document coreference is more challenging forestablishing the trigger event, but it is in essence notdifferent from annotating textual event coreferencewithin a single document.
Descriptions of eventsacross documents may complement each other pro-viding a more complete picture, but still textual de-scriptions tend to be incomplete and sparse with re-spect to time, place and participants.
At the sametime, the comparison of events becomes more com-plex.
We thus expect even lower agreement in as-signing trigger events across documents.
Nothmanet al(2012) define the trigger as the first new ar-ticle that mentions an event, which is easier thanto find the clearest description and still report inter-annotator agreement of .48 and .73, respectively.Recent approaches to automatically resolve eventcoreference (cf.
Chambers and Jurafsky (2011a),Bejan and Harabagiu (2010)) use some backgrounddata to establish coreference and other relations be-tween events in text.
Background information, in-cluding resources, and models learned from textualdata do not represent mentions of events directly butare useful to fill gaps of knowledge in the textualdescriptions.
They do not alter the model for anno-tation as such.We aim to take these recent efforts one step fur-ther and propose a grounded annotation framework(GAF).
Our main goal is to integrate informationfrom text analysis in a formal context shared withresearchers across domains.
Furthermore, GAF isflexible enough to contain contradictory informa-tion.
This is both important to represent sourcesthat (partially) contradict each other and to com-bine alternative annotations or output of differentNLP tools.
Because conflicting information may be12present, provenance of information is provided inour framework, so that we may decide which sourceto trust more or use it as a feature to decide which in-terpretation to follow.
Different models of event rep-resentation exist that can contribute valuable infor-mation.
Therefore our model is compliant with priorapproaches regardless of whether they are manual orautomatic.
Finally, GAF makes a clear distinctionbetween instances and instance mentions avoidingthe problem of determining a trigger event.
Addi-tionally, it facilitates the integration of informationfrom extra-textual sources and information that canbe inferred from texts, but is not explicitly men-tioned.
Sections 5 to 7 will explain how we canachieve this with GAF.3 The TERENCE annotation formatThe TERENCE Annotation Format (TAF) is de-fined within the TERENCE Project1 with the goalto include event mentions, temporal expressions andparticipant mentions in a single annotation proto-col (Moens et al 2011).
TAF is based on ISO-TimeML (Pustejovsky et al 2010), but introducesseveral adaptations in order to fit the domain of chil-dren?s stories for which it was originally developed.The format has been used to annotate around 30 chil-dren stories in Italian and 10 in English.We selected TAF as the basis for our in-text anno-tation for three reasons.
First, it incorporates the (inour opinion crucial) distinction between instancesand instance mentions.
Second, it adapts some con-solidated paradigms for linguistic annotation such asTimeML for events and temporal expressions andACE for participants and participant mentions (Lin-guistic Data Consortium, 2005).
It is thus compat-ible with other annotation schemes.
Third, it inte-grates the annotation of event mentions, participantsand temporal expressions into a unified framework.We will elaborate briefly on these properties below.As mentioned, TAF makes a clear distinction be-tween instances and instance mentions.
Originally,this distinction only applied to nominal and namedentities, similar to ACE (Linguistic Data Consor-tium, 2005), because children?s stories can gener-ally be treated as a closed world, usually present-1ICT FP7 Programme, ICT-2010-25410, http://www.terenceproject.eu/ing a simple sequence of events that do not corefer.Event coreference and linking to other sources wasthus not relevant for this domain.
In GAF, we ex-tend the distinction between instances and instancementions to events to model event coreference, linkthem to other sources and create a consistent modelfor all instances.Children?s stories usually include a small set ofcharacters, event sequences (mostly in chronologi-cal order), and a few generic temporal expressions.In the TERENCE project, modeling characters inthe stories is necessary.
This requires an extensionof TimeML to deal with event participants.
Puste-jovsky et al(2006a) address the need to include ar-guments in TimeML annotations, but that proposaldid not include specific examples and details on howto perform annotation (e.g., on the participants?
at-tributes).
Such guidelines were created for TAF.The TAF annotation of event mentions largelyfollows TimeML in annotating tense, aspect, class,mood, modality and polarity and temporal expres-sions.
However, there are several differences be-tween TAF and TimeML.
First, temporal expres-sions are not normalized into the ISO-8601 form,because most children?s stories are not fixed to a spe-cific date.
In GAF, the normalization of expressionstakes place in the semantic layer as these go beyondthe scope of the text.
As a result, temporal vague-ness of linguistic expressions in text do not need tobe normalized in the textual representation to actualtime points and remain underspecified.2In TAF, events and participant mentions are linkedthrough a has participant relation, which is definedas a directional, one-to-one relation from the eventto the participant mentions.
Only mentions corre-sponding to mandatory arguments of the events inthe story are annotated.
Annotators look up eachverb in a reference dictionary providing informationon the predicate-argument structure of each verb.This makes annotation easier and generally not con-troversial.
However, this kind of information can beprovided only by annotators having a good knowl-edge of linguistics.All annotations are performed with the Celct An-2Note that we can still use existing tools for normalizationat the linguistic level: early normalizations can be integratedin the semantic layer alongside normalizations carried out at alater point.13sem:subEventOfsem:Event sem:Actor sem:Place sem:Timesem:hasTimesem:hasActorsem:hasPlacesem:PlaceTypesem:placeTypesem:EventTypesem:eventTypesem:ActorTypesem:actorTypesem:TimeTypesem:Typesem:timeTypesem:Coresem:subTypeOfCoreClasses(Foreign)TypeSystemLiteral sem:hasTimeStampLiteral sem:hasTimeStampFigure 1: The SEM ontologynotation Tool (Bartalesi Lenzi et al 2012), an onlinetool supporting TimeML that can easily be extendedto include participant information.
The annotatedfile can be exported to various XML formats and im-ported into the semantic layer.
The next section de-scribes SEM, the event model used in our semanticlayer, and how it complements the TAF annotations.4 The Simple Event ModelThe Simple Event Model (SEM) is an RDFschema (Carroll and Klyne, 2004; Guha and Brick-ley, 2004) to express who did what, where, andwhen.
There are many RDF schemas and OWL on-tologies (Motik et al 2009) that describe events,e.g., Shaw et al(2009), Crofts et al(2008) andScherp et al(2009).
SEM is among the mostflexible and easiest to adapt to different domains.SEM describes events and related instances such asthe place, time and participants (called Actors inSEM) by representing the interactions between theinstances with RDF triples.
SEM models are se-mantic networks that include events, places, times,participants and all related concepts, such as theirtypes.An overview of all the classes in the SEM ontol-ogy and the relations connecting them is shown inFigure 1.
Nodes can be identified by URIs, whichuniversally identify them across all RDF models.
Iffor example one uses the URI used by DBpedia3(Bizer et al 2009b) for the 2004 catastrophe in In-3http://dbpedia.orgdonesia, then one really means the same event as ev-erybody else who uses that URI.
SEM does not putany constraints on the RDF vocabulary, so vocabu-laries can easily be reused.
Places and place typescan for example be imported from GeoNames4 andevent types from the RDF version of WordNet.SEM supports two types of abstraction: gener-alization with hierarchical relations from other on-tologies, such as the subclass relation from RDFS,and aggregation of events into superevents with thesem:subEventOf relation, as exemplified in Fig-ure 2.
Other types of abstractions can be representedusing additional schemas or ontologies in combina-tion with SEM.
For instance, temporal aggregationcan be done with constructs from the OWL Timeontology (Hobbs and Pan, 2004).Relations between events and other instances,which could be other events, places, actors, times,or external concepts, can be modeled using thesem:eventProperty relation.
This relation canbe refined to represent specific relations, such asspecific participation, causality or simultaneity rela-tions.
The provenance of information in the SEMgraph is captured through assigning contexts tostatements using the PROV Data Model (Moreau etal., 2012).
In this manner, all statements derivedfrom a specific newspaper article are stored in anamed graph that represents that origin.
Conflictingstatements can be stored in different named graphs,and can thus coexist.
This gives us the possibility4http://www.geonames.org/ontology/14sem:Eventsem:Placesem:EventTypesem:Timedbpedia:2004_Indian_Ocean_earthquake_and_ tsunamirdf:type"December 2004Earthquake andTsunami"@enrdfs:labelrdf:typerdf:type"3.316"^^xsd:decimal"2004-12-26"^^xsd:date"95.854"^^xsd:decimalwgs84:longwgs84:latowltime:inXSDDateTimesem:hasPlace sem:hasTimenaacl:INSTANCE_186rdf:typesem:subEventOfwn30:synset-earthquake-noun-1sem:eventTyperdf:typenaacl:INSTANCE_188rdf:typesem:subEventOfnaacl:INSTANCE_198sem:hasTimenaacl:TIMEX3_81 "2004"str:anchorOfnwr:denotedBynaacl:INSTANCE_MENTION_118nwr:denotedBy "temblor"@enstr:anchorOfnwr:denotedBy"tsunami"@ennaacl:INSTANCE_MENTION_120str:anchorOfnaacl:INSTANCE_189sem:subEventOfnaacl:INSTANCE_MENTION_121nwr:denotedBy"swept"@enstr:anchorOfsem:hasPlacenaacl:INSTANCE_67naacl:INSTANCE_MENTION_19nwr:denotedBy"Indian Ocean"@enstr:anchorOftaf:LOCATIONtaf:NSUBJgeonames:1545739skos:exactMatchgaf:G1gaf:G2gaf:G3gaf:G4gaf:G5dbpedia:Bloombergsem:accordingTotaf:annotation_2013_03_24sem:accordingTogaf:annotation_2013_04_29sem:accordingTogaf:annotation_2013_04_29sem:accordingTotaf:annotation_2013_03_24sem:accordingTosem:derivedFromgaf:causesFigure 2: Partial SEM representation of December 26th 2004 Earthquakeof delaying or ignoring the resolution of the conflict,which enables use cases that require the analysis ofthe conflict itself.5 The GAF Annotation FrameworkThis section explains the basic idea behind GAF byusing texts on earthquakes in Indonesia.
GAF pro-vides a general model for event representation (in-cluding textual and extra-textual mentions) as wellas exact representation of linguistic annotation oroutput of NLP tools.
Simply put, GAF is the combi-nation of textual analyses and formal semantic rep-resentations in RDF.5.1 A SEM for earthquakesWe selected newspaper texts on the January 2009West Papua earthquakes from Bejan and Harabagiu(2010) to illustrate GAF.
This choice was made be-cause the topic ?earthquake?
illustrates the advan-tage of sharing URIs across domains.
Gao andHunter (2011) propose a Linked Data model to cap-ture major geological events such as earthquakes,volcano activity and tsunamis.
They combine infor-mation from different seismological databases withthe intention to provide more complete informationto experts which may help to predict the occurrenceof such events.
The information can also be usedin text interpretation.
We can verify whether in-terpretations by NLP tools correspond to the dataand relations defined by geologists or, through gen-eralization, which interpretation is the most sensi-ble given what we know about the events.
Generalinformation on events obtained from automatic textprocessing, such as event templates (Chambers andJurafsky, 2011b) or typical event durations (Gusevet al 2010) can be integrated in SEM in a similarmanner.
Provenance indications can be used to in-dicate whether information is based on a model cre-ated by an expert or an automatically derived modelobtained by a particular approach.Figure 2 provides a fragment of a SEM represen-tation for the earthquake and tsunami of December26 2004.5 The model is partially inspired by Gaoand Hunter (2011)?s proposal.
It combines infor-mation extracted from texts with information fromDBpedia.
The linking between the two can be es-tablished either manually or automatically through5The annotation and a larger representation including thesentence it represents can be found on the GAF website http://wordpress.let.vu.nl/gaf.15an entity linking system.6 The combined event ofthe earthquake and tsunami is represented by a DB-pedia URI.
The node labeled naacl:INSTANCE 186represents the earthquake itself.
The unambiguousrepresentation of the 2004 earthquake leads us to ad-ditional information about it, for instance that theearthquake is an event (sem:Event) and that thesem:EventType is an earthquake, in this caserepresented by a synset from WordNet, but also theexact date it occurred and the exact location (cfsem:hasTime, sem:hasPlace).5.2 Integrating TAF representations into SEMTAF annotations are converted to SEM relations.For example, the TAF as participant relationsare translated to sem:hasActor relations, andtemporal relations are translated to sem:hasTime.We use the relation nwr:denotedBy to link in-stances to their mentions in the text which are repre-sented by their unique identifiers in Figure 2.Named graphs are used to model the source ofinformation as discussed in Section 4.
The re-lation sem:accordingTo indicates provenanceof information in the graph.7 For instance, thementions from the text in named graph gaf:G1come from the source dbpedia:Bloomberg.Relations between instances (e.g.
between IN-STANCE 189 and INSTANCE 188) are derivedfrom a specific grammatical relation in the text(here, that tsunami is subject of swept) indicatedby the nwr:derivedFrom relation from gaf:G5to gaf:G4.
The grammatical relations includedin graph gaf:G5 come from a TAF annotation(tag:annotation 2013 03 24).6 GAF Earthquake ExamplesThis section takes a closer look at a few selected sen-tences from the text that illustrate different aspectsof GAF.
Figure 2 showed how a URI can provide aformal context including important background in-6Entity linking is the task of associating a mention to aninstance in a knowledge base.
Several approaches and tools forentity linking w.r.t.
DBpedia and other data sets in the LinkedOpen Data cloud are available and achieve good performances,such as DBpedia Spotlight (Mendes et al 2011); see (Rizzoand Troncy, 2011) for a comparison of tools.7The use of named graphs in this way to denote context iscompatible with the method used by Bozzato et al(2012).formation on the event.
Several texts in the corpusrefer to the tsunami of December 26, 2004, a 9.1temblor in 2004 caused a tsunami and The catastro-phe four years ago, among others.
Compared to timeexpressions such as 2004 and four years ago, timeindications extracted from external sources like DB-pedia are not only more precise, but also permit us tocorrectly establish the fact that these expressions re-fer to the same event and thus indicate the same time.The articles were published in January 2009: a directnormalization of time indications would have placedthe catastrophe in 2005.
The flexibility to combinethese seemingly conflicting time indications and de-lay normalization can be used to correctly interpretthat four years ago early January 2009 refers to anevent taking place at the end of December 2004.A fragment relating to one of the earthquakes ofJanuary 2009: The quake struck off the coast [...] 75kilometers (50 miles) west of [....] Manokwari pro-vides a similar example.
The expressions 75 kilo-meters and 50 miles are clearly meant to expressthe same distance, but not identical.
The locationis most likely neither exactly 75 km nor 50 miles.SEM can represent an underspecified location thatis included in the correct region.
The exact locationof the earthquake can be found in external resources.We can include both distances as expressions of thelocation and decide whether they denote the generallocation or include the normalized locations as alter-natives to those from external resources.Different sources may report different details.Details may only be known later, or sources mayreport from a different perspective.
As provenanceinformation can be incorporated into the semanticlayer, we can represent different perspectives, andchoose which one to use when reasoning over theinformation.
For example, the following phrasesindicate the magnitude of the earthquakes thatstruck Manokwari on January 4, 2009:the 7.7 magnitude quake (source: Xinhuanet)two quakes, measuring 7.6 and 7.4 (source: Bloomberg)One 7.3-magnitude tremor (source: Jakartapost)The first two magnitude indicators (7.7, 7.6)are likely to pertain to the same earthquake, just asthe second two (7.4, 7.3) are.
Trust indicators canbe found through the provenance trace of each men-16tion.
Trust indicators can include the date on whichit was published, properties of the creation process,the author, or publisher (Ceolin et al 2010).Furthermore, because the URIs are shared acrossdomains, we can link the information from the textto information from seismological databases, whichmay contain the exact measurement for the quake.Similarly, external information obtained throughshared links can help us establish coreference.
Con-sider the sentences in Figure 3.
There are severalways to establish that the same event is meant in allthree sentences by using shared URIs and reasoning.All sentences give us approximate time indications,location of the affected area and casualties.
Rea-soning over these sentences combined with externalknowledge allows us to infer facts such as that un-dersea [...] off [...] Aceh will be in the Indian Ocean,or that the affected countries listed in the first sen-tence are countries around the Indian Ocean, whichconstitutes the Indian Ocean Community.
The num-ber of casualties in combination of the approximatetime indication or approximate location suffices toidentify the earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia onDecember 26, 2004.
The DBpedia representationcontains additional information such as the magni-tude, exact location of the quake and a list of affectedcountries, which can be used for additional verifica-tion.
This example illustrates how a formal contextusing URIs that are shared across disciplines of in-formation science can help to determine exact refer-ents from limited or imprecise information.7 Creating GAFGAF entails integrating linguistic information(e.g.
TAF annotations) into RDF models (e.g.
SEM).The information in the model includes provenancethat points back to specific annotations.
There aretwo approaches to annotate text according to GAF.The first approach is bottom-up.
Mentions aremarked in the text as well as relations between them(participants, time, causal relations, basically any-thing except coreference).
Consequently, these an-notations are converted to SEM representations asexplained above.
Coreference is established by link-ing mentions to the same instance in SEM.
The sec-ond approach is top-down.
Here, annotators markrelations between instances (events, their partici-pants, time relations, etc.)
directly into SEM andthen link these to mentions in the text.As mention in Section 2, inter-annotator agree-ment on event annotation is generally low showingthat it is challenging.
The task is somewhat simpli-fied in GAF, since it removes the problem of identi-fying an event trigger in the text.
The GAF equiva-lent of the event trigger in other linguistic annotationapproaches is an instance in SEM.
However, otherchallenges such as which mentions to select are inprinciple not addressed by GAF, though differencesin inter-annotator agreement may be found depend-ing on whether the bottom-up approach or the top-down approach is selected.
The formal context ofSEM may help frame annotations, especially for do-mains such as earthquakes, where expert knowledgewas used to create basic event models.
This mayhelp annotators while defining the correct relationsbetween events.
On the other hand, the top-downapproach may lead to additional challenges, becauseannotators are forced to link events to unambiguousinstances leading to hesitations as to when new in-stances should be introduced.Currently, we only use the bottom-up approach.The main reason is the lack of an appropriate anno-tation tool to directly annotate information in SEM.We plan to perform comparative studies between thetwo annotation approaches in future work.8 Conclusion and Future WorkWe presented GAF, an event annotation frameworkin which textual mentions of events are grounded ina semantic model that facilitates linking these eventsto mentions in external (possibly non-textual) re-sources and thereby reasoning.
We illustrated howGAF combines TAF and SEM through a use caseon earthquakes.
We explained that we aim for arepresentation that can combine textual and extra-linguistic information, provides a clear distinctionbetween instances and instance mentions, is flexi-ble enough to include conflicting information andclearly marks the provenance of information.GAF ticks all these boxes.
All instances are rep-resented by URIs in a semantic layer following stan-dard RDF representations that are shared across re-search disciplines.
They are thus represented com-pletely independent of the source and clearly distin-17There have been hundreds of earthquakes in Indonesia since a 9.1 temblor in 2004 caused atsunami that swept across the Indian Ocean, devastating coastal communities and leaving morethan 220,000 people dead in Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and other countries.
(Bloomberg, 2009-01-07 01:55 EST)The catastrophe four years ago devastated Indian Ocean community and killed more than 230,000people, over 170,000 of them in Aceh at northern tip of Sumatra Island of Indonesia.
(Xinhuanet, 2009-01-05 13:25:46 GMT)In December 2004, a massive undersea quake off the western Indonesian province of Acehtriggered a giant tsunami that left at least 230,000 people dead and missing in a dozencountries facing the Indian Ocean.
(Aljazeera, 2009-01-05 08:49 GMT)Figure 3: Sample sentences mentioning the December 2004 Indonesian earthquake from sample textsguished from mentions in text or mentions in othersources.
The Terence Annotation Format (TAF) pro-vides a unified framework to annotate events, par-ticipants and temporal expressions (and the corre-sponding relations) by leaning on past, consolidatedannotation experiences such TimeML and ACE.
Wewill harmonize TAF, the Kyoto Annotation Format(Bosma et al 2009, KAF) and the NLP InterchangeFormat (Hellmann et al 2012, NIF) with respectto the textual representation in the near future.
TheNAF format includes the lessons learned from thesepredecessors: layered standoff representations usingURI as identifiers and where possible standardizeddata categories.
The formal semantic model (SEM)provides the flexibility to include conflicting infor-mation as well as indications of the provenance ofthis information.
This allows us to use inferencingand reasoning over the cumulated and aggregatedinformation, possibly exploiting the provenance ofthe type of information source.
This flexibility alsomakes our representation compatible with all ap-proaches dealing with event representation and de-tections mentioned in Section 2.
It can include au-tomatically learned templates as well as specific re-lations between events and time expressed in text.Moreover, it may simultaneously contain output ofdifferent NLP tools.The proposed semantic layer may be simple, itsflexibility in importing external knowledge may in-crease complexity in usage as it can model events inevery thinkable domain.
To resolve this issue, it isimportant to scope the domain by importing the ap-propriate vocabularies, but no more.
When keepingthis in mind, reasoning with SEM is shown to be richbut still versatile (Van Hage et al 2012).While GAF provides us with the desired granu-larity and flexibility for the event annotation taskswe envision, a thorough evaluation still needs to becarried out.
This includes an evaluation of the anno-tations created with GAF compared to other anno-tation formats, as well as testing it within a greaterapplication.
A comparative study of top-down andbottom-up annotation will also be carried out.
As al-ready mentioned in Section 7, there is no appropriatemodeling tool for SEM yet.
We are currently usingthe CAT tool to create TAF annotations and convertthose to SEM, but will develop a tool to annotate thesemantic layer directly for this comparative study.The most interesting effect of the GAF annota-tions is that it provides us with relatively simple ac-cess to a vast wealth of extra-linguistic information,which we can utilize in a variety of NLP tasks; someof the reasoning options that are made available bythe pairing up with Semantic Web technology mayfor example aid us in identifying coreference rela-tions between events.
Investigating the implicationsof this combination of NLP and Semantic Web tech-nologies lies at the heart of our future work.AcknowledgementsWe thank Francesco Corcoglioniti for his helpfulcomments and suggestions.
The research lead-ing to this paper was supported by the EuropeanUnion?s 7th Framework Programme via the News-Reader Project (ICT-316404) and by the Biogra-phyNed project, funded by the Netherlands eScienceCenter (http://esciencecenter.nl/).
Partners in Biog-raphyNed are Huygens/ING Institute of the DutchAcademy of Sciences and VU University Amster-dam.18ReferencesCollin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and Beau Cronin.2003.
The structure of the FrameNet database.
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography, 16(3):281?296.Valentina Bartalesi Lenzi, Giovanni Moretti, and RacheleSprugnoli.
2012.
CAT: the CELCT Annotation Tool.In Proceedings of LREC 2012.Cosmin Bejan and Sandra Harabagiu.
2010.
Unsuper-vised event coreference resolution with rich linguisticfeatures.
In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages1412?1422.Christian Bizer, Tom Heath, and Tim Berners-Lee.2009a.
Linked data - the story so far.
InternationalJournal on Semantic Web and Information Systems,5(3):1?22.Christian Bizer, Jens Lehmann, Georgi Kobilarov, So?renAuer, Christian Becker, Richard Cyganiak, and Sebas-tian Hellmann.
2009b.
DBpedia - A crystallizationpoint for the Web of Data.
Web Semantics: Science,Services and Agents on the World Wide Web, 7(3):154?
165.Wauter Bosma, Piek Vossen, Aitor Soroa, German Rigau,Maurizio Tesconi, Andrea Marchetti, Monica Mona-chini, and Carlo Aliprandi.
2009.
KAF: a generic se-mantic annotation format.
In Proceedings of the 5thInternational Conference on Generative Approachesto the Lexicon GL 2009, Pisa, Italy.Loris Bozzato, Francesco Corcoglioniti, Martin Homola,Mathew Joseph, and Luciano Serafini.
2012.
Manag-ing contextualized knowledge with the ckr (poster).
InProceedings of the 9th Extended Semantic Web Con-ference (ESWC 2012), May 27-31.Jeremy J. Carroll and Graham Klyne.
2004.
Re-source description framework (RDF): Concepts andabstract syntax.
W3C recommendation, W3C, Febru-ary.
http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-rdf-concepts-20040210/.Davide Ceolin, Paul Groth, and Willem Robert Van Hage.2010.
Calculating the trust of event descriptions usingprovenance.
Proceedings Of The SWPM.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2011a.Template-based information extraction without thetemplates.
In Proceedings of ACL-2011.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2011b.Template-based information extraction without thetemplates.
In Proceedings of ACL-2011, Portland, OR.Nick Crofts, Martin Doerr, Tony Gill, Stephen Stead,and Matthew Stiff.
2008.
Definition of the CIDOCConceptual Reference Model.
Technical report,ICOM/CIDOC CRM Special Interest Group.
version4.2.5.Lianli Gao and Jane Hunter.
2011.
Publishing, link-ing and annotating events via interactive timelines: anearth sciences case study.
In DeRiVE 2011 (Detec-tion, Representation, and Exploitation of Events in theSemantic Web) Workshop in conjunction with ISWC2011, Bonn, Germany.Ralph Grishman and Beth Sundheim.
1996.
Messageunderstanding conference - 6: A brief history.
In Pro-ceedings of the 16th conference on Computational lin-guistics (COLING?96), pages 466?471.Ramanathan V. Guha and Dan Brickley.
2004.RDF vocabulary description language 1.0: RDFschema.
W3C recommendation, W3C, Febru-ary.
http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-rdf-schema-20040210/.Andrey Gusev, Nathanael Chambers, Pranav Khaitan,Divye Khilnani, Steven Bethard, and Dan Jurafsky.2010.
Using query patterns to learn the duration ofevents.
In Proceedings of ISWC 2010.Sebastian Hellmann, Jens Lehmann, and So?ren Auer.2012.
NIF: An ontology-based and linked-data-awareNLP Interchange Format.
Working Draft.Jerry R Hobbs and Feng Pan.
2004.
An ontology of timefor the semantic web.
ACM Transactions on AsianLanguage Information Processing (TALIP), 3(1):66?85.Linguistic Data Consortium.
2004a.
AnnotationGuidelines for Event Detection and Characterization(EDC).
http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/ace/docs/EnglishEDCV2.0.pdf.Linguistic Data Consortium.
2004b.
The ACE 2004Evaluation Plan.
Technical report, LDC.Linguistic Data Consortium.
2005.
ACE (AutomaticContent Extraction) English annotation guidelines forentities.
Version 6.6, July.Pablo N. Mendes, Max Jakob, Andre?s Garc?
?a-Silva, andChristian Bizer.
2011.
Dbpedia spotlight: sheddinglight on the web of documents.
In Proceedings of the7th International Conference on Semantic Systems, I-Semantics ?11, pages 1?8.Marie-Francine Moens, Oleksandr Kolomiyets,Emanuele Pianta, Sara Tonelli, and Steven Bethard.2011.
D3.1: State-of-the-art and design of novelannotation languages and technologies: Updatedversion.
Technical report, TERENCE project ?
ICTFP7 Programme ?
ICT-2010-25410.Luc Moreau, Paolo Missier, Khalid Belhajjame, RezaB?Far, James Cheney, Sam Coppens, Stephen Cress-well, Yolanda Gil, Paul Groth, Graham Klyne, Timo-thy Lebo, Jim McCusker, Simon Miles, James Myers,Satya Sahoo, and Curt Tilmes.
2012.
PROV-DM: ThePROV Data Model.
Technical report.Boris Motik, Bijan Parsia, and Peter F. Patel-Schneider.
2009.
OWL 2 Web Ontology19Language structural specification and functional-style syntax.
W3C recommendation, W3C,October.
http://www.w3.org/TR/2009/REC-owl2-syntax-20091027/.Joel Nothman, Matthew Honnibal, Ben Hachey, andJames R. Curran.
2012.
Event linking: Ground-ing event reference in a news archive.
In Proceed-ings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers),pages 228?232, Jeju Island, Korea, July.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The proposition bank: An annotated corpus ofsemantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31(1):71?106, 2013/03/12.James Pustejovsky, Jessica Littman, and Roser Saur?`.2006a.
Argument Structure in TimeML.
In DagstuhlSeminar Proceedings.
Internationales Begegnungs-und Forschungszentrum.James Pustejovsky, Jessica Littman, Roser Saur?
?, andMarc Verhagen.
2006b.
Timebank 1.2 documentation.Technical report, Brandeis University, April.James Pustejovsky, Kiyong Lee, Harry Bunt, and Lau-rent Romary.
2010.
ISO-TimeML: An internationalstandard for semantic annotation.
In Proceedings othe Fifth International Workshop on Interoperable Se-mantic Annotation.Giuseppe Rizzo and Raphae?l Troncy.
2011.
NERD:A framework for evaluating named entity recognitiontools in the Web of data.
In Workshop on Web ScaleKnowledge Extraction, colocated with ISWC 2011.Ansgar Scherp, Thomas Franz, Carsten Saathoff, andSteffen Staab.
2009.
F?a model of events based onthe foundational ontology dolce+ dns ultralight.
InProceedings of the fifth international conference onKnowledge capture, pages 137?144.
ACM.Andrea Setzer and Robert J. Gaizauskas.
2000.
Annotat-ing events and temporal information in newswire texts.In LREC.
European Language Resources Association.Ryan Shaw, Raphae?l Troncy, and Lynda Hardman.
2009.LODE: Linking Open Descriptions of Events.
In 4thAnnual Asian Semantic Web Conference (ASWC?09),Shanghai, China.Willem Robert Van Hage, Ve?ronique Malaise?, RoxaneSegers, Laura Hollink, and Guus Schreiber.
2011.
De-sign and use of the simple event model (SEM).
Jour-nal of Web Semantics.Willem Robert Van Hage, Marieke Van Erp, andVe?ronique Malaise?.
2012.
Linked open piracy: Astory about e-science, linked data, and statistics.
Jour-nal on Data Semantics, 1(3):187?201.20
