Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 261?269,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsSpeech Reduction, Intensity, and F0 Shape are Cues to Turn-TakingOliver NiebuhrDept.
of General LinguisticsUniversity of KielKiel, Germanyniebuhr@isfas.uni-kiel.deKarin G?rsDept.
of General LinguisticsUniversity of KielKiel, Germanykgoers@arcor.deEvelin GraupeDept.
of General LinguisticsUniversity of KielKiel, Germanyevelin_graupe@yahoo.deAbstractBased on German production data fromthe ?Kiel Corpus of SpontaneousSpeech?, we conducted two perceptionexperiments, using an innovative interac-tive task in which participants gave realoral responses to resynthesized questionstimuli.
Differences in the time intervalbetween stimulus question and responseshow that segmental reduction, intensitylevel, and the shape of the phrase-finalrise all function as cues to turn-taking inconversation.
Thus, the phonetics of turn-taking goes beyond the traditional triadof duration, voice quality, and F0 level.1 Introduction1.1 Empirical backgroundSignalling turn-taking intentions is essential forsuccessful speech communication.
Accordingly,it was shown for all well-described languagesthat turn holding and yielding cues are robustlyencoded in complex redundant bundles of mor-phosyntactic and/or phonetic patterns.
The pho-netic patterns primarily rely on prosody, taking aconsiderable part of its functional load.
Com-pared with turn holding, turn yielding is typicallysignalled phrase-finally by extensive terminalfalling or high rising F0 movements, deviationfrom modal phonation ?
mostly in the directionof creak phonation ?
and increasing final length-ening from penultimate to ultimate syllables.These differences seem to be used in the sameway across many languages, and not least for thisreason their validity is beyond doubt (e.g., Dun-can, 1972; Beattie, 1981; Lehiste, 1982; Kohler,1983; Nakatani et al 1995; Ogden, 2001; Fon,2002; Kohler, 2004; Peters, 2006; Vaissi?re &Michaud 2006; Gravano, 2009; Fon et al 2011).However, leaving aside gaze and gesture pat-terns (cf.
Kendon, 1995; Taboada, 2006), agrowing body of evidence from production stud-ies suggests that the phonetics of turn-taking isstill richer and goes beyond the traditional triadof voice quality, duration, and the level or direc-tion of F0 patterns.
Turn holding or yielding alsoseems to include the fourth prosodic dimension,i.e.
intensity, as well as details in the shape ofphrase-final rises and the degree of phrase-finalsegmental reduction.For example, phrase-final voiceless plosives inEnglish are realized either fully pronounced andwith strong post-aspiration, or in reduced formsthat lack post-aspiration and are (partly) replacedby glottalization, cf.
?got?
[gW?tH] vs. [gW?0/t4],and ?cap?
[kH+QpH] vs. [kH+Q/p|].
The differencebetween the unreduced and reduced forms wasfor a long time claimed to be a matter of freevariation, until it was revealed in corpus analysesof different varieties of English that reducedforms were produced turn-medially whereas un-reduced forms occurred almost exceptionally atthe end of a speaker?s turn (Local et al 1986;Docherty et al 1997; Local & Walker, 2012).More recently, it was additionally found forEnglish and French in independent analyses ofspontaneous speech corpora that the intensitylevels of phrase-final syllables differ dependingon whether the syllables occur turn-medially orturn-finally (Gravano & Hirschberg, 2009; Cle-mens & Dieckhaus, 2009; Raux, 2008; Fried-berg, 2011).
The difference was the same in bothlanguages: ?speakers tend to lower their voiceswhen approaching turn boundaries, whereasthey reach turn-internal pauses with a higherintensity?
(Gravano & Hirschberg, 2009:256).Furthermore, Dombrowski & Niebuhr (2005)showed on the basis of one of the largest corporaof Standard Northern German ?
the Kiel Corpusof Spontaneous Speech ?
that it is not only therange of phrase-final intonation movements that261distinguishes turn-internal from turn-final bound-aries.
At least in the case of rises, it also matterswhether the shape of the rise is concave (slowrise followed by fast rise) or convex (fast risefollowed by slow rise).
Convex rises occurredpredominantly turn-medially, whereas concaverises were used by speakers almost invariably atthe end of a turn.
A similar distribution of riseshapes was found by Asu (2006) for discoursemarkers in spontaneous dialogues of Estonian.1.2 Question and aimThe three groups of cross-linguistic findings onreduction levels, intensity levels and rise shapeshave in common that their perceptual relevancefor turn-taking has never been tested as yet.
Thatis, do listeners actually interpret phrase-final dif-ferences in (i) the degree of segmental reduction,(ii) the intensity level, and (iii) the shape of F0rises as signals of turn-holding and/or turn-yielding?
Providing a first answer to this ques-tion is the main aim of the present paper.Clayards et al(2007) showed that the moresystematically acoustic cues are used in speechproduction the more likely they are exploited bylisteners.
Given the distinct production findingsfor (i)-(iii) and their consistency across lan-guages or language varieties, it was already ex-pectable that the answer to our question would be?yes?
; and, indeed our results met our expecta-tion.
Yet, empirical testing was indispensable.1.3 Research subjectOur study was based on a single language vari-ety: Standard Northern German.
However, inview of the strong cross-linguistic parallels in thephonetics of turn-taking (cf.
1.1), it is reasonableto assume that our results will also be applicableto many other languages.In order to test the effects of intensity differ-ences and particularly of reduction differences onthe perception of turn-internal and turn-finalboundaries, we used the most frequent sonorousword-final syllable in German: <-en#>.
It alwaysoccurs unstressed and is phonologically repre-sented as a sequence of schwa and alveolar nasal/?n/.
However, next to its corresponding canoni-cal pronunciation as [?n] (or rather [I4n]), theword-final <-en#> syllable is known to undergodifferent reduction processes.
The two most im-portant processes are /?/ elision, which leaves asyllabic nasal, and assimilation of the syllabicnasal to the place of articulation of the precedingconsonant.
For example, ?lieben?
(to love) canbe realized as [?li?b?n], [?li?bn `], or [?li?bm`].
Like-wise, possible pronunciations of ?sagen?
(to say)are [?za?g?n], [?za?gn`], and [?za?gN`].However, prior to conducting any perceptionexperiments, we first had to confirm that the dif-ferences in the turn-internal vs. turn-final reduc-tion and intensity levels found for English andFrench (cf.
1.1) do occur as well in StandardNorthern German (the differences in rise shapeare already known for Standard Northern Ger-man and thus need not be replicated).
Therefore,our perception experiments were preceded by ananalysis of the Kiel Corpus of SpontaneousSpeech.
This analysis is detailed below.2 Corpus analysis2.1 Analysis methodThe Kiel Corpus of Spontaneous Speech includes117 dialogues which add up to more than fourhours of Standard Northern German speech from52 male or female interlocutors (Kohler, 1996).The corpus is completely annotated, segmentallyand prosodically.
The segmental annotations aremade such that they specify reduction processeslike assimilation, elision, lenition, and ?articula-tory prosodies?
in terms of deviations from thecanonical forms of the spoken words (articula-tory prosodies preserve the ?phonetic essence?
ofsegmentally elided words or syllables in the formof suprasegmental sound qualities and are thusan important cue to word identification in re-duced speech, Kohler & Niebuhr 2011).
Fur-thermore, the structure of the corpus in combina-tion with the prosodic annotation allows a differ-ential search for phrase and turn boundaries.On this basis, we conducted an annotation-based analysis of unstressed word-final <-en#>syllables in turn-final and turn-internal position.The turn-internal tokens were further subdividedinto phrase-final and phrase-internal syllables.The latter phrase-internal syllables were not di-rectly relevant for our research question but stillincluded for the sake of completeness.
Our cor-pus query yielded a total of 17,023 word-final<-en#> syllables.
The majority of the syllables,viz.
11,329 tokens, occurred in phrase- and turn-internal position.
For the phrase-final but turn-internal position, we found 4,090 <-en#> sylla-bles.
The phrase- and turn-final position was rep-resented by 1,604 tokens.
The information aboutwhether the <-en#> syllables were subject of re-duction processes, and if so, whether degree ofreduction differed across the three syntactic-prosodic positions was derived from the segmen-262tal annotation.
We focussed on the two main re-duction processes exemplified in 1.3: /?/ elisionand, if the /?/ is absent, additional progressiveplace assimilation of the syllabic nasal /n/ to-wards [m] or [N].In a subsequent step, we took random sub-samples of 50 <-en#> syllables from each of thethree syntactic-prosodic positions and analyzedtheir intensity levels manually in Adobe Audi-tion.
Measurements were taken in terms of meanacoustic energy (in dB).
As mixing syllables withand without schwa could have biased our inten-sity measurements, all three sub-samples onlycontained syllabic [n`] nasals.
The results of ourreduction and intensity analyses are presented inthe following section.2.2 Results of the production dataTo put it in a nutshell, analyzing the segmentalannotation of the Kiel Corpus clearly showed:The more finally a <-en#> syllable was producedthe lower was its degree of segmental reduction.This fact is illustrated in Figures 1(a)-(b).
Whilevirtually no <-en#> syllable in turn-medial andphrase-medial position was realized with a [?]
ora similar vocoid sound before the nasal, about7% of the <-en#> syllables in turn-medial butphrase-final position showed such a vocoid sec-tion (Fig.1a).
The amount of schwas or similarvocoids increased above 10% for those <-en#>syllables that occurred phrase-finally and turn-finally.
Among the <-en#> syllables that wererealized without /?/, the frequency of place as-similation of the syllabic /n/ decreased from al-most 80% in phrase-medial and turn-medial posi-tion, through about 66% in turn-medial butphrase-final position, to only about 20% inphrase-final and turn-final position (Fig.1b).Although these figures speak for themselves,we also assessed their statistical significance bymeans of a ??
test.
The test was based on the ab-solute number of /?/ and /n/ occurrences in the3x2 conditions of Figures 1(a)-(b).
The test sta-tistics corroborate that reduction becomes sig-nificantly stronger under increasing finality(?
?=373.554, df=2, p<0.001).A similar tripartite picture emerged for the in-tensity measurements.
The intensity level in therandom sub-samples of 3x50 <-en#> syllables(realized as syllabic nasals) decreased succes-sively by on average about 3.5-6.2 dB (for fe-male speakers less than for male speakers) fromphrase- and turn-medial tokens to tokens whichare both phrase-final and turn-final.
That is, thesoftest <-en#> syllables occurred immediatelybefore a turn transition.
A one-way ANOVAshowed that the intensity decrease across thethree finality conditions was highly significant(F[2,147]=45.941, p<0.001).Figure 1: Degree of reduction of <-en#> sylla-bles in terms of (a) /?/ elision and (b) place as-similation of /n/ by the preceding consonant(when /?/ is absent).
The <-en#> syllables oc-curred in phrase- and turn-internal position (left),in turn-internal but phrase-final position (mid-dle), or in phrase- and turn-final position (right).2.3 Conclusion from the production dataThree conclusions can be drawn from the resultsof our corpus analysis.
First, the degree of reduc-tion of sound segments in Standard NorthernGerman ?
represented by <-en#> syllables ?
dif-fers substantially depending on whether they co-incide with phrase boundaries or turn boundaries.The degree of reduction is lower at turn-finalthan at turn-internal boundaries.
Second, also theintensity levels before different types of syntac-tic-prosodic boundaries show clear differences.However, while the degree of segmental reduc-tion decreases from phrase-internal throughphrase-final to turn-final boundaries, the degreeof intensity reduction increases by on average upto 100%.
Third, the findings for Standard North-ern German, particularly the direction of changesfrom phrase-final but turn-internal to phrase- andturn-final boundaries, are qualitatively consistentwith those that have been found before for spon-taneous dialogues in English and French.After having confirmed that Standard North-ern German resembles English and French with263regard to the production of reduction and inten-sity differences at turn-internal and turn-finalboundaries, we continued with conducting twoperception experiments.
They were based onquestion stimuli, whose ends were varied in abinary fashion with respect to <-en#> reduction,intensity level and the shape of the final F0 rise.3 Perception experiment 1: reductionand rise shape3.1 Stimulus generationWhen it comes to testing the perceptual rele-vance of phonetic details for turn yielding orholding, internal/ecological validity is a big is-sue.
We addressed this issue by developing aninteractive experimental design in which the par-ticipants gave real verbal responses to the stim-uli.
Our target stimuli were syntactically markedquestions, whose last constituent was concludedby a target word.
As there were 16 differentquestions, we had 16 different target words.
Allof them were similarly frequent verbal infinitivesof two or three syllables, and with lexical stressand a rising nuclear pitch accent (L+H*) on thepenultimate syllable.
The pitch-accent rise wascomplemented by a high boundary tone (H-%),and hence the rise continued across the final syl-lable until the end of the utterance.
The final syl-lable was <-en#>.
Two target-word exampleshave already been given in 1.3; further examplesare ?fliegen?
(to fly), ?liegen?
(to lie), ?kramen?
(to fish sth out), and ?fragen?
(to question).
Inhalf (i.e.
eight) of the target words, <-en#> waspreceded by a labial consonant (/m,b/).
The otherhalf had a velar consonant (/N,g/) before the<-en#> syllable.
Moreover, the target wordswere balanced with respect to vowel quantity andheight of the stressed vowel (/i(:)/ or /a(:)/).The target questions were embedded in con-text frames, i.e.
they were preceded by 1-2 intro-ductory statements and followed by an alterna-tive question starting with ?oder?
(or).
For ex-ample, ?Ich hab Anjas Freund letztens Hand inHand mit einer anderen durch die Stadt laufensehen.
Meinst Du, ich soll Ihr das sagen ?
?
odersoll ich mich da lieber raus halten??
(I sawAnja?s boyfriend yesterday wandering hand inhand through the streets with another girl.
Doyou think I should tell her?
?
or should I ratherbutt out?).
The crucial point is that the alternativequestion is optional.
It may or may not be thereso that the target question could equally be turn-internal or turn-final.
In order to validate this po-sitional ambiguity, we ran a pretest with 12 par-ticipants and orthographic representations of ourtarget questions.
The pretest confirmed that noneof the target questions had a semantic bias to-wards occurring in turn-internal or turn-final po-sition (i.e.
with/without an alternative question).The 16 sequences of preparatory statement(s),target question and alternative question wereproduced by a phonetically trained femalespeaker (KG) with unreduced, canonically pro-nounced <-en#> syllables ([?n]) at the end of thetarget words.
The sequences were digitally re-corded and constituted our first set of 16 basestimuli.
Then, KG produced the same 16 se-quences again, but this time the <-en#> syllableswere highly reduced to either [m`] or [N`].
Thelatter segments were used to create a second setof 16 base stimuli by taking the stimuli of thefirst set and replacing (with Adobe Audition)their fully pronounced [?n] syllables with thecorresponding highly reduced nasal.
In this way,we ended up with two sets 16 base stimuli.
Thestimuli in each set were phonetically absolutelyidentical except for the <-en#> syllables, whichwere either fully pronounced or highly reduced.Figure 2: Shape manipulation of the nuclear F0rise L+H* H-% at the end of the target questions,yielding 32 questions with convex and 32 ques-tions with concave rises.Before proceeding with the next step, wechecked our base stimulus endings for confound-ing turn-taking factors.
First, there were no de-viations from modal phonation in the target syl-lables.
Second, final lengthening was also con-trolled insofar as the fully pronounced and highlyreduced target syllables showed no systematicduration differences.
Moreover, all duration dif-ferences were below the just noticeable differ-ence of 20% (cf.
Klatt 1976), which correspondsto about 40 ms in the case of our target syllables.All 32 base stimuli were then subjected to aPSOLA manipulation in PRAAT, in which wefirstly set the pause between target and alterna-tive question to exactly 1.5 seconds.
For reasonsthat will be explained in 3.2, this interval is at theupper limit of turn-internal pauses in dialoguesand thus suitable to raise the reasonable suspi-cion that no alternative question would follow264(e.g., Edlund & Heldner, 2005).
Finally, we re-placed the naturally produced F0 patterns at theend of the 32 target questions (all of them weremore or less linear rises) by clearly convex andconcave rises of the same overall range, as is il-lustrated in Figure 2.
The rises were stylized atrise onset, pivot, and rise offset.
They set in rightbefore the stressed vowel; the pivot was locatedat the end of the stressed vowel.The PSOLA manipulations resulted in 64 re-synthesized stimuli.
Another 64 stimuli werecreated by cutting off the alternative questionsfrom the 64 resynthesized stimuli.3.2 Subjects and procedureTwenty native speakers of Standard NorthernGerman participated in the perception experi-ment (14 females, 6 males, 20-30 years old).
Allparticipants were undergraduate students of Em-pirical Linguistics at the University of Kiel.The participants sat in a sound-treated roomand put on a headset.
Then, they were instructedthat they would be presented with 64 stimuli,each of which would end in a question.
Theirtask would be to conceive themselves in a dia-logue situation and to respond to the questions oftheir female dialogue partner with short, plainanswers (?yes/no?, ?don?t know?, ?we?ll see?
andthe like) as soon as they would think that theywere given the floor.
However, if they answeredtoo early, i.e.
before their dialogue partner?s turnhad ended, their answer would count as a failure.On the other hand, if they did not respond within1.5 seconds after their dialogue partner?s turnhad ended (indicated by a bleep), then their an-swer would count as a failure, too.
At the end ofthe experiment, that participant who gave themost valid answers in the shortest average re-sponse time would win a prize (a 50 ?
voucher).The crucial point in this procedure was thatthe participants did not know when the targetquestion was turn-internal or turn-final, i.e.
whenit was followed by an additional alternative ques-tion, as this variable was randomly distributedacross the 64 stimuli.
In this way, we avoidedthat the participants were able to learn artificialturn yielding or holding cues during the experi-ment by correlating the phonetic variation at theend of the target questions with the occurrence ofalternative questions.
Furthermore, informal pre-tests showed that the dichotomous forces of thecompetitive task ?
i.e.
the risk of premature vs.overdue responses ?
were effective in makingparticipants focus on the stimuli and exploitinggiven acoustic cues.Prior to the actual experimental session, whichtook about 20 min, the participants received apractice session with 12 stimuli that were ran-domly selected for each participant.
The 64 stim-uli of the subsequent experimental session werealso played in individually randomized orders.The entire experimental sessions of all partici-pants were recorded via their headsets.
Re-cordings were made with Audacity in the form ofdigital stereo files with separate channels forstimuli and responses.
On this basis, we meas-ured the response times, i.e.
the time intervalsfrom the end of the target question to the firstresponse signal of the participant (which in-cluded smacks).
This response-time measure (inms) served as dependent variable.
Response-timemeasurements were made manually in Audacity.Figure 3 displays an example.
If the relevant firstresponse came too late (e.g., after an alternativequestion had begun) or not at all, response timemeasurements were capped at 1.5 seconds.Figure 3: Audacity screenshot showing an exam-ple of a response-time measurement; top: stimu-lus channel, bottom: response channel.3.3 Hypotheses of Experiment 1Assuming that participants would respond morereadily/reluctantly when they perceived turn-yielding/-holding cues in the target questions oftheir virtual female dialogue partner, we hy-pothesized that response times would be shorter(i) for target questions ending in concave than inconvex rises and (ii) for target questions endingin unreduced [?n] syllables rather than in the re-duced syllabic nasals [m`] or [N`].Although we used target questions with differ-ent wordings (that included the target words), apretest showed that none of these wordings cre-ated a semantic bias towards a turn-internal orturn-final interpretation (cf.
3.1).
Thus, we ex-pected no effect of the variable Question Word-ing on response times.
The same was true for thetarget-word internal variable Segmental Context(<-en#> preceded by a labial or velar consonant).2653.4 Results of Experiment 1The results of the first perception experimentare depicted in Figure 4 in terms of responsetimes per stimulus condition, averaged across all20 participants.
For the statistical analysis, weused a four-way repeated-measures ANOVA(n=20) based on the fixed factors Reduction (2levels), Rise Shape (2 levels), Segmental Context(2 levels), and Question Wording (8 levels).
TheANOVA yielded three significant main effectson the dependent variable Response Time (inms).
The main effects concerned Reduction(F[1,19]= 57.716, p<0.001, ?p?= 0.752), RiseShape (F[1,19]= 63.462, p<0.001, ?p?= 0.770), andSegmental Context (F[1,19]= 10.991, p<0.001,?p?= 0.366).
The factor Question Wording wasnot significant, neither was any of the interac-tions.
Insofar, our results allow a straightforwardanalysis.
As is shown in Figure 4, response timeswere significantly shorter ??
when the target questions ended in theunreduced [?n] syllables rather than in thereduced syllables [m`] or [N`];?
when the rising intonation at the end ofthe target questions had a concave ratherthan a convex shape, i.e.
when the F0 risestarted shallowly across the initial, ac-cented syllable of the utterance-final verband continued steeply until the end of theutterance (cf.
Fig.2);?
when the final <-en#> syllable was pre-ceded by a labial rather than a velar plo-sive or nasal.Figure 4: Results of Experiment 1 in terms ofaverage response times (in ms) per stimulus con-dition; each bar n=20.3.5 Conclusions from Experiment 1Our hypotheses concerning the effects of riseshape and the degree of (question-)final reduc-tion on the participants?
response times wereconfirmed.
Participants responded slowest aftertarget questions that ended in a convex final riseacross a widely reduced <-en#> syllable, andthey responded fastest after target questions thatended in a concave final rise across an unreduced<-en#> syllable.
The latter target questionscaused response times of only 300-400 ms,which is exactly in the order of magnitude ofsuccessful ?
i.e.
intended and correctly inter-preted ?
turn transitions in German (Weilhammer& Rabold, 2003).
This fact lends further supportto our main conclusion: Rise shape and degree ofreduction, which were both found to vary utter-ance-finally on the part of speech production,also function as cues to turn-yielding and/or turn-holding on the part of speech perception.Moreover, as expected on the basis of our se-mantic pretest, Question Wording had no effecton response times.
However, we found an unex-pected response-time effect of Segmental Con-text, i.e.
the place of articulation of the consonantthat preceded the <-en#> syllables.
We have noclear explanation for this finding as yet.
It couldbe an experimental artefact caused by differentfrequencies of occurrence of our ?labial?
and ?ve-lar?
target words.
Such frequency differences,even if they are small, could be associated withdifferent reduction baselines.
These baselinescould have then interacted differently with theturn-taking interpretation of our Reduction vari-able.
Alternatively, the effect of Segmental Con-text could be due to a difference in intrinsic in-tensity, which is slightly higher for velar than forlabial consonants.
This difference also applied tothe final nasal /n/ when it was assimilated to [m `]or [N`].
That a lower/higher intensity level to-wards the end of utterances can basically be in-terpreted as a turn-yielding and/or turn-holdingcue will be shown in the following Experiment 2.4 Perception experiment 2: reductionand intensity levelAlthough Experiment 2 primarily tested, if andhow utterance-final intensity variation affectedthe listeners?
response times, it was additionallyused to investigate the reduction effect of Ex-periment 1 in more detail.
In Experiment 1, wecontrasted widely reduced <-en#> syllables ([m`],[N`]) with their maximally unreduced counterpart[?n], being aware of the fact that [?n] is a rarerealization of <-en#>, cf.
Figure 1(a).
Now, inExperiment 2, we turned to the much more fre-quent, but also perceptually much more subtlereduction difference in <-en#> syllables: assimi-lated and non-assimilated syllabic nasals.2664.1 Hypotheses of Experiment 2Our hypotheses were that response times wouldbe shorter (i) for target questions ending in lowrather than in high intensity levels and (ii) fortarget questions ending in less reduced (non-assimilated) [n`] rather than in reduced (assimi-lated) [m`] or [N`].
In addition, we expect to repli-cate the secondary findings of Experiment 1:There should be no systematic effect of QuestionWording; and, concerning the Segmental Con-text, there should be faster response times for thegroup of target words with ?labial?
consonants.4.2 Method of Experiment 2The method was the same as in Experiment 1,except for three points.First, we performed a second round of re-cordings in which we attenuated the reductiondifference at the end of the target questions from[?n] vs. [m`]/[N`] to [n`] vs. [m]`/[N`].
That is, all<-en#> syllables were realized as syllabic nasalsso that the reduction difference became only amatter of presence vs. absence of place assimila-tion by the preceding labial or velar consonant.The pause between target and alternative ques-tion in the stimuli was again set to 1.5 secondsby inserting or cutting out silence.Figure 5: Intensity contrast (loud: +40%, top vs.soft: -60%, bottom) created for Experiment 2,exemplified by ?kramen?
(to fish sth.
out).Second, instead of the difference in rise shape(all target questions of Experiment 2 ended in asimilarly concave rise), we created a differencein the intensity level of the <-en#> syllable.More specifically, the naturally produced inten-sity pattern of each syllabic nasal [n`], [m`] or [N`](which typically featured a small intensity in-crease towards the center of the sound segment,followed by a steep intensity decrease until theend of the target question) was expanded by 40%for the ?loud?
condition and abated by 60% forthe ?soft?
condition.
So, the resulting pairs ofstimuli showed a clearly perceivable intensitycontrast ?
?loud?
vs. ?soft?
?
in the amount of100% or 6 dB at the end of the target questions.The intensity manipulation was conducted withAdobe Audition.
An example of two waveformsof the question-final target word ?kramen?
(tofish sth.
out, without place assimilation of /n/) ispresented in Figure 5.Third, Experiment 2 was run with a differentgroup of 20 native speakers of Standard NorthernGerman (15 females, 5 males, 23-38 years old).4.3 Results of Experiment 2We used again a four-way repeated-measuresANOVA for analyzing our response-time meas-urements.
The fixed factors were the same as inExperiment 1, except that the former factor RiseShape was substituted by the factor Intensity De-crease.
The results of the ANOVA are restrictedto three significant main effects that concernedthe fixed factors Reduction (F[1,19]= 324.653,p<0.001, ?p?= 0.945), Intensity Decrease (F[1,19]=460.355, p<0.001, ?p?= 0.96), and SegmentalContext (F[1,19]= 72.091, p<0.001, ?p?= 0.791).As can be seen in Figure 6, the effect of Re-duction is due to the fact that participants re-sponded more quickly in the less reduced [n`]condition than in the reduced [m`] or [N`] condi-tions.
Furthermore, responses came faster whenthe degree of intensity reduction at the end of thetarget question was stronger, i.e.
when targetquestions ended softer rather than louder.
Fi-nally, response times were shorter when the syl-labic nasal at the end of the target question waslabial rather than velar and/or preceded by a la-bial rather than a velar consonant.Figure 6: Results of Experiment 2 in terms ofaverage response times (in ms) per stimulus con-dition; each bar n=20.4.4 Conclusions from Experiment 2All hypotheses in 4.1 were supported by Experi-ment 2 The effect of Reduction means that ourparticipants detected the subtle phonetic differ-267ence between non-assimilated and assimilatedquestion-final /n/, and their reaction to this subtledifference was consistent with that of Experi-ment 1: Participants respond readily when thetarget question ended less reduced, and/or theyhesitated to respond after those target questionswhose final <-en#> syllables were more stronglyreduced.
So, Experiment 2 provided additionalevidence for our conclusion that stronger seg-mental reduction functions as a cue to turn-holding and/or that weaker segmental reductionfunctions as a cue to turn-yielding.The intensity level of the final <-en#> sylla-bles had a separate effect.
That louder endingquestions delayed the participants?
responsetimes suggests that a high utterance-final inten-sity level has a turn-holding function.
Addition-ally (or alternatively), the immediate responsesafter soft ending questions indicate that the lowerutterance-final intensity level is a cue to turn-yielding.
Like for the segmental effects above,the intensity effects fit in well with the real useand distribution of intensity differences in spon-taneous dialogues, cf.
1.1.If we view the loud vs. soft contrast in termsof a low vs. high degree of reduction, then wecan see that intensity reduction and segmentalreduction played opposite roles in turn-taking.Stronger reduction at the segmental level pointedin the direction of turn-holding, whereas strongerintensity reduction pointed in the direction ofturn-yielding.
This fact leads to the conclusionthat turn-taking cues are no indexical cues inso-far as they cannot be uniformly projected ontochanges in the speaker?s effort.Furthermore, Experiment 2 also replicated theSegmental-Context effect of Experiment 1.
As-suming ?
in accord with previous studies andinformal measurements in our stimuli ?
that thelabial condition was associated with an overalllower intensity level in the target words than thevelar condition (e.g., due to longer closure dura-tions, less intense releases, and closed lips duringnasal production), then the unexpected Segmen-tal-Context effect becomes understandable as anadditional reflection of the role of intensity inturn-taking.
That is, as has been anticipated in3.5, the intrinsically higher intensity in our velartarget words created a bias towards turn-holding,and/or the intrinsically less intense labial targetwords created a bias towards turn-yielding.Finally, a comparison of Figures 4 and 6shows that the response times yielded by Ex-periment 2 were overall longer than those of Ex-periment 1.
This general bias should not be overinterpreted as it is probably just due to the factthat Experiment 2 was performed in the evening,whereas Experiment 1 took place in the morning.5 General discussionIt is known for a long time that turn yielding andholding rely on complex form-function systems.So far, these systems have been typically associ-ated with the prosodic triplet of duration, voicequality, and F0 level.
Together they create bun-dles of perceptually salient phrase-final patternsthat involve the direction and range of intonationmovements, final lengthening, and non-modalvoice qualities (typically glottalization).More recently, analyses of spontaneous dia-logues suggested that the bundles of final turnyielding and holding cues are still richer and in-clude also comparatively subtle differences in thedegree of segmental reduction, the intensitylevel, and the shape of intonation movements,especially of rises.
Our study enhanced this pro-duction evidence and confirmed for StandardNorthern German that listeners do in fact pick upon these additional phrase-final differences andinterpret them ?
in parallel to their use in produc-tion ?
as cues to turn yielding and/or holding.The question that we raised in 1.2 can thus beanswered affirmatively; and this means that ourstudy laid the ground for a broader scope in thephonetics of turn-taking.
In particular, as is dem-onstrated by the turn-taking effects of segmentalelision and assimilation, this broader scope has tospan the traditionally separated segmental andprosodic layers of the speech signal.
That is, likefor prominence, intonation, and many otherform-function systems, the phonetics of turn-taking is not merely a matter of prosody.Moreover, our findings stress that understand-ing speech communication includes having aconstant eye on phonetic detail.
Every phoneticdetail should initially be considered functionalrather than prejudging it as epiphenomenal orrandom variation.Previous studies, some of which are cited in1.1, have shown that the production and percep-tion of turn yielding and holding exhibit strongsimilarities across many ?
even unrelated ?
lan-guages.
For this reason, we assume that our find-ings are of general cross-linguistic significance.Testing this assumption will be the obvious nextstep.
The corresponding perception experimentsshould use the same innovative task as the pre-sent study.
Although this task is complex, its in-teractive concept proved to yield clear resultswhile ensuring a high level of ecological validity.268ReferencesE.L.
Asu.
2006.
Rising intonation in Estonian: ananalysis of map task dialogues and spontaneousconversations.
Proc.
Phonetic Symposium 2006,Helsinki, Finland: 1-9.W.G.
Beattie.
1981.
The regulation of speaker turns inface-to-face conversation: Some implications forconversation in sound-only communication chan-nels.
Semiotica, 34: 55-70.M.
Clayards, R.N.
Aslin, M.K.
Tanenhaus, and R.A.Jacobs.
2007.
Within category phonetic variabilityaffects perceptual uncertainty.
Proc.
16th Interna-tional Congress of Phonetic Sciences, Saar-br?cken, Germany: 701-704.C.
Clemens and C. Diekhaus.
2009.
Prosodic turn-yielding Cues with and without optical Feedback.Proc.
SIGDIAL 2009: the 10th Annual Meeting ofthe Special Interest Group in Discourse and Dia-logue, London, UK: 107?110.G.J.
Docherty, J. Milroy, L. Milroy, and D. Walshaw.1997.
Descriptive adequacy in phonology: A varia-tionist perspective.
J. of Linguistics, 33: 275?310.E.
Dombrowski and O. Niebuhr.
2005.
Acoustic pat-terns and communicative functions of phrase-finalrises in German: activating and restricting con-tours.
Phonetica, 62: 176-195.S.
Duncan, Jr.. 1972.
Some signals and rules for tak-ing speaking turns in conversations.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology, 23: 283-292.J.
Edlund and M. Heldner.
2005.
Exploring prosodyin interaction control.
Phonetica, 62: 215-226.J.-Y.
Fon.
2002.
A cross-linguistic study on syntacticand discourse boundary cues in spontaneousspeech.
PhD thesis, Ohio State University, USA.J.-Y.
Fon, K. Johnson, and S. Chen.
2011.
DurationalPatterning at Syntactic and Discourse Boundariesin Mandarin Spontaneous Speech.
Language andSpeech, 54: 5-32.H.
Friedberg.
2011.
Turn-taking cues in a human tu-toring cirpus.
Proc.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Portland, USA: 94-98.A.
Gravano.
2009.
Turn-taking and affirmative cuewords in task-oriented dialogue.
PhD thesis, Co-lumbia University, USA.A.
Gravano and J. Hirschberg.
2009.
Turn yieldingcues in task-oriented dialogue.
Proc.
SIGDIAL2009: the 10th Annual Meeting of the Special In-terest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, London,UK: 253-261.A.
Kendon.
1995.
Gestures as illocutionary and dis-course structure markers in Southern Italian con-versation.
Journal of Pragmatics, 23: 247-279.K.J.
Kohler.
1983.
Prosodic boundary signals in Ger-man.
Phonetica, 40: 89?134.K.J.
Kohler.
1996.
Labelled data bank of spokenStandard German: The Kiel Corpus of SpontaneousSpeech.
Proc.
4th  International Conference onSpoken Language Processing, Philadelphia, USA:1938-1941.K.J.
Kohler.
2004.
Categorical speech perception re-visited.
Proc.
of the Conference From Sound toSense: 50+ years of discoveries in speech commu-nication, MIT, Cambridge, USA: 1-6.K.J.
Kohler and O. Niebuhr.
2011.
On the role of ar-ticulatory prosodies in German message decod-ing.
Phonetica, 68: 1-31.D.
H. Klatt.
1976.
Linguistic uses of segmental dura-tion in English: Acoustic and perceptual evidence.Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 59:1208-21.I.
Lehiste.
1982.
Some phonetic characteristics ofdiscourse.
Studia Linguistica, 36: 117-130J.
Local, J. Kelly, and W.H.
Wells.
1986.
Towards aphonology of conversation: Turn-taking in Tyne-side English.
Journal of Linguistics, 22: 411?437.J.
Local and.
G. Walker.
2012.
How phonetic featuresproject more talk.
Journal of the InternationalPhonetic Association, 42: 255-281.C.H.
Nakatani, J. Hirschberg, and B.J.
Grosz.
1995.Discourse structure in spoken language: Studies onspeech corpora.
Proc.
AAAI Spring Symposium onEmpirical Methods in Discourse Interpretation andGeneration, Palo Alto, USA: 1-7.R.A.
Ogden.
2001.
Turn transition, creak and glottalstop in Finnish talk-in-interaction.
Journal of theInternational Phonetic Association, 31: 139?152.B.
Peters.
2006.
Form und Funktion prosodischerGrenzen im Gespr?ch.
PhD thesis, Christian-Albrechts-Universit?t zu Kiel, Germany.A.
Raux.
2008.
Flexible turn-taking for spoken dialogsystems.
PhD thesis, Carnegie Mellon University,Pittsburgh, USA.M.
Taboada.
2006.
Spontaneous and non-spontaneousturn taking.
Pragmatics, 16: 329-360.J.
Vaissi?re, J. and A. Michaud.
2006.
Prosodic con-stituents in French: a data-driven approach.
In I.F?nagy, Y. Kawaguchi, T. Moriguchi (eds), Pros-ody and syntax (pp.
47-64).
Amsterdam: John Ben-jamins.K.
Weilhammer and S. Rabold.
2003.
Durational as-pects in turn taking.
Proc.
15th InternationalCongress of Phonetic Sciences, Barcelona, Spain :931?934.269
