Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 309?313,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIMHO: An Exploratory Study of Hedging in Web ForumsLiliana Mamani SanchezTrinity College Dublinmamanisl@scss.tcd.ieCarl VogelTrinity College Dublinvogel@tcd.ieAbstractWe explore hedging in web forum con-versations, which is interestingly differentto hedging in academic articles, the mainfocus of recent automatic approaches tohedge detection.
One of our main resultsis that forum posts using hedges are morelikely to get high ratings of their useful-ness.
We also make a case for focusingannotation efforts on hedges that take theform of first-person epistemic phrases.1 IntroductionComputational linguistics research in hedging, useof linguistic expressions whose contribution tosentence meaning is a modulation of the accuracyof the content they embed, and speculation detec-tion has been done intensively in the domain ofscholarly texts.
The interest created in this do-main has expanded to some extent to other do-mains such as news and reviews.
Automatic pro-cessing of speculation requires at some stage theannotation of words or phrases conveying uncer-tainty (Vincze et al 2008).
More complex en-deavours imply the annotation of various elementsof context involved in the expression of hedging(Rubin et al 2005; Wiebe et al 2005).In web forums where users?
contributions playa vital role in the forum dynamics, such as mutualsupport forums that are part of the ecosystem oftechnology company supports for users, exploringthe features that make a contributor outstandingis relevant.1 A user shows a distinctive behaviorby writing useful posts that help other users in theproblem that first motivated their participation in1Throughout, we use ?web forum?
to refer to such ecosys-tems: we speculate that their informal nature makes our ob-servations generalize to other sorts of web forum in whichsolutions to problems are not the focal point; even generaldiscussion forums can be witnessed to trigger communityweighting of contributions.the forum.
This paper emerges from our interestin finding features that predict which contributorswill be most appreciated.Many lexical and grammatical devices aidhedging (expressions such as epistemics verbs,modals, adjectives, etc.
name but a few) as do non-lexical devices such as conditionals.
We deem sin-gular first person epistemic phrases as hedges thatcan help to identify the subject of a hedging event.We analyze the correlation between the use ofepistemic phrases (vs. other types of hedges) andthe probability of posts containing these hedges ofbeing considered useful by the forum community.We also explore whether epistemic phrases consti-tute a distinctive feature that support user classifi-cations.
In ?2, we described the function of hedgesaccording to a hedging classification frameworkand in relation to the domain of web forums.
Then?3 describes the profiling work done and discussesthe main findings.
We conclude in ?4.2 Functions of hedgingThe research by Hyland (1998) is one of the broad-est studies about hedging functions in scientificarticles, and which makes use of categories thathave strong relationship, at face value, to the like-lihood that the reader of hedged material will findthe material sufficiently useful or sufficiently wellexpressed to prompt the reader to rate highly themessage containing the material, whether with anexplicit facility to record kudos or otherwise.
Hy-land proposed a poly-pragmatic classification ofhedges based on their indicating function: reader-oriented, writer-oriented, attribute and reliability.Briefly, attribute and reliability hedges both re-late to the accuracy of the message conveyed.
At-tribute hedges relate to the conformity of the de-scribed situation with encyclopedic expectations(1), while reliability hedges relate to the level ofcertainty of the speaker about the propositionalcontent (2).
In a different dimension, reader ori-309ented hedges are composed with the concern thatthe ?reader?
accept the truth of the embeddedcontent (3), thereby presupposing the ?writer?s?commitment to the content, while writer orientedhedges disclaim commitment to the content (4).
(1) Protypical mammals are land-dwellers.
(2) Probably, respected ancient Greeksthought whales to be fish.
(3) I think that if you reboot, the changes willtake effect.
(4) Based on what you?ve said, you seemright.Applying this classification scheme not to schol-arly prose but to web forums, it seems likely thatreaders in technical forums would prefer the accu-racy of attribute hedges (1) over the relative uncer-tainty of reliability hedges (2), and that the readeroriented hedges (3) supply comfort in the implica-tion of both the quality of the embedded claimsand the absence of arrogance.
This research isattempting to test these hypotheses by assessingthe relationship between the likelihood of posts re-ceiving kudos and the quantity of hedges in thesecategories that the posts contain.Unfortunately, answering the question is com-plex, because it is not in all cases obvious whethera linguistic expression contains a hedge or whatfunction the hedges serve when they do exist.Therefore, we attempt a partial answer to the ques-tion by examining those hedge expressions whichcan be processed with some reliability using au-tomated means.
Consider the taxonomy of lin-guistic expressions in Fig.
1.
The boxed regionsof this taxonomy are amenable to automatic pro-cessing.
Further, epistemic hedges with first-person singular subjects relate strongly to readeroriented hedges (3) in Hyland?s taxonomy.
Thenon-phrasal hedges are heterogeneous in function.Figure 1: A taxonomy of linguistic expressions.Linguistic Expressionsepistemic hedges other expressionsnon?phrasallexicalphrasal1st person singular otherconditionals .........We do not claim this separation of hedgingmarkers can fully account for pragmatic and se-mantic analysis of hedging in web forums, but weare confident this classification supports reliableannotation for quantificational assessment of cer-tainty and hedging in this informal domain.
Webase our profiling experiments (?3) on this func-tional separation of hedging markers.3 Profiling posts by hedging3.1 Description of the forum datasetThe dataset we used created out of a forum thatis part of customer support services provided bya software vendor company.
Although we werenot able to confirm the forum demographics, wecan infer they are mostly American English speak-ers as the forum was set up first for USA cus-tomers.
Some other features are best described byVogel and Mamani Sanchez (2013).
Our datasetis composed of 172,253 posts that yield a totalof 1,044,263 sentences.
This dataset has beenintensively ?cleaned?, as originally it presenteda great variety of non-linguistic items such asHTML codes for URLS, emoticons, IP addresses,etc.
These elements were replaced by wild-cardsand also user names have been anonymised, al-though some non-language content may remain.A forum user can give a post ?kudos?
if he/shefinds it useful or relevant to the topic being ad-dressed in a forum conversation.2 We countedthe number of kudos given to each post.
Thereare four user categories in the forum: {employee,guru, notranked, ranked}.3 A poster?s rank de-pends, among other factors, on the number ofposts they make and their aggregate kudos.3.2 Epistemic phrases versus other hedgesWe created two lexicons, one composed by firstperson singular epistemic phrases and one by non-phrasal hedges.
Initially, a set of epistemic phraseswhere taken from Ka?rkka?inen (2010): {I think, Idon?t know, I know, etc.}
and from Wierzbicka(2006).
The non-phrasal hedge lexicon was cre-ated from words conveying at least some degree ofuncertainty: {appear, seem, sometimes, suggest,unclear, think, etc.
}, taken from Rubin (2006).Additional hedges were included after the pilot2A user may accord kudos for any reason at all, in fact.3In the forum we studied, there are actually many ranks,with guru as the pinnacle for a non-employee; we groupedthe non-guru ranked posters together.310annotation.
The lexicons are composed by 76and 109 items, respectively.
There are manyother hedge instances that are not included inthese lexicons but our experiment restricts to theseitems.
Epistemic phrases include acronyms suchas ?IMHO?, ?IMO?
and ?AFAIK?
that we deemmeet functions described in ?2.A pilot manual annotation of hedges was con-ducted on in order to verify the viability of auto-matic annotation.
Our automatic annotation pro-cedure performs a sentence by sentence matchingand tagging of both kinds of hedging.
The pro-cedure uses a maximal matching strategy to taghedges, e.g.
if ?I would suggest?
is found, thisis tagged and not ?suggest?.
This automatic tag-ging procedure does not account for distinctionsbetween epistemic and deontic readings of hedges,nor between speculative or non-speculative uses ofnon-phrasal hedges.
107,134 posts contain at leastone hedge: 34,301 posts contain at least one epis-temic phrase; 101,086, at least one non-phrasalhedge; 28,253, at least one of each.3.3 Methods of analysisIn ?3.1 we showed there are two ways to charac-terize a post: 1) By its writer category and 2) bythe number of times it gets accorded kudos.
Wedevise a third characterisation by exploring epis-temic phrases and non-phrasal hedge usage in in-dividual posts as a whole, tracking use of bothtypes of hedge in each post.
We devised threediscretization functions (DF) for assigning a la-bel to each post depending on the type of hedgescontained within.
The DFs take two parameters,each one representing either the relative or bina-rized frequency non-phrasal hedges and epistemicphrases (nphr or epphr).
DF1 relies on the oc-currence of either type of hedge; a post is of amixed nature if it has at least one of each hedgetype.
DF2 is based on a majority decision depend-ing on the hedge type that governs the post andonly assigns the label hedgmixed when both typesof hedges appear in the same magnitude.
DF3expands DF1 and DF2 by evaluating whether ei-ther majority or only one type of hedge is found,e.g.
we wanted to explore the fact that even whennon-phrasal hedges domain one post, an epistemicphrase is contained as well, in contrast to whenonly non-phrasal hedges occur in a post.DF1 epphr==0 epphr>0nphr ==0 nohedges epphrasalnphr >0 nonphrasal hedgmixedDF2 nphr=0 & epphr=0 nohedgesnphr > epphr nonphrasalnphr < epphr epphrasalnphr =epphr hedgmixedDF3epphr=0 epphr>0nphr=0 nohedges epphronlynphr>0 nonphronlynphr > epphr nonphrmostlynphr < epphr epphrmostlynphr =epphr hedgmixedWe computed four measures for each post basedon these functions, m1 is calculated by using DF1having raw frequencies of hedges as parameters,m2 and m3 result from applying DF3 and DF2respectively to frequencies of hedge type averagedby the corresponding lexicon size, and m4 is cal-culated from DF3 over hedge frequencies aver-aged by post word count.
Other measures are alsopossible, but these seemed most intuitive.We were interested in the extent that hedge-based post categories correlate with a post?s kudosand with a post?s user category as tests of hypoth-esis outlined in ?2.
We want to know which cor-relations hold regardless of the choice of intuitivemeasure and which are measure dependent.3.4 Results and discussion1.401.451.501.551.60Mean ofkudosepphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalepphrmostlyepphronlyhedgmixednohedgesnonphrmostlynonphronlyepphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalepphrmostlyepphronlyhedgmixednohedgesnonphrmostlynonphronlym1 m2 m3 m4Figure 2: Design plot with the mean of kudos ofeach kind of post per each measure.In Fig.
2, we show how the different hedge-based classifications of posts (m1, m2, m3, m4)relate to the average kudo counts for posts.
Eachmeasure is shown in an individual scale.4 The hor-izontal line represents the average of kudos forall posts so we can observe which categories areabove/below the mean.
Comparison and contrast4For this comparison, we dropped extreme outliers in thenumber of kudos and hedges, and we calculated these mea-sures only in posts that had at least one kudo attribution.311of the relationship between categorisation of postswith each mi and mean kudos is interesting.
Forexample, when epistemic phrases dominate a post(epphrmostly), there is the greatest mean of ku-dos visible with the measure m2.
The secondhighest positive effect is of non-phrasal hedgesdominating a post (nonphrmostly) in m2 and m4.The next strongest effect occurs when both ofhedges types appear in a post (hedgmixed in m1and m3) and when they have about the same av-erage density (m4), followed by when non-phrasalhedges appear exclusively in a post.
While there isno consensus across the different scales that epis-temic phrase-dominated posts are the most likelyto obtain kudos, still their occurrence has a posi-tive effect in the average of kudos obtained.
Thereis low probability of kudos when only epistemicphrases appear and the lowest probability when nohedge occurs.5 Thus, we argue that the four mea-sures are jointly and individually useful.employee guru notranked ranked0.00.10.20.30.40.5epphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalepphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalepphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalepphrasalhedgmixednohedgesnonphrasalm1Percentageof postsperhedge typeFigure 3: Percentages of m1-hedge types in eachuser category.The relationship between hedge use and usercategory is depicted (for m1) in Fig.
3.
Whilefor all four user roles, epistemic phrases are exclu-sively present in the lowest percentage of posts,their contribution is shown in posts with mixedhedge types.
Posts with only non-phrasal hedgesare the most frequent across all user categories.We had predicted no significance in this respect5The contribution of epistemic phrases to the likelihoodof kudos could be due to other factors such as the use of firstperson in general.
We profiled the use of pronouns ?I?
and?my?
and we found a negative correlation between frequencyof these pronouns and the number of kudos per post.
Thereis a small but not significant correlation restricting to thoseposts with non-zero kudos.since non-phrasal hedges could map into any ofHyland?s functions, however our intuition waswrong as there is a significant difference (p<0.05)in the proportions of posts per hedge type categorywhen making comparisons across user categoriesone to one.
Only when comparing proportions ofhedge type posts by gurus and notranked usersis there no significant difference in hedgmixed,nonphrasal and nohedges posts.6 Employees andranked users have the highest rates of use of mixedhedges.
Ranked and guru posts have the high-est ratios of exclusively epistemic phrase hedges,meeting expectations.
Employees have the low-est ratio of user of epistemic phrases on their own,this presumably since they frequently write postson behalf of the company so they are least likelyto make subjective comments: their posts have thelowest percentage of use of ?I?
and ?my?.These two approaches to assessing associationsbetween different classifications of forum posts re-veal that posts using hedges are the most likely tobe accorded kudos and that guru and ranked usersare the most frequent users of epistemic phrasesin general.
This lends support to the view thatfirst person singular epistemic phrases, the epit-ome of reader-oriented hedges, are predictive ofcoarse grained rank in the forum.4 Conclusions and future workWe have found that the hedges used contribute tothe probability of a post getting high ratings.
Postswith no hedges are the ones awarded least kudos.We have still to test the correlation between epis-temic phrases and other types of hedges when theyboth are found in a single post.
We think that au-tomatic methods should focus in first person epis-temic phrases as they show writer?s stance at thesame time as softening their commitment or antic-ipating reader?s response.
Following the annota-tion described here, manual annotation work is un-der way, where epistemic phrases and non-phrasalhedges constitute two distinct categories.
Our on-going work seeks other ways to measure the con-tribution of these categories to reader expressionof appreciation of posts and whether hedge us-age creates natural user categorizations.
We alsostudy other types of web forum dialogue to explorewhether hedging follows similar trends.6A two-sample test of proportions was used to test thesignificance of differences between amounts of hedge typeposts for each category.312AcknowledgementsThis research is supported by the Trinity CollegeResearch Scholarship Program and the ScienceFoundation Ireland (Grant 07/CE/I1142) as partof the Centre for Next Generation Localisation(www.cngl.ie) at Trinity College Dublin.
This pa-per has benefited from input from the anonymousreviewers and from Ron Artstein.ReferencesKen Hyland.
1998.
Hedging in Scientific Research Ar-ticles.
Pragmatics & beyond.
John Benjamins Pub-lishing Company.Elise Ka?rkka?inen.
2010.
Position and scope of epis-temic phrases in planned and unplanned americanenglish.
In New approaches to hedging, pages 207?241.
Elsevier, Amsterdam.Victoria Rubin, Elizabeth Liddy, and N. Kando.
2005.Certainty identification in texts: Categorizationmodel and manual tagging results.
In James G.Shanahan, Yan Qu, and Janyce Wiebe, editors, Com-puting Attitude and Affect in Text.
Springer.Victoria L. Rubin.
2006.
Identifying Certainty in Texts.Ph.D.
thesis, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY.Veronika Vincze, Gyorgy Szarvas, Richard Farkas, Gy-orgy Mora, and Janos Csirik.
2008.
The BioScopecorpus: biomedical texts annotated for uncertainty,negation and their scopes.
BMC Bioinformatics,9(Suppl 11).Carl Vogel and Liliana Mamani Sanchez.
2013.
Epis-temic signals and emoticons affect kudos.
CognitiveInfocommunications (CogInfoCom), 2012 IEEE 3rdInternational Conference on, pages 517?522.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.2005.
Annotating expressions of opinions and emo-tions in language ANN.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 39(2/3):164?210.A.
Wierzbicka.
2006.
English: meaning and culture.Oxford University Press, USA.313
