Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 280?283,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsOpen-ended, Extensible System Utterances Are Preferred,Even If They Require Filled PausesTimo BaumannUniversit?t HamburgDepartment of InformaticsGermanybaumann@informatik.uni-hamburg.deDavid SchlangenUniversity of BielefeldFaculty of Linguistics and Literary StudiesGermanydavid.schlangen@uni-bielefeld.deAbstractIn many environments (e. g. sports com-mentary), situations incrementally unfoldover time and often the future appearanceof a relevant event can be predicted, but notin all its details or precise timing.
We havebuilt a simulation framework that uses ourincremental speech synthesis componentto assemble in a timely manner complexcommentary utterances.
In our evaluation,the resulting output is preferred over thatfrom a baseline system that uses a simplercommenting strategy.
Even in cases wherethe incremental system overcommits tem-porally and requires a filled pause to waitfor the upcoming event, the system is pre-ferred over the baseline.1 IntroductionIn spontaneous speech, speakers often commit tem-porally, e. g. by starting utterances that they do notyet know how to complete (Clark, 1996), puttingtime pressure on them for the generation of a com-pletion.
While this may be for planning and effi-ciency reasons, it also enables them to start com-menting on events for which the outcome is not yetknown.
For example when a ball is flying towardsthe goal, but it is uncertain yet whether it will hit,in sports commentary.To accommodate this incremental behaviour, hu-man speakers plan their utterances just somewhatahead, typically in chunks of major phrases (Levelt,1989), and remain flexible to change or abandonthe original plan, or to hesitate, e. g. to adapt theirtiming.
This flexibility is in contrast to speechoutput in spoken dialogue systems (SDSs) whichtypically generate, synthesize and deliver speechin units of full utterances that cannot be changedwhile ongoing, apart from being aborted or inter-rupted (Edlund, 2008).Recently, incremental speech synthesis (iSS) hasbeen presented (Dutoit et al 2011; Baumann andSchlangen, 2012b) which allows to start partial ut-terances that are then smoothly extended duringverbalization.
Incremental spoken output for di-alogue systems has been shown to improve natu-ralness (Buschmeier et al 2012) and Skantze andHjalmarsson (2010) have used filled pauses to holda turn.
Dethlefs et al(2012) present an incrementalNLG strategy to reduce the need for filled pausesin interactions.We investigate the impact of incremental spokenoutput in a highly dynamic environment, that is,where the rate of external events is high enoughto allow only few utterances to finish as planned.As an example, we choose an otherwise simplecommentary domain, where incremental output en-ables the system to combine multiple events intoone complex commenting utterance that takes intoaccount predictions about upcoming events.
If thesystem overcommits to the timing of future events,it autonomously uses a filled pause until more ma-terial becomes available.2 Related WorkA paradigmatic example of a domain that usesopen-ended utterances is sports commentary,which has received some attention in the NLGcommunity.
For example, Chen and Mooney(2008) present a system that learns from hand-annotated data what to comment on.
However,attention seems to have been placed more ontruthfulness of the content, as, judging from videosprovided on their website,1 the formulationsthat are produced are rather monotonic (?pink7dribbles towards the goal.
pink7 shoots for thegoal.
pink7 passes to...?).
More importantly,the delivery of a produced utterance does not seemto be temporally tied to the occurrence of the event.1http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/ml/clamp/sportscasting280Figure 1: The map shown in the CarChase domain,including the car on one of its itineraries (red; an-other in blue).
At the depicted moment we canassume that the car will take a turn, but do notknow whether left or right.Repeatedly, utterances are synthesized long afterthe fact that they describe which sometimes hasbecome obsolete at that point (for example, a goalis scored while the system still talks about a pass).Lohmann et al(2011) describe another domainthat can be called highly dynamic: a system thatadds spoken assistance to tactile maps for the vi-sually impaired.
In their settings, users can movearound on a computer representation of a map witha hand-held haptic force-feedback device.
Usersare given spoken advice about the currently tra-versed streets?
names, the relation of streets to eachother, and to other map objects in the user?s vicin-ity.
Such exploratory moves by users can becomerather quick, which in the system they describecan lead to output that comes late, referring to aposition that has long been left.3 A Highly Dynamic Commenting DomainOur example domain combines properties of thesports commentary and map exploration domainsmentioned above: the CarChase domain depictedin Figure 1.
In the domain, a car drives aroundstreets on the map and a commentator (supposed tobe observing the scene from above) comments onwhere it is driving and what turns it is taking.The car?s itinerary in our domain simulator isscripted from a configuration file which assignstarget positions for the car at different points in timeand from which the motion and rotation of the caris animated.
The speed of the car is set so that theevent density is high enough that the setting cannotbe described by simply producing one utteranceper event ?
in other words: the domain is highlydynamic.time event description ongoing utterance (already realized part in bold,newly appended continuation in italic)t1 car on Main Street The car drives along Main Street.t2 car will likely turn .
.
.drives along Main Street and then turns ?hes?t3 car turns right .
.
.drives along Main Street and then turns right.Figure 2: Example of incremental utterance pro-duction as a car drives along a street and turns.
Theongoing utterance is extended as events unfold.4 A Strategy for IncrementalCommentaryWe distinguish three types of events in the do-main: identification (ID) events trigger the systemto name the street the car is on, turn events firewhen the car is taking a turn.
Finally, turn-prepevents fire when it is obvious that the car will turnbut the direction of the turn remains open.
Thesethree event types are shown in Figure 2 at time t1(ID), t2 (turn-prep), and t3 (turn).As can be seen in the example in Figure 2, theturn-prep event enables a system that is able toincrementally update its ongoing utterance to con-tinue speaking about the anticipated future (?andthen turns?)
without knowing the direction of theturn.
This allows an incremental system to outputefficient utterances that fluently combine multipleevents and avoid repetition.
Furthermore, turn-prepevents enable the system to output the directionof the turn (the most important information) veryshortly after the fact.A non-incremental system, in contrast, must out-put individual utterances for every event and utter-ances can only start after the fact.
Furthermore,a non-incremental system cannot extend ongoingutterances, rendering turn-prep events useless.5 Implemented SystemThe system used for the experiment reported be-low uses an early version of incremental speechsynthesis as implemented in INPROTK (Baumannand Schlangen, 2012c), a toolkit for incrementalspoken dialogue processing based on the IU model(Schlangen and Skantze, 2009).
The system al-lows to extend ongoing utterances, enabling the281incremental commenting strategy outlined above.In addition, we implemented a capability to syn-thesize a hesitation if no more content is specified,and to continue as soon as content becomes avail-able.
(Thus, in contrast to (Skantze and Hjalmars-son, 2010), hesitations do not consume additionaltime.)
By using hesitations, the system gracefullyaccommodates temporal over-commitment (i. e. theobligation to produce a continuation that is not ful-filled in time) which may occur, e. g. when the cardrives slower than anticipated and a turn?s directionis not yet known when the system needs it.In the preliminary version of iSS used for the ex-periments, no prosodic integration of continuationstakes place, resulting in prosodic discontinuities;see (Baumann and Schlangen, 2012a) for a detailedassessment of prosodic integration in iSS.As we focus on the merit of iSS in this work, wedid not implement a scene analysis/event detectionnor a NLG component for the task.2 Instead, thecommentary is scripted from the same configura-tion file that controls the car?s motion on the board.iSS events lag behind slightly, ensuring that visualanalysis would be possible, and event/text corre-spondence is close, matching NLG capabilities.6 ExperimentTo evaluate the incremental system, we comparedit to a non-incremental baseline system which isunable to alter speech incrementally and hence can-not smoothly extend ongoing partial utterances.
In-stead, the baseline system always produces fullutterances, one per event.
To ensure the tempo-ral proximity of delivery with the causing eventin the baseline system, utterances can be markedas optional (in which case they are skipped if thesystem is still outputting a previous utterance), ornon-optional (in which case an ongoing utteranceis aborted in favour of the new utterance).
All ?turn?events in the domain were marked as optional, allstreet ID events as non-optional.We devised 4 different configurations (includingthe itineraries shown in Figure 1), and the timing ofevents was varied (by having the car go at differentspeeds, or by delaying some events), resulting in 9scenarios; in 3 of these, the incremental system gen-erated one or more hesitations.
Both systems?
out-put for the 9 scenarios was recorded with a screen-recorder, resulting in 18 videos that were played in2However, Lohmann et al(2012) present an incrementalNLG strategy for a similar task.random order to 9 participants (university studentsnot involved in the research).
Participants weretold that various versions of commentary-generat-ing systems generated the commentary based onthe running picture in the videos and were thenasked to rate each video on a five-point Likert scalewith regards to how natural (similar to a human)the spoken commentary was (a) formulated, and(b) pronounced.
In total, this resulted in 81 pairedsamples for each question.3The assumption (and rationale for the secondquestion) was that the incremental system?s formu-lations would result in higher formulation ratings,while we hoped the acoustic and prosodic artefactsresulting from the coarsely implemented incremen-tal synthesis would not significantly hurt pronun-ciation ratings.
In order to not draw the subjects?attention towards incremental aspects, no questionregarding the timeliness of the commentary wasasked for explicitly.7 ResultsThe mean ratings for both formulation quality andpronunciation quality for the incremental and base-line systems is shown in Figure 3.
The mediandifferences in the ratings of the two conditions is2 points on the Likert scale for question (a) and0 points for question (b) (means of 1.66 and 0.51,respectively), favouring the incremental system.The sign test shows that the advantage of the incre-mental system is clearly significant for questions(a) (68+/9=/4-; p < .0001) and (b) (38+/30=/13-;p < .0007)4.Thus, it is safe to say that the production strate-gies enabled by incremental speech synthesis (i. e.starting to speak before all evidence is known andextending the utterance as information becomesavailable) allows for formulations in the spokencommentary that are favoured by human listeners.Incremental behaviour in the 3 scenarios thatrequired hesitations was rated significantly worsethan in those scenarios without hesitations for bothquestions (t-tests, p < .001 (a) and p < .01 (b)).
This3The experiment was conducted in one language (German)only, but we believe our results to carry over to other lan-guages.
Specifically, we assume that most or all languagescater for commenting, and believe that human commentersuniversally use their ability to integrate events late in the utter-ance.
However, practices of commenting may work differently(and differently well) among languages.4We also conducted a non-paired t-test for question (b), asthe different formulations of the systems might have effects onpronunciation quality; this test was also significant (p < .0012).282verylittlea littleneutrala bitverymucha) formulation b) pronunciationno hesno hesincremental strategybaseline strategyheshesFigure 3: Mean ratings of formulation and pronun-ciation for the incremental and baseline systems;the formulation rating differs for utterances withand without hesitations in the incremental system.is a clear indication that a system should try toavoid over-commitment, as users do not accept hes-itations as inevitable (given that there was simplyno evidence yet where the car would turn, for exam-ple).
However, even in those scenarios that requirefilled pauses, the incremental commentary?s for-mulation is rated as significantly better than thebaseline system?s (sign test, 18+/5=/4-; p < .005)while there is no effect on pronunciation in thesecases.8 Discussion & OutlookThe results indicate a clear user preference for open-ended, extensible utterances that grow as events un-fold.
Furthermore, this preference is stronger thanthe negative impact of filled pauses that are neededto cover temporal over-commitment, and despitethe poor quality of filled pauses in the current sys-tem, which we plan to improve in the future.Similarly to spoken commentary in dynamic do-mains, conversational speech requires revisions andreactions to events such as listener feedback, or theabsence thereof (Clark, 1996).
Thus, we believethat our results, as well as iSS in general, also applyto a broad range of conversational SDS tasks.Finally, synthesis quality appears to be less im-portant than interaction adequacy: we found nodifference in rating of perceptual quality (?pronun-ciation?)
between the variants, even though in isola-tion iSS sounded noticeably worse in the prototype.This result calls for interactive adequacy as an op-timization target over (isolated) perception ratingsfor speech synthesis, and also challenges the use ofcanned speech in conversational SDSs, which doesnot adapt to the interaction.Acknowledgements The first author would liketo thank Wolfgang Menzel for fruitful discussionson the topic, and permanent encouragement.ReferencesTimo Baumann and David Schlangen.
2012a.
Eval-uating prosodic processing for incremental speechsynthesis.
In Procs.
of Interspeech, Portland, USA.Timo Baumann and David Schlangen.
2012b.
IN-PRO_iSS: A component for just-in-time incremen-tal speech synthesis.
In Proceedings of ACL SystemDemonstrations, Jeju, Korea.Timo Baumann and David Schlangen.
2012c.
TheINPROTK 2012 release.
In Proceedings of SDCTD,Montr?al, Canada.Hendrik Buschmeier, Timo Baumann, BenjaminDorsch, Stefan Kopp, and David Schlangen.
2012.Combining incremental language generation and in-cremental speech synthesis for adaptive informationpresentation.
In Procs.
of SigDial, pages 295?303,Seoul, Korea.David L. Chen and Raymond J. Mooney.
2008.
Learn-ing to sportscast: A test of grounded language ac-quisition.
In Proceedings of 25th Int.
Conference onMachine Learning (ICML), Helsinki, Finland.Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Nina Dethlefs, Helen Hastie, Verena Rieser, and OliverLemon.
2012.
Optimising incremental generationfor spoken dialogue systems: Reducing the need forfillers.
In Procs.
of the Seventh Int.
Natural Lan-guage Generation Conf., pages 49?58, Utica, USA.Thierry Dutoit, Maria Astrinaki, Onur Babacan, Nico-las d?Alessandro, and Benjamin Picart.
2011. pHTSfor Max/MSP: A Streaming Architecture for Statis-tical Parametric Speech Synthesis.
Technical Re-port 1, numediart Research Program on Digital ArtTechnologies.Jens Edlund.
2008.
Incremental speech synthesis.
InSecond Swedish Language Technology Conference,pages 53?54, Stockholm, Sweden.
System Demo.William J.M.
Levelt.
1989.
Speaking: From Intentionto Articulation.
MIT Press.Kris Lohmann, Carola Eschenbach, and ChristopherHabel.
2011.
Linking spatial haptic perception tolinguistic representations: assisting utterances fortactile-map explorations.
In Spatial information the-ory, pages 328?349, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Springer.Kris Lohmann, Ole Eichhorn, and Timo Baumann.2012.
Generating situated assisting utterances to fa-cilitate tactile-map understanding: A prototype sys-tem.
In Procs.
of SLPAT 2012, Montr?al, Canada.David Schlangen and Gabriel Skantze.
2009.
A Gen-eral, Abstract Model of Incremental Dialogue Pro-cessing.
In Procs.
of the EACL, Athens, Greece.Gabriel Skantze and Anna Hjalmarsson.
2010.
To-wards incremental speech generation in dialogue sys-tems.
In Procs.
of SigDial, pages 1?8, Tokyo, Japan.283
