Proceedings of the 2013 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2013), pages 120?123,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsParallels between Linguistics and BiologyAshish Vijay TendulkarIIT MadrasChennai-600 036.
India.ashishvt@gmail.comSutanu ChakrabortiIIT MadrasChennai-600 036.
India.sutanu@cse.iitm.ac.inAbstractIn this paper we take a fresh look at par-allels between linguistics and biology.
Weexpect that this new line of thinking willpropel cross fertilization of two disciplinesand open up new research avenues.1 IntroductionProtein structure prediction problem is a longstanding open problem in Biology.
The compu-tational methods for structure prediction can bebroadly classified into the following two types:(i) Ab-initio or de-novo methods seek to modelphysics and chemistry of protein folding from firstprinciples.
(ii) Knowledge based methods makeuse of existing protein structure and sequence in-formation to predict the structure of the new pro-tein.
While protein folding takes place at a scaleof millisecond in nature, the computer programsfor the task take a large amount of time.
Ab-initiomethods take several hours to days and knowledgebased methods takes several minutes to hours de-pending upon the complexity.
We feel that theprotein structure prediction methods struggle dueto lack of understanding of the folding code fromprotein sequence.
In larger context, we are in-terested in the following question: Can we treatbiological sequences as strings generated from aspecific but unknown language and find the rulesof these languages?
This is a deep question andhence we start with baby-steps by drawing par-allels between Natural Language and Biologicalsystems.
David Searls has done interesting workin this direction and have written a number ofarticles about role of language in understandingBiological sequences(Searls, 2002).
We intendto build on top of that work and explore furtheranalogies between the two fields.This is intended to be an idea paper that ex-plores parallels between linguistics and biologythat have the potential to cross fertilization twodisciplines and open up new research avenues.The paper is intentionally made speculative atplaces to inspire out-of-the-box deliberations fromresearchers in both areas.2 AnalogiesIn this section, we explore some pivotal ideas inlinguistics (with a specific focus on ComputationalLinguistics) and systematically uncover analogousideas in Biology.2.1 LettersThe alphabet in a natural language is well speci-fied.
English language has 26 letters.
The genesare made up of 4 basic elements called as nu-cleotide: adenine (A), thymine (T), cytosine (C)and guanine (G).
During protein synthesis, genesare transcribed into messenger RNA (mRNA),which is made up of 4 basic elements: adenine(A), uracil (U), cytosine (C) and guanine (G).mRNA is translated to proteins that are made upof 20 amino acids denotes by the following letters:{A, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, P, Q, R, S, T,V, W, Y}.2.2 WordsA word is an atomic unit of meaning in a language.When it comes to biological sequences, a funda-mental problem is to identify words.
Like English,the biological language seems to have a fixed al-phabet when it comes to letters.
However, unlesswe have a mechanism to identify atomic ?func-tional?
units, we cannot construct a vocabulary ofbiological words.The first property of a word in NL is that it hasa meaning; a word is a surrogate for somethingin the material or the abstract world.
One cen-tral question is: how do we make machines un-derstand meanings of words?
Humans use dictio-naries which explain meanings of complex words120in terms of simple ones.
For machines to use dic-tionaries, we have two problems.
The first is, howdo we communicate the meaning of simple words(like ?red?
or ?sad?)?
The second is, to under-stand meanings of complex words out of simpleones, we would need the machine to understandEnglish in the first place.
The first problem hasno easy solution; there are words whose meaningsare expressed better in the form of images or whencontrasted with other words (?orange?
versus ?yel-low?).
The second problem of defining words interms of others can be addressed using a knowl-edge representation formalism like a semantic net-work.
Some biological words have functions thatcannot be easily expressed in terms of functionsof other words.
For the other words, we can definethe function (semantics) of a biological word interms of other biological words, leading to a dic-tionary or ontology of such words.The second property of a word is its Part ofSpeech which dictates the suitability of words totie up with each other to give rise to grammaticalsentences.
An analogy can be drawn to valencyof atoms, which is primarily responsible in dictat-ing which molecules are possible and which arenot.
Biological words may have Parts of speechthat dictate their ability to group together to formhigher level units like sentences, using the compo-sition of functions which has its analog in compo-sitional semantics.
The third property of a wordis its morphology, which is its structure or form.This refers to the sequence of letters in the words.There are systematic ways in which the form of aroot word (like sing) can be changed to give birthto new words (like singing).
Two primary pro-cesses are inflection and derivation.
This can berelated to mutations in Biology, where we obtain anew sequence or structure by mutating the existingsequences/structures.3 ConceptsEffective Dimensionality: The Vector SpaceModel (VSM) is used frequently as a formalismin Information Retrieval.
When used over a largecollection of documents as in the web, VSM pic-tures the webpages as vectors in a high dimen-sional vector space, where each dimension corre-sponds to a word.
Interestingly, thanks to strongclustering properties exhibited by documents, thishigh dimensional space is only sparsely populatedby real world documents.
As an example to il-lustrate this, we would not expect a webpage to si-multaneously talk about Margaret Thatcher, DiegoMaradona and Machine Learning.
Thus, more of-ten than not, the space defined by intersection oftwo or more words is empty.
The webspace is likethe night sky: mostly dark and few clusters sprin-kled in between.
In IR parlance, we say that theeffective dimensionality of the space is much lessthan the true dimensionality, and this fact can beexploited cleverly to overcome ?curse of dimen-sionality?
and to speed up retrieval.
It is worthnoting that the world of biological sequences isnot very different.
Of all the sequences that canbe potentially generated, only a few correspond tostable configurations.Ramachandran plot is used to understand con-straints in protein conformations (Ramachandran,1963).
It plots possible ?
?
?
angle pairs in pro-tein structures based on the van der Waal radii ofamino acids.
It demonstrates that the protein con-formational space is sparse and is concentrated inclusters of a few ??
?
regions.3.1 Machine TranslationGenes and mRNAs can be viewed as strings gen-erated from four letters (A,T,C,G for genes andA,U,C,G for mRNAs).
Proteins can be viewedas strings generated from twenty amino acids.
Inaddition proteins and mRNAs have correspond-ing structures for which we do not even knowthe alphabets.
The genes are storing a blue-printfor synthesizing proteins.
Whenever the cell re-quires a specific protein, the protein synthesistakes place, in which first the genes encoding thatprotein are read and are transcribed into mRNAwhich are then translated to make proteins withrelevant amino acids.
This is similar to writing thesame document in multiple languages so that it canbe consumed by the people familiar to differentlanguages.
Here the protein sequence is encodedin genes and is communicated in form of mRNAduring the synthesis process.
Another example issequence and structure representations of protein:Both of them carry the same information specifiedin different forms.3.2 Evolution of LanguagesLanguage evolves over time to cater to evolutionin our communication goals.
New concepts orig-inate which warrant revisions to our vocabulary.The language of mathematics has evolved to makecommunication more precise.
Sentence structures121evolve, often to address the bottlenecks faced bynative speakers and second language learners.
En-glish, for example, has gone out of fashion.
Thusthere is a survival goal very closely coupled to theenvironment in which a language thrives that dic-tates its evolution.
The situation is not very differ-ent in biology.Scientific community believes that the life onthe Earth started with prokaryotes1 and evolvedinto eukaryotes.
Prokaryotes inhibited earth fromapproximately 3-4 Billion years ago.
About 500million years ago, plant and fungi colonized theEarth.
The modern human came into existencesince 250,000 years.
At a genetic level, newgenes were formed by means of insertion, dele-tion and mutation of certain nucleotide with othernucleotides.3.3 Garden Path SentencesEnglish is replete with examples where a smallchange in a sentence leads to a significant changein its meaning.
A case in point is the sen-tence ?He eats shoots and leaves?, whose meaningchanges drastically when a comma is inserted be-tween ?eats?
and ?shoots?.
This leads to situationswhere the meaning of a sentence cannot be com-posed by a linear composition of the meanings ofwords.
The situation is not very different in biol-ogy, where the function of a sequence can changewhen any one element in the sequence changed.3.4 Text and background knowledge neededto understand itInteraction between the ?book?
and the reader isessential to comprehension; so language under-standing is not just sophisticated modeling of in-teraction between words, sentences and discourse.Similarly the book of life (the gene sequence) doesnot have everything that is needed to determinefunction; it needs to be read by the reader (playedby the CD player).
This phenomenon is similarto protein/ gene interaction.
Proteins/genes pos-sess binding sites, that is used to bind other pro-teins/genes to form a complex, which carry out thedesired function in the biological process.3.5 Complexity of DatasetSeveral measures have been proposed in the con-text of Information Retrieval and Text Classifica-tion which aim at capturing the complexity of a1http://www.wikipedia.orgdataset.
In unsupervised domains, a high clus-tering tendency indicates a low complexity anda low clustering tendency corresponds to a situ-ation where the objects are spread out more orless uniformly in space.
The latter situation cor-responds to high complexity.
In supervised do-mains, a dataset is said to be complex if objectsthat are similar to each other have same categorylabels.
Interestingly, these ideas may apply in ar-riving at estimates of structure complexity.
In par-ticular, weak structure function correspondenceswould correspond to high complexity.3.6 Stop words (function words) and theirrole in syntaxFunction words such as articles, prepositions playan important role in understanding natural lan-guages.
On the same note, function words existin Biology and they play various important rolesdepending on the context.
For example, Proteinstructures are made up of secondary structures.Around 70% of these structures are ?-helix and?-strands which repeat in functionally unrelatedproteins.
Based on this criterion, ?-helix and ?-strands can be categorized as functional words.These secondary structures are important in form-ing protein structural frame on which functionalsites can be mounted.
At genomic level, as muchas 97% of human genome does not code for pro-teins and hence termed as junk DNA.
This is an-other instance of function word in Biology.
Scien-tists are realizing off late some important functionsof these junk DNA such as their role in alternativesplicing.3.7 Natural Language GenerationNatural Language Generation (NLG) is com-plementary to Natural Language Understanding(NLU), in that it aims at constructing natural lan-guage text from a variety of non-textual repre-sentations like maps, graphs, tables and tempo-ral data.
NLG can be used to automate routinetasks like generation of memos, letters or simula-tion reports.
At the creative end of the spectrum,an ambitious goal of NLG would be to composejokes, advertisements, stories and poetry.
NLGis carried out in four steps: (i) macroplanning;(ii)microplanning; (iii) surface realization and (iv)presentation.
Macroplanning step uses RhetoricalStructure Theory (RST), which defines relationsbetween units of text.
For example, the relationcause connects the two sentences: ?The hotel was122costly.?
and ?We started looking for a cheaper op-tion?.
Other such relations are purpose, motivationand enablement.
The text is organized into twosegments; the first is called nucleus, which car-ries the most important information, and the sec-ond satellites, which provide a flesh around the nu-cleus.
It seems interesting to look for a parallel ofRST in the biological context.Analogously protein design or artificial life de-sign is a form of NLG in Biology.
Such artifi-cial organisms and genes/proteins can carry outspecific tasks such as fuel production, makingmedicines and combating global warming.
For ex-ample, Craig Venter and colleagues created syn-thetic genome in the lab and has filed a patent forthe first life form created by humanity.
These tasksare very similar to NLG in terms of scale and com-plexity.3.8 HyperlinksHyperlinks connect two or more documentsthrough links.
There is an analogy in Biologyfor hyperlinks.
Proteins contain sites to bind withother molecules such as proteins, DNA, metalsor any other chemical compound.
The bindingsites are similar to hyperlinks and enable protein-protein interaction and protein-DNA interaction.3.9 Ambiguity and ContextAn NLP system must be able to effectively handleambiguities.
The news headline ?Stolen PaintingFound by Tree?
has two possible interpretations,though an average reader has no trouble favoringone over the other.
In many situations, the con-text is useful in disambiguation.
For example, pro-tein function can be specified unambiguously withthe help of biological process and cellular loca-tion.
In other words, protein functions in the con-text of biological process and within a particularcellular location.
In the context of protein struc-ture, highly similar subsequences take differentsubstructures such as ?-helix or ?-strand depend-ing on their spatial neighborhood.
Moonlightingproteins carry out multiple functions and their ex-act function can be determined only based on thecontext.Let us consider the following example: ?Maryordered a pizza.
She left a tip before leaving therestaurant.?
To understand the above sentences,the reader must have knowledge of what peopletypically do when they visit restaurants.
Statisti-cally mined associations and linguistic knowledgeare both inadequate in capturing meaning whenthe background knowledge is absent.
Backgroundknowledge about function and interacting partnersabout a protein help in determining its structures.4 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a number of parallelsbetween Linguistics and Biology.
We believe thatthis line of thought process will lead to previouslyunexplored research directions and bring in newinsights in our understanding of biological sys-tems.
Linguistics on other hand can also benefitfrom a deeper understanding of analogies with bi-ological systems.AcknowledgmentsAVT is supported by Innovative Young Biotech-nologist Award (IYBA) by Department ofBiotechnology, Government of India.ReferencesDavid B. Searls.
2002.
The language of genes Nature,420:211?217.G.
N. Ramachandran, C. Ramakrishnan, andV.
Sasisekharan.
1963.
Stereochemistry ofpolypeptide chain configurations Journal ofMolecular Biology, 7:95?99.123
