Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2013 Conference, pages 357?359,Metz, France, 22-24 August 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsWeakly and Strongly Constrained Dialogues for Language LearningClaire GardentCNRS/LORIA, Nancyclaire.gardent@loria.frAlejandra LorenzoUniversite?
de LorraineLORIA, Nancyalejandra.lorenzo@loria.frLaura Perez-BeltrachiniKRDB Research CentreFUB, Bolzanolaura.perez@loria.frLina Rojas-BarahonaUniversite?
de LorraineLORIA, Nancylina.rojas@loria.frAbstractWe present two dialogue systems for lan-guage learning which both restrict the di-alog to a specific domain thereby pro-moting robustness and the learning of agiven vocabulary.
The systems vary in howmuch they constrain the learner?s answer :one system places no other constrain onthe learner than that provided by the re-stricted domain and the dialog context ; theother provides the learner with an exercisewhose solution is the expected answer.The first system uses supervised learningfor simulating a human tutor whilst thesecond one uses natural language gener-ation techniques to produce grammar ex-ercises which guide the learner toward theexpected answer.1 IntroductionWork on dialog based tutors for language learn-ing includes both chatbot systems which maintaina free flowing dialog with the learner (Shawar andAtwell, 2007; Jia, 2004) and form-focused dia-log systems which restrict the learner answer e.g.,by providing her with an answer template to befilled in for the dialog to continue (Wilske andWolska, 2011).
While the former encourages lan-guage practice with a virtual tutor and requires agood knowledge of the language, the latter focuseson linguistic forms and usually covers a more re-stricted lexical field thereby being more amenableto less advanced learners.In these notes, we describe a dialog architecturewhich (i) supports both free-flowing and form-focused man/machine dialog ; and (ii) ensures thatin both cases, dialogs are restricted to a specificlexical field.
The free-flowing dialog system usessupervised classification techniques to predict thesystem dialog move based on the learner?s inputand does not explicitely constrain the learner?s an-swer.
In contrast, the dialog system for intermedi-ate learners provides an exercise which the learnermust solve to construct her answer.To restrict the dialog to a specific domain andto improve system robustness, we make use of afinite-state automaton (FSA) describing the rangeof permissible interactions within a given domain.This FSA serves to guide the collection of human-human interactions necessary to train the classi-fier ; to verify and if necessary to adjust the sys-tem?s predicted answer ; and to support the gener-ation of the exercise provided in the form-focuseddialog engine.2 Finite State Automaton and DomainRepresentationTo support focused dialog and promote robust-ness, we make use of the FSA depicted in Fig-ure 2.
This FSA models a generic sequence of(System Question, Learner Answer, System Re-action) turns instantiating 4 main question/answerpatterns and two possible system reactions.The system question systematically formulatesa question which explicitly lists a set of possibleanswers.The learner?s answer is then classified into fourmain types.
It selects one of the proposed answers ;it chooses another alternative not mentioned inthe system?s question ; it indicates that the learnerdoes not know the correct answer or does not un-derstand the question ; or it meets neither of thesecategories.Finally, for each answer, the system can con-tinue the dialogue by making a ?confirmation?which is used to reassure the learner in the freedialogue system and to provide some feedback inthe guided dialogue system ; or just by ?inform-ing?
to the learner of the correct answer beforegetting into the next question.Given a specific domain, this generic FSA is357>S:Welcome to my house!, I?m the cat.
Do you wantto play with me?
|| ask(ready)>L:Ok. || answer(ready)>S:Great!
How are you doing?
|| ask(health)>L: I?m doing very well, thanks!|| answer(health, pref-option)>S: Awesome!
|| confirm(health,pref-option)>S: Come!
I want to show you the kitchen!|| inform(health)>S:In the kitchen we prepare lunch.
I preparesoup very often.
Do you prefer soup or salad?|| ask(pref-meal)>L:I prefer salad.|| answer(pref-meal,pref-option)>S:So do I!
|| confirm(pref-meal,pref-option)>S:I also love cheese.
|| inform(pref-meal)>S:Where do we usually keep the cheese?|| ask(cheese where)>L:In the fridge || answer(cheese where,pref-option)>S:You are right || confirm(cheese where,pref-option)>S:In the fridge || inform(cheese where)...>S:Thanks for this little chat!
See you soon|| quitFIGURE 1 ?
Example of a dialog (translated fromFrench to English)instantiated differently for each question/answerpair making up a dialog.
In particular, in the cur-rent demonstration system, it is instantiated tomodel a dialog situated in the kitchen of a virtualworld.
Figure 1 shows an example dialog.3 Situated Dialogues for languagelearningOur dialog systems for language learning are in-tegrated in a serious game called I-FLEG (Interac-tive French Learning Game, (Amoia et al 2012))in which the learner can trigger grammar exercicesand interactive dialog sessions by clicking on theobjects present in the virtual world.IFLEG integrates the two dialog systems forlanguage learning mentioned above namely, a?free answer dialog system?
where the learner an-swer is guided only by the preceding dialog ex-changes ; and a ?guided dialog system?
which re-stricts the set of permissible answers by providingthe learner with an exercise whose solution pro-vides a possible answer given the current dialogcontext.3.1 Data collectionTo provide the training data necessary to trainthe free dialog system, we conducted a Wizard-of-Oz experiment where language learners wereinvited to engage in a conversation with the wiz-ard, a French tutor.
In these experiments, we fol-lowed the methodology and used the tools fordata collection and annotation presented in (Rojas-Barahona et al 2012a).
Given an FSA specifiyinga set of 5 questions the learner had to answer, thewizard guided the learner through the dialog us-ing this FSA.
The resulting corpus consists of 52dialogues and 1906 sentences.3.2 Free answer Dialogue SystemThe free answer dialogue system simulatesthe behavior of the wizard tutor by means ofa Logistic-Regression classifier, the FSA anda generation-by-selection algorithm.
The systemfirst uses the FSA to determine the next questionto be asked.
Then for each question, the Logistic-Regression classifier is used to map the learner an-swer to a system dialog act.
At this stage, the FSAis used again, in two different ways.
First, it is usedto ensure that the predicted system dialog act isconsistent with the states in the FSA.
In case of amismatch, a valid dialog act is selected in the cur-rent context.
In particular, unpredicted ?preferredoptions?
and ?do not know?
learner answers aredetected using keyword spotting methods.
If theclassifier prediction conflicts with the predictionmade by key word spotting, it is ignored and theFSA transition is prefereed.Second, since the system has several consecu-tive turns, and given that the classifier only pre-dicts the next one, the FSA is used to determinethe following system dialog acts sequence.
Forinstance, if the predicted next system dialog actwas ?confirm?, according to the FSA the follow-ing system dialog act is ?inform?
and then eiherthe next question encoded in the FSA or ?quit?.Training the simulator To train the classifier,we labeled each learner sentence with the dialogact caracterising the next system act.
The featuresused for trainig included context features (namely,the four previous system dialogue acts) and the setof content words present in the learner turns af-ter filtering using tf*idf (Rojas Barahona et al2012b).
Given the learner input and the current di-alog context, the classifier predicts the next systemmove.Generation by Selection Given the system movepredicted by the dialog manager, the system turnis produced by randomly selecting from the train-ing corpus an utterance annotated with that dialogmove.3.3 Guided dialogue systemUnlike the free answer dialogue, the guided di-alogue strongly constrains the learner answer bysuggesting it in the form of a grammar exercise.358FIGURE 2 ?
Finite-state automata that defines the different states in the dialog for each question Q X. Sdefines the system, and P the learner.In the guided dialogue system, the dialoguepaths contained in the training corpus are used todecide on the next dialogue move.
In a first step,learner?s moves are labelled with the meaning rep-resentation associated to them by the grammar un-derlying the natural language generator used toproduce IFLEG grammar exercises.
Given a se-quence S/L contained in the training corpus withS, a system turn and L the corresponding learner?sturn, the system then constructs the exercise pro-viding the learner?s answer using the methodologydescribed in (Perez-Beltrachini et al 2012).
First,a sentence is generated from the meaning repre-sentation of the learner answer.
Next, the linguis-tic information (syntactic tree, morpho-syntacticinformation, lemmas) associated by the generatorwith the generated sentence is used to build a shuf-fle, a fill-in-the-blank or a transformation exercise.Here is an example interaction produced by thesystem :S : Vous pre?fe?rez la soupe ou le fromage ?
(Do youprefer soup or salad ?
)Please answer using the following words : { je,adorer, le, soupe }This dialogue setting has several benefits.
Thedialogue script provides a rich context for eachgenerated exercise item, learners are exposed toexample communicative interactions, and the sys-tem can provide feedback by comparing the an-swer entered by the learner against the expectedone.4 Sample DialogueIn this demo, the user will be able to interactwith both dialogue systems, situated in the kitchenof a virtual world, and where the tutor promptsthe learner with questions about meals, drinks,and various kitchen related activities such as floorcleaning and food preferences.ReferencesM.
Amoia, T. Bre?taudie`re, A. Denis, C. Gardent, andL.
Perez-Beltrachini.
2012.
A Serious Game for SecondLanguage Acquisition in a Virtual Environment.
Jour-nal on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (JSCI),10(1) :24?34.J.
Jia.
2004.
The study of the application of a web-basedchatbot system on the teaching of foreign languages.
InSociety for Information Technology & Teacher Educa-tion International Conference, volume 2004, pages 1201?1207.L.
Perez-Beltrachini, C. Gardent, and G. Kruszewski.
2012.Generating Grammar Exercises.
In NAACL-HLT 7thWorkshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educa-tional Applications, Montreal, Canada, June.L.
M. Rojas-Barahona, A. Lorenzo, and C. Gardent.
2012a.Building and exploiting a corpus of dialog interactions be-tween french speaking virtual and human agents.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation.L.
M. Rojas Barahona, A. Lorenzo, and C. Gardent.
2012b.An end-to-end evaluation of two situated dialog systems.In Proceedings of the 13th Annual Meeting of the SpecialInterest Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 10?19,Seoul, South Korea, July.
ACL.B.
Abu Shawar and E. Atwell.
2007.
Chatbots : are theyreally useful ?
In LDV Forum, volume 22, pages 29?49.S.
Wilske and M. Wolska.
2011.
Meaning versus form incomputer-assisted task-based language learning : A casestudy on the german dative.
JLCL, 26(1) :23?37.359
