Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Computational Approaches to Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis, pages 46?54,Atlanta, Georgia, 14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsSexual predator detection in chats with chained classifiersHugo Jair EscalanteLabTL, INAOELuis Enrique Erro No.
1,72840, Puebla, Mexicohugojair@inaoep.mxEsau?
Villatoro-Tello?Universidad Auto?noma MetropolitanaUnidad CuajimalpaMexico City, Mexicovillatoroe@inaoep.mxAntonio Jua?rezLabTL, INAOELuis Enrique Erro No.
1,72840, Puebla, Mexicoantjug@inaoep.mxLuis Villasen?orLabTL, INAOE72840, Puebla, Mexicovillasen@inaoep.mxManuel Montes-y-Go?mezLabTL, INAOE72840, Puebla, Mexicommontesg@inaoep.mxAbstractThis paper describes a novel approach for sex-ual predator detection in chat conversationsbased on sequences of classifiers.
The pro-posed approach divides documents into threeparts, which, we hypothesize, correspond tothe different stages that a predator employswhen approaching a child.
Local classifiersare trained for each part of the documents andtheir outputs are combined by a chain strat-egy: predictions of a local classifier are usedas extra inputs for the next local classifier.Additionally, we propose a ring-based strat-egy, in which the chaining process is iteratedseveral times, with the goal of further improv-ing the performance of our method.
We re-port experimental results on the corpus usedin the first international competition on sex-ual predator identification (PAN?12).
Experi-mental results show that the proposed methodoutperforms a standard (global) classificationtechnique for the different settings we con-sider; besides the proposed method comparesfavorably with most methods evaluated in thePAN?12 competition.1 IntroductionAdvances in communications?
technologies havemade possible to any person in the world to com-municate with any other in different ways (e.g.,text, voice, and video) regardless of their geograph-ical locations, as long as they have access to in-ternet.
This undoubtedly represents an importantand highly needed benefit to society.
Unfortunately,this benefit also has brought some collateral issues?Esau?
Villatoro is also external member of LabTL atINAOE.that affect the security of internet users, as nowa-days we are vulnerable to many threats, including:cyber-bullying, spam, fraud, and sexual harassment,among others.A particularly important concern has to do withthe protection of children that have access to inter-net (Wolak et al 2006).
Children are vulnerableto attacks from paedophiles, which ?groom?
them.That is, adults who meet underage victims online,engage in sexually explicit text or video chat withthem, and eventually convince the children to meetthem in person.
In fact, one out of every sevenchildren receives an unwanted sexual solicitationonline (Wolak et al 2006).
Hence, the detectionof cyber-sexual-offenders is a critical security issuethat challenges the field of information technologies.This paper introduces an effective approach forsexual predator detection (also called sexual preda-tor identification) in chat conversations based onchains of classifiers.
The proposed approach di-vides documents into three parts, with the hypoth-esis that different parts correspond to the differ-ent stages that predators adopt when approachinga child (Michalopoulos and Mavridis, 2011).
Lo-cal classifiers are trained for each part of the doc-uments and their outputs are combined by a chain-ing strategy.
In the chain-based approach the pre-dictions of a local classifier are used as extra inputsfor the next local classifier.
This strategy is inspiredfrom chain-based classifiers developed for the taskof multi-label classification (Read et al 2011).
Aring-based approach is proposed, in which the gener-ation of chains of classifiers is iterated several times.We report experimental results in the corpus used inthe first international competition on sexual preda-tor identification (PAN-2012) (Inches and Crestani,462012).
Experimental results show that chain-basedclassifiers outperform standard classification meth-ods for the different settings we considered.
Further-more, the proposed method compares favorably withalternative methods developed for the same task.2 Sexual predator detectionWe focus on the detection of sexual predators in chatrooms, among the many cyber-menaces targetingchildren.
This is indeed a critical problem becausemost sexually-abused children have agreed volun-tarily to met with their abuser (Wolak et al 2006).Therefore, anticipatively detecting when a person at-tempts to approach a children, with malicious inten-tions, could reduce the number of abused children.Traditionally, a term that is used to describe mali-cious actions with a potential aim of sexual exploita-tion or emotional connection with a child is referredas ?Child Grooming?
or ?Grooming Attack?
(Ku-cukyilmaz et al 2008).
Defined in (Harms, 2007)as: ?a communication process by which a perpetra-tor applies affinity seeking strategies, while simulta-neously engaging in sexual desensitization and in-formation acquisition about targeted victims in or-der to develop relationships that result in need ful-fillment?
(e.g.
physical sexual molestation).The usual approach1 to catch sexual predators isthrough police officers or volunteers, whom behaveas fake children in chat rooms and provoke sexualoffenders to approach them.
Unfortunately, onlinesexual predators always outnumber the law enforce-ment officers and volunteers.
Therefore, tools thatcan automatically detect sexual predators in chatconversations (or at least serve as support tool forofficers) are highly needed.A few attempts to automate processes related tothe sexual predator detection task have been pro-posed already (Pendar, 2007; Michalopoulos andMavridis, 2011; RahmanMiah et al 2011; Inchesand Crestani, 2012; Villatoro-Tello et al 2012;Bogdanova et al 2013).
The problem of detect-ing conversations that potentially include a sex-ual predator approaching a victim has been ap-proached, for example, by (RahmanMiah et al2011; Villatoro-Tello et al 2012; Bogdanova et al1Adopted for example by the Perverted Justice organization,http://www.perverted-justice.com/2013).
RahmanMiah et aldiscriminated amongchild-exploitation, adult-adult and general-chattingconversations using a text categorization approachand psychometric information (RahmanMiah et al2011).
Recently, Bogdanova et alapproachedthe same problem, the authors concluded that stan-dard text-mining features are useful to distinguishgeneral-chatting from child-exploitation conversa-tions, but not for discriminating between child-exploitation and adult-adult conversations (Bog-danova et al 2013).
In the latter problem, fea-tures that model behavior and emotion resulted par-ticularly helpful.
N. Pendar approached the prob-lem of distinguishing predators from victims withinchat conversations previously confirmed as contain-ing a grooming attack (Pendar, 2007).
The authorcollapsed all of the interventions from each partici-pant into a document and approached the problem asa standard text categorization task with two classes(victim vs. predator).A more fine grained approximation to the problemwas studied by (Michalopoulos and Mavridis, 2011).The authors developed a probabilistic method thatclassifies chat interventions into one of three classes:1) Gaining Access: indicate predators intention togain access to the victim; 2) Deceptive Relationship:indicate the deceptive relationship that the preda-tor tries to establish with the minor, and are pre-liminary to a sexual exploitation attack; and 3) Sex-ual Affair: clearly indicate predator?s intention fora sexual affair with the victim.
These categoriescorrespond to the different stages that a sexual of-fender adopt when approaching a child.
As (Pen-dar, 2007), (Michalopoulos and Mavridis, 2011) ap-proached this problem as one of text categorization(equating interventions to short-documents).
Theyremoved stop words and applied a spelling correc-tion strategy, their best results were obtained with aNa?
?ve Bayes classifier, reaching performance closeto 96%.
Thus giving evidence that the three cate-gories can be recognized reasonably well.
Whichin turn gives evidence that modeling the three stagescould be beneficial for recognizing sexual predators;for example, when it is not known whether a con-versation contains or not a grooming attack.
Thisis the underlying hypothesis behind the proposedmethod.
We aim to use local classifiers, special-ized in the different stages a predator approaches a47child.
Then, we combine the outputs of local classi-fiers with the goal of improving the performance onsexual predator detection in conversations includingboth: grooming attacks and well-intentioned conver-sations.Because of the relevance of the problem, and ofthe interest of several research groups from NLP,it was organized in 2012 the first competition ofsexual predator identification (Inches and Crestani,2012).
The problem approached in the competitionwas that of identifying sexual predators from con-versations containing both: grooming attacks andwell-intentioned conversations.
The organizers pro-vided a large corpus divided into development andevaluation data.
Development (training) data wereprovided to participants for building their sexual-predator detection system.
In a second stage, eval-uation (testing) data were provided to participants,whom had to apply their system to that data and sub-mit their results.
Organizers evaluated participantsusing their predictions on evaluation data (labels forthe evaluation data were not provided to participantsduring the competition).Several research groups participated in that com-petition, see (Inches and Crestani, 2012).
Someparticipants developed tailored features for detect-ing sexual predators (see e.g., (Eriksson and Karl-gren, 2012)), whereas other researchers focused onthe development of effective classifiers (Parapar etal., 2012).
The winning approach implemented atwo stage formulation (Villatoro-Tello et al 2012):in a first step suspicious conversations where iden-tified using a two class classifier.
Suspicious con-versations are those that potentially include a sexualpredator (i.e., a similar approach to (RahmanMiahet al 2011)).
In a second stage, sexual predatorswere distinguished from victims in the suspiciousconversations identified in the first stage (a similarapproach to that of (Pendar, 2007)).
For both stagesa standard classifier and a bag-of-words representa-tion was used.The methods proposed in this paper were eval-uated in the corpus used in the first interna-tional competition on sexual predator detection,PAN?12 (Inches and Crestani, 2012).
As explainedin the following sections, the proposed method usesstandard representation and classification methods,therefore, the proposed methods can be improved ifwe use tailored features or learning techniques forsexual predator detection.3 Chain-based classifiers for SPDChain-based classifiers were first proposed to dealwith multi-label classification (Read et al 2011).The goal was to incorporate dependencies amongdifferent labels, which are disregarded by mostmulti-label classification methods.
The underlyingidea was to increase the input space of classifierswith the outputs provided by classifiers trained forother labels.
The authors showed important im-provements over traditional methods.In this paper, we use chain-based classifiers to in-corporate dependencies among local classifiers asso-ciated to different segments of a chat conversation.The goal is building an effective predator-detectionmodel made of a set of local models specialized atclassifying certain segments of the conversation.
In-tuitively, we would like to have a local model asso-ciated to each of the stages in which a sexual preda-tor approaches a child: gaining access, deceptiverelationship and sexual affair (Michalopoulos andMavridis, 2011).
We associate a segment of the con-versation to each of the three stages.
The raw ap-proach proposed in this work consists of dividingthe conversation into three segments of equal length.The first, second and third segments of each conver-sation are associated to the first, second and thirdstages, respectively.
Although, this approach is toosimple, our goal was to determine whether havinglocal classifiers combined via a chaining strategycould improve the performance on sexual predatordetection.We hypothesize that as the vocabulary used in dif-ferent segments of the conversation is different, spe-cialized models can result in better performance forclassifying these local segments.
Since local classi-fiers can only capture local information, it is desir-able to somehow connect these classifiers in order tomake predictions taking into account the whole con-versation.
One way to make local classifiers depen-dent is thought the chain-based methodology, wherethe outputs of one local classifier are feed as inputsfor the next local classifier; the final prediction forthe whole conversation can be obtained in severalways as described below.48The proposed approach is described in Figure 1.Since our goal is to detect sexual predators fromchat conversations directly, we model each user(well-intentioned user, victim or sexual predator)by their set of interventions.
Thus, we generate asingle conversation for each user using their inter-ventions, keeping the order in which such interven-tions happened.
The approached problem is to clas-sify these conversations into sexual-predator or any-other-type-of-user.
In the following we call sim-ply conversations to the generated per-user conver-sations.Chat conversations are divided into three(equally-spaced) parts.
Next, one local-classifieris trained for each part of the document accordingto a predefined order2, where two out of the threeclassifiers (second and third) are not independent.Let p1, p2, and p3 denote the segments of textthat will be used for generating the first, secondand third classifiers.
The triplet {p1, p2, p3} canbe any of the six permutations of 3 segments, thistripled determines the order in which classifierswill be built.
Once that a particular order has beendefined, a first local-classifier, f1, is trained usingthe part p1 from all of the training documents(p1 ?
{first, second, third}).
Next, a secondlocal-classifier, f2, is trained by using the part p2from all of the training documents.
f2 is builtby using both attributes extracted from part p2 ofconversations and the outputs of the first classifierover the training documents.
Thus, classifier f2depends on classifier f1, through the outputs of thelatter model.
A third local-classifier, f3, is trainedusing attributes extracted from part p3 from allconversations, the input space for training f3 isaugmented with the predictions of classifiers f2 andf1 over the training documents.
Hence, the thirdclassifier depends on the outputs of the first andsecond classifiers.Once trained, the chain of local-classifiers can beused to make predictions for the whole conversationin different ways.
When a test conversation needs tobe classified it is also split into 3 parts.
Part p1 isfeeded to classifier f1, which generates a predictionfor f1.
Next, part p2 from the test document, to-2We hypothesize that building a chain of classifiers usingdifferent orders results in different performances, we evaluatethis aspect in Section 4.Figure 1: General diagram of the chain-based approach.gether with the prediction for p1 as generated by f1are feeded to classifier f2.
Likewise, the outputs off2 and f1, together with part p3 from the documentare used as inputs for classifier f3.
Clearly, since wehave predictions for the test document at the threestages of the chain (from f1,2,3) we can make a pre-diction at any stage.
The prediction from classifierf3 is called chain-prediction as it is the outcome ofthe dependent local-classifiers.Additionally to local and chain-prediction, wepropose a ring-like structure for chain-based classi-fiers in which the outputs of the third local-classifierare used again as inputs for another local model,where the order can be different to that used in theprevious iteration.
This process is iterated for a num-ber of times, where we can make predictions at everylink (local-classifier) of the ring.
In addition, aftera number of iterations we can make predictions bycombining the outputs (like in an ensemble) gener-ated by all of the classifiers considered in the ringup to that iteration.
The underlying idea is to ex-plore the performance of the chain as more local-models, that can use short and long term dependen-cies with other classifiers, are incorporated.
Our hy-pothesis is that after incorporating a certain numberof local-dependent-models, the predictions for thewhole conversations will be steady and will improvethe performance of the straight chain approach.Algorithm 1 describes the proposed ring-basedclassifier.
E denotes the set of extra inputs that haveto be added to individual classifiers, which are thecumulative outputs of individual classifiers.
P is aset of predefined permutations from which differentorders can be took from, where Pi is the ith per-mutation.
We denote with atts (pi, E) to the pro-49cess of extracting attributes from documents?
partpi and merging them with attributes stored in E .atts generates the representation that a classifiercan use.
train [f(X)] denotes the process of train-ing classifier f using inputs X .
Mc stores the mod-els trained through the ring process.Algorithm 1 Ring-based classifier.Require: g : # iterations; P : set of permutations;E = {}i = 0; c = 1;while i ?
g doi++;{p1, p2, p3} ?
Pi;for j = 1?
3 doX ?
atts [pj , E ]f?j ?
train [fj(X)];Mc ?
f?j ;E ?
E ?
f?j (pj , E);c++;end forend whilereturn Mc : trained classifiers (ring-based approach);When a test conversation needs to be labeled, theset of classifiers in M are applied to it using thesame order in the parts that was used when generat-ing the models.
Each time a model is applied to thetest instance, the prediction of such model is usedto increase the input space that is to be used for thenext model.
We call the prediction given by the lastmodel Mg, ring-prediction.
One should note that,as before, we can have predictions for the test con-versation from every model Mi.
Besides, we canaccumulate the predictions for the whole set of mod-els M1,...,g. Another alternative is to combine thepredictions of the three individual classifiers in eachiteration of the ring (every execution of the for-loopin Algorithm 1); this can be done, e.g., by weightaveraging.
In the next section we report the perfor-mance obtained by all these configurations.4 Experiments and resultsFor the evaluation of the proposed approach weconsidered the data set used in the first interna-tional competition on sexual predator identification3(PAN-2012) (Inches and Crestani, 2012).
Table 13http://pan.webis.de/presents some features from the considered data set.The data set contains both chat conversations includ-ing sexual predators approaching minors and (au-thentic) conversations between users (which can orcannot be related to a sexual topic).
The data set pro-vided by the organizers contained too much noisy in-formation that could harm the performance of classi-fication methods (e.g., conversations with only oneparticipant, conversations of a few characters long,etc.).
Therefore, we applied a preprocessing thataimed to both remove noisy conversations and re-ducing the data set for scalability purposes.
The fil-tering preprocessing consisted of eliminating: con-versations with only one participant, conversationswith less than 6 interventions per each participant,conversations that had long sequences of unrecog-nized characters (images, apparently).
The char-acteristics of the data set after filtering are shownwithin parentheses in Table 1.
It can be seen thatthe size of the data set was reduced considerably,although a few sexual predators were removed, webelieve the information available from them was in-sufficient to recognize them.Table 1: Features of the data set considered for experi-mentation (Inches and Crestani, 2012).
We show the fea-tures of the raw data and in parentheses the correspondingfeatures after applying the proposed preprocessing.Feature Development Evaluation# Convers.
66, 928 (6, 588) 155, 129 (15, 330)# Users 97, 690 (11, 038) 218, 702 (25, 120)# Sexual Pr.
148(136) 254 (222)Conversations were represented using their bag-of-words.
We evaluated the performance of dif-ferent representations and found that better resultswere obtained with a Boolean weighting scheme.No stop-word removal nor stemming was applied,in fact, punctuation marks were conserved.
We pro-ceeded this way because we think in chat conver-sations every character conveys useful informationto characterize users, victims and sexual predators.This is because of the highly unstructured and in-formal language used in chat conversations, as dis-cussed in related works (Kucukyilmaz et al 2008;RahmanMiah et al 2011; Rosa and Ellen, 2009).For indexing conversations we used the TMGtoolbox (Zeimpekis and Gallopoulos, 2006).
The re-50sultant vocabulary was of 56, 964 terms.
For build-ing classifiers we used a neural network as imple-mented in the CLOP toolbox (Saffari and Guyon,2006).
Our choice is based on results from a prelim-inary study.4.1 Performance of local classifiersWe first evaluate the performance of global and localclassifiers separately.
A global classifier is that gen-erated using the content of the whole conversation, itresembles the formulation from (Pendar, 2007).
Lo-cal classifiers were generated for each of the seg-ments.
Table 2 shows the performance of the globaland local models.
We report the average (of 5 runs)of precision, recall and F1 measure for the positiveclass (sexual predators).Table 2: Performance of global (row 2) and local classi-fiers (rows 3-6).Setting Precision Recall F1 MeasureGlobal 95.14% 49.91% 65.42%Segment 1 96.16% 59.20% 73.23%Segment 2 96.25% 48.82% 64.72%Segment 3 93.43% 51.87% 66.68%It can be seen from Table 2 that the performanceof the global model and that obtained for segments2 and 3 are comparable to each other in terms ofthe three measures we considered.
Interestingly,the best performance was obtained when the onlythe first segment of the conversation was used forclassification.
The difference is considerable, about11.93% of relative improvement.
This is a first con-tribution of our work: using the first segment of aconversation can improve the performance obtainedby a global classifier.
Since the first segment of con-versations (barely) corresponds to the gaining ac-cess stage, the result provides evidence that sexualpredators can be detected by the way they start ap-proaching to their victims.
That is, the way a well-intentioned person starts a conversation is somewhatdifferent to that of sexual predators approaching achild.
Also, it is likely that this makes a differencebecause for segments 2 and 3, conversations con-taining grooming attacks and well-intentioned con-versations can be very similar (well-intentioned con-versations can deal sexual thematic as well).4.2 Chain-based classifiersIn this section we report the performance obtainedby different settings of chain based classifiers.
Wefirst report the performance of the chain-predictionstrategy, see Section 3.
Figure 2 shows the precision,recall and F1 measure, obtained by the chain-basedclassifier for the different permutations of the 3 seg-ments (i.e., all possible orders for the segments).
Foreach order, we report the initial performance (thatobtained with the segment in the first order) and thechain-prediction, that is the prediction provided bythe last classifier in the chain.Figure 2: F1 measure by the initial and chain-based clas-sifier for different orders.From Figure 2 it can be observed that the chain-prediction outperformed the initial classifier formost of the orders in terms of F1 measure.
For or-ders starting with segment 1 (1-2-3 and 1-3-2) chain-based classifiers worsen the initial performance.This is due to the high performance of local clas-sifier for segment 1 (see Table 2), which cannot beimproved with successive local classifiers.
However,the best performance overall was obtained by thechain-based classifier with the order 2-3-1.
The rela-tive improvement of this configuration for the chain-based method over the global classifier (the one us-ing the whole conversations) was of 18.52%.
Oneshould note that the second-best performance wasobtained with the order 3-2-1.
Hence, putting themost effective classifier (that for segment 1) at theend seems to have a positive influence in the chain-based classifier.
We have shown evidence that chain-based classifiers outperform both the global classi-fier and any of the local methods.
Also, the order ofclassifiers is crucial for obtaining acceptable resultswith the chain technique: using the best classifierin the last position yields better performance; and,putting the best classifier at the beginning wouldlead the chain to worsen initial performance.514.3 Ring-based classifiersIn this section we report experimental results on sex-ual predator detection obtained with the ring-basedstrategy.
Recall a ring-based classifier can be seen asa chain that is replicated several times with differentorders, so we can have predictions for each of thelocal classifiers at each node of the ring/chain.
Be-sides, we can obtain periodical/cumulative predic-tions from the chain and predictions derived fromcombining predictions from a subset of local classi-fiers in the chain.
We explore the performance of allof these strategies in the rest of this section.We implement ring-based classifiers by succes-sively applying chain-based classifiers with differ-ent orders.
We consider the following alternativesfor detecting predators with ring-based classifiers:?
Local.
We make predictions with local classifierseach time a local classifier is added to the ring (nodependencies are considered).
We report the av-erage performance (segments avg.)
and the maxi-mum performance (segments max.)
obtained by lo-cal classifiers in each of the orders tried.?
Chain-prediction.
We make predictions withchain-based classifiers each time a local classifieris added to the ring.
We report the average perfor-mance (chain-prediction avg.)
and the maximumperformance (chain-prediction max.)
obtained bychain-based classifiers per each of the orders tried.?
Ensemble of chain-based classifiers.
We combinethe outputs of the three chain-based classifiers builtfor each order; this method is referred to as LC-Ensemble.?
Cumulative ensemble.
We combine the outputs(via averaging) of all the chain-based classifiers thathave been built each time an order is added to thering; we call this method Cumulative-Ensemble.Besides reporting results for these approaches wealso report the performance obtained by the globalclassifier (Whole conversations), see Table 2.We iterated the ring-based classifier for a fixednumber of orders.
We tried 24 orders, repeating thefollowing process two times: we tried the permu-tations of the 3 segments in lexicographical order,followed by the same permutations on inverted lex-icographical order.
So a total of 24 different orderswere evaluated.
Figure 3 shows the results obtainedby the different settings we consider for a typical runof our approach.Several findings can be drawn from Figure 3.With exception of the average of local classifiers(segments avg.
), all of the methods outperformedconsistently the global classifier (whole conversa-tions).
Thus confirming the competitive perfor-mance of local classifiers and that of chain-basedvariants.
The best local classifier from each or-der (segments max.)
achieved competitive perfor-mance, although it was outperformed by the averageof chain-based classifiers (chain-prediction avg.
).Since local classifiers are independent, no tendencyon their performance can be observed as more ordersare tried.
On the contrary, the performance chain-based methods (as evidenced by the avg.
and maxof chain-predictions) improves for the first 8-9 or-ders and then remains steady.
In fact, the best (per-order) chain-prediction (chain-prediction max.)
ob-tained performance comparable to that obtained byensemble methods.
One should note, however, thatin the chain-prediction max.
formulation we reportthe best performance from each order tried, whichmight correspond to different segments in the differ-ent orders.
Therefore, it is not clear how the selectthe specific order to use and the specific segment ofthe chain that will be used for making predictions,when putting in practice the method for a sexual-predator detection system.
Notwithstanding, stableaverage predictions can be obtained when more than6-8 orders are used (chain-prediction avg.
), still theperformance of this approach is lower than that ofensembles.Clearly, the best performance was obtainedwith the ensemble methods: chain-ensemble andcumulative-ensemble.
Both approaches obtainedsimilar performance, although the chain-ensembleslightly outperformed cumulative-ensemble.
Thechain-ensemble considers dependencies within eachorder and not across orders, thus its performance af-ter trying the 6 permutations of 3 segments did notvary significantly.
This is advantageous as only 6orders have to be evaluated to obtain competitiveperformance.
Unfortunately, as with single chain-classifiers it may be unclear how to select the par-ticular order to use to implement a sexual-predatordetection system.On the other hand, the cumulative-ensemble ob-52Figure 3: Performance of the different variants of ring-based classifiers for sexual predator detection.tained stable performance after ?
12 orders wereconsidered.
Recall this method incorporates depen-dencies among the different orders tried.
Althoughit requires the evaluation of more orders than thechain-ensemble to converge, this method is advanta-geous for a real application: after a certain numberof orders it achieves steady performance, and sinceit averages the outputs of all of the chain-classifiersevaluated up to a certain iteration, its performancedoes not rely on selecting a particular configuration.In consequence, we claim the cumulative-ensembleoffers the best tradeoff between performance, stabil-ity and model selection.4.4 Comparison with related worksTable 3 shows a comparison of the configurationcumulative-ensemble against the top-ranked partic-ipants in the PAN?12 competition.
We show theperformance of the top-5 participants as describedin (Inches and Crestani, 2012), additionally we re-port the average performance obtained by the meth-ods of the 16 participating teams.
We report, F1and F0.5 measures, and the rank for each participant.We report F0.5 measure because that was the leadingevaluation measure for the PAN?12 competition.From Table 3 it can be observed that the proposedmethod is indeed very competitive.
The results ob-tained by our method outperformed significantly theaverage performance (row 7) obtained by all of theparticipants in all of the considered measures.
Interms of F1 measure our method would be ranked inthe fourth position, while in terms of the F0.5 mea-sure our method would be ranked third.Table 3: Comparison of the proposed method with relatedworks evaluated in the PAN?12 competition (Inches andCrestani, 2012).Participant F1 F0.5 Rk.
(Villatoro-Tello et al 2012) 87.34 93.46 1(Inches and Crestani, 2012) 83.18 91.68 2(Parapar et al 2012) 78.16 86.91 3(Morris and Hirst, 2012) 74.58 86.52 4(Eriksson and Karlgren, 2012) 87.48 86.38 5(Inches and Crestani, 2012) 49.10 51.06 -Our method 78.98 89.14 -5 ConclusionsWe introduced a novel approach to sexual-predatordetection in which documents are divided into 3segments, which, we hypothesize, could correspondto the different stages in that a sexual predator ap-proaches a child.
Local classifiers are built for eachof the segments, and the predictions of local classi-fiers are combined through a strategy inspired fromchain-based classifiers.
We report results on thecorpus used in the PAN?12 competition, the pro-posed method outperforms a global approach.
Re-sults are competitive with related works evaluated inPAN?12.
Future work includes applying the chain-based classifiers under the two-stage approach fromVillatoro et al(Villatoro-Tello et al 2012).AcknowledgmentsThis project was supported by CONACYT underproject grant 134186.
The authors thank INAOE,UAM-C and SNI for their support.53ReferencesD.
Bogdanova, P. Rosso, and T. Solorio.
2013.
Explor-ing high-level features for detecting cyberpedophilia.In Special issue on on Computational Approachesto Subjectivity, Sentiment and Social Media Analysis(WASSA 2012), Computer Speech and Language (ac-cepted).G.
Eriksson and J. Karlgren.
2012.
Features for mod-elling characteristics of conversations.
In P. Forner,J.
Karlgren, and C. Womser-Hacker, editors, Workingnotes of the CLEF 2012 Evaluation Labs and Work-shop, Rome, Italy.
CLEF.C.
Harms.
2007.
Grooming: An operational definitionand coding scheme.
Sex Offender Law Report, 8(1):1?6.G.
Inches and F. Crestani.
2012.
Overview of the inter-national sexual predator identification competition atPAN-2012.
In P. Forner, J. Karlgren, and C. Womser-Hacker, editors, Working notes of the CLEF 2012Evaluation Labs and Workshop, Rome, Italy.
CLEF.T.
Kucukyilmaz, B. Cambazoglu, C. Aykanat, and F. Can.2008.
Chat mining: predicting user and message at-tributes in computer-mediated communication.
In In-formation Processing and Management, 44(4):1448?1466.D.
Michalopoulos and I. Mavridis.
2011.
Utilizing doc-ument classification for grooming attack recognition.In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Computersand Communications, pages 864?869.C.
Morris and G. Hirst.
2012.
Identifying sexual preda-tors by svm classification with lexical and behavioralfeatures.
In P. Forner, J. Karlgren, and C. Womser-Hacker, editors, Working notes of the CLEF 2012Evaluation Labs and Workshop, Rome, Italy.
CLEF.J.
Parapar, D. E. Losada, and A. Barreiro.
2012.
Alearning-based approach for the identification of sex-ual predators in chat logs.
In P. Forner, J. Karlgren,and C. Womser-Hacker, editors, Working notes of theCLEF 2012 Evaluation Labs and Workshop, Rome,Italy.
CLEF.N.
Pendar.
2007.
Toward spotting the pedophile tellingvictim from predator in text chats.
In Proceedings ofthe IEEE International Conference on Semantic Com-puting, pages 235?241, Irvine California USA.M.
W. RahmanMiah, J. Yearwood, and S. Kulkarni.2011.
Detection of child exploiting chats from a mixedchat dataset as text classification task.
In Proceed-ings of the Australian Language Technology Associ-ation Workshop, pages 157?165.J.
Read, B. Pfahringer, G. Holmes, and E. Frank.
2011.Classifier chains for multi-label classification.
Ma-chine Learning Journal, 85(3):333?359.K.
D. Rosa and J. Ellen.
2009.
Text classificationmethodologies applied to micro-text in military chat.In Proceedings of the eight IEEE International Con-ference on Machine Learning and Applications, pages710?714.A.
Saffari and I Guyon.
2006.
Quick start guide forCLOP.
Technical report, Graz-UT and CLOPINET,May.E.
Villatoro-Tello, A. Jua?rez-Gonza?lez, H. J. Escalante,M.
Montes-Y-Go?mez, and L. Villasen?or-Pineda.
2012.A two-step approach for effective detection of mis-behaving users in chats.
In P. Forner, J. Karlgren,and C. Womser-Hacker, editors, Working notes of theCLEF 2012 Evaluation Labs and Workshop, Rome,Italy.
CLEF.J.
Wolak, K. Mitchell, and D. Finkelhor.
2006.
On-line victimization of youth: Five years later.
Bulleting07-06-025, National Center for Missing and ExploitedChildren, Alexandia, Alexandria, VA.D.
Zeimpekis and E. Gallopoulos, 2006.
Grouping Mul-tidimensional Data: Recent Advances in Clustering,chapter TMG: A MATLAB toolbox for generatingterm-document matrices from text collections, pages187?210.
Springer.54
