Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Teaching Natural Language Processing, pages 35?41,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsLearning from OzCLO, the Australian Computational and LinguisticsOlympiadDominique EstivalU.
of Western Sydneyd.estival@uws.edu.auJohn HendersonU.
of Western Australiajohn.henderson@uwa.edu.auMary LaughrenU.
of Queenslandm.laughren@uq.edu.auDiego Moll?Macquarie U.diego.molla-aliod@mq.edu.auCathy BowCharles Darwin U.cathy.bow@cdu.edu.auRachel NordlingerU.
of Melbourneracheln@unimelb.edu.auVerna RieschildMacquarie U.verna.rieschild@mq.edu.auAndrea C. SchalleyGriffith U.a.schalley@griffith.edu.auAlexander W. StanleyMacquarie U.alexander.stanley@students.mq.edu.auColette Mrowa-HopkinsFlinders U.colette.mrowa-hopkins@flinders.edu.auAbstractThe Australian Computational and LinguisticsOlympiad (OzCLO) started in 2008 in onlytwo locations and has since grown to a na-tionwide competition with almost 1500 highschool students participating in 2013.
An Aus-tralian team has participated in the Interna-tional Linguistics Olympiad (ILO) every yearsince 2009.
This paper describes how thecompetition is run (with a regional FirstRound and a final National Round) and the or-ganisation of the competition (a NationalSteering Committee and Local OrganisingCommittees for each region) and discusses theparticular challenges faced by Australia (tim-ing of the competition and distance betweenthe major population centres).
One major fac-tor in the growth and success of OzCLO hasbeen the introduction of the online competi-tion, allowing participation of students fromrural and remote country areas.
The organisa-tion relies on the good-will and volunteerwork of university and school staff but thestrong interest among students and teachersshows that OzCLO is responding to a demandfor linguistic challenges.1 IntroductionThe Australian Computational and LinguisticOlympiad (OzCLO, www.ozclo.org.au) began asan idea in late 2007, largely prompted by a par-ent in Ballarat, a small town in Victoria, whocame across the North American competition(NACLO, Radev et al2008) on the internet andthought it was something that her daughterwould be interested in doing.
Her emails to theorganisers of NACLO, asking about the likeli-hood of such an event being run in Australia, ledto initiating contact with the Australasian Lan-guage Technology Association (ALTA) with thesuggestion that a computational linguistic olym-piad be established in Australia.
Dominique Es-tival (then at Appen Pty Ltd, and a member ofthe ALTA Steering Committee) took on the pro-ject and, jointly with Jane Simpson (then fromthe University of Sydney), Rachel Nordlingerand Jean Mulder (from the University of Mel-bourne), ran the first ever Australian Computa-tional and Linguistic Olympiad in 2008, withfinancial support from HCSNet (the HumanCommunication Science Network), and helpfrom ALTA (the Australasian Language Tech-nology Association), ALS (the Australian Lin-guistic Society) and CSIRO (the CommonwealthScientific and Industrial Research Organisation).The first competition was held in two locations ?the University of Melbourne (Victoria) and theUniversity of Sydney (New South Wales) ?
witha total of 119 students participating from 22schools.
Given the success of this first competi-tion, 2009 saw the addition of four new locationsaround Australia (Adelaide, South Australia;Brisbane, Queensland; Canberra, ACT; Perth,Western Australia) and the sending of the na-tional winning team to the International Linguis-tic Olympiad in Wroclaw, Poland.
Since thenOzCLO has run every year, with the recent addi-tion of two regions (NSW-North in 2010 andNorthern Territory in 2013) and the participationof an Australian team in every ILO.352 Philosophy, Aims and PrinciplesThe immediate aim of OzCLO (Simpson andHenderson, 2010) is to introduce high schoolstudents to language puzzles from which theycan learn about the richness, diversity and sys-tematic nature of language, and develop theirreasoning skills.
The general value of this type ofknowledge and skills in high school educationhas not been specifically articulated to potentialparticipants or their teachers, schools or parents,as it has in the UK (UKLO, 2011; Hudson andSheldon, 2013).
However, informal feedback andthe participation rate both indicate a widespreadperception in the school sector that this type ofactivity has educational value, albeit with differ-ent focuses in different schools.
For many of theschools that participate, OzCLO provides ameans to meet their institutional responsibility toprovide extra-curricular activities that are intel-lectually stimulating and broadening for aca-demically high-achieving students (under rubricssuch as ?gifted and talented?).
Some schools offerOzCLO to a wider range of students.The broader aim of OzCLO is to promoteawareness of, and interest in linguistics andcomputational linguistics in high schools and inthe wider community, and more specifically toincrease enrolments in these disciplines at uni-versity level.
A further goal is that this will ulti-mately attract people to careers in these areas.Linguistics has traditionally had little recognitionat high school level in Australia, even withinlanguage education, although more recently thereis linguistics content at upper high school level inthe English Language course in Victoria and inthe new national English curriculum.
OzCLO hasbeen running in most regions long enough to seeparticipants reaching university, and althoughthere has been no proper research on the impactof OzCLO on enrolments, there is anecdotal evi-dence that some former participants have chosento study at least some linguistics.Consistent with the key aim of promoting in-terest, OzCLO operates on the principles thatparticipation should be fun and should offerachievable if challenging tasks to a wide range ofstudents across science and humanities interests,especially in the First Round.
Schools are pro-vided with a training package of problems whichstarts with a simple morphological analysis thatis suitable to do as a whole-class exercise even ifthey do not proceed to the competition itself.
Inboth rounds participation takes place in school-based teams, rather than individual competition.This is partly to encourage students to learn tocommunicate their analytical ideas, to collabo-rate effectively, and to provide mutual supportand social interaction.
It also offers some organ-isational advantages in terms of registration andmarking.
Because team members may have dif-ferent levels of ability, the competition processdoes not necessarily identify the highest achiev-ing individuals, but this risk is out-weighed bythe benefits of teams.
The organisation of theFirst Round as separate competitions in each re-gion provides each team with a smaller pool tocompete in initially and a distinct level of localachievement.
However, since there are consider-able differences in the number of teams in eachregion, and the top teams from each region areinvited into the National Round, the nationalcompetition does not necessarily consist of thehighest achieving teams nationally and there iscurrently discussion of methods to minimise thiseffect.
Finally, the results are structured to rec-ognise participation as well as high achievement:in addition to recognising the top teams, allteams receive certificates in the categories Gold(top ?25%), Silver (next ?25%) and Bronze (re-mainder).3 Organising the Annual Competition3.1 University levelAll Australian states and territories (with the ex-ception of Tasmania) now participate in OzCLOand there is typically one Local OrganisingCommittee (LOC) for each geographical region.There are currently eight LOCs (soon to be ninewith the addition of a third New South Walesregion).
Each LOC has the responsibility forstudent and school liaison, university spacebooking, recruiting volunteer academic and stu-dent helpers, running the competitions, publicis-ing the event locally, and finding cash or in-kindsponsorship (e.g.
for rooms, venues, printing andprizes).The National Steering Committee (NSC)comprises the Chair of each LOC, the ProblemsCoordinator, the Treasurer, the OZCLO Web-master and the Online Competition Coordinator.The NSC?s role is to coordinate between LOCs,make and implement OzCLO decisions, and co-ordinate national sponsorships and publicity.
Atraining package is developed by the NSC andprovided online each year, on the OzCLO web-site and within the online competition site.
TheNSC Chair has the responsibility of ensuring thecoordination and execution of tasks for OzCLO,36both nationally and internationally.
The NSCChair and the Problems Coordinator liaise withELCLO (English Linguistics and ComputationalLinguistics Olympiads) with regard to develop-ing annual problem sets, and with the Interna-tional Linguistics Olympiad (ILO/IOL) with re-gard to the international competition.
NSC mem-bers may have dual responsibilities.Because of the distances between regionalcentres, the NSC meetings are all conducted viateleconferences, and committee members sharedocuments and records using Airset, a cloud-based collaboration site.3.2 School levelOzCLO operates on a democratic basis, with thedevolution of decision making passing from NSCto LOC to school teacher to students.
Teacherand student feedback often contributes to NSCdiscussions.
Information is disseminated toschool teachers through the website as well asthrough emails from the region?s LOC.
This in-formation is also shared via Facebook and Twit-ter accounts.
Training sessions are providedonline, at universities and, in some cases, withinschools.
Teachers register teams of 4 membersat the Junior (Years 9 and 10) or Senior level(Years 11-12) online.
There is no limit to regis-trations for the online competition, but registra-tions for the offline competition (in which stu-dents typically attend the organising Universitycampus) may be constrained by University venueavailability issues.
Some schools have Linguis-tics Clubs, and OzCLO is a strong focus for theiractivities.
In some regions, schools with over 80participating students request in-house trainingand invigilation for an offline First Round.3.3 The public face of OzCLOOzCLO has a website (www.ozclo.org.au) and asocial media presence with Twitter and Facebookaccounts for communications and promotion.Most LOCs have been successful in gaining pub-licity for OzCLO through their University mediadepartments.
Many schools publish pictures anditems about OzCLO achievements in their schoolnewsletters.
Some individual schools have fea-tured in the local press after results of competi-tions have been published.
OzCLO has also fea-tured in national radio segments.4 The OzCLO Competition4.1 Competitions RoundsThe OzCLO competition consists of two rounds,a regional or state-wide First Round and a Na-tional Round.
In both, school-based teams of upto four students attempt to solve five or six lin-guistic problems in two hours.
The teams aredivided into Senior and Junior sections, with theSenior teams drawn from the last two years ofhigh school (Tears 11 and 12) while the Juniorteams are drawn from the two preceding years(Years 9 and 10).
The same problems sets andcompetition conditions hold for both Senior andJunior teams.
The top three teams from eachLOC are invited to go on to the National Roundwhich is held under the same conditions.
If thetop Junior team is not in the overall top threeteams, then it is also invited.
The Senior teamwhich wins the National Round is invited to rep-resent Australia at the ILO.4.2 Problem setsIn its first two years, OzCLO greatly benefitedfrom NACLO, which allowed use of their prob-lem sets.
Some additional problems were com-posed by linguists engaged in the running of thecompetition, or their colleagues.
Since 2009,OzCLO has been part of ELCLO, the EnglishLanguage Computational Linguistics Olympiad,in which participating countries (Australia, Ire-land, North America and the United Kingdom)contribute to a shared set of problems.
Becauseof the OzCLO rationale described above, an at-tempt is made to try to have a mix of problemsbased on data from a wide range of languages,and also a wide range of data types.
Differentlevels of difficulty are included so that studentshave the satisfaction of being able to solve mostof the problems.
The aim is to show students thatanalysing language phenomena can be fun aswell as challenging, and also that linguistic skillscan be applied to some very practical tasks.
Theproblems include: deciphering non-Romanscripts; translation tasks involving typical mor-phological and syntactic analysis; computationallinguistic tasks; search for phonological rules, orlinguistic reconstruction.4.3 Training for ILOSince 2009, an Australian team has participatedin every ILO.
While the main goal of OzCLOhas always been the promotion of language stud-ies, linguistic knowledge and analysis skills in37Australian high schools, the appeal of potentiallyparticipating in an international competition hasproved an additional incentive for many of thestudents and their teachers.
However, because ofthe rationale for OzCLO discussed above, theproblems used in the First Round and even theNational Round are not nearly as difficult as theactual ILO problems.
Therefore the Australianteam needs to be given additional training beforecompeting at the international level.
This trainingwas first provided by a coach accompanying theteam at the ILO but we have found that this wasinsufficient and too late to be helpful.
We nowprovide training sessions aimed at solving ILO-level problems to the winning team prior to trav-elling to the ILO.
This has resulted in higher re-sults, including an individual silver medal in2011 and honourable mentions in 2010 and 2012.5 Participation 2008-2013OzCLO has evolved from 22 schools and 119competing students in 2008 to 87 schools and1,451 competing students in 2013.
Some schoolshave participated each year, and there has been asteady increase in new schools.
Private and se-lective government schools have so far been themajority in most regions, but the numbers ofgovernment schools participating are growing.All participating schools are highly enthusiasticabout the OzCLO competitions.OzCLO naturally attracts schools keen on of-fering a new kind of challenge to students intheir GATS (gifted and talented students) pro-grammes.
However, teachers (not only languageteachers, but also mathematics and computer sci-ences teachers) also comment that OzCLO is arare kind of competition because it provides fun,challenge, stimulation and team work for anystudent.A challenge for Australia compared withEurope or North America is the enormous dis-tance between rural and metropolitan areas, mak-ing it difficult for many schools in rural areas toparticipate in an offline University-based compe-tition.
The advent of the online option gives ur-ban, rural and country remote students equity inaccess.
Thanks to this plus a strong marketingdrive in that state, numbers have increased dra-matically in Queensland.
In other regions, someschools prefer the university campus experienceoffered by the offline option.As Table 1 shows, numbers have increasedsteadily over the six years since inception.
In2013, Australia?s population of 23 million hasprovided nearly as many Linguistics Olympiadscompetitors as has the United States and Canadacombined, whose population figures are fifteentimes more than Australia?s.
The OzCLO par-ticipation rate is 6.4 per 100,000 population.
ForUKLO it is 4.55, and for NACLO 0.49.6 Going on-lineIn the first four years of OzCLO?s existence, thecompetition was offered on campus by academicstaff volunteers from a number of mainly metro-politan Universities.
Participating teams travelledfrom their schools to the respective Universities?campuses to take part in the Training Session andthe First Round, except for NSW, where severalOzCLO representatives also travelled to schoolswith a large participation base, in order to run thecompetition at the school.
Teachers often re-ported that these visits to the University campuswere a highlight for the participating studentswho very much enjoyed the experience.Nonetheless, a number of drawbacks to thisapproach became apparent quite early.
Theseincluded:?
The difficulty of organising suitable venueson campus for running the competition due tothe timing of the First Round (usually coin-ciding with Universities?
Orientation Week ortheir first weeks of teaching in the first semes-ter).?
The distance factor with the result that onlyschools within travel distance could partici-pate in the competition (in the case of Queen-sland, for instance, no school beyond a dis-tance of about 100kms from campus partici-pated in the offline competition).
Given thesize of Australia, most regional and ruralschools were thus virtually excluded fromcompeting.?
Constraints on availability of venues andmarkers put a cap on the overall number ofstudents who could compete in each region.Thus, the number of schools and the numberof students per school had to be limited by thelocal committees from the outset (e.g.
inQueensland, only two teams per school wereable to compete, although some schoolswished to enrol many more).38LOC2008Schools/students2009Schools/Students2010Schools/students2011Schools/students2012Schools/students2013Schools/studentsRegionpopulation000sParticipantsper 100,000populationNSW-S 106414105[fn/a]92152791228993127,314 5.24NSW-N n/a  n/a  540758560671VIC 12551190[fn/a]120911516245183045,649 5.38ACT n/a  73058357291369161377 42.76QLD n/a  116015901510620312253774,585 8.22SA n/a  [fn/a]295333194273341,658 2.05NT n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  n/a  680236 33.86WA n/a  1078111441614314120121202,451 4.90TAS n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 512 0Overall  119students392students602students792students1069students1459students22,786 6.40Table 1:  Participation schools/students(n/a = not applicable = LOC was not participating;  [fn/a] =figure not availableIn order to address these issues, it was de-cided to offer an online option in 2012, usingGriffith University?s Learning ManagementSystem.
This lifted restrictions on numbers(both school and students per school), andschools were able to compete from anywherein Australia if they so wished.
As a result,schools located as far as 1,500 kms from themetropolitan areas have successfully partici-pated in the competition, and some schoolsregistered more than 20 teams in the latestcompetition.
With the online option, the over-all number of participants has increased dra-matically (see Table 2).
For instance, Victoriasaw the number of their participants doublefrom 2011 to 2012, while numbers in Queen-sland nearly tripled.
Even in those regions thatshifted to exclusively offering the online op-tion (such as Queensland in the last two years),most schools have remained in the competi-tion.2012 2013LOC Online students On campus students Online Students On-campus StudentsNSW-S 91 198 120 192NSW-N 60 [on/a] 8 63VIC 137 108 195 109ACT 64 72 115 46QLD 312 [on/a] 377 on/aSA 0 27 34 on/aWA 28 92 120 on/aNT n/a n/a 80 on/aTable 2: Participation numbers by mode (online/on-campus)(n/a = not applicable (LOC was not participating);  [fn/a] =figure not available;[on/a] =option not available)39In terms of students competing online vs.on-campus, except for the NSW-N region,there is a distinct shift towards participatingonline.
Feedback from teachers has shown thatin many cases it is easier for teams to staywithin the school grounds for the competitionrather than to travel to the University campus.For some schools, however, travelling to theUniversity campus is still one of the majorbenefits they would not want to lose.
For thisreason most LOCs offer both on-campus andonline options.
Some regions choose to onlyoffer the online option (with a training sessionat the University).Teams participating online have access totraining materials and all the necessary infor-mation, which is made available through theOzCLO website well before the competitionday.
This site also allows teams to familiarisethemselves with the online testing system.
Onthe day, all teams across Australia compete atthe same time on the same day and within thesame two hour period (to compensate for timezone differences, teams started at 12:00 inWA, 13:30 in the NT, 14:00 in QLD, 14:30pmin SA and 15:00 in the ACT, NSW and VIC inthe 2013 competition).In terms of process and technical require-ments, each participating team needs access toan Internet-enabled computer on the day of thecompetition.
No special software is required onthe school?s computers.
The problem set ismade available to teachers shortly before thecompetition commences, in order to allowthem to print and copy the problems for thestudents.
Students usually work on the papercopy, and then access the computer to entertheir responses.
There is also a virtual class-room set up for live communication during thecompetition, in order to allow students andteachers to ask questions but also to show stu-dents that there are hundreds of competitorsparticipating from around the country at thesame time.Overall, the addition of the online alterna-tive has been a very beneficial development forOzCLO.
The strong growth in overall partici-pant numbers over recent years is not simplydue to the online option, but this has certainlyplayed a major role.
It remains to be seen ifthere is even more potential for growth ?
espe-cially in areas outside of the major cities.7 ChallengesOne of the main challenges OzCLO faces isthe timing of the competition in relation to theschedule of the international linguistics compe-titions.
The Australian school year begins inFebruary and ends in December, and the uni-versity year is roughly March to November, incontrast to the September-June academic cal-endars of the northern hemisphere.
In order foran Australian team to be selected with enoughtime to prepare for participation in the ILO, theNational Round needs to be held before theEaster break (March/April).
For Universitiesand schools, this creates a very rushed timelineat the busiest time of the school/academic year.As mentioned earlier, another challenge forAustralia is the vast distances between metro-politan areas, where most of the universitiesare located.
In spite of the success of the onlinecompetition, so far OzCLO has had mostly ametropolitan base and has not yet fully en-gaged in marketing to regional and rural areasacross the whole country.
Targeting appropri-ate teachers within schools can also be a chal-lenge, as experience has shown that often theinformation does not filter through to the rele-vant teachers (these are usually the coordina-tors of Languages, Gifted Education, Mathe-matics, or Computing programmes).
Contact-ing the professional associations for the differ-ent teaching specialties could ensure that in-formation is disseminated more efficiently.Funding is not guaranteed, and fundraisingefforts are not rewarded every year.
All organ-isational efforts at University and school leveldepend on good-will and volunteering as wellas donations.
Changes in Heads of Depart-ments in Universities and principals in schoolscan impact negatively on funds and participa-tion levels.
This means that core issues need tobe resolved again every year, for example, theongoing maintenance of the OzCLO web-site/online registration system, which is both achallenge and a solution to other issues.
TheOzCLO website hosting is provided by Mac-quarie University and the site is maintained bya student volunteer.
It has served as the centralhub of information, with other modes (email,Facebook and Twitter) leading back to it fordetailed information.
In addition to ordinaryinformation, it also enables self-service regis-tration, and the automated generation of PDFcertificates after the competition.
These facili-ties and the volunteer support of the webmaster40have significantly lowered the administrativeand financial overhead for the organisers.An additional problem for OzCLO is thedivision of Australia?s most populated state(NSW, with almost a third of Australia?s popu-lation) into northern and southern regions,which leads to one state providing double thecompetitors of other states into the NationalRound.
A model is needed whereby all com-petitors, no matter whether they come from asmall or a large region, have an equal opportu-nity to compete in the National Round.Finally, while OzCLO has been able to con-tribute a number of linguistic problems to theELCLO pool, it has proved extremely difficultto obtain contributions from ComputationalLinguistics (Estival, 2011).8 ConclusionsIn conclusion, running the OzCLO competitionhas been an activity well worth the effort, andit is very rewarding that it has become a fixturein the academic calendar for many schools.Students, teachers and principals have beenextremely positive about the experience, giv-ing encouraging feedback and expressingstrong support for the competition.
The recentincreases in participation rates have come fromnew regions (only one Australian state cur-rently has no LOC, but possibilities are beingexplored in this area), new schools, and largernumbers from individual schools (up to 100participants from a single school).
Someschools have started a linguistics club as afterschool activity, and others are promoting theirexperiences on social media.While there is no data currently availableregarding any effect on enrolments in tertiarylinguistics programs, increased interest in andawareness of linguistics is certainly a positiveoutcome for a discipline which faces chal-lenges of funding and viability.
The coopera-tion of academics from universities across thecountry in all the LOCs and the NSC, plus thesupport of the Australian Linguistics Society(ALS) and of the Australasian LanguageTechnology Association (ALTA), make thecompetition a truly national event.
This meansthat the competition is not dependent on anyone single person or institution (although com-petition within particular regions is), and al-lows for further growth.
Ongoing funding andcontinued support from both universities andschools across the country should see contin-ued growth in the popularity and spread of thecompetition.ReferencesDerzhanski, Ivan, and Thomas Payne.
(2010).
Thelinguistic olympiads: academic competitions inlinguistics for secondary school students.
Lin-guistics at school: language awareness in pri-mary and secondary education, ed.
By KristinDenham and Anne Lobeck, 213?26.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Estival, Dominique.
(2011).
?OzCLO: The Austra-lian Computational Linguistic Olympiad?.
Pro-ceedings of the Australasian Language Technol-ogy Association Workshop 2011.
Canberra, Aus-tralia.Hudson, Richard, and Sheldon, Neil.
(2013).
?Lin-guistics at School: The UK Linguistics Olym-piad.?
Language and Linguisticspass, Volume 7, Issue 2. pp.Radev, Dragomir R., Lori S. Levin, and Thomas E.Payne.
(2008).
?The North American Computa-tional Linguistics Olympiad (NACLO)?.
In Pro-ceedings of The Third Workshop on Issues inTeaching Computational Linguistics, Columbus,OH, USA.91?104,Simpson, Jane, and Henderson, John.
(2010).
Aus-tralian Computational and Linguistics Olympiad.Cross Section, Vol.
20, No.
3, July 2010: 10-14.United Kingdom Linguistics Olympiad Committee.(n.d.)
The Linguistics Olympiads: Lots of fun,but are they educa-tional?
http://www.uklo.org/?page_id=35  .41
