Proceedings of The First Workshop on Computational Approaches to Code Switching, pages 107?115,October 25, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMixed-Language and Code-Switching in the Canadian HansardMarine CarpuatMultilingual Text ProcessingNational Research CouncilOttawa, ON K1A0R6, CanadaMarine.Carpuat@nrc.gc.caAbstractWhile there has been lots of interest incode-switching in informal text such astweets and online content, we ask whethercode-switching occurs in the proceedingsof multilingual institutions.
We focus onthe Canadian Hansard, and automaticallydetect mixed language segments based onsimple corpus-based rules and an existingword-level language tagger.Manual evaluation shows that the perfor-mance of automatic detection varies sig-nificantly depending on the primary lan-guage.
While 95% precision can beachieved when the original language isFrench, common words generate manyfalse positives which hurt precision in En-glish.
Furthermore, we found that code-switching does occur within the mixedlanguages examples detected in the Cana-dian Hansard, and it might be used differ-ently by French and English speakers.This analysis suggests that parallel cor-pora such as the Hansard can provide in-teresting test beds for studying multilin-gual practices, including code-switchingand its translation, and encourages usto collect more gold annotations to im-prove the characterization and detectionof mixed language and code-switching inparallel corpora.1 IntroductionWhat can we learn from language choice pat-terns observed within multilingual organizations?While this question has been addressed, for in-stance, by conducting fieldwork in EuropeanUnion institutions (Wodak et al., 2012), we aimto use natural language processing tools to studylanguage choice directly from text, leveraging thepublicly available proceedings of multilingual in-stitutions, which are already widely used for ma-chine translation.
Early work on statistical ap-proaches to machine translation (Brown et al.,1990) was made possible by the availability of thebilingual Canadian Hansard in electronic form1.Today, translated texts from the Hong Kong Leg-islative Council, the United Nations, the EuropeanUnion are routinely used to build machine transla-tion systems for many languages in addition to En-glish and French (Wu, 1994; Koehn, 2005; Eiseleand Chen, 2010, inter alia), and to port linguis-tic annotation from resource-rich to resource-poorlanguages (Yarowsky et al., 2001; Das and Petrov,2011, among many others).As a first step, we focus on detecting code-switching between English and French in theCanadian Hansard corpus, drawn from the pro-ceedings of the Canadian House of Commons.Code-switching occurs when a speaker alternatesbetween the two languages in the context of a sin-gle conversation.
Since interactions at the Houseof Commons are public and formal, we suspectthat code-switching does not occur as frequentlyin the Hansard corpus as in other recently stud-ied datasets.
For instance, Solorio and Liu (2008)used transcriptions of spoken language conversa-tion, while others focused on informal written gen-res, such as microblogs and other types of on-line content (Elfardy et al., 2013; Cotterell et al.,2014).
At the same time, the House of Commonsis a ?bilingual operation where French-speakingand English-speaking staff work together at everylevel?
(Hicks, 2007), so it is not unreasonable toassume that code-switching should occur.
In ad-dition, according to the ?Canadian Candidate Sur-vey?, in 2004, the percentage of candidates for theHouse of Commons who considered themselvesbilingual ranged from 34% in the Conservative1See http://cs.jhu.edu/?post/bitext/ for ahistorical perspective107party to 86% in the Bloc Qu?ebecois.
The studyalso shows that candidates have a wide range of at-titudes towards bilingualism and the importance oflanguage to their sense of identity (Hicks, 2007).This suggests that code-switching, and more gen-erally language choice, might reveal an interestingrange of multilingual practices in the Hansard.In this paper, we adopt a straightforward strat-egy to detect mixed language in the CanadianHansard, using (1) constraints based on the par-allel nature of the corpus and (2) a state-of-the-art language detection technique (King and Ab-ney, 2013).
Based on this automatic annotation,we conduct a detailed analysis of results to addressthe following questions:?
How hard is it to detect mixed language in theCanadian Hansard?
What are the challengesraised by the Hansard domain for state-of-the-art models??
Within these mixed language occurrences,does code-switching occur?
What kind ofpatterns emerge from the code-switched textcollected?After introducing the Canadian Hansard corpus(Section 2), we describe our strategy for automat-ically detecting mixed language use (Section 3).We will see that it is a challenging task: preci-sion varies varies significantly depending on theprimary language, and recall is much lower thanprecision for both languages.
Finally, we will fo-cus on the patterns of mixed language use (Sec-tion 4): they suggest that code-switching does oc-cur within the mixed language examples detectedin the Canadian Hansard, and that it might be useddifferently by French and English speakers.2 The Canadian Hansard CorpusAccording to Canada?s Constitution, ?either theEnglish or French language may be used by anyperson in the debates of the Houses of the Parlia-ment.
?2As a result, speaker interventions can bein French or English, and a single speaker can inprinciple switch between the two languages.Our corpus consists of manual transcriptionsand translations of meetings of Canada?s House ofCommons and its committees from 2001 to 2009.Discussions cover a wide variety of topics, and2Constitution Act, 1867, formerly the British North Amer-ica Act, 1867, ?Appendices?, Revised Statuses of Canada (RS1985), s.133.speaking styles range from prepared speeches bya single speaker to more interactive discussions.The part of the corpus drawn from meetings of theHouse of Commons, is often also called Hansard,while committees refers to the transcriptions ofcommittee meetings.This corpus is well-suited to the study of mul-tilingual interactions and their translation for twomain reasons.
First, the transcriptions are anno-tated with the original language for each inter-vention.
Second, the translations are high qual-ity direct translations between French and English.In contrast, a French-English sentence pair in theEuropean Parliament corpus (Koehn, 2005) couldhave been generated from an original sentence inGerman that was translated into English, and thenin turn from English into French.
Direct transla-tion eliminates the propagation of ?translationese?effects (Volansky et al., 2013), and avoids losingtrack of code-switching examples by translationinto a second or third language.One potential drawback of working with tran-scribed text is that the transcription process mightremove pauses, repetitions and other disfluencies.However, it is unclear whether this affects mixedlanguage utterances differently than single lan-guage ones.2.1 Corpus Structure and ProcessingThe raw corpus consists of one file per meeting.The file starts with a header containing meta infor-mation about the meeting (event name, type, timeand date, etc.
), followed by a sequence of ?frag-ments?.
Each ?fragment?
corresponds to a shortsegment of transcribed speech by a single speaker,usually several paragraphs.
Fragments are the unitof text that translators work on, so the original lan-guage of the fragment is tagged in the corpus, asit determines whether the content should be trans-lated into French or into English.
We use the orig-inal language tagged as a gold label to define theprimary language of the speaker in our study ofcode-switching.The raw data was processed using the standardprocedure for machine translation data.
Process-ing steps included sentence segmentation and sen-tence alignment within each fragment, as well astokenization of French and English.
This processyields a total of 8,194,055 parallel sentences.
Weexclude subsets reserved for the evaluation of ma-chine translation systems, and work with the re-108# English # FrenchData origin segments segmentsCommittees 4,316,239 915,354Hansard 2,189,792 738,967Total 6,506,031 1,654,321Table 1: Language use by segment# English # French # BilingualData origin speakers speakers speakersCommittees 8787 888 3496Hansard 198 61 327Total 8985 949 3823Table 2: Language use by speakermaining 8,160,352 parallel segments.32.2 Corpus-level Language PatternsEnglish is used more frequently than French: itaccounts for 80% of segments, as can be seen inTable 1.
The French to English ratio is signifi-cantly higher in the Hansard than in the Commit-tees section of the corpus.
But how often are bothlanguages used in a single meeting?
We use the?DocumentTitle?
tags marked in the metadata inorder to segment our corpus into meetings.
BothFrench and English segments are found in the re-sulting 4740 meetings in the committees subcor-pus and 927 meetings in the Hansard subcorpus.How many speakers are bilingual?
Table 2 de-scribes language use per speaker per subcorpus.Here, we define a speaker as bilingual if theirname is associated with both French and Englishfragments.
Note that this method might overesti-mate the number of biilingual speakers, as it doesnot allow us to distinguish between two differentindividuals with the same name.
Overall 22% ofspeakers are bilingual.
The percentage of bilingualspeakers in the Hansard (56%) is more than twicethat in the Committees (26.5%), reflecting the factthat Hansard speakers are primarily Members ofParliament and Ministers, while speakers that ad-dress the Committees represent a much wider sam-ple of Canadian society.3The raw and processed versions of the corpus are bothavailable on request.3 Automatic Detection of MixedLanguage3.1 Task DefinitionWe aim to detect code-switching between Englishand French only.
While we found anecdotal ev-idence of other languages such as Spanish andItalian in the corpus4, these occurrences seem ex-tremely rare and detecting them is beyond thescope of this study.We define mixed-language segments as seg-ments which contain words in the language otherthan their ?original language?.
Recall that theoriginal language is the manually assigned lan-guage of the fragment which the segment is partof (Section 2).
We want to automatically (1) de-tect mixed-language segments, and (2) label theFrench and English words that compose them, inorder to enable further processing.
These twogoals can be accomplished simultaneously by aword-level language tagger.In a second stage, the automatically detectedmixed language segments are used to manuallystudy code-switching, since our mixed languagetagger does not yet distinguish between code-switching and other types of mixed language (e.g.,borrowings).3.2 ChallengesWhen the identity of the languages mixed isknown, the state-of-the-art approach to word-levellanguage identification is the weakly supervisedapproach proposed by King and Abney (2013).They frame the task as a sequence labeling prob-lem with monolingual text samples for train-ing data.
A Conditional Random Field (CRF)trained with generalized expectation criteria per-forms best, when evaluated on a corpus compris-ing 30 languages, including many low resourceslanguages such as Azerbaijani or Ojibwa.In our case, there are only two high-resourcelanguages involved, which could make the lan-guage detection task easier.
However, the Hansarddomain also presents many challenges: Englishand French are closely related languages and sharemany words; the Hansard corpus contains manyoccurrences of proper names from various originswhich can confuse the language detector; the cor-pus is very large and unbalanced as we expect thevast majority of segments to be monolingual.4e.g., ?merci beaucoup, thank you very much, graziemille?109To address these challenges, we settled on a twopass approach: (1) select sentences that are likelyto contain mixed language, and (2) apply CRF-based word-level language tagging to the selectedsentences.3.3 Method: Candidate Sentence SelectionWe select candidates for mixed language taggingusing two complementary sources of information:?
frequent words in each language: a mixed-language segment is likely to contain wordsthat are known to be frequent in the secondlanguage.
For instance, if a segment pro-duced by a French speaker contains the string?of?, which is frequent in English, then it islikely to be a mixed language utterance.?
parallel nature of corpus: if a French speakeruses English in a predominantly French seg-ment, the English words used are likely to befound verbatim in the English translation.
Asa result, overlap5between a segment and itstranslation can signal mixed language.We devise a straightforward strategy for selectingsegments for word-level language tagging:1. identify the top 1000 most frequent words oneach side of the parallel Hansard corpus.2.
exclude words that occur both in the Frenchand English list (e.g., the string ?on?
can beboth an English preposition and a French pro-noun)3. select originally French sentences where (a)at least one word from the English list occurs,and (b) at least two words from the Frenchsentence overlap with the English translation4.
select originally English sentences in thesame manner.3.4 Method: Word-level Language TaggingThe selected segments are then tagged using theCRF-based model proposed by King and Abney(2013).
It requires samples of a few thousandwords of French and English for training.
Howcan we select samples of English and French thatare strictly monolingual?We solve this problem by leveraging the parallelnature of our corpus again: We assume that a seg-ment is strictly monolingual if there is no overlap5Except for numbers, punctuation marks and acronyms.fr mixed in en gold pos.
gold neg.
totalpredicted pos.
21 8 29predicted neg.
1 109 110total 22 117 139Table 4: Confusion matrix for detecting segmentscontaining French words when English is the orig-inal language.
It yields a Precision of 95.4% and aRecall of 72.4%en mixed in fr gold pos.
gold neg.
totalpredicted pos.
3 1 4predicted neg.
13 105 118total 16 106 122Table 5: Confusion matrix for detecting segmentscontaining English words when French is the orig-inal language.
It yields a Precision of 75% and aRecall of 18.75%in vocabulary between a segment and its transla-tion.
Using this approach, we randomly select asample of 1000 monolingual French segments and1000 monolingual English segments.
This yieldsabout 21k/4k word tokens/types for English, and24k/4.6k for French.
Using these samples, we ap-ply the CRF approach on each candidate sentenceselected during the previous step.
For the low re-source languages used by King and Abney (2013),the training samples were much smaller (in theorder of hundreds of words per language), andlearning curves suggest that the accuracy reachesa plateau very quickly.
However, we decide touse larger samples since they are very easy to con-struct in our large data setting.3.5 EvaluationAt this stage, we do not have any gold annotationfor code-switching or word-level language identi-fication on the Hansard corpus.
We therefore aska bilingual human annotator to evaluate the preci-sion of the approach for detecting mixed languagesegments on a small sample of 100 segments foreach original language.
The annotator tagged eachexample with the following information: (1) doesthe segment actually contain mixed language?
(2)are the language boundaries correctly detected?
(3) what does the second language express?
(e.g.,organization name, idiomatic expression, quote,etc.
The annotator was not given predefined cat-egories) .
Table 3 provides annotation examples.110Tagged Lang.
[FR Et le premier ministre nous r?epond que] [EN a farmer is a farmera Canadian is a Canadian] [FR d?
un bout `a l?
autre du Canada]Gold Lang.
[FR Et le premier ministre nous r?epond que] [EN a farmer is a farmera Canadian is a Canadian] [FR d?
un bout `a l?
autre du Canada]Evaluation Mixed-language segment?
yesAre boundaries correct?
yesWhat is the L2 content?
quoteTagged Lang.
[FR Autrement] [EN dit they are getting out of the closet] [FR parceque cela leur donne le droit d avoir deux enfants]Gold Lang.
[FR Autrement dit] [EN they are getting out of the closet] [FR parceque cela leur donne le droit d avoir deux enfants]Evaluation Mixed-language segment?
yesAre boundaries correct?
noWhat is the L2 content?
idiomTable 3: Example of manual evaluation: the human annotator answers three questions for each taggedexample, based on their knowledge of what the gold language tags should be.2-step committees Hansarddetection en fr en frSelection 62,069 13,278 42,180 13,558Tagger 7,713 317 3,993 164Table 6: Number of mixed-language segments de-tected by each automatic tagging stage, as de-scribed in Section 3.Based on this gold standard, we can first eval-uate the performance of the segment-level mixedlanguage detector (Task (1) as defined in Sec-tion 3.1).
Confusion matrices for English andFrench sentences are given in Tables 5 and 4 re-spectively.
The gold label counts confirm that theclasses are very unbalanced, as expected.The comparison of the predictions with the goldlabels yields quite different results for the two lan-guages.
On English sentences, the mixed languagetagger achieves a high precision (95.4%) at a rea-sonable level of recall (72.4%) , which is encour-aging.
However, on French sentences, the mixedlanguage tagger achieves a slightly lower preci-sion (75%) with an extremely low recall (18.75%).These scores are computed based on a very smallnumber of positive predictions by the tagger (4only) on the sample of 100+ sentences.
Never-theless, these results suggest that, while we mightmiss positive examples due to the low recall, theprecision of the mixed language detector is suffi-ciently high to warrant a more detailed study of theexamples of mixed language detected.lang corpus detection segmentationprecision precisionen committees 72.6% 44.4%Hansard 45.9% 28.6%fr committees 98.4% 67.7%Hansard 96.8% 75.4%Table 7: Evaluation of positive predictions: pre-cision of mixed language detection at the segmentlevel, and precision of the language segmentation(binary judgment on accuracy of predicted lan-guage boundaries for each segment.
)4 Patterns of Mixed Language UseDiscovering patterns of mixed language use, in-cluding code-switching, requires a large sample ofmixed language segments.
Since the gold standardconstructed for the above evaluation (Section 3)only provides few positive examples, we ask thehuman annotator to apply the annotation proce-dure illustrated in Table 3 to a sample of posi-tive predictions: French segments where the tag-ger found English words, and vice versa.The number of positive examples detected canbe found in Table 6.
Only a small percentage of theoriginal corpus is tagged as positive, but given thatour corpus is quite large, we already have morethan 10,000 examples to learn from.The human annotator annotated a random sam-ple of 60+ examples for each original languageand corpus partition.
The resulting precision1110%?
10%?
20%?
30%?
40%?
50%?borrrow?quote?org?name?
?le?idiom/mwe?politeness?other?switch?fr?en?Figure 1: Categories of mixed language use ob-served depending on the original language of thesegment, in the committees datascores, both for mixed language detection at thesegment level, and for accurately tagging wordswith French and English, are given in Table 7.For segment level detection, the precision is muchhigher on French than on English, as observedpreviously.
On English data, the annotation re-veals that most false positives are due to fre-quent words that occur both in languages (e.g.,?province?,?Premier?,?plus?
), and are incorrectlytagged as French in our English segment.
Theboundaries of French and English segments arecorrectly detected for up to 75% of French seg-ments, but only for 44% at best in English seg-ments.
More work is therefore needed to accu-rately tag languages at the word-level.
Some ofthe second language words are usually detected,but the boundaries are often wrong, especially atcode-switching points.In addition to correctness, the annotator wasasked to identify the kind of information conveyedby the second language, and they came up withcategories that reflected the patterns that emergedfrom the examples.
Examples of these categoriesare given for each language in Table 8, and thepercentage of examples observed per category foreach language are plotted in Figure 1.While many correctly detected mixed languagesegments are due to borrowings, use of organiza-tion names or titles in the other language, we dofind examples of code switching such as:?
quotes?
multiword expressions or idioms,?
politeness formulas and formality.The distribution of code-switching across thesecategories is very different for French and En-glish as original languages.
Multiword expres-sions and idioms account for more than 40% ofEnglish use in French segments, while there are noexamples of French idioms in English segments.Conversely, while politeness formulas in Frenchaccount for more than 30% of correctly detectedmixed language use in English segments, there areonly fewer than 5% such instances in French.
Thismight suggest that French speakers who code-switch are more proficient in English than En-glish speakers in French, or that code-switching isused for different purposes by English and Frenchspeakers in the Hansard context.While more analysis is definitely needed to bet-ter understand code-switching patterns and theiruse, we have established that code-switching oc-curs in the Hansard corpus, and that it might beused differently by French and English speakers.In the parallel corpus, different types of mixedlanguage are handled differently by human trans-lators, which suggests that machine translationof code-switched data requires specific strategies:while English idioms, quotes or named entities ina French segment might be directly copied to theoutput when translating into English, other cat-egories should be handled diffferently.
For in-stance, mixed language that discusses translationof terms might require to avoid translating theoriginal French terms in order not to lose the orig-inal meaning in translation.
When English is usedin politeness, the reference translations often per-form a normalization of titles and capitalization.In that case, copying the English segments in theFrench sentence to the MT output would producetranslations that are understandable, but would notmatch the conventions used in the reference.5 Related WorkTo the best of our knowledge, this is the firststudy of mixed language and code-switching inthe Canadian Hansard parallel corpus, a very largeparallel corpus commonly used to build genericmachine translation systems.Previous work at the intersection of machinetranslation and mixed languages has focused onspecific application scenarios: word translationdisambiguation for mixed language queries (Funget al., 1999), or building applications to help sec-ond language learners, such as translating of shortL1 phrases in sentences that are predominantly112Use of English in primarily French segmentsQuote [FR C?
est ?ecrit] ?
[EN will have full access] ?
[FR Vous avez dit et je vous cite] ?
[EN we do not have to change the defini-tion of marriage to protect equality rights] ?Translation [FR On parle en anglais de] [EN carrots and sticks][FR Milliard correspond `a] [EN billion] [FR en anglais]Politeness [FR Nous accueillons ce matin M Brul?e M Baines M McDougall et M Mann][EN Welcome to all of you][EN Thank you Mr Chair] [FR Merci beaucoup]Idioms/MWEs [FR Le contraire ne m avait jamais ?et?e dit] [EN by the way][FR Oui en franc?ais] [EN as well]Title [FR Je cite l auteur isra?elien Simha Flapan dans l ouvrage] [EN The Birth ofIsrael][FR Des courts m?etrages pr?esents dans la comp?etition officielle] [EN Thestone of folly] [FR a nettement ?et?e le film pr?ef?er?e du public]Organization [FR La] [EN Western Canadian Wheat Growers Association] [FR est uneassociation de producteurs][FR M Thomas Axworthy l ancien pr?esident du] [EN Centre for the Study ofDemocracy] [FR s y trouvait aussi]Other [FR Alors en ce moment le comit?e est ma?
?tre de sa propre proc?edure pour?etudier cette question importante] [EN this breach of its own privileges whichappears to have taken place][FR Merci aux coll`egues] [EN who gave me this opportunity]Use of French in primarily English segmentsQuote [EN The great French philosopher Blaise Pascal spoke of the essence of hu-man life as a gamble] [FR un pari ] [EN and so it is in political life][EN You mentioned] [FR les fusions] [EN but I gather that] [FR les d?efusions][EN is now the order of the day in Quebec]Translation [EN The French text had a small error in that it used the word] [FR aux] [ENwhere the word] [Fr des] [EN should have been used][EN Mr Speaker to teach is to open doors to a better world in French] [FRenseigner ouvre les portes vers un monde meilleur]Politeness [EN Thank you Mr Chairman] [FR monsieur le pr?esident] [EN honourablemembers] [FR mesdames et messieurs][EN On this important traditional Chinese holiday] [FR bonne ann?ee `a toutela communaut?e canadienne] [EN I wish all Canadians health happiness andprosperity in the year of the ox]Idioms/MWEs [EN We were the first ones to start to ask about it and we are following] [FR `ala lettre] [EN as we say in French[EN So that s just to][FR entrer en mati`ere]Borrowing [EN We think it fundamentally adjusts the loss of culture and language whichwas the] [FR raison d?
?etre] [EN of the residential school program][EN Everything is a] [FR fait accompli]Organization [EN That s a fair question and I d like to thank Mr Blaney for participating inthe] [FR Forum socio?economique des Premi`eres Nations][EN If the [EN Bloc Qu?eb?ecois] [EN brings forward a witness you may wantto go to them first]Other [EN The same committee rejected an amendment] [FR propos?e par le Blocqu?eb?ecois propos?e par moi pour le NPD][EN This is not the current government] [FR C est la m?eme chose] [EN itdoesn t matter which one is in power]Table 8: Examples of mixed language segments113L26(van Gompel and van den Bosch, 2014), oron detecting code-mixing to let an email trans-lation system handle words created on the flyby bilingual English-Spanish speakers (Manan-dise and Gdaniec, 2011).
While code-switcheddata is traditionally viewed as noise when train-ing machine translation systems, Huang and Yates(2014) showed that appropriately detecting code-switching can help inform word alignment and im-prove machine translation quality.There has been renewed interest on the studyof mixed language recently, focusing on detect-ing code-switching points (Solorio and Liu, 2008;Elfardy et al., 2013) and more generally detect-ing mixed language documents.
Lui et al.
(2014)use a generative mixture model reminiscent of La-tent Dirichlet Allocation to detect mixed languagedocuments and the languages inside them.
Un-like the CRF-based approach of King and Abney(2013), the languages involved do not need to beknown ahead of time.
In contrast with all theseapproaches, we work with parallel data with un-balanced original languages.6 ConclusionWe investigated whether code-switching occurs inthe Canadian Hansard parallel corpus.We automatically detected mixed language seg-ments using a two-step approach: (1) candidatesentence selection based on frequent words in eachlanguage and overlap between the two side of theparallel corpus, and (2) tag each word in the seg-ment as French or English using the CRF-basedapproach of King and Abney (2013).Manual evaluation showed that automatic de-tection can be done with high precision when theoriginal language is French, but common wordsgenerate many false positives which hurt preci-sion in English.
More research is needed to im-prove recall, which is lower than precision in bothlanguages, and particularly low when the originallanguage is French.
Further analysis reveals thatcode-switching does occur within the mixed lan-guage examples detected in the Canadian Hansard,and suggests that it is used differently by Frenchand English speakers.While much work is still needed to constructlarger evaluation suites with gold annotations, andimproving the detection and tagging of mixed6http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2014/task5/language sentences, this work suggests that theproceedings of multilingual organizations such asthe Canadian Hansard can provide interesting testbeds for (1) corpus-based study of language choiceand code-switching, which can complement thedirect observation of meetings, as conducted byWodak et al.
(2012), and (2) investigating the in-teractions of code-switching and machine transla-tion.
Furthermore, it would be interesting to studyhow code-switching in the Hansard differs fromcode-switching in more informal settings.ReferencesPeter Brown, John Cocke, Stephen Della Pietra, Vin-cent Della Pietra, Frederik Jelinek, John Lafferty,Robert Mercer, and Paul Rossin.
1990.
A statisti-cal approach to machine translation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 16:79?85.Ryan Cotterell, Adithya Renduchintala, Naomi Saphra,and Chris Callison-Burch.
2014.
An AlgerianArabic-French code-switched corpus.
In Workshopon Free/Open-Source Arabic Corpora and CorporaProcessing Tools.
May.Dipanjan Das and Slav Petrov.
2011.
Unsupervisedpart-of-speech tagging with bilingual graph-basedprojections.
In Proceedings of the 49th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics: Human Language Technologies - Volume1, HLT ?11, pages 600?609, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Andreas Eisele and Yu Chen.
2010.
MultiUN: A mul-tilingual corpus from United Nation documents.
InProceedings of the Seventh conference on Interna-tional Language Resources and Evaluation, pages2868?2872, 5.Heba Elfardy, Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, and MonaDiab.
2013.
Code switch point detection in Ara-bic.
In Natural Language Processing and Informa-tion Systems, pages 412?416.
Springer.Pascale Fung, Xiaohu Liu, and Chi Shun Cheung.1999.
Mixed Language Query Disambiguation.
InProceedings of ACL?99, Maryland, June.Bruce Hicks.
2007.
Bilingualism and the Canadianhouse of commons 20 years after B and B.
In Parlia-mentary Pespectives.
Canadian Study of ParliamentGroup.Fei Huang and Alexander Yates.
2014.
Improvingword alignment using linguistic code switching data.In Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the Euro-pean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 1?9, Gothenburg, Sweden, April.Ben King and Steven Abney.
2013.
Labeling the lan-guages of words in mixed-language documents us-ing weakly supervised methods.
In Proceedings of114the 2013 Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:Human Language Technologies, pages 1110?1119,Atlanta, Georgia, June.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In Machine Transla-tion Summit X, Phuket, Thailand, September.Marco Lui, Jey Han Lau, and Timothy Baldwin.
2014.Automatic detection and language identification ofmultilingual documents.
Transactions of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Esm?e Manandise and Claudia Gdaniec.
2011.
Mor-phology to the rescue redux: Resolving borrow-ings and code-mixing in machine translation.
Sys-tems and Frameworks for Computational Morphol-ogy, pages 86?97.Thamar Solorio and Yang Liu.
2008.
Learning to pre-dict code-switching points.
In Proceedings of the2008 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing, pages 973?981, Honolulu,Hawaii, October.Maarten van Gompel and Antal van den Bosch.
2014.Translation assistance by translation of L1 frag-ments in an L2 context.
In Proceedings of the 52ndAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages871?880, Baltimore, Maryland, June.Vered Volansky, Noam Ordan, and Shuly Wintner.2013.
On the features of translationese.
Literaryand Linguistic Computing.Ruth Wodak, Michal Krzyzanowski, and BernhardForchtner.
2012.
The interplay of language ide-ologies and contextual clues in multilingual interac-tions: Language choice and code-switching in Eu-ropean Union institutions.
Language in Society,41:157?186.Dekai Wu.
1994.
Aligning a parallel English-Chinesecorpus statistically with lexical criteria.
In Proceed-ings of the 32Nd Annual Meeting on Association forComputational Linguistics, ACL ?94, pages 80?87,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.David Yarowsky, Grace Ngai, and Richard Wicen-towski.
2001.
Inducing multilingual text analy-sis tools via robust projection across aligned cor-pora.
In Proceedings of the First International Con-ference on Human Language Technology Research,HLT ?01, pages 1?8, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.115
