Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Linguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 61?68,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsApplying prosodic speech features in mental health care:An exploratory study in a life-review intervention for depressionSanne M.A.
LamersUniversity of TwentePsychology, Health, &Technologythe Netherlandss.m.a.lamers@utwente.nlKhiet P. TruongUniversity of TwenteHuman Media Interactionthe Netherlandsk.p.truong@utwente.nlBas SteunenbergUMC Utrechtthe Netherlandsb.steunenberg@umcutrecht.nlFranciska de JongUniversity of TwenteHuman Media Interactionthe Netherlandsf.m.g.dejong@utwente.nlGerben J. WesterhofUniversity of TwentePsychology, Health, & Technologythe Netherlandsg.j.westerhof@utwente.nlAbstractThe present study aims to investigate theapplication of prosodic speech features in apsychological intervention based on life-review.
Several studies have shown thatspeech features can be used as indicators ofdepression severity, but these studies aremainly based on controlled speech recordingtasks instead of natural conversations.
Thepresent exploratory study investigated speechfeatures as indicators of depression in con-versations of a therapeutic intervention.
Thechanges in the prosodic speech features pitch,duration of pauses, and total duration of theparticipant?s speaking time were studied overfour sessions of a life-review intervention forthree older participants.
The ecological valid-ity of the dynamics observed for prosodicspeech features could not be established inthe present study.
The changes in speech fea-tures differed from what can be expected inan intervention that is effective in decreasingdepression and were inconsistent with eachother for each of the participants.
We suggestfuture research to investigate changes withinthe intervention sessions, to relate the chang-es in feature values to the topical content ofthe speech, and to relate the speech featuresdirectly to depression scores.1 IntroductionDepression is a mood disorder that is mainlycharacterized by a sad mood or the loss of interest and pleasure in nearly all activities in aperiod of at least two weeks (American Psychia-tric Association, 2000).
Depression disorders arethe leading cause of disability and contributelargely to the burden of disease in middle- andhigh-income countries worldwide (?stun et al.,2004).
In 2012, more than 350 million peoplearound the world suffered from depression symp-toms (World Health Organization, 2012).
To de-crease the onset of depression disorders, earlypsychological interventions, i.e., psychologicalmethods targeting behavioral change to reducelimitations or problems (Vingerhoets, Kop, &Soons, 2002), aiming at adults with depressionsymptoms or mild depression disorders arenecessary.
Meta-analytic findings show that psy-chological interventions reduce the incidence ofdepression disorders by 22%, indicating that pre-vention of new cases of depression disorders isindeed possible (Cuijpers et al., 2008).To evaluate the effectiveness of interventionsfor depression and changes during the interven-tions, reliable and valid measures of depressionseverity are necessary.
Depression severity ismostly measured by self-report questionnairessuch as the Center for Epidemiologic StudiesDepression scale (CES-D; Radloff, 1977), theHamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D;Hamilton, 1960), and the Beck Depression In-ventory (Beck, Steer, & Brown, 1996).
Theseself-report questionnaires often include items onmood and feelings.
Moreover, questionnaireitems may cover physical depression symptomssuch as sleep disturbances, changes in weight61and appetite, and loss in energy.
However, insome target groups such as older adults theseitems can confound with health problems andphysical diseases, which increase in old age.
Forthese reasons, there is a need for valid and objec-tive measures of depression severity.
Not only toassess depression severity before and after thera-py, but also to detect the dynamics during thetherapy (Elliot, 2010).1.1 Computational linguistics, speech ana-lysis, and mental health careIt is commonly assumed  and confirmed inseveral studies that emotions and mood can in-fluence the speaking behavior of a person and thecharacteristics of the sound in speech (Kuny &Stassen, 1993; Scherer, Johnstone, & Klasmeyer,2003).
Already in 1954, Moses concluded thatthe voice and speech patterns of psychiatric pa-tients differed from those of people without apsychiatric diagnosis.
Clinicians observe thespeech of depressed patients frequently as uni-form, monotonous, slow, and with a low voice(Kuny & Stassen, 1993).
A review by Sobin andSackeim (1997) showed that depressed peoplediffer from normal and other psychiatric groupson psychomotor symptoms such as speech.
Thespeech of depressed patients is characterized by alonger pause duration, that is, an increasedamount of time between speech utterances aswell as by a reduced variability in mean vocalpitch.More recently these insights have led tocollaborative and multidisciplinary work be-tween researchers from the fields of computa-tional linguistics and mental health care.
Withthe growing availability of models and algo-rithms for automated natural language processingthat can be put to use in clinical scenarios, de-pression can now increasingly be measuredbased on the characteristics of the language usedby patients, such as the frequency of verbal ele-ments in a narrative that express a certain moodor sentiment (Pennebaker & Chung, 2011), andacoustic speech features.
Because vocal acousticfeatures such as pause durations and pitch arebiologically based, it has even been argued thatthey can serve as biomarkers of depression se-verity (Mundt et al., 2012).
As a consequence,speech features such as pitch and pause durationscan be used to estimate the severity of a depres-sion.To date, several studies investigated the validi-ty of several speech features as indicators  of de-pression.
Indeed, the speech features pitch andspeech loudness correlate significantly withglobal depression scores during recovery (Kuny& Stassen, 1993; Stassen, Kuny, & Hell, 1998).After recovery from depression, the speech pausetime of depressed adults was no longer elongated(Hardy et al., 1984).
These results indicate thatprosodic speech features are valid measures ofdepression.However, these studies have the limitation thatthe speech analyses are based on the recording ofcontrolled speech based on tasks such as count-ing and reading out loud.
Such speech recordingtasks take place under ideal voice recording con-ditions (Cannizzaro, Harel, Reilly, Chappell, &Snyder, 2004), while speech analysis is moredifficult when conducted outside a controlledsetting, because of so-called noisy channeleffects (Janssen, Tacke, de Vries, van den Broek,Westerink, Haselager, & IJsselsteijn, 2013).Moreover, controlled speech tasks are cognitive-ly less demanding than free speech tasks (Alpertet al., 2011).
This evokes the question whetherspeech features are also ecological valid, i.e.,whether they can be used as indicators of depres-sion severity, when measured during naturalconversations instead of during the recording ofcontrolled speech tasks (Bronfenbrenner, 1977).A study on speech samples from video recor-dings of structured interviews revealed promis-ing results: speaking rate and pitch variation, butnot the percentage of pauses, showed a large cor-relation with depression rating scores (Canni-zaro, Harel, Reilly, Chappell, & Snyder, 2004).Additional studies on the ecological validity ofusing prosodic speech features as indicator fordepression are necessary.1.2 Speech features as mood markers in alife-review interventionIn the present study the speech of older adultswill be measured in four sessions of a psycholo-gical intervention, combining knowledge in thefields of computational linguistics and psycho-logical interventions in mental health care.
Be-cause psychological interventions of depressionhave shown to be effective (e.g., Cuijpers, vanStraten, & Smit, 2006) and are broadly imple-mented in mental health care, the measurementof speech features in psychological interventionsis a promising application for the field of compu-tational linguistics.
For example, speech featurescan be used to provide direct feedback to boththe therapist and patient on the severity andchanges in severity of depression during the psy-chological intervention.
Clinicians do not have62the ability to differentiate precisely the durationof for example the patient?s utterances and paus-es (Alpert et al.
2001).
There is also ample evi-dence that text mining techniques based on thefrequency of certain terms can be applied to nar-ratives from patients in order to monitor changesin mood (Pennebaker & Chung, 2011), and a re-cent study has shown that machines can betterrecognize certain emotions than lay people(Janssen et al., 2013), underlining once again theadded value  of automated speech analysis.
Topave the way for future applications that wouldenable the use of  speech features as a directfeedback mechanism, the first step is to gainmore knowledge on the patterns in speech fea-tures and on how changes in these features canbe considered as meaningful signals of patternsin   psychological interventions.The psychological intervention in the presentstudy is based on life-review: the structured re-collection of autobiographical memories.
De-pressed people have difficulties in retrieving spe-cific, positive memories.
Their autobiographicalmemory is characterized by more negative andgeneral memories (e.g., Williams et al., 2007),for example memories that reflect a period orrecurrent event (e.g., the period of a marriage)rather than a specific event (e.g., the ceremonyon the wedding day).
The present life-reviewcourse targets the recollection of specific, posi-tive memories in older adults with depressionsymptoms.
In four weekly sessions, the inter-viewer stimulates the recollection by askingquestions on the depressed person?s childhood,adolescence, adulthood and life in general.
Anadvantage of life-review in comparison to othertherapies such as Cognitive Behavioral Therapy,is that it fits in with a natural activity of olderadults to recollect memories and tell storiesabout their lives (Bluck & Levine, 1998).
Life-review has shown to be an effective method todecrease depression symptoms (Korte, Bohl-meijer, Cappeliez, Smit, & Westerhof, 2012;Pinquart & Forstmeier, 2012) and is consideredan evidence-based intervention for depression inolder adults (Scogin, Welsh, Hanson, Stump, &Coates, 2005).Our study is one of the first to investigate pro-sodic speech features during a psychological in-tervention.
The study is exploratory and aims togain insight into the ecological validity of pro-sodic speech features in a psychological life-review intervention.
The life-review interventionoffers the opportunity to investigate the prosodicspeech features over time.
Life-review is highlysuitable to investigate speech features during anintervention, since the speech from the recall ofautobiographical memories provides strong pro-sodic speech changes (Cohen, Hong, & Guevara,2010) and the expression of emotions charac-terized by speech characteristics is stronger afteropen and meaning-questions as compared toclosed and fact-questions (Truong, Westerhof,Lamers, & de Jong, under review).
Our paper is afirst step to gain insight into the methods that arenecessary to evaluate the application of prosodicspeech features in mental health care.
In the pre-sent study into the role of prosodic speech fea-tures,  vocal pitch and pause duration will be in-vestigated in three participants across all fourweekly sessions.
Because the life-review inter-vention is effective in decreasing depressionsymptoms (Korte et al., 2011; Serrano, Latorre,Gatz, & Montanes, 2004), we expect that theprosodic features change accordingly.
Therefore,we hypothesize (a) an increase in average vocalpitch, (b) an increase in the variation in vocalpitch, (c) a decrease in average pause duration,(d) a decrease in the ratio between the total pausetime and total speech time (pause speech ratio),and (e) an increase in the ratio between the par-ticipant?s speech and total duration of the session(speech total duration ratio) during the interven-tion.2 MethodIn this section we will describe the methodologyapplied in the design of the psychological inter-ventions during which the research data setswere generated, the procedure for selecting theparticipants and the corresponding data sets, thedata preparations steps and the analyses per-formed.2.1 Intervention ?Precious memories?The life-review intervention ?Precious memories?
(Bohlmeijer, Serrano, Cuijpers, & Steunenberg,2007) targets the recollection of specific, positivememories.
The intervention is developed forolder adults with depression symptoms living ina nursing home.
Each of the four weekly sessionsfocuses on a different theme: childhood, ado-lescence, adulthood, and life in general.
The ses-sions are individual and guided by a trained in-terviewer.
The sessions take place at the partici-pant?s home and last approximately 45 minutes.Each of the sessions is structured by fourteenmain questions that stimulate the participant torecollect and tell specific positive memories63about his or her life.
The interviewers are in-structed to ask for lively details about each of thepositive memories of the participants, forexample the colors, smells and people that wereinvolved in the memory.
Table 1 shows an ex-ample question for each of the four sessions.Session  Example question1: Childhood Can you remember anevent in which your fatheror mother did somethingwhen you were a child thatmade you very happy?2: Adolescence Do you remember a specialmoment of getting yourfirst kiss or falling in lovewith someone?3: Adulthood What has been a very im-portant positive experiencein your life between theages of 20 and 60?4: Life in general What is the largest gift youever received in your life?Tabel 1.
Example questions for the four sessionsof the life-review intervention ?Preciousmemories?2.2 Procedure and participantsParticipants with depression symptoms were re-cruited in nursing homes in the area of Amster-dam, the Netherlands.
Participation in the life-review intervention was voluntary.
Three partici-pants were selected for whom audio recordingsof the four sessions were available, which resul-ted in a dataset of twelve life-review sessions.The three participants (below labeled as P1, P3and P5) were females with an age between 83and 90 years.
The educational background variedfrom low to high and the marital status frommarried to never married.
The participants signedan informed consent form for the use of the au-dio-tapes  for scientific purposes.2.3 Data preparation and analysisAll acoustic features were automatically extract-ed with Praat (Boersma, 2001).
Because thespeech of both the interviewer and the partici-pants were recorded on one mixed audio channel,some manual interventions had to be applied inorder to determine the segments in which theparticipant is talking.
First, for each session, thesegments in which the participant is the mainspeaker were selected.
These so-called ?turns?were then labeled in more detail; utterances pro-duced by the interviewer were marked and dis-carded in the speech analysis.
For each turn,mean pitch, standard deviation pitch, pause dura-tion, the ratio between total pause time and totalspeech time, and the ratio between total speechtime and total duration of the session were ex-tracted.
Pause durations were automatically ex-tracted by applying silence detection where theminimal silence duration was set at 500 ms. Allfeatures were normalized per speaker by trans-forming the raw feature values to z-scores (meanand standard deviation were calculated over all 4sessions, z = ((x-m)/sd)).
The ratio between totalspeech time and total duration time was not nor-malized because this feature was calculated overa whole session instead of a turn.
Subsequently,averages over all turns per session were taken inorder to obtain one value per session.3 ResultsThe results of the prosodic speech features overthe four sessions of the life-review interventionare graphically presented separately for each fea-ture, in the Figures 1 to 5.
We hypothesized anincrease in the average pitch during the interven-tion.
As shown in Figure 1, the patterns in ave-rage pitch during the intervention differs acrossthe three participants.
Only in Participant 3, thepattern is in line with our expectations, showingan increase in the sessions 3 and 4.
In both Par-ticipant 1 and 5, there was a decrease in averagepitch in the sessions 3 and 4.Figure 1.
Average pitch of the participants(P1,P3,P5) during the four sessions.We expected the variation in pitch to increaseduring the intervention.
Figure 2 shows the par-ticipants?
patterns of the standard deviation ofpitch during the intervention.
The changes instandard deviation do not confirm our hypothe-sis.
Although the speech of Participant 3 shows64an increase in session 4, the standard deviation islower in session 4 than in session 1 of the inter-vention.
The standard deviation of Participant 5is relatively stable during the intervention.
Par-ticipant 1 mainly shows a large variation in pitchin session 2.Figure 2.
Standard deviation in pitch of the par-ticipants (P1,P3,P5) during the four sessions.It was hypothesized that the average pause du-ration would decrease during the four sessions ofthe intervention.
Figure 3 shows that the averagepause duration was relatively stable over the firstthree sessions in all three participants.
Only inParticipant 1 the average pause duration de-creased in session 4, in line with our expec-tations.Figure 3.
Pause duration of the participants(P1,P3,P5) during the four sessions.In agreement with our hypothesis on averagepause duration, we also expected a decrease dur-ing the intervention in the ratio between the totalpause time and total speech time.
Although therewas a large decrease in the pause speech ratio ofParticipant 1 between the sessions 2 and 3, theratio in session 4 was similar to the pause speechratio in the first session (see Figure 4).
In bothParticipant 2 and 3, the ratio was relatively stablein the sessions 1 to 3, but in session 4 the pausespeech ratio showed an increase in Participant 3and a slight decrease in Participant 2.Figure 4.
Pause speech ratio of the participants(P1,P3,P5) during the four sessions.Last, we investigated the ratio between theparticipant?s speech and total duration of the ses-sion.
We hypothesized an increase in the speechtotal duration ration during the intervention.
Fig-ure 5 shows the differences between the partici-pants in the speech total duration ratio over thefour sessions.
The ratio is relatively stable, andhigh, in Participant 5.
The ratio in both Partici-pant 1 and 3 in general decreases during the in-tervention, with a lower speech total durationratio in session 4 as compared to session 1.Figure 5.
Speech total duration ratio of the par-ticipants (P1,P3,P5) during the four sessions.4 ConclusionThe aim of the present study was to investigatethe suitability of applying  an analysis of proso-dic speech features in the speech recordings65collected in psychological intervention based onlife-review.
Because several studies have shownthat speech features can be used as indicators ofdepression severity (e.g., Kuny & Stassen, 1993;Stassen, Kuny, & Hell, 1998), the application ofspeech analyses in mental health care is promi-sing.
However, the measurement of speech fea-tures is often based on speech recording tasksand the ecological validity within psychologicalinterventions is not yet established.
The study isa first exploratory step to gain insight into theecological validity of prosodic speech features ina psychological life-review intervention.We expected to measure a change during theintervention in the prosodic speech features thatcould be  related to depression symptoms, andhypothesized an increase in average pitch andpitch variation, a decrease in average pause dura-tion, and an increase in the amount of speech bythe participant during the intervention.
However,we could not establish  the ecological validity ofthese speech indicators in the present study.
Ingeneral, the patterns of the prosodic speech indi-cators differ from our expectations.
The dyna-mics  in the speech indicators was different fromwhat can be expected in an intervention that iseffective in decreasing depression (Korte et al.,2011; Serrano et al., 2004).
Moreover, the speechindicators were inconsistent with each other forthe participants in the pool.
For example, Partici-pant 3 showed an increase in pitch during theintervention, which indicates a decrease in de-pression, and an increase in average pause dura-tion and pause speech ratio, which indicates anincrease in depression.Taken together, the findings from the presentstudy indicate that the prosodic speech featuresthat have been validated for controlled settings,are not directly applicable for the spontaneoustype of conversation that is typical for a mentalhealth care setting.
More research is needed toestablish the ecological validity of prosodicspeech features such as pitch, pauses, and speechduration as indicators of depression severity.
Afew suggestions can be made.
First, each of thefour sessions in the life-review intervention inthe present study focused on a different theme.Although we aimed to evaluate the developmentof the speech features during the intervention, thedifferences across the session may be the conse-quence of differences in session theme.
More-over, not all parts of the session consisted oflife-review, and participants were talking about avariety of subjects, for example about  theircaregivers.
The goal of the life-review interven-tion is to stimulate the retrieval of specific posi-tive memories.
In a next step, we aim to selectthe parts in which the participant is recollectingsuch memories and to evaluate the patterns inprosodic speech features only for  these parts.Second, the prosodic speech indicators wereaveraged per session to provide a clear overviewof the changes over the four sessions.
However,changes can also occur within the session.
Forexample, vocal pitch may increase during thesession, which would indicate a decrease in de-pression symptoms.
Furthermore, within eachsession, the interaction between the interviewerand participant may play a role.
For instance,when the interviewer speaks with a higher pitchand more variation in pitch, the participant mayunconsciously take over some of this speakingbehavior.
We suggest future studies to investi-gate not only the average session, but to includechanges during the session the interviewer?sspeech features.Third, the present research was conducted inline with the assumption that life-review is effec-tive as an intervention for mood disorder, as isshown in several studies (Korte et al., 2011; Ser-rano et al., 2004).
However, we due to lack ofdata on depression severity we do not knowwhether the life-review intervention was fullyeffective for the participants in the present study.To validate the patterns prosodic speech featuresas a reliable indicator for depressions that can beused in mental health care, it is necessary todemonstrate  that  the dynamics in speech fea-tures can be related directly to changes in depres-sion scores.
As argued in earlier studies, in orderto  conclude that speech features correlate signi-ficantly with global depression scores during re-covery (Kuny & Stassen, 1993; Stassen, Kuny, &Hell, 1998), these correlations need to be inves-tigated in psychological interventions.In sum, the study  of how prosodic speech fea-tures such as pitch and pauses relate to the kindof spoken narratives that play a role in mentalhealth care settings is a promising field.
How-ever, the ecological validity of prosodic speechfeatures could not be established in the presentstudy.
More research based on  larger data sam-ples the establishment of a direct relation to de-pression scores is  necessary before the tech-niques from the field of computational linguisticscan be applied as a basis for the collection of in-dicators that can be used  in psychological inter-ventions in a meaningful and effective way.66ReferencesAlpert, M., Pouget, E. R., & Silva, R. R. (2001).
Re-flections of depression in acoustic measures of thepatient?s speech.
Journal of Affective Disorders,66, 59-69.American Psychiatric Association (2000).
Diagnosticand statistical manual of mental disorders (4th ed.,text rev.).
Washington, DC: Author.Beck, A. T., Steer, R. A., & Brown, G. K. (1996).Manual for the Beck Depression Inventory-II.
SanAntoinio, TX: Psychological Corporation.Bluck, S., & Levine, L. J.
(1998).
Reminiscence asautobiographical memory: A catalyst for reminis-cence theory development.
Ageing and Society,18, 185-208.Boersma, P. (2001).
Praat, a sysem for doing pho-netics by computer.
Glot International, 5(9/10),341-345.Bohlmeijer, E. T., Serrano, J., Cuijpers, P., & Steu-nenberg, B.
(2007).
Dierbare herinneringen.
Pro-tocol voor life-review bij ouderen met depressieveklachten in verzorgings- en verpleeghuizen [Pre-cious memories.
Protocol for life-review in olderpeople with depressive symptoms in nursinghomes].Bronfenbrenner, U.
(1977).
Toward an experimentalecology of human development.
American Psy-chologist, 32, 513-531.Cannizzaro, M., Harel, B., Reilly, N., Chappell, P., &Snyder, P. J.
(2004).
Voice acoustical measure-ment of the severity of major depression.
Brainand Cognition, 56, 30-35.Chien, J.-T., & Chueh, C-H. (2010).
Joint acousticand language modeling for speech recognition.Speech Communication, 52, 223-235.Cohen, A. S., Hong, S. L., & Guevara, A.
(2010).Understanding emotional expression using prosod-ic analysis of natural speech: refining the method-ology.
Journal of Behavioral Therapy & Experi-mental Psychiatry, 41, 150-157.Cuijpers, P., van Straten, A., Smit, F. (2006).
Psycho-logical treatment of late-life depression: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
Interna-tional Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, 21, 1139-1149.Cuijpers, P., van Straten, A., Smit, F., Mihalopoulos,C., & Beekman, M. D. (2008).
Preventing the on-set of depressive disorders: a meta-analytic reviewof psychological interventions.
American Journalof Psychiatry, 165, 1272-1280.Elliot, R. (2010).
Psychotherapy change process re-search: Realizing the promise.
Psychotherapy Re-search, 20, 123-135.Hamilton, M. (1960).
A rating scale for depression.Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, & Psychia-try, 23, 56-62.Hardy, P., Jouvant, R., & Widl?cher, D. (1984).Speech pause time and the retardation rating scalefor depresstion (ERD): towards a reciprocal vali-dation.
Journal of Affective Disorders, 6, 123-127.Janssen, J. H., Tacke, P., de Vries, J. J. G., van denBroek, E. L., Westerink, J. H. D. M., Haselager,P., & IJsselsteijn, W. A.
(2013).
Machines outper-form laypersons in recognizing emotions elicitedby autobiographical recollection.
Human-Computer Interaction, 28, 479-517.Koolagudi, S. G., & Sreenivasa, K. S. (2012).
Emo-tion recognition from speech: a review.
Interna-tional Journal of Speech Technology, 15, 99-117.Korte, J., Bohlmeijer, E. T., Cappeliez, P., Smit, F., &Westerhof G. J.
(2012).
Life-review therapy forolder adults with moderate depressive sympto-matology: A pragmatic randomized controlled tri-al.
Psychological Medicine, 42, 1163-1172.Kuny, S., & Stassen, H. H. (1993).
Speaking behaviorand voice sound characteristics in depressive pa-tients during recovery.
Journal of Psychiatric Re-search, 27, 289-307.Moses, J. P. (1954).
The voice of neurosis.
Oxford,UK: Grune and Stratton.Mundt, J. C., Vogel, A. P., Feltner, D. E., & Lender-king, W. R. (2012).
Vocal acoustic biomarkers ofdepression severity and treatment response.
Bio-logical Psychiatry, 72, 580-587.Pennebaker, J. W. and Chung, C. K.(2011).
Expressive Writing and its Links to Men-tal and Physical Health.
In H. S.
Friedman(Ed.
), Oxford Handbook of Health Psycholo-gy.
New York, NY: Oxford University Press, 417-437.Pinquart, M., & Forstmeier, S. (2012).
Effects of rem-iniscence interventions on psychosocial outcomes:A meta-analysis.
Aging & Mental Health, 16, 514-558.Radloff, L. S. (1977).
The CES-D Scale: A Self-Report Depression Scale for Research in the Gen-eral Population.
Applied Psychological Measure-ment, 1, 385-401.67Scherer, K. R., Johnstone, T., & Klasmeyer, G.(2003).
Vocal expression of emotion.
In R. J. Da-vidson, K. R. Scherer, & H. Goldsmith (Eds.
),Handbook of the Affective Sciences (pp.
433?456).New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press.Scogin, F., Welsh, D., Hanson, A., Stump, J., &Coates, A.
(2005).
Evidence-based psychothera-pies for depression in older adults.
Clinical Psy-chology: Science and Practice, 12, 222-237.Serrano, J., Latorre, J., Gatz, M., & Montanes, J.(2004).
Life review therapy using autobiograph-ical retrieval practice for older adults with depres-sive symptomatology.
Psychology & Aging, 19,272-277.Sobin, C., & Alpert, M. (1999).
Emotion in speech:the acoustic attributes of fear, anger, sadness, andjoy.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 28,347-365.Sobin, C., & Sackeim, H. A.
(1997).
Psychomotorsymptoms of depression.
American Journal ofPsychiatry, 154, 4-17.Stassen, H. H., Kuny, S., & Hell, D. (1998).
Thespeech analysis approach to determining onset ofimprovement under antidepressants.
EuropeanNeuropsychopharmacology, 8, 303-310.Truong, K., Westerhof, G. J., Lamers, S. M. A., & deJong, F. (under review).
Towards modeling ex-pressed emotions in oral history interviews: usingverbal and non-verbal signals to track personalnarratives.
Literary and Linguistic Computing.
?st?n, T. B., Ayuso-Mateos, J. L., Chatterji, S.,Mathers, C., & Murray, C. J. L. (2004).
Globalburden of depressive disorders in the year 2000.British Journal of Psychiatry, 184, 386-392.Vervedis, D., & Kotropoulos, C. (2006).
Emotionalspeech recognition: Resources, features, andmethods.
Speech Communication, 48, 1162-1181.Vingerhoets, A. J. J. M., Kop, P. F. M., & Soons, P.H.
G. M. (2002).
Psychologie in de gezondheids-zorg: een praktijkori?ntatie [Psychology in healthcare: a practical orientation].
Houten, the Nether-lands: Bohn Stafleu van Loghum.Williams, J. M., Barnhofer, T., Crane, C., Herman, D,Raes, F., Watkins, E., & Dalgleish, T. (2007).
Au-tobiographical memory specificity and emotionaldisorder.
Psychological Bulletin, 133, 122-148.World Health Organization.
(2012).
Depression FactSheet.
Retrieved at March, 5, 2014:www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs369/en/68
