Proceedings of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Causality in Language, pages 33?39,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a Japanese Corpus of Temporal-Causal-Discourse StructuresBased on SDRT for Extracting Causal RelationsKimi Kaneko1Daisuke Bekki1,2,31Ochanomizu University, Tokyo, Japan2National Institute of Informatics, Tokyo, Japan3CREST, Japan Science and Technology Agency, Saitama, Japan{kaneko.kimi | bekki}@is.ocha.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes a methodology forgenerating specialized Japanese data setsfor the extraction of causal relations, inwhich temporal, causal and discourse re-lations at both the fact level and the epis-temic level, are annotated.
We appliedour methodology to a number of text frag-ments taken from the Balanced Corpus ofContemporary Written Japanese.
We eval-uated the feasibility of our methodology interms of agreement and frequencies, anddiscussed the results of the analysis.1 IntroductionIn recent years, considerable attention has beenpaid to deep semantic processing.
Many studies(Betherd et al., 2008), (Inui et al., 2007), (Inuiet al., 2003), (Riaz and Girju, 2013) have beenrecently conducted on deep semantic processing,and causal relation extraction (CRE) is one of thespecific tasks in deep semantic processing.
Re-search on CRE is still developing and there aremany obstacles that must be overcome.Inui et al.
(2003) acquired cause and effectpairs from text, where the antecedent events weretaken as causes and consequent events were takenas effects based on Japanese keywords such askara and node.
In (1), for example, the an-tecedent ame-ga hutta (?it rained?)
and the conse-quent mizutamari-ga dekita (?puddles emerged?
)are acquired as a pair of cause and effect.
(1) Ame-garain-NOMhutta-nodefall-past-becausemizutamari-gapuddles-NOMdekita.emerge-past?Because it rained, puddles emerged.
?However, antecedents are not always causes orreasons for consequents in Japanese, as illustratedby the following example.
(2) Zinsinziko-gainjury.accident-NOMokita-karahappen-past-becausedensya-gatrains-NOMtiensitadelay-pastto-iu-wake-dewanai.it.is.not.the.case.that?It is not the case that the trains weredelayed because an injury accident hap-pened.
?In example (2), the antecedent zinsinziko-ga okita(?an injury accident happened?)
is not the causeof the consequent densya-ga tiensita (?the trainswere delayed?).
Though in such sentences thatcontain causal expressions there are no causal re-lations between antecedents and consequents, inexisting studies each sentence containing a causalexpression was extracted as knowledge represent-ing cause and effect, such as in (Inui et al., 2003).It is difficult for computers to auto-recognize andexclude such cases.In this paper, we report on the analysis of nec-essary information for acquiring more accuratecause-effect knowledge and propose a methodol-ogy for creating a Japanese corpus for CRE.
First,we introduce previous studies and describe infor-mation that should be used to annotate data sets.Next, we describe our methodology based on Seg-mented Discourse Representation Theory (SDRT)(Asher et al., 2003).
Finally, we evaluate the va-lidity of our methodology in terms of agreementand frequency, and analyze the results.2 Previous StudiesIn this section, we introduce previous studies onannotation of temporal, causal and other types ofrelations and present a linguistic analysis of tem-poral and causal relations.Betherd et al.
(2008) generated English datasets annotated with temporal and causal relationsand analyzed interactions between the two types of33relations.
In addition, these specialized data setswere evaluated in terms of agreement and accu-racy.
Relations were classified into two causal cat-egories (CAUSAL, NO-REL) and three temporalcategories (BEFORE, AFTER, NO-REL).
In re-gard to the evaluation, Betherd et al.
pointed outthat the classification was coarse-grained, and thatreanalysis would have to be performed with morefine-grained relations.Inui et al.
(2005) characterized causal expres-sions in Japanese text and built Japanese corpuswith tagged causal relations.
However, usagessuch as that illustrated in (2) and interactions be-tween temporal relations and causal relations werenot analyzed.Tamura (2012) linguistically analyzed temporaland causal relations and pointed out that in rea-son/purpose constructions in Japanese, the eventtime indicated by the tense sometimes contradictsthe actual event time, and that the information nec-essary to recognize the order between events liesin the choice of the fact and the epistemic levels(we will come back to these notions in the sec-tion 3.4), and the explicit or implicit meaning ofa sentence in the causal expressions in Japanese.Furthermore, some causal expressions in Japaneseare free from the absolute and relative tense sys-tems, and both the past and non-past forms can befreely used in main and subordinate clauses (Chin,1984) (an example is given in the next section).
Inother words, temporal relations are not always re-solved earlier than causal relations, and thereforewe should resolve temporal relations and causalrelations simultaneously.Asher et al.
(2003) proposed SDRT in order toaccount for cases where discourse relations affectthe truth condition of sentences.
Because tempo-ral relations constrain causal relations, the explicitor implicit meaning of a sentences and the epis-temic level information affects preceding and fol-lowing temporal relations in causal expressions inJapanese, recognition also affects causal relations.Therefore, the annotation of both causal relationsand discourse relations in corpora is expected to beuseful for CRE.
Moreover, which characteristics(such as tense, actual event time, time when theevent is recognized, meaning and structure of thesentence and causal relations) will serve as inputand which of them will serve as output depends onthe time and place.
Therefore, we should also takeinto account discourse relations together with tem-poral and causal relations.
We can create special-ized data sets for evaluating these types of infor-mation together by annotating text with discourse,temporal and causal relations.However, discourse relations of SDRT are notdistributed into discourse relations and temporalrelations, and as a result the classification of labelsbecomes unnecessarily complex.
Therefore, it isnecessary to rearrange discourse relations as in thefollowing example.
(3) Inu-wadog-NOMniwa-ogarden-ACCkakemawatta.run-pastNeko-wacat-NOMkotatu-dekotatsu.heater-LOCmarukunatte-ita.be.curled.up-past?The dog ran in the garden.
The cat wascurled up in the kotatsu heater.
?This pair of sentences is an antithesis, so we an-notate it with the ?Contrast?
label in SDRT.
On theother hand, the situation described in the first sen-tence overlaps with that of the second sentence, sowe annotate this pair of sentences with the ?Back-ground?
label as well.
Though there are manycases in which we can annotate a sentence withdiscourse relations in this way, dividing temporalrelations from discourse relations as in this studyallows us to avoid overlapping discourse relations.This study was performed with the aim to rear-range SDRT according to discourse relations, tem-poral relations and causal relations separately, andwe generated specialized data sets according toour methodology.
In addition, occasionally it isnecessary to handle the actual event time and thetime when the event was recognized individually.An example is given below.
(4) Asutomorrowtesuto-gaexam-NOMaru-node,take.place-nonpast-because,kyoo-watoday-TOPbenkyoo-suru-koto-nito.study-DATsita.decide-past?Because there will be an exam tomorrow,I decided to study today.Before we evaluate the consequent kyoo-wabenkyoo-suru-koto-ni sita (?I decided to study to-day?
), we should recognize the fact of the an-tecedent Asu tesuto-ga aru (?there will be an examtomorrow?).
Whether we deal with the actual34Label DescriptionPrecedence(A,B) End time (A) < start time (B)In other words, event A temporally precedes event B.Overlap(A,B) Start time (A) < end time (B) ?
end time (B) < end time (A)?In other words, event A temporally overlaps with event B.Subsumption(A,B) Start time (A) ?
end time (B) & End time (A) ?
end time (B)?In other words, event A temporally subsumes event B.Table 1: Temporal relations listLevel DescriptionCause(A,B) The event in A and the event in B are in a causal relation.Table 2: Causal relationevent time or the time when the event was recog-nized depends on the circumstances.
Therefore,we decided to annotate text at the fact and epis-temic levels in parallel to account for such a dis-tinction.3 MethodologyWe extended and refined SDRT and developed ourown methodology for annotating main and subor-dinate clauses, phrases located between main andsubordinate clauses (e.g., continuative conjunctsin Japanese), two consecutive sentences and twoadjoining nodes with a discourse relation.
We alsodefined our own method for annotating proposi-tions with causal and temporal relations.
The re-sult of tagging example (5a) is shown in (5b).
(5) a. Kaze-gawind-NOMhuita.blow-pastHarigami-gaposter-NOMhagare,come.off-pasttonda.flow-past?The wind blew.
A poster came off andflew away.?b.
[Precedence(pi1,pi3),Explanation(pi1,pi3),Cause(pi1,pi3)],[Precedence(pi2,pi4), Explanation(pi2,pi4),Cause(pi2,pi4)]pi2pi1Kaze-ga huita.pi4pi3Harigami-ga hagare, tonda.The remainder of this section is structured as fol-lows.
Sections 3.1 and 3.2 deal with temporal andcausal relations, respectively.
Section 3.3 coversdiscourse relations, and Section 3.4 describes thefact level and the epistemic level.3.1 Temporal RelationsWe consider the following three temporal relations(Table 1).
We assume that they represent the rela-tions between two events in propositions and indi-cate a start time and an end time.
In addition, wealso assume that (start time of e)?
(end time of e)for all events.
Based on this, the temporal place-ment of each two events is limited to the three re-lations in Table 1.In this regard, Japanese non-past predicatesoccasionally express habitually repeating events,which have to be distinguished from events occur-ring later than the reference point.
In this paper, inannotating the scope of the repetition, habituallyrepeating events are described as in the followingexample.
(6) a. Taiin-go,After.retirement{kouen-opark-ACChasiru}repeatto.runyoo-ni-site-iru.have.a.custom?After retiring, I have a custom to {runin the park}repeat.?b.
{supootu-inryo-oSports.drink-ACCnonda-ato,drink-past-afterkouen-opark-ACChasiru}repeatrunyoo-ni-site-iru.have.a.custom?I have a custom that {I run in the parkafter having a sports drink}repeat.
?3.2 Causal RelationsWe tag pairs of clauses with the following relation(Table 2) only if there is a causal relation betweenevents in the proposition.
By annotating text withdiscourse relations, a fact and epistemic level andtemporal relations, we can describe the presence35Label DescriptionAlternation(A,B) ?A or B?, where the pair of A and B corresponds to logical disjunction (?
).Consequence(A,B) ?If A then B?, where the pair of A and B corresponds to logical implication (?
).Elaboration(A,B) B explains A in detail in the discourse relation.B of the event is part of A of the event.Narration(A,B) A and B are in the same situation, andthe pair of A and B corresponds to logical conjunction (?
).Explanation(A,B) The discourse relation indicates A as a cause and B as an effect.Contrast(A,B) ?A but B?, where A and B are paradoxical.Commentary(A,B) The content of A is summarized or complemented in B.Table 3: Discourse relations listSDRT Our methodology RulesAlternation(A,B) Alternation(A,B) NAConsequence(A,B) Consequence(A,B) NAElaboration(A,B) Elaboration(A,B) ?
A,B (Elaboration(A,B)?
Subsumption (A,B))Narration(A,B) Precedence(A,B) ?
Narration(A,B) NABackground(A,B) Subsumption(A,B) ?
Narration(A,B) NAResult(A,B) Explanation(A,B)Explanation(A,B) Cause(A,B) ?
A,B (Cause(A,B)?
Temp rel(A,B)) 1Contrast(A,B) Contrast(A,B) NACommentary(A,B) Commentary(A,B) NATable 4: Correspondence between SDRT and our methodologyof causation in finer detail than (Betherd et al.,2008).3.3 Discourse RelationsWe consider the following discourse relationsbased on SDRT (Table 3).
There are also relationsthat impose limitations on temporal and causal re-lations (Table 4).
The way temporal, causal anddiscourse relations affect each other is describedbelow together with their correspondence to therelations in SDRT.
Bold-faced entries representrelations integrated in SDRT in our study.Such limitations on temporal relations provides in-formation for making a decision in terms of tem-poral order and cause/effect in the ?de-tensed?sentence structure2(Chin, 1984) in Japanese.
Anexample is given below.
(7) Kinooyesterdayanna-nithat.muchtaberu-kara,eat-past-becausekyootodayonaka-gastomach-NOMitakuache-contnatta-nda.become-noda2Temp rel(A,B) ?Precedence(A,B)?
Overlap(A,B)?
Subsumption(A,B)3According to (Chin, 1984), ?de-tensed?
is a relationwhereby the phrase has lost the meaning contributed by tense,namely, the logical aspect of the semantic relation between anantecedent and a consequent has eliminated the aspect tem-poral relation between them.
?Because you ate that much yesterday, youhave a stomachache today.?
(7) [Precedence(pi1,pi3),Explanation(pi1,pi3),Cause(pi1,pi3)],[Precedence(pi2,pi4),Explanation(pi2,pi4),Cause(pi2,pi4)]pi2pi1Kinoo anna-ni taberu-kara,pi4pi3kyoo onaka-ga itaku natta-nda.This is a sentence where the subordinate clause isin non-past tense and the main clause is in pasttense.
Then, we may mistakenly interpret theevent in the subordinate clause as occurring afterthe event of the main clause.
However, we can de-termine that in fact it occurred before the event inthe main clause based on the rule imposed by the?Cause?
relation.3.4 Fact Level and Epistemic LevelA fact level proposition refers to an event andits states, while an epistemic level propositionrefers to speaker?s recognizing event of a describedevent.
In Japanese, the latter form is often markedby the suffix noda that attaches to all kinds ofpredicates (which may also be omitted).
Bothovert and covert noda introduce embedded struc-tures, and we annotate them in such a way that afact level proposition is embedded in an epistemiclevel proposition.Semantically, the most notable difference be-tween the two levels is that the tense in the former36represents the time that an event takes place, whilethe tense in the latter represents the time that thespeaker recognizes the event.This distinction between the two types of propo-sitions is carried over to the distinction betweenthe fact level and the epistemic level causal rela-tions.
We annotate the former by the tag ?Cause?and the latter by the tag ?Explanation?.In Japanese, a causal marker such as node (acontinuation form of noda) and kara are both usedin the fact level and the epistemic level.
The factlevel causality is a causal relation between thetwo events, while the epistemic level causality is acausal relation between the two recognizing eventsof the two events mentioned.
Therefore, in thecausal construction, it happens that the precedencerelations between the subordinate and the matrixclauses in the fact level and the epistemic level donot coincide, as in the following example.
(8) Kesathis.morningnani-monothing-NOMhoodoo-sare-nakatta-node,report-passive-NEG.past-because,kinoo-wayesterday-TOPmebosiinotableziken-waevents-NOMnakatta-noda.be-NEG-noda?Because nothing was reported this morn-ing, there were no notable event yester-day.?
[Precedence(pi3,pi1),Explanation(pi3,pi1),Cause(pi3,pi1)],[Precedence(pi2,pi4), Explanation(pi2,pi4),Cause(pi2,pi4)]pi2pi1Kesa nani-mo hoodoo-sare-nakatta-node,pi4pi3kinoo-wa mebosiiziken-wa nakatta-noda.The temporal relation at the fact level is that pi3precedes pi1.
By contrast, that at the epistemiclevel is that pi2 precedes pi4.
By describing therelation between pi1 and pi3 and that between pi2and pi4 separately, we can reproduce the relation-ship at both levels.3.5 MeritsWe defined our methodology for annotating textfragments at both the fact and epistemic levels inparallel with temporal, causal and discourse re-lations.
Therefore, we can generate specializeddata sets that enable estimating the causality in thefact and epistemic levels by various cues (such asknown causal relations, truth condition, conjunc-tions and temporal relations between sentences orclauses).In addition, we can say that causal expressionswithout causation are not in a causal relation (andvice versa) by annotating text with both discourseand causal relations.4 ResultsWe applied our methodology to 66 sentences fromthe Balanced Corpus of Contemporary WrittenJapanese (BCCWJ) (Maekawa, 2008).
The sen-tences were decomposed by one annotator, and la-bels were assigned to the decomposed segmentsby two annotators.
During labeling, we used thelabels presented in Section 3.
Our methodologywas developed based on 96 segments (38 sen-tences), and by using the other 100 segments (28sentences), we evaluated the inter-annotator agree-ment as well as the frequencies of decompositionand times of annotation.
The agreement for 196segments generated from 28 sentences amountedto 0.68 and was computed as follows (the kappacoefficient for them amounted to 0.79).Agreement = Agreed labels/Total labelsAnalyzing more segments in actual text and im-proving our methodology can lead to further im-provement in terms of agreement.Table 5 shows the distribution of labels into seg-ments in our study.label segmentsTotal fact epistemicPrecedence 25 14 11Overlap 7 4 3Subsumption 61 29 32total 94 47 47Cause 14 8 6total 14 8 6Alternation ?
?
?Consequence 6 3 3Elaboration 4 2 2Narration 66 33 33Explanation 14 7 7Contrast 2 1 1Commentary 94 47 47Table 5: Distribution of labels in segments in ourstudy37We can see from Table 5 that ?Narration?
wasthe most frequent one, while ?Alternation?
neverappeared.
As s result, we can assume that frequentrelations will be separated from non-frequent rela-tions.
So far, all the relations are either frequent ornon-frequent.
We should re-analyze the data withmore samples again.When the methodology was applied to 28 sen-tences, a total of 100 and an average of 3.57 seg-ments were derived.
This is the number of seg-ments at both the fact and epistemic levels.
With-out dividing the fact and epistemic levels, an aver-age of 1.79 segments were derived.On average, 11 segments per hour were taggedin our study.
Although we should evaluate the va-lidity after having computed the average decom-position times, it is assumed that our methodologyis valid when focusing only on labeling.5 DiscussionWe analyzed errors in this annotation exercise.The annotators often found difficulties in judgingtemporal relations in the following two cases: (1)the case where it was difficult to determine thescope of the segments pairing and (2) the casewhere formalization of lexical meaning is difficult.In regard to the first case, how to divide seg-ments sometimes affects temporal relations.
In thefollowing example, consider the temporal relationbetween the first and the second sentences.
(9) Marason-nimarathon-DATsyutuzyoo-sita.participate-past.sonohi-wathat.day-TOP6zi-ni6:00-atkisyoo-si,get.up-past,10zi-ni10:00-attotyoo-karaMetropolitan.Government-fromsyuppatu-site,leave-past,12zi-ni12:00-atkansoo-sita.finish.running-past.
?I participated in marathon.
I got up at6:00 on that day and left the MetropolitanGovernment at 10:00 and finished runningat 12:00.?When we focus on the first segment of the sec-ond sentnce (?I got up at 6:00?
), its relation to thefirst sentence appears to be ?Precedence?.
How-ever, if we consider the second and the third seg-ments as the same segment, their relation to thefirst sentence appears to be ?Subsumption?.Therefore, we should establish clear criteria forthe segmentation.
Although we currently adopts acriterion that we chose smaller segment in unclearcases, there still remain 9 unclear cases (tempo-ral:5, discourse:4).One of the reason why Kappa coefficient marksrelatively high score is that we only compare thelabels and ignore the difference in the segmenta-tions.
Criteria for deciding the segment scope inparing segments will improve our methodology.The second case is exemplified by the tempo-ral relation between the subordinate clause and themain clause in the following sentence.
(10) Migawari-noscapegoat-GENtomo-ofriend-ACCsukuu-tame-nito.savehasiru-noda.run-noda.
?I run to save my friend who is my scape-goat.
?If we consider that the saving event only spansover the very moment of saving, the relation be-tween the clauses appears to be ?Precedence?.However, if we consider that running event is apart of the saving event, the relation between theclauses is ?Subsumption?.Thus, judging lexical meaning with respect towhen events start and end involves some difficul-ties and they yield delicate cases in judging tem-poral relations.These problems are mutually related, and thefirst problem arises when the components of a lex-ical meaning are displayed explicitly in the sen-tence, and the second problem arises when theyare implicit.6 ConclusionsWe analyzed and proposed our methodology basedon SDRT for building a more precise Japanesecorpus for CRE.
In addition, we annotated 196segments (66 sentences) in BCCWJ with tempo-ral relations, discourse relations, causal relationsand fact level and epistemic level propositions andevaluated the annotations of 100 segments (28 sen-tences) in terms of agreement, frequencies andtimes for decompositions.
We reported and an-alyzed the result and discussed problems of ourmethodology.The discrepancies of decomposition patternswere not yet empirically compared in the presentstudy and will be investigated in future work.38ReferencesAsher N. and Lascaridas A.
2003.
Logics of Con-versation: Studies in Natural Language Processing.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Bethard S., Corvey W. and Kilingenstein S. 2008.Building a Corpus of Temporal Causal Structure.LREC 2008, Marrakech, Morocco.Chin M. 1984.
Tense of the predicates for clausesof compound statement binded by conjunctive parti-cle -?Suru-Ga?
and ?Shita-Ga?, ?Suru-Node?
and?Shita-Node?
etc.-.
Language Teaching ResearchArticle.Inui T., Inui K. and Matsumoto Y.
2005.
Acquir-ing Causal Knowledge from Text Using the Con-nective Marker Tame.
ACM Transactions on AsianLanguage Information Processing (ACM-TALIP),Vol.4, Issue 4, Special Issue on Recent Advancesin Information Processing and Access for Japanese,435?474.Inui T., Inui K. and Matsumoto Y.
2003.
What Kindsand Amounts of Causal Knowledge Can Be Aquiredfrom Text by Using Connective Markers as Clues.The 6th International Conference on Discovery Sci-ence (DS-2003), 180?193.Inui T., Takamura H. and Okumura M. 2007.
LatentVariable Models for Causal Knowledge Acquisition.Alexander Gelbukh(Ed.
), Computational Linguisticsand Intelligent Text Processing, Lecture Notes inComputer Science, 4393:85?96.Maekawa K. 2008.
Balanced Corpus of ContemporaryWritten Japanese.
In Proceedings of the 6th Work-shop on Asian Language Resources (ALR), 101?102.Riaz M. and Girju R. 2013.
Toward a Bet-ter Understanding of Causality between VerbalEvents:Extraction and Analysis of the Causal Powerof Verb-Verb Associations.
In Proceedings of theSIGDIAL 2013 Conference, Metz, France 21?30.Tamura S. 2012.
Causal relations and epistemic per-spectives: Studies on Japanese causal and purposiveconstructions.
Doctoral thesis, Kyoto University.39
