Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 93?94,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdapting SimpleNLG for Brazilian Portuguese realisationRodrigo de OliveiraDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen, UK, AB24 3UErodrigodeoliveira@abdn.ac.ukSomayajulu SripadaDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen, UK, AB24 3UEyaji.sripada@abdn.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes the ongoing imple-mentation and the current coverage ofSimpleNLG-BP, an adaptation of Simple-NLG-EnFr (Vaudry and Lapalme, 2013)for Brazilian Portuguese.1 IntroductionRealisation is the last step in natural language gen-eration (NLG) systems, so the goal of a realisationengine is to output text.
SimpleNLG is a Java li-brary that employs morphological, syntactic andorthographical operations on non-linguistic inputto output well-formed sentences in English.
Sim-pleNLG-EnFr (Vaudry and Lapalme, 2013) is anadaptation of SimpleNLG for French.
This paperdescribes the current state of SimpleNLG-BP1, anadaptation of SimpleNLG-EnFr for realisation inBrazilian Portuguese.2 Recycling SimpleNLG-EnFrTo implement SimpleNLG-BP, we opted to extendSimpleNLG-EnFr instead of the original Simple-NLG.
The main reason was the linguistic phe-nomenon of preposition contraction, which iswhat happens in da mesa (of the table): da is thefusion of de (of ) with a (the.FEM.SNG).
Becausepreposition contraction happens in French but notin English, we simply adapted the algorithm inSimpleNLG-EnFr to suit Brazilian Portuguese.3 Coverage of SimpleNLG-BPAs of submission date of this paper (May 23,2014), almost all efforts in implementing Sim-pleNLG-BP focused on morphological opera-tions, as described in Moderna Grama?tica Por-tuguesa (Bechara, 2009).
However, a testbed1The source code for SimpleNLG-BP can be found athttps://github.com/rdeoliveira/simplenlg-en-fr-pt .of 43 instances including full sentences in non-interrogative form and isolated phrases could besuccessfully generated by SimpleNLG-BP.3.1 MorphologyMorphological operations in the current state ofSimpleNLG-BP tackle 3 phrase types: nounphrases, preposition phrases and verb phrases.3.1.1 Pluralisation of nounsPluralisation rules in Brazilian Portuguese nor-mally add a final -s to nouns, but word-internalmodifications may also be applied, depending onthe word?s stress, last vowel and/or ending.
Pos-sible noun endings in Brazilian Portuguese are: -l,-m, -n, -r, -s, -x, -z and vowels.
SimpleNLG-BPcurrently includes all pluralisation rules for nounsending in -m, -r, -s, -x or most vowels, but onlysome rules for endings -l, -n, -z and -a?o.
The plu-ralisation algorithm will still attempt to pluraliseany string, which is useful to handle neologisms.3.1.2 Preposition contractionSimilar to French, Brazilian Portuguese providesa morphophonological mechanism to contractwords in preposition phrases.
The prepositionsthat undergo contraction are a (by, to), em (in, or,at), de (from, of ) and por (through, by) ?
or prepo-sition complexes ending in those, such as atra?sde (behind) or em frente a (in front of ).
Whenthese precede a determiner or adverb, prepositionand following item combine to form a single word.Take as (the.FEM.PLR), for instance.
If it appearsin a preposition phrase after a, em, de or por, theresult will be a`s, nas, das and pelas, respectively.Note that desde (since) ends with -de but does notundergo contraction.
The same applies for contra(against) and para (to, for); both end in -a but donot undergo contraction.933.1.3 Verb conjugationEnglish systematically combines all 3 tenses ?past, present and future ?
to perfective and/or pro-gressive aspects.
This gives English a total of 12possible combinations for the same verb, personand number.
Subjunctive or imperative moods areof little concern to English, since base forms ofverbs are usually identical to non-indicative forms.Brazilian Portuguese may be said to expressthe same number of tenses, aspects and moods.In practice, this does not apply.
Perfectivenessin Brazilian Portuguese traditional grammars isseen as a 3-element set ?
perfective, imperfec-tive and pluperfective ?
which apply only to thepast tense.
English uses perfectiveness across all3 tenses (had done, have done, will have done).Moreover, subjunctive forms in Brazilian Portu-guese are morphologically distinct from indicativeforms.
Conditional is not built by adding an un-changeable auxiliary (e.g.
would), but by mor-phology as well.
Finally, infinitive forms of verbsmay be conjugated or not.
Thus, it was morepractical to implement tense in SimpleNLG-BP asa 10-element set ?
past, present, future, imper-fect, pluperfect, conditional, subjunctive present,subjunctive imperfect, subjunctive future and per-sonal infinitive ?
where each tense may alreadypack some sense of aspect and mood.Nevertheless, we implement aspect as a sepa-rate 3-element set, to be optionally declared asverb features, in order to trigger verb periphrasisformation.
Modern Brazilian Portuguese uses verbperiphrases extensively; e.g.
the periphrastic formtinha feito (had done) is normally used insteadof the single-verb form fizera (also had done).SimpleNLG-BP associates ter (have) to perfec-tiveness and estar (be) to progressiveness, therebyresembling the grammar of English and preserv-ing most of the optional verb-phrase features usedin the original SimpleNLG.
Additionally, we in-cluded prospectiveness in the aspect set (as sug-gested by Bechara (2009) pp.
214-215) to gener-ate periphrases that express future by means of theauxiliary ir (go).
With a 3-element aspect set anda 10-element tense set, SimpleNLG-BP is able tobuild 80 different forms2 for the same verb, per-son and number.
Additionally, negative, passiveand modalised verb phrases are also supported.Modals generate prepositions automatically, if re-2Even though 22 of these don?t seem to be used by Bra-zilian Portuguese speakers.quired, such as dar (be able to) and acabar (end),whose prepositions are para and de respectively.As far as subject-verb agreement, if the verb tobe conjugated exists in the default lexicon file, thefinal string is simply retrieved; if not, a conjuga-tion algorithm attempts to inflect the verb.
ForSimpleNLG-BP, we compiled an XML lexicon fileout of DELAF PB (Muniz, 2004), an 880,000-entry lexicon of inflected words in Brazilian Por-tuguese.
The original file became too large at first?
1,029,075 lines, 45.4MB ?
which turned out tobe an issue.
A default run of SimpleNLG com-piles the default lexicon file a priori to store it inmemory, so a single run (e.g.
1 test case) took anaverage of 2.5 seconds, just to build the lexicononto memory.
Since an inefficiency of that dimen-sion can be prohibitive in some practical contexts,we compiled a smaller list of 57 irregular verbsin Brazilian Portuguese plus personal pronouns,which became only 4,075-line long (167KB) andtakes only 0.17 seconds for compilation in aver-age.
SimpleNLG-BP includes both the lexicon fileand the lexicon compiler, if one wishes to modifythe default lexicon.4 SummaryWe described SimpleNLG-BP, an ongoing adap-tation of SimpleNLG for Brazilian Portuguese,which currently supports noun pluralisation,preposition contractions and verb conjugation, andincludes a lexicon file and a lexicon compiler.AcknowledgementsThe first author of this paper thanks Ar-ria/Data2Text Limited for funding his doctoral re-search at the University ofAberdeen.ReferencesEvanildo Bechara.
2009.
Moderna Grama?tica Por-tuguesa.
Nova Fronteira & Lucerna, Rio de Janeiro,37 edition.Marcelo Caetano Martins Muniz.
2004.
A construc?a?ode recursos lingu??
?stico-computacionais para o por-tugue?s do Brasil: o projeto Unitex-PB.
Master?s the-sis, USP.Pierre-Luc Vaudry and Guy Lapalme.
2013.
Adapt-ing SimpleNLG for bilingual English-French real-isation.
In 14th European Conference on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 183?187, Sofia, Bul-garia.94
