Proceedings of Frame Semantics in NLP: A Workshop in Honor of Chuck Fillmore (1929?2014), pages 10?12,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsCase, Constructions, FrameNet, and the Deep LexiconJerry R. HobbsInformation Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern CaliforniaMarina del Rey, CaliforniaAbstractThree major contributions that CharlesFillmore made in linguistics play an im-portant role in the enterprise of deeplexical semantics, which is the effort tolink lexical meaning to underlying abstractcore theories.
I will discuss how case re-lates to lexical decompositions, how moti-vated constructions span the borderline be-tween syntax and semantics, and how theframes of FrameNet provide an excellentfirst step in deep inference.1 Deep Lexical SemanticsDeep lexical semantics (Hobbs, 2008) is the effortto construct formal theories of abstract phenom-ena, such as composite entities, the figure-groundrelation, scales, change of state, and causality, andto link the most common words in English to thesetheories with axioms explicating their meanings.This work has been deeply influenced by the workof Charles Fillmore in at least three ways ?
theinsights underlying case grammar, in the impor-tance of being able to represent constructions, andin the development of FrameNet.
In this talk I willdescribe how each of these issues is dealt with indeep lexical semantics.
First I will sketch three ofthe underlying core theories.Composite Entities and the Figure-Ground Re-lation: A composite entity is a thing made of otherthings.
This is intended to cover physical objectslike a telephone, mixed objects like a book, ab-stract objects like a theory, and events like a con-cert.
It is characterized by a set of components,a set of properties of the components, a set of re-lations among its components (the structure), andrelations between the entity as a whole and its en-vironment (including its function).
The predicateat relates an external entity, the figure, to a com-ponent in a composite entity, the ground.
Differ-ent figures and different grounds give us differentmeanings for at.Spatial location: Pat is at the back of thestore.Location on a scale: Nuance closed at58.Membership in an organization: Pat isnow at Google.Location in a text: The table is at the endof the article.Time of an event: At that moment, Patstood up.Event at event: Let?s discuss that atlunch.At a predication: She was at ease in hiscompany.When at is specialized in this way, we tap into awhole vocabulary for talking about the domain.Change of State: The predicationchange(e1, e2) says that state e1changesinto state e2.
Its principal properties are thate1and e2should have an entity in common ?
achange of state is a change of state of something.States e1and e2are not the same unless thereis an intermediate state.
The predicate changeis defeasibly transitive; in fact, backchaining onthe transitivity axiom is one way to refine thegranularity on processes.Causality: We distinguish between the ?causalcomplex?
for an effect and the concept ?cause?.
Acausal complex includes all the states and eventsthat have to happen or hold in order for the effectto occur.
We say that flipping a switch causes thelight to go on.
But many other conditions mustbe in the causal complex ?
the light bulb can?t beburnt out, the wiring has to be intact, the powerhas to be on in the city, and so on.
The two keyproperties of a causal complex are that when ev-erything in the causal complex happens or holds,so will the effect, and that everything that is in the10causal complex is relevant in a sense that can bemade precise.
?Causal complex?
is a rigorous ormonotonic notion, but its utility in everyday life islimited because we almost never can specify ev-erything in it.?Cause?
by contrast is a defeasible or nonmono-tonic notion.
It selects out of a causal complexa particular eventuality that in a sense is the ?ac-tive?
part of the causal complex, the thing that isn?tnecessarily normally true.
Flipping the switch, inmost contexts, is the action that causes the light tocome on.
Causes are the focus of planning, predic-tion, explanation, and interpreting discourse, butnot diagnosis, since in diagnosis, something thatnormally happens or holds, doesn?t.As illustrations, here is how two verbs are de-fined in terms of these core theories.
The transitivesense of ?move?, as in ?x moves y from z to w?
iscaptured by the axiommove(x, y, z, w)?
cause(x, e1)?
change?
(e1, e2, e3)?
at?
(e2, y, z)?
at?
(e3, y, w)That is, x causes a change e1from the state e2inwhich y is at z to the state e3in which y is at w.The verb ?let?
as in ?x lets e happen?
means xdoes not cause e not to happen.
The axiom islet(x, e)?
not(e1) ?
cause?
(e1, x, e2)?not?
(e2, e)2 CaseThe various case roles proposed by Filllmore(1968) and many others since then can be under-stood in terms of the roles entities play in these ax-iomatic decompositions.
In the axiom for move,x is the agent.
An agent is an entity that is viewedas being capable of initiating a causal chain, andthe agent of an action is the agent that initiated it.What Fillmore originally called the object andhas since been called the patient and, morebizarrely, the theme is the entity that undergoes thechange of state or location.
In the move axiom, yplays this role.When the property that changes in the object is areal or metaphorical ?at?
relation, as in move, thenZ is the source and w is the goal.
An instrumentis an entity that the agent causes to go through achange of state where this change plays an inter-mediate role in the causal chain.
Other proposedcase roles can be analyzed similarly.The more similar verbs are to ?move?, the eas-ier it is to assign case labels to their arguments.When verbs are not very similar to ?move?, e.g.,?outnumber?, assigning case labels becomes moreproblematic, a factor no doubt in Fillmore?s deci-sion not to utilize a small fixed list in FrameNet.Nevertheless, the abstractness of the underly-ing core theories, particularly the theory of com-posite entities, ensures that this understanding ofcase applies to the verbal lexicon widely.
Thus, al-though case labels play no formal role in deep lexi-cal semantics, the insights of case grammar can becaptured and inform the analyses of specific verbmeanings.3 ConstructionsIn the 1980s Fillmore and his colleagues at Berke-ley developed the theory of Construction Gram-mar (Fillmore et al., 1988).
I take constructionsto be fragments of language that elemplify gen-eral compositional principles, but have a conven-tionalized meaning which is one of perhaps manymeanings licensed by the general lexical and com-positional structure, but is the sole, or at least theusual, interpretation normally assigned to it in dis-course.An example will perhaps make this clear.
Thecontraction ?let?s?
has a particular meaning, sub-sumed by, but much more specific than, ?let us?.
?Let us go.?
could mean the same as ?Let?s go,?although it sounds stilted.
But it could also besomething kidnap victims say to the kidnapper.
Bygeneral principles, ?let?s go?
could have either ofthese meanings.
But in fact it only has the first.Thus, ?let?s?
can be viewed as a conventional-ization of one specific interpretation of ?let us?.The source interpretation is this: ?Let?s?
is a con-traction for ?let us?.
A rule of contraction wouldtell us that when the string ?let us?
describes aparameterized situation, the string ?let?s?
can de-scribe the same situation.
Thus, the best expla-nation for the occurrence of ?let?s?
is that it is acontraction of ?let us?, ?Let?s?
is only used in im-perative sentences, so the implicit subject is ?you?.The verb ?to let?
means, as in the axiom above, ?tonot cause not?.
Thus, ?let us go.?
means ?Don?tyou cause us not to go.?
So far, this supports bothmeanings above.
Now the set of people designated11by ?us?
may or may not include you in general,but in the desired interpretation it does.
One wayfor you to cause us not to go, provided you are apart of us, is for you not to go yourself.
The sen-tence ?Let?s go.?
tells you not to cause us not togo by not going yourself.
This abductive interpre-tation is straightforwardly represented in a proofgraph.
This is the conventionalized meaning asso-ciated with the ?let?s?
construction.In normal usage we do not unpack this graphstructure, but it nevertheless provides the conven-tional interpretation?s motivation, a term I believeI first heard from Fillmore in a discussion groupin 1980.
The conventional interpretation of ?let?sgo?
is not completely arbitrary.
We can unpack it,and often need to in interpreting discourse.
The re-ply could be ?No, you go alone?
or ?No, let?s stayhere.?
Each of these taps into a different aspect ofthe conventional interpretation?s motivation.Constructions are not phrases like ?let?s go?
orparameterized phrases like ?let?s VP?
but frag-ments of a proof graph encoding the motivatedsyntactic and compositional semantic structure aswell as the conventionalized interpretation.
Theyare normally deployed in a block, but they can beeffortlessly unpacked when one needs to.4 FrameNetThe FrameNet frames (Baker et al., 2003) canbe viewed as providing the first level of axiomsmapping words and phrases into underlying coretheories.
For example, ?let?
is mapped into aframe of enablement (not-cause-not), along withthe verbs ?permit?
and ?allow?
and the parame-terized phrase ?make possible?.
The frames arenot expressed in the FrameNet resource as ax-ioms.
However, FrameNet was converted into log-ical axioms by Ovchinnikova (Ovchinnikova et al.2013), and she and her colleagues have shown thatan abduction engine using a knowledge base de-rived from these sources is competitive with thebest of the statistical systems in recognizing tex-tual entailment and in semantic role labelling.The FrameNet project, in addition, has demon-strated that a concerted, long-term effort, whenintelligently thought out with a sensitivity to thenature of language, can produce a highly valu-able resource for deep, knowledge-based process-ing of natural language.
This was certainly amongCharles Fillmore?s greatest contributions to com-putational linguistics.ReferencesBaker, C., Charles Fillmore, and B. Cronin, 2003.
TheStructure of the Framenet Database, InternationalJournal of Lexicography, Volume 16.3, 281-296.Fillmore, Charles, 1968, The Case for Case, in Bachand Harms (Eds.
), Universals in Linguistic Theory,New York: Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, 1-88.Fillmore, Charles, Paul Kay, and Catherine O?Connor,1988.
Regularity and Idiomaticity in GrammaticalConstructions: The Case of let alone, Language, 64,501-38.Hobbs, Jerry R. 2008.
Deep Lexical Semantics.
Pro-ceedings of 9th International Conference on Intelli-gent Text Processing and Computational Linguistics(CICLing-2008), Haifa, Israel.Ovchinnikova, Ekaterina, Niloofar Montazeri, TeodorAlexandrov, Jerry R. Hobbs, Michael C. McCord,and Rutu Mulkar-Mehta.
2013.
Abductive Reason-ing with a Large Knowledge Base for Discourse Pro-cessing.
In H. Hunt, J. Bos, and S. Pulman, (Eds.
),Computing Meaning, 4:104-124.12
