Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Language Technologies and Computational Social Science, pages 38?43,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMeasuring the Public Accountability ofNew Modes of GovernanceBruno WueestInstitute of Political ScienceUniversity of Zurichwueest@ipz.uzh.chGerold SchneiderInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zurichgschneid@ifi.uzh.chMichael AmslerInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zurichmamsler@ifi.uzh.chAbstractWe present an encompassing research en-deavour on the public accountability ofnew modes of governance in Europe.
Theaim of this project is to measure thesalience, tonality and framing of regula-tory bodies and public interest organisa-tions in newspaper coverage and parlia-mentary debates over the last 15 years.In order to achieve this, we use languagetechnology which is still underused in po-litical science text analyses.
Institution-ally, the project has emerged from a col-laboration between a computational lin-guistics and a political science department.1 IntroductionThe institutionalization of the regulatory state inEurope entailed new modes of governance suchas transgovernmental networks between officialsand non-state authorities or the involvement of pri-vate corporations (e.g.
rating agencies) in the pol-icy processes (Gilardi, 2005; Abbott and Snidal,2008).
At the subnational level, the emergenceof regulatory agencies and public-private partner-ships spreading across metropolitan regions havecome to challenge traditional state institutions(Kelleher and Lowery, 2009).
Since these newmodes of governance organize political authorityalong functional rather than territorial lines, manyobservers are worried about their potential ?demo-cratic deficit?
(Dahl, 1994; Follesdal and Hix,2006; Keohane et al., 2009).
In response to theseconsiderations, scholars usually point to the ad-ministrative and professional accountability mech-anisms of governmental and parliamentary over-sight as well as judicial review (Majone, 2000;Lodge, 2002; Busuioc, 2009).
Other, more in-formal accountability mechanisms such as mediacoverage and public involvement, in contrast, havebeen either neglected, dismissed as scarcely rele-vant or dealt with only in comparative case stud-ies (Maggetti, 2012).
This is surprising, given thatpublic communication plays an ever more deci-sive role for setting the political agenda and estab-lishing transparency of policy making in moderndemocratic societies (Walgrave et al., 2008; Koop-mans and Statham, 2010; M?uller, forthcoming).With respect to the public accountability of newmodes of governance, the media can thus be ex-pected to constitute a key intermediary variable forthe progressive formalization and institutionaliza-tion of voluntary private rules through reputationalmechanisms (Gentzkow and Shapiro, 2006).This paper is structured as follows.
In section 2we present our core research question, in section3 we summarize our research methods, and in sec-tion 4 we briefly present a pilot study.2 Research QuestionIt is important to ask whether and to what ex-tent public communication systematically exposesnew modes of governance to public accountabil-ity.
More precisely, the project?s ambition is todetermine how much attention the media and par-liamentary debates dedicate to survey the regula-tory bodies and public interest organizations un-der scrutiny, whether they watch these actors crit-ically, and whether they report on these actors interms of frames which are conductive to their pub-lic accountability, e.g.
norm and rule compliance,transparency, efficiency or responsiveness to pub-lic demands.383 MethodologyTo answer these questions, the project implementsapproaches developed in computational linguisticsand web automation in order to collect and classifybig text data at the European level (European andinternationally relevant newspapers), the domes-tic level in four countries (newspapers in the U.K.,France, Germany and Switzerland), and the sub-national level in eight metropolitan areas (parlia-mentary debates and newspapers relevant for Lon-don, Birmingham, Paris, Lyon, Berlin, Stuttgart,Berne and Zurich).
The project (1) starts from anencompassing gazetteer of actors involved in thenew modes of governance in the areas and coun-tries mentioned above, (2) uses application pro-gramming interfaces (API) and webscraping tech-niques to establish a large representative text cor-pus in English, French and German, (3) calculatesthe salience of the actors of interest by means ofnamed entity recognition, coreference resolutionand keyword detection, (4) applies sentiment de-tection and opinion mining to estimate the tonalityof these actors, (5) uses relation mining methods(Schneider et al., 2009) to detect interactions andtypes of interactions between the entities of inter-est, and (6) intends to automate the recognition ofmedia frames used in the context of these actors byidentifying hidden topics via latent semantic anal-ysis (LSA) (McFarlane, 2011; Odijk et al., 2014).As points 3-6 provide key research challenges,we will discuss them in more detail in the fol-lowing subsections.
Before that, we present anoverview of our current pipeline.3.1 PipelineThe pipeline consists of several componentschained together in a modular way (see Figure 1).This provides us with the possibility to exchangecomponents on demand.
First, data acquisition isdone via the use of an API to the media contentdatabase (e.g.
LexisNexis).
This allows us to fullyautomate the retrieval and storage of the mediadocuments.At a second stage, we employ a full natural lan-guage processing chain which includes morpho-logical analysis, tagging, lemmatizing, and depen-dency parsing.
On this basis, we then conduct sev-eral more layers of analysis.
On the one hand, weuse the result of the preprocessing chain for coref-erence resolution and sentiment analysis as wellas relation mining.
On the other hand, we alsointegrate further tools such as named entity recog-nition and LSA which can be applied on the fulltext or corpus level.
The thus enriched data is thenaggregated and stored in a database.Figure 1: Scheme of pipelineFinally, the actual data analysis can be con-ducted by querying the database, based on the al-ready available information or an adapted settingsuitable to the requirements of the media contentanalysis.3.2 Salience, Named Entities andCoreferencesOne of the main metrics of interest is the salienceof the entities.
Therefore, a reliable detection ofthe entities in the articles is a pivotal task.
Fur-thermore it is crucial to find those occurences ofentities in the text which are not directly detectableby using a gazetter, since journalists often use ref-erences to the entities in the same article.
Hence,we will integrate coreference resolution (Klennerand Tuggener, 2011) into our pipeline.
In addi-tion, we will also create a resource which willallow us to integrate external information on theentities, thus increasing the performance of thecoreference resolution.
For example, politiciansare often mentioned with their name, their func-tion (e.g.
National Council), their party affiliation,their age, or a combination of such attributes.
To-gether with the metadata of the media documents(media source, and time of publication) it is thenpossible to calculate these attributes and possiblecombinations and include them in the coreferenceresolution module in order to increase both preci-sion and recall.3.3 From Sentiment Detection to OpinionMiningSentiment analysis and opinion mining are re-search areas in computational linguistics whichhave received growing attention in the last decade(Pang and Lee, 2008; Liu and Zhang, 2012).
In or-der to detect the tonality in the media coverage to-39wards the actors under scrutiny, we use a lexicon-based compositional sentiment analysis systemcomponent similar to Taboada et al.
(2011).
How-ever, our approach is additionally based on the out-put of the full dependency parse and the results ofthe named entity recognition and coreference res-olution.
This will provide us with the ability toperform target-specific tonality calculation.In addition to the mere calculation of sentimentor tonality over a whole article, our task includesthe detection of sentiment on the sentence leveland in respect to certain targets (i.e.
entities).
Anadditional challenge is to detect quotations includ-ing their sources and targets, since they may revealthe actors?
most opinionated stances towards eachother (Balahur et al., 2009).
From this perspec-tive, opinion mining can be seen as a sister disci-pline to sentiment analysis, which we can employto map utterances of actors towards other actors,or towards specific political topics, stepping fromclassical sentiment detection to relation and opin-ion mining.
We will focus on high precision as-signment of the source of the statement.It is important to note that the detection anddetermination of sentiment and opinion in me-dia documents is a challenging endeavour sinceit differs in many ways from the task of previ-ous research which has mostly considered reviewsand other clearly opinionated text (Balahur et al.,2010).
It will therefore also be necessary to adaptthe sentiment analysis system to the domain of(political) news text and to use advanced tech-niques to match fine-grained targets and the en-tity to which they belong.
For example, it shouldbe possible to assign statements of a spokespersonto the institution he or she represents.
However,we can build on existing research, since such amapping can be considered similar to aspect-basedopinion mining (Zhang and Liu, 2014).3.4 Relation MiningIn well-resourced areas such as biomedical rela-tion mining, the detection of interactions betweenentities such as genes and proteins or drugs anddiseases is an established research focus.
Trainingresources are abundant, and several systems havebeen evaluated in competitive challenges.
Polit-ical science texts are typically less richly anno-tated.
However, it is also possible to learn pat-terns expressing interactions from lean document-level annotation, by using distance-learning meth-ods.
If a document is annotated as containing thekey actors A and B, then all syntactic connec-tions found in that document between A and B canbe assumed to provide patterns typically express-ing interactions.
Such approaches have been usedin biomedicine (Rinaldi et al., 2012) and can beported to the political domain.3.5 Media FramesAssociative Framing (van Atteveldt et al., 2008)is based on measuring co-occurrence in large con-text windows.
His suggested association measureis also different, he uses the conditional probabil-ity of seeing concept 1 (c1) in the context of con-cept 2 (c2), p(c1|c2).
Sahlgren (2006) describeshow short context windows tend to detect syntag-matic relations like collocations, while large con-text windows detect paradigmatic relations.
In vanAtteveldt et al.
(2008), concepts are basically key-words, while we will use vector space models,which allow one to automatically detect concepts.In vector space model approaches, each word isdefined by the sum of its contexts, and wordswhich have very similar contexts are clustered intoa concept.
There are many variants of this ap-proach: in singular-value decomposition (SVD) orlatent semantic analysis (LSA) approaches (Deer-wester et al., 1990), the original very high dimen-sional space is reduced to fewer dimensions.
InWord Space (Sch?utze, 1998) each word is definedrecursively, by the contexts of its contexts, usingan observation window of up to 100 words be-fore and after the target word.
Rothenh?ausler andSch?utze (2009) have shown that approaches usingsyntactic relations instead of large context win-dows can even perform better.In the political communication literature, thedefinition of frames is contested.
Matthes andKohring (2008) thus suggest a bottom-up, data-driven and interactive method which on the onehand offers the possibility to correct and guide au-tomatic approaches as has been exemplified by Huet al.
(2011), on the other hand the rigid consis-tency of automatic approaches can also add newinsights for data interpretation.4 Pilot StudyAs a short glimpse at the potential of our researchwe present first data from a small pilot study.
Thedepth of the analysis is still limited due to the notyet fully functional pipeline.
In a first step, we col-40lected 4445 articles from the last ten years in threelarge German print and online news sources.
Theinstitutions under scrutiny are (private) associa-tions for technical inspection in Germany.
In thisarea, the T?UV (Technischer?Uberwachungsverein,i.e., Technical Inspection Association) and its sub-companies almost exert a regulatory monopoly.As a first goal, we want to investigate the differ-ence in the tonality in the media coverage towardsthe institutions in this area.
We therefore chose toinvestigate a public scandal revolving on defectivebreast implants that have been tested and certifiedby a T?UV subcompany.
Table 1 reports the results.Institution Articles TonalityName n negative ambivalent neutral positiveT?UV 57 47 5 3 2T?UV subcompanies 45 39 3 2 1Other institutions 10 6 2 0 2Table 1: Absolute counts of articles about breastimplants and tonality per institutionA first interesting finding is that we only foundarticles about breast implants in the last 3 years.Considering the sentiment analysis results forthese articles, we see a clearly negative aggre-gated result.
82.1% of the articles were of negativetonality, compared to only 4.5% positive tonal-ity.
The remaining articles were of neutral (4.5%)or ambivalent (8.9%) tonality.
The percentage ofnegative articles is even larger if only articles con-taining mentions of T?UV and its subcompanies areconsidered (84.3%), while the percentage of posi-tive articles drops to 2.9%.Furthermore, these findings are in line with theincrease in negative articles on T?UV subcompa-nies during these years (see Figure 2).
In fact,from all negative articles about the T?UV subcom-panies, 28.8% in 2012 and even 38.2% in 2013contained mentions of breast implants.
The scan-dal itself was therefore responsible for the increasein negative articles in this period.This development can be interpreted as an in-dication for the accountability of such institutionsin the public media, although it remains an openquestion which aspects were dominant in the pub-lic discourse considering the scandal about thebreast implants.In sum, this pilot study increases our confidenceto be able to successfully collect the necessarydata for our main purpose, i.e.
to answer the ques-tion whether new forms of governance are heldaccountable in the media.
In the near future, weFigure 2: Percentage and raw counts of negative(breast implant) articles for T?UV subcompaniesplan to implement approaches that allow us to in-ductively detect the issues brought forward in thecontext of an actor in a selection of texts.
Moreprecisely, we are planning to describe and detectthe dynamics of the debate in articles as well asthe tonality inside them.5 ConclusionsWe have introduced a project measuring mediacoverage and applying opinion and relation min-ing to the question of accountability of new modesof governance in Europe.
To answer how publiccommunication exposes them to public account-ability, we apply computational linguistics meth-ods ranging from named entity recognition, de-pendency parsing and coreference resolution toopinion and relation mining and ultimately fram-ing.We have given a pilot study on a public scandalinvolving defective breast implants that have beentested and certified by a T?UV subcompany in Ger-many.
We find, on the one hand, that most of thearticles on breast implants during the period are ofnegative tonality, and on the other hand, that a cor-responding proportion of negative articles on T?UVmentions breast implants, explaining the spike innegativity.
In future research, we will detect suchspikes in a data-driven fashion and with the help oftargeted opinion and relation mining approaches.AcknowledgmentsThis research is supported by the Swiss NationalScience Foundation project NCCR democracy1.1http://www.nccr-democracy.uzh.ch41ReferencesKenneth W. Abbott and Duncan Snidal.
2008.
Thegovernance triangle: regulatory standards institu-tions and the shadow of the state.
In Walter Mattliand Ngaire Woods, editors, The Politics of GlobalRegulation.
Princeton University Press, Princeton,NJ.Alexandra Balahur, Ralf Steinberger, Erik van derGoot, Bruno Pouliquen, and Mijail Kabadjov.
2009.Opinion mining on newspaper quotations.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2009 IEEE/WIC/ACM InternationalJoint Conference on Web Intelligence and IntelligentAgent Technology-Volume 03, pages 523?526.
IEEEComputer Society.Alexandra Balahur, Ralf Steinberger, Mijail Kabadjov,Vanni Zavarella, Erik van der Goot, Matina Halkia,Bruno Pouliquen, and Jenya Belyaeva.
2010.
Sen-timent analysis in the news.
In Proceedings of theSeventh conference on International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?10), Valletta, Malta,may.Madalina Busuioc.
2009.
Accountability, control andindependence: the case of European agencies.
Eu-ropean Law Journal, 15:599?615.Robert A. Dahl.
1994.
A democratic dilemma: Systemeffectiveness versus citizen participation.
PoliticalScience Quarterly, 109(1):23?34.Scott Deerwester, Susan T. Dumais, George W. Fur-nas, Thomas K. Landauer, and Richard Harshman.1990.
Indexing by latent semantic analysis.
Jour-nal of the American Society of Information Science,41(6):391?407.Andreas Follesdal and Simon Hix.
2006.
Why there isa democratic deficit in the EU: A response to Majoneand Moravcsik.
JCMS: Journal of Common MarketStudies, 44:533?562.Matthiew Gentzkow and Jesse M. Shapiro.
2006.
Me-dia bias and reputation.
Journal of Political Econ-omy, 114(2):280?316.Fabrizio Gilardi.
2005.
The institutional foundationsof regulatory capitalism: The diffusion of indepen-dent regulatory agencies in Western Europe.
Annalsof the American Academy of Political and Social Sci-ence, 598:84?101.Yuening Hu, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and Brianna Sati-noff.
2011.
Interactive topic modeling.
In Pro-ceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies, pages 248?257, Portland, Ore-gon, USA, June.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Christine A. Kelleher and David Lowery.
2009.
Cen-tral city size, metropolitan institutions and politicalparticipation.
British Journal of Political Science,39(1):59?92.Robert O. Keohane, Stephen Macedo, and AndrewMoravcsik.
2009.
Democracy-enhancing multilat-eralism.
International Organization, 63(1):1?31.Manfred Klenner and Don Tuggener.
2011.
Anincremental entity-mention model for coreferenceresolution with restrictive antecedent accessibility.In G Angelova, K Bontcheva, R Mitkov, andN Nikolov, editors, Recent Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing (RANLP 2011), Proceedings ofRecent Advances in Natural Language Processing,pages 178?185, September.Ruud Koopmans and Paul Statham.
2010.
The Makingof a European Public Sphere.
Media Discourse andPolitical Contention.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, MA.Bing Liu and Lei Zhang.
2012.
A survey of opinionmining and sentiment analysis.
In Mining Text Data,pages 415?463.
Springer.Martin Lodge.
2002.
The wrong type of regulation?regulatory failure and the railways in Britain andGermany.
Journal of Public Policy, 22:271?297.Martino Maggetti.
2012.
The media accountability ofindependent regulatory agencies.
European Politi-cal Science Review, 4(3):385?408.Giandomenico Majone.
2000.
The credibility crisis ofcommunity regulation.
Journal of Common MarketStudies, 38:273?302.J?org Matthes and Matthias Kohring.
2008.
The con-tent analysis of media frames: toward improving re-liability and validity.
Journal of Communication,58:258?279.Delano J. McFarlane, 2011.
Computational Methodsfor Analyzing Health News Coverage.
PhD disserta-tion, Columbia University.Lisa M?uller.
forthcoming.
Patterns of Media Perfor-mance: Comparing the Contribution of Mass Me-dia to Democratic Quality Worldwide.
PalgraveMacmillan, Houndmills, UK.Daan Odijk, Bjorn Burscher, Rens Vliegenthart, andMaarten de Rijke, 2014.
Automatic Thematic Con-tent Analysis: Finding Frames in News.
unpub.
Ms.,Amsterdam, NL.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and trends in infor-mation retrieval, 2(1-2):1?135.Fabio Rinaldi, Gerold Schneider, and SimonClematide.
2012.
Relation mining experi-ments in the pharmacogenomics domain.
Journalof Biomedical Informatics.Klaus Rothenh?ausler and Hinrich Sch?utze.
2009.Unsupervised classification with dependency basedword spaces.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onGeometrical Models of Natural Language Seman-tics, pages 17?24, Athens, Greece, March.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.42Magnus Sahlgren.
2006.
The Word-Space Model: Us-ing distributional Analysis to represent syntagmaticand paradigmatic relations between words in high-dimensional vector spaces.
Ph.D. thesis, StockholmUniversity.Gerold Schneider, Kaarel Kaljurand, and Fabio Ri-naldi.
2009.
Detecting protein-protein interactionsin biomedical texts using a parser and linguistic re-sources.
In Computational Linguistics and Intelli-gent Text Processing, volume 5449, pages 406?417,Berlin, DE.
CICLing, Springer.Hinrich Sch?utze.
1998.
Automatic word sense dis-crimination.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):97?124.Maite Taboada, Julian Brooke, Milan Tofiloski, Kim-berly Voll, and Manfred Stede.
2011.
Lexicon-based methods for sentiment analysis.
Computa-tional linguistics, 37(2):267?307.Wouter van Atteveldt, Jan Kleinnijenhuis, and NelRuigrok.
2008.
Parsing, semantic networks, andpolitical authority: Using syntactic analysis to ex-tract semantic relations from dutch newspaper arti-cles.
Political Analysis, 16(4):428?446.Stefaan Walgrave, Stuart Soroka, and Michiel Nuyte-mans.
2008.
The mass media?s political agenda-setting power: A longitudinal analysis of media, par-liament, and government in Belgium (1993 to 2000).Comparative Political Studies, 41:814?836.Lei Zhang and Bing Liu.
2014.
Aspect and entity ex-traction for opinion mining.
In Data Mining andKnowledge Discovery for Big Data, pages 1?40.Springer.43
