Language Technology for Closely Related Languages and Language Variants (LT4CloseLang), pages 92?98,October 29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Comparison of MT Methods for Closely Related Languages: a CaseStudy on Czech ?
Slovak Language Pair?Vladislav Kubo?n11Institute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsCharles University in Praguevk@ufal.mff.cuni.czJernej Vi?ci?c2,32FAMNITUniversity of Primorska,3Fran Ramov?s Institute of theSlovenian Language, SRC SASA,jernej.vicic@upr.siAbstractThis paper describes an experiment compar-ing results of machine translation between twoclosely related languages, Czech and Slovak.The comparison is performed by means of twoMT systems, one representing rule-based ap-proach, the other one representing statisticalapproach to the task.
Both sets of results aremanually evaluated by native speakers of thetarget language.
The results are discussed bothfrom the linguistic and quantitative points ofview.1 IntroductionMachine translation (MT) of related languages is a spe-cific field in the domain of MT which attracted the at-tention of several research teams in the past by promis-ing relatively good results through the application ofclassic rule-based methods.
The exploitation of lexi-cal, morphological and syntactic similarity of relatedlanguages seemed to balance the advantages of data-driven approaches, especially for the language pairswith smaller volumes of available parallel data.This simple and straightforward assumption have ledto the construction of numerous rule-based translationsystems for related (or similar) natural languages.
Thefollowing list (ordered alphabetically) includes severalexamples of those systems:?
(Altintas and Cicekli, 2002) for Turkic languages.?
Apertium (Corbi-Bellot et al., 2005) for Romancelanguages.?
(Dyvik, 1995; Bick and Nygaard, 2007; Ahren-berg and Holmqvist, 2004) for Scandinavian lan-guages.??Ces?
?lko (Haji?c et al., 2000), for Slavic languageswith rich inflectional morphology, mostly lan-guage pairs with Czech language as a source.?
Ruslan (Oliva, 1989) full-fledged transfer basedRBMT system from Czech to Russian.
?This work has been using language resources devel-oped and/or stored and/or distributed by the LINDAT-Clarinproject of the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic(project LM2010013).?
(Scannell, 2006) for Gaelic languages; Irish(Gaeilge) and Scottish Gaelic (G?aidhlig).?
(Tyers et al., 2009) for the North Sami to LuleSami language pair.?
Guat (Vi?ci?c, 2008) for Slavic languages with richinflectional morphology, mostly language pairswith Slovenian language.Many of the systems listed above had been createdin the period when it was hard to obtain a good qual-ity data-driven system which would enable comparisonagainst these systems.
The existence of Google Trans-late1which nowadays enables the automatic translationeven between relatively small languages made it possi-ble to investigate advantages and disadvantages of bothapproaches.
This paper introduces the first step in thisdirection - the comparison of results of two differentsystems for two really very closely related languages -Czech and Slovak.2 State of the artThere has already been a lot of research in MachineTranslation evaluation.
There are quite a few confer-ences and shared tasks devoted entirelly to this problemsuch as NIST Machine Translation Evaluation (NIST,2009) or Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation(Bojar et al., 2013).
(Weijnitz et al., 2004) presentsa research on how systems from two different MTparadigms cope with a new domain.
(Kolovratn?k etal., 2009) presents a research on how relatedness oflanguages influences the translation quality of a SMTsytem.The novelty of the presented paper is in the focus onmachine translation for closely related languages and inthe comparison of the two mostly used paradigms forthis task: shallow parse and transfer RBMT and SMTparadigms.3 Translation systemsThe translation systems selected for the experiment are:?
Google Translate1Google Translate: https://translate.google.com/.92??Ces?
?lko (Haji?c et al., 2003)Google Translate was selected as the most used trans-lation system.?Ces?
?lko belongs to the shallow-parseand shallow-transfer rule based machine translationparadigm which is by many authors the most suitablefor translation of related languages.?Ces?
?lko (Haji?c et al., 2003) was used as a representa-tive of rule-based MT systems, the translation directionfrom Czech to Slovak was naturally chosen becausethis is the only direction this system supports for thisparticular language pair.The on-line publicly available versions of the sys-tems sere used in the experiment to ensure the repro-ducibility of the experiment.
All the test data is pub-licly available at the language technologies server ofthe University of Primorska2.Let us now introduce the systems in a more detail.3.1 Google TranslateThis system is currently probably the most popular andmost widely used MT system in the world.
It belongsto the Statistical Machine Translation ?
SMT paradigm.SMT is based on parametric statistical models, whichare constructed on bilingual aligned corpora (trainingdata).
The methods focus on looking for general pat-terns that arise in the use of language instead of ana-lyzing sentences according to grammatical rules.
Themain tool for finding such patterns is counting a varietyof objects ?
statistics.
The main idea of the paradigmis to model the probability that parts of a sentence fromthe source language translate into suitable parts of sen-tence in the target language.The system takes advantage of the vast parallel re-sources which Google Inc. has at their disposal andit is therefore able to translate a large number of lan-guage pairs.
Currently (July 2014), this system offersautomatic translation among 80 languages.
This makesit a natural candidate as a universal quality standard forMT, especially for pairs of smaller (underrepresented)languages for which there are very few MT systems.3.2?Ces?
?lkoOne of the first systems which fully relied on the simi-larity of related languages,?Ces?
?lko (Haji?c et al., 2003),had originally a very simple architecture.
Its first im-plementation translated from Czech to Slovak.
It usedthe method of direct word-for-word translation (afternecessary morphological processing).
More precisely,it translated each lemma obtained by morphologicalanalysis and morphological tag provided by a tagger toa lemma and a corresponding tag in the target language.For the translation of lemmas it was necessary to use abilingual dictionary, the differences in morphology ofboth languages, although to a large extent regular, didnot allow to use a simple transliteration.
The translation2Test data: http://jt.upr.si/research_projects/related_languages/of lemmas was necessary due to differences in tagsetsof the source and target language.The syntactic similarity of both languages allowedthe omission of syntactic analysis of the source lan-guage and syntactic synthesis of the target one, there-fore the dictionary phase of the system had been im-mediately followed by morphological synthesis of thetarget language.
No changes of the word order werenecessary, the target language order of words preservedthe word order of the source language.Later versions of the system experimented withthe architecture change involving the omission of thesource language tagger and the addition of a stochas-tic ranker of translation hypothesis at the target lan-guage side.
The purpose of this experiment was toeliminate tagging errors at the beginning of the transla-tion process and to enable more variants of translationfrom which the stochastic ranker chose the most prob-able hypothesis.
This change has been described forexample in (Homola and Kubo?n, 2008).
For the pur-pose of our experiment we are using the original ver-sion of the system which has undergone some minorimprovements (better tagger, improved dictionary etc.
)and which is publicly available for testing at the web-site of the LINDAT project3.
The decision to use thisversion is natural, given the fact that this is the onlypublicly available version of the system.4 MethodologyIn the planning phase of our experiment it was neces-sary to make a couple of decisions which could causecertain bias and invalidate the results obtained.
Firstof all, the choice of the language pair (Czech to Slo-vak) was quite natural.
These languages show veryhigh degree of similarity at all levels (morphological,syntactic, semantic) and thus they constitute an ideallanguage pair for the development of simplified rule-based architecture.
We are of course aware that for acomplete answer to this question it would be necessaryto test more systems and more language pairs, but inthis phase of our experiments we do not aim at obtain-ing a complete answer, our main goal is to develop amethodology and to perform some kind of pilot testingshowing the possible directions of future research.The second important decision concerned themethod of evaluation.
Our primary goal was to set up amethod which would be relatively simple and fast, thusallowing to manually (the reasons for manual evalua-tion are given in 4.2.1 subsection) process reasonablevolume of results.
The second goal concerned the en-deavor to estimate evaluator?s confidence in their judg-ments.4.1 Basic properties of the language pairThe language pair used in our experiment belongs towestern Slavic language group.
We must admit that3?Ces?
?lko: http://lindat.mff.cuni.cz/services/cesilko/93the reason for choosing this language group was purelypragmatic ?
there is an extensive previous experiencewith the translation of several language pairs from thisgroup, see, e.g.
(Haji?c et al., 2003), (Homola andKubo?n, 2008) or (Homola and Vi?ci?c, 2010).
On topof that, the availability of the?Ces?
?lko demo in the LIN-DAT repository for the free translation of up to 5000characters naturally led to the decision to use this sys-tem (although it is in fact the original version of thesystem with very simple architecture).Czech and Slovak represent the closest language pairamong the western Slavic languages.
Their morphol-ogy and syntax are very similar, their lexicons slightlydiffer, their word order is free (and also similar).
Inthe former Czechoslovakia it was quite common thatpeople understood both languages very well, but afterthe split of the country the younger people who don?thave regular contact with the other language experiencecertain difficulties because the number of the words un-known to them is not negligible.However, the greatest challenge for the word-for-word translation approach is not the lexicon (the dif-ferences in the lexicon can be handled by a bilingualdictionary), but the ambiguity of word forms.
Theseare typically not part-of-speech ambiguities, they arequite rare although they do exist (st?at [to stay/the state],?zena [woman/chasing] or t?ri [three/rub(imper.
)]), how-ever, the greatest challenge is the ambiguity of gender,number and case (for example, the form of the adjec-tive jarn??
[spring] is 27-way ambiguous).
Resolvingthis ambiguity is very important for translation becauseCzech has very strict requirements on agreement (notonly subject - predicate agreement, but also agreementin number, gender and case in nominal groups).
Eventhough several Slavic languages including Slovak ex-hibit similar richness of word forms, the morphologicalambiguity is not preserved at all or it is preserved onlypartially, it is distributed in a different manner and the?form-for-form?
translation is not applicable.For example, if we want to translate the Czech ex-pression jarn??
louka [a spring meadow] into Slovakword for word, it is necessary to disambiguate the ad-jective which has the same form in Czech for all fourgenders (in Czech, there are two masculine genders -animate and inanimate) while in Slovak, there are threedifferent forms for masculin, feminin and neutral gen-der - jarn?y, jarn?a, jarn?e.
The disambiguation is per-formed by a state-of-the art stochastic tagger.
Althoughthis brings a stochastic factor into the system, we stillconsider?Ces?
?lko to be primarily rule based system.4.2 Experiment outlineThe aim of the experiment was double: to show thequality of the simple RBMT methods (shallow-parseand shallow transfer RBMT) in comparison to the state-of-the-art SMT system.
The second part of the exper-iment was to outline the most obvious and most chal-lenging errors produced by each translation paradigm.4.2.1 Translation quality evaluationThis part of the experiment relied on the methodologysimilar to that used in the 2013 Workshop on Statisti-cal Machine Translation (Bojar et al., 2013).
We con-ducted manual evaluation of both systems?
outputs con-sisting of ranking individual translated sentences ac-cording to the translation quality (the evaluators hadaccess to the original sentence).
Unlike the ranking ofthe SMT Workshop which worked always with 5 trans-lations, our task was much simpler and the ranking nat-urally consisted of ranking translated sentences of bothsystems.
The evaluator indicated which of the two sys-tems is better, having also the chance to indicate thatboth translations are identical, because the systems pro-duced relatively large number of identical results - seesection 5).The reason why we didn?t automatic measures oftranslation quality was quite natural.
After a periodof wide acceptance of automatic measures like BLEU(Papineni et al., 2001) or NIST (NIST, 2009), re-cent MT evaluation experiments seem to prefer man-ual methods.
Many papers such as Callison-Burch etal.
(2006) and authors of workshops such as WMT2013 (Bojar et al., 2013) contend that automatic mea-sures of machine translation quality are an imperfectsubstitute for human assessments, especially when it isnecessary to compare different systems (or, even worse,the systems based on different paradigms).4.2.2 Test dataOur evaluation is based upon a small, yet relevant, testcorpus.
Because one of the systems undergoing theevaluation has been developed by Google, the creationof the test set required special attention.
We could notuse any already existing on-line corpus as Google reg-ularly enhances language models with new languagedata.
Any on-line available corpus could have alreadybeen included in the training data of Google Translate,thus the results of the evaluation would have been bi-ased towards the SMT system.
Therefore we have de-cided to use fresh newspaper texts which cannot be partof any training data set used by Google.We have selected 200 sentences from fresh newspa-per articles of the biggest Czech on-line daily news-papers.
Several headline news were selected in orderto avoid author bias although the the domain remaineddaily news.
We have selected articles from ?iDnes?4,?Lidovky?5and ?Novinky?6.
The test set was createdfrom randomly selected articles on the dates between14.7.2014 and 18.7.2014.All the test-data is publicly available at the languagetechnologies server of the University of Primorska2.This part of the experiment consisted in manually ex-amining the translated data from the translation qualityevaluation task (described in section 4.2.1).
As we have4iDnes: http://www.idnes.cz/5Lidovky: http://www.lidovky.cz/6Novinky: http://www.novinky.cz/94expected, the most common errors of?Ces?
?lko were outof the vocabulary errors.
The dictionary coverage ofthe system has apparently been inadequate for a widevariety of topics from daily news.
The results are pre-sented in section 5.1.5 ResultsThe results of our experiment are summarized in Ta-ble 1.
The evaluation has been performed by 5 na-tive speakers of Slovak, the sentences have been ran-domized so that no evaluator could know which of thetwo systems produced which translation.
The evalua-tors were asked to mark which translation they considerto be better.
Ties were not allowed, but the evaluatorswere also asked to mark identical sentences.
This re-quirement served also as a kind of thoroughness check,too many unrecognized identical sentences could in-dicate that the evaluator lost concentration during thetask.Sent.
count PercentageIdentical sentences 43 21.5%Clear win of RBMT 10 5%Clear win of SMT 59 29.5%Win by voting - RBMT 23 11.5%Win by voting - SMT 62 31%Draw 3 1.5%Total 200 100%Table 1: Evaluation of resultsThe rows of Table 1 marked as Clear win of one ofthe systems represent the sentences where none of theevaluators marked the other system as the better one.Win by voting does not distinguish how many evalua-tors were against the system marked by the majority asbeing the better of the two.
The 3 sentences in the Drawrow represent the cases when 1 or 3 evaluators mistak-enly marked the pair of translations as being identicaland there was no majority among the remaining ones.The results clearly indicate that the quality of GoogleTranslate is better, although it clearly dominates in lessthan one third of translations.
The large number ofidentical sentences also means that although?Ces?
?lkoproduced only 5% of translations which were clearlybetter than those of Google, it reached absolutely iden-tical quality of translation in yet another 21.5%.
Thisactually means that the top quality translations havebeen achieved in 26.5% by?Ces?
?lko and in 51% byGoogle Translate.
According to our opinion, this ra-tio (approximately 2:1 in favor of the SMT approach)more realistically describes the difference in qualitythan the ratio of clear wins (approx.
6:1 for GoogleTranslate).5.1 ErrorsThis section presents the most obvious errors detectedin the evaluation of both systems.First of all, before we?ll look at individual typesof errors of both systems, it is necessary to men-tion one very surprising fact concerning the transla-tions.
Although we have expected substantial differ-ences between the corresponding sentences, the trans-lations produced by both systems are surprisingly sim-ilar, 21.5% of them being absolutely identical.
On topof that, when we have compared the first 100 translatedsentences, we have discovered that the edit distance be-tween the two sets is only 493 elementary operations.Given that the translations produced by Google Trans-late contain 9.653 characters in the first 100 sentencesof the test set, this actually represents only about 5%difference.This looks much more like the results of two variantsof the same system than the results of two different sys-tems based upon two completely different paradigms.Because no details about the Google translate for thislanguage pair have been published, it is impossible tojudge the reasons for such a similarity.
The followingexample demonstrates this similarity, it represents quitetypical example of a long sentence with very few differ-ences between both translations.
Errors in translationsare stressed by a bold font.Example 1.Source: ?V moment?e, kdy by t?reba Praha cht?elap?rev?est syst?em na Plze?nskou kartu ?ci kartu?Cesk?ychdrah, musela by poru?sit autorsk?y z?akon, proto?ze jedin?eautor m?u?ze se softwarem nakl?adat,?
vysv?etluje mluv?c?
?EMS.Google: ?V momente, kedy by potrebn?e Praha chcelaprevies?t syst?em na Plze?nsk?u kartu ?ci kartu?Cesk?ychdr?ah, musela by poru?si?t autorsk?y z?akon, preto?ze jedineautor m?o?ze so softv?erom zaobch?adza?t,?
vysvet?lujehovorca EMS.?Ces?
?lko: ?V momente, kedy by napr?
?klad Praha chcelaprevies?t syst?em na Plzensk?u karta ?ci karta?Cesk?ydr?ah, musela by poru?si?t autorsk?y z?akon, preto?zejedin?e autor m?o?ze so softwarom naklada?t,?
vysvet?lujehovorca EMS.English translation: ?In the moment when Praguewould like for example to transfer the system to Pilsencard or the Czech railways card, it would have toviolate the copyright law, because the author is theonly person which can modify the software,?
explainsthe speaker of the EMS.Even more suspicious are translated sentences whichare identical, incorrect and both contain the same error.If something like that happens in a school, the teacherhas all reasons to think that one of the two pupils ischeating and that he copied from his neighbor.
Thesystems had no chance to cheat, what makes identicalresults as in the following example very weird.
It wouldbe very interesting to perform more detailed tests in thefuture and to investigate the reasons for such behaviorof two completely different systems.
The straightfor-ward explanation that both languages are so similar that95these identical errors simply happen, seems to be toosimplistic.
Example 2 clearly shows that both systemsmisinterpreted the Czech adjective pr?avn??
(legal) in thecontext which allowed reading the first three words ofthe source sentence as ?It is legal?
without the regardto the context of the rest of the sentence.Example 2.Source: Je to pr?avn?
?, ale i technologick?y probl?em.Both systems: Je to pr?avne, ale aj technologick?yprobl?em.English: It is a legal, but also a technological problem.Let us now look at individual categories of errors.Lexical errorsThe most frequent lexical errors are untranslatedwords.
This happens solely in the translationsperformed by the RBMT system?Ces?
?lko due toinadequate coverage of the wide domain of newspaperarticles.
Some of the cases of untranslated wordsmay have escaped the evaluator?s attention simplybecause?Ces?
?lko leaves out-of-the-vocabulary wordsunchanged.
Because Czech and Slovak are really veryclose also at the lexical level, some of the word formsused in both languages are identical, and thus they fitinto the target sentence.
Increasing the coverage of thebilingual dictionary (it currently contains about 40,000lemmas) would definitely improve the translationquality.Another lexical error produced entirely by theRBMT system is a wrong translation of some irregularwords, as in the following example.Example 3.Source: Mnoz??
lid?e si t?em?e?r neum?ej??
p?redstavit, ?zeby zapomn?eli sv?uj rodn?y jazyk.Google: Mnoh??
?ludia si takmer nevedia predstavi?t, ?zeby zabudli svoj rodn?y jazyk.?Ces?
?lko: Mnoh??
?clovek si takmer nevedia p?redstavit,?ze by zabudli svoj rodn?y jazyk.English translation: Many people cannot imagine thatthey could forget their native language.The plural of ?clov?ek [human] is irregular in Czech(lid?e [people]).
Although this error looks like a lexicalerror, it is more likely caused by the conceptualdifferences between the morphological analysis ofCzech (which recognizes the form as a plural of thelemma ?clov?ek) and the synthesis of Slovak which usestwo lemmas instead of one, one for singular (?clovek)and one for plural (?ludia).
The Czech plural word formis then never correctly translated to the Slovak pluralform.Much more serious errors are mistranslated wordsproduced by Google Translate.
Such errors are quitetypical for phrase-based SMT systems.
Let us presentan example which appeared a couple of times in ourtest corpus.Example 4.Source:?Cesk?a ve?rejnost si na omezen??
zvykla av?et?sinou je respektuje.Google: Slovensk?a verejnos?t si na obmedzenie zvyklaa v?a?c?sinou je re?spektuje.?Ces?
?lko:?Cesk?y verejnos?t si na obmedzenie zvykla av?a?c?sinou ich re?spektuje.English translation: Czech public got used to the limitsand mostly accepts them.The incorrect translation of the adjective?Cesk?a[Czech] as Slovensk?a [Slovak] has most probablybeen caused by the language model based upon targetlanguage text where the occurrences of the adjectiveSlovak probably vastly outnumber the occurrencesof the word Czech.
The same incorrect translationsappeared also in different contexts in other sentencesof the test corpus.Morphological errorsBoth languages are very similar also with regard tothe number of inflected word forms derived from onelemma.
This property seems to cause certain problemsto both systems, as we can see in the Example 5, whereboth systems use an incorrect (but different) form ofthe same adjective.
It is interesting that in this specificcase the correct translation actually means no transla-tion at all because the correct Czech and Slovak formsare identical in this context.Example 5.Source: V b?reznu malajsijsk?e aerolinky p?ri?sly oBoeing 777 s 239 lidmi na palub?e, kter?y se ztratil zleteck?ych radar?u cestou z Kuala Lumpuru do Pekingu.Google: V marci malajzijsk?eho aerolinky pri?sli oBoeing 777 s 239?lu?dmi na palube, ktor?y sa stratil zleteck?ych radarov cestou z Kuala Lumpur do Pekingu.?Ces?
?lko: V marci malajsijsk?y aerolinky pri?sli o Boeing777 s 239 ?clovek na palube, ktor?y sa stratil z leteck?ychradarov cestou z Kuala Lumpuru do Pekingu.English translation: In March, Malaysian Airlines lostBoeing 777 with 239 people on board, which got lostfrom air radars on the way from Kuala Lumpur to Bei-jing.Although the morphological errors have a negativeinfluence on automatic measures like BLEU or NIST(incorrect form of a correct word influences the scoreto the same extent as completely incorrect word), theyusually do not change the meaning of the translatedsentence and the speakers of the target language caneasily reconstruct their correct form and understandthe translation.
From this point of view both systemsperform very well because the relatively low numberof incorrect word forms produced by both systemsdoesn?t reach the threshold when the sentence as awhole would be unintelligible.Word orderBoth systems follow very strictly the order of words96of source sentences.
This is not surprising in the caseof the RBMT system, because its simple architectureis exploiting the fact that the word order of both lan-guages is extremely similar.
As we have already men-tioned in the section 3,?Ces?
?lko translates word byword.
The strict correspondence of the word order ofsource and target sentences is a bit more surprising inthe case of the SMT system, whose language model isprobably based on a large volume of texts with a widevariety of word order variants.
Czech and Slovak lan-guages both have very few restrictions on the order ofwords and thus we have supposed that the translatedsentences might have an altered word order comparedto the source sentences.
The only difference in the or-der of words appeared in the sentence presented below,where the RBMT system followed the original word or-der strictly, while the SMT system made changes (ac-ceptable ones) to the order of clitics.Example 6.Source: A?ckoli vy?set?rovatel?e u?z jsou si jisti, ?ze strojse odklonil ze sv?e trasy a z?r?
?til se pravd?epodobn?e podlouh?em letu nad Indick?ym oce?anem, nev?ed??
dodnes,co bylo p?r??
?cinou nehody a nena?sli ani trosky stroje.Google: Hoci vy?setrovatelia s ?u si u?z ist?
?, ?ze stroj saodklonil zo svojej trasy a zr?util sa pravdepodobne podlhom lete nad Indick?ym oce?anom, nevedia dodnes, ?cobolo pr??
?cinou nehody a nena?sli ani trosky stroja.?Ces?
?lko: B?ars vy?setrovatelia u?z s?u si ist?
?, ?ze stroj saodklonil zo svojej trasy a zr?util sa pravdepodobne podlhom lete nad Indick?ym oce?anom, nevedia dodnes, ?cobolo pr??
?cinou nehody a nena?sli ani trosky stroja.English translation: Although the investigators are nowsure that the plane swerved from its path and fell downprobably after a long flight over the Indian ocean, theydidn?t find out till today what was the cause of theaccident and they even didn?t find any remains of theplane.Syntactic errorsThere are no errors which could be classified as purelyviolating the syntax of the target language.
The useof an incorrect form of direct or indirect object can beattributed to the category of morphological errors, be-cause neither of the two systems deals with syntax di-rectly.
The RBMT system ignores syntax on the basisof the fact that both languages are syntactically verysimilar; the SMT system probably primarily relies onphrases discovered in large volumes of training dataand thus it takes the syntactic rules into account onlyindirectly.Errors in meaningThere were very few errors in incorrectly translatedmeaning of the source sentence into the target one.Although some SMT systems are infamous for issuesrelated to the preservation of negated expressions, theonly two examples of such errors were produced by theRBMT system in our tests.
The sentence which wasaffected by this error to a greater extent is listed below.No other errors in the translation of the original mean-ing have been encountered in our tests.Source: Veden??
?skoly odpov?
?d?a na n?ekter?e ofici?aln?
?dotazy rodi?c?u a?z po opakovan?e urgenci a chov?an??
?reditelky Kozohorsk?e je podle slov rodi?c?u alibistick?e,nevst?r?
?cn?e a nez?r?
?dka arogantn?
?.Google: Vedenie ?skoly odpoved?a na niektor?e ofici?alneot?azky rodi?cov a?z po opakovanej urgencii a spr?avanieriadite?lky Kozohorsk?y je pod?la slov rodi?cov alibistick?e,nevst?r?
?cn?e a nezriedka arogantn?y.?Ces?
?lko: Vedenie ?skoly odpoved?a na niektor?ychofici?alne ot?azky rodi?cov a?z po opakovanej urgencii achovan??
?reditelka Kozohorsk?y je pod?la slov rodi?covalibistick?e, vst?r?
?cn?y a zriedka arogantn?
?.English translation: The school management answerssome official questions of parents after repeatedreminders and the behavior of director Kozohorsk?a is,in the words of parents, buck-passing, unresponsiveand often arrogant.The sentence produced by?Ces?
?lko has lost two nega-tions making the behavior of the director responsiveand seldom arrogant.
This is probably caused by thefact that both the positive and negative forms have thesame lemma - the negation constitutes only a small partof the morphological tag7and thus it may easily be for-gotten or lost in the process of transfer of a Czech taginto a Slovak one (a different system of tags is used forSlovak).6 Conclusions and further workAlthough our experiment represents only the first stepin systematic evaluation of machine translation re-sults between closely related languages, it has alreadybrought very interesting results.
It has shown that con-trary to a popular belief that RBMT methods are moresuitable for MT of closely related languages, GoogleTranslate outperforms the RBMT system?Ces??lko.
Thesimilarity of source and target language apparently notonly allows much simpler architecture of the RBMTsystem, it also improves the chances of SMT systemsto generate good quality translation, although this re-sults need further examination.The most surprising result of our experiment is thehigh number of identical translations produced by bothsystems not only for short simple sentences, but alsofor some of the long ones, as well as very similar resultsproduced for the rest of the test corpus.
The minimaldifferences between two systems exploiting differentparadigms deserve further experiments.
These exper-iments will involve a phrase-based SMT system basedon Moses (in this way we are going to guarantee thatwe are really comparing two different paradigms) andwe will investigate its behavior on the same languagepair.
A second interesting experimental direction will7?Ces?
?lko exploits a positional system of morphologicaltags with 15 fixed positions, the negation marker occupiesonly one of these positions.97be the investigation whether the results for another pairof languages related not so closely as Czech and Slovakwould confirm the results obtained in this experiment.ReferencesLars Ahrenberg and Maria Holmqvist.
2004.
Back tothe Future?
The Case for English-Swedish DirectMachine Translation.
In Proceedings of The Confer-ence on Recent Advances in Scandinavian MachineTranslation.
University of Uppsala.Kemal Altintas and Ilyas Cicekli.
2002.
A MachineTranslation System between a Pair of Closely Re-lated Languages.
In Proceedings of the 17th Inter-national Symposium on Computer and InformationSciences (ISCIS 2002), page 5.
CRC Press.Eckhard Bick and Lars Nygaard.
2007.
Using Danishas a CG Interlingua: A Wide-Coverage Norwegian-English Machine Translation System.
In Proceed-ings of NODALIDA, Tartu.
University of Tartu.Ond?rej Bojar, Christian Buck, Chris Callison-Burch,Christian Federmann, Barry Haddow, PhilippKoehn, Christof Monz, Matt Post, Radu Soricut, andLucia Specia.
2013.
Findings of the 2013 Work-shop on Statistical Machine Translation.
In 2013Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages1?44.Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne, and PhilippKoehn.
2006.
Re-evaluating the role of BLEUin machine translation research.
In Proceedings ofEACL, pages 249?256.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Antonio M Corbi-Bellot, Mikel L Forcada, and Ser-gio Ortiz-Rojas.
2005.
An open-source shallow-transfer machine translation engine for the Romancelanguages of Spain.
In Proceedings of the EAMTconference, pages 79?86.
HITEC e.V.Helge Dyvik.
1995.
Exploiting Structural Similaritiesin Machine Translation.
Computers and Humani-ties, 28:225?245.Jan Haji?c, Jan Hric, and Vladislav Kubo?n.
2000.Machine translation of very close languages.
InProceedings of the 6th Applied Natural LanguageProcessing Conference, pages 7?12.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Jan Haji?c, Petr Homola, and Vladislav Kubo?n.
2003.A simple multilingual machine translation system.In Eduard Hovy and Elliott Macklovitch, editors,Proceedings of the MT Summit IX, pages 157?164,New Orleans, USA.
AMTA.Petr Homola and Vladislav Kubo?n.
2008.
A method ofhybrid MT for related languages.
In Proceedings ofthe IIS, pages 269?278.
Academic Publishing HouseEXIT.Petr Homola and Jernej Vi?ci?c.
2010.
Com-bining MT Systems Effectively.
In Proceed-ings of the 23th International Florida-Artificial-Intelligence-Research-Society Conference (FLAIRS2010), pages 198?203, Daytona Beach, Florida,USA.
Florida {AI} Research Society, Florida AI Re-search Society.David Kolovratn?k, Natalia Klyueva, and Ondrej Bo-jar.
2009.
Statistical machine translation betweenrelated and unrelated languages.
In Proceedings ofthe Conference on Theory and Practice on Informa-tion Technologies, pages 31?36.NIST.
2009.
NIST 2009 Open Machine TranslationEvaluation (MT09).
Technical report, NIST.Karel Oliva.
1989.
A Parser for Czech Implemented inSystems Q. MFF UK Prague.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2001.
BLEU: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
Technical report,IBM.Kevin P Scannell.
2006.
Machine translation forclosely related language pairs.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop Strategies for developing machinetranslation for minority languages, pages 103?109.Genoa, Italy.Francis M Tyers, Linda Wiechetek, and TrondTrosterud.
2009.
Developing prototypes for ma-chine translation between two S?ami languages.
InProceedings of EAMT.
HITEC e.V.Jernej Vi?ci?c.
2008.
Rapid development of datafor shallow transfer RBMT translation systems forhighly inflective languages.
In Language technolo-gies: proceedings of the conference, pages 98?103.Institut Jo?zef Stefan, Ljubljana.Per Weijnitz, Eva Forsbom, Ebba Gustavii, Eva Petters-son, and Jorg Tiedemann.
2004.
MT goes farming:Comparing two machine translation approaches on anew domain.
In LREC, pages 1?4.98
