Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Speech and Language Processing for Assistive Technologies (SLPAT), pages 1?8,Baltimore, Maryland USA, August 26 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsStanding on the shoulders of giants: attacking the meta-problems oftechnical AAC researchJoseph Reddingtonjoe@joereddington.comAbstractAugmentative Alternative Communica-tion (AAC) policy suffers from a lack oflarge scale quantitative evidence on the de-mographics of users and diversity of de-vices.The 2013 Domesday Dataset was createdto aid formation of AAC policy at thenational level.
The dataset records pur-chases of AAC technology by the UK?sNational Health Service between 2006 and2012; giving information for each item on:make, model, price, year of purchase, andgeographic area of purchase.
The datasetwas designed to help answer open ques-tions about the provision of AAC servicesin the UK; and the level of detail of thedataset is such that it can be used at theresearch level to provide context for re-searchers and to help validate (or not) as-sumptions about everyday AAC use.This paper examine three different waysof using the Domesday Dataset to pro-vide verified evidence to support, or refute,assumptions, uncover important researchproblems, and to properly map the tech-nological distinctiveness of a user commu-nity.1 IntroductionTechnical researchers in the AAC community arerequired to make certain assumptions about thestate of the community when choosing researchprojects that are calculated to make the most ef-fective use of research resources for the greatestpossible benefit.A particular issue is estimating how easily tech-nical research can achieve wide scale adoption orcommercial impact.
For example, (Szekely et al.,2012) uses a webcam and facial analysis to al-low a user to control expressive features of theirsynthetic speech by means of facial expressions.Such work is clearly useful, but it is difficult to as-sess its potential commercial impact without alsoknowing what proportion of currently availableAAC devices include webcams and how that pro-portion is changing over time.
Similarly, corpusbased approaches such as (Mitchell and Sproat,2012) could potentially be brought to market veryquickly, but that potential can only be assessedif we also have some awareness of the range andpopularity of AAC devices that either have spacefor such a corpus or the internet capability to ac-cess one.
Unfortunately, even though there are arange of AAC focused meta-studies in the litera-ture (see, for example, (Pennington et al., 2003;Pennington et al., 2004; Hanson et al., 2004; Al-well and Cobb, 2009)) they give little informationon the technical landscape of AAC.This paper examines three issues of interest totechnical researchers in AAC, each from a differ-ent stage in the research lifecycle.
It then showshow the Domesday Dataset (Reddington, 2013)can provide evidence to support, or refute, as-sumptions, uncover important research problems,and map the technological distinctiveness of a usercommunity.This paper is structured as follows, Section 2 in-troduces the Domesday Dataset and discusses thecontext it is used in in this work.
Section 3 exam-ines the issue that little is known about the preva-lence of equipment within the AAC user commu-nity, and because of this lack of information it isdifficult to establish baselines, or contexts.
We1show how the Domesday Dataset can allow re-searchers to ground their assumptions in empiricaldata.Section 4 examines a cultural shift in AAC tech-nology.
The arrival of the iPad and other tablets inthe field has caused a great deal of change and itis unclear what the long term implications will be.We believe it is important to provide hard data onthe direct economic changes that have occurred inthe marketplace.
The Domesday Dataset allowsus to examine the number of physical devices pur-chased before and after the tablet explosion.Section 5 examines the issue of transferability.It is assumed by many AAC professionals that theability for AAC users to transfer page sets betweendifferent devices is a significant issue for AACusers.
This section first shows how we can de-rive some context information from the DomesdayDataset and goes on to discuss the sociotechnicalcontext of the problem space.2 The Domesday DatasetIn 2013 the Domesday Dataset was created to aidformation of AAC policy at the national level.
Thedataset records purchases of AAC technology bythe UK?s National Health Service between 2006and 2012; giving information on make, model,price, year of purchase, and geographic area ofpurchase for each item.
It was formed by sub-mitting freedom of information requests to everyNHS (National Health Service) trust asking for de-tails of all AAC devices provided since 2006.
Therequests required the year of purchase, make, andmanufacture of each device.
The full details of theconstruction are reported in (Reddington, 2013).At the time of writing, the Domesday Datasetcontained details of 9,157 purchases from NHSTrusts.
(Reddington, 2013) estimates that thetrusts that have responded cover approximately90% of the UK population.
All versions of thedataset are held online and licensed under an OpenData Commons Attribution License.
The datasetmeets the requirements for three star linked opendata according to (Berners-Lee, 2010).
A sampleof information appearing in the Domesday Datasetis given in Table 1.
The dataset was not only in-tended to shape UK policy and research, but alsoas a snapshot for international researchers: allow-ing comparison of manufacturers, types of aids,budgets, and prevalence within a tight geograph-ical domain.There are, of course, caveats to consider beforeusing the Domesday Dataset.
Firstly, for privacyreasons, it is presented with no connection to anyother element of AAC provision: it is impossibleto match equipment with a particular user.Secondly, the NHS does not have the completeinformation: information from AAC manufactur-ers shows that only 44% of sales and 38% ofthe spend were by the NHS.
Even with completedata from the public bodies, researchers would beforced to extrapolate the information, perhaps con-firming the trends by means of another researchmethodology.
This work makes the assumptionthat the relative frequency of AAC purchases andtrends in the UK are reflected in the dataset.
Weare careful not to over-analyse this information,but we do note that having a complete list ofNHS purchases, even if they only cover 44% ofa county?s purchases, is vastly more detailed thanany previous record of AAC provision.
Potentialproblems with the dataset underrepresenting tabletsales are discussed in Section 4.3 Research GranularityLittle is known about the prevalence of equipmentwithin the AAC user community, and because ofthis lack of information it is difficult to establishbaselines, or contexts.
Perhaps worse, when re-searchers propose solutions, they must also makea range of assumptions about the applicability oftheir work to the wider AAC audience.
We can,for example, imagine an innovative new modelfor AAC not being successful because it requiresa consistent internet connection from the device,which perhaps only 5% of users have.
The ma-jority of AAC research is devoted to building upa library of case studies to show the benefits ofAAC for user groups.
This focus on social is-sues in AAC research is laudable, and vital forthe overall area; however, researchers working inthe assistive technology field would be more ef-fective if they could answer direct questions aboutneed, capability and technology.
For example, aresearcher who must choose between supporting aproject that reduces errors in word-prediction us-ing eye-gaze by 20%, or a project that makes Step-By-Step devices more responsive and intuitive touse for children, faces a difficult choice withoutevidence.
If the researcher could check that in aparticular geographic area there were 45 eye-gazesystems and nearly 600 Step-by-Steps, then that2Purchase year Manufacturer Model Num.
Unit Price Total Price2006 Liberator E-Tran Frame 1 ?120.00 ?120.002006 Servox Digital Electronic Larynx 2 ?520.00 ?1,040.002006 Ablenet Armstrong Mount 1 ?190.00 ?190.002006 Ablenet Big Mack 6 ?84.00 ?504.002007 Inclusive Switchit ?Bob the Builder?
1 ?49.00 ?49.002007 Cricksoft Crick USB Switch Box 2 ?99.00 ?198.002007 Sensory Software Joycable2 1 ?49.00 ?49.002007 Dynavox Boardmaker 1 ?209.00 ?209.002007 ELO LCD Touch Monitor 1 ?419.00 ?419.002008 Ablenet iTalk2 Communication Aid 2 ?95.00 ?190.002008 Attainment Company Inc Go Talk(unknown type) 4 ?130.00 ?520.002008 Aug. Communication Inc. Talking Photo Album 2 ?18.91 ?37.82Table 1: Extract from the Domesday Dataset, taken from (Reddington, 2013) (Geograpic informationheld seperately)might influence the decision1 (at a higher level thisis, of course, the calculation that one expects fund-ing bodies to make when awarding the grants thatallow projects to even begin).
Having quantita-tive manufacturing data also supports much moregeneral estimations of research impact, as wellas helping research groups evaluate possible com-mercial partners.Even within the United States, which is the ma-jor market for manufacturers, and the most ac-tive area for AAC research, the complexities of itshealthcare system, differing state legislation, anddisability culture make estimation difficult.
Eventhe strong efforts that have been made (Matas etal., 1985; Bloomberg and Johnson, 1990; Bingerand Light, 2006; Huer, 1991) give estimations ofneed and use, but none that can be expected to givethe granularity that technologists need for their in-vestigation, or even to frame research questions.3.1 What Domesday tells usTo illustrate the use of the Domesday Dataset fortechnical researchers, we give some simple resultsregarding the popularity of various types of AACdevice.
Table 2 shows the list of most common?high tech?
AAC purchases by the NHS in Scot-land, ordered by the number of units purchased be-tween 2006 and 2012.
Table 3 gives the same tablefor purchases in England.
Both tables are based ona relatively open definition of ?high tech?
AAC:these lists include only devices that can produce arange of different utterances, and allow those ut-1In either direction of course, depending on the weightinggiven to a variety of other factors.Rank Model Units1 Lightwriter (SL35/SL40) 372 GoTalk (all types) 343 iPads and iPods 154 Springboard Lite 125 Vantage Lite 66 SuperTalker 67 Dynamo 68 V Max 59 Tech/Speak 32 x 6 410 Liberator 14 411 C12 + CEYE 4Table 2: The 11 most common ?high tech?
speechaids purchased by the NHS in Scotland 2005-2011terances to be selected by icon, or keyboard.
Asa result they do not include such devices as, forexample: Big Macks; Digital Electronic Larynxs;Jelly Bean Twists; Step?by-Steps; MegaBees andmany others, which are included in the DomesdayDataset.
As discussed in Section 2 we do not ad-vise the direct quoting of these figures without firstbeing familiar with the caveats discussed in (Red-dington, 2013).
The figures should be consideredcomparative only.Some of the more counter-intuitive results fromTables 2 and 3 include the general absence (withthe notable exception of the iPad/iPod) of touchscreen devices.
Indeed, both the Lightwriter andthe GoTalk range comfortably sell more than twiceas many units as their nearest touchscreen rival.A more sobering result to consider for re-searchers in technical AAC is the popularity of3Rank Model Units1 Lightwriter (SL35/SL40) 772 GoTalk (all types) 743 iPad/iPod/iPhone 294 Springboard Lite 275 V Max 116 Dynamo 107 SuperTalker 78 Vantage Lite 69 Tech/Speak 32 x 6 610 Chatbox 511 C12 + CEYE 4Table 3: The 11 most common ?high tech?
speechaids purchased by the NHS in England 2005-2011devices that are less obvious targets for cus-tomisation and improvement.
The GoTalk andTech/Speak ranges are solid favourites for a par-ticular section of the market and part of their ap-peal is that they are relatively ?non-technical?2 andare much easier for users and staff to get to gripswith: this appeal is somewhat in tension with ad-vanced features like automatic generation of con-tent and voice banking.
It is entirely possible thattechnical research would have more impact if itfocuses on making high-capability devices moreacceptable to existing users rather than increasingthe already impressive capability of existing de-vices.Another aspect of interest is the speed at whichthe AAC market changes with respect to the ex-isting landscape.
The Dynavox Dynamo, for ex-ample, is a popular device in both tables, but ithas been discontinued for some time.
Section 5explores some of the issues that this situation canraise.
Finally we consider that there are some sys-tems that we would have expected to appear inthese lists that are absent: for example, Dynavox?sXpress and Maestro or Tobii?s MyTobii, and Lib-erator?s Nova.
Speculating on why some productsbecome more popular is beyond the scope of thiswork; however, we do consider it an area for futureinterest.This section has shown that examining theDomesday Dataset at even the most basic levelidentifies a range of factors that can help contex-tualise the technical landscape for researchers inAAC.
To return to the examples given in the in-2For example, neither device has a LCD screen, insteadthey have buttons with printed iconstroduction, we can see how it would be simplefor (Szekely et al., 2012) to use the iPod and iPad?sposition in the marketplace as evidence for the po-tential of their work and we can see how corpusbased approaches such as (Mitchell and Sproat,2012) can use the range of AAC devices with in-ternet connections to inform the design process.We note that as the data covers a five year periodit is possible to examine ?fashions?
as purchasesrise and fall and even map the gradual spread geo-graphically.4 Tablets and other animalsThis section examines the extent to which the in-troduction of tablet-based AAC has altered theuser community at the technical level and dis-cusses how this data can be used by technical re-searchers.Since 2010, when Apple released the iPad, therehave been major upheavals in the AAC market,caused by the explosion in tablet computing.
Froman engineering perspective, the iPad only suf-fers in comparison to existing devices in termsof ruggedness; however, at potentially one quarterthe price3, it is comparatively replaceable.
From asoftware perspective the iPad gives many ?cottageindustry?
developers for AAC a low cost way toenter the market.
Such developers already includeAlexicom, TapToTalk, AssistiveWare, and over100 others.
Such developers are well placed totake advantage of the platform?s underlying hard-ware.Apples?s position as a top-tier technology gi-ant, along with the iPad?s position as the dominanttablet platform can be seen as a serious changeto the AAC industry as a whole.
However, formany working within the AAC community, it isunclear what the long term implications will be.Apple represents the most successful of a largegroup of companies such as Samsung, HP, and (viathe Android operating system, and the purchaseof Motorola) Google (Weber, 2011) that have in-vested heavily in tablet technology.
It is conceiv-able that one or more manufacturers will developa ?ruggedised?
tablet for military or medical use.Such a tablet, particularly if using the Android op-erating system, which has a large group of dedi-cated AAC developers (Higginbotham and Jacobs,2011), would open a ?second front?
from the pointof view of the existing manufacturers, as it would3Based on estimates from (Reddington, 2013)4remove many of the perceived weaknesses of theiPad (fragility, waterproofing, volume).The picture is muddied greatly because neitherthe major AAC manufacturers nor Apple releasereliable sales figures.
This results in the uncom-fortable situation for users, professionals, and re-searchers alike, that we are simultaneously beingtold that ?The iPad is simply the flavour of themonth at the moment and it is just the effect ofhype?
and ?The major manufacturers simply can?tcompete at any level other than eye-gaze?.Of course, the issue of the overall effective-ness of tablet-based AAC must be paramount forthe general AAC community, and there is a largeamount of research resources investigating this.This paper simply attempts to provide some harddata on the technical changes that have occurredin the marketplace since 2010.4.1 Domesday on tablet AACIf we assume an average lifespan of four years perdevice, then Table 2 and Table 3 can be consid-ered to give a reasonable approximation of the rel-ative popularity of AAC devices currently activein the UK AAC community.
As discussed in Sec-tion 3, touchscreen and other high-capability de-vices are not dominating the market, but we candeduce that Apple devices have a strong marketshare compared to devices with similar capabili-ties.
In Table 2 and Table 3 iPads and other Ap-ple devices are shown to be approximately evenin terms of units shipped with established touch-screen systems such as the Springboard Lite.
Itwould be difficult to argue that Apple devices werenot a major part of the AAC landscape.A factor in these estimations must be the rela-tively recent explosion in table computing.
If welimit our data to only purchases since 2010 (asshown in Table 4), we see that Apple devices dom-inate the sector and we would expect that when theDomesday Dataset is extended in 2014, we shallsee that Apple devices have achieved the positionof market leader in terms of AAC devices in use.4.1.1 Other tabletsWe note that, other than some appearances of theFuturePad Windows system (running Grid 2 soft-ware and predating the tablet explosion), there areno tablet purchases in the dataset that are not anApple device.
This is a somewhat unexpected find:the Android app store shows hundreds of thou-sands of downloads (worldwide) for AAC appli-cations for the Android platform.
Some potentialexplanations for this tension are discussed in thefollowing section, but we consider this an area forfuture research.4.1.2 Potential understatement of tablet salesSection 2 discussed some caveats about informa-tion in the Domesday Dataset, in particular that itonly examines purchases in the medical sector andis understood to cover less than half of the AACmarket.
We note here that these caveats may dis-proportionately affect tablet computing purchases.For example, the relatively low cost of tabletdevices means that there is a growing possibil-ity that the paradigms used by service providersare no longer fit for purpose.
Whereas previousparadigms may have involved users waiting twoyears for a ?7000 communication aid, with ?3000worth of support and training, the same users maynow, out of desperation, opt to pay out of their ownpocket for a ?700 tablet with ?app?.
In terms of thegoals of this paper, such situations artificially de-press the recorded purchases of tablet devices, andin terms of the goals of the AAC community, thechoice of a ?better device later or cheaper devicenow?
may not be to the long term benefit of users,or society.Moreover, we can also imagine situations wheretablet devices are already present in an AAC user?slife before they become used as a dedicated de-vice.
In the same way that family members often?hand down?
older phones to parents or childrenwhen they upgrade, we have anecdotal evidenceof situations were ?Chris can try an app on Steve?sold iPad while he is at university and then we?llbuy Steve a new one if that works?.
Such prac-tices would again artificially depress the numberof purchases recorded.In this work we concentrate on only the re-ports of purchase of physical tablets.
Althoughthe Domesday Dataset does contain app purchaseswhere they have been recorded by the NHS, thewide range of AAC applications, both free andpaid for, and their transferability between devicesmean that only the most vague of comparisonscould be made.Even without these caveats, it is clear from ex-amination of the Domesday Dataset that, in theUK at least, Apple devices like the iPad have be-come a large part of the technical AAC landscapeand we note that their level of hardware and strongdeveloper communities make them attractive tar-5Rank Model Units1 iPad/iPod/iPhone 252 GoTalk (all types) 103 Lightwriter (SL35/SL40) 104 Springboard Lite 65 EC02 66 C12 + CEYE 37 SuperTalker 28 Dynavox Maestro 29 Powerbox 7 210 S5 211 Dynavox (type unknown) 2Table 4: The 11 most common ?high tech?
speechaids purchased by the NHS in England 2010-2011gets for researchers building prototype AAC de-vices.5 Transferability of dataIt is assumed by many AAC professionals thattransferability, the ability for AAC users to trans-fer page sets between different devices, is a sig-nificant issue for AAC users.
Unfortunately thereis no previous academic research to support thisin general or estimate the size of the problemspace.
This section first shows how we can derivesome contextual information from the DomesdayDataset and goes on to discuss the sociotechnicalcontext of the problem space.We can examine the set of devices purchasedin the years 2006-2012 and check to see if theywere still available to purchase in 2012.
From thiswe can estimate the lifespan of each device to ex-tract the set of devices that are ?irreplaceable?
inthe sense that the same model cannot be purchasedin cases of loss.A large proportion of the devices listed in theDomesday Dataset are no longer available to buy4;however, they are still in service and, in somecases, still in manufacturer?s warranty.
The result-ing set of irreplaceable devices is large and thisinformation supports a need for more research.These irreplaceable devices contextualise aspace in which a range of sociotechnical issues atthe social and economic level have special reso-nance with the AAC user community (for workexamining the reliability of AAC devices and their4The Domesday Dataset has examples from major man-ufactures that include the DV4, the Dynamo, the Vanguard,the Springboard, and many others.likely length of time before needing repairs pleasesee, for example, (Shepherd et al., 2009; Ball etal., 2007)).As discussed in (Reddington and Coles-Kemp,2011; Coles-Kemp et al., 2011), the custom utter-ances and user history on a device form not only alarge part of the user?s way of interacting with theworld, but often, their memories and sense of self.It is recognised by manufacturers that this datais precious and many manufacturers of electronicAAC systems offer the functionality to back up thedevices to external storage.
However, in the eventof irrecoverable hardware failure, such backupsare only generally useful if the user?s replacementdevice is of the same model as the existing device(in some cases, manufacturers can transfer back-ups between different models of the same manu-facturer).
If it is the case that an AAC device?sfunctional lifespan is longer than the device saleslifespan, then it is also the case that massive in-formation loss must occur when a range?s devicesreach the end of their lifespan and users are shiftedonto other devices.Moreover, because AAC device backups arenot held in a common format, it is difficult forAAC users to transfer sets of pages between de-vices at all.
If a user wishes to switch from, sayProloque2go to Dynavox, then the only way totransfer potentially key parts of their identity andmemory between the devices is for the user, orcare staff, to laboriously recreate systems by hand.This results in users having difficulties ?trying out?new systems, and the occasional sight of a userwith two AAC devices: one that is failing buthas the full range of utterances, and a more mod-ern device that may be clearer and more effective,but which does not yet have all the necessary ut-terances.
Finally, the lack of a common formatstands as a barrier to the deployment of a truly?open source?
page and symbol set that could beused across formats and developed independentlyof hardware manufactures.It is the author?s position that this shows a clearand present need for not only a standardised for-mat for transferring sets of pages between devicesbut also that this standardised format be open andaccessible to researchers.
We consider these tobe a counterpart of the work in (Deruyter et al.,2007); however, where (Deruyter et al., 2007) fo-cused on increased interoperability between AACand mainstream technologies, we argue in favour6of increased interoperability between the devicesthemselves.
The work is perhaps philosophicallycloser to the work of (Lesher et al., 2000b; Lesheret al., 2000a), which seeks to produce universalstandards of logging of AAC utterances for re-search purposes.
We argue that a standardisedformat would also allow technical researchers todevelop their prototypes to interface directly witha user?s existing systems.
This would produce amuch more seamless way of testing innovations,without the need to introduce users to dedicatedequipment or a specialised app for testing a partic-ular innovation in AAC technology.6 DiscussionResearch in AAC policy and technology suffersgreatly from a lack of large scale quantitative ev-idence on the prevalence of devices, and the de-mographics of users.
This work has shown thatthe Domesday Dataset can be used at the researchlevel to provide context for researchers and to helpvalidate (or not) assumptions about everyday AACuse.
This work examined three different issuesof interest to technical researchers in AAC, eachfrom a different stage in the research lifecycle.
Itprovided a case study in using the dataset to gainan understanding of the level of technology cur-rently deployed in the UK AAC community, andexposed a number of open research questions.This work also gave an analysis of the impactof the explosion in tablet computing on the AACtechnological landscape.
We provided evidencethat Apple devices are already a significant partof the AAC community and that we expect theirpresence to grow as older devices phase out of themarket.Finally we considered how the DomesdayDataset suggests that product function lifespanmay be longer than the product sales lifespan inAAC technology and discussed the consequencesof this from a sociotechnological perspective.
Thiswork has pushed the AAC research agenda in adirection more attractive to larger studies, com-mercial manufactures, and quantitative researchto support the traditionally qualitatively focusedfield.
The range of possibilities for AAC researchincludes: more accurate estimates of populationsof AAC users, and levels of AAC use; the abilityto evaluate the potential impact of research pro-totypes and methodologies; and the ability to ex-amine those sectors of the AAC industry that havebeen most successful at delivering improved func-tionality to users.6.1 Future research agendaAt the more fundamental level we hope that thiswork encourages public debate about where thetrade-offs lie in terms of targeting technical re-search in both AAC and the wider intellectual dis-ability field.
It is the author?s position that stake-holders at all levels in AAC should be involved indebate on the areas of focus for research resources.Moreover, we believe that an open formatfor transferring sets of pages between devices isneeded, and that such a format will improve bothuser experience, commercial competition, and re-search effectiveness.
We would welcome furtherwork.AcknowledgmentsThis research was made possible by the largerange of contributors to the construction ofthe Domesday Dataset, including staff at TobyChurchill and Liberator Ltd. We also thank, PamEnderby, Alex John, Sarah Creer, and the teamat Sheffield University, along with Tom Bamberat Loughborough University, and Selina Sutton atNewcastle University.7ReferencesMorgen Alwell and Brian Cobb.
2009.
Socialand communicative interventions and transition out-comes for youth with disabilities a systematic re-view.
Career Development for Exceptional Individ-uals, 32(2):94?107.Laura J Ball, David R Beukelman, Elizabeth Anderson,Denise V Bilyeu, Julie Robertson, and Gary L Pat-tee.
2007.
Duration of aac technology use by per-sons with als.
Journal of Medical Speech LanguagePathology, 15(4):371.Tim Berners-Lee.
2010.
Linkeddata.
Personal website(?http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData.html?
),Jun.Cathy Binger and Janice Light.
2006.
Demographicsof preschoolers who require aac.
Language, Speech,and Hearing Services in Schools, 37(3):200.Karen Bloomberg and Hilary Johnson.
1990.
Astatewide demographic survey of people with severecommunication impairments.
Augmentative and Al-ternative Communication, 6(1):50?60.L.
Coles-Kemp, J. Reddington, and P.A.H.
Williams.2011.
Looking at clouds from both sides: The ad-vantages and disadvantages of placing personal nar-ratives in the cloud.
Information Security TechnicalReport, 16(3):115?122.Frank Deruyter, David McNaughton, Kevin Caves,Diane Nelson Bryen, and Michael B Williams.2007.
Enhancing aac connections with theworld.
Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion, 23(3):258?270.EK Hanson, KM Yorkston, and DR Beukelman.
2004.Speech supplementation techniques for dysarthria: asystematic review.
Journal of Medical Speech Lan-guage Pathology, 12.Jeff Higginbotham and Steve Jacobs.
2011.
The fu-ture of the android operating system for augmen-tative and alternative communication.
Perspectiveson Augmentative and Alternative Communication,20(2):52?56.Mary Blake Huer.
1991.
University students usingaugmentative and alternative communication in theusa: A demographic study.
Augmentative and Alter-native Communication, 7(4):231?239.Gregory W Lesher, Bryan J Moulton, Gerard Rinkus,and D Jeffery Higginbotham.
2000a.
A univer-sal logging format for augmentative communication.Citeseer.Gregory W Lesher, Gerard J Rinkus, Bryan J Moulton,and D Jeffery Higginbotham.
2000b.
Logging andanalysis of augmentative communication.
In Pro-ceedings of the RESNA Annual Conference.Judy Matas, Pamela Mathy-Laikko, David Beukelman,and Kelly Legresley.
1985.
Identifying the non-speaking population: A demographic study.
Aug-mentative and Alternative Communication, 1(1):17?31.Margaret Mitchell and Richard Sproat.
2012.Discourse-based modeling for aac.
In Proceedingsof the Third Workshop on Speech and LanguageProcessing for Assistive Technologies, pages 9?18,Montre?al, Canada, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Lindsay Pennington, Juliet Goldbart, and Julie Mar-shall.
2003.
Speech and language therapy to im-prove the communication skills of children withcerebral palsy.
Cochrane Database of SystematicReviews, 3.Lindsay Pennington, Juliet Goldbart, and Julie Mar-shall.
2004.
Interaction training for conversationalpartners of children with cerebral palsy: a system-atic review.
International Journal of Language &Communication Disorders, 39(2):151?170.J.
Reddington and L. Coles-Kemp.
2011.
Trap hunt-ing: Finding personal data management issues innext generation aac devices.
Proceedings of the sec-ond workshop on speech and language processingfor assistive technologies, pages 32?42.Joseph Reddington.
2013.
The Domesday dataset:linked and open data in disability studies.
Journalof Intellectual Disabilities, 17(2):107?121.Tracy A Shepherd, Kent A Campbell, Anne Marie Ren-zoni, and Nahum Sloan.
2009.
Reliability of speechgenerating devices: A 5-year review.
Augmentativeand Alternative Communication, 25(3):145?153.Eva Szekely, Zeeshan Ahmed, Joao P. Cabral, and JulieCarson-Berndsen.
2012.
Winktalk: a demonstra-tion of a multimodal speech synthesis platform link-ing facial expressions to expressive synthetic voices.In Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Speechand Language Processing for Assistive Technolo-gies, pages 5?8, Montre?al, Canada, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Tim Weber.
2011.
BBC News - Google to buy Mo-torola Mobility, last retrieved September 2011.8
