Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Semantic Parsing, pages 55?60,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsFrom Treebank Parses to Episodic Logic and Commonsense InferenceLenhart SchubertUniv.
of Rochesterschubert@cs.rochester.edu1.
Introduction and overviewWe have developed an approach to broad-coveragesemantic parsing that starts with Treebank parsesand yields scoped, deindexed formulas in EpisodicLogic (EL) that are directly usable for knowledge-based inference.
Distinctive properties of our ap-proach are?
the use of a tree transduction language, TTT,to partially disambiguate, refine (and some-times repair) raw Treebank parses, and also toperform many deindexing and logical canon-icalization tasks;?
the use of EL, a Montague-inspired logicalframework for semantic representation andknowledge representation;?
allowance for nonclassical restricted quanti-fiers, several forms of modification and reifi-cation, quasi-quotes and syntactic closures;?
an event semantics that directly representsevents with complex characterizations;?
a scoping algorithm that heuristically scopesquantifiers, logical connectives, and tense;?
a compositional approach to tense deindexingmaking use of tense trees; and?
the use of an inference engine, EPILOG, thatsupports input-driven and goal-driven infer-ence in EL, in a style similar to (but moregeneral than) Natural Logic.We have applied this framework to generalknowledge acquisition from text corpora and theweb (though with tense meaning and many othersemantic details stripped away) (e.g., Schubert &Hwang 2000, Van Durme & Schubert 2008), andmore recently to caption interpretation for familyphotos, enabling alignment of names and other de-scriptors with human faces in the photos, and to in-terpreting sentences in simple first-reader stories.Ongoing projects are aimed at full interpretationof lexical glosses and other sources of explicitlyexpressed general knowledge.We now elaborate some of the themes in the pre-ceding overview, concluding with comments onrelated work and important remaining challenges.2.
Refinement of Treebank parses using TTTWe generate initial logical forms by compositionalinterpretation of Treebank parses produced by theCharniak parser.1This mapping is encumbered bya number of difficulties.
One is that current Tree-bank parsers produce many thousands of distinctexpansions of phrasal categories, especially VPs,into sequences of constituents.
We have overcomethis difficulty through use of enhanced regular-expression patterns applied to sequences of con-stituent types, where our interpretive rules are as-sociated directly with these patterns.
About 100patterns and corresponding semantic rules covermost of English.Two other difficulties are that parsers still intro-duce about one phrasal error for every 10 words,and these can render interpretations nonsensical;and even when parses are deemed correct accord-ing to ?gold standard" annotated corpora, theyoften conflate semantically disparate word andphrase types.
For example, prepositional phrases(PPs) functioning as predicates are not distin-guished from ones functioning as adverbial modi-fiers; the roles of wh-words that form questions,relative clauses, or wh-nominals are not distin-guished; and constituents parsed as SBARs (sub-ordinate clauses) can be relative clauses, adver-bials, question clauses, or clausal nominals.
Ourapproach to these problems makes use of a newtree transduction language, TTT (Purtee & Schu-bert 2012) that allows concise, modular, declara-tive representation of tree transductions.
(As in-dicated below, TTT also plays a key role in log-ical form postprocessing.)
While we cannot ex-1ftp://ftp.cs.brown.edu/pub/nlparser/55pect to correct the majority of parse errors in gen-eral texts, we have found it easy to use TTT forcorrection of certain systematic errors in particu-lar domains.
In addition, we use TTT to subclas-sify many function words and phrase types, and topartially disambiguate the role of PPs and SBARs,among other phrase types, allowing more reliablesemantic interpretation.3.
EL as a semantic representation andknowledge representationFrom a compositional perspective, the semanticsof natural language is intensional and richly ex-pressive, allowing for nonclassical quantifiers andseveral types of modification and reification.
Yetmany approaches to semantic interpretation relyon first-order logic (FOL) or some subset thereofas their target semantic representation.
This is jus-tifiable in certain restricted applications, groundedin extensional domains such as databases.
How-ever, FOL or description logics are often chosenas the semantic target even for broad-coverage se-mantic parsing, because of their well-understoodsemantics and proof theory and well-developed in-ference technology and, in some cases, by a pu-tative expressiveness-tractability tradeoff.
We re-ject such motivations ?
tools should be made to fitthe phenomenon rather than the other way around.The tractability argument, for example, is simplymistaken: Efficient inference algorithms for sub-sets of an expressive representation can also beimplemented within a more comprehensive infer-ence framework, without forfeiting the advantagesof expressiveness.
Moreover, recent work in Nat-ural Logic, which uses phrase-structured NL di-rectly for inference, indicates that the richness oflanguage is no obstacle to rapid inference of manyobvious lexical entailments (e.g., MacCartney &Manning 2009).Thus our target representation, EL, taking itscue from Montague allows directly for the kindsof quantification, intensionality, modification, andreification found in all natural languages (e.g.,Schubert & Hwang 2000, Schubert, to appear).In addition, EL associates episodes (events, sit-uations, processes) directly with arbitrarily com-plex sentences, rather than just with atomic pred-ications, as in Davidsonian event semantics.
Forexample, the initial sentence in each of the follow-ing pairs is interpreted as directly characterizingan episode, which then serves as antecedent for apronoun or definite:For many months, no rain fell;this totally dried out the topsoil.Each superpower menaced the other with its nucleararsenal; this situation persisted for decades.Also, since NL allows for discussion of linguis-tic and other symbolic entities, so does EL, viaquasi-quotation and substitutional quantification(closures).
These can also express axiom schemas,and autocognitive reasoning (see further com-ments in Section 5).4.
Comprehensive scoping and tensedeindexingThough EL is Montague-inspired, one differencefrom a Montague-style intensional logic is thatwe treat noun phrase (NP) interpretations as un-scoped elements, rather than second-order predi-cates.
These elements are heuristically scoped tothe sentence level in LF postprocessing, as pro-posed in (Schubert & Pelletier 1982).
The latterproposal also covered scoping of logical connec-tives, which exhibit the same scope ambiguitiesas quantifiers.
Our current heuristic scoping al-gorithm handles these phenomena as well as tensescope, allowing for such factors as syntactic or-dering, island constraints, and differences in wide-scoping tendencies among different operators.Episodes characterized by sentences remain im-plicit until application of a ?deindexing" algo-rithm.
This algorithm makes use of a contextualelement called a tense tree which is built and tra-versed in accordance with simple recursive rulesapplied to indexical LFs.
A tense tree containsbranches corresponding to tense and aspect op-erators, and in the course of processing one ormore sentences, sequences of episode tokens cor-responding to clauses are deposited at the nodes bythe deindexing rules, and adjacent tokens are usedby these same rules to posit temporal or causal re-lations among ?evoked" episodes.
A comprehen-sive set of rules covering all tenses, aspects, andtemporal adverbials was specified in (Hwang &Schubert 1994); the current semantic parsing ma-chinery incorporates the tense and aspect rules butnot yet the temporal adverbial rules.Further processing steps, many implementedthrough TTT rules, further transform the LFs soas to Skolemize top-level existentials and defi-nite NPs (in effect accommodating their presup-positions), separate top-level conjuncts, narrow56the scopes of certain negations, widen quantifierscopes out of episodic operator scopes where pos-sible, resolve intrasentential coreference, performlambda and equality reductions, and also gener-ate some immediate inferences (e.g., inferring thatMrs.
Smith refers to a married woman).The following example, for the first sentenceabove, illustrates the kind of LF generated by oursemantic parser (first in unscoped, indexical form,then the resulting set of scoped, deindexed, andcanonicalized formulas).
Note that EL uses pred-icate infixing at the sentence level, for readabil-ity; so for example we have (E0 BEFORE NOW0)rather than (BEFORE E0 NOW0).
?**?
is the op-erator linking a sentential formula to the episodeit characterizes (Schubert 2000).
ADV-S is a type-shifting operator, L stands for ?, and PLUR is apredicate modifer that converts a predicate over in-dividuals into a predicate over sets of individuals.For many months, no rain fell;Refined Treebank parse:(S (PP-FOR (IN for) (NP (CD many) (NNS months))) (|,| |,|)(NP (DT no) (NN rain)) (VP (VBD fell)) (|:| |;|))Unscoped, indexical LF (keys :F, :P, etc., are dropped later):(:F (:F ADV-S (:P FOR.P (:Q MANY.DET (:F PLUR MONTH.N))))(:I (:Q NO.DET RAIN.N) (:O PAST FALL.V)))Canonicalized LFs (without adverbial-modifier deindexing):(MONTHS0.SK (PLUR MONTH.N)), (MONTHS0.SK MANY.A),((ADV-S (L Y (Y FOR.P MONTHS0.SK)))((NO Z (Z RAIN.N) (SOME E0 (E0 BEFORE NOW0)(Z FALL.V))) ** E0)With adverbial deindexing, the prefixed adver-bial modifier would become a predication (E0LASTS-FOR.V MONTHS0.SK); E0 is the episode ofno rain falling and MONTHS0.SK is the Skolemname generated for the set of many months.5.
Inference using the EPILOG inference engineSemantic parsers that employ FOL or a subset ofFOL (such as a description logic) as the target rep-resentation often employ an initial ?abstract" rep-resentation mirroring some of the expressive de-vices of natural languages, which is then mappedto the target representation enabling inference.
Animportant feature of our approach is that (scoped,deindexed) LFs expressed in EL are directly us-able for inference in conjunction with lexical andworld knowledge by our EPILOG inference en-gine.
This has the advantages of not sacrificingany of the expressiveness of language, of linkinginference more directly to surface form (in prin-ciple enabling incremental entailment inference),and of being easier to understand and edit than rep-resentations remote from language.EPILOG?s two main inference rules, forinput-driven (forward-chaining) and goal-driven(backward-chaining) inference, substitute conse-quences or anti-consequences for subformulas as afunction of polarity, much as in Natural Logic.
Butsubstitutions can be based on world knowledge aswell as lexical knowledge, and to assure first-ordercompleteness the chaining rules are supplementedwith natural deduction rules such as proof by con-tradiction and proof of conditional formulas by as-sumption of the antecedent.Moreover, EPILOG can reason with the ex-pressive devices of EL mentioned in Sections 1and 3 that lie beyond FOL, including general-ized quantifiers, and reified predicates and propo-sitions.
(Schubert, to appear) contains relevant ex-amples, such as the inference from Most of theheavy Monroe resources are located in Monroe-east, and background knowledge, to the conclu-sion Few heavy resources are located in Monroe-west; and inference of an answer to the modallycomplex question Can the small crane be usedto hoist rubble from the collapsed building onPenfield Rd onto a truck?
Also, the ability touse axiom schemas that involve quasi-quotes andsyntactic closures allows lexical inferences basedon knowledge about syntactic classes of lexicalitems (i.e., meaning postulates), as well as vari-ous forms of metareasoning, including reasoningabout the system?s own knowledge and percep-tions (Morbini & Schubert 2011).
Significantly,the expressiveness of EL/EPILOG does not pre-vent competitive performance on first-order com-monsense knowledge bases (derived from DougLenat?s Cyc), especially as the number of KB for-mulas grows into the thousands (Morbini & Schu-bert 2009).In the various inference tasks to which EPI-LOG was applied in the past, the LFs used fornatural language sentences were based on pre-sumed compositional rules, without the machin-ery to derive them automatically (e.g., Schubert &Hwang 2000, Morbini & Schubert 2011, Stratoset al.
2011).
Starting in 2001, in developingour KNEXT system for knowledge extraction fromtext, we used broad-coverage compositional inter-pretion into EL for the first time, but since ourgoal was to obtain simple general ?factoids"?such57as that a person may believe a proposition, peo-ple may wish to get rid of a dictator, clothes canbe washed, etc.
(expressed logically)?our interpre-tive rules ignored tense, many modifiers, and othersubtleties (e.g., Van Durme & Schubert 2008).Factoids like the ones mentioned are uncondi-tional and as such not directly usable for inference,but many millions of the factoids have been auto-matically strengthened into quantified, inference-enabling commonsense axioms (Gordon & Schu-bert 2010), and allow EPILOG to draw conclusionsfrom short sentences (Gordon 2014, chapter 6).An example is the inference from Tremblay is asinger to the conclusion Quite possibly Tremblayoccasionally performs (or performed) a song (au-tomatically verbalized from an EL formula).
Herethe modal and frequency modification would noteasily be captured within an FOL framework.Recently, we have begun to apply much morecomplete compositional semantic rules to sen-tences ?in the wild", choosing two settings wheresentences tend to be short (to minimize the impactof parse errors on semantic interpretation): deriva-tion and integration of caption-derived knowledgeand image-derived knowledge in a family photodomain, and interpretation of sentences in first-reader stories.
In the family photo domain, wehave fully interpreted the captions in a small de-velopment set, and used an EPILOG knowledgebase to derive implicit attributes of the individualsmentioned in the captions (by name or other des-ignations).
These attributes then served to alignthe caption-derived individuals with individualsdetected in the images, and were subsequentlymerged with image-derived attributes (with al-lowance for uncertainty).
For example, for thecaption Tanya and Grandma Lillian at her highschool graduation party, after correct interpreta-tion of her as referring to Tanya, Tanya was in-ferred to be a teenager (from the knowledge thata high school graduation party is generally heldfor a recent high school graduate, and a recenthigh school graduate is likely to be a teenager);while Grandma Lillian was inferred to be a grand-mother, hence probably a senior, hence quite pos-sibly gray-haired, and this enabled correct align-ment of the names with the persons detected in theimage, determined via image processing to be ayoung dark-haired female and a senior gray-hairedfemale respectively.In the first-reader domain (where we are usingMcGuffey (2005)), we found that we could obtaincorrect or nearly correct interpretations for mostsimple declaratives (and some of the stories con-sist entirely of such sentences).
At the time ofwriting, we are still working on discourse phe-nomena, especially in stories involving dialogues.For example, our semantic parser correctly derivedand canonicalized the logical content of the open-ing line of one of the stories under consideration,Oh Rosie!
Do you see that nest in the apple tree?The interpretation includes separate speech actsfor the initial interjection and the question.
Ourgoal in this work is integration of symbolic infer-ence with inferences from imagistic modeling (forwhich we are using the Blender open source soft-ware), where the latter provides spatial inferencessuch as that the contents of a nest in a tree are notlikely to be visible to children on the ground (set-ting the stage for the continuation of the story).Phenomena not handled well at this point in-clude intersentential anaphora, questions withgaps, imperatives, interjections, and direct ad-dress (Look, Lucy, ...).
We are making progresson these, by using TTT repair rules for phenom-ena where Treebank parsers tend to falter, and byadding LF-level and discourse-level interpretiverules for the resulting phrasal patterns.
Ongoingprojects are aimed at full interpretation of lexicalglosses and other sources of explicitly expressedgeneral knowledge.
However, as we explain inthe concluding section, we do not believe that full-fledged, deep story understanding will be possibleuntil we have large amounts of general knowledge,including not only the kinds of ?if-then" knowl-edge (about word meanings and the world) weand others have been deriving and are continuingto derive, but also large amounts of pattern-like,schematic knowledge encoding our expectationsabout typical object configurations and event se-quences (especially ones directed towards agents?goals) in the world and in dialogue.6.
Related workMost current projects in semantic parsing eithersingle out domains that assure highly restrictednatural language usage, or greatly limit the seman-tic content that is extracted from text.
For exam-ple, projects may be aimed at question-answeringover relational databases, with themes such asgeography, air travel planning, or robocup (e.g.,Ge & Mooney 2009, Artzi & Zettlemoyer 2011,58Kwiatkowski et al.
2011, Liang et al.
2011, Poon2013).
Impressive thematic scope is achieved in(Berant et al.
2013, Kwiatkowski et al.
2013), butthe target semantic language (for Freebase access)is still restricted to database operations such asjoin, intersection, and set cardinality.
Anotherpopular domain is command execution by robots(e.g., Tellex 2011, Howard et al.
2013, Artzi &Zettlemoyer 2013).Examples of work aimed at broader lin-guistic coverage are Johan Bos?
Boxer project(Bos 2008), Lewis & Steedman?s (2013) CCG-Distributional system, James Allen et al.
?s (2013)work on extracting an OWL-DL verb ontologyfrom WordNet, and Draicchio et al.
?s (2013)FRED system for mapping from NL to OWL on-tology.
Boxer2is highly developed, but inter-pretations are limited to FOL, so that the kindsof general quantification, reification and modifi-cation that pervade ordinary language cannot beadequately captured.
The CCG-Distributional ap-proach combines logical and distributional seman-tics in an interesting way, but apart from the FOLlimitation, the induced cluster-based predicateslose distinctions such as that between town andcountry or between elected to and ran for.
Assuch, the system is applicable to (soft) entailmentverification, but probably not to reasoning.
Amajor limitation of mapping natural language toOWL-DL is that the assertion component of thelatter is essentially limited to atomic predicationsand their negations, so that ordinary statementssuch as Most students who passed the AI examalso passed the theory exam, or If Kim and Sandyget divorced, then Kim will probably get custodyof their children, cannot be represented, let alonereasoned with.7.
Concluding thoughtsThe history of research in natural language under-standing shows two seemingly divergent trends:One is the attempt to faithfully capture the log-ical form of natural language sentences, and tostudy entailment relations based on such forms.The other is the effort to map language ontopreexisting, schematic knowledge structures ofsome sort, intended as a basis for understand-ing and inference ?
these might be FrameNet-likeor Minsky-like frames, concepts in a descriptionlogic, Schankian scripts, general plans as under-2www.meaningfactory.com/bos/pubs/Bos2008STEP2.pdfstood in AI, Pustejovskyan telic event schemas,or something similar.
Both perspectives seem tohave compelling merits, and this leads us to sup-pose that deep understanding may indeed requireboth surface representations and schematic repre-sentations, where surface representations can beviewed as concise abstractions from, or summariesof, schema instances or (for generic statements) ofthe schemas themselves.
But where we differ frommost approaches is that we would want both levelsof representation to support inference.
The surfacelevel should support at least Natural-Logic-likeentailment inference, along with inference chain-ing ?
for which EL and EPILOG are well-suited.The schematic level would support ?reasonable"(or default) expectations based on familiar patternsof events, actions, or relationships.
Further, theschematic level should itself allow for language-like expressiveness in the specification of roles,steps, goals, or other components, which mightagain be abstractions from more basic schemas.In other words, we envisage hierarchically orga-nized schemas whose constituents are expressedin a language like EL and allow for EPILOG-likeinference.
We see the acquisition of such schemasas the most pressing need in machine understand-ing.
Without them, we are limited to either narrowor shallow understanding.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by NSF grant IIS-0916599 and a subcontract to ONR STTRN00014-10-M-0297.
The comments of the anony-mous referees helped to improve the paper.ReferencesJ.
Allen, J. Orfan, W. de Beaumont, C. M. Teng, L.Galescu, M. Swift, 2013.
Automatically deriv-ing event ontologies for a commonsense knowledgebase.
10th Int.
Conf.
on Computational Semantics(IWCS 2013), Potsdam, Germany, March 19-22.Y.
Artzi and L. Zettlemoyer, 2011.
Bootstrap-ping Semantic Parsers from Conversations.
Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP), Edinburgh, UK.Y.
Artzi and L. Zettlemoyer, 2013.
Weakly supervisedlearning of semantic parsers for mapping instruc-tions to actions.
In Trans.
of the Assoc.
for Com-putational Linguistics (TACL).J.
Berant, A. Chou, R. Frostig, P. Liang, 2013.
Seman-tic parsing on Freebase from question-answer pairs.59Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP), Seattle, WA.J.
Bos, 2008.
Wide-coverage semantic analysis withBoxer.
In J. Bos and R. Delmonte (eds.
), Seman-tics in Text Processing.
STEP 2008 Conference Pro-ceedings.
Research in Computational Semantics,College Publications, 277?286.F.
Draicchio, A. Gangemi, V. Presutti, and A.G. Nuz-zolese, 2013.
FRED: From natural language textto RDF and OWL in one click.
In P. Cimiano et al.(eds.).
ESWC 2013, LNCS 7955, Springer, 263-267.R.
Ge and R. J. Mooney, 2009.
Learning a Compo-sitional Semantic Parser using an Existing SyntacticParser, In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009,Suntec, Singapore.J.
Gordon, 2014.
Inferential CommonsenseKnowledge from Text.
Ph.D. Thesis, De-partment of Computer Science, Universityof Rochester, Rochester, NY.
Available athttp://www.cs.rochester.edu/u/jgordon/.J.
Gordon and L. K. Schubert, 2010.
Quantificationalsharpening of commonsense knowledge.
Com-mon Sense Knowledge Symposium (CSK-10), AAAI2010 Fall Symposium Series, Arlington, VA.T.
M. Howard, S. Tellex, and N. Roy, 2013.
A Natu-ral Language Planner Interface for Mobile Manipu-lators.
30th Int.
Conf.
on Machine Learning, Atlanta,GA, JMLR: W&CP volume 28.C.
H. Hwang and L. K. Schubert, 1994.
Interpretingtense, aspect, and time adverbials: a compositional,unified approach.
D. M. Gabbay and H. J.
Ohlbach(eds.
), Proc.
of the 1st Int.
Conf.
on Temporal Logic,Bonn, Germany, Springer, 238?264.T.
Kwiatkowski, E. Choi, Y. Artzi, and L. Zettlemoyer,2013.
Scaling semantic parsers with on-the-fly on-tology matching.
Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP), Seattle, WA.T.
Kwiatkowski, L. Zettlemoyer, S. Goldwater, andM.
Steedman, 2011.
Lexical generalization inCCG grammar induction for semantic parsing.
Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP), Edinburgh, UK.M.
Lewis and M. Steedman, 2013.
Combined distri-butional and logical semantics.
Trans.
of the Assoc.for Computational Linguistics 1, 179?192.P.
Liang, M. Jordan, and D. Klein, 2011.
Learningdependency-based compositional semantics.
Conf.of the Assoc.
for Computational Linguistics (ACL),Portland, OR.B.
MacCartney and C. D. Manning, 2009.
An ex-tended model of natural logic.
8th Int.
Conf.
onComputational Semantics (IWCS-8), Tilburg Uni-versity, Netherlands.
Assoc.
for Computational Lin-guistics (ACL), Stroudsberg, PA.W.
H. McGuffey, 2005 (original edition 1879).McGuffey?s First Eclectic Reader.
John Wiley andSons, New York.F.
Morbini and L. K. Schubert, 2011.
Metareasoningas an integral part of commonsense and autocog-nitive reasoning.
In M.T.
Cox and A. Raja (eds.
),Metareasoning: Thinking about Thinking, Ch.
17.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 267?282.F.
Morbini & Schubert, 2009.
Evaluation ofEpilog: A reasoner for Episodic Logic.
Common-sense?09, June 1-3, Toronto, Canada.
Available athttp://commonsensereasoning.org/2009/papers.html.H.
Poon, 2013.
Grounded unsupervised semantic pars-ing.
51st Ann.
Meet.
of the Assoc.
for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL), Sofia, Bulgaria.A.
Purtee and L. K. Schubert, 2012.
TTT: A tree trans-duction language for syntactic and semantic process-ing.
EACL 2012 Workshop on Applications of TreeAutomata Techniques in Natural Language Process-ing (ATANLP 2012), Avignon, France.L.
K. Schubert, to appear.
NLog-like inference andcommonsense reasoning.
In A. Zaenen, V. dePaiva and C. Condoravdi (eds.
), Semantics forTextual Inference, CSLI Publications.
Available athttp://www.cs.rochester.edu/u/schubert/papers/nlog-like-inference12.pdf.L.
K. Schubert, 2000.
The situations we talk about.
InJ.
Minker (ed.
), Logic-Based Artificial Intelligence,Kluwer, Dortrecht, 407?439.L.
K. Schubert and C. H. Hwang, 2000.
EpisodicLogic meets Little Red Riding Hood: A comprehen-sive, natural representation for language understand-ing.
In L. Iwanska and S.C. Shapiro (eds.
), NaturalLanguage Processing and Knowledge Representa-tion: Language for Knowledge and Knowledge forLanguage.
MIT/AAAI Press, Menlo Park, CA, andCambridge, MA, 111?174.L.
K. Schubert and F. J. Pelletier, 1982.
From En-glish to logic: Context-free computation of ?conven-tional?
logical translations.
Am.
J. of ComputationalLinguistics 8, 27?44.
Reprinted in B.J.
Grosz, K.Sparck Jones, and B.L.
Webber (eds.
), Readings inNatural Language Processing, Morgan Kaufmann,Los Altos, CA, 1986, 293-311.S.
Tellex, T. Kollar, S. Dickerson, M. R. Walter, A. G.Banerjee, S. Teller, and N. Roy, 2011.
Understand-ing natural language commands for robotic naviga-tion and mobile manipulation.
Nat.
Conf.
on Artifi-cial Intelligence (AAAI 2011), San Francisco, CA.B.
Van Durme and L. K. Schubert, 2008.
Openknowledge extraction through compositional lan-guage processing.
Symposium on Semantics in Sys-tems for Text Processing (STEP 2008), Venice, Italy.60
