Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 100?101,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Higher Order Relations From Biomedical TextSyeed Ibn FaizDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Western Ontariosyeedibnfaiz@gmail.comRobert E. MercerDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Western Ontariomercer@csd.uwo.caAbstractArgumentation in a scientific article iscomposed of unexpressed and explicitstatements of old and new knowledgecombined into a logically coherent tex-tual argument.
Discourse relations, lin-guistic coherence relations that connectdiscourse segments, help to communicatean argument?s logical steps.
A biomedi-cal relation exhibits a relationship betweenbiomedical entities.
In this paper, we areprimarily concerned with the extractionof connections between biomedical rela-tions, a connection that we call a higherorder relation.
We combine two methods,namely biomedical relation extraction anddiscourse relation parsing, to extract suchhigher order relations from biomedical re-search articles.
Finding and extractingthese relations can assist in automaticallyunderstanding the scientific arguments ex-pressed by the author in the text.1 IntroductionWe use the term higher order relation to denotea relation that relates two biomedical relations.Consider, for example, the following sentence:(1) Aspirin appeared to prevent VCAM-1 tran-scription, since it dose-dependently inhibitedinduction of VCAM-1 mRNA by TNF.We can find two biomedical relations involvingAspirin: Aspirin?prevents?VCAM-1 transcrip-tion and Aspirin?inhibits?induction of VCAM-1mRNA.
These two relations are connected by theword since.
The higher order relation conveys acausal sense, which indicates that the latter rela-tion causes the earlier one.
In genetic transcrip-tion mRNA is generated (a process known by thereader, so not expressed in the argument).
Thispiece of the author?s argument is that by observinginhibition of mRNA induction (the genetic processthat activates transcription) by different doses ofaspirin, the inference that aspirin prevents the tran-scription can be made.
This inference is textuallysignalled by the discourse connective since.Formally, we define a higher order relation as abinary relation that relates one biomedical relationwith another biomedical relation.
In this paper wepropose a method for these extracting higher or-der relations using discourse relation parsing andbiomedical relation extraction.2 Extracting Higher Order RelationsThere are two stages in our method for extractinghigher order relations from text.
In the first stagewe use a discourse relation parser to extract the ex-plicit discourse relations from text.
In the secondstage we analyze each extracted explicit discourserelation to determine whether it can produce ahigher order relation.
We use a biomedical rela-tion extraction system in this process.
For each ar-gument of an explicit discourse relation we find alloccurrences of biomedical relations in it.
Higherorder relations are then constructed by pairing thebiomedical relations or observations found in thediscourse arguments.
The sense of the explicit dis-course relation is used to interpret all the higherorder relations derived from it.Parsing an explicit discourse relation involvesthree steps: identifying the explicit discourse con-nective, the arguments and the sense.
In (Faizand Mercer, 2013) we showed how to use syntac-tic and surface level context to achieve a state-of-the-art result for identifying discourse connectivesfrom text.
Our work on a complete explicit dis-course relation parser is presented in (Faiz, 2012).For identifying the arguments of discourse con-nectives we use the head-based representation pro-posed by Wellner and Pustejovsky (Wellner andPustejovsky, 2007).
We found that this head-based100representation is very suitable for the task of ex-tracting higher order relations.
The head of anargument plays an important role in selecting abiomedical relation as an argument to a higher or-der relation.This observation regarding the heads of the dis-course arguments has another useful implication.Since the biomedical relations that we have to con-sider need to involve the argument head, we onlyhave to extract the portion of the argument that isinfluenced or dominated by the head.
One simpleway to do this is to consider the dependents of thehead in the dependency representation.
Wellner(2009) reported that finding the dependents of thesyntactic head of an argument often gives a goodapproximation of the argument extent .3 EvaluationOur algorithm for extracting higher order relationsdepends on discourse parsing and biomedical rela-tion extraction.
We have discussed our implemen-tation of these components and evaluated their per-formance in previous work (Faiz, 2012; Faiz andMercer, 2013).
We have evaluated the algorithmwe present in this paper in terms of how accuratelyit can use those components in order to find higherorder relations.
More specifically, we will mea-sure how accurately it can determine the part ofthe full argument extent that contains the biomed-ical entities in it.For this evaluation we used the AIMed corpus(Bunescu et al., 2005).
This corpus contains anannotation for protein-protein interactions.
Fromthis corpus we collected 69 discourse relations.For both ARG1 and ARG2 we performed twotests.
We measured from the argument heads howmany protein mentions occurring within the argu-ment extent (the True Positives) are found and howmany protein mentions that lie beyond the argu-ment extent (the False Positives) are found.
ForARG1, we found that our algorithm missed onlyone protein mention and incorrectly found threeproteins from outside the argument extent, a pre-cision of 98% and a recall of 99.32%.
For ARG2,we obtained a 100% precision and a 99% recall.We conducted another experiment, which issimilar to the previous one except that now insteadof counting only the protein mentions, we countedall the words that can be reached from an argumenthead.
In other words, this experiment evaluatesour algorithm in terms of how accurately it canidentify the full argument extent (i.e., the wordsin it).
For ARG1 and ARG2 we got an F-score of91.98% and 92.98% respectively.4 DiscussionExtraction of many higher order relations is de-pendent on coreference resolution.
For exam-ple, in (1), Aspirin is anaphorically referred to inARG2.
In our current implementation we lackcoreference resolution.
Therefore, augmentinga coreference resolution module in our pipelinewould be an immediate improvement.In our implementation, we used a simple butimperfect method to determine whether a biomed-ical relation involves the head of a discourse ar-gument.
We checked whether the head appearsbetween the biomedical entities or within a shortdistance from either one in the sentence.
How-ever, this simple rule may produce spurious higherorder relations.
One way to improve this methodwould be to consider the rules we presented forrule-based biomedical relation extraction.
Most ofthe rules give a dependency path corresponding tothe relation they can extract.
That path can thenbe analyzed to determine whether the relation de-pends on the head.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially funded by a NaturalSciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada (NSERC) Discovery Grant to R. Mercer.ReferencesRazvan Bunescu, Ruifang Ge, Rohit J. Kate, Ed-ward M. Marcotte, Raymond J. Mooney, Arun K.Ramani, and Yuk W. Wong.
2005.
Comparativeexperiments on learning information extractors forproteins and their interactions.
Artificial Intelligencein Medicine, 33(2):139?155, February.Syeed Ibn Faiz and Robert E. Mercer.
2013.
Identify-ing explicit discourse connectives in text.
In Cana-dian Conference on AI, pages 64?76.Syeed Ibn Faiz.
2012.
Discovering higher order rela-tions from biomedical text.
Master?s thesis, Univer-sity of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.Ben Wellner and James Pustejovsky.
2007.
Automati-cally identifying the arguments of discourse connec-tives.
In EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 92?101.
ACL.Ben Wellner.
2009.
Sequence models and rankingmethods for discourse parsing.
Ph.D. thesis, Bran-deis University, Waltham, MA, USA.
AAI3339383.101
