Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 124?131,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsIssues in Translating Verb-Particle Constructions from German to EnglishNina Schottm?ullerUppsala UniversityDepartment of Linguistics and Philologynschottmueller@gmail.comJoakim NivreUppsala UniversityDepartment of Linguistics and Philologyjoakim.nivre@lingfil.uu.seAbstractIn this paper, we investigate difficultiesin translating verb-particle constructionsfrom German to English.
We analyse thestructure of German VPCs and comparethem to VPCs in English.
In order to findout if and to what degree the presence ofVPCs causes problems for statistical ma-chine translation systems, we collected aset of 59 verb pairs, each consisting of aGerman VPC and a synonymous simplexverb.
With this data, we constructed atest suite of 236 sentences where the sim-plex verb and VPC are completely substi-tutable.
We then translated this dataset toEnglish using Google Translate and BingTranslator.
Through an analysis of the re-sulting translations we are able to showthat the quality decreases when translat-ing sentences that contain VPCs insteadof simplex verbs.
The test suite is madefreely available to the community.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we analyse and discuss Germanverb-particle constructions (VPCs).
VPCs area type of multiword expressions (MWEs) whichare defined by Sag et al.
(2002) to be ?idiosyn-cratic interpretations that cross word bounderies(or spaces)?.
Kim and Baldwin (2010) extendthis explanation in their definition of MWEs be-ing ?lexical items consisting of multiple simplexwords that display lexical, syntactic, semanticand/or statistical idiosyncrasies?.VPCs are made up of a base verb and a par-ticle.
In contrast to English, where the particle isalways separated from the verb, German VPCs areseparable, meaning that the particle can either beattached as a prefix to the verb or stand separatefrom it, depending on factors such as tense andvoice, along with whether the VPC is found in amain clause or subordinate clause.The fact that German VPCs are separablemeans that word order differences between thesource and target language can occur in statisti-cal machine translation (SMT).
It has been shownthat the translation quality of translation systemscan suffer from such differences in word order(Holmqvist et al., 2012).
Since VPCs make up fora significant amount of verbs in English, as wellas in German, they are a likely source for transla-tion errors.
This makes it essential to analyse anyissues with VPCs that occur while translating, inorder to be able to develop possible improvements.In our approach, we investigate if the presenceof VPCs causes translation errors.
We do this bycreating and utilising a dataset of 236 sentences,using a collection of 59 German verb pairs, eachconsisting of a VPC and a synonymous simplexverb, a test suite that is made freely available.
Wediscuss the English translation results generatedby the popular translation systems Google Trans-late and Bing Translator and show that the pres-ence of VPCs can harm translation quality.We begin this paper by stating important relatedwork in the fields related to VPCs in Section 2 andcontinue with a detailed analysis of VPCs in Ger-man in Section 3.
In Section 4, we describe howthe data used for evaluation was compiled, and inSection 5, we give further details on the evalua-tion in terms of metrics and systems tested.
Sec-tion 6 gives an overview of the results, as well astheir discussion, where we present possible rea-sons why VPCs performed worse in the experi-ments, which finally leads to our conclusions inSection 7.
An appendix lists all the verb pairs usedto construct the test suite.2 Related WorkA lot of research has been done on the identifica-tion, classification, and extraction of VPCs, with124the majority of work done on English.
For exam-ple, Villavicencio (2005) presents a study aboutthe availability of VPCs in lexical resources andproposes an approach to use semantic classifica-tion to identify as many VPC candidates as possi-ble.
She then validates these candidates using theretrieved results from online search engines.Many linguistic studies analyse VPCs in Ger-man, or English, respectively, mostly discussingthe grammar theory that underlies the composi-tionality of MWEs in general or presenting moreparticular studies such as theories and experimentsabout language acquisition.
An example would bethe work of Behrens (1998), in which she con-trasts how German, English and Dutch childrenacquire complex verbs when they learn to speak,focusing on the differences in the acquisition ofVPCs and prefix verbs.
In another article in thisfield by M?uller (2002), the author focuses on non-transparent readings of German VPCs and de-scribes the phenomenon of how particles can befronted.Furthermore, there has been some researchdealing with VPCs in machine translation as well.In a study by Chatterjee and Balyan (2011), sev-eral rule-based solutions are proposed for howto translate English VPCs to Hindi, using theirsurrounding entities.
Another paper in this fieldby Collins et al.
(2005) presents an approach toclause restructuring for statistical machine trans-lation from German to English in which one stepconsists of moving the particle of a particle verbdirectly in front of the verb.
Moreover, eventhough their work does not directly target VPCs,Holmqvist et al.
(2012) present a method for im-proving word alignment quality by reordering thesource text according to the target word order,where they also mention that their approach is sup-posed to help with different word order caused byfinite verbs in German, similar to the phenomenonof differing word order caused by VPCs.3 German Verb-Particle ConstructionsVPCs in German are made up of a base verb anda particle.
In contrast to English, German VPCsare separable, meaning that they can occur sepa-rated, but do not necessarily have to.
This appliesonly for main clauses, as VPCs can never be sep-arated in German subordinate clauses.
Dependingon the conjugation of the verb, the particle can a)be attached to the front of the verb as prefix, ei-ther directly or with an additional morpheme, orb) be completely separated from the verb.
Theparticle is directly prefixed to the verb if it is aninfinitive construction, for example within an ac-tive voice present tense sentence using an auxil-iary (e.g., muss herausnehmen).
It is also attacheddirectly to the conjugated base verb when usinga past participle form to indicate passive voice orperfect tense (e.g., herausgenommen), or if a mor-pheme is inserted to build an infinitive construc-tion using zu (e.g., herauszunehmen).
The parti-cle is separated from the verb root in finite mainclauses where the particle verb is the main verbof the sentence (e.g., nimmt heraus).
The fol-lowing examples serve to illustrate the aforemen-tioned three forms of the non-separated case andthe one separated case.Attached:Du musst das herausnehmen.You have to take this out.Attached+perfect:Ich habe es herausgenommen.I have taken it out.Attached+zu:Es ist nicht erlaubt, das herauszunehmen.It is not allowed to take that out.Separated:Ich nehme es heraus.I take it out.Just like simplex verbs, VPCs can be transitiveor intransitive.
For the separated case, a transi-tive VPC?s base verb and particle are always splitand the object has to be positioned between them,despite the generally freer word order of German.For the non-separated case, the object is found be-tween the finite verb (normally an auxiliary) andthe VPC.Separated transitive:Sie nahm die Klamotten heraus.
*Sie nahm heraus die Klamotten.She took [out] the clothes [out].Non-separated transitive:Sie will die Klamotten herausnehmen.
*Sie will herausnehmen die Klamotten.She wants to take [out] the clothes [out].Similar to English, a three-fold classification canbe applied to German VPCs.
Depending on their125formation, they can either be classified as a) com-positional, e.g., herausnehmen (to take out), b) id-iomatic, e.g., ablehnen (to turn down, literally: tolean down), or c) aspectual, e.g., aufessen (to eatup), as proposed in Villavicencio (2005) and Deh?e(2002).Compositional:Sie nahm die Klamotten heraus.She took out the clothes.Idiomatic:Er lehnt das Jobangebot ab.He turns down the job offer.Aspectual:Sie a?
den Kuchen auf.She ate up the cake.There is another group of verbs in German whichlook similar to VPCs.
Inseparable prefix verbsconsist of a derivational prefix and a verb root.
Insome cases, these prefixes and verb particles canlook the same and can only be distinguished inspoken language.
For instance, the infinitive verbumfahren can have the following translations, de-pending on which syllable is stressed.VPC:umfahrento knock down sth./so.
(in traffic)Inseparable prefix verb:umfahrento drive around sth./so.As mentioned before, there is a clear differencebetween these two seemingly identical verbs inspoken German.
In written German, however, theplain infinitive forms of the respective verbs arethe same.
In most cases, context and use of finiteverb forms reveal the correct meaning.VPC:Sie fuhr den Mann um.She knocked down the man (with her car).Inseparable prefix verb:Sie umfuhr das Hindernis.She drove around the obstacle.For reasons of similarity, VPCs and inseparableprefix verbs are sometimes grouped together un-der the term prefix verbs, in which case VPCs arethen called separable prefix verbs.
However, sinceSimplex VPC TotalFinite sentence 59 59 118Auxiliary sentence 59 59 118Total 118 118 236Table 1: Types and number of sentences in the testsuite.the behaviour of inseparable prefix verbs is likethat of normal verbs, they will not be treated dif-ferently throughout this paper and will only serveas comparison to VPCs in the same way that anyother inseparable verbs do.4 Test SuiteIn order to find out how translation quality is in-fluenced by the presence of VPCs, we are in needof a suitable dataset to evaluate the translation re-sults of sentences containing both particle verbsand synonymous simplex verbs.
Since it seemsthat there is no suitable dataset available for thispurpose, we decided to compile one ourselves.With the help of several online dictionary re-sources, we first collected a list of candidateVPCs, based on their particle, so that as many dif-ferent particles as possible were present in the ini-tial set of verbs, while making sure that each par-ticle was only sampled a handful of times.
Wethen checked each of the VPCs for suitable sim-plex verb synonyms, finally resulting in a set of 59verb pairs, each consisting of a simplex verb and asynonymous German VPC (see Appendix A for afull list).
We allowed the two verbs of a verb pairto be partially synonymous as long as both theirsubcategorization frame and meaning was identi-cal for some cases.For each verb pair, we constructed two Germansentences in which the verbs were syntacticallyand semantically interchangeable.
The first sen-tence for each pair had to be a finite construction,where the respective simplex or particle verb wasthe main verb, containing a direct object or anykind of adverb to ensure that the particle of theparticle verb is properly separated from the verbroot.
For the second sentence, an auxiliary withthe infinitive form of the respective verb was usedto enforce the non-separated case, where the parti-cle is attached to the front of the verb.Using both verbs of each verb pair, this resultedin a test suite consisting of a total of 236 sentences(see Table 1 for an overview).
The following ex-126ample serves to illustrate the approach for the verbpair kultivieren - anbauen (to grow).Finite:Viele Bauern in dieser Gegend kultivierenRaps.
(simplex)Viele Bauern in dieser Gegend bauen Rapsan.
(VPC)Many farmers in this area grow rapeseed.Auxiliary:Kann man Steinpilze kultivieren?
(simplex)Kann man Steinpilze anbauen?
(VPC)Can you grow porcini mushrooms?The sentences were partly taken from online texts,or constructed by a native speaker.
They wereset to be at most 12 words long and the positionof the simplex verb and VPC had to be in themain clause to ensure comparability by avoidingtoo complex constructions.
Furthermore, the sen-tences could be declarative, imperative, or inter-rogative, as long as they conformed to the require-ments stated above.
The full test suite of 236 sen-tences is made freely available to the community.15 EvaluationTwo popular SMT systems, namely Google Trans-late2and Bing Translator,3were utilised to per-form German to English translation on the testsuite.
The translation results were then manuallyevaluated under the following criteria:?
Translation of the sentence: The translationof the whole sentence was judged to be ei-ther correct or incorrect.
Translations werejudged to be incorrect if they contained anykind of error, for instance grammatical mis-takes (e.g., tense), misspellings (e.g., wronguse of capitalisation), or translation errors(e.g., inappropriate word choices).?
Translation of the verb: The translation ofthe verb in each sentence was judged to becorrect or incorrect, depending on whether ornot the translated verb was appropriate in thecontext of the sentence.
It was also judged tobe incorrect if for instance only the base verbwas translated and the particle was ignored,or if the translation did not contain a verb.1http://stp.lingfil.uu.se/?ninas/testsuite.txt2http://www.translate.google.com3http://www.bing.com/translator?
Translation of the base verb: Furthermore,the translation of the base verb was judgedto be either correct or incorrect in order toshow if the particle of an incorrectly trans-lated VPC was ignored, or if the verb wastranslated incorrectly for any other reason.For VPCs, this was judged to be correct ifeither the VPC, or at least the base verb wastranslated correctly.
For simplex verbs, thejudgement for the translation of the verb andthe translation of the base verb was alwaysjudged the same, since they do not containseparable particles.The evaluation was carried out by a native speakerof German and was validated by a second Germannative speaker, both proficient in English.6 Results and DiscussionThe results of the evaluation can be seen in Table2.
In this table, we merged the results for Googleand Bing to present the key results clearly.
Fora more detailed overview of the results, includ-ing the individual scores for both Google Translateand Bing Translator, see Table 3.In the total results, we can see that on average48.3% of the 236 sentences were translated cor-rectly, while a correct target translation for thesentence?s main verb was found in 81.1% of allcases.
Moreover, 92.2% of the base verb transla-tions were judged to be correct.By looking at the results for VPCs and simplexverbs separately, we are able to break down the to-tal figures and compare them.
The first thing tonote is that only 43.2% of the sentences contain-ing VPCs were translated correctly, while the sys-tems managed to successfully translate 53.4% ofthe simplex verb sentences, showing a differenceof around 10% absolute.
The results for the verbtransitions in these sentences differ even furtherwith 71.6% of all VPC translations being judgedto be correct and 90.7% of the simplex translationsjudged to be acceptable, revealing a difference ofaround 20% absolute.Another interesting result is the translation ofthe base verb, where a correct translation wasfound in 93.6% of the cases for VPCs, meaningthat in 22.0% of the sentences the systems made amistake with a particle verb, but got the meaningof the base verb right.
This indicates that the usu-ally different meaning of the base verb can be mis-leading when translating a sentence that contains127Sentence (%) Verb (%) Base V. (%)VPC 102 (43.2%) 169 (71.6%) 221 (93.6%)Finite 47 (39.8%) 80 (67.8%) 114 (96.6%)Infinitive 55 (46.6%) 89 (75.4%) 107 (90.7%)Simplex 126 (53.4%) 214 (90.7%) 214 (90.7%)Finite 59 (50.0%) 103 (87.3%) 103 (87.3%)Infinitive 67 (56.8%) 111 (94.1%) 111 (94.1%)Total 228 (48.3%) 381 (81.1%) 435 (92.2%)Table 2: Translation results for the test suite summed over both Google Translate and Bing Translator;absolute numbers with percentages in brackets.
Sentence = correctly translated sentences, Verb = cor-rectly translated verbs, Base V. = correctly translated base verbs, Simplex = sentences containing simplexverbs, VPC = sentences containing VPCs, Finite = sentences where the target verb is finite, Infinitive =sentences where the target verb is in the infinitive.a VPC, causing a too literal translation.
Interest-ingly, many of the cases where the resulting En-glish translation was too literal are sentences thatcontain idiomatic VPCs rather than compositionalor aspectual ones, such as vorf?uhren (to demon-strate, literally: to lead ahead/before).In general, the sentences that contained finiteverb forms achieved worse results than the onescontaining infinitives.
However, the differencesare only around 7% and seem to be constant be-tween VPC and simplex verb sentences.
Takinginto account that the sentences of each sentencepair should not differ too much in terms of com-plexity, this could be a hint that finite verb formsare harder to translate than auxiliary constructions,but no definite conclusions can be drawn fromthese results.Looking at the individual results for Google andBing, however, we can see that Bing?s results showonly a small difference between finite and infini-tive verbs, whereas the scores for Google varymuch more.
Even though the overall results arestill rather worse than Google?s, Bing Translatorgets a slightly better result on both finite sim-plex verbs and VPCs, which could mean that thesystem is better when it comes to identifying theseparated particle that belongs to a particle verb.Google Translate, on the other hand, gets a notice-ably low score on finite VPC translations, namely59.3% compared to 86.4% for finite simplex verbs,or to Bing?s result of 76.3%, which clearly showsthat separated VPCs are a possible cause for trans-lation error.The following examples serve to illustrate thedifferent kinds of problems that were encounteredduring translation.Ich lege manchmal Gurken ein.Google: Sometimes I put a cucumber.Bing: I sometimes put a cucumber.A correct translation for einlegen would be topickle or to preserve.
Here, both Google Trans-late and Bing Translator seem to have used onlythe base verb legen (to put, to lay) for translationand completely ignored its particle.Ich pflanze Chilis an.Google: I plant to Chilis.Bing: I plant chilies.Here, Google Translate translated the base verb ofthe VPC anpflanzen to plant, which correspondsto the translation of pflanzen.
The VPC?s particlewas apparently interpreted as the preposition to.Furthermore, Google encountered problems trans-lating Chilis, as this word should not be writtenwith a capital letter in English and the commonlyused plural form would be chillies, chilies, or chilipeppers.
Bing Translator managed to translatethe noun correctly, but simply ignored the parti-cle and only translated the base verb, providing amuch better translation than Google, even thoughto grow would have been a more accurate choiceof word.Der Lehrer f ?uhrt das Vorgehen an einemBeispiel vor.Google: The teacher leads the procedure be-fore an example.Bing: The teacher introduces the approachwith an example.128Google BingSentence (%) Verb (%) Base V. (%) Sentence (%) Verb(%) Base V. (%)VPC 56 (47.5%) 83 (70.3%) 112 (94.9%) 46 (39.0%) 86 (72.9%) 109 (92.4%)Finite 24 (40.7%) 35 (59.3%) 57 (96.6%) 23 (39.0%) 45 (76.3%) 57 (96.6%)Infinitive 32 (54.2%) 48 (81.4%) 55 (93.2%) 23 (39.0%) 41 (69.5%) 52 (88.1%)Simplex 63 (53.4%) 108 (91.5%) 108 (91.5%) 63 (53.4%) 106 (89.8%) 106 (89.8%)Finite 28 (47.5%) 51 (86.4%) 51 (86.4%) 32 (54.2%) 54 (91.5%) 54 (91.5%)Infinitive 35 (59.3%) 57 (96.6%) 57 (96.6%) 31 (52.5%) 52 (88.1%) 52 (88.1%)Total 119 (50.4%) 191 (80.9%) 220 (93.2%) 109 (46.2%) 192 (81.4%) 215 (91.1%)Table 3: Separate results for Google Translate and Bing Translator; absolute numbers with percentages inbrackets.
Sentence = correctly translated sentences, Verb = correctly translated verbs, Base V. = correctlytranslated base verbs, Simplex = sentences containing simplex verbs, VPC = sentences containing VPCs,Finite = sentences where the target verb is finite, Infinitive = sentences where the target verb is in theinfinitive.This example shows another too literal transla-tion of the idiomatic VPC vorf?uhren (to show, todemonstrate).
Google?s translation system trans-lated the base verb f?uhren as to lead and the sep-arated particle vor as the preposition before.
Bingmanaged to translate vorf?uhren to to introducewhich could be correct in a certain context.
How-ever, in other cases this would be an inaccurateor even incorrect translation, for example if thatteacher demonstrated the approach for the secondtime.
It might be that Bing drew a connection tothe similar VPC einf?uhren which would be a suit-able translation for to introduce.Er macht schon wieder blau.Google: He?s already blue.Bing: He is again blue.In this case, the particle of the VPC blaumachen(to play truant, to throw a sickie) was translatedas if it were the adjective blau (blue).
Since Hemakes blue again is not a valid English sentence,the language model of the translation system prob-ably took a less probable translation of machen (todo, to make) and translated it to the third personsingular form of to be.These results imply that both translation sys-tems rely too much on translating the base verbthat underlies a VPC, as well as its particle sep-arately instead of resolving their connection first.While this would still be a working approach forcompositional constructions such as wegrennen(to run away), this procedure causes the transla-tions of idiomatic VPCs like einlegen (to pickle)to be incorrect.7 ConclusionsThis paper presented an analysis of how VPCs af-fect translation quality in SMT.
We illustrated thesimilarities and differences between English andGerman VPCs.
In order to investigate how thesedifferences influence the quality of SMT systems,we collected a set of 59 verb pairs, each consist-ing of a German VPC and a simplex verb that aresynonyms.
Then, we constructed a test suite of118 sentences in which the simplex verb and VPCare completely substitutable and analysed the re-sulting English translations in Google Translateand Bing Translator.
The results showed that es-pecially separated VPCs can affect the translationquality of SMT systems and cause different kindsof mistakes, such as too literal translations of id-iomatic expressions or the omittance of particles.The test suite that was created in the process of thisstudy is made accessible online, thus providing avaluable resource for future research in this field.This study focused on the identification andanalysis of issues in translating texts that containVPCs.
Therefore, practical solutions to tacklethese problems were not in the scope of thisproject, but would certainly be an interesting topicfor future work.
For instance, the work of Collinset al.
(2005) and Holmqvist et al.
(2012) could beused as a foundation for future research on how toavoid literal translations of VPCs by doing somekind of reordering first, to avoid errors caused bythe translations system not being able to identifythe base verb and the particle to be connected.Furthermore, the sentences used in this workwere rather simple and certainly did not cover allthe possible issues that can be caused by VPCs,129since the data was created manually by one per-son.
Therefore, it would be desirable to compilea more realistic dataset to be able to analyse thephenomenon of VPCs more thoroughly, as well asemploying additional people to ensure the qualityof both, the dataset and the evaluation.Moreover, it would be important to see the influ-ence of other grammatical alternations of VPCs aswell, as we only covered auxiliary infinitive con-structions and finite forms in this study.
Anotherinteresting aspect to analyse in more detail wouldbe if some of the errors are specifically related toonly one class of VPCs, e.g., if idiomatic VPCsperform worse than compositional and aspectualones.
However, this would again require a reviseddataset, where the proportion of each of the threeverb classes is about the same to ensure compara-bility.
In this study, the proportion of VPCs thatexhibited an at least slightly idiomatic meaningwas higher than for the other two verb classes.Finally, it would be interesting to see if theresults also apply to other language pairs whereVPCs can be found, as well as to change the trans-lation direction and investigate if it is an evengreater challenge to translate English VPCs intoGerman, considering that it is presumably harderto predict the correct position of verb and particle.ReferencesHeike Behrens.
How difficult are complex verbs?
Ev-idence from German, Dutch and English.
Linguis-tics, 36(4):679?712, 1998.Niladri Chatterjee and Renu Balyan.
Context Res-olution of Verb Particle Constructions for Englishto Hindi Translation.
In Helena Hong Gao andMinghui Dong, editors, PACLIC, pages 140?149.Digital Enhancement of Cognitive Development,Waseda University, 2011.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Kucerov.Clause restructuring for statistical machine transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting onAssociation for Computational Linguistics, ACL?05,pages 531?540, Stroudsburg, PA, USA, 2005.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Nicole Deh?e.
Particle Verbs in English: Syntax, Infor-mation Structure, and Intonation.
John BenjaminsPublishing Co, 2002.Maria Holmqvist, Sara Stymne, Lars Ahrenberg, andMagnus Merkel.
Alignment-based reordering forSMT.
In Nicoletta Calzolari (Conference Chair),Khalid Choukri, Thierry Declerck, Mehmet UurDoan, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mariani, Jan Odijk,and Stelios Piperidis, editors, Proceedings of theEight International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, LREC?12, Istanbul, Turkey,2012.
European Language Resources Association(ELRA).Su Nam Kim and Timothy Baldwin.
How to Pick outToken Instances of English Verb-Particle Construc-tions.
Language Resources and Evaluation, 44(1-2):97?113, 2010.Stefan M?uller.
Syntax or morphology: German parti-cle verbs revisited.
In Nicole Deh?e, Ray Jackendoff,Andrew McIntyre, and Silke Urban, editors, Verb-Particle Explorations, volume 1 of Interface Explo-rations, pages 119?139.
Mouton de Gruyter, 2002.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
Multiword Expres-sions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Proceedingsof the Third International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing,CICLing?02, pages 1?15, 2002.Aline Villavicencio.
The availability of verb-particleconstructions in lexical resources: How muchis enough?
Computer Speech & Language,19(4):415?432, 2005.Appendix A. Verb Pairsantworten - zur?uckschreiben; bedecken - ab-decken; befestigen - anbringen; beginnen -anfangen; begutachten - anschauen; beruhi-gen - abregen; bewilligen - zulassen; bitten -einladen; demonstrieren - vorf?uhren; dulden -zulassen; emigrieren - auswandern; entkommen- weglaufen; entkr?aften - auslaugen; entscheiden- festlegen; erlauben - zulassen; erschie?en -abknallen; erw?ahnen - anf?uhren; existieren -vorkommen; explodieren - hochgehen; fehlen- fernbleiben; entlassen - rauswerfen; fliehen -wegrennen; imitieren - nachahmen; immigrieren- einwandern; inhalieren - einatmen; kapitulieren- aufgeben; kentern - umkippen; konservieren- einlegen; kultivieren - anbauen; lehren -beibringen; ?offnen - aufmachen; produzieren- herstellen; scheitern - schiefgehen; schlie?en- ableiten; schw?anzen - blaumachen; sinken -abnehmen; sinken - untergehen; spendieren -ausgeben; starten - abheben; sterben - abkratzen;st?urzen - hinfallen; subtrahieren - abziehen;tagen - zusammenkommen; testen - ausprobieren;?uberfahren - umfahren; ?ubergeben - aush?andigen;?ubermitteln - durchgeben; unterscheiden - au-seinanderhalten; verfallen - ablaufen; verjagen- fortjagen; vermelden - mitteilen; verreisen -wegfahren; verschenken - weggeben; verschieben130- aufschieben; verstehen - einsehen; wachsen- zunehmen; wenden - umdrehen; zerlegen -auseinandernehmen; z?uchten - anpflanzen.URL to test suite:http://stp.lingfil.uu.se/?ninas/testsuite.txt131
