Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Health Text Mining and Information Analysis (Louhi) @ EACL 2014, pages 2?10,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Graph-Based Analysis of Medical Queriesof a Swedish Health Care PortalFarnaz Moradi1, Ann-Marie Eklund2, Dimitrios Kokkinakis2,Tomas Olovsson1, Philippas Tsigas11Computer Science and Engineering, Chalmers University of Technology, Sweden2Spra?kbanken, Department of Swedish Language, University of Gothenburg, Sweden{moradi,tomasol,tsigas}@chalmers.se1{ann-marie.eklund,dimitrios.kokkinakis}@gu.se2AbstractToday web portals play an increasinglyimportant role in health care allowing in-formation seekers to learn about diseasesand treatments, and to administrate theircare.
Therefore, it is important that theportals are able to support this processas well as possible.
In this paper, westudy the search logs of a public Swedishhealth portal to address the questions ifhealth information seeking differs fromother types of Internet search and if thereis a potential for utilizing network analy-sis methods in combination with semanticannotation to gain insights into search be-haviors.
Using a semantic-based methodand a graph-based analysis of word co-occurrences in queries, we show there isan overlap among the results indicating apotential role of these types of methods togain insights and facilitate improved infor-mation search.
In addition we show thatsamples, windows of a month, of searchlogs may be sufficient to obtain similar re-sults as using larger windows.
We alsoshow that medical queries share the samestructural properties found for other typesof information searches, thereby indicat-ing an ability to re-use existing analysismethods for this type of search data.1 IntroductionQuery logs which are obtained from search en-gines contain a wealth of information about thelanguage used in the logs and the behavior ofusers.
Searching for health and medical relatedinformation is quite common, and therefore anal-ysis of query logs of medical websites can give usinsight into the language being used and the infor-mation needs of the users in the medical domain.In this study, we analyze 36 months of querylogs from a Swedish health care portal, which pro-vides health, disease, and medical information.On one hand, we perform a semantic enhancementon the queries to allow analysis of the languageand the vocabulary which has been used in thequeries.
On the other hand, we perform a graph-based analysis of the queries, where a word co-occurrence graph is generated from the queries.In a word co-occurrence graph each node corre-sponds to a word and an edge exists between twowords if they have co-occurred in the same query.Our study reveals that a word co-occurrencegraph generated from medical query logs has thesame structural and temporal properties, i.e., smallworld properties and power law degree distribu-tion, which has been observed for other types ofnetworks generated from query logs and differ-ent types of real-world networks such as wordassociation graphs.
Therefore, the existing algo-rithms and data mining techniques can be applieddirectly for analysis of word co-occurrence graphsobtained from health search.One of the widely studied structural propertiesof real-world networks is the communities in thesenetworks.
In this study, we apply a state-of-the-artlocal community detection algorithm on the wordco-occurrence graph.
A community detection al-gorithm can uncover a graph community whichis a group of words that have co-occurred mostlywith each other but not with the rest of the words inthe network.
The community detection algorithmused in this study is based on random walks on thegraph and can find overlapping communities.The communities of words, identified from thegraph, are then compared with the communitiesof words obtained from a semantic analysis of thequeries.
In semantic enhancement, if a word orterm in a query exists in medical oriented seman-tic resources, it is assigned a label.
The wordsand terms which have co-occurred with these la-2bels are used to create a semantic community.
Wehave compared the obtained semantic communi-ties with the graph communities using a well-known similarity measure and observed that thecommunities identified from these two differentapproaches overlap.
Moreover, we observed thatthe graph communities can cover the vast major-ity of the words in the queries while the semanticcommunities do not cover many words.
Therefore,the graph-based analysis can be used to improveand complement the semantic analysis.Furthermore, we study the effect of the timewindow lengths for analysis of log queries.
Ourgoal is to investigate whether short snapshots oflog queries also can be useful for this type of anal-ysis, and how the increase in the size of the logfiles over time can affect the results.The reminder of this paper is organized as fol-lows.
In Section 2 we review the related work.Section 3 presents the Swedish log corpus used forthis study.
Section 4 describes the semantic en-hancement on the query logs.
In Section 5 we de-scribe the graph analysis methods.
Section 6 sum-marizes our experimental results.
Finally, Sec-tion 7 concludes our work.2 Related WorkIn this paper, we study the co-occurrence of wordsin medical queries and perform both a semanticand graph analysis to identify and compare thecommunities of related words.
In this section, webriefly present a number of related works whichdeal with analysis of query logs.Query logs have been previously studied foridentifying clusters of similar queries.
In (Wenet al., 2001) a method was described for cluster-ing similar queries using different notions of querydistance, such as string matching of keywords.In (Baeza-Yates et al., 2004) clicked Web page in-formation (terms in URLs) was used in order tocreate term-weight vector models for queries, andcosine similarity was used to calculate the similar-ity of two queries based on their vector represen-tations.Several previous works have also dealt withgraph analysis of query logs.
In (Baeza-Yates,2007) several graph-based relations were de-scribed among queries based on different sourcesof information, such as words in the text of thequery, clicked URL terms, clicks and session in-formation.
In (Herdagdelen et al., 2009) vec-tor space models were compared, by embeddingthem in graphs, and graph random walk mod-els in order to determine similarity between con-cepts, and showed that some random walk mod-els can achieve results as good as or even betterthan the vector models.
In (Gaillard and Gaume,2011), it was shown that drawing clusters of syn-onyms in which pairs of nodes have a strong con-fluence is a strong indication of aiding two syn-onymy graphs accommodate each others?
conflict-ing edges.
Their work was a step for defininga similarity measure between graphs that is notbased on edge-to-edge disagreement but rather onstructural agreement.3 Material - a Swedish Log CorpusThe Stockholm Health Care Guide, http://www.vardguiden.se/, is the official healthinformation web site of the County of Stockholm,sponsored by the Stockholm County Council andused mostly by people living in the Stockholmarea and provides information on diseases, healthand health care.
In January 2013 the StockholmCounty Council reported that vardguiden.se hadtwo million visitors per month.
As of Novem-ber 2013, vardguiden.se and another similar por-tal, 1177.se (which was a common web site forSwedish regions and counties, and the official na-tional telephone number for health informationand advice), are merged into one called 1177Va?rdguiden, sharing the same interface and searchengine.
The corpus data used in this study con-sists of the search queries for the period Octo-ber 2010 to the end of September 2013.
Thedata is provided by vardguiden.se, through anagreement with the company Euroling AB whichprovides indexing and searching functionality tovardguiden.se.
We obtained 67 million queries intotal, where 27 million are unique before any kindof normalization, and 2.2 million after case fold-ing.
Figure1 shows an example of a query log.Information acquisition from query logs can beuseful for several purposes and potential types ofusers, such as terminologists, infodemiologists,epidemiologists, medical data and web analysts,specialists in NLP technologies such as informa-tion retrieval and text mining, as well as, publicofficials in health and safety organizations.
Anal-ysis of web query logs can provide useful infor-mation regarding when and how users seek infor-mation for topics covered by the site (Bar-Ilan et3Q   929C0C14C209C3399CAE7AEC6DB92251   1377986505    symptom brist folsyra hidden:meta:region:00     =    13    1    -N    -     sv      =Q   2E6CD9E0071057E4BEDC0E52B0B0BDAC   1377986578    folsyra hidden:meta:region:00 =    36    1    -N    -     sv    =Q   527049C35E3810C45B22461C4CCB2C23    1377986649    kroppens anatomi hidden:meta:region:01    =    25    1    -N    -    sv    =Q   F86B6B133154FD247C1525BAF169B387    1377986685    stroke hidden:meta:region:00    =    320    1    -N    -     sv    =Q   17CCB738766C545BFE3899C71A22DE3B    1377986807    diabetes typ 2 vad beror p?
hidden:meta:region:12 =     61    1    -N    -    sv    =Figure 1: Example queries.
A query consist of (Q)uery, session ID, time stamp, search query, metadata,number of links returned, the batch ID of the visited link, (N)o spelling suggestions, Swedish search.al., 2009).
Such information can be used both fora general understanding of public health aware-ness and the information seeking patterns of users,and for optimizing search indexing, query comple-tion and presentation of results for improved pub-lic health information.
For an overview of somecommon applications and methods for log analy-sis see (Oliner et al., 2011).Deeper mining into queries can reveal more im-portant information about search engine users andtheir language use and also new information fromthe search requests; cf.
(Medelyan, 2004).
The ba-sis for Search Analytics is made of different kindsof logs of search terms and presented and chosenresults by web site users (Mat-Hassan and Levene,2005).
At a syntactic level queries may containe.g., synonyms and hyponyms, and to be able tostudy patterns of search behavior at a more ab-stract level, we map the syntactic terms to seman-tic concepts.
To our knowledge this is the first ofits kind resource for Swedish and as such it canbe used as a test bed for experimental work in un-derstanding the breadth and depth of usage pat-terns, the properties of the resource and the chal-lenges involved in working with such type of data.The only study we are aware of using Swedish logdata, in the context of health-related information,is described by (Hulth et al., 2009).
In their study,three million search logs from vardguiden.se (June05 to June 07) were used for the purpose of in-fluenza surveillance in Sweden, and seven symp-toms, roughly corresponding to cough, sore throat,shortness of breath, coryza (head cold), fever,headache, myalgia (muscle pain) were studied.4 Semantic EnhancementDescription of various corpus analytics that en-ables us to gain insights into the language usedin the logs; e.g., terminology and general vocab-ulary provide, to a certain degree, an indicationof the search strategies applied by the users ofthe web site service from where the logs are ob-tained.
Findings can serve as background workthat, e.g., can be incorporated in search engines orother web-based applications to personalize searchresults, provide specific site recommendations andsuggest more precise search terms, e.g., by theautomatic identification of laymen/novices or do-main experts.
The logs have been automaticallyannotated with two medically-oriented semanticresources (Kokkinakis, 2011) and a named en-tity recognizer (Kokkinakis, 2004).
The seman-tic resources are the Systematized Nomenclatureof Medicine - Clinical Terms (SNOMED CT) andthe National Repository for Medicinal Products(NPL, http://www.lakemedelsverket.se/)1.
We perceive all these resources as highlycomplementary for our task since the SwedishSNOMED CT does not contain drug names and ofcourse none of the two contain information aboutnamed entities.4.1 SNOMED CT and NPLSNOMED CT provides a common language thatenables consistency in capturing, storing, retriev-ing, sharing and aggregating health data acrossspecialties and sites of care.
SNOMED CT pro-vides codes and concept definitions for most clin-ical areas.
SNOMED CT concepts are orga-nized into 18 top-level hierarchies, such as BodyStructure and Clinical Finding, each subdividedinto several sub-hierarchies and contains around280,000 terms.
More detailed information aboutSNOMED CT can be found at the InternationalHealth Terminology Standards Development Or-ganisation?s web site, IHTSDO, at: http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/.The NPL is the official Swedish product reg-istry for drugs and contains 11,250 entries.
Ev-ery product in the registry contains metadata about1Named entities have not been used for this study.
How-ever, we intend to use them in future studies.
Neverthe-less, the named entity annotation includes the ontologicalcategories location, organization, person, time, and measureentities.
Such entities can capture a wide range of entitiessearched by in such logs such as addresses to health care cen-ters and various health care organizations.4its substance(s), names, dosages, producers andclassifications, like prescription and AnatomicalTherapeutic Chemical codes (ATC).
For instance,for the question ?missbruk st go?ranssjukhus?
(?abuse st go?ran hospital?)
from the query ?Q \tC7ED234574EE24 \t 1326104437 \t missbruk stgo?ranssjukhus meta:category:PageType;Article \t= \t 0 \t ...?
(here ?\t?
signals a tab separation), weadd three new tab-delimited columns (named en-tity label, SNOMED-CT, NPL or N/A if no matchcan be made) to each query.
In this case, the threeadded columns for this particular query will getthe labels ?FUNCT-ENT?, ?finding?32709003?missbruk?
and ?N/A?
(no annotation), where thefirst stands for a FUNCTional-ENTity, the secondfor a finding category with concept-id ?32709003?and ?missbruk?
as the recommended term.4.2 Semantic CommunitiesWe use the semantic labels obtained from the se-mantic enhancement to group words into commu-nities.
Communities can be used for getting in-sight into the language and the related words be-ing used for medical search.
The words which arematched with the same semantic label are clearlyrelevant to each other as they belong to the samesemantic hierarchy.
For each semantic label, wecreate a set of all the words in the queries whichreceived this label.
In other words, the words inqueries that co-occurred with the same label areassumed to belong to the same community.We have generated such communities only fromSNOMED CT and NPL labels and refer to themas semantic communities in the rest of the paper.As an example, the community {borrelia, serolo-giska, blodprover, test, serologisk, testning} wasobtained from the queries which received the label?qualifier value?27377004?serologisk?.5 Graph AnalysisQuery log data can be modeled using differenttypes of graphs (Baeza-Yates, 2007).
In this study,we have generated a word co-occurrence graph,in which each node corresponds to a word andtwo nodes are connected with an edge if theyhave appeared in the same query.
The generatedgraph is undirected and unweighted and has nomultiedges.
To generate the graph we have usedthe words as they appeared in the logs, i.e., wedid not replace words with their synonyms, cor-rect misspellings, or translate non-Swedish words10^{0}10^{1}10^{2}10^{3}10^{4}10^{5}10^{6}10^{0} 10^{1} 10^{2} 10^{3} 10^{4} 10^{5}CountDegreeFigure 2: The degree distribution of the co-occurrence graph.to Swedish.
For example, ?eye?, ?o?ga?, ?o?gat?,?o?gon?, and ?o?gonen?
appear as five differentnodes in the graph but mean the same thing.The graph G(V,E) generated from the querieswhich contained two or more words has |V | =265,785 nodes and |E| = 1,555,149 edges.
Thewords in one-word queries which did not co-occurwith any other words could not be considered forthe graph analysis.
The generated graph consistsof 6,688 connected components.
A connectedcomponent is a group of nodes where a path existsbetween any pair of them.
The largest connectedcomponent of the graph, also known as giant con-nected component (GCC), contains around 95% ofthe nodes in the graph.It was shown in (Ferrer i Cancho and Sole?,2001), that a graph generated from the co-occurrence of words in sentences in human lan-guages, exhibit two structural properties that othertypes of complex networks have, i.e, the graph is asmall world network and it has a power-law degreedistribution (Baraba?si and Albert, 1999).
Laterstudies on different types of word graphs have alsobeen shown to follow the above properties.
In thispaper, we also show that a word co-occurrencegraph generated from medical queries exhibits thesame structural properties.In small world networks, there is a short pathconnecting any pair of nodes in the GCC ofthe network.
This property can be examinedby calculating the effective diameter of the net-work (Leskovec et al., 2007).
Small word net-works also are highly clustered and therefore havea high clustering coefficient value.
The effectivediameter of our co-occurrence graph is 4.88, andit has an average clustering coefficient of 0.34.These values confirm that our word co-occurrencegraph is a small world network.5Table 1: Structural properties of the word co-occurrence graph over time.Time window |V | |E| |VGCC| clustering coeff.
effective diameter1 month 16,045 52,403 14,877 0.29 5.473 months 30,681 168,045 29,220 0.30 5.426 months 48,229 298,331 46,435 0.31 5.3812 months 69,380 414,643 67,245 0.32 4.9736 months 265,785 1,555,149 251,597 0.34 4.88The degree distribution of the co-occurrencegraph is shown in Figure 2.
It can be seen thatthe degree distribution follows a power law distri-bution.
This observation is similar to the observa-tions presented by (Baeza-Yates and Tiberi, 2007)that almost all the measures of a graph generatedfrom query log files follow power laws.
There-fore, the user behavior in medical search doesnot seem different from general search behavior.In addition to networks of word relations, powerlaw degree distributions have also been observedin social, information, and interaction networkswhere there are many nodes with low degrees anda few nodes with very high degrees (Clauset et al.,2009).
The word with the highest degree in ourgraph is ?barn?
(child/children) which has 17,086edges.
Some other high-degree nodes are ?sjuk-dom?
(disease), ?behandling?
(treatment), ?ont?
(pain), ?gravid?
(pregnant), and ?feber?
(fever).We have also looked into how the struc-tural properties of the word co-occurrence graphchange over time as the graph increases in sizewith an increasing number of queries.
Table 1summarizes the results.
It can be seen that similarto many other networks, the diameter of the graphshrinks when more nodes become connected andits average clustering coefficient does not changemuch as the graph becomes larger.Overall, the structural properties of the word co-occurrence graph are similar to many other real-world networks.
Although it was shown in (Yanget al., 2011) that the queries and information needsof medical practitioners in accessing electronichealth records are different from users of generalsearch engines, our analysis reveals that there aresimilarities between information seeking of gen-eral users on health data and on general data.Therefore, the algorithms introduced for analy-sis of such networks can be directly deployed foranalysis of word co-occurrence graphs.5.1 Graph Community DetectionOne of the widely studied structural properties ofreal-world networks is their community structure.A community, also known as a cluster, is definedas a group of nodes in a graph which have denseconnections to each other, but have few connec-tions to the rest of the nodes in the network.
Therehave been numerous studies on the communitystructure of social and information networks and avariety of algorithms have been proposed for iden-tifying the communities in these networks.
A thor-ough overview of different types of communitydetection algorithms can be found in (Fortunato,2010; Xie et al., 2013).Community detection algorithms can be dividedinto global and local algorithms.
The global al-gorithms require a global knowledge of the entirestructure of the network to be able to find its com-munities.
Therefore, these types of algorithms donot scale well for log analysis since query logsare usually very large and are continuously grow-ing.
The local algorithms, on the other hand,only require a partial knowledge of the networkand therefore can identify network communitiesin parallel.
However, the identified communitiesmight not cover all the nodes in a network.Moreover, community detection algorithms canbe divided into overlapping and non-overlappingalgorithms.
Traditional partitioning and clusteringalgorithms typically divide the nodes in a networkinto disjoint communities.
But in many real net-works, a node can actually belong to more thanone community.
For example, in a social net-work, a user can belong to a community of fam-ily members, a community of friends, and a com-munity of colleagues.
In a co-occurrence graph,a symptom can co-occur with different types ofdiseases.
Therefore, a community detection algo-rithm which can identify overlapping communitiesis more suitable for analysis of the graphs gener-ated from search queries.For the analysis of log queries, we have used alocal overlapping community detection algorithm.This algorithm is a random walk-based algorithmwhich uses an approximation of a personalizedPageRank (Andersen and Lang, 2006; Andersen6et al., 2006) and is shown to perform well in de-tecting real communities in social and interactionnetworks (Yang and Leskovec, 2012).
The algo-rithm starts from a seed node and expands the seedinto a community until a scoring function is op-timized.
One of the widely used functions forcommunity detection is conductance.
The con-ductance of a community C in a graph G(V,E)is defined as ?
(C) = m(C)min(vol(C),vol(V \C)), wherem(C) is the number of inter-cluster edges andvol(C) =?v?Cdeg(v) is the volume of a com-munity and corresponds to the sum of the degreeof all the nodes in the community.
The lower theconductance of a community, the better quality thecommunity has.
The complexity of this algorithmis independent of the size of the network and onlydepends on the size of the target communities.6 Experimental ResultsIn this section we present our experimental resultsand discuss the possible applications for graph-based analysis of medical data.6.1 Semantic and Graph AnalysisFrom the semantic enhancement, we have gener-ated 16,427 unique semantic communities whichcover less than 11% of the nodes in the network.This means that, the majority of the queries inthe network did not contain words that match themedical concepts provided by of SNOMED CTand NPL.
This observation suggests that a seman-tic enhancement of queries on its own is not ade-quate for understanding the relations between allthe words used in medical search.For the graph analysis, we have used the lo-cal overlapping community detection algorithmof (Yang and Leskovec, 2012) to identify the com-munities from the co-occurrence graph generatedfrom the complete query logs.
The algorithm iden-tified 107,765 unique communities in the GCC ofthe graph with average conductance 0.74.
Thisshows that the communities are not well separatedfrom each other and that there are many edges be-tween distinct communities.
Moreover, the identi-fied communities cover 93% of the nodes in thenetwork which means that the graph analysis ismore suitable for the study of the relations be-tween the words than the semantic analysis.The semantic communities and the graph com-munities are both dependent on the co-occurrenceof words in queries, but identify communities dif-ferently.
The semantic method places the nodeswhich belong to the same semantic hierarchy to-gether with the words that co-occurred with themin the same community.
However, the graph-basedmethod places the words based on the structure ofthe generated network in the communities.We have compared and calculated the similaritybetween the graph communities and the semanticcommunities using the jaccard index which is de-fined as JI(C, S) = |C?S||C?S|.
The jaccard indexshows the normalized size of the overlap betweena graph community C and a semantic communityS.
Similarity functions, including Jaccard, havebeen used before for measuring the distance of twodifferent queries.
In this study we use similarity toassess the similarity of communities of words ob-tained from the two distinct methods.We have compared each semantic communitywith all the graph communities and show the sim-ilarity distribution in Figure 3.
It can be seen thatthe majority of the communities partially over-lap.
As an example, from the word ?tandsjuk-dom?
(dental disease) as the seed, we identi-fied the graph community {tandsjukdom, licken,munha?leproblem, rubev, emalj, ta?ndernaamelin,hypopla, permanentata?nder, lixhen, hypoplazy,hipoplasy, hypoplazi, bortno?tt, hipoplazy}.
Fromthe semantic enhancement, ?tandsjukdom?
and?tandsjukdomar?
both have received semantic la-bel ?disorder?234947003?tandsjukdom?.
Fromthe queries which received this label we havegenerated the semantic community {tandsjukdom,emalj, olika, vanligaste, tandsjukdomar, licken,plack, ovanliga}.
The similarity of these commu-nities is low, i.e., 0.16, however, they both containthe words which are clearly relevant to teeth anddental diseases.As another example, ?osteoklast?
and ?osteok-laster?
both receive the semantic label ?cell?27770000?osteoklast?.
From the graph analysis,we have found {osteoklaster, osteoblster, osteo-cyter, osteoblaster} as a community with ?osteok-laster?
as the seed.
We have also obtained thesemantic community {osteoblaster, osteoklast, os-teoporos, osteocyter, bensko?rhet, osteoklaster, os-teoblster}.
In this example, the graph communityis a subset of the semantic community, and theirsimilarity is 0.57.
The above examples suggestthat a graph-based analysis of medical queries canbe used to complement the semantic analysis.70 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1050100150200250300350400450Jaccard SimilarityCount(a) one month0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 101002003004005006007008009001000Jaccard SimilarityCount(b) 6 months0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 10200400600800100012001400Jaccard SimilarityCount(c) 12 months0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1050010001500200025003000Jaccard SimilarityCount(d) 36 monthsFigure 3: The distributions of jaccard similarity of semantic-based and graph-based communities.6.2 Frequent Co-Occurrence AnalysisIn the query logs, we observed that there are manymisspellings, meaningless words, etc.
In order toclear the dataset, it is common in different studiesof log files, to filter out queries which appearedless frequently.
By removing such queries, we candramatically reduce the number of such words.In this study, we have generated another graphfrom the words which co-occurred frequently indifferent queries.
We have only considered wordsthat co-occurred five times or more, and the graphcontains 32,449 nodes and 217,320 edges, withaverage clustering coefficient of 0.29 and effectivediameter of 5.66.In the GCC of this graph we found 22,890 graphcommunities with average conductance of 0.65and coverage of 95%.
Moreover, we have alsoused the words which co-occurred at least fivetimes to generate the semantic communities.
Thesimilarity of these communities with graph com-munities using jaccard similarity was 0.16 in av-erage which is slightly lower than when no filter-ing was used.
Overall, our observations suggestthat filtering can be used to reduce the noise in thedatasets and allow us to perform a faster analysison a smaller graph.6.3 Time Window AnalysisAnother property which we have empirically stud-ied in this paper is the effect of time windowlength during which the queries are analyzed.
Wehave observed that, in average, more than 31%of the nodes and 12% of the edges have re-appeared in each month compared to their pre-vious month.
This suggests that the search con-tent changes over time perhaps depending on thechanges in the monthly or seasonal information re-quirements of the users.
It also means that overtime the size of the word co-occurrence graph in-creases (see Table 1), and since in each month newco-occurrences shape, the graph becomes moreand more connected.
Therefore, when the timewindow is long, the analysis requires more timeand the identified communities do not have goodconductance.
When the time window is short, thesmall size of the graph speeds up the analysis butmight affect the analysis result.
In this section weinvestigate the effect of time window length on ouranalysis.We started by setting the time window length toone month.
From the queries which were observedduring each month, we generated a co-occurrencegraph and identified the graph communities andthe semantic communities.
As presented in Sec-tion 5, the structural properties of a graph gen-erated from one month are quite similar to thatof the complete graph.
We have also observedthat the average conductance of the communitiesidentified by the community detection algorithm isaround 0.5 which is lower than when the completegraph was used.
This means that the communitiesin the graphs generated from one month of querieshave better quality since they have fewer connec-tions to the rest of the graph.8We observed that the similarities betweengraph communities and semantic communities arehigher when a one-month window is used (in av-erage 0.26).
By increasing the length of the timewindow from one to three, six, twelve, and thirty-six months, we observed a reduction in the simi-larities (in average 0.23, 0.22, 0.21, and 0.19, re-spectively).
The similarity distributions are shownin Figure 3.
It seems that with more queriesover time, more words get connected and it be-comes more difficult to identify good communi-ties.
Therefore, using short time windows can im-prove the quality of the analysis.
Moreover, anal-ysis of different time windows can also shed lighton how the word relations and user requirementsare affected by the months or seasons of the year.6.4 DiscussionOur empirical analysis of a large-scale query logof medical related search presented in this papercan be used to improve our knowledge of the ter-minology and general vocabulary, as well as thesearch strategies of the users.
In addition to pro-viding a background for language analysis, a po-tential application for community detection couldbe to provide better spelling suggestions to users.We have observed that there are communities withvery low conductance which contain a number ofwords which seem to correspond to guessing at-tempts to find a correct spelling, e.g., {shoulder,froozen, frosen, cholder, sholder, fingers, frozen,scholder, shulder, schoulder, shoulders}.
The lowconductance of the community means that thecommunity is very isolated and has very few edgesoutside it and therefore it can easily be cut from thegraph.
Therefore, the community detection can beused for identifying such cases.Another potential application of our graph anal-ysis method is to provide recommendations andsuggest more precise search terms based on thewords that appear in the same community as thekeywords entered by the users.
For example, sincethe communities can overlap, each word can be-long to more than one graph community or se-mantic community.
We observed that in average,in the complete graph (generated from 36 monthsof logs), each word belongs to 3.8 unique graphcommunities and 3.6 semantic communities.
Itmeans that a word which can be related to mul-tiple groups of words or have different meanings,can belong to several communities.
This knowl-edge can potentially be used to provide sugges-tions to the users and help them to select the in-tended meaning and therefore reducing the ambi-guity in the searched queries.Overall, in this paper, we have presenteda promising approach for analysis of medicalqueries using co-occurrence graphs.
As a futurework, the following improvements could be of in-terest for complementing our empirical study:?
Representing different variations of thewords with only a single node in the graph,e.g., ?o?ga?
for ?o?gat?, and ?o?gon?.?
Filtering out the non-medical related wordssuch as person and location entities fromthe queries based on the semantic enhance-ment with name entities from NER.
Overall,more than 136,000 queries contained a per-son name entity, and around 127,000 con-tained a place entity.?
Filtering out high frequency words/termswhich do not have medical significance, e.g.,?olika?
(different).7 ConclusionsOur analysis of a large-scale medical query logcorpus is the first step towards understanding thelanguage and the word relations in health/medicalrelated queries.
We have performed a semanticenhancement of queries based on medically re-lated semantic resources to find the communitiesof words which have co-occurred with a semanticlabel.
We have also performed a graph-based anal-ysis of the word co-occurrences and have shownthat since a word co-occurrence graph has similarstructural properties to many types of real-worldnetworks, existing algorithms for network analysiscan be deployed for our study.
We then have useda random walk-based community detection algo-rithm in order to identify communities of wordsin our graph.
Our empirical results show that thecommunities identified from the semantic analysisand the graph analysis overlap, however the graph-based analysis can identify many more commu-nities and achieves much higher coverage of thewords in the queries.
Therefore, the graph-basedanalysis can be used in order to improve and com-plement the semantic analysis.
Our experimentsalso show that short time window lengths for anal-ysis of query logs, such as a month, would sufficefor graph-based analysis of medical queries.98 AcknowledgmentsWe are thankful to Adam Blomberg, CTO, Eurol-ing AB for providing the log data.
We are alsothankful for the support by the Centre for Lan-guage Technology (http://clt.gu.se).ReferencesReid Andersen and Kevin Lang.
2006.
Communitiesfrom seed sets.
In Proceedings of the 15th interna-tional conference on World Wide Web - WWW ?06,page 223.
ACM Press.Reid Andersen, Fan Chung, and Kevin Lang.
2006.Local Graph Partitioning using PageRank Vectors.In 2006 47th Annual IEEE Symposium on Founda-tions of Computer Science (FOCS?06), pages 475?486.
IEEE.Ricardo Baeza-Yates and Alessandro Tiberi.
2007.Extracting semantic relations from query logs.
Pro-ceedings of the 13th ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery and data min-ing - KDD ?07, page 76.Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Carlos Hurtado, and MarceloMendoza.
2004.
Query Clustering for BoostingWeb Page Ranking.
In Advances in Web Intelli-gence, volume 3034, pages 164?175.
Springer.Ricardo Baeza-Yates.
2007.
Graphs from Search En-gine Queries.
In Theory and Practice of ComputerScience, volume 4362, pages 1?8.
Springer.Judit Bar-Ilan, Zheng Zhu, and Mark Levene.
2009.Topic-specific analysis of search queries.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2009 workshop on Web Search ClickData - WSCD ?09, pages 35?42.
ACM Press.A.L.
Baraba?si and R. Albert.
1999.
Emer-gence of Scaling in Random Networks.
Science,286(5439):509.Aaron Clauset, Cosma Rohilla Shalizi, and M. E. J.Newman.
2009.
Power-Law Distributions in Em-pirical Data.
SIAM Review, 51(4):661?703, Novem-ber.R Ferrer i Cancho and R V Sole?.
2001.
The smallworld of human language.
Proceedings.
Biologi-cal sciences / The Royal Society, 268(1482):2261?5,November.Santo Fortunato.
2010.
Community detection ingraphs.
Physics Reports, 486(3-5):75?174, Febru-ary.Beno?
?t Gaillard and Bruno Gaume.
2011.
Invariantsand Variability of Synonymy Networks : Self Me-diated Agreement by Confluence.
In Proceedingsof the TextGraphs-6 Workshop (Graph-based Algo-rithms for Natural Language Processing), pages 15?23.Amac?
Herdagdelen, Katrin Erk, and Marco Baroni.2009.
Measuring semantic relatedness with vectorspace models and random walks.
In In Proceedingsof the TextGraphs-4 (Graph-based Methods for Nat-ural Language Processing), pages 50?53.Anette Hulth, Gustaf Rydevik, and Annika Linde.2009.
Web queries as a source for syndromicsurveillance.
PloS one, 4(2):e4378, January.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2004.
Reducing the Effectof Name Explosion.
In In Proceedings of theLREC Workshop: Beyond Named Entity Recog-nition, Semantic Labelling for NLP tasks.
FourthLanguage Resources and Evaluation Conference(LREC), pages 1?6.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2011.
What is the Cover-age of SNOMED CTon Scientific Medical Corpora?MIE: XXIII International Conference of the Euro-pean Federation for Medical Informatics.
Studies inHealth Technology and Informatics, 169:814 ?
818.Jure Leskovec, Jon Kleinberg, and Christos Faloutsos.2007.
Graph Evolution: Densification and Shrink-ing Diameters.
ACM Transactions on KnowledgeDiscovery from Data, 1(1):2?es, March.Mazlita Mat-Hassan and Mark Levene.
2005.
Asso-ciating search and navigation behavior through loganalysis.
Journal of the American Society for In-formation Science and Technology, 56(9):913?934,July.Olena Medelyan.
2004.
Why Not Use Query LogsAs Corpora?
In Proceedings of the Ninth ESSLLIStudent Session, pages 1?10.Adam Oliner, U C Berkeley, and Archana Ganapathi.2011.
Advances and Challenges in Log AnalysisLogs contain a wealth of information for help inmanaging systems .
Queue - Log Analysis, pages1?11.Ji-rong Wen, Jian-yun Nie, and Hong-Jiang Zhang.2001.
Clustering user queries of a search engine.
InProceedings of the tenth international conference onWorld Wide Web - WWW ?01, pages 162?168.
ACMPress.Jierui Xie, S Kelley, and BK Szymanski.
2013.
Over-lapping community detection in networks: the stateof the art and comparative study.
ACM ComputingSurveys, 45(4).Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec.
2012.
Defining andevaluating network communities based on ground-truth.
In Proceedings of the IEEE InternationalConference on Data Mining (ICDM), pages 1?8.Lei Yang, Qiaozhu Mei, Kai Zheng, and David aHanauer.
2011.
Query log analysis of an electronichealth record search engine.
AMIA ...
Annual Sym-posium proceedings / AMIA Symposium.
AMIA Sym-posium, 2011:915?24, January.10
