Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 15?20,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Student Leaders from MOOC Discussion Forums throughLanguage InfluenceSeungwhan Moon Saloni Potdar Lara MartinLanguage Technology InstituteCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213{seungwhm, spotdar, ljmartin}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractIdentifying and understanding the motiva-tions of student leaders from MassivelyOpen Online Course (MOOC) discussionforums provides the key to making the on-line learning environment engaging, col-laborative, and instructive.
In this pa-per, we propose to identify student lead-ers solely based on textual features, orspecifically by analyzing how they influ-ence other students?
language.
We proposean improved method of measuring lan-guage accommodation based on people?schoice of words given a semantic topic ofinterest, and show that student leaders in-deed coordinate other students?
languageusage.
We also show that our proposedmethod can successfully distinguish stu-dent leaders from the two MOOC discus-sion forum datasets.1 IntroductionOne of the challenges Massively Open OnlineCourses (MOOCs) face is that they lack a phys-ical medium that enables active real-time interac-tion between students and instructors, especiallywhen compared to the offline learning environ-ment.
While online discussion forums in MOOCsplay an important role in bridging this gap, the?massiveness?
of the student size makes it hardfor instructors to provide sufficient feedback or an-swers to students?
questions in a timely manner.It is often the student leaders who accommo-date this situation by voluntarily helping other stu-dents and answering their questions in discussionforums.
The student leaders encourage other stu-dents to participate in the discussion and make theonline learning experience much more collabora-tive and engaging.
Therefore, it is important toidentify student leaders and understand their mo-tivations, thus promoting more students to act likeleaders.
Identifying leadership in MOOCs alsobrings new insights to the multi-dimensional eval-uation of students in online courses.
This signif-icantly builds upon previous literature that evalu-ates students taking MOOCs solely based on theirtask-oriented performance (Foltz and Rosenstein,2013; Basu et al., 2013).Identifying student leaders in MOOC coursesis a challenging task, as illustrated in Figure 1.While most of the student leaders actively inter-act with other students in a large cluster of people,some student leaders only lead a small clique ofstudents.
Activeness of student participation can-not be a sole measure to identify student leaders,because there are a number of active ?questioners?who exhibit very different motivations from stu-dent leaders.
This challenge inspires us to lookclosely at the language of the leaders in order toidentify them.The task of identifying leaders has been wellstudied in various domains, but the challenge is of-ten unique to the specific property of an online net-work or a community.
For example, a frequency-based data mining approach has been proven par-ticularly successful for a social network with astrong visibility control (e.g.
a friend network) anda discrete set of user actions (e.g.
sharing of a post,etc.)
(Goyal et al., 2008; Bodendorf and Kaiser,2009; Shafiq et al., 2013).
In their work, theyidentify leaders by tracking how a certain actiongets shared and propagated among a given net-work of users.
However, it is challenging to applythis approach for identifying leaders from MOOCdiscussion forums, because a visibility network ofusers or community actions are not clearly definedin MOOCs.For an online community forum where thequery information and use pattern are accessible,several studies have proposed to use the link struc-ture and the topic information about users to iden-tify opinion leaders (Li et al., 2013; Pal and Kon-15Figure 1: An interaction graph of the PythonMOOC discussion forum where each node andedge represents a student and an interaction of twostudents within the forum (e.g.
enough numberof conversation exchanges above a threshold), re-spectively.
Larger white nodes refer to the an-notated student leaders.
While most of the lead-ers are highly connected (actively interacting withother students), note that the white nodes may alsoappear in small cliques as well.
Some of the highlyconnected nodes are not labeled as leaders, whomwe refer to as active ?questioners?.stan, 2010; Sharara et al., 2011).
They employfeatures such as PageRank, HITS, and other non-linguistic features such as longevity (how long theperson has stayed on the forum), etc., all of whichserve as a cue in determining and identifying theextent of users?
expertise and influence.While some of the MOOC datasets provide thisinformation, in this paper we only focus on thetextual features of the MOOC discussion forumsso that we can target general MOOC datasets.
Weshow that we can identify leaders as role modelswho influence through language, and show howa community norm may form within a short lifespan of an online course via student leaders.
Wealso propose a new approach to measure languageaccommodation which in our experiment furthersthe previous literature on the subject.The rest of the paper is organized as follows:Section 2 explains in detail the approach that wepropose to identify leaders.
Section 3 gives a briefoverview of the two MOOC datasets from differ-ent courses, and we present our empirical evalu-ation in Section 4 on these datasets.
Finally, wegive our concluding remarks and proposed futurework in Section 5.2 MethodsIt is well studied by the linguistics communitythat people tend to mimic the style of speech orchoices of words made by the people that theyare communicating with (Niederhoffer and Pen-nebaker, 2002).
This phenomena is called lan-guage coordination, which is frequently observedespecially when there are power differences withinthe conversation participants (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lee, 2011; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil etal., 2012).
We hypothesize that the power differ-ence may arise within the students as well, espe-cially through dependence: if a student A needsknowledge from a student B, and is thus depen-dent on B, this gives B a temporary power overA.
As such, we identify a set of student leaders byhow much other students accommodate their lan-guage when they converse with student leaders.In order to measure students?
language coordi-nation towards student leaders, we take the similarapproach proposed by (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizilet al., 2012).
In their work, they provide a conciseprobabilistic coordination measure which defineslanguage coordination from a speaker to a targeton a set of function words.
Specifically, they use 8pre-defined categories and a total of 451 lexemesas a set of function words to track the languageinfluence.
Their proposed accommodation mea-sure is shown to be successful in distinguishing theindividuals of different power status.
While thiswork bases its motivation from a specific line ofwork in the linguistics that defines particular func-tion words as markers for influence, it does notfully capture the broad range of linguistic behav-iors that are reported as language accommodation(Baxter and Braithwaite, 2008; Hall, 2008).In this paper, we propose to measure languagecoordination based on people?s choice of words,given a specific theme.
Consider word clusterslearned from a large corpus, where words aregrouped by their semantic similarity.
During aconversation between a speaker A and a target B,they can draw words from any cluster, which isanalogous to choosing a topic or theme to dis-cuss.
Given a theme, people may choose anywords from the chosen cluster, all of which have16a semantically similar meaning.
However, if Afollows B?s specific choice of words given a clus-ter, we consider this action as evidence for lan-guage accommodation of A towards B.
Based onthe probabilistic analysis, we measure the overalllanguage coordination for each conversation par-ticipant.
Note that this definition of language ac-commodation can capture language coordinationbeyond the use of particular function words, andprovide a way to analyze broader language influ-ence that is unique to the community.
Figure 2shows the illustration of this approach.Figure 2: Language accommodation based on peo-ple?s choice of words given a theme (cluster).Words are clustered based on their semantic simi-larity.
If A (speaker) follows B (target)?s specificchoice of word from a cluster, given all the otheroptions of similar words within the same cluster,we define this action as language accommodationof A towards B.To cluster words based on their syntactic andsemantic similarity, we take the approach by(Mikolov et al., 2013a; Mikolov et al., 2013b)which maps words into high-dimensional vectorsbased on their statistical occurrence in relation toother words in a sentence.
We then use the K-means clustering algorithm (MacQueen, 1967) togroup the words by their Euclidean distance withinthe semantic space.
To reduce the computationalcomplexity, we pick the 20 most frequent clustersfrom the dataset that we analyze, and we use thewords in those clusters as markers to track lan-guage coordination.We then borrow the definition of language ac-commodation measure by (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012), and define the language coordi-nation of a speaker a towards a target b on a markerwk(that belongs to a word cluster k) as follows:Cwk(a?
b) = P (Ewkua?ub|Ewkub)?
P (Ewkua?ub)where a is the speaker that coordinates towards thetarget b, Ewkua?ubis the event that the utterance ofa exhibits a linguistic marker wkin its reply to theutterance of b, and Ewkubis the event that the utter-ance of b exhibits a marker wk.
The conversationset is defined over the exchanges that contain thewords from a given cluster k.In a thread-based discussion forum like theMOOC datasets, however, it is ambiguous to tellwho is talking with whom.
Therefore, we definethe conversational exchange between b and a if b?spost appears after a?s post in the same thread.3 MOOC DatasetIn this section, we describe the two MOOC onlinediscussion forum datasets we used in our studies.The datasets consist of the conversations from twocourses from Coursera1: Learn to Program: TheFundamentals (Python) and Introduction to Psy-chology as a Science (Psychology).
The Pythoncourse consists of 3,509 students, 7 instructors and24,963 posts across 10 weeks.
Each thread con-sists of replies and comments along with a user-name associated with it.
The Psychology coursespans over 12 weeks and has 1,982 students and3 instructors.
In our studies, we focus on theinteraction between three groups of people: in-structors (including professors and teaching assis-tants), student leaders, and non-leaders.
In order toevaluate the performance of the proposed methodon the MOOC discussion forums, we have hand-annotated leaders and non-leaders from a subset ofthe student pool.4 Results and DiscussionWe test the following two hypotheses on lan-guage accommodation: (1) students coordinatemore towards student leaders than towards non-student leaders (Htarget), and (2) student leaderscoordinate towards other students less than non-student leaders coordinate towards other students(Hspeaker).
Figure 3 shows the language accom-modation of three different groups (instructors,leaders, and non-leaders) with other students thatare not labeled as any group.
We provide theresults for the case when we apply our cluster-based accommodation measure to test HtargetandHspeaker, and for when we use the function wordsas markers to track accommodation (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2012).
For the cluster-1https://www.coursera.org, one of the leadingMOOC providers17(a) Python: Cluster-based (b) Python: LIWC-derived Function Words(c) Psychology: Cluster-based (d) Psychology: LIWC-derived Function WordsFigure 3: The aggregated language accommodation measurement using (a), (c): cluster-based and (b),(d): LIWC-derived lexemes, (1) from students towards each target class (testing Htarget) and (2) fromeach speaker class towards students (testing Hspeaker), for the Python and the Psychology datasets.based method, we use word2vec2which pro-vides the word vectors trained on the Google Newscorpus (about 100 billion words) (Mikolov et al.,2013b).
Table 1 directly shows the difference be-tween the two methods.Figure 3 shows that student leaders influenceother students?
language more than non-leadersdo (p < 0.05), supporting our first hypothesisHtarget.
It can also be seen that the languageof non-leaders coordinates towards that of otherstudents more than the language of student lead-ers does (p < 0.05), supporting our second hy-pothesis Hspeaker.
Note that instructors and lead-ers exhibit almost the same behavior in terms oflanguage accommodation.
These results coincidewith the observation that student leaders and in-structors play a similar role in discussion forums.In addition, while both word cluster-based andLIWC-derived methods support our hypotheses,the distinction seen is more significant in the resultfrom our cluster-based method (summarized in Ta-ble 1).
These results indicate that the proposedmethod of measuring accommodation can capturethe language influence more accurately than theprevious method.Based on our proposed measure of language ac-2https://code.google.com/p/word2vec/commodation, we were able to see how languageinfluence is accumulated throughout the lifetimeof the community.
Figure 4 shows that the lan-guage coordination of students towards studentleaders decreases as the course progresses, even-tually converging to the level of language coordi-nation from students to non-student leaders.
Thesame convergence behavior can be observed fromthe language coordination of student leaders andnon-leaders towards students as well.
This re-sult indicates that the distinction between studentsand non-student leaders becomes less significantin terms of their language influence.
This resultcan also be interpreted as a community norm beingformed throughout the course, which was initiatedby student leaders at first.
While MOOC courseshave a relatively short lifespan, the results makeintuitive sense because they often include techni-cal jargon (e.g.
the programming related wordsfor Python MOOC course) which can be quicklylearned by community members.Table 2 shows the prediction accuracy on thetask of differentiating between a student leaderand a non-leader given a set of conversation ex-changes between two people (a,b) with differentstatus.
We used the following features as input toan SVM classifier.
Cluster uses the binary fea-18?
Accommodation (%)Cluster LIWC(a)?Ctarget4.58 3.35?Cspeaker-3.04 -0.01(b)?Ctarget5.01 -0.38?Cspeaker-4.09 -1.62Table 1: The difference in language accommo-dation measure between leaders and non-leadersfor each method (cluster-based, LIWC-derivedfunction words) on (a) Python and (b) Psychol-ogy MOOC datasets.
?Ctargetrefers to the stu-dents?
language accommodation towards leaderssubtracted by their language accommodation to-wards non-leaders.
?Cspeakerrefers to the lead-ers?
language accommodation towards studentssubtracted by non-leaders?
language accommoda-tion towards students.
Higher absolute value of?C indicates that the method can distinguish lead-ers and non-leaders better.tures that indicates whether a coordinates towardsb more than b towards a on each marker from theword cluster-based method.
LIWC uses the binaryfeatures as well, using the LIWC-derived functionwords as markers for accommodation.
BOW refersto a standard bag of words feature set.We test the performance on both in-domain andcross-domain cases using the datasets from thetwo different courses.
While BOW performs sig-nificantly better than the other two coordinationfeatures-based methods for the in-domain cases,it does not generalize well for the cross-domaincases.
This is because there are unique sets oftechnical vocabulary that are used in each respec-tive course, which are often strong indicators ofleadership or expertise in the domain.
The pro-posed cluster-based method performs better thanLIWC in both in-domain and cross-domain cases,showing that the proposed method better capturesthe leader?s language influence on other students.5 ConclusionsThe main contributions of this paper are as fol-lows: we have proposed that identifying studentleaders from MOOC discussion forums is an im-portant task that can potentially improve the qual-ity of the courses by promoting a collaborative andengaging learning environment.
We then proposedFigure 4: Language accommodation difference ateach period throughout the Python course.
Theblue line (upper) refers to ?Ctarget, whereas thegreen line (lower) refers to ?Cspeaker.
Higher ab-solute value of ?C indicates that the method candistinguish leaders and non-leaders better.In-domain Cross-domainTrain: Python Psych Python PsychTest: Python Psych Psych PythonCluster 61.17 57.54 60.01 59.03LIWC 58.34 55.10 58.52 57.92BOW 73.12 69.23 53.26 54.07Table 2: Classification accuracy of identifying aleader from a pair of students with different la-beled roles.
Cluster and LIWC refer to the coor-dination features using two different methods totrack influence markers.
The chance performanceis 50 %.a new method to measure language accommoda-tion based on people?s choices of words given atheme.
We have shown that our proposed ap-proach can better capture the language influencethan previous literature on accommodation us-ing the two MOOC datasets.
We were also ableto show that a community norm can be formedthroughout the course, evidenced from the time-based analysis of language accommodation.We plan to improve this research with respectto the way we measure language accommodation.Specifically, we would like to propose a new met-ric for measuring language accommodation by an-alyzing the propagation of influence, instead oflooking at conversations locally.
Suppose, for in-19stance, that during an online discussion a personb coordinates towards a with respect to a specificlinguistic style marker m, and that within a shortperiod of time, we find evidence that another per-son c coordinates towards b on the same markerm.
We argue that c should be considered as per-taining to the influence graph of a, contributing tothe evidence that a is a leader.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to acknowledge the contributionsmade by Professor Carolyn Ros?e for her valuableand constructive suggestions.ReferencesSumit Basu, Chuck Jacobs, and Lucy Vanderwende.2013.
Powergrading: a clustering approach to am-plify human effort for short answer grading.
NIPSWorkshop on Data Driven Education.Leslie A. Baxter and Dawn O. Braithwaite.
2008.Communication Accommodation Theory.
Engagingtheories in interpersonal communication: Multipleperspectives.Freimut Bodendorf and Carolin Kaiser.
2009.
De-tecting opinion leaders and trends in online socialnetworks.
In Proceedings of the 2Nd ACM Work-shop on Social Web Search and Mining, SWSM ?09,pages 65?68, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lillian Lee.2011.
Chameleons in imagined conversations: Anew approach to understanding coordination of lin-guistic style in dialog.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 76?87.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Lillian Lee,Bo Pang, and Jon Kleinberg.
2012.
Echoes ofpower: Language effects and power differences insocial interaction.
Proceedings of WWW 2012.Peter W. Foltz and Mark Rosenstein.
2013.
Trackingstudent learning in a state-wide implementation ofautomated writing scoring.
NIPS Workshop on DataDriven Education.Amit Goyal, Francesco Bonchi, and Laks V. S. Laksh-manan.
2008.
Discovering leaders from communityactions.
CIKM ?08.Phil Hall.
2008.
Policespeak.
Dimensions of ForensicLinguistics.Yanyan Li, Shaoqian Ma, Yonghe Zhang, RonghuaiHuang, and Kinshuk.
2013.
An improved mixframework for opinion leader identification in onlinelearning communities.
Knowledge-Based Systems,43(0):43 ?
51.J MacQueen.
1967.
Some methods for classificationand analysis of multivariate observations.
Proceed-ings of the Fifth Berkeley Symposium on Mathemat-ical Statistics and Probability, Volume 1: Statistics.Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and JeffreyDean.
2013a.
Efficient estimation of word represen-tations in vector space.
CoRR, abs/1301.3781.Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg Cor-rado, and Jeffrey Dean.
2013b.
Distributed repre-sentations of words and phrases and their compo-sitionality.
Proceedings of the Advances in NeuralInformation Processing Systems (NIPS).K.
G. Niederhoffer and J. W. Pennebaker.
2002.
Lin-guistic style matching in social interaction.
Journalof Language and Social Psychology, 21.Aditya Pal and Joseph A. Konstan.
2010.
Expert iden-tification in community question answering: Ex-ploring question selection bias.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th ACM International Conference on Informa-tion and Knowledge Management, CIKM ?10, pages1505?1508, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.M.
Zubair Shafiq, Muhammad U. Ilyas, Alex X. Liu,and Hayder Radha.
2013.
Identifying leaders andfollowers in online social networks.
Selected Areasin Communications, IEEE Journal on (JSAC), 31.Hossam Sharara, Lise Getoor, and Myra Norton.
2011.Active surveying: A probabilistic approach for iden-tifying key opinion leaders.
In The 22nd Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJ-CAI ?11).20
