Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra) @ EACL 2014, pages 36?41,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Empirical Study of the Impact of Idioms on Phrase Based StatisticalMachine Translation of English to Brazilian-PortugueseGiancarlo D. Salton and Robert J. Ross and John D. KelleherApplied Intelligence Research CentreSchool of ComputingDublin Institute of TechnologyIrelandgiancarlo.salton@mydit.ie {robert.ross,john.d.kelleher}@dit.ieAbstractThis paper describes an experiment toevaluate the impact of idioms on Statis-tical Machine Translation (SMT) processusing the language pair English/Brazilian-Portuguese.
Our results show that on sen-tences containing idioms a standard SMTsystem achieves about half the BLEUscore of the same system when applied tosentences that do not contain idioms.
Wealso provide a short error analysis and out-line our planned work to overcome thislimitation.1 Introduction and MotivationAn idiom is an expression whose meaning is notcompositional (Xatara, 2001).
In other wordsthe meaning of an idiom is not simply the jointmeaning of the individual words (Garrao and Dias,2001).
For example, the expression kick the buckethas an idiomatic meaning (to die) that has nothingto do with the meaning of kick or bucket.Idioms are a type of multi-word expressions(MWEs) often used in a large variety of texts andby human speakers and thus appear in all lan-guages (Fazly et al., 2008).
Consequently, theypose problems to most Natural Language Process-ing (NLP) applications (Sag et al., 2002).
Nev-ertheless, they often have been overlooked by re-searchers in NLP (Fazly et al., 2008).As a class, idioms exhibit a number of prop-erties that make them difficult to handle for NLPapplications.
For example, idiomatic expressionsvary with respect to how morphosyntatically fixedthey are.
An idiomatic expression is highly fixedif the replacement of any of its constituents by a,syntactically or semantically, similar word causesthe idiomatic meaning of the expression to be lost(Fazly et al., 2008).
An example of a highly fixedidiom in English is the expression by and large.Idioms that are highly fixed can be represented aswords-with-spaces by an NLP system (Sag et al.,2002).
If, however, an idiomatic meaning persistsacross morphosyntactic variations of an expres-sion, the idiom can be described as a low fixed id-iom, for example, hold fire and its variations holdone?s fire and held fire.
The words-with-spaces ap-proach does not work for these ?more flexible?
ex-ample of idioms (Fazly et al., 2008).
Another fea-ture of idioms that make them difficult for NLPsystem to process is that idiomatic expressionshave both idiomatic and literal (non-idiomatic) us-ages.
Consequently, NLP systems need to distin-guish between these types of usages (Fazly et al.,2008).One of the most important NLP applicationsthat is negatively affected by idioms is StatisticalMachine Translation (SMT) systems.
The currentstate-of-the-art in SMT are phrase-based systems(Collins et al., 2005).
Phrase-based SMT systemsextend the basic SMT word-by-word approach bysplitting the translation process into 3 steps: the in-put source sentence is segmented into ?phrases?
ormulti-word units; these phrases are translated intothe target language; and the translated phrases arereordered if needed (Koehn, 2010).It is worth highlighting that although the termphrase-based translation seems to imply the sys-tem works at a phrasal level, the concept of aphrase to these systems is simply a frequentlyoccurring sequence of words and not necessarilya semantic or grammatical phrase.
These sys-tems thus limit themselves to a direct translationof phrases without any syntactic or semantic con-text.
Hence, standard phrase-based SMT systemsdo not model idioms explicitly (Bouamor et al.,2011).
Unfortunately modelling idioms in orderto improve SMT is not well studied (Ren et al.,2009) and examples of the difficulties in translat-ing these expressions can be seen in the quality ofthe resultant output of most Machine Translation36systems (Vieira and Lima, 2001).Our long-term research goal is to investigatehow the translation of idiomatic expressions maybe improved.
We will initially focus on the caseof English/Brazillian-Portugese but we intend ourwork to be generalizable to other language pairs.As a first step on this research program we wishedto scope the impact of idioms on an SMT system.In order to test this we ran an experiment that com-pared the BLEU scores of an SMT system when itwas tested on three distinct sentence aligned cor-pora.
Two of these test corpora consisted of sen-tences containing idiomatic (rather than literal) us-ages of idiomatic expressions and the other cor-pus consisted of sentences that did not contain anyidioms.
By comparing the BLEU score of a ma-chine translation system on each of these corporawe hoped to gauge the size of the research prob-lem we are addressing.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 de-scribes the design and creation of the corpora usedin the experiments; Section 3 presents the experi-ment?s methodology; Section 4 reports the resultsfound; and Section 5 both discusses the results anddescribes an approach to the problem that we willimplement in future work.2 Related workThe work of Fazly et al.
(2008) has provided aninspirational basis for our work.
Fazly?s work fo-cused on the study of idioms and in particular theiridentification and analysis in terms of the syntacticand semantic fixedness.
Fazly study did not how-ever explore the impact of idioms on SMT.Some related work in translating idioms canbe found in: Garrao and Dias (2001) where theverb+noun combinations and their inclusion in anonline automatic translator is explored; Ren et al.
(2009) which makes use of a domain constrainedbilingual multi-word dictionary to improve theMT results; Bouamor et al.
(2011) which ex-plores a hybrid approach for extracting MWEs andtheir translation in a French-English corpus; andBungum et al.
(2013) which also uses dictionariesto capture MWEs.None of these works compares the BLEU scoreof sentences containing and not containing idioms.And also, none of these works address the idiomsproblem for the English/Brazilian-Portuguese lan-guage pair using SMT phrase-based systems.3 Corpora Design and CollectionThe experiment we describe in this paper had twodirect targets: (a) we wished to quantify the ef-fect of idioms on the performance of an SMTsystem; and (b) we wanted to better understandthe differences (if any) between high and lowfixed idioms with respect to their impact on SMTsystems.
Consequently, in order to run the ex-periments four corpora were needed: one ini-tial large sentence-aligned bilingual corpus wasneeded to build an SMT model for the languagepair English/Brazilian-Portuguese; a test corpuscontaining sentences with ?highly fixed?
idiomscalled the ?High Idiomatic Corpus?
; another testcorpus containing sentences with ?low fixed?
id-ioms called the ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?
; and alast corpus with sentences not containing idiomscalled the ?Clean Corpus?.
In order to make theresults comparable the length of each sentence inthe three test corpora was kept between 15 to 20words.
All of these corpora were constructed byhand and in the cases of the ?High Idiomatic Cor-pus?
and ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?
care was takento ensure that all the sentences in these corporacontained idiomatic usages of the relevant idioms.To create the initial large corpus a series ofsmall corpora available on the internet were com-piled into one larger corpus which was used totrain a SMT system.
The resources used in thisstep were the Fapesp-v2 (Aziz and Specia, 2011),the OpenSubtitles20131corpus, the PHP ManualCorpus2and the KDE4 localizaton files (v.2)3.
Nospecial tool was used to clean these corpora andthe files were compiled as is.Idioms are a heterogeneous class; consequently,in order to better control the experiment we de-cided to focus on a particular type of idiom -specifically the idiomatic expressions formed fromthe combination of a verb and a noun as its di-rect object (verb+noun combinations), for exam-ple hit+road and lose+head.
Verb+noun combi-nations are a subclass of MWE which are notablefor their cross-lingual occurrence and high vari-ability, both lexical and semantic (Baldwin andKim, 2010).
Also, it is worth noting that it is possi-ble for a particular verb+noun combination to haveboth idiomatic and literal usages and these usagesmust be distinguished if an NLP system is to pro-1http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/OpenSubtitles2013.php2http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/PHP.php3http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/KDE4.php37cess a sentence appropriately.Fazly et al.
(2008) named a dataset of 17?highly fixed?
English verb+noun idioms, for ex-ample cut+figure, and that list was used to buildour ?Highly Idiomatic Corpus?.
This corpus con-sisted of 170 sentences containing idiomatic us-ages of these idioms, 10 sentences per idiom inthe list.
These English sentences were collectedfrom the internet and manually translated intoBrazilian-Portuguese.
After that these translationswere then manually checked and corrected by asecond translator.Fazly et al.
(2008) also named a dataset of11 ?low fixed?
English verb+noun idioms, for ex-ample get+wind, and that list was used to buildour ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?.
This corpus con-sisted of 110 sentences containing idiomatic us-ages of these idioms, 10 sentences per idiom inthe list.
These English sentences were also col-lected from the internet and manually translatedinto Brazilian-Portuguese.
After this step thesetranslations were also manually checked and cor-rected by a second translator.
Table 1 presentsthe English verb+noun combinations used in thisexperiment and their Brazilian-Portuguese trans-lations.In order to have a valid comparison between thetranslation results of sentences containing and notcontaining idioms the ?Clean Corpus?
was built.
Itconsisted of 850 sentences with their translationsand was created by sampling sentences of the ap-propriate length (15-20 words) that did not containidioms from the large bilingual corpus (that we de-scribed earlier) which we created to train the SMTsystem.
These sentences were then removed fromthat corpus.
Because the initial corpus was cre-ated from the union of corpora from different do-mains the ?Clean Corpus?
was randomly split into5 datasets containing 170 sentences each in or-der to ensure no specific influence of any of thosedomains on the BLEU score.
We called these?Clean1?
to ?Clean5?.
Special care was taken tonot have any idioms in any of the sentences inthese corpora.As we wanted to collect 10 sentences for eachverb+noun idiomatic combination and due to thelimitations of sentence length (15 to 20 words) wewere not able to collect the ?High Idiomatic Cor-pus?
and the ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?
from thetraining corpus.
Thus, the samples were collectedfrom the Internet.4 MethodologyAs a first step for this experiment, a SMTmodel for the English/Brazilian-Portuguese lan-guage pair was trained using the Moses toolkit(Koehn et al., 2007) following its ?baseline?
set-tings (Koehn et al., 2008).
The corpus used for thistraining consisted of 17,288,109 pairs of sentences(approximately 50% of the initial collected cor-pus), with another 34,576 pairs of sentences usedfor the ?tuning?
process.English Brazilian-Portugueseblow+top perder+paci?enciablow+trumpet ?gabar-se?cut+figure causar+impress?aofind+foot ?adaptar-se?get+nod ?obter permiss?ao?give+sack ?ser demitido?, ?demitir?have+word ter+conversahit+road ?cair na estrada?hit+roof ?ficar zangado?kick+heel ?deixar esperando?lose+thread ?perder o fio da meada?make+face* fazer+caretamake+mark deixar+marcapull+plug ?cancelar algo?pull+punch ?esconder algo?pull+weight ?fazer sua parte?take+heart ?ficar confiante?blow+whistle ?botar a boca no trombone?
?get+wind ouvir+murm?urioshit+wall ?dar de cara num muro?hold+fire ?conter-se?lose+head* perder+cabec?amake+hay dar+grac?asmake+hit fazer+sucessomake+pile fazer+granamake+scene* fazer+cenapull+leg pegar+p?esee+star* ver+estrelaTable 1: The English verb+noun combinationsused in this experiment and their Brazilian-Portuguese Translations.
The idioms marked withan * have direct translations of its constituents re-sulting in a MWE with the same idiomatic mean-ing in Brazilian-Portuguese.
Also, note that not alltranslations results in a verb+noun idiom in the tar-get language.
Those are presented between doublequotes and italics.38In the second step the BLEU scores for the?High Idiomatic Corpus?, the ?Low IdiomaticCorpus?
and the five clean corpora were com-puted.
Then, the average of each evaluation forthe clean corpora was calculated.5 Results and AnalysisTable 2 lists the SMT system BLEU scores for the?High Idiomatic Corpus?, ?Low Idiomatic Cor-pus?, and the average BLEU score for the cleancorpora (i.e, ?Clean1?
to ?Clean5?).
The differ-ential between the BLEU scores for the clean cor-pus and the idiomatic corpora (high and low) in-dicates that English idiomatic expressions of theverb+noun type pose a significant challenge tostandard phrase based SMT.Corpus BLEU scoresHigh Idiomatic 23.12Low Idiomatic 24.55Clean (average) 46.28Table 2: BLEU scores.The corpora containing idioms achieved onlyhalf of the average Clean Corpus score.
As notedearlier, some idioms have a direct translation fromEnglish to Brazilian-Portuguese and could resultin straight forward translations that the basic SMTsystem (without substitution) can handle correctly.Given this, the BLEU scores for this subset of id-ioms could be expected to be similar to the cleancorpus results.
However, it is worth noting thateven for idioms that have direct translations, seeTable 1, the BLEU score for the sentences contain-ing these idioms is still lower than average BLEUscore for the clean corpus.
Using the Student?s t-test, we found a statistical difference between the?Low Idiomatic Corpus?
and the ?Clean Corpus?
(p  0), and between the ?High Idiomatic Cor-pus?
and the ?Clean Corpus?
(p 0).The second question that we examined in theexperiment was whether there was a difference inperformance between the high and low fixed id-ioms.
Table 3 lists the BLEU scores for each ofthe ?highly fixed?
verb+noun combinations usedin the ?High Idiomatic Corpus?
and Table 4 liststhe BLEU scores for each of the ?low fixed?verb+noun combinations from the ?Low IdiomaticCorpus?.
Also, it is important to note that the?High Idiomatic Corpus?
and the ?Low IdiomaticCorpus?
have almost no difference in their BLEUscores.
We also found that there are almost no sta-tistical difference (p = 0.85) between the ?HighIdiomatic Corpus?
and ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?which we believe indicates that both kinds ofverb+noun idiomatic combinations pose the sameproblem to SMT.
?high fixed?
verb+noun BLEU scoreblow+top 22.08blow+trumpet 19.38cut+figure 20.15find+foot 24.36get+nod 22.06give+sack 23.03have+word 20.91hit+road 24.53hit+roof 21.34kick+heel 18.85lose+thread 21.81make+face 28.62make+mark 29.46pull+plug 19.71pull+punch 28.34pull+weight 19.94take+heart 23.41Table 3: BLEU scores for individual ?high fixed?verb+noun idiomatic combinations.
?low fixed?
verb+noun BLEU scoreblow+whistle 17.75get+wind 19.06hit+wall 16.52hold+fire 23.26lose+head 37.40make+hay 15.87make+hit 25.48make+pile 25.31make+scene 36.93pull+leg 15.90see+star 37.86Table 4: BLEU scores for individual ?low fixed?verb+noun idiomatic combinations.6 Conclusions and Future WorkCertainly, these results are not surprising.
BLEUscores are generally dependent on the training andtest corpora; that said, it it worthwhile having aquantification of the potential issues that idiomspose for SMT.
Due to the fact that BLEU scores39are dependent on the training and test corpora usedour results are corpus specific.
However, theseresults are our starting point to develop a hybridmethodology.As noted earlier, idioms are widely used in ev-ery literary genre and new expressions come intoexistence frequently.
Thus, they must be properlyhandled and translated by a Machine Translationsystem.
Given the results of our experiments itis evident that the problem in translating idiomshas not been solved using a standard SMT system.Such evidences and the relatively small amountof current related work on idiomatic expressiontranslation, when compared with the amount ofwork on other MT aspects, indicates that there islikely not a trivial solution.To start addressing these problems, we proposea hybrid method inspired by the work developedby Okuma et al.
(2008) for translating unseenwords using bilingual dictionaries.Our method, introduced in Salton et al.
(2014),work as a pre and post-processing step.
We firstidentify idioms in source sentences using an id-iom dictionary.
Then, we substitute the idiom inthe source sentence with its literal meaning, takenfrom the dictionary and record the fact that thissentence contained a substituted idiom.
For allsentences that are recorded as containing a substi-tution, after the translation we check if the orig-inal idiom that occurred in the source sentencehas a corresponding idiom in the target languageby consulting a separate bilingual dictionary.
Ifthere is a corresponding idiom in the target lan-guage then the translation of the literal meaning ofthe source language idiom is replaced with the tar-get language idiom.
If there are no related idiomson the target language, this post-processing step isavoided and the translation is done.This approach relies on a number of dictionar-ies being available.
Developing these resourcesis non-trivial and in order to scale our approachto broad coverage a large part of our future workwill focus on automating (as much as possible)the development of these language resources.
An-other problem that we will address in future workis ensuring that we apply substitution appropri-ately.
There are at least two situations where caremust be taken.
First, a given expression may beused both as an idiom and literally.
Consequently,we need to develop mechanisms that will enableour preprocessing step to distinguish between id-iomatic and non-idiomatic usages.
Second, someidiomatic expressions have direct translations.
Forthese expressions we expect that the substitutionmethod may under-perform the standard SMT sys-tem.
Ideally, we would like to be able to controlthe substitution method so that these particular ex-pressions are allowed through the preprocessingand are handled by the standard SMT pipeline.However, for now, considering the proportion ofexpressions with direct translations in comparisonwith the overall number of expressions is very low;we hope that this problem will not have too ad-verse an impact on our approach.
Beyond theseissues, while we anticipate that our substitutionbased approached will work reasonably well for?high fixed?
idioms, we are aware that the varia-tion in ?low fixed?
idioms may require us to extendthe system in order to handle this variation.AcknowledgmentsGiancarlo D. Salton would like to thank CAPES(?Coordenac?
?ao de Aperfeic?oamento de Pessoal deN?
?vel Superior?)
for his Science Without Bordersscholarship, proc n. 9050-13-2.
We would liketo thank Acassia Thabata de Souza Salton for hercorrections on the Brazilian-Portuguese transla-tion of sentences containing idioms.ReferencesWilker Aziz and Lucia Specia.
2011.
Fully automaticcompilation of a portuguese-english and portuguese-spanish parallel corpus for statistical machine trans-lation.
In STIL 2011.Timothy Baldwin and Su Nam Kim.
2010.
Multi-word Expressions.
In Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J.Damerau, editors, Handbook of Natural LanguageProcessing, Second Edition.
CRC Press, Taylor andFrancis Group.Dhouha Bouamor, Nasredine Semmar, and PierreZweigenbaum.
2011.
Improved Statistical MachineTranslation Using MultiWord Expressions.
In Pro-ceedings of the International Workshop on UsingLinguistic Information for Hybrid Machine Trans-lation), pages 15?20.Lars Bungum, Bj?orn Gamb?ack, Andr?e Lynum, and Er-win Marsi.
2013.
Improving Word Translation Dis-ambiguation by Capturing Multiword Expressionswith Dictionaries.
In Proceedings of the 9th Work-shop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages21?30.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Ku?cerov?a.2005.
Clause Restructuring for Statistical Machine40Translation.
In Proceedings of the 43rd AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 531?540.Afsanesh Fazly, Paul Cook, and Suzanne Stevenson.2008.
Unsupervised Type and Token Identificationof Idiomatic Expressions.
In Computational Lin-guistics, volume 35, pages 61?103.Milena U. Garrao and Maria C. P. Dias.
2001.
UmEstudo de Express?oes Cristalizadas do Tipo V+Sn esua Inclus?ao em um Tradutor Autom?atico Bil??ng?ue(Portugu?es/Ingl?es).
In Cadernos de Traduc?
?ao, vol-ume 2, pages 165?182.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, AlexandraConstantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: OpenSource Toolkit for Statistical Machine Translation.In 45th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Philipp Koehn, Abhishek Arun, and Hieu Hoang.2008.
Towards better machine translation quality forthe German-English language pairs.
In Proceedingsof the Third Workshop on Statistical Machine Trans-lation, pages 139?142.Philipp Koehn.
2010.
Statistical Machine Translation.Cambridge University Press, New York.
2 Ed.Hideo Okuma, Hirofumi Yamamoto, and EiichiroSumita.
2008.
Introducing Translation DictionaryInto Phrase-based SMT.
In IEICE - Transactionson Information and Systems, number 7, pages 2051?2057.Zhixiang Ren, Yajuan Lu, Jie Cao, Qun Liu, andYun Huang.
2009.
Improving statistical machinetranslation using domain bilingual multiword ex-pressions.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop onMultiword Expressions, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages47?54.Ivan A.
Sag, Thimothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
InComputational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Pro-cessing: Third International Conference: CICLing-2002, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, volume2276, pages 1?15.Giancarlo D. Salton, Robert J. Ross, and John D. Kelle-her.
2014.
Evaluation of a Substitution Method forIdiom Transformation in Statistical Machine Trans-lation.
In The 10th Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions (MWE 2014) at 14th Conference of the Euro-pean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Renata Vieira and Vera Lcia S. Lima.
2001.Lingu?
?stica Computacional: Princ?
?pios e aplicac?
?oes.In Ana Teresa Martins & D?
?bio Leandro Borges(eds.
), As Tecnologias da informac?
?ao e a quest?ao so-cial: anais.Cl?audia M. Xatara.
2001.
O Ensino do L?exico: As Ex-press?oes Idiom?aticas.
In Trabalhos em Lingu?
?sticaAplicada, volume 37, pages 49?59.41
