Proceedings of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Causality in Language, pages 40?47,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsLikelihood of external causation in the structure of eventsTanja Samard?zi?cCorpusLab, URPP Language and SpaceUniversity of Zurichtanja.samardzic@uzh.chPaola MerloLinguistics DepartmentUniversity of GenevaPaola.Merlo@unige.chAbstractThis article addresses the causal structureof events described by verbs: whetheran event happens spontaneously or it iscaused by an external causer.
We automat-ically estimate the likelihood of externalcausation of events based on the distribu-tion of causative and anticausative uses ofverbs in the causative alternation.
We traina Bayesian model and test it on a monolin-gual and on a bilingual input.
The perfor-mance is evaluated against an independentscale of likelihood of external causationbased on typological data.
The accuracyof a two-way classification is 85% in bothmonolingual and bilingual setting.
On thetask of a three-way classification, the scoreis 61% in the monolingual setting and 69%in the bilingual setting.1 IntroductionUbiquitously present in human thinking, causal-ity is encoded in language in various ways.
Com-putational approaches to causality are mostlyconcerned with automatic extraction of causalschemata (Michotte, 1963; Tversky and Kahne-man, 1982; Gilovich et al., 1985) from sponta-neously produced texts based on linguistic encod-ing.
A key to success in this endeavour is under-standing how human language encodes causality.Linguistic expressions of causality, such ascausative conjunctions, verbs, morphemes, andconstructions, are highly ambiguous, encoding notonly the real-world causality, but also the struc-ture of discourse, as well as speakers?
attitudes(Moeschler, 2011; Zufferey, 2012).
Causalityjudgements are hard to elicit in an annotationproject.
This results in a low inter-annotator agree-ment and makes the evaluation of automatic sys-tems difficult (Bethard, 2007; Grivaz, 2012).Our study addresses the relationship betweenworld-knowledge about causality and the gram-mar of language, focusing on the causal structureof events expressed by verbs.
In current analyses,the meaning of verbs is decomposed into multiplepredicates which can be in a temporal and causalrelation (Pustejovsky, 1995; Talmy, 2000; Levinand Rappaport Hovav, 2005; Ramchand, 2008).
(1) a. Causative: Adam broke the laptop.b.
Anticausative: The laptop broke.We propose a computational approach to thecausative alternation, illustrated in (1), in whichan event (breaking the laptop in (1)) can be disso-ciated from its immediate causer (Adam in (1a)).The causative alternation has been attested in al-most all languages (Schafer, 2009), but it is re-alised with considerable cross-linguistic variationin the sets of alternating verbs and in the grammat-ical encoding (Alexiadou et al., 2006; Alexiadou,2010).Since the causative alternation involves mostverbs, identifying the properties of verbs which al-low them to alternate is important for developingrepresentations of the meaning of verbs in gen-eral.
Analysing the structural components of themeaning of verbs proves important for tasks suchas word sense disambiguation (Lapata and Brew,2004), semantic role labelling (M`arquez et al.,2008), cross-linguistic transfer of semantic anno-tation (Pad?o and Lapata, 2009; Fung et al., 2007;van der Plas et al., 2011).
The knowledge aboutthe likelihood of external causation might be help-ful in the task of detecting implicit arguments ofverbs and, especially deverbal nouns (Gerber andChai, 2012; Roth and Frank, 2012).
Knowing,for example, that a verb expresses an externallycaused event increases the probability of an im-plicit causer if an explicit causer is not detected ina particular instance of the verb.
Our study should40contribute to the development of formal and exten-sive representations of grammatically relevant se-mantic properties of verbs, such as Verb Net (Kip-per Schuler, 2005) and PropBank (Palmer et al.,2005).2 External Causation and the Grammarof LanguageThe distinction between external and internal cau-sation in events described by verbs is introducedby Levin and Rappaport Hovav (1994) to accountfor the fact that the alternation is blocked in someverbs such as bloom in (2).
In Levin and Rappa-port Hovav?s account, verbs which describe ex-ternally caused events alternate (1), while verbswhich describe internally caused events do not (2).
(2) a.
The flowers suddenly bloomed.b.
* The summer bloomed the flowers.The main objection to this proposed generali-sation is that it does not account for the cross-linguistic variation.
Since the distinction concernsthe meaning of verbs, one could expect that theverbs which are translations of each other alter-nate in all languages.
This is, however, often nottrue.
There are many verbs that do alternate insome languages, while their counterparts in otherlanguages do not (Alexiadou et al., 2006; Schafer,2009; Alexiadou, 2010).
For example, appear andarrive do not alternate in English, but their equiv-alents in Japanese or in the Salish languages do.To account for the variation in cross-linguisticdata Alexiadou (2010) introduces the notion ofcause-unspecified events, a category between ex-ternally caused and internally caused events.
In-troducing gradience into the classification allowsAlexiadou to propose generalisations which applyacross languages: cause-unspecified verbs alter-nate in all languages, while only some languagesallow the alternation if the event is either exter-nally or internally caused.
To allow the alterna-tion in the latter cases, languages need a specialgrammatical mechanism.
In English, for example,this mechanism is not available, which is why onlycause-unspecified verbs alternate.
The alternationis thus blocked in both verbs describing externallycaused and internally caused events.Alexiadou?s account is based not only on theobservations about the availability of the alterna-tion, but also about morphological encoding ofthe alternation across languages.
Unlike English,which does not mark the alternation morphologi-cally (note that the two versions of English verbsin (1-3) are morphologically identical), other lan-guages encode the alternation in different ways, asshown in (3).
(3)Causative AnticausativeMongolian xajl-uul-ax xajl-ax?melt?
?melt?Russian rasplavit rasplavit-sja?melt?
?melt?Japanese atum-eru atum-aru?gather?
?gather?An analysis of the distribution of morpholog-ical marking across languages leads Haspelmath(1993) to introduce the notion of likelihood intohis account of the meaning of the alternatingverbs.
In a study of 31 verbs in 21 languagesfrom all over the world, Haspelmath notices thatcertain verbs tend to get the same kind of mark-ing across languages.
For each verb, he calcu-lates the ratio between the number of languageswhich mark the anticausative version and the num-ber of languages which mark the causative versionof the verb.
He interprets this ratio as a quantita-tive measure of how spontaneous events describedby the verbs are.
As each verb is assigned a dif-ferent score, ranking the verbs according to thescore results in a ?scale of increasing likelihood ofspontaneous occurrence?.
Events with a low anti-causative/causative ratio (e.g.
boil, dry, melt) arelikely to occur spontaneously, while events with ahigh ratio (e.g.
break, close, split) are likely to becaused by an external causer.3 The ModelOur study pursues the quantitative assessment ofthe likelihood of external causation in the eventsdescribed the alternating verbs.
We estimate thelikelihood by means of a Bayesian model whichdivides events into classes based on the distribu-tion of causative and anticausative uses of verbs ina corpus.
By varying the settings of the model, weaddress two questions discussed in the linguisticliterature: 1) Is the distinction between externallycaused and internally caused events binary,, as ar-gued by Levin and Rappaport Hovav (1994), or arethere are intermediate classes, as argued by Alex-iadou (2010)?
and 2) Do we obtain better esti-mation of the likelihood from cross-linguistic thanfrom monolingual data?41We design a probabilistic model which esti-mates the likelihood of external causation and gen-erates a probability distribution over a given num-ber of event classes for each verb in a given setof verbs.
The model formalises the intuition thatan externally caused event tends to be expressedby a verb in its causative realisation.
In otherwords, if the likelihood of external causation of theevent is encoded in the use of the verb which de-scribes the event, then the causer is expected to ap-pear frequently in the realisations of the verb.
Theopposite is expected for internally caused events.Cause-unspecified events are expected to appearwith and without the causer equally.To take into account the two questions discussedin the theoretical approaches, namely the numberof classes and the role of cross-linguistic data inthe classification of events, we design four ver-sions of the model, varying the input data and thenumber of classes in the output: a) monolingualinput and two classes; b) cross-linguistic inputand two classes; c) monolingual input and threeclasses; d) cross-linguistic input and three classes.The current cross-linguistic versions of themodel include only two languages, English andGerman, because we test the models in a minimalcross-linguistic setting.
In principle, the approachcan be easily extended to include any number oflanguages.As it can be seen in its graphical representationin Figure 1, the model consists of three variablesin the monolingual version and of four variables inthe cross-linguistic version.VCausEnVCausEn GeFigure 1: Two version of the Bayesian net modelfor estimating external causation.The first variable in both versions is the set ofverbs V .
This can be any given set of verbs.The second variable is the event class of theverb, for which we use the symbol Caus.
The val-ues of this variable depend on the assumed classi-fication.
In the two-class version, the values arecausative, representing externally caused events,and anticausative, representing internally causedevents.
In the three-class version, the variablecan take one more value, unspecified, representingcause-unspecified events.The third (En) and the fourth (Ge) (in the cross-linguistic version) variables are the surface realisa-tions of the verbs in parallel instances.
These vari-ables take three values: causative for active tran-sitive use, anticausative for intransitive use, andpassive for passive use in the languages in ques-tion.We represent the relations between the variablesas a Bayesian network.
The variable that rep-resents the event class of verbs (Caus) is unob-served.
The values for the other three variablesare observed in the data source.
Note that the in-put to the model does not contain the informationabout the event class at any point.The dependence between En and Ge in thebilingual version of the model represents the factthat the two instances of a verb are translationsof each other, but does not represent the directionof translation in the actual data.
The form of theinstance in one language depends on the form ofthe parallel instance because they express the samemeaning in the same context, regardless of the di-rection of translation.Assuming that the variables are related as inFigure 1, En and Ge are conditionally indepen-dent of V given Caus, so we can calculate theprobability of the model as in (4) for the monolin-gual version and as in (6) for the cross-linguisticversion.
(4)P (v, caus, en) = P (v) ?
P (caus|v) ?
P (en|caus)(5)P (caus|v, en) =P (v)?P (caus|v)?P (en|caus)?causP (v)?P (caus|v)?P (en|caus)We estimate the conditional probability of theevent class given the verb (P (caus|v)) by query-ing the model, as shown in (5) for the monolingualversion and in (7) for the bilingual version..42(6)P (v, caus, en, ge) =P (v) ?
P (caus|v) ?
P (en|caus) ?
P (ge|caus, en)(7)P (caus|v, en, ge) =P (v)?P (caus|v)?P (en|caus)?P (ge|caus,en)?causP (v)?P (caus|v)?P (en|caus)?P (ge|caus,en)We assign to each verb the event class that ismost probable given the verb, as in (8).
(8)caus class(verb) = argmaxcausP (caus|v)All the variables in the model are defined so thatthe parameters can be estimated on the basis offrequencies of instances of verbs automatically ex-tracted from parsed corpora.4 ExperimentsThe accuracy of the predictions of the model isevaluated in experiments.4.1 Materials and MethodsThe verbs for which we estimate the likelihood arethe 354 verbs that participate in the causative alter-nation in English, as listed by Levin (1993), andthe 26 verbs listed as alternating in a typologicalstudy (Haspelmath, 1993).We estimate the parameters of the model byimplementing the expectation-maximisation algo-rithm.
The algorithm is initialised by assigningdifferent arbitrary values to the parameters of themodel.
The classification reported in the paper isobtained after 100 iterations.We train the classifier using the data automat-ically extracted from an English-German parallelcorpus (Europarl (Koehn, 2005)).
Both monolin-gual and bilingual input data are extracted fromthe parallel corpus.
All German verbs which areword-aligned with the alternating English verbslisted in the literature are regarded as Germanequivalents.
By extracting cross-linguistic equiv-alents automatically from a parallel corpus, weavoid manual translation into German of the listsof English verbs discussed in the literature.
In thisway, we eliminate the judgements which would beinvolved in the process of translation.The corpus is syntactically parsed (using theMaltParser (Nivre et al., 2007)) and word-aligned(using GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003)).
For boththe syntactic parses and word alignments, wereuse the data provided by Bouma et al.
(2010).We extract only the instances of verbs whereboth the object (if there is one) and the sub-ject are realised in the same clause, excludingthe instances involving syntactic movements andcoreference.
Transitive instances are consideredcausative realisations, intransitive anticausative.We count passive instances separately becausethey are formally transitive, but they usually do notexpress the causer.German equivalents of English alternating verbsare extracted in two steps.
First, all verbs occur-ring as transitive, intransitive, and passive wereextracted from the German sentences that aresentence-aligned with the English sentences con-taining the instances of alternating verbs.
Theseinstances were considered candidate translations.The instances that are the translations of the En-glish instances were then selected on the basis ofword alignments.
Instances where at least one el-ement (the verb, the head of its object, or the headof its subject) is aligned with at least one elementin the English instance were considered aligned.Only the instances of English verbs that aretranslated with a corresponding finite verbal formin German are extracted, excluding the caseswhere English verbs are translated into a corre-sponding non-finite form such as infinitive, nomi-nalization, or participle in German.4.2 EvaluationWe evaluate the performance of the models againstthe scale of spontaneous occurrence proposed byHaspelmath (1993), shown in (9).
We expect theverbs classified as internally caused by our modelsto correspond to the verbs with a low morpholog-ical anticausative/causative ratio (those on the leftside of the scale).
The opposite is expected forexternally caused verbs.
Cause-unspecified verbsare expected to be in the middle of Haspelmath?sscale.
(9) boil, dry, wake up, sink, learn-teach, melt,stop, turn, dissolve, burn, fill, finish, begin,spread, roll, develop, rise-raise, improve,rock, connect, change, gather, open, break,close, splitTo evaluate the output of our models against thescale, we discretise the scale so that the agreement43is maximised for each version of the model.
Forexample, the threshold which divides the verbsinto anticausative and causative in the two-wayclassification is set after the verb turn.By evaluating the performance of our modelsagainst a typology-based measure, we avoid elic-iting human judgements, which is a known prob-lem in computational approaches to causality.
Thedownside of this approach is that such evaluationis currently possible for a relatively small numberof verbs.5 Results and DiscussionTable 1 shows all the confusion matrices of theclassifications performed automatically in com-parison with the classifications based on the typol-ogy rankings.1In the two-way classification, the two versionsof the model, with monolingual and with bilingualinput, result in identical classifications.
The agree-ment of the models with the typological rankingcan be considered very good (85%).
The optimalthreshold divides the verbs into two asymmetricclasses: eight verbs in the internally caused classand eighteen in the externally caused class.
Theagreement is better for the internally caused class.In the three way-classification, the performanceof both versions of the model drops.
In this set-ting, the output of the two versions differs: thereare two verbs which are classified as externallycaused by the monolingual version and as cause-unspecified by the bilingual version, which resultsin a slightly better performance of the bilingualversion.
Given the small number of evaluatedverbs, however, this tendency cannot be consid-ered significant.The three-way classification is more difficultthan the two-way classification, but the difficultyis not only due to the number of classes, but alsoto the fact that two of the classes are not well-distinguished in the data.
While the class of in-ternally caused events is relatively easily distin-guished (small number of errors in all classifica-tions), the classes of externally caused and cause-unspecified verbs are hard to distinguish.
Thisfinding supports the two-way classification arguedfor in the literature.The classification performed by the bilingual1The table contains 26 instead of 31 verbs because corpusdata could not be reliably extracted for some phrasal verbslisted by Haspelmath.model indicates that the distinction between ex-ternally caused and cause-unspecified verbs mightstill exist.
Compared to the monolingual clas-sification, more verbs are classified as cause-unspecified, and they are grouped in the middle ofthe typological scale.
Since the model takes intoaccount cross-linguistic variation in the realisa-tions of the alternating verbs, the observed differ-ence in the performance could be interpreted as asign that the distinction between cause-unspecifiedand externally caused events does emerge in cross-linguistic contexts.While supporting the two-way classification ofevents, our experiments do not provide a defi-nite answer to the question of whether there aremore than two classes of events.
To obtain sig-nificant results, more verbs need to be evaluated.However, the typological data used in our exper-iments (Haspelmath, 1993) are not easily avail-able.
This kind of data are currently not includedin the typological resources (such as the WALSdatabase (Dryer and Haspelmath, 2013)), but theycan, in principle, be collected from other elec-tronic sources of language documentation, whichare increasingly available for many different lan-guages.6 Related WorkThe proposed distinction between externally andinternally caused events is addressed by McKoonand Macfarland (2000).
They study twenty-oneverbs defined in the linguistic literature as describ-ing internally caused events and fourteen verbs de-scribing externally caused events.
Their corpusstudy shows that the appearance of these verbs ascausative (transitive) and anticausative (intransi-tive) cannot be used as a diagnostic for the kindof meaning that has been attributed to them.Since internally caused verbs do not enter thealternation, they were expected to be found in in-transitive clauses only.
This, however, was not thecase.
The probability for some of these verbs tooccur in a transitive clause is actually quite high(0.63 for the verb corrode, for example).
Moreimportantly, no difference was found in the prob-ability of the verbs denoting internally caused andexternally caused events to occur as transitive oras intransitive.
This means that the acceptabilityjudgements used in the qualitative analysis do notapply to all the verbs in question, and, also, not toall the instances of these verbs.44Model 2-class 3-classMonolingual Bilingual Monolingual BilingualTypology acaus caus acaus caus acaus caus unspec.
acaus caus unspec.acaus 8 0 8 0 6 0 1 6 0 1caus 4 14 4 14 0 3 0 0 3 0unspec.
?
?
?
?
4 5 7 4 3 9Agreement 85% 85% 61% 69%Table 1: Per class and overall agreement between the corpus-based and the typology-based classificationof verbs; acaus = internally caused, caus = externally caused, unspec.
= cause-unspecified.Even though the most obvious prediction con-cerning the corpus instances of the two groups ofverbs was not confirmed, the corpus data werestill found to support the distinction between thetwo groups.
Examining 50 randomly selected in-stances of transitive uses of each of the studiedverbs, McKoon and Macfarland (2000) find that,when used in a transitive clause, internally causedchange-of-state verbs tend to occur with a limitedset of subjects, while externally caused verbs canoccur with a wider range of subjects.
This differ-ence is statistically significant.The relation between frequencies of certain usesand the lexical semantics of English verbs hasbeen explored by Merlo and Stevenson (2001) inthe context of automatic verb classification.
Merloand Stevenson (2001) show that information col-lected from instances of verbs in a corpus can beused to distinguish between three different classeswhich all include verbs that alternate betweentransitive and intransitive use.
The classes in ques-tion are manner of motion verbs (10), which alter-nate only in a limited number of languages, exter-nally caused change of state verbs (11), alternatingacross languages, and performance/creation verbs,which are not lexical causatives (12).
(10) a.
The horse raced past the barn.b.
The jockey raced the horse past the barn.
(11) a.
The butter melted in the pan.b.
The cook melted the butter in the pan.
(12) a.
The boy played.b.
The boy played soccer.One of the most useful features for the classi-fication proved to be the causativity feature.
Itrepresents the fact that, in the causative alterna-tion, the same lexical items can occur both as sub-jects and as objects of the same verb.
This featuresets apart the two causative classes from the per-formance class.In the context of psycholinguistic empirical ap-proaches to encoding causality in verbs, it hasbeen established that assigning a causal relationto a sequence of events can be influenced by thenative languages (Wolff et al., 2009a; Wolff andVentura, 2009b).
English speakers, for instance,tend to assign causal relations more than Russianspeakers.In our study, we draw on the fact that the se-mantic properties of verbs are reflected in the waythey are used in a corpus, established by the pre-vious studies.
We explore this relationship further,relating it to a deeper semantic analysis and to thetypological distribution of grammatical features.7 Conclusion and Future WorkThe experiments presented in this article provideempirical evidence that contribute to a better un-derstanding of the relationship between the causalsemantics of verbs, their formal morphologicaland syntactic properties, and the variation in theiruse.
We have shown that the likelihood of externalcausation of events is encoded in the distributionof the causative and anticausative uses of verbs.Two classes of events, externally caused and inter-nally caused events, can be distinguished automat-ically based on corpus data.In future work, we will further investigate thequestion of whether there are more than twoclasses of events and how they are distinguished.We will explore potential tendencies indicated byour findings.
We will apply the approach proposedin this article to an extended data set.
On one hand,we will collect typological data for more verbs, ex-ploring possibilities of automatic data extraction.On the other hand, we will include more languagesin the model to ensure a better representation ofcross-linguistic variation.45ReferencesArtemis Alexiadou, Elena Anagnostopoulou, and Flo-rian Schfer.
2006.
The properties of anticausativescrosslinguistically.
In Mara Frascarelli, editor,Phases of Interpretation, pages 187?212, Berlin,New York.
Mouton de Gruyter.Artemis Alexiadou.
2010.
On the morpho-syntax of(anti-)causative verbs.
In Malka Rappaport Hovav,Edit Doron, and Ivy Sichel, editors, Syntax, LexicalSemantics and Event Structure, pages 177?203, Ox-ford.
Oxford University Press.Steven Bethard.
2007.
Finding Event, Temporal andCausal Structure in Text: A Machine Learning Ap-proach.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Colorado atBoulder.Gerlof Bouma, Lilja ?vrelid, and Jonas Kuhn.
2010.Towards a large parallel corpus of cleft construc-tions.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conference onInternational Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC?10), Valletta, Malta.
European Language Re-sources Association.Matthew S. Dryer and Martin Haspelmath, editors.2013.
WALS Online.
Max Planck Institute for Evo-lutionary Anthropology, Leipzig.Pascale Fung, Zhaojun Wu, Yongsheng Yang, andDekai Wu.
2007.
Learning bilingual semanticframes: Shallow semantic parsing vs. semantic roleprojection.
In 11th Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation (TMI2007), pages 75?84, Skovde, Sweden.Matthew Gerber and Joyce Y. Chai.
2012.
Seman-tic role labeling of implicit arguments for nominalpredicates.
Computational Linguistics, 38(4):755?798.Thomas Gilovich, Robert Vallone, and Amos Tversky.1985.
The hot hand in basketball: On the misper-ception of random sequences.
Cognitive Psychol-ogy, 17(3):295?314.C?ecile Grivaz.
2012.
Automatic extraction of causalknowledge from natural language texts.
Ph.D. the-sis, University of Geneva.Martin Haspelmath.
1993.
More on typology ofinchoative/causative verb alternations.
In BernardComrie and Maria Polinsky, editors, Causativesand transitivity, volume 23, pages 87?121, Amster-dam/Philadelphia.
John Benjamins Publishing Co.Karin Kipper Schuler.
2005.
VerbNet: A broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Pennsylvania.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpusfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedingsof MT Summit 2005, Phuket, Thailand.Mirella Lapata and Chris Brew.
2004.
Verb classdisambiguation using informative priors.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 30(1):45?73.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
1994.
A pre-liminary analysis of causative verbs in English.
Lin-gua, 92:35?77.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
2005.
Ar-gument realization.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions : a preliminary investigation.
The Universityof Chicago Press, Chicago.Llu?
?s M`arquez, Xavier Carreras, Kenneth C.Litkowski, and Suzanne Stevenson.
2008.
Se-mantic role labeling: An introduction to the specialissue.
Computational Linguistics, 34(2):145?159.Gail McKoon and Talke Macfarland.
2000.
Externallyand internally caused change of state verbs.
Lan-guage, 76(4):833?858.Paola Merlo and Susanne Stevenson.
2001.
Automaticverb classification based on statistical distributionof argument structure.
Computational Linguistics,27(3):373?408.Albert Michotte.
1963.
The perception of causality.Basic Books, Oxford, England.Jacques Moeschler.
2011.
Causal, inferential andtemporal connectives: Why ?parce que?
is the onlycausal connective in French.
In S. Hancil, editor,Marqueurs discursifs et subjectivit?e, pages 97?114,Rouen.
Presses Universitaires de Rouen et du Havre.Joakim Nivre, Johan Hall, Jens Nilsson, ChanevAtanas, Gles?en Eryi?git, Sandra Kbler, SvetoslavMarinov, and Erwin Marsi.
2007.
MaltParser:A language-independent system for data-driven de-pendency parsing.
Natural Language Engineering,13(2):95?135.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?52.Sebastian Pad?o and Mirella Lapata.
2009.
Cross-lingual annotation projection of semantic roles.Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 36:307?340.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The Proposition Bank: An annotated cor-pus of semantic roles.
Computational Linguistics,31(1):71?105.James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The generative lexicon.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Gillian Ramchand.
2008.
Verb Meaning and the Lex-icon: A First Phase Syntax.
Cambridge Studiesin Linguistics.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.46Michael Roth and Anette Frank.
2012.
Aligning predi-cate argument structures in monolingual comparabletexts: A new corpus for a new task.
In *SEM 2012:The First Joint Conference on Lexical and Compu-tational Semantics ?
Volume 1: Proceedings of themain conference and the shared task, and Volume 2:Proceedings of the Sixth International Workshop onSemantic Evaluation (SemEval 2012), pages 218?227, Montr?eal, Canada, 7-8 June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Florian Schafer.
2009.
The causative alternation.In Language and Linguistics Compass, volume 3,pages 641?681.
Blackwell Publishing.Leonard Talmy.
2000.
Towards a cognitive semantics.The MIT Press, Cambridge Mass.Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman.
1982.
Causalschemata in judgments under uncertainty.
In DanielKahneman, Paul Slovic, and Amos Tversky, editors,Judgement Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Bi-ases.Lonneke van der Plas, Paola Merlo, and James Hen-derson.
2011.
Scaling up automatic cross-lingualsemantic role annotation.
In Proceedings of the 49thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,pages 299?304, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Phillip Wolff and Tatyana Ventura.
2009b.
When Rus-sians learn English: How the semantics of causationmay change.
Bilingualism: Language and Cogni-tion, 12(2):153?176.Phillip Wolff, Ga-Hyun Jeon, and Yu Li.
2009a.Causal agents in English, Korean and Chinese: Therole of internal and external causation.
Languageand Cognition, 1(2):165?194.Sandrine Zufferey.
2012.
?Car, parce que, puisque?revisited: Three empirical studies on French causalconnectives.
Journal of Pragmatics, 44:138?153.47
