Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Language Technologies and Computational Social Science, pages 8?12,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 26, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsContext-based Natural Language Processing forGIS-based Vague Region Visualization1,2Wei Chen1Department of Computer Science and Engineering, 2Department of GeographyThe Ohio State University, Columbus OH, USA 43210chen.1381@osu.eduAbstractVernacular regions such as central Ohioare popularly used in everyday language;but their vague and indeterministic bound-aries affect the clarity of communicatingthem over the geographic space.
This pa-per introduced a context-based naturallanguage processing approach to retrievegeographic entities.
Geographic entitiesextracted from news articles were used aslocation-based behavioral samples to mapout the vague region of central Ohio.
Par-ticularly, part of speech tagging and parsetree generation were employed to filter outcandidate entities from English sentences.Propositional logic of context (PLC) wasintroduced and adapted to build the con-textual model for deciding the member-ship of named entities.
Results were auto-matically generated and visualized in GISusing both symbol and density mapping.Final maps were consistent with our intu-ition and common sense knowledge of thevague region.1 IntroductionCentral Ohio is commonly used vernacular termto refer to an approximate area around the city ofColumbus in Ohio.
Although it may be effortlessfor humans to tell the relative location of this re-gion, it remains challenging for computers to au-tomatically locate this region by harvesting andanalyzing online data such as news articles.
Com-puters that are capable of automatically delineat-ing such vague regions may be of potential use tosocial science researchers for understanding otherconcepts that may not be as obvious such as cul-tural regions, the Muslim world.In the study of vague regions, previous studiesintroduced a behavioral method to map out down-town Santa Barbara based on human survey data(Montello, Goodchild, Gottsegen, & Fohl, 2003).Their approach collected hand-drawn point-basedlocations and plotted them on the map of the city.Such data collection process may be very costlycompared to computer-based automated ap-proach.
By comparison, natural language pro-cessing (NLP) techniques such as part of speechtagging and parse tree generation provide power-ful linguistic analysis tools that can help quicklyretrieve data from a large number of corpus data(Jurafsky, Martin, Kehler, Vander Linden, &Ward, 2000).
However, these NLP techniqueshave yet been widely used to extract geographicentities for visualizing vague regions like centralOhio.On the other hand, linguistic contexts of namedentities are important for deciding its relevancy tothe underlying vague regions.
For instance, for aplace to be part of central Ohio, it must be in thecontext of Ohio as a precondition.
Propositionallogic of context (PLC) is a logic model in the fieldof artificial intelligence for formalizing contextsinto propositional calculus (BuvaE & Mason,1993).
Based on PLC, an arbitrary predicate cal-culus can be evaluated according to selected con-texts.In this paper, central Ohio is chosen as the ex-perimental area to experiment the context-basednatural language approach for visualizing vagueregions.
News articles are used and analyzed onthree contextual levels: document, paragraph andsentence.
Results are visualized in GIS.1.1 News dataNews articles are extracted from LexisNexis, acomprehensive database of both national and lo-cal news (Smith, Ellenberg, Bell, & Rubin, 2008).All articles are retrieved based on caseless key-word match for relevancy.
The only keyword usedis central Ohio and only news articles that containthis exact phrase are retrieved.
As a result, 3281different articles are collected which cover centralOhio news from the year 1990 to the year 2013.81.2 Geonames databaseGeonames database contains names and locationsof geographic entities.
We create our geonamesdatabase two sources: the United States Geologi-cal Survey's Geographic NamesInformation Server (USGS, 2013) and Censusgazetteers (Census, 2013).
Only place and featurenames in Ohio used for analysis.
Table 1 summa-rizes compositions of entities in our Ohiogeonames database.Category PercentagesAdministrative places(1054 records)23.0% cities66.3% villages10.6% CDPs (census desig-nated place)Geographic features(67804 records)14.9% church13.7% school12.6% populated placeamong 53 categoriesTable 1.
Geographic named entities in Ohio2 Natural Language ProcessingPart of speech tagging and parse tree generationare used to automatically extract geographicnamed entities from news articles in this paper.Part of speech (POS) tagging is the process of de-ciding the functions of words such as nouns orverbs.
Parse tree generation is based on POS tag-ging results.
It aims to generate hierarchical rep-resentations of sentences for semantic understand-ing (Jurafsky et al., 2000).
Noun phrases in theparse tree are often useful indicators to named en-tities in geolinguistic analysis (Chen et al., 2013).2.1 Part of speech taggingPart-of-speech (POS) tagging assigns a POS tagto each token in a sentence.
A token can be eithera word or a punctuation.
The single best POS tagassigned to a token depends on the function of theword, the tag set, and POS tagging algorithm(Jurafsky et al., 2000).
Contemporary POS tag-gers can reach an average accuracy of above 97%on tokens (Manning, 2011).The part of speech tagger we use is StanfordNLP tagger with english-caseless-left3words-distsim tagger model.
This tagger model is trainedwith WSJ sections 0-18 and extra parser trainingdata using the left3words architecture.
It includesword shape and distributional similarity featuresfor training the tagger (Gimpel et al., 2010).
Theresults are represented using Penn Treebank tagsand the average parsing accuracy is above 97% onsentences in news.
Box 1 is the tagged sentencefrom one article with POS tags appended after theslash in uppercase letters.
For a complete list, onemay refer to Penn Treebank tag sets.Her/PRP$ friends/NNS at/IN the/DT Central/NNPOhio/NNP Nazarene/NNP Church/NNP Camp/NNPshe/PRP attended/VBD every/DT summer/NN in/IN Co-lumbus/NNP convinced/VBD her/PRP to/TOattend/VB Mount/NNP Vernon/NNP Nazarene/NNP Col-lege/NNP in/IN Knox/JJ county/NN ,/, OH/NNP ./.Box 1.
Tagged sentence2.2 ParsingStanford parsers are used to produce the parse treefrom which noun phrases, named entity candi-dates, can be extracted (De Marneffe,MacCartney, & Manning, 2006) .
Fig.1 shows theresult of parsing the tagged sentence in Box 1.
Itis observed that only noun phrases (NP) at thelowest level of the tree are useful for extractingnamed entities.
Noun phrases at other levels con-tain auxiliary structures such as prepositions oftendo not suggest named entities.In Fig.1, NPs in dashed rectangles are candi-date entities that do not match any records in ourOhio database.
When looking up the database fora match, determinants like the are skipped as wellas entity type terms like city and county.
To findthe location of a matched entity, a SQL query isused to return the latitude and longitude pair.Figure 1.
Parse tree of tagged sentence in Box 13 Geographic Information Retrieval3.1 Propositional logic of context (PLC)As previously discussed, candidate named entitiesare primarily noun phrases extracted at the rootlevel of a parse tree.
However, not all such entitiesshould be considered as part of central Ohio.
Todetermine the membership, we may define fol-lowing logic heuristics: if (1) the name of an entityis in the same text segment as the phrase centralOhio and (2) the entity is an Ohio place, then theentity is of greater likelihood of being a centralOhio place than otherwise.
Here, Ohio and central9Ohio are linguistic contexts for discriminatingcentral Ohio entities.To formalize the contexts of analysis, we intro-duce propositional logic of context (PLC) (BuvaE& Mason, 1993).
Here, we only adapt its basicform as it already suffice the needs of our analysis.For detailed information of PLC, one may read theoriginal paper from BuvaE (BuvaE & Mason,1993).
The minimum PLC definition is below:x:   subjectp:   preposition about the subjectc:   contextc1?c2:  logic AND, intersection of two contextsc1?c2:  logic OR, union of two contextsist(c, p): the proposition p is true in context c.3.2 PLC-based matching and countingBased on the PLC definition, we count the men-tions of named entities in all news articles.Here, we define the following PLC notations forour analysis:p: the preposition that x is a central Ohio cityc1: the context of Ohioc2: the context of central Ohioc3: the context of not-central OhioOhio context is defined according to records ingeonames database.
If an entity name is in the da-tabase, it is said to be in the Ohio context.
CentralOhio context is defined as the text segment con-taining both the entity name and the phrase centralOhio.
Not-central Ohio context is defined as thetext segment with the following terms in it:north(ern) Ohio, northeast(ern) Ohio, east(ern)Ohio, southeast(ern) Ohio, south(ern) Ohio,southwest(ern) Ohio, west(ern) Ohio, and north-west(ern) Ohio.
Based on our observation, theseeight azimuth phrases are found to be good indi-cators of places that are obviously not in centralOhio.Accordingly, three types of entity counts arealso developed.
(1) Positive count (E): the total number of occur-rences of the name of an entity E in the contextc1?c2.
(2) Neutral count (E): the total number of occur-rences of the name of an entity E in the contextc1??c2??c3.
(3) Negative count (E): the total number of occur-rences of the name of an entity E in the contextc1?c3.3.3 Count and normalizationWe calculate the membership of an entity to theconcept central Ohio using following countingand normalization rules.
We define three variablesto count entity occurrences in different contexts:C???
: positive count of the entity E.C???
: negative count of the entity E.C???
: neutral count of the entity E.IF ist(c1?c2, p), C??
?++.IF ist(c1?c3, p), C??
?++.IF ist(c1??c2?
?c3, p), C??
?++.Based on observations, big cities like Colum-bus are mentioned more frequently than othersmaller places in term of both C???
and C???.
Asit is the difference between C???
and C??
?that de-termines the sign of the membership, we decide touse C???
as the normalization denominator forcalculating the membership.Membership r of a place is calculated usingEquation 1.
It is a real value between -1 and 1.
Allplaces are classified by the sign of the member-ship as either central Ohio or not-central Ohioplace with the magnitude of the value being thestrength of the membership.
1 means definitely acentral Ohio place and -1 means definitely not acentral Ohio place.?
= {(C???
?
C???)
C????
, if C???
> 00                                        , ?????????????????
1As C???
is in the denominator, it must not bezero.
Given observations, entities with C???
beingzero are primarily entities with less than 3 totalmentions.
These entities take up 3.9% of all ex-tracted entities.
Therefore, we decide to excludethem from analysis as they are of a small percent-age and are not expected to affect the overall re-sults.4 Results and discussionsGeographic entities are extracted from all 3281news articles and their membership values aremapped using the geographic information system(GIS) software ArcGIS which are popular in so-cial science geographic research.4.1 Graduated symbol mapsGraduated symbol map is a type of map that usessymbols of different sizes to represent geographicentities (Thrall, 1999).
The symbol we choose iscircle.
The radius of the circle is decided by theattribute value associated with each entity.
Themap is configured as follows:(1) The size of each point is proportioned to themembership of the underlying named entitywith size 4 and 24 representing the minimumand maximum membership respectively.
(2) Symbols are classified into 10 classes based onequal interval classification method.10There is one exception of using the member-ship for making the graduated symbol map.
Onthe article level, all entity counts are added toC??
?, and therefore there are no negative or neu-tral counts.
To make a map on the article level, weonly use the positive count as the surrogate to themembership value.Graduated symbol maps on three analyticallevels are shown in Fig.
2.
Results on the sentencelevel and paragraph levels conforms better to ourintuition and common sense knowledge than onthe article level.
This is because results on the ar-ticle level do not consider the contexts of c1 and c2discussed in section 4.2.
Results from the sentenceand paragraph levels are very similar with themembership on the paragraph level being slightlymore visually significant.Figure 2.
Graduated symbol map of central Ohio4.2 Kernel density mapResults produced by graduated symbol maps arenot continuous.
Kernel density mapping is a GISmapping technique that generates a continuoussurface based on the locations of the entities andtheir attribute values (Elgammal, Duraiswami,Harwood, & Davis, 2002).
To create kernel den-sity maps, a search radius need be defined.
Alldata points within this radius will be used to inter-polate a density area using a quadratic kernelfunction described in Silverman (p. 76, equation4.5) (Silverman, 1986).The kernel density tool in ArcGIS is used tocreate the density map.
In ArcGIS, the search ra-dius is defined as a percentage of the area?s mini-mum extent width.
We experiment on choosing1/10, 1/5, 1/20 of the area?s minimum extentwidth as the radius to generate the surface and find1/10 of the width most appropriate to generate abalanced looking map.A kernel density map of central Ohio visual-izes its estimated central location and extendingtrend over the space of Ohio.
Fig.
3 is a kerneldensity result based on the paragraph level.
Itshows that the concept of central Ohio generatedthrough automated approach conforms to ourcommon sense knowledge of the assumptive loca-tion of the vague region.Figure 3.
Kernel density map of central Ohio5 ConclusionsVague geographic regions are important part ofthe entire geographic space; however they are dif-ficult to be located and delineated on a map.
Geo-graphic questions like Where is central Ohio?
re-mains a challenge to computers because comput-ers are not automatically given the knowledge ofeither central or Ohio as humans do.This paper introduced a context-based ap-proach to extract geographic entities from newsarticles.
Propositional logic of context wasadapted to contextualize the reasoning process.Three types of context have been defined: Ohio,central Ohio, not-central Ohio, which corre-sponded to Ohio places, central Ohio places andnot-central Ohio places, respectively.Analysis was conducted on three contextuallevels: article, paragraph and sentence.
Visuali-zation results showed that context was of signifi-cant importance to deciding the membership of aplace to central Ohio.
Without defining the con-text (e.g.
results on the article level in Fig.
2), vis-ualization results were largely incorrect comparedwith common sense knowledge.Natural language processing (NLP) techniquessuch as part of speech tagging and parse tree gen-eration were shown to be effective for extractinggeographic information.
Noun phrases couldserve as good candidates to place names.
For fu-ture research, we suggest studies on experiment-ing with different regional concepts using pro-posed approach.
It may also be useful to experi-ment with methods that can quickly generate sam-ples other than the tree parsing method used in thispaper.
Despite the possibility of generating morecoarse results, noisier method may be more scala-ble for building practical applications with scaledlive data.11AcknowledgementsThe author would like to thank Dr. Xiang Chen,Dr.
Zhe Xu, Dr. Lili Wang, Dr. Xueying Zhang,Dr.
Bo Zhao, Dr. Ningchuan Xiao and two otheranonymous reviewers for their valuable com-ments and suggestions for improving the paper.Presentation of the work was supported by the re-search data and computing center of the researchinstitute at the Nationwide Children?s Hospital.ReferenceBuvaE, Saga, & Mason, Ian A.
(1993).
Propositionallogic of context.
Paper presented at the Proceedingsof the eleventh national conference on artificialintelligence.Census.
(2013).
U.S. Gazetteer Files.
fromhttp://www.census.gov/geo/www/gazetteer/files/Gaz_places_national.txtChen, Wei, Fosler-Lussier, Eric, Xiao, Ningchuan,Raje, Satyajeet, Ramnath, Rajiv, & Sui, Daniel.(2013).
A Synergistic Framework for GeographicQuestion Answering.
Paper presented at theSemantic Computing (ICSC), 2013 IEEE SeventhInternational Conference on.De Marneffe, Marie-Catherine, MacCartney, Bill, &Manning, Christopher D. (2006).
Generating typeddependency parses from phrase structure parses.Paper presented at the Proceedings of LREC.Elgammal, Ahmed, Duraiswami, Ramani, Harwood,David, & Davis, Larry S. (2002).
Background andforeground modeling using nonparametric kerneldensity estimation for visual surveillance.Proceedings of the IEEE, 90(7), 1151-1163.Gimpel, Kevin, Schneider, Nathan, O'Connor,Brendan, Das, Dipanjan, Mills, Daniel, Eisenstein,Jacob, .
.
.
Smith, Noah A.
(2010).
Part-of-speechtagging for twitter: Annotation, features, andexperiments: DTIC Document.Jurafsky, Dan, Martin, James H, Kehler, Andrew,Vander Linden, Keith, & Ward, Nigel.
(2000).Speech and language processing: An introduction tonatural language processing, computationallinguistics, and speech recognition (Vol.
2): MITPress.Manning, Christopher D. (2011).
Part-of-speechtagging from 97% to 100%: is it time for somelinguistics?
Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing (pp.
171-189): Springer.Montello, Daniel R, Goodchild, Michael F, Gottsegen,Jonathon, & Fohl, Peter.
(2003).
Where'sdowntown?
: Behavioral methods for determiningreferents of vague spatial queries.
Spatial Cognition& Computation, 3(2-3), 185-204.Silverman, Bernard W. (1986).
Density estimation forstatistics and data analysis (Vol.
26): CRC press.Smith, Michael J, Ellenberg, Susan S, Bell, Louis M,& Rubin, David M. (2008).
Media coverage of themeasles-mumps-rubella vaccine and autismcontroversy and its relationship to MMRimmunization rates in the United States.
Pediatrics,121(4), e836-e843.Thrall, Susan Elshaw.
(1999).
Geographic informationsystem (GIS) hardware and software.
Journal ofPublic Health Management and Practice, 5(2),82&hyhen.USGS.
(2013).
Geographic Names Information Server.from http://geonames.usgs.gov/index.html12
