Proceedings of the SIGDIAL 2014 Conference, pages 41?50,Philadelphia, U.S.A., 18-20 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdapting to Personality Over Time: Examining the Effectiveness ofDialogue Policy Progressions in Task-Oriented InteractionAlexandria Katarina Vail and Kristy Elizabeth BoyerDepartment of Computer ScienceNorth Carolina State UniversityRaleigh, North Carolina, USA{akvail, keboyer}@ncsu.eduAbstractThis paper explores dialogue adaptationover repeated interactions within a task-oriented human tutorial dialogue corpus.We hypothesize that over the course offour tutorial dialogue sessions, tutorsadapt their strategies based on the person-ality of the student, and in particular tostudent introversion or extraversion.
Wemodel changes in strategy over time anduse them to predict how effectively thetutorial interactions support student learn-ing.
The results suggest that students lean-ing toward introversion learn more effec-tively with a minimal amount of inter-ruption during task activity, but occasion-ally require a tutor prompt before voicinguncertainty; on the other hand, studentstending toward extraversion benefit signif-icantly from increased interaction, partic-ularly through tutor prompts for reflectionon task activity.
This line of investiga-tion will inform the development of futureuser-adaptive dialogue systems.1 IntroductionThroughout dialogue interactions, humans adaptto each other in a variety of ways (Cohen et al.,1981; Power, 1974; Wahlster and Kobsa, 1989).Some recent studies suggest that dialogue systemsthat mirror these adaptations to the user, e.g., byadopting the user?s vocabulary (Niederhoffer andPennebaker, 2002) or linguistically aligning to theuser?s context (Pickering and Garrod, 2004), maybe more effective than those that do not.
For sup-porting human dialogue, it has been demonstratedthat tutorial dialogue systems improve in effective-ness when they adapt to user uncertainty (Forbes-Riley and Litman, 2007) or perform ?small talk?to increase the user?s trust in the system (Casselland Bickmore, 2003).
Some studies have providedevidence that adapting to the user at the person-ality level also increases effectiveness; for exam-ple, users may become more agreeable when sys-tems mirror their personality (Reeves and Nass,1997), and varying levels of encouragement mayhelp users of extraverted or introverted personali-ties accomplish a task more effectively (Tapus andMataric, 2008).With this substantial evidence that adapting touser personality may improve the effectiveness ofa dialogue system, there is little investigation ofhow personality affects repeated interactions.
Forsupporting human learning in particular, we hy-pothesize that taking personality into account mayenhance outcomes by providing a more tailoredexperience.
To explore this hypothesis, this paperpresents an analysis that uses the change in humantutorial dialogue policies over repeated interactionwith introverted and extraverted students to pre-dict the effectiveness of the tutoring.
We utilize awidely-used and validated questionnaire, the BigFive Inventory, to determine a personality profilefor each student.
We hypothesize that introvertedand extraverted students learn more effectively un-der different dialogue policies.
The results sug-gest dialogue policy progressions that could aid inthe future development of personality-based user-adaptive tutorial dialogue systems.2 Related WorkHumans adapt to their dialogue partner in a va-riety of ways: for example, using knowledge ac-quired through the dialogue to inform subsequentutterances (Carberry, 1989), maintaining a set ofsubdialogues (Litman and Allen, 1987), and struc-turing dialogue to achieve a common goal (Power,1974), including asking particular sorts of ques-tions (Cohen et al., 1981), reaching dialogue con-vergence (Mitchell et al., 2012), and understand-ing context-specific vocabulary (Grosz, 1983).
It41has been strongly suggested by a number of stud-ies that dialogue systems would benefit greatlyfrom mirroring this sort of adaptation, e.g., byadopting the user?s syntax (Niederhoffer and Pen-nebaker, 2002), goal-oriented language (Brennan,1996), and dialogue structure (Levelt and Kelter,1982).Some of these factors have been successfullyapplied to task-oriented dialogue systems.
Forexample, ?entrainment?
(the alignment betweenpartners at various linguistic levels) has beenshown to be predictive of task success in tele-phone conversation (Nenkova et al., 2008) andof less misunderstanding in personality-matchingsystems (Mairesse and Walker, 2010).In order to gauge user personality, we utilizethe Big Five Factor model, which was developedto objectively measure five particular aspects of aperson?s personality (Goldberg, 1993).
This per-sonality model has been widely implemented in anumber of studies of personality in dialogue sys-tems, including recommender systems (Dunn etal., 2009) and conversational systems (Mairesseand Walker, 2010).
The investigation of person-ality as it pertains to tutorial dialogue systems is anatural step for user-adaptive dialogue systems.3 Tutorial Dialogue CorpusThe corpus under examination in this study con-sists of computer-mediated human-human textualdialogue (Mitchell et al., 2013; Ha et al., 2013).For each dialogue session, participants includedone tutor and one student who cooperated withthe goal of creating a working software artifact,a text-based adventure game, by the end of the re-peated interactions.
Students were first-year uni-versity students from an introductory engineeringcourse who volunteered in exchange for coursecredit.
No previous computer science knowledgewas assumed or required.
The tutors were primar-ily graduate students with previous experience intutoring or teaching Java programming.The tutorial sessions were conducted within aweb-based textual dialogue interface for introduc-tory programming in Java.
The tutorial dialogueinterface, displayed in Figure 1, consists of fourpanes in which the student interacts: the task de-scription, the compilation and execution output,the student?s Java source code, and the textual di-alogue messages between the tutor and the stu-dent.
The student could modify, compile, and ex-Figure 1: The task-oriented tutorial dialogue inter-face.ecute Java code from within the interface, in ad-dition to conversing with the tutor via the textualdialogue pane.
The content of the interface wassynchronized in real time between the student andthe tutor; however, the tutor?s interactions with theenvironment were constrained to the textual di-alogue with the student and the progression be-tween tasks.The corpus was collected during two universitysemesters in Fall 2011 and Spring 2012.
A totalof N = 67 students interacted with one of seventutors to complete the series of interactions duringthis time frame.
The tutoring curriculum was com-posed of six task-based lessons completed overfour weeks, each constrained to forty minutes induration.
Each lesson consisted of multiple sub-tasks, with each lesson concluding at a milestone.This paper considers only the first four of the sixlessons, because the fifth lesson suffered from sig-nificant data loss due to a database connectivityerror, and the sixth lesson consisted of an unstruc-tured review of the previous five lessons, and istherefore a different type of dialogue than the priorlessons.
The structure of the corpus is illustratedin Table 1.The sessions under consideration contained67 students, with a total of 45, 904 utterances:13, 732 student utterances and 32, 172 tutor utter-ances.
There were an average of 117 utterancesper session: 82 tutor utterances (652 words) and35 student utterances (184 words).
Introverted stu-dents averaged 36 utterances and 172 words persession, while extraverted students averaged 34 ut-terances and 187 words per session.
There wasno statistically significant difference between in-42Tutor Student Lessons1 1 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 L61 2 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 L6...2 15 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 L6...3 18 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 L63 19 L1 L2 L3 L4 L5 L6...Table 1: A diagram of the structure of the corpus.Gray cells indicate dialogue sessions that were notconsidered in the present analysis.troverts and extraverts on these counts.
The possi-ble extraversion score on the questionnaire rangesfrom ?10 (highly introverted) to 25 (highly ex-traverted), and the mean extraversion score of thestudents in our corpus was 6.40 (standard devia-tion 6.42).
The distribution of scores across thesample was comparable to a normal distribution,as demonstrated by the histogram in Figure 2.Figure 2: Histogram of extraversion scores acrossstudents in the corpus.
Lighter bars indicate fe-male students, while darker bars indicate male stu-dents.3.1 Learning GainStudents completed an identical pretest andposttest for each lesson.
The average pretest andposttest scores for students scoring above and be-low the median extraversion score in the fourlessons are detailed in Table 3 (determination ofextraversion is detailed in Section 3.2).
Therewas no statistically significant difference betweenthe scores of extraverted and introverted students.The tutoring was statistically significantly effec-tive overall and within each student group (p0.0001, on all accounts).LessonPretest PosttestIntrovert Extravert Introvert ExtravertL1 50.69% 47.42% 71.63% 68.18%L2 43.70% 38.96% 71.01% 73.59%L3 55.88% 54.55% 67.65% 64.85%L4 68.79% 65.66% 80.56% 79.97%Table 3: Average pretest and posttest scores foreach lesson.This equation adjusts for negative learning gainin the rare cases that posttest score is less thanpretest score (Marx and Cummings, 2007).norm gain ={post?pre1?prepost > prepost?preprepost ?
pre(1)Since pretest and posttest scores for introverts andextraverts were not identical, normalized learninggain was standardized within each group beforedeveloping models to predict learning (Section 4).3.2 Extraversion vs. IntroversionOne of the standard frameworks for identifyingpersonality traits is the Big Five Factor modelof personality (Goldberg, 1993).
The standardmethod of testing for the Big Five personalitytraits is by questionnaire (John and Srivastava,1999; Gosling et al., 2003).
The students un-der consideration in this study were adminis-tered a Big Five Inventory survey, a type of self-assessment of personality, prior to any interac-tion with the tutorial dialogue system.
The BigFive Inventory consists of 44 items to measurean individual on the Big Five Factors of per-sonality: Openness, Conscientiousness, Extraver-sion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism (Goldberg,1993).
This study focuses on a student?s responsesto the items reflective of extraversion and introver-sion.
These items are identified in Table 4.
Ex-traversion is defined as the part of the Big FiveFactors that identifies gregariousness, assertive-ness, activity, excitement-seeking, positive emo-tions, and warmth (John and Srivastava, 1999).3.3 Dialogue Act AnnotationAs described in the previous section, the corpusbeing considered consists of 268 dialogues, four43Extraverted Student Dialogue ExcerptSTUDENT: So do we need an else statement for eachone?
[QI]TUTOR: That wouldn?t actually work.
[AWH]STUDENT: Really?
[FNU]TUTOR: See, because it?s testing them each independently.
[E]TUTOR: So when it gets to 2 and 4, any other combinationgoes to its else.
[E]Pause for 29 seconds.TUTOR: If we added an else clause for each statement,we?d end up with 3 of them printing out for every validinput.
[E]STUDENT: Oh.
[ACK]Pause for 44 seconds.TUTOR: What else do you think we could try?
[QP]Pause for 49 seconds.STUDENT: Well the first one worked last time be-cause it was checking only playerChoice .
.
.
maybecurrentChoice has something to do with this case.
[AWH]Introverted Student Dialogue ExcerptSTUDENT: The else applies no matter what because itdoesn?t have an else if to combine with?
[QI]TUTOR: Well, it?s a little different than that.
[AWH]TUTOR: Each if statement applies no matter what.
[I]TUTOR: So, instead of checking the values as mutuallyexclusive conditions, each if is checked in sequence.
[I]Pause for 22 seconds.TUTOR: Your else occurs only with the final if, regard-less of what happened with the previous if statements!
[E]Pause for 31 seconds.TUTOR: Let?s fix it by doing the change that you startedmuch earlier.
[D]Pause for 50 seconds.TUTOR: Much better.
:) [FP]STUDENT: Thanks!
[ACK]Pause for 22 seconds.TUTOR: Do you have any issues with the input checkingas it is now?
[QP]Pause for 46 seconds.STUDENT: I do not!
[AYN]Table 2: Excerpts of similar dialogue between an extraverted and an introverted student.I see myself as someone who .
.
.. .
.
is talkative.. .
.
is reserved.*.
.
.
is full of energy.. .
.
generates a lot of enthusiasm.. .
.
tends to be quiet.*.
.
.
has an assertive personality.. .
.
is sometimes shy, inhibited.*.
.
.
is outgoing, sociable.Table 4: Items of the Big Five Inventory reflectiveof a student?s extraversion traits.
Asterisks repre-sent items negatively associated with extraversion.for each of 67 students, with 45, 904 utterances to-tal.
As described in this section, a portion of thesedialogues were manually annotated, and then asupervised dialogue act classifier was trained onthem and was used to tag the remaining dialogues.The annotation scheme applied to the corpusconsisted of 31 dialogue act tags grouped intofour high-level categories (Statement, Question,Answer, Feedback) (Vail and Boyer, In press).This tagset represents a refinement of previous di-alogue act tagsets developed for task-oriented tu-toring (Ha et al., 2013).
During this refinement,emphasis was placed on decomposing frequenttags that tended to be broad, such as STATEMENTand QUESTION, in order to capture more fine-grained pedagogical and social phenomena in thedialogues.
The annotation scheme is detailed inTable 5.A total of 30 sessions (4, 035 utterances) weremanually annotated by a single annotator.
Ofthose 30 sessions, 37% were annotated by a sec-ond independent annotator.
Inter-annotator agree-ment on this subset reached a Cohen?s kappa of?=0.87 (agreement of 89.6%).
These manuallyannotated sessions form the basis for developingan automated classifier.The automated classifier was trained using theWEKA machine learning software (Hall et al.,2009).
We used a J48 decision tree classifier,which has a low running time (Verbree et al.,2006) and as we will see, performed very well forthis task.
The classifier was provided the featureslisted in Table 6.Before the construction of the classifier, the 30sessions of the manually annotated corpus weresystematically split into a training and a test set,consisting of 24 and 6 sessions, respectively; thetest set contained the first three sessions with stu-dents identified as introverts and the first three ses-sions with students identified as extraverts.
Ut-terances were defined as single textual messages.44Tag ExampleSession Type?Introvert ExtravertACKNOWLEDGE (ACK) Okay.
10.46% 10.36% 0.872EXTRA-DOMAIN ANSWER (AEX) I?m doing great.
1.33% 1.42% 0.813READY ANSWER (AR) I?m ready.
2.75% 3.08% 0.963WH-QUESTION ANSWER (AWH) Line 9.
8.14% 8.10% 0.819YES/NO ANSWER (AYN) No, sir.
2.99% 3.73% 0.839CORRECTION (CO) *exclamation 0.43% 0.41% 0.700DIRECTIVE (D) Test what you have.
6.01% 5.97% 0.888EXPLANATION (E) Your code stops on line 2.
31.48% 26.70% 0.822NEGATIVE FEEDBACK (FN) No, that?s wrong.
0.02% 0.02% 0.615ELABORATED NEGATIVE FEEDBACK (FNE) You?re using the wrong function.
0.21% 0.14% 0.689NOT UNDERSTANDING FEEDBACK (FNU) I?m not sure.
0.05% 0.04% 0.749OTHER FEEDBACK (FO) That?s okay.
0.17% 0.16% 0.614ELABORATED OTHER FEEDBACK (FOE) What you had was fine.
0.29% 0.27% 0.665POSITIVE FEEDBACK (FP) Very good!
6.78% 5.45% 0.927ELABORATED POSITIVE FEEDBACK (FPE) That?s a very good approach.
0.05% 0.12% 0.705UNDERSTANDING FEEDBACK (FU) Ohh, I see!
0.76% 0.92% 0.804GREETING (GRE) Hello!
2.59% 3.03% 0.941INFORMATION (I) Variable names must be one word.
4.55% 5.33% 0.859OBSERVATION (O) As you see, we have a bug.
0.25% 0.31% 0.760EXTRA-DOMAIN OTHER (OEX) Calculus is difficult.
1.49% 2.22% 0.789CONFIRMATION QUESTION (QC) Does that work?
0.16% 0.16% 0.857DIRECTION QUESTION (QD) What do I do now?
0.68% 0.58% 0.758EVALUATIVE QUESTION (QE) Does that make sense?
0.87% 0.83% 0.763EXTRA-DOMAIN QUESTION (QEX) How are you today?
0.42% 0.45% 0.781FACTUAL QUESTION (QF) What line is it waiting on?
4.10% 5.12% 0.832INFORMATION QUESTION (QI) How do you add spaces?
4.06% 4.91% 0.820OPEN QUESTION (QO) How can you fix it?
0.15% 0.14% 0.725PROBING QUESTION (QP) Do you think that looks correct?
4.99% 4.76% 0.731QUESTION PROMPT (QQ) Any questions?
2.49% 2.24% 0.978READY QUESTION (QR) Are you ready to move on?
2.47% 2.75% 0.989REASSURANCE (R) We have plenty of time left.
0.12% 0.15% 0.763Table 5: Dialogue act tags comprising the annotation scheme, the average composition of a Lesson 4session with introverted and extraverted students, and the Cohen?s kappa achieved by the automatedclassifier.Feature DescriptionNumber of FeaturesInitial SelectedTUTOR or STUDENT 1 1Two-step tag history 2 2Two-step category history 2 2Number of tokens in the utterance 1 1Existence of a question mark 1 1Existence of word unigrams 1459 160Existence of word bigrams 8959 150Existence of POS unigrams 50 31Existence of POS bigrams 928 152Table 6: Features provided to the J48 automaticdialogue act classifier.Feature selection was performed on the featuresoccurring more than three times in the trainingset using the WEKA machine learning software:various top-N cut-offs were examined for perfor-mance on tenfold cross-validation after rankingthe features by information gain.
A peak in per-formance during cross-validation on the trainingset was observed at N=500 features.The final dialogue act classifier includes the fol-lowing features: speaker role, two-step dialogueact history (category and tag), utterance length, ex-istence of the ???
token, existence of 160 unigramsand 150 bigrams, and existence of 31 part-of-speech unigrams and 152 part-of-speech bigrams.45The part-of-speech tagger used in this analysis wasan n-gram tagger within the Natural LanguageTool Kit for Python, trained on the NPS chat cor-pus (Bird et al., 2009; Forsyth and Martell, 2007).The classifier performance on the held-out test setconsisting of 714 utterances was 80.11% accuracy,Cohen?s kappa of 0.786.
This classifier was thenused to tag dialogue acts in the remaining 41, 869utterances.4 Extraversion and Dialogue PolicyWith the annotated corpus in hand, the goal is toexamine how dialogue policy progression, as rep-resented by tutors?
contextualized dialogue acts,occurs over time with students tending toward ex-traversion or introversion.
We hypothesize thattutors adapt differently to introverted and ex-traverted students, and that students of differentextraverted or introverted tendencies learn moreeffectively from different dialogue policies.Students were binned into two groups, the ?in-troverts?, consisting of the students scoring belowor equal to the median extraversion score of 7, andthe ?extraverts?, consisting of the students scoringabove the median score1.
These groups included34 and 33 students, respectively.We describe tutor dialogue policy by identify-ing the conditional probabilities of a tutor movefollowing a student move (i.e., the probabilitiesPr(Tn|Sn?1)) during each session.
In otherwords, we compute bigram probabilities over di-alogue acts, where the second dialogue act of thebigram is a tutor move.
Because the task-orientednature of the dialogue allows for extended periodsof dialogue silence while the student is workingon the task, a WAIT tag was added to the corpuswhen there was a pause in the dialogue for morethan twenty seconds.
This threshold was chosenbased upon qualitative inspection of the corpus.
Toidentify the changes in this policy over time, wecalculated the difference in the probability of eachdialogue act bigram between the first and fourthlessons of each student-tutor pair.
Finally, in or-der to allow for directly comparing parameter val-ues across models, each column of predictors wasstandardized by subtracting the mean and dividing1We split on the median introversion/extraversion scoreas observed in our student sample rather than splitting on alarger population median because the range of personalitytraits differs significantly based on the sample.
To date, nolarge study has examined university students in order to es-tablish personality norms.by the standard deviation.After all of the bigram probabilities were stan-dardized, we split the students into two groupsbased on median extraversion score: those tend-ing toward extraversion and those tending towardintroversion.
A feature selection algorithm wasthen applied to each of these sets in order to iden-tify the most relevant dialogue act bigram fea-tures for predicting learning.
Any feature thatprovided non-positive information gain was elim-inated from consideration.
A stepwise linear re-gression model was then applied using the SASstatistical modeling software, resulting in the mod-els displayed in Tables 7 and 8.
Subscripts indicatethe speaker of the dialogue act, student or tutor.Note that in each of these tables, the predictors arenot just bigram probabilities, but change in thatparticular bigram probability from the first to thefourth dialogue within repeated-interactions tutor-ing.Students Tending Toward ExtraversionNormalized Learning Gain = Partial R2p1.244 * OEXS?
FPT0.228 < 0.001?0.445 * AYNS?
RT0.169 < 0.0010.440 * ES?
QET0.139 0.0010.359 * QIS?
QFT0.092 0.002?0.298 * AWHS?
QOT0.081 0.0130.207 * WAIT?
QPT0.050 0.037?0.226 * QIS?
IT0.038 0.0410.000 (intercept) 1.000RSME = 50.97% of range in Normalized Learning GainTable 7: Stepwise linear regression model for stan-dardized Normalized Learning Gain in studentsscoring above the median in extraversion.Students Tending Toward IntroversionNormalized Learning Gain = Partial R2p?0.447 * QIS?
RT0.262 0.0030.371 * QIS?
QPT0.125 0.007?0.331 * QIS?
QQT0.092 0.015?0.278 * WAIT?
FPET0.083 0.0180.384 * AYNS?
QQT0.067 0.0100.288 * ACKS?
ET0.067 0.0220.000 (intercept) 1.000RSME = 60.89% of range in Normalized Learning GainTable 8: Stepwise linear regression model for stan-dardized Normalized Learning Gain in studentsscoring below the median in extraversion.46Several tutorial dialogue policy progressionswere identified as statistically significantly asso-ciated with learning gain in both extraverted andintroverted students.
An increase in factual ques-tions following extra-domain statements was asso-ciated with increased learning in students scoringabove the median in extraversion, as was an in-crease in evaluative questions after explanations,an increase in the number of factual questions fol-lowing information questions, and an increase inprobing questions initiated after the conclusion ofa sub-dialogue.
On the other hand, extravertedstudents achieved a lower learning gain when tu-tors offered increasing reassurance after yes/no an-swers, asked more open questions after answers toWH-questions, or gave increasing instruction afteran information question.A similar number of tutorial dialogue policyprogressions were identified as statistically signif-icantly correlated with learning gain in introvertedstudents.
For these students, a higher learning gainwas achieved when tutors followed more infor-mation questions with a probing question, moreyes/no answers with a prompt for questions, oroffered increasing explanation after acknowledge-ments.
Students scoring below the median in ex-traversion achieved a lower learning gain whentutors offered more reassurance after informationquestions, more prompts for questions after infor-mation questions, or increasing elaborated positivefeedback after pauses in the dialogue.5 DiscussionThis section examines the tutorial dialogue pol-icy progressions that were identified as statisti-cally significant to learning gain in these groupsof students; recall that each feature represents achange over time in the probability that the seconddialogue act follows the first.
First we examinethe extraverted student model, and then we exam-ine the introverted student model.
Dialogue ex-cerpts illustrating these dialogue interactions aredisplayed in Appendix 1.5.1 Extraverted StudentsStudents scoring higher in extraversion tend tobe assertive, outgoing, and energetic (Goldberg,1993).
As the models show, these characteris-tics likely influence the extent to which particu-lar dialogue policies are effective for supportinglearning for extraverted students.
For example,the high energy nature of the extraversion per-sonality trait may influence how dialogues tran-sition.
The model shows that students learnedmore when tutors progressed over time towardmore positive feedback following extra-domainstatements (Extra-Domain StatementS?
PositiveFeedbackT) and toward more probing questionsfollowing pauses (Wait ?
Probing QuestionT).Both of these bigrams indicate important transi-tion points within dialogue.
For the former, extra-domain statements represent off-topic utterances,whereas tutor positive feedback can only be task-related (if it were a positive response to an extra-domain statement, the response would also havebeen tagged extra-domain).
For tutor probingquestions following pauses, it is likely that ex-traverted students benefited from this adaptationover time because in being asked to reflect andexplain their current understanding or goals, theymay have been re-engaged.
It should be noted thatin general, asking students to self-explain can sup-port learning (VanLehn et al., 1992).Another example of a dialogue policy progres-sion that emerged in the model and illustrates awidely known fact about tutoring is reflected in theInformation QuestionS?
InformationTbigram,which when tutors progressed more toward thisapproach, is associated with decreased learning.Our prior work has shown that directing studentswhat to do, even if they have just asked for suchdirection, is strongly associated with decreasedlearning (Mitchell et al., 2013).Extraverted students tend to be assertive, andthis characteristic influences how they make andinterpret particular dialogue moves.
An exampleof this can be seen within the model: when tutorsprogressed toward providing more reassurance af-ter student yes/no answers, students learned less.This Yes/No AnswerS?
ReassuranceTpolicy islikely a form of indirect feedback or politeness,both of which have been shown to be unhelpful,and sometimes harmful, to learning (Johnson andRizzo, 2004), and this seems to be a particularlymarked effect for extraverted students who maybenefit more from direct evaluations of their an-swers.
Another example of this indirect approachmay be within the WH-Question AnswerS?OpenQuestionTtutor policy, whose increasing use overtime was associated with lower student learning.Like reassurance, a follow-up question may be in-terpreted by extraverted students as an indirect in-47dication that the previous answer was incorrect,and a more direct approach may have been morehelpful.Finally, extraverted students tend to be talkative.This tendency is consistent with two of themodel?s findings regarding the helpfulness of par-ticular types of tutor questions.
Students tendedto learn more when tutors progressed toward fol-lowing student explanations with evaluative ques-tions (ExplanationS?
Evaluative QuestionT).Although students?
responses to evaluative ques-tions (e.g., ?Do you understand??)
are frequentlyconsidered to be inherently inaccurate, especiallywhen students are first introduced to material, itmay be the case that as students work on a task foran extended period of time, evaluative questionsmay become increasingly helpful.
Another tutorquestioning policy was also positively associatedwith learning gain for extraverted students: Infor-mation QuestionS?
Factual QuestionTinvolvesthe tutor answering a question with a question,potentially a very helpful strategy for talkative orhighly social students.5.2 Introverted StudentsStudents scoring lower in extraversion tend to beless talkative, more reserved, and more shy (Gold-berg, 1993).
This may result in introverted stu-dents being less outspoken about their understand-ing, and less likely to ask questions about misun-derstandings.
These characteristics affect the waythat tutor choices impact student learning duringtutoring.
For example, when less talkative stu-dents ask information questions and tutors tend toprovide more reassurance as time goes on, this In-formation QuestionS?
ReassuranceTpair is as-sociated with decreased student learning.
It is pos-sible that since introverts are less likely to speakup with a question, the ?stakes?
or importance ofproviding a direct answer may be higher for thesestudents.
Another dialogue policy progression thatis not helpful for student learning is to provideelaborated positive feedback after a pause in di-alogue (Wait ?
Elaborated Positive FeedbackT).Because pauses in the dialogue typically corre-spond to student task actions, it is possible that in-troverted students who are on the right track wouldbenefit more from the tutor allowing them to con-tinue working.Introverted students also tend to describe them-selves as shy or inhibited, which may be influentialin the apparent helpfulness of tutors?
increasingtheir question prompts following student answers(Answer Yes/NoS?
Question PromptT).
Thiscould be due to the fact that introverted studentsare prone to giving terse responses, and may needextra encouragement to ask questions if they areuncertain.
Increasing the number of these promptscould increase the likelihood that more of the stu-dent?s questions are voiced.
Another helpful typeof question for introverted students seems to beprobing questions, even when they follow a stu-dent question (Question InformationS?
ProbingQuestionT).
A probing question is an indirect re-quest for reflection, prompting the student to re-consider her approach; this has previously beenshown to have a positive effect on learning gain(VanLehn et al., 1992).6 Conclusion and Future WorkAdapting to personality during dialogue maysubstantially improve the effectiveness of bothhuman-human interactions as well as interactionswith dialogue systems.
We have investigated theways in which human tutorial dialogue policy pro-gressions are associated with learning within arepeated-interactions dialogue study.
The modelsindicate that depending on a student?s tendenciestoward introversion or extraversion, different di-alogue policy progressions support higher learn-ing.
In particular, introverts may benefit from ad-ditional prompting and encouragement to speaktheir mind, while extraverts may benefit from be-ing given opportunities to discuss their thoughtswith a tutor.While this study has focused on the extraversionfacet of personality, future work may benefit fromexamining the other facets of the Big Five Fac-tors: Neuroticism, Openness, Conscientiousness,and Agreeableness.
How we may best design a tu-torial dialogue policy around a more fully-featuredmodel of the student?s personality is an importantresearch area.
It will also be important to examinetask actions closely in future analyses, as this mayhave significant effects on task-oriented dialoguesystem design in particular.
Additionally, analyz-ing the intermediate sessions in order to capturea fuller picture of the interaction over time is apromising direction.
Finally, examining tutor per-sonality may also reveal important insight for thedesign of tutorial systems.
It is hoped that theselines of investigation will lead to a next generation48of user-adaptive dialogue systems with increasedeffectiveness facilitated by their adaptation to per-sonality traits.AcknowledgementsThe authors wish to thank the members of theLearnDialogue group at North Carolina State Uni-versity for their helpful input.
This work is sup-ported in part by the Department of Computer Sci-ence at North Carolina State University and theNational Science Foundation through Grant DRL-1007962 and the STARS Alliance, CNS-1042468.Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recom-mendations expressed in this report are those ofthe participants, and do not necessarily representthe official views, opinions, or policy of the Na-tional Science Foundation.ReferencesSteven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper.
2009.
Naturallanguage processing with Python.
O?Reilly Media, Inc.Susan E Brennan.
1996.
Lexical entrainment in spontaneousdialog.
In Proceedings of ISSD, pages 41?44.Sandra Carberry.
1989.
Plan recognition and its use in under-standing dialog.
In User Models in Dialog Systems, pages133?162.
Springer.Justine Cassell and Timothy Bickmore.
2003.
Negotiatedcollusion: Modeling social language and its relationshipeffects in intelligent agents.
User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 13(1-2):89?132.Philip R Cohen, C Raymond Perrault, and James F Allen.1981.
Beyond Question-Answering.
Technical report,DTIC Document.Greg Dunn, Jurgen Wiersema, Jaap Ham, and Lora Aroyo.2009.
Evaluating interface variants on personality acqui-sition for recommender systems.
In User Modeling, Adap-tation, and Personalization, pages 259?270.
Springer.Kate Forbes-Riley and Diane Litman.
2007.
Investigatinghuman tutor responses to student uncertainty for adaptivesystem development.
In Affective Computing and Intelli-gent Interaction, pages 678?689.
Springer.Eric N Forsyth and Craig H Martell.
2007.
Lexical and dis-course analysis of online chat dialog.
In Semantic Com-puting, 2007.
ICSC 2007. International Conference on,pages 19?26.
IEEE.Lewis R. Goldberg.
1993.
The structure of phenotypic per-sonality traits.
American Psychologist, 48(1):26?34.Samuel D Gosling, Peter J Rentfrow, and William B SwannJr.
2003.
A very brief measure of the Big-Five personalitydomains.
Journal of Research in personality, 37(6):504?528.Barbara J. Grosz.
1983.
TEAM: A Transportable Natural-language Interface System.
In Proceedings of the FirstConference on Applied Natural Language Processing,pages 39?45, Santa Monica, California.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Eun Young Ha, Christopher M Mitchell, Kristy ElizabethBoyer, and James C Lester.
2013.
Learning DialogueManagement Models for Task-Oriented Dialogue withMultiple Communicative Channels.
In Proceedings of the14th Annual SIGDIAL Meeting on Discourse and Dia-logue, pages 204?213, Metz, France.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.
2009.
TheWEKA Data Mining Software: An Update.
SIGKDD Ex-plorations, 11(1).Oliver P. John and Sanjay Srivastava.
1999.
The Big Fivetrait taxonomy: History, measurement, and theoreticalperspectives.
Handbook of personality: Theory and re-search1, 2:102?138.W Lewis Johnson and Paola Rizzo.
2004.
Politeness in tu-toring dialogs: ?Run the factory, thats what Id do?.
InIntelligent Tutoring Systems, pages 67?76.
Springer.Willem JM Levelt and Stephanie Kelter.
1982.
Surface formand memory in question answering.
Cognitive psychol-ogy, 14(1):78?106.Diane J Litman and James F Allen.
1987.
A plan recogni-tion model for subdialogues in conversations.
CognitiveScience, 11(2):163?200.Francois Mairesse and Marilyn A Walker.
2010.
To-wards personality-based user adaptation: psychologicallyinformed stylistic language generation.
User Modelingand User-Adapted Interaction, 20(3):227?278.Jeffrey D. Marx and Karen Cummings.
2007.
Normalizedchange.
American Journal of Physics, 75(1):87.Christopher M Mitchell, Kristy Elizabeth Boyer, and James CLester.
2012.
From strangers to partners: examining con-vergence within a longitudinal study of task-oriented dia-logue.
In Special Interest Group on Discourse and Dia-logue, pages 94?98.Christopher M Mitchell, Eun Young Ha, Kristy ElizabethBoyer, and James C Lester.
2013.
Learner characteristicsand dialogue: recognising effective and student-adaptivetutorial strategies.
International Journal of LearningTechnology (IJLT), 8(4):382?403.Ani Nenkova, Agustin Gravano, and Julia Hirschberg.
2008.High frequency word entrainment in spoken dialogue.
InProceedings of the 46th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics on Human Language Tech-nologies, pages 169?172.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Kate G Niederhoffer and James W Pennebaker.
2002.
Lin-guistic style matching in social interaction.
Journal ofLanguage and Social Psychology, 21(4):337?360.Martin J Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and brain sci-ences, 27(2):169?190.Richard Power.
1974.
A computer model of conversation.Byron Reeves and C Nass.
1997.
The Media equation: howpeople treat computers, television, and new media.
Cam-bridge University Press.Adriana Tapus and Maja J Mataric.
2008.
Socially AssistiveRobots: The Link between Personality, Empathy, Physi-ological Signals, and Task Performance.
In AAAI SpringSymposium: Emotion, Personality, and Social Behavior,pages 133?140.Alexandria Katarina Vail and Kristy Elizabeth Boyer.
Inpress.
Identifying Effective Moves in Tutorial Dialogue:On the Refinement of Speech Act Annotation Schemes.In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference onIntelligent Tutoring Systems, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA.Kurt VanLehn, Randolph M Jones, and Michelene TH Chi.1992.
A model of the self-explanation effect.
The Journalof the Learning Sciences, 2(1):1?59.Daan Verbree, Rutger Rienks, and Dirk Heylen.
2006.Dialogue-act tagging using smart feature selection; resultson multiple corpora.
In Spoken Language TechnologyWorkshop, pages 70?73.
IEEE.Wolfgang Wahlster and Alfred Kobsa.
1989.
User models indialog systems.
Springer.49Extraverted Student Dialogue ExcerptExtra-Domain Other?
Positive FeedbackSTUDENT: I haven?t really done this before.TUTOR: You?re doing well!Yes/No Answer?
ReassuranceSTUDENT: Yes.TUTOR: Actually, I was wording the question incor-rectly.
.
.Explanation?
Evaluative QuestionSTUDENT: But it still prompts for 3 or 4. .
.TUTOR: Yes; does that make sense from what youlearned about sequential program flow?Information Question?
Factual QuestionSTUDENT: What did I do wrong?TUTOR: What is your Scanner?s name?WH-Question Answer?
Open QuestionSTUDENT: Previous.TUTOR: Why did previousChoice get assigneda value?Wait?
Probing Question TUTOR: What do you think about your program?sbehavior?Information Question?
InstructionSTUDENT: There wouldn?t have been any output?TUTOR: Yeah, but more than that, the programwould report an error.Introverted Student Dialogue ExcerptInformation Question?
ReassuranceSTUDENT: So the previous answer needs to bestored as a part of PlayerInput2?TUTOR: That would work fine.Information Question?
Probing QuestionSTUDENT: That?s not what I want?TUTOR: Do you really want ?or?
?Information Question?
Question PromptSTUDENT: So I need an else if for every ifstatement?TUTOR: Do you have any questions?Wait?
Elaborated Positive Feedback TUTOR: Nice, you compiled the code.Yes/No Answer?
Question PromptSTUDENT: No, I got it.TUTOR: Any questions so far?Acknowledgement?
ExplanationSTUDENT: Okay.TUTOR: When Java gets to the nextLine(), itwill stop.Appendix 1: Dialogue excerpts illustrating the dialogue interactions emergent as significant in the anal-ysis.
All excerpts originate from Lesson 4, at the end of the series of dialogue sessions.50
