Proceedings of The First Workshop on Computational Approaches to Code Switching, pages 116?126,October 25, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational Linguistics?I am borrowing ya mixing ?
?An Analysis of English-Hindi Code Mixing in FacebookKalika Bali          Jatin Sharma           Monojit ChoudhuryMicrosoft Research Lab India{kalikab,jatin.sharma,monojitc}@microsoft.comYogarshi Vyas*University of Marylandyogarshi@cs.umd.eduAbstract1Code-Mixing is a frequently observedphenomenon in social media content gen-erated by multi-lingual users.
The pro-cessing of such data for linguistic analysisas well as computational modelling ischallenging due to the linguistic complex-ity resulting from the nature of the mixingas well as the presence of non-standardvariations in spellings and grammar, andtransliteration.
Our analysis shows the ex-tent of Code-Mixing in English-Hindidata.
The classification of Code-Mixedwords based on frequency and linguistictypology underline the fact that whilethere are easily identifiable cases of bor-rowing and mixing at the two ends, a largemajority of the words form a continuum inthe middle, emphasizing the need to han-dle these at different levels for automaticprocessing of the data.1 IntroductionThe past decade has seen an explosion of Com-puter Mediated Communication (CMC) world-wide (Herring 2003).
CMC provides users withmultiple options, both asynchronous and synchro-nous, like email, chat, and more recently, socialmedia like Facebook and Twitter (Isharayanti et al2009, Paolillo 2011).
This form of communica-tion raises interesting questions on language useacross these media.
Language use in CMC liessomewhere in between spoken and written forms1 This work was done during the author?s internship at Mi-crosoft Research Lab India.of a language, and tend to use simple shorter con-structions, contractions, and phrasal repetitionstypical of speech (Dannett and Herring 2007)Such conversations, especially in social-media arealso multi-party and multilingual, with switchingbetween, and mixing of two or more languages,the choice of language-use being highly influ-enced by the speakers and their communicativegoals (Crystal 2001).Code-Switching and Code-Mixing are stable andwell-studied linguistic phenomena of multilingualspeech communities.
Code-Switching is ?juxta-position within the same speech exchange of pas-sages of speech belonging to two different gram-matical systems or sub-systems?
(Gumperz 1982),and Code-Mixing refers to the embedding of lin-guistic units such as phrases, words and mor-phemes of one language into an utterance of an-other language (Myers-Scotton 1993, 2002).Thus, Code-Switching is usually inter-sentenceswhile Code-Mixing (CM) is an intra-sententialphenomenon.
Linguists believe that there exists acontinuum in the manner in which a lexical itemtransfers from one to another of two languages incontact (Myers-Scotton 2002, Thomason 2003).Example (1) below illustrates the phenomenon ofCode-Switching, while (2) shows Code-Mixing.
(1) I was going for a movie yesterday.
raastemen mujhe Sudha mil gayi.Gloss: [I was going for a movie yesterday.
]way in I Sudha meet wentTranslation: I was going for a movie yester-day; I met Sudha on the way.116(2) Main kal movie dekhne jaa rahi thi andraaste me I met Sudha.Gloss: I yesterday [movie] to-see go Contin-uous-marker was [and] way in [I met] Sudha.Translation: I was going for a movie yester-day and on the way I met Sudha.The main view held by linguists being that a lexi-cal item goes from being used as a foreign wordto a valid loanword indistinguishable from the na-tive vocabulary by virtue of repeated use andadoption of morpho-syntactic features of the re-cipient language (Auer 1984).
However, in thecase of single words, most scholars agree that it isdifficult to determine whether or not a word is a?bona fide loanword/borrowing?
or an instance ofnonce borrowing2 or CM (Alex 2008, Bentahilaand Davies, 1991, Field 2002, Myers-Scotton2002, Winford 2003).
In this study, we only con-sider Code-mixing examples, i.e., intra-sententialembedding of a language in another language.Processing such language data is challengingfrom the perspective of linguistic understandingvis-?-vis discourse and conversational analysis, aswell as computational modelling and applicationsto Machine Translation, Information Retrievaland Natural Interfaces.
Especially, in the case ofsocial-media content where there are added com-plications due to contractions, non-standard spell-ings, and ungrammatical constructions as well asmixing of scripts.
Many languages that use non-Roman scripts, like Hindi, Bangla, Chinese, Ara-bic etc., are often represented using Roman trans-literations (Virga and Khudanpur 2003, Sowmyaet al 2010).
This poses additional challenges of ac-curately identifying and separating the two lan-guages.
Further, it is often difficult to disambigu-ate a borrowing as a valid native vocabulary froma mixing of a second language when dealing withsingle words.
An understanding of the nature ofmixing in such data is one of the first steps to-wards processing this data and hence, making amore natural interaction in CMC a real possibility.2 Nonce-borrowings are typically borrowings that donot necessarily follow any phonological, morpho-syn-tactic or sociolinguistic constraints on their assimila-tion into the host language (Poplack et al 1988).
How-ever, it is not clear if this is always a defining featureIn this paper, we analyze social media contentfrom English-Hindi (En-Hin) bilingual users tobetter understand CM in such data.
We look at theextent of CM in both Hindi embedding in English,as well as English in Hindi.
Our analysis of thetype of CM in this context based on frequency ofuse and linguistic typology helps further an under-standing of the different kinds of CM employedby users and emphasizes the need to tackle theseat different levels.FacebookPageNo.
oflikesNo.
ofposts col-lectedNo.
ofcommentscollectedAmitabhBachchan12,674,509 5 3364BBCHindi1,876,306 18 240NarendraModi15,150,669 15 2779ShahrukhKhan8,699,146 2 600Total  40 6983Table 1: Facebook Data Source2 Corpus Creation and AnnotationFor the creation of corpus for studying En-HinCM, data from public Facebook pages in whichEn-Hin bilinguals are highly active was consid-ered appropriate.
Hence, we chose the Facebookpages of three Indian public figures, two promi-nent Bollywood stars viz, Amitabh Bachchan andShahrukh Khan, and the then-PM-elect NarendraModi.
We also collected data from the BBC HindiNews page.
The assumption was that Bollywood,politics and news being three very popular areasof interest for Indians, we would see a lot of activ-ity from the community on these pages.
A total of40 posts from Oct 22- 28, 2013 were manuallycollected and preference was given to posts hav-ing a long (50+) thread of comments.
This is be-cause CM and non-standard use of language ismore frequent in comments.
In the rest of the pa-per, we shall use the term posts to cover both com-ments and posts.
The data was semi-automaticallycleaned and formatted, removing user names forprivacy.
The names of public figures in the postswere retained.
The final corpus consisted of 6983between established loanwords and nonce-borrowing,the line between them being extremely tenuous(Sankoff et al, 1990)117posts and 113,578 words.
Table 1 shows the datasource statistics.While a number of posts were in the Devanagariscript, the largest representation was that of Ro-man script.
A small number of posts were foundin the script of other Indian languages like Bangla,Telugu etc.
Tables 2 (a) and (b) show the distribu-tion of posts and words by scriptFacebookPageDeva-nagariRoman MixedScriptOtherScriptAmitabhBachhcan73 3168 112 16BBCHindi56 175 27 0NarendraModi77 2633 84 11ShahrukhKhan0 578 23 1Table 2 (a): Script used for PostsFacebookPageDeva-nagariRoman OtherScriptSymbolsAmitabhBachhcan2661 38144 439 1768BBCHindi5225 4265 23 160NarendraModi9509 43,804 217 1470ShahrukhKhan0 5,514 105 274Table 2(b): Script used for Words2.1 AnnotationAs a first step towards analysis, it is imperativethat an annotation scheme be arrived at that cap-tures the richness, diversity and uniqueness of thedata.
Any analysis of code-mixed CMC language-use requires inputs at social, contextual, and dif-ferent linguistic and meta-linguistic levels that op-erate on various sub-parts of the conversation.This would help label not only the structural lin-guistics phenomena such as POS tagging,Chunks, Phrases, Semantic Roles etc.
but also thevarious socio-pragmatic contexts (User de-mographics, Communicative intent, Polarity etc.
).However, an initial attempt at such a rich, layeredannotation proved the task to be immensely re-source intensive.
Hence, for the initial analysis theannotation scheme was scaled down to four la-bels:Matrix: Myers Scotton?s (1993) framework, CMoccurs where one language provides the morpho-syntactic frame into which a second language in-serts words and phrases.
The former is termed asthe Matrix while the latter is called Embedding.Usually, matrix language can be assigned toclauses and sentences.Following this framework, the annotator wasasked to split all posts into contiguous fragmentsof words such that each fragment has a unique ma-trix language (En or Hin)Word Origin: Every embedded word is markedfor its origin (En or Hin) depending on whetherthe source language was English or Hindi.
A wordfrom a language other than English or Hindi wasmarked as Other (Ot).
It was assumed that the un-marked words within a matrix language origi-nated in that language.
In our data we did not findexamples of sub-lexical CM.
For example an Eng-lish word with Hindi inflection like computeron(???????????)
were the English word ?computer?
isinflected by the Hindi plural marker ?on.
How-ever, this can be a possible occurrence in En-HinCM and needs to be marked as such.Normalization: Whenever a word in its nativescript uses a non-standard spelling (including con-tractions) it is marked with its correct spellings.For transliterations of Hindi in Roman script, theword is marked with the correct spelling in Deva-nagari script.POS tagging: Each word is labelled with its POStag following the Universal Tagset proposed byPetrov et al (2011).
This tagset uses 12 high-leveltags for main POS classes.
While, this tagset is notgood at capturing granularity at a deeper level, wechose this because of a) its applicability to bothEnglish and Hindi doing away with the need forany mapping of labels between the two languages,and b) the small size of the corpus posed seriousdoubts on the usefulness of a more granular tagsetfor any analysis.The POS tags were decided on the basis of thefunction of the word in a context rather than a de-contextualized absolute word class.
This was donebecause often in the case of embedded words, thelexical category of the original language is com-pletely lost and it is the function of the word in thematrix language that applies and assumes im-portance.Named Entities: Named Entities (NE) are per-haps the most common and amongst the first toform the borrowed or mixed vocabulary in CM.As the Universal Tagset did not have a separate118category for NEs, we chose to label and classifythem as people, locations and organizations.
It isimportant to remember that while NEs are perhapsthe most frequent ?borrowings?
the notion ofWord Origin in the context of CM is debatable.However, these need to be analyzed and processedseparately for any NLP application.1062 posts consisting of 1071 words were ran-domly selected and annotated by a linguist who isa native speaker of Hindi and proficient in Eng-lish.
Non-overlapping subsets of the annotationswere then reviewed and corrected by two expertlinguists.The two annotated examples from the corpus ofEn in Hin Matrix and Hin in En Matrix are givenbelow:<s><matrix name="Hindi">love_NOUN/E affection_NOUN/E le-kar_VERB/???
??
?salose_NOUN=saalon/??????
??
?sunday_NOUN/E ke_ADP/???
?din_NOUN/????
?chali_VERB/ ????
?aar-ahi_VERB/??
???
?divine_ADJ/E param-para_NOUN/????????
ko_ADP/ ???
?age_NOUN=aage/?????badhha_VERB/????
?rahe_VERB/????
?ho_VERB/???
?</matrix></s>Translation: The divine tradition that (you) havebeen carrying forward every Sunday with loveand affection.<s><matrix name="English">sir_NOUN u_PRON=you r_VERB=areblessed_VERB by_ADP entire_ADJ brah-mand_NOUN/H???????????
?</matrix></s>Translation: Sir, you are blessed by the entireUniverse.It was observed that a large chunk of data con-sisted of short posts typically a greeting or a eu-logy from a fan of the public figures and were un-interesting from a structural linguistic analysis ofCM.
Thus, all such posts (consisting of 5 or lesswords) were deleted from the corpus and the re-maining corpus of 381 posts and 4135 words wasused for further analysis.3 An Analysis of Code Mixed DataThe annotated data consists of 398 Hin sentences,698 En and 6 Ot in a single language.
45 postsshow at least one switch in matrix between En andHin.
Thus, at least 4.2% of the data is Code-Switched.
It should be noted however that this ismatrix switching within an utterance.
If we con-sider Code-Switching at a global level to includeswitching from one language to another within aconversation thread then all the threads in the datashow code-switching as they contain utterancesfrom both English and Hindi.Looking at the 398 Hindi matrices, we find that23.7% of them show at least one En embedding ascompared to only 7.2% of the En matrices withHin embedding.
In total 17.2% of all posts whichconsist of nearly a quarter of all words in the datashow some amount of CM.If we look at the number of points in a single ma-trix where embedding happens, we find that in86% of  the En matrices, Hin embeddings appearonly once or twice.
En embeddings in Hin matrixis not only twice as more frequent, but can occurmore often in a single matrix (more than 3 timesin at least 10% of the cases).
Table 3 shows thedistribution of CM points for both the cases.# of points Hin in En En in Hin1 11 (36.66%) 19 (31.15%)2 15 (50%) 28 (45.9%)3 2   (6.67%) 2   (3.28%)4 2   (6.67%) 9   (5.49%)5 0 2   (3.28%)6 0 1   (1.64%)Total 30 61Table 3: Distribution of CM pointsTable 4: Distribution of NE by TypeAs expected, NEs are common in the corpus andthere are a total of 233 NEs in 406 matrices (322of 4134 words).
The distribution of NEs by sub-classes is given in Table 4.Table 5 shows the distribution of the various POSin the entire corpus, as well as for the embeddedwords.
Nouns do form the largest class of wordsNE Type Person 159NE Type Location 39NE Type Organization 35Total NE 233119overall as well as for Hin as well as En embed-ding.
In fact, for Hin in English matrix, there areonly two instances of words which are not Nouns.Table 5 shows the distribution of POS for Hin inEn matrix, and En in Hin matrixLooking at these top-level distributions we canobserve that though there are some similarities be-tween the patterns of CM for Hin in English andEn in Hindi matrices (the high frequency ofnouns, for instance), they both exhibit distinct pat-terns in terms of how often CM occurs as well asin the prevalence of POS other than Nouns.
InSection 3.1 and 3.2 we will look at both these L1embedding in L2 matrix individually in more de-tail.3.1 Hindi words in English matrixAs mentioned above, most of the Hin embeddingin En (32 out of 33) matrices are Nouns.
The ex-ception is variation of the particle ?ji?
used as anhonorific marker in Hindi.
The particle is used todenote respect and occurs in formulaic expressionof the kind <(name/address form)> ji as in:?Amit ji, I am your fan and have seen all yourmovies?A closer look at the embedded Hin Nouns showsthat a large number of them are actually part ofmulti-word Named Entities which do not fall un-der the categories defined in the annotation guide-lines.
Almost all of them also function as regularNouns or Verbs in Hindi.
For example, the word?hunkaar?
(a roar) is not an NE, however its usein the following sentence, where it is used to denote the name of a particular rally (event) can beviewed as an NE.
?hunkar rally will be held tomorrow?Similarly, the word ?yaatraa?
in Hindi meansjourney whereas its use in the phrase ?Keralayaatraa?
is specific to a tour of Kerala.There are some instances of nonce-borrowing orCM where Hindi Nouns are not used as a part of apotential NE or formulaic expressions.
For exam-ple, in the following sentence:?
?and the party workers (will) come with mewithout virodh?The Hindi word ?virodh?
is used instead of theEnglish alternative ?protest?
or ?objection?.
It canonly be assumed that the user did this for sociolin-guistic or pragmatic reasons to emphasize or hu-mour.Kinship terms form another domain of frequentembedding of Hin in En.
Hindi has a more com-plex system of kinship terms where not only arethere finer distinctions maintained between mater-nal and paternal relations but also kinship termsare used to address older (and hence) respectablepeople.
Thus, we find the use of ?chacha?
(fa-ther?s younger brother), ?bhaiya?
(elder brother)as well as ?baapu?
(father) used frequently in thedata as address forms.3.2 English words in Hindi matrixThere is a far greater use of English words inHindi matrices both as single words as well asmulti-word expressions.
A total of 116 uniqueHindi words are found embedded in En matricesof which 76 are single word embedding and therest are a part of 16 multi-word expressions.While Nouns continue to dominate the POS classof the Hindi embedding as well, there is far morevariations in the type of CM that seems to be hap-pening in this case.3.2.1 Single Word EmbeddingAs in the case of English embedding (3.1) we finda number of Hindi Noun embedding to be of kin-ship terms, greetings and other address form.POSTagOver-allEn in Hinmatrix*Hin in  Enmatrix*NOUN 1260 77 32VERB 856 8PRON 499 4ADP 445 0ADJ 302 16PRT 241 4 1DET 141 2.
125 NAADV 104 3CNJ 98 2NUM 46 0X 18 0Total 4135Table 5: POS distribution for the AnnotatedCorpus.
* Overall distribution is given at token levelwhereas the embedding En in Hin matrix, andHin in E matrix are at Unique Word level.120Words like, ?sir?, ?uncle?, ?hello?, ?good morn-ing?
etc are used frequently to start or end a par-ticular turn.A fraction of Nouns are genuine borrowings intothe language is no Hindi equivalent for thatword/concept.
Common examples are words like?goal?
and ?bomb?
which may be considered apart of the Hindi vocabulary.
What is interestingis that users?
variations in spellings these wordseither in English (?goal?, ?bomb?)
or in equiva-lent Hindi transliteration (?gol?, ?bam?).
Thismay be taken as an indication that the user is notactively conscious of using an English word.However, there are a fairly large number of Nounsas single words where this is not applicable as in:?agar aap BJP ke follower hain to is page ko likekaren?
(If you are a BJP follower then like this page)where there are frequently used Hindi equivalentsbut the user seems to be following certain conven-tions on Facebook (?page?
and ?like?)
or is mix-ing for other purposes (?follower?
)Single adjectives are not as common and whenused are mostly intensifiers such as ?very?
or?best?
etc.
There are some instances of adjectivesas nonce-borrowings such as in the following ex-ample:?
?divine paramparaa ko aage??(?
(taking the) divine tradition forward?
)Single verb embedding of En words are always ofthe form V + kar in the data.
The verb karnaa (?todo?)
in Hindi is used to form conjunctives inHindi.
Thus, we have a number of Hindi phrasesof the type: kaam karnaa  ?
work to do?
(to work),and a closer look at the English Verbs embeddedin Hindi shows that most of these are actually intheir nominalized form, such as ?
driving kar-naa?, or as a V + V conjunct such as ?admit kar-naa?.There are fewer instances of other POS classes,however, one interesting case is the use of con-juncts like ?but?
and ?and?
to join two Hindiclauses as in:?main to gayi thi but wo wahaan nahi thaa?
(I had gone but he wasn?t there)3.2.2 Multi Word EmbeddingMulti word expressions in English used in a Hindimatrix range from standard formulaic expressionsto clause or phrase insertion.
Other than standardgreetings, these formulaic (or frozen) expressionmay work as Named Entities or Nominal com-pounds as in the case of  ?Film star?, ?Cricketplayer?, ?Health minister?, ?Educational Insti-tutes?
and ?Participation Certificate?.
There arealso other expressions that border on formulaic inEnglish but which nevertheless have an ambigu-ous status within Hindi, such as, ?love and affec-tion?.
Another example of such a case of MW em-bedding is:?Befitting reply to mere papa ne maaraa?
(my father gave a befitting reply)Here, while ?befitting reply?
is not really a formu-laic expression in Hindi, the user is clearly usingit as such with the use of  the  emphatic to and theuse of the verb maaraa (?hit?)
instead of  diyaa(?gave?
)Clause or phrase level mixing, though less fre-quent can also be found in the data.
For example,?Those who support the opposition kabhi Mu-zaffarnagar aa kar dekho?
(Those who support the opposition should cometo Muzaffarnagar and see (for themselves))This is a classic case of CM where both thephrases retain the grammatical structure of thelanguage concerned.As can be seen from the analysis of the annotatedcorpus above, Code-Mixing if understood as theinsertion of words from a language into the gram-matical structure of another, can show a wide var-iation in its structural linguistic manifestation.4 Borrowing ya Mixing?In linguistic literature on ?other language embed-ding?
there has been a long-standing debate onwhat is true Code-mixing, what is nonce-wordborrowing, and what are  ?loanwords?
thatare integrated into the native vocabulary andgrammatical structure (Bentahila and Davies,1991, Field 2002, Myers-Scotton 2002, Winford2003, Poplack and Dion 2012).
Many linguists be-lieve that loan-words start out as a CM or Nonce-121borrowing but by repeated use and diffusionacross the language they gradually convert to na-tive vocabulary and acquire the characteristics ofthe ?borrowing?
language (see Alex (2008) for adiscussion).
Normally, they look at spoken formsto see phonological convergence and inflectionsfor morpho-syntactic convergence.
However, aspointed out by Poplack and Dion (2012) the prob-lem with this is that in many cases a native ?ac-cent?
might be mistaken for phonological conver-gence, and a morpho-syntactic marking might notbe readily visible.
For example, most Hindi speak-ers of English would pronounce an English alve-olar /d/ as a retroflex because an alveolar plosiveis not a part of the Hindi phonology.
However,this does not imply that the said English word hasbecome a part of the native vocabulary.
Similarly,if we look at the two sentences:?sab artists ko bulayaa hai?
(all artists have been called),and?sab artist kal aayenge?
(all artists will come tomorrow)In the first sentence the English inflection ?s onthe word artist marks it as plural but in the secondcase, the plural is marked on the Hindi Verb.
Doesthis imply that in the first case it is CM and in thesecond a case of borrowing given that both theforms and the structures are equally acceptableand common in Hindi?Many studies (Mysken 2000, Gardner-Chloros.2009, Poplack and Dion 2012 etc.)
thus point outthat it is not easy to decide these categories espe-cially for single words without looking at dia-chronic data and the inherent fuzziness of the dis-tinction itself.
In general, it is believed that thereexists a sort of continuum between CM and loanvocabulary where the edges might be clearly dis-tinguishable but it is difficult to disambiguate thevast majority in the middle especially for singlewords.As we have seen in the preceding Section CM ofHin in English matrix mainly follows a very dis-tinct pattern of using NEs (and functional NEs)and formulaic expressions.
However, in the caseof En in Hindi CM, there is a far wider variationand it could be difficult in many instances to de-cide by just looking at the data whether a certainembedding is a borrowing or CM.One way to make a distinction between a borrow-ing and CM could be to look at the diffusion of theword in the native language.
Borrowed words of-ten appear in monolingual usage long before dic-tionaries and lexicons adopt them as native vocab-ulary.
Thus, to judge the diffusion of an Englishword one would have to look at the frequency ofits use in suitable monolingual context such asnews wire data, chat logs or telephone conversa-tions.For a further analysis of En embedding in Hinmatrix in our data, we decided to check their fre-quency based diffusion in a monolingual new cor-pus of Hindi.
For this purpose we took a corpus of51,277,891words from Dainik Jagaran(http://www.jagran.com/), a popular daily news-paper in Hindi, and created a frequency count ofthe 230,116 unique words in it.
News corpora area reasonable choice for monolingual frequenciesas code-mixing is relatively rare and frownedupon in news unless it refers to a named entity oris a part of a direct quote.
We then mapped com-mon Hindi equivalents of all the English wordsused in the corpora.
Finally, we checked the fre-quency of both the English embedding as well astheir corresponding Hindi equivalents.
As men-tioned before, a number of English words do nothave Hindi equivalents and for these words we ex-pect the English words themselves to have a highfrequency count in the corpus.An analysis of the results thus obtained showsthat the English words do indeed fall into two dis-tinct buckets at the edges.
Thus, for words such as?party?
(as in ?political party?
), ?vote?, ?team?we find that not only are the word counts quitehigh (over 67K for ?party?
and over 18k for?vote?
and ?team?)
but the counts for the equiva-lent Hindi forms are relatively low.
Similarly,words like ?affection?, ?driving?, ?easily?
etc.were not found in the corpus, while their Hindiequivalents had relatively medium to high counts.However, there is a large number of words in themiddle where both the English and the Hindiequivalents have a comparative count or the dif-ference is not significant.
For these words it is dif-ficult to decide whether they ought to be classifiedas borrowing or CM.Let us denote the frequency of an En word as feand that of its Hin synonym as fh.
Let ?
be an ar-bitrary margin > 0.
The aforementioned intuitionabout the nature of CM and borrowing can be for-malized as follows:?
If for a given word log(fh/fe)> ?, we call itCM122?
If for a given word log(fh/fe) < -?, we callit a borrowing.?
If -?
?
log(fh/fe) ?
?, it is not possible todecide between the two cases, and hencewe call the word ambiguous.Figure 1 shows the scatter plot of the frequency ofall the En words that occur within Hin matrix (119in total) in the Dainik Jagaran data (x-axis) againstthe frequency of its Hindi synonym (y-axis) in thesame corpus.
Since frequency follows Zipfs law,the axes are in log-scale.
The words, which arerepresented by dots in Figure 1, are scattered allover the plot without any discernable pattern.
Thisindicates that there are no distinct classes of wordsthat can be called borrowings or mixing; rather, itis a continuum.
If we assume ?
to be 1, an arbi-trary value, we can divide the plot into three zonesusing the three rules proposed above.
Thesezones, bounded by the blue lines are shown in Fig-ure 1: Mixing ?
words that are code-mixed (top-left triangle), borrowings (bottom-right triangle)and ambiguous (the narrow zone running diago-nally between the two with a width of 2?.However, we observe that some En words whichhas very high frequency in our corpus (e.g., vote,party, team), are classified as ambiguous becausetheir Hin synonyms have a comparable high fre-quency as well.
To a native speaker of Hindi,these words are clearly borrowings and used evenin formal Hin text.
In fact, it seems reasonable todeclare an En word as a borrowing solely on thebasis of its very high frequency in the monolin-gual corpus.
We could choose another arbitrarythreshold ?
= 1000, such that a word is declaredas a borrowing if the following two conditions aresatisfied:?
-?
?
log(fh/fe) ?
??
fe > ?Note that the choice of ?
should also depend onthe size of the corpus.
Table 6 reports the numberof CM in the data with and without applying thelarge frequency rule.
We see that the number ofCM words is the highest followed by ambiguouswords.
This clearly indicates that CM is a verycommon phenomenon on social media.
AppendixA lists all the En words and their classes.Using arbitrary thresholds, ?
and ?, to classify thewords into three distinct set is a convenient tool todeal with code-mixing; but it ignores the fact thatin reality it is not possible to classify words into afew distinct categories.
There is always a contin-uum between borrowing and mixing.
Figure 1shows a more appropriate gradient based visuali-zation of the space.
Words falling on the darkerregions of this plot are more likely to be borrow-ing.
The gradients reflect the two equations dis-cussed above.
The darkness linearly increaseswith log(fe) and decreases with log(fh/fe).
Theoverall darkness is a simple linear combination ofthese two independent factors.
Note that this for-mulation is only for a visualization purpose, andshould not be interpreted as some formal proba-bility or measure of ?borrowing-ness?
of a word.Figure 1: Plot of the frequencies of En words em-bedded in Hin matrix (x-axis) and their Hin syno-nyms (y-axis) in the Dainik Jagaran corpus.CM Ambigu-ousBorrowingw/o ?-Rule 69 39 11w/ ?-Rule 69 31 19Table 6: Classification of embedded En wordsinto three classes for ?
=1.A note on synonym selection: Which syno-nym(s) of an En word should be considered forCM vs. borrowing analysis is a difficult question.First, a word can have many senses.
E.g., the wordparty can mean a political party, a group of peo-ple, or a social gathering, and also a verb ?
to par-ticipate in a social gathering.
Each of these sensescan be translated in, often more than one ways.E.g., dala in the sense of political party,anusThANa or dAwata in the sense of social gath-ering, etc.
To complicate the situation further,these Hindi words can have many senses as well(e.g., the word dala can mean a sports team, or apolitical party or group of people or animals).Thus, when we compare synonyms withoutcontext, we cannot be sure in which sense the123words are used and therefore, the frequencycounts maybe misleading.
A second problem arisewith phrase embedding.
While an entire phrasecan be borrowed, its words may not be (e.g., cleanchit  -Indian version of the English expression?clean sheet?- is a borrowed expression in Hindi,but clean is not).
However, we had access to onlythe wordlist and word frequencies, which made itimpossible to disentangle such effects.
Compar-ing contexts automatically deciphering wordsense is a complex problem in itself.
For thiswork, we used an En to Hin lexicon(http://shabdkosh.raftaar.in/) to find out the syno-nyms, and for every synonym extracted the fre-quency from the wordlist, and deemed the highestfrequency as the fh for the word.
A more thoroughsynonym selection using context and phrase levelanalysis would be an interesting extension of thiswork.4.1 Ambiguous WordsThe words classified as ambiguous pose a prob-lem as we do not know whether these words arein the process of being borrowed, or are workingas near-synonym of the Hindi equivalent, or areCMs where the intention of the user is the motiva-tion for the ?other language?
use.Poplack and Dion (2012) are of the view that theredoes not exist a continuum between CM, Nonce-borrowing and loanwords.
In their diachronicstudy on En-French CM, the authors show that thefrequency of all three categories remain stable.According to them, a user is always awarewhether they are using an ?other language?
wordas a CM (for socio-linguistic purposes) or as a so-cio-linguistically unmarked borrowing.
Our datadoes not capture diachronic statistics neither doesour monolingual corpus is at the scale at whichlanguage changes occur.
However, we interpretour results to indicate that there is indeed a fuzzyboundary between CM and borrowing.
Neverthe-less, this distinction may not be readily observablethrough word classification or even diffusionand/or other structural linguistic features.
The no-tion of ?social acceptance?
of a particular word inthat language community may play a big role.Further, the perception of a word as either CM,or borrowing could depend on a large number ofmeta- and extra-linguistic factors that may includeincluding the fluency of the user in English, famil-iarity with the word, and the pragmatic/dis-course/socio-linguistics reasons for using them.Thus, for a true bilingual, fluent in both lan-guages, an adverb like ?easily?
might be more sta-ble and almost a borrowing, but for someone withless familiarity with English, it might be a mixing.Similarly, whether or not a person is consciouslyusing the English word to make a point can matter.A frequent example of this in our data is the useof swear words and expletives which are often ac-companied by a switch in language.
These wordsthus are difficult to disambiguate without more in-formation and data, and an analysis that takes intoaccount the non-structural linguistic motivations.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we present an analysis of data fromFacebook generated by En-Hin bilingual users.Our analysis shows that a significant amount ofthis data shows Code Mixing in the form of En inHindi matrix as well as Hin in English matrix.While the embedding of Hindi words in Englishmostly follows formulaic patterns of Nouns andParticles, the mixing of English in Hindi is clearlyhappening at different levels, and is of differenttypes.
This can range from single words to multi-word phrases ranging from frozen expressions toclauses.
Considering monolingual corpus fre-quency counts clearly shows that the words them-selves fall into three categories of clear CM, clearBorrowings and Ambiguous where the distinctionbecomes fuzzy.
The problem is amplified becausein transliterated text, even the borrowings aremostly in English spellings and sometimes Hindispellings (goal vs gol), and will be identified asEnglish words.
From an NLP perspective, allthese have to be handled differently.
Some areeasier to handle (?party?
would be in a Hindi lex-icon, for example, and NEs) and some are moredifficult for example where Adverbials or clausesare involved.The insights from this analysis indicate that anyfuture work on CM in social media content wouldhave to involve a deeper analysis at the intersec-tion of structural and discourse linguistics.
Weplan to continue our work in this area in the futurewith focus on larger data sets, richer annotationswhich take into account not only structural lin-guistics annotation but also discourse and prag-matic level annotations.
We believe that an under-standing of the interaction between morpho-syn-tax and discourse, and a deeper look at sociolin-guistic context of the interaction in the future willhelp us to better define and understand this phe-nomenon and hence, implement suitable NLPtechniques for processing such data.124Appendix AList of English words embedded in Hindi matrixfound in our data, classified into three classes for?
= 1 and ?
= 1000.Code-mixed words: health, public, army, India,affection, divine, pm, drama, clean, anti,young, follower, page, like, request, easily, In-dian, uncle, comment, reply, sun, bomb, means,game, month, spokesperson, actor, I, word, ad-mit, good, afternoon, time, look, please, help,husband, artists, very, sad, but, higher, plan-ning, mad, keep, failure, well, strike, sorry,girlfriend, those, who, support, opposition,and, profile, right, good, men, driving, lady,leader, singer, shift, culture, only, with, befit-ting, replyAmbiguous words: blast, daily, love, sir, bloody,cheapo, chit, hello, it, football, style, pant, hi,commonwealth, participation, certificates, ed-ucation, robot, Bollywood, player, big, bee, the,agency, women, line, trolling, ODI, tiger, com-edyBorrowings: CBI, goal, rally, match, police, film,cricket, appeal, Italian, fan, best, vote, party,power, minister, team, you, photo, starReferenceBeatrice Alex.
2008.
Automatic Detection of Eng-lish Inclusions in Mixed-lingual Data with anApplication to Parsing, Doctor of PhilosophyThesis, School of Informatics, University ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.Celso Alvarez-C?ccamo.
2011.
"Rethinking con-versational code-switching: codes, speech vari-eties, and contextualization."
Proceedings ofthe Annual Meeting of the Berkeley LinguisticsSociety.
Vol.
16.Peter Auer.
1984.
The Pragmatics of Code-Switching: A Sequential Approach.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Abdelali Bentahila and Eirlys E. Davies.
1991.
"Constraints on code-switching: A look beyondgrammar.
Papers for the symposium on code-switching in blingual studies: Theory, signifi-cance and perspectives.
Strasbourg: EuropeanScience Foundation.MS Cardenas-Claros and N Isharyanti.
2009.Code-switching and code-mixing in internetchatting: Between yes, ya, and si- a case study.In The JALT CALL Journal, 5David Crystal.
2001.
Language and the Internet.Cambridge University Press.B.
Danet and S. Herring.
2007.
The MultilingualInternet: Language, Culture, and Communica-tion Online.
Oxford University Press, NewYork.Frederic Field.
2002.
Linguistic borrowing in bi-lingual contexts.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.Penelope Gardner-Chloros.
2009.
Code-Switch-ing.
Cambrudge University PressJ.
Gumperz.
1964.
Hindi-Punjabi code-switchingin Delhi.
In Proceedings of the Ninth Interna-tional Congress of Linguistics, Mouton: TheHague.J.
Gumperz.
1982.
Discourse Strategies.
OxfordUniversity Press.S.
Herring.
2003.
Media and Language Change:Special Issue.Jeff MacSwan.
2012."
Code-Switching andGrammatical Theory."
In The Handbook of Bi-lingualism and Multilingualism (2012).
323.Carol Myers-Scotton.
1993.
Duelling Languages:Grammatical Structure in Code-switching.Claredon.
Oxford.Carol Myers-Scotton.
2002.
Contact linguistics:Bilingual encounters and grammatical out-comes.
Oxford University Press.Pieter Muysken.
2000.
Bilingual speech: A typol-ogy of code-mixing.
Cambridge UniversityPress.John C. Paolillo.
2011.
?Conversational?codeswitching on Usenet and Internet RelayChat.
In Language@Internet, 8, article 3.Slav Petrov, Dipanjan Das, and Ryan McDonald.2011.
A universal part-of-speech tagset.
arXivpreprint arXiv:1104.2086Shana Poplack, D. Sankoff, and C. Miller.
1988.The social correlates and linguistic processes oflexical borrowing and assimilation.
Linguistics26:47-104.Shana Poplack and Nathalie Dion.
2012.
"Mythsand facts about loanword development."
inLanguage Variation and Change 24, 3.David Sankoff, Shana Poplack, and SwathiVanniarajan.
1990.
The case of the nonce loanin Tamil.
Language Variation and Change, 2(1990), 71-101.
Cambridge University Press.125V.B.
Sowmya, M. Choudhury, K. Bali, T. Das-gupta, and A. Basu.
2010.
Resource creation fortraining and transliteration systems for Indianlanguages.
In Proceedings of Language Re-source and Evaluations Conference (LREC2010).Sarah G. Thomason.
2003.
Contact as a Source ofLanguage Change.
In R.D.
Janda & B. D. Jo-seph (eds), A handbook of historical linguistics,Oxford: Blackwell.Paola Virga and Sanjeev Khudanpur.
2003.Transliteration of proper names in cross-lingualinformation retrieval.
Proceedings of the ACL2003 workshop on Multilingual and mixed-lan-guage named entity recognition-Volume 15.Association for Computational Linguistics.Donald Winford.
2003.
An Introduction to Con-tact Linguistics.
Malden, MA: Blackwell.126
