Proceedings of the EMNLP 2014 Workshop on Arabic Natural Langauge Processing (ANLP), pages 8?17,October 25, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe International Corpus of Arabic: Compilation, Analysis andEvaluationSameh AlansaryBibliotheca Alexandrina, P.O.
Box 138, 21526, ElShatby, Alexandria, Egypt.Department of Phonetics and Linguistics, Facultyof Arts, Alexandria University , El Shatby, Alexan-dria, Egypt.Sameh.alansary@bibalex.orgMagdy NagiBibliotheca Alexandrina, P.O.
Box 138, 21526, ElShatby, Alexandria, Egypt.Computer and System Engineering Dept.
Facultyof Engineering, Alexandria University,Alexandria Egypt.Magdy.nagi@bibalex.orgAbstractThis paper focuses on a project for buildingthe first International Corpus of Arabic(ICA).
It is planned to contain 100 millionanalyzed tokens with an interface which al-lows users to interact with the corpus data ina number of ways [ICA website].
ICA is arepresentative corpus of Arabic that has beeninitiated in 2006, it is intended to cover theModern Standard Arabic (MSA) language asbeing used all over the Arab world.
ICA hasbeen analyzed by Bibliotheca AlexandrinaMorphological Analysis Enhancer (BAM-AE).
BAMAE is based on Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyzer (BAMA).
Precisionand Recall are the evaluation measures usedto evaluate the BAMAE system.
At thispoint, Precision measurement ranges from95%-92% while recall measurement was92%-89%.
This depends on the number ofqualifiers retrieved for every word.
The per-centages are expected to rise by implement-ing the improvements while working on larg-er amounts of data.1.
IntroductionArabic is the largest member of the Semiticlanguage family, most closely related to Arama-ic, Hebrew, Ugaritic and Phoenician.
Arabic isone of the six official languages of the UnitedNations1 and it is the main language of most ofthe Middle East countries.
Arabic ranks fifth inthe world's league table of languages, with anestimated 206 million native speakers, 24 millionas 2nd language speakers to add up to total of233 million and World Almanac estimates thetotal speakers as 255 million.
Arabic language isthe official language in all Arab nations asEgypt, Saudi Arabia and Algeria.
Moreover, it isalso an official language in non-Arab countriesas Israel, Chad and Eritrea.
It is also spoken as a1http://www.un.org/en/aboutun/languages.shtml2nd language in other non-Arab countries as Ma-li and Turkey2.The formal Arabic language, known as Clas-sical Arabic is the language in which the Qur?anis written and is considered to be the base of thesyntactic and grammatical norms of the Arabiclanguage.
However, today it is considered moreof a written language than a spoken one.
ModernStandard Arabic (MSA) is similar to ClassicalArabic, but it is an easier form.
It is understoodacross the Arab world and it is used by televisionpresenters and politicians, it is the form used toteach Arabic as a foreign language.
There aredifferent MSA varieties as the rate of similaritybetween every Arab country version of MSA andClassical Arabic differs.
This is one of the issuesthat this paper will present.Due to the fact that the need for Arabic cor-pus is increasing as well as the fact that the trialsto build an Arabic corpus in the last few yearswere not enough to consider that the Arabic lan-guage has a real, representative and reliable cor-pus, it was necessary to build such an Arabiccorpus that is capable of supporting various lin-guistic research in Arabic.
Thus, ICA was in-spired by the difficulties that encountered ArabicLanguage researches as a result of the lack ofpublicly available Arabic corpora.Bibliotheca Alexandrina (BA) has initiated abig project to build the ?International Corpus ofArabic (ICA)?, a real trial to build a representa-tive Arabic corpus as being used all over the Ar-ab world to support research in Arabic.
The In-ternational Corpus of Arabic is planned to con-tain 100 million words.
The collection of sam-ples is limited to written Modern Standard Ara-bic, selected from a wide range of sources anddesigned to represent a wide cross-section of Ar-abic; it is stimulating the first systematic investi-2http://www.vistawide.com/languages/top_30_languages.htm8gation of the national varieties as being used allover the Arab world (Alansary, et al.
2007).There were some trials for building Arabiccorpora.
Some of them were annotated corporaand others were raw texts corpora.
Annotatedcorpora trails as Penn Arabic Treebank (PATB).The LDC was sponsored to develop an ArabicPOS and Treebank of only 1,000,000 words.This corpus doesn?t contain any branched genresexcept 600 stories from the ANNAHAR NewsAgency.
The POS only annotated version of thisANNAHAR corpus was released in 20043.
Theoutput from Buckwalter?s Arabic MorphologicalAnalyzer is used as the starting point for themorphological annotation and POS tagging ofArabic newswire text (Maamouri M., 2004).Arabic Gigaword Corpus is an archive of news-wire text data that depends on press only; it hasbeen compiled from Arabic news sources byLDC4.
The data coverage is limited, it was com-piled from Egypt, Lebanon, Tunisia, Saudi Ara-bia and from outside the Arab world such asEngland.
NEMLAR Annotated Written Corpusconsists of about only 500, 000 words of Arabictext from 13 different categories, aiming toachieve a well-balanced corpus that offers a rep-resentation of the variety in syntactic, semanticand pragmatic features of modern Arabic lan-guage5.
The accuracy of the automatic analysis isaround 95% (Atiyya M. et al, 2005).
Its analysisfeatures are limited, moreover its use is restrict-ed; it is not accessible for commercial use6.KALIMAT is a free multipurpose Arabic corpus,consists of 18,167,183 annotated words repre-senting 20,291 Arabic articles collected onlyfrom the Omani newspaper Alwatan.
A morpho-logical analysis process on the data collectionusing AL Khalil 7  morphological analyser wasconducted to reach an accuracy of 96% (El-HajM., 2013).
Prague Arabic Dependency Treebank(PADT) version 1.0 distribution comprises over113,500 tokens of data annotated analyticallyand provided with the disambiguating morpho-logical information.
In addition, the release in-cludes complete annotations of MorphoTrees3https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2005T204https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2003T125http://catalog.elra.info/product_info.php?products_id=8736http://catalog.elra.info/product_info.php?products_id=8737 http://alkhalil-morpho-sys.soft112.com/resulting in more than 148,000 tokens, 49,000 ofwhich have received the analytical processing8.The raw text corpora trails as (KACST) KingAbdul-Aziz City for Science and TechnologyCorpus9 contains 732,780,509 words representing869,800 text files and 7,464,396 distinct words.
Itcontains a lot of classical Arabic texts; however,it is neither analyzed nor well planned.
Ara-biCorpus 10  is a corpus that was developed byDilworth Parkinson.
It is a large corpus thatcould be accessed, but it is not analyzed.
Wordscan be searched for in Arabic or Latin script.
Thewebsite provides detailed instructions on thesearch.
It contains 173,600,000 words in fivemain categories or genres: Newspapers, ModernLiterature, Nonfiction, Egyptian Colloquial, andPremodern.In what follows, Section 2 reviews the ICAdata design, how it is compiled, discuss the copy-rights issue and what is the current ICA statistics.Section 3 describes the analysis stage of ICA, thetool that is used in the analysis, why was it cho-sen followed by ICA evaluation and a compari-son with another morphological disambiguator.Section 4 gives a brief review on the ICA web-site for the researchers to query its data.
Conclu-sions and suggestions for further work are givenin section 5.2.
ICA Design & Compilation StageThe ICA is similar to the International Corpusof English (ICE) in terms of concept rather thanin design.
They are similar in trying to includethe varieties of the language; the Modern Stand-ard Arabic (MSA) includes publications fromevery Arab country that uses Arabic as officiallanguage and it has been decided to include Ara-bic publications from outside the Arab nations.However, they are different in terms of corpusdesign criteria and data compilation.
For exam-ple, on the one hand, Egyptian Modern StandardArabic is the most widespread variety that isused to represent MSA in ICA corpus.
On theother hand, in building ICE11 a fixed size fromeach variation was taken from any country thatuses English as official language (one millionwords); however, balance in size does not alwaysmean fixing a number of words for each varia-tion as will be clarified in the next section.8https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2004T239http://www.kacstac.org.sa/Pages/default.aspx10http://arabicorpus.byu.edu/search.php11http://ice-corpora.net/ICE/INDEX.HTM9It is important to realize that the creation ofICA is a "cyclical" process, requiring constantreevaluation during the corpus compilation.
Con-sequently, we are willing to change our initialcorpus design if there are any circumstanceswould arise that requires such changes.2.1 ICA DesignICA genre design relied on Dewey decimalclassification of documents; however, this hasbeen further classified to suit clear genre distinc-tion rather than classifications for libraries.
Forexample, Dewey decimal classification combineshistory and geography in one classification,while in ICA they are separated into two subgenres related to humanities genre.
It has beendesigned to reflect a more or less real picture ofhow Arabic language exists in every field and inevery country rather than relying on a theoreticalimage.ICA is designed to include 11 genres, namely;Strategic Sciences, Social Sciences, Sports, Reli-gion, Literature, Humanities, Natural Sciences,Applied Sciences, Art, Biography and Miscella-neous which are further classified into 24 sub-genres, namely; Politics, Law, Economy, Sociol-ogy, Islamic, Pros etc.
Moreover, there are 4 sub-sub-genres, namely; Novels, Short Stories, ChildStories and plays.
As shown in Figure 1.?Figure 1: ICA Genres?Planning of ICA data collection is based onsome criteria related to corpus design such asrepresentativeness, diversity, balance and sizethat were taken into the consideration.
In collect-ing a corpus that represents the Arabic Language,the main focus was to cover the same genresfrom different sources and from all around theArab nations.
However, we decided to add Ara-bic data that belongs to the Arabic language evenif they had been published outside as al-Hayatmagazine which is published in London12.Size criterion in the corpus design focuses onthe number of words.
However, issues of size arealso related to the number of texts from differentgenres, the number of samples from each text,and the number of words in each sample.
Suchdecisions were taken based on how common thegenre or the source is.
Balance in a corpus hasnot been addressed by having equal amounts oftexts from different sources or genres.
It has beenaddressed by the factual distribution of the lan-guage real use.
For example, Literature genrerepresents 12% and biography genre represents2% from the corpus data distribution.2.2 Text Compilation and CategorizationThe International Corpus of Arabic has beencompiled manually, and that enabled the corpuscompilers to select all and only the MSA datarather than the colloquial Arabic data.
Also, theICA text categorization has been done manuallyaccording to the topic of the text and the distinctsemantic features for each genre.
These featureskeep the ICA data categorization objective ratherthan being subjective; depending on the compilerintuition.
Accordingly, ICA texts can be consid-ered as a good training data for text categoriza-tion system.
ICA is planned to contain 100 mil-lion words.
However, currently it is still around80 million words.ICA data is composed of Modern StandardArabic (MSA) written texts.
There are differentresources for compiling the data.
It has been de-cided to compile all available Arabic data writtenin MSA.
ICA will be composed of four sources,namely; 1.
Press source which is divided intothree sub-sources, namely; (a) Newspapers, (b)Magazines which had been compiled from theofficial magazines along with newspapers thatare written in MSA such as Al Ahram fromEgypt, Addstour from Jordan, Al Hayat fromLebanon ?
etc.
finally the publications that havea printed copy as well as  a soft electronic copythrough world wide web such as(http://www.ahram.org.eg/), and (c) ElectronicPress which had been compiled from magazinesand newspapers that are written in MSA andhave only soft electronic copy through worldwide web.
(2) Net articles which were compiledfrom forums and blogs that are also written inMSA.
(3) Books which had been compiled from12http://alhayat.com/AboutWebsite10all available books that are written in MSA andhave a soft copy.
(4) Academics which had beencompiled from the scientific papers, researchersthesis, PhDs etc..?Figure 2: ICA Sources?2.3 MetadataEach compiled text has its own text encoding.This coding process for the text file names willcustomize the search scope at which level of thecorpus this file belongs.
For example, the follow-ing filename coding [AH10-A1.1.1_140207] canbe clarified as shown in Table1:AH10 AH: Indicate the source of the textwhich is Ahram newspaper.10: This attached number that indi-cates that this file is the 10th articlein that newspaper with the samegenre, subgenre and date.A1.1.1 Contains three pieces of infor-mation: Newspaper source (A1),Strategic science "genre" (A1.1)and Politics "sub-genre" (A1.1.1).140207 Contains three pieces of issuinginformation: The day (14), themonth (02) and the year (2007).
?Table 1:  An example of filenames coding?ICA Metadata covers the needed informationrelated to Corpus for each compiled text as datasource providers, Text code name, Text size,Website, date of publishing, publisher (name andcountry), writer (name, gender, age, nationalityand educational level) and Collection/AnnotationSpecifications.2.4 CopyrightsOne of the serious constraints on developinglarge corpora  and their widespread use is nation-al and international copyright legalizations.
Ac-cording to copyright laws, it is necessary andsensible to protect the authors as well as the pub-lishers rights of the texts that they had produced.ICA data Copy rights and publishing issues arein progress by Bibliotheca Alexandrina LegalAffairs.
For that reason, the ICA data is notavailable to be downloaded but the researcherscan search the ICA data via the ICA website13.2.5 ICA statisticsCorpus analysis is both qualitative and quan-titative.
One of the advantages of corpora is thatthey can readily provide quantitative data whichintuitions cannot provide reliably.
The use ofquantification in corpus linguistics typically goeswell beyond simple counting.Table 2 shows some of the numbers of ICAdata coverage.
It must be noted that total numberof ?Tokens?
refers to all word forms exceptnumbers, foreign words and punctuations to re-flect the real size of the used word forms beforethe analysis stage.
Coverage interval starts from1993  up to 2014; however, there is a compila-tion problems as result of the data availabilitysince the size of the data was not equal through-out the years.
Balance is considered as an issuefor the ICA current situation.
It deals with thecoverage of texts over the years rather than bal-ance according to time span and that will remainas issue in the future.Statistics Total NumberNo.
of texts 70,022No.
of words 79,569,384No.
of Tokens 76,199,414No.
of unique words 1,272,766No.
of ICA sources 4No.
of sub sources 3No.
of genres 11No.
of sub genres 24No.
of sub sub-genres 4No.
of countries 20No.
of covered years 22No.
of writers 1021?Table 2 : Shows qualitative linguistic analysisfor ICA statistics?13http://www.bibalex.org/ica/ar/113.
ICA Analysis stageThe first stage of linguistic analysis of the In-ternational corpus of Arabic is to analyze the 100million words morphologically.The stem-based approach ?concatenative ap-proach?
has been adopted as the linguistic ap-proach.
There are many morphological analyzersfor Arabic; some of them are available for re-search and evaluation while the rest are proprie-tary commercial applications.
Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyzer (Buckwalter, 2004) is awell-known analyzer in the field`s literature andhas even been considered as the ?most respectedlexical resource of its kind?
(Haji?
et al, 2005).
Itis used in LDC Arabic POS-tagger, Penn ArabicDependency Treebank, and the Prague ArabicDependency Treebank.
It is designed to consistof a main database of word forms that interactwith other concatenation databases.
Every wordform is entered separately, and the stem is usedas the base form.
The word is viewed as  to becomposed of a basic unit that can be combinedwith morphemes governed by morph tactic rules.It makes use of three lexicons: a Prefixes lexi-con, a Stem lexicon, and a Suffixes lexicon.Buckwalter Arabic Morphological Analyzer(BAMA) has been selected since it was the mostsuitable lexical resource to our approach.
(Alan-sary, et al.
2008).Although it has many advantages includingits ability to provide a lot of information such asLemma, Vocalization, Part of Speech (POS),Gloss, Prefix(s), Stem, Word class, Suffix(s),Number, Gender, Definiteness and Case orMood, it does not always provide all the infor-mation that the ICA requires, and in some cases,the provided analyses would need some modifi-cation.
Its results may give the right solution forthe Arabic input word, provide more than oneresult that needs to be disambiguated to reach thebest solution, provide many solutions but none ofthem is right, segment the input words wronglywithout taking the segmentation rules in consid-eration or provide no solutions.
Consequently,solutions enhancement is needed in these situa-tions.Number, gender and definiteness need to bemodified according to their morphosyntacticproperties.
Some tags had been added to Buck-walter?s analyzer lexicon, some lemmas, glossa-ries had been modified and others had been add-ed.
In addition, new analysis and qualifiers hadbeen added as root, stem pattern and name enti-ties.
(Alansary, et al.
2008)Due to all these modifications,  there aresome clear differences between the tool adoptedby ICA and BAMA 2.0 as:?
There are 44,756 distinct lemmas in ICA lexi-con while they are 40,654 in BAMA 2.0.?
The root feature has been added to ICA lexi-con representing 3,451 distinct roots, the pat-tern feature has been added to ICA lexicon rep-resenting 782 distinct stem patterns and theywill be increased to cover all Arabic roots.?
There are 191 distinct tags in ICA while theyare 167 in BAMA 2.0.
Table 3 shows sometags that have been added to ICA lexicon thatare not found in BAMA:Tag DescriptionNOUN(ADV_M) Adverb of MannerNOUN(ADV_T) Adverb of TimeNOUN(ADV_P) Adverb of PlaceNOUN(VERBAL) Verbal nounNOUN_PROP(ADV_T) Proper nouns thatrefer to adverb oftimeNOUN(INTERJ) The vocative nouns?Table 3: Added Tags in ICA lexicon??
Table 4 shows some tags that are added toprefixes and suffixes:Sample of Added Prefixes and suffixesCV_SUBJ:2FPPrefixesCV_SUBJ:2FSCV_SUBJ:2MPCV_SUBJ:2MSwa/PREPla/PREP>a/INTERROG_PARThAt/NSUFFSuffixesNSUFF_SUBJ:2MSCVSUFF_SUBJ:2MDCVSUFF_SUBJ:2FPCVSUFF_DO:3FSCVSUFF_DO:3FS?Table 4: Sample of added prefixes and suffix-es.
?Moreover, new features have been added innumber as well as in definiteness qualifiers as theplural broken (PL_BR) and the EDAFAH fea-tures.These modifications and other new featureswere used in disambiguating two million wordsto be used as a training data extracted from the12ICA corpus to represent a sample of Arabic texts.After disambiguating the training date, some lin-guistic rules had been extracted, depending onthe contexts, to help in the automatic disambigu-ation process of Bibliotheca Alexandrina Mor-phological Analysis Enhancer (BAMAE) as willbe discusses in the next section.After solving the BAMA?s problems and dis-ambiguating the data according to its context, theBAMA enhanced output along with the trainingdata will be ready to be used in the next phase ofanalysis.In the ICA, There are 5 tag sets categories ofthe stem which are divided into 26 tag types:1.
Verbal category: it contains 5 tag types;Command Verb, Imperfect Verb, ImperfectPassive Verb, Past Verb and Past Passive Verb.2.
Nominal category: it contains 9 tag types;Adjective, Noun, Adverb of Manner, Adverb ofPlace, Adverb of Time, Verbal Noun, ProperNoun, Proper Noun (Adverb of Time) andProper Noun (Interjection).3.
Pronouns category: it contains 3 tag types;Demonstrative Pronoun, Pronoun and RelativePronoun.4.
Particles category: it contains 7 tags; FocusParticle, Future Particle, Interrogative Particle,Negative Particle, Particle, Verbal Particle andException Particle.5.
Conjunctions category: it contains 2 tags;Conjunctions and Sub Conjunctions.In addition, there are 2 tags that are not divid-ed into any types; Preposition and Interjectiontags.Some words were found to have no solutionfor one of three reasons.
First, some words arenot analyzed altogether by BAMA; second, somewords are analyzed, but none of the providedsolutions is suitable to their contexts in the text;third, some words are wrongly segmented byBAMA.
Consequently, 15,605 words have beenanalyzed manually in the same manner theywould have been analyzed automatically.3.1 Bibliotheca Alexandrina MorphologicalAnalysis Enhancer  (BAMAE)It is a system that has been built to morpho-logically analyze and disambiguate the Arabictexts depending on BAMA?s enhanced output ofthe ICA.
It was preferred to use BAMA?s en-hanced output of the ICA since it contains moreinformation than any other system of BAMA?soutput.
This is the reason that made  the mem-bers of the ICA team aim to build their ownmorphological disambiguator (BAMAE).In order to reach the best solution for the in-put word, BAMAE preforms automatic disam-biguation process carried on three levels that de-pends primarily on the basic POS information(Prefix(s), Stem, Tag and Suffixes) that is ob-tained from the enhanced BAMA?s output.
(Alansary, 2012):?
Word level which avoids or eliminates theimpossible solutions that Buckwalter pro-vides due to the wrong concatenations ofprefix(s), stem and suffix(s).?
Context level where some linguistic ruleshave been extracted from the training data tohelp in disambiguating words depending ontheir context.?
Memory based level which is not applicablein all cases; it is only applicable when all theprevious levels fail to decide the best solu-tion for the Arabic input word.Figure 3 shows BAMAE architecture startingfrom the input text and the numerous solutionsfor each word in order to predict the best POSsolution for each word.
?Figure 3: BAMAE Architecture.
?13After selecting the best POS solution for eachword, BAMAE detects the rest of informationaccordingly.
It detects the lemmas, roots (de-pending primarily on the lemmas), stem patterns(depending on stems, roots and lemmas), number(depending on basic POS and stem patterns),gender (depending also on basic POS, stem pat-terns and sometimes depending on number), def-initeness (depending on POS or their sequences),case (depending on definiteness and sequences ofPOS) and finally it detects the vocalization ofeach word.3.2 ICA Analysis EvaluationThe testing data has been evaluated based onthe rules extracted from the manually disambigu-ated training data in order to determine thestrengths and weaknesses of the enhancer mod-ule in reaching the best solution.
The testing dataset will contain 1,000,000 representative wordsthat were manually analyzed specially for thetesting stage.
Precision and Recall are the evalua-tion measures used to evaluate the BAMAE sys-tem.
Precision is a measure of the ability of asystem to present only relevant results.
Recall isa measure of the ability of a system to present allrelevant results.
The evaluation has been con-ducted on two levels; the first level includes theprecision, recall and accuracy for each qualifierseparately as shown in table 5.
The second levelincludes the basic POS in addition to adding anew qualifier each time to investigative how itwould affect the accuracy as shown in table 6.?Table 5: Precision, Recall and Accuracy foreach qualifier?
?Table 6: Accuracy decreasing as a result of adding new qualifier each time to the main POS Tag?3.3 Comparing BAMAE with MADAMADA (Morphological Analysis and Disam-biguation for Arabic) is selected to be comparedwith BAMAE since both of them uses Buckwal-ter?s output analyses to help in disambiguatingthe Arabic texts.
The primary purpose of MADA3.2 is to extract linguistic information as much aspossible about each word in the text, from givenraw Arabic text, in order to reduce or eliminateany ambiguity concerning the word.
MADAdoes this by using ALMORGEANA14 (an Arabiclexeme-based morphology analyzer) to generateevery possible interpretation of each input word.Then, MADA  applies a number of languagemodels to determine which analysis is the mostprobable for each word, given the word?s con-text.MADA makes use of up to 19 orthogonal fea-tures to select, for each word, a proper analysisfrom a list of potential analyses that are provided14http://clipdemos.umiacs.umd.edu/ALMORGEANA/14by the Buckwalter Arabic Morphological Ana-lyzer (BAMA; Buckwalter 2004).
The BAMAanalysis that most closely matches the collectionof weighted, predicted features, is chosen.
The19 features include 14 morphological featuresthat MADA predicts using 14 distinct SupportVector Machines (SVMs) trained on the PATB.In addition, MADA uses five features that cap-ture information such as spelling variations andn-gram statistics.Since MADA selects a complete analysisfrom BAMA, all decisions regarding morpholog-ical ambiguity, lexical ambiguity, tokenization,diacritization and POS tagging in any possiblePOS tag set are made in one fell swoop (Habashand Rambow, 2005; Habash and Rambow 2007;Roth et al, 2008).
The choices are ranked interms of their score.
MADA has over 96% accu-racy on basic morphological choice (includingtokenization but excluding case, mood, andnunation) and on lemmatization.
MADA hasover 86% accuracy in predicting full diacritiza-tion (including case and mood).
Detailed com-parative evaluations are provided in the follow-ing publications: (Habash and Rambow, 2005;Habash and Rambow 2007; Roth et al, 2008).In order to compare between BAMAE andMADA, the selected text, to be run on both sys-tems, was selected from the ICA training data tofacilitate the comparing process.
To make thecomparing process more accurate, some justifica-tions were needed in MADA to be compatiblewith BAMAE format.
For example, in numberqualifier the feature of singular (s) was handledto be (SG), in case qualifier the feature of nomi-native (u) was handled to be (NOM), in tagsqualifier the verbs were handled with relation toaspect and stem category.
The comparing pro-cess will be done in terms of some qualifiers;diacritization, tags, stems, number, gender anddefiniteness including Arabic words only asshown in Table 7:Qualifier BAMAE MADADiacritization 89.61% 78.78%Tags 93.94% 85.28%Stems 96.97% 91.34%Number 96.10% 64.93%Gender 96.53% 66.67%Definiteness 96.53% 60.61%?Table 7: Comparing between MADA andBAMAE.
?There are some notes that must be taken into consid-eration:?
The problems of detecting the diacritization inBAMAE are related to either predicting thecase ending wrongly or predicting the wholesolution wrongly.?
The problems of detecting the diacritization inMADA are related to predicting the case end-ing wrongly, predicting the whole solutionwrongly, missing some diacritics in somewords, or missing all diacritics in some words.?
The problems of detecting the tags in MADAare related to either predicting the tags wronglyor the differences in some tags from those ofBAMAE.
For example the adverbs of time orplace in BAMAE are assigned with ?NOUN(ADV_T)?
or ?NOUN (ADV_P)?
in BAMAEwhile they are assigned with ?NOUN?, subconjunction ?SUB_CONJ?, and preposition?PREP?.
This happens as a result of usingBAMA?s output without enhancing such tags.In addition the wrong concatenations ofBAMA?s output cause problems in detectingsome tags.?
The problems of detecting stems in bothBAMAE and MADA are related to predictingthe solution wrongly.?
The problem of detecting number, gender anddefiniteness in MADA are related to usingBAMA?s output without regarding morphosyn-tactic properties.?
The comparison between cases in BAMAEand MADA can?t be done since MADA as-signs case without regarding the diacritics ofthis case.
For example, it assigns the accusativecase ?ACC?
for both ?a/ACC?
and ?i/ACC?
inBAMAE.?
There are some qualifiers in BAMAE whichare not found in MADA; Root and Stem Pat-tern.
The root qualifier has been assigned withaccuracy 99.45% while the stem pattern quali-fier has been assigned with accuracy 94.34%.?
The lemma qualifier has been assigned inBAMAE with accuracy 96.54%, while it isdoes not existed in MADA.4.
ICA Website15It is an interface that allows users to interactwith the corpus data in a number of ways.
Theinterface provides four options of searching thecorpus content; namely, Exact Match Search,Lemma Based Search, Root Based Search andStem Based Search.More search options are available; namely,Word Class and Sub Class, Stem Pattern, Num-15http://www.bibalex.org/ica/en/15ber, Definiteness, Gender, Country (Advancedsearch).
Moreover, the scope of search may in-clude the whole corpus, Source(s), Sub-Source(s), Genre(s), Sub-Sub-Genre(s) or Sub-Genre(s).Figure 4 presents an example of a query ofthe analyzed data that states: when the word?????
is searched for using a Lemma-Basedsearch option, the system will highlight all possi-ble lemmas that the word may have, since Arabicis orthographically ambiguous.
In this example,the system will highlight several possible lem-mas; ?wa a?da?
?to promise?, ?wa d??
?Promise?and ?
a?ada?
?return?.
If the lemma ?wa d??
?Prom-ise?
is chosen the output search in this case willinclude all words that have this lemma such as??????
?Promises?, ?alwa d???etc.
with all possi-ble word forms together with concordance lines.
?Figure 4: The lemma ?wa d??
?Promise?
outputsearch.
?In the search output information about thenumber of search result, country, source, genre,sentence and context are also available.
This isphase one of ICA website and more enhance-ments are expected in later phases.
The currentphase of ICA application does not represent thefinal release as we are still receiving users com-ments and reports till  all of them are implement-ed.
However, The official phase of ICA applica-tion will give the opportunity for the researchersto save their query results.5.
ConclusionThe International Corpus of Arabic (ICA) isbuilt, about 80 million words have been collect-ed, covering all of the Arab world.
About 2 mil-lion words have been disambiguated manually asa training data.
About 50 million words havebeen disambiguated using (BAMAE).
The evalu-ation has been done using precision and recallmeasurements for 1,000,000 words.
At this point,Precision measurement ranges from 95%-92% whilerecall measurement was 92%-89%.
The percentagesare expected to rise by implementing the im-provements while working on larger amounts ofdata.
ICA website plays a role in overcoming thelack of Arabic resources.
It is the 1st online freelyavailable easy access query on 100,000,000words which reflect the richness and variation ofthe ICA analyzed corpus to help the NLP com-munity in specific and other researchers in gen-eral.ReferencesAhmed Abdelali, James Cowie&Hamdy S. Soliman.2005, Building a modern standard Arabic corpus.In Proceedings of workshop on computationalmodeling of lexical acquisition.
The split meeting.Croatia, (25-28 July).CaminoR.
Rizzo.
2010, Getting on with corpus com-pilation: From theory to practice.
In ESP WorldJournal, Issue 1 (27), Volume 9.Charles F. Meyer.
2002, English Corpus Linguistics:An Introduction, Cambridge University Press.Hajic J., Smrz O., Zem?nek P., ?naidauf J., &Be?kaE.
(2004, September),  Prague Arabic DependencyTreebank: Development in Data and Tools.
InProc.of the NEMLAR Intern.
Conf.
on Arabic LanguageResources and Tools (pp.
110-117).Jan Hajic J., OtkarSmrz O., Petr Zem?nek P., Jan?naidauf J., &Emanuel Be?ka E. 2004, (2004, Sep-tember),  Prague Arabic Dependency Treebank:Development in Data and Tools.
In Proceedings ofthe NEMLAR Intern.
Conf.
on Arabic LanguageResources and Tools (pp.
110-117).
(2004, Septem-ber).Jan Hajic, OtakarSmrz, Tim Buckwalter ,& HubertJin.
September.
2005,  Feature-based tagger of ap-proximations of functional Arabic morphology.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Treebanks andLinguistic Theories (TLT), Barcelona, Spain.John Sinclair.
1991, Corpus, Concordance and Collo-cation (Describing English Language).
Oxford Uni-versity Press.Mahmoud El-Haj & Rim Koulali.
2013, KALIMAT aMultipurpose Arabic Corpus.
In Proceedings of the162nd Workshop on Arabic Corpus Linguistics(WACL-2) .Mohamed Maamouri, Ann Bies, Tim Buckwalter&WegdanMekki.
2004, The Penn Arabic Treebank:Building a Large-Scale Annotated Arabic Corpus,In Proceedings of NEMLAR conference on Arabiclanguage resources and tools (pp.
102-109).Muhammad Atiyya, Khalid Choukri& MustafaYaseen.
(2005), Specifcations of the Arabic WrittenCorpus.
NEMLAR Project.
September 29th 2005.Nizar Habash , Owen Rambow, & Ryan Roth.
2009,MADA+ TOKAN: A Toolkit for Arabic Tokeniza-tion, Diacritization, Morphological Disambigua-tion, POS Tagging, Stemming and Lemmatization.In  Proceedings of the 2nd International Conferenceon Arabic Language Resources and Tools(MEDAR), Cairo, Egypt.Nizar Habash and Owen Rambow.
2005, Arabic To-kenization, Part-Of-Speech Tagging and Morpho-logical Disambiguation in One Fell Swoop.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL?05, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.Petter Zemanek.
2001, CLARA (Corpus Linguae Ara-bica): An Overview.
In Proceedings of ACL/EACLWorkshop on Arabic Language.Piotr P?zik.
2010, New Ways to Language.
Chapter 21(pp.
433-46), WydawnictwoUniwersytetu?
?dzkie-go.Ryan Roth, Owen Rambow, Nizar Habash, Mona Di-ab, and Cynthia Rudin.
2008, Arabic Morphologi-cal Tagging, Diacritization, and Lemmatization Us-ing Lexeme Models and Feature Ranking.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Compan-ion Volume), pages (117?120), Columbus, Ohio,USA, June 2008.Sameh Alansary, Magdy Nagi & Noha Adly.
2008,Towards Analysing the International Corpus of Ar-abic (ICA): Progress of Morphological Stage.
InProceedings of 8th International Conference onLanguage Engineering, Egypt.Sameh Alansary.
2012, BAMAE: Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyser Enhancer.
in Proceedingsof 4th international conference on Arabic languageprocessing, Mohamed Vth University Souissi, Re-bate, Morocco, May 2-3 2012.Sue Atkins S., Jeremy Clear J.& Nicholas Ostler N.(1992), Corpus Design Criteria, Literary and lin-guistic computing, 7(1), 1-16.Tim Buckwalter.
2004,  Buckwalter Arabic Morpho-logical Analyzer Version 2.0.
Linguistic Data Con-sortium (LDC) catalogue number LDC2004L02,ISBN 1-58563-324-0.WajdiZaghouani.
2014, Critical Survey of the FreelyAvailable Arabic Corpora.
In Proceedings of Work-shop on Free/Open-Source Arabic Corpora andCorpora Processing Tools.17
