Proceedings of the Workshop on Interactive Language Learning, Visualization, and Interfaces, pages 34?37,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 27, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsGLANCE Visualizes Lexical Phenomena for Language LearningMei-Hua Chen*, Shih-Ting Huang+, Ting-Hui Kao+, Sun-Wen Chiu+, Tzu-His Yen+* Department of Foreign Languages and Literature, Hua Fan University, Taipei, Taiwan,R.O.C.
22301+ Department of Computer Science, National Tsing Hua University, HsinChu, Taiwan,R.O.C.
30013{chen.meihua,koromiko1104,maxis1718,chiuhsunwen, joseph.yen}@gmail.comAbstractFacilitating vocabulary knowledge is achallenging aspect for language learners.Although current corpus-based referencetools provide authentic contextual clues, theplain text format is not conducive to fullyillustrating some lexical phenomena.
Thus,this paper proposes GLANCE 1 , a textvisualization tool, to present a large amountof lexical phenomena using charts and graphs,aimed at helping language learnersunderstand a word quickly and intuitively.
Toevaluate the effectiveness of the system, wedesigned interfaces to allow comparisonbetween text and graphics presentation, andconducted a preliminary user study with ESLstudents.
The results show that the visualizeddisplay is of greater benefit to theunderstanding of word characteristics thantextual display.1 IntroductionVocabulary is a challenging aspect for languagelearners to master.
Extended word knowledge,such as word polarity and position, is not widelyavailable in traditional dictionaries.
Thus, formost language learners, it is very difficult tohave a good command of such lexical phenome-na.Current linguistics software programs uselarge corpus data to advance language learning.The use of corpora exposes learners to authenticcontextual clues and lets them discover patternsor collocations of words from contextual clues(Partington, 1998).
However, a huge amount ofdata can be overwhelming and time-consuming(Yeh et al., 2007) for language learners to inducerules or patterns.
On the other hand, some lexicalphenomena seem unable to be comprehended1 http://glance-it.herokuapp.com/fast and directly in plain text format (Koo, 2006).For example, in the British National Corpus(2007), ?however?
seems more negative than?but?.
Also, compared with ?but?, ?however?appears more frequently at the beginning of asentence.With this in mind, we proposed GLANCE1, atext visualization tool, which presents corpusdata using charts and graphs to help languagelearners understand the lexical phenomena of aword quickly and intuitively.
In this paper, wefocused on five types of lexical phenomena: po-larity, position, POS, form and discipline, whichwill be detailed in the Section 3.
Given a singlequery word, the GLANCE system shows graph-ical representations of its lexical phenomena se-quentially within a single web page.Additionally we believe that the use ofgraphics also facilitates the understanding of thedifferences between two words.
Taking this intoconsideration, we introduce a comparison modeto help learners differentiate two words at aglance.
Allowing two word input, GLANCEdraws the individual representative graphs forboth words and presents these graphs in a two-column view.
The display of parallel graphs de-picts the distinctions between the two wordsclearly.2 Related WorkCorpus-based language learning has widened theperspectives in second and foreign language edu-cation, such as vocabulary learning (Wood,2001).
In past decades, various corpus-based ref-erence tools have been developed.
For example,WordSmith (Scott, 2000), Compleat Lexical Tu-tor (Cobb, 2007), GRASP (Huang et al., 2011),PREFER (Chen et al, 2012).Recently, some interactive visualization toolshave been developed for the purpose of illustrat-ing various linguistic phenomena.
Three exam-34ples are Word Tree, a visual concordance (Wat-tenberg and  i gas, 2008), WORDGRAPH, avisual tool for context-sensitive word choice(Riehmann et al., 2012) and Visual Thesaurus, a3D interactive reference tool (ThinkMap Inc.,2005).3 Design of the GLANCE SystemThe GLANCE system consists of several com-ponents of corpus data visualization.
We designand implement these visualization modules sepa-rately to ensure all graphs are simple and clearenough for users to capture and understand thelexical phenomena quickly.In this paper, we use the d3.js (Data-DrivenDocuments) (Bostock et al., 2011) to visualizethe data.
The d3.js enables direct inspection andmanipulation of a standard document objectmodel (DOM) so that we are able to transformnumeric data into various types of graphs whenfitting these data to other visualization tools.
Inthis section, we describe the ways we extract thedata from the corpus and how we translate thesedata into informative graphs.3.1 Data PreprocessingWe use the well-formed corpus, the BNC, to ex-tract the data.
In order to obtain the Part-of-speech tags for each text, we use the GENIAtagger (Tsuruoka et al., 2005) to analyze the sen-tences of the BNC and build a list of <POS-tag,frequency> pairs for each word in the BNC.
Alsothe BNC contains the classification code as-signed to the text in a genre-based analysis car-ried out at Lancaster University by Lee (2001).For each word, the classification codes are ag-gregated to a list of <code, frequency> pairs.3.2 Visualization of Lexical PhenomenaPolarityA word may carry different sentiment polarities(i.e., positive, negative and objective).
To helpusers quickly determine the proper sentimentpolarity of a word, we introduce the sentimentpolarity information of SentiWordNet(Baccianella et al., 2010) into our system.
Foreach synset of a word, GLANCE displays thepolarity in a bar with three different colors.
Theindividual length of the three parts in the bar cor-responds to the polarity scores of a synset (Fig-ure 1).Figure 1.
Representation of sentiment polarityPositionThe word position in a sentence is also an im-portant lexical phenomenon.
By calculating theword position in each sentence, we then obtainthe location distribution.
GLANCE visualizes thedistribution information of a word using a barchart.
Figure 2 shows a plot of distribution ofword position on the x-axis against the word fre-quency on the y-axis.Figure 2.
Distribution of word positionPart Of Speech (POS)A lexical item may have more than one part ofspeech.
Knowing the distribution of POS helpsusers quickly understand the general usage of aword.GLANCE displays a pie chart for each wordto differentiate between its parts of speech.
Weuse the maximum likelihood probability of aPOS tag for a word as the arc length of the piechart (Figure 3).35Figure 3.
POS representationFormThe levels of formality of written and spokenlanguage are different, which also confuse lan-guage learners.
Pie charts are used to illustratethe proportion of written and spoken English ofindividual words as shown in Figure 4.We derive the frequencies of both forms fromthe BNC classification code for each word.
Thearc length of each sector is proportional to themaximum likelihood probability of forms.Figure 4.
Form representationDisciplineSimilar to language form, the discipline infor-mation (e.g., newspaper or fiction) was gatheredfrom the BNC classification code.
The relationsof the disciplines of a word are presented using asunburst graph, a radial space-filling tree layoutimplemented with prefuse (Heer et al., 2005).
Inthe sunburst graph (Figure 5.
), each level corre-sponds to the relation of the disciplines of a cer-tain word.
The farther the level is away from thecenter, the more specific the discipline is.
Eachlevel is given equal width, but the circular angleswept out by a discipline corresponds to the fre-quency of the disciplines.Figure 5.
Discipline relations4 Results4.1 Experimental SettingWe performed a preliminary user study to assessthe efficiency of our system in assisting languagelearners in grasping lexical phenomena.
To ex-amine the effectiveness of visualization, we builta textual interface for comparison with thegraphical interface.Ten pre-intermediate ESL college studentsparticipated in the study.
A total of six pairs ofsimilar words were listed on the worksheet.
Afterbeing introduced to GLANCE, all students wererandomly divided into two groups.
One groupwas required to consult the first three pairs usingthe graphical interface and the second three pairsthe textual interface, and vice versa.
The partici-pants were allowed a maximum of one minuteper pair, which meets the goal of this study ofquickly glancing at the graphics and grasping theconcepts of words.
Then a test sheet containingthe same six similar word pairs was used to ex-amine the extent of students?
word understanding.Note that during the test, no tool supports wereprovided.
The student scored one point if he gavethe correct answers to each question.
In otherwords he would be awarded 6 points (the highestnumber of points) if he provided all the correctanswers.
They also completed a questionnaire,described below, evaluating the system.4.2 Experimental ResultsTo determine the effectiveness of visualization oflexical phenomena, the students?
average scoreswere used as performance indicators.
Studentsachieved the average score 61.9 and 45.0 out of100.00 after consulting the graphic interface andtextual interface respectively.
Overall, the visual-ized display of word characteristics outper-formed the textual version.The questionnaire revealed that all the partici-pants showed a positive attitude to visualizedword information.
Further analyses showed thatall ten participants appreciated the position dis-play and nine of them the polarity and form dis-plays.
In short, the graphical display of lexicalphenomena in GLANCE results in faster assimi-lation and understanding of word information.Moreover, the participants suggested several in-teresting aspects for improving the GLANCEsystem.
For example, they preferred bilingualenvironment, further information concerning an-tonyms, more example sentences, and increased36detail in the sunburst representation of disci-plines.5 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper, we proposed GLANCE, a text vis-ualization tool, which provides graphical displayof corpus data.
Our goal is to assist languagelearners in glancing at the graphics and graspingthe lexical knowledge quickly and intuitively.
Toevaluate the efficiency and effectiveness ofGLANCE, we conducted a preliminary userstudy with ten non-native ESL learners.
The re-sults revealed that visualization format outper-formed plain text format.Many avenues exist for future research andimprovement.
We attempt to expand the singleword to phrase level.
For example, the colloca-tion behaviors are expected to be deduced anddisplayed.
Moreover, we are interested in sup-porting more lexical phenomena, such as hypo-nyms, to provide learners with more lexical rela-tions of the word with other words.ReferenceBaccianella, S., Esuli, A., & Sebastiani, F. (2010,May).
SentiWordNet 3.0: An Enhanced LexicalResource for Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Min-ing.
In LREC (Vol.
10, pp.
2200-2204).Bostock, M., Ogievetsky, V., & Heer, J.
(2011).
D?data-driven documents.
Visualization and Comput-er Graphics, IEEE Transactions on, 17(12), 2301-2309.Chen, M. H., Huang, S. T., Huang, C. C., Liou, H. C.,& Chang, J. S. (2012, June).
PREFER: using agraph-based approach to generate paraphrases forlanguage learning.
In Proceedings of the SeventhWorkshop on Building Educational ApplicationsUsing NLP (pp.
80-85).
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Cobb, T. (2007).
The compleat lexical tutor.
RetrievedSeptember, 22, 2009.Heer, J., Card, S. K., & Landay, J.
A.
(2005, April).Prefuse: a toolkit for interactive information visual-ization.
In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conferenceon Human factors in computing systems (pp.
421-430).
ACM.Huang, C. C., Chen, M. H., Huang, S. T., Liou, H. C.,& Chang, J. S. (2011, June).
GRASP: grammar-and syntax-based pattern-finder in CALL.In Proceedings of the 6th Workshop on InnovativeUse of NLP for Building Educational Applications(pp.
96-104).
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Kyosung Koo (2006).
Effects of using corpora andonline reference tools on foreign language writing:a study of Korean learners of English as a secondlanguage.
PhD.
dissertation, University of Iowa.Lee, D. Y.
(2001).
Genres, registers, text types, do-mains and styles: Clarifying the concepts andnevigating a path through the BNC jungle.Partington, A.
(1998).
Patterns and meanings: Usingcorpora for English language research and teach-ing (Vol.
2).
John Benjamins Publishing.Riehmann, P., Gruendl, H., Froehlich, B., Potthast, M.,Trenkmann, M., & Stein, B.
(2011, March).
TheNETSPEAK WORDGRAPH: Visualizing key-words in context.
In Pacific Visualization Sympo-sium (PacificVis), 2011 IEEE (pp.
123-130).
IEEE.Scott, M. (2004).
WordSmith tools version 4.The British National Corpus, version 3 (BNC XMLEdition).
2007.
Distributed by Oxford UniversityComputing Services on behalf of the BNC Consor-tium.
URL: http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/ThinkMap Inc. (2005).
Thinkmap Visual Thesaurus.Available from http:// www.visualthesaurus.comTsuruoka, Y., Tateishi, Y., Kim, J. D., Ohta, T.,McNaught, J., Ananiadou, S., & Tsujii, J. I.
(2005).Developing a robust part-of-speech tagger for bio-medical text.
In Advances in informatics (pp.
382-392).
Springer Berlin Heidelberg.Wattenberg, M., & Vi?gas, F. B.
(2008).
The wordtree, an interactive visual concord-ance.
Visualization and Computer Graphics, IEEETransactions on, 14(6), 1221-1228.Wood, J.
(2001).
Can software support children?svocabulary development.Language Learning &Technology, 5(1), 166-201.Yeh, Y., Liou, H. C., & Li, Y. H. (2007).
Online syn-onym materials and concordancing for EFL collegewriting.
Computer Assisted Language Learning,20(2), 131-152.37
