Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 6?11,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 22-27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsVerbal Valency Frame Detection and Selection in Czech and EnglishOnd?rej Du?ek, Jan Haji?c and Zde?nka Ure?ov?Charles University in PragueFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsMalostransk?
n?m?est?
25, 11800 Prague 1, Czech Republic{odusek,hajic,uresova}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractWe present a supervised learning methodfor verbal valency frame detection and se-lection, i.e., a specific kind of word sensedisambiguation for verbs based on subcat-egorization information, which amountsto detecting mentions of events in text.We use the rich dependency annotationpresent in the Prague Dependency Tree-banks for Czech and English, taking ad-vantage of several analysis tools (taggers,parsers) developed on these datasets pre-viously.
The frame selection is based onmanually created lexicons accompanyingthese treebanks, namely on PDT-Vallex forCzech and EngVallex for English.
The re-sults show that verbal predicate detectionis easier for Czech, but in the subsequentframe selection task, better results havebeen achieved for English.1 IntroductionValency frames are a detailed semantic and syn-tactic description of individual predicate senses.1As such, they represent different event types.
Wepresent a system for automatic detection and se-lection of verbal valency frames in Czech and En-glish, which corresponds to detecting and disam-biguating mentions of events in text.
This is an im-portant step toward event instance identification,which should help greatly in linking the mentionsof a single event.
We took advantage of the factthat the Prague family of dependency treebankscontains comparable valency frame annotation forCzech and English (cf.
Section 2).
Thus the fea-ture templates used in frame selection are the same1Valency can be observed for verbs, nouns, adjectives andin certain theories, also for other parts of speech; however,we focus on verbal valency only, as it is most common andsufficiently described in theory and annotated in treebanks.and the features initially considered differ only intheir instantiation (cf.
Section 3).While somewhat similar to the CoNLL 2009Shared Task (Haji?c et al., 2009) in the predicatedetection part, our task differs from the semanticrole labeling task in that the whole frame has tobe detected, not only individual arguments, and istherefore more difficult not only in terms of scor-ing, but also in the selection part: several verbalframes might share the same syntactic features,making them virtually indistinguishable unless se-mantics is taken into account, combined with a de-tailed grammatical and morphological context.2 Valency in the tectogrammaticaldescriptionThe annotation scheme of the Prague DependencyTreebank (Bej?cek et al., 2012, PDT) and thePrague Czech-English Dependency Treebank (Ha-ji?c et al., 2012, PCEDT) is based on the formalframework of the Functional Generative Descrip-tion (Sgall, 1967; Sgall et al., 1986, FGD), de-veloped within the Prague School of Linguistics.The FGD is dependency-oriented with a ?strati-ficational?
(layered) approach to a systematic de-scription of a language.
The notion of valency inthe FGD is one of the core concepts operating onthe layer of linguistic meaning (tectogrammaticallayer, t-layer).2.1 Valency framesThe FGD uses syntactic as well as semantic crite-ria to identify verbal complements.
It is assumedthat all semantic verbs ?
and, potentially, nouns,adjectives, and adverbs ?
have subcategorizationrequirements, which can be specified in the va-lency frame.Verbal valency modifications are specifiedalong two axes: The first axis concerns the (gen-eral) opposition between inner participants (argu-ments) and free modifications (adjuncts).
This dis-6tinction is based on criteria relating to:(a) the possibility of the same type of comple-ment appearing multiple times with the sameverb (arguments cannot), and(b) the possibility of the occurrence of the givencomplements (in principle) with any verb(typical for adjuncts).The other axis relates to the distinction between(semantically) obligatory and optional comple-ments of the word, which again is based on cer-tain operational criteria expressed as the dialoguetest (Panevov?, 1974).
Five arguments are distin-guished: Actor (ACT), Patient (PAT), Addressee(ADDR), Origin (ORIG), and Effect (EFF).
Theset of free modifications is much larger than that ofarguments; about 50 types of adjuncts are distin-guished based on semantic criteria.
Their set canbe divided into several subclasses: temporal (e.g.,TWHEN, TSIN), local (e.g., LOC, DIR3), causal(such as CAUS, CRIT), and other free modifica-tions (e.g., MANN for general Manner, ACMP forAccompaniment, EXT for Extent etc.
).All arguments (obligatory or optional) andobligatory adjuncts are considered to be part of thevalency frame.2.2 Tectogrammatical annotationThe PDT is a project for FGD-based manual an-notation of Czech texts, started in 1996 at the In-stitute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, CharlesUniversity in Prague.
It serves two main purposes:1. to test and validate the FGD linguistic theory,2.
to apply and test machine learning methods forpart-of-speech and morphological tagging, de-pendency parsing, semantic role labeling, coref-erence resolution, discourse annotation, naturallanguage generation, machine translation andother natural language processing tasks.The language data in the PDT are non-abbreviatedarticles from Czech newspapers and journals.The PCEDT contains English sentences fromthe Wall Street Journal section of the Penn Tree-bank (Marcus et al., 1993, PTB-WSJ) and theirCzech translations, all annotated using the sametheoretical framework as the PDT.The annotation of the PDT and the PCEDT isvery rich in linguistic information.
Following thestratificational approach of the FGD, the texts areannotated at different but interlinked layers.
Thereare four such layers, two linear and two structured:?
the word layer (w-layer) ?
tokenized but other-wise unanalyzed original text,?
the morphological layer (m-layer) with parts-of-speech, morphology and lemmatization,?
analytical layer (a-layer) ?
surface dependencysyntax trees,?
tectogrammatical layer (t-layer) ?
?deep syn-tax?
trees according to the FGD theory.While the PDT has all the layers annotated man-ually, the PCEDT English annotation on the a-layer has been created by automatic conversionfrom the original Penn Treebank, including theusual head assignment; morphology and the tec-togrammatical layer are annotated manually, evenif not as richly as for Czech.2Valency is a core ingredient on the t-layer.
Sincevalency frames guide, i.a., the labeling of argu-ments, valency lexicons with sense-distinguishedentries for both languages have been created to en-sure consistent annotation.2.3 Valency Lexicons for Czech and Englishin the FGD FrameworkPDT-Vallex (Haji?c et al., 2003; Ure?ov?, 2011) is avalency lexicon of Czech verbs, nouns, and adjec-tives, created in a bottom-up way during the an-notation of the PDT.
This approach made it pos-sible to confront the pre-existing valency theorywith the real usage of the language.Each entry in the lexicon contains a head-word, according to which the valency frames aregrouped, indexed, and sorted.
Each valency frameincludes the frame?s ?valency?
(number of argu-ments, or frame members) and the following in-formation for each argument:?
its label (see Section 2.1),?
its (semantic) obligatoriness according to Pane-vov?
(1974)?s dialogue test,?
its required surface form (or several alternativeforms) typically using morphological, lexicaland syntactic constraints.Most valency frames are further accompanied by anote or an example which explains their meaningand usage.
The version of PDT-Vallex used herecontains 9,191 valency frames for 5,510 verbs.EngVallex (Cinkov?, 2006) is a valency lex-icon of English verbs based on the FGD frame-work, created by an automatic conversion from2Attributes such as tense are annotated automatically, andmost advanced information such as topic and focus annota-tion is not present.7PropBank frame files (Palmer et al., 2005) and bysubsequent manual refinement.3EngVallex wasused for the tectogrammatical annotation of theEnglish part of the PCEDT.
Currently, it contains7,699 valency frames for 4,337 verbs.3 Automatic frame selectionBuilding on the modules for Czech and Englishautomatic tectogrammatical annotation used in theTectoMT translation engine (?abokrtsk?
et al.,2008) and the CzEng 1.0 corpus (Bojar et al.,2012),4we have implemented a system for au-tomatic valency frame selection within the TreexNLP Framework (Popel and ?abokrtsk?, 2010).The frame selection system is based on logisticregression from the LibLINEAR package (Fan etal., 2008).
We use separate classification modelsfor each verbal lemma showing multiple valencyframes in the training data.
Due to identical anno-tation schemata in both languages, our models usenearly the same feature set,5consisting of:?
the surface word form of the lexical verb and allits auxiliaries,?
their morphological attributes, such as part-of-speech and grammatical categories,?
formemes ?
compact symbolic morphosyn-tactic labels (e.g., v:fin for a finite verb,v:because+fin for a finite verb governedby a subordinating conjunction, v:in+ger fora gerund governed by a preposition),6?
syntactic labels given by the dependency parser,?
all of the above properties found in the topolog-ical and syntactic neighborhood of the verbalnode on the t-layer (parent, children, siblings,nodes adjacent in the word order).We experimented with various classifier settings(regularization type and cost C, termination crite-rion E) and feature selection techniques (these in-volve adding a subset of features according to ametric against the target class).73This process resulted in the interlinkage of both lexicons,with additional links to VerbNet (Schuler, 2005) where avail-able.
Due to the refinement, the mapping is often not 1:1.4Note that annotation used in TectoMT and CzEng doesnot contain all attributes found in corpora manually annotatedon the tectogrammatical layer.
Valency frame IDs are an ex-ample of an attribute that is missing from the automatic an-notation of CzEng 1.0.5The only differences are due to the differences of part-of-speech tagsets used.6See (Du?ek et al., 2012; Rosa et al., 2012) for a detaileddescription of formemes.7The metrics used include the Anova F-score, minimum4 ExperimentsWe evaluated the system described in Section 3on PDT 2.5 for Czech and on the English partof PCEDT 2.0 for English.
From PCEDT 2.0,whose division follows the PTB-WSJ, we usedSections 02-21 as training data, Section 24 asdevelopment data, and Section 23 as evaluationdata.
Since the system is intended to be used ina fully automatic annotation scenario, we use au-tomatically parsed sentences with projected gold-standard valency frames to train the classifiers.The results of our system in the best settingfor both languages are given in Table 1.8Theunlabeled figures measure the ability of the sys-tem to detect that a valency frame should be filledfor a given node.
The labeled figures show theoverall system performance, including selectingthe correct frame.
The frame selection accuracyvalue shows only the percentage of frames se-lected correctly, disregarding misplaced frames.The accuracy for ambiguous verbs further disre-gards frames of lemmas where only one frame ispossible.
Here we include a comparison of ourtrained classifier with a baseline that always se-lects the most frequent frame seen in the trainingdata.9Our results using the classifier for both lan-guages have been confirmed by pairwise bootstrapresampling (Koehn, 2004) to be significantly bet-ter than the baseline at 99% level.We can see that the system is more successfulin Czech in determining whether a valency frameshould be filled for a given node.
This is mostprobably given by the fact that the most Czechverbs are easily recognizable by their morphologi-cal endings, whereas English verbs are more proneto be misrepresented as nouns or adjectives.The English system is better at selecting the cor-rect valency frame.
This is probably caused bya more fine-grained word sense resolution in theCzech valency lexicon, where more figurative usesand idioms are included.
For example, over 16%Redundancy-Maximum Relevance (mRMR) (Peng et al.,2005), ReliefF (Kononenko, 1994), mutual information (MI),symmetric uncertainty (Witten and Frank, 2005, p.
291f.
),and an average of the ranks given by mRMR and MI.8The best setting for Czech uses L1-regularization and10% best features according to Anova, with other parame-ters tuned on the development set for each lemma.
The bestsetting for English uses L2-regularization with best featuresubsets tuned on the development set and fixed parametersC = 0.1, E = 0.01.9All other parts of the system, up to the identification ofthe frame to be filled in, are identical with the baseline.8Czech EnglishUnlabeled precision 99.09 96.03Unlabeled recall 94.81 93.07Unlabeled F-1 96.90 94.53Labeled precision 78.38 81.58Labeled recall 74.99 79.06Labeled F-1 76.65 80.30Frame selection accuracy 79.10 84.95Ambiguous verbsbaseline 66.68 68.44classifier 72.41 80.03Table 1: Experimental resultsof errors in the Czech evaluation data were causedjust by idioms or light verb constructions not be-ing recognized by our system.
In Czech, addi-tional 15% of errors occurred for verbs where twoor more valency frames share the same number ofarguments and their labels, but these verb sensesare considered different (because they have differ-ent meaning), compared to only 9% in English.5 Related WorkAs mentioned previously, the task of detecting andselecting valency frames overlaps with semanticrole labeling (Haji?c et al., 2009).
However, thereare substantial differences: we have focused onlyon verbs (as opposed to all words with some se-mantic relation marked in the data), and evaluatedon the exact frame assigned to the occurrence ofthe verb in the treebank.
On the other hand, weare also evaluating predicate identification as inSurdeanu et al.
(2008), which Haji?c et al.
(2009)do not.
Tagging and parsing have been automatic,but not performed jointly with the frame selec-tion task.
This also explains that while the bestresults reported for the CoNLL 2009 Shared task(Bj?rkelund et al., 2009) are 85.41% labeled F-1for Czech and 85.63% for English, they are notcomparable due to several reasons, the main be-ing that SRL evaluates each argument separately,while for a frame to be counted as correct in ourtask, the whole frame (by means of the refer-ence ID) must be selected correctly, which is sub-stantially harder (if only for verbs).
Moreover,we have used the latest version of the PDT (thePDT 2.5), and EngVallex-annotated verbs in thePCEDT, while the English CoNLL 2009 SharedTask is PropBank-based.1010Please recall that EngVallex is a manually refined Prop-Bank with different labeling scheme and generally m : nSelecting valency frames is also very similar toWord Sense Disambiguation (WSD), see e.g.
(Ed-monds and Cotton, 2001; Chen and Palmer, 2005).The WSD however does not consider subcatego-rization/valency information explicitly.Previous works on the PDT include a rule-basedtool of Honetschl?ger (2003) and experiments bySemeck?
(2007) using machine learning.
Both ofthem, unlike our work, used gold-standard anno-tation with just the frame ID removed.6 ConclusionsWe have presented a method of detecting mentionsof events in the form of verbal valency frame se-lection for Czech and English.
This method isbased on logistic regression with morphologicaland syntactic features, trained on treebanks witha comparable annotation scheme.
We believe thatthese results are first for this task on the granu-larity of the lexicons (PDT-Vallex for Czech andEngVallex for English), and they seem to be en-couraging given that the most frequent verbs liketo be and to have have tens of possible frames,heavily weighing down the resulting scores.We plan to extend this work to use additionalfeatures and lexical clustering, as well as to seeif the distinctions in the lexicons are justified, i.e.if humans can effectively distinguish them in thefirst place, similar to the work of Cinkov?
et al.(2012).
A natural extension is to combine thiswork with argument labeling to match or improveon the ?perfect proposition?
score of Surdeanu etal.
(2008) while still keeping the sense distinctionson top of it.
We could also compare this to otherlanguages for which similar valency lexicons ex-ist, such as SALSA for German (Burchardt et al.,2006) or Chinese PropBank (Xue, 2008).AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Grant No.GPP406/13/03351P of the Grant Agency of theCzech Republic, the project LH12093 of the Min-istry of Education, Youth and Sports of the CzechRepublic and the Charles University SVV project260 104.
It has been using language resourcesdeveloped, stored, and distributed by the LIN-DAT/CLARIN project of the Ministry of Edu-cation, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic(project LM2010013).mapping between PropBank and EngVallex frames.9ReferencesE.
Bej?cek, J.
Panevov?, J. Popelka, P. Stra?n?k,M.
?ev?c?kov?, J.
?t?ep?nek, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.2012.
Prague Dependency Treebank 2.5 ?
a revis-ited version of PDT 2.0.
In Proceedings of COLING2012: Technical Papers, Mumbai.A.
Bj?rkelund, L. Hafdell, and P. Nugues.
2009.
Mul-tilingual semantic role labeling.
In Proceedings ofthe Thirteenth Conference on Computational Nat-ural Language Learning (CoNLL 2009): SharedTask, pages 43?48, Boulder, Colorado, UnitedStates, June.O.
Bojar, Z.
?abokrtsk?, O.
Du?ek, P.
Galu??c?kov?,M.
Majli?, D. Mare?cek, J.
Mar?
?k, M. Nov?k,M.
Popel, and A. Tamchyna.
2012.
The joy of paral-lelism with CzEng 1.0.
In LREC, page 3921?3928,Istanbul.A.
Burchardt, K. Erk, A. Frank, A. Kowalski, S. Pad?,and M. Pinkal.
2006.
The SALSA corpus: aGerman corpus resource for lexical semantics.
InProceedings of the 5th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC-2006).J.
Chen and M. Palmer.
2005.
Towards robust highperformance word sense disambiguation of Englishverbs using rich linguistic features.
In Natural Lan-guage Processing?IJCNLP 2005, pages 933?944.Springer.S.
Cinkov?, M. Holub, and V.
Kr??.
2012.
Manag-ing uncertainty in semantic tagging.
In Proceed-ings of the 13th Conference of the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 840?850.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.S.
Cinkov?.
2006.
From PropBank to EngValLex:adapting the PropBank-Lexicon to the valency the-ory of the functional generative description.
InProceedings of the fifth International conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2006),Genova, Italy.O.
Du?ek, Z.
?abokrtsk?, M. Popel, M. Majli?,M.
Nov?k, and D. Mare?cek.
2012.
Formemesin English-Czech deep syntactic MT.
In Proceed-ings of the Seventh Workshop on Statistical MachineTranslation, page 267?274.P.
Edmonds and S. Cotton.
2001.
Senseval-2:Overview.
In The Proceedings of the Second Inter-national Workshop on Evaluating Word Sense Dis-ambiguation Systems, SENSEVAL ?01, pages 1?5,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.R.
E Fan, K. W Chang, C. J Hsieh, X. R Wang, andC.
J Lin.
2008.
LIBLINEAR: a library for large lin-ear classification.
The Journal of Machine LearningResearch, 9:1871?1874.J.
Haji?c, M. Ciaramita, R. Johansson, D. Kawahara,M.
A.
Mart?, L. M?rquez, A. Meyers, J. Nivre,S.
Pad?, J.
?t?ep?nek, P. Stra?n?k, M. Surdeanu,N.
Xue, and Y. Zhang.
2009.
The CoNLL-2009shared task: Syntactic and semantic dependencies inmultiple languages.
In Proceedings of the 13th Con-ference on Computational Natural Language Learn-ing (CoNLL-2009), June 4-5, Boulder, Colorado,USA.J.
Haji?c, E.
Haji?cov?, J.
Panevov?, P. Sgall, O. Bo-jar, S.
Cinkov?, E.
Fu?c?kov?, M.
Mikulov?, P. Pajas,J.
Popelka, J.
Semeck?, J.
?indlerov?, J.
?t?ep?nek,J.
Toman, Z.
Ure?ov?, and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2012.Announcing Prague Czech-English DependencyTreebank 2.0.
In Proceedings of LREC, pages 3153?3160, Istanbul.J.
Haji?c, J.
Panevov?, Z.
Ure?ov?, A.
B?mov?,V.
Kol?
?rov?, and P. Pajas.
2003.
PDT-VALLEX:creating a large-coverage valency lexicon for tree-bank annotation.
In Proceedings of The SecondWorkshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theories,volume 9, page 57?68.V.
Honetschl?ger.
2003.
Using a Czech valency lexi-con for annotation support.
In Text, Speech and Di-alogue, pages 120?125.
Springer.P.
Koehn.
2004.
Statistical significance tests for ma-chine translation evaluation.
In Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing, pages 388?395.I.
Kononenko.
1994.
Estimating attributes: Analysisand extensions of RELIEF.
In Machine Learning:ECML-94, page 171?182.M.
P. Marcus, M. A. Marcinkiewicz, and B. Santorini.1993.
Building a large annotated corpus of En-glish: The Penn Treebank.
Computational linguis-tics, 19(2):330.M.
Palmer, D. Gildea, and P. Kingsbury.
2005.
Theproposition bank: An annotated corpus of semanticroles.
Computational Linguistics, 31(1):71?106.J.
Panevov?.
1974.
On verbal frames in functionalgenerative description.
Prague Bulletin of Mathe-matical Linguistics, 22:3?40.H.
Peng, F. Long, and C. Ding.
2005.
Feature selec-tion based on mutual information: criteria of max-dependency, max-relevance, and min-redundancy.IEEE Transactions on pattern analysis and machineintelligence, page 1226?1238.M.
Popel and Z.
?abokrtsk?.
2010.
TectoMT: modu-lar NLP framework.
Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 293?304.R.
Rosa, D. Mare?cek, and O.
Du?ek.
2012.
DEPFIX:a system for automatic correction of Czech MT out-puts.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop onStatistical Machine Translation, page 362?368.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.10K.
K. Schuler.
2005.
VerbNet: A Broad-Coverage,Comprehensive Verb Lexicon.
Ph.D. thesis, Univ.
ofPennsylvania.J.
Semeck?.
2007.
Verb valency frames disambigua-tion.
The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguis-tics, (88):31?52.P.
Sgall, E.
Haji?cov?, and J. Panevov?.
1986.
Themeaning of the sentence in its semantic and prag-matic aspects.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht.P.
Sgall.
1967.
Generativn?
popis jazyka a c?esk?
dekli-nace.
Academia, Praha.M.
Surdeanu, R. Johansson, A. Meyers, L. M?rquez,and J. Nivre.
2008.
The CoNLL 2008 sharedtask on joint parsing of syntactic and semantic de-pendencies.
In CoNLL 2008: Proceedings of theTwelfth Conference on Computational Natural Lan-guage Learning, pages 159?177, Manchester, Eng-land, August.
Coling 2008 Organizing Committee.Z.
Ure?ov?.
2011.
Valenc?n?
slovn?k Pra?sk?ho z?vis-lostn?ho korpusu (PDT-Vallex).
Studies in Compu-tational and Theoretical Linguistics.
?stav form?ln?a aplikovan?
lingvistiky, Praha, Czechia, ISBN 978-80-904571-1-9, 375 pp.I.
H. Witten and E. Frank.
2005.
Data Mining: Practi-cal machine learning tools and techniques.
MorganKaufmann Pub, 2nd edition.N.
Xue.
2008.
Labeling Chinese predicates with se-mantic roles.
Computational linguistics, 34(2):225?255.Z.
?abokrtsk?, J.
Pt?
?cek, and P. Pajas.
2008.
Tec-toMT: highly modular MT system with tectogram-matics used as transfer layer.
In Proceedings of theThird Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation,page 167?170.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.11
