Proceedings of the 2014 Workshop on the Use of Computational Methods in the Study of Endangered Languages, pages 34?42,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, 26 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsModeling the Noun Morphology of Plains CreeConor Snoek1, Dorothy Thunder1, Kaidi L?oo1, Antti Arppe1,Jordan Lachler1, Sjur Moshagen2, Trond Trosterud21University of Alberta, Canada2University of Troms?, Norwaysnoek@ualberta.ca, dthunder@ualberta.ca, kloo@ualberta.ca,arppe@ualberta.ca, lachler@ualberta.ca,sjur.n.moshagen@uit.no, trond.trosterud@uit.noAbstractThis paper presents aspects of a com-putational model of the morphology ofPlains Cree based on the technology offinite state transducers (FST).
The paperfocuses in particular on the modeling ofnominal morphology.
Plains Cree is apolysynthetic language whose nominalmorphology relies on prefixes, suffixesand circumfixes.
The model of PlainsCree morphology is capable of handlingthese complex affixation patterns andthe morphophonological alternationsthat they engender.
Plains Cree is anendangered Algonquian language spo-ken in numerous communities acrossCanada.
The language has no agreedupon standard orthography, and exhibitswidespread variation.
We describe prob-lems encountered and solutions found,while contextualizing the endeavor in thedescription, documentation and revitaliza-tion of First Nations Languages in Canada.1 IntroductionThe Department of Linguistics at the University ofAlberta has a long tradition of working with FirstNations communities in Alberta and beyond.
Re-cently a collaboration has begun with Giellatekno,a research institute at the University of Troms?,which has specialized in creating language tech-nologies, particularly for the indigenous Saamilanguages of Scandinavia, but also for other lan-guages that have received less attention from thecomputational linguistic mainstream.
This collab-oration is currently focusing on developing com-putational tools for promoting and supporting lit-eracy, language learning and language teaching.Plains Cree is a morphologically complex lan-guage, especially with regard to nouns and verbs.While we are working to develop a completefinite-state model of Plains Cree morphology, wefocus on nominal morphology in this paper.In the first section we briefly describe PlainsCree nominal morphology and give some back-ground on the language.
This is followed by de-tails on the model and its implementation.
Fi-nally, we discuss the particular situation of de-veloping tools for a language that lacks a formal,agreed-upon standard and the challenges that thispresents.
We conclude with some comments onthe benefits of this technology to language revital-ization efforts.2 Background2.1 Plains CreePlains Cree or n?ehiyaw?ewin is an Algonquianlanguage spoken across the Prairie Provinces inwhat today is Canada.
It forms part of theCree-Montagnais-Naskapi dialect continuum thatstretches from Labrador to British Columbia.
Es-timates as to the number of speakers of Plains Creevary a lot and the exact number is not known,from a high of just over 83,000 (Statistics Canada2011, for Cree without differentiating for Cree di-alects) to as low as 160 (Ethnologue 2013).
Wol-fart (1973) estimated there to be about 20,000 na-tive speakers, but some recent figures are moreconservative.Regardless of the exact number of speakers,there is general agreement that the language is un-der threat of extinction.
In many, if not most, com-munities where Cree is spoken, children are learn-ing English as a first language, and encounter Creeonly in the language classroom.
However, vigor-ous revitalization efforts are underway and Cree isregarded as one of the Canadian First Nations lan-guages with the best chances to prosper (Cook andFlynn, 2008).As a polysynthetic language (Wolvengrey,342011, 35), Plains Cree exhibits substantial mor-phological complexity.
Nouns come in two gen-der classes: animate and inanimate.
Each of theseclasses is associated with distinct morphologicalpatterns.
Both animate and inanimate nouns carryinflectional morphology expressing the grammati-cal categories of number and locativity.
The num-ber suffixes for animate and inanimate nouns aredifferent, the plural being marked by -ak in ani-mates and -a in inanimates.
Locativity is markedby a suffix taking the form -ihk (with a number ofallomorphs).
The locative suffix cannot co-occurwith suffixes marking number or obviation, butdoes occur in conjunction with possessive affixes.Obviation is a grammatical category marked onanimate nouns that indicates relative position onthe animacy hierarchy, when there are two thirdperson participants in the same clause.
Obviationis expressed through the suffix -a, which forms amutually exclusive paradigmatic structure with thelocative and number prefixes.The possessor of a noun in Plains Cree is ex-pressed through affixes attached to the noun stem.These affixes mark person and number of thepossessor by means of a paradigmatic inflectionalpattern that includes both prefixes and suffixes.Since matching prefixes and suffixes need toco-occur with the noun when it is possessed, itis possible to treat such prefix-suffix pairings ascircumfixes expressing a single person-numbermeaning.
The noun maskisin in (1) below1ismarked for third person plural possessors as wellas being plural itself.
The inanimate gender classis recognizable in the plural suffix -a, whichwould be -ak in the case of an animate noun.
(1)omaskisiniw?awao-maskisin-iw?aw-a3PL.POSS-shoe-3PL.POSS-PL.IN?their shoes?Nouns also occur with derivational morphologyin the form of diminutive and augmentativesuffixes.
The diminutive suffix is productive andforms taking the diminutive suffix can occur withall the inflectional morphology described above.1The following abbreviations are used POSS = possessiveprefix/suffix; LOC = locative suffix; OBV = obviative suffix;DIM = diminutive suffix; NUM = number marking suffix; IN= inanimate; PL = plural.
(2)omaskisinisiw?awao-maskisin-is-iw?aw-a3PL.POSS-shoe-DIM-3PL.POSS-PL.IN?their little shoes?The particular form of the diminutive, how-ever, varies considerably.
For example, the mostcommon form of the suffix is -is.The suffix triggers morphophonemic changes inthe stem.
For example, the ?t?
in osk?at?askw- ?car-rot?
changes to ?c?
(the alveolar affricate [ts]) whenthe diminutive suffix is present resulting in theform osk?ac?askos.
Since the form osk?at?askw- is a -w final form a further phonological change occurs,namely the initial vowel in the suffix changes fromi > o.To sum up, Plains Cree nominal morphologyallows the following productive pattern types:(3)stem+NUMstem+OBVstem+LOCstem+DIM+NUMstem+DIM+OBVstem+DIM+LOCPOSS+stem+POSS+NUMPOSS+stem+DIM+POSS+NUMPOSS+stem+DIM+POSS+OBVPOSS+stem+POSS+LOCPOSS+stem+DIM+POSS+LOCPlains Cree can be written both with the Ro-man alphabet and with a Syllabary.
Theoreticallythere is a one-to-one match between the two.However, a number of factors complicate thisrelationship.
Differing punctuation conventions,such as capitalization, and the treatment ofloanwords make conversion from one writingsystem to another anything but a trivial matter.Orthography presents a general problem for thedevelopment of computer-based tools, becauseunlike nationally standardized languages, ortho-graphic conventions can vary considerably fromcommunity to community, even from one userto another.
Certain authors have argued for theadoption of orthographic standards for PlainsCree (Okim?asis and Wolvengrey, 2008), but theresimply is no centralized institution to enforce35orthographic or other standardization.
This meansthat the wealth of varying forms and dialectaldiversity of the language are apparent in each in-dividual community.
This situation poses specificchallenges to the project of developing languagetools that are more seldom encountered whenmaking spell-checkers and language learningtools for more standardized languages.Similar situations have been encountered inwork on the Saami languages of Scandinavia(Johnson, 2013).
Following their work, we in-clude dialectal variants in the model, but markthem with specific tags.
This permits a tool such asa spell-checker to be configured to accept and out-put a subset of the total possible forms in the mor-phological model.
An example here is the distribu-tion of the locative suffix described in more detailin section 4.
There is a disparity between com-munities regarding the acceptability of the occur-rence of the suffix with certain nouns.
The suffixcan be marked with a tag in the FST-model.
Thistag can then be used to block the acceptance orgeneration of this particular form.
The key notionhere is that language learning and teaching toolsare built on the basis of the general FST model.For Plains Cree there is one inclusive model, en-compassing as much dialectal variation as possi-ble.
From this, individual tools are created, e.g.spell-checkers, that selects an appropriate subsetof the dialectally marked forms.
A communitycan therefore have their own spell-checker, spe-cific to their own preferences.
It is also possi-ble to allow for ?spelling relaxations?
(Johnson,2013, 67) at the level of user input, meaning thatvariant forms will be recognized, but constrainingthe output to a selection of forms deemed appro-priate for a given community.
Hence, the spell-checker used in one particular community couldaccept certain noun-locative combinations.
At thesame time, other tools, such as paradigm learn-ing applications, could block this particular noun-locative combination from being generated: cer-tain forms are understood, but not taught by themodel.
In general, the variation is not difficult todeal with in terms of the model itself, rather it rep-resents a difficulty in the availability of accuratedescriptions, since their specifics must be knownand understood to be successfully included in themodel.This method could, in principle, be used to ex-tend the Plains Cree FST-model to closely relatedAlgonquian languages.
However, rather than cre-ating a proliferation of dialectal tags, it is easierto reproduce the architecture of the model and useit to create a new model for the related language.This allows the preservation of formal structuresthat follow essentially the same pattern, such aspossessive inflection for example, while replacingthe actual surface forms with those of the targetlanguage.2.2 Previous computational modeling ofAlgonquian languagesPrevious work on Algonquian languages that hastaken a computational approach is not extensive.Hewson (1993) compiled a dictionary of Proto-Algonquian terms generated through an algorithm.His data were drawn from fieldwork carried outby Leonard Bloomfield.
Kondrak (2002) appliedalgorithms for cognate identification to Algon-quian data with considerable success.
Wolfart andPardo (1973) worked on a sizable corpus of Creedata and developed tools for data management andanalysis in PL/I.
Junker and Stewart (2008) havewritten on the difficulties of creating search enginetools for East Cree and describe challenges simi-lar to the ones we have encountered with regardto dialectal variation and the absence of agreed onstandard orthographies and other widespread con-ventions.In general, computational approaches to Algon-quian, and other Indigenous North American lan-guages, have been hampered by the fact that inmany cases large bodies of data to develop and testmethods on are just not available.
Even for PlainsCree, which is relatively widely spoken, and rela-tively well documented, the available descriptionsare still lacking in many places.
As a result, field-work must be undertaken in order to establish pat-terns that can be modeled in the formalism neces-sary for the finite state transducer (FST) to work,a point that will be expanded on below.3 Modeling Plains Cree morphologyThe finite state transducer technology that formsthe backbone of our morphological model, andconsequently of all the language applications weare currently developing, is based historically onwork on computational modeling of natural lan-guages known as two-level morphology (TWOL)by Koskenniemi (1983).
His ideas were furtherdeveloped by Beesley and Karttunen (2003).36Their framework offers two basic formalisms withwhich to encode linguistic data, lexc and twolc.The Lexicon Compiler, or lexc, is ?a high-leveldeclarative language and associated compiler?
(Beesley and Karttunen, 2003, 203) used forencoding stem forms and basic concatenativemorphology.
The source files are structured interms of a sequence of continuation lexica.
Begin-ning with an inventory of stems the continuationlexica form states along a path, adding surfacemorphological forms and underlying analyticstructure at each stage.
A colon (:) separatesunderlying and surface forms.
Example (4)demonstrates paths through just three continua-tion lexica for the animate nouns apiscacihkos?antelope?
and apisim?osos ?deer?.
By convention,the names of continuation lexica are given inupper case.
Stems and affixes represent actualword forms, and are thus given in lower case.
The?+?
sign indicates a morphological tag.
(4)LEXICON ANSTEMLISTapiscacihkos ANDECL ;apisim?osos ANDECL ;LEXICON ANDECL< +N:0 +AN:0 +Sg:0 @U.noun.abs@ # > ;< +N:0 +AN:0 @U.noun.abs@ OBVIATIVE > ;LEXICON OBVIATIVE< +Obv:a # > ;Both forms are directed to the continuationlexicon here named ANDECL which providessome morphological tagging in the form of +N tomark the word as a noun and +AN to denote thegender class ?animate?.
Each of the two nouns hasthe possibility of passing through the continuationlexicon ANDECL as an ?absolutive?
noun ?
asindicated by the tag @U.noun.abs@ (a flagdiacritic, as will be explained below).
The colonsin the code indicate a distinction between upperand lower levels of the transducer.
The upper formto the left of the colon is a string containing thethe lemma as well as a number of tags that containinformation about grammatical properties.
Forthe word form apiscacihkos, the analysis once ithas passed through the ANDECL continuationlexicon is apiscacihkos+N+AN+Sg.The surface forms apiscacihkos and apisim?ososare well-formed strings of Plains Cree, followingthe Standard Roman Orthography.
Hence, thepath can terminate here as indicated by the hashmark.
The other path, also open to both formssince they pass through the same continuationlexicon, leads to a further continuation lexiconnamed OBVIATIVE.
This rather small lexiconadds a final -a suffix and the tag +Obv indicatingthat the form is inflected for the grammaticalcategory of obviation.
Since no number suffixescan occur in this form the path does not add a +Sgor +Pl tag to the underlying form.
(5)apiscacihkos+N+AN+Obvapiscacihkosa?antelope?These circumfixes were modeled using FlagDiacritics, which are an ?extension of the finitestate implementation, providing feature-settingand feature-unification operations?
(Beesley andKarttunen, 2003, 339).
Flag diacritics make itpossible for the transducer to remember earlierstates.
The transducer may travel all paths throughthe prefixes via thousands of stems to all thesuffixes, but the flag diacritics ensure that onlystrings with prefixes and suffixes belonging tothe same person-number value are generated.
Inour solution for nouns, the continuation lexicaallow all combinations of possession suffixesand prefixes, but the flag diacritics serve to filterout all undesired combinations.
For example, inthe noun omaskisiniw?awa from (1) above, thethird person prefix o- and the suffix marking bothperson and number -iw?aw are annotated in thelexc file with identical flag diacritics, so that theywill always occur together.Plains Cree has some very regular and pre-dictable morphophonological alternations thatcan be modeled successfully in the finite statetransducer framework.
The formalism used hereis not lexc as in the listing of stems and theconcatenative morphology, but an additional for-malism called the two-level compiler or twolc thatis well suited to this task.
The twolc formalismwas developed by Lauri Karttunen, Todd Yampol,Kenneth R. Beesley and Ronald M. Kaplan basedon ideas set forth in Koskenniemi (1983).37(6)ac?awewikamikosisat?awewikamikw-isisstore-DIM?little store?In (6) above, at?awewikamikw- ?store?
is modi-fied by the derivational suffix -isis marking thediminutive form.
This derivation is highly pro-ductive in Plains Cree.
The underlying form of thesuffix is -isis but in conjunction with a stem-final-w, the initial vowel of the suffix changes to -o.This morphophonemic alternation can be writtenin twolc much like a phonological rule:(7)i:o <=> w: %>:0 s: +Dim ;The sign %> is used to mark a suffix bound-ary, which, along with the +Dim tag, ensures thatit is the first vowel of the suffix that undergoessubstitution.
Thus the context is given by theoccurrence of a -w before the suffix boundary,i.e.
stem finally.
An additional complication hereis that the presence of the diminutive suffix in aform again triggers a phonological change in thestem by which all t?s change to c?s (phonetically[ts]).
In twolc the rules dictating morphophono-logical alternations apply in parallel, avoidingpossible problems caused by sequential ruleinteractions.
The noun completes the path throughthe continuation lexica and is passed to twolc asat?awewikamikwisis.
There it undergoes twomorphophonological changes giving the correctsurface form ac?awewikamikosis.Twolc is a powerful mechanism for dealing withregular alternations.
Reliance on twolc can reducethe number of continuation lexica and hence com-plexity of the morphology modeling carried out inlexc.
The downside of using large numbers oftwolc rules is the increasing complexity of ruleinteractions.
We have found that decisions aboutwhich strategy to pursue in the modeling of a par-ticular morphological pattern must frequently bemade on a case by case basis.
For example, inmodeling the interesting case of the form atimw-?dog?
several strategies needed to be employed.The form triggers a vowel change i > o in con-junction with the diminutive suffix -isis resultingin -osis, a change falling under a rule describedin (8) above.
A further change here is that the tin atimw- ?dog?
changes to c when the diminutivesuffix is present resulting in the surface form aci-mosis.
Both these forms can be handled by twolcrules such as the one exemplified in (8) above.However, atimw- also undergoes changes in thestem vowel when the noun is marked for a pos-sessor so that a > i and i > ?e.
In the first person,the possessive prefix takes the form ni- leading toa sequence of two vowels arising from the prefixfinal -i- and stem initial -i-, which is not permit-ted in Plains Cree.
This situation is handled by ageneral rule deleting the first vowel in preferencefor the latter.
However, a set of twolc rules wouldbe required to change the stem vowels ?
a set thatwould be specific to this particular word only.
Thefull set of two level rules are accessible online2.Since the addition of further rules poses the riskof rule conflicts in an increasingly complex twolccode, the stem vowel changes are handled in lexcinstead.
There are currently over 40 continuationlexica in the model of nominal morphology alone.
(8)LEXICON IRREGULARANIMATESTEMSatim IRREGULARINFLECTION-1 ;atim:t?em IRREGULARINFLECTION-2 ;The continuation lexicon contains two ver-sions of the form atim with two different pathsleading to further inflectional suffixes.
In thesecond instance of atim, writing the base form tothe left of the colon and the suppletive stem tothe right ensures both that the form -t?em surfacescorrectly.
In the analysis the base form atim canstill be recovered.
The forms are sent to differingcontinuation lexica, since only the suppletiveforms occurs within the paradigm of possessiveprefixes.
The word meaning ?my little dog?
isgiven as an example in (10) below.
(9)nic?emisisni-atimw-isis1SG.POSS-dog-DIM?my little dog?The suppletive form also does not carry anunderlying -w and hence no longer triggers thevowel change in the diminutive suffix.
With this2https://victorio.uit.no/langtech/trunk/langs/crk/src/phonology/crk-phon.twolc38solution we can handle the regular and morestraightforward morphophonological alternationsin twolc, while avoiding undue complexity bymodeling the suppletive forms in lexc.Finally, we have adopted a system of using spe-cial tags to denote dialectal variants that are notequally acceptable in different communities.
Theseemingly high level of variation found in PlainsCree can be related to several reasons describedin more detail in the next section.
The variationis dealt with in the morphological model with atagging strategy that marks dialectal forms.
Thistagging allows for the systems based on the mor-phological model to behave in accordance withthe wishes of the user or community of users.In the setting of a particular teaching institution,for instance, only a certain subset of the vari-ants encoded in the morphological model might bedeemed acceptable.
Our model permits this com-munity to adjust the applications they are employ-ing, e.g.
a spell-checker, so that their community-specific forms are accepted as correct.The stems are accessible online3, and may beanalysed and generated at the webpage for PlainsCree grammar tools4.4 The necessity for fieldwork in modelingPlains CreeWe began working on the morphological modelof Plains Cree by examining published sources,such as Plains Cree: A grammatical study (Wol-fart, 1973) and Cree: Language of the Plains(Okim?asis, 2004).
Okim?asis?
work is clearlystructured and contains a wealth of information.Nevertheless, the level of explicitness required tocapture the nature of a language in enough de-tail for applications such as, for example, spell-checkers is beyond the scope of her work.
Thisis to say that in formalizing Okim?asis?
descrip-tion we needed to generalize grammatical patternsthat were not always explicitly spelled out in herwork in every detail.
It should be apparent herethat a number of factors come in to play here thatmake working on Plains Cree quite a different un-dertaking from working on a European languagewith a long history of research in the Western aca-demic tradition.
While official national Europeanlanguages such as German, Finnish or Estonian3https://victorio.uit.no/langtech/trunk/langs/crk/src/morphology/stems/4http://giellatekno.uit.no/cgi/index.crk.eng.htmlcan look on scholarly work dating back some cen-turies, and are supported by work from a com-munity of specialists numbering hundreds of peo-ple, work on Plains Cree (and other languages insimilar situations) is being carried out by whatis at best a handful of people.
While Cree lan-guage specialists form a professional body of re-searchers with a proud tradition, they are facedwith the enormous task of documenting a languagespoken in many small communities spread over ahuge geographical area.
In addition, many of thosespecialists are also involved with language revi-talization and language teaching, with the resultthat less time can be devoted to language descrip-tion, scholarship and the pursuit of larger projectssuch as the development of corpora.
While suchprojects are under development in many areas, thedemands placed on individual researchers and ac-tivists has resulted in an overall scarcity of re-sources.
While compared to other Indigenouslanguages spoken in Canada, Plains Cree is rel-atively well documented, many of the resourcesthat would be desirable assets for the developmentof a finite state model are not available.
As a re-sult, we have carried out fieldwork to further makeexplicit the full inflectional paradigm of nouns inPlains Cree.There is considerable variation among speak-ers and specialists regarding the acceptability ofcertain inflectional possibilities.
For example, inthe case of one animate noun atim ?dog?
it seemsformally reasonable to allow its combination withthe locative suffix -ohk rendering atimohk.
Thiscombination of stem and affix was considered im-possible or at least implausible by some of ournative speaker consultants.
However, the formitself does occur, albeit in the guise of a placename for a lake island in northern Saskatchewannamed atim ?dog?.
Therefore the form atimohk ?onthe dog?
with locative suffix attached can occurin this very specific and geographically boundedcontext5.
The way of coping with this is to lexi-calize atimohk as locative of the island Atim, andto keep the noun atim outside the set of nouns get-ting regular locatives.Further inquiry into this matter revealed thatsome speakers see the locative suffix as potentiallyoccurring quite widely, while others are more re-strictive (Arok Wolvengrey ?
p.c.).
Here againthere is a problem of scale: individual speakers of5Thanks to Jan Van Eijk for pointing this out.39any language have only a partial experience of thepossible extent of the language.
In the modelingof the morphology for the purposes of such tech-nologies as spell-checkers, for example, the expe-rience of any potential speaker must be taken intoaccount.
While the information that this particu-lar form is rare or semantically not well-formedis valuable, retaining the form is important, if themodel is to cover the range of potential usage pat-terns of all Plains Cree speakers.
Ideally, if thewritten use of the language is supported by thetools that can be developed based on our morpho-logical model, that would lead to a gradually in-creasing electronic corpus of texts, providing fre-quency information on both the stems and mor-phological forms.We have developed a workflow in which weconstruct the maximal paradigms that are theoreti-cally possible and then submit them to intense na-tive speaker scrutiny.
Only once native speakersand specialists have approved the forms do theybecome part of the actual model.
The paradigmsare chosen so as to provide the coverage of theentire span of morphologically possible forms aswell as all morphophonemic alternations.
As suchthey present a maximal testbed for the patterns en-coded in the formalism.
Each paradigm consistsof about sixty inflected forms.Overall, a careful balance must be struck be-tween directly explicit speaker/specialist input andtheoretically possible forms.
We aim to achievethis balance by taking a threefold approach: First,by careful consultation with speakers and special-ists; second, by building a corpus6which can serveas a testing ground for the morphological analyzerand as a source of data, and third by workingclosely with communities willing to test the modeland provide feedback.5 Applications in language teaching andrevitalizationThe development of an explicit model of the mor-phology of Plains Cree as outlined above is ofbenefit not just to researchers but also those in-volved in teaching and revitalizing the languagewithin their home communities.
Using the gen-eral technological infrastructure developed by theresearchers at Giellatekno, we are able to take the6As noted above, a tool like a spell-checker promotes lit-eracy and hence contributes naturally to the increase in tex-tual materials.
Until that begins to happen, however, we arecollecting texts through recording and transcription.FST model of Plains Cree morphology and use itto create in one go a variety of language tools in-cluding a spellchecker, a morphological analyzerand a paradigm generator, which can be integratedas modules within general software applicationssuch as a word-processor, an electronic dictionaryor a intelligent computer-aided language learning(ICALL) application.
Each of these tools can as-sist fluent speakers, as well as new learners, intheir use of Plains Cree as a written language.The spellchecking functionality within a word-processor will be a valuable tool for the small-but-growing number of Plains Cree language profes-sionals who are engaged in the development ofteaching and literary resources for the language.It will allow for greater accuracy and consistencyin spelling, as well as faster production of materi-als.
Because dialectal variation is being encodeddirectly into the FST model, the spellchecker canbe configured so that writers from all communitiesand dialects can use this tool, without worry thatthe technology is covertly imposing particular or-thographic standards which the communities havenot all agreed upon.The morphological analysis functionality builtfrom the FST model and integrated within e.g.
aweb-based electronic dictionary will allow readersto highlight Plains Cree text in a document or web-page to perform a lookup of words in any inflectedform, and not only with the citation (base) form.This will enable readers to more easily read PlainsCree documents with unfamiliar words withoutneeding to stop to repeatedly consult paper dic-tionaries and grammars.
While this does not obvi-ate the need for printed resources in learning andteaching of the language, such added functional-ity can greatly increase the pace at which textsare read through by language learners.
This is notinconsequential as it can slow down considerablythe onset of weariness brought on by needing tointerrupt the reading process to consult referencematerials, and hence maintain the motivation forlanguage learning.The paradigm generation functionality withine.g.
an electronic dictionary allows users to se-lect a word and receive the full, or alternatively asmaller but representative, inflected paradigm ofthat word.
This will be of direct benefit to in-structors developing materials to teach the com-plex morphology of the Plains Cree, as well astheir students.40We are working in collaboration with PlainsCree communities in the development and pilotingof these tools, to ensure their accuracy and theirusefulness for teachers, developers, learners andother community members.
The full range of usesthat these tools will be put to will only become ap-parent over time, but we expect that they will havea positive impact for community language main-tenance by supporting the continued developmentPlains Cree literacy.6 ConclusionWe have found the technology of Finite StateTransducers so useful in developing language ap-plications for Plains Cree because it permits usto integrate native speaker competence and spe-cialized linguistic understanding of grammaticalstructures into the model directly.At present the analyzer contains 72 nominal lex-emes, carefully chosen to cover all morphologi-cal and morphophonological aspects of the PlainsCree nominal system.
Once the morphologicalmodeling of this core set of nouns has been final-ized, scaling up the lexicon will be a trivial task,as all lexicographic resources classify their stemin the same way as is done in the morphologicaltransducer.We have described our method of working withnative speaker specialists and how their insightsare reflected in the design of the model.
This in-teraction also allows enough possibilities for in-teractions with language teachers, learners and ac-tivists so that we make our work truly useful to theeffort of preserving and revitalizing the preciouscultural heritage that is Plains Cree.
We are awareof the limits of tools that relate primarily to thewritten forms for languages that have rich oral his-tories and cultures, but feel that writing and read-ing Plains Cree will play an ever growing role inthe future of this language.This work makes practical contributions to lin-guistic research on Plains Cree.
On the one hand,creating the model required the formalization ofmany aspects of Plains Cree morphology whichhad not previously been spelled out in full detail,i.e.
it makes explicit what is known, or not known,about Plains Cree morphology, and thus allows usto extend the description of Plains Cree morphol-ogy accordingly.
On the other, the morphologicalanalyses can aid in future linguistic discovery es-pecially when used in conjunction with corpora.In the future, we will continue to expand themorphological model both in its grammatical cov-erage and in the size of the lexical resources whichgo into it.
In regard to the latter, we are workingwith Cree-speaking communities in Alberta to ex-pand on existing dictionaries and develop collec-tions of recordings.
The development of this mor-phological model has led us to carry out fieldworkon Plains Cree and to actively engage with Cree-speaking communities.
We have worked hard tobridge the unfortunate gap that sometimes formsbetween the linguistic work being carried withinacademia and the needs of communities that areactive in language documentation and revitaliza-tion.
We look forward to further fruitful coopera-tion between activists, educators and researchers.AcknowledgmentsBuilding a computational model of Plains Creemorphology is a task that relies on the knowl-edge, time and goodwill of many people.
Wethank the University of Alberta?s Killam Re-search Fund Cornerstones Grant for supportingthis project.
We would like to acknowledge in par-ticular the crucial advice, attention and effort ofJean Okim?asis and Arok Wolvengrey, and thankthem for the resources they have contributed.
Wewish also to thank Jeff Muehlbauer for his timeand materials, as well as the attendees of the firstPrairies Workshop on Language and Linguisticsfor their insights and expertise.
Further, it is im-portant to acknowledge the helpfulness of EarleWaugh who at the very start of our project madehis dictionary available to us, and who has beenvery supportive.
Arden Ogg has worked tirelesslyto build connections among researchers workingon Cree, which has greatly promoted and facili-tated our work.
Ahmad Jawad and Intellimedia,Inc.
who have for some time provided the tech-nological platform to make available a numberof Plains Cree dictionaries through a web-basedinterface, have given us invaluable assistance interms of resources and introductions.
We wouldalso especially like to thank the staff at MiyoWahkohtowin Education for their wonderful en-thusiasm, and for welcoming us into their commu-nity.
Last but by no means least, we are indebted toinnumerable Elders and native speakers of PlainsCree whose contributions have made possible allthe dictionaries and text collections we are fortu-nate to have today.41ReferencesKenneth R. Beesley and Lauri Karttunen.
2003.
Fi-nite State Morphology.
CSLI Publications, Stanford(CA).Eung-Do Cook and Darin Flynn.
2008.
Aborigi-nal languages of Canada.
In: O?Grady, Williamand John Archibald (eds.)
Contemporary LinguisticAnalysis.
Pearson, Toronto (ON).John Hewson.
1993.
A computer-generated dictionaryof Proto-Algonquian, Canadian Museum of Civ-ilization and Canadian Ethnology Service, Ottawa(ON).Ryan Johnson, Lene Antonsen and Trond Trosterud.2013.
Using Finite State Transducers for MakingEfficient Reading Comprehension Dictionaries.
InStephan Oepen & Kristin Hagen & Janne Bondi Jo-hannessen (eds.
), Proceedings of the 19th NordicConference of Computational Linguistics (NODAL-IDA 2013), 378-411.
Link?oping Electronic Confer-ence Proceedings No.
85.Marie-Odile Junker and Terry Stewart.
2008.
Build-ing Search Engines for Algonquian Languages.
InKarl S. Hele & Regna Darnell (eds.
), Papers of the39th Algonquian Conference, 59-71.
University ofWestern Ontario Press, London (ON).Grzegorz Kondrak.
2002.
Algorithms for LanguageReconstruction, Department of Computer Science,University of Toronto.Kimmo Koskenniemi.
1983.
Two-level Morphology:A General Computational Model for Word-FormRecognition and Production, Publication No.
11.Department of General Linguistics, University ofHelsinki.Jean Okim?asis.
2004.
Cree: Language of the Plains,Volume 13 of University of Regina publications.University of Regina Press, Regina (SK).Jean Okim?asis and Arok Wolvengrey.
2008.
How toSpell it in Cree.
miyw?asin ink, Regina (SK).H.
Christoph Wolfart.
1973.
Plains Cree: A grammati-cal study, Transactions of the American Philosoph-ical Society No.
5.H.
Christoph Wolfart and Francis Pardo 1973.Computer-assisted linguistic analysis, University ofManitoba Anthropology Papers No.
6.
Departmentof Anthropology, University of Manitoba.Arok E. Wolvengrey.
2011.
Semantic and pragmaticfunctions in Plains Cree syntax, LOT, Utrecht (NL).42
