Proceedings of the of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Dialogue in Motion (DM), pages 53?57,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMostly Passive Information Delivery ?
a PrototypeJ.
Vystr?cil, T. Macek, D. Luksch, M. Labsk?y, L. Kunc, J. Kleindienst, T. Ka?sparov?aIBM Prague Research and Development LabV Parku 2294/4, 148 00 Prague 4Czech Republic{jan vystrcil, tomas macek, david.luksch, martin labsky,ladislav kunc1, jankle, tereza.kasparova}@cz.ibm.comAbstractIn this paper we introduce a new UIparadigm that mimics radio broadcastalong with a prototype called Radio One.The approach aims to present useful infor-mation from multiple domains to mobileusers (e.g.
drivers on the go or cell phoneusers).
The information is served in an en-tertaining manner in a mostly passive style?
without the user having to ask for it?
asin real radio broadcast.
The content is gen-erated on the fly by a machine and inte-grates a mix of personal (calendar, emails)and publicly available but customized in-formation (news, weather, POIs).
Most ofthe spoken audio output is machine syn-thesized.
The implemented prototype per-mits passive listening as well as interactionusing voice commands or buttons.
Initialfeedback gathered while testing the proto-type while driving indicates good accep-tance of the system and relatively low dis-traction levels.1 IntroductionThe main purpose of this paper is to describe aprototype of the Radio One concept.
Radio Onepresents music, news, emails, relevant POI andother information to the user in a mostly passiveway, similarly to conventional radios.
Users caninterract with the system as well using voice com-mands or buttons.
The concept was refined andinitially tested with prerecorded audio-visual sce-narios using the Wizard-of-Oz (WOZ) technique(Macek et al., 2013).Here we describe the early prototype implemen-tation of the system and summarize initial feed-back collected during informal testing.2 Related WorkApplications that produce customized audiostreams can be found in many online music deliv-ery services including Spotify, Pandora, or iTunes.While the above services often focus on musiconly, other providers (BBC, CNN) publish theirspoken content in the form of podcasts.
Spokenaudio used for podcasts is often recorded by pro-fessional speakers as opposed to the concept pre-sented here.
The Aha radio (Aha, 2014) providesvarious thematic streams of information includingmusic, news, social network updates or Points ofInterest (POI).
Content can be selected manuallyby switching between channels.
Similar strategiesare utilized by Stitcher (Stitcher, 2014) and otherservices.
The concept presented here attempts in-sted to preselect the content automatically and onthe fly while preserving the option to request thecontent explicitely.Many in-car infotainment systems adopted theuse of voice control and utilize information di-rectly from on-line services; e.g.
(BMW, 2014)and (Ford, 2014).
All of the abovementioned ap-plications use mobile data connection to deliveraudio stream (as opposed to text) to the user.
Thiscan lead to large data downloads and potentially tohigh bills from mobile network providers.3 Radio One ConceptRadio One mimics radio broadcast by generatinginfotainment content on the fly.
Unlike real radios,Radio One customizes its content to the particularlistener and should even adapt automatically whilethe user interacts with it.
In addition to the contenttypically played by radios, the synthetic contentalso includes private information like calendar oremails.
Most of the spoken output is produced bya text-to-speech system with the exception of pod-casts.The presented information stream is sparse with53the intervals between spoken segments filled withmusic and moderator small-talk.
The contentstructure is configurable and can be adapted bothautomatically, based on observing habits of theuser, or via explicit voice commands or buttons.The main benefit of dynamically generated con-tent is that the system can easily include dynamicpersonal content and that the infotainment streamcan be efficiently controlled by the user and in-fluenced by the environment (such as expectedduration of the drive or current road conditions).From a technical perspective, the connection re-quirements are much smaller compared to audiotransfers, as Radio One mostly downloads textualfeeds only.
Downloading redundant informationcan be avoided by knowing what has already beenpresented to the particular user.
Further, the usercan navigate in the broadcast, either to specifictopics by using voice commands, or just backwardand forward by using buttons.
This option shouldreduce potential stress related to a driver concen-trating on a broadcasted topic knowing s/he wouldbe unable to replay.
The radio presents informa-tion from the covered domains continuously.
Thestream of presented information also serves as anatural way of teaching the user about the sup-ported domains.
By hearing that news are readas part of the radio stream, the user finds out thatnews is one category that can be requested byvoice commands.4 System DescriptionAlthough previous WOZ tests (Macek et al.,2013) were sufficient to collect the initial userfeedback, their flexibility and fidelity was limited.The prototype described in this paper is intendedfor testing of concepts and for conducting realisticusability tests in a car.
The implemented prototypeis a fully functioning system, although still with alimited feature set.4.1 ArchitectureThe overall architecture of the system is depictedin Figure 1.
The system collects inputs both frommanual controls (steering wheel buttons, rotaryknob) and from ASR (voice commands).
Multi-ple on-line and off-line data sources provide con-tent.
While driving, GPS information about thecar position is used together with an optional cal-culated route and POI data to plan overall broad-casting.
The core of the Radio One system (seeFigure 1: Radio One big picture.Figure 2: Radio One architecture.Figure 2) is the scheduler.
The scheduler is re-sponsible for planning both the type of contentand the time of its presentation.
The content as-sociated with higher expected cognitive load (e.g.emails or calendar) can be planned for segmentsof the journey that have low driving difficulty (e.g.straight highway).
The overall architecture aimsto be highly configurable and context-aware to beable to produce heterogeneous content based ondiffering user preferences and changing state ofthe environment.4.2 ControlsMultiple button configurations are possible, rang-ing from a ?speech button-only?
setup to severalbuttons used to provide quick access to frequentlyused functions.
For in-car setups, the availabil-ity of buttons is often limited.
A configuration of3 buttons in a row (in addition to speech button)can be used to let the user navigate back and forthusing the two outer buttons and request more de-tails or pause/resume the broadcast with a centralbutton.
Both ?per-item?
(e.g.
single email, songor news title) and ?per-bundle?
navigation (?bun-dle?
being a coherent group of affiliated items, e.g.emails) can be supported by short and long pressesof the navigation buttons.
Other functions would54typically be available through voice commandsonly, or also through a touch interface where avail-able (e.g.
on a cell phone or in a parked car).Alternatively to the buttons on the steeringwheel, a rotary knob can be placed on the side ofthe driver?s seat (depicted on the left of Figure 3).Usually, a single knob press initiates speech input,while turning the knob navigates back and forth initems.
Per-bundle navigation can be triggered ei-ther by using greater turns or by turning the knobwhile pressed.The voice control subsystem is hybrid withspeech recognition and understanding being doneboth remotely and locally.
This way, functionsare available even when off-line while benefit-ing from improved accuracy and coverage of theserver models when on-line.
Free-form commandsare understood (e.g.
?email?
or ?would you readmy email please?
).4.3 Content and PresentationTwo modes of operation are implemented.
Theoff-line mode permits testing with locally saveddata or data specifically tailored for various exper-iments.
The on-line mode collects data (e.g.
email,calendar, news) periodically from the network andpresents it at appropriate times.News are collected periodically from config-urable network sources and grouped by topic.
Twoforms of news presentation are implemented.
Ashorter version is used during news summaries.A longer version can be requested by an explicitvoice request like ?tell me more?
or by pressing a?details?
button.Emails undergo elementary pre-processing toimprove their suitability for being read out loud.Emails longer than a configured threshold areshortened at the end of the sentence.
Email his-tories are also skipped.
The user can request a fullversion of the email using a voice command like?read the whole message?.Moderator commentaries are tailored to thecontent they accompany.
We use a set of hand-crafted prompt templates for natural language gen-eration.
Prompt templates are grouped accordingto the context that triggers them into pools of al-ternatives, from which prompts are selected ran-domly while avoiding repetitions.
Moderators canannounce upcoming content or refer to contentthat just finished playing.
Prompt templates oftencontain variables referring to various properties ofthe neighbouring content (e.g.
name of the preced-ing song or topic of the upcoming news).Information is presented as a story, typicallywith a brief summary-of-the-broadcast at the be-ginning.
This order can be interrupted by suddenevents (e.g.
emails arriving, hot breaking news,POI announcements) with proper moderator com-ments to indicate what is happening.
The infor-mation is grouped together in bundles of the sametype (e.g.
email summaries are not mixed with cal-endar or news items).
Typical in-car presentationorder starts with music to allow the listener to getconcentrated on driving.
Then a summary is pro-vided followed by blocks of music and informa-tion bundles.In contrast to our earlier WOZ study, the cur-rent version of the prototype does not present anyvisual information as we focus on the driving sce-nario.
The previous WOZ study indicated that thisinformation was distracting to the driver and notmuch valued by the participants.Figure 3: Alternative user interface controls4.4 ImplementationThe prototype is implemented in Java.
It usesa local text-to-speech system (TTS).
We use theNuance Vocalizer premium voices to provide thebest available TTS quality.
Current implementa-tion is primarily in English (moderators and theircomments) although playback of content in otherlanguages (currently Czech) is supported as well.Language detection is done automatically (Cy-bozu Labs, 2014).
The system was tested bothon a PC (Windows 7) and on tablets and phones(Android, Windows 8).
Emails are currently re-trieved using the IMAP protocol so various emailproviders can be used.
News are currently down-loaded from the Feedzilla (Feedzilla, 2014) RESTAPI and from other RSS feeds.Calendar events are retrieved from the user?sGoogle Calendar account.
The radio automati-cally announces individual upcoming events and55also plays summaries about the remaining eventsof the day (also can be requested by voice).Like real radios, we use characteristic earconsand jingles to introduce particular types of infor-mation (e.g.
email, news or calendar) and othersounds to separate individual information itemsfrom each other (e.g.
earcons between emails ornews titles).For testing purposes we use infra-red remotecontrol buttons (see right hand part of Figure 3)mounted to the steering wheel, with key events re-ceived by a special purpose hardware and passedto Radio One via Bluetooth.We use either an AUX cable or a radio FMtransmitter to integrate with the car?s audio sys-tem.
The current prototype implements musicplayback, presents news, email, weather reportsand calendar summaries.
Initial work was doneon presenting POIs near the current location.
Anarbitrary list of MP3 files can be used as a sourceof music.
Ideally, user?s own collection of musicis used during the tests.
ID3 tags of music files areutilized in the process of generating voice promptsspoken by moderators as part of their small talk(e.g.
?This was a song by the Beatles?
).5 Usability testingInitially, a WOZ experiment was conducted with-out having the system implemented.
Test subjectsdrove a low-fidelity driving simulator while lis-tening to a radio stream broadcasted by the wiz-ard, who played pre-recorded audio-visual snip-pets trying to satisfy user?s requests.
We describedresults of this experiment previously in (Maceket al., 2013).
The main feedback from this ex-periment was that the users perceived the qualityof synthesized speech sufficiently.
The visual in-formation shown by the wizard contained mostlystatic pictures or short texts in large fonts.
Mostof the users did not find the screen useful in thissetup.
Therefore the current radio prototype isscreen-less.
Two groups of users could be iden-tified.
The first one used the system in the sameway as a standard radio, with minimal interaction.The other group preferred to be ?in control?
andused both buttons and voice commands to ask forspecific content.Multiple informal tests were conducted by 4 testdrivers in real traffic.
More extensive testing is stillin preparation.
The feedback collected so far waspositive, indicating that the TTS quality was suf-ficient.
Even with a small number of test driversit became apparent that the roles of customizationand automatic adaptation to preferences of a spe-cific user will be crucial.Information-heavy content like certain kinds ofnews was sometimes considered difficult to lis-ten to while driving, which was in part due toall of the test drivers being non-native speakersof English.
Adding jingles to separate the pre-sented news items from one another improved theperception of the system significantly.
The newsfeeds used by the prototype were originally notintended for audio presentation, which does im-pact their understandability, but the effect does notseem to be major.
Lighter content like weatherforecasts and calendar announcements were con-sidered easy to understand.The test drivers considered it important to beable to use their personal data (news, email, mu-sic).
This motivated the inclusion of informationsources in languages other than English and theaddition of automatic language identification so asto select proper TTS voices.
The fact that multi-ple languages were present in the broadcast wasnot perceived adversely.
One shortcoming of thetested system was still a low variability of moder-ators?
comments.6 ConclusionWe presented a work-in-progress demonstrationprototype of a novel method for presenting in-formation to users on-the-go.
A preceding WOZstudy indicated promising user acceptance whichwas also confirmed using the described prototype.When comparing with existing systems, the sys-tem presented here has much lower requirementson communication bandwidth, requires less hu-man work for content authoring and permits ahigher level of personalization.
Amount of inter-activity depends very much on user preferences.In future work we would like to pay attentionto evaluation of user feedback on more extensiveusability tests.
It will be interesting to see to whatextent the user will opt for active interaction withthe system and for the particular interaction tech-niques.AcknowledgmentsThe presented work is part of an IBM and Nuancejoint research project.56ReferencesHarman International Aha.
2014.
Aha radio web-site.
Retrieved from http://www.aharadio.com/.BMW.
2014.
Bmw connecteddrive ser-vices.
Retrieved from http://www.bmw.com/com/en/insights/technology/connecteddrive/2013/services_apps/bmw_connecteddrive_services.html.Inc.
Cybozu Labs.
2014.
Language detection li-brary for java.
Retrieved from https://code.google.com/p/language-detection/.Feedzilla.
2014.
Feedzilla - news feed directory.
Re-trieved from http://www.feedzilla.com/.Ford.
2014.
Sync with myford touch.
Retrievedfrom http://www.ford.com/technology/sync/.Tom?a?s Macek, Tereza Ka?sparov?a, Jan Kleindienst,Ladislav Kunc, Martin Labsk?y, and Jan Vystr?cil.2013.
Mostly passive information delivery in acar.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Confer-ence on Automotive User Interfaces and InteractiveVehicular Applications, AutomotiveUI ?13, pages250?253, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Inc.
Stitcher.
2014.
Stitcher website.
Retrieved fromhttp://www.stitcher.com/.57
