Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 108?109,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsRequirement Mining in Technical DocumentsJuyeon KangPrometil42 Avenue du Ge?ne?ral De Croutte31100 Toulouse, Francej.kang@prometil.comPatrick Saint-DizierIRIT-CNRS118 route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse, Francestdizier@irit.frAbstractIn this paper, we first develop the linguis-tic characteristics of requirements whichare specific forms of arguments.
The dis-course structures that refine or elaboraterequirements are also analyzed.
Thesespecific discourse relations are conceptu-ally characterized, with the functions theyplay.
An implementation is carried outin Dislog on the <TextCoop> platform.Dislog allows high level specifications inlogic for a fast and easy prototyping at ahigh level of linguistic adequacy.1 The Structure of RequirementCompoundsArguments and in partticular requirements in writ-ten texts or dialogues seldom come in isolation,as independent statements.
They are often em-bedded into a context that indicates e.g.
circum-stances, elaborations or purposes.
Relations be-tween a requirement and its context may be con-ceptually complex.
They often appear in small andclosely related groups or clusters that often sharesimilar aims, where the first one is complemented,supported, reformulated, contrasted or elaboratedby the subsequent ones and by additional state-ments.The typical configuration of a requirement com-pound can be summarized as follows:CIRCUMSTANCE(S)/CONDITION(S),PURPOSE(S)-->[REQUIREMENT CONCLUSION + SUPPORT(S)]*<-- PURPOSE(S), , ELABORATION(S)CONCESSION(S) / CONTRAST(S)In terms of language realization, clusters of re-quirements and their related context may be allincluded into a single sentence via coordinationor subordination or may appear as separate sen-tences.
In both cases, the relations between thedifferent elements of a cluster are realized bymeans of conjunctions, connectors, various formsof references and punctuation.
We call such a clus-ter an requirement compound.
The idea behindthis term is that the elements in a compound forma single, possibly complex, unit, which must beconsidered as a whole from a conceptual and ar-gumentative point of view.
Such a compound con-sists of a small number of sentences, so that itscontents can be easily assimilated.2 Linguistic Analysis2.1 Corpus characteristicsOur corpus of requirements comes from 3 orga-nizations and 6 companies.
Our corpus contains1,138 pages of text extracted from 22 documents.The main features considered to validate our cor-pus are the following:- specifications come form various industrial ar-eas;- documents are produced by various actors;- requirement documents follow various authoringguidelines;- requirements correspond to different conceptuallevels.A typical simple example is the following:<ReqCompound> <definition> Inventory of qualificationsrefers to norm YY.
< /definition><mainReq> Periodically, an inventory of supplier?s qualifi-cations shall be produced.
< /mainReq><secondaryReq>In addition, the supplier?s quality de-partment shall periodically conduct a monitoring auditprogram.< /secondaryReq><elaboration> At any time, the supplier should be ableto provide evidences that EC qualification is maintained.</elaboration> < /ReqCompound>2.2 The modelLet us summarize the processing model.Requirement indetification in isolation: Re-quirements are identified on the basis of a smallnumber of patterns since they must follow precise108formulations, according e.g.
to IEEE guidelines.On a small corpus of 64 pages of text (22 058words), where 215 requirements have been man-ually annotated, a precision of 97% and a recall of96% have been reached.Identification and delimitation of require-ment compounds The principle is that all thestatements in a compound must be related eitherby the reference to the same theme or via phrasalconnectors.
These form a cohesion link in thecompound.
The theme is a nominal construction(object or event, e.g.
inventory of qualifications)).This is realized by (1) the use of the theme inthe sentences that follow or precede the main re-quirement with possible morphological variations,a different determination or simple syntactic vari-ations, This situation occurs in about 82% of thecases.
(2) the use of a more generic term than thetheme or a generic part of the theme, (3) the refer-ence to the parts of the theme, (3) the use of dis-course connectors to introduce a sentence, or (4)the use of sentence binders.Relations between requirements in a com-pound Our observations show that the first re-quirement is always the main requirement of thecompound.
The requirements that follow developsome of its facets.
Secondary requirements essen-tially develop forms of contrast, concession, spe-cializations and constraints.Linguistic characterization of discoursestructures in a compound Sentences notidentified as requirements must be bound torequirements via discourse relations and mustbe characterized by the function they play e.g.
(Couper-Khulen et al.
2000).
The structure andthe markers and connectors typical of discourserelations found in technical texts are developedin (Saint-Dizier 2014) from (Marcu 2000) and(Stede 2012).
These have been enhanced andadapted to the requirement context via severalsequences of tests on our corpus.
The mainrelations are the following: information anddefinitions which always occur before the mainrequirement, elaborations which always followa requirement, since this relation is very large,we consider it as the by-default relation in thecompound, result which specifies the outcomeof an action, purpose which expresses theunderlying motivations of the requirements, andcircumstance which introduces a kind of localframe under which the requirement compound isvalid or relevant.A conceptual model is constructed in a firststage from the discourse relations and functionspresented above, and the notion of polarity andstrength for requirements.
Its role is to representthe relations between the various units of the com-pound in order to allow to draw inferences be-tween compounds, to make generalizations and tocheck coherence, e.g.
(Bagheri et al.
2011).2.3 Indicative evaluationThe system is implemented in Dislog on ourTextCoop platform.
The first step, requirementidentification, produces very good results sincetheir form is very regular: precision 97%, recall96%.
The second step, compound identification,produces the following results:precision recallidentification 93% 88%opening boundary 96% 91%closing boundary 92% 82%The identification of discourse structures in acompound produces the following results:relations nb of nb of precision recallrules annotationscontrast 14 24 84 88concession 11 44 89 88specialization 5 37 72 71information 6 23 86 80definition 9 69 87 78elaboration 13 107 84 82result 14 97 86 80circumstance 15 102 89 83purpose 17 93 91 83ReferencesEbrahim Bagheri, Faezeh Ensan.
2011.
ConsolidatingMultiple Requirement Specifcations through Argu-mentation, SAC?11 Proceedings of the 2011 ACMSymposium on Applied Computing.Elena Couper-Kuhlen, Bernt Kortmann.
2000.
Cause,Condition, Concession, Contrast: Cognitive andDiscourse Perspectives, Topics in English Linguis-tics, No 33, de Gryuter.Dan Marcu.
2000.
The Theory and Practice of Dis-course Parsing and Summarization, MIT Press.Patrick Saint-Dizier, 2014 Challenges of DiscourseProcessing: the acse of technical documents, Cam-bridge Scholars.Manfred Stede.
2012 Discourse Processing, Morganand Claypool Publishers.109
