Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Health Text Mining and Information Analysis (Louhi) @ EACL 2014, pages 96?100,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsDisambiguation of Period Characters in Clinical NarrativesMarkus Kreuzthaler and Stefan SchulzInstitute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and DocumentationMedical University of Graz<markus.kreuzthaler,stefan.schulz>@medunigraz.atAbstractThe period character?s meaning is highlyambiguous due to the frequency of ab-breviations that require to be followedby a period.
We have developed a hy-brid method for period character disam-biguation and the identification of abbre-viations, combining rules that explore reg-ularities in the right context of the pe-riod with lexicon-based, statistical meth-ods which scrutinize the preceding token.The texts under scrutiny are clinical dis-charge summaries.
Both abbreviation de-tection and sentence delimitation showedan accuracy of about 93%.
An error anal-ysis demonstrated potential for further im-provements.1 IntroductionThe full stop, or period character, is ambiguous.As well as its use as a sentence delimiter, it is oftencollocated with abbreviations (?Prof.?
), occurs innumeric expressions (?13.2 mg?
), including dates,and appears in a series of special names such asWeb addresses.
Minor variations exist betweenlanguages and dialects (for example the use of theperiod as decimal delimiter), and rule variationsexist that guide its collocation with abbreviations.The character-wise analysis of text can produce aclear distinction between (i) period characters thatare enclosed between two alphanumeric charac-ters, and (ii) period characters that are adjacent toat least one non-alphabetic character.
Whereas inthe former case the period character can be consid-ered an internal part of a token, the latter allows fortwo interpretations:1.
Period characters that are mandatorily collo-cated with abbreviations; and2.
Period characters as sentence delimiters.We focus on text produced by physicians atthe point of care, either directly or via dictation.The sublanguage of clinical narratives is charac-terized, among other peculiarities such as mis-spellings, punctuation errors, and incomplete sen-tences, by the abundance of acronyms and abbre-viations (Meystre et al., 2008).
It is for this reasonthat we focus here on the use of the period char-acter to distinguish between sentence limits andabbreviations.A snippet from a medical text illustrates sometypical phenomena:3.
St.p.
TE eines exulz.sek.knot.SSM (C43.5) li Lab.majus.
Level IV, 2,42 mmTumordurchm.In ?3.?
the period marks an ordinal num-ber; ?St.p.?
is the abbreviation of ?Statuspost?
(state after); ?TE?
is an acronym de-rived from ?Totale Exzision?.
?Exulz.?
and?Tumordurchm.?
are ad-hoc abbreviations for?exulzerierendes?
and ?Tumordurchmesser?
(tu-mour diameter), respectively.
?sek.knot.SSM?is an ill-formed agglutination of two abbrevia-tions and one acronym.
In correctly formattedtext, they would be separated by spaces (?sek.knot.
SSM?).
The abbreviation ?sek.?
(sec-ondary) is written in a common lexicalized form,whereas ?knot.?
is, once again, an ad-hoc cre-ation.
?SSM?
is an acronym for ?Superfiziell Spre-itendes Melanom?.
?C43.5?
is a code from theInternational Classification of Diseases1.
?Lab.
?means ?Labium?, a common anatomical abbrevi-ation.
?IV?
is not an acronym, but a Roman num-ber.
?2,42?
is a decimal number, demonstratingthat the comma rather than the period is used asa decimal separator in German texts.
Finally, theabbreviation ?Tumordurchm.?
exemplifies that1http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/en/96the period can play a double role, viz.
to mark anabbreviation and to conclude a sentence.In this paper we will describe and evaluate amethodology that is able to identify and distin-guish the following: (i) periods that act as sentencedelimiters after ordinary words (such as the periodafter ?majus?)
marked as NSD (normal sentencedelimiter); (ii) periods as abbreviation markers inthe middle of a sentence, marked as MAM (mid-sentence abbreviation marker), and (iii) periodsthat are both abbreviation markers and sentencedelimiters, marked as EAM (end-sentence abbre-viation marker).
From this ternary distinction, twobinary tasks can be derived, viz.
the detection ofabbreviations (MAM and EAM), and the detectionof sentence endings (NSD and EAM).2 Materials and Methods2.1 DataWe used 1,696 discharge summaries extracted andanonymized from a clinical information system.They had an average word count of 302, with amean of 55 period characters per document.
Thetexts were divided into a learning set (1.526 doc-uments) and an evaluation set (170 documents).Two word lists were created in advance: (i) a med-ical domain dictionary (MDDict) with a high cov-erage of domain-specific terms, excluding abbre-viations, and (ii) a closed-class dictionary (CC-Dict) containing common, domain-independentword forms.For MDDict, words were harvested fromthree sources: a free dictionary of contempo-rary German2, a word list created out of rawtext extracted from a medical dictionary on CD-ROM (Pschyrembel, 1997), and medical texts andforum postings from a patient-centered website3.The final list comprised approximately 1.45 mil-lion types, which were subsequently indexed withLucene4.
This dictionary was modified during asecond step by two Web resources containingGerman abbreviations5,6.
We accumulated about5,800 acronym and abbreviation tokens, whichwere then removed from the Lucene-indexed dic-tionary, in order to transform MDDict into a re-source mostly devoid of abbreviations.2http://sourceforge.net/projects/germandict/3http://www.netdoktor.at/4https://lucene.apache.org/core/5http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medizinische Abk?urzungen6http://de.wiktionary.org/wiki/Kategorie:Abk?urzungStrukturen  re.
, nekrotische  TumorformaTokenDelimiterLeftTokenPunctuationStringRightTokenTokenDelimiterTDel      LToken   PStr              RToken       TDelPeriodLeft context             Right contextFigure 1: Period pattern and zoning of left andright context.For CCDict we harvested closed-class wordsfrom a German web resource7, i.e.
prepositions,determiners, conjunctions, and pronouns, togetherwith auxiliary and modal verbs.
The purpose ofthis was to arrive at a comprehensive list of wordforms that can only be capitalized at the beginningof a sentence.Figure 1 shows the pattern used to identify peri-ods of interest for this study.
The right and the leftcontext were zoned as followed: The string to theleft of the period until the preceding token delim-iter is the ?Left Token?
(LToken).
The sequenceof spaces, line breaks, or punctuation marks to theright of the period (?Punctuation String?)
is iden-tified as PStr.
The following token, spanning fromthe first alphanumeric character to the characterleft to the next delimiter, is named RToken.2.2 Context evaluationThe right context is evaluated first (Algorithm1).
It is based on the following assumptions: (i)Whenever a period terminates a sentence, the firstcharacter in the following token is capitalized.
Fora subset of words this can be ascertained by look-ing up the closed word class dictionary CCDict(the restriction to ?closed classes?
is due to the factthat German nouns are mandatorily capitalized, in-cluding nominalized adjectives and verbs); (ii) Asentence can never be split by a line break, there-fore a period that precedes the break necessarilymarks the end of the previous sentence; (iii) Mostpunctuation signs that follow a period strongly in-dicate that the period character here plays the roleof an abbreviation marker and does not coincidewith an end-of-sentence marker.
Only in the casewhere a decision could not be achieved using the7http://www.deutschegrammatik20.de/97if RToken begins with lower case characterthen?MAM;elseif decapitalized RToken matches closedclass token then?
EAM or NSD;elseif If PStr contains punctuationcharacter then?MAM;elseif If PStr contains a line breakthen?
NSD or EAM;else?
NSD or MAM or EAM;endendendendAlgorithm 1: Rule-based decision algorithm forthe right context of a period.algorithm is the left context investigated.The evaluation of the left context extends theapproach from Kiss and Strunk (2002), who usedthe log likelihood ratio (Dunning, 1993) for abbre-viation detection:log?
= ?2log(L(H0)/L(HA))H0is the hypothesis that the occurrence of a pe-riod is independent of the preceding word, HAthehypothesis that it is not independent.We use four scaling functions S1?
S4.
Theperiod character is symbolized by ?
; C(word, ?
)and C(word,??)
describe the co-occurrence fre-quency counts.
The primary log?
is modifiedby sequential composition.
Following Kiss andStrunk (2002), S1enhances the initial log?
ifC(word, ?)
is greater than C(word,??).
S2varies from?1 to 1 depending on C(word, ?)
andC(word,??).
S3leads to a reduction of log?
de-pending on the length of the preceding word.
Weintroduced a fourth scaling function S4, which re-flects the fact that most abbreviations are propersubstrings of the shortened original word (e.g.?exulz.?
= ?exulzerierend?
), with N being thesum of all found substring matches in the formsubwordi?
for every subwordiin subword1?subword2?
.
.
.
subwordn?
in a Lucene search re-sult.S4(log?)
: log?+N(word, ?
)This also includes those abbreviations whichhave an internal period, such as ?St.p?.
The reasonwhy the last scaling function contains an addition,is to accommodate for cases where C(word, ?)
<C(word,??)
even when word is an abbreviation.These cases, for which the weighted log?
is nega-tive, could then nevertheless be pushed to the pos-itive side in the result of a strong S4.For the final decision in favor of an abbrevi-ation, we required that the following two condi-tions hold: (i) (S1?
S2?
S3?
S4)(log?)
> 0;(ii) the length of the abbreviation candidate waswithin the 95% confidence interval, given the sta-tistical distribution of all abbreviation candidatesthat exhibited a significant collocation (p < 0.01),C(word, ?)
> C(word,??
), and MDDict notcontaining word.3 ResultsFor the evaluation methodology, a gold standardwas created by a random selection of 500 textframes, centered around a period with its left andright context (each 60 characters) from the evalu-ation set.
The two authors rated each period in thecenter of the snippet as being an NSD, a MAMor an EAM.
A subset of 100 was rated by bothauthors in order to compute the inter-rater agree-ment.
We obtained a Cohen?s kappa (Di Euge-nio and Glass, 2004, Hripcsak and Heitjan, 2002)of 0.98, when rating both abbreviation vs. non-abbreviation, and sentence delimiter vs. non sen-tence delimiter, respectively.
Accuracy, true andfalse negative rates (Manning et al., 2008), arecomputed for the two processing steps in isolation.This required making some default assumptionsfor the cases in which the result was ambiguous.The assumptions are based on frequency distribu-tions of the three values in the learning set.
Theleft context processing detects abbreviations, butis unable to distinguish between EAM and MAM.As the frequency of MAM is much higher, thisvalue is set wherever NSD is discarded.
In the pro-cessing of the right context, the algorithm may failto disambiguate between NSD vs. EAM, or eventerminate with any decision (NSD vs. EAM vs.MAM), cf.
Algorithm 1.
In the latter case MAMis set, as this was determined to be the most fre-quent phenomenon in the learning data (0.53).
In98the former case, NSD is given preference overEAM, which has a low frequency in the learn-ing set (0.03).
Table 1 shows accuracy and falsepositive / negative rates obtained by left, right andcombined context evaluations.Accuracy Fpos FnegAbbreviation detectionLeft 0.914 0.035 0.136Right 0.880 0.162 0.051L & R 0.928 0.060 0.082Sentence delimitationLeft 0.902 0.107 0.077Right 0.884 0.014 0.211L & R 0.934 0.062 0.065Table 1: Abbreviation detection and sentence de-limitation results.It is remarkable that the combination of both al-gorithms only produces a moderate gain in accu-racy.
For the minimization of certain false nega-tives and false positives, it can be advantageous toconsider the right or left context separately.
For in-stance, the right context algorithm alone is betterat minimizing false positive sentence recognitions,whereas the left context algorithm is better suitedat minimizing cases of false positive abbreviationdetections.
Apart from known issues such as theabove mentioned parsing problems, for which thereader needs to be familiar with the domain andthe style of the documents, the analysis of mis-classifications revealed several weaknesses: sen-sitivity to spelling and punctuation errors (espe-cially missing spaces after periods) and abbrevia-tions that can also be read as a normal word (e.g.?Mal.?
for ?Malignit?at?
or ?Mal?
(time)), and ab-breviations that are still present in MDDict.4 Related WorkThe detection of short forms (abbreviations,acronyms) is important due to their frequency inmedical texts (Meystre et al., 2008).
Several au-thors studied their detection, normalization, andcontext-dependent mapping to long forms (Xu etal., 2012).
CLEF 2013 (Suominen et al., 2013)started a task for acronym/abbreviation normal-ization, using the UMLS8as target terminology.An F-Measure of 0.89 was reported by Patrick etal.
(2013).
Four different methods for abbrevia-8http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/tion detection were tested by Xu et al.
(2007).
Thefourth method (a decision tree classifier), whichadditionally used features from knowledge re-sources, performed best with a precision of 91.4%and a recall of 80.3%.
Therefore Wu et al.
(2011)compared machine learning methods for abbrevi-ation detection.
Word formation, vowel combina-tions, related content from knowledge bases, wordfrequency in the overall corpus, and local contextwere used as features.
The random forest classi-fier performed best with an F-Measure of 94.8%.A combination of classifiers lead to the highestF-Measure of 95.7%.
Wu et al.
(2012) compareddifferent clinical natural language processing sys-tems on handling abbreviations in discharge sum-maries, resulting in MedLEE performing best withan F-Score of 0.60.
A prototypical system, meet-ing real-time constraints, is described in Wu etal.
(2013).5 Conclusion and OutlookWe have presented and evaluated a method fordisambiguating the period character in German-language medical narratives.
It is a combinationof a simple rule set and a statistical approachsupported by lexicons.
Whereas the crafting ofthe rule base considers peculiarities of the docu-ment language, primarily by exploiting language-specific capitalization rules, the processing of theexternal language resources and the statisticalmethodology are unsupervised.
Given these pa-rameters, the accuracy values of about 93% forboth abbreviation detection and sentence delin-eation are satisfactory, especially when one con-siders that the texts are error laden and highlycompact, which also resulted in large numbers ofad-hoc abbreviations.
We expect that with a lim-ited training effort this rate can still be raised fur-ther.
We are aware that the described period dis-ambiguation procedure should be embedded intoan NLP processing pipeline, where it must be pre-ceded by a cleansing process that identifies ?hid-den?
periods and restores the adherence to basicpunctuation rules by inserting white spaces wherenecessary.
An improved result can facilitate thecreation of a sufficiently large, manually annotatedcorpus, which could then be used as the basis forthe application of machine learning methods.
Fur-thermore, the impact of the different modificationsregarding the left context approach must be evalu-ated in more detail.99ReferencesBarbara Di Eugenio and Michael Glass.
2004.
Thekappa statistic: A second look.
Computational lin-guistics, 30(1):95?101.T Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational Lin-guistics, 19(1):61?74.George Hripcsak and Daniel F Heitjan.
2002.
Mea-suring agreement in medical informatics reliabil-ity studies.
Journal of biomedical informatics,35(2):99?110.T Kiss and J Strunk.
2002.
Scaled log likelihood ratiosfor the detection of abbreviations in text corpora.
InProceedings of the 19th International Conference onComputational Linguistics ?
Volume 2, pages 1?5.Association for Computational Linguistics.Christopher D Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, andHinrich Sch?utze.
2008.
Introduction to informa-tion retrieval, volume 1.
Cambridge university pressCambridge.S M Meystre, GK Savova, KC Kipper-Schuler, andJF Hurdle.
2008.
Extracting information from tex-tual documents in the electronic health record: a re-view of recent research.
Yearbook of Medical Infor-matics, 35:128?144.JD Patrick, L Safari, and Y Ou.
2013.ShaARe/CLEF eHealth 2013 Normalization ofAcronyms/Abbreviation Challenge.
In CLEF 2013Evaluation Labs and Workshop Abstracts - WorkingNotes.Pschyrembel.
1997.
Klinisches W?orterbuch.
CD-ROM Version 1/97.Hanna Suominen, Sanna Salanter?a, Sumithra Velupil-lai, Wendy W Chapman, Guergana Savova, NoemieElhadad, Sameer Pradhan, Brett R South, Danielle LMowery, Gareth JF Jones, et al.
2013.
Overviewof the share/clef ehealth evaluation lab 2013.In Information Access Evaluation.
Multilinguality,Multimodality, and Visualization, pages 212?231.Springer.Y Wu, ST Rosenbloom, JC Denny, A Miller, S Mani,Giuse DA, and H Xu.
2011.
Detecting abbrevia-tions in discharge summaries using machine learn-ing methods.
In AMIA Annual Symposium Proceed-ings, volume 2011, pages 1541?1549.Y Wu, JC Denny, ST Rosenbloom, RA Miller,DA Giuse, and H Xu.
2012.
A comparative study ofcurrent clinical natural language processing systemson handling abbreviations in discharge summaries.In AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings, volume2012, pages 997?1003.Y Wu, JC Denny, ST Rosenbloom, Randolph A Miller,Dario A Giuse, Min Song, and Hua Xu.
2013.
Aprototype application for real-time recognition anddisambiguation of clinical abbreviations.
In Proc.of the 7th International Workshop on Data and TextMining in Biomedical Informatics, pages 7?8.H Xu, PD Stetson, and C Friedman.
2007.
A studyof abbreviations in clinical notes.
In AMIA AnnualSymposium Proceedings, volume 2007, pages 821?825.H Xu, PD Stetson, and C Friedman.
2012.
Combin-ing corpus-derived sense profiles with estimated fre-quency information to disambiguate clinical abbre-viations.
In AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings,volume 2012, pages 1004?1013.100
