Proceedings of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Computational Approaches to Causality in Language, pages 1?9,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBecause We Say SoJulie HunterAlpageUniversit?e Paris Diderot/INRIAjuliehunter@gmail.comLaurence DanlosAlpageUniversit?e Paris Diderot/INRIALaurence.Danlos@inria.frAbstractIn this paper, we show that contingencyconnectives, which mark causal and con-ditional relations (PDTB Group, 2008), re-strict the possible interpretations of reportsin their scope in a way that many otherconnectives, such as contrastive connec-tives, do not.
We argue that this resulthas immediate implications for the seman-tics of causal relations and for the anno-tation of implicit connectives.
In particu-lar, it shows that the assumption, implicitin some work on NLP, that the semanticsof explicit connectives can be translated toimplicit connectives is not anodyne.1 IntroductionIn addition to their standard intensional use, manyembedding verbs have a semantically parentheti-cal use (Urmson, 1952; Simons, 2007), in whichthe content of the embedded clause conveys themain point of the report.
Semantically parentheti-cal uses can occur even when the report is not syn-tactically parenthetical, as shown in (1) and (2).
Inthese examples, the embedded clause he is out oftown (labeled ???)
conveys the main point becauseits content offers an explanation of Fred?s absence.
(1) - [Why didn?t Fred come to my party?
]?- Jane said [he is out of town.]?
(2) [Fred didn?t come to my party.
]?Jane said[he is out of town.
]?If the matrix clause does not contribute directlyto the explanation of Fred?s absence in (1) and(2), it is arguable that only the content of the ?-clauses contributes to the second argument of theexplanatory relations that hold in these examples.In terms of Segmented Discourse RepresentationTheory (SDRT) (Asher and Lascarides, 2003), forexample, the relation QUESTION-ANSWER-PAIRin (1) should be taken to hold only between ?
and?
; the content of the matrix clause should be like-wise excluded from the second argument of EX-PLANATION in (2) (Hunter et al., 2006).
Similarly,the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) would relateonly ?
and ?
in (2) with implicit because (Dineshet al., 2005; Prasad et al., 2006).Given this analysis of (1) and (2), however, itis puzzling why the report in (3) cannot be under-stood parenthetically.
On the surface, (2) and (3)differ only in that the two sentences in (2) havebeen connected with the subordinating conjunc-tion because in (3).
Yet this seemingly harmlesschange leads to a dramatic change in interpretivepossibilities.
(3) (#)1Fred didn?t come to my party becauseJane said he is out of town.And as we?ll see in ?2, the contrast between (2)and (3), heretofore unnoticed in the literature, canbe replicated for all contingency relations: all con-tingency connectives exhibit a distaste for seman-tically parenthetical reports.The contrast between (2) and (3) is surprisingfor a further reason, namely that many relationsand connectives that do not indicate causality doappear to accept the embedded clauses of seman-tically parenthetical reports as arguments.
(4) Lots of people are coming to my party.
Janesaid (for example) that Fred is coming withhis whole family.
(5) Fred is coming to my party, although Janetold me that Bill is not.The report in (4) is understood parenthetically; itis the content of the embedded clause, not the ma-trix clause, that serves as a specific example of the1We use the symbol ?(#)?
to mark examples containing re-ports that cannot be interpreted parenthetically; ?(#)?
does notexclude the possibility of a non-parenthetical interpretation.1claim made in the first sentence.
Unlike in (3),this parenthetical reading is felicitous even whenfor example is explicit.
(5) shows that semanti-cally parenthetical reports can occur in contrastiverelations, as the contrast intuitively holds betweenFred?s coming to the party and Bill?s not coming.It also shows, given that although is a subordinat-ing conjunction, that a parenthetical reading of (3)is not blocked simply by the fact that because is asubordinating conjunction.The contrast between (2) and (3), as well as thatbetween (3) and (4)/(5), has direct implications forthe annotation of reports and the semantics of con-tingency relations.
In ?2, we argue for the follow-ing generalization:(C) if a contingency relation is marked by an ex-plicit connective that has syntactic scope overthe matrix clause of a report, this report can-not have a parenthetical interpretation.With general support for (C) in place, ?3 returnsto the contrast, illustrated by (2) and (3), betweenexamples of EXPLANATION with implicit and ex-plicit connectives.
We argue that this contrastraises problems for existing discourse theories andannotation practices.
?4 discusses causal connec-tives that have a temporal sense, e.g.
after, whichappear to be counterexamples to (C).
We show thatthis problem is only superficial.In what follows, we will use the term par-enthetical to talk only about semantically paren-thetical uses, unless otherwise stated.
We willalso adopt the notation conventions of the PDTB(PDTB Group, 2008).
Each discourse connec-tive has two arguments, Arg1 and Arg2.
The textwhose interpretation is the basis for Arg1 appearsin italics, while the text that serves as the basis forArg2 appears in bold.
If the connective is explicit,it is underlined.
An example is given in (6):(6) Fred didn?t come to the party because he isout of town.Sections 2 and 3, like the current section, willfocus exclusively on data in English, though theclaims made about the data in these sections holdfor the French translations of the data as well.
Insection 4, we will discuss a point on which thedata in English and French diverge in an interest-ing way.
In all cases, the examples that we use tomotivate our analysis are constructed for the sakeof simplicity.
Nevertheless, our claims for Englishare supported by data from the PDTB and The NewYork Times, as we discuss in more detail in ?5.2 Contingency relationsIn the PDTB, the class of contingency relationsincludes causal relations (EXPLANATION and RE-SULT in SDRT) and their pragmatic counterparts(EXPLANATION* and RESULT*), as well as se-mantic and pragmatic conditional relations.
Tothis we add relations of purpose or GOAL, markedby connectives such as so that and in order to.
Forsimplicity, we will adopt the vocabulary of SDRTwhen talking about discourse relations, e.g.
us-ing EXPLANATION when the PDTB would talk of?reason?, etc.In section 2.1, we argue that EXPLANATIONand RESULT support (C).
Section 2.2 introducesan apparent counterexample to this claim but thenshows that this example can easily be explainedwithin the confines of (C).
In section 2.3, we showthat EXPLANATION* and RESULT* pattern withtheir semantic counterparts with regard to paren-thetical reports, and section 2.4 rounds out the dis-cussion of contingency connectives by showingthat CONDITION and GOAL support (C) as well.2.1 Semantic explanations and resultsEXPLANATION is lexically marked by the con-junctions because, since, after, when, now that, asand for; there are no adverbials that lexicalize thisrelation.
Since, like because, supports (C).
(7) a. Fred can?t come to my party since he?sout of town.b.
(#) Fred can?t come to my party since Janesaid he?s out of town.The remaining causal conjunctions follow suit, butdue to particularities that arise from their temporalnature, we delay our discussion of them until ?4.RESULT is lexicalized only by adverbial con-nectives: therefore, hence, consequently, as a re-sult, so, .
.
.
.
and these connectives appear to pat-tern with markers of EXPLANATION with regardto (C).
In other words, if the matrix clause falls inthe syntactic scope of the adverbial, it falls in thediscourse scope of the adverbial as well.Demonstrating that (C) holds for RESULT ad-verbials requires care, because adverbials, unlikeconjunctions, can move around.
Consider (8):(8) Fred didn?t go to the party.
(H,)1Jane said(,H,)2that Luc (, H,)3did (, H)4.2However could be inserted in one of any of thefour locations marked with ?H?
above to make theexample felicitous.
Yet to test whether howeverallows parenthetical readings of reports in its syn-tactic scope, only position 2 matters.
Even whenhowever is in position 1, syntactic scope over thematrix clause is not ensured, as the placement ofthe adverbial could be the result of extraction fromthe embedded clause (Kroch and Joshi, 1987; Pol-lard and Sag, 1994).Once we restrict our attention to adverbials inposition 2, we can see more clearly that some al-low parenthetical readings of reports in their syn-tactic scope while others do not.
A parentheticalreading of the report in (8) is permitted with how-ever in position 2.
By contrast, the placement ofafterwards in the matrix clause of (9) blocks a par-enthetical reading.
(9) Fred went to Dax for Christmas.
Jane saidafterwards that he went to Pau.To the extent that (9) is felicitous, the second sen-tence cannot be rephrased as Jane said that hewent to Pau afterwards (although this would be apossible rephrasing of the example if afterwardswere in position 1, 3 or 4).
The more natural read-ing is a non-parenthetical one according to whichthe time at which Jane made her statement was af-ter the time at which Fred went to Dax.Thus we can distinguish two groups of adver-bials: (i) adverbs that when they have syntacticscope over the matrix clause of a report do notallow parenthetical readings of that report, e.g.
af-terwards, and (ii) adverbs that, given the same syn-tactic configuration, do allow a parenthetical read-ing of the report, e.g.
however.
We can then extendthese groups to discourse connectives in general,including conjunctions.
In these terms, becausefalls in group (i), because it conforms to (C), andalthough, in group (ii).With the foregoing discussion of adverbials inmind, we return now to RESULT and the questionof whether RESULT adverbials fall in group (i) orgroup (ii).
Consider (10):(10) a. Fred drank too much last night.Therefore, he has a hangover today.b.
Fred drank too much last night, Janesaid/thinks, therefore, that he has ahangover today.A parenthetical reading of the report in (10b)would be one in which the content of the matrixclause does not contribute to the second argumentof RESULT.
In the case of (2), we said that the actof Jane?s saying that Fred is out of town in no wayexplains Fred?s absence?only the content of whatshe said matters.
Yet a parallel analysis is not ob-viously correct for (10b) (which is why we haveincluded the matrix clause of the report in Arg2above).
While if Jane is right, it is true that Fred?shangover is the result of his over zealous drinking,it is also reasonable to say that Jane?s conclusionsare the result of Fred?s drinking too much: it washis drinking that prompted her to say or think whatshe does.
We conclude that therefore falls in group(i) and, more generally, that RESULT supports (C).2.2 A clarificationBefore moving on to pragmatic causal relations,let?s take a closer look at examples of EXPLANA-TION in which the source of an indirect speech re-port in the scope of because is also the agent ofthe eventuality described in Arg1.
At first glance,such cases might appear to be counterexamples to(C), because the report in the syntactic scope ofbecause does not provide a literal explanation ofthe eventuality described in Arg1.
(11) Jane didn?t hire Bill because she said hedidn?t give a good interview.It is presumably not the case that Jane did not hireBill because she said he didn?t interview well, butrather because she thought that he didn?t do well.Yet in (11), the author is not even weakly com-mitted to the claim that Bill?s interview perfor-mance is responsible for his not being hired, so thereport cannot have a parenthetical interpretation(thus we have placed the matrix clause in bold-face above).
And if the report is non-parenthetical,then (11) is not problematic; because readily al-lows non-parenthetical readings of reports in itssyntactic scope, as illustrated in (12a) and (12b).
(12) a. Jane didn?t hire Bill because she thoughthe didn?t give a good interview.b.
Jane didn?t hire Bill because her secre-tary said/thought that Bill didn?t give agood interview.The only feature that sets (11) off from the mun-dane examples in (12) is the fact that Jane?s actof saying what she did does not provide a literalexplanation for her hiring decision.
We think thatthe use of an indirect speech report is permitted de-spite this fact only because Jane is both the agent3of Arg1 and the source of the report in Arg2.
Theassumed close tie between an agent?s thoughts andactions, together with the semantics of because,allow us to conclude in (11) that Jane thought Billdidn?t do well?the real explanation proffered forher hiring decision.Interestingly, despite the non-parentheticalreading of the report in (11), this example can bereformulated with a syntactic parenthetical:(13) Jane didn?t hire Bill because, she said, hedidn?t give a good interview.This is interesting because normally a syntacticparenthetical construction would be taken to en-tail a semantically parenthetical construction.
Yetwe do not think that the speaker is required to ac-cept the content of Jane?s report in (13) any morethan she is in (11).
The use of the syntactic par-enthetical appears rather to distance the speaker?spoint of view from Jane?s.
But as we argued forthe phenomenon illustrated in (11), we think thatthe non-parenthetical interpretation of the syntac-tically parenthetical report in (13) is made possibleonly by the fact that the agent of Arg1 is the sourceof the report in Arg2 of EXPLANATION.2.3 Pragmatic explanations and resultsPragmatic result, or RESULT* in SDRT, holds be-tween two clauses ?
and ?
when ?
provides justi-fication for the author?s affirmation of ?.
In otherwords, RESULT*(Arg1, Arg2) if and only if RE-SULT(Arg1, affirm(author, Arg2)).
In examples(14a-c), Arg1 does not provide an explanation ofthe conclusion drawn in Arg2 (the accumulationof newspapers did not cause the neighbors to beout of town), but rather of why the speaker or Janeformed the belief that the conclusion holds.
(14b)and (14c) are examples of RESULT because theymake this causal relation explicit with I think orJane said/thinks.
(14a), an example of RESULT*,leaves this connection implicit.
(In order to visu-ally signal the presence of a pragmatic relation inthe examples in this section, we mark the corre-sponding connectives with a ?*?.
)(14) a.
The newspapers are piling up on theneighbors?
stoop.
Therefore?, they mustbe out of town.b.
The newspapers are piling up on theneighbors?
stoop.
I think, therefore, thatthey must be out of town.c.
The newspapers are piling up on theneighbors?
stoop.
Jane said/thinks,therefore, that they must be out of town.Reports in examples like (14b) and (14c) cannotbe read parenthetically, and the nature of RESULT*prevents its second argument from ever being aclause embedded by a parenthetically used verb.EXPLANATION* reverses the order of explana-tion from RESULT*, i.e.
EXPLANATION*(Arg1,Arg2) = EXPLANATION(affirm(author, Arg1),Arg2).
EXPLANATION* is marked by connec-tives such as since, because, and for, which neednot be explicit, hence the parentheses in (15).
(15a) and (15c) are examples of EXPLANATION*,while (15b) and (15d), which explicitly evoke thespeaker?s belief state for Arg1, are examples ofEXPLANATION.2(15) a.
The neighbors must be out of town(because?)
newspapers are piling up ontheir stoop.b.
I think that the neighbors must be out oftown because newspapers are piling upon their stoop.c.
The neighbors must be out of town(because?)
Jane said that newspapersare piling up on their stoop.d.
I think that the neighbors must be out oftown because Jane said that newspapersare piling up on their stoop.In both (15c) and (15d), the matrix clause Janesaid contributes to Arg2, i.e.
the reports are notparenthetical.
These examples are not like (2) be-cause the fact that the evidence comes from Janeis crucial in the formation of the speaker?s beliefthat the neighbors are out of town in (15c,d) in away that it is not crucial to Fred?s absence in (2).In all three examples, there is a reasoning processinvolved in which Jane figures, but the reasoningprocess is not the main point of (2) in the way thatit is for (15c) and (15d).In ?3 we will provide a further reason why (15c)should not be considered parenthetical.
This ar-gument, together with those given in this section,in turn supports our claim that connectives thatmark causal relations are members of group (i) ofdiscourse connectives, regardless of whether they2We assume that for Jane to sincerely say that P, Jane mustbelieve P; it might be more accurate to talk about Jane?s com-mitments rather than her beliefs, but that detail is not impor-tant here.4mark semantic or pragmatic relations.
That is,these connectives conform to (C).2.4 Other contingency relationsA quick review of the remaining contingency rela-tions shows that principle (C) is obeyed through-out this class.
GOAL can be lexically marked bythe subordinating conjunctions in order that andso that; semantic conditional relations are gener-ally marked by the conjunction if.
In all cases,principle (C) is respected because the reports inexamples like (16b) and (17b) cannot be under-stood parenthetically.
(16) a. Fred made a pizza last night so that Marywould be happy.b.
* Fred made a pizza last night so that Janesaid/thinks that Mary would be happy.
(17) a. Fred will play tennis if Mary doesn?tshow up.b.
(#) Fred will play tennis if Janesaid/thinks that Mary won?t showup.3 Commitment and veridicalityNow that we have shown that contingency rela-tions support (C), we return to the contrast be-tween (2) and (3) and discuss the problems thatthis contrast raises for existing theories of dis-course and annotation.In (15c) note that while the verb say could be re-placed by, for example, noticed or told me, it can-not be replaced by believe or thinks.
(18) # The neighbors must be out of town becauseJane thinks that newspapers are piling up ontheir stoop.
(18) can be repaired, however, by weakening themodal in Arg1 from must to might:(19) The neighbors might be out of town(because) Jane thinks that newspapers arepiling up on their stoop.This follows from the semantics of EXPLANA-TION*, which holds when Arg2 is presented as thereason for drawing the conclusion given in Arg1.The speaker is not entitled to draw a stronger con-clusion than her evidence allows.
The use of thinksin (18) implies that Jane is not fully committedto the claim that newspapers are piling up on theneighbor?s doorstep, so the speaker is only entitledto affirm a possibility claim like that in Arg1 of(19).
Thus (18) is infelicitous for the same reasonthat (20) is not an example of EXPLANATION*:Jane?s saying what she did does not justify the con-clusion that the neighbors are out of town (Danlosand Rambow, 2011).
(20) The neighbors must be out of town.
Jane saidthat newspapers are piling up on their stoop,but that?s not why I think they?re gone.In contrast to (18), (2) is felicitous with thinks:(21) Fred didn?t come to my party.
Jane thinkshe?s out of town.In (21), the author?s commitment to Fred?s ab-sence is allowed to be higher than Jane?s com-mitment to his being out of town.
This is be-cause Jane?s saying what she did is not presentedas the justification of the author?s belief that Fredwasn?t at the party.
The author has other reasonsfor thinking and saying that Fred was not at hisparty; now he?s exploring reasons for Fred?s ab-sence.
Thus the contrast between (18) and (21)provides further support for our claim in ?2.3 thatthe report in (15c) is not parenthetical; the seman-tics of the report in (15c) affect the acceptabilityof the example.The foregoing discussion of parenthetical re-ports has implications for the veridicality of dis-course relations.
In SDRT, which provides a the-ory not only of discourse structure but also of theinterpretation of that structure, EXPLANATION andRESULT, along with their pragmatic counterparts,are veridical relations, where a relation R is veridi-cal just in case if R(?, ?)
is true at a world w,then ?
and ?
are true at w as well.
In the caseof causal relations, for it to be true that one even-tuality caused another, it must be the case that botheventualities truly occurred.
In this paper, we havelimited our study of parenthetical reports to theright argument (Arg2) of discourse relations.
Ac-cordingly, we will limit our discussion of veridi-cality to right-veridicality.From the data that we have so far, it is clear thatEXPLANATION* is right veridical: if Arg2 isn?ttrue, it cannot justify Arg1.
Even in the case of(15c), while what Jane said can be false, it mustbe true that Jane said what she said.
Likewise,the data that we have discussed for RESULT, RE-SULT*, GOAL and conditional relations indicatethat these relations are also right-veridical.5The question is more complicated for EXPLA-NATION.
A speaker who asserts (2) or (21) andoffers Jane?s comment as an explanation is notfully committed to Fred?s being out of town.
Thisis clear in (21), where the verb think indicates ahedged commitment.
Thus, if we analyze the re-ports in (2) and (21) as parentheticals, then rightveridicality is not ensured for EXPLANATION, atleast when unmarked by an explicit connective.When EXPLANATION is explicitly marked withbecause, since, or for, right veridicality appearsto be ensured by the fact that these conjunctionsblock parenthetical readings of reports in theirsyntactic scope.
Yet (3), repeated as (22a), isgreatly improved if we use a syntactic parentheti-cal, which suggests that its infelicity has more todo with syntax than with veridicality:(22) a.
(#) Fred didn?t come to my party becauseJane said he is out of town.b.
Fred didn?t come to my party because,Jane said, he is out of town.However, note that said in (22b) cannot be re-placed with a weaker embedding verb like thinks:(23) # Fred didn?t come to my party because, Janethinks, he is out of town.This shows that even though a syntactic parenthet-ical is used in (22b), the speaker must be fullycommitted to the content of Arg2, i.e.
right veridi-cality is ensured for EXPLANATION when it is ex-plicitly marked with because.We have seen that EXPLANATION is rightveridical when explicitly marked, but that (2) doesnot require the veridicality of the clause labeled???.
This difference forces us to make a choice.We can maintain the claim that (2) is neverthe-less an example of EXPLANATION; in this case,we must adjust the semantics of EXPLANATIONaccordingly and conclude that veridicality is a re-quirement imposed by connectives, not relations.Alternatively, we can maintain that EXPLANATIONis always (right) veridical; in this case, we mustgive up the claim that (2) is an example of EX-PLANATION.We suspect that the second choice is better.There is, after all, no connective that can be in-serted between the sentences in (2) in such a waythat the meaning is preserved, which suggests thata deep semantic difference is at play between (2)and examples of EXPLANATION.
Either way, how-ever, existing theories of discourse structure willneed to be adjusted to account for our observationson contingency relations and parenthetical reports.For example, if (2) is not a genuine example ofEXPLANATION, SDRT needs to offer a viable al-ternative relation.
On the other hand, if (2) is agenuine example of EXPLANATION, SDRT needsto adjust the notion of veridicality in the semanticsof this relation and indeed, of any other suppos-edly veridical discourse relations that allow theirArg2 to be the embedded clause of a parentheticalreport.Our observations also raise questions about thesemantic implications of the choice made in thePDTB to insert an implicit connective in the ab-sence of an explicit one.
While this choice was apractical one meant to facilitate the annotation taskfor the PDTB, it has been taken to further levels inother work on NLP, and we think this is danger-ous from a semantic point of view.
While NLPsystems designed to identify discourse relations inthe presence of explicit connectors have yieldedvery positive results (f-scores over 90% for guess-ing one of the four major PDTB sense classes, i.e.Temporal, Contingency, Comparison and Expan-sion (Pitler and Nenkova, 2009)), the task of iden-tifying discourse relations that hold between spansof text has proven very difficult in the absenceof explicit connectives.
To handle the latter typeof case, systems have been designed that use thedeletion of explicit connectives, whose semanticsare known, to obtain examples with implicit con-nectives that inherit the semantics of their explicitcounterparts in an effort to create new data thatcan be exploited in the identification of implicitrelations (Marcu and Echihabi, 2002).
In the otherdirection, systems have been built to predict im-plicit discourse connectives between two textualunits with the use of a language model (Zhou etal., 2010).In both kinds of systems, deleting an explicitconnective or adding an implicit connective is con-sidered a harmless move, though this practice hasbeen questioned by (Sporleder and Lascarides,2008).
The data presented in this paper show thatthe presence or absence of a discourse connectivemay drastically change the data when reports ofsaying or attitudes occur in the second argumentof a discourse relation ?
positing an implicit be-cause in (2) is not an anodyne move from a seman-tic point of view.64 Temporal relationsWhile afterwards falls in group (i) of discourseconnectives, because it does not allow parentheti-cal readings of reports in its scope, as shown in (9),other temporal markers appear to fall in group (ii).Consider, for example, after and before in (24a)and (24b), respectively.
(24) a. Fred arrived at the scene?after [policesay]?
[the crime occurred.]?b.
Fred had tried to improve his life?before[police say]?
[he robbed a bank.
]?Both (24a) and (24b) have a reading according towhich the temporal relation indicated by the un-derlined conjunction holds between the clauses ?and ?
rather than ?
and ?, which suggests that thereports are parenthetical.
The fact that the relationbetween ?
and ?
can be independent of the tem-poral constraints of the connective is clearest in(24a) in which the time of ?
can actually be afterthe time of ?.The possibility that temporal connectives allowparenthetical readings of reports in their scope ispotentially problematic for our arguments in ?2because some temporal connectives, such as after,now that, as and when, can have a causal sense inaddition to their temporal sense.
And when theydo, parenthetical reports still appear to be possi-ble, as shown in (25):(25) Fred was arrested?after [police say]?
[hepulled a gun on an officer.
]?In (25), we understand the arrest as a result ofFred?s pulling a gun on an officer, so after has acausal sense.
Nevertheless, the time of ?
can comeafter the time of ?, thus suggesting a parentheticalreport.Interestingly, the data on after and before in En-glish are not supported cross-linguistically.
Upto example (24), all of the data that we have dis-cussed are felicitous in French if and only if theyare felicitous in English,3but this is not so for (24)and (25), whose French counterparts are syntacti-cally ill-formed.
(26) a.
* Fred est arriv?e sur les lieux apr`es que lapolice dit/dise que le crime a eu lieu.b.
* Fred a essay?e d?am?eliorer sa vie avantque la police dise qu?il a cambriol?e unebanque.3Some of the data presented in this paper are discussedfor French in (Danlos, 2013).c.
* Fred a ?et?e arr?et?e apr`es que la policedit/dise qu?il a point?e un pistolet sur unpolicier.The parenthetical reading of the report in (25) isgreatly aided by the use of the present tense onsay, which excludes the possibility that the matrixclause introduces an eventuality that held beforeFred was arrested.
For whatever reason, the use ofthe present and/or present subjunctive in similarenvironments is not allowed in French, as shownin (26).
This difference could be taken two ways.Perhaps after does violate (C) after all and the onlyreason that parenthetical readings are blocked in(26) is because French syntax does not allow thisreading to be brought out.
On the other hand, itcould be that after does support (C), but that policesay in (25) is not functioning as a standard matrixclause.Evidence for the second option, which is con-sistent with (C), comes from the fact that all of theexamples that we have found like (25) come fromnewspapers and involve a matrix clause like po-lice say (parents say, teachers say, ...) and can beparaphrased using allegedly instead of police say:(27) Fred was arrested after he allegedly pulleda gun on an officer.Parenthetical readings do not appear to be possiblefor reports in which the matrix clause cannot beparaphrased with allegedly, as shown in (28):(28) (?)
Fred revised his negative opinion of Parisafter Jane says/said he had a wonderful visitthere last summer.If the result in (25) does not generalize to standardreports like that in (28), it is unlikely that the inter-pretation of the report in (25) should be explainedin terms of the causal nature of after; it is far morelikely to be due to an idiosyncracy of the matrixclause police say.In any case, a full discussion of examples like(25) is not directly relevant to the discussion ofcausality in this paper.
For the temporal connec-tives that can have a causal sense (after, now that,when, as, and their French counterparts), it is thecase in both French and English that when theyhave a causal + temporal sense, their interpretativepossibilities match those in which these connec-tives have a purely temporal sense.
This fact, com-bined with the fact that these connectives rarely ifever have a purely causal sense, tells us that their7temporal nature is more fundamental.
So (25) isnot a direct challenge to the arguments that wehave made in this paper about causal relations andparenthetical reports.Let?s return to (C):(C) if a contingency relation is marked by an ex-plicit connective that has syntactic scope overthe matrix clause of a report, this report can-not have a parenthetical interpretation.We conclude that this generalization holds for allcontingency relations and markers with a purelycausal or otherwise contingent sense.
We further-more predict that if there are examples in which ei-ther after, now that, when or as has a purely causalinterpretation, in none of these examples will wefind a parenthetical reading of a report in the con-nective?s syntactic scope.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have examined the interaction be-tween contingency connectives and the interpreta-tion of reports that fall in their syntactic scope.
Wehave shown that contrary to certain other types ofconnectives, such as contrastive connectives likealthough and however, contingency connectivesrestrict the interpretations of reports in their scopeso that these reports must be interpreted non-parenthetically.
That is, contingency connectivessupport (C).
We argued that this result has immedi-ate implications for theories of discourse structureand annotation.
In particular, SDRT must eitheradjust the semantics of EXPLANATION to includeexamples like (2), which are not right-veridical, orintroduce a new relation to handle (2).
And theassumption that one can move between implicitand explicit connectors?an assumption made forpractical reasons in the PDTB but taken to furtherextremes in other work on NLP described in ?3?is not semantically innocent.Throughout this paper, we have used con-structed examples to simplify the discussion.However, data from the PDTB provide support forour claims in the sense that it provides no coun-terexamples to (C) with because or since.
Wefound only 6 results for a search of the PDTB withthe following criteria: explicit relation + (connec-tor = because) + (Arg2 Source = Other).
Our aimwas to find examples in which a report is in thesyntactic scope of because.
Of the 6 examplesthat we found, two involved continuations of di-rect quotations and so did not have an explicit ma-trix clause, while the 4 remaining examples wereof the sort discussed in ?2.2, where the agent ofArg1 is the source of the report in Arg2.
Nor didwe find any counterexamples with an equivalentsearch for since (0 results for an equivalent searchwith explicit since).A separate search of the PDTB revealed no vio-lations of (C) for examples in which now that, as,and when have purely causal interpretations.
Thatis, for all examples in the PDTB in which now that,as, and when are explicit and have a causal sense,and in which ?Arg2 Source = Other?
holds, theseconnectors have a temporal sense as well.
(Thereare no examples in the PDTB in which after hasa purely causal sense).
While a thorough study oftemporal connectives is needed to fully understandthe behavior of these conjunctions, as explained in?4, these data provide strong prima facie supportfor the claims made in ?4.In future work we would like to extend ourstudy of contingency connectives, starting withtemporal connectives, to see how far (C) can begeneralized to other kinds of relations.
We alsohope to back up our results for English and Frenchwith more cross-linguistic research.
In the mean-time, data on contingency connectives in Frenchand English offer clear support for (C).ReferencesNicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
2003.
Logics ofConversation.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.Laurence Danlos and Owen Rambow.
2011.
DiscourseRelations and Propositional Attitudes.
In Proceed-ings of the Constraints in Discourse Workshop (CID2011), Agay, France.Laurence Danlos.
2013.
Connecteurs de dis-cours adverbiaux: Probl`emes `a l?interfacesyntaxe-s?emantique.
Linguisticae Investigationes,36(2):261?275.Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Miltsakaki, RashmiPrasad, and Aravind Joshi.
2005.
Attribution andthe (non-)alignment of syntactic and discourse argu-ments of connectives.
In Proceedings of ACL Work-shop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotation, Ann Arbor,MI, USA.Julie Hunter, Nicholas Asher, Brian Reese, and PascalDenis.
2006.
Evidentiality and intensionality: Twouses of reportative constructions in discourse.
InProceedings of the Constraints in Discourse Work-shop (CID 2006), Maynoth, Ireland.8Anthony Kroch and Aravind Joshi.
1987.
Analyzingextraposition in a tree adjoining grammar.
Syntaxand Semantics, 20:107?149.Daniel Marcu and Abdessamad Echihabi.
2002.
Anunsupervised approach to recognizing discourse re-lations.
Proceedings of the ACL 2002 Conference,pages 368?375.PDTB Group.
2008.
The Penn Discourse Treebank2.0 annotation manual.
Technical report, Institutefor Research in Cognitive Science, University ofPhiladelphia.Emily Pitler and Ani Nenkova.
2009.
Using syntax todisambiguate explicit discourse connectives in text.Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 ConferenceShort Papers.Carl Pollard and Ivan Sag.
1994.
Head-Driven PhraseStructure Grammar.
CSLI Publications, Stanford.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, AravindJoshi, and Bonnie Webber.
2006.
Attribution andits annotation in the Penn Discourse Treebank.
Re-vue TAL, 47(2).Mandy Simons.
2007.
Observations on embeddingverbs, evidentiality, and presupposition.
Lingua,117(6):1034?1056.Caroline Sporleder and Alex Lascarides.
2008.
Usingautomatically labelled examples to classify rhetori-cal relations: A critical assessment.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 14(3):369?416.James Opie Urmson.
1952.
Parenthetical verbs.
Lind,61 (244):480?496.Zhi-Min Zhou, Yu Xu, Zheng-Yu Niu, Man Lan, JianSu, and Chew Lim Tan.
2010.
Predicting discourseconnectives for implicit discourse relation recog-nition.
In Proceedings of the 23rd InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics: Posters,COLING 2010, pages 1507?1514.9
