Proceedings of Frame Semantics in NLP: A Workshop in Honor of Chuck Fillmore (1929?2014), pages 38?41,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Role of Adverbs in Sentiment AnalysisEduard C. DragutComputer and Information Sciences Dept.Temple Universityedragut@temple.eduChristiane FellbaumDepartment of Computer SciencePrinceton Universityfellbaum@princeton.eduAbstractSentiment Analysis, an important area ofNatural Language Understanding, oftenrelies on the assumption that lexemes carryinherent sentiment values, as reflected inspecialized resources.
We examine andmeasure the contribution that eight intensi-fying adverbs make to the sentiment valueof sentences, as judged by human anno-tators.
Our results show, first, that theintensifying adverbs are not themselvessentiment-laden but strengthen the senti-ment conveyed by words in their contextsto different degrees.
We consider the con-sequences for appropriate modifications ofthe representation of the adverbs in senti-ment lexicons.1 IntroductionIt was probably Chuck who coined the term ?arm-chair linguist?
(Svartvik, 1991).
Chuck Fillmore?sdeep commitment to the study of language ?
inparticular lexical semantics ?
on the basis of cor-pus data served as a model that kept many of ushonest in our investigation of language.
Today,we are lucky to be able to work from our officechairs while collecting data from a broad speakergroup by means of crowdsourcing.
And Chuck?sFrameNet taught us the importance of consider-ing word meanings in their contexts.
Our paperpresents work that tries to take this legacy to heart.2 Sentiment AnalysisBroadly speaking, sentiment analysis (SA) at-tempts to automatically derive a writer?s ?senti-ment?
about the topic of a text.
?Sentiment?
isusually categorized into ?positive,?
?neutral?
and?negative,?
where positive corresponds to satisfac-tion or happiness and ?negative?
to dissatisfactionor unhappiness.
Some work in SA further dis-tinguishes degrees of positive and negative senti-ment.
SA often refers to lexical resources wherewords are annotated with a sentiment value.
Sen-tiWordNet (SWN) (Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006) as-signs one of three sentiment values to each synsetin WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998).
Opinion Finder(OF) (Wilson et al., 2005) identifies the sentimentof the writer.
Other resources include AppraisalLexicon (AL) (Taboada and Grieve, 2004) andMicro-WNOp (Cerini et al., 2007).Much of this work relies on the assumption thatspecific lexemes (unique mappings of word formsand word meanings) carry an inherent sentimentvalue.
This seems intuitively correct for words likeenjoy (positive), pencil (neutral) and pain (nega-tive).Other words may not carry inherent sentimentvalue yet, in context, contribute to that of thewords they co-occur with or modify.
One suchclass of words comprises what we call polarityintensifiers.
In this preliminary study, we ana-lyze the contribution of adverbial intensifiers tothe sentiment value of the sentences in which theyoccur.Consider the adverb absolutely in two sam-ple sentences from movie reviews:S1 He and Leonora have absolutely no chemistryon screen whatsoever.S2 I was absolutely delighted by the simple storyand amazing animation.The goal of this preliminary experimental studyis to seek answers to the following questions38Adverbs OF AL SWNabsolutely Neu.
?
Neu.awfully Neg.
Neg.
Neu.enormously Neg.
?
Neu.extremely Neg.
?
Pos.horribly Neg.
Neg.
Neu.incredibly Pos.
Pos.
Neu.pretty Pos.
Pos.
Neu.seriously Neg.
?
Neu.Table 1: Eight intensifying adverbs and their po-larities in sentiment lexicons.1.
Do the adverbs we investigate carry inherentsentiment values, as postulated by some sen-timent lexicons?2.
Which adverbs have the strongest sentimentintensifying effect?3.
Do some adverbs have a stronger effect onsentences with a negative polarity or on sen-tences with a positive polarity?4.
Does the presence or absence of each adverbaffect the direction of the polarity of the sen-tence?3 The ExperimentWe analyze whether human judgments show an ef-fect on the sentiment ratings of sentences in thepresence or absence of selected adverbs, and howstrong the effect of each adverb is.Let S1?
be the sentence S1 from which an ad-verb like absolutely is removed.
S2?
is de-fined similarly.
Three main observations can bemade: (1) the adverb appears in both positive andnegative sentiment-bearing sentences (S1 is nega-tive and S2 is positive); (2) its removal from eitherS1 or S2 does not change the overall polarity of thesentence; (3) intuitively, S1 has a stronger negativepolarity value than S1?
and S2 has a stronger posi-tive polarity value than S2?.
We conduct a prelim-inary study of polarity intensifier words and showthat they all have characteristics (1) - (3).
We ex-amine data with eight different adverbs (Table 1).3.1 DataWe extracted sentences containing the target ad-verbs from a corpus of 50,000 movie reviews(Maas et al., 2011).
Each sentence is extractedfrom a review that is labeled either ?positive?
or?negative?
and correlated with a star rating.
Wemanually inspected the sentences and discardedthose where the target adverb was used in a modalsense, as in Seriously, there was not one re-spectable character in the entire script while re-taining sentences like There is no doubt that Al-fred Hitchcock was a seriously talented director.For each adverb, we retained ten sentences frompositive and negative reviews each, for a total 160sentences.
We copied the original sentences, re-moved the adverbs without making additional al-terations.
Our final dataset consisted of a totalof 320 sentences with 160 sentence pairs whosemembers were identical except for the presence orabsence of the target adverbs.
Below is an exam-ple of a sentence pair, where the original sentencewith the adverbs was pre-classified by (Pang andLee, 2004) as carrying positive sentiment.1.
I was absolutely delighted by the simple storyand amazing animation.2.
I was delighted by the simple story and amaz-ing animation.3.2 Collecting Judgments via CrowdsourcingWe submitted single sentences (not pairs) to beannotated with sentiment scores for crowdsourc-ing, using Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT).
Toavoid any bias we shuffled the sentences and dis-played them individually.
We asked the Turkersto select, for each sentence, one of five sentimentscores: strong positive (2), positive (1), neutral (0),negative (-1), strong negative (-2).
Each sentencewas rated by five annotators.
Altogether, twentyannotators completed the task within eight hours.Since the annotators did not all judge the same setof sentences, we computed the agreement betweenannotators as follows.
For each annotator, his/heragreement with the others is given be the follow-ing formula:1|S(i)|?j?S(i)psji,where S(i) is the set of sentences annotated bythe ithTurker and psjiis the percentage of Turkerswho have the same annotation with the ithTurkerfor sentence j.
|S(i)| is the cardinality of set S(i).The agreement ranges from 0.52 to 0.8.
Althoughthe annotation of some Turkers is close to that offlipping a coin, all judgments were retained andincluded in the results reported here.3.3 ResultsWe report the main results.
The polarity rating ofa sentence j is the (un-weighted) average rating39Adverbs Avg.
Pol.
Change Pol.
Reversalabsolutely 0.2 0/20awfully 0.6 2/20enormously 0.2 1/20extremely 0.2 2/20horribly 0.2 0/20incredibly 0.2 4/20pretty 0.2 1/20seriously 0.4 3/20Table 2: Effects of adverbs on sentiment ratings.of the five annotators for the sentence, denoted ?jand ?j=?ipsji.
We use uniform weighting.
Asentence j is classified into one of the five polaritycategories according to the following criteria:strong positve if ?j?
[1.5, 2]positive if ?j?
(1.5, 0.5]neutral if ?j?
(0.5,?0.5)negative if ?j?
[?0.5,?1.5)strong negative if ?j?
[?0.5,?2]3.3.1 Do Adverbs Change Sentiment Rating?We first examine the polarity intensifying effectsof the eight adverbs and determine their relativeintensifying effects.
For each adverb we computethe average polarity rating change between themembers of the 20 sentence pairs with and with-out the target adverb.
The second column of Table2 shows the average polarity rating change for theadverbs.
All adverbs have polarity intensifying ef-fect, which ranges from 0.2 to 0.6.
Awfully andseriously have the strongest effect.3.3.2 Change of Sentiment Rating in Positivevs.
Negative ContextsNext we ask whether the adverbs have a strongerpolarity intensifying effect on sentences with anegative, positive or neutral ratings.
We partitionthe 20 sentences with/without each adverb intothe three polarity categories according to their av-erage polarity ratings.
A sentence j is negative(positive) if ?j?
?0.5 (?j?
0.5).
Figure 1shows the results.
For six out of the eight adverbs,the graph follows a V-shaped pattern, indicatingthat the adverbs have stronger polarity influenceon sentences conveying opinionated, but not neu-tral, statements.
Pretty shows the weakest ef-fect across, which makes intuitive sense, as thisFigure 1: The polarity intensifying effects of ad-verbs over the sentiment categories.adverb seems to have a ?softening/weakening?
ef-fect: consider ?pretty good,?
which one couldjudge to be slightly less good than ?good.?
For ex-ample, the sentenceHe has a pretty strident rant about how impor-tant it is.received an average rating score of 0 with theadverb present and -0.2 without it.
The resultsfor awfully and extremely are surprising.
Acloser look at the annotations revealed some pos-sible unreliable ratings.
For example, the sentenceThe part of the movie set in Vietnam wasextremely inaccurate.has average polarity score of 0 (i.e., neutral)with the adverb and -0.8 without.
Intuitively,it seems that the first sentence conveys a strongnegative sentiment.
Such data indicate the needfor further study.
A more complex scheme forcomputing the average polarity scores, such asweighted by inter-annotator agreement, might pro-duce better results.3.3.3 Can Adverbs Reverse SentimentOrientation?We ask whether their presence can have the effectof reversing the polarity of a sentence.
We againconsider three sentiment categories: positive, neg-ative and neutral.
The third column in Table 2shows for each adverb, how many sentences outof the total of 20 were judged to have a reversedpolarity when the adverb was removed.
Overall,the polarities of only 13 out of 160 sentences (i.e.,about 8%) change.3.3.4 Do Adverbs Have an InherentSentiment Value?Our target adverbs have inherent polarity asclaimed in some sentiment lexicons (see Table 1).40If the polarity of a sentence does not change whenthe adverbs is present or absent, we conclude thatthe adverb has no inherent polarity but may merelyaffect the intensity of the constituents that it mod-ifies.
These results, as displayed in Figure 1 indi-cate that our target adverbs do not carry inherentpolarity.
Instead, they modify the intensity of thesentiment connoted by the context.4 DiscussionWe examined the effect of eight intensifying ad-verbs on the sentiment ratings of the sentences inwhich they occur.
Our study showed that, contraryto their representation in some widely used senti-ment lexicons, these adverbs do not carry an inher-ent sentiment polarity, but merely alter the degreeof the polarity of the constituents they modify; cor-rections of the corresponding entries in the senti-ment resources seem warranted.
Our results showfurther that all adverbs strengthen the polarity ofthe context to different degrees.
If confirmed on alarger data set, this indicates that the intensifyingforce of different adverbs should be reflected inlexical resources, perhaps along an ordered scale.5 Related WorkTwo recent surveys give a detailed account of theSL acquisition techniques (Feldman, 2013; Liu,2012).
We give only an overview of the relatedwork here.
SLs are acquired by one of three meth-ods.
Manual tagging is performed by human an-notators: e.g., OF, and AL.
Dictionary-based ac-quisition relies on a set of seed words that is ex-panded by using external resources, such as Word-Net: e.g., (Dragut et al., 2010; Hassan and Radev,2010; Mohammad et al., 2009; Dragut et al., 2012;Takamura et al., 2005).
In corpus-based acquisi-tion a set of seed words is expanded by using alarge corpus of documents (Feng et al., 2013; Luet al., 2011; Yu et al., 2013; Wu and Wen, 2010).To our knowledge, none of these works includethe polarity intensifiers that we introduce in thispaper.ReferencesS.
Cerini, V. Compagnoni, A. Demontis, M. For-mentelli, and G. Gandini, 2007.
Language resourcesand linguistic theory: Typology, second languageacquisition, English linguistics.Eduard C. Dragut, Clement T. Yu, A. Prasad Sistla, andWeiyi Meng.
2010.
Construction of a sentimentalword dictionary.
In CIKM, pages 1761?1764.Eduard C. Dragut, Hong Wang, Clement Yu, PrasadSistla, and Weiyi Meng.
2012.
Polarity consistencychecking for sentiment dictionaries.
In ACL.A.
Esuli and F. Sebastiani.
2006.
Sentiwordnet: Apublicly available lexical resource for opinion min-ing.
In LREC.Ronen Feldman.
2013.
Techniques and applicationsfor sentiment analysis.
CACM, 56(4):82?89, April.C.
Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An On-Line LexicalDatabase and Some of its Applications.
MIT Press.Song Feng, Jun Sak Kang, Polina Kuznetsova, andYejin Choi.
2013.
Connotation lexicon: A dash ofsentiment beneath the surface meaning.
In ACL.Ahmed Hassan and Dragomir Radev.
2010.
Identify-ing text polarity using random walks.
In ACL.Bing Liu.
2012.
Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Min-ing.
Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Tech-nologies.
Morgan & Claypool Publishers.Yue Lu, Malu Castellanos, Umeshwar Dayal, andChengXiang Zhai.
2011.
Automatic construction ofa context-aware sentiment lexicon: an optimizationapproach.
In WWW, pages 347?356.
ACM.Andrew L. Maas, Raymond E. Daly, Peter T. Pham,Dan Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher Potts.2011.
Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis.In ACL, pages 142?150.Saif Mohammad, Cody Dunne, and Bonnie Dorr.2009.
Generating high-coverage semantic orienta-tion lexicons from overtly marked words and a the-saurus.
In EMNLP.B.
Pang and L. Lee.
2004.
A sentimental education:Sentiment analysis using subjectivity summarizationbased on minimum cuts.
In ACL.Jan Svartvik, editor.
1991.
Directions in Corpus Lin-guistics.
Nobel Symposium 82, Mouton de Gruyter.M.
Taboada and J. Grieve.
2004.
Analyzing appraisalautomatically.
In AAAI Spring Symposium.Hiroya Takamura, Takashi Inui, and Manabu Okumura.2005.
Extracting semantic orientations of words us-ing spin model.
In ACL, pages 133?140.T.
Wilson, J. Wiebe, and P. Hoffmann.
2005.
Recog-nizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentimentanalysis.
In HLT/EMNLP.Yunfang Wu and Miaomiao Wen.
2010.
Disambiguat-ing dynamic sentiment ambiguous adjectives.
InCOLING, pages 1191?1199.Hongliang Yu, Zhi-Hong Deng, and Shiyingxue Li.2013.
Identifying sentiment words using anoptimization-based model without seedwords.
InACL.41
