Proceedings of the 2014 ACL Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 55?62,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsLinguistic Adaptation in Conversation Threads:Analyzing Alignment in Online Health CommunitiesYafei Wang, David Reitter, and John YenInformation Science and TechnologyPenn State UniversityUniversity Park, PA, 16801yxw184@ist.psu.edu, reitter@psu.edu, jyen@ist.psu.eduAbstractPrevious studies of alignment havefocused on two-party conversations.
Westudy multi-party conversation in onlinehealth communities, which have shownbenefits for their members from forumconversations.
So far, our understandingof the relationship between alignment insuch multi-party conversations and itspossible connection to member benefitshas been limited.
This paper quantifieslinguistic alignment in the oldest and thelargest cancer online forum.
Alignmentat lexical and syntactic levels, as well asdecay of alignment was observed in forumthreads, although the decay was slowerthan commonly found in psycholinguisticstudies.
The different pattern of adaptationto the initial post on a thread suggests thatspecific roles in the online forum (e.g.,seeking support from the community) canpotentially be revealed through alignmenttheory and its extensions.1 IntroductionLinguistic alignment leads conversation partnersto adapt their language patterns to match theirconversation partners.
Such patterns comprise ofword choice, sentence structure, and more.
Forexample, if one conversation partner uses passivevoice in the conversation, other conversationparticipants tend to use passive voice at a laterpoint in time.
The mechanism of adaptation arebetter understood now (Bock and Griffin, 2000;Pickering and Ferreira, 2008; Kaschak et al.,2011a; Reitter et al., 2011).
The InteractiveAlignment Model (IAM) (Pickering and Garrod,2004) attributes dialogic function to the primingeffect; it suggests that adaptation helps peoplereach mutual understanding.
Some recent studies(Reitter and Moore, 2007; Fusaroli et al., 2012)lend empirical confirmation to this thesis.Repetition effects are not purely mechanistic.They are sometimes moderated in response tosituational requirements or framing.
For example,they can vary in strength when humans (believeto) communicate with computers (Branigan et al.,2010).
Repetition intensifies when the purpose ofconversation is to collaborate on a common task(Reitter et al., 2006).
Of course, communicationbetween individuals is more than a linguisticevent; it is also social.
For example, it can befound as a cue to social relationships in film scripts(Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lee, 2011).
Amore specific aspect of language-based interactionis pragmatic convention in multi-party dialogue,which determines turn-taking, shifts in topic, andmore.One would expect alignment to also occur insocial situations involving multiple speakers.
Thesocial moderators and functions of adaptationeffects, however, are largely unclear.
The questionwe ask in this paper is whether alignment ismoderated by the role of a speaker?s contributionto the conversation.
In this paper, we deal withwritten interaction only; our data are internetforum conversations.The first question is whether linguisticadaptation exists in online communities andonline groups.
Dialogues in threads of onlinecommunities are different from previous types ofdialogues.
Unlike some spontaneous, free-formdialogues, threaded conversations have specifictopic.
In addition, thread conversations do nothave specific tasks.
Therefore, we investigatewhether dialogues in the threads also exhibitlinguistic adaptation, be it as an artifact ofmechanistic language processing or becauseadaptation acts as a social or conversational signal.Adaptation tends to decay over time, although thisdecay has not been studied in the context of such55slow, asychronuous communication.
Therefore,we will characterize the time-scale of dacay.More generally, if alignment exists in forums, is itcorrelated with the communicative role of a textor the social role of its author?The contributions of this paper are: (1)an exploratory analysis of linguistic adaptationbased on 3,000 conversations threads and 23,045posts in an online cancer survivor community(http://csn.cancer.org).
Specifically,we find reliable linguistic adaptation effects inthis corpus.
(2) We show that properties ofconversation threads that are different from regularconversations.In the following sections, we first survey relatedwork on linguistic adaptation.
Then, we describeour data and make preliminary definitions.
Wethen introduce measures of linguistic adaptation.Last, we discuss a set of properties in onlinethread conversations which are unlike other typesof dialogues.2 Related WorkLinguistic alignment phenomenon in socialinteraction has been well explored in previousliterature.
It happens because of multiple reasons.Firstly, it could be due to unconscious linguisticadaptation.
Pickering and Garrod (2004) suggeststhat conversations have linguistic coordinationat lexical level.
Branigan et al.
(2000) and Gries(2005) show that priming effects exist at thesyntactic level.
However, linguistic alignmentcould happen consciously by conversationparticipants.
Some literature suggest that peopleflexibly adapt their linguistic patterns to eachother?s in order to improve collective performanceand social coordination (Healey and Mills, 2006;Garrod and Pickering, 2009).Linguistic alignment has been found in writtencommunication as well, which is close to ourwork.
Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al.
(2011)examines conversations in a Twitter corpus,showing convergence of Linguistic Inquiry andWord Count (LIWC) measures.
This resultconfirms that linguistic alignment exists in writtenonline social media.
Furthermore, in Huffakeret al.
(2006); Scissors et al.
(2008); Backstromet al.
(2013) also show that people adjust theirlinguistic style, such as linguistic features, in theonline written chatroom and online community.Also, priming effects at syntactic level (Gries,2005; Branigan et al., 2000) have been exploredin several written dataset settings (Pickering andFerreira, 2008).In order to quantify the linguistic alignmentphenomenon, researchers have introduced severalquantitative measures.
Several methods evaluaterepetition of linguistic events, such as the use ofwords, syntactic rules or a small set of expressions(Church, 2000; Reitter et al., 2006; Fusaroli et al.,2012).
These approaches typically test whetherlinguistic alignment is due to linguistic adaptationor intrinsic repetition.
Moreover, linguisticfeature similarity (Stenchikova and Stent, 2007;Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al., 2011) is alsowidely used to measure linguistic adaptationprecisely.3 Online Health CommunitiesOnline health communities (OHC) typicallyinclude features such as discussion boards wherecancer survivors and their caregivers can interactwith each other.
Support and informationfrom people with similar cancers or problemsis very valuable because cancer experiences areunique.
Therefore, an online community forcancer survivors and caregivers enables them toshare experiences related to cancer, seek solutionsto daily living issues, and in general supportone another (Bambina, 2007) in ways that is notoften possible with other close family, friendsor even health care providers.
Benefits tocancer survivors who have participated in anOHC are reported in the literature.
Studiesof cancer OHC have indicated that participationincreases social support (Dunkel-Schetter, 1984;Rodgers and Chen, 2005), reduces levels ofstress, depression, and psychological trauma(Beaudoin and Tao, 2008; Winzelberg et al.,2003), and helps participants be more optimisticabout the course of their life with cancer (Rodgersand Chen, 2005).
The support received fromother OHC members help cancer patients bettercope with their disease and improve their livesboth physically and mentally (Dunkel-Schetter,1984).
Further understanding about thesebenefits has been provided by computational textanalysis and machine learning methods, whichenable fine-grained analysis of the sentiments ofindividual posts in the discussion forum of cancerOHC Qiu et al.
(2011).
It has been shown thatthose who started a thread in a cancer OHC often56show a more positive sentiment in their postslater in the thread, after other OHC membersprovided replies Qiu et al.
(2011); Portier et al.(2013).
However, the potential relationshipbetween alignment theory and these benefits ofcancer OHC has not been explored.
This motivatesus to study the alignment of posts on a thread to theinitial post that starts the thread.4 Data Description and PreliminaryDefinitionsThe data used in this study stem from theCancer Survivor?s Network (CSN) (http://csn.cancer.org).
The CSN is the oldest andthe largest cancer online community for cancersurvivors, which includes cancer patients, andtheir friends and families.
CSN has more than166,000 members (Portier et al., 2013).
Membersin CSN present their concerns, ask questions,share their personal experience and provide socialsupport to each other through discussion threads.Similar to other online communities, CSN threadsconsist of an initial post followed by a sequenceof reply posts ordered by time.
A threadcould be represented as a sequence of post, <P1, P2, ?
?
?
, Pi, ?
?
?
, Pn>.
In order to betterexplain the problem, we show some properties ofa post in the thread.Absolute Position: Given a post Piin a thread, theabsolute position of post Piis iRelative Position: Given a post Piin a thread withn posts, the relative position of Piis i/nWe construct the CSN corpus by randomlysampling 3,000 threads from CSN between 2000and 2010.
Using Stanford?s CoreNLP tool (Kleinand Manning, 2003), we generate the syntacticstructure of the text in each post.
In orderto calculate linguistic adaptation, we convertevery syntactic tree into structure rules in phrases(Reitter et al., 2006).
The data distribution of CSNcorpus is shown in Figure 1.5 Measures of Linguistic AdaptationFollowing previous work, we implementIndiscriminate Local Linguistic Alignment(Fusaroli et al., 2012) at the levels of syntax andlexicon.
In general, indiscriminate local linguisticalignment measures the repetition of language usein the target post repeating prime posts.
LILA, asdefined, is a normalized measure of the number ofwords that occur in both the prime and the target.l l l l l l l llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1 2 5 10 20 50 100 200110100100010000Post Distance# of Post PairsFigure 1: The distribution of posts based on postdistance.The normalization factor is the product of thelength of the prime and the length of the target.Alignment has been demonstrated forsyntax and lexicon, ranging from controlledexperimentation to broad-coverage naturalistictext (e.g., Bock, 1986; Gries, 2005; Ferreiraand Bock, 2006; Reitter et al., 2006).
In thispaper, we present primarily exploratory analysesthat emphasize minimal filtering and dataprocessing.
While some priming effects discussedin the literature indeed require careful post-hoccontrol using many explanatory variables,the phenomena we discuss are evident withexploratory, early-stage methods.5.1 Indiscriminate local linguistic alignmentat the lexical levelLexical Indiscriminate Local Linguistic Alignment(LILLA) measures word repetition between oneor more prime post and a target post.
Theprime always precedes the target.
LILLA, in ourimplementation, can be seen as the probabilityof a word occurring in a single location, given itoccurred in a prime period.
Formally,LILLA(target, prime) =p(target|prime)p(target)(1)=?worditarget?
(wordi)length(prime) ?
length(target)(2)57?
(wordi) ={1 if wordi prime0 otherwise(3)where length(X) is the number of words in postX , and target post is any post following theprime post.
The distance between the two postsis measured in posts.
In different experimentsettings, we focus on certain prime posts, such asthe first post of a thread, or all posts written by acertain author.To sum up, LILLA is measured as wordrepetition conditioned on the word having beenprimed in a previous post.
A high value ofLILLA indicates an increased level of linguisticalignment.
Alignment at the lexical level canhave a number of underlying causes, includinglexical priming, but also simply topicality of theposts.
Therefore, it is important to also inspectindiscriminate local linguistic alignment at thesyntactic level.5.2 Indiscriminate local linguistic alignmentat the syntactic levelHere, we consider a priming effect of syntacticstructure, which shows users?
implicit linguisticadaptation.
Similar to Reitter et al.
(2006), ourcancer survivor network corpus was annotatedwith phrase structure trees; unlike in previouswork, we do so using a parser (from the StanfordCoreNLP package (Klein and Manning, 2003)).Each post is encoded as a series of syntactic rules.Indiscriminate local linguistic alignment at thesyntactic level (SILLA) measures the repetition ofsyntactic rules in the target post.
Similar to ourexperiments in lexical repetition, prime posts willvary in different experimental settings.5.3 Alignment and AdaptationIn this paper, we distinguish alignment andadaptation.
Alignment is the general adoptionof words, phrases, syntax, and any linguisticrepresentation that was heard, read, spoken orwritten previously.
Adaptation is a special caseof alignment: here, speakers permanently adjusttheir linguistic preferences, or they learn fromtheir linguistic experiences.
Alignment can bedue to a memory effect (e.g., priming), whileadaptation may alternatively be the result ofspeakers discussing a topic.
When they do, theyare more likely to use the same words.
Bothalignment and adaptation may decay over time.0.000 0.002 0.004 0.006 0.0080200400600800Lexical Indiscriminate Local Linguistic AlignmentDensityNotOneThreadOneThreadFigure 2: Distribution of lexical indiscriminatelocal linguistic alignment compared to a control(NotOneThread).6 Linguistic properties of conversationthreadsIn this section, we will set up four experimentsto show the alignment properties of conversationthreads.
For simplification, we will only considerreplies whose post distance is less than 100 (datadistribution shown in Figure 1).6.1 Linguistic alignmentWe assume that there is a constant level of randomindiscriminate local linguistic repetition in humanlanguage, both lexically and syntactically.We designed a post-hoc experiment to testwhether linguistic alignment effect is due tolinguistic adaptation or intrinsic repetition inhuman language, following methodology tomeasure long-term adaptation developed in Reitterand Moore (2007).
We split each of 3,000 threadsinto two equal-size (by posts) halves.
Out of theresulting 6,000 thread halves, we produce pairscombining any two sampled thread halves.We define the binary OneThread variable,indicating whether a pair consists of material fromthe same thread, or if it consists of a first halffrom one thread, but a second half from anotherthread.
This allows us to contrast repetition withinand between threads.
If linguistic adaptation exist,linguistic repetition at the lexical and syntacticlevels between the two halves of a pair will be580.000 0.005 0.010 0.015 0.020050100150200250Syntactic Indiscriminate Local Linguistic AlignmentDensityNotOneThreadOneThreadFigure 3: Distribution of syntactic indiscriminatelocal linguistic alignment compared to a control(NotOneThread).more common if OneThread is true.Figures 2 and 3 show that linguisticrepetition in the same thread is greater thanthe control (repetition between differentthreads) (Wilcoxon-test pLILLA< 0.001,pSILLA< 0.001).
However, despite the statisticaldifference, it is obvious that there is a stronglexical alignment effect, but much less syntacticalignment.
As a result, we conclude that atleast some linguistic repetition in the onlineconversation is due to linguistic adaptation.Again, at the lexical level, we would expectsome of this repetition to be due to the preferredrepetition of topical words; at the syntactic level,this is unlikely to be the case.6.2 Linguistic Adaptation DecaysStrong syntactic repetition has been shownto diminish within seconds (Reitter et al.,2006).
Precisely, given an use of a syntacticconstruction at one point in time, the probabilityof this construction being used again is stronglyincreased for the first seconds, but decays rapidlytowards its prior probability.
In our experiment,we replicate the decay of linguistic repetitionat the larger scale of forum threads.
From apsycholinguistic perspective, one would expectonly a relatively weak effect, given that syntacticshort-term priming is often short-lived (Braniganet al., 1999).
However, there is also weaker, slow,long-term persistence (Bock and Griffin, 2000),which can even be cumulative (Jaeger and Snider,2007; Kaschak et al., 2011b).
The messages insuch forums are written at a much larger timescalethan the priming models and short-term priminglab experiments investigate.In the experiment, we split a thread into asequence of posts.
Given a target post Pj, theprime post is one post in the subsequence of posts< P1, ?
?
?
, Pi, ?
?
?
, Pj?1>.
We calculate LILLAand SILLA of posts for prime-target distancesbelow 100.
We will use the same method in thisand following experiments.Figures 4 and 5 show that LILLA and SILLAdrop as the post-distance between a target post anda prime post in the thread increases.
Comparingsyntactic and lexical decay, we note that theslope of LILLA?s decay is stronger than that ofSILLA?s decay.
Both two measurements implythat linguistic alignment decays over time, by?utterance?
(for some definition of utterance), orby post.
These results parallel standard resultsfrom the priming literature.
Surprisingly, forforum threads we find this effect at a much largerscale than in one-on-one spoken dialogue.6.3 Linguistic adaptation to the initial postSo far, we have largely replicated a knownalignment effect for the case of writtencommunication in the online forum.
Thereare some properties of the forum communicationthat allow us to investigate a number of openquestions pertaining to alignment in multi-partydialogue.
The main question concerns thefunction of alignment.
Is it more than an artifactof low-level memory effects (priming)?
Doesit, as Pickering and Garrod (2004) have argued,contribute to mutual understanding?
Or is it,beyond that, a mechanism to express or establishsocial relationships?
If alignment is not just apurely functional phenomenon, but also carriespragmatic weight or social functions, we wouldnot expect it to be blind to the role of the authorof the source (prime) post.In a self-help online discussion forum, therole of the initial post differs from that ofother messages.
The initial post raises an issuegenerally, or it poses a concrete question.
Inthis experiment, we test whether initial posts inthe thread are more important than other replies59llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lll0.0020.0030.0040.0050 25 50 75 100Post distance between prime and target postLILLA(word?target | word?prime post)primeTypelllinitial postany post by initial authorany postFigure 4: Lexical indiscriminate local linguisticadaptation to any post, the initial post and the postsfrom the initial author of the thread.
The lightgray horizontal line shows the mean LILLA to anypost in the thread.
Error bars: standard errors.
(The dashed horizontal line shows the prior, whichis large due to the large number of many shortthreads.
)lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll0.0040.0060.0080.0100.0120 25 50 75 100Post distance between prime and target postSILLA(rule?target | rule?prime post)primeTypelllinitial postany post by initial authorany postFigure 5: Syntactic indiscriminate local linguisticadaptation to any post, the initial post, and theposts from the initial author in the thread.
Thelight gray horizontal line shows the mean SILLAto any post in the thread.in online conversations.
That is, given an initialpost, does linguistic alignment still decline withincreasing post distance between the initial postand the reply post in the online discussion thread?Also, is linguistic alignment to the initial posthigher than that to any post?Figure 4 plots lexical alignment (LILLA).
Wecan see that lexical alignment is present for theinitial post as well, but not more so than in general.In fact, the absolute level as well as the decay ofLILLA to the initial post is weaker than that ofLILLA to any post in the thread.To distinguish linguistic adaptation from moregeneral alignment effects, we also test syntacticalignment, SILLA.
Figure 5 plots this measure.SILLA shows a different story compared toLILLA.
It shows that syntactic adaptation takesplace (and decays) for all posts, but that thereis less, if even initial anti-alignment with theposts from the initial author.
The results may besupported by properties of conversation in internetthreads.
In an online community, initial postsgenerally raise questions.
Different sentence types(e.g., questions) may be used by someone seekinghelp.
So, alignment with the initial post mayseem to decay after post 25, but also shows morevariance (due to fewer data-points).In sum, both measurements suggest thatlinguistic alignment takes place with generalmaterial presented before the target text, andthat repetition probability does decrease overtime or linguistic material (posts) as theoreticallypredicted.
We do not see evidence for a strongsocial role of alignment.6.4 Linguistic adaptation to the author of thefirst postAs the previous experiment showed, lexicalalignment to the initial post decays over time.There is no evidence that alignment with the initialpost is related to its informational role in thethread.
However, is alignment affected by thesocial role taken on by the author that asks theinitial question?
In other words, do writers alignmore with posts from the initial author than withothers?Figure 4 shows that LILLA drops graduallywhen prime posts are restricted to the initialauthor.
Lexical alignment to the initial authorbehaves similarly to alignment with the initialpost.
At the lexical level, repetition of material60provided by the initial author or initial postdoes not drop as rapidly as it does for generalmaterial, and it starts at a lower level.
Furtherinvestigations will be needed to better understandthe alignment effects and the slow decay withthe thread-initiating post.
For example, furtheranalysis is needed to investigate whether theslow decay is related to the support functionthe community provides to the thread initiators.Syntactic alignment (SILLA, Figure 5) suggestsweaker alignment effects for the initial authorand the initial post.
Further investigations willalso be needed to study the syntactic alignmentof replying posts to early reply posts.
If suchalignment exists, it provides further insights aboutthe leadership role in the community (Zhao et al.,2014).This finding result may be supported byproperties of online support communities.Specifically, the author of the initial post is theperson that would like to receive support fromother community members.
People who replyprovide support to that initial author.
Therefore,replies in the thread are likely to have expressionsdifferent from those used in the initial post and bythe initial author.7 ConclusionMotivated by analyzing linguistic adaptationbehavior in online communities, we providea descriptive analysis that qualifies linguisticalignment at both the lexical and syntactic levels.A novel observation is that we find reliablelinguistic adaptation in online communities.
Wereplicate the temporal, logarithmic decay, but wefound it at a much slower pace or larger scale thanpsycholinguistic work has done in experiment orcorpus studies.The distinction we make between syntactic andlexical alignment has implications for the possiblemechanisms behind the adaptation effect.
Awriter?s lexical choices are influenced by topic,while syntactic composition happens implicitly,i.e., without (conscious) attention.
Topics donot remain the same during a conversation: theyshift throughout the thread.
This clustering oftopics can create alignment and decay but as faras permanent adaptation is concerned there isnothing but the illusion of it.Our study provides some insight into propertiesof linguistic alignment particularly in thread-baseddiscussions.
Different from regular dialogues,the initial post and the author of the initialpost may have a special role in such dialogues.We see differences in lexical and syntacticalignment.
We assume that these are likely dueto conversational properties rather than underlyingcognitive processes.This phenomenon provides an interestingangle to study online communities as well aslinguistic alignment from the perspectives ofcommunication and psycholinguistics.Following these exploratory studies, we planto measure discriminate alignment next.
Here,priming spans across semantic relationships ratherthan only word identity (Swinney et al., 1979).Also, a next step would be to build a model thatcan quantify alignment (or even adaptation) andrelate it to the factors pertinent to the discussionand the community, such as network measures andan individual propensity to align.8 AcknowledgementsThis research was made possible by acollaboration agreement between Penn Stateand the American Cancer Society.
The authorswould like to thank the society and collaboratorsKenneth Portier and Greta E. Greer for their workin producing the CSN dataset, as well as PrasenjitMitra and Yang Xu.ReferencesLars Backstrom, Jon Kleinberg, Lillian Lee, and CristianDanescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
Characterizing and curatingconversation threads: expansion, focus, volume, re-entry.In Proceedings of the sixth ACM international conferenceonWeb search and data mining, pages 13?22.
ACM, 2013.Antonina Bambina.
Online social support: the interplay ofsocial networks and computer-mediated communication.Cambria press, 2007.Christopher E Beaudoin and Chen-Chao Tao.
Modeling theimpact of online cancer resources on supporters of cancerpatients.
New Media & Society, 10(2):321?344, 2008.J Kathryn Bock.
Syntactic persistence in languageproduction.
Cognitive psychology, 18(3):355?387, 1986.Kathryn Bock and Zenzi M Griffin.
The persistenceof structural priming: Transient activation or implicitlearning?
Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,129(2):177, 2000.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, and Alexandra A.Cleland.
Syntactic priming in language production:Evidence for rapid decay.
Psychonomic Bulletin andReview, 6(4):635?640, 1999.Holly P Branigan, Martin J Pickering, and Alexandra ACleland.
Syntactic co-ordination in dialogue.
Cognition,75(2):B13?B25, 2000.61Holly P Branigan, Martin J Pickering, Jamie Pearson, andJanet F McLean.
Linguistic alignment between peopleand computers.
Journal of Pragmatics, 42(9):2355?2368,2010.Kenneth W. Church.
Empirial estimates of adaptation: Thechance of two Noriegas is closer to p/2 than p2.
InProceedings of the 18th Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING), pages 180?186, Saarbr?ucken,Germany, 2000.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Lillian Lee.Chameleons in imagined conversations: A new approachto understanding coordination of linguistic style indialogs.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on CognitiveModeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 76?87.Association for Computational Linguistics, 2011.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Michael Gamon, andSusan Dumais.
Mark my words!
: linguistic styleaccommodation in social media.
In Proceedings of the20th international conference on World Wide Web, pages745?754.
ACM, 2011.Christine Dunkel-Schetter.
Social support and cancer:Findings based on patient interviews and theirimplications.
Journal of Social Issues, 40(4):77?98,1984.Victor Ferreira and Kathryn Bock.
The functions of structuralpriming.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 21(7-8):1011?1029, 2006.Riccardo Fusaroli, Bahador Bahrami, Karsten Olsen,Andreas Roepstorff, Geraint Rees, Chris Frith, andKristian Tyl?en.
Coming to terms quantifying the benefitsof linguistic coordination.
Psychological Science, 23(8):931?939, 2012.Simon Garrod and Martin J Pickering.
Joint action,interactive alignment, and dialog.
Topics in CognitiveScience, 1(2):292?304, 2009.Stefan Th.
Gries.
Syntactic priming: A corpus-basedapproach.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 34(4):365?399, 2005.Patrick GT Healey and Gregory Mills.
Participation,precedence and co-ordination in dialogue.
In Proceedingsof the 28th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, pages 1470?1475, 2006.David Huffaker, Joseph Jorgensen, Francisco Iacobelli, PaulTepper, and Justine Cassell.
Computational measures forlanguage similarity across time in online communities.In Proceedings of the HLT-NAACL 2006 Workshop onAnalyzing Conversations in Text and Speech, pages 15?22.Association for Computational Linguistics, 2006.T.
Florian Jaeger and Neal Snider.
Implicit learningand syntactic persistence: Surprisal and cumulativity.University of Rochester Working Papers in the LanguageSciences, 3(1):26?44, 2007.Michael P Kaschak, Timothy J Kutta, and John L Jones.Structural priming as implicit learning: Cumulativepriming effects and individual differences.
PsychonomicBulletin & Review, 18(6):1133?1139, 2011a.Michael P Kaschak, Timothy J Kutta, and ChristopherSchatschneider.
Long-term cumulative structural primingpersists for (at least) one week.
Memory & Cognition, 39(3):381?388, 2011b.Dan Klein and Christopher D Manning.
Fast exact inferencewith a factored model for natural language parsing.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,pages 3?10, 2003.Martin J Pickering and Victor S Ferreira.
Structural priming:a critical review.
Psychological Bulletin, 134(3):427,2008.Martin J Pickering and Simon Garrod.
Theinteractive-alignment model: Developments andrefinements.
Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 27(02):212?225, 2004.Kenneth Portier, Greta E Greer, Lior Rokach, Nir Ofek, YafeiWang, Prakhar Biyani, Mo Yu, Siddhartha Banerjee, KangZhao, Prasenjit Mitra, et al.
Understanding topics andsentiment in an online cancer survivor community.
JNCIMonographs, 2013(47):195?198, 2013.Baojun Qiu, Kang Zhao, Prasenjit Mitra, Dinghao Wu,Cornelia Caragea, John Yen, Greta E Greer, and KennethPortier.
Get online support, feel better?sentiment analysisand dynamics in an online cancer survivor community.In Privacy, security, risk and trust (passat), 2011 ieeethird international conference on and 2011 ieee thirdinternational conference on social computing (socialcom),pages 274?281.
IEEE, 2011.David Reitter and Johanna D Moore.
Predicting successin dialogue.
In Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, volume 45, page 808, 2007.David Reitter, Johanna D. Moore, and Frank Keller.Priming of syntactic rules in task-oriented dialogue andspontaneous conversation.
In Proceedings of the 28thAnnual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society(CogSci), pages 685?690, Vancouver, Canada, 2006.David Reitter, Frank Keller, and Johanna D. Moore.
Acomputational cognitive model of syntactic priming.Cognitive Science, 35(4):587?637, 2011.Shelly Rodgers and Qimei Chen.
Internet communitygroup participation: Psychosocial benefits for womenwith breast cancer.
Journal of Computer-MediatedCommunication, 10(4):00?00, 2005.Lauren E Scissors, Alastair J Gill, and Darren Gergle.Linguistic mimicry and trust in text-based cmc.
InProceedings of the 2008 ACM Conference on ComputerSupported Cooperative Work, pages 277?280.
ACM,2008.Svetlana Stenchikova and Amanda Stent.
Measuringadaptation between dialogs.
In Proc.
of the 8th SIGdialWorkshop on Discourse and Dialogue.
Citeseer, 2007.David Swinney, W. Onifer, P. Prather, and M. Hirshkowitz.Semantic facilitation across modalities in the processingof individual words and sentences.
Memory andCognition, 7:159?165, 1979.Andrew J Winzelberg, Catherine Classen, Georg W Alpers,Heidi Roberts, Cheryl Koopman, Robert E Adams,Heidemarie Ernst, Parvati Dev, and C Barr Taylor.Evaluation of an internet support group for women withprimary breast cancer.
Cancer, 97(5):1164?1173, 2003.Kang Zhao, John Yen, Greta Greer, Baojun Qiu, PrasenjitMitra, and Kenneth Portier.
Finding inuential usersof online health communities: a new metric based onsentiment inuence.
J Am Med Inform Assoc, 2014. doi:10.1136/amiajnl-2013-002282.62
