Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 38?42,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvaluation of a Substitution Method for Idiom Transformation inStatistical Machine TranslationGiancarlo D. Salton and Robert J. Ross and John D. KelleherApplied Intelligence Research CentreSchool of ComputingDublin Institute of TechnologyIrelandgiancarlo.salton@mydit.ie {robert.ross,john.d.kelleher}@dit.ieAbstractWe evaluate a substitution based techniquefor improving Statistical Machine Transla-tion performance on idiomatic multiwordexpressions.
The method operates by per-forming substitution on the original idiomwith its literal meaning before translation,with a second substitution step replac-ing literal meanings with idioms follow-ing translation.
We detail our approach,outline our implementation and providean evaluation of the method for the lan-guage pair English/Brazilian-Portuguese.Our results show improvements in trans-lation accuracy on sentences containingeither morphosyntactically constrained orunconstrained idioms.
We discuss the con-sequences of our results and outline poten-tial extensions to this process.1 IntroductionIdioms are a form of figurative multiword expres-sions (MWE) that are ubiquitous in speech andwritten text across a range of discourse types.Idioms are often characterized in terms of theirhaving non-literal and non-compositional mean-ing whilst occasionally sharing surface realiza-tions with literal language uses (Garrao and Dias,2001).
For example the multiword expression s/hetook the biscuit can have both a figurative mean-ing of being (pejoratively) remarkable, and a lit-eral meaning of removing the cookie.It is notable that idioms are a compact formof language use which allow large fragments ofmeaning with relatively complex social nuancesto be conveyed in a small number of words, i.e.,idioms can be seen as a form of compacted regu-larized language use.
This is one reason why id-iom use is challenging to second language learners(see, e.g., Cieslicka(2006)).Another difficulty for second language learnersin handling idioms is that idioms can vary in termsof their morphosyntactic constraints or fixedness(Fazly et al., 2008).
On one hand some idiomaticexpressions such as popped the question are highlyfixed with syntactic and lexical variations consid-ered unacceptable usage.
On the other hand id-ioms such as hold fire are less fixed with variationssuch as hold one?s fire and held fire considered tobe acceptable instances of the idiom type.For reasons such as those outlined above id-ioms can be challenging to human speakers; butthey also pose a great challenge to a range ofNatural Language Processing (NLP) applications(Sag et al., 2002).
While idiomatic expressions,and more generally multiword expressions, havebeen widely studied in a number of NLP domains(Acosta et al., 2011; Moreno-Ortiz et al., 2013),their investigation in the context of machine trans-lation has been more limited (Bouamor et al.,2011; Salton et al., 2014).The broad goal of our work is to advance ma-chine translation by improving the processing ofidiomatic expressions.
To that end, in this paperwe introduce and evaluate our initial approach tothe problem.
We begin in the next section by giv-ing a brief review of the problem of idiom pro-cessing in a Statistical Machine Translation (SMT)context.
Following that we outline our substitu-tion based solution to idiom processing in SMT.We then outline a study that we have conducted toevaluate our initial method.
This is followed withresults and a brief discussion before we draw con-clusions and outline future work.2 Translation & Idiomatic ExpressionsThe current state-of-the-art in machine transla-tion is phrase-based SMT (Collins et al., 2005).Phrase-based SMT systems extend basic word-by-word SMT by splitting the translation process into3 steps: the input source sentence is segmented38into ?phrases?
or multiword units; these phrasesare then translated into the target language; and fi-nally the translated phrases are reordered if needed(Koehn, 2010).
Although the term phrase-basedtranslation might imply the system works at thesemantic or grammatical phrasal level, it is worthnoting that the concept of a phrase in SMT issimply a frequently occurring sequence of words.Hence, standard SMT systems do not model id-ioms explicitly (Bouamor et al., 2011).Given the above, the question arises as to howSMT systems can best be enhanced to account foridiom usage and other similar multiword expres-sions.
One direct way is to use a translation dic-tionary to insert the idiomatic MWE along with itsappropriate translation into the SMT model phrasetable along with an estimated probability.
Whilethis approach is conceptually simple, a notabledrawback with such a method is that while theMWEs may be translated correctly the word or-der in the resulting translation is often incorrect(Okuma et al., 2008).An alternative approach to extending SMT tohandle idiomatic and other MWEs is to leave theunderlying SMT model alone and instead performintelligent pre- and post-processing of the transla-tion material.
Okuma et al.
(2008) is an exampleof this approach applied to a class of multi- andsingle word expressions.
Specifically, Okuma etal.
(2008) proposed a substitution based pre andpost processing approach that uses a dictionary ofsurrogate words from the same word class to re-place low frequency (or unseen) words in the sen-tences before the translation with high frequencywords from the same word class.
Then, follow-ing the translation step, the surrogate words arereplaced with the original terms.
Okuma et al.
?sdirect focus was not on idioms but rather on placenames and personal names.
For example, givenan English sentence containing the relatively in-frequent place name Cardiff , Okuma et al.
?s ap-proach would: (1) replace this low frequency placename with a high frequency surrogate place name,e.g.
New York; (2) translate the updated sentence;and (3) replace the surrogate words with the cor-rect translation of the original term.The advantage of this approach is that the wordorder of the resulting translation has a much higherprobability of being correct.
While this methodwas developed for replacing just one word (or ahighly fixed name) at a time and those words mustbe of the same open-class category, we see the ba-sic premise of pre- and post- substitution as alsoapplicable to idiom substitution.3 MethodologyThe hypothesis we base our approach on is thatthe work-flow that a human translator would havein translating an idiom can be reproduced in an al-gorithmic fashion.
Specifically, we are assuming awork-flow whereby a human translator first iden-tifies an idiomatic expression within a source sen-tence, then ?mentally?
replaces that idiom with itsliteral meaning.
Only after this step would a trans-lator produce the target sentence deciding whetheror not to use an idiom on the result.
For simplicitywe assumed that the human translator should usean idiom in the target language if available.
Whilethis work-flow is merely a proposed method, wesee it as plausible and have developed a compu-tational method based on this work-flow and thesubstitution technique employed by (Okuma et al.,2008).Our idiom translation method can be explainedbriefly in terms of a reference architecture as de-picted in Figure 1.
Our method makes use of 3dictionaries and 2 pieces of software.
The firstdictionary contains entries for the source languageidioms and their literal meaning, and is called the?Source Language Idioms Dictionary?.
The sec-ond dictionary meanwhile contains entries for thetarget language idioms and their literal meaning,and is called the ?Target Language Idioms Dictio-nary?.
The third dictionary is a bilingual dictio-nary containing entries for the idioms in the sourcelanguage pointing to their translated literal mean-ing in the target language.
This is the ?BilingualIdiom Dictionary?.The two pieces of software are used in the pre-and post-processing steps.
The first piece of soft-ware analyzes the source sentences, consulting the?Source Language Idioms Dictionary?, to iden-tify and replace the source idioms with their lit-eral meaning in the source language.
During thisfirst step the partially rewritten source sentencesare marked with replacements.
Following the sub-sequent translation step the second piece of soft-ware is applied for the post-processing step.
Thesoftware first looks into the marked sentences toobtain the original idioms.
Then, consulting the?Bilingual Idiom Dictionary?, the software tries tomatch a substring with the literal translated mean-39Figure 1: Reference Architecture for Substitution Based Idiom Translation Technique.ing in the target translation.
If the literal mean-ing is identified, it then checks the ?Target Lan-guage Idioms Dictionary?
for a corresponding id-iom for the literal use in the target language.
Iffound, the literal wording in the target translationis then replaced with an idiomatic phrase from thetarget language.
However if in the post-processingstep the original idiom substitution is not found, orif there are no corresponding idioms in the targetlanguage, then the post-processing software doesnothing.4 Study DesignWe have developed an initial implementa-tion of our substitution approach to SMTbased idiom translation for the language pairEnglish/Brazillian-Portugese.
To evaluate ourmethod we created test corpora where each sen-tence contained an idiom, and compared theBLEU scores (Papineni et al., 2002) of a baselineSMT system when run on these test corpora withthe BLEU scores for the same SMT system whenwe applied our pre and post processing steps.
Nosentences with literal uses of the selected idiomform were used in this experiment.Consequently, three corpora were required forthis experiment in addition to the three idiomaticresources introduced in the last section.
Thefirst corpus was an initial large sentence-alignedbilingual corpus that was used to build a SMTmodel for the language pair English/Brazilian-Portuguese.
The second corpus was the first of twotest corpora.
This corpus contained sentences with?highly fixed?
idioms and will be referred to as the?High Fixed Corpus?.
Finally a second test corpuscontaining sentences with ?low fixed?
idioms, the?Low Fixed Corpus?, was also constructed.
In or-der to make results comparable across test corporathe length of sentences in each of the two test cor-pora were kept between fifteen and twenty words.To create the initial large corpus a series ofsmall corpora available on the internet were com-piled into one larger corpus which was used totrain a SMT system.
The resources used in thisstep were Fapesp-v2 (Aziz and Specia, 2011), theOpenSubtitles20131corpus, the PHP Manual Cor-pus2and the KDE4 localizaton files (v.2)3.
Nospecial tool was used to clean these corpora andthe files were compiled as is.To create the ?High Fixed Corpus?
and ?LowFixed Corpus?
we built upon the previous work ofFazly et al.
(2008) who identified a dataset of 17?highly fixed?
English verb+noun idioms, and 11?low fixed?
English verb+noun idioms.
Based onthese lists our two test corpora were built by ex-tracting English sentences from the internet whichcontained instances of each of the high and lowfixed idiom types.
Each collected sentence wasmanually translated into Brazilian-Portuguese, be-fore each translations was manually checked andcorrected by a second translator.
Ten sentenceswere collected for each idiom type.
This resultedin a High Fixed corpus consisting of 170 sentences1http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/OpenSubtitles2013.php2http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/PHP.php3http://opus.lingfil.uu.se/KDE4.php40containing idiomatic usages of those idioms, anda Low-Fixed corpus consisting of 110 sentencescontaining instances of low-fixed idioms.As indicated three idiomatic resources werealso required for the study.
These were: a dic-tionary of English idioms and their literal mean-ings; a dictionary of Brazilian-Portuguese idiomsand their literal meanings; and a bilingual dictio-nary from English to Brazilian-Portuguese.
TheEnglish idioms dictionary contained entries for theidioms pointing to their literal English meanings,along with some morphological variations of thoseidioms.
The Brazilian-Portuguese idioms dictio-nary similarly contained entries for the idiomspointing to their literal meanings with some mor-phological variations of those idioms.
Finally, thebilingual dictionary contained entries for the sameidioms along with morphological variations of theEnglish idioms dictionary but pointing to their lit-eral translated meaning.
The Oxford Dictionary ofEnglish idioms and the Cambridge Idioms Dictio-nary were used to collect the literal meanings ofthe English idioms.
Literal meanings were manu-ally translated to Brazilian-Portuguese.Following resource collection and constructiona SMT model for English/Brazilian-Portuguesewas trained using the Moses toolkit (Koehn et al.,2007) using its baseline settings.
The corpus usedfor this training consisted of 17,288,109 pairs ofsentences (approximately 50% of the initial col-lected corpus), with another 34,576 pairs of sen-tences used for the ?tuning?
process.
Followingthis training and tuning process the baseline trans-lation accuracy, or BLEU scores, were calculatedfor the two test corpora, i.e., for the ?High FixedCorpus?, and the ?Low Fixed Corpus?.Having calculated the baseline BLEU scores,the substitution method was then applied to re-translate each of the two test corpora.
Specifi-cally both the ?High Fixed Corpus?
and the ?LowFixed Corpus?
were passed through our extendedpipeline with new substitution based translationsconstructed for each of the test corpora.
BLEUscores were then calculated for these two out-put corpora that were built using the substitutionmethod.5 Results and DiscussionTable 1 presents the results of the evaluation.The BLEU scores presented in the table comparethe baseline SMT system against our proposedmethod for handling English idiomatic MWE ofthe verb+noun type.Corpus Baseline SubstitutionHigh Idiomatic 23.12 31.72Low Idiomatic 24.55 26.07Table 1: Experiment?s results.Overall the results are positive.
For both thehigh and low idiomatic corpora we find that apply-ing the pre- and post-processing substitution ap-proach improves the BLEU score of the SMT sys-tem.
However, it is notable that the High-Fixedidiomatic corpus showed a considerably larger in-crease in BLEU score than was the case for theLow-Fixedness idiomatic cases, i.e., a positive in-crease of 8.6 versus 1.52.
To investigate furtherwe applied a paired t-test to test for significancein mean difference between baseline and substitu-tion methods for both the high-fixed and low-fixedtest corpora.
While the results for the ?High Id-iomatic Corpus?
demonstrated a statistically sig-nificant difference in BLEU scores (p  0.05),the difference between the baseline and substitu-tion method was not statistically significant for thecase of the ?Low Idiomatic Corpus?
(p ?
0.7).We believe the lack of improvement in the caseof low fixed idioms may be caused by a highermorphosyntactic variation in the translations of thelow fixed idioms.
This higher variation makes thepost-processing step of our approach (which re-quires matching a substring in the translated sen-tence) more difficult for low fixed idioms with theresult that our approach is less effective for theseidioms.It is worth noting that the same SMT system(without the substitution extension) achieved aBLEU score of 62.28 on a corpus of sentencesfrom general language; and, achieved an averageBLEU score of 46.48 over a set of 5 corpora ofsentences that did not contain idioms and wereof simlar length to the idiomatic corpora used inthis study (15 to 20 words).
Both these BLEUscores are higher than the scores we report in Ta-ble 1 for our substitution method.
This indicatesthat although our substitution approach does im-prove BLEU scores when translating idioms thereis still a lot of work to be done to solve the prob-lems posed by idioms to SMT.416 ConclusionOur results indicate that this substitution approachdoes improve the performance of the system.However, we are aware that this method is not theentire solution for the MWE problem in SMT.
Theeffectiveness of the approach is dependent on thefixedness of the idiom being translated.This approach relies on several language re-sources, including: idiomatic dictionaries in thesource and target languages and a bilingual dic-tionary containing entries for the idioms in thesource language aligned with their translated lit-eral meaning in the target language.
In futurework we investigate techniques that we can use to(semi)automatically address dictionary construc-tion.
We will also work on enabling the systemto distinguish between idiomatic vs. literal usagesof idioms.AcknowledgmentsGiancarlo D. Salton would like to thank CAPES(?Coordenac?
?ao de Aperfeic?oamento de Pessoal deN?
?vel Superior?)
for his Science Without Bordersscholarship, proc n. 9050-13-2.
We would liketo thank Acassia Thabata de Souza Salton for hercorrections on the Brazilian-Portuguese transla-tion of sentences containing idioms.ReferencesOtavio Costa Acosta, Aline Villavicencio, and Vi-viane P. Moreira.
2011.
Identification and Treat-ment of Multiword Expressions applied to Informa-tion Retrieval.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onMultiword Expressions: from Parsing and Genera-tion to the Real World (MWE 2011), pages 101?109.Wilker Aziz and Lucia Specia.
2011.
Fully automaticcompilation of a portuguese-english and portuguese-spanish parallel corpus for statistical machine trans-lation.
In STIL 2011.Dhouha Bouamor, Nasredine Semmar, and PierreZweigenbaum.
2011.
Improved Statistical MachineTranslation Using MultiWord Expressions.
In Pro-ceedings of the International Workshop on UsingLinguistic Information for Hybrid Machine Trans-lation), pages 15?20.Anna Cie?slicka.
2006.
Literal salience in on-line pro-cessing of idiomatic expressions by second languagelearners.
22(2):115?144.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Ku?cerov?a.2005.
Clause Restructuring for Statistical MachineTranslation.
In Proceedings of the 43rd AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 531?540.Afsanesh Fazly, Paul Cook, and Suzanne Stevenson.2008.
Unsupervised Type and Token Identificationof Idiomatic Expressions.
In Computational Lin-guistics, volume 35, pages 61?103.Milena U. Garrao and Maria C. P. Dias.
2001.
UmEstudo de Express?oes Cristalizadas do Tipo V+Sn esua Inclus?ao em um Tradutor Autom?atico Bil??ng?ue(Portugu?es/Ingl?es).
In Cadernos de Traduc?
?ao, vol-ume 2, pages 165?182.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, AlexandraConstantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: OpenSource Toolkit for Statistical Machine Translation.In 45th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Philipp Koehn.
2010.
Statistical Machine Translation.Cambridge University Press, New York.
2 Ed.Antonio Moreno-Ortiz, Chantal P?erez-Hern?andez, andM.
?Angeles Del-Olmo.
2013.
Managing MultiwordExpressions in a Lexicon-Based Sentiment AnalysisSystem for Spanish.
In Proceedings of the 9th Work-shop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2013), pages1?10.Hideo Okuma, Hirofumi Yamamoto, and EiichiroSumita.
2008.
Introducing Translation DictionaryInto Phrase-based SMT.
In IEICE - Transactionson Information and Systems, number 7, pages 2051?2057.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
In Proceedingsof the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), pages 311?318.Ivan A.
Sag, Thimothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
InComputational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Pro-cessing: Third International Conference: CICLing-2002, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, volume2276, pages 1?15.Giancarlo D. Salton, Robert J. Ross, and John D.Kelleher.
2014.
An Empirical Study of the Im-pact of Idioms on Phrase Based Statistical MachineTranslation of English to Brazilian-Portuguese.
InThird Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Transla-tion (HyTra) at 14th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.42
