Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Health Text Mining and Information Analysis (Louhi) @ EACL 2014, pages 69?74,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a semantically annotated corpus for congestive heart andrenal failure from clinical records and the literatureNoha Alnazzawi, Paul Thompson and Sophia AnaniadouSchool of Computer Science, University of Manchester, UKalnazzan@cs.man.ac.uk, {paul.thompson,sophia.ananiadou@manchester.ac.uk}AbstractNarrative information in Electronic Health Records(EHRs) and literature articles contains a wealth ofclinical information about treatment, diagnosis,medication and family history.
This often includesdetailed phenotype information for specificdiseases, which in turn can help to identify riskfactors and thus determine the susceptibility ofdifferent patients.
Such information can help toimprove healthcare applications, including ClinicalDecision Support Systems (CDS).
Clinical textmining (TM) tools can provide efficient automatedmeans to extract and integrate vital informationhidden within the vast volumes of available text.Development or adaptation of TM tools is relianton the availability of annotated training corpora,although few such corpora exist for the clinicaldomain.
In response, we have created a newannotated corpus (PhenoCHF), focussing on theidentification of phenotype information for aspecific clinical sub-domain, i.e., congestive heartfailure (CHF).
The corpus is unique in this domain,in its integration of information from both EHRs(300 discharge summaries) and literature articles (5full-text papers).
The annotation scheme, whosedesign was guided by a domain expert, includesboth entities and relations pertinent to CHF.
Twofurther domain experts performed the annotation,resulting in high quality annotation, withagreement rates up to 0.92 F-Score.1 IntroductionAn ever-increasing number of scientific articlesis published every year.
For example, in 2012,more than 500,000 articles were published inMEDLINE (U.S. National Library of Medicine ,2013).
A researcher would thus need to review atleast 20 articles per day in order to keep up todate with latest knowledge and evidence in theliterature (Perez-Rey et al., 2012).EHRs constitute a further rich source ofinformation about patients?
health, representingdifferent aspects of care (Jensen et al., 2012).However, clinicians at the point of care havevery limited time to review the potentially largeamount of data contained within EHRs.
Thispresents significant barriers to clinicalpractitioners and computational applications(Patrick et al., 2006).TM tools can be used to extract phenotypeinformation from EHRs and the literature andhelp researchers to identify the characteristics ofCHF and to better understand the role of thedeterioration in kidney function in the cycle ofprogression of CHF.2 Related workThere are many well-known publicly availablecorpora of scientific biomedical literature, whichare annotated for biological entities and/or theirinteractions (often referred to as events) (Robertset al., 2009; Xia  &  Yetisgen-Yildiz, 2012).Examples include GENIA (Kim et al., 2008),BioInfer (Pyysalo et al., 2007)  GREC(Thompson et al., 2009), PennBioIE (Kulick etal., 2004), GENETAG (Tanabe et al., 2005) andLLL?05 (Hakenberg et al., 2005).
However, noneof these corpora is annotated with the types ofentities and relationships that are relevant to thestudy of phenotype information.On the other hand, corpora of clinical textdrawn from EHRs are rare, due to privacy andconfidentiality concerns, but also because of thetime-consuming, expensive and tedious nature ofproducing high quality annotations, which arereliant on the expertise of domain experts(Uzuner et al., 2011).
A small number of corpora,however, have been made available, mainly inthe context of shared task challenges, which aimto encourage the development of informationextraction (IE) systems.
These corpora vary interms of the text type and annotation granularity.For example, the corpus presented in (Pestian etal., 2007) concerns only structured data fromradiology reports, while the corpus presented in(Meystre  &  Haug, 2006) contains unstructuredparts of EHRs, but annotated with medicalproblem only at the document level.Other corpora are more similar to ours, in thatthat they include text-bound annotations69corresponding to entities or relations.
CLEF(Clinical E-Science Framework) (Roberts et al.,2008) was one of the first such corpora toinclude detailed semantic annotation.
It consistsof a number of different types of clinical records,including clinic letters, radiology andhistopathology reports, which are annotated witha variety of clinical entities, relations betweenthem and co-reference.
However, the corpus hasnot been made publicly available.
The morerecent 2013 CLEF-eHEALTH challenge(Suominen et al., 2013) corpus consists of EHRsannotated with named entities referring todisorders and acronyms/abbreviations, mappedto UMLS concept identifiers.The Informatics for Integrating Biology at theBedside (i2b2) NLP series of challenges havereleased a corpus of de-identified clinical recordsannotated to support a number of IE challengeswith multiple levels of annotation, i.e., entitiesand relations (Uzuner et al., 2008; Uzuner,2009).
The 2010 challenge included the releaseof a corpus of discharge summaries and patientreports in which named entities and relationsconcerning medical problems, tests andtreatments were annotated (Uzuner et al., 2011).A corpus of EHRs from Mayo Clinic has beenannotated with both linguistic information (part-of?speech tags and shallow parsing results) andnamed entities corresponding to disorders (Ogrenet al., 2008; Savova et al., 2010).3 Description of the corpusThe discharge summaries in our PhenoCHFcorpus constitute a subset of the data released forthe second i2b2 shared task, known as?recognising obesity?
(Uzuner, 2009).PhenoCHF corpus was created by filtering theoriginal i2b2 corpus, such that only thosesummaries (a total of 300) for patients with CHFand kidney failure were retained.The second part of PhenoCHF consists of the5 most recent full text articles (at the time ofquery submission) concerning the characteristicsof CHF and renal failure, retrieved from thePubMed Central Open Access database.4 Methods and resultsThe design of the annotation schema was guidedby an analysis of the relevant dischargesummaries, in conjunction with a review ofcomparable domain specific schemata andguidelines, i.e., those from the CLEF and i2b2shared tasks.
The schema is based on a set ofrequirements developed by a cardiologist.
Takinginto account our chosen focus of annotatingphenotype information relating to the CHFdisease, the cardiologist was asked firstly todetermine a set of relevant entity types that relateto CHF phenotype information and the role ofthe decline in kidney function in the cycle ofCHF (exemplified in Table 1), secondly to locatewords that modify the entity (such as polarityclues) and thirdly to identify the types ofrelationships that exist between these entity typesin the description of phenotype information(Table 2) .Secondly, medical terms in the records aremapped semi-automatically onto clinicalconcepts in UMLS, with the aid of MetaMap(Aronson, 2001).The same annotation schema and guidelineswere used for both the discharge summaries andthe scientific full articles.
In the latter, certainannotations were omitted, i.e., organ entities,polarity clues and relations.
This decision wastaken due to the differing ways in whichphenotype information is expressed in dischargesummaries and scientific articles.
In dischargesummaries, phenotype information is explicitlydescribed in the patient?s medical history,diagnoses and test results.
On the other hand,scientific articles summarise results and researchfindings.
This means that certain types ofinformation that occur frequently in dischargesummaries are extremely rare in scientificarticles, such that their occurrences are too sparseto be useful in training TM systems, and hencethey were not annotated.The annotation was carried out by two medicaldoctors, using the Brat Rapid Annotation Tool(brat) (Stenetorp et al., 2012), a highly-configurable and flexible web-based tool fortextual annotation.Annotations in the corpus should reflect theinstructions provided in the guidelines as closelyas possible, in order to ensure that theannotations are of ahigh quality.
A standardmeans of providing evidence regarding thereliability of annotations in a corpus is tocalculate a statistic known as the inter-annotatoragreement (IAA).
IAA provides assurance thatdifferent annotators can produce the sameannotations when working independently andseparately.
There are several different methods ofcalculating IAA, which can be influenced by theexact nature of the annotation task.
We use themeasures of precision, recall and F-measure to70indicate the level of inter-annotator reliability(Hripcsak  &  Rothschild, 2005).
In order tocarry out such calculations, one set ofannotations is considered as a gold standard andthe total number of correct entities is the totalnumber of entities annotated by this annotator.Precision is the percentage of correct positivepredictions annotated by the second annotator,compared to the first annotator?s assumed goldstandard.
It is calculated as follows:P = TP / TP + FPRecall is the percentage of positive casesrecognised by the second annotator.
It iscalculated as follows:R = TP / TP + FNF-score is the harmonic mean betweenprecision and recall.F-score =2* (Precision * Recall) / Precision + RecallWe have calculated separate IAA scores forthe discharge summaries and the scientificarticles.
Table 3 summarises agreement rates forterm annotation in the discharge summaries,showing results for both individual entity typesand macro-averaged scores over all entity types.Relaxed matching criteria were employed, suchthat annotations added by the two annotatorswere considered as a match if their spansoverlapped.
In comparison to related efforts, theIAA rates shown in Table 3 are high.
However,it should be noted that the number of targetedclasses and relations in our corpus is small andfocused, compared to other related corpora.Agreement statistics for scientific articles areshown in Table 4.
Agreement is somewhat lowerthan for discharge summaries, which this couldbe due to the fact that the annotators (doctors)are more used to dealing with dischargesummaries in their day-to-day work, and so aremore accustomed to locating information in thistype of text.
Scientific articles are much longerand generally include more complex language,ideas and analyses, which may require more thanone reading to fully comprehend the informationwithin them.
Table 5 shows the agreement ratesfor relation annotation in the dischargesummaries.
The agreement rates for relationshipsare relatively high.
This can partly be explainedby the deep domain knowledge possessed by theannotators and partly by the fact that therelationships to be identified were relativelysimple, linking only two pre-annotated entities.Table 1.
Annotated phenotype entity classesEntity Type Description ExampleCause any medical problem thatcontributes to the occurrence ofCHFRisk factors A condition that increases thechance of a patient having theCHF diseaseSign &symptomany observable manifestationof a disease which isexperienced by a patient andreported to the physicianNon-traditionalrisk factorConditions  associated withabnormalities in kidneyfunctions that put the patient athigher risk of developing?signs & symptoms?
andcauses of CHFOrgan Any body part71RelationTypeDescription ExampleCausality This relationship links twoconcepts in cases in whichone concept causes theother to occur.Finding This relationship links theorgan to the manifestationor abnormal variation thatis observed during thediagnosis process.Negate This is one-way relation torelate a negation attribute(polarity clue) to thecondition it negates.Table 2.
Description of Annotated RelationsTable 3.
Term annotation agreement statistics for discharge summariesTable 4.
Overall agreement statistics for terms annotation in scientific articlesCausality Finding Negate Macro-averageF-score 0.86 0.94 0.95 0.91Table 5.
Relation annotation and agreement statistics for discharge summaries5 ConclusionThis paper has described the creation of a newannotated corpus to facilitate the customisationof TM tools for the clinical domain.
The corpus1consists of 300 discharge summaries and 5 full-text articles from the literature, annotated forCHF phenotype information, including causes,risk factors, sign & symptoms and non-traditional risk factors.
Discharge summarieshave also been annotated with relationshipsholding between pairs of annotated entities.
Atotal 7236 of entities and 1181 relationships havebeen annotated.
Extracting phenotype1 Guidelines and stand-off annotation are publicly availableat https://code.google.com/p/phenochf-corpus/source/browse/trunkinformation can have a major impact on ourdeeper understanding of disease ethology,treatment and prevention (Xu et al., 2013).Currently we are working on confirming theutility of the annotated corpus in training andcustomising TM tools, i.e., adapting differentsequence tagging algorithms (such asConditional Random Fields (CRF) and HiddenMarkov Model (HMM)) to extractcomprehensive clinical information from bothdischarge summaries and scientific articles.Causality RiskfactorSign &SymptomNon-traditionalrisk factorPolarityclueOrgan Macro-averageF-score 0.95 0.94 0.97 0.83 0.94 0.92 0.92Cause Risk factor Sign &SymptomsNon-traditionalrisk factorMacro-averageF-score 0.82 0.84 0.82 .77 0.8172ReferencesMEDLINE citation counts by year of publication.Aronson, A.R.
(2001).
Effective mapping ofbiomedical text to the UMLS Metathesaurus: theMetaMap program.
Proceedings of the AMIASymposium, American Medical InformaticsAssociation.Hakenberg, J., Plake, C., Leser, U., Kirsch, H. andRebholz-Schuhmann, D. (2005).
LLL?05challenge: Genic interaction extraction-identification of language patterns based onalignment and finite state automata.
Proceedingsof the 4th Learning Language in Logic workshop(LLL05).Hripcsak, G. and Rothschild, A.S. (2005).
Agreement,the f-measure, and reliability in informationretrieval.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 12(3): 296-298.Jensen, P.B., Jensen, L.J.
and Brunak, S. (2012).Mining electronic health records: towards betterresearch applications and clinical care.
NatureReviews Genetics, 13(6): 395-405.Kim, J.-D., Ohta, T. and Tsujii, J.
(2008).
Corpusannotation for mining biomedical events fromliterature.
BMC Bioinformatics, 9(10).Kulick, S., Bies, A., Liberman, M., Mandel, M.,McDonald, R., Palmer, M., Schein, A., Ungar, L.,Winters, S. and White, P. (2004).
Integratedannotation for biomedical information extraction.Proc.
of the Human Language TechnologyConference and the Annual Meeting of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (HLT/NAACL).Meystre, S. and Haug, P.J.
(2006).
Natural languageprocessing to extract medical problems fromelectronic clinical documents: performanceevaluation.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,39(6): 589-599.Ogren, P.V., Savova, G.K. and Chute, C.G.
(2008).Constructing Evaluation Corpora for AutomatedClinical Named Entity Recognition.
LREC.Patrick, J., Wang, Y. and Budd, P. (2006).
AutomaticMapping Clinical Notes to MedicalTerminologies.
Australasian LanguageTechnology Workshop.Perez-Rey, D., Jimenez-Castellanos, A., Garcia-Remesal, M., Crespo, J. and Maojo, V. (2012).CDAPubMed: a browser extension to retrieveEHR-based biomedical literature.
BMC MedicalInformatics and Decision Making, 12(1): 29.Pestian, J.P., Brew, C., Matykiewicz, P., Hovermale,D., Johnson, N., Cohen, K.B.
and Duch, W.(2007).
A shared task involving multi-labelclassification of clinical free text.
Proceedings ofthe Workshop on BioNLP 2007: Biological,Translational, and Clinical Language Processing,Association for Computational Linguistics.Pyysalo, S., Ginter, F., Heimonen, J., Bj?rne, J.,Boberg, J., J?rvinen, J. and Salakoski, T. (2007).BioInfer: a corpus for information extraction inthe biomedical domain.
BMC Bioinformatics,8(1): 50.Roberts, A., Gaizauskas, R., Hepple, M., Demetriou,G., Guo, Y., Setzer, A. and Roberts, I.
(2008).Semantic annotation of clinical text: The CLEFcorpus.
Proceedings of the LREC 2008 workshopon building and evaluating resources forbiomedical text mining.Roberts, A., Gaizauskas, R., Hepple, M., Demetriou,G., Guo, Y., Roberts, I. and Setzer, A.
(2009).Building a semantically annotated corpus ofclinical texts.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,42(5): 950-966.Savova, G.K., Masanz, J.J., Ogren, P.V., Zheng, J.,Sohn, S., Kipper-Schuler, K.C.
and Chute, C.G.(2010).
Mayo clinical Text Analysis andKnowledge Extraction System (cTAKES):architecture, component evaluation andapplications.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 17(5): 507-513.Stenetorp, P., Pyysalo, S., Topi?, G., Ohta, T.,Ananiadou, S. and Tsujii, J.i.
(2012).
BRAT: aweb-based tool for NLP-assisted text annotation.Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 13thConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Association for Computational Linguistics.Suominen, H., Salanter?, S., Velupillai, S., Chapman,W.W., Savova, G., Elhadad, N., Pradhan, S.,South, B.R., Mowery, D.L.
and Jones, G.J.
(2013).Overview of the ShARe/CLEF eHealth EvaluationLab 2013.
Information Access Evaluation.Multilinguality, Multimodality, and Visualization,Springer: 212-231.Tanabe, L., Xie, N., Thom, L.H., Matten, W. andWilbur, W.J.
(2005).
GENETAG: a tagged corpusfor gene/protein named entity recognition.
BMCBioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1): S3.Thompson, P., Iqbal, S., McNaught, J. andAnaniadou, S. (2009).
Construction of anannotated corpus to support biomedicalinformation extraction.
BMC Bioinformatics,10(1): 349.Uzuner, ?., Goldstein, I., Luo, Y. and Kohane, I.(2008).
Identifying patient smoking status frommedical discharge records.
Journal of theAmerican Medical Informatics Association, 15(1):14-24.73Uzuner, ?.
(2009).
Recognizing obesity andcomorbidities in sparse data.
Journal of theAmerican Medical Informatics Association, 16(4):561-570.Uzuner, ?., South, B.R., Shen, S. and DuVall, S.L.(2011).
2010 i2b2/VA challenge on concepts,assertions, and relations in clinical text.
Journal ofthe American Medical Informatics Association,18(5): 552-556.Xia, F. and Yetisgen-Yildiz, M. (2012).
Clinicalcorpus annotation: challenges and strategies.Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Buildingand Evaluating Resources for Biomedical TextMining (BioTxtM'2012) in conjunction with theInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC), Istanbul, Turkey.Xu, R., Li, L. and Wang, Q.
(2013).
Towardsbuilding a disease-phenotype knowledge base:extracting disease-manifestation relationship fromliterature.
Bioinformatics, 29(17): 2186-2194.74
