Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Linguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 46?50,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting linguistic idiosyncratic interests in autismusing distributional semantic modelsMasoud Rouhizadeh?, Emily Prud?hommeaux?, Jan van Santen?, Richard Sproat?
?Center for Spoken Language Understanding, Oregon Health & Science University?Center for Language Sciences, University of Rochester?Google, Inc.{rouhizad,vansantj}@ohsu.edu, emilypx@gmail.com, rws@xoba.comAbstractChildren with autism spectrum disorderoften exhibit idiosyncratic patterns of be-haviors and interests.
In this paper, we fo-cus on measuring the presence of idiosyn-cratic interests at the linguistic level inchildren with autism using distributionalsemantic models.
We model the semanticspace of children?s narratives by calculat-ing pairwise word overlap, and we com-pare the overlap found within and acrossdiagnostic groups.
We find that the wordsused by children with typical developmenttend to be used by other children with typ-ical development, while the words usedby children with autism overlap less withthose used by children with typical devel-opment and even less with those used byother children with autism.
These findingssuggest that children with autism are veer-ing not only away from the topic of thetarget narrative but also in idiosyncraticsemantic directions potentially defined bytheir individual topics of interest.1 IntroductionAutism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurode-velopmental disorder characterized by impairedcommunication and social behavior.
One of thecore deficits associated with ASD is an intensepreoccupation with a restricted set of interests(American Psychiatric Association, 2000; Amer-ican Psychiatric Association, 2013), which can of-ten be observed in an individual?s tendency to per-severate on specific, idiosyncratic topics of con-versation.
Because this symptom is explicitlymentioned among the diagnostic criteria for ASDused in the DSM-IV and DSM-5, many diagnos-tic instruments (Lord et al., 2002; Rutter et al.,2003) require a qualitative assessment of this phe-nomenon.
Instances of perseveration on a partic-ular topic in the spontaneous spoken language ofchildren with ASD, however, are not typically ex-plicitly counted in a clinical setting, making com-parisons with typically developing children diffi-cult to quantify.Expert manual analysis of conversations andnarratives of individuals with ASD has shown thatchildren and teenagers with autism include signif-icantly more bizarre and irrelevant content in theirnarratives (Loveland et al., 1990; Losh and Capps,2003) and introduce more abrupt topic changes intheir conversations (Lam et al., 2012) than theirtypically developing peers.
Automatic detectionof poor topic maintenance has also been exploredusing techniques originally developed for infor-mation extraction (Rouhizadeh et al., 2013).
Therehas been little work, however, in annotating theprecise direction of the departure from a targettopic.
Thus, it is not clear whether children withASD are instigating similar topic changes or pur-suing idiosyncratic directions in their narrativesand conversations consistent with their restrictedinterests.In this paper, we attempt to automatically iden-tify topic changes and idiosyncratic interests ex-pressed in the language of children with ASDby measuring the semantic similarity of narrativeretellings produced by children with and withoutASD.
We first use word overlap measures to cal-culate the semantic similarity between every pos-sible pair of narratives.
We then build three pair-wise comparison matrices: one comparing pairs oftypically developing (TD) children; one compar-ing pairs of children with ASD; and a third com-46paring pairs consisting of one child with ASD andone child with TD.
We calculate the significanceof the differences between the pairs in the threematrices using the Monte Carlo method to shufflethe diagnosis label of each child.We find that TD children share the greatestword overlap with one another, while childrenwith ASD have significantly less word overlapwith TD children and even less word overlap withother ASD children.
These results indicate thatTD children tend to adhere to the target topic inthe narrative retellings, while children with ASDoften stray from the target topic.
Furthermore,the fact that the word choices of an individualchild with ASD seem not to resemble the wordchoices of other children with ASD suggests thatwhen a child with ASD chooses to abandon thetarget topic, he or she does so in an idiosyncraticway.
Although these results are only indirect in-dications of the presence of restricted interests,the work presented here highlights the potential ofcomputational language analysis methods for im-proving our understanding of the social and lin-guistic deficits associated with the disorder.2 DataParticipants in this study included 39 children withtypical development (TD) and 21 children withautism spectrum disorder (ASD).
ASD was di-agnosed via clinical consensus according to theDSM-IV-TR criteria (American Psychiatric Asso-ciation, 2000) and the established threshold scoreson two diagnostic instruments: the Autism Di-agnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS) (Lord etal., 2002), a semi-structured series of activities de-signed to allow an examiner to observe behaviorsassociated with autism; and the Social Communi-cation Questionnaire (SCQ) (Rutter et al., 2003),a parental questionnaire.
None of the childrenin this study met the criteria for a language im-pairment, and there were no significant between-group differences in age (mean=6.3) or full-scaleIQ (mean=115.5).The narrative retelling task analyzed here is theNarrative Memory subtest of the NEPSY (Kork-man et al., 1998), a large and comprehensive bat-tery of tasks that test neurocognitive functioning inchildren.
The NEPSY Narrative Memory (NNM)subtest is a narrative retelling test in which the sub-ject listens to a brief narrative about a boy and hisdog and then must retell the narrative to the ex-aminer.
Under standard administration, the NNMfree recall score is calculated by counting howmany from a set of 17 story elements were usedin a retelling.
Following the free recall portion ofthe test is the cued recall task, in which the ex-aminer then asks the subject to provide answers toquestions about all of the story elements that wereomitted in the retelling.The NNM was administered to each participantin the study, and each participant?s retelling wasrecorded and transcribed.
The responses for thecued recall portion of the subtest were not in-cluded in this work presented here.
There was nosignificant difference between the two diagnosticgroups in the standard NNM free recall score.3 MethodsWe expect that two different retellings of the samesource will lie in the same lexico-semantic space.As a result, they should include high percentageof overlapping words.
When a pair of retellingshas a low word overlap measure, it could be thatone or both retellings include intrusions from un-related topics.
An alternative explanation is thatthe subjects recalled a non-overlapping set of storyelements or simply a small set of story elements.However, since we did not find any significant dif-ference between the TD and ASD groups in thestandard narrative recall score, we infer that a lowpercentage of word overlap indicates a differencein topic between the two retellings.3.1 Word overlap measuresIn order to calculate the similarity between a pairof narratives i and j, we use type and token over-lap measures based on the Jaccard similarity coef-ficient.
Token similarity is defined as the size ofintersection of the words (i.e., the actual numberof tokens in common) in narratives i and j relativeto the size of the union of the words in the twonarratives (i.e., summing over all tokens in bothnarratives, the maximum number of instances ofthat token in either narrative).
Type similarity isdefined as the size of intersection of the types (i.e.,unique words) in narratives i and j relative to thesize of the union of the types in the two narratives.For instance, for the following set of words i andj:i = {a, b, c, d, c}j = {a, c, e, c, a, a},the token intersection is equal to {a, c, c} and47Group MeansTD.TD TD.ASD ASD.ASDType Overlap .23 .17 .13Token Overlap .19 .14 .11Table 3: Word overlap pairwise group meansthe token union is {a, a, a, c, c, b, e, d}.
The tokenoverlap similarity between the two sets i and j istherefore 3/8.
The type intersection of i and j isequal to {a, c} and the type union is {a, c, b, e, d},yielding a type overlap similarity of 2/5.3.2 Pairwise similarity matrixWe next build a similarity matrix for the type andtoken overlap measures, comparing every possi-ble pair of children.
Every child in the TD andASD groups is compared to the children in his owngroup (TD.TD and ASD.ASD), as well as the chil-dren in the other group (TD.ASD).
The pairwisesimilarity matrix is diagonally symmetrical, andwe thus consider only the top right section of thematrix above the diagonal in our analysis.3.3 Monte Carlo permutationSince we may not have enough information tomake an assumption that the pairwise similaritymeasures of all children are from a particular dis-tribution, we utilize a non-parametric procedure,the Monte Carlo permutation approach, which iswidely used in non-standard significance testingsituations.Given the three sub-matrices in the similaritymatrix described above (TD.TD, TD.ASD, andASD.ASD), we first calculate for each pair of sub-matrices (e.g., TD.TD vs ASD.ASD) three statis-tics that compare all cells in one submatrix withthe cells in other submatrices: the difference be-tween the means, t-statistics (using the WelchTwo Sample t-test), and w-statistics (using theWilcoxon rank sum test).
We label these observedvalues observed-mean, observed-t, and observed-w. We next take a large random sample with re-placement from all possible permutations of thedata by shuffling the diagnosis labels of the chil-dren 1000 times, and then calculate each of thethree above statistics for each shuffle.
Finally, wedetermine the number of times the observed valuesexceed the values generated by the 1000 shuffles.4 ResultsThe comparison of the group means of each ofthe three sub-matrices described in Section 3.2show that TD children have the greatest overlapwith each other; children with ASD have lessword overlap with TD children than TD childrenhave with one another and even less word over-lap with other ASD children.
The group meansof both type and token overlap are summarizedin Table 3.
In addition, examples of overlappingand non-overlapping terms between the groups areprovided in Tables 1 and 2 respectively.The level plot of the pairwise token overlapis shown in figure 1.
We see that the TD.TDsub-matrix has the lightest color, indicating higheroverlap, followed by TD.ASD.
The ASD.ASDsubmatrix has the darkest color, indicating lowword overlap.In the next step, we determine the significanceof the group mean differences.
As described inSection 3.3, using the Monte Carlo permutation totest the significance of the following comparisons:TD.TD vs ASD.ASD, TD.TD vs TD.ASD, andTD.ASD vs ASD.ASD.
The results of these signif-Group Top 10 overlapping wordsTD.TD shoe, tree, climb, ladder, fall, Pepper, Jim, dog, sister, branchTD.ASD shoe, tree, Jim, climb, dog, ladder, Pepper, fall, branch, sisterASD.ASD shoe, tree, Jim, dog, climb, Pepper, ladder, branch, boy, runTable 1: Top 10 overlapping words between the groupsGroup Examples of non-overlapping wordsTD.TD coconut, couch, jew, lie, picture, spike, stuff, t-rex, tight, watchTD.ASD arm, bottom, cousin, doctor, eat, fruit, giant, meat, push, senseASD.ASD bite, bridge, crunch, donut, gadget, lizard, microphone, sell, table, visionTable 2: Examples of non-overlapping words between the groups48?????
?Figure 1: Level plot of the pairwise token overlap(lighter colors indicate higher overlap)icance tests are summarized in table 4, and in allcases the differences are significant at p < 0.05.5 Conclusions and future workThe methods presented for comparing the lexicalchoices made by children with and without ASDwhile generating a narrative retelling demonstratethe utility of language analysis for revealing diag-nostically interesting information.
The low ratesof word overlap between retellings produced bychildren with ASD and those produced by typi-cally developing children suggest that the childrenwith ASD are having difficulty maintaining thetarget topic.
Furthermore, the low overlap betweenpairs of children with ASD suggests that childrenwith ASD are not straying from the topic in sim-ilar ways but are instead exploring topics that areof idiosyncratic interest.These findings can be potentially used fordiagnostic purposes in combinations of otherapplications of speech and language process-ing for automated narrative retelling assessment(Lehr et al., 2013), detection of off-topic words(Rouhizadeh et al., 2013), and pragmatic deficits(Prud?hommeaux and Rouhizadeh, 2012).
From aclinical standpoint, diagnostic measures utilizingthese methods for automated evaluation of disor-dered language could be very useful in diagnosisand planning interventions.One major focus of our future work will be tomanually annotate the narrative retellings used inthis study to determine the frequency of topic de-partures and the nature of these departures.
Giventhe vocabulary differences seen here, we expectto find not only that children with ASD are aban-doning the topic of the source narrative more fre-quently than children with typical developmentbut also that the topics they choose to pursue arerelated to their own individual specific interests.A second area we hope to explore is the useof external resources, such as WordNet, to ex-pand the set of terms used to calculate word over-lap.
It is perfectly reasonable to expect that peoplewill use synonyms and paraphrases in their narra-tive retellings.
It is therefore possible that chil-dren with autism are discussing the appropriatetopic but choosing unusual words within that topicspace in their retellings, which could be consis-tent with the type of atypical language often ob-served in children with ASD.
By considering se-mantic overlap rather than simple word overlap,we may be able to distinguish instances of atypicallanguage from true examples of poor topic main-tenance.Third, we are also interested in applying theanalysis described above to a set of retellings fromseniors with and without mild cognitive impair-ment, a frequent precursor to dementia.
Like chil-dren with ASD, seniors with dementia are alsomore likely to include irrelevant information inoverlap statisticp-valuesTD.TD vs ASD.ASD TD.TD vs TD.ASD TD.ASD vs ASD.ASDType OverlapMeans .004 .042 .008t.test .009 .012 .008Wilcoxon test .004 .002 .002Token OverlapMeans .012 .034 .028t.test .014 .022 .022Wilcoxon test .012 .002 .002Table 4: Monte Carlo significance test results49their narrative retellings.
These intrusions, how-ever, are often informed by real-world knowledge,and thus may not result in a decrease in measuresof word overlap with narratives produced by unim-paired individuals.Finally, we plan to apply our methods to the out-put of an automatic speech recognition (ASR) sys-tem rather than manual transcripts.
Although theASR output is likely to contain many errors, thefact that our methods focus on content words maymake them robust to the sorts of function wordrecognition errors typically produced by ASR sys-tems.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by NSF grant#BCS-0826654, and NIH NIDCD grants #R01-DC007129 and #1R01DC012033-01.
Any opin-ions, findings, conclusions or recommendationsexpressed in this publication are those of the au-thors and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe NSF or the NIH.ReferencesAmerican Psychiatric Association.
2000.
DSM-IV-TR:Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disor-ders.
American Psychiatric Publishing, Washing-ton, DC.American Psychiatric Association.
2013.
Diagnosticand statistical manual of mental disorders (5th ed.
).American Psychiatric Publishing, Washington, DC.Marit Korkman, Ursula Kirk, and Sally Kemp.
1998.NEPSY: A developmental neuropsychological as-sessment.
The Psychological Corporation, San An-tonio.Yan Grace Lam, Siu Sze, and Susanna Yeung.
2012.Towards a convergent account of pragmatic lan-guage deficits in children with high-functioningautism: Depicting the phenotype using the prag-matic rating scale.
Research in Autism SpectrumDisorders, 6(2):792?797.Maider Lehr, Izhak Shafran, Emily Prud?hommeaux,and Brian Roark.
2013.
Discriminative joint model-ing of lexical variation and acoustic confusion forautomated narrative retelling assessment.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics: Human Language Technologies.Catherine Lord, Michael Rutter, Pamela DiLavore, andSusan Risi.
2002.
Autism Diagnostic ObservationSchedule (ADOS).
Western Psychological Services,Los Angeles.Molly Losh and Lisa Capps.
2003.
Narrative ability inhigh-functioning children with autism or asperger?ssyndrome.
Journal of Autism and DevelopmentalDisorders, 33(3):239?251.Katherine Loveland, Robin McEvoy, and Belgin Tu-nali.
1990.
Narrative story telling in autism anddown?s syndrome.
British Journal of Developmen-tal Psychology, 8(1):9?23.Emily Prud?hommeaux and Masoud Rouhizadeh.2012.
Automatic detection of pragmatic deficitsin children with autism.
In Proceedings of the3rd Workshop on Child, Computer and Interaction(WOCCI).Masoud Rouhizadeh, Emily Prud?hommeaux, BrianRoark, and Jan van Santen.
2013.
Distributionalsemantic models for the evaluation of disorderedlanguage.
In Proceedings of the Conference ofthe North American Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-nologies.Michael Rutter, Anthony Bailey, and Catherine Lord.2003.
Social Communication Questionnaire (SCQ).Western Psychological Services, Los Angeles.50
