Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 77?81,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards an Empirical Subcategorization of Multiword ExpressionsLuigi SquillanteDipartimento di Scienze Documentarie, Linguistico-filologiche e Geografiche?Sapienza?
- Universit`a di RomaRoma, Italyluigi.squillante@uniroma1.itAbstractThe subcategorization of multiword ex-pressions (MWEs) is still problematic be-cause of the great variability of their phe-nomenology.
This article presents an at-tempt to categorize Italian nominal MWEson the basis of their syntactic and seman-tic behaviour by considering features thatcan be tested on corpora.
Our analysisshows how these features can lead to adifferentiation of the expressions in twogroups which correspond to the intuitivenotions of multiword units and lexical col-locations.1 IntroductionIn contemporary linguistics the definition of thoseentities which are referred to as multiword ex-pressions (MWEs) remain controversial.
It is in-tuitively clear that some words, when appearingtogether, have some ?special bond?
in terms ofmeaning (e.g.
black hole, mountain chain), or lex-ical choice (e.g.
strong tea, to fill a form), con-trary to free combinations.
Nevertheless, the greatvariety of features and anomalous behaviours thatthese expressions exhibit makes it difficult to or-ganize them into categories and gave rise to agreat amount of different and sometimes over-lapping terminology.1In fact, MWEs can shownon-grammatical constructions, syntactic fixed-ness, morphological frozeness, semantic restric-tions, non-compositionality, strong pragmatic con-notation, etc.
These features are not necessary andsufficient conditions for each expression, but rep-resent only possible behaviours that can be exhib-ited together or individually and to a different ex-tent.1See Bartsch (2004) or Masini (2007) for an overview onthe historical development of MWE terminology.Traditionally MWEs are seen as entities lyingon a continuum between two poles that go froma maximum of semantic opacity (green thumb) tocompositional expressions that show only lexicalrestrictions (to catch a cold).
However the ?com-positional criterion?
is a problematic concept insemantics, since it has been shown how difficult itis, in language, to define component parts, rules orfunctions involved in compositionality (Casadei,1996) and, above all, that it is impossible to givewords an absolute meaning independently fromtheir context (Firth, 1957; Hanks, 2013).
Becauseof this, the problem of subcategorizing the hetero-geneous set of MWEs must be based on more re-liable and testable criteria.This work presents a study conducted on theItalian language that aims at dividing MWEs insubcategories on the basis of empirical syntacticand semantic criteria different from composition-ality.
We show how these features are able to sep-arate two poles of entities which approximatelycorrespond to what is intuitively known as mul-tiword units (polirematiche in the Italian lexico-graphic tradition)2as opposed to (lexical) colloca-tions.2 The need to go beyond statisticsIn recent years, the fact that MWE componentstend to cooccur more frequently than expected ledto the development of several statistical associa-tion measures3(AMs) in order to identify and au-tomatically extract MWEs.
However, as pointedout in Evert (2008), it is important not to confusethe empirical concept of recurrent or statisticallyrelevant word combination in a corpus (empiricalcollocation) with the theoretical concept of MWE(which assumes phraseological implications), al-though the two sets overlap.
In fact, it is common2cf.
De Mauro (2007).3See Evert (2004) for a general overview.77that AMs can extract expressions such as leggereun libro ?to read a book?
or storcere il naso ?tostick up [one?s] nose?
just because the componentstend to cooccur often in corpora.
However, whilethe first one seems not to need its own categori-cal status (Bosque, 2004), the latter is usually de-noted as a metaphoric MWE or idiom.
AMs arenot able to distinguish between the two or evendifferentiate subtypes of true MWEs on the basisof phraseological relevance (e.g.
AMs are not ableto assign a higher score to more opaque MWEsin opposition to lexical collocations).
It is pos-sible, however, to integrate statistical informationwith the results of syntactic and semantic tests per-formed on corpora in order to identify subgroupsof MWEs.43 MethodologyAs a first approach, in this work only Italian nomi-nal MWE of the form [noun + adjective]5are cho-sen.
The corpus used in our study is PAIS`A6, afreely available large Italian corpus, composed ofca.
250 million tokens and morpho-syntacticallyannotated.
By means of mwetoolkit (Ramisch etal., 2010) the 400 most frequent [noun + adjec-tive] bigrams are extracted from the corpus andassigned the pointwise mutual information (PMI)association score (Church and Hanks, 1990).
Thenthe bigrams are ordered according to PMI and onlythe first 300 are retained.7The number of oc-currences of the expressions contained in this setvaries between 20.748 and 641.Then, we implemented a computational toolthat performs empirical tests on modifiability.
Wechose to study three features, which are a) inter-ruptibility, b) inflection and c) substitutability8andfor each of them an index is calculated.4The idea is not new, since already Fazly and Stevenson(2007) showed how lexical and syntactic fixedness is relevantin subcategorizing MWEs.
However, their work focused onlyon a set of English verbal MWEs and subclasses were deter-mined initially and not at the end of the analysis.5This is the unmarked Italian noun phrase.6www.corpusitaliano.it7The first frequency threshold is necessary since PMItends to overestimate expressions with very low numbers ofoccurrences (Evert, 2008).
Then, considering only the 300best candidates increases the chances to have a majority ofMWEs.
In a later stage of our analysis also the top-300 can-didates extracted by the log-likelihood (LL) AM (Dunning,1993) have been considered, in order to check if the initialchoice of PMI could affect somehow our results.
The LL setwas 66% coincident with the PMI set.
However, the new ex-pressions seem to show the same tendencies of distributions(cf.
Section 4) as those in the PMI set.8In fact, in Italian: a) some nominal MWEs do not allowGiven the expression, the index of interruptibil-ity (Ii) compares the occurrences of the sequencein its basic form [noun + adjective] (nbf), withthe occurrences of the same sequence with oneword occurring between the two components (ni).The queries are made over lemmas and its value isgiven by the ratio: Ii= ni/(nbf+ ni).The index of inflection (If) compares the num-ber of occurrences of the prevalent (most frequent)inflected form (npf) with those of the basic lem-matized form9(nbf) and its value is given by theratio: If= (nbf?
npf)/nbf.Finally, the index of substitutability (Is) com-pares the number of occurrences of the basic form(nbf), regardless of inflection, with the occur-rences nsof all the sequences in which one ofthe two components is replaced by one of itssynonyms (if present).
If ns1,iis the numberof occurrences of the i-th synonym of the firstcomponent word and ns2,iis an analogous quan-tity for the second component word, then ns=?ins1,i+?ins2,iand Is= ns/(nbf+ ns).
Inorder to calculate Isthe tool needs an external syn-onym list; we chose the GNU-OpenOffice ItalianThesaurus10because of its immediate availability,open-source nature and ease of management.11Then the three indices are calculated for each ofthe 300 MWEs of the candidate list.4 ResultsFigure 1 shows the distribution of the expressionsin the planes defined by Ii, If,Is.
It is evident thatthere is a tendency for the expressions to gathermore along the axes rather than in the planes, i.e.where one of the indices has low values.for the insertion of other words between the components (e.g.carro armato ?tank?
; cfr.
*carro grande armato) while othersdo (e.g.
punto debole ?weak point?
; cf.
punto pi`u debole); b)some nominal MWEs exhibit inflection frozeness (e.g.
dirittiumani ?human rights?
; cf.
*diritto umano), while others canbe freely inflected (e.g.
cartone animato ?cartoon?
; cfr.
car-toni animati); c) some nominal MWEs do not allow for thesubstitution of one of their components with a synonym (e.g.colonna sonora ?soundtrack?
; cf.
*pilastro sonoro) while oth-ers do (e.g.
guerra mondiale ?world war?
; cf.
conflitto mon-diale).9Although Nissim and Zaninello (2011) show how Ital-ian nominal MWEs can exhibit several distinct morphologi-cal variations, we chose to consider only the proportion be-tween the prevalent form and the total number of expressionssince our pattern generally admits only singular and pluralforms, with noun and adjective coherently coupled.10http://linguistico.sourceforge.net/pages/thesaurus italiano.html11However, other more specific and complete resourcescould be attached instead in the future, in order to improvethe quality of the results.78Figure 1: Distribution of MWE candidates according to the values of their indices of inflection (If),substitutability (Is) and interruptibility (Ii).Since the plane IfIsshows the highest disper-sion of points, we chose to consider in this plane4 polarities defined by the intersection of high/lowvalues for both Ifand Is.
We consider a valuehigh (and indicate I+) when I > 0.33 and low(I?)
when I < 0.1.
In this way we obtain 4 setsof expressions lying at the extreme corners of theplane and denote them I+fI+s, I+fI?s, I?fI+s, I?fI?s.Iihas a small range of variation (97% of thecandidates have Ii< 0.1), nevertheless it can dif-ferentiate, as a third dimension, the expressions inthe 4 groups defined above from a minimum to amaximum of interruptibility.As one could presume, the expressions appear-ing in the group I?fI?swith the lowest score of Iiare examples of opaque, crystallized or termino-logical expressions, such as testamento biologico?living will?
(If= 0.066, Is= 0.004, Ii= 0), valormilitare ?military valour?
(If= 0, Is= 0, Ii=0), anidride carbonica ?carbon dioxide?
(If= 0,Is= 0, Ii= 0.001).
However expressions in thesame group with the highest values of interrupt-ibility12seem to be compositional and just lexi-cally restricted: carriera solista ?solo career?
(If= 0.067, Is= 0.018, Ii= 0.280), sito ufficiale ?of-ficial website?
(If= 0.043, Is= 0.077, Ii= 0.076).Similar results come out for the group I+fI?s,where expressions like cartone animato ?cartoon?
(If= 0.333, Is= 0.033, Ii= 0.0004), macchinafotografica ?camera?
(If= 0.374, Is= 0.058, Ii=0.004), appear with low scores of interruptibility,while punto debole ?weak point?
(If= 0.4, Is=0.066, Ii= 0.052), figlio maschio ?male son?
(If= 0.479, Is= 0.098, Ii= 0.037), have the highestvalues of interruptibility.12Recall that here, due to the high frequency of the expres-sions and to Ii?s range of variation, values of Iiclose to 0.1represent expressions that are sufficiently interrupted.For I?fI+s, we have free combinations for higherIi, such as colore bianco ?white colour?
(If=0.097, Is= 0.385, Ii= 0.129) or colore rosso ?redcolour?
(If= 0.066, Is= 0.362, Ii= 0.097), andmore lexically restricted expressions for lower val-ues, such as corpo umano ?human body?
(If=0.077, Is= 0.534, Ii= 0.008), fama internazionale?international fame?
(If= 0.011, Is= 0.441, Ii=0.007).Finally the group I+fI+spresents only expres-sions with very low values of Iidepending onthe fact that expressions with high interruptibility,high substitutability and free inflection have beenpresumably excluded from the list because of theirlow AM scores.
The remaining expressions in thegroup are of the kind of spettacolo teatrale ?theatreperformance?
(If= 0.468, Is= 0.365, Ii= 0.006),partito politico ?political party?
(If= 0.471, Is=0.562, Ii= 0.003), thus mainly compositional.5 Discussion and InterpretationBy analysing the distribution of MWE candidates,it is possible to consider the scheme of Table 1 inwhich the following three categories appear: freecombinations, multiword units and lexical collo-cations.
As one can note, inflection variabilitydoes not play a role in discriminating between thecategories.It must be underlined that the three indicesgroup the expressions into sets that appear to bemore or less homogeneous with respect to the intu-itive distinction between semantic units and com-positional, lexically restricted expressions.Free combinations represent the ?false posi-tives?
of the list, i.e.
expressions that do not needa special categorical status in phraseology.Multiword units (polirematiche) represent herea subcategory of MWEs which exhibit the fol-79Inflection variabilitylow highSubstitutabilityhighmore Interruption Free Combinations //less Interruption Lexical Collocations Lexical Collocationslowmore Interruption Lexical Collocations Lexical Collocationsless Interruption Multiword Units Multiword UnitsTable 1: Definition of MWE subcategories with respect to their syntactic and semantic empirical be-haviour shown in our experiment.
The upper right cell is empty since all the expressions in the groupI+fI+shave Ii0.1.lowing features: they can be metaphoric (catenamontuosa ?mountain chain?
), completely crystal-lized (quartier generale ?headquarter?
), termino-logical (amministratore delegato ?managing direc-tor?
), they can present an unpredictable semanticaddition (gas naturale, ?natural gas?, meaning thegas provided in houses for domestic uses), or oneof the components assumes a specific and unusualmeaning (casa automobilistica ?car company?, lit.
?car house?).
Despite their variability, the entitiesin this group are all perceived as ?units?
of mean-ing because the lack of one of the componentsmakes the expressions lose their overall meaning.Finally, lexical collocations represent here thoseentities that are generally perceived as fully com-positional, being ?not fixed but recognizablephraseological units?
(Tiberii, 2012).
They ex-hibit the following possible features: one of thecomponent is used only in combination with theother one (acqua potabile ?drinking water?, wherepotabile only refers to water), or although othersynonymous words are available and could givethe expression the same meaning, just one specificcomponent word is preferred (sito ufficiale ?offi-cial site?
; cf.
*sito autorizzato).6 Further considerations and limitsAlthough not reported here, expressions with val-ues for If, Is?
[0.1, 0.33] show continuity be-tween the categories of Table 1.13Moreover, sinceour thesaurus does not deal with sense disam-biguation, a manual check on concordances wasperformed.
For very few metaphorical expres-sions, Isproduced non-reliable values, since it canhappen that, once a synonym of one componenthas been substituted for the original word, the new13E.g.
intervento chirurgico ?surgery?
has If= 0.27, Is=0.22 and Ii= 0 and moves between multiword unit and lexicalcollocation; stile barocco ?baroque style?, with If= 0.005, Is= 0.20 and Ii= 0.07, moves between lexical collocation andfree combination.expression is still highly attested in the corpus, al-though it has lost the original metaphorical mean-ing.14In order to correct this bias in the future,the criterion of substitutability should check, forexample, not only the number of attested replacedexpressions, but also if they share the same contextwords of the basic expression.7 Conclusion and future workOur analysis shows that the intuitive distinctionbetween two main subcategories of MWEs (multi-word units vs. lexical collocations) can be empir-ically reproduced by testing the syntactic and se-mantic behaviour of the expressions on corpora.
Inthis way we provide an empirical criterion, relatedto the intuitive and hardly definable notion of com-positionality, able to attest how expressions exhibitdifferent restrictions depending on their subcate-gory.
Multiword units are characterized by lowvalues of interruptibility and low values of substi-tutability.
Lexical collocations can be more easilyinterrupted if they have low values of substitutabil-ity, while they do not allow for interruptibility ifthey have high substitutability.
Since also a sub-group of free combinations is identified when in-tersecting the values of the indices, our methodol-ogy can be useful as well for automatic removal offalse positives from MWE candidate lists.15Future work must include the extension of theanalysis to other forms of nominal MWEs as wellas other grammatical categories by the develop-ment of tools which can deal with verbal or adver-bial MWEs, as well as tests on different corpora.14This is the case of braccio destro ?right-hand man?, lit.
?right arm?, that could be substituted by ala destra (rightwing) since both braccio and ala can refer to a part of a build-ing.15This consideration relates our work to that of Baldwin etal.
(2003), Bannard (2007), Weller and Fritzinger (2010), Capet al.
(2013), whose goal is to implement the identification oftrue positive candidates by using both syntactic or semanticfeatures and AMs.80ReferencesTimothy Baldwin, Colin Bannard, Takaaki Tanaka, andDominic Widdows.
2003.
An empirical model ofmultiword expression decomposability.
In Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment (ACL 2003),pages 89?96.Colin Bannard.
2007.
A measure of syntactic flexibil-ity for automatically identifying multiword expres-sions in corpora.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon a Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions,pages 1?8.Sabine Bartsch.
2004.
Structural and Func-tional Properties of Collocations in English.
Narr,T?ubingen.Ignacio Bosque.
2004.
Combinatoria y significaci?on.Algunas reflexiones.
In REDES, Diccionario Com-binatorio del Espa?nol Contemporaneo.
Hoepli.Fabienne Cap, Marion Weller, and Ulrich Heid.
2013.Using a Rich Feature Set for the Identification ofGerman MWEs.
In Proceedings of Machine Trans-lation Summit XIV, Nice, France.Federica Casadei.
1996.
Metafore ed Espressioni Id-iomatiche.
Uno studio semantico sull?italiano.
Bul-zoni Editore, Roma.Kenneth W. Church and Patrick Hanks.
1990.
Wordassociation norms, mutual information, and lexicog-raphy.
Computational Linguistics, 16(1):22?29.Tullio De Mauro.
2007.
GRADIT, Grande DizionarioItaliano dell?Uso.
UTET.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statis-tics of surprise and coincidence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(1):61?74.Stefan Evert.
2004.
The Statistics of Word Cooccur-rences: Word Pairs and Collocations.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Stuttgart.Stefan Evert.
2008.
Corpora and Collocations.
InA.
L?udeling and M. Kyt?o, editors, Corpus Lin-guistics.
An International Handbook.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.Afsaneh Fazly and Suzanne Stevenson.
2007.
Dis-tinguishing subtypes of multiword expressions us-ing linguistically-motivated statistical measures.
InProceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspec-tive on Multiword Expressions.
ACL, pages 9?16.J.
R. Firth.
1957.
Papers in Linguistics.
Oxford Uni-versity Press, Oxford.Patrick Hanks.
2013.
Lexical Analysis.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Francesca Masini.
2007.
Parole sintagmatiche in ital-iano.
Ph.D. thesis, Universit`a degli Studi di RomaTre.Malvina Nissim and Andrea Zaninello.
2011.
A quan-titative study on the morphology of italian multi-word expressions.
Lingue e linguaggio, (2):283?300.Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, and ChristianBoitet.
2010. mwetoolkit: a Framework for Mul-tiword Expression Identification.
In Proceedings ofthe Seventh International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2010), Valletta,Malta.Paola Tiberii.
2012.
Dizionario delle collocazioni.
Lecombinazioni delle parole in italiano.
Zanichelli.Marion Weller and Fabienne Fritzinger.
2010.
A hy-brid approach for the identification of multiword ex-pressions.
In Proceedings of the SLTC 2010 Work-shop on Compounds and Multiword Expressions.81
