Proceedings of the Joint Workshop on Social Dynamics and Personal Attributes in Social Media, pages 28?32,Baltimore, Maryland USA, 27 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsDiscourse Analysis of User Forums in an Online Weight Loss ApplicationLydia Manikonda1, Heather Pon-Barry1, Subbarao Kambhampati1, Eric Hekler2David W. McDonald31School of Computing, Informatics, and Decision Systems Engineering, Arizona State University2School of Nutrition and Health Promotion, Arizona State University3The Information School, University of Washington{lmanikon, ponbarry, rao, ehekler}@asu.edu, dwmc@uw.eduAbstractOnline social communities are becomingincreasingly popular platforms for peopleto share information, seek emotional sup-port, and maintain accountability for los-ing weight.
Studying the language anddiscourse in these communities can offerinsights on how users benefit from usingthese applications.
This paper presents apreliminary analysis of language and dis-course patterns in forum posts by userswho lose weight and keep it off versususers with fluctuating weight dynamics.Our results reveal differences about howthe types of posts, polarity of sentiments,and semantic cohesion of posts made byusers vary along with their weight loss pat-tern.
To our knowledge, this is the firstdiscourse-level analysis of language andweight loss dynamics.1 Introduction and Related WorkObesity is a major public health problem; thenumber of people suffering from obesity hasrisen globally in the last decade (Das and Fax-vaag, 2014).
Many of these people are trying tolose weight as the multifactorial diseases such asmetabolic syndromes, respiratory problems, coro-nary heart disease, and psychological challengesare all closely associated with obesity (Rippe etal., 1998; Must et al., 1999).
More obese peo-ple are trying to lose weight by using weight-loss applications and other people interested inusing these applications are trying to avoid gain-ing weight.
Many internet services are becomingincreasingly popular for supporting weight lossas they provide users with the opportunities toseek information by asking questions, answeringquestions, sharing their experiences and provid-ing emotional support.
Also, the internet providesmany attributes that can help people feel morecomfortable with openly expressing their prob-lems and concerns (Ballantine and Stephenson,2011; Hwang et al., 2010).Most of the existing studies (Saperstein et al.,2007; Johnson and Wardle, 2011; Hwang et al.,2010; Ballantine and Stephenson, 2011; Leahey etal., 2012; Das and Faxvaag, 2014) focused on whypeople participate in online weight loss discus-sion forums and how the social support can helpthem to lose weight.
These studies are conductedfrom the perspective of medical and psychologydomains, where the data are collected via inter-views or a small set of online forum data that aremanually analyzed by human experts.
Their pri-mary focus is on measuring the social support bycollecting views/opinions of people through sur-veys; less attention is given to understanding thenatural language aspects of users?
posts on theseonline communities.
Unlike choosing a small sub-set of a dataset, our work is novel in automat-ing the process of language analysis that can han-dle a larger dataset.
Automating the process canalso help classify the user type based on the lan-guage efficiently.
This work also considers weeklycheck-in weights of users along with the study oftheir language.In this paper, we study the user?s language incorrelation with their weight loss dynamics.
Tothis end, we analyze a corpus of forum posts gen-erated by users on the forum of a popular weightloss application.
The forum from which we ob-tained the data is divided into several threadswhere each thread consists of several posts madeby different users.
From the overall dataset weidentify two preliminary patterns of weight dy-namics: (1) users who lose weight and success-fully maintain the weight loss (i.e., from one weekto the next, weight is lost or weight remains thesame) and (2) users whose weight pattern fluc-tuates (i.e., from one week to the next, weight28changes are erratic or inconsistent).
While thereare many possible groupings that we could haveutilized, we chose this grouping because of theknown problems with ?yo-yo?
dieting comparedto a more steady weight-loss.
We study how theuser?s language in these two groups varies by mea-suring the semantic cohesion and sentiment ofposts made by them.Our main contributions include understandingthe types of posts users make on different threadswith a main focus on question-related posts, thetype of language they use by measuring the se-mantic cohesion and sentiment by correlating withusers?
weight loss patterns.
From the empiricalanalysis we find that users who lose weight ina fluctuating manner are very active on the dis-cussion forums compared to the users who fol-low a non-increasing weight loss pattern.
We alsofind that users of non-increasing weight loss pat-tern mostly reply to the posts made by other usersand fluctuating users post more questions compar-atively.
Both the users from these two clusters dif-fer in terms of the way their posts cohere with pre-vious posts in the threads and also in terms of thesentiment associated with their posts.2 DatasetWe obtain a text corpus of online discussion fo-rums from Lose It!, a popular mobile and web-based weight loss application.
Along with the textcorpus, we also obtain weekly weight check-indata for a subset of users.
The entire corpus con-sists of eight different forums that are subdividedinto conversation topic threads.
Each thread con-sists of several posts made by different users.
Theforum data in our corpus consists of 884 threads,with a median length of 20 posts per thread.
Theposts were made between January 1, 2010 and July1, 2012.
We identify the subset of users for whomwe have weight check-in data and who made atleast 25 weight check-ins during this time period.This results in a total of 2,270 users.The interesting feature of this weight loss appli-cation is that users are encouraged to set goals toregularly log their weight, diet, and exercise.
Fora subset of users, Lose It!
has provided a weeklyweight ?check-in?, an average of the user?s weightcheck-ins during the week, for the January 1, 2010through July 1, 2012 period.
This allows us to jux-tapose the weekly weights of the users with theirposts on the discussion forums.Figure 1: Example weight loss patterns from two individ-ual users: non-increasing (bottom line), and fluctuating (topline).
The x-axis ranges from the 1st through the 80th weeklycheck-in; the y-axis shows the weight, measured in lbs.We partition the users into two groups basedon their dynamic weight loss patterns: a non-increasing group and a fluctuating group.1.
Non-increasing: For each week j, the user?scheck-in weight wjis less than or equal totheir past week?s weight wj?1, within a smallmargin ?.
That is, wj?
(1 + ?)wj?1.2.
Fluctuating: If the difference between twoconsecutive weekly check-in weights do notfollow the non-increasing constraint, usersare grouped into this category.We empirically set ?
= 0.04 to divide theusers in our dataset into two groups of similar size.To illustrate the two patterns of weight change,Figure 1 shows the weekly weight check-ins oftwo individual users, one from each group.
Thisgrouping is coarse, but is motivated by studies(Kraschnewski et al., 2010; Wing and Phelan,2005) acknowledging that approximately 80% ofpeople who set out to lose weight are successfulat long-term weight loss maintenance, where suc-cessful maintenance is defined as losing 10% ormore of the body weight and maintaining that forat least an year.
In the future for further analysis,we aim to separate users less coarsely, e.g., userswho maintain their weight neither gaining nor los-ing weight, users who lose weight and maintain itand finally, users who gain weight.2.1 Characteristics of Online CommunityThe Lose It!
application helps users set a person-alized daily calorie budget, track the food theyare eating, and their exercise.
It also helps usersto stay motivated by providing an opportunity to29connect with other users who want to lose weightand support each other.
Example snippets (para-phrased) from forum threads are shown below.The ?Can?t lose weight!?
thread demonstratesusers supporting each other and offering advice.The ?Someday I will?
thread highlights the com-plex relationship between text, semantics, and mo-tivation in the forums.Example thread: ?Can?t lose weight!
?User 1: ?I gained over 30 lbs in the lastyear and am stressed about losing it.
Ieat 1600 calories a day and burn morethan that in exercise, but I havent lostany weight.
I am so confused.
?User 2: ?You?ve only been a member forless than 2 months.
I suggest you relax.Set your program to 1 pound weight lossa week.
Adjust your habits to somethingyou can live with.
.
.
long term.
?User 3: ?You sound just like me.
Ithink your exercise is good but maybeyou are eating more than you think.
Trydiligently logging everything you con-sume.
?User 1: ?Thanks for the suggestions!
Iam going to get back to my logging.
?Example thread: ?Someday I will.
.
.
?User 1: ?Do a pull-up :-)?User 2: ?.
.
.
actually enjoy exercising.
?User 3: ?Someday I will stop participat-ing in the lose it forums, but obviouslynot today.
?User 4: ?I hope you fail :-)?3 Empirical AnalysisIn this section, we present preliminary observa-tions on how the language and discourse patternsof forum posts vary with respect to weight loss dy-namics.
As an initial step, part-of-speech (POS)tagging is performed on all forum posts using theStanford POS Tagger (Toutanova et al., 2003).From the weekly check-in data we identified thenumber of users and the number of posts fromeach weight-loss pattern cluster which are shownin Table 1.
We see that the average number ofposts by fluctuating users is greater than the av-erage number of posts by non-increasing users.Weight PatternNon-increasing Fluctuating# Total users 1127 1143# Forum users 29 68# Forum posts 99 1279Posts per user 3.5 18.2Words per post 49.1 77.3Table 1: Statistics of users and forum posts.This suggests that fluctuating users are more ac-tive in participation.
Our data also suggest thatposts made by non-increasing users are shortercompared to those made by fluctuating users.3.1 Asking QuestionsPrevious studies (Bambina, 2007; Langford et al.,1997) revealed that people on online health com-munities mainly engage in two activities: (i) seek-ing information, and (ii) getting emotional sup-port.
People usually ask questions to other com-munity members or just browse through the com-munity forums to get information while seekinginformation.
Below is an example (paraphrased)showing how a users ask and respond to questions.Example thread: ?New user?User 1: ?Did anyone upgrade to the pre-mium app?
What do you like about it?
?User 2: ?I upgraded to the premium.I LOVE the functionality to log food inadvance.
I can track and set goals thatare not related to weight like how muchI sleep, how much water I drink, etc.
?User 3: ?I upgraded my account to pre-mium too.
I really liked the added fea-tures because it helped me keep track ofmy steps and participate in challenges.
?We are interested in knowing whether users inthe two clusters are actively involved in postingquestions.
We deem a forum post to be a questionif it meets one of these two conditions:1.
Wh-question words: If a sentence in the poststarts with a question word: Wh-Determiner(WDT), Wh-pronoun (WP), Possessive wh-pronoun (WP$), Wh-adverb (WRB).2.
Punctuation: If the post contains a questionmark symbol (???
).30Figure 2: Proportion of sentiments for the two weight-losspatterns.
For non-increasing users, percentage of posts withPositive, Neutral and Negative sentiments are: 22%, 46.5%and 31.5% respectively.
For fluctuating users, the percentageof posts with Positive, Neutral and Negative sentiments are:20.9%, 37.6% and 41.5% respectively.We computed the ratio of question-orientedposts made by each user in the two clusters.
Af-ter averaging these ratio values across all the usersin each cluster separately, we found that on aver-age, 32.6% of the posts made by non-increasingusers were questions (SE = 0.061).
And, 37.7%of the posts made by fluctuating users were ques-tions (SE = 0.042).
This shows that on an aver-age fluctuating users post relatively more numberof questions than the non-increasing users.3.2 Sentiment of PostsAnalyzing the sentiment of user posts in the fo-rums can provide a suprisingly meaningful senseof how the loss of weight impacts the sentiment ofuser?s post.
In this analysis, we report our initialresults on extracting the sentiments of user?s posts.In order to achieve this, we utilized the StanfordSentiment Analyzer (Socher et al., 2013).
This an-alyzer classifies a text input into one of five senti-ment categories?from Very Positive to Very Nega-tive.
We merge the five classes into three: Positive,Neutral and Negative.
In future, we may considerspecific (health and nutrition) sentiment lexicons.We analyzed the sentiment of posts contributedby the users from the two clusters.
As shownin Figure 2, posts of users belonging to the non-increasing cluster are more neutral whereas theposts made by users from the fluctuating clus-ter are mainly of negative sentiment.
This givesan interesting intuition that the fluctuating groupof users might require more emotional support asthey use more negative sentiment in their posts.3.3 Cohesion with Previous PostsCohesion is the property of a well-written docu-ment that links together sentences in the same con-text.
Several existing models measure the cohe-sion of a given text with applications to topic seg-mentation or multi-document summarization (El-sner and Charniak, 2011; Barzilay and Lapata,2005; Soricut and Marcu, 2006).
In this analy-sis, we want to find out if there is any correlationbetween the cohesiveness of posts made by usersand their pattern of weight loss.
We are mainly in-terested in measuring the similarity of a user?s postwith respect to the previous posts in a thread.
Thiscan help identify users who elaborate on previouspost versus those who shift the topic.We focus on content words: verbs andnouns (part-of-speech tags VB, VBZ, VBP, VBD,VBN, VBG, NN, NNP, NNPS).
Next, we useWordNet (Miller, 1995) to identify synonyms ofthe content words.
Then, we compute similar-ity between the current post and previous posts ofother users in the thread, in terms of commonlyshared verbs and nouns including synonyms.
Inour current, preliminary analysis, we consider thissimilarity score to be the measure of cohesion.In this step, we consider all posts that are notthread-initial.
To approximate whether a post iscohesive, we compare the nouns and verbs of thecurrent post to the list of nouns and verbs (plussynonyms) obtained from the previous posts of thethread.
Our analysis finds that posts made by fluc-tuating users have an average cohesion score of0.42 (SE = 0.008), whereas posts made by non-increasing users have an average cohesion scoreof 0.51 (SE = 0.027).
This suggests that non-increasing users may be more focused when par-ticipating in forums whereas the fluctuating usersare more prone to make posts that have less incommon with the previous posts in a thread.4 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we analyze how the languagechanges based on the weight loss dynamics ofusers who participate in the forum of a popularweight-loss application.
Specifically, this analy-sis revealed four interesting insights about the twotypes of users who lose weight in a non-increasingmanner and who lose weight in a fluctuating man-ner.
Firstly, fluctuating users are more active inparticipation compared to the other set of users.Secondly, fluctuating users post more question-31oriented posts compared to the non-increasingusers.
Thirdly, non-increasing users contributeposts that are more cohesive with respect to theprevious posts in a given thread.
Fourthly, postscontributed by fluctuating users have more neg-ative sentiment compared to the posts made bynon-increasing users.
This observation hints thatfluctuating users may need more emotional sup-port to continue using this weight loss applicationand lose weight in an effective manner.While this work is preliminary, our analysesprovide a valuable early ?proof of concept?
forproviding insights on how user behavior withinonline weight loss forums might impact weightoutcomes.
These sorts of analyses, particularlywhen replicated, could provide valuable insightsfor developing refined online weight loss forumsthat might facilitate more effective interactions forweight loss.
It could also provide valuable insightsfor improving behavioral theories about behaviorchange (Hekler et al., 2013).In the future, we plan to focus on a larger cor-pus from an extended time period, aligned moreclosely with weekly check-in weight data.
Otherdirections for consideration are the temporal as-pect of forum posts and gender-based analyses ofuser behavior.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Fit Now, Inc., makers ofLose It!, for providing us with the data to conductthis research.
We thank the anonymous review-ers for their helpful suggestions.
This research issupported in part by the ARO grant W911NF-13-1-0023, the ONR grants N00014-13-1-0176 andN0014-13-1-0519, and a Google Research Grant.ReferencesPaul W. Ballantine and Rachel J. Stephenson.
2011.
Helpme, I?m fat!
Social support in online weight loss networks.Journal of Consumer Behaviour, 10(6):332?337.Antonina D. Bambina.
2007.
Online Social Support: The In-terplay of Social Networks and Computer-Mediated Com-munication.
Cambria Press.Regina Barzilay and Mirella Lapata.
2005.
Modeling localcoherence: An entity-based approach.
In Proceedings ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL ?05,pages 141?148.Anita Das and Arild Faxvaag.
2014.
What influences patientparticipation in an online forum for weight loss surgery?Interactive Journal of Medical Research, 3(1).Micha Elsner and Eugene Charniak.
2011.
Disentanglingchat with local coherence models.
In Proceedings of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies - Volume 1, HLT ?11, pages 1179?1189.Eric Hekler, Predrag Klasnja, Jon E. Froehlich, andMatthew P. Buman.
2013.
Mind the theoretical gap: In-terpreting, using, and developing behavioral theory in HCIresearch.
In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference onHuman Factors in Computing Systems.Kevin O. Hwang, Allison J. Ottenbacher, Angela P. Green,M.
Roseann Cannon-Diehl, Oneka Richardson, Elmer V.Bernstam, and Eric J. Thomas.
2010.
Social support in aninternet weight loss community.
I. J.
Medical Informatics,79(1):5?13.Fiona Johnson and Jane Wardle.
2011.
The associationbetween weight loss and engagement with a web-basedfood and exercise diary in a commercial weight loss pro-gramme: a retrospective analysis.
International Journalof Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, 8(1):1?7.J L Kraschnewski, J Boan, J Esposito, N E Sherwood, E BLehman, D K Kephart, and C N Sciamanna.
2010.
Long-term weight loss maintenance in the united states.
Inter-national Journal of Obesity, 34(11):1644?1654.Catherine Penny Hinson Langford, Juanita Bowsher,Joseph P. Maloney, and Patricia P. Lillis.
1997.
Socialsupport: A conceptual analysis.
Journal of AdvancedNursing, 25(1):145?151.Tricia M. Leahey, Rajiv Kumar, Brad M. Weinberg, andRena R. Wing.
2012.
Teammates and social influenceaffect weight loss outcomes in a team-based weight losscompetition.
Obesity, 20(7):1413?1418.George A. Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: A lexical database forenglish.
Communications of the ACM, 38(11):39?41.Aviva Must, Jennifer Spadano, Eugenie H. Coakley, Ali-son E. Field, Graham Colditz, and Dietz William H. 1999.The disease burden associated with overweight and obe-sity.
JAMA, 282(16):1523?1529.James M. Rippe, Suellyn Crossley, and Rhonda Ringer.1998.
Obesity as a chronic disease: Modern medical andlifestyle management.
Journal of the American DieteticAssociation, 98(10, Supplement):S9 ?
S15.S.
L. Saperstein, N. L. Atkinson, and R. S. Gold.
2007.
Theimpact of internet use for weight loss.
Obesity Reviews,8(5):459?465.Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Wu, Jason Chuang,Christopher D. Manning, Andrew Y. Ng, and ChristopherPotts.
2013.
Recursive deep models for semantic compo-sitionality over a sentiment treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe EMNLP, pages 1631?1642, October.Radu Soricut and Daniel Marcu.
2006.
Discourse generationusing utility-trained coherence models.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING/ACL on Main Conference Poster Sessions,COLING-ACL ?06, pages 803?810.Kristina Toutanova, Dan Klein, Christopher D. Manning, andYoram Singer.
2003.
Feature-rich part-of-speech taggingwith a cyclic dependency network.
In Proceedings of theNAACL HLT - Volume 1, pages 173?180.Rena R. Wing and Suzanne Phelan.
2005.
Long-term weightloss maintenance.
The American Journal of Clinical Nu-trition, 82(suppl):222S?5S.32
