Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 59?63,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomated argumentation mining to the rescue?
Envisioningargumentation and decision-making support for debates in open onlinecollaboration communitiesJodi Schneider?INRIA Sophia Antipolis, Francejodi.schneider@inria.frAbstractArgumentation mining, a relatively newarea of discourse analysis, involves auto-matically identifying and structuring argu-ments.
Following a basic introduction toargumentation, we describe a new possibledomain for argumentation mining: debatesin open online collaboration communities.Based on our experience with manual an-notation of arguments in debates, we envi-sion argumentation mining as the basis forthree kinds of support tools, for authoringmore persuasive arguments, finding weak-nesses in others?
arguments, and summa-rizing a debate?s overall conclusions.1 IntroductionArgumentation mining, a relatively new area ofdiscourse analysis, involves automatically identi-fying and structuring arguments.
Following a ba-sic introduction to argumentation, we describe on-line debates as a future application area for argu-mentation mining, describing how we have man-ually identified and structured argumentation, andhow we envision argumentation mining being ap-plied to support these debates in the future.1.1 What is an argumentInformally, an argument is a communication pre-senting reasons for accepting a conclusion.
Unlikeproofs that lead step-by-step from premises withlogical justifications for a conclusion, argumentsare non-monotonic and can be disproven.
Argu-ments may use various approaches including gen-eralization, analogy, inference, and prediction.
?This work was carried out during the tenure of anERCIM ?Alain Bensoussan?
Fellowship Programme.
The re-search leading to these results has received funding from theEuropean Union Seventh Framework Programme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement no246016.SinSoutInference RuleFigure 1: The simplest possible argument.The simplest possible argument connects twoStatements by means of an Inference Rule (Fig-ure 1).
Inference Rules are functions that inputone or more Statements (the premises) and returnone or more Statements (the conclusions).1.2 More complex argumentsFar more complex arguments can be formed.
Ar-bitrary numbers of arguments can be joined intoa larger and more complex argument.
Useful ter-minology is introduced by (Wyner et al., 2008),who reserve the term argument to refer to the sim-plest kind: non-decomposable arguments.
Theydistinguish cases which support a single conclu-sion (see Figure 2) from debates which argue forand against a single conclusion.132 123132(a) (b) (c)Figure 2: Cases support a single conclusion.
Casesmay (a) use multiple, independent premises tosupport a single conclusion; (b) draw an inter-mediate conclusion, and use it as an additionalpremise in order to support a final conclusion; or(c) require two linked premises (both required asinput to the inference rule) to support a conclusion.Figure 3 shows a simple debate, where two ar-guments attack one another.
There are three ways591232AttackFigure 3: Debates argue for and against a singleconclusion.
This kind of attack is called a rebuttal.of attacking an argument: attacking a premise(known as undermining), attacking a conclusion(known as rebutting), and attacking an inference(known as undercutting), following (Prakken,2010).11.3 Inference RulesArgumentation schemes, e.g.
(Walton et al., 2008)are one way of expressing Inference Rules.
Theseare patterns for arguing which are stated ab-stractly: to use an argumentation scheme, it mustbe instantiated with details.
To indicate possibleflaws in reasoning, associated with each schemethere are critical questions pointing to the possiblecounterarguments.We next introduce an example from our ownwork, where automated argumentation miningcould be used.2 Rationale-based debate in open onlinecommunitiesOne place where argumentation mining could beapplied is in rationale-based debate in open onlinecommunities.
The Web has enabled large-scalecollaboration, even among people who may nevermeet face-to-face.
A large number of participantspresent their views and reasoning to make deci-sions for open, online collaborative software andknowledge development in Mozilla, Wikipedia,OpenStreetMap, etc.
In these groups, asyn-chronous textual debates are the basis for decisionmaking.
Participants argue for decisions based onrationales, since the reasons for opinions, ratherthan majority votes or aggregate sentiment, jus-tify decisions.
Thus large-scale decision supportin these communities should make evident not justthe overall tendency of the group (as in opinionmining) but rather the arguments made, focusing1Rebut and undercut are drawn from the well-knownwork of (Pollock, 1994); Prakken credits underminingto (Vreeswijk, 1993) and (Elvang-G?ransson et al., 1993).especially on the rationales, or reasons given for apreferred outcome.In our work, we have analyzed a corpus ofdebates, to understand how the English-languageversion of Wikipedia makes decisions about whicharticles to include and exclude from the encyclo-pedia.
We used two approaches to argumentationtheory to annotate asynchronous messages in eachdebate, in iterative multiparty annotation experi-ments (Schneider, 2014).2.1 Analysis using argumentation schemesFirst, we used Walton?s argumentation schemes(outlined in Ch.
9 of (Walton et al., 2008)) in or-der to annotate the arguments, focusing on the in-ternal reasoning of each message.
First one per-son (this author) annotated all the arguments foundin the corpus against Walton?s 60 schemes, find-ing 1213 arguments in 741 messages (Schneideret al., 2013).
Then, we focused on the subsetof 14 argumentation schemes that appeared morethan 2% of the time, with iterative, multipartyannotation.
There was a sharp divide betweenthe two most prevalent argument types?Argumentfrom Evidence to Hypothesis (19%) and Argumentfrom Rules (17%)?and the remaining 12 types thatappeared from 2-4% of the time.Besides these patterns, we found statisticallysignificant differences between how experts andnovices in the community argued in our corpusof debates.
Experts were more likely to use Ar-gument from Precedent, while novices (who hadlittle experience in the debates and in the widerWikipedia community) were more likely to useseveral argumentation schemes that the commu-nity viewed as less sound bases for decision mak-ing.2These included Argumentation from Values,Argumentation from Cause to Effect, and Argu-ment from Analogy.2.2 Analysis using factors analysisSecond, we used a very different approach, basedon factors analysis (Ashley, 1991) and dimensionstheory (Bench-Capon and Rissland, 2001), which2Our analysis of acceptability of arguments drew fromcommunity documentation and took community responsesto messages into account.
For instance, Argumentation fromValues might be countered by a messages saying ?Whetheryou personally like an article or its subject, is totallyirrelevant.?
(This exchange appeared in our corpus in facthttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Log/2011_January_29.
)60have most commonly been used in case-based rea-soning.
We iteratively derived four factors im-portant in the discussions: Notability, Sources,Maintenance, and Bias (Schneider et al., 2012).This was an easier annotation task, with strongerinter-annotator agreement than for Walton?s ar-gumentation schemes: factors analysis had Co-hen?s kappa (Cohen, 1960) of .64-.82 dependingon the factor (Schneider et al., 2012), versus .48for Walton?s argumentation schemes (Schneider etal., 2013)).
Factors provide a good way to orga-nize the debate; filtering discussions based on eachfactor can show the rationale topic by topic, whichsupported decision making in a pilot user-basedevaluation (Schneider, 2014).We can also identify the misunderstandings thatnewcomers have about which factors are impor-tant, and about what kind of support is neces-sary to justify claims about whether a factor holds.When an article is unacceptable because it lacksreliable sources, it is not enough to counter thatsomeone will publish about this website when itgets out of beta testing.3This newcomer?s argu-ment fails to convincingly establish that there arereliable sources (because for Wikipedia, a reliablesource should be published, independent, and sub-ject to full editorial control), and may make thingsworse because it suggests that the sources are notindependent.
Rather, a convincing counterargu-ment would explicitly address how the most rel-evant criteria are met.3 Envisioned applications ofargumentation miningThe manual annotations described above, of ar-gumentation schemes and of factors, suggest sev-eral possibilities for automation.
Scalable pro-cesses for analyzing messages are needed sinceWikipedia has roughly 500 debates each weekabout deleting borderline articles.
Argumentationmining could be the basis for several support tools,helping participants write more persuasive argu-ments, find weaknesses in others?
arguments, andsummarize the overall conclusions of the debate.First consider how we might give participantsfeedback about their arguments.
From our re-search, we know which argumentation schemesare viewed as acceptable and persuasive within thecommunity.
If real-time algorithms could identify3This is a real argument from a newcomer from our cor-pus, slightly reworded for clarity.the argumentation schemes used in the main argu-ment, authors could be given personalized feed-back even before their message is posted to thediscussion.
When the argumentation scheme usedin a draft message is not generally accepted, theauthor could be warned that their message mightnot be persuasive, and given personalized sugges-tions.
Thus debate participants might be nudgedinto writing more persuasive arguments.Next consider how we could help participantsfind weaknesses in others?
arguments.
Automat-ically listing critical questions might benefit thediscussion.
Critical questions point out the pos-sible weaknesses of an argument, based on the ar-gumentation scheme pattern it uses.
Listing thesequestions in concrete and contextualized form(drawing on the premises, inference rules, andconclusions to instantiate and contextualize them)would encourage participants to consider the pos-sible flaws in reasoning and might prompt partici-pants to request answers within the debate.
In theauthoring process, supplying the critical questionsassociated with argumentation schemes might alsohelp the author (who could consider elaboratingbefore submitting a message).Finally, we could envision argumentation min-ing being used to summarize the debate.
Macro-argumentation, such as the factors analysis de-scribed above, would be a natural choice for sum-marization, as it has already proven useful for fil-tering discussions.
A more reasoning-intensiveapproach would be to calculate consistent out-comes (Wyner and van Engers, 2010), if debatescan be easily formalized.3.1 Challenges for argumentation miningIn previous work, argumentation schemes havebeen classified in constrained domains, especiallyin legal argumentation (Mochales and Moens,2011) and by using (Feng, 2010; Feng and Hirst,2011) the Araucaria corpus (Katzav et al., 2004).4Each of our envisioned applications of argu-mentation has certain requirements.
Automati-cally detecting the argumentation schemes used ina message could be used for supporting authoringand finding weaknesses of arguments, which focuson the interior of each message.
In order to ask the4Further work is needed on argument scheme prevalence,which seems to vary by domain.
Only 3 of Feng?s 5 ?mostcommon argumentation schemes?
appear in the top 14 mostcommon schemes in our corpus, excluding Argument fromExample and Argument from Cause to Effect.61appropriate critical questions, the premises, con-clusions, and inference rules would first need tobe detected.
To get at the point of each message,the macro-level argumentation (for instance usingfactors and dimensions) would be useful for sum-marizing the debate, especially if we record ratio-nales.Another challenge is to create scaleable archi-tectures for real-time or batch reprocessing of ar-gumentation mining on the Web.
In our scenar-ios above, support for authoring arguments wouldrequire real-time feedback (i.e.
within minutes).Slower batch processing would be useful for thetwo other scenarios (support in challenging argu-ments with critical questions; support for summa-rizing debates) since Wikipedia?s debates are gen-erally open for 7 days.3.2 Related scenariosThis is a single use case, but it represents awide array of related ones.
Open source andopen knowledge projects are full of decision mak-ing discussions available widely in textual form.Rhetorical studies of them so far take place ona qualitative, discursive level.
Examples includedissent and rhetorical devices in bug reporting (Koand Chilana, 2011) and how Python listservsselect enhancement proposals (Barcellini et al.,2005).
Interestingly, the role of a participant in thePython community is related to the kinds of mes-sage they quote (Syntheses, Disagreements, Pro-posals, or Agreements), and Syntheses and Dis-agreements are the most quoted.
The organiza-tional relevance of these open decision makingdiscussions in collaborative communities makesthem a promising target for support, and argumen-tation mining technology is an appropriate tool todeploy towards that end.4 ConclusionsThis paper detailed how automated argumentationmining could be leveraged to support open on-line communities in making decisions through on-line debates about rationale.
We first gave a ba-sic overview of argumentation structures, describ-ing arguments as consisting of Statements, Infer-ence Rules, and (possibly) Attacks.
Then we de-scribed our own work on manual identificationof argumentation schemes in Wikipedia informa-tion quality debates.
We envisioned three kindssupport tools that could be developed from auto-mated argumentation mining in the future, for au-thoring more persuasive arguments, finding weak-nesses in others?
arguments, and summarizing adebate?s overall conclusions.
Open online com-munities are a wide area of application where ar-gumentation mining could help participants reasoncollectively.ReferencesKevin D Ashley.
1991.
Modeling Legal Arguments:Reasoning with Cases and Hypotheticals.
MITPress.Flore Barcellini, Franc?oise D?etienne, Jean-MarieBurkhardt, and Warren Sack.
2005.
A study of on-line discussions in an open-source software commu-nity.
In Communities and Technologies 2005, pages301?320.
Springer.Trevor J M Bench-Capon and Edwina L Rissland.2001.
Back to the future: Dimensions revisited.
InProceedings of JURIX 2001, pages 41?52.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreementfor nominal scales.
Educational and psychologicalmeasurement, 20(1):37?46.Morten Elvang-G?ransson, Paul J Krause, and JohnFox.
1993.
Acceptability of arguments as ?logi-cal uncertainty?.
In Symbolic and Quantitative Ap-proaches to Reasoning and Uncertainty, pages 85?90.
Springer.Vanessa Wei Feng and Graeme Hirst.
2011.
Clas-sifying arguments by scheme.
In Proceedingsof the 49th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics: Human LanguageTechnologies?Volume 1, pages 987?996.Vanessa Wei Feng.
2010.
Classifying arguments byscheme.
Master?s thesis, University of Toronto.Joel Katzav, Chris Reed, and Glenn Rowe.
2004.
Ar-gument Research Corpus.
In Proceedings of the2003 Conference on Practical Applications in Lan-guage and Computers, pages 229?239.
Peter Lang.Andrew J Ko and Parmit K Chilana.
2011.
Design,discussion, and dissent in open bug reports.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2011 iConference, pages 106?113.Raquel Mochales and Marie-Francine Moens.
2011.Argumentation mining.
Artificial Intelligence andLaw, 19(1):1?22.John L Pollock.
1994.
Justification and defeat.
Artifi-cial Intelligence, 67(2):377?407.Henry Prakken.
2010.
An abstract framework for ar-gumentation with structured arguments.
Argumentand Computation, 1(2):93?124.62Jodi Schneider, Alexandre Passant, and Stefan Decker.2012.
Deletion discussions in Wikipedia: Decisionfactors and outcomes.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration,pages 17:1?17:10.Jodi Schneider, Krystian Samp, Alexandre Passant, andStefan Decker.
2013.
Arguments about deletion:How experience improves the acceptability of argu-ments in ad-hoc online task groups.
In Proceedingsof the ACM conference on Computer Supported Co-operative Work, pages 1069?1080.Jodi Schneider.
2014.
Identifying, Annotating, and Fil-tering Arguments and Opinions in Open Collabora-tion Systems.
Ph.D. dissertation, Digital EnterpriseResearch Institute, National University of Ireland,Galway.
Corpus and supplementary material alsoavailable online at http://purl.org/jsphd.Gerard Vreeswijk.
1993.
Studies in Defeasible Argu-mentation.
Ph.D. dissertation, Free University Am-sterdam.Douglas Walton, Chris Reed, and Fabrizio Macagno.2008.
Argumentation Schemes.
Cambridge.Adam Wyner and Tom van Engers.
2010.
To-wards web-based mass argumentation in natural lan-guage.
In Proceedings of Knowledge Engineeringand Knowledge Management 2010 Poster and DemoTrack.Adam Z Wyner, Trevor J Bench-Capon, and KatieAtkinson.
2008.
Three senses of ?Argument?.In Computable Models of the Law: Languages,Dialogues, Games, Ontologies, pages 146?161.Springer-Verlag.63
