Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra) @ EACL 2014, pages 82?86,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsChinese-to-Spanish rule-based machine translation systemJordi Centelles1and Marta R. Costa-juss`a21Centre de Tecnologies i Aplicacions del llenguatge i la Parla (TALP),Universitat Polit`ecnica de Catalunya (UPC), Barcelona2Centro de Investigaci?on en Computaci?on (CIC), Instituto Polit?ecnico Nacional (IPN), Mexico1jordi.centelles.sabater@alu-etsetb.upc.edu,2marta@nlp.cic.ipn.mxAbstractThis paper describes the first freely avail-able Chinese-to-Spanish rule-based ma-chine translation system.
The system hasbeen built using the Apertium technologyand combining manual and statistical tech-niques.
Evaluation in different test setsshows a high coverage between 82-88%.1 IntroductionChinese and Spanish are two of the most spokenlanguages in the world and they are gaining inter-est in the actual information society.
In this sense,machine translation (MT) between these two lan-guages would be clearly of interest for companies,tourists, students and politicians.
Eventhough thenecessity is a fact, there are not many Chinese-to-Spanish MT systems available in the Internet.In addition, the translation quality is quite be-hind the standards.
Most of the approaches arecorpus-based and they seem to produce translationthrough English pivoting to compensate the lack ofChinese-Spanish parallel corpora.When it comes to academic research, there havebeen few works in these pair of languages whichmainly are reviewed in Costa-juss`a et al (2012b)and they also rely on the pivoting procedure.The linguistic differences (mainly at the level ofmorphology) between the two languages makesthe training of data-driven systems rather diffi-cult.
Actually, Chinese and Spanish are languageswith many linguistic differences, especially at thelevel of morphology and semantics.
Chinese isan isolating language, which means that there isa one-to-one correspondence between words andmorphemes.
Whereas, Spanish is a fusional lan-guage, which means that words and morphemesare mixed together without clear limits.
Regardingsemantics, Chinese is a language that has a mas-sive number of homophonyms at the lexical level(Zhang et al., 2006).
Therefore, lexical semanticdisambiguation towards Spanish will be harder.Given these challenges, we decided to builda Chinese-to-Spanish rule-based machine transla-tion (RBMT) system.
These types of systems pro-vide a translation based on linguistic knowledgein contrast to the existing and popular corpus-based approaches.
The translation process is di-vided in: analysis, transfer and generation.
Anal-ysis and generation cover mainly the morpholog-ical and semantic variations of the languages, thetransfer phase is in charge of the grammatical as-pects (Hutchins and Sommers, 1992).
The mainadvantages of RBMT are that they use linguisticknowledge and the produced errors can be traced.Among the different linguistic motivations tobuild a Chinese-to-Spanish RBMT, we can list thefollowing: (1) the proposed system will coherentlymanage the difference in morphology from Chi-nese to Spanish; (2) and the RBMT approach isable to exploit the use of linguistic tools which areavailable separately for Chinese and Spanish.The main drawback of a RBMT system is thatit requires a lot of human dedication and years ofdevelopment (Costa-Juss`a et al., 2012a) and thatthey exhibit weakness in lexical selection transfer,which is quite relevant in this pair of languages.However, in our case, we are using the Apertiumplatform (Forcada et al., 2011) that eases the pro-cess.
In addition, when building the proposedRBMT approach, we use automatic techniques tofeed the system from parallel corpus.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.Section 2 reports a detailed description of theChinese-to-Spanish RBMT architecture includingthe procedure of compiling monolingual and bilin-gual dictionaries as well as the computation ofgrammatical transfer rules.
Section 3 reports anevaluation of the system in terms of coverage.
Fi-nally, Section 4 discusses the results and it drawsthe final conclusions.82Figure 1: Block diagram of a typical rule-basedmachine translation system.2 Rule-based machine translationarchitectureThe general architecture of a RBMT translationarchitecture has been defined in the literature inworks such as (Hutchins and Sommers, 1992) or(Forcada et al., 2011), which is the open-sourcetoolbox that we are using in this paper.
In this sec-tion, we describe in detail how the system has beendeveloped following similar procedures as (Cort?eset al., 2012).
Novelties in our work are that weare aiming a really challenging language pair withfew bilingual speakers capable of developing theresources required to compile the targeted system.Human annotation counted with two bilin-gual English-Spanish annotators and one trilingualannotator Chinese-English-Spanish, who was incharge of checking every step out.2.1 System architectureThe system is based on the Apertium platform(Forcada et al., 2011) which is a free/open-sourcetoolbox for shallow transfer machine translation.As well as the platform, the linguistic data for theMT systems are also available under the terms ofthe GNU GPL.The platform was originally designed for theRomance languages of Spain, but it is movingaway from those initial objectives (see the list ofavailable languages in wiki.apertium.org.
In prac-tice, we use the architecture of the system, but,differently, we are using statistical techniques tocomplete our system.Figure 1 shows the representative block dia-gram modules of the RBMT system.
In this firstdescription of the system, the only step that is notaddressed is the lexical transfer.Development to date has consisted of: feedingmonolingual and bilingual dictionaries, to extendcoverage, with statistical methods and with hu-man annotation; filtering and cleaning monolin-gual and bilingual dictionaries to make them con-sistent; and computing grammatical transfer rules.Although the monolingual and bilingual dictionar-ies require the same entries, the function of eachone is different.
The monolingual dictionary con-tains morphological information and the bilingualdictionary contains the translation entry itself.This first track of development has taken placein over the course of five months, which con-trasts with the long time required to develop clas-sical RBMT systems.
The key point here is thatour system has been developed using a hybrid ap-proach and that, although the system is capable ofachieving state-of-the-art translations, it is still un-der construction.
The last version of the system isavailable for download at the Apertium site1.2.2 Bilingual dictionaryThe bilingual dictionary was computed followingtwo methodologies or procedures.The first one is manual by using the YellowBridge resource2.
This web is, as mentioned bythe authors, the premier guide to Chinese languageand culture for English speakers.
They providecomprehensive tools for learning the Chinese lan-guage.
Although there are many Chinese-relatedwebsites, this one is well-organized and complete.For Chinese, they provide a list of words classifiedfollowing grammatical categories, including: ad-jectives, adverbs, conjunctions, interjections, mea-sure words, nouns, numerals, onomatopoeia, par-ticles, prefixes, prepositions, pronouns, questionwords, suffixes, time words and different types ofverbs.
For each category, each word has its corre-sponding translation into English.
Then, this dic-tionary was used to feed the dictionary.
But todouble-check the translations provided, each wordwas translated using another on-line dictionary3and Google Translate.
This procedure allowed toadd several hundreds of numerals, conjunctions,adverbs, pronouns, determinants, adjectives, 3,000nouns and 2,000 verbs.The second procedure is statistical-based.
Theparallel corpus of the United Nations (UN)(Rafalovitch and Dale, 2009) was aligned at the1http://sourceforge.net/projects/2http://www.yellowbridge.com/chinese/chinese-parts-of-speech.php3http://www.chinese-tools.com/83level of word by using the standard GIZA++ (Ochand Ney, 2003) software.
Alignment was per-formed from source to target and target to source.Symmetrization was done using intersection be-cause it provides the most reliable links.
Then,we extracted phrases of length one, which meansthat we extracted translations from word-to-word.This dictionary was manually filtered to eliminateincorrect entries.
This procedure allowed to addaround 3,500 words in the dictionaries.
Our dic-tionary has around 9,000 words.2.3 Chinese monolingual dictionaryThe Chinese monolingual dictionary was ex-tracted from the source part of the bilingual dic-tionary.
Additionally, it was filtered with regularexpressions to avoid repeated entries.Regarding the morphological analysis, Chineseis an isolating language, which in brief means thatwords (or symbols) cannot be segmented in sub-morphemes.
In this sense, no morphological anal-ysis is required.
However, the main challenge ofChinese is that most of the time symbols appearconcatenated and sentences are not segmented intowords as it is most common in other languages.Therefore, Chinese requires to be segmented.
Weused the ZhSeg (Dyer, 2013) programmed in C++.We evaluated the performance of this segmenterin comparison to the Left to Right Longest Match(LRLM), which is the parsing strategy used byApertium in analysis mode.
This procedure readtokens from left to right, matching the longestsequence that is in the dictionary (like ?greedy?matching of regular expressions).
Both ZhSegand LRLM were compared using an in-house seg-mented test set of 456 words as a reference.
TheWord Error Rate (WER) measure for the ZhSegwas 16.56% and 16.89% for LRLM.
Given thatresults were comparable, we decided to use theApertium LRLM strategy.It is mandatory that the monolingual and thebilingual dictionary are coherent, which meansthat they have to have the same entries.
Bothdictionaries were cleaned up with different regu-lar expressions.
Therefore, we have to ensure thatthere are not situations like there is a word in themonolingual dictionary, which is not in the bilin-gual dictionary and the other way round.
In orderto check out this, we used testvoc.
As mentionedin the Apertium documentation4, a testvoc is liter-4http://wiki.apertium.org/wiki/Testvocally a test of vocabulary.
At the most basic level, itjust expands the monolingual dictionary, and runseach possibly analyzed lexical form through all thetranslation stages to see that for each possible in-put, a sensible translation in the target language isgenerated.
This tool was used to clean up dictio-naries.2.4 Spanish generationThis part of the translator was taken from therepository of Apertium given that is has been de-veloped during years.
Some previous publicationsthat explain Spanish generation can by found in(Armentano-Oller et al., 2006; Corb?
?-Bellot et al.,2005).
Basically, it consists of the three modulesof Apertium: morphological generator that deliv-ers a surface (inflected) form for each transferredword.
This is done using the generation dictio-nary, which for each lemma and part-of-speechtag is able to generate the final form.
Then, thepost-generator that performs orthographic opera-tions such as contractions (e.g.
de el and del).2.5 Transfer-rulesGrammatical transfer-rules were extracted follow-ing a manual procedure, which consisted in per-forming a translation of a source text and contrast-ing the output translation, the source and the refer-ence.
From this observation, manual patterns wereextracted in order to design a rule that could coverthe necessary modifications to be done.
Followingthis procedure, there were 28 rules extracted in-trasyntagms, which modify inside a syntagm, and34 intersyntagms, which modify among differentsytnagms.As follows we show an example of rule ex-tracted intrasyntagm.< rule comment = RULE : adj nom >< pattern >< pattern?
itemn = adj/ >< pattern?
itemn = nom/ >< /pattern >< action >< call?macron = f ?
concord2 >< with?
parampos = 2/ >< with?
parampos = 1/ >< /call?macro >< out >< chunkname = j ncase = caseFirstWord >< tags >< tag >< lit?
tagv = SN/ >< /tag >< tag >< clip pos = 2side = tlpart = gen/ >< /tag >< tag >< clip pos = 2side = tlpart = nbr/ >< /tag >< tag >< lit?
tagv = p3/ >< /tag >< /tags >< lu >< clip pos = 2side = tlpart = whole/ >< /lu >< b pos = 1/ >< lu >< clip pos = 1side = tlpart = lem/ >84< clip pos = 1side = tlpart = a adj/ >< clip pos = 1side = tlpart = gen/ >< clip pos = 1side = tlpart = nbr/ >< /lu >< /chunk >< /out >< /action >< /rule >This rule reorders adjective + noun into noun+ adjective.
Moreover, this rule ensures that thenumber and gender of the noun and the adjectiveagree.3 Evaluation frameworkThis section reports the evaluation framework wehave used to analyze the quality of the Chinese-to-Spanish RBMT described.Dataset Domain Words CoverageDev News 1,651 88.7Test UN 35,914 83.8In-house 10,361 82.8Table 1: Coverage results.We can evaluate the rule-based MT systems interms of coverage.
We are using texts from dif-ferent domains to perform the evaluation.
Do-mains include news (extracted from the web56)for checking the evolution of the rule-based sys-tem; a subcorpus of UN (Rafalovitch and Dale,2009); and an in-house developed small corpus inthe transportation and hospitality domains.
To dothe evaluation of coverage we do not need a ref-erence of translation.
Table 1 shows the coverageresults of our system.This rule-based MT approach can be the base-line system towards a hybrid architecture.
Inspiredin previous promising works (Espa?na-Bonet et al.,2011), we have identified some ways of building ahybrid architecture given a rule-based MT systemand available parallel and monolingual corpus:?
Starting with the core of a rule-based system,there is the necessity of extracting transfer-rules from parallel corpus and offering atranslation probability to each one.
Thiswould allow to building rule-based MT sys-tems by a monolingual human linguist.
Atthe moment, rule-based MT systems haveto be developed by bilingual native linguists5http://politics.people.com.cn/n/2013/0709/c1001-22134594.html6http://finance.people.com.cn/n/2013/0722/c1004-22275982.htmlor at least people who are proficient in thesource and target language.?
In order to help rule-based MT systems bemore fluent and natural, it would be nice tointegrate a language model in the generationstep.
The language model could be n-gram-based, syntax-based or trained on neural-based.
In each case, a different decodingwould be required to be integrated in the sys-tem.?
Additional feature functions as the popularlexical ones or others that introduce sourcecontext information can be used togetherwith the above language model.4 Conclusions and further workThis paper has described the construction of thefirst Chinese-to-Spanish open-source RBMT sys-tem;.
Particularly, the human knowledge has beenused for providing exhaustive monolingual andbilingual dictionaries as well as for defining gram-matical transfer rules.
The statistical knowledgehas complemented the creation of dictionaries.Therefore, we have shown effective techniques ofbuilding dictionaries using hybrid techniques.
Thenew RBMT system has shown a high coverage indifferent domains.As future work, the RBMT has to be improvedmainly with new dictionary entries and more com-plex transfer rules.
Both enhancements can bedone combining human and statistical knowledge.5 AcknowledgementsThis work has been partially supported by theGoogle Summer of Code and the Seventh Frame-work Program of the European Commissionthrough the International Outgoing FellowshipMarie Curie Action (IMTraP-2011-29951).
Au-thors want to thank Apertium experts that believedin this project and helped a lot during the devel-opment, specially Francis Tyers, V?
?ctor S?anchez-Cartagena, Filip Petkovsky, Gema Ram?
?rez andMikel Forcada.85ReferencesC.
Armentano-Oller, R. C. Carrasco, A. M. Corb-Bellot, M. L. Forcada, M.
Ginest?
?-Rosell, S. Ortiz-Rojas, J.
A. P?erez-Ortiz, G.
Ram??rez-S?anchez,F.
S?anchez-Mart?
?nez, and M. A. Scalco.
2006.Open-source Portuguese-Spanish machine transla-tion.
In R. Vieira, P. Quaresma, M.d.G.V.
Nunes,N.J.
Mamede, C. Oliveira, and M.C.
Dias, edi-tors, Computational Processing of the PortugueseLanguage, Proc.
of the 7th International Workshopon Computational Processing of Written and Spo-ken Portuguese, PROPOR, volume 3960 of LectureNotes in Computer Science, pages 50?59.
Springer-Verlag, May.A.
M.
Corb?
?-Bellot, M. L. Forcada, S. Ortiz-Rojas,J.
A. P?erez-Ortiz, G.
Ram?
?rez-S?anchez, F.
S?anchez-Mart?
?nez, I. Alegria, A.
Mayor, and K. Sarasola.2005.
An open-source shallow-transfer machinetranslation engine for the romance languages ofspain.
In Proceedings of the Tenth Conference ofthe European Association for Machine Translation,pages 79?86, May.J.
P.
Mart?
?nez Cort?es, J. O?Regan, and F. M. Tyers.2012.
Free/open source shallow-transfer based ma-chine translation for spanish and aragonese.
InLREC, pages 2153?2157.M.
R. Costa-Juss`a, M. Farr?us, J.
B. Mari?no, andJ.
A. R. Fonollosa.
2012a.
Study and compari-son of rule-based and statistical catalan-spanish ma-chine translation systems.
Computing and Informat-ics, 31(2):245?270.M.
R. Costa-juss`a, C. A.
Henr?
?quez Q, and R. E.Banchs.
2012b.
Evaluating indirect strategies forChinese-Spanish statistical machine translation.
J.Artif.
Int.
Res., 45(1):761?780.C.
Dyer.
2013. http://code.google.com/p/zhseg/.C.
Espa?na-Bonet, G. Labaka, A?.
D?
?az de Ilarraza,L.
M`arquez, and K. Sarasola.
2011.
Hybrid ma-chine translation guided by a rule-based system.
InProc of the 13th Machine Translation Summit, pages554?561, Xiamen, China, sep.M.
L. Forcada, M.
Ginest?
?-Rosell, J. Nordfalk,J.
O?Regan, S. Ortiz-Rojas, J.
A. P?erez-Ortiz,F.
S?anchez-Mart?
?nez, G.
Ram?
?rez-S?anchez, andF.
M. Tyers.
2011.
Apertium: a free/open-sourceplatform for rule-based machine translation.
Ma-chine Translation, 25(2):127?144.W.
J. Hutchins and L. Sommers.
1992.
An introduc-tion to machine translation.
Academic Press, 362.F.J.
Och and H. Ney.
2003.
A systematic comparisonof various statistical alignment models.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 29(1):19?51, March.A.
Rafalovitch and R. Dale.
2009.
United NationsGeneral Assembly Resolutions: A Six-LanguageParallel Corpus.
In Proc.
of the MT Summit XII,pages 292?299, Ottawa.Y.
Zhang, N. Wu, and M. Yip.
2006.
Lexical ambigu-ity resolution in chinese sentence processing.
Hand-book of East Asian Psycholinguistics, 1:268?278.86
