Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 32?37,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPoint-of-View Mining and Cognitive Presence in MOOCs:A (Computational) Linguistics PerspectiveNoureddine ElouaziziScience Center for Learning and Teaching, University of British ColumbiaCenter for Teaching and Learning Technologies, University of British ColumbiaDepartment of Linguistics, Simon Fraser UniversityVancouver, British ColumbiaEmail: noureddine.elouazizi@ubc.caAbstractThis paper explores the cognitive presenceof the learners in MOOCs through using a(computational) linguistic analysis of thelearners?
Point-of-View as an indicator forcognitive presence.
The linguistic analysisof the written language as a medium ofinteraction by the students in the context ofMOOCs shows hallmarks of cognitivedisengagement and low cognitive presenceby the learners.1.
IntroductionThe popularity of Massive Open OnlineCourses (henceforth MOOCs) is expanding,and the perceived educational add-value oftheir scalability to the masses is growing.However, research shows that MOOCs do notgenerate enough opportunities for students?interaction and retention (see: Kizilcec et al(2013), Yang et al (2013), Ros?
et al (2014),Wen et al (2014b).
The large scale linguisticdata that is generated by discussion boards,blogs, and other written language-basedinteraction tools that are/can be part of theMOOC technology infrastructure provides anunprecedented opportunity to study thedynamics of students?
interaction, learningengagement, and ways in which criticalvaluable learning/teaching discourse isconstructed around different  knowledgetopics.This paper presents an exploratoryapproach to examine students?
learning-basedinquiry within the context of MOOCs throughanalyzing the linguistic aspects of Point-of-View as an indicator of cognitive presence.This approach is theoretically grounded inlinguistics (natural syntax) and educationallyunderstood along the lines of the Communityof Inquiry Framework (Garrison et al (2000),Garrison et al (2001), Swan et al (2009)).2.
Background2.1.
Point-of-View: a linguistics perspectiveI assume that the structure and theinterpretation of Point-of-View as a linguisticconstruct is detected and interpreted throughits compositional parts.
The compositionalparts of Point-of-View include notions such as:subjectivity, belief mitigation, evidentiality andepistemic mood (Speas and Tenny 2003,Elouazizi 2014).
The notion of subjectivityrefers to the way a speaker expressesknowledge gained through personal/internalexperience-?ontological subjectivity?
(Searle2004).
The notion of (belief) mitigation islinguistically conveyed through the use of aspecific set of epistemic parenthetical verbssuch as: think, believe (Urmson (1952)).In addition to the use of belief mitigationverbs, and subjectivity linguistic devices, aspeaker?s point of view is also indicated by thedegree of their use of evidential verbs thatcarry epistemic propositional attitudes, suchas: I feel, I sense, I see.
A subject/speaker usesevidentiality linguistic devices (verbs, adverbs)to evaluate the degree of certainty in aproposition by matching the source of theinformation and the target of the information(Speas 2008).In addition to these linguistic devices,Point-of-View can also be conveyed throughthe use of a set of epistemic mood anddiscourse adverbs.
This includes adverbs suchas: frankly, presumably, supposedly, probably,luckily, realistically.
These adverbs provideadditional information about the propositionalattitude of the speaker.Taken jointly, the combination of theselinguistic constructs constitutes a lexicalstructure (lexicon), with a latent syntax ofPoint-of-View, and which can lend itself to thetechniques of text mining and computationallinguistic analysis.322.2.
Point-of-View: a learning perspectiveDefined in broad terms, learning events are theset of ?activities?
and ?acts?
that the learnerengages in so as to ensure the acquisition,transfer and modification of knowledge, skillsand beliefs (Skinner (1968), Piaget (1952),Gagn?
(1985), Mayer (1996)).
These (learning)activities and acts could be internal (mental)or/and external (behaviours) and could includemore than one cognitive modality forprocessing information.
These modalitiesinclude: auditory modality, visual modality,haptic modality, and linguistic modality.
Eachof these cognitive modalities produces data(information) that can be studied to inferwhether and how learning occurs.My focus here is on the linguisticmodality, and how it is used to interface thecomponents of an educational/learningexperience, as understood within the context ofthe Community of Inquiry model for learning(see: Garrison et al (2000) and Garrison et al(2001)).
Perceived from the perspective of theCommunity of Inquiry (CoI) model, I proposethat the analysis of Point-of-View is a way toexamine the nature of the supporting discoursethat is crucial in interfacing the socialpresence, the cognitive presence, and theteaching presence (as illustrated in the adaptedFigure in 1).FIGURE 1: Community of Inquiry (CoI) model(Adapted from: Garrison et al 2000)One of the central aspects of CoI is ?cognitivepresence?.
This refers to the ?extent to whichthe participating learners in any particularconfiguration of a community of inquiry areable to construct meaning through sustainedcommunication.?
(Garrison et al, Swan et al(2009)).
I explore the cognitive presence of theMOOC?s learners through the analysis ofPoint-of-View?s usage, clustering anddispersions in the written language-basedinteractions, generated by the learners in thecontext of MOOCs.3.
Method3.1.
Data sets: the corpusThis paper uses two data sets of writtenlanguage corpus.
The first data set is from theblogs discussions of three MOOC courses,attended by 3000 learners, and Englishlanguage was the language of interaction inthese MOOCs.
The second set of data comesfrom the discussion board of a large onlineuniversity course, delivered to a large class of300 students, using English language.
Thewritten corpus data from the three MOOCscontains 724955 words, and the corpus datafrom the non-MOOC online course contains727205 words.Lexical &Referential densityThree MOOCs  One onlinecourseWords in data set 724955 727205Lexical density:Lexemes per data set475064 381392Lexical density:Lexemes %61.17% 52.91%Reference density:1st  Person (speaker)2.32% 2.98%Reference density:2nd  Person (hearer)0.95% 0.16# of learners 3000 300TABLE 1: lexical and referential density in the data setsThe data in table 1 was generated from theMOOC and the non-MOOC corpus data, usingthe corpus tool Systemic coder (available at:http://www.wagsoft.com/CorpusTool).3.2.
Point-of-View extraction: the approachOne central non-trivial challenge with thecomputational extraction of the linguisticpatterns from written text is the issue ofclassification and feature structures.
The termclassification is generally construed broadly toencompass the architecture and the structure ofthe systems and features used in extractinginterpretative patterns such as opinions andsentiments from written text (Riloff and Wiebe(2003), Pang and Lee (2004)).
There aredifferent approaches to extraction to guide thecomputational process of automaticallyextracting patterns from text.For example, the approach of polarity-based classification encompasses regressionand ranking of the lexical units.
This approachis exploited in sentiment analysis and it33assumes that the text is underlined by anopinion towards which an agent expresses apositive or negative feeling (see: Pang et al.
(2002), Eguchi and Lavrenko (2006)).Another approach is the gradability-basedclassification.
In this approach the lexical unitsare not attributed a polar classification.
Rather,the text is classified in terms of gradable terms.This approach is used in automatic extractionof subjectivity from the text (Wiebe et al.
(2001), Wilson et al.
(2005), Yu andHatzivassiloglou (2003)).I build on the insights of polarity-basedand gradability-based approaches to automaticextraction and processing of text and proposethe classification in Figure 2.point-of-viewSUBJECTIVITYpersonalimpersonalindefiniteMITIGATIONthinkbelievesupposeguessEVIDENTIALITYseehearfindseemEPISTEMIC-MOODfranklyevidentlycertainlyprobablysupposedlyseeminglyclearlyFIGURE 2: The classification features structure ofPoint-of-ViewThe classification and features structure inFigure 2 enables the extraction of a bundle ofattitudes and belief as it uses a combination ofparts of speech that encompass latentknowledge and interpretations, as exhibited inthe syntax and the semantics of the constructsthat compose Point-of-View.
As such, Point-of-View mining and automatic analysis is atthe intersection of opinion mining andsubjectivity mining.
This approach (Point-of-View mining) seeks to extract perspective-related information such as opinion holders,belief mitigation, and propositional attitudes(for similar but not identical approaches, see:Kudo and Matsumoto (2004), Dave et al(2003), Riloff and Wiebe (2003), Song et al2007, El-Halees (2011)).4.
Results and discussionRecall that the main goal of this paper is toexplore the cognitive presence of the learnersin MOOCs through their written languageinput, and using a linguistics analysis of thelearners?
Point-of-View as an indicator forcognitive presence.
I hypothesize that if thelearners in MOOCs are cognitivelydisengaged, the frequency and usage of Point-of-View components (as identified in Figure 2)would be low.
Conversely, if the frequencyand usage of Point-of-View components ishigher, that would imply that the students inMOOCs are cognitively engaged and theircognitive presence is more asserted.The Point-of-View usage data, asillustrated in FIGURE 3, shows that the use ofbelief mitigation devices (verbs such as: think,believe, guess and suppose) is equally low inall the three MOOCs.FIGURE 3: The usage of POV/cognitive presencein MOOCsHowever, in all the three MOOCs, subjectivityis attested with varying degrees.
This indicatesthat the learners do express their stance in theirblog discussions but without engaging in anyepistemic interactions with other learners.
Thisis the case because the uses of the mitigationconstruct, of the evidentiality construct, and ofthe epistemic mood construct by a speaker(learner) always requires predicating on, henceinteracting with previously mentioned/statedproposition.
The data in Figure 3 indicates thatthe learners did not modify the propositionsthat were put forward by other learners orconvey changes in propositional attitudes, ormitigate beliefs, expressed in the text of theMOOCs blogs.These observations are further supportedby the dispersion and clustering analysis of thedata, as illustrated in Figure 4.34FIGURE 4: dispersion and clustering ofPOV/cognitive presence in MOOCsAssuming that ?support discourse?
within thecontext of the CoI framework is crucial ininterfacing the cognitive presence, the socialpresence and the teaching presence of thelearner within an educational experience (seeFIGURE 1 above), the use of written languageas a medium of interaction by the students inthe context of MOOCs shows hallmarks ofcognitive disengagement and low cognitivepresence.
That this is indeed the case is furtherindicated by the Point-of-View comparativedata that illustrates the use of Point-of-View inthe context of a MOOC versus its use in thecontext of a non-MOOC online course.Consider the differences in the Point-of-View usage, dispersion and clustering betweenthe data set of a single MOOC ccourse and thatof a non-MOOC online course, as illustratedby Figure 5 and Figure 6 below.
The Point-of-View usage comparative data illustrated inFigure 5 indicates that the cognitive presenceand engagement of the learners in the non-MOOC online course is significantly higherthan in the MOOC courses.FIGURE 5: The usage of POV/cognitive presence ina MOOC vs. non-MOOC online courseThe learners in the non-MOOC online courseproduced linguistic structures that containspeech acts of expressing subjective views, ofmitigating aforementioned propositions(beliefs) in the discourse and of providingevidence of a statement as indicated throughthe use of evidential adverbs.
However, thelanguage (linguistic structures) used by thelearners in a single MOOC course showshigher level of subjective use than the non-MOOC course but significantly lower usage ofspeech acts that express mitigation of beliefs orevidentiality.Furthermore, the usage of the Point-of-View in the non-MOOC online course showsthat the learners expressed higher subjectivity,accompanied with higher rates of beliefmitigation.
This suggests that the learners inthe non-MOOC online course were morecognitively engaged and they actively engagedin invoking the discourse structures thatsupport the interfacing of cognitive presence,teaching presence and social presence.
Theseobservations are further supported by thePoint-of-View dispersion and clustering datarepresented in Figure 6.FIGURE 6: dispersion and clustering ofPOV/cognitive presence in a MOOC vs. non-MOOC online courseAll in all, the data above indicates that learnerswithin the context of MOOCs exhibit lesscognitive presence than their counter partlearners in a non-MOOC online course.
Thelinguistic structures used by the learners in thecontext of a MOOC course, at least on thebasis of the data examined in this paper,indicate that they did not mitigate and attachevidential statements to as many propositionsas in a non-MOOC course.
For a speaker tomitigate a proposition, the speaker first needsto be aware of the proposition, the agent whoproposed or enacted such a proposition beforemitigating it.
Hence, the more a speakermitigates hers or the propositions of others, the35more the speaker is engaged with the discourseconstructed around different knowledge topics.These findings square with and confirmobservations established in other studies whichanalyze the learners?
engagement in MOOCs.For example, Wen et al.
(2014a) and Wen et al(2014b), using a survival model, and drawingon linguistic data in discussion posts, showthat learners?
engagement in MOOCs reducesdrastically after week three in a MOOC course.5.
Conclusion and future workThis paper explored the use of a computationallinguistic perspective to mine and exploit thelatent knowledge in the Point-of-Viewconstruct to examine the cognitive presenceand engagement of the students in the contextof MOOC and non-MOOC courses.
As theresults show, the linguistic analysis of thewritten language as a medium of interaction bythe learners in the context of MOOCs showshallmarks of cognitive disengagement and lowcognitive presence by the learners.However, what emerges in the context ofthis exploratory paper is a partialrepresentation of the learning-based discoursestructure within MOOCs and is by no meansconclusive of the way discourse structures areconstructed around different knowledge topicswithin the context of a MOOC vs. a non-MOOC online course.
The empirical testing ofthe classification in Figure 2, from a textmining and automatic extraction perspective isyet to be validated on larger (fully) annotatedMOOCs data sets, and using larger integratedlexicons that combine a Point-of-View latentknowledge lexicon and a MOOCs specificeducation experience lexicon.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Carolyn Penstein Ros?
andGeorge Siemens for sharing with me the MOOCs blogdiscussions data that I used as part of the data sets thatthis paper studies.6.
ReferencesDave, K., Lawrence, S., Pennock, D.M.
2003.Mining the peanut gallery: Opinion extractionand semantic classification of product reviews.In Proceedings of WWW, pages 519?528.Elouazizi, Noureddine.
2014.
The formal syntax ofpoint-of-view and belief mitigation.
PhDDissertation, SFU.El-Halees, A.
2011.
Mining opinions in user-generated contents to improve course evaluation.In Software Engineering and Computer Systems,pages 107-115.
Springer.Eguchi, K and Lavrenko, V.2006.
Sentimentretrieval using generative models.
InProceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP), pages 345?354.Gagn?, R. M. 1985.
The conditions of learning (4thed.).
New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.Garrison, D. R., Anderson, T, & Archer, W. 2000.Critical inquiry in a text-based environment:Computer conferencing in higher education.
TheInternet and Higher Education 2: 87?105.Garrison, D. R., Anderson, T., & Archer, W. 2001.Critical thinking, cognitive presence andcomputer conferencing in distance education.American Journal of Distance Education, 15(1),7-23.Kizilcec, R. F., Piech, C. and Schneider, E. 2013.Deconstructing disengagement: analyzinglearner subpopulations in massive open onlinecourses.
In Proceedings of the ThirdInternational Conference on Learning Analyticsand Knowledge, pages 170-179.ACM.Kudo, T. and Matsumoto, Y.
2004.
A boostingalgorithm for classification of semi-structuredtext.
In Proceedings of the Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP).Mayer, R. E. 1996.
Learners as informationprocessors: Legacies and limitations ofeducational psychology?s second metaphor.Educational Psychologist, 31, 151?161.Pang,  B., Lee, L. and Vaithyanathan, S. 2002.Thumbs up?
Sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
In Proceedings ofthe Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP), pages 79?86.Pang, B. and Lee, L. 2004.
A sentimentaleducation: Sentiment analysis using subjectivitysummarization based on minimum cuts.
InProceedings of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), pages 271?278.36Piaget, J.-P. 1952.
The origins of intelligence inchildren.
International Universities Press, NewYork.Ros?, C. P., Carlson, R., Yang, D., Wen, M.,Resnick, L., Goldman, P. & Sherer, J.
2014.Social Factors that Contribute to Attrition inMOOCs.
In Proceedings of the First ACMConference on Learning @ Scale(poster).Swan, K., Garrison, D. R. & Richardson, J. C.2009.
A constructivist approach to onlinelearning: the Community of Inquiry framework.In Payne, C. R.
(Ed.)
Information Technologyand Constructivism in Higher Education:Progressive Learning Frameworks.
Hershey,PA: IGI Global, 43-57.Song, D., Lin, H. and Yang.
Z.
2007.
Opinionmining in e-learning system.
In Network andParallel Computing Workshop.
IFIPInternational Conference , P.788-792.
IEEE.Searle, J.
2003.
Mind: a brief introduction.
OxfordUniversity Press.Speas, Peggy.
(2008).
On the Syntax and Semanticsof Evidentials.
Language and LinguisticsCompass.
Volume 2 Issue 5, pp.
940 ?
965.Speas, Peggy, and Tenny, Carol.
2003.Configurational Properties of Point of ViewRoles.
In DiSciullo, A.
(ed.
), Asymmetry inGrammar.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
315-344.Urmson, J. O.
1952.
Parenthetical verbs.
Mind.
61.480-496.Wen, M., Yang, D., & Ros?, C. P. 2014a.Sentiment Analysis in MOOC DiscussionForums: What does it tell us?
In Proceedings ofEducational Data Mining.Wen, M., Yang, D., & Ros?, C. P. 2014b.Linguistic Reflections of Student Engagement inMassive Open Online Courses.
In Proceedingsof the International Conference on Weblogs andSocial Media.Wiebe, J.M., Wilson, T and Bell, M. 2001.Identifying collocations for recognizingopinions.
In Proceedings of the ACL/EACLWorkshop on Collocation: ComputationalExtraction, Analysis, and Exploitation.Wiebe, J. and Wilson, T. 2002.
Learning todisambiguate potentially subjective expressions.In Proceedings of the Conference on NaturalLanguage Learning (CoNLL), pages 112?118.Wiebe., J., Theresa W. M.,  Bruce, R., Bell, M., andMartin, M. 2004.
Learning subjective language.Computational Linguistics, 30(3):277?308.Wilson, T., Wiebe, J. Hoffmann, P. 2005.Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-levelsentiment analysis.
In Proceedings of the HumanLanguage Technology Conference and theConference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (HLT/EMNLP), pages347?354.Yang, D., Sinha, T., Adamson, D., & Ros?, C. P.2013.
Turn on, Tune in, Drop out: Anticipatingstudent dropouts in Massive Open OnlineCourses.
In NIPS Data-Driven EducationWorkshop.Yu, H., Hatzivassiloglou, V. 2003.
Towardsanswering opinion questions: Separating factsfrom opinions and identifying the polarity ofopinion sentences.
In Proceedings of theConference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP).37
