Proceedings of the of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Dialogue in Motion (DM), pages 19?27,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsClick or Type: An Analysis of Wizard?s Interaction for Future WizardInterface DesignSrinivasan Janarthanam1, Robin Hill2, Anna Dickinson2, Morgan Fredriksson31School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences, Heriot-Watt University2School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh3Liquid Media AB, Stockholmsc445@hw.ac.ukAbstractWe present an analysis of a PedestrianNavigation and Information dialogue cor-pus collected using a Wizard-of-Oz inter-face.
We analysed how wizards preferredto communicate to users given three differ-ent options: preset buttons that can gen-erate an utterance, sequences of buttonsand dropdown lists to construct complexutterances and free text utterances.
Wepresent our findings and suggestions forfuture WoZ design based on our findings.1 IntroductionWizard-of-Oz environments (WoZ) have been be-come an essential tool for collecting and studyingdialogue between humans pretending to be ma-chines and human users in various domains.
It isan effective way to collect dialogues between realusers and dialogue systems before actually imple-menting the dialogue system.
In this framework,participants interact with an expert human oper-ator (known as ?Wizard?)
who is disguised as adialogue system.
These Wizards replace one ormore parts of the dialogue system such as speechrecognition, natural language understanding, di-alogue management, natural language generationmodules and so on.
Real users interact differentlywith humans and computers.
While their expecta-tions with human interlocutors are high and varied,they are ready to adapt and ?go easy?
on comput-ers during interaction (Pearson et al., 2006).
So, ina WoZ framework, the conversation between realusers and the Wizards (pretending to be dialoguesystems) are of an appropriate type to be used fordialogue system design and not as complex as inhuman-human conversation.In order to provide a speedy response, mostWoZ systems are designed in such a way that re-sponses are hard wired to buttons so that they canbe sent to the synthesizer at the touch of a button.However, in order to handle unexpected situations,most WoZ interfaces also have a free text interfacethat allows the Wizard to type any text to be syn-thesised by the synthesizer.
Are free text interfacesused only under unexpected situations?
In this pa-per, we analyse how free text interfaces are usedby Wizards in a pedestrian tourist navigation andinformation dialogue and discuss how the resultsof our analysis be used to inform future WoZ de-signs.
These dialogues were collected as a part ofSpaceBook EU FP7 project.In Section 2, we present previous work in WoZinterfaces and the domain of pedestrian navigationand information.
We then present our WoZ setupand data collection in Section 3 and 4.
In Section5, we present our analysis of the corpus, issues andsuggestions in Sections 6 and 7.2 Related workWizard-of-Oz (WoZ) frameworks have been usedsince early 90s in order to collect human-computerdialogue data to help design dialogue systems(Fraser and Gilbert, 1991).
WoZ systems havebeen used extensively to collect data to learn di-alogue management policies (Rieser and Lemon,2011) and information presentation strategies(Demberg et al., 2011).Pedestrian navigation and information systemsis a domain of interest to many mobile phoneapplications.
Applications such as Siri, GoogleMaps Navigation, or Sygic deal with the task ofnavigation while TripAdvisor, Triposo, etc .
focuson the tourist information problem.
Additionally,several research prototypes have been built to gen-erate navigation instructions (Bartie and Mack-aness, 2006; Shroder et al., 2011) and to have con-versations with tourists (Janarthanam et al., 2013).WoZ experiments enable the collection of realis-tic data to assist in the development and testing ofthese systems.19Figure 1: Wizard of Oz interface - Google Satellite Map and StreetView3 WoZ setupThe wizard interface consisted a browser windowshowing a Google Map and Street View with theTourists position.
Google StreetView showedthe Tourist?s point of view (see Figure 1).
TheWizard was able to communicate information tothe Tourist in three different ways in the WizardResponse Panel (see Figure 2):Hot buttons: By clicking on one of severalbuttons with commonly used phrases (e.g.
?OK.I?ll suggest a route for you?, ?You want to crossthe road whenever you can?, ?Would you likefurther information about that??).
Buttons wereorganised thematically in sections such as: con-firmations, ways of asking the Tourist to repeatwhat they had said, ways to indicate to the Touristthat the Wizard was doing something and theyshould wait (?Just a moment, please?, ?I?m justfinding that out for you now?
and ?Apologies forthe delay?)
and directions.
The range of choicesavailable via the buttons (there were nine differentconfirmations) was intended to allow the Wizardto mimic the variability of human speech; theywere grouped to facilitate rapid identification andselection.Sequences: By generating text from a sequenceof drop-down menus, e.g.
(where items in squarebrackets are drop-down lists): ?You want to takethe [count] [pathway] on your [direction]).Free text: By typing free text into a text editor.Pre-entered phrases for Hot Buttons were se-lected following two previous Wizard of Oz exper-iments where the Tourist and the Wizard commu-nicated by voice; common expressions used dur-ing these sessions were summarised and presentedon an initial evaluation interface which was evalu-ated with 15 dyads.
Results from that experimentfed into the WoZ interface above.At the bottom right of the screen, there was ascrollable record of the Wizard?s output in casethe participant needed to confirm what had beensent to the Tourist.
Finally, there was a selectionof system comments the Wizard could make, forexample to note system problems such as prob-lems hearing the Tourist.
This information wasrecorded by the system but not sent to the Tourist.Additionally, screen capture software was used torecord all the on-screen interaction.
As a back-up,the lab was videoed on DV cassette using a tripod-mounted camcorder.Instructions to participants were developed toencourage participants (i.e.
playing the role ofTourists) to solve problems without directing themtoo much.
e.g.
?You?ve heard a story about astatue of a dog that you think is nearby and wouldlike to take a photo of the dog and perhaps learna little more about the story.
?, ?You have arrangedto have lunch with a friend in a nearby pub.
You20Figure 2: Wizard of Oz interface - Wizard response panelcan?t remember the exact name but you are sure ithad the word ?Bell?
in the title.
?The Tourist was equipped with an Android mo-bile phone (Samsung Galaxy Note) and headset.The phone ran a custom-built app that sent liveGPS, satellite and accelerometer data back to theWoZ system while receiving the Wizards text mes-sages and converting them to speech.
As a back-up, and to ensure the reliability of the position-ing data, a GPS logging application (My Tracks)also recorded the data every two seconds on thephone.
Time-stamping within the files permits off-line synchronisation with the speech data.4 Data collectionParticipants were enrolled using an events organ-ising website called EventBrite1.
Two participantsattended each experimental session and were as-signed to one of two roles: the Tourist or the Wiz-ard.
At the end of the experiment each received?10.
Ten dyads (twenty people) completed theexperiment.
They were aged between 19 and 26(mean 22), and had lived in Edinburgh between0.7 and 10 years (mean 2.9).
8 were male, and 12female.After participants had arrived at the lab, theysigned a consent form and provided demographic1www.eventbrite.cominformation (age, sex, and length of time in Ed-inburgh).
The task descriptions were handed outand roles were assigned.
The Wizard was givensupplementary information about some of the lo-cations and Google Map print-outs, but was in-structed to make up any answers to questionsasked by the Tourist if necessary.After an initial equipment test and training,the Tourist dialled a standard Edinburgh landlinenumber on the mobile phone which connected to aSkype account and the experiment began.
If thecall dropped, the Tourist would redial and con-tinue.
There was a basic set of tasks assigned tothe Tourist, but they were encouraged to expandand adapt this and were free to ask any tourist ornavigation-based questions that they thought of onthe way.The Tourist traversed Edinburgh on their own;the Wizard and experimenter remained in a labo-ratory.
The Wizard used GPS information and dia-logue with the Tourist to establish location.
For theWizard, the Tourist?s view had to be reconstructedusing the display software available.
These di-alogue sessions ranged between 41:56 to 66:43minutes.
The average dialogue duration (accord-ing to the transcriber) for the 10 dyads was 51min46s.Please note that for each run, a new pair of Wiz-21ard and Tourist were used.
Wizards were not re-tained to do more than one run because we wantedto collect data from a variety of human wizards inorder to study variations in how each wizard dealtwith the navigation task.5 Corpus analysisWe analysed the corpus collected based on thethree types of response generation mechanisms:hot buttons, sequences and free text, to under-stand their relative utility.
We wanted to explorewhether pre-configured text was used when avail-able, or whether the user?s interaction with thepre-configured and free text sections of the inter-face were influenced by other considerations thanavailability.Analysis showed that buttons correspondingto preset utterances were used only 33% (+/- 14)of the time.
Although wizards had the option ofconstructing complex utterances using a sequenceof drop down lists, they only used such sequences9% (+/- 9) of the time.
58% (+/-19) of Wizardutterances were generated using the free text inter-face.
This may imply that the buttons did not offerwhat the Wizards wanted to say; in which case, wewould anticipate that their self-created utteranceswould be very different from those pre-configured.Individual differences: Use of the button inter-face varied between Wizards, with some using itvery rarely and others depending on it when it pro-vided a feature they required.
The highest was82.7% while the lowest use of free text was 31.7%.Table 1 shows that 6 out of 10 Wizards used thefree text interface more than 60% of the time.
Itis likely that these differences were due to individ-ual variations such as speed of typing and comfortwith using an array of buttons.Usage of free text interface Wizard countBelow 30% 030-40% 340-50% 150-60% 060-70% 370-80% 180-90% 2Table 1: Usage of free text interfaceAs an example of these individual differences,one Wizard used the button-press interface onlyonce during the first navigation task (to ask ?Whatcan you see at the moment??
), choosing to directthe Tourist almost exclusively through use of thefree text interface.
By contrast, of the twelve Wiz-ard utterances in another session?s initial naviga-tion task, only two were free text.
It is interestingto note, however, that the Tourist commented ?I?vea feeling (the Wizard) is laughing at me right now.
?5.1 Hot button interfaceWe analysed how frequently each hot button in theinterface was used by Wizards.
We also countedhow frequently the same text as the buttons wasgenerated using the free text interface.
This willshow us if Wizards tend to type the same text thatcan effectively be generated at the push of a hotbutton.
The following table shows the frequencyof each hot button used over the 10 dialogues thatwe analysed.There were forty buttons in total.
Two initialbuttons intended to be used at the start of the ex-periment or when the call was restarted after aproblem: ?Okay, we are ready to go.
Please pre-tend to have just dialed Space Book and say hello.
?and ?Hello, SpaceBook speaking.?
(These wereused 29 times) and two intended for the end ofthe call: ?Thank you for using SpaceBook?
and?Goodbye?
(10 times).
Table 2 shows the fre-quency of usage for other hot buttons.Utterance type FrequencyConfirmation (e.g.
Yes, Okay, Certainly) 168Navigation (e.g.
?Keep going straight ahead?)
114Filler (e.g.
?Just a moment please?)
60Repeat request (e.g.
?Sorry, could you repeatthat please??)
34Visual checks (?Can you see it yet?
?/?What can you see at the moment??)
32Offer of further information/ help 30References (e.g.
?According to Wikipedia?)
20Negation (?No?, ?No, that?s wrong?)
18Failure (?I?m afraid I don?t know theanswer to that?)
8Table 2: Usage of Hot ButtonsThe above table presents a Zipfian curve withsome utterances such as ?Okay?, ?Keep goingstraight ahead?
having high frequency and someutterances such as ?I?m afraid I don?t know the an-swer to that,?
?I couldn?t understand that, sorry?with extremely low frequency.
Even the highestfrequency utterance, ?Okay?
was only used about5 times per session on average.
This does notmean that the Wizard acknowledged the subject atsuch low frequency but, as the analysis below in-dicates, decided to acknowledge the user with free22text-generated utterances.5.2 Free text utterancesWe analysed the free text utterances generated bythe Wizards.
This analysis, we believe, couldshow us how to build better Wizard interfaces forcollecting dialogue data for pedestrian navigation.First, we counted the number of free text utter-ances that duplicated Hot Button text.
Then, weanalysed the other utterances generated using thefree text interface.Table 3 presents the frequency of utterances thatwere generated using the free text interface butwere the same as hot button text.
The table showsthat even though there are hot buttons for utter-ances such as ?Yes?, ?Sorry?, Wizards tended totype them into the free text interface.
In somecases these words were followed by a more com-plex utterance which the Wizard had chosen to de-liver as a single statement (e.g.
?Yes, that?s theway to go.
?, ?no, you should turn around?
), andsecond, these utterances are short and could easilybe typed rather than searching for the correspond-ing hot button.
Also, Wizards sometimes usedalternative spellings for words such as ?Okay?which could be produced using a hot button.
Theword ?Ok?
was used 15 times in 10 sessions.Text FrequencyYes 45Sorry 21No 21Take the next left 4No problem 3Certainly 2Thank you 1Table 3: Usage of Free Text for utterances same asHot ButtonsIn addition, Wizards use free text to generateutterances that are paraphrases of hot button utter-ances, such as:?
?Keep going?, ?Just keep walking?, etc?
?Great?, ?Excellent?, etc?
?One moment?, ?Wait a second please?, etc?
?Of course??
?Okay cool?These analyses imply that free text is not ac-cessed only in the last resort because the user can-not find the hot button that says what they?d liketo say.
Clearly, the interaction is more complexand concerns both speed (the contrast of typing ashort utterance such as ?Yes?
compared with thetime needed to discover the correct button on a dis-play and navigate to it with a mouse) and the user?simposition of their own identity on the conversa-tion; where the hot button interface offered sev-eral confirmatory utterances, users often used theirown (e.g.
?Great, ?Excellent?, ?Cool?
), utteranceswhich were, presumably, part of the way theseWizards more normally interacted with peers.In this section, we present the other types ofutterances Wizards generated using the free textinterface.1) Check user?s location:Wizards asked several free text questions to checkwhere the user was, given that the positioningsystem on smartphones was not entirely accurate.They framed most questions as yes/no checkquestions and enriched them with situational cues(e.g.
?Is the Pear Tree on your right?
?, ?Haveyou reached the Royal Mile yet?
?, ?Can you seeNicolson Square?
?, ?Have you passed the primaryschool on your left??
).2) Informing user?s location:Wizards sometimes informed users of their loca-tion.
e.g.
?This is West Nicolson Street?.3) Complex navigation instructions:Using the free text interface, Wizards generateda variety of complex navigation instructions thatwere not covered by the hot buttons.
These includeinstructions where the subject was asked to carryout two instructions in sequence (e.g.
?Turn left,and keep walking until you get to Chapel Street?
),orienting the user (e.g.
?You want the road on yourright?, ?Please go back in the direction you camefrom?
), signaling to the user that he/she was walk-ing in the wrong direction (e.g.
?You?re going thewrong way?
), a priori instructions to destination(e.g.
?To get there you will need to keep goingup the Royal Mile.
Then turn left at the junctionbetween North and South Bridge.
Walk up SouthBridge, and it will change to Nicolson Street.
Sur-geon?s Hall will be on the left hand side.?
).Some navigation instructions were complex be-cause they were not general instructions but directresponses to the Tourist?s question.
One exam-ple of this was by Dynamic Earth (dyad 07) when23the Wizard told the Tourist to follow a footpath.Tourist: ?One of the footpaths banks to the right,and the other goes straight forward.
Which one?
?,the Wizard answered: ?You want the one that isstraight forward.
?The navigation directions on hot buttons werenecessarily very general (e.g.
Keep going straightahead/ Take the next left) and Wizards frequentlyused the free text to enrich the directions and makethem more specific, e.g.
(dyad 09) ?Walk downCrichton Street towards the Mosque.?
In the ini-tial navigation task, this Wizard used the free textinterface 7 times, and the navigation hot buttonsonly 4 times.
Each segment of free text enrichedthe interaction by providing specific navigationalinformation, so where the Wizard could have se-lected the hot button for ?Keep going straight?,instead she chose to add value to the interactionthrough the use of place names and typed, ?Con-tinue straight onto West Richmond Street?.A similar pattern can be seen in the interactionin dyad 10 where the Wizard used the free text op-tion to navigate the Tourist according to objectsin his environment.
e.g.
?Turn right at the trafficlights?
and ?Walk straight down past the Bingo onyour left.?.
Of the 22 Wizard utterances in the firstnavigation task in the dyad, only 5 were hot but-tons.
14 were navigation instructions, of which 3were button-presses and one (?Walk straight on?
)paraphrased an existing button.
The Tourist gotlost in this task, so there was also some checkingon his location.These are not isolated examples.
In total, overthe ten dyads, 308 utterances from the total 927free text utterances were Wizards ?enriching?
theirnavigation directions by adding contextual cues,most commonly the name of the street or a land-mark to help situate the Tourist.
For example,?You can reach it by turning right down HolyroodRoad at the junction.
?, ?Please head towards theMosque?.Although 33% of overall free text utteranceswere enriched navigation instructions, this over-all pattern varied depending on the dyad, rangingfrom dyad 03 where 62.5% were enriched instruc-tions, to dyad 08, where only 8% were enriched.These value-added uses of the free text suggestthat the addition of contextual cues is regarded asimportant by the individuals acting as Wizards.An improved WoZ interface might seek to supportsuch utterances.4) Reassuring user:Wizards presented information such as landmarksusers can see as they walk along to reassurethem that they are on the right track (e.g.
?Youwill pass Richmond Place on your left?, ?Youwill walk past the Canongate Kirk on your rightbeforehand?
).5) Informing time/distance to destination:Wizards presented how long it will take to reachthe destination to set the right expectation in theuser?s mind (e.g.
?It will be about a two minutewalk?, ?the gym is 200 metres along this road onyour right?
).6) Providing destination information:Wizards provided information about the locationof destination in reference to the user (e.g.
?AndBonsai Bar Bistro will be on the left, just beforeyou reach The Pleasance?, ?The Museum ofEdinburgh will be on the left?)
or other landmarks(e.g.
?The Scottish Parliament is next to OurDynamic Earth?, ?The entrance is on the otherside?).
Note that this interaction, too, is normallyenriched by situational cues.7) Informing destinations that match searchcriteria:Some tasks presented to subjects did not specifythe actual name of the destination.
Hence whenthey asked the Wizard for a matching destination,Wizards used free text to suggest destinationsthat match the search criteria (e.g.
?There isa restaurant called Bonsai Bistro?, ?There arethree museums to visit.
They are Museum ofEdinburgh, People?s Story Museum, and Museumof Childhood?
).8) Check if destination reached and identified:Wizards checked whether users had reached theirdestination by asking them to confirm if they had(e.g.
?Have you reached it?
?, ?Have you foundthe sports centre??).
The hot button ?Can you seeit yet??
covered this functionality, but once more,free text allowed the user to increase situationalspecificity by identifying the target.9) Additional information about landmarks:Wizards presented additional information aboutlandmarks such as its name (?the hill besides par-24liament is in fact 2 hills, the rocky cliffs you cansee are called crags?, ?behind that is arthurs seat?
),the year it was built/opened (e.g.
?it was openedin 1999?
), what it functions as (e.g.
?offices for anewspaper publisher?
).In some cases such free text utterances wereproduced in response to questions asked byTourists.
For example, when the Tourist of dyad05 passed the Fringe office, they asked, ?Do youknow what dates the Fringe is on this year?
?.The Wizard used free text to answer the question.Later in the same experiment, the Tourist identi-fied Vodka Rev as a landmark (?Down past VodkaRev??)
and the Wizard responded with free textabout the landmark: ?Vodka Rev does half pricefood on Mondays.
?.10) Signalling connection problems:Wizards informed users when they lost the user?sGPS signal (e.g.
?hold on 1 second, gps connec-tion gone?)
and to establish contact and checkuser?s attention (e.g.
?hello?
?, ?I can?t hear you atthe moment?
).Further, some Wizards used the free text to hu-manise the person-to-person element of the inter-action.
They would chat to Tourists, make jokes(?I cannot answer rhetorical questions, as I amboth a computer and aware they are not meant tobe answered.?)
and in one case, invite the Touristout for a drink.6 Issues with free textAs one can imagine, there are issues with free textutterances generated by Wizards.Spelling:Several words used in free text utterances weremisspelled.
e.g.
?roundabaout?, ?entrace?, ?ple-sae?, ?toewards?, ?You want ot cross the roD?)etc.
These ranged from 0 to 13 errors per sessionwith a mean of 3.6 (+/- 3.9) errors per session.Adjacent words were sometimes joined together(e.g.
?atyour?, ?upahead?, etc) and sometimesincorrectly segmented with space (e.g.
?collectionsof?, ?hea ryou?, etc).
Some entity names weremisspelled as well (e.g.
?Critchon?, ?DyanmicEarth?, ?artthurs seat?, etc).
Spelling errors canreflect poorly when the utterances are synthesizedand the misspelled words mispronounced.Syntax:We also found a few syntactic errors in utteranceconstruction (e.g.
?Continue going Chambersstreet?).
Similar to spelling errors, utterances withimproper syntax can sound weird to the Touristand could lead to confusion and misunderstandinginstructions.Incorrect entity names:Wizards did not always get street names correct,e.g.
in dyad 02, the Wizard directed the Tourist to?Nicholas Square?
and the Tourist needed to seekclarification that he meant ?Nicolson Square?.Time and effort:It takes time and can slow the interaction with theuser, leading to issues like interruptions and theflow of the conversation being upset.7 SuggestionsBased on the above analysis, we propose a listof suggestions to build a better Wizard of Oz in-terface for collecting dialogues concerning pedes-trian navigation and exploration.
The objective ofthe WoZ system is to provide an effective inter-face to Wizards to interact with Tourists while pre-tending to be dialogue systems.
One of the impor-tant requirements is that Wizards should be ableto generate context appropriate utterances quicklyto make the dialogue appear more natural with-out unnecessary lag between a user?s requests andthe system?s responses.
Hot buttons are designedso that the utterance can generated at the push ofa button.
However as our data shows, Wizardstended to use the free text interface about 60% ofthe time.While there are situations in which free text isnecessary, in general it risks slowing the interac-tion and potentially confusing the Tourist whenwords are mis-spelled or omitted.
In addition,supporting the Wizard more effectively with animproved WoZ interface is likely to permit themto spend more time supporting and informingthe Tourist.
Free text utterances can lead to slowsystem response and there is therefore a need tofind a compromise between the two.
We have thefollowing suggestions:1.
More hot buttons:Some utterances generated using the free text in-terface could not be generated using the hot but-25tons or the sequences.
These include reassuringusers, informing them of the time/distance to des-tination, informing them of search results, etc.While free text is a useful interface to Wizards togenerate unforeseen utterances, more hot buttonscovering new functionality can be faster to use.However, introducing additional hot buttonswould add complexity to the interface, which islikely to have the undesireable effect of encourag-ing users to avoid the cluttered display in favour ifthe straightforward free text interface.
One partialsolution is to ensure that buttons are organised andgrouped in ways that are intuitive for the Wizard.This, and the optimum number of buttons for thedisplay, should be investigated experimentally.2.
Multi functional hot buttons:Some free text utterances were complex versionsof simple utterances that were already covered byhot buttons.
For instance, utterances like ?Keepgoing up Nicolson Street?
or ?Keep walking untilyou get to Chapel Street?
can be seen as a versionof ?Keep going straight ahead?
but with some ap-pended information (i.e.
street name, landmark).The interface could be designed so that hotbutton utterances could be modified or appendedwith more information.
For example, a singleclick the hot button might send the utterance tothe free text editor, allowing the Wizard to addmore information, whereas a double click wouldsend the utterance directly to the TTS.3.
Spell check, grammar check and auto cor-rection:To ensure that the speech synthesizer works as ef-fectively as possible, the utterances typed in thefree text editor must be correctly spelled.
One so-lution to the frequent mis-spelling made by Wiz-ards typing at speed is to automatically spell checkand correct text typed in the free text interface.Ensuring that text is correct would reduce therisk of the speech synthesizer mispronouncingmisspelt names and words.
Similarly, a grammarcheck would mean that the synthesised utterancesfelt more natural.Since there is the danger of an automatic spellchecker making mistakes, the spell check and cor-rection should happen when the Wizard finishestyping a word or utterance and the auto correctedword or utterance be shown to the Wizard beforeit is sent to the TTS.4.
Autocomplete:Autocomplete is a feature that predicts the nextwords the user intends to type based on thosealready typed.
It is currently used by searchengines such as Google to complete users?
searchqueries based on their search history and profile.A similar feature that can complete utterancestaking into account the user?s request, dialoguehistory, and the spatial context could speed up theresponse time of the Wizard.5.
Location aware WoZ interface:The WoZ system could be ?aware?
of the user?ssurroundings.
Such a solution might enable theinterface to have dynamically changing buttons,so when the user is headed up Nicolson Street,the ?Keeping going?
button could have NicolsonStreet on it.
Information about entities aroundthe user can also be assigned to hot buttons dy-namically.
However, hot buttons with dynamicallychanging labels and functionality could be cogni-tively overloading to Wizards.Of course, the addition of such functionalityto the WoZ interface must be carefully evaluated.A dynamic interface may be harder to learn, andincreasing the number of buttons may, counter-intuitively, mean that users are less likely to selecthot buttons because the effort to scan the array ofbuttons is greater than the effort needed to type ut-terances, particularly short ones, into a free textbox.8 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a Wizard of Oz systemthat was used to collect dialogues in the domain ofpedestrian navigation and information.
We anal-ysed the corpus collected to identify how Wizardspreferred to interact with the pedestrian users andwhy.
We identified issues with free text interfacesthat was used by majority of Wizards and sug-gested improvements towards future Wizard inter-face design.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results was funded by the Eu-ropean Commission?s Framework 7 programme under grantagreement no.
270019 (SPACEBOOK project).26ReferencesP.
Bartie and W. Mackaness.
2006.
Development of aspeech-based augmented reality system to support explo-ration of cityscape.
Transactions in GIS, 10:63?86.Vera Demberg, Andi Winterboer, and Johanna D. Moore.2011.
A strategy for information presentation in spo-ken dialog systems.
Comput.
Linguist., 37(3):489?539,September.N.
Fraser and G. N. Gilbert.
1991.
Simulating speech sys-tems.
Computer Speech and Language, 5:81?99.S.
Janarthanam, O.
Lemon, P. Bartie, T. Dalmas, A. Dick-inson, X. Liu, W. Mackaness, and B. Webber.
2013.Evaluating a city exploration dialogue system combiningquestion-answering and pedestrian navigation.
In Proc.ACL 2013.J.
Pearson, J. Hu, H. P. Branigan, M. J. Pickering, andC.
Nass.
2006.
Adaptive language behavior in HCI: howexpectations and beliefs about a system affect users?
wordchoice.
In Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Hu-man Factors in computing systems, Montral.V.
Rieser and O.
Lemon.
2011.
Learning and Evaluationof Dialogue Strategies for new Applications: EmpiricalMethods for Optimization from Small Data Sets.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 37:1.C.J.
Shroder, W. Mackaness, and B. Gittings.
2011.
Givingthe Right Route Directions: The Requirements for Pedes-trian Navigation Systems.
Transactions in GIS, pages419?438.27
