Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 43?47,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsEncoding MWEs in a conceptual lexiconAggeliki Fotopoulou, Stella Markantonatou, Voula GiouliInstitute for Language and Speech Processing, R.C.
?Athena?
{afotop;marks;voula}@ilsp.athena-innovation.grAbstractThe proposed  paper  reports  on  work  in  progressaimed at the development of a conceptual lexiconof  Modern  Greek  (MG)  and  the  encoding  ofMWEs  in  it.
Morphosyntactic  and  semanticproperties  of  these  expressions  were  specifiedformally and encoded in the lexicon.
The resultingresource will be applicable for a number of NLPapplications.1 IntroductionSubstantial research  in  linguistics  has  beendevoted  to  the  analysis  and  classification  ofMWEs from different perspectives (Fraser, 1970;Chomsky,  1980;  M. Gross 1982,  1988;  Ruwet,1983;  der  Linden,  1992;  Nunberg et  al.,  1994;Howarth, 1996; Jackendoff, 1997; Moon, 1998;Fellbaum,  2007).
Moreover,  cognitive  andpsycholinguistic  approaches  to  MWEs  (Lakoff,1993;  Gibbs,  1998;  Glucksberg,  1993;Diakogiorgi&Fotopoulou, 2012) have accountedfor  their  interpretation.
Within  the  NLPcommunity,  there  is  a  growing  interest  in  theidentification  of  MWEs  and  their  robusttreatment,  as  this  seems  to  improve  parsingaccuracy  (Nivre  and  Nilsson,  2004;  Arun  andKeller, 2005).
In this respect, the development oflarge-scale,  robust  language resources that  maybe integrated in parsing systems is of paramountimportance.
Representation, however, of MWEsin lexica poses a number of challenges.2 Basic NotionsTypically,  fixed  MWEs  are  identified  andclassified on the basis of  semantic,  lexical  andmorphosyntactic criteria.
(M. Gross, 1982, 1987;Lamiroy, 2003), namely:?
non-compositionality:  i.e.,  the meaning ofthe  expression  cannot  be  computed  fromthe  meanings of  its  constituents  and  therules used to combine them.
Nevertheless,according  to  (Nunberg  et  al,  1994),compositionality refers to the fact that theconstituents  of  some  idioms  ?carryidentifiable  parts  of  the  idiomaticmeaning?.
Variability has  been  furtheremphasised in (Hamblin and Gibbs 1999)and  (Nunberg  et  al.
1994):  fixedexpressions  appear  in  a  continuum  ofcompositionality,  which  ranges  fromexpressions  that  are  very  analysable  toothers  that  are  partially  analysable  orultimately non-analysable.?
non-substitutability:  at  least  one  of  theexpression  constituents  does  not  enter  inalternations at the paradigmatic axis?
non-modifiability: MWEs are syntacticallyrigid structures, in that there are constraintsconcerning  modification,  transformations,etc.These  criteria,  however,  do  not  apply  in  allcases in a uniform way.
The  variability attestedbrings about the notion ?degree of fixedness?
(G.Gross 1996).
The kind and degree of fixednessresult in the classification of these expressions asfixed,  semi-fixed,  syntactically flexible orcollocations (Sag et al, 2002).
It is crucial for asatisfactory  MWEs  representation  in  acomputational lexicon to provide an accurate andfunctional  formal  modelling  of  fixedness,variability and compositionality.In this paper, we will discuss the classificationand encoding of compounds and fixed MWEs ina conceptually organised lexicon of MG.3 The conceptual lexiconThe conceptually organised lexicon that is underdevelopment  (Markantonatou  &  Fotopoulou,2007)  capitalises  on two basic  notions:  (a)  thenotion  of  lexical  fields,  along  with  (b)  theSaussurian notion of sign and its two inseparablefacets,  namely,  the  SIGNIFIER and  theSIGNIFIED as the building blocks (main classes)of the underlying ontology.43In this sense, the intended language resource isa  linguistic  ontology  in  which  words  areinstances in the  SIGNIFIER class.
At this level,morphological,  syntactic  and  functionalinformation about lemmas is encoded.
Similarly,word meanings are instances in the  SIGNIFIEDclass.
Each instance in the  SIGNIFIER class ismapped onto a concept, the latter represented asan instance in the SIGNIFIED class.The  Instances  of  the  class  SIGNIFIER arespecified  for  (a)  features  pertaining  to  lexicalsemantic  relations  (i.e,  synonymy,  antonymy);(b)  lexical  relations  such  as  word  families,allomorphs,  syntactic  variants  etc.
;  and  (c)morphosyntactic  properties  (PoS,  gender,declension,  argument  structure,  word  specificinformation  etc.).
Values  for  these features  areassigned to both single- and multi-word entriesin the lexicon.
MWEs are further coupled withrich  linguistic  information  pertaining  to  thelexical, syntactic and semantic levels.4 Encoding MWEs in the lexiconMWEs  are  encoded  as  instances  in  theSIGNIFIER class  of our ontology and are alsomapped onto the corresponding concepts or wordmeanings (instances in the SIGNIFIED class).In the remaining, we focus on the encoding ofMWEs as instances in the SIGNIFIER class.
Wecater  for  sub-classes  corresponding  togrammatical  categories  (verb,  noun,  adjective,adverb,  preposition,  etc)  under  the  classSIGNIFIER in our schema.
The class MWEs (asopposed to the class Simple Lexical Units) hasbeen  defined  further  under  the  verb,  noun,adjective and adverb sub-classes.Syntactic  configurations  pertaining  to  eachclass are also represented as distinct sub-classeshierarchically  organised  under  the  verb,  noun,adjective  and  adverb  classes.
Morphosyntacticproperties, selectional preferences, and semanticinterpretation  patterns  are  provided  for  eachMWE depending on the grammatical category itpertains  to;  encoding  is  based  on  a  set  ofparameters represented as feature-value pairs.More  precisely,  a  typology  of  Greek  verbalMWEs has been defined in (Fotopoulou,  1993,Mini, 2009) (NP V NP1 NP2?)
and of nominalMWEs in (Anastasiadis,  1986) (Adj  N,  NN?
)on  the  basis  of  the  lexical  and  syntacticconfigurations involved.
This typology has beenmapped onto a hierarchy under classes  verb andnoun).In our approach, the main distinction betweencollocations and  fixed  MWEs is  made  explicit.The  degree  and  type  of  fixedness  are  thenencoded  as  features.
Further  morphosyntacticinformation  is  also  encoded  depending  on  thegrammatical  category  of  the  MWE  (i.e.,declension  of  one  or  more  constituents,only_singular or  only_plural for nouns, etc.).
Inthis way, information that may be useful for theautomatic identification and interpretation of theMWEs may be retained.
Moreover, the standardset  of  features  inherited  from  the  classSIGNIFIER  is  also  retained  (PoS,  Gender,Number, Tense, synonyms, antonyms, etc.
).4.1.The encoding schemaWe have so far implemented an encoding schemafor  nominal  and  verbal  MWEs.
We  aimed  atencoding rich linguistic knowledge in a formalway  that  would  be  exploitable  in  computerapplications.
The  two  types  of  fixedness(collocations and fixed) are encoded as features:(a) Lexical_variance, and (b) Is_actually.The feature  Lexical_variance1 has as possiblevalues (yes or no).
Collocations (assigned a yesvalue)  are  further  specified  with  respect  toalternative lemmas; these lemmas are encoded inthe appropriate feature Variants.
For instance, inexample  (1)  the  two  alternative  lemmas  are???????????
and ???????????
:(1) ????????
(???????????
/  ???????????
)(=emergency (situations / circumstances))The feature  Is_actually (with possible valuesyes  or  no)  encodes  information  about  theinterpretation  pattern:  a  value  yes signifies  acompositional  or  partially  compositionalmeaning; on the contrary,  a value  no denotes anon-compositional  interpretation  (fixedmeaning).Collocations  are  by  default  assigned featurevalues  corresponding  to  a  compositionalmeaning.
In  these  cases,  the  featuremaintains_meaning further  specifies  theconstituent(s)  that  contribute  to  the  non-fixedinterpretation of the expression.
For example, themeaning of the compound in (2) is retained fromthe  meaning  of  the  first  noun  ??????
(=trip),which,  in  turn,  is  the  value  assigned  to  themaintains_meaning feature:1In  our  MWE  classification  scheme,  a  lexical  unit  isconsidered ?fixed?
at the lemma level.
This is because MGis a heavily inflected language.44(2) ??????
???????
(trip  -  lightning  (=verysudden and short trip)<maintains_meaning =  ??????
/>Finally,  the  feature  has_meta_meaningsignifies  further  the  constituent(s)  ?
if  any  ?bearing a figurative meaning.
For example,  thecompound  ??????
???????
in  (2)  assumes  thefigurative meaning of the second noun  ???????
(=very sudden and short-term).On  the  contrary,  verbal  and  nominalexpressions  with  a  non-compositional  meaningare  assigned  a  negative  value (no) for  theIs_actually feature since their constituents do notcontribute to a compositional meaning; therefore,the  features maintains_meaning  andhas_meta_meaning  are  left  empty  as  non-applicable.
This is exemplified in (3) below; theconstituents ???????
(=kids?)
and ????
(=joy) ofthe  expression  ???????
????
(=playground)  donot contribute to the overall interpretation:(3) ???????
????
(=playground)<maintains_meaning/><has_meta_meaning/>This schema that applies to both nominal andverbal MWES, is presented in Table 1 below.Slot Valuesmwe_type Fixed;   collocationLexical_variance  Boolean (yes, no)Variants string?s_actually Boolean (yes, no)maintains_meaning Stringhas_meta_meaning StringTable 1 The encoding schema for nouns & verbs4.2.Nominal MWEsFurthermore,  nominal  MWEs are also assignedvalues  for  features  that  are  specific  to  thenominal  MWEs.
Information  on  inflectedconstituents  -  if  any  ?
is  provided  in  thedeclension feature; values for  only_singular andonly_plural provide further morphological/usageinformation;  when  used  in  combination  withother  features  (i.e,  is_actually)  this  type  ofinformation is  evidence  of  fixedness.
Frequentco-occurrence patterns with verbs are provided inthe  verb_combined feature;  finally,  alternativenominalised  forms  are  listed  as  values  of  thefeature  nominalization.
The schema is presentedin the table below:only singular Boolean (yes, no)only plural: Boolean (yes, no)N_declension ?1, ?2, ?1_?2, Adj_Nverb_combined stringNominalization stringTable 2 The encoding schema for nouns4.3.Verbal MWEsIn the typology adopted for the verbal idiomaticexpressions,  fixedness can  be  limited  to  onlycertain  constituents  of  the  sentence; acombination of fixed and non-fixed constituentsin  Subject or  Object position  is  permitted.
Forexample,  in  sentences  (4)  and  (5)  below,fixedness relies on the relation among the verbsand the nouns that function as Objects (direct andindirect) and as Subject respectively:(4) ????
???
?NP-acc, Obj ????
???
?PPto  give  way to  anger  (=to swallow one?spride/anger)(5) ???????
??
????????
??
?NP-nom, Subjmy lights are  switched on  (=to  becomevery angry)Moreover,  the  typology  allows  for  a  restrictedalternation of fixed elements of the expression.For  example,  in  the  MWE  in  (6),  the  twoalternative lemmas are ????
and ?????????
:(6) ????
/ ?????????
???
??????
??
??
????
?to  undertake    to    offer   /  promise   the sky withthe starsThis information is encoded in verbal MWEs,namely:  (a) the syntactic properties of the verbthat occurs in the expression (valency); and (b)45fixed and non-fixed arguments either in  Subjector  Object position.
Moreover,  selectionalrestrictions applied to the arguments (such as +/-human) are also added.The  encoding  schema  that  applies  to  verbalMWEs  specifically  is  presented  in  Table  3.
Inthis  schema,  N signifies  a  non-fixed  noun,whereas C denotes a fixed one; number 0 (in N0and C0) is used to represent a noun (either fixedor non-fixed in Subject position), and 1, 2, 3, etc.denote  complements  in  Object position  (orcomplements  of  prepositional  phrases).
Otherfeatures  provide  rich  linguistic  informationregarding facets of the expression in terms of: (a)selectional restrictions (i.e., the features N0_type,N1_type,  etc., accept  as  values  the  semanticcategory in which a noun in  Subject  or  Objectposition respectively,  belongs  to),  (b)  syntacticalternations  (i.e.,  Poss_Ppv  encodes  thealternation  among  possessive and  personalpronoun),  grammatical  information  (i.e.,Ppv_case  encodes  the  case  of  the  personalpronoun), etc.Slot ValueN0_type hum, -hum, npcC0_variants stringPoss=Ppv Boolean (yes or no)Ppv_case gen, accN1_type hum, -hum, npc (Nom departie du corps/noun ofthe part of  body)N2_type hum, -hum, npcN3_type hum, -hum, npcC1_variants stringC2_variants stringC3_variants stringTable 3.
The encoding schema for verbsAlternative  nouns  (in  Subject  or  Objectposition)  that  oftern  co-occur  with  the  verbalexpression  are  also  provided  for  (C0_variant,C1_variant, etc).5.
DiscussionAs it has been shown above, in our lexicon wehave  opted  for  an  approach  to  MWErepresentation  that  builds  on  rich  linguisticknowledge.
The linguistic classifications adopteddeal  with  morphology,  syntax,  and  semanticsinterface  aspects.
Thus,  a  lexicon  ?
grammarrepresentation of MWEs has been constructed byencoding  key  morphosyntactic  and  semanticinformation.The  typology  of  verbal  MWEsshares  common  characteristics  with  similarefforts  for  other  languages  (i.e,  DuELME,Gregoire,  2010 Morphosyntactic  properties  andselectional  preferences  account  better  for  anumber  of  phenomena,  inherent  in  the  Greeklanguage,  as  for  example  word order  and gapsattested in running text.More specifically, Greek is a language with arelatively  free  word  order,  and  idiomaticexpressions  often  occur  in  texts  in  variousconfigurations.
The encoding of fixed and non-fixed  constituents  provides,  therefore,  extrainformation for the identification of expressionsin texts.
Moreover, the identification of MWEsas  collocations  entails  a  relatively  loosefixedness,  allowing,  thus,  for  gaps  anddiscontinuities as shown in (7):(7) ??
?????
????
??????
?????????-????
?The  political  party  has  a  number ofcandidates record (=many candidates)6.
Conclusions and Future workWe have  given  an  overview of  the  conceptuallexicon  currently  under  development  and  thetreatment of MWEs in it.
We have so far treatednominal  and  verbal  MWEs  (~1000  entries).Future  work  involves  the  population  of  thelexicon with new expressions also pertaining tothe grammatical categories adjective and adverband the definition of a fine-grained typology forthe  latter.
Moreover,  a  more  granularrepresentation  of  fixedness  will  be  attempted.Compatibility  of  the  resource  with  diversesyntactic  approaches  will  also  be  investigated.The  evaluation  of  the  final  resource  will  beperformed  by  integrating  it  in  a  tool  thatautomatically recognizes MWEs in texts.References???????????-?????????
?.
(1986).
?
????????
?????????
???????????.
???????????
:  ????????????????????????
????????????
(?????????????????????
???????????
??????
).46Arun,  A.  and  F.  Keller.
2005.
Lexicalisation  incrosslinguistic  probablisitic  parsing:  The  case  offrench.
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meetingof  the Association for Computational  Linguistics,pp 306?313.
Ann Arbor, MIChomsky, N. 1980.
Rules and Representations.
NewYork: Columbia University Press.Diakogiorgi,  K.  &  Fotopoulou,  A.
2012.Interpretation of Idiomatic Expressions by GreekSpeaking Children: implications for the Linguisticand  Psycholinguistic  Research.
Aninterdisciplinary  approach.
LingvisticaeInvestigationes, Volume  35:1.
1-27, JohnBenjamins, Paris, FranceFellbaum,  C.  2007.
Introduction.
Fellbaum, C.  (ed).Idioms and Collocations: Corpus-based Linguisticand Lexicographic Studies.
London: Continuum, 1-Fotopoulou, A.
1993.
Une Classification des Phrases?
Compl?ments Fig?s en Grec Moderne.
DoctoralThesis, Universite Paris VIII.Fraser,  B.
1970.
Idioms  within  a  TransformationalGrammar.
Foundations of language, 1, 22-42.Fritzinger,  F.,  Weller,  M.,  and  Heid.
U.
2010.
Asurvey  of  idiomatic  preposition-noun-verb  tiples  ontoken level.
In Proceedings of LREC-10.Gr?goire,  N.  2010.
DuELME:  a  Dutch  electroniclexicon  of  multiword  expressions;  LangResources & Evaluation (2010) 44:23?39Gibbs  R.W.
1998.
The  Fight  over  Metaphor  inThought and Language.
In A.N.
Katz, C. Cacciari,R.W.
Gibbs  &  M.  Turner  (eds.
),  FigurativeLanguage and Thought.
OUP, 88-118.Glucksberg, S. 1993.
Idiom meanings and allusionalcontext.
In  Idioms:  Processing,  structure,  andintepretation.
C.  Cacciari  and  P.  Tabossi  (eds.
).Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 201-225.Gross,  G.  1996.
Les  expressions fig?es  en fran?ais.Noms  compos?s  et  autres  locutions.
Paris/Gap:Ophrys.Gross, M. 1982.
Une classification des phrases fig?esdu fran?ais.
Revue Qu?b?coise de Linguistique 11(2), 151-185.Gross,  M.  1988a.
Les  limites  de  la  phrase  fig?e.Langage 90: 7-23Gross,  Maurice.
1988b.
Sur  les  phrases  fig?escomplexes du fran?ais.
Langue fran?aise 77: 4770.Hamblin, J., and Gibbs, W. R. 1999.
Why You Can?tKick  the  Bucket  as  You  Slowly  Die:  Verbs  inIdiom Comprehension.
Journal of PsycholinguisticResearch.
28 (1): 25-39.Howarth P.A.
1996.
Phraseology in English academicwriting.
Lexicographica Series 75.
T?bingen: MaxNiemeyer.
Jackendoff R. 1997.
The Architecture ofthe Language Faculty.
MIT Press.Lakoff  G.  1993.
The  Contemporary  Theory  ofMetaphor.
In  A.  Ortony  (ed.
), Metaphor  andThought, 2nd  edition  Cambridge  University  Press,202-251.Lamiroy,  B.
2003.
Les  notions  linguistiques  defigement  et  de  contrainte.
LingvisticaeInvestigationes 26:1,  53-66,Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.van der Linden E-J.
1992.
Incremental processing andthe  hierarchical  lexicon.
ComputationalLinguistics, 18, 219-238Markantonatou,  Stella  and  Fotopoulou,  Aggeliki.2007.
The tool ?Ekfrasi".
In Proceedings of the 8thInternational  Conference  on  Greek  Linguistics,The Lexicography Workshop.
Ioannina, Greece.Markantonatou,  S.,  Fotopoulou,  ?.,  Mini,  M.  &Alexopoulou, M. 2010.
In search of the right word.In Proceedings of Cogalex-2: Cognitive Aspects ofthe  Lexicon,  2nd  SIGLEX  endorsed  Workshop.Beijing.Mini, M. 2009.
Linguistic and Psycholinguistic Studyof Fixed Verbal Expressions with Fixed Subject inModern  Greek:  A  Morphosyntactic  Analysis,Lexicosemantic  Gradation  and  Processing  byElementary School Children.
Unpublished doctoraldissertation.
University of Patras.Moon,  R.  1998.
Fixed  Expressions  and  Idioms  inEnglish: A Corpus-Based Approach.
Oxford: OUP.Nivre,  J.  and  Nilsson,  J.
2004.
Multiword  units  insyntactic parsing.
Workshop on Methodologies andEvaluation  of  Multiword  Units  in  Real-WorldApplications.Nunberg  ,G.,  Sag  I.,  Wasow,  T.  1994.
Idioms.Language 70, 491-538.Ruwet,  N.  1983.
Du  Bon  Usage  des  ExpressionsIdiomatiques  dans  l'Argumentation  en  SyntaxeG?n?rative.
Revue Qu?becoise de Linguistique  13(1): 9-145.Sag,  I.A.,  Bond,  F.,  Copestake  A.,  Flickinger,  D.2001.
Multiword  Expressions.
LinGO  WorkingPaperNo.2001-01.Sag,  Ivan  A.,  T.Baldwin,  F.Bond,  A. Copestake andDan Flickinger.2001.Multiword  Expressions:  APain in the Neck for  NLP.
LinGO Working PaperNo.
2001-03.
In  Alexander  Gelbukh,  ed.,  (2002)Proceedings of COLING-2002.47
