Proc.
of 5th Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Learning (CogACLL) @ EACL 2014, pages 38?42,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a computational model of grammaticalization andlexical diversityChristian BentzUniversity of Cambridge, DTAL9 West Road, CB3 9DAcb696@cam.ac.ukPaula ButteryUniversity of Cambridge, DTAL9 West Road, CB3 9DApjb48@cam.ac.ukAbstractLanguages use different lexical inven-tories to encode information, rangingfrom small sets of simplex words tolarge sets of morphologically complexwords.
Grammaticalization theoriesargue that this variation arises asthe outcome of diachronic processeswhereby co-occurring words mergeto one word and build up complexmorphology.
To model these pro-cesses we present a) a quantitativemeasure of lexical diversity and b) apreliminary computational model ofchanges in lexical diversity over severalgenerations of merging higly frequentcollocates.1 IntroductionAll languages share the property of being car-riers of information.
However, they vastly dif-fer in terms of the exact encoding strategiesthey adopt.
For example, German encodes in-formation about number, gender, case, tense,aspect, etc.
in a multitude of different articles,pronouns, nouns, adjectives and verbs.
Thisabundant set of word forms contrasts with asmaller set of uninflected words in English.Crucially, grammaticalization theories(Heine and Kuteva, 2007, 2002; Bybee 2006,2003; Hopper and Traugott, 2003; Lehmann,1985) demonstrate that complex morpho-logical marking can derive diachronically bymerging originally independent word formsthat frequently co-occur.
Over several gen-erations of language learning and usage suchgrammaticalization and entrenchment pro-cesses can gradually increase the complexityof word forms and hence the lexical diversityof languages.To model these processes Section 2 willpresent a quantitative measure of lexical diver-sity based on Zipf-Mandelbrots law, which isalso used as a biodiversity index (Jost, 2006).Based on this measure we present a prelimi-nary computational model to reconstruct thegradual change from lexically constrained tolexically rich languages in Section 3.
Wetherefore use a simple grammaticalization al-gorithm and show how historical developmentstowards higher lexical diversity match the vari-ation in lexical diversity of natural languagestoday.
This suggests that synchronic variationin lexical diversity can be explained as the out-come of diachronic language change.The computational model we present willtherefore help to a) understand the diver-sity of lexical encoding strategies across lan-guages better, and b) to further uncover thediachronic processes leading up to these syn-chronic differences.2 Zipf?s law as a measure of lexicaldiversityZipf-Mandelbrot?s law (Mandelbrot, 1953;Zipf, 1949) states that ordering of words ac-cording to their frequencies in texts will renderfrequency distributions of a specific shape: ingeneral, few words have high frequencies, fol-lowed by a middle ground of medium frequen-cies and a long tail of low frequency items.However, a series of studies pointed out thatthere are subtle differences in frequency dis-tributions for different texts and languages(Bentz et al., forthcoming; Ha et al., 2006;Popescu and Altmann, 2008).
Namely, lan-guages with complex morphology tend to havelonger tails of low frequency words than lan-guages with simplex morphology.
The param-eters of Zipf-Mandelbrot?s law reflect these dif-ferences, and can be used as a quantitative38measure of lexical diversity.2.1 MethodWe use the definition of ZM?s law as capturedby equation (1):f(ri) =C?
+ r?i,C > 0, ?
> 0, ?
> ?1, i = 1, 2, .
.
.
, n (1)where f(ri) is the frequency of the wordof the ithrank (ri), n is the number of ranks,C is a normalizing factor and ?
and ?
areparameters.
To illustrate this, we use paralleltexts of the Universal Declaration of HumanRights (UDHR) for Fijian, English, Germanand Hungarian.
For frequency distributionsof these texts (with tokens delimited bywhite spaces) we can approximate the bestfitting parameters of the ZM law by meansof maximum likelihood estimation (Izsa?k,2006; Murphy, 2013).
In double logarithmicspace (see Figure 1) the normalizing factorC would shift the line of best fit upwards ordownwards, ?
is the slope of this line and ?is Mandelbrot?s (1953) corrective for the factthat the line of best fit will deviate from astraight line for higher frequencies (upper leftcorner in Figure 1).As can be seen in Figure 1 Fijian has higherfrequencies towards the lowest ranks (upperleft corner) but the shortest tail of words withfrequency one (horizontal bars in the lowerright corner).
For Hungarian the pattern runsthe other way round: it has the lowest frequen-cies towards the low ranks and a long tail ofwords with frequency one.
German and En-glish lie between these.
These patterns are re-flected in ZM parameter values.
Namely, Fi-jian has the highest parameters, followed byEnglish, German and Hungarian.
By trendthere is a negative relationship between ZMparameters and lexical diversity: low lexicaldiversity is associated with high parameters,high diversity is associated with low param-eters.
Cross-linguistically this effect can beused to measure lexical diversity by means ofapproximating the parameters of ZM?s law forparallel texts.In the following, we will present a compu-tational model to elicit the diachronic path-ways of grammaticalization through which aFigure 1: Zipf frequency distributions for fournatural languages (Fijian, English, German,Hungarian).
Plots are in log-log space, val-ues 0.15, 0.1 and 0.05 were added to Fijian,English and German log-frequencies to avoidoverplotting.
Values for the Zipf-Mandelbrotparameters are given in the legend.
Thestraight black line is the line of best fit forFijian.low lexical diversity language like Fijian mightdevelop towards a high diversity language likeHungarian.3 Modelling changes in lexicaldiversityGrammaticalization theorists have longclaimed that synchronic variation in wordcomplexity and lexical diversity might be theoutcome of diachronic processes.
Namely, thegrammaticalization cline from content item>grammatical word >clitic >inflectional affixis seen as a ubiquitous process in languagechange (Hopper and Traugott, 2003: 7).In the final stage frequently co-occurringwords merge by means of phonological fusion(Bybee, 2003: 617) and hence ?morphologize?to built inflections and derivations.Typical examples of a full cline of grammat-icalization are the Old English noun l?
?c ?body?becoming the derivational suffix -ly, the inflec-tional future in Romance languages such asItalian cantero` ?I will sing?
derived from Latincantare habeo ?I have to sing?, or Hungarianinflectional elative and inessive case markersderived from a noun originally meaning ?in-terior?
(Heine and Kuteva, 2007: 66).
Theseprocesses can cause languages to distinguish39between a panoply of different word forms.
Forexample, Hungarian displays up to 20 differentnoun forms where English would use a singleform (e.g.
ship corresponding to Hungarianhajo?
?ship?, hajo?ban ?in the ship?, hajo?ba ?intothe ship?, etc.
).As a consequence, once the full grammati-calization cline is completed this will increasethe lexical diversity of a language.
Note,however, that borrowings (loanwords) and ne-ologisms can also increase lexical diversity.Hence, a model of changes in lexical diversitywill have to take both grammaticalization andnew vocabulary into account.3.1 The modelText: We use the Fijian UDHR as our start-ing point for two reasons: a) Fijian is a lan-guage that is well known to be largely lack-ing complex morphology, b) the UDHR is aparallel text and hence allows us to comparedifferent languages by controlling for constantinformation content.
Fijian has relatively lowlexical diversity and high ZM parameter val-ues (see Figure 1).
The question is whetherwe can simulate a simple merging process overseveral generations that will transform the fre-quency distribution of the original Fijian textto fit the frequency distribution of the mor-phologically and lexically rich Hungarian text.To answer this question, we simulate the out-come of grammaticalization on the frequencydistributions in the following steps:Simulation: Our program takes a giventext of generation i, calculates a frequencydistribution for this generation, changes thetext along various operations given below, andgives the frequency distribution of the text fora new generation i+ 1 as output.We take the original UDHR in Fijian as ourstarting point in generation 0 and run the pro-gram for consecutive generations.
We simulatethe change of this text over several generationsof language learning and usage by varying thefollowing variables:?
pm: Rank bigrams according to their fre-quency and merge the highest pmper-cent of them to one word.
This simu-lates a simple grammaticalization processwhereby two separate words that are fre-quent collocates are merged to one word.?
pv: Percentage of words replaced by newwords.
Choose pvof words randomly andreplace all instances of these words by in-verting the letters.
This simulates neolo-gisms and loanwords replacing deprecatedwords.?
rR: Range of ranks to be included in pvreplacements.
If set to 0, vocabulary fromanywhere in the distribution will be ran-domly replaced.?
nG: Number of generations to simulate.This simulation essentially allows us to varythe degree of grammaticalization by means ofvarying pm, and also to control for the factthat frequency distributions might change dueto loanword borrowing and introduction ofnew vocabulary (pv).
Additionally, rRallowsus to vary the range of ranks where new wordsmight replace deprecated ones.
For frequencydistributions calculated by generations we ap-proximate ZM parameters by maximum likeli-hood estimations and therefore document thechange of their shape.Results: Figure 2 illustrates a simulationof how the low lexical diversity language Fi-jian approaches quantitative lexical propertiessimilar to the Hungarian text just by means ofmerging high-frequent collocates.
While thefrequency distribution of Fijian in generation0 still reflects the original ZM values, theZM parameter values after 6 generations ofgrammaticalization have become much closerto the values of the Hungarian UDHR:Fij (nG= 0): ?
= 1.21,?
= 2.1,C = 812Fij (nG= 6): ?
= 0.70,?
= ?0.22,C = 73Hun (nG= 0): ?
= 0.76,?
= ?0.31,C = 90Note, that in this model there is actu-ally no replacement of vocabulary necessaryto arrive at frequency distributions thatcorrespond to high lexical diversity variants.After only six generations of merging 2.5% ofbigrams to a single grammaticalized word theFijian UDHR has ZM parameter propertiesvery close to the Hungarian UDHR.
However,in future research we want to scrutinize theeffect of parameter changes on frequencydistributions in more depth and in accordance40Figure 2: Simulation of grammaticalization processes and their reflections in Zipf distributionsfor variable values pm= 2.5, pv= 0, rR= 0,nG= 10.
Changes of ?
are shown in the upper leftpanel, changes in ?
are shown in the upper right panel, changes in C are shown in the lower leftpanel, and changes in log-transformed frequency distributions are illustrated in the lower rightpanel.with estimations derived from historicallinguistic studies.4 DiscussionWe have pointed out in Section 2 that lexicaldiversity can be measured cross-linguisticallyby means of calculating frequency distribu-tions for parallel texts and approximating thecorresponding ZM parameters in a maximumlikelihood estimation.It is assumed that cross-linguistic variationis the outcome of diachronic processes of gram-maticalization, whereby highly frequent bi-grams are merged into a single word.
Thepreliminary computational model in Section 3showed that indeed even by a strongly sim-plified grammaticalization process a text withlow lexical diversity (Fijian UDHR) can gainlexical richness over several generations, andfinally match the quantitative properties of alexically rich language (Hungarian UDHR).However, there are several caveats that needto be addressed in future research:?
More models with varying parametersneed to be run to scrutinize the interac-tion between new vocabulary (loanwords,neologisms) and grammaticalization.?
The grammaticalization algorithm used isoverly simplified.
A more realistic pic-ture is possible by using POS tagged andparsed texts to ensure that only certainparts of speech in certain syntactic con-texts grammaticalize (e.g.
pre- and post-positions in combination with nouns).?
The model could be elaborated by consid-ering not only bigram frequencies but alsofrequencies of the individual words andmore complex frequency measures (seeSchmid, 2010).415 ConclusionLanguages display an astonishing diversitywhen it comes to lexical encoding of informa-tion.
This synchronic variation in encodingstrategies is most likely the outcome of di-achronic processes of language change.
Wehave argued that lexical diversity can be mea-sured quantitatively with reference to the pa-rameters of Zipf-Mandelbrot?s law, and thatpathways of change in lexical diversity can bemodelled computationally.
Elaboration andrefinement of these models will help to bet-ter understand linguistic diversity as the out-come of processes on historical and evolution-ary time scales.ReferencesMarco Baroni.
2009.
Distributions in text.In Anke Lu?deling and Merja Kyto?
(eds.
),Corpus Linguistics.
An internationalhandbook.
Berlin/ New York, Mouton deGruyter, pages 803-826.Christian Bentz, Douwe Kiela, Felix Hill,and Paula Buttery.
forthcoming.
Zipf?s lawand the grammar of languages.
In CorpusLinguistics and Linguistic Theory.Joan Bybee.
2006.
From usage to grammar:The mind?s repsonse to repetition.
InLanguage, volume 82 (4), pages 711-733.Joan Bybee.
2003.
Mechanisms of change ingrammaticization: the role of frequency.In B. D. Joseph and J.
Janda(eds.
), TheHandbook of Historical Linguistics.
Oxford,Blackwell, pages 711-733.Le Q. Ha, Darryl Stewart, Philip Hanna,and F. Smith.
2006.
Zipf and type-tokenrules for the English, Spanish, Irish andLatin languages.
In Web Journal of Formal,Computational and Cognitive Linguistics,volume 8.Bernd Heine and Tania Kuteva.
2007.The Genesis of Grammar: A Reconstruc-tion.
Oxford University Press.Bernd Heine and Tania Kuteva.
2002.World lexicon of grammaticalization.
Cam-bridge University Press.Paul J. Hopper and Elizabeth C. Traugott.2003.
Grammaticalization.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Ja?nos Izsa?k.
2006.
Some practical aspectsof fitting and testing the Zipf-Mandelbrotmodel: A short essay.
In Scientometrics,volume 67(1), pages 107-120.Lou Jost.
2006.
Entropy and diversity.In OIKOS, volume 113(2), pages 363-375.Christian Lehmann.
1985.
Grammatical-ization: Synchronic variation and di-achronic change.
In Lingua e stile, volume20, pages 303-318.Benoit Mandelbrot.
1953.
An informa-tional theory of the statistical structureof language.
In William Jackson (ed.
),Communication Theory.
ButterworthsScientific Publications, London, pages468-502.Laura Murphy.
2013.
R package likeli-hood: Methods for maximum likeli-hood estimation.
Retrieved from cran.r-project.org/web/packages/likelihoodIoan-Iovitz Popescu, and Gabriel Altmann.2008.
Hapax legomena and language typol-ogy.
In Journal of Quantitative Linguistics,volume 15(4), pages 370378.Hans-J.
Schmid.
2010.
Does frequencyin text instantiate entrenchment in thecognitive system?
In Dylan Glynn andKerstin Fischer (eds.
), Quantitative meth-ods in cognitive semantics: Corpus-drivenapproaches.
Berlin, Walter de Gruyter,pages 101-133.George K. Zipf.
1949.
Human behaviorand the principle of least effort.
Addison,Cambridge (Massachusetts).42
