Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 106?107,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Imperatives from Wikipedia Article for Deletion DiscussionsFiona MaoRobert E. MercerDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Western OntarioLondon, Ontario, Canadafiona.wt.mao@gmail.commercer@csd.uwo.caLu XiaoFaculty of Information and Media StudiesDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Western OntarioLondon, Ontario, Canadalxiao24@uwo.caAbstractWikipedia contains millions of articles,collaboratively produced.
If an articleis controversial, an online ?Article forDeletion?
(AfD) discussion is held todetermine whether the article should bedeleted.
It is open to any user to participateand make a comment or argue an opin-ion.
Some of these comments and argu-ments can be counter-arguments, attacksin Dung?s (1995) argumentation terminol-ogy.
Here, we consider the extraction ofone type of attack, the directive speech actformed as an imperative.1 IntroductionA large group of volunteers participate to makeWikipedia one of the most successful collabora-tive information repositories.
To ensure the qualityof the encyclopedia, deletion of articles happenscontinually.
If an article is controversial, an on-line discussion called ?Article for Deletion?
(AfD)is held to determine whether the article should bedeleted.
It is open to any user to participate in thediscussion and make a comment or argue an opin-ion.
Some of these comments and arguments canbe counter-arguments, attacks in Dung?s (1995) ar-gumentation terminology.
A common argumenta-tive attack is a directive speech act suggesting apotential disagreement and a possible way to rec-tify the matter.
Here, we consider the extraction ofthis type of attack when formed as an imperative.Researchers are becoming increasingly inter-ested in studying the content of Wikipedia?s Ar-ticles for Deletion (AfD) forum.
Schneider et al.
(2013) investigated the difference in argumentsfrom novices and experienced users.
Xiao andAskin (2014) examined the types of rationales inWikipedia AfD discussions.2 Speech Acts and ImperativesA speech act is an utterance that has performativefunction in communication (Austin, 1975).
Of thethree types of speech acts, Searle (1976) subcate-gorized the illocutionary act, the act of expressingthe speaker?s intention, into five sub-groups.
Weare interested here in the Directives sub-group.Often, a directive can be viewed as an attack(Dung, 1995), albeit an indirect one, e.g., ?Couldyou provide the source to me??.
The user, towhom this directive is made, undercuts (Pollock,1992) the attack by responding with some sources.Ervin-Tripp (1976) lists six types of directivesone being the imperative.
Imperatives express acommand.
Typically the predicate is an actionverb and the subject, often eliminated, is second-person (you).
As well, there can be words of po-liteness and adverbial modifiers of the verb:?
Please do this sort of check in the future.?
Just avoid those sorts of comments and per-haps strike the one above.Cohortatives (first person plural imperatives) arenormally used in suggestions such as, ?Let?s havedinner together.?
Some directive sentences fromAfD discussions are listed below:?
Add the information, and please give us someinformation so we can judge these sources.?
Let?s avoid compounding the BLP issuescaused by the existence of this article, in vi-olation of notability and blp policies, by hav-ing it snow-deleted post-haste.?
You must first discuss the matter there, andyou need to be specific.?
Perhaps time would be better spent addingmore and improving the article rather thanjust arguing here.?
Instead of complaining, how about findingsuch content and improving the article?106Viewing the above examples, some users directlysuggest or command other users to do something(the first one).
Cohortatives include the user (thesecond example).
The third one is obviously com-manding someone to discuss the matter first andto be specific.
The first three examples are imper-atives.
Some commands include politeness, as il-lustrated by the last two examples.
Since the formof this kind of utterance varies, it is difficult to de-fine a rule for recognizing it by computer.
In thispaper, we only detect direct imperatives and leaveindirect imperative recognition for future work.3 Detecting ImperativesIn English, a typical imperative is expressed by us-ing the base form of a verb, normally without asubject.
To detect this kind of imperative, we needto analyze the grammatical structure of sentences.According to our observation, a typical imper-ative contains a verb in base form without anysubject.
Therefore, the basic rule for imperativerecognition is to find those sentences with a verb(in its base form) as the root in the phrase struc-ture and this particular verb has no subject childin the dependency structure.
Another form of im-perative is like the sentence: ?You must first dis-cuss the matter there, and you need to be specific?.We have adapted a modal directive rule suggestedby Sinclair et al.
(1975): We recognize the use ofa personal pronoun or noun (e.g., ?you?, ?we?,or a username) followed by a modal verb (e.g.,?should?, ?must?, ?need?)
as an imperative.
Weused keywords to detect this kind of imperative.4 EvaluationIn this section, we evaluate the performance of ourmethods to detect imperatives.
Two human anno-tators (undergraduate students at The University ofWestern Ontario) extracted imperatives from ourdata.
Agreed upon imperatives became our goldstandard.
Our system had Precision 0.8447, Re-call 0.7337, and F-measure 0.7874 on this data.Most false positives have an implicit subject ?I?
(e.g., Agree with most of the rest of this.
), a writ-ing style found in this text genre.
Missed impera-tives (false negatives) resulted from parsing errorsby the parsing tool and sentences with the formof subject + modal verb, but the subject is a noun(person or organization) instead of a pronoun.
Ourmethod keyed on pronouns.5 Related WorkMarsi?s (1997) definition of imperative mood istoo restrictive for our purposes here.
A use ofArgumentative Zoning to critique thesis abstracts(Feltrim et al., 2006) gives no details regarding theimperative sentence recognition techniques, andthe language of interest is Brazilian Portuguese.AcknowledgmentsThis project is partially supported by the Discov-ery program of The Natural Sciences and Engi-neering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).ReferencesJohn Langshaw Austin.
1975.
How To Do Things withWords.
Oxford University Press.Phan Minh Dung.
1995.
On the acceptability of ar-guments and its fundamental role in nonmonotonicreasoning, logic programming and n-person games.Artificial Intelligence, 77(2):321?357.Susan Ervin-Tripp.
1976.
Is Sybil there?
The structureof some American English directives.
Language inSociety, 5(01):25?66.Val?eria Feltrim, Simone Teufel, Maria das Grac?as V.Nunes, and M.
Alu?
?sio, Sandra.
2006.
Argumen-tative zoning applied to critiquing novices?
scien-tific abstracts.
In James G. Shanahan, Yan Qu, andJanyce Wiebe, editors, Computing Attitude and Af-fect in Text: Theory and Applications, pages 233?246.
Springer Netherlands.Erwin Marsi.
1997.
A reusable syntactic generator forDutch.
In Peter-Arno Coppen, Hans van Halteren,and Lisanne Teunissen, editors, Computational Lin-guistics in the Netherlands 1997: Selected papersfrom the Eighth CLIN Meeting, pages 205?222.
Am-sterdam/Atlanta: Rodopi.John L. Pollock.
1992.
How to reason defeasibly.
Ar-tificial Intelligence, 57:1?42.Jodi Schneider, Krystian Samp, Alexandre Passant, andStefan Decker.
2013.
Arguments about deletion:How experience improves the acceptability of argu-ments in ad-hoc online task groups.
In Proceedingsof the 2013 Conference on Computer Supported Co-operative Work, pages 1069?1080.
ACM.John R Searle.
1976.
A classification of illocutionaryacts.
Language in Society, 5(01):1?23.J.M.H.
Sinclair and M. Coulthard.
1975.
Towards ananalysis of discourse: The English used by teachersand pupils.
Oxford University Press.Lu Xiao and Nicole Askin.
2014.
What influences on-line deliberation?
A Wikipedia study.
J. of the As-sociation for Information Science and Technology.107
