Proceedings of the 2014 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2014), pages 107?111,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26-27 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSymptom recognition issueLaure MartinMoDyCoParis Ouest Universitylaure.martin.1988@gmail.comDelphine BattistelliMoDyCoParis Ouest Universitydel.battistelli@gmail.comThierry CharnoisLIPNParis 13 Universitythierry.charnois@lipn.univ-paris13.frAbstractThis work focuses on signs and symptomsrecognition in biomedical texts abstracts.First, this specific task is described from alinguistic point of view.
Then a method-ology combining pattern mining and lan-guage processing is proposed.
In the ab-sence of an authoritative annotated cor-pus, our approach has the advantage ofbeing weakly-supervised.
Preliminary ex-perimental results are discussed and revealpromising avenues.1 IntroductionOur work is part of the Hybride1Project, whichaims to expand the Orphanet encyclopedia.
Or-phanet is the reference portal for information onrare diseases (RD) and orphan drugs, for all audi-ences.
A disease is considered rare if it affects lessthan 1 person in 2,000.
There are between 6,000and 8,000 RD.
30 million people are concerned inEurope.
Among its activities, Orphanet maintainsan RD encyclopedia by manually monitoring sci-entific publications.
Hybride Project attempts toautomatically acquire new RD-related knowledgefrom large amounts of scientific publications.
Theelements of knowledge about a disease are varied:onset, prevalence, signs and symptoms, transmis-sion mode, disease causes (etiology).In this article, we investigate the automaticrecognition of signs and symptoms in abstractsfrom scientific articles.
Although named entityrecognition in the biomedical domain has beenextensively studied, signs and symptoms seem tohave been left aside, for there is very little work onthe subject.
First, the linguistic issue of our studyis presented in section 2, then the state of the artand the description of our lexical resources in sec-tion 3.
Then our corpus and general method are1http://hybride.loria.fr/presented in section 4.
First experiments are intro-duced in section 5.
Finally, the work to come ispresented in section 6.2 Signs and symptomsSigns and symptoms both refer to the features of adisease, except that a symptom (or functional sign)is noticed and described by a patient, whilst a clin-ical sign is observed by a healthcare professional.In thesauri and medical ontologies, these two no-tions are generally put together in the same cate-gory.
Moreover, in texts ?particularly in our cor-pus of abstracts from scientific articles?
there isno morphological or syntactic difference betweensign and symptom.
The difference is only seman-tic, so it is impossible for non-specialists in themedical field to tell the difference from the linguis-tic context alone.
In example (1), clinical signs arein bold and symptoms are italicized.
(1) Cluster headache (CH) is a primaryheadache disease characterized by re-current short-lasting attacks of excruci-ating unilateral periorbital pain accom-panied by ipsilateral autonomic signs(lacrimation, nasal congestion, ptosis,miosis, lid edema, and eye redness).Furthermore, the diagnosis is established by thesymptoms and the clinical signs together.
We didnot, therefore, try to distinguish them.Signs and symptoms take on the most varied lin-guistic forms, as is noticeable in the corpus (whichwill be described in more detail below).
In its sim-plest form, a sign or symptom is a noun, whichmay be extended by complements, such as adjec-tives or other nouns (example 2).
They also appearin other, more complex, forms, ranging from a sin-gle phrase to a whole sentence (example 3).
(2) With disease progression patientsadditionally develop weakness and107wasting of the limb and bulbar mus-cles.
(3) Diagnosis is based on clini-cal presentation, and glycemiaand lactacidemia levels, after ameal (hyperglycemia and hypo-lactacidemia), and after three tofour hour fasting (hypoglycemia andhyperlactacidemia).In addition to their variety, the linguistic unitsrepresenting signs and symptoms present somesyntactic ambiguities, particularly ambiguitiesconcerning prepositional attachment and coordi-nation scope.
In example (2), the first occur-rence of ?and?
is ambiguous, for we don?t knowif ?weakness?
and ?wasting?
should be groupedtogether as a single manifestation of the disease,or if ?weakness?
on the one hand and ?wasting ofthe limbs and bulbar muscles?
on the other handare two separate entities, as annotated here.In addition to these syntactic ambiguities, twoannotation difficulties also arise.
The first one con-sists in correctly delimiting the linguistic units ofthe signs and symptoms (example 4a).
We agreedwith experts in the field that, generally, piecesof information such as adjectives of intensity oranatomical localizations were not part of the units;nevertheless, this information is interesting in thatit provides the linguistic context for the signs andsymptoms.
The second difficulty concerns ellip-tical constructions: where two signs can be dis-tinguished, only one can be annotated because thetwo nouns have an adjective in common (exam-ple 4b).
(4) In the severe forms, paralysis (4a)concerns the neck, shoulder, and proxi-mal muscles, followed by involvementof the muscles of the distal upper ex-tremities, the diaphragm and respiratorymuscles, which may result in respira-tory compromise or arrest (4b).Eventually, the last difficulty that was met dur-ing the corpus observation is the semantic ambi-guity existing between sign or symptom and dis-ease denominations.
A disease can be the clinicalsign of another disease.
A clinical sign may beincluded in a disease name or conversely.
In ex-ample (5), the clinical sign is in bold and the nameof the disease is underlined.
(5) The adult form results in progressivelimb-girdle myopathy beginning withthe lower limbs, and affects the respira-tory system.3 State of the artSigns and symptoms have seldom been studiedfor themselves in the field of biomedical informa-tion extraction.
They are often included in moregeneral categories such as ?clinical concepts?
(Wagholikar et al., 2013), ?medical problems?
(Uzuner et al., 2011) or ?phenotypic information?
(South et al., 2009).
Moreover, most of the studiesare based on clinical reports or narrative corpora?the Mayo Clinic corpus (Savova et al., 2010) orthe 2010i2b2/VA Challenge corpus (Uzuner et al.,2011)?, except for the Swedish MEDLEX Cor-pus (Kokkinakis, 2006), which comprises teachingmaterial, guidelines, official documents, scientificarticles from medical journals, etc.
Our work aimsat scientific monitoring and is therefore based on acorpus of abstracts from scientific articles.Most of the information extraction systems de-veloped in the works previously cited use lexi-cal resources, such as the Unified Medical Lan-guage System (UMLS) or Medical Subject Head-ings (MeSH) thesauri for the named entity extrac-tion task.
The UMLS comprises over 160 con-trolled vocabularies such as MeSH, which is ageneric medical thesaurus containing over 25,000descriptors.
However, as Albright et al.
(2013)pointed out, UMLS was not originally designedfor annotation, so some of the semantic types over-lap.
They add that ?the sheer size of the UMLSschema increases the complexity of the annotationtask and slows annotation, while only a small pro-portion of the annotation types present are used.
?That is why they decided to work with UMLS se-mantic groups instead of types, except for signsand symptoms ?originally a semantic type in theDisorders semantic group?, that they used inde-pendently.In a genetic disease context, a sign or symp-tom may be phenotype-related.
A phenotype isall the observable characteristics of a person, suchas their morphology, biochemical or physiologicalproperties.
It results from the interactions betweena genotype (expression of an organism?s genes)and its environment.
As many rare diseases aregenetic, many signs and symptoms may be foundin lists of phenotype anomalies.
For that reason,108we chose to use the Human Phenotype Ontology?
HPO (Khler et al., 2014) as a lexical resource.To our knowledge, HPO has not yet been usedin any study on signs and symptoms extraction.Nevertheless, it should be recalled that phenotypeanomalies are not always clinical signs, and signsor symptoms are not all phenotype-related.
Evenso, we decided to use HPO as a lexical resourcebecause it lists 10,088 terms describing humanphenotype anomalies and can be easily collected.Just a very few studies take advantage of consid-ering the linguistic contexts of sign and symptomentities.
Kokkinakis (2006), after a first annotationstep of his corpus with MeSH, states that 75% ofthe signs and symptoms co-occur with up to fiveother signs and symptoms in a sentence.
This al-lowed him to develop new annotation rules.
Wecan also mention the MedLEE system (Friedman,1997), which provides, for each concept, its type(e.g.
?problem?
), value (e.g.
?pain?)
and modi-fiers such as the degree (e.g.
?severe?)
or the bodylocation (e.g.
?chest?
).As far as we are concerned, our approach isbased on the combination of NLP and pattern min-ing techniques.
We will see that the linguistic con-texts mentioned above are part of the patterns au-tomatically discovered with our text mining tool.4 Corpus and general methodAs mentioned above, HPO was selected as thelexical resource for this project.
With the list ofphenotype anomalies as queries, we compiled acorpus of 306,606 abstracts from the MEDLINEdatabase with the PubMed search engine.
Theseabstracts are from articles published within the last365 days.
They consist of an ID, a title and a para-graph.
Then, we applied HPO and kept only thesentences containing a unit annotated as a sign orsymptom.
As already pointed out, signs and symp-toms are not all phenotype-related, so our pre-annotation is incomplete.
Nonetheless, this firstannotation is quick and cheap, and it initiates theprocess.Figure 1 illustrates the successive steps in theapproach.
In step 1, HPO (f) is used to annotate afirst corpus (a) by a single projection of HPO termsonto the texts.
This annotated corpus provides afirst learning corpus (b) to discover patterns (c) bya text mining method (step 2; this method is de-tailed below).
These patterns are then validated byan expert (step 3), as linguistic patterns (d).
StepFigure 1: Iterative process of our sign and symp-tom extraction method4 consists in using these patterns to annotate newcorpora (e) and extract new terms (here with thesemantic type of sign or symptom), which willbe added to the resources (f).
The process is fi-nally repeated (back to step 1, with enriched lexi-cal resources).
This incremental process has theadvantage of being weakly-supervised and non-dependent on the corpus type.Sequential pattern mining was first introducedby Agrawal et al.
(1995) in the data mining field.It was adapted to information extraction in texts byB?echet et al.
(2012).
It is a matter of locating, in aset of sequences, sequences of items having a fre-quency above a given threshold (called ?support?
).Pattern mining is done in an ordered sequence ofitems base, where each sequence corresponds to atext unit (the sentence here).
An item represents aword in this sequence, generally the inflected formor the lemma or even the part of speech if the aimis to identify generic patterns.
A number of param-eters can be adapted along with the application.Contrary to classical Machine Learning ap-proaches which produce numerical models that areunintelligible for humans, data mining allows thediscovery of symbolic patterns which can be inter-preted by an expert.
In the absence of authoritativeannotated corpora for the recognition of signs andsymptoms, manual validation of the patterns stepis necessary, and often a large number of patternsstill remains.
To overcome this difficulty, B?echetet al.
(2012) suggested adding constraints in or-der to reduce the results.
In continuation of thiswork, we make use of the sequential patterns ex-traction tool SDMC2, which makes it possible to2https://sdmc.greyc.fr/109apply various constraints and condensed represen-tations extraction (patterns without redundancy).We adapted pattern mining to our field of ap-plication.
Thus we first propose to use TreeTag-ger (Schmidt, 1994) as a pretreatment, in orderto mark up different types of item (inflected form,lemma, part of speech).
To narrow down the num-ber of patterns returned by the tool, we introduceseveral constraints specific to our application: lin-guistic membership constraints (for example, wecan choose to return only patterns containing atleast one sign or symptom name), or the ?gap?constraint (Dong and Pei, 2007), corresponding topossible gaps between items in the pattern.
Thus agap of maximal value n means that at most n items(words) are between each item of the pattern in thecorresponding sequences (sentences).5 First experimentAnnotating the first MEDLINE corpus of Ab-stracts with HPO provided us with a corpus of10,000 annotated sentences.
The 13,477 annotatedunits were replaced by a keyword ?SYMPTOM?in order to facilitate the discovery of patterns.Then we used SDMC to mine the corpus for max-imal patterns, with a minimal support of 10, alength between 3 and 50 words and a gap con-straint of g(0,0), i.e.
the words are consecutive(no gap allowed).
We were mining for lemma se-quences only.Results produced 988 patterns, among which326 contained the keyword symptom.
Based onthese patterns, several remarks can already bemade:?
Several annotated signs or symptoms areregularly associated with a third term,which can be another sign or symptom:{symptom}{symptom}{and}{stress};?
HPO annotation limitations (see sec-tion 3) are made visible by some contexts:{disease}{such}{as}{symptom};?
Some contexts are particularly recurrent,such as {be}{associate}{with}{symptom}or {characterize}{by}{symptom};?
Some temporal and chronologi-cal ordering contexts are present:{@card@}{%}{follow}{by}{symptom};?
The term ?patient?
is quite regular({patient}{have}{severe}{symptom}),but after the evaluation, these occurrencesturned out to be disease-related more thansign or symptom-related;?
The body location proved tobe another regular context:{frontotemporal}{symptom}{ftd}.Firstly, a linguistics expert selected the pat-terns that he considered the most relevant.
Thesepatterns were then classified in three categories:strong if they seem to strongly imply the pres-ence of signs and symptoms (43 patterns), mod-erate (309 patterns) and weak (45 patterns).
Sec-ondly, these patterns were applied on a new cor-pus of MEDLINE abstracts in order to annotatethe sign and symptom contexts.
For the moment,only strong patterns have been applied.25 abstracts were randomly selected among allthe scientific articles published within the lastmonth and dealing with Pompe disease.
These25 articles were manually annotated for signs andsymptoms by an expert and thus constituted a goldstandard.
Then, we compared the manual annota-tion to our automatically annotated contexts.
Ifthe annotated sentence includes signs or symp-toms, we consider that the annotation is relevant.Among the 25 abstracts (225 sentences), 27 con-texts were extracted with our method.
23 werecorrect, 4 were irrelevant; 70 sentences were notannotated by the system.
Thus the results were23.7 in recall, reaching 82.2 in precision (36.8 inF-score).6 ConclusionsSign/disease ambiguity is the cause of 3 of the 4irrelevant annotations, i.e.
diseases were in thesame linguistic context than signs.
Thus the sen-tences were annotated but they contained diseases,not signs.
The forth irrelevant annotation indi-cates a diagnosis test; it highlights that causes andconsequences of a disease can be easily confusedby non-specialists.
Most of the left out sentencescontain signs or symptoms expressed by complexunits, such as Levels of creatinkinase in serumwere high.
(36%).
27% of these sentences areabout gene mutations, which can be considered ascauses of diseases or as clinical signs.
Others con-tain patterns which have not been selected by theexpert but can be easily added to improve the re-call.110The context annotation is only a first step to-wards sign and symptom extraction.
So far, wehave not solved the problem of unit delimitation.In order to achieve this, we have two working hy-potheses.
We intend to compare chunking andsyntactic analysis results in defining the scope ofsign and symptom lexical units.
Chunking willbe conducted with an NLP tool such as TreeTag-ger, and syntactic analysis will use a dependencyparser such as the Stanford Parser (ref.).
The lattershould allow us to delimit some recurring syntac-tic structures (e.g.
agents, enumerations, etc.
).We also intend to compare our results with re-sults provided by CRFs.
First the features will beclassical (bag of words, among others), and sec-ond, we will add the contexts obtained with thetext mining to the features.
This should enableus to compare our method to others.
Finally, weare going to develop an evaluation interface to fa-cilitate the work of the expert.
In the absence ofcomparable corpora, the evaluation can only bemanual.
Our current sample of 50 abstracts isjust a start, and needs to be expanded in order tostrengthen the evaluation.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the HybrideProject ANR-11-BS02-002.ReferencesRakesh Agrawal and Ramakrishnan Srikant.
1995.Mining Sequential Patterns.
Proceedings ofICDE?95.Daniel Albright, Arrick Lanfranchi, Anwen Fredrik-sen, William F. Styler IV, Colin Warner, Jena D.Hwang, Jinho D. Choi, Dmitriy Dligach, Rodney D.Nielsen, James Martin, Wayne Ward, Martha Palmerans Guergana K. Savova.
2013.
Towards compre-hensive syntactic and semantic annotations of theclinical narrative.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 20:922?930.Nicolas B?echet, Peggy Cellier, Thierry Charnois andBruno Cr?emilleux.
2012.
Discovering linguisticpatterns using sequence mining.
Proceedings ofSpringer LNCS, 13th International Conference onIntelligent Text Processing and Computational Lin-guistics - CICLing?2012, 1:154?165.Guozhu Dong and Jian Pei.
2007.
Sequence Data Min-ing.
Springer.Carol Friedman.
1997.
Towards a ComprehensiveMedical Language Processing System: Methods andIssues.
Proceedings of the AMIA Annual Fall Sym-posium, 1997:595?599.Sebastian K?ohler, Sandra C. Doelken, Christopher J.Mungall, Sebastian Bauer, Helen V. Firth, Is-abelle Bailleul-Forestier, Graeme C. M. Black,Danielle L. Brown, Michael Brudno, JenniferCampbell, David R. FitzPatrick, Janan T. Eppig, An-drew P. Jackson, Kathleen Freson, Marta Girdea,Ingo Helbig, Jane A. Hurst, Johanna J?ahn, Laird G.Jackson, Anne M. Kelly, David H. Ledbetter, Sa-har Mansour, Christa L. Martin, Celia Moss, An-drew Mumford, Willem H. Ouwehand, Soo-MiPark, Erin Rooney Riggs, Richard H. Scott, SanjaySisodiya, Steven Van Vooren, Ronald J. Wapner, An-drew O. M. Wilkie, Caroline F. Wright, Anneke T.Vulto-van Silfhout, Nicole de Leeuw, Bert B. A.de Vries, Nicole L. Washingthon, Cynthia L. Smith,Monte Westerfield, Paul Schofield, Barbara J. Ruef,Georgios V. Gkoutos, Melissa Haendel, DamianSmedley, Suzanna E. Lewis and Peter N. Robinson.2014.
The Human Phenotype Ontology project:linking molecular biology and disease through phe-notype data.
Nucleic Acids Research, 42:966?974.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2006.
Developing Resourcesfor Swedish Bio-Medical Text-Mining.
Proceed-ings of the 2nd International Symposium on Seman-tic Mining in Biomedicine (SMBM)Guergana K. Savova, James J. Masanz, Philip V.Ogren, Jiaping Zheng, Sunghwan Sohn, Karin C.Kipper-Schuler, Christopher G. Chute.
2010.
Mayoclinical Text Analysis and Knowledge ExtractionSystem (cTAKES): architecture, component evalua-tion and applications.
Journal of the American Med-ical Informatics Association, 17:507?513.Helmut Schmidt.
1994.
Probabilistic Part-of-SpeechTagging Using Decision Trees.
Proceedings of In-ternational Conference on New Methods in Lan-guage Processing.Brett R. South, Shuying Shen, Makoto Jones, JenniferGarvin, Matthew H. Samore, Wendy W. Chapmanand Adi V. Gundlapalli.
2009.
Developing a man-ually annotated clinical document corpus to identifyphenotypic information for inflammatory bowel dis-ease.
Summit on Translational Bioinformatics 2009?Ozlem Uzuner, Brett R. South, Shuying Shen, Scott L.DuVall.
2011.
2010 i2b2/VA challenge on con-cepts, assertions, and relations in clinical text.
Jour-nal of the American Medical Informatics Associa-tion, 18:552?556.Kavishwar B. Wagholikar, Manabu Torii, Siddartha R.Jonnalagadda and Hongfang Liu.
2013.
Poolingannotated corpora for clinical concept extraction.Journal of Biomedical Semantics, 4:3.Alfred V. Aho and Jeffrey D. Ullman.
1972.
TheTheory of Parsing, Translation and Compiling, vol-ume 1.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.111
