Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on EVENTS: Definition, Detection, Coreference, and Representation, pages 59?67,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 22-27, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsQualities of EventivenessSean Monahan, Mary BrunsonLanguage Computer Corporation{smonahan,mary}@languagecomputer.comAbstractEvents are not a discrete linguistic phe-nomenon.
Different verbal and nomi-nal predicates express different degrees ofeventiveness.
In this paper we analyzethe qualities that contribute to the over-all eventiveness of a predicate, that is,what makes a predicate an event.
Weprovide an in-depth analysis of seven keyqualities, along with experimental assess-ments demonstrating their contributions.We posit that these qualities are an impor-tant part of a functional working definitionof events.1 IntroductionThe problem of event extraction is fundamentallychallenging because many definitions of ?event?exist.
Some predicates clearly indicate events, e.g.
?I ran 5 miles to the store?, while others indi-cate states, e.g.
?He is tall?.
However, in nat-ural language text, many predicates fall betweenthese two extremes, e.g.
?He runs frequently?.
Inorder to successfully extract events, resolve eventcoreference across documents, and reason aboutthe events, we must understand exactly what anevent is.
In this paper, we propose a series of qual-ities that contribute to the overall eventiveness ofa predicate.
We define eventiveness as ?the degreeto which a predicate is like an event?
?.The concept of ?event?
is not discrete, but existsalong several dimensions.
We identify seven qual-ities of predicates that lead readers to more readilyconsider them to be events.
In order to success-fully utilize events in end applications, we believethese qualities must be fully understood.In this paper, we consider the predicate to be theword (e.g.
verb or noun) in the sentence that mightindicate the existence of an event.
This is also re-ferred to as a trigger or anchor in event extraction.Each of the predicates in the following examples(indicated by italics) exhibit different degrees ofeventiveness.1.
The tremors have re-awakened bitter memo-ries of the Asian tsunami that killed 168,000.2.
Indonesia lies in a zone where the plates shift,sometimes generating tsunamis.3.
Electricity was cut off to the city, where peo-ple fled their homes fearing a tsunami.The first example is most clearly an event, refer-ring to a specific instance of a tsunami.
In the sec-ond sentence, the nominal predicate ?tsunamis?refers to a non-specific event that occurs as a re-sult a natural occurrence.
In the third, a tsunamihas not occurred but is a feared possibility.Any end application of extracted events mustdecide which of these predicates to consider as rel-evant.
An application to ?map known tsunamis?might only consider the first event as relevant.
Anapplication to detect newsworthy or ?emerging?events might only consider the third.
An applica-tion seeking to understand relationships betweenevents could utilize the second example to deter-mine that plates shifting causes tsunamis.
In or-der to facilitate a wide range of applications, all ofthese predicates should be extracted as ?events?,which can then be separated by the qualities theypossess.
Furthermore, consideration of these qual-ities should reflect human judgment about events.In this paper, we discuss the different qualitiesthat contribute to the eventiveness of a predicate.In Section 2, we describe previous work on defin-ing events.
In Section 3, we describe the quali-ties that we consider to be most representative ofevents.
In Section 4, we describe an experimentwe conducted to rate these qualities in terms ofhow they contribute to eventiveness.
In Section5, we conclude with a summary of our theory ofevents and a description of how this will aid appli-cations in understanding events.592 Related WorkThere have been significant efforts to understandthe idea of ?events?
in a variety of different com-munities, including physics, philosophy, psychol-ogy, and both theoretical and computational lin-guistics.
We draw our qualities of eventivenessfrom across this literature in order to form a morecomplete view of what an event is.Quine (1985) considers an event to be a well-individuated physical object which is clearly de-fined in space and time.
This contrasts with theTimeML schema (Pustejovsky et al., 2003), whichregards event as a ?a cover term for situations thathappen or occur?.
Lombard (1986) considers anevent to necessarily be a change.
These defini-tions by themselves do not sufficiently explain thefull boundary between event and non-event, butare useful in informing our qualities.In addition to TimeML, a pragmatic definitionof events was also adopted for ACE (2005).
ACEutilized a wide definition of event, though only asmall set of event types were annotated, along withtheir specificity, actuality, and arguments.
Morerecently, TAC KBP (2014) has built on the ACEdefinition in order to extract event information toincorporate into a knowledge base.Understanding how events are perceived by in-dividuals has also been researched by psycholo-gists in order to learn how people construct mentalmodels of events.
Radvansky and Zacks (2011) in-vestigate the mental representation of an event andhow this encompasses the event?s spatiotemporallocation, the people and objects involved, and therelations between these elements.
A working def-inition of events should consider these psycholog-ical conceptions.The problem of understanding specific eventsis closely related to that of event identity, whichconsiders whether two events mentioned in textare regarded as the same.
Many of the defini-tions of event identity found in literature (e.g.
Be-jan and Harabagiu, 2010) were established to fa-cilitate event coreference.
Hovy et al.
(2013)move beyond exact event coreference to considerthe notion of quasi-identity.
Quasi-identity refersto events which are the same in some respects,but not in others.
We believe that definitions ofevents that restrict certain qualities are not effec-tive for informing the quasi-identity relationship.For example, generic events can inform specificinstances of that event type.In the field of theoretical linguistics, there aremany concepts that contribute to the idea ofeventiveness, including aktionsart and transitiv-ity.
Vendler (1957) introduced the classificationof verbs into different aspectual (aktionsart) cate-gories, including accomplishments, achievements,activities, and states.
The first three categoriesall correspond with the idea of events, though tovarying degrees.
In distinguishing between eventsand states, Comrie (1976) discusses the importantfactor that states do not require energy to main-tain, while events do.
Also, Talmy (2000) andCroft (2012) discuss at length the related notionof force-dynamic relations, which deals with thetransmission of force between participants.Additionally, there exists a significant overlapbetween the dimensions of grammatical transitiv-ity (as a prototypical notion) and the qualities thatdefine events.
The concept of transitivity has beenresearched extensively within the linguistics com-munity, primarily with the goal of understandinggrammatical relationships within clauses.Hopper and Thompson (1980) propose ten dif-ferent dimensions intended to measure the notionof transitivity, which the authors define as a prop-erty of a clause that communicates how effectivelyan action is ?transferred?
or ?carried-over?
fromagent to patient.
The more effectively the activitycan be carried over, the higher the transitivity.Although Hopper and Thompson suggest thatthere is no single semantic notion that encom-passes the nature of transitivity, they state that theyhave considered terms such as ?activity?
and ?in-tensity?, both of which are also relevant to the no-tion of eventiveness.
Tsunoda (1981; 1985) addsseveral dimensions to the notion of transitivity asa prototype which we believe further support therelationship between transitivity and eventiveness,including genericity, completion, and realization.Experimental work was conducted by Madnaniet al.
(2010) to collect information about subjects?perception of the various transitivity dimensionsfor given actions.
However, the authors do not ex-amine the transitivity dimensions of mode (realisvs.
irrealis), agency, and individuation of the ob-ject, all of which we regard as also playing a veryimportant part in a predicate?s measure of ?even-tiveness?.
Additionally, they guide the subjectsthrough the process of measuring transitivity byprompting them for specific properties, as opposedto utilizing human intuition.60Quality DefinitionOccurrence The quality of a predicate that signals that a change in the state of the world has taken place.Spatio-Temporal Grounding The degree to which the predicate is grounded in time and space.Lexical Aspect The boundedness and duration of the predicate with respect to time.Agency The degree to which the main event participant can be regarded as a ?causer?
or ?doer?.Affectedness The degree to which the action of the predicate affects the semantic patient.Actuality The knowledge of whether the predicate actually took/takes place.Specificity The degree to which the predicate refers to a particular instance of an event.Table 1: Definitions of Event Qualities3 Qualities of EventsGiven the wide array of definitions and descrip-tions of events from different perspectives, we be-lieve that each offers a unique insight into thismulti-faceted problem.
We seek to identify thequalities of eventiveness and determine which arethe most salient.
The seven qualities we considerare listed in Table 1.
In this section, we provide adetailed definition, examples, and justification asto why each quality is important to eventiveness.For our examples, we consider predicates withexplicit textual indicators of the qualities.
How-ever, many predicates can possess these qualitiesindependent of textual evidence.
Additionally, al-though every quality is examined in isolation here,the interaction between these qualities is an im-portant consideration.
In Section 4, we describethe experiment we conducted in order to demon-strate the extent to which each quality contributesto eventiveness.3.1 OccurrenceOccurrence, the idea of something having hap-pened, largely coincides with what we believe tobe an event.
In fact, the TimeML definition (Puste-jovsky et al., 2003) of event covers situations that?happen or occur?.
We consider this to be equiv-alent to the idea of ?change in the state of theworld?, because if the final state is the same asthe initial state, then nothing can be said to havehappened or occurred.
As such, we contend thatthe greater the degree to which an event can beconsidered to have ?happened?
or ?occurred?, thegreater the amount of eventiveness it will exhibit.Note that the determination of ?state?
here goesbeyond mere appearances: a person who bouncesa ball and catches it appears to be in exactly thesame state as before, but in reality, some energyhas been expended.
Most verbs exhibit the qual-ity of having ?occurred?, with the notable excep-tion of statives1, which are a fairly lexically con-1Note that TimeML has a special class of events markedas STATE.strained category ( copular verbs, many verbs ofcognition, etc.).
Thus, for verbal predicates, wecan regard verbs that indicate an action rather thana state as having ?occurred?
and being eventive.In general, the more energy and motion involvedin the predicate, the more eventive it is.
In the ex-ample below, running would be considered moreeventive than sitting.1.
He was running on the track.
(high energy)2.
He was sitting in the chair.
(low energy)For nominal events, the situation is more com-plicated.
We must distinguish the set of nouns thatcan indicate an event, such as ?earthquake?, fromthe set of nouns which cannot, such as ?epicen-ter?.
For deverbal nouns, we also must distinguishbetween process nouns, such as ?the building ofthe house?, and result nouns, as in ?the building Iwork in?.
In order to distinguish the quality of oc-currence, we can use the diagnostic of determiningwhether the predicate can be appropriately associ-ated with words such as ?happened?, ?took place?,or ?occurred?.
For example, a presentation eventcan ?occur?, but the physical materials also calledthe presentation cannot be said to have ?occurred?.1.
The presentation occurred in the boardroom.2.
*The presentation slides occurred.3.2 Spatio-Temporal GroundingSpatio-temporal grounding deals with the degreeto which an event is able to be ?pinpointed?
toa particular time and place.
We hypothesize thata predicate that is more able to be grounded intime and/or space will be perceived as being moreeventive than a predicate which is less able to begrounded spatio-temporally.Quine (1985) considers events to be individu-ated by their placement in space and time, whichimplies that any given event should be able to beassociated with both a time and a place.
Indeed,the close association of events with their locationsand times manifests itself in our ability to referto well-known events by their time or location,61such as Chernobyl or 9/11.
Another consequenceof the spatio-temporal grounding of events is thatone can refer to events that happen relative to otherevents, e.g.
before, after, nearby.
Of the followingexamples, the last seems most eventive.1.
He fought the law.2.
He fought the law yesterday.3.
He fought the law yesterday in court.3.3 Lexical AspectLexical aspect deals not with when a predicate oc-curs in relation to time (i.e.
tense), but how.
Itexamines, as Comrie (1976) puts it, ?the internaltemporal constituency of a situation?.
This coversboth how the event is bounded in time (telicity)and how long it lasts (durativity).
A durative eventcan allow for increased eventiveness in that it al-lows for more changes in the state of the worldsimply because it lasts longer.
At the same time,many punctual (instantaneous) events have the po-tential to be very eventive because they can pro-duce large amounts of change in a very short time,therefore producing a more drastic change (e.g.
anassassination or fatal lightning strike).
Thus, bothdurative and non-durative events seem to be ableto contribute to eventiveness in unique ways.Regarding telicity, we believe that events whichare bounded in time (i.e.
having endpoints) gen-erally evoke a more pronounced sense of even-tiveness because they are more easily distinguish-able from the ?backdrop?
of other occurrences andstates.
In fact, it is by definition that all eventsmust have a beginning (otherwise, they would notbe able to be referred to as ?occurrences?
), and webelieve that event endings or markers of comple-tion move an event even closer to a prototypicalnotion of ?high eventiveness?.Vendler (1957) categorizes verbs into four cat-egories depending on their durativity and telic-ity: state, achievement (telic, punctual), accom-plishment (telic, durative), activity (atelic, dura-tive).
Comrie (1976) adds to this the category ofsemelfactive (atelic, punctual).
Examples of thesecategories follow.1.
He is building a house.
(telic, durative)2.
He is swimming.
(atelic, durative)3.
He shot the man.
(telic, punctual)4.
He is knocking on the door.
(atelic, punctual)3.4 AgencyAgency deals with the amount of control and vo-lition involved in an event.
We regard agency as ameasure of the degree to which a participant will-fully executes an action and maintains control overit.
As such, we assert that the greater the degreeof agency attributed to the causer or performer ofan predicate, the higher the eventiveness that thepredicate will display.
Involved in this idea arethe related notions of frequency/normalcy of oc-currence and causality.
Consider the following.1.
The wine aged in a barrel.
(no agent)2.
The vintner aged the wine in a barrel.
(agent:vintner)The presence of the agent causes the secondpredicate to seem more eventive than the first.
Thefirst implies a natural process.
The second impliesa volitional effort on the part of the vintner (theagent) to cause the wine to undergo this process ina particular location, likely with some control overwhen the aging would begin and end before beingbottled.
The relevance of these predicates to manyapplications is dependent on the existence of theagent.Dowty (1991) lists prototypical characteristicsof high and low agency.
For high agency, helists volition, sentience, effect upon another partic-ipant, and self-produced mobility.
For low agency,he lists internal change, incremental theme (whensomething incrementally disappears or is used up),and movement induced by another participant.We can describe ?natural processes?
as thoseoccurrences which come about as a result of ac-tions whose main participants are characterized bylow agency.
Most natural processes, such as ?ag-ing?, are not considered very eventive.
However,distinct from these are certain natural occurrencesthat do involve movement and great effect on theworld (such as earthquakes, lightning, and land-slides).We also hypothesize that the frequency or ?nor-malcy?
of predicates is related to the degree towhich they are perceived as eventive.
The growthof grass (low agency) is an extremely frequent and?normal?
type of process (and thus should be seenas less eventive), whereas an earthquake (higheragency) is a much rarer occurrence and shouldtherefore be seen as more eventive.
Note that thisfactor is also highly relevant to the ?newsworthi-ness?
of the predicate.62Agency is also intricately linked to causality,since prototypical agents often cause a change ofstate in patients.
In many cases, the agent of a par-ticular event can itself be characterized as an event(e.g.
?The earthquake caused three buildings tocrumble?).
In this example, the earthquake - whileformally the agent of the ?crumble?
event - is itselfconsidered to be an event.3.5 AffectednessAffectedness is the degree to which an event af-fects its participants, most importantly the partic-ipant in the semantic patient role of the predicate.We generally hypothesize that the more affecteda patient is by the event it is a participant of, thegreater the eventiveness of that predicate.The actual manifestation of the notion of ?af-fectedness?
can take a variety of forms.
First,we posit that an event can affect its patient to agreater extent if the patient is more animate.
Tothis end, we consider a general animacy hierarchythat is a modification of the hierarchy proposed bySilverstein (1976): Human Proper Noun > Hu-man Common Noun > Animate Noun > InanimateNoun, e.g.
Sheila > woman > bear > rock.Second, we suggest that an event can affect itspatient to a greater extent if the action that is tak-ing place is more severe or extreme.
For example,we would consider ?He killed the man?
to be moreeventive than ?He wounded the man?, simply be-cause of the longer-lasting effect of ?kill?.Both of these notions are grounded in Hop-per and Thompson?s (1980) transitivity dimen-sions of Individuation of O and Affectedness of O,where O generally represents the semantic patient.They contend that a particular action is able to be?more effectively transferred?
to a highly individ-uated patient (one that is a proper noun, humanor animate, concrete, singular, count, and referen-tial/definite) than to a patient that is low in individ-uation (one that is common, inanimate, abstract,plural, mass, and non-referential).
We believe thateventiveness has a direct correlation with patientindividuation in all dimensions but one: the sin-gular vs. plural distinction.
We contend that allother things being equal, the broader the seman-tic patient role is, the greater the overall effect ofthe event (e.g.
He killed five men as opposed toHe killed one man), and therefore the greater theeventiveness.1.
He punched some pillows.
(low individuation)2.
He punched his brother.
(high individuation)3.
He bruised the man?s leg.
(low affectedness)4.
He broke the man?s leg.
(high affectedness)Tsunoda (1981) notes that this affectedness isindependent of the amount of agency the agentpossesses: a person killed by a stray bullet is justas affected as a person who is intentionally killed.Our experiment in this study tests primarily forindividuation, and further testing is required tospecifically examine Hopper and Thompson?s af-fectedness of O dimension.
Additionally, futurestudies could examine Tsunoda?s (1981) claimthat resultative predicates (e.g.
break, kill) gener-ally encode higher transitivity than non-resultativepredicates (e.g.
hit, shoot).
We believe that suchpredicates should exhibit higher eventiveness be-cause they lexically explicate the change in theworld that has taken place as a result of an ac-tion.
Similarly, future experiments could considernot only the patient, but also how the agent and/orother participants are affected by the action.3.6 SpecificitySpecificity can be defined as the degree to whicha predicate refers to a particular instance (orinstances) of an event, where that event mustbe well-grounded in time and space and well-individuated from other events.
We believe thatas specificity of a predicate increases, eventive-ness increases as well.
Thus, specific eventsshould have higher eventiveness than habitualevents (ones that recur but do not have a well-defined spatio-temporal location and/or number ofoccurrences), and generic events (where no spe-cific instance is in focus).While both habitual and generic predicates areless eventive, they differ in several ways.
Habitualevents typically imply that instances of the eventhave occurred, but with no specific informationabout these occurrences, whereas generic predi-cates refer to events that are treated more as gen-eral classes of occurrences in the world rather thanindividuated events.
The following examples il-lustrate this quality.1.
The chicken laid an egg on Tuesday.
(specific)2.
The chicken lays two eggs a week.
(habitual)3.
Chickens lay eggs when fertile.
(generic)As noted in the example in the introduction, ha-bitual and generic events are of great value for ac-quiring world knowledge that can apply to specific63instances of those events.
We consider this task tobe very similar to detecting when two events sharequasi-identity (Hovy et al., 2013).
In the above ex-ample, the habitual event gives a likely next datefor egg laying, and the generic event gives us theknowledge that the chicken is fertile and thereforeable to lay eggs.We also hypothesize that the more specificthe event (e.g.
lays an egg on Tuesdays andFridays rather than lays two eggs a week), themore eventive the predicate will seem.
This in-tuition connects with recent research into detect-ing the difference between habitual and specificevents (Mathew and Katz, 2009), where the exis-tence of semantic arguments to the predicate con-tributes to specificity.
Often, arguments missingfrom generic events would display other propertiesof eventiveness (e.g., agency or spatio-temporalgrounding) if they were present.3.7 ActualityActuality refers to whether an action is realis or ir-realis, that is, whether or not it actually occurs.
Weregard actualized (realis) predicates as exhibitinga higher eventiveness than unactualized (irrealis)predicates, as the former present actual changes inthe state of the world, whereas the latter posit onlypotential or hypothetical changes.The notion of whether or not a predicate is ac-tualized corresponds to the ?Effectiveness Con-dition?
parameter of realization (Tsunoda, 1981)in transitivity theory.
A predicate?s fulfillment ofthe Effectiveness Condition generally correlates toa greater ?completeness?
of lexical meaning andalso corresponds to a higher degree of affectednessof the patient.There are a wide variety of contexts in whichirrealis predicates can occur; among these, pred-icates may be modified by epistemic modality(might have), deontic modality (hopes, orders,promises), abilities (is able to), and negative polar-ity (didn?t).
We also consider future tense eventsto be irrealis, as by definition they have not yet oc-curred.
It should be noted that epistemic eventsexist between realis and irrealis, and may exhibitmore eventiveness than other forms of modality.Within the class of negative events, we can con-trast simple negation events (events modified bynegators such as no and not) with avoided or pre-vented events.
Avoided events involve a consciousdecision (thus requiring agency) to not perpetratethe event.
Prevented events, on the other hand, in-volve an external agent preventing the event fromoccurring.
In general, the act of preventing anevent from occurring is itself an event.1.
He bought a new car.
(realis)2.
He might buy a new car.
(future)3.
He might have bought a new car.
(epistemic)4.
He is able to buy a new car.
(ability)5.
He wants to buy a new car.
(deontic)6.
He was prevented from buying a new car.
(negative, prevention)7.
He did not buy a new car.
(negative, simple nega-tion)Typically, systems which utilize events concen-trate on realis events only; however, when deal-ing with events across documents, the informationassociated with irrealis predicates is very usefulfor establishing quasi-identity relationships.
Thereare several motivating examples of unactualizedevent types that are necessary for deeper under-standing of events.
If a crime occurs, for instance,a particular suspect?s ability to commit that crimebecomes relevant.
Likewise, if some order is givento perform an action, and the action later occurs,the quasi-identity relationship between the ?direc-tor?
and the action is immediately relevant.4 ExperimentIn order to perform a concrete analysis of the qual-ities of eventiveness in the real world, we under-took a small experiment in which human partici-pants rated the eventiveness of different predicatesin context.
We hypothesize that a predicate with anexplicit indicator of one of these qualities wouldbe considered more eventive than a similar predi-cate without that indicator.4.1 MethodologyFor each quality, we created one sentence with andone without explicit evidence of that quality.
Thetwo sentences utilize the same predicate and differonly in their expression of the quality of interest.For example, ?He graduated college?
possessesthe positive actuality quality, while ?He promisedto graduate college?
does not.
This allows us tocompare the ratings for these pairs of sentences.The sentences were placed into example groupsconsisting of a pseudo-random sampling of thesentences, enforced to only have one instance of apredicate within each group.
Each example group64Mechanical Turk InstructionsDirections: Please rate the following words in terms of whether they indicate an event in the context of the given sentencelocated above each word.
A rating of ?5?
means that it is very much an event, and a ?1?
rating means that it is not at all an event.Read the definition/examples below carefully before beginning.Definition: An event is a cover term for situations that happen or occur.
Events can be punctual (instantaneous) or last for aperiod of time.Examples:1.
I am building a new house.
(building is an event)2.
I like the Empire State Building.
(Building is not an event, but an object)3.
Robert grew to be tall.
(grew is an event)4.
Robert is tall.
(is is not an event)Question Prompt:How much like an event does this word seem?1 (not at all) 2 (slightly) 3 (moderately) 4 (fairly) 5 (very)Table 2: Annotation Instructionsconsisted of eight example sentences, with a totalof nine example groups.We collected the eventiveness ratings from par-ticipants on Amazon Mechanical Turk, who ratedeach predicate in the example group on an inte-ger scale from one to five.
We collected 50 ratingsfor each sentence, and participants were allowedto complete multiple example groups.
Overall, wehad 76 unique participants, who completed an av-erage of 5.9 example groups each.
The partic-ipants spent an average of 9 seconds rating thepredicate in each sentence.We also included a variety of control ?non-events?, which included result nouns as well asstatives.
These exhibited statistically lower even-tiveness than any of the non-control predicates.4.1.1 InstructionsWe provided instructions to each participant asshown in Table 2.
These instructions containa succinct definition of an event, utilizing theTimeML terminology (Pustejovsky et al., 2003).Additionally, we provided four example sen-tences, two illustrating events and two illustratingnon-events.
One of the non-events was a stative(?is?
), and the other was a result noun (?Build-ing?).
These examples illustrate that not all verbsindicate events, and that words like ?building?
canbe events in some contexts but not others.4.2 AnalysisFor our analysis, we examined the mean, variance,and ranking of the eventiveness ratings providedfor each predicate by the participants.
We com-pared pairs of sentences2 based on the probabil-ity that a randomly chosen rating for the sentencewith the quality would be higher than a randomlychosen rating for the sentence without the quality.2A complete list is available by request.The statistical significance of this probability canbe assessed using a Wilcoxin-Mann-Whitney test.For example, ?He played piano?
has a meaneventiveness rating of x=4.56, ?=.80, and ?He isable to play piano?
has x=3.82, ?=1.35.
A ran-dom rating for played is 66.3% more likely to behigher than one for the ability play.
This differ-ence is statistically significant assuming an accept-able type-I error rate of .05%.We present in Table 3 results for the pairs ofsentences testing each quality with their probabili-ties.
The > indicates the hypothesis that one valueof the quality is more eventive than the other.
The* indicates statistical significance.Quality Result ProbOccurrence Verb > Noun 0.604*Occurrence High Energy > Low Energy 0.686*Spatial Grounded > Not 0.526Temporal Grounded > Not 0.509Agency Agency > No Agency 0.641*Aspect Atelic Durative > Telic Punctual 0.628*Aspect Telic Durative > Atelic Durative 0.471Affectedness Individuated > Not 0.505Actuality Actual > Ability 0.663*Actuality Actual > Epistemic Modality 0.646*Actuality Actual > Volitive Modality 0.664*Actuality Actual > Commissive Modality 0.620*Actuality Actual > Directive Modality 0.642*Actuality Actual > Polarity 0.681*Actuality Past Tense > Future 0.635*Actuality Present Tense > Future 0.626*Specificity Specific > Habitual 0.667*Specificity Specific > Generic 0.546Table 3: Results of Eventiveness for Qualities4.3 Discussion of ResultsAs shown in Table 3, many of the factors that havebeen identified in various theoretical descriptionsof eventiveness can be shown experimentally toaffect people?s perception of the eventiveness ofa predicate in a sentence.
Below, we discuss thepositive results, where our hypotheses were con-firmed, as well as the negative results.65For occurrence, agency, and actuality, we foundstrong evidence that these qualities contribute toeventiveness.
For example, ?The attack happenedat dawn?
was less eventive than ?They attacked atdawn?, ?The fire started?
was less eventive than?He started the fire?, and ?He hopes to gradu-ate college?
was less eventive than ?He graduatedcollege?.
For actuality, realis predicates were al-ways more eventive than irrealis predicates.
AnANOVA test indicated no significant differencebetween the different forms of irrealis (modality,negation, etc.
).Results for the other qualities were slightlymore mixed.
For aspect, we found that activitieswere more eventive than achievements, but con-trary to expectation, accomplishments were notmore eventive than activities.
For specificity, therewas a clear distinction between specific and ha-bitual predicates, but no distinction between spe-cific and generic predicates.
Our example of ageneric predicate, ?Football fans watch the Super-bowl?
could be considered either a generic eventor a present tense description, and this might haveconfused the results.
Also, since the definitionprovided for event gave only singular event exam-ples, this may have biased the results in this case.For spatio-temporal grounding, there was nosignificant effect.
We believe that this is due tothe implicit eventive nature of some verbs.
We an-alyzed the predicate ?fought?, which was equallyeventive with and without a specified time or lo-cation.
However, such a verb does not require ex-plicit grounding; the reader can assume that anygiven fight happens at a specific time and location.For affectedness, our examples utilized a verb thatis always highly indicative of affectedness and didnot adequately capture a good distinction betweenhigh and low affectedness.
We believe that futureexperiments can control for these kinds of casesand that example predicates can be found that willisolate the specific qualities.Another concern is that our design only explic-itly tested a single predicate for each quality.
How-ever, the nature of the predicates and the sentenceswe used allowed for post-hoc analysis of the qual-ities that existed across more than two sentences.Empirical testing showed the same pattern of re-sults across predicates for these qualities.Overall, the experimental results are extremelyinteresting in their congruence with the literatureon events, but further research is required to deter-mine the exact contribution of each quality.
Thecurrent experimental design lacks sufficient powerto reliably rank the qualities due to contrast effectswithin example groups.
It is likely that the order-ing/grouping of the examples affected the rating ofindividual examples.
In future studies, we plan tocontrol for these effects by controlling the order-ing of the examples given to each individual.5 ConclusionWorking definitions of events are often ill-definedand difficult to apply.
We have laid out a seriesof qualities which contribute to the overall even-tiveness of a predicate in a sentence.
Our find-ings indicate that the degree to which a predicateis considered an event is a function of these qual-ities.
Evidence for these qualities was validatedusing participant ratings of predicates.When developing annotated corpora of events,the decision of whether or not to consider an in-dividual predicate as an event is difficult.
Under-standing the qualities of eventiveness can explainwhy one predicate seems less eventive than an-other (e.g.
irrealis, generic).Instead of deciding each predicate on the ba-sis of the individual qualities being exhibited, an-notation specifications should consider how thesequalities interact.
Drawing an explicit boundarybetween events and non-events can cause infor-mation contained in the non-events to be lost forreasoning.
Along the same lines, event extrac-tion capabilities could be greatly improved by thelabelling of these qualities on annotated corpora.This would enable event extraction to preserve thefine-grained distinctions between events that areshown to be relevant to human understanding.In this study, we gave examples of how pred-icates with lesser eventiveness can provide valu-able insight into problems such as event corefer-ence and quasi-identity resolution.
These qualitiesof eventiveness can serve to inform future researchinto those areas, providing a deeper understand-ing of the meaning of event coreference.
Whiledifferent applications have different needs, under-standing the qualities that contribute to eventive-ness will enable applications to more intelligentlyutilize event information.6 AcknowledgementsThis work was sponsored in part by the Air ForceResearch Laboratory (AFRL).66ReferencesACE.
2005.
In ACE (Automatic Content Extraction)English Annotation Guidelines for Events Version5.4.3 2005.07.01.Cosmin Bejan and Sanda Harabagiu.
2010.
Unsu-pervised event coreference resolution with rich lin-guistic features.
In Proceedings of the 48th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 1412?1422, Uppsala, Sweden, July.Association for Computational Linguistics.Bernard Comrie.
1976.
Aspect: An introduction to thestudy of verbal aspect and related problems.
Cam-bridge University Press.William Croft.
2012.
In Verbs: Aspect and CausalStructure, Oxford.
Oxford University Press.David Dowty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and argu-ment selection.
In Language, Vol.
67, No.
3., pages547?619, September.Paul J. Hopper and Sandra A. Thompson.
1980.
Tran-sitivity in grammar and discourse.
In Language 56(2), pages 251?299, June.Eduard Hovy, Teruko Mitamura, Felisa Verdejo, JunAraki, and Andrew Philpot.
2013.
Events are notsimple: Identity, non-identity, and quasi-identity.
InProceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013.TAC KBP.
2014.http://www.nist.gov/tac/2014/kbp/event/.Lawrence B. Lombard.
1986.
In Events: A Metaphys-ical Study, London.
Routledge and Kegan Paul.Nitin Madnani, Jordan Boyd-Graber, and PhilipResnik.
2010.
Measuring transitivity using un-trained annotators.
In Creating Speech and Lan-guage Data With Amazon?s Mechanical Turk, LosAngeles, CA.Thomas A. Mathew and E. Graham Katz.
2009.
Su-pervised categorization of habitual versus episodicsentences.
Dissertation.
Georgetown University.James Pustejovsky, Jose Castano, Bob Ingria, RoserSauri, Rob Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and GrahamKatz.
2003.
Timeml: Robust specification of eventand temporal expressions in text.
In Proceedings ofthe Fifth International Workshop on ComputationalSemantics (IWCS).W.
V. O. Quine.
1985.
Events and reification.
InE.
LePore and B. P. McLaughlin, eds., Actions andEvents: Perspectives on the philosophy of DonaldDavidson, pages 162?171, Oxford: Blackwell.Gabriel A. Radvansky and Jeffrey M. Zacks.
2011.Event perception.
pages 608?620.Michael Silverstein.
1976.
Hierarchy of features andergativity.
In Grammatical Categories in AustralianLanguages, pages 112?171, Canberra.
AustralianInstitute of Aboriginal Studies.Leonard Talmy.
2000.
Force dynamics in languageand cognition.
In Toward a Cognitive Semantics -Vol.
1, Cambridge, Mass.
The MIT Press.Tasaku Tsunoda.
1981.
Split case-marking patternsin verb-types and tense/aspect/mood.
In Linguistics19, no.
5-6, pages 389?438.Tasaku Tsunoda.
1985.
Remarks on transitivity.
InJournal of Linguistics 21, pages 385?396.Zeno Vendler.
1957.
Verbs and times.
In The Philo-sophical Review.
Vol.
66 No.
2, pages 143?160,April.67
