Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1?2,October 25-29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.
c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsKeynote: Data Archeology: A Theory Informed Approach to Analyz-ing Data Traces of Social Interaction in Large Scale Learning Envi-ronmentsAlyssa Friend WiseFaculty of EducationSimon Fraser University250-13450 102 AvenueSurrey BC, Canada, V3T 0A3alyssa_wise@sfu.caAbstractData archeology is a theoretically-informed approach to make sense of thedigital artifacts left behind by a priorlearning ?civilization.?
Critical elementsinclude use of theoretical learning modelsto construct analytic metrics, attention totemporality as a means to reconstruct in-dividual and collective trajectories, andconsideration of the pedagogical andtechnological structures framing activity.Examples of the approach using discus-sion forum trace data will be presented.1 OverviewData traces that learners leave in online systemsoffer the possibility to study learning activity,predict outcomes, and designed targeted inter-ventions for support (Siemens & Long, 2011).However, such analysis often focus on rudimen-tary learning processes (series of related actionsengaged in as part of learning activities) withoutattention to the larger learning practices theymake up (repertoires of processes organizedaround particular foci that have meaning recog-nized within a particular context and socialgroup) [Arastoopour et al., 2014].
This is an im-portant concern for all learning analytics, butparticularly problematic when the desired targetof analytic claims is social interactions.Lockyer, Heathcote & Dawson (2013) concep-tualize this issue through the relationship be-tween learning analytics and learning design.That is, creation and interpretation of valid ana-lytic measures needs to be grounded in the ?thepedagogical and technical context in which thedata [was] generated?
(p. 1440).
The practicalimplications of such are that the same analyticmeasures and patterns in these measures may bemore or less useful, valid, and valued dependingon the pedagogical goals of the activity at a par-ticular point in time.
For example, a discussionforum may be used in an online course course asa place for Q &A with experts (or relatively ex-pert-peers) or for common interest groups towork through different ways the course materialmight apply to a particular situation or challenge.A social network analysis of discussion repliesthat produces a wheel-and-spoke structure maybe appropriate (and desired) for the former situa-tion, but problematic in the latter (Brooks, Greer& Gutwin, 2014).To address these issues I describe the notionof data archeology (Wise, 2013) as theoretically-informed efforts to make sense of the digital arti-facts left behind by a prior ?civilization.?
Criticalaspects of taking a data archeology perspectiveinclude: (a) the use of theoretical models oflearning to frame the construction and interpreta-tion of analytic metrics; (b) attention to tempo-rality (of data and analytic methods) as a meansto reconstruct individual and collective trajecto-ries of engagement and interaction; and (c) con-sideration of the pedagogical and technologicalstructures framing the activity that occurred.Such an approach supports the development ofrich indicators that instructors and learners canrecognize as meaningful reflections of their par-ticular practices of teaching and learning.Examples of a data archeology approach todiscussion forum traces will be presentedgrounding in the work of the E-Listening project(Wise et al., 2012; 2013; 2014a; 2014b), a re-search effort connecting the comments learnersmake in online discussions with actions in at-tending to the posts of others (invisible to otherlearners, but visible in the clickstream record).The conceptual categories of online listening1depth, breadth, integration and recursiveness willbe introduced and their suitability for differentkinds of technological and pedagogical discus-sion contexts discussed grounded in the frame-work of the following questions:?
What is the purpose of the educationalactivity taking place in the discussion fo-rum??
How does the design of the activity ar-ticulate with (support, inhibit) this pur-pose??
What are expected (desired and undesir-able) patterns of activity??
How can these best be represented /proxied by the data available?ReferencesArastoopour, G. et al.
2014.
Analytics for Learningand Becoming in Practice.
Proceedings of the In-ternational Conference of the Learning Sciences,2014, 1680-1683.Brooks, C., Greer, J.
& Gutwin, C. 2014.
The Data-Assisted Approach to Building Intelligent Techno-logy Enhanced Learning Environments.
In J. A.Larusson & B.
White (Eds.)
Learning Analytics:From Research To Practice (pp.
123-156).
NewYork: Springer.Lockyer, L., Heathcote, E., & Dawson, S. 2013.
In-forming Pedagogical Action: Aligning LearningAnalytics with Learning Design.
American Behav-ioral Scientist, 57(10): 1439-1459.Siemens, G., & Long, P. 2011.
Penetrating the Fog:Analytics in Learning And Education.
EducauseReview, 46(5): 30-32.Wise, A. F. 2013.
Moving Beyond (Mere) Narrative.
(Invited Talk), In Cyberinfrastructure for Design-Based Research Workshop, Madison, WI.Wise, A. F., Hausknecht, S. N. & Zhao, Y.
2014a.Attending to Others' Posts in Asynchronous Dis-cussions: Learners' Online "Listening" and its Re-lationship to Speaking.
International Journal ofComputer-Supported Collaborative Learning, 9(2):185-209.Wise, A. F., Perera, N., Hsiao, Y., Speer, J.
& Mar-bouti, F. 2012.
Microanalytic Case Studies of Indi-vidual Participation Patterns in an AsynchronousOnline Discussion in an Undergraduate BlendedCourse.
Internet and Higher Education, 15(2):108?117.Wise, A. F., Speer, J., Marbouti, F. & Hsiao, Y.
2013.Broadening the Notion Of Participation in OnlineDiscussions: Examining Patterns in Learners'Online Listening Behaviors.
Instructional Science.41(2): 323-343.Wise, A. F., Zhao, Y.
& Hausknecht, S. N. 2014b.Learning Analytics for Online Discussions: Em-bedded and Extracted Approaches.
Journal ofLearning Analytics, 1(2) : 48-71.2
