Proceedings of the Joint Workshop on Social Dynamics and Personal Attributes in Social Media, pages 94?97,Baltimore, Maryland USA, 27 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsInnovation of Verbs in HebrewUzzi OrnanHebrew University f JerusalemHebrew LinguisticsTechnion, I.I.T.
HaifaComputer ScienceTechnion City, Haifa, 32000, Israelornanu@gmail.com,  ornan@cs.technion.ac.ilAbsractIn modern time a lot ofconnections   developed amongvarious nations, and     peoplebecame acquainted with severallanguages.
New conceptionsmove from their origin in acertain language to anothersurrounding.
Hebrew alsoadopted many new words fromforeign origin, but there is adifficulty to adopt foreign verbsin Hebrew, since a Hebrew verbmust be in a certain pattern.
Thisshort paper explains how aspecial device has developed inthe Hebrew grammar to copewith this need.1   Hebrew words in arrayMost Hebrew words are arranged in a "rootpattern array".
Each line contains a root,which is a sequence of three or moreconsonants, and each column contains apattern built as a sequence of vowels,sometimes accompanied by one consonantor two.
Each pattern also contains three orfour slots in which the consonants of theroot should enter (Figure 1).Thus a word appears in each squarecontaining the consonants of the rootinterwoven into the pattern (Figure 2).
Thereare several thousands roots, and 100 ?
120patterns of nouns but only seven patterns ofverbs.
Nouns may be of foreign origins, butverbs should be in the seven patterns only.2   Empty squares for innovationsMany      squares   in   the   array    are actuallyempty.
They   may   become   full   if     newwords     are     needed    to    be introduced intothe language.
Usually it happens if a speakerdoes not find a word that expresses his/heridea.
He/She chooses a proper root, and bylooking for proper pattern, a new word isproduced and from here it shifts into thedictionary (described in Figure 2).3  Verbal and nominal expressionsLanguages have both verbal and nominalexpressions.
Speakers sometimes need both.In order to express an idea which containsboth a noun and a verb, it is possible to use a"general purpose" verb, which expresses ageneral meaning of doing, such as do, make,or act etc., and relate it to the noun.
Here aresome expressions in Hebrew: First, generalpurpose Hebrew verbs:lip?ol= to act,le-bacce?
=to perform,la-?sot= to do, to make.And some examples of actual use:la-?
?ot  ma`ama?
?im = to make efforts,le-harim telepon = to pick up atelephone,li?loa?
mibraq = to send a telegram,la-?rok biqqur = to pay a visit.4   Same root for bothIt is very common that both the verbal andthe nominal expressions be of the same root,such as:94liktob miktab = to write a letter(root:   k't'b' )lsapper sippur = to tell a story(root:  s'p'r').Such use of expression is speciallysignificant in Hebrew for a need to add anadjective to the noun while the real meaningis to add an adverbial description to the verb.E.g., by the nominal phrase "importantdecision" such as in Hebrew : le-ha?li?ha?la?a ?a?uba (root: ? '
l ' ? '
) = to decidean  important decision.
Here  both noun andverb are of the same root.
Sometimes theverbal expression itself includes the idea ofthe nominal expression, such as,le-habriq = li?lo?
mibraq (to telegraph,or to   send a telegram),le-hi?takker= li?tot le-?okra (to drink upto   toxication),le-hitraggez =  le-habbi?
rogez ( toexpress  anger).5   Foreign nouns need "squeezing"But  what about  foreign nouns?
Modernworld offers a lot of contacts for  speakers ofvarious  languages, and   Hebrew  also   gota lot of  foreign  nouns   from    manylanguages.
These nouns are not   included inthe  array.
and what  is more important, theydo   not  have   roots, while  Hebrewspeakers   are   used   to   connect    nounsand   verbs, preferably through commonroots.
A special procedure developed inHebrew grammar, which produces rootsfrom foreign    nouns.
This procedure is"squeezing": We squeeze the noun and getits vowels out1.
What remain is itsconsonants only.This sequence of consonants is consideredto be used as a new root.
The new root is putin a new line in the list of roots at theroot-pattern array, and of course on the spot alot of new empty squares appear along theline of the new root.
Some of them are verbalpatterns.
Now   one   can   choose   a   properverbal pattern   and   here   a new Hebrewverb appears.1See, Ornan 1976 (in Hebrew), Ornan 1990p.
88.6  Root  is  sequence  of consonantsFor example, a new instrument is inventedsomewhere in a foreign country and has beenbrought to the Hebrew speakers  togetherwith  its  name: It  is  the telephone.
We havementioned it above in the first appearance inthe idiom  le-harim telepon,  but sometimesafter  that  we find another word whichconveys the same meaning, i.e., le- talpen =to phone.
This verb  may appear of course invarious verbal structures, such astilpanti = I phoned,talpenu elay = please phone me,  etc.The   verb   appeared   as   a   result   of    thesqueezing process.
From telephone we got thesequence of consonants t l p n .
and that wasenough to add a new line in the root lines ofthe root-pattern array.
( [p] and [f] relate to thesame phoneme /p/ even in Modern Hebrew.
)7   Squeezing is original procedureThis procedure of squeezing has been activeeven in ancient times.
It can be seen in theGreek word which entered into Hebrew aswell as to many languages ?
basis.
We have aHebrew verb based on the root b s s , whichwas squeezed from basis in ancient time andis being used since Mishnaic Hebrew untilmodern time.8   Squeezing in Hebrew increasedIn Modern time squeezing seems to increase.Many new ideas appeared in the wide world,and Hebrew did not stay behind.
Beside otherways of innovation of new words from wideworld origin, we find a lot of new words,especially verbs, which have been coined bysqueezing.
See for example what happened toEnglish words such as compilation, debug,format, fax, discuss, Pascal, Pasteur, Rentgen.They all passed through squeezing, even ifsome of them are not necessarily nouns.
Forexample,le-qampel = to compile (code),le-dabbeg = to debug,le-farmet = to format,le-faqses= to send a  fax notele-dasqes = to discuss, to talkle-fasqel = run a Pascal code,le-faster = pasterize,le-rantgen = to X-ray.959   Squeezing of Hebrew wordsNext development of the squeezingprocedure is that it began to work also onHebrew words.
It happened whenever aspeaker feels that the old root does notsatisfy his/her needs.
A good example isthe noun mispar which exists in the root-pattern array, with the root s'p'r' andpattern mi?a-.
Its meaning is "anumber", and the verb sapar means "tocount".
Now what happens when youneed to express the idea of givingnumbers to a bunch  of  pages or names ina long queue.
The verb sapar "count" isnot proper.
So the noun mispar has beensqueezed and a new root,  m ' s ' p ' r 'appeared in a new line at the array,producing a new verb le-masper = togive numbers.
Another example is him?iz.Its root m ?
z  squeezed from ma?ze =stage play, a noun of root ? '
z ' y '  (The mis from the pattern).
The procedure is sostrong that even a sequence of twoadjacent  words  may  be  squeezed  suchas "?ad ka`n" which means "up to thepresent".
This idiom was squeezed, andwe got a new root: ? '
d ' k ' n ' , fromwhich a verb as well as an adjectiveappeared:le-?adken et ha-?ada?ot = to  updatethe   news, orha-ti``ur lo` m?udkan = thedescription is  not uptodate.22The squeezing procedure suggestionexplains the connection between verbs andtheir origin much easier and nicer than theefforts done by Outi Bat-El, 1994.
She speaksabout "extracting", which is the exact"squeezing" described in Ornan, 1976 andOrnan, 1990 (without mentioning them), buttries to adopt it to another theory based onfour elements (by McCarthy 1981) whichincludes adding vowels in a separateprocedure, without including any formativeconsonant to a pattern, while the suggestedapproach here is based on two elements(pattern and root) only, and we includepatterns which may contain consonants.Some needed procedures for correctingReferencesBat-El Outi, 1994.
Stem Modification and ClusterTransfer in Modern Hebrew.
Natural Languageand a LinguisticTheory 12, pp.
571-596Bolozky, Shmuel 1978.
Word Formation Strategiesin the Hebrew Verb System, Denominative Verbs.Afroasiatic Linguistics 5:3 pp.
111-136.McCarthy, John.
J., 1981.
A Prosodic Theory ofNonconcatenative Morphology.
Linguistic Inquiry12.
pp.
373-418.Ornan, Uzzi.
1976.
??
?????
??????
?????
(ongenerating new roots).
Leshonenu- la-?am,Academy of Hebrew Language, Jerusalem,  Vol27, pp 254-267.Ornan, Uzzi.
1983.
?????
?????
??????
????
(Howdo we build a Hebrew word).
Bar-Asher et al.
(editors), Studies in Hebrew dedicated to Ze`evBen-Haiim, Magnes Press, Jerusalem, pp.
13-42.Ornan, Uzzi.
1990.
Machinery for Hebrew WordFormation, Martin Charles Golumbic (ed),Advances in Artificial Intelligence, Springer-Verlag, pp.
75-93.Ornan, Uzzi.
2003.
?????
???????
(The FinalWord), University of Haifa pub, pp.
103-126.various new roots are dealt with in Ornan, 2003 pp.110-116.96patternroot_a_a_ _i__e_ ma__e_ hit_a__e- __a_ ta__u_a hi__i_psq pasaq pisseq mapseq hitpasseq psaq - hipsiqgmr gamar gimmer - - gmar - -?br ?abar ?ibber ma?ber hit?abber - ta?bura -?bd ?abad ?ibbed - - - - hi?bidprsm - pirsem - hitparsem - - -?lgrp - ?ilgrep - - - - -Figure 1:   Part of Root-Pattern Arraylist of patterns:ma?a-list of roots:                ti?o-t                 phonemic word:        actual word:gmr?ny                          h'l'k'                MAhlAk              /mahlak/              [mahalax]Figure 2: Illustrating part of the generating algorithm97
