Workshop on Humans and Computer-assisted Translation, pages 57?65,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBlack-box integration of heterogeneous bilingual resources into aninteractive translation systemJuan Antonio P?erez-Ortizjaperez@dlsi.ua.esDaniel Torregrosadtr5@alu.ua.esDepartament de Llenguatges i Sistemes Inform`aticsUniversitat d?Alacant, SpainMikel L. Forcadamlf@dlsi.ua.esAbstractThe objective of interactive translationprediction (ITP) is to assist human trans-lators in the translation of texts by makingcontext-based computer-generated sug-gestions as they type.
Most of the ITPsystems in literature are strongly coupledwith a statistical machine translation sys-tem that is conveniently adapted to providethe suggestions.
In this paper, however,we propose a resource-agnostic approachin which the suggestions are obtained fromany bilingual resource (a machine transla-tion system, a translation memory, a bilin-gual dictionary, etc.)
that provides target-language equivalents for source-languagesegments.
These bilingual resources areconsidered to be black boxes and do notneed to be adapted to the peculiarities ofthe ITP system.
Our evaluation showsthat savings of up to 85% can be theoreti-cally achieved in the number of keystrokeswhen using our novel approach.
Prelim-inary user trials indicate that these bene-fits can be partly transferred to real-worldcomputer-assisted translation interfaces.1 IntroductionTranslation technologies are frequently used toassist human translators.
Common approachesconsider machine translation (MT) (Hutchins andSomers, 1992) or translation memories (Somers,2003) to be systems that produce a first (and usu-ally incorrect) prototype of the translation whichis then edited by the human translator in orderto produce a target-language text that is adequatefor publishing.
In both situations, the suggestionmay be considered as a source of inspiration bythe human translators, who will assemble the finaltranslation by on some occasions accepting and re-arranging parts of the proposal, or on others in-troducing their own words when an appropriateequivalent is not included or is not found in thesuggestion.
The whole process may be viewed as anegotiation between the wordings that form in thetranslator?s mind and wordings that already appearin the suggestion.
In both approaches the sugges-tion is generated once, usually before starting tomanually translate every new sentence.The approach introduced in this paper, however,follows a different path, which is strongly con-nected to the field of interactive translation pre-diction1(ITP), a research field which explores akind of computer-assisted translation frameworkwhose aim is to interactively provide users withsuggestions at every step during the translationprocess.2Most works in the field of ITP have fo-cused on statistical MT systems as the only sourceof translations considered to obtain the sugges-tions, but our study aims to determine how bilin-gual resources of any kind can be accommodatedinto an interoperable ITP.
To obtain the sugges-tions, the source-language sentence to be trans-lated is split up into many different (and possi-bly overlapping) word segments of up to a givenlength, and a translation for each segment is ob-tained by using a bilingual resource which is ableto deliver one or more target-language equivalentsfor a particular source-language segment.
Theseequivalents will be the source of the proposalswhich will be offered to the human translator dur-ing the translation process.
In principle, the natureof these bilingual resources is not restricted: in1The name interactive translation prediction has recentlybeen proposed (Alabau et al., 2013) for this research field,which has historically been referred to as target-text medi-ated interactive MT (Foster et al., 1997) or simply interactiveMT (Barrachina et al., 2009).
Despite the traditional term, weconsider the recent one to be more suitable for our approachsince it is not exclusively based on MT.2The interaction can be compared to that of word comple-tion mechanisms in input text boxes and word processors.57this paper we shall explore the use of an MT sys-tem, but they may also consist of translation mem-ories, dictionaries, catalogues of bilingual phrases,or a combination of heterogeneous resources.
Asstated above, MT or translation memories cannotusually deliver appropriate translations at the sen-tence level, but their proposals usually contain ac-ceptable segments that do not cover the whole sen-tence but which can be accepted by the user to as-semble a good translation, thus saving keystrokes,mouse actions3and, possibly, time.The remainder of the paper is organised as fol-lows.
After reviewing the state-of-the-art in ITPin Section 2, we outline the main differences be-tween our proposal and those found in literature inSection 3.
Our method for generating translationsuggestions from bilingual resources is formallypresented in Section 4.
We then introduce in Sec-tion 5 our experimental set-up and show the resultsof two evaluations: one that is fully automatic andanother consisting of a user trial involving humanevaluators.
Finally, we discuss the results and pro-pose future lines of research in Section 6.2 Related workThe systems which have most significantly con-tributed to the field of ITP are those built in thepioneering TransType project (Foster et al., 1997;Langlais et al., 2000), and its continuation, theTransType2 project (Macklovitch, 2006).
Thesesystems observe the current partial translation al-ready typed by the user and, by exploiting anembedded statistical MT engine, propose one ormore completions that are compatible with thesentence prefix entered by the user.
Various mod-els were considered for the underlying MT system,including alignment templates, phrase-based mod-els, and stochastic finite-state transducers (Bar-rachina et al., 2009).
The proposals offered mayrange from one or several words, to a comple-tion of the remainder of the target sentence.
Anautomatic best-scenario evaluation with trainingand evaluation corpora belonging to the same do-main (Barrachina et al., 2009) showed that it mighttheoretically be possible to use only 20?25% ofthe keystrokes in comparison with the unassistedtranslation for English?Spanish translation (bothdirections) and around 45% for English?Frenchand English?German.
The results of the user tri-3In the case of touch devices, other means of interaction(such as gestures) may exist.als (Macklovitch, 2006) showed gains in produc-tivity (measured in number of words translated perhour) of around 15?20%, but despite this, the hu-man translators were not satisfied with the system,principally because they had to correct the sameerrors in the proposals over and over again (themodels in the underlying statistical MT system re-mained unchanged during the translation process).A number of projects continued the researchwhere TransType2 had left off.
Caitra (Koehn,2009) is an ITP tool which uses both the phrasetable and the decoder of a statistical MT sys-tem to generate suggestions; although individ-ual results vary, translators are generally fastestwith post-editing and obtain the highest trans-lation performance when combining post-editingand ITP in the same interface (Koehn and Haddow,2009).
Researchers at the Universitat Polit`ecnicade Val`encia have also made significant improve-ments to the TransType2 system such as onlinelearning techniques with which to adaptively gen-erate better proposals from user feedback (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al., 2011), phrase-table smoothing tocope with segments in the partially typed transla-tion which cannot be generated with the phrasescollected during training (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011),or multimodal interfaces (Alabau et al., 2010).The objective of the CASMACAT project (Alabauet al., 2013), which is under active development,is to develop new types of assistance along allthese lines.
Finally, commercial translation mem-ory systems have also recently started to introduceITP as one of their basic features (see, for exam-ple, SDL Trados AutoSuggest4).3 Innovative nature of our proposalCommon to most of the approaches discussedabove is the fact that the underlying translation en-gine needs to be a glass-box resource, that is, aresource whose behaviour is modified to meet theITP system needs.
The approaches rely on a statis-tical MT (Koehn, 2010) system which is adaptedto provide the list of n-best completions for theremainder of the sentence, given the current sen-tence prefix already introduced by the user; in or-der to meet the resulting time constraints, the de-coder of the statistical MT system cannot be exe-cuted after each keystroke and techniques to com-pute the search graph once and then reuse it havebeen proposed (Bender et al., 2005).
However, it4http://www.translationzone.com/58Figure 1: Screenshot of the web interface of ourITP tool showing a translation in progress withsome suggestions being offered.
The top text boxcontains the source sentence, whereas users typethe translation into the bottom box.may occur that an ITP system has access to bilin-gual resources which cannot produce a comple-tion for the rest of the target-language sentencefrom a given sentence prefix, but are able to sup-ply the translation of a particular source-languagesegment.
This may be owing to either intrinsicreasons inherent to the type of resource being used(for example, a bilingual dictionary can only trans-late single words or short multi-word units) or ex-trinsic reasons (for example, an MT system avail-able through a third-party web service cannot beinstructed to continue a partial translation).We propose a black-box treatment of the bilin-gual resources in contrast to the glass-box ap-proaches found in literature.
Unlike them, ac-cess to the inner details of the translation systemis not necessary; this maintains coupling betweenthe ITP tool and the underlying system to a mini-mum and provides the opportunity to incorporateadditional sources of bilingual information beyondpurposely-designed statistical MT systems.
More-over, suggestions are computed once at the startand not after each keystroke, which results in amore effective interaction with the user in execu-tion environments with limited resources.In this paper, we shall focus on a black-box MTsystem (Forcada et al., 2011), but we have also be-gun to explore the integration of other bilingual re-sources (such as translation memories, dictionar-ies, catalogues of bilingual phrases, or even a com-bination of heterogeneous resources).
Our systemhas a web interface similar to that in the projectsdiscussed in Section 2: users freely type the trans-lation of the source sentence, and are offered sug-gestions on the fly in a drop-down list with itemsbased on the current prefix, although this prefixwill correspond to the first characters of the wordcurrently being typed and not to the part of thetarget sentence already entered; users may acceptthese suggestions (using cursor keys, the mouseor specific hot keys) or ignore them and continuetyping.
A screenshot of the interface is shown inFigure 1.
Despite the cognitive load inherent toany predictive interface, the interface is easy andintuitive to use, even for inexperienced users.4 MethodOur method starts by splitting the source-languagesentence S up into all the (possibly overlapping)segments of length l ?
[1, L], where L is the max-imum source segment length measured in words.The resulting segments are then translated bymeans of a bilingual resource (or combinationsthereof).
The set of potential proposals PSforsentence S is made up of pairs comprising thetranslation of each segment and the position in theinput sentence of the first word of the correspond-ing source-language segment.
See Table 1 for anexample of the set PSobtained in an English toSpanish translation task when using L = 3.
Weshall represent the i-th suggestion as pi, its target-language segment as t(pi) and its correspondingsource-language word position as ?(pi).
Suitablevalues for L will depend on the bilingual resource:on the one hand, we expect higher values of Lto be useful for high-quality MT systems, suchas those translating between closely related lan-guages, since adequate translations may stretch toa relatively large number of words; on the otherhand, L should be kept small for resources suchas dictionaries or low-quality MT systems whosetranslations quickly deteriorate as the length of theinput segment increases.Let PSC(w?, j) be the subset of PSincluding thecompatible suggestions which can be offered tothe user after typing w?
as the prefix of the j-thword in the translated sentence T .
The elementsof PSC(w?, j) are determined by considering onlythose suggestions in PSthat have the already-typed word prefix as their own prefix:PSC(w?, j) = {pi?
PS: w?
?
Prefix(t(pi))}For example, in the case of the translation of theEnglish sentence in Table 1, if the user types anM, the set of compatible suggestions PSC(?M?, 1)59Start position Source segment Suggestion1 My (Mi,1)1 My tailor (Mi sastre,1)1 My tailor is (Mi sastre es,1)2 tailor (sastre,2)2 tailor is (sastre es,2)2 tailor is healthy (sastre est?a sano,2)3 is (es,3)3 is healthy (est?a sano,3)4 healthy (sano,4)Table 1: Source-language segments and potentialsuggestions PSwhen translating the sentence S =?My tailor is healthy?
into Spanish with L = 3.will contain the suggestions with target-languagesegments Mi, Mi sastre and Mi sastre es, sincethey are the only proposals in PSstarting withan M. The size of PSCis dependent on the valueof L, but compatible proposals may also origi-nate from translations of source segments start-ing at different positions in the input sentence (forexample, the set PSCafter the user types an s inthe same translation will contain proposals startingwith sastre and sano).
More elaborated strategiesare consequently necessary to further reduce thenumber of proposals, since we do not expect usersto tolerate lists with more than a few suggestions.In 4.1 we propose the use of a ranking strategy tosort the elements of PSCin such a way that it is pos-sible to predict which of them are most suitable tobe offered to the user.
However, we first elaborateon the issue of compatible suggestions originatingfrom different source positions.The number of source positions that generatecompatible suggestions also depends on the spe-cific word prefix; for example, when users typethe letter d when translating a long sentence intoSpanish, they will probably obtain a significantnumber of suggestions starting with de5originat-ing from segments located in different source po-sitions.
We measured the number of different po-sitions that provide compatible suggestions whenthe first characters of the current word are typedduring an automatic evaluation of our system (seeSection 5); for instance, when translating from En-glish to Spanish, the average is 1.46 after typing b,whereas it is 4.73 after typing d. Figure 2 showsthe average number of different positions for allthe letters as users type longer prefixes.
Obviously,only suggestions originating from the part of thesource sentence currently being translated may be5The preposition de is notably frequent in Spanish texts.11.522.533.541  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10Average numberofdifferentsource positionsWord prefix lengthca?esen?esFigure 2: Average number, for all the letters inthe alphabet, of different source positions in thesource sentence providing compatible suggestionsversus length in characters of the typed prefix ofthe current target word.
A system with L = 4,M = ?
and no deletion of selected suggestions(see Section 4) was used to obtain the points inthis graph.
Data is shown for the English?Spanish(en-es) and Catalan?Spanish (es-ca) corpora usedin the automatic experiments (see Section 5).useful, but this position is difficult to determineunambiguously.
The degree of success that can beachieved in this task will be explored in greaterdepth in future work (see Section 6); a simple ap-proximation is presented in the following section.4.1 Ranking suggestionsIn the absence of a strategy with which to rankthe suggestions in PSC(w?, j) which we are cur-rently working on, in this paper we explore a na?
?vedistance-based approach which is based solely onthe position j: suggestions piwhose source posi-tion ?
(pi) is closer6to j are prioritised.
For ex-ample, in the case of the translation in Table 1, ifthe user types Mi s, suggestions starting with sas-tre will be ranked before those starting with sano.This linearity assumption can be seen as a roughattempt to determine the part of the input sentencethat is currently being translated; more sophisti-cated approaches will be considered in future work(see Section 6).
However, notice that according toFigure 2, the average number of different sourcepositions of the compatible segments quickly be-comes closer to 1 when the length of the wordprefix is greater than 2; it is therefore expectedthat the role played by the distance-based rankerwill soon decrease as the user continues typing the6Ties are broken at random.6005101520250 1 2 3-4 5-7 8-10 11-20    21-300Percentageof suggestionsSource-target distanceFigure 3: Distribution of the absolute differences(measured in words) between source position ofaccepted suggestions versus position in the targetsentence in which they were selected for the caseof Spanish?English translation.
L = 4, M = ?and no deletion of selected suggestions (see Sec-tion 4) was used to obtain this graph.current word (although the position of a valid sug-gestion is far from j, it will probably be the onlycompatible proposal, and will consequently be se-lected to be offered).Translation between closely related languagesis often monotonic and most reorderings are local;our distance-based ranking is therefore expectedto produce good results for this kind of languagepairs.
Nevertheless, we cannot in principle ex-pect this ranker to work reasonably well on un-related languages with different overall grammat-ical structures (e.g., when translating a languagewith a verb?subject?object order into another onewith a subject?verb?object typology).
The graphin Figure 3 represents the distribution of the dis-tances between the source positions of all theaccepted suggestions in our automatic Spanish?English evaluation (see Section 5) versus the po-sition in the target sentence of the word for whichthey were selected.
The Pearson correlation coef-ficient between both positions is very high (0.93),which supports the idea that our na?
?ve distance-based ranking may work reasonably well for thelanguages used in our experiments.7Let M be the maximum number of sugges-tions that will eventually be offered to the humantranslator; the ordered list of suggestions offeredto the user PSO(w?, j) is made up of a subset ofthe elements in PSC(w?, j) and restricted so that7Although not shown here, similar results are obtained forthe Catalan?Spanish pair.|PSO(w?, j)| ?
M .
Note that for the interface tobe friendly, the value of M should be kept smalland, as a result of this, it could easily occur that allthe suggestions offered are obtained starting at thesame source position (that closest to the currenttarget position) although better suggestions fromdifferent positions exist.
In order to mitigate theimpact of this, in this paper we propose to restrictthe number of proposals originating from a par-ticular source position to two (the longest and theshortest, in this order, which are compatible withthe typed word prefix) as long as different compat-ible suggestions originating from a different posi-tion exist.
The longest is offered in the hope thatit will be correct and will contribute towards sav-ing a lot of keystrokes; however, since the qual-ity of machine translations usually degrades withthe length of the input segment (see Figure 4), theshortest is also offered.
This must, however, beresearched in more depth.4.2 Deleting dispensable suggestionsSuggestions that have been accepted by the usershould not be proposed again.
In this work, aselected suggestion piwill be removed from PSif no other suggestion pjwith the same target-language text t(pi) and different source position?
(pj) exists in PS.
In this case, those suggestionsobtained from the source position ?
(pi) are alsoremoved from PS.
Deleting dispensable sugges-tions allows other useful suggestions to be selectedby the ranker in order to be offered.5 Experimental setup and resultsA fully automatic evaluation and a user trial in-volving human evaluators were conducted.
Aspreviously stated in Section 3, the only bilingualresource considered in this paper is an MT system;in particular, the Spanish to Catalan and English toSpanish rule-based MT systems in the free/open-source platform Apertium8(Forcada et al., 2011).5.1 Evaluation metricsThe performance of our system has been measuredby using two metrics: keystroke ratio (KSR) andacceptable suggestion ratio (ASR).
On the onehand, the KSR is the ratio between the numberof keystrokes and the length of the translated sen-8Revision 44632 of the Apertium repository at http://svn.code.sf.net/p/apertium/svn/trunk/ was used for the engine andlinguistic data in these experiments.61tence (Langlais et al., 2000).
A lower KSR repre-sents a greater saving in keystrokes.
In our exper-iments, selecting a suggestion has the same costas pressing one key.
On the other hand, the ASRmeasures the percentage of times that at least oneof the suggestions in a non-empty PSOis selected.If users frequently receive suggestion lists contain-ing no acceptable proposals, they will stop con-sulting the list and translate without assistance; itis therefore important to measure the number oftimes the user is needlessly bothered.5.2 Automatic evaluationIn order to determine optimal values for the dif-ferent parameters of our system and to obtain anidea of the best results attainable, a number of au-tomatic tests were conducted.
The approach fol-lowed is identical to that described by Langlais etal.
(2000), in which a parallel corpus with pairsof sentences was used, each pair consisting of asentence S in the source language and a referencetranslation T in the target language.
In the contextof our automatic evaluation, S is used as the inputsentence to be translated and T is considered as thetarget output sentence a user is supposed to have inmind and stick to while typing.
The longest sug-gestion in PSOwhich concatenated to the alreadytyped text results in a new prefix of T is alwaysused.
If PSOcontains no suggestions at a particularpoint, then the system continues typing accordingto T .
As the algorithm proceeds in a left-to-rightlongest-match greedy fashion, there is no guaran-tee that the best possible results will be obtained,but they will be a good approximation.9For exam-ple, for T = Mi coche est?a averiado, partial outputtranslation Mi c, and PSO(?c?, 2) = {coche, cochees, coche est?a roto}, our automatic evaluation sys-tem will proceed as follows: it will first discardcoche est?a roto, because Mi coche est?a roto is nota prefix of T ; it will then discard coche es, be-cause although Mi coche es is a prefix of T , it isnot a prefix when a blank is added after it; finally,it will select coche, because Mi coche followed bya blank is a prefix of T and no longer suggestionthat also satisfies these conditions exists.Two different corpora were used for the au-tomatic evaluation: for English?Spanish (en-es),a combination of sentences from all the editionsof DGT-TM (Steinberger et al., 2012) released9Note that real users could also decide to select sugges-tions with small errors and fix them, but neither this nor otherbehaviours are considered in our automatic evaluation.00.20.40.60.811  2  3  4  5  6  7KSR/ASRlca-es KSRen-es KSRca-es ASRen-es ASRFigure 4: Automatically evaluated KSR versusexact length of the segments l. Longer sugges-tions are much more useful for Spanish?Catalan(closely related languages) than for English?Spanish: the KSR for l = 7 is still a little betterthan that for l = 1 for Catalan?Spanish, but no-ticeably worse for English?Spanish.
ASR quicklydegrades as l increases.in 2004?2011 (15 250 sentences; 163 196 wordsin English; 190 448 in Spanish) was used; forCatalan?Spanish (ca-es), a collection of newsitems from El Peri?odico de Catalunya10(15 000sentences; 307 095 words in Catalan; 294 488 inSpanish) was used.5.3 Results of the automatic evaluationThe objective of the automatic evaluation was toestimate the influence of the language pair and theparameters L and M .11Maximum length of segments.
We first testedto what extent each different segment length l con-tributes separately to the KSR.
Note that l cor-responds in this case to the exact length of thesource segments and not to the longest one (as rep-resented by L).
M = ?
is used in all the ex-periments in this section.
Figure 4 shows that theKSR becomes worse for greater values of l, whichcan be explained by the fact that longer machinetranslations often contain more errors than shorterones.
In the case of Catalan?Spanish, the worstKSR value is for l = 1 since adequate suggestionswill usually consist of few characters and selectingthem will barely contribute to keystroke reduction.10http://www.elperiodico.cat/ca/1195% confidence intervals of the average values presentedin this section were calculated using the Student?s t-test.
Thesize of the evaluation corpora signifies that the resulting con-fidence intervals are so small that they would have been im-perceptible on the graphs and have therefore been omitted.6200.20.40.60.811  2  3  4  5  6  7KSR/ASRLca-es KSRen-es KSRca-es ASRen-es ASRFigure 5: Automatically evaluated KSR/ASR ver-sus maximum length of the segments L. As L in-creases, the KSR improves, but the ASR is nega-tively affected.Combining different segment lengths up to lengthL provides better values of KSR than using onlya fixed value l = L (compare Figures 4 and 5).Figure 5 shows an estimation of the best resultsour method could attain if all the compatible sug-gestions in PSCwere included in PSO: values be-tween 0.3 and 0.4 for the Catalan?Spanish KSRand between 0.7 and 0.8 for the English?SpanishKSR.
The notable difference may be explainedby the fact that Apertium performance is muchbetter (Forcada et al., 2011) for Catalan?Spanish(word error rates of around 15%) than for English?Spanish (word error rates of around 70%).Maximum number of suggestions offered.
Weevaluated the influence of the maximum size Mof the list of suggestions offered to the user and,hence, the impact of the distance-based ranker.L = 4 was used, as this value provides good re-sults for both language pairs (see Figure 5).
Asexpected (see Figure 6), the distance-based rank-ing strategy works remarkably well (values forKSR and ASR from M = 4 are similar to thoseobtained with M = ?)
for closely related lan-guages (Catalan?Spanish), in which translationsare usually monotonic and reorderings seldom oc-cur.
However, the empirical results also show (seeagain Figure 6) that it also works well for languagepairs (English?Spanish) in which long-distance re-orderings exist, at least when compared to the re-sults without ranking (M =?
).5.4 Human evaluationA preliminary evaluation of a real use of our sys-tem involving 8 human non-professional trans-00.20.40.60.81?
1  2  3  4  5KSR/ASRMca-es KSRen-es KSRca-es ASRen-es ASRFigure 6: Automatically evaluated KSR/ASR ver-sus maximum number M of suggestions offered.Although the results with M = 1 (only one sug-gestion offered) are considerably worse, for highervalues of M they quickly approach the results ob-tained when no ranker was used and all the com-patible suggestions were offered (M =?
).lators (volunteer computer science students) wasalso conducted.
All the users were Spanish na-tive speakers who understood Catalan, but with noexperience with ITP systems.
As the results of theautomatic evaluation show that the performance ofthe Apertium English?Spanish MT system nega-tively affects our ITP system (see Section 5), wedecided to focus on the Catalan?Spanish scenario.A set of 10 sentences in Catalan were randomlyextracted from the same corpus used in the auto-matic evaluation.
The test was designed to takearound 20 minutes.
The evaluators were allowedto practise with a couple of sentences before start-ing the trial.
After completing the test, they weresurveyed about the usefulness of the system.
OurITP system was used with L = M = 4.5.5 Results of the human evaluationThe users were divided into two groups: users1?4 translated sentences 1?5 assisted by our ITPtool and sentences 6?10 with no assistance, whileusers 5?8 translated sentences 1?5 with no assis-tance and sentences 6?10 assisted by the tool.
TheKSR and translation times for each user are shownin Table 2.
This table also includes KSR?, whichis the value of KSR obtained by running our au-tomatic evaluator (see Section 5.2) using the sen-tences entered by each user as the reference trans-lations T ; this can be considered as an approxi-mation to the best result achievable with the ITPtool.
All users attained KSRs that were notice-63User Sentences 1?5 Sentences 6?10KSR Time KSR?KSR Time KSR?#1 0.49 136 0.22 1.11 137 0.23#2 0.64 144 0.15 1.21 86 0.22#3 0.63 209 0.22 1.09 112 0.21#4 0.37 189 0.22 1.22 199 0.18#5 1.10 145 0.28 0.37 102 0.15#6 1.24 150 0.27 0.51 154 0.17#7 1.15 178 0.30 0.64 147 0.17#8 1.18 118 0.39 0.58 93 0.15Table 2: KSR, translation times (seconds) andKSR?
(see main text) for each of the users in theevaluation.
Values in bold correspond to the trans-lations with assistance from our ITP system.ably lower than 1 for the assisted translations andslightly higher than 1 when translating without theITP system; the former, however, are often worsethan the KSR values obtained in the automaticevaluation which are around 0.4 for L = M = 4(see Figure 6).
Moreover, the values for KSR?show that even better values for KSR could the-oretically be attained for these sentences; note,however, that the reference translations in this casewere precisely generated by accepting suggestionsgenerated by Apertium.The users were surveyed to evaluate the follow-ing statements in the range from 1 (complete dis-agreement) to 5 (complete agreement): the inter-face is easy to use; I would use a tool like this infuture translations; I have found the suggestionsuseful; and the tool has allowed me to translatefaster.
The median of the responses to the first twoquestions was 5, whereas the median for the twolast questions was 4.5.
It was evident that the eval-uators perceived that the ITP system had helpedthem to translate faster, although the time valuesin Table 2 seem to suggest the opposite.
Finally,note that this was a small-scale human evaluationand that sounder results will have to be collectedunder different conditions by increasing the num-ber of users, sentences and languages in the test.6 Discussion and future workThe automatic evaluation of our ITP system hasprovided an estimation of its potential for humantranslators.
Note, however, that this evaluationstrategy is based on a greedy algorithm which maynot adequately reproduce the way in which a hu-man translator might usually perform the task.
Ac-cording to the best results of our automatic exper-iments, when a maximum of M = 4 suggestionsare offered and the system selects the longest onethat matches the reference translation, 25?65%keystrokes could be saved depending on the lan-guage pair.
Moreover, 30?55% of the times thata list of suggestions is offered, at least one of thesuggestions matches the target sentence.Our preliminary human tests can be used to dis-cern how well our system could perform, but amore extensive evaluation is needed to explore theinfluence of parameters, different kinds of users,heterogeneous bilingual resources, new languagepairs, particular domains, different interfaces, etc.in greater depth.
A comparison with similar toolsin literature will also be carried out.We plan to improve the ranking strategy shownin Section 4.1 by automatically detecting the partof the input sentence being translated at each mo-ment so that segments that originate in those posi-tions are prioritised.
We intend to achieve this bycombining word alignment and distortion models.The former will be used to determine the align-ments between the last words introduced by theuser and the words in the input sentence;12the lat-ter will predict which source words will be trans-lated next, partly by using information from thealignment model.The ITP system presented in this paper is im-plemented in Java, except for the web interface,which is written in HTML and JavaScript.
TheJava code, however, has been designed in such away that it can be compiled into JavaScript withthe help of the Google Web Toolkit framework;13and the same code can therefore be executed eitheron the browser in JavaScript when human transla-tors interact with the tool, or locally in Java whenperforming the automatic evaluation.
The entirecode of the application is available14under a freesoftware license (GNU Affero General Public Li-cense, version 3); this ensures the reproducibilityof the experiments and allows our ITP system tobe integrated into professional translation tools.Acknowledgments.
This work has been partlyfunded by the Spanish Ministerio de Econom?
?a yCompetitividad through project TIN 2012-32615.12On-the-fly, light alignment models have been proposedwhich do not require parallel corpora and are based on thetranslation of all the possible segments of the sentence withthe help of black-box bilingual resources (Espl`a-Gomis et al.,2012); these models would fit nicely into our ITP method.13http://www.gwtproject.org/14https://github.com/jaspock/forecat64ReferencesVicent Alabau, Daniel Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, Alberto San-chis, and Francisco Casacuberta.
2010.
Multimodalinteractive machine translation.
In ICMI-MLMI ?10:Proceedings of the 2010 International Conferenceon Multimodal Interfaces.Vicent Alabau, Ragnar Bonk, Christian Buck, MichaelCarl, Francisco Casacuberta, Mercedes Garc??a-Mart?
?nez, Jes?us Gonz?alez-Rubio, Philipp Koehn,Luis A. Leiva, Bartolom?e Mesa-Lao, Daniel Or-tiz, Herve Saint-Amand, Germ?an Sanchis-Trilles,and Chara Tsoukala.
2013.
CASMACAT: Anopen source workbench for advanced computeraided translation.
Prague Bull.
Math.
Linguistics,100:101?112.Sergio Barrachina, Oliver Bender, Francisco Casacu-berta, Jorge Civera, Elsa Cubel, Shahram Khadivi,Antonio Lagarda, Hermann Ney, Jes?us Tom?as, En-rique Vidal, and Juan-Miguel Vilar.
2009.
Sta-tistical approaches to computer-assisted translation.Computational Linguistics, 35(1):3?28.Oliver Bender, David Vilar, Richard Zens, and Her-mann Ney.
2005.
Comparison of generation strate-gies for interactive machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of EAMT 2005 (10th Annual Conference ofthe European Association for Machine Translation,pages 30?40.Miquel Espl`a-Gomis, Felipe S?anchez-Mart?
?nez, andMikel L. Forcada.
2012.
Using external sources ofbilingual information for on-the-fly word alignment.Technical report, Departament de Llenguatges i Sis-temes Inform`atics, Universitat d?Alacant.Mikel L Forcada, Mireia Ginest?
?-Rosell, Jacob Nord-falk, Jim O?Regan, Sergio Ortiz-Rojas, Juan An-tonio P?erez-Ortiz, Felipe S?anchez-Mart?
?nez, GemaRam?
?rez-S?anchez, and Francis M Tyers.
2011.Apertium: a free/open-source platform for rule-based machine translation.
Machine Translation,25(2):127?144.George F. Foster, Pierre Isabelle, and Pierre Plam-ondon.
1997.
Target-text mediated interactivemachine translation.
Machine Translation, 12(1-2):175?194.W.
John Hutchins and Harold L. Somers.
1992.
An in-troduction to machine translation.
Academic Press.Philipp Koehn and Barry Haddow.
2009.
Interactiveassistance to human translators using statistical ma-chine translation methods.
MT Summit XII.Philipp Koehn.
2009.
A web-based interactive com-puter aided translation tool.
In Proceedings of theACL-IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations, pages17?20.Philipp Koehn.
2010.
Statistical Machine Translation.Cambridge University Press.Philippe Langlais, S?ebastien Sauv?e, George Foster, El-liott Macklovitch, and Guy Lapalme.
2000.
Eval-uation of TransType, a computer-aided translationtyping system: a comparison of a theoretical-and auser-oriented evaluation procedures.
In Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC),page 8.Elliott Macklovitch.
2006.
TransType2: The lastword.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Con-ference on Languages Resources and Evaluation(LREC 06), pages 167?172.Daniel Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, Luis A. Leiva, Vicent Alabau,Ismael Garc?
?a-Varea, and Francisco Casacuberta.2011.
An interactive machine translation systemwith online learning.
In Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 68?73.Daniel Ortiz-Mart??nez.
2011.
Advances in Fully-Automatic and Interactive Phrase-Based Statisti-cal Machine Translation.
Ph.D. thesis, UniversitatPolit`ecnica de Val`encia.Harold L. Somers.
2003.
Computers and Translation:A Translator?s Guide.
Benjamins translation library.John Benjamins Publishing Company.Ralf Steinberger, Andreas Eisele, Szymon Klocek,Spyridon Pilos, and Patrick Schl?uter.
2012.
DGT-TM: a freely available Translation Memory in 22languages.
In Language Resources and EvaluationConference, pages 454?459.65
