Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH) @ EACL 2014, pages 95?99,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsText Analysis of Aberdeen Burgh Records 1530-1531Adam Wyner1, Jackson Armstrong2, Andrew Mackillop2, and Philip Astley31University of Aberdeen, Department of Computing Science, Aberdeen, Scotlandazwyner@abdn.ac.uk2University of Aberdeen, Department of History, Aberdeen, Scotland{j.armstrong,a.mackillop}@abdn.ac.uk3Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire Archives, Aberdeen, ScotlandPAstley@aberdeencity.gov.ukAbstractThe paper outlines a text analytic projectin progress on a corpus of entries in thehistorical burgh and council registers fromAberdeen, Scotland.
Some preliminaryoutput of the analysis is described.
Theregisters run in a near-unbroken sequenceform 1398 to the present day; the earlyvolumes are a UNESCO UK listed cul-tural artefact.
The study focusses on a setof transcribed pages from 1530-1531 orig-inally hand written in a mixture of Latinand Middle Scots.
We apply a text an-alytic tool to the corpus, providing deepsemantic annotation and making the textamenable to linking to web-resources.1 IntroductionThe council registers of Aberdeen, Scotland arethe earliest and most complete body of town (orburgh) council records in Scotland, running nearlycontinuously from 1398 to the present; they arehand written in Latin and (largely) Middle Scots.Few cities in the United Kingdom or in WesternEurope rival Aberdeen?s burgh registers in histor-ical depth and completeness.
In July 2013, UN-ESCO UK recognised the register volumes from1398 to 1509 as being of outstanding historicalimportance to the UK.
The registers offer a de-tailed legal view into one of Scotland?s principalburghs , casting light on administrative, legal, andcommercial activities as well as daily life.
Theregisters include the elections of office bearers,property transfers, regulations of trade and prices,references to crimes and subsequent punishment,matters of public health, credit and debt, cargoesof foreign vessels, tax and rental of burgh lands,and woods and fishings.
Thus the entries presentthe burgh?s relationships with the countryside andcountries around the North Sea.To make this historical resource available to awider audience, the National Records of Scotlandand Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire Archivescollaborated to image the volumes digitally upto 1511 and made them (temporarily) availableon the internet.1However, the images of scribalrecords are inaccessible to all but a few scholars.To address this, a pilot project at the Universityof Aberdeens Research Institute of Irish and Scot-tish Studies (RIISS) has transcribed 100 pages ofthe records from the period 1530-1531, translatedthe Latin and Middle Scots, and provided a web-accessible database application; the application al-lows users to query the database for locations andnames of individuals, returning the textual por-tions that contain the names and locations.2How-ever, the pilot project does not make use of textanalytic or Semantic Web technologies to facili-tate understanding of and access to the records.In this paper, we outline a funded text analyticproject in progress on this corpus of 100 pages andprovide some preliminary output.
The project AText Analytic Approach to Rural and Urban Le-gal Histories has been funded by the dot.rural Re-source Partnership at the University of Aberdeen.3We outline the project objectives, present the textanalytic tool, provide some sample results, relateour work to other projects, and sketch future work.The paper and project contribute to the applicationof language technologies for cultural heritage andthe humanities.
We discuss deep semantic annota-tion of the documents as well as plans to addresslinguistic variation and linking of the annotatedmaterial to other digital, web-based resources.1http://www.scotlandsplaces.gov.uk/digital-volumes/burgh-records/aberdeen-burgh-registers/2http://www.abdn.ac.uk/riiss/Aberdeen-Burgh-Records-Project/connecting-projecting.shtml3http://www.dotrural.ac.uk952 ObjectivesThe project engages legal historians, councilarchivists, and computational linguists.
For legalhistorians, the burgh registries are an opportunityto study source materials concerned with the lawand community concerning questions as:?
What legal roles in jurisdictions do individu-als perform??
What are the social and legal networks??
How do social and legal concepts evolve??
What does the historical record say about re-source management and conflict?While traditional historical methodology appliedto archival material has served well enough, it iscostly, slow, and does not allow analysis of the vol-ume and complexity of information.
In particular,some of the questions above are relational, e.g.
re-lations of individuals in legal roles, which are dif-ficult to track across a large corpus.
With text an-alytic support, legal historians can query a corpusand receive data either in context or extracted.For council archivists, the agenda is to increasepublic access to archival materials for tourism,curriculum development, business, and research.This can be done, we believe, by making therich content of the archives accessible by trans-lation, semantic search, or link to the content ofthe archival materials or other web-accessible re-sources such as dictionaries, maps, DBPedia en-tries, other council archival material, and so on.For computational linguists, the objective is toannotate, enrich, and link the burgh records in or-der to support semantic querying, extraction, andreuse.
One challenge is to find or develop therange of necessary text analytic components to doso.
For non-standardised historical languages, e.g.Middle Scots, the issues are orthographical vari-ation, lack of electronic lexicons, and so on.
Amore substantive challenge is to develop the ap-propriate set of semantic annotations, tailored tothe historical, legal context and the goals of his-torical legal analysis.3 Text AnalysisTo identify, query, and extract the textual elementsfrom the source material with respect to semanticannotations, we use the GATE framework (Cun-ningham et al., 2002), which we briefly describe.We then discuss our approach to analysis, the rep-resentation of textual elements using GATE, theannotations we introduce to the text, and then pro-vide the results of sample queries.3.1 Components of a ToolGATE is a framework for language engineeringapplications, which supports efficient and robusttext processing (Cunningham et al., 2002); it ishighly scalable and has been applied in many largetext processing projects; it is an open source desk-top application written in Java that provides a userinterface for professional linguists and text engi-neers to bring together a wide variety of natu-ral language processing tools and apply them toa set of documents.
The tools are formed into apipeline of natural language processors.
Our ap-proach to GATE tool development follows (Wynerand Peters, 2011), which is: bottom-up, rule-based, unweighted, modular, iterative, incremen-tal, among others.
Once a GATE pipeline has beenapplied, we can view the annotations either in situor queried using GATE?s ANNIC (ANNotationsIn Context) corpus indexing and querying tool.For our purposes, we emphasise the role ofgazetteers and JAPE rules, which form the bot-tom level of the analysis.
A gazetteer is a list ofwords that are associated with a central conceptas provided by an analyst.
In the lookup phaseof processing the text, textual passages in the cor-pus are matched with terms on the lists, then as-signed an annotation, e.g.
a token term burgi isannotated with LegalBody, for it is one of the le-gal bodies reported in the text.
Similarly, tokenssuch as common council, curia, guild court, andothers are all annotated LegalBody.
The gazetteerthus annotates related terms (e.g.
burgi and guildcourt) with the same annotation; in this way, anno-tations serve as conceptual covers for tokens.
Wehave gazetteers that provide a range of semanticconcepts for named entities as well as:?
LegalBody - burgi, common council, ...?
LegalConcept - gude faith, ...?
LegalRole - Archbishop, Bailie, ...?
Offence - barganyng, tulyheing, etc?
Office - alderman, burgess, preposito, ...?
RegisterEntry - Bailie Court, Ordinance, ...?
MiddleScot - The, said, day, bailyeis, ...Alternative spellings of a word would be repre-sented as different tokens in the gazetteer.
The se-lection and content of the gazetteer lists is prelim-inary and will be the object of significant research96over the course of the project.
However, they aresufficient to facilitate exercise of the tool.JAPE rules are transductions that take annota-tions and regular expressions as input (based onthe gazetteers) and produce annotations as output.The annotations produced by JAPE rules are visi-ble as highlighted text and are easily searchable inANNIC.
Querying for an annotation, we retrieveall the terms with the annotation.
The annotationscan also be used in JAPE rules to create higherlevel annotations, though we have not developedthese at this point.3.2 Output and QueriesOnce the corpus is annotated, we can view theannotations in situ.
In Figure 1, we have apassage that has been highlighted with the indi-cated (checked) annotation types (differentiatedby colour in the orginal).
In this figure, we seewhere the annotations appear and in relation toother annotations within a particular textual pas-sage.
Observations at this point can be used toanalyse the text further.Alternatively, we can use the ANNIC tool toindex and query a database of annotated text.Searching in the corpus for single annotations re-turns all those strings that are annotated with thesearch annotation along with their context andsource document.
Complex queries can also beformed.
A query and a sample result appear inFigure 2, where the query finds all sequences ofannotated text where the first string is annotatedwith Name, followed by zero to five other To-kens, followed by a string with an Office anno-tation.
The search returned four candidate struc-tures.
The extract identifies a relation betweenan individual and their office.
Similar relationalqueries can be made about other aspects of thetext.
With the query language, we can search forany number of the annotations in the corpus in anyorder; the tool allows incremental refinement ofsearches, allowing for a highly interactive way toexamine the semantic content of the texts.
Thus,a range of semantic patterns can be identified thatwould otherwise be very hard to detect or extract.Such an approach can ground multi-disciplinaryinvestigations of historical societies in large-scaletextual sources of information, providing inter-pretable material on topics such as elites and socialpractice, relations between social classes and land,urban and rural development, and natural resourcemanagement.
The text analysis also makes appli-cable a range of social web-mining approaches onhistorical text.4 Related WorkOur work is closely related to other projects thathave applied text analytic methods to mine infor-mation from the cultural heritage objects, broadlyDigital Humanties.
Most recently, there hasbeen an extensive n-gram study of Scottish le-gal records.
This takes a very different, thoughnonetheless relevant approach to the study of theserecords ngrams (Kopaczyk, 2013).
Several recentprojects in the UK and Ireland have applied suchtools in limited ways to historical legal documents,e.g.
1641 Depositions (Sweetnam and Fennell,2012), which analysed verbal patterns in the text4; The Old Bailey, which was largely manually an-notated though some elements were automaticallyannotated5; and Trading Consequences, a text an-4http://1641.tcd.ie5http://www.oldbaileyonline.orgFigure 1: Highlighting Annotations in the Text97Figure 2: Searching for Relations in the Corpusalytic study of British Empire records6.
There areongoing Semantic Web projects in the Humanities,e.g.
the Curios Project7, the CULTURA Project8, projects at King?s College London Centre forDigital Humanities9.5 Future PlansOver the course of the project, we will developand refine a useful set of annotations that revealimportant information this is distributed over thiscorpus.
Asides from the main categories previ-ously discussed, there will be annotations to indi-cate orthographic variants, translations, and linksto external material amongst other annotations tobe developed.
Legal historical questions will beposed with respect to the contents of the text, thenthe text will be queried using the annotations incomplex patterns.
In this way, the questions of le-gal historians are grounded in and tested againstthe textual substance.
Another objective is to linkthe annotated material to other relevant materialthat is external to the corpus.
For instance, loca-tions could be associated with maps, names couldbe associated with DBPedia entries, words couldbe linked to Scottish and Latin dictionaries, and soon.
This would not only further enrich the contentsof the corpus, but also enrich these other materials6http://tradingconsequences.blogs.edina.ac.uk/7http://www.dotrural.ac.uk/curios/8www.cultura-strep.eu9http://www.kcl.ac.uk/artshums/depts/ddh/index.aspxby linking to the corpus.
Similarly, these texts canbe tied to other legal historical projects, focussingon the period c.1400 c.1800, that will inter-relatethe council register source material with cognatecollections held in Aberdeen (at the Aberdeen Cityand Aberdeenshire Archives, and at the Univer-sity of Aberdeens Special Collections Centre, andelsewhere), in Scotland (in other local archivesand in the National Records of Scotland), in theUnited Kingdom, or the European Union.
Thiswill foster both a comparative understanding ofthe city and its regions position regionally, nation-ally, and internationally, and over time.Beyond the project, we look forward to enlargethe council register corpus and extend the textanalysis.
It would then be very attractive to cre-ate a web-based, interactive interface with whichto interrogate the council register in complex andnovel ways, not just by querying the text with se-mantic annotations, but also by following linksto maps, recordings, images, related words, andso on.
For example, the content could be linkedto time series maps, showing development of so-cial, legal, and political relationships over timeand space.AcknowledgmentsThe authors are grateful for support from RIISS,dot.rural, and the Aberdeen Council.
We particu-larly thank Dr. Edda Frankot for her work on thepilot project at RIISS that produced the transcribedmaterials for this project.98ReferencesHamish Cunningham, Diana Maynard, KalinaBontcheva, and Valentin Tablan.
2002.
GATE:A framework and graphical development envi-ronment for robust NLP tools and applications.In Proceedings of the 40th Anniversary Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL?02), pages 168?175.Joanna Kopaczyk.
2013.
The Legal Language of Scot-tish Burghs.
Oxford University Press.Mark S. Sweetnam and Barbara A. Fennell.
2012.Natural language processing and early-modern dirtydata: applying IBM languageware to the 1641depositions.
Literary and Linguistic Computing,27(1):39?54.Adam Wyner and Wim Peters.
2011.
On rule ex-traction from regulations.
In Katie Atkinson, editor,Legal Knowledge and Information Systems - JURIX2011: The Twenty-Fourth Annual Conference, pages113?122.
IOS Press.99
