Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 128?132,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsGenerating Valence Shifted Turkish SentencesSeniz DemirTUBITAK-BILGEMGebze, Kocaeli, TURKEYseniz.demir@tubitak.gov.trAbstractValence shifting is the task of rewrit-ing a text towards more/less positively ornegatively slanted versions.
This paperpresents a rule-based approach to produc-ing Turkish sentences with varying senti-ment.
The approach utilizes semantic rela-tions in the Turkish and English WordNetsto determine word polarities and involvesthe use of lexical substitution and adver-bial rules to alter the sentiment of a text inthe intended direction.
In a user study, theeffectiveness of the generation approach isevaluated on real product reviews.1 IntroductionLanguage can express a content in a number ofdifferent ways with varying emotion.
Emotionsmight equip sentences with connotations and havea powerful effect on the disposition of the hearer ina subtle way.
Moreover, emotions induced throughwords play an important role in written and verbalcommunication.
Sentence valence specifies thedegree of emotion present in a sentence and indi-cates how positive or negative the sentence is.
Theliterature has shown that the sentiment characteris-tics of a sentence are correlated with the valence ofwords the sentence contains (Guerini et al., 2008).Valence shifting is the task of altering a text to-wards more/less positively or negatively slantedversions while keeping much of its semanticmeaning (Gardiner and Dras, 2012).
This rela-tively new problem has many practical uses in lan-guage based applications such as persuasive sys-tems which are designed to influence users?
behav-iors.
Slanting of texts can be achieved in a num-ber of ways, the most popular of which is the lexi-cal substitution of semantically related words withvarying valences (Whitehead and Cavedon, 2010).To our knowledge, this work is the first to examinethe correlation between word polarities and sen-tence valences in Turkish and to address the prob-lem of valence shifting in Turkish sentences.
Ourmethodology for determining word polarities ex-plores the semantic relations of words within andbetween the Turkish and English WordNets.
Toalter the sentiment carried by a sentence in the in-tended direction, our approach utilizes word polar-ities and a number of hand constructed rules basedon the insights gained from user studies.
Twostrategies, namely lexical substitution and the useof intensifiers/downtoners, are used to slant Turk-ish texts.
An evaluation study shows the effective-ness of our approach in generating valence shiftedTurkish sentences.2 Word PolarityWord polarity (valence) stands for the semanticorientation of a word and is one of positive, neg-ative or neutral.
Previous research has shown thatit is very common to retrieve word valences fromexisting polarity lexicons.
To our best knowledge,there is only one available Turkish word polaritylexicon (Tr L) which is built in a semi-automatedmanner by traversing a multilingual word relat-edness graph with a random walk model (O?zsertand O?zgu?r, 2013).
The lexicon consists of 1398positive (e.g., ?o?vgu?#n?
(praise#n)) and 1414 neg-ative (e.g., ?anormal#a?
(abnormal#a)) word en-tries.
Although all word entries are given alongwith their PoS (i.e., one of noun, verb, or adjec-tive), the lexicon neither contains word senses northe strength of polarities.There are a number of available English polar-ity lexicons.
The General Inquirer lexicon (GI L)annotates word entries with syntactic, semantic,and pragmatic information including its sense andPoS (Stone et al., 1966).
In the MPQA Polaritylexicon (MPQA L), word entries are annotatedwith PoS, polarity, and the strength of polarity(i.e., strong or weak) but no sense information is128Polarity Agreement with Tr L GI L MPQA L SWN L En LPositive polarity match 646 468 423 950Negative polarity match 761 775 742 1339No Turkish polarity & Positive English polarity 326 376 750 1177No Turkish polarity & Negative English polarity 373 577 1019 1390Table 1: The agreement of word polarities.given (MPQA, 2014).
The SentiWordNet lexi-con (SWN L), along with PoS and sense informa-tion, annotates word entries with three sentimentscores from positivity, negativity, and objectivityperspectives (Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006)1.Due to the limitations of the Turkish lexicon(e.g., no adverbs exist in the lexicon), we exploredways of expanding the scope of the lexicon by tak-ing advantage of the semantic relations betweenwords.
As described in the rest of this section,we also examined how additional polarity infor-mation can be retrieved from English polarity lex-icons and applied to Turkish.2.1 Bilingual WordNet GraphThe Turkish WordNet is fully compatible with butnot as comprehensive as some other WordNetssuch as EuroWordNet.
We represent the Turk-ish WordNet as a directed graph where each ver-tex corresponds to a word tagged with the senseand PoS information (e.g., mekan#1,n2).
The ver-tices corresponding to the words that share a re-lation are connected with a directed edge and theedge is labeled with the kind of this relation (e.g.,?synonym?
or ?antonym?).
A monolingual graphconsisting of 20343 vertices and 60164 edges isbuilt from the Turkish WordNet.
Following thesame representation scheme, a monolingual graphis built from the English WordNet 2.0 which con-tains 177308 vertices and 786932 edges.The Turkish and English monolingual graphsare integrated into a big bilingual graph with theuse of the InterLingual Index (ILI) where wordshaving the same meaning are connected.
ILI facil-itates the mapping of concepts and similar synsetsbetween compatible WordNets.
This integrationenabled us to explore the agreement of word polar-ities between the Turkish polarity lexicon and eachof the three English polarity lexicons.
The first andthe second rows in Table 1 show the number ofcases where a Turkish-English word pair with thesame ILI share a positive or a negative polarity re-1Here, we classify a word as positive/negative if its posi-tivity/negativity score is greater than or equal to 0.5.2The noun mekan (location) is of the first sense.spectively.
The third and the fourth rows representthe cases where a Turkish word does not have apolarity in the Turkish lexicon whereas its Englishcorrespondent has a positive or a negative polarityin the English lexicon respectively.
For instance,the word ?bitmek bilmemek#a?
does not have apolarity in Tr L whereas its English correspondent?endless#a?
has a negative polarity in MPQA L.We examined whether individual agreementsbetween the Turkish lexicon and each English lex-icon can be improved by merging all English lex-icons into a single polarity lexicon (En L).
Dur-ing this merge, words that have different polaritiesin individual lexicons are omitted and the wordsfrom MPQA L are considered as of the first sense.The final En L lexicon consists of 9044 positiveand 13890 negative words with PoS and sense in-formation.
As shown in the fourth column of Ta-ble 1, this merge improves the agreement betweenthe Turkish and English polarity lexicons.2.2 Detecting Word PolarityA two-step approach is developed for determin-ing the polarities of Turkish words.
Once given asentence, this approach first identifies prior wordpolarities by utilizing the information contained inpolarity lexicons and then applies a set of polarityalteration rules to the sentence for finalizing polar-ity assignments.To determine the polarity of a word, the pres-ence of the word and its synonyms is first exploredin the Turkish polarity lexicon.
If neither the wordnor any of its synonyms exists in the Tr L lexi-con, English words that have the same ILI with theTurkish word are explored in the English polaritylexicon En L3.
If the word polarity is still not de-termined, the polarity of Turkish words that sharethe antonym relation with the word is explored inTr L and the reverse of the retrieved word polarity(if any) is taken.
If the use of antonym relation inTr L does not return a polarity, the antonym rela-tion is explored in the En L lexicon for the Englishcorrespondents of the Turkish word.3This enables us to benefit from English polarities shownin the third and the fourth rows of Table 1.129We hand constructed a number of polarity al-teration rules that are specific to Turkish.
Theserules, once applied to a sentence, might alter thelexicon-based prior polarity of words.
For exam-ple, the adjective ?mutsuz (unhappy)?
with nega-tive polarity according to the Tr L lexicon shouldbe treated as positive in the sentence ?Ahmet mut-suz bir c?ocuk deg?il.
(Ahmet is not an unhappychild.)?
since it is followed by the negative ?deg?il(it is not)?.
One of our polarity alteration rules re-verses the polarity of all words that immediatelyprecede the negative ?deg?il?
in a sentence4.3 Sentence ValenceOur goal is to alter the sentiment of a Turkish sen-tence while preserving its content.
This requiresa means of assessing the sentiment change inthe slanted versions of a sentence and beforehandcomputing their sentence valences.
Literature hasproposed different methods to calculate sentencevalence using word polarities such as summing va-lence scores of all words in a sentence (Inkpen etal., 2004) or using the valence score of a presentword with a strong valence.
We first examinedwhether computing sentence valence by summingword polarities, a commonly used approach in En-glish, is applicable to Turkish.We conducted a formal experiment with 24 par-ticipants, all of which are Turkish native speak-ers.
The participants were presented with 20sentences and asked to classify each sentence aspositive, negative, or neutral based on its con-tent.
The sentences, originally published in aca-demic proses or newspapers, were manually se-lected from the Turkish National Corpus (Aksanet al., 2012).
A strong attention was paid to se-lect sentences that contain at least one word withinthe Tr L lexicon.
The valences of these sen-tences were computed by summing the word po-larities as determined by our polarity detection ap-proach5.
Unfortunately, this straightforward ap-proach failed to classify sentences as participantsdid in 13 sentences.
The classifications of ourapproach and the participants in these cases are;positive-neutral in 6 sentences, negative-neutral in4Evaluating the reliability of our polarity detection ap-proach and how well the polarity assignments coincide withhuman judgements is in our future work.5The word polarity is +1 and -1 for positive and negativewords respectively.
A sentence is considered as positive if thesentence valence score>0 and as negative if the sentence va-lence score<0.
In each sentence, less than half of the contentwords are annotated with a polarity.3 sentences, neutral-negative in 2 sentences, andpositive-negative in the remaining 2 sentences.For example, our approach classified the sentence?Bir simulasyon modelinin amac?
bir problemic?o?zmek ya da c?o?zu?mu?ne katk?da bulunmakt?r.
(The purpose of a simulation model is to solve aproblem or to contribute to its solution.)?
with avalence of +1 as positive, whereas the participantsclassified it as neutral.One reason for the divergence in classificationsmight be the fact that our approach considers allwords in the Turkish lexicon as having the samestrength and of the first sense although senses arenot given in the lexicon.
Since this study revealedthat sentence valences determined in this fashiondo not correspond with valences as assigned byhumans, we argue that slanting of texts cannot beassessed by considering only sentence valences.4 Generating Valence Shifted SentencesTo explore how Turkish speakers alter the senti-ment characteristics of sentences, we conducted anexperiment with 19 participants where they werepresented with 20 sentences and asked to gener-ate slanted versions of these texts toward a morepositive or more negative direction.
The sentencesalong with their sentiments (i.e., positive or nega-tive) were selected from a database of movie andproduct reviews.
The analysis of this experimentprovided a number of insights into Turkish valenceshifting, the three main of which are: i) slantedversions of texts are produced via three kinds ofsentential changes (lexical substitution, paraphras-ing, and adverbial changes that behave as inten-sifiers/downtoners), ii) adverbs of certainty, prob-ability, and quantity are often used in adverbialchanges, and iii) the sentence sentiment, intendedshift direction, and sentence constituents deter-mine the kind of sentential change and where inthe sentence it occurs.
In this work, we limit our-selves to exploring how valence shifted Turkishsentences can be generated by lexical substitutionand adverbial changes6.Lexical substitution of semantically relatedwords with different polarity strengths is a pop-ular approach in English.
Since the Turkish polar-ity lexicon does not provide polarity strengths andour polarity detection approach assigns the samepolarity to all synonym words, substituting a word6Generating slanted versions of Turkish texts by para-phrasing their content is left for future work.130with its synonym of the same strength to slant atext is not applicable in our case.
We rather substi-tute words with other words that share either the?similar to?
or ?also see?
relation if any of the 6lexical substitution rules that we constructed is ap-plicable.
Below are two representative rules:?
If the intended shift is to increase the sen-tence valence, then substitute a word havinga reverse polarity with the sentence sentimentwith a word that has the same polarity withthe sentence.?
If the intended shift is to decrease the sen-tence valence, then substitute a word havingthe same polarity with the sentence sentimentwith a word of the same polarity once the po-larity strength of the English correspondentof the substituted word is lower than that ofthe replaced word according to MPQA L.To capture adverbial changes, we constructed10 rules whose applicability depends on sentenceconstituents.
We classified all certainty, probabil-ity, and quantity adverbs as intensifiers or down-toners.
These adverbs are either inserted, deleted,or substituted once an adverbial rule is applied toa sentence.
In the current setting, the selection ofwhich adverb will be used among all other pos-sibilities is determined by a language model andthe adverbial rules that apply to adjectives have aprecedence over those that apply to verbs.
Tworepresentative rules are shown below:?
If the sentence contains only one adjectivewhich has the same polarity with the sentencesentiment and the intended shift is to increasethe sentence valence, then insert an intensifierin front of the adjective.?
If the denominative verb of the sentence isderived from an adjective which has the samepolarity with the sentence sentiment and theintended shift is to increase the sentence va-lence, then insert an intensifier in front of theverb.Our approach follows a straightforward strategyfor shifting sentence valences.
Once a sentenceand the shift direction are given, the lexical substi-tution rules are applied in an order until a slantedversion of the sentence is produced in the intendeddirection.
If these rules do not succeed in slantingthe sentence, then the adverbial rules are appliedto the sentence.To evaluate the effectiveness of our valenceshifting approach, we conducted an experimentwith 15 Turkish native speakers.
The participantswere presented with 21 sentence pairs, where onesentence is an original product review and theother sentence is its slanted version as produced byour valence shifting approach.
In total, 9 adverbialand 3 lexical substitution rules were used for gen-erating valence shifted sentences.
We asked par-ticipants to specify which sentence in a pair hasa higher valence according to the given sentencesentiment.
Our results demonstrated that all par-ticipants agreed that our approach achieved the in-tended shift in 3 sentence pairs and the majority ofthem agreed on that in 8 of the remaining 18 sen-tence pairs.
This evaluation study also revealedthat the adverbial rules have a higher accuracy inshifting the sentence valence as compared to thatof lexical substitution rules.
Among the tested ad-verbial rules, the one, which modifies the adjectiveof the sentence subject if the polarity of the adjec-tive contrasts with the sentence sentiment, did notachieve the intended valence shift.
Moreover, theperformance of the lexical substitution rules wasobserved to be higher in cases where the ?simi-lar to?
relation is utilized than the cases where the?also see?
relation is used.
Since this initial studyleft many questions unexplored regarding the ap-plicability and accuracy of all rules that we con-structed, a more comprehensive study is necessaryto better predict their performances.5 ConclusionThis paper has presented our initial explorationson Turkish sentence valence and our methodologyfor generating valence shifted sentences in accor-dance with these explorations.
To our knowledge,our work is the first to address the problem of va-lence shifting in Turkish by considering word po-larities.
We have presented our approach for pro-ducing slanted versions of sentences by substitut-ing words with the use of WordNet relations andtaking advantage of Turkish intensifiers and down-toners.
We constructed a set of rules for specifyinghow and when words can be substituted or inten-sifiers/downtoners can be used to shift the valenceof a sentence in the intended direction.
In the fu-ture, we will address the task of learning polar-ity strengths of Turkish words and the learning ofparaphrase patterns from a big collection of textsto improve the performance of our approach.131ReferencesYesim Aksan, Mustafa Aksan, Ahmet Koltuksuz, TanerSezer, Umit Mersinli, Umut Ufuk, Hakan Yilmazer,Ozlem Kurtoglu, Gulsum Atasoy, Seda Oz, and IpekYildiz.
2012.
Construction of the turkish nationalcorpus (tnc).
In Proceedings of the Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference (LREC), pages3223?3227.Andrea Esuli and Fabrizio Sebastiani.
2006.
Senti-wordnet: A publicly available lexical resource foropinion mining.
In Proceedings of the Language Re-sources and Evaluation Conference (LREC), pages417?422.Mary Gardiner and Mak Dras.
2012.
Valence shifting:Is it a valid task?
In Proceedings of the AustralianLanguage Technology Association Workshop, pages42?51.Marco Guerini, Carlo Strapparava, and Oliviero Stock.2008.
Valentino: A tool for valence shiftingof natural language text.
In Proceedings of theLanguage Resources and Evaluation Conference(LREC), pages 243?246.Diana Zaiu Inkpen, Olga Feiguina, and Graeme Hirst.2004.
Generating more-positive or more-negativetext.
In Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposiumon Exploring Attitude and Affect in Text: Theoriesand Applications.MPQA.
2014.
Mpqa opinion corpus,http://mpqa.cs.pitt.edu/.Cu?neyd Murad O?zsert and Arzucan O?zgu?r.
2013.Word polarity detection using a multilingual ap-proach.
In Proceedings of the CicLing Conference,pages 75?82.Philip Stone, Dexter Dunphy, Marshall Smith, andDaniel Ogilvie.
1966.
General Inquirer: A Com-puter Approach to Content Analysis.
MIT Press.Simon Whitehead and Lawrence Cavedon.
2010.
Gen-erating shifting sentiment for a conversational agent.In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshopon Computational Approaches to Analysis and Gen-eration of Emotion in Text (CAAGET), pages 89?97.132
