Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 67?71,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsEncoding of Compounds in Swedish FrameNetKarin Friberg HeppinSpr?akbankenUniversity of Gothenburgkarin.heppin@svenska.gu.seMiriam R L PetruckInternational Computer Science InstituteBerkeley, CAmiriamp@icsi.berkeley.eduAbstractConstructing a lexical resource forSwedish, where compounding is highlyproductive, requires a well-structuredpolicy of encoding.
This paper presentsthe treatment and encoding of a certainclass of compounds in Swedish FrameNet,and proposes a new approach for the au-tomatic analysis of Swedish compounds,i.e.
one that leverages existing FrameNet(Ruppenhofer et al., 2010) and SwedishFrameNet (Borin et al.
2010), as well asproven techniques for automatic semanticrole labeling (Johansson et al., 2012).1 IntroductionLike other Germanic languages (e.g.
Dutch, Ger-man), compounding is a very productive word for-mation process in Swedish.
Swedish FrameNet,1which is part of the larger Swedish FrameNet++effort to create Swedish resources for languagetechnology purposes, analyzes Swedish composi-tional compounds in a way that reflects the lan-guage?s grammatical structure, records informa-tion about the internal structure of these com-pounds in Frame Semantic terms, and proposes us-ing that information to automate the analysis.2 Swedish FrameNetSwedish FrameNet (SweFN), which began in2011, is part of Swedish FrameNet++ (Borin et al.,2010), a larger project whose main goal is build-ing a panchronic lexical macro-resource for usein Swedish language technology.
Basing its workon the original FrameNet developed in Berkeley(BFN) (Fonetenelle, 2003), SweFN is creating alexical resource of at least 50,000 lexical units1SweFN, <http://spraakbanken.gu.se/eng/swefn>, a freeresource (CC-BY-SA 3.0, LGPL 3.0) funded by Veten-skapsr?adet under contract 2010-6013.
(LUs) with the express goal of automating as muchof the process as possible.Swedish FrameNet bases its contents on threeresources: (1) BFN?s frames, frame definitionsand frame-to-frame relations, for efficiency andcompatibility with other FrameNet-like resources;(2) lexical entries from the SALDO lexicon; and(3) example sentences from the KORP corpus col-lection (Ahlberg et al., 2013).Building SweFN frames includes several steps.The SweFN researcher chooses a BFN frame witha Swedish analogue, and populates that frame withappropriate LUs.
LU selection involves deter-mining which of the BFN LUs have equivalentsin Swedish, or searching SALDO for LUs of theframe.
Using the KORP corpora, the researcherfinds example sentences that illustrate the LU?smeaning and annotates each sentence with theframe?s FEs.
SweFN draws all examples from cor-pus data; this paper also provides the larger con-text in which compounds occur.SweFN LUs, be they single words or multiwordexpressions (MWEs), evoke frames, i.e.
cognitivestructuring constituting the basic building blocksof any framenet knowledge base.
LUs are pairingsof lemmas and frames, the latter schematic repre-sentations of events, objects, situations or states ofaffairs.
Frame elements (FEs) identify the seman-tic roles of the participants of the scenario char-acterized in a frame, e.g.
AGENT, THEME, orTIME.
For each frame, example sentences illus-trate the linguistic realization of LUs together withthe frame?s FEs for the Frame Semantic annotationof the sentence?s constituents (Borin et al., 2013a;Borin et al., 2013b).3 Multiword expressions in SALDOAs mentioned above, the SALDO lexicon servesas the primary resource for LUs in SweFN++ andconsequently also for LUs in SweFN.
SALDOcontains almost 6,000 MWEs of three types, dis-67tinguished as follows (Borin et al., 2013a):?
Continuous MWEs corresponding to fixedand semi-fixed expressions2, which may haveinternal inflection, but no intervening words,e.g.
enarmad bandit (one-armed bandit) -?slot machine?.?
Discontinuous MWEs corresponding tosyntactically flexible expressions2, whichmay have intervening words, such as parti-cle or phrasal verbs, e.g.
ge ut (give out) -?publish?.?
Constructions partially schematic construc-tions or syntactic templates with one or moreslots filled with items of specific types, thosedescribed in construction grammars, e.g.
juX desto Y - ?The Xer the Yer?
(Fillmore et al.,1988).SALDO treats solid compounds, i.e.
singleorthographic words, just as it treats single-worditems, and does not normally define their for-mal structure explicitly.
In most cases, Swedishcompounds are written without space betweenits constituents, as in korvgubbe (sausage+man)- ?hot dog seller?.
However, different possibleforms yield different meanings.
The adjective +noun NP varm korv literally means ?hot sausage?
(in the temperature sense); the continuous MWEvarm korv means ?hot dog?
; and the solid com-pound varmkorv refers to not necessarily preparedsausage for making hot dogs.
As LUs in a SweFNframe, the solid compounds, when compositionalor partially transparent, have constituents whichmanifest FEs or other LUs in the same frame.
Thenext section discusses these compounds and theirannotation in SweFN.4 MWEs and compounds as LUsSALDO?s continuous MWEs, discontinuousMWEs, and solid compounds are candidatesfor SweFN LUs, much like simplex words.Solid endocentric compounds, which identify amore specific instance of the compound?s head,constitute a large group of words in Swedish.SweFN provides an analysis for these, eventhough BFN does not (Friberg Heppin andToporowska Gronostaj, 2012).
In frames wheresolid endocentric compounds are LUs, SweFN2As described by Sag et al.
(2001)records the pattern FE+LU, where the com-pound?s modifier is a FE of the given frame andthe head is another LU in the same frame.
Thus,among others, Observable body partshas ATTACHMENT, and DESCRIPTOR, andPOSSESSOR FEs.
SweFN records the analysisshown below with segmentation points betweencompound parts marked with ?|?.?
ATTACHMENT+LU stort?a|nagel(big+toe+nail) - ?big toe nail?,pekfinger|nagel (point+finger+nail) - ?indexfinger nail??
DESCRIPTOR+LU ring|finger - ?ring finger?,pek|finger (point+finger) - ?index finger?,stor|t?a ?big toe??
POSSESSOR+LU h?ast|hov ?horse hoof?Generally, compounds with more than two con-stituents consist of one or more constituents thatare themselves compounds.
SweFN treats suchcompounds in the same way as it treats other com-pounds.
For example, stort?a|nagel (big+toe+nail)- ?big toe nail?
instantiates ATTACHMENT+LU ,where stort?a (big+toe) - ?big toe?
itself is analyzedas DESCRIPTOR+LU.SweFN analyzes example sentences that in-clude compounds of different types with FE andLU annotation tags.
The next section describesthis encoding.5 Encoding of compoundsRuppenhofer et al.
(2010) describes two ways thatBFN treats noun compounds.
Conventionalizedtwo-part words are treated as single LUs with nointernal analysis, e.g., firing squad, sugar daddy,andwine bottle.
When a frame-evoking compoundhas a modifier that happens to be a noun or re-lational adjective e.g., restoration costs, militarysupremacy, the compound?s head is annotated as aLU of the frame in question and the modifier in-stantiates a FE of the same frame.
Ruppenhofer etal.
(2010) point out that the division between thetwo groups is not always clear.SweFN relies on degree of compositionality todetermine the extent to which compound analysisis encoded in a frame?s example sentences, not thecompound?s degree of lexicalization.
Thus far, theanalysis has been produced manually.
Section 6presents a proposal for the automatic Frame Se-mantic analysis of compounds.685.1 Non-compositional compoundsTypically, non-compositional compounds are lex-icalized.
Otherwise, understanding them is notpossible, since the sense of the compound isnot apparent from its parts.
SALDO lists lexi-calized non-compositional compounds as individ-ual entries, like simplex words.
Taking its leadfrom SALDO, and because constituents of non-compositional compounds do not instantiate FEs,SweFN does not analyze such compounds further,as in (1), where h?asthov (horse+hoof) - ?coltsfoot?
(Plants) is annotated only as a whole.
(1) ochand[h?asthovarna]LUcoltsfeet+DEFlysershinesomlikesolarsuns...and the coltsfeet are shining like suns.5.2 Compositional compoundsSALDO also treats solid compositional com-pounds as simplex words.
In contrast, SweFNtreats compositional compounds as LUs, analyz-ing them as FE+LU, as described above in section4.
Furthermore, SweFN annotates compositionalcompounds in example sentences both as wholesand with respect to their constituent parts, as in(2).
(2) ...klappret...clatter+DEFfr?anfrom[snabba]Descriptorfast[[h?ast]Possessor[hovar]LU]LUhorse+hooves...the clatter from fast horse hooves.Rather than serving as a modifier, the first ele-ment of some compounds is the semantic head ofthat compound.
In such cases, the syntactic headcan be semantically transparent, as in bakteri-etyp (bacteria+type) - ?type of bacteria?
and kaffe-sort (coffee+kind) - ?kind of coffee?, or show thespeaker?s attitude toward the entity identified inthe semantic head of the compound as in gubbslem(old man+mucus) - ?dirty old man?
or h?astkrake(horse+wretch) - ?wretched horse?.
For this type ofcompound the modifier and the whole compoundare annotated as LUs in the given frame, as illus-trated in (3); the syntactic head of the compounddoes not realize any frame element in the frame.
(3) HanHefickgotsynsightp?aofenan[gammal]Ageold[vit]Persistent characteristicswhite[[h?ast]LUkrake]LUhorse+wretchHe caught sight of an old wretched whitehorse.5.3 Partially transparent compoundsFor some non-compositional compounds, oneconstituent clearly instantiates a FE or LU of theframe that the compound evokes, but the other isopaque, as in ryggskott (back+shot) - ?lumbago?from Medical disorders.
The modifier rygg- ?back?
is the body part location of the disorder;the head skott - ?shot?
is interpreted as somethingthat appears suddenly, as a gunshot, but its mean-ing is not transparent.
Example (4) shows thatSweFN treats the compound as a LU, and the mod-ifier as instantiating the FE BODY PART; SweFNdoes not treat the head separately.
(4) [Han]PatientHefickgot[[rygg]Body Partskott]LUback+shot[underduringuppv?armningen]Timeup+warming+DEFochandtvingadesforced+PASSvilarest+INFHe got lumbago during the warm-up andhad to rest.Naming different types or species of a classof entities often results in groups of compoundswhose heads are the name of the class, e.g.
bl?ab?ar(blue+berry) - ?blueberry?, where the compoundnames a type of berry.
In these compounds, themodifier may not have an independent meaning,e.g.
k?orsb?ar (?+berry) - ?cherry?, where k?ors is acran morph, i.e.
it has no meaning outside of itsuse as a modifier in the compound.
SweFN an-notates the modifiers of these compounds with theFE TYPE, as in (5), since they have no meaningexcept to discern one type (cherry) of the LU inquestion (berry) from other types.
(5) SkaShallviweplockapick[[k?ors]Type[b?ar]LU]LUcherriesDo you want to pick cherries?5.4 Modifier as lexical unitSweFN also chooses to analyze sentences (thatillustrate the use of a LU) where a compound?smodifier evokes the frame under consideration.For example, the compound gasdetektor - ?gas de-tector?
is analyzed with respect to the Devicesframe, given the head detektor - ?detector?.
How-ever, the modifier gas - ?gas?
is analyzed with re-spect to Substances.
Typically, SweFN doesnot choose sentences for annotation where onlythe modifier of a compound evokes the frame inquestion.
Still, doing so is possible, as in (6).69(6) EnAv?atesensorhydrogen+sensor?arisena[gas]LUdetektorgas+detectorsomwhichvisarshowsn?arvaronpresence+DEFavofv?atehydrogenA hydrogen sensor is a gas detector show-ing the presence of hydrogen.If analyzing a sentence where the LU underconsideration is a modifier of a compound, SweFNdoes not annotate the compound?s head.
Thispractice reflects that of BFN (Ruppenhofer et al.,2010, 42).
[W]e never annotate the head nounas a frame element of a frame that maybe evoked by the non-head...While thenon-head must figure in some frameevoked by the head, the reverse is nottrue in the same way.
.
.
.6 Future ResearchWith a well-designed encoding for compounds,SweFN is positioned to develop ways to automateits heretofore manual annotation of compounds.Here, we sketch out plans to pursue the automaticFrame Semantic annotation of modifiers of com-pounds.Johansson and Nugues (2006) demonstratedthe effective use of FN annotation for automaticsemantic role labeling (ASRL) of Swedish textto produce annotation (comparable to Pad?o andLapata (2005)).
More recently, Johansson etal.
(2012) investigated the feasibility of usingSwedish FrameNet annotation as a resource inconstructing an automatic semantic role analyzerfor Swedish.
We suggest the possibility of usingcomparable techniques for the analysis of Swedishcompound forms, also including FN data for de-veloping and testing the efficacy of the algorithms.This proposal involves the following: (1) man-ually add solid compounds from SALDO to ap-propriate frames based on the head of the com-pound; (2) use Kokkinakis?s (2001) compoundanalysis technique to identify the component partsof the compound, by finding n-grams of charac-ters which do not occur in simplex words; (3) ex-ploit existing SweFN annotation for adjacent non-compounded words to develop an ASRL systemto annotate modifiers of Swedish compounds andtest the system; (4) exploit existing SweFN anno-tation of full sentences to determine if a systemtrained on that data would improve ASRL of mod-ifiers in compounds; (5) using the same basic tech-niques for developing training data, determine ifBFN data would benefit ASRL of modifiers, asJohansson and Nugues (2006) demonstrated forSwedish text in general.Initially, the proposed plan for ASRL of mod-ifiers of compounds addresses compounds with(only) two elements.
In principle, the same ap-proach can be expanded to annotate multiple mod-ifiers of head nouns, i.e.
compounds with morethan two elements.
These compounds consist atleast one constituent that is itself a compound, i.e.the compounding process has occurred more thanonce as described in section 4.As more language technology and NLP re-searchers develop FrameNet knowledge bases forlanguages other than English, the need for auto-matic processes to produce annotation that suitsthe grammatical requirements of the particularlanguage will increase, as will the importance ofusing existing resources efficiently and effectively.The research proposed here offers the possibilityof providing an automatic process that would beuseful for the Frame Semantic analysis of Swedishin particular and for other compounding languages(e.g.
Dutch, German).
Additionally, the techniquemay prove useful for the processing of compoundsmore generally.7 ConclusionGiven the highly productive nature of Swedishcompounding, lexical resources such as SwedishFrameNet must attend to the representation andanalysis of compounds.
This paper has presenteda new feature in SweFN, the explicit recording ofthe FE+LU pattern for the analysis of composi-tional compounds, and suggests a research plan toanalyze Swedish compounds automatically.AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank the anonymous reviewers fortheir helpful comments.
The Swedish Re-search Council (grant agreement 2010-6013) andthe University of Gothenburg via its supportof the Centre for Language Technology andSpr?akbanken have supported this work.70ReferencesMalin Ahlberg, Lars Borin, Markus Forsberg, MartinHammarstedt, Leif J?oran Olsson, Olof Olsson, Jo-han Roxendal, and Jonatan Uppstr?om.
2013.
Korpand Karp ?
a bestiary of language resources: the re-search infrastructure of Spr?akbanken.
In Proceed-ings of the 19thNordic Conference of Computa-tional Linguistics, NODALIDA.Lars Borin, Dana Dann?ells, Markus Forsberg,Maria Toporowska Gronostaj, and Dimitrios Kokki-nakis.
2010.
The past meets the present in SwedishFramenet++.
In Proceedings of the 14thEURALEXInternational Congress.Lars Borin, Markus Forsberg, and Lennart L?onngren.2013a.
SALDO: a touch of yin to WordNet?s yang.Language Resources and Evaluation, 47(4).Lars Borin, Markus Forsberg, and Benjamin Lyngfelt.2013b.
Close encounters of the fifth kind: Somelinguistic and computational aspects of the SwedishFrameNet++ project.
Veredas: Frame Semanticsand Its Technological Applications, 17(1).Charles J. Fillmore, Paul Kay, and Mary CatherineO?Connor.
1988.
Regularity and idiomaticity ingrammatical constructions: The case of let alone.Language, 64.Thierry Fonetenelle, editor.
2003.
FrameNet andframe semantics.
Number 16.3: 231?385 in Inter-national Journal of Lexicography.
Oxford UniversityPress.Karin Friberg Heppin and Maria Toporowska Gronos-taj.
2012.
The rocky road towards a SwedishFrameNet.
In Proceedings of the 8thConference onInternational Language Resources and Evaluation,Istanbul.Richard Johansson and Pierre Nugues.
2006.
AFrameNet-based semantic role labeler for Swedish.Sydney.Richard Johansson, Karin Friberg Heppin, and Dim-itrios Kokkinakis.
2012.
Semantic role label-ing with the swedish framenet,.
In Proceedingsof the 8thConference on International LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-2012);, Istanbul,Turkey.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2001.
A framework for theaquisition of lexical knowledge; Description and ap-plications.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of Swedish,University of Gothenburg.Sebastian Pad?o and Mirella Lapata.
2005.
Cross-lingual bootstrapping of semantic lexicons: The caseof framenet.
In Proceedings of the American Asso-ciation of Artificial Intelligence Conference.Josef Ruppenhofer, Michael Ellsworth, Miriam R.L.Petruck, Christopher R. Johnson, and Jan Schef-fczyk.
2010.
FrameNet II: Extended theoryand practice.
<https://framenet2.icsi.
berkeley.edu/ocs/r1.5/book.pdf>.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2001.
Multiwordexpressions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the 3rdInternational Conference onIntelligent Text Processingand Computational Lin-guistics (CICLing-2002.
Berlin: Springer.71
