Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature (CLfL) @ EACL 2014, pages 59?66,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsFunction Words in Authorship AttributionFrom Black Magic to Theory?Mike KestemontUniversity of AntwerpCLiPS Computational Linguistics GroupPrinsstraat 13, D.188B-2000, AntwerpBelgiummike.kestemont@uantwerpen.beAbstractThis position paper focuses on the useof function words in computational au-thorship attribution.
Although recentlythere have been multiple successful appli-cations of authorship attribution, the fieldis not particularly good at the explicationof methods and theoretical issues, whichmight eventually compromise the accep-tance of new research results in the tra-ditional humanities community.
I wish topartially help remedy this lack of explica-tion and theory, by contributing a theoreti-cal discussion on the use of function wordsin stylometry.
I will concisely survey theattractiveness of function words in stylom-etry and relate them to the use of charac-ter n-grams.
At the end of this paper, Iwill propose to replace the term ?functionword?
by the term ?functor?
in stylometry,due to multiple theoretical considerations.1 IntroductionComputational authorship attribution is a popu-lar application in current stylometry, the compu-tational study of writing style.
While there havebeen significant advances recently, it has been no-ticed that the field is not particularly good at theexplication of methods, let alone at developing agenerally accepted theoretical framework (Craig,1999; Daelemans, 2013).
Much of the researchin the field is dominated by an ?an engineeringperspective?
: if a certain attribution technique per-forms well, many researchers do not bother to ex-plain or interpret this from a theoretical perspec-tive.
Thus, many methods and procedures con-tinue to function as a black box, a situation whichmight eventually compromise the acceptance ofexperimental results (e.g.
new attributions) byscholars in the traditional humanities community.In this short essay I wish to try to help partiallyremedy this lack of theoretical explication, by con-tributing a focused theoretical discussion on theuse of function words in stylometry.
While thesefeatures are extremely popular in present-day re-search, few studies explicitly address the method-ological implications of using this word category.I will concisely survey the use of function words instylometry and render more explicit why this wordcategory is so attractive when it comes to author-ship attribution.
I will deliberately use a genericlanguage that is equally intelligible to people inlinguistic as well as literary studies.
Due to mul-tiple considerations, I will argue at the end of thispaper that it might be better to replace the term?function word?
by the term ?functor?
in stylome-try.2 Seminal WorkUntil recently, scholars agreed on the supremacyof word-level features in computational authorshipstudies.
In a 1994 overview paper Holmes (1994,p.
87) claimed that ?to date, no stylometrist hasmanaged to establish a methodology which is bet-ter able to capture the style of a text than that basedon lexical items?.
Important in this respect is aline of research initiated by Mosteller and Wal-lace (1964), whose work marks the onset of so-called non-traditional authorship studies (Holmes,1994; Holmes, 1998).
Their work can be con-trasted with the earlier philological practice of au-thorship attribution (Love, 2002), often character-ized by a lack of a clearly defined methodologicalframework.
Scholars adopted widely diverging at-tribution methodologies, the quality of whose re-sults remained difficult to assess in the absence ofa scientific consensus about a best practice (Sta-matatos, 2009; Luyckx, 2010).
Generally speak-ing, scholars?
subjective intuitions (Gelehrtenintu-ition, connoisseurship) played far too large a roleand the low level of methodological explicitness in59early (e.g.
nineteenth century) style-based author-ship studies firmly contrasts with today?s prevail-ing criteria for scientific research, such as replica-bility or transparency.Apart from the rigorous quantificationMosteller and Wallace pursued, their work isoften praised because of a specific methodolog-ical novelty they introduced: the emphasis onso-called function words.
Earlier authorshipattribution was often based on checklists ofstylistic features, which scholars extracted fromknown oeuvres.
Based on their previous readingexperiences, expert readers tried to collect stylemarkers that struck them as typical for an oeuvre.The attribution of works of unclear provenancewould then happen through a comparison ofthis text?s style to an author?s checklist (Love,2002, p. 185?193).
The checklists were of coursehand-tailored and often only covered a limited setof style markers, in which lexical features werefor instance freely mixed with hardly compara-ble syntactic features.
Because the checklist?sconstruction was rarely documented, it seemeda matter of scholarly taste which features wereincluded in the list, while it remained unclear whyothers were absent from it.Moreover, exactly because these lists werehand-selected, they were dominated by strikingstylistic features that because of their low over-all frequency seemed whimsicalities to the humanexpert.
Such low-frequency features (e.g.
an un-common noun) are problematic in authorship stud-ies, since they are often tied to a specific genreor topic.
If such a characteristic was absent inan anonymous text, it did not necessarily argueagainst a writer?s authorship in whose other texts(perhaps in different topics or genres) the charac-teristic did prominently feature.
Apart from thelimited scalability of such style (Luyckx, 2010;Luyckx and Daelemans, 2011), a far more trou-blesome issue is associated with them.
Because oftheir whimsical nature these low-frequency phe-nomena could have struck an author?s imitators orfollowers as strongly as they could have struck ascholar.
When trying to imitate someone?s style(e.g.
within the same stylistic school), those low-frequency features are the first to copy in the eyesof forgers (Love, 2002, p. 185?193).
The funda-mental novelty of the work by Mosteller and Wal-lace was that they advised to move away from alanguage?s low-frequency features to a language?shigh-frequency features, which often tend to befunction words.3 Content vs FunctionLet us briefly review why function words are in-teresting in authorship attribution.
In present-daylinguistics, two main categories of words are com-monly distinguished (Morrow, 1986, p. 423).
Theopen-class category includes content words, suchas nouns, adjectives or verbs (Clark and Clark,1977).
This class is typically large ?
there aremany nouns ?
and easy to expand ?
new nounsare introduced every day.
The closed-class cat-egory of function words refers to a set of words(prepositions, particles, determiners) that is muchsmaller and far more difficult to expand ?
it ishard to invent a new preposition.
Words from theopen class can be meaningful in isolation becauseof their straightforward semantics (e.g.
?cat?
).Function words, however, are heavily grammati-calized and often do not carry a lot of meaningin isolation (e.g.
?the?).
Although the set of dis-tinct function words is far smaller than the setof open-class words, function words are far morefrequently used than content words (Zipf, 1949).Consequently, less than 0.04% of our vocabularyaccounts for over half of the words we actually usein daily speech (Chung et al., 2007, p. 347).
Func-tion words have methodological advantages in thestudy of authorial style (Binongo, 2003, p. 11), forinstance:?
All authors writing in the same language andperiod are bound to use the very same func-tion words.
Function words are therefore areliable base for textual comparison;?
Their high frequency makes them interestingfrom a quantitative point of view, since wehave many observations for them;?
The use of function words is not strongly af-fected by a text?s topic or genre: the use ofthe article ?the?, for instance, is unlikely to beinfluenced by a text?s topic.?
The use of function words seems less underan author?s conscious control during the writ-ing process.Any (dis)similarities between texts regardingfunction words are therefore relatively content-independent and can be far more easily associated60with authorship than topic-specific stylistics.
Theunderlying idea behind the use of function wordsfor authorship attribution is seemingly contradic-tory: we look for (dis)similarities between textsthat have been reduced to a number of features inwhich texts should not differ at all (Juola, 2006,p.
264?65).Nevertheless, it is dangerous to blindly over-estimate the degree of content-independence offunction words.
A number of studies have shownthat function words, and especially (personal) pro-nouns, do correlate with genre, narrative perspec-tive, an author?s gender or even a text?s topic (Her-ring and Paolillo, 2006; Biber et al., 2006; New-man et al., 2008).
A classic reference in thisrespect is John Burrows?s pioneering study of,amongst other topics, the use of function wordsin Jane Austen?s novels (Burrows, 1987).
Thisexplains why many studies into authorship willin fact perform so-called ?pronoun culling?
or theautomated deletion of (personal) pronouns whichseem too heavily connected to a text?s narrativeperspective or genre.
Numerous empirical studieshave nevertheless demonstrated that various anal-yses restricted to higher frequency strata, yield re-liable indications about a text?s authorship (Arga-mon and Levitan, 2005; Stamatatos, 2009; Koppelet al., 2009).It has been noted that the switch from contentwords to function words in authorship attributionstudies has an interesting historic parallel in art-historic research (Kestemont et al., 2012).
Manypaintings have survived anonymously as well,hence the large-scale research into the attribu-tion of them.
Giovanni Morelli (1816-1891) wasamong the first to suggest that the attribution of,for instance, a Quattrocento painting to some Ital-ian master, could not happen based on ?content?
(Wollheim, 1972, p. 177ff).
What kind of coatMary Magdalene was wearing or the particular de-piction of Christ in a crucifixion scene seemed alltoo much dictated by a patron?s taste, contempo-rary trends or stylistic influences.
Morelli thoughtit better to restrict an authorship analysis to dis-crete details such as ears, hands and feet: suchfairly functional elements are naturally very fre-quent in nearly all paintings, because they are tosome extent content-independent.
It is an inter-esting illustration of the surplus value of functionwords in stylometry that the study of authorialstyle in art history should depart from the ears,hands and feet in a painting ?
its inconspicuousfunction words, so to speak.4 SubconsciousnessRecall the last advantage listed above: the argu-ment is often raised that the use of these wordswould not be under an author?s conscious controlduring the writing process (Stamatatos, 2009; Bi-nongo, 2003; Argamon and Levitan, 2005; Peng etal., 2003).
This would indeed help to explain whyfunction words might act as an author invariantthroughout an oeuvre (Koppel et al., 2009, p. 11).Moreover, from a methodological point of view,this would have to be true for forgers and imitatorsas well, hence, rendering function words resistantto stylistic imitation and forgery.
Surprisingly, thisclaim is rarely backed up by scholarly referencesin the stylometric literature ?
an exception seemsKoppel et al.
(2009, p. 11) with a concise refer-ence to Chung et al.
(2007).
Nevertheless, someattractive references in this respect can be found inpsycholinguistic literature.
Interesting is the ex-periment in which people have to quickly counthow often the letter ?f?
occurs in the following sen-tence:Finished files are the resultof years of scientific studycombined with the experienceof many years.It is common for most people to spot onlyfour or five instances of all six occurrences ofthe grapheme (Schindler, 1978).
Readers com-monly miss the f s in the preposition ?of?
in thesentence.
This is consistent with other readingresearch showing that readers have more difficul-ties in spotting spelling errors in function wordsthan in content words (Drewnowski and Healy,1977).
A similar effect is associated with phraseslike ?Paris in the the spring?
(Aronoff and Fude-man, 2005, p. 40?41).
Experiments have demon-strated that during their initial reading, many peo-ple will not be aware of the duplication of the ar-ticle ?the?.
Readers typically fail to spot such er-rors because they take the use of function wordsfor granted ?
note that this effect would be absentfor ?Paris in the spring spring?, in which a contentword is wrongly duplicated.
Such a subconsciousattitude needs not imply that function words wouldbe unimportant in written communication.
Con-61sider the following passage:1Aoccdrnig to a rscheearch at CmabrigdeUinervtisy, it deosn?t mttaer in wahtoredr the ltteers in a wrod are, the olnyiprmoetnt tihng is taht the frist and lsatltteer be at the rghit pclae.
The rset canbe a toatl mses and you can sitll raedit wouthit porbelm.
Tihs is bcuseae thehuamn mnid deos not raed ervey lteterby istlef, but the wrod as a wlohe.Although the words?
letters in this passage seemrandomly jumbled, the text is still relatively read-able (Rawlinson, 1976).
As the quote playfullystates itself, it is vital in this respect that the firstand final letter of each word are not moved ?
and,depending on the language, this is in fact not theonly rule that must be obeyed.
It is crucial how-ever that this limitation causes the shorter func-tion words in running English text to remain fairlyintact (McCusker et al., 1981).
The intact naturealone of the function words in such jumbled text,in fact greatly adds to the readability of such pas-sages.
Thus, while function words are vital tostructure linguistic information in our communi-cation (Morrow, 1986), psycholinguistic researchsuggests that they do not attract attention to them-selves in the same way as content words do.Unfortunately, it should be stressed that all ref-erences discussed in this section are limited toreader?s experience, and not writer?s experience.While there will exist similarities between a lan-guage user?s perception and production of func-tion words, it cannot be ruled out that writers willtake on a much more conscious attitude towardsfunction words than readers.
Nevertheless, theapparent inattentiveness with which readers ap-proach function words might be reminiscent ofa writer?s attitude towards them, although muchmore research would be needed in order to prop-erly substantiate this hypothesis.5 Character N-gramsRecall Holmes?s 1994 claim that ?to date, no sty-lometrist has managed to establish a methodol-ogy which is better able to capture the style of1Matt Davis maintains an interesting website on thistopic: http://www.mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk/people/matt.davis/Cmabrigde/.
I thank Bram Vandekerck-hove for pointing out this website.
The ?Cmabridge?-passageas well the ?of?-example have anonymously circulated on theInternet for quite a while.a text than that based on lexical items?
(Holmes,1994, p. 87).
In 1994 other types of style mark-ers (e.g.
syntactical) were ?
in isolation ?
neverable to outperform lexical style markers (Van Hal-teren et al., 2005).
Interestingly, advanced fea-ture selection methods did not always outperformfrequency-based selection methods, that plainlysingled out function words (Argamon and Levitan,2005; Stamatatos, 2009).
The supremacy of func-tion words was challenged, however, later in the1990s when character n-grams came to the fore(Kjell, 1994).
This representation was originallyborrowed from the field of Information Retrievalwhere the technique had been used in automaticlanguage identification.
Instead of cutting texts upinto words, this particular text representation seg-mented a text into a series of consecutive, partiallyoverlapping groups of n characters.
A first ordern-gram model only considers so-called unigrams(n = 1); a second order n-gram model consid-ers bigrams (n = 2), and so forth.
Note that wordboundaries are typically explicitly represented: forinstance, ?
b?, ?bi?, ?ig?, ?gr?, ?ra?, ?am?, ?m ?.Since Kjell (1994), character n-grams haveproven to be the best performing feature typein state-of-the-art authorship attribution (Juola,2006), although at first sight, they might seemuninformative and meaningless.
Follow-up re-search learned that this outstanding performancewas not only largely language independent butalso fairly independent of the attribution algo-rithms used (Peng et al., 2003; Stamatatos, 2009;Koppel et al., 2009).
The study of character n-grams for authorship attribution has since then sig-nificantly grown in popularity, however, mostlyin the more technical literature where the tech-nique originated.
In these studies, performanceissues play an important role, with researchers fo-cusing on actual attribution accuracy in large cor-pora (Luyckx, 2010).
This focus might help ex-plain why, so far, few convincing attempts havebeen made to interpret the discriminatory qualitiesof characters n-grams, which is why their use (likefunction words) in stylometry can be likened to asort of black magic.
One explanation so far hasbeen that these units tend to capture ?a bit of ev-erything?, being sensitive to both the content andform of a text (Houvardas and Stamatatos, 2006;Koppel et al., 2009; Stamatatos, 2009).
One couldwonder, however, whether such an answer doesmuch more than reproducing the initial question:62Then why does it work?
Moreover, Koppel et al.expressed words of caution regarding the caveatsof character n-grams, since many of them ?will beclosely associated to particular content words androots?
(Koppel et al., 2009, p. 13).The reasons for this outstanding performancecould partially be of a prosaic, information-theoretical nature, relating to the unit of stylis-tic measurement.
Recall that function words arequantitatively interesting, at least partially becausethey are simply frequent in text.
The more obser-vations we have available per text, the more trust-worthily one can represent it.
Character n-gramspush this idea even further, simply because textsby definition have more data points for charactern-grams than for entire words (Stamatatos, 2009;Daelemans, 2013).
Thus the mere number of ob-servations, relatively larger for character n-gramsthan for function words, might account for theirsuperiority from a purely quantitative perspective.Nevertheless, more might be said on the topic.Rybicki & Eder (2011) report on a detailed com-parative study of a well-known attribution tech-nique, Burrows?s Delta.
John Burrows is consid-ered one of the godfathers of modern stylometry ?D.I.
Holmes (1994) ranked him alongside the pi-oneers Mosteller and Wallace.
He introduced hisinfluential Delta-technique in his famous Busa lec-ture (Burrows, 2002).
Many subsequent discus-sions agree that Delta essentially is a fairly intu-itive algorithm which generally achieves decentperformance (Argamon, 2008), comparing textson the basis of the frequencies of common func-tion words.
In their introductory review of Delta?sapplications, Rybicki and Eder tackled the as-sumption of Delta?s language independence: fol-lowing the work of Juola (2006, p. 269), they ques-tion the assumption ?that the use of methods rely-ing on the most frequent words in a corpus shouldwork just as well in other languages as it does inEnglish?
(Rybicki and Eder, 2011, p. 315).Their paper proves this assumption wrong, re-porting on various, carefully set-up experimentswith a corpus, comprising 7 languages (English,Polish, French, Latin, German, Hungarian andItalian).
Although they consider other parameters(such as genre), their most interesting results con-cern language (Rybicki and Eder, 2011, p. 319?320):while Delta is still the most successful methodof authorship attribution based on word frequen-cies, its success is not independent of the lan-guage of the texts studied.
This has not beennoticed so far for the simple reason that Deltastudies have been done, in a great majority, onEnglish-language prose.
[.
.
. ]
The relativelypoorer results for Latin and Polish, both highlyinflected in comparison with English and Ger-man, suggests the degree of inflection as a pos-sible factor.
This would make sense in that thetop strata of word frequency lists for languageswith low inflection contain more uniform words,especially function words; as a result, the mostfrequent words in languages such as English arerelatively more frequent than the most frequentwords in agglutinative languages such as Latin.Their point of criticism is obvious but vital: therestriction to function words for stylometric re-search seems sub-optimal for languages that makeless use of function words.
They suggest that thisrelatively recent discovery might be related to thefact that most of the seminal and influential workin authorship attribution has been carried out onEnglish-language texts.English is a typical example of a language thatdoes not make extensive use of case endings orother forms of inflection (Sapir, 1921, chapterVI).
Such weakly inflected languages express a lotof their functional linguistic information throughthe use of small function words, such as preposi-tions (e.g.
?with a sword?).
Structural informationin these languages tends to be expressed throughminimal units of meaning or grammatical mor-phemes, which are typically realized as individ-ual words (Morrow, 1986).
At this point, it makessense to contrast English with another major his-torical lingua franca but one that has received farless stylometric attention: Latin.Latin is a school book example of a heavily in-flected language, like Polish, that makes far moreextensive use of affixes: endings that which areadded to words to mark their grammatical func-tion in a sentence.
An example: in the Latin wordensi (ablative singular: ?with a sword?)
the caseending (?i) is a separate morpheme that takes ongrammatical role which is similar to that of theEnglish preposition ?with?.
Nevertheless, it is notrealized as a separate word separated by whites-pace from surrounding morphemes.
It is ratherconcatenated to another morpheme (ens-) express-ing a more tangible meaning.This situation renders a straightforward appli-cation of the Delta-method ?
so heavily biased to-wards words ?
problematic for more synthetic oragglutinative languages.
What has been said aboutfunction words in previous stylometric research,63obviously relates to their special status as func-tional linguistic items.
The inter-related character-istics of ?high frequency?, ?content-independence?and ?good dispersion?
(Kestemont et al., 2012)even only apply to them, insofar as they are gram-matical morphemes.
Luckily for English, a lot ofgrammatical morphemes can easily be detected bysplitting running text into units that do not con-tain whitespace or punctuation and selecting themost frequent items among them (Burrows, 2002;Stamatatos, 2009).
For languages that display an-other linguistic logic, however, the situation is farmore complicated, because the functional infor-mation contained in grammatical morphemes ismore difficult to gain access to, since these neednot be solely or even primarily realized as separatewords.
If one restricts analyses to high-frequencywords in these languages, one obviously ignoresa lot of the functional information inside less fre-quent words (e.g.
inflection).6 FunctorsAt the risk of being accused of quibbling aboutterms, I wish to argue that the common empha-sis on function words in stylometry should be re-placed by an emphasis on the broader concept offunctors, a term which can be borrowed from psy-cholinguistics, used to denote grammatical mor-phemes (Kwon, 2005, p. 1?2) or:forms that do not, in any simple way, make ref-erence.
They mark grammatical structures andcarry subtle modulatory meanings.
The wordclasses or parts of speech involved (inflections,auxiliary verbs, articles, prepositions, and con-junctions) all have few members and do not read-ily admit new members (Brown, 1973, p. 75).In my opinion, the introduction of the term ?func-tor?
would have a number of advantages ?
the firstand least important of which is that it is aestheti-cally more pleasing than the identical term ?gram-matical morphemes?.
Note, first of all, that func-tion words ?
grammatical morphemes realized asindividual words ?
are included in the definitionof a functor.
The concept of a functor as such doesnot replace the interest in function words but ratherbroadens it and extends it towards all grammaticalmorphemes, whether they be realized as individ-ual words or not.
Note how all advantages, previ-ously only associated with function words in sty-lometry (high frequency, good dispersion, content-independence, unconscious use) apply to everymember in the category of functors.A second advantage has to do with languageindependence.
Note that stylometry?s ultimategoal regarding authorship seems of a universal na-ture: a majority of stylometrists in the end areconcerned with the notorious Stylome-hypothesis(Van Halteren et al., 2005) or finding a way tocharacterize an author?s individual writing style,regardless of text variety, time and, especially, lan-guage.
Restricting the extraction of functional in-formation from text to the word level might workfor English, but seems too language-specific amethodology to be operable in many other lan-guages, as suggested by Rybicki and Eder (2011)and earlier Juola (2006, p. 269).
Stylometric re-search into high-frequency, functional linguisticitems should therefore break up words and harvestmore and better information from text.
The scopeof stylistic focus should be broadened to includeall functors.The superior performance of character n-gramsin capturing authorial style ?
in English, as well asother languages ?
seems relevant in this respect.First of all, the most frequent n-grams in a corpusoften tend to be function words: ?me?, ?or?
and?to?
are very frequent function words in English,but they are also very frequent character bigrams.Researchers often restrict their text representationto the most frequent n-grams in a corpus (2009,p.
541), so that n-gram approaches include func-tion words rather than exclude them.
In addition,high-frequency n-grams are often able to capturemore refined grammatical information.
Note howa text representation in terms of n-grams subtlyexploits the presence of whitespace.
In most pa-pers advocating the use of n-grams, whitespaceis explicitly encoded.
Again, this allows moreobservations-per-word but, in addition, makes arepresentation sensitive to e.g.
inflectional infor-mation.
A high frequency of the bigram ?ed?
couldreflect any use of the character series (reduce vs.talked).
A trigram representation ?ed ?
reveals aword-final position of the character series, thus in-dicating it being used for expressing grammaticalinformation through affixation.
Psycholinguisticresearch also stresses the important status of thefirst letter(s) of words, especially with respect tohow words are cognitively accessed in the lexicon(Rubin, 1995, p. 74).
Note that this word-initialaspect too is captured under an n-gram representa-tion (?
aspect?
).64A widely accepted theoretical ground for theoutstanding performance of character n-grams,will have to consider the fact that n-grams offera more powerful way of capturing the functionalinformation in text.
They are sensitive to the inter-nal morphemic structure of words, capturing manyfunctors which are simply ignored in word-levelapproaches.
Although some n-grams can indeedbe ?closely associated to particular content wordsand roots?
(Koppel et al., 2009, p. 13), I wouldbe inclined to hypothesize that high-frequency n-grams work in spite of this, not because of this.This might suggest that extending techniques, likeDelta, to all functors in text, instead of just func-tion words, will increase both their performanceand language independence.A final advantage of the introduction of the con-cept of a functor is that it would facilitate the team-ing up with a neighbouring field of research thatseems extremely relevant for the field of stylome-try from a theoretical perspective, but so far hasonly received limited attention in it: psycholin-guistics.
The many parallels with the reading re-search discussed above indicate that both fieldsmight have a lot to learn from each other.
An il-lustrative example is the study of functor acquisi-tion by children.
It has been suggested that simi-lar functors are not only present in all languagesof the world, but acquired by all children in anextremely similar ?natural order?
(Kwon, 2005).This is intriguing given stylometry?s interest in theStylome-hypothesis.
If stylometry is ultimatelylooking for linguistic variables that are present ineach individual?s parole, the universal aspects offunctors further stress the benefits of the term?sintroduction.
All of this justifies the questionwhether the functor should not become a privi-leged area of study in future stylometric research.AcknowledgmentsThe author was funded as a postdoctoral researchfellow by the Research Foundation of Flanders(FWO).
The author would like to thank MatthewMunson, Bram Vandekerckhove, Dominiek San-dra, Stan Szpakowicz as well as the anonymous re-viewers of this paper for their substantial feedbackon earlier drafts.
Finally, I am especially indebtedto Walter Daelemans for the inspiring discussionson the topic of this paper.ReferencesS.
Argamon and S. Levitan.
2005.
Measuring the use-fulness of function words for authorship attribution.In Proceedings of the Joint Conference of the Asso-ciation for Computers and the Humanities and theAssociation for Literary and Linguistic Computing(2005).
Association for Computing and the Human-ities.S.
Argamon.
2008.
Interpreting Burrows?s Delta: Ge-ometric and Probabilistic Foundations.
Literary andLinguistic Computing, (23):131?147.M.
Aronoff and K. Fudeman.
2005.
What is Morphol-ogy?
Blackwell.D.
Biber, S. Conrad, and R. Reppen.
2006.
Corpus lin-guistics - Investigating language structure and use.Cambridge University Press, 5 edition.J.
Binongo.
2003. Who Wrote the 15th Book of Oz?An application of multivariate analysis to authorshipattribution.
Chance, (16):9?17.R.
Brown.
1973.
A First Language.
Harvard Univer-sity Press.J.
Burrows.
1987.
Computation into Criticism: AStudy of Jane Austen?s Novels and an Experiment inMethod.
Clarendon Press; Oxford University Press.J.
Burrows.
2002.
?Delta?
: a measure of stylistic dif-ference and a guide to likely authorship.
Literaryand Linguistic Computing, (17):267?287.C.
Chung and J. Pennebaker.
2007.
The psychologi-cal functions of function words.
In K. Fiedler et al.,editor, Social Communication, pages 343?359.
Psy-chology Press.H.
Clark and E. Clark.
1977.
Psychology and lan-guage: an introduction to psycholinguistics.
Har-court, Brace & Jovanovich.H.
Craig.
1999.
Authorial attribution and computa-tional stylistics: if you can tell authors apart, haveyou learned anything about them?
Literary and Lin-guistic Computing, 14(1):103?113.W.
Daelemans.
2013.
Explanation in Computa-tional Stylometry.
In Proceedings of the 14th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics and Intelligent Text Processing - Volume 2,CICLing?13, pages 451?462, Berlin, Heidelberg.Springer-Verlag.A.
Drewnowski and A. Healy.
1977.
Detection errorson the and and: Evidence for reading units largerthan the word.
Memory & Cognition, (5).S.
Herring and John C. Paolillo.
2006.
Gender andgenre variation in weblogs.
Journal of Sociolinguis-tics, 10(4):439?459.D.
Holmes.
1994.
Authorship Attribution.
Computersand the Humanities, 28(2):87?106.65D.
Holmes.
1998.
The Evolution of Stylometry in Hu-manities Scholarship.
Literary and Linguistic Com-puting, 13(3):111?117.J.
Houvardas and E. Stamatatos.
2006.
N-gram featureselection for authorship identification.
In J. Euzenatand J. Domingue, editors, Proceedings of ArtificialIntelligence: Methodologies, Systems, and Applica-tions (AIMSA 2006), pages 77?86.
Springer-Verlag.P.
Juola.
2006.
Authorship Attribution.
Foundationsand Trends in Information Retrieval, 1(3):233?334.M.
Kestemont, W. Daelemans, and D. Sandra.
2012.Robust Rhymes?
The Stability of Authorial Style inMedieval Narratives.
Journal of Quantitative Lin-guistics, 19(1):1?23.B.
Kjell.
1994.
Discrimination of authorship usingvisualization.
Information Processing and Manage-ment, 30(1):141?50.M.
Koppel, J. Schler, and S. Argamon.
2009.
Compu-tational Methods in Authorship Attribution.
Journalof the American Society for Information Science andTechnology, 60(1):9?26.E.
Kwon.
2005.
The Natural Order of MorphemeAcquisition: A Historical Survey and Discussionof Three Putative Determinants.
Teachers?
CollegeColumbia Working Papers in TESOL and AppliedLinguistics, 5(1):1?21.H.
Love.
2002.
Authorship Attribution: An Introduc-tion.
Cambridge University Press.K.
Luyckx and W. Daelemans.
2011.
The effect ofauthor set size and data size in authorship attribution.Literary and Linguistic Computing, (26):35?55.K.
Luyckx.
2010.
Scalability Issues in Authorship At-tribution.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Antwerp.L.
McCusker, P. Gough, and R. Bias.
1981.
Wordrecognition inside out and outside in.
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: Human Perception andPerformance, 7(3):538?551.D.
Morrow.
1986.
Grammatical morphemes and con-ceptual structure in discourse processing.
CognitiveScience, 10(4):423?455.F.
Mosteller and D. Wallace.
1964.
Inference and dis-puted authorship: The Federalist.
Addison-Wesley.M.
Newman, C. Groom, L. Handelman, and J. Pen-nebaker.
2008.
Gender Differences in LanguageUse: An Analysis of 14,000 Text Samples.
Dis-course Processes, 45(3):211?236, May.F.
Peng, D. Schuurmans, V. Keselj, and S. Wang.
2003.Language independent authorship attribution usingcharacter level language models.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th Conference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pages267?274.D.
Rubin.
1995.
Memory in Oral Traditions.
The Cog-nitive Psychology of Epic, Ballads and Counting-outRhymes.
Oxford University Press.J.
Rybicki and M. Eder.
2011.
Deeper Delta acrossgenres and languages: do we really need the mostfrequent words?
Literary and Linguistic Comput-ing, pages 315?321.E.
Sapir.
1921.
Language: An Introduction to theStudy of Speech.
Harcourt, Brace & Co.R.
Schindler.
1978.
The effect of prose context onvisual search for letters.
Memory & Cognition,(6):124?130.E.
Stamatatos.
2009.
A survey of modern author-ship attribution methods.
Journal of the AmericanSociety For Information Science and Technology,(60):538?556.H.
Van Halteren, H. Baayen, F. Tweedie, M. Haverkort,and A. Neijt.
2005.
New Machine Learning Meth-ods Demonstrate the Existence of a Human Stylome.Journal of Quantitative Linguistics, (12):65?77.R.
Wollheim.
1972.
On Art and the Mind: Essays andLectures.
Harvard University Press.G.
Zipf.
1949.
Human Behavior and the Principle ofLeast Effort.
Addison-Wesley.66
