Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications , pages 43?53,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe pragmatics of margin comments: An empirical studyDebora Field, Stephen PulmanDept Computer ScienceUniversity of OxfordOxford OX1 3QD, UKfirstname.lastname@cs.ox.ac.ukDenise WhitelockInstitute of Educational TechnologyThe Open UniversityMilton Keynes MK7 6AA, UKdenise.whitelock@open.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes the design and ratio-nale behind a classification scheme for En-glish margin comments.
The scheme?s de-sign was informed by pragmatics and ped-agogy theory, and by observations madefrom a corpus of 24,387 margin commentsfrom assessed university assignments.
Thepurpose of the scheme is to computation-ally explore content and form relationshipsbetween margin comments and the pas-sages to which they point.
The processof designing the scheme resulted in theconclusion that margin comments requiremore work to understand than utterancesdo, and that they are more prone to beingmisunderstood.1 IntroductionWe have a collection of 24,387 real margin com-ments, expressed in English, which we want to ex-ploit through machine learning in order to informthe design of an automatic margin comments gen-erator.
The corpus margin comments were addedby humans to a corpus of real assessed universityassignments.
The assignments were argumenta-tive essays submitted towards a Master?s degree inEducation.We have designed a margin comment classifi-cation scheme which classifies natural language(NL) margin comments without reference to theessay parts to which they point.
High inter-annotator agreement scores have been achieved forthe scheme.
We plan to use the scheme to look forrelationships between the corpus comments andthe essay parts to which they point.This paper is about the classification scheme?sdesign, including what led to the design decisions,which were informed by examination of the mar-gin comments, the assignments corpus, and con-sideration of key ideas in pragmatics and peda-gogy.
A feature of margin comments that be-came clear during the design process, and that in-fluenced the design, is that margin comments areharder to understand and are more prone to beingmisunderstood than conversational utterances.2 What are the corpus comments like?The design of the classification scheme is based onanswers we sought to three core questions:- What are the margin comments like?- What are they ?doing?
?- How do they get their messages across?A margin comment is a message written ortyped by an assessor and positioned in the ?mar-gin?
of a piece of text produced by a learner.
Mostmargin comments graphically point to a part of thelearner text, and the message content of a margincomment typically concerns the text part to whichthe comment points.
The margin comments in ourcorpus had been added to word-processed assign-ments using a digital commenting tool.To gain a first impression of what the corpusmargin comments were like, we carried out somefrequency counts and from these derived a set ofsimple pattern-matching rules for clustering sim-ilar comments?143 complex regular expressionsto match the start of a comment.
Most of the rulesinvoked one or more of 13 regex groups.
Eachgroup was a disjunction of strings (e.g., 29 ?nega-tive?
verb disjuncts).
Each comment was typed onthe basis of its first sentence only, on the groundsthat any subsequent sentences were most likelyelaborations on the first (based on manual scrutinyof hundreds of comments.)
Probable comment-initial filler words were skipped.
The clusteringrules assigned a type to 90.9% of the comments.The following subsections describe some of the re-sults.432.1 Positive-soundingExpressions that are positive-sounding in general(e.g., ?good?, freq.
5,177) and positive with respectto essay writing (e.g., ?interesting?, freq.
954)were very common.1There were 9,272 occur-rences of a positive-sounding adjective.
In con-trast, there were 551 occurrences of a negative-sounding adjective, the top 3 being ?difficult?(freq.
133), ?missing?
(123), ?informal?
(90).
Alarge proportion of positive-sounding commentswere descriptions.
For example, 3,151 comments(12.9%) began with ?good?.2.2 Missing, unnecessary, or inappropriate3,351 comments expressed the idea that somethingwas missing from the essay that marker M thoughtshould have been present (1a).
574 comments ex-pressed the idea that something was present in theessay that M thought should not have been (1b).2,069 comments expressed the idea that somethingthat was present in the essay that M thought shouldhave been different in some way (1c).2(1) a.
Could you have developed this?b.
I would not leave a space.c.
Another long quote2.3 Confusion and apparent uncertainty1,119 comments expressed confusion or appar-ent uncertainty.
Many confusion expressions con-cerned M?s understanding.
There were 1,232expressions concerned with comprehensibility.Many uncertainty expressions concerned M?sagreement or understanding.
There were 1,193 ex-pressions concerned with agreement.2.4 Questions4,307 comments (17.6%) ended in a question markand 1,109 comments began with a WH questionword.
1,119 comments were polar questions.2.5 Parts of instructions6,169 expressions looked like parts of instructionsor polite suggestions, the top 3 being ?you might?(freq.
882), ?you need?
(693) and ?explain?
(332).2.6 Adversative conjunctionsThere were 2,237 occurrences of ?but?, 283 of ?al-though?, 127 of ?however?, typically used in thecorpus to present contrasting or opposing opinion.1All quoted example terms are case-insensitive.2All examples in the paper are real, whole comments fromthe corpus, apart from examples that are prefixed with a ?
?
?,which are interpretations.
Punctuation, spelling, capitalisa-tion, etc.in the examples are faithfully reproduced.2.7 Non-sententialThe distribution of comment lengths is heavilyskewed towards short comments (Figure 1).3Justunder 9.5 % of comments have 11 characters orfewer.
The top 3 most frequent comment lengthswere 10 characters (freq.
430), 4 characters (freq.358) and 1 character (freq.
316).Scrutiny of many short comments revealed thatnon-sentential comments are the main reason forthe brevity.
These include elliptical comments(2a), fragments (2b), and other non-sentential ex-pressions such as exclamations (2c) and short di-rectives (Klein, 1985; Merchant, 2004) (2d).
(2) a.
Why not?b.
Good pointc.
What a good idea.d.
ReferenceVery short corpus comments that are completesentences are rare (set 3).
(3) a.
Avoid jargonb.
This is unclear.2.8 PolitenessThere are 3,996 occurrences of terms typicallyused to soften the impact of a criticism or make aninstruction sound like a suggestion (hereon ?soft-eners?
), including ?perhaps?
(freq.
863), ?rather?
(422), and ?a little?
(381).
There are also 7,287 oc-currences of conditional auxiliary verbs (includingmany non-modal uses of ?would?
), which are typ-ically used to make polite suggestions.2.9 InformalityThere are 3,818 contractions, including ?don?t?(freq.
568), ?I?m?
(370), ?you?re?
(138).
Fillerwords were also common.
444 comments beganwith ?ok?
(a range of spellings), and 1109 com-ments began with ?yes?
(some of these expressagreement, but most are fillers).2.10 SkillsWe noticed 4 large groups of terms relating to par-ticular skills.
Table 1 shows each group, the num-ber of occurrences of terms from that group, anexample term from that group, and the number ofoccurrences of the example.
Category ?presenta-tion?
includes matters relating to the presentationof English, such as spelling, grammar, formatting,and style.3The inset in Figure 1 is the main figure presented on log-log scale axes.44Figure 1: Distribution of comment lengthsGrouping Freq.
Example Freq.Argument 14705 ?argument?
817Referencing 6657 ?reference?
1322Essay structure 5243 ?section?
614Presentation 2613 ?sentence?
428Table 1: Skills-related terms in comments corpus2.11 Are margin comments conversation?The corpus investigations revealed frequent use ofphenomena common in speech: non-sentential ex-pressions, contractions, politeness devices, soften-ers, and fillers.
This led us to consider whether adialogue act taxonomy such as DIT (Bunt, 1990)or DAMSL (Core and Allen, 1997) might be suit-able for typing margin comments.Many pedagogy papers have argued or assumedthat margin comments are or are like a conversa-tion.
Straub (1996) reviewed a number of contem-porary papers, including (Ziv, 1984; Danis, 1987;Lindemann, 1987; Anson, 1989) to explore thequestion: ?what does it mean to treat teacher com-mentary as a dialogue??
(Straub, 1996, p. 375).Straub concluded that margin comments are notconversational utterances, either real or imaginary,and that what pedagogy scholars were referringto was the informal style of comments.
Infor-mal language was becoming popular as a resultof the movement away from ?teaching product?
to?teaching process?, which encouraged the expres-sion of empathy with the learner, because it wasthought this would make teacher comments morelikely to be read and acted upon (Hairston, 1982).From linguistics, Schegloff (1999), tackles theproblem of whether there is such a thing as ?or-dinary conversation?.
He first defines ?talk-in-interaction?
(p. 406), which includes speech spo-ken with the intention of communicating mes-sages to some audience.
Next Schegloff talksabout ?speech exchange systems?
(citing (Sacks etal., 1974)), which are ?organizational formats fortalk-in-interaction?
(Schegloff, 1999, p. 407), in-cluding the lecture format, classroom discourse,courts-in-session, meetings, debates, etc.
Margincomments arguably qualify as a speech exchangesystem, even though they are written, not spo-ken.
But Schegloff?s definition of ?ordinary con-versation?
arguably excludes margin comments onthe grounds that they don?t involve ?generic as-pects of talking-in-interaction such as turn-taking,sequence organization, repair organization, over-all structural organization?
(p. 413), and on thegrounds that they are ?subject to functionally spe-cific or context-specific restrictions?
(p. 407).Having considered relevant literature, we con-cluded that margin comments are not conversa-tion, principally on the grounds that there is noturn taking?only the marker M gets the opportu-nity to ?speak?
and only the comment?s addresseeA gets the opportunity to ?hear?.
Whilst thereis common ground (Stalnaker, 1972; Thomason,1990) and accommodation (Clark and Haviland,1974; Lewis, 1979; Kamp, 1981) there is noturn taking and therefore no grounding (Clark andSchaefer, 1989).
M presents utterances, and theconstraints of the context demand that A must ac-cept the evidence.
Consequently, if A misunder-stands M?s intended message, there is no mecha-nism to enable M or A to discover that A has mis-45understood the message; and if A is confused byM?s comment, there is no opportunity for A to askM for clarification.We concluded that dialogue acts were an inap-propriate classification scheme for margin com-ments, because the conditions for human-to-human dialogue do not apply.3 What are margin comments ?doing?
?If dialogue acts are inappropriate, what kinds ofthings are NL margin comments ?doing??
Con-sider WH questions (4).
(4) Why bold?When M asks a WH question in a margin com-ment, M is not desiring or expecting A to supplythe requested information to M. The Addressee Aof a NL margin comment will never take a turn inresponse to that comment.
This is something ofwhich A and marker M are both mutually awarebefore the comments are written by M, and it hasimportant repercussions with respect to M?s inten-tions.
Consider also imperatives (5).
(5) Explain what they do.5 looks like an instruction, but cannot be.
Thecorpus comments were added to the final, submit-ted versions of assessed assignments.
There wasno desire or expectation on M?s part that A wouldrevise the essay in response to M?s comments.M must have been desiring something by thesecomments (otherwise there would be no com-ments), but that something is not what one mightexpect given their linguistic surface forms.
Thissuggests that margin comments are like indi-rect speech acts (Searle, 1969; Searle and Van-derveken, 1985)?acts which have an apparentfunction that is distinct from what the commentis really ?doing?
(Austin, 1962).
We would ar-gue that, for the evaluative comments in the cor-pus (which are the vast majority), the thing thecomments are doing is this: to communicate M?sopinion to A about the essay part to which thecomment pointed.This conclusion is not surprising.
NL margincomments are doing what all margin commentsare doing, it seems, including non-NL coded com-ment schemes.
Why this conclusion seems sur-prising is that margin comments do not looklike expressions of opinion about weaknesses andstrengths.
Instead they look like excerpts fromfriendly, informal conversations.
The informalityis, however, masking the principal messages of thecomments, which are evaluative ones.4 How do NL margin comments expresswhether the essay met the standard?Having decided what NL margin comments aredoing, we reasoned that M?s opinion expressed bya comment must have two aspects, on the groundsthat they do not just point to essay parts, they con-tain messages.
The two aspects are: (1) Whetheror not essay part P to which a comment pointsattained the required standard; (2) How P at-tained (or did not attain) the required stan-dard.
The required standard is a standard definedby some set of principles or instructions of whichM and A are typically mutually aware.We observed that the semantics of very fewcorpus comments communicated a message ap-proaching ?This essay part has failed to achievedthe agreed standard?.
Set 6 shows two of them.
(6) a.
Something?s wrong or missing here.
.
.b.
Two line sentences is not enough to getthe maximum 30% marks for this sec-tionFor the vast majority of comments, whetheressay part P attained the required standardwas communicated implicitly by the use of cer-tain types of words and syntactic structures.To convey attainment or surpassing of the stan-dard, positive-sounding adjectives were used ex-tensively (section 2), also positive-sounding ad-verbs, and terms of liking, agreement, and un-derstanding.
A much wider variety of techniqueswas used to convey failure to attain the standard,including negative-sounding verbs (e.g., ?contra-dict?
), negative-sounding adjectives (e.g., ?inap-propriate?
), lone noun phrases (e.g., ?brackets?
),questions, instructions, polite suggestions, notifi-cations of marker edits, referrals to authoritativesources, and assertions of uncertainty, confusion,doubt, disagreement, and non-understanding.Addressee A?s understanding of whether essaypart P had attained the required standard wouldtherefore have depended on A?s being able to cor-rectly interpret the semantics of the comment.
Fornon-native speakers of English, this may have pre-sented a problem.4Since many corpus comments4The corpus assignments were towards a distance-learning degree course, and many of the students are likelyto have been non-native speakers of English.46constitute a lone modified noun phrase, and sincethe meanings of everyday adjectives change de-pending on what they are modifying, it may havebeen difficult for A to tell whether a comment wasa criticism or a commendation (set 7).
(7) a.
A very long sentence.b.
Very strong supporting quote.c.
A strong argumentd.
A big assumptionNote that the way we decide whether these arecriticisms or commendations is by considering thetype of entity the adjective is modifying.
We knowquotes should be strong, so 7b must be a commen-dation.
We know assumptions should not be big,so 7d must be a criticism.
This means that, in ad-dition to having a sensitivity to compositional se-mantics, the addressees of these comments wouldhave needed to possess expert knowledge aboutwhat sentences, quotes, arguments, and assump-tions should be like in order to be able to inferwhether the essay part had met the standard.Difficulties in understanding whether an essaypart has met the standard are also caused by theuse of non-sentential expressions (set 8).
(8) a. Referenceb.
Colloquialismc.
No issuesd.
No commae.
No apostropheWhich of the following interpretations (if any)applies to each of the set 8 comments?
(9) a. ?
The named thing is missingb.
?
The spelling of the named thing is incorrectc.
?
The named thing is erroneously includedd.
?
The named thing needs correctinge.
?
This part attains the required standardIn order to understand these comments, A has toinspect the passage to which the comment pointsto see whether it contains the object named by thecomment.
If it does, there may still be the pos-sibility that it should be present, but that there issomething wrong with it.5 Scheme design: Skill targetedWe have considered what the corpus margin com-ments are doing, and the ways in which they ex-press whether an essay part met the required stan-dard.
The way in which a comment conveys howthe standard was or was not met is embodied bythe comments classification scheme?s design.
Thescheme has three layers, and here we consider thefirst.
When M wrote a comment, M had in minda good-essay-writing principle.
Our classificationscheme makes explicit the skill area of that essay-writing principle.
Consider set 10.
(10) a.
Why not?b.
Why bold?To understand what these comments mean, wefirst need to know what M intended, which wehave argued was to communicate to A whether andhow the related essay part had reached an agreedstandard.
On that account, the comments (a) and(b) in 10 mean something like (a) and (b) in 11.
(11) a.
?The argument here would have been improvedby including an explanation of why not.b.
?The use of bold font here is questionable.These are very different messages.
One com-ment is alerting A to some missing argument, andthe other is questioning A?s use of different fonts.How do we know this, given that both commentshave very similar syntactic structure?Addressee A works out that these commentsmean very different things by first identifying theskill area that the comment is targeting, and thenconsidering what that skill area is like?in whatways it can be good or bad.
To understand 10a,A needs to observe that essay part P contains astatement, and to infer that M is responding to theargument made by the statement.
To understand10b, A needs to observe that P contains some textin bold font, and to infer that M is questioning theuse of the bold font.
The difficulty here is thatconversational-style comments do not make it ex-plicit whether they are targeting content or form.Concluding that the identification of a com-ment?s target is often critical to understanding it,we defined 11categories for the scheme?s ?targetedskill?
layer.
The corpus investigations (see 2.10)revealed four main skill areas targeted by com-ments:?
Referencing?
Situating work in the relevant literature, referenc-ing conventions?
Structuring Essays?
Layout, scope, components?
Composing Argument?
Content, quality, arguing techniques, compre-hensibility?
Presenting English?
Spelling, grammar, formatting, style47We made Referencing and Structure targetcategories in their own right.
Owing to the highfrequency of comments expressing confusion andcomprehensibility (see 2.3) we made Compre-hensibility a target category.
Comments targetingthe content of an argument, the quality of an ar-gument (not including its comprehensibility), andarguing techniques are covered by target categoryArgument.
We divide the skill area of present-ing English into five subcategories: Formatting,Grammar, Punctuation, Spelling, Style.An additional target category is Context-Dependent.
This is assigned if an evaluative com-ment has very little information in it about what itstargeted skill might be (set 12).
(12) a.
Good [212 occurrances]b. Avoidc.
UnfinishedThe 11th target category, Author, is assigned toall comments which appear non-evaluative.
Theseinclude, for example, casual observations, per-sonal reminiscences, and expressions of gratitude.6 Scheme design: marker?s AttitudeHaving concluded that each corpus comment wascommunicating M?s opinion about an essay part,for the next layer in the scheme, we focused onopinion types.
The investigation results revealedthree common types (see section 2.2), which wenamed Miss, Reject, and Condemn.
The atti-tudes do not involve the emotional connotationsnormally associated with these names in everydaycommunication.
(Hereon we will refer to these ascategories of attitude, rather than opinion.
)Having observed the large proportion of polarquestions and expressions of uncertainty or doubtin the corpus (see 2.3 and 2.4), we decided to treatMiss, Reject, and Condemn as attitudes held by Mwith certainty, and to add another attitude Doubtto cover comments in which M called into ques-tion things that A had done, or in which M ex-pressed some uncertainty or doubt.?
Doubt: ?Why bold???
M considers that something in the essay is ofquestionable value.Since expressions of uncertainty are often usedas softeners rather than to express actual uncer-tainty, it seemed inappropriate to treat apparentuncertainty as a qualifier (Bunt, 2011) of attitudes.If we treat it as a qualifier, it suggests that Mwas not sure about M?s own opinion, rather thanthat the target of M?s comment was questionable.Doubt is the attitude most applicable to the major-ity of polar questions in the corpus.A further attitude, which is a sub-type of Con-demn, is defined as Dispute (see section 2.6):?
Dispute: ?Not necessarily.??
M holds views that are in opposition to someproposition in the essay.A further attitude Commend covers all com-ments that announce a ?strength?
(see section 2.1):?
Commend: ?Good??
M considers that something in the essay has at-tained or exceeded the required standard, or ispleasing or interesting to M.Two further attitudes (Refer and Exclaim) aredefined, which have a special characteristic.?
Refer: ?Ditto.??
M believes that A would benefit from reading aparticular source.?
Exclaim: ?Ah!??
M is surprised or shocked by something in theessay that M does not specify.It is not possible to tell whether Refer commentsare evaluative or not without reading the source towhich M has referred the addressee.
Similarly, it isimpossible to tell whether Exclaim comments areevaluative or not, either from the comment or theessay part to which the comment points.Two final attitudes?Engage and Thank?arereserved for non-evaluative comments, i.e., com-ments whose target is Author.?
Engage: ?I know how you feel.??
M finds something about the essay or about A en-gaging.
It appears that M has become engaged ina way that is more complex than liking or findinginteresting.?
Thank: ?Thanks??
M is grateful to A.These attitudes are what we term ?solidarity?
at-titudes, in that we assume that they were made inorder to engender positive feelings in A. Engagecomments have a very wide variety of forms andtopics, which we will not be attempting to analysein the initial rounds of the machine learning trials.Thank comments are all expressions of gratitude.7 Scheme design: Linguistic ActThe third layer of the categorisation scheme iden-tifies what we are calling the ?linguistic act?
of thecomment.
The acts are distinguished principally48by surface form and do not concern the evaluative(or non-evaluative) message that the comment isattempting to communicate.We began with the three basic English sen-tence types: declarative, interrogative, imperative.We divided ?interrogative?
into acts WHQuestionand Polar Question, as they have clearly distin-guishable surface forms.We also divided declarative comments into twoacts: Assertion and Description.
All margincomments, including interrogatives and impera-tives, are by definition assertions of M?s opin-ions, we have argued.
The scheme?s act Asser-tion is reserved for assertions of propositions inresponse to argument (13a, 13b) and explicit ex-pressions concerning understanding (13c), agree-ment (13d), verification or certainty.
Many asser-tions are subjective-sounding.
(13) a.
That is impossible!b.
This is true of many other organisationsc.
I don?t understandd.
Not sure I agree!Act Description is assigned to a comment whichis a description of a (non-propositional) object inor quality of an essay part P or of an action that hasbeen carried out by author A and that is evidencedby part P (set 14).
(14) a.
Too many references.b.
Factors clearly articulated.c.
This is a very strong assertionSplitting declaratives into acts Description andAssertion is a small step away from categoris-ing linguistic acts according to syntax only.
Themove separates declarative comments which re-spond directly to propositional content from allother declarative comments.We interpreted ?imperative?
as linguistic act cat-egory Instruction.
We treat the category loosely,allowing it to include comments that do not usethe imperative form but that look like guidance onwhat should have been done (set 15).
(15) a.
You should add a citation here.b.
I would not leave a space.c.
DittoAll Instruction comments talk in a variety ofways about things that were not done but thatshould have been, whereas all Description com-ments (set 14) talk about what was actually done.This distinction is not too dissimilar to the distinc-tion between imperatives and declaratives.
ThatInstruction comments do not always have the im-perative form is a repercussion of the informalconversational style of the comments.A sixth ?dummy?
linguistic act category is as-signed to all comments with attitude Engage, be-cause we will not be attempting to analyse those.The linguistic act layer, then, categorises thecomment?s form, while the target and attitude lay-ers categorise its meaning.
The linguistic act ac-counts for what the comment is apparently doing(see section 3).
The attitude and target account forwhat the comment is really doing.
A stark differ-ence between utterances and margin comments isthat, to understand an utterance, hearer H does nothave to work out what speaker S was really doing(Ramsay and Field, 2008); whereas to understanda margin comment, addressee A does have to workout what marker M was really doing.8 EvaluationWe have demonstrated that the classificationscheme can be deployed with high agreement lev-els between independent annotators.
Agreementby two annotators was calculated for 313 samplecomments that were annotated by each annotatorindependently.
Annotator A designed the schemeover several months.
Annotator B spent about 50minutes learning the scheme (from no prior expo-sure to it).
Annotator B took a mean average of1.1 minutes to fully annotate each comment in thesample.
Annotator A took a mean average of .49minutes to fully annotate each comment.The corpus comprised 1,408 essays submittedfor 13 different assessed university Master?s mod-ules, the official word limits of which ranged from500 to 4,000.
The essays had been marked by 20different markers.
The number of essays markedby each marker varied.
The mean average numberof comments per essay per marker ranged from4.83 to 47.00.
To avoid potential bias towardsthe more prolific markers?
styles, the same num-ber of essays were randomly sampled for eachmarker (where possible), and approximately thesame number of comments were randomly sam-pled from each of those essays.Some tutors appear to prefer very short com-ments, some long.
For some (but not all) of the tu-tors who marked essays of different lengths, therewas a correlation between essay length and thenumber of margin comments.
No analysis of lin-guistic style similarities across comments within49individual essays was carried out for this paper.Inter-annotator agreement was calculated usingCohen?s Kappa for each of the three layers ofthe scheme independently.
95% confidence inter-vals (CI) for test statistics were generated through10,000 statistical bootstrappings of the annotatedcomments.
The agreement coefficient for the atti-tude layer was 0.874 (95% CI, 0.831?0.914), forthe target layer was 0.791 (0.734?0.844), and forthe linguistic act layer was 0.822 (0.770?0.869).The percentage agreement across all three lay-ers was 72.1% (67.0%?77.0%) (the percentageof comments for which both annotators were inagreement on all three layers).
There were nooccurrences of comments which both annotatorsdeemed unclassifiable.
One of the comments wasdeemed unclassifiable by one annotator.The scheme has five attitude+target cross-layerdependencies (Engage+Author, Thank+Author,Refer+Context-Dependent, Exclaim+Context-Dependent, Dispute+Argument), and fivetarget+act cross-layer dependencies (each of thesame five pairs plus a linguistic act).
We acknowl-edge that these might argue for a more complexagreement calculation.
It is expected that somelinguistic act categories are unlikely to combinewith some attitude categories, though this requiresempirical verification.
A conservative estimate ofthe number of possible combinations of attitude,target, and act that we believe might be foundin the corpus is 155 combinations.
Additionally,some categories from a given layer appear to bemore frequent than other categories from the samelayer.
We acknowledge, therefore, that a weightedcoefficient method may be more suitable forcalculating inter-annotator agreement.9 Comparison with previous workNow that the categorisation scheme has been de-scribed, we will discuss comparisons with previ-ous work.
Categorisation schemes have been de-vised or re-used in order to analyse written feed-back, and discover where improvements might bemade.
The studies were principally interested inwhether the marker was writing comments thatwould ?feed forward?.
Measures for decidingwhether a comment would feed forward tended torevolve around the power of a comment to moti-vate its addressee, or whether the comment con-tained explanatory text that would make it clearhow to do things better in future.
We have notfound any feedback categorisation schemes pri-marily concerned with how opinion in commentsis conveyed through the medium of NL.Hyland (2001) designed a feedback classifica-tion scheme that was used to analyse the quality offeedback for a distance-learning language course.Hyland?s scheme focused on targeted skills, af-fective aspects, and explicit pointers for futurewriting.
Bales (1950) devised 12 categories forthe purpose of analysing small group interactions,which were later applied to the analysis of mar-gin comments by Whitelock et al.
(2004).
Bales?scheme focused on affective aspects (includingsolidarity, tension, antagonism), and pragmaticsaspects (suggestions, opinions, disagreements, re-quests).
Brown and Glover?s (2006) scheme fo-cused on skills, content, affective aspects, andfeeding forward.
They used their scheme to ar-gue that the feedback in a particular corpus ofcomments was of limited value, because most ofthe comments did not aid learning or understand-ing (Brown et al., 2004).
Nelson and Schunn(2009) wanted to identify conditions under whichaddressees of peer feedback might actually im-plement that feedback.
Their categories focusedon the linguistic features of comments (includ-ing summarisation, specificity, explanations) andaffective issues.
Perpignan (2003) viewed mar-gin comments as part of dialogue and discussedthe ?intentions and interpretations of the exchangefrom both the teacher?s and the learners?
perspec-tive?
(p. 259).
The work did not attempt to analysethe linguistic features of feedback.The categorisation scheme with the strongestresemblance to ours was Ferris et al.
(1997).
Thescheme viewed margin comments as having two?phases?
: teacher?s goal, and linguistic form (p.163).
The scheme has a very different interpre-tation of the intention of the marker from ours.It confuses marker intention with comment target.It implicitly recognises what we call marker atti-tude, but identifies only one (our Commend).
Itimplicitly recognises the target of a comment buthas only two target types (?form?
and ?content?
).10 DiscussionWe have presented a classification scheme formargin comments which is based on observationsof real data and on linguistics theory.
The goalof the classification was to ultimately use machinelearning to look for relationships between the mar-50gin comments and the essay parts to which theypoint so that we could design an automatic NLmargin comments generator.
The scheme there-fore focuses on the linguistic aspects of margincomments: their form and meaning.
It is designedto classify comments independently of the essayparts to which the comments point.
This was to en-sure that the comments in isolation could be clas-sified to a useful level of agreement, and, in futurework, to make it possible to investigate whetheressay properties can be used to predict character-istics of margin comments.
The 3-layered schemeenables the intended evaluative meanings of mar-gin comments to be captured despite their conver-sational style, while also preserving linguistic in-formation about that style (set 16).
(16) a.
Could you have developed this?i.
Attitude: Missii.
Target: Argumentiii.
Act: Polar Questionb.
Why bold?i.
Attitude: Doubtii.
Target: Formattingiii.
Act: WH Questionc.
No issuesi.
Attitude: Commendii.
Target: Context-Dependentiii.
Act: AssertionThe classification scheme is arguably a suitablescheme for all margin comments expressed in NL,with the proviso that the skills being targeted bythe comments would need to be tailored to the doc-ument type if it were not an argumentative essay.Details not discussed earlier include the follow-ing.
(i) We use a skills precedence list to select atarget for comments that are ambiguous over skillarea.
(ii) Prior to categorisation, each commentis segmented, and one ?principal segment?
only isidentified for categorisation.
This is for 4 reasons.
(1) Many comments begin with filler words (e.g.,?yes?, ?well?, ?ok?, ?hmm?
); (2) Many begin withpreambles (e.g., ?minor point?, ?Just one thought?
);(3) Many use a commendation as a softener be-fore delivering the main message; (4) Many con-tain more than one clause or sentence.
We usu-ally assume the first non-filler/non-preamble seg-ment is the principal segment, and that any non-filler segments that follow are elaborations on thefirst segment.
The exception to this is commentsin which a commendation is used as a softener, inwhich case the segment that follows the softenerbecomes the principal segment.High inter-annotator agreement scores havebeen achieved for the classification scheme.
Wehave not yet annotated the whole corpus, but weintend to.
We will also calculate inter-annotatoragreement for a higher number of sampled com-ments, since the number of possible combinationsof attitude, target, and act is so high (circa 155,see section 8).
We may make small changes to theannotation scheme before doing any further anno-tation.
In particular, we are considering dividingtarget Argument into two or three subcategories.While designing the classification scheme, wehave observed that, despite their conversationalstyle?indeed because of it?understanding NLmargin comments is harder than understandingconversational utterances.
Although the essay partto which a comment points is a public objectand therefore in M and A?s views of the commonground, the aspect of the essay part that M is tar-geting usually remains unexpressed and private inM?s mental state.
A therefore has to do some in-ferencing to identify that aspect.
In other words,A has to do some inferencing to fill in gaps in A?sview of the common ground that do not arise in aconversation.
This extra work is necessary just tounderstand the comment.
To fully benefit from thecomment by inferring the essay-writing principleM had in mind requires even more work.The planned machine learning investigationswill attempt to recognise and categorise appropri-ate opportunities for feedback comments by look-ing for associations between the categories as-signed to each margin comment according to ourscheme, and features of the passage in the essayto which a comment points?simple n-gram fea-tures, more complex measures of semantic simi-larity, and analysis of syntactic structure will beexperimented with.
The planned automatic feed-back comment generator will be informed by themachine learning investigations.
The form andstyle of the comments generated is yet to be de-cided.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the Engineering andPhysical Sciences Research Council (grant num-bers EP/J005959/1 and EP/J005231/1).51ReferencesChris Anson.
1989.
Response styles and ways ofknowing.
In Writing and Response: Theory, Prac-tice, Research, pages 332?366.
NCTE, Urbana, IL.J.L.
Austin.
1962.
How to do things with words.
Ox-ford University Press, Oxford, 2nd edition.R.F.
Bales.
1950.
A set of categories for the analysisof small group interactions.
American SociologicalReview, 15(2):257?263.E.
Brown and C. Glover.
2006.
Evaluating writtenfeedback.
In C. Bryan and K. Clegg, editors, Inno-vative assessment in higher education, pages 81?91.Routledge, Abingdon.E.
Brown, C. Glover, V. Stevens, and S. Freake.
2004.Evaluating the effectiveness of written feedback asan element of formative assessment in science.
InC. Rust, editor, Proceedings of the 12th Improv-ing Student Learning Symposium.
The Oxford Cen-tre for Staff and Learning Development, OxfordBrookes University, Oxford.Harry C. Bunt.
1990.
DIT: Dynamic interpretation intext and dialogue.
In ITK research report / Institutefor Language Technology and Artificial Intelligence,15.Harry Bunt.
2011.
The semantics of dialogue acts.
InProceedings of the 9th International Conference onComputational Semantics.
Oxford.H.H.
Clark and S.E.
Haviland.
1974.
Psychologicalprocesses in linguistic explanation.
In D. Cohen, ed-itor, Explaining linguistic phenomena.
HemispherePublication Corporation, Washington.H.H.
Clark and E.F. Schaefer.
1989.
Contributing todiscourse.
Cognitive Science, (13):259?294.M.
G. Core and J. Allen.
1997.
Coding dialogs withthe DAMSL annotation scheme.
In AAAI Fall Sym-posium on Communicative Action in Humans andMachines, MIT, Cambridge, MA.M.
Francine Danis.
1987.
The voice in the margins:Paper-marking as conversation.
Freshman EnglishNews, (15):18?20.Dana R. Ferris, Susan Pezone, Cathy R. Tade, and Sha-ree Tinti.
1997.
Teacher commentary on studentwriting: Descriptions and implications.
Journal ofSecond Language Writing, 6(2):155?182.Maxine Hairston.
1982.
The winds of change: ThomasKuhn and the revolution in the teaching of writ-ing.
College Composition and Communication,33(1):76?88.F.
Hyland.
2001.
Providing effective support: inves-tigating feedback to distance learners.
Open Learn-ing, 16(3):233?247.J.A.W.
Kamp.
1981.
A theory of truth and semanticrepresentation.
In J. Groenendijk, T. Janssen, andM.
Stockhof, editors, Formal methods in the studyof language, pages 177?321.
Mathematical CentreTracts, Amsterdam.Wolfgang Klein.
1985.
Ellipse, fokusgliederungund thematischer stand.
In Reinhard Meyer-Hermann and Hannes Rieser, editors, Ellipsen undfragmentarische Ausdr?ucke, pages 1?24.
Niemeyer,T?ubingen.D.
Lewis.
1979.
Scorekeeping in a language game.Journal of Philosophical Logic, (9):339?359.Erika Lindemann.
1987.
A Rhetoric for Writing Teach-ers.
Oxford UP, New York, 2nd edition edition.Jason Merchant.
2004.
Fragments and ellipsis.
Lin-guistics and philosophy, (27):661?738.Melissa M. Nelson and Christian D. Schunn.
2009.The nature of feedback: how different types of peerfeedback affect writing performance.
InstructionalScience, 37:375?401.Hadara Perpignan.
2003.
Exploring the written feed-back dialogue: a research, learning and teachingpractice.
Language Teaching Research, 7(2):259?278.Allan Ramsay and Debora Field.
2008.
Speech acts,epistemic planning and Grice?s maxims.
Journal ofLogic and Computation, 18:431?457.H.
Sacks, E.A.
Schegloff, and G. Jefferson.
1974.
Asimplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation.
Language, (50):696?735.E.A.
Schegloff.
1999.
Discourse, pragmatics, conver-sation, analysis.
Discourse Studies, 1(4):405?435.J.R.
Searle and D. Vanderveken.
1985.
Foundationsof illocutionary logic.
Cambridge University Press,New York.J.R.
Searle.
1969.
Speech acts: An essay in the phi-losophy of language.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.R Stalnaker.
1972.
Pragmatics.
In D. Davidson andG.
Harman, editors, Semantics of natural language(Synthese Library, Vol.
40), pages 380?397.
D. Rei-del, Dordrecht, Holland.R.
Straub.
1996.
Teacher response as conversation:more than casual talk, an exploration.
Rhetoric Re-view, 14(2):374?98.R.H.
Thomason.
1990.
Accommodation, meaning,and implicature: Interdisciplinary foundations forpragmatics.
In P.R.
Cohen, J. Morgan, and M.E.Pollack, editors, Intentions in communication, pages325?363.
MIT, Cambridge, Massachusetts.52D.
Whitelock, S. Watt, Y.
Raw, and Moreale E. 2004.Analysing tutor feedback to students: first stepstowards constructing an electronic monitoring sys-tem.
Association for Learning Technology Journal,11(3):31?42.Nina Ziv.
1984. the effect of teacher comments on thewriting of four college freshmen.
In R. Beach andL.
Bridwell, editors, New Directions in CompositionResearch, pages 362?380.
Guilford, New York.53
