Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 109?113,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying collocations using cross-lingual association measuresLis Pereira1, Elga Strafella2, Kevin Duh1and Yuji Matsumoto11Nara Institute of Science and Technology, 8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan{lis-k, kevinduh, matsu}@is.naist.jp2National Institute for Japanese Language and Linguistics, 10-2 Midoricho, Tachikawa, Tokyo 190-8561, Japanstrafelga@gmail.comAbstractWe introduce a simple and effective cross-lingual approach to identifying colloca-tions.
This approach is based on the obser-vation that true collocations, which cannotbe translated word for word, will exhibitvery different association scores beforeand after literal translation.
Our exper-iments in Japanese demonstrate that ourcross-lingual association measure can suc-cessfully exploit the combination of bilin-gual dictionary and large monolingual cor-pora, outperforming monolingual associa-tion measures.1 IntroductionCollocations are part of the wide range of linguis-tic phenomena such as idioms (kick the bucket),compounds (single-mind) and fixed phrases (byand large) defined as Multiword Expressions(MWEs).
MWEs, and collocations, in particu-lar, are very pervasive not only in English, butin other languages as well.
Although handlingMWEs properly is crucial in many natural lan-guage processing (NLP) tasks, manually annotat-ing them is a very costly and time consuming task.The main goal of this work-in-progress is,therefore, to evaluate the effectiveness of a simplecross-lingual approach that allows us to automat-ically identify collocations in a corpus and subse-quently distinguish them according to one of theirintrinsic properties: the meaning of the expressioncannot be predicted from the meaning of the parts,i.e.
they are characterized by limited composition-ality (Manning and Sch?utze, 1999).
Given an ex-pression, we predict whether the expression(s) re-sulted from the word by word translation is alsocommonly used in another language.
If not, thatmight be evidence that the original expression isa collocation (or an idiom).
This can be cap-tured by the ratio of association scores, assignedby association measures, in the target vs. sourcelanguage.
The results indicate that our methodimproves the precision comparing with standardmethods of MWE identification through monolin-gual association measures.2 Related WorkMost previous works on MWEs and, more specifi-cally, collocation identification (Evert, 2008; Sere-tan, 2011; Pecina, 2010; Ramisch, 2012) employa standard methodology consisting of two steps:1) candidate extraction, where candidates are ex-tracted based on n-grams or morphosyntactic pat-terns and 2) candidate filtering, where associationmeasures are applied to rank the candidates basedon association scores and consequently removenoise.
One drawback of such method is that as-sociation measures might not be able to perform aclear-cut distinction between collocation and non-collocations, since they only assign scores basedon statistical evidence, such as co-occurrence fre-quency in the corpus.
Our cross-lingual associa-tion measure ameliorates this problem by exploit-ing both corpora in two languages, one of whichmay be large.A few studies have attempted to identify non-compositional MWE?s using parallel corpora anddictionaries.
Melamed (1997) investigates hownon-compositional compounds can be detectedfrom parallel corpus by identifying translation di-vergences in the component words.
Pichotta andDeNero (2013) analyses the frequency statisticsof an expression and its component words, us-ing many bilingual corpora to identifying phrasalverbs in English.
The disadvantage of such ap-proach is that large-scale parallel corpora is avail-able for only a few language pairs.
On the otherhand, monolingual data is largely and freely avail-able for many languages.
Our approach requiresonly a bilingual dictionary and non-parallel mono-lingual corpora in both languages.109Salehi and Cook (2013) predict the degree ofcompositionality using the string distance betweenthe automatic translation into multiple languagesof an expression and the individual translationof its components.
They use an online databasecalled Panlex (Baldwin et al., 2010), that cantranslate words and expressions from English intomany languages.
Tsvetkov and Wintner (2013) isprobably the closest work to ours.
They traineda Bayesian Network for identfying MWE?s andone of the features used is a binary feature thatassumes value is 1 if the literal translation of theMWE candidate occurs more than 5 times in alarge English corpus.3 Identifying CollocationsIn this research, we predict whether the expres-sion(s) resulted from the translation of the com-ponents of a Japanese collocation candidate is/arealso commonly used in English.
For instance, ifwe translate the Japanese collocation ?????
mendou-wo-miru ?to care for someone?
(care-?-see)1 into English word by word, we obtain?see care?, which sounds awkward and may notappear in an English corpus very often.
On theother hand, the word to word translation of the freecombination ?????
eiga-wo-miru ?to see amovie?
(movie-?-see) is more prone to appearin an English corpus, since it corresponds to thetranslation of the expression as well.
In our work,we focus on noun-verb expressions in Japanese.Our proposed method consists of three steps:1) Candidate Extraction: We focus on noun-verb constructions in Japanese.
We work withthree construction types: object-verb, subject-verband dative-verb constructions, represented respec-tively as ?noun wo verb (noun-?-verb)?, ?noun gaverb (noun-?-verb)?
and ?noun ni verb (noun-?-verb)?, respectively.
The candidates are extractedfrom a Japanese corpus using a dependency parser(Kudo and Matsumoto, 2002) and ranked by fre-quency.2) Translation of the component words: foreach noun-verb candidate, we automatically ob-tain all the possible English literal translations ofthe noun and the verb using a Japanese/Englishdictionary.
Using that information, all the possi-ble verb-noun combinations in English are thengenerated.
For instance, for the candidate ?
?1In Japanese,?
is a case marker that indicates the object-verb dependency relation.??
hon-wo-kau ?to buy a book?
(buy-?-book),we take the noun ?
hon and the verb ??
kauand check their translation given in the dictio-nary.
?
has translations like ?book?, ?main?
and?head?
and ??
is translated as ?buy?.
Basedon that, possible combinations are ?buy book?
or?buy main?
(we filter out determiners, pronouns,etc.
).3) Ranking of original and derived word toword translated expression: we compare theassociation score of the original expression inJapanese (calculated using a Japanese corpus) andits corresponding derived word to word translatedexpressions.
If the original expression has a muchhigher score than its literal translations, it might bea good evidence that we are dealing with a collo-cation, instead of a free combination.There is no defined criteria in choosing one par-ticular association measure when applying it ina specific task, since different measures highlightdifferent aspects of collocativity (Evert, 2008).
Astate-of-the-art, language independent frameworkthat employs the standard methodology to identifyMWEs is mwetoolkit (Ramisch, 2012).
It ranksthe extracted candidates using four different as-sociation measures: log-likelihood-ratio, Dice co-efficient, pointwise mutual information and Stu-dent?s t-score.
We previously conducted exper-iments with these four measures for Japanese(results are ommited), and Dice coefficient per-formed best.
Using Dice coefficient, we calcu-late the ratio between the score of the original ex-pression and the average score of its literal trans-lations.
Finally, the candidates are ranked by theratio value.
Those that have a high value are ex-pected to be collocations, while those with a lowvalue are expected to be free combinations.4 Experiment Setup4.1 Data SetThe following resources were used in our experi-ments:Japanese/English dictionary: we used Edict(Breen, 1995), a freely available Japanese/EnglishDictionary in machine-readable form, containing110,424 entries.
This dictionary was used to findall the possible translations of each Japanese wordinvolved in the candidate (noun and verb).
For ourtest set, all the words were covered by the dictio-nary.
We obtained an average of 4.5 translationsper word.
All the translations that contains more110than three words are filtered out.
For the transla-tions of the Japanese noun, we only consider thefirst noun appearing in each translation.
For thetranslations of the Japanese verb, we only considerthe first verb/phrasal verb appearing in each trans-lation.
For instance, in the Japanese collocation?????
koi-ni-ochiru ?to fall in love?
(love-?-fall down)2, the translations in the dictionary andthe ones we consider (shown in bold type) of thenoun?
koi ?love?
and the verb???
ochiru ?tofall down?
are:?
: love , tender passion???
: to fall down, to fail, to crash, todegenerate, to degradeBilingual resource: we used Hiragana Timescorpus, a Japanese-English bilingual corpus ofmagazine articles of Hiragana Times3, a bilingualmagazine written in Japanese and English to intro-duce Japan to non-Japanese, covering a wide rangeof topics (culture, society, history, politics, etc.
).The corpus contains articles from 2003-2102, witha total of 117,492 sentence pairs.
We used theJapanese data to extract the noun-verb collocationcandidates using a dependency parser, Cabocha(Kudo and Matsumoto, 2002).
For our work, wefocus on the object-verb, subject-verb and dative-verb dependency relations.
The corpus was alsoused to calculate the Dice score of each Japanesecandidate, using the Japanese data.Monolingual resource: we used 75,377 En-glish Wikipedia articles, crawled in July 2013.
Itcontains a total of 9.5 million sentences.
The datawas used to calculate the Dice score of each can-didate?s derived word to word translated expres-sions.
The corpus was annotated with Part-of-Speech (POS) information, from where we de-fined POS patterns to extract all the verb-nounand noun-verb sequences, using the MWE toolkit(Ramisch, 2012), which is an integrated frame-work for MWE treatment, providing corpus pre-processing facilities.Table 1 shows simple statistics on the HiraganaTimes corpus and on the Wikipedia corpus.4.2 Test setIn order to evaluate our system, the top 100 fre-quent candidates extracted from Hiragana Timescorpus were manually annotated by 4 Japanesenative speakers.
The judges were asked to make2?
is the dative case marker in Japanese.3http://www.hiraganatimes.comHiraganaTimesWikipedia# jp sentences 117,492 -# en sentences 117,492 9,500,000# jp tokens 3,949,616 -# en tokens 2,107,613 247,355,886# jp noun-verb 31,013 -# en noun-verb - 266,033# en verb-noun - 734,250Table 1: Statistics on the Hiragana Times corpusand Wikipedia corpus, showing the number of sen-tences, number of words and number of noun-verb and verb-noun expressions in English andJapanese.a ternary judgment for each of the candidates onwhether the candidate is a collocation, idiom orfree combination.
For each category, a judge wasshown the definition and some examples.
We de-fined collocations as all those expressions whereone of the component words preserves its lit-eral meaning, while the other element assumes aslightly different meaning and its use is blocked(i.e.
it cannot be substituted by a synonym).
Id-ioms were defined as the semantically and syntac-tically fixed expressions where all the componentwords loose their original meaning.
Free combi-nations were defined as all those expressions fre-quently used where the components preserve theirliteral meaning.
The inter-annotator agreementis computed using Fleiss?
Kappa statistic (Fleiss,1971), since it involves more than 2 annotators.Since our method does not differentiate colloca-tions from idioms (although we plan to work onthat as future work), we group collocations and id-ioms as one class.
We obtained a Kappa coeffi-cient of 0.4354, which is considered as showingmoderate agreement according to Fleiss (1971).Only the candidates identically annotated by themajority of judges (3 or more) were added to thetest set, resulting in a number of 87 candidates(36 collocations and 51 free combinations).
Af-ter that, we obtained a new Kappa coefficient of0.5427, which is also considered as showing mod-erate agreement (Fleiss, 1971).4.3 BaselineWe compare our proposed method with two base-lines: an association measure based system anda Phrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation111(SMT) based system.Monolingual Association Measure: The sys-tem ranks the candidates in the test set accordingto their Dice score calculated using the HiraganaTimes Japanese data.Phrase-Based SMT system: a standard non-factored phrase-based SMT system was built us-ing the open source Moses toolkit (Koehn et al.,2007) with parameters set similar to those of Neu-big (2011), who provides a baseline system pre-viously applied to a Japanese-English corpus builtfrom Wikipedia articles.
For training, we used Hi-ragana Times bilingual corpus.
The Japanese sen-tences were word-segmented and the English sen-tences were tokenized and lowercased.
All sen-tences with size greater than 60 tokens were previ-ously eliminated.
The whole English corpus wasused as training data for a 5-gram language modelbuilt with the SRILM toolkit (Stolcke, 2002).Similar to what we did for our proposedmethod, for each candidate in the test set, we findall the possible literally translated expressions (asdescribed in Section 3).
In the phrase-table gen-erated after the training step, we look for all theentries that contain the original candidate stringand check if at least one of the possible literaltranslations appear as their corresponding transla-tion.
For the entries found, we compute the av-erage of the sum of the candidate?s direct and in-verse phrase translation probability scores.
The di-rect phrase translation probability and the inversephrase translation probability (Koehn et al., 2003)are respectively defined as:?
(e|f) =count(f, e)?fcount(f, e)(1)?
(f |e) =count(f, e)?ecount(f, e)(2)Where f and e indicate a foreign phrase and asource phrase, independently.The candidates are ranked according to the av-erage score as described previously.5 EvaluationIn our evaluation, we average the precision con-sidering all true collocations and idioms as thresh-old points, obtaining the mean average precision(MAP).
Differently from the traditional approachused to evaluate an association measure, usingMAP we do not need to set a hard threshold.Table 2 presents the MAP values for our pro-posed method and for the two baselines.
Ourcross-lingual method performs best in terms ofMAP values against the two baselines.
We foundout that it performs statistically better only com-pared to the Monolingual Association Measurebaseline4.
The Monolingual Association Measurebaseline performed worst, since free combinationswere assigned high scores as well, and the systemwas not able to perform a clear separation into col-locations and non-collocations.
The Phrase-BasedSMT system obtained a higher MAP value thanMonolingual Association measure, but the scoremay be optimistic since we are testing in-domain.One concern is that there are only a very few bilin-gual/parallel corpora for the Japanese/English lan-guage pair, in case we want to test with a differentdomain and larger test set.
The fact that our pro-posed method outperforms SMT implies that us-ing such readily-available monolingual data (En-glish Wikipedia) is a better way to exploit cross-lingual information.Method MAP valueMonolingual Association Measure 0.54Phrase-Based SMT 0.67Proposed Method 0.71Table 2: Mean average precision of proposedmethod and baselines.Some cases where the system could not per-form well include those where a collocation canalso have a literal translation.
For instance,in Japanese, there is the collocation ???
?kokoro-wo-hiraku ?to open your heart?
(heart-?-open), where the literal translation of the noun ?kokoro ?heart?
and the verb ??
hiraku ?open?correspond to the translation of the expression aswell.Another case is when the candidate expressionhas both literal and non-literal meaning.
For in-stance, the collocation ????
hito-wo-miru(person-?-see) can mean ?to see a person?, whichis the literal meaning, but when used together withthe noun ?
me ?eye?, for instance, it can alsocan mean ?to judge human character?.
When an-notating the data, the judges classified as idiomssome of those expressions, for instance, becausethe non-literal meaning is mostly used compared4Statistical significance was calculated using a two-tailedt-test for a confidence interval of 95%.112with the literal meaning.
However, our systemfound that the literal translated expressions arealso commonly used in English, which caused theperformance decrease.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this report of work in progress, we proposea method to distinguish free combinations andcollocations (and idioms) by computing the ratioof association measures in source and target lan-guages.
We demonstrated that our method, whichcan exploit existing monolingual association mea-sures on large monolingual corpora, performedbetter than techniques previously applied in MWEidentification.In the future work, we are interested in increas-ing the size of the corpus and test set used (forinstance, include mid to low frequent MWE?s),as well as applying our method to other collo-cational patterns like Noun-Adjective, Adjective-Noun, Adverb-Verb, in order to verify our ap-proach.
We also believe that our approach canbe used for other languages as well.
We intend toconduct a further investigation on how we can dif-ferentiate collocations from idioms.
Another stepof our research will be towards the integration ofthe acquired data into a web interface for languagelearning and learning materials for foreign learn-ers as well.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Masashi Shimbo, Xi-aodong Liu, Mai Omura, Yu Sawai and YorikoNishijima for their valuable help and anonymousreviewers for the helpful comments and advice.ReferencesTimothy Baldwin, Jonathan Pool, and Susan M Colow-ick.
2010.
Panlex and lextract: Translating allwords of all languages of the world.
In Proceed-ings of the 23rd International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics: Demonstrations, pages 37?40.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Jim Breen.
1995.
Building an electronic japanese-english dictionary.
In Japanese Studies Associationof Australia Conference.
Citeseer.Stefan Evert.
2008.
Corpora and collocations.
CorpusLinguistics.
An International Handbook, 2.Joseph L Fleiss.
1971.
Measuring nominal scaleagreement among many raters.
Psychological bul-letin, 76(5):378.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
InProceedings of the 2003 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics on Human Language Technology-Volume 1, pages 48?54.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, et al.
2007.
Moses: Open sourcetoolkit for statistical machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the ACLon Interactive Poster and Demonstration Sessions,pages 177?180.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Taku Kudo and Yuji Matsumoto.
2002.
Japanesedependency analysis using cascaded chunking.
Inproceedings of the 6th conference on Natural lan-guage learning-Volume 20, pages 1?7.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Christopher D Manning and Hinrich Sch?utze.
1999.Foundations of statistical natural language process-ing, volume 999.
MIT Press.Dan Melamed.
1997.
Automatic discovery of non-compositional compounds in parallel data.
EMNLP.Graham Neubig.
2011.
The kyoto free translation task.Available on line at http://www.
phontron.
com/kftt.Pavel Pecina.
2010.
Lexical association measuresand collocation extraction.
Language resources andevaluation, 44(1-2):137?158.Karl Pichotta and John DeNero.
2013.
Identifyingphrasal verbs using many bilingual corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 636?646.Carlos Ramisch.
2012.
A generic framework for mul-tiword expressions treatment: from acquisition toapplications.
In Proceedings of ACL 2012 StudentResearch Workshop, pages 61?66.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Bahar Salehi and Paul Cook.
2013.
Predictingthe compositionality of multiword expressions usingtranslations in multiple languages.Violeta Seretan.
2011.
Syntax-based collocation ex-traction, volume 44.
Springer.Andreas Stolcke.
2002.
Srilm-an extensible languagemodeling toolkit.
In INTERSPEECH.Yulia Tsvetkov and Shuly Wintner.
2013.
Identifica-tion of multi-word expressions by combining multi-ple linguistic information sources.113
