Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Linguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 1?6,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPredicting military and veteran suicide risk:Cultural aspectsPaul ThompsonDartmouth CollegePaul.Thompson@dartmouth.eduChris PoulinDurkheim Projectchris@durkheimproject.orgCraig J. BryanNational Center forVeterans Studiescraig.bryan@utah.eduAbstractThis paper describes the three phases ofthe Durkheim Project.
For this projectwe developed a clinician's dashboard thatdisplays output of models predicting sui-cide risk of veterans and active duty mili-tary personnel.
During phase one, webuilt the clinician?s dashboard and com-pleted a Veterans Affairs (VA) predictiverisk medical records study, based on ananalysis of the narrative, or free text, por-tions of VA medical records, In phasetwo, we will predict suicide risk based onopt-in social media postings by patientsusing social media websites, e.g., Face-book.
We describe the software infra-structure that we have completed for thisphase two system.
During phase threewe will provide a three layer interventionstrategy.
We discuss our methodologyfor the three phases, including IRB-approved protocols for the first two phas-es and a soon-to-be approved IRB proto-col for phase three.1 IntroductionDiagnosis of psychological health and the predic-tion of negative events, such as suicide, or sui-cide ideation, is limited by:  a) a lack of under-standing of the true differentiating risks of sui-cidality (Health Promotion, 2010; Treating Sol-diers, 2010) and b) a lack of near real-time reac-tion capability to large volumes of data.
There isa need for broader coverage suicide risk detec-tion and a better understanding of the expressionof suicide ideation through data mining of textand images.
The Durkheim Project?s proposedsolution is to provide continuous monitoring oftext based information, such as found in socialnetwork user behavioral intent enabling interven-tion; facilitated by social / online data sources,powered by a medically-validated suicide riskclassifier.2   Suicide risk and military cultureThe suicide rate among members of the UnitedStates Armed Forces has continued to rise for thepast decade, beginning soon after the onset ofmilitary operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Sui-cide is now the second-leading cause of deathamong military personnel, with more servicemembers dying by suicide in 2012 than by com-bat-related causes (Zoroya, 2012).
In response tosteadily rising suicide rates among military per-sonnel and veterans, researchers, clinicians, poli-cy-makers, and military leaders have respondedwith an overwhelming and concerted effort toreverse these trends.
Despite these considerableefforts, however, no evidence of effectivenesshas been observed to date, resulting in consider-able frustration for all involved.
Although specif-ic reasons explaining the lack of success to dateare not yet known, it has been noted that mostsuicide prevention efforts used with military andveteran populations lack cultural relevance anddo not incorporate several critical characteristicsof the military culture that can create uniquechallenges from a suicide prevention perspective(Bryan et al., 2012).
For instance, mental tough-ness and suppressive coping, fearlessness ofdeath, and self-sacrifice are qualities that are val-ued in the military, but can serve as barriers totraditional prevention efforts.The military culture values strength, resilience,courage, and personal sacrifice when faced withadversity.
Weakness is not tolerated, and servicemembers are expected to ?shake it off?
or ?suckit up?
when experiencing problems or illness.1Suppression and avoidance have long beenlinked to mental health problems and emotionaldistress (Hayes et al., 1996), including suicidalideation and suicide attempts (Najmi et al.,2007).
Yet despite this ?common sense?
piece ofknowledge, suppression and avoidance are none-theless taught and reinforced within the militaryculture as a coping strategy because, in the shortterm after a stressful or traumatic event, suppres-sion can actually reduce emotional distress andfoster adaptation to extreme adversity (Beck etal., 2006; Bonanno 2004).
This is especially rel-evant in combat situations, when natural griefresponses may need to be suppressed to sustainadequate performance and achieve mission ob-jectives.
For example, crying in the midst of afire fight is not adaptive or conducive to survival,and therefore must be stifled.
Suppression andavoidance therefore presents the first paradox forunderstanding military and veteran suicide: askill that is adaptive and useful in the short-termfollowing a traumatic event can be detrimentaland impair adaptive functioning in the long-term.Military personnel are also explicitly trained toovercome their fear of injury and death, typicallythrough repeated exposure to scenarios and envi-ronments that increasingly mimic actual combatsituations, which habituates them to fear andeventually replaces this fear with exhilarationand/or other positive emotions (i.e., the oppo-nent-process).
Indeed, greater exposure to com-bat, especially combat marked by higher levelsof violence and injury, are associated with lessfear of death among military personnel (Bryanand Cukrowicz, 2011; Bryan et al.
2011).
Fear-lessness is an essential quality of a service mem-ber; retreating from danger and life-threateningsituations are generally not conducive to an ef-fective fighting force.
Yet at the same time, fearof death is a well-known protective factor forsuicide, given that individuals who are afraid todie are unlikely to attempt suicide, and fearless-ness is associated with more severe levels of sui-cide risk among military personnel relative tocivilian samples, and is associated with increasedseverity of suicide risk among military personnel(Bryan et al., 2010).
Consequently, fearlessnessabout death paradoxically serves both as a neces-sary strength and asset for military personnel, yetalso serves as a risk factor for suicide.The military culture also places a premium onselflessness in the service of a higher good, anddoes not necessarily view life as the highest goodin every situation.
In the military, one?s lifemight actually be viewed as subordinate to other,higher ?goods?
such as the well-being of othersor ideals and principles such as freedom and jus-tice.
Laying down one?s life for a greater good iswidely considered to be one of the highest hon-ors a service member can achieve.
A considera-ble amount of research has converged on a verysuicide-specific and dangerous thought processfor suicidal behavior: perceived burdensomeness.Perceived burdensomeness entails the mistakenperception that ?others would be better off with-out me?
or that one?s death is of greater valuethan one?s life.
Perceived burdensomeness andself-sacrifice are in many ways opposite sides ofthe same coin, and it is not yet clear how or whenperceived burdensomeness (?taking?
one?s life)becomes mistaken for self-sacrifice (?giving?one?s life) among military personnel and veter-ans.These characteristics simultaneously function asan asset (in terms of military performance) andas a liability (in terms of suicide prevention) formilitary personnel and veterans, thereby creatinga paradox for suicide prevention in military andveteran populations, and contributing directly tomental health stigma.
Furthermore, the values ofthe military culture are generally at odds with thevalues and ideals of mental health systems,which value emotional vulnerability and help-seeking, and focus on deficiencies and clinicaldisorders, thereby reinforcing stigma even more.In essence, traditional prevention approacheshave conceptualized suicide in a way that con-flicts with the core identity and values of militarypersonnel and veterans.
To be effective, suicideprevention efforts must be culturally-relevantand integrate these values and ideals of militarypersonnel and veterans.3    Related workIn addition to the work related to military cultureissues discussed in section 2, there are many lin-guistic approaches to analyzing suicide risk(Barak and Miron, 2005; Jones and Bennell,2007; Lester, 2008a; Lester, 2008b; Lester,2010a; Lester, 2010b; Lester et al., 2010; Lesterand McSwain, 2010; Stirman and Pennebaker,2001).
In 2011, one of the Informatics for Inte-grating Biology & the Bedside (i2b2) sharedtasks was a sentiment analysis task to identifyemotion in suicide notes (Combined Objective,2011).
Of this literature only Barak and Miron2(2005) considers online text.
Most other textanalysis suicide research concerns analysis ofsuicide notes.
There are studies of the writingsof suicidal poets (Lester and McSwain, 2010;Stirman and Pennebaker, 2001) and studies in-volving distinguishing genuine and simulatedsuicide notes (Jones and Bennell, 2007; Lester,2010a).4     The Durkheim Project4.1 OverviewThe Durkheim Project consists of three phases.During the first phase, described in section 4.2, aclinician?s dashboard was built and a VeteransAffairs (VA) predictive risk medical recordsstudy was completed, based on an analysis of thenarrative, or free text, portions of VA medicalrecords.
Also during the first phase, the initialsoftware infrastructure to collect and analyze thesocial media data for phase two, was designedand implemented.
During the second phase, sec-tion 4.3, now underway, opt-in social mediapostings are being collected and will be ana-lyzed.
During the third phase, section 4.4, a pilotprogram will isolate serious suicide risk for indi-viduals in real-time, and develop a predictiontriage model for improved suicide intervention4.2 Phase 1:  Veteran Affairs medical recordsstudyDuring phase 1 linguistics-driven predictionmodels were developed to estimate the risk ofsuicide.
These models were generated from un-structured clinical notes taken from a nationalsample of United States VA medical records.The protocol for this study was approved by theInstitutional Review Board (IRB) of the VAMedical Center, where the study was conducted.We created three matched cohorts: veterans whocompleted suicide, veterans who used mentalhealth services and did not complete suicide, andveterans who did not use mental health servicesand did not complete suicide during the observa-tion period (n = 70 in each group).
From the clin-ical notes, we generated datasets of single key-words and multi-word phrases, and constructedprediction models using a supervised machine-learning algorithm based on a genetic program-ming framework, MOSES (Looks, 2006, 2007;Goertzel et al., 2013).
MOSES can be describedas a variant of a decision-tree forest, with certaingenetic and maximum entropy techniques mixedin:  maximum entropy to apply pressure to min-imize tree size and genetic to ensure tree speciesdiversity.
In our prior research we have foundthat MOSES consistently outperforms standardtext classification approaches, such as SupportVector Machines (SVMs).
The primary hyper-parameter that we used was the dynamic featuresize.
The resulting inference accuracy was atfirst 65% and then consistently 67% or more.This was the prediction accuracy for assigning apatient to the correct cohort.
These data suggestthat computerized text analytics can be applied tounstructured sections of medical records to esti-mate the risk of suicide (Poulin et al.
2014).
Theresulting system could potentially allow clini-cians to screen seemingly healthy patients at theprimary care level, and to continuously evaluatesuicide risk among psychiatric patients.4.3 Phase 2:  Predicting risk with opt-in socialmedia postingsAlthough data collection and analysis for phase 2is just beginning, the software development re-quired for this data collection and analysis wascompleted during phase 1.
A phase 2 protocolfor collecting and analyzing opt-in social mediapostings and presenting predictions to cliniciansvia the Durkheim Project?s Clinicians?
dashboardhas also been approved by our IRB.
When thesystem is fully operational, a clinician will seepredictive models of suicide risk for a patientconstructed from the patient?s medical recordsand the patient?s opt-in social media postings.Subjects are being recruited via targeted efforts.Subjects will be recruited through our collabora-tion with Facebook (PR Newswire 2013).
A Fa-cebook pop-up window will be used to recruitpeople that Facebook has identified as being mil-itary personnel or veterans.4.4 Phase 3:  InterventionFor phase 3, a protocol has been completed,which will soon be submitted to a final IRB.This protocol includes an unblinded, 3-cohortdesign, for a pilot program, which proposes toisolate serious suicide risks for individuals inreal-time and to develop a prediction triage mod-el for improved suicide intervention.
Plans are touse and improve upon the linguistically-basedprediction capabilities of the model developedduring phase 1.
The phase 1 retrospective studywas able to predict with limited accuracy beforesuicides occurred.
The theoretic assumption isthat wording chosen by those at risk will vary atdifferent stages of risk.
By building from ongo-ing observations from the phase 2 study and3feedback obtained during the conduct of thephase 3 study, the aim is to adjust the linguistics-driven model to predict suicide risk within thecritical period for interventions of various levelsof severity.In this protocol, ongoing monitoring of the net-work will allow continuous updating and changein value of risk alert levels among the green-to-red color coding.
When the predictive systemdetects postings that indicate a certain thresholdlevel of potential suicide risk, risk alerts are trig-gered in real-time and sent to either a monitoringclinician or a pre-identified buddy monitor, or toan automated system, which will generate sup-portive messages that are sent to the at-risk indi-vidual.To better characterize the risk for the populationof active-duty military and veterans, the analysisfor this study will be limited to the primary par-ticipants.
These primary participants may benewly recruited via the dedicated Facebook andmobile applications or, through that same dedi-cated application, from among those already par-ticipating in the phase 2 study.
In either case, allprimary participants must provide informed con-sent for this specific study.
That is, those alreadyinvolved in the phase 2 study must provide sepa-rate consent to participate in the phase 3 study.However, outside of the context of this study, thecomputerized intervention will be open to mem-bers of the general public who might wish to takeadvantage of the program?s intervention poten-tial.
Primary participants are active duty U.S.military or veterans with English as a primary orsecondary language, who agree to post to socialmedia using English.
The age limit for primaryparticipants in the phase 3 study, as with phase 2study, targets the age group most likely to active-ly use social media, i.e., those between the agesof 18 and 45.5    ResultsSo far results are only available for the phase1 study.
For single-word models, the predic-tive accuracy was approximately 59% (theaverage for 100 models), and scores for indi-vidual candidate models ranged from 46-67%.
Because our training sets are balanced,we have used accuracy as a surrogate forprecision and recall.
Accuracy was comput-ed using five-way cross-validation.
Modelsthat used certain word pairs had significantlybetter scores than single-word models,though they are far less human readable.
Thephrases ?negative assessment for PTSD?
and?positive assessment for PTSD" carry differ-ent meanings.
This phrase-based approachwas more accurate than a single-word ap-proach.
For pre-selected word pairs, the in-dividual model scores ranged from 52-69%,with an average of 64% (for 100 models).
Inthe final experiments, the combined Cohorts?1v2v3 classifier?
had a peak performance of70%, and an average performance of 67%.6    DiscussionOur analyses were successful at determininguseful text-based signals of suicide risk.
Weobtained accuracies of greater than 60% forensemble averages of 100 models, and ourindividual model accuracies reached 67-69%.
Given the small size of the dataset andthe fragmentary nature of the clinical notes,this performance level represents a signifi-cant achievement.
For a classifier, these re-sults represent a statistically significant ?sig-nal?.
Meanwhile, we showed that, methodo-logically, word pairs are more useful thansingle words for model construction on elec-tronic medical record (EMR) data.
Fur-thermore, the predictive feature words thatdistinguished each group were highly reveal-ing, especially for the suicidal cohort, andwere consistent with the existing medicalliterature on suicide.
Many medical condi-tions have been associated with an increasedrisk for suicide, but these conditions havegenerally not been included in suicide riskassessment tools.
These conditions includegastrointestinal conditions, cardiopulmonaryconditions, oncologic conditions, and painconditions.
Also, some research has emergedthat links care processes to suicide risk.
Theword "integrated" emerged as a key term inour study and is also reflected in the inte-grated care literature (Bauer et al., 2013).Although the text on which our predictivemodel was based for the phase 1 medicalrecords study was text written by a physicianor other healthcare provider, our hypothesis4is that some of the highly predictive featureslearned during phase 1 will carry over to thepredictive modeling of opt-in social mediapostings during phase 2.
This text is writtenby the patient.
However, we expect thatsome of the features, or concepts, will be thesame due to the ability to do software basedsynonym matches  Additionally, a physicianor other healthcare worker may sometimesquote or paraphrase what a patient said whenadding a note to the clinical record.
A keypredictive feature, such as the word ?anxie-ty,?
may be used either by a clinician or apatient.
We believe that the use of special-ized text-analytic resources such as linguisticinquiry and word count (LIWC) would alsohelp improve our results.
Some preliminaryresults have been obtained using LIWC onour dataset.In future research we plan to scale up thephase 1 medical records study from our cur-rent study where each cohort had 70 subjectsto a study, using the same protocol, with atleast 1000 subjects in each cohort.
We alsoplan to transfer the predictive model builtfrom the phase 1 study to the analysis ofphase 2 opt-in social media postings.
Onceour phase 3 protocol has IRB approval, weplan to begin the phase 3 of the DurkheimProject, informed by the results, and on-going follow-on research, of our phase 1 and2 studies.
In our future research we plan touse additional features from the structuredportions of the medical record, as well as touse LIWC.
In both our medical records andsocial media research we plan to use tem-poral analysis.7     ConclusionAlthough the phase 1 study was successful indistinguishing the cohort of completed sui-cides both from the control group cohort andthe psychiatric cohort, it was difficult to dis-tinguish text based noise from signal withhigh accuracy in our initial results.
We ex-pect that our planned follow-on study with1000 subjects in each cohort will have muchless problem in distinguishing signal fromnoise.
Suicide risk prediction is a very diffi-cult problem.
We believe that studies suchas our phases 1 and 2 studies, which use su-pervised machine learning techniques, canuncover predictive risk factors that are notclearly understood by the medical communi-ty.
At the same time, we also believe thatmore effective suicide risk prediction sys-tems can be built based on the integration ofmachine learning methods and the expertiseof suicidologists.
In particular, building anunderstanding of military culture into ourmethods will be important.ReferencesAmy M. Bauer, Ya-Fen Chan, Hsiang Huang, StevenVannoy, Jurgen Un?tzer.
2013.
Characteristics,Management, and Depression Outcomes of Pri-mary Care Patients Who Endorse Thoughts ofDeath or Suicide on the PHQ-9.
J Gen InternMed.
Mar; 28(3):363-9. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2194-2.
Epub 2012 Aug 31.Azy Barak, Ofra Miron.
2005.
Writing Characteris-tics of Suicidal People on the Internet:  A Psycho-logical Investigation of Emerging Social Envi-ronments.
Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior35(5) October.Ben Goertzel, Nil Geisweiller, Pennachin, Cassio.2013.
Integrating Feature Selection into ProgramLearning.
Proceedings of AGI-13, Springer.http://goertzel.org/agi-13/FS-MOSES_v1.pdf.Chris Poulin, Brian Shiner, Paul Thompson, LinasVepstas,Yinong Young-Xu, Benjamin Goertzel,Bradley Watts, Laura Flashman, Thomas McAl-lister.
2014.
Predicting the Risk of Suicide byAnalyzing the Text of Clinical Notes.
PLoS ONE9(1): e85733.
doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0085733.Combined Objective & Subjective Shared Task An-nouncement:  Call for Participation.
2011.https://www.i2b2.org/NLP/Coreference/Call.php.Craig J. Bryan, Kelly C. Cukrowicz.
2011.
Associa-tions between types of combat violence and the ac-quired capability for suicide.
Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior, 41,126-136.Craig J. Bryan, Kelly C. Cukrowicz, Christopher L.West, Chad E. Morrow.
2010.
Combat experienceand the acquired capability for suicide.
Journal ofClinical Psychology, 66, 1044-1056.Craig J. Bryan, Keith W. Jennings, David A. Jobes,John C. Bradley.
2012.
Understanding and pre-venting military suicide.
Archives of Suicide Re-search, 16, 95-110.Craig J. Bryan, Chad E. Morrow, Michael D. Anestis,Thomas E. Joiner.
2010.
A preliminary test of the5interpersonal-psychological theory of suicidal be-havior in a military sample.
Personality and Indi-vidual Differences, 48, 347-350.David Lester.
2008a.
Computer Analysis of the Con-tent of Suicide Notes from Men and Women.
Psy-chological Reports, 102, 575-576.David Lester.
2008b.
Differences Between Genuineand Simulated Suicide Notes.
Psychological Re-ports, 103, 527-528.David Lester.
2010a.
Linguistic Analysis of a Blogfrom a Murder-Suicide.
Psychological Reports,106(2): 342.David Lester.
2010b.
The Final Hours:  A LinguisticAnalysis of the Final Words of a Suicide.
Psycho-logical Reports, 106(3): 791-797.David Lester, Janet Haines, Christopher Williams.2010.
Content Differences in Suicide Notes bySex, Age, and Method:  A Study of Australian Sui-cide Notes.
Psychological Reports, 106(2): 475-476.David Lester, Stephanie McSwain.
2010.
Poems bya Suicide:  Sara Teasdale.
Psychological Reports,106(3): 811-812.George Bonanno.
2004.
Loss, trauma, and humanresilience: Have we underestimated the human ca-pacity to thrive after extremely aversive events?American Psychologist, 59, 20-28.Gregg Zoroya.
Army, Navy suicides at record high.2012.
USA Today.http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2012/11/18/navy-suicides-army/1702403/, November18.Health Promotion Risk Reduction Suicide Prevention.2010.
U.S. ARMY HP/RR/SP REPORT:http://usarmy.vo.llnwd.net/e1/HPRRSP/HP-RR-SPReport2010_v00.pdf.J.
Gayle Beck, Berglind Gudmundsdottir, SarahPalyo, Luana M. Miller, DeMond Grant.
2006.Rebound effects following deliberate thought sup-pression: does PTSD make a difference?
BehaviorTherapy, 37, 170-180.LIWC.
2014.
Linguistic Inquery and Word Count.http://www.liwc.net/ Accessed 28 April 2014.Moshe Looks.
2006.
Competent Program Evolution.PhD thesis, Washington University.Moshe Looks.
2007.
Meta-optimizing semantic evo-lutionary search.
In: Lipson, H.
(ed.
), Genetic andEvolutionary Computation Conference, GECCO2007, Proceedings, London, England, UK, July 7-11, p. 626.Natalie J. Jones, Craig Bennell.
2007.
The Develop-ment and Validation of Statistical Prediction Rulesfor Discriminating Between Genuine and Simulat-ed Suicide Notes.
Archives of Suicide Research,11:21-233.PR Newswire.
2013http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-durkheim-project-will-analyze-opt-in-data-from-veterans-social-media-and-mobile-content----seeking-real-time-predictive-analytics-for-suicide-risk-213922041.html Accessed 28 April 2014.Sadia Najmi, Daniel M. Wegner, and Matthew K.Nock.
2007.
Thought suppression and self-injurious thoughts and behaviors.
Behaviour Re-search and Therapy, 45, 1957-1965.Shannon W. Stirman, James W. Pennebaker.
2001.Word Use in the Poetry of Suicidal and Nonsuicid-al Poets.
Psychosomatic Medicine 63:517-522.Steven Hayes, Kelly G. Wilson, Elizabeth V. Gifford,Victoria M. Follette, and Kirk Strosahl.
1996.
Ex-periential avoidance and behavioral disorders: Afunctional dimensional approach to diagnosis andtreatment.
Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psy-chology, 64, 1152-1168.Treating Soldiers with Brain Injuries.
2010.
DianeRehm, NPR: June 24.6
