Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications , pages 28?33,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnderstanding MOOC Discussion Forums using Seeded LDA1Arti Ramesh,1Dan Goldwasser,1Bert Huang,1Hal Daum?e III,2Lise Getoor1University of Maryland, College Park2University of California, Santa Cruz{artir, bert, hal}@cs.umd.edu, goldwas1@umiacs.umd.edu, getoor@soe.ucsc.eduAbstractDiscussion forums serve as a platform forstudent discussions in massive open onlinecourses (MOOCs).
Analyzing content inthese forums can uncover useful informa-tion for improving student retention andhelp in initiating instructor intervention.In this work, we explore the use of topicmodels, particularly seeded topic modelstoward this goal.
We demonstrate that fea-tures derived from topic analysis help inpredicting student survival.1 IntroductionThis paper highlights the importance of under-standing MOOC discussion forum content, andshows that capturing discussion forum contentcan help uncover students?
intentions and motiva-tion and provide useful information in predictingcourse completion.MOOC discussion forums provide a platformfor exchange of ideas, course administration andlogistics questions, reporting errors in lectures,and discussion about course material.
Unlikeclassroom settings, where there is face-to-face in-teraction between the instructor and the studentsand among the students, MOOC forums are theprimary means of interaction in MOOCs.
How-ever, due to the large number of students and thelarge volume of posts generated by them, MOOCforums are not monitored completely.
Forumscan include student posts expressing difficulties incourse-work, grading errors, dissatisfaction in thecourse, which are possible precursors to studentsdropping out.Previous work analyzing discussion forum con-tent tried manually labeling posts by categories ofinterest (Stump et al., 2013).
Unfortunately, theeffort involved in manually annotating the largeamounts of posts prevents using such solutions ona large scale.
Instead, we suggest using naturallanguage processing tools for identifying relevantaspects of forum content automatically.
Specifi-cally, we explore SeededLDA (Jagarlamudi et al.,2012), a recent extension of topic models whichcan utilize a lexical seed set to bias the topics ac-cording to relevant domain knowledge.Exploring data from three MOOCs, we findthat forum posts usually belong to these threecategories?a) course content, which include dis-cussions about course material (COURSE), b)meta-level discussions about the course, includingfeedback and course logistics (LOGISTICS), and c)other general discussions, which include studentintroductions, discussions about online courses(GENERAL).
In order to capture these categoriesautomatically we provide seed words for each cat-egory.
For example, we extract seed words forthe COURSE topic from each course?s syllabus.In addition to the automatic topic assignment, wecapture the sentiment polarity using Opinionfinder(Wilson et al., 2005).
We use features derivedfrom topic assignments and sentiment to predictstudent course completion (student survival).
Wemeasure course completion by examining if thestudent attempted the final exam/ last few assign-ments in the course.
We follow the observationthat LOGISTICS posts contain feedback about thecourse.
Finding high-confidence LOGISTICS postscan give a better understanding of student opinionabout the course.
Similarly, posting in COURSEtopic and receiving good feedback (i.e., votes) isan indicator of student success and might con-tribute to survival.
We show that modeling theseintuitions using topic assignments together withsentiment scores, helps in predicting student sur-vival.
In addition, we examine the topic assign-ment and sentiment patterns of some users andshow that topic assignments help in understandingstudent concerns better.282 Modeling Student SurvivalOur work builds on work by Ramesh et al.
(2013)and (2014) on modeling student survival usingProbabilistic Soft Logic (PSL).
The authors in-cluded behavioral features, such as lecture views,posting/voting/viewing discussion forum content,linguistic features, such as sentiment and subjec-tivity of posts, and social interaction features de-rived from forum interaction.
The authors lookedat indication of sentiment without modeling thecontext in which the sentiment was expressed:positive sentiment implying survival and negativesentiment implying drop-out.
In this work, wetackle this problem by adding topics, enabling rea-soning about specific types of posts.
While senti-ment of posts can indicate general dissatisfaction,we expect this to be more pronounced in LOGIS-TICS posts as posts in this category correspond toissues and feedback about the course.
In contrast,sentiment in posts about course material may sig-nal a particular topic of discussion in a course andmay not indicate attitude of the student toward thecourse.
In Section 4.3, we show some examples ofcourse-related posts and their sentiment, and weillustrate that they are not suggestive of studentsurvival.
For example, in Women and the CivilRights Movement course, the post?
?I think ourvalues are shaped by past generations in our fam-ily as well, sometimes negatively.?
?indicates anattitude towards an issue discussed as part of thecourse.
Hence, identifying posts that fall underLOGISTICS can improve the value of sentiment inposts.
In Section 3, we show how these are trans-lated into rules in our model.2.1 Probabilistic Soft LogicWe briefly overview the some technical details be-hind Probabilistic Soft Logic (PSL).
For brevity,we omit many specifics, and we refer the readerto (Broecheler et al., 2010; Bach et al., 2013)for more details.
PSL is a framework for collec-tive, probabilistic reasoning in relational domains.Like other statistical relational learning methods(Getoor and Taskar, 2007), PSL uses weightedrules to model dependencies in a domain.
How-ever, one distinguishing aspect is that PSL usescontinuous variables to represent truth values, re-laxing Boolean truth values to the interval [0,1].Table 1 lists some PSL rules from our model.The predicate posts captures the relationship be-tween a post and the user who posted it.
Predicatepolarity(P) represents sentiment via its truth valuein [0, 1], where 1.0 signifies positive sentiment,and 0.0 signifies negative sentiment.
upvote(P) is1.0 if the post has positive feedback and 0.0 if thepost had negative or no feedback.
U and P refer touser and post respectively.
These features can becombined to produce rules in Table 1.
For exam-ple, the first rule captures the idea that posts withpositive sentiment imply student survival.?
posts(U,P ) ?
polarity(P ) ?
survival(U)?
posts(U,P ) ?
?polarity(P ) ?
?survival(U)?
posts(U,P ) ?
upvote(P ) ?
survival(U)Table 1: Example rules in PSL3 Enhancing Student Survival Modelswith Topic ModelingDiscussion forums in online courses are organizedinto threads to facilitate grouping of posts into top-ics.
For example, a thread titled errata, gradingissues is likely a place for discussing course logis-tics and a thread titled week 1, lecture 1 is likely aplace for discussing course content.
But a moreprecise examination of such threads reveals thatthese heuristics do not always hold.
We have ob-served that course content threads often house lo-gistic content and vice-versa.
This demands thenecessity of using computational linguistics meth-ods to classify the content in discussion forums.In this work, we?1) use topic models to mapposts to topics in an unsupervised way, and 2)employ background knowledge from the coursesyllabus and manual inspection of discussion fo-rum posts to seed topic models to get better sep-arated topics.
We use data from three Cours-era MOOCs: Surviving Disruptive Technologies,Women and the Civil Rights Movement, and Geneand the Human Condition for our analysis.
In dis-cussion below, we refer to these courses as DISR-TECH, WOMEN, and GENE, respectively.3.1 Latent Dirichlet AllocationTable 2 gives the topics given by latent Dirichletallocation (LDA) on discussion forum posts.
Thewords that are likely to fall under LOGISTICS areunderlined in the table.
It can be observed thatthese words are spread across more than one topic.Since we are especially interested in posts that areon LOGISTICS, we use SeededLDA (Jagarlamudiet al., 2012), which allows one to specify seedwords that can influence the discovered topics to-ward our desired three categories.29topic 1: kodak, management, great, innovation, post, agree, film, understand, something, problem, businesses, changes, needstopic 2: good, change, publishing, brand, companies, publishers, history, marketing, traditional, believe, authorstopic 3: think, work, technologies, newspaper, content, paper, model, business, disruptive, information, survive, print, media, course, assignmenttopic 4: digital, kodak, company, camera, market, quality, phone, development, future, failed, high, right, old,topic 5: amazon, books, netflix, blockbuster, stores, online, experience, products, apple, nook, strategy, video, servicetopic 6: time, grading, different, class, course, major, focus, product, like, yearstopic 7: companies, interesting, class, thanks, going, printing, far, wonder, article, sureTable 2: Topics identified by LDAtopic 1: thank, professor, lectures, assignments, concept, love, thanks, learned, enjoyed, forums, subject, question, hard, time, grading, peer, lower, lowtopic 2: learning, education, moocs, courses, students, online, university, classroom, teaching, courseraTable 3: Seed words in LOGISTICS and GENERAL for DISR-TECH, WOMEN and GENE coursestopic 3a: disruptive, technology, innovation, survival, digital, disruption, survivortopic 3b: women, civil, rights, movement, american, black, struggle, political, protests, organizations, events, historians, african, status, citizenshiptopic 3c: genomics, genome, egg, living, processes, ancestors, genes, nature, epigenitics, behavior, genetic, engineering, biotechnologyTable 4: Seed words for COURSE topic for DISR-TECH, WOMEN and GENE coursestopic 1: time, thanks, one, low, hard, question, course, love, professor, lectures, lower, another, concept, agree, peer, point, nevertopic 2: online, education, coursera, students, university, courses, classroom, moocs, teaching, videotopic 3: digital, survival, management, disruption, technology, development, market, business, innovationtopic 4: publishing, publisher, traditional, companies, money, history, brandtopic 5: companies, social, internet, work, exampletopic 6: business, company, products, services, post, consumer, market, phone, changes, appletopic 7: amazon, book, nook, readers, strategy, print, noble, barnesTable 5: Topics identified by SeededLDA for DISR-TECHtopic 1: time, thanks, one, hard, question, course, love, professor, lectures, forums, help, essays, problem, thread, concept, subjecttopic 2: online, education, coursera, students, university, courses, classroom, moocs, teaching, video, work, english, interested, everyonetopic 3: women, rights, black, civil, movement, african, struggle, social, citizenship, community, lynching, class, freedom, racial, segregationtopic 4: violence, public, people, one, justice, school,s state, vote, make, system, lawstopic 5: idea, believe, women, world, today, family, group, rightstopic 6: one, years, family, school, history, person, men, children, king, church, mother, story, youngtopic 7: lynching, books, mississippi, march, media, youtube, death, google, woman, watch, mrs, south, article, filmTable 6: Topics identified by SeededLDA for WOMENtopic 1: time, thanks, one, answer, hard, question, course, love, professor, lectures, brian, lever, another, concept, agree, peer, material, interestingtopic 2: online, education, coursera, students, university, courses, classroom, moocs, teaching, video, knowledge, schooltopic 3: genes, genome, nature, dna, gene, living, behavior, chromosomes, mutation, processestopic 4: genetic, biotechnology, engineering, cancer, science, research, function, rnatopic 5: reproduce, animals, vitamin, correct, term, summary, read, stepstopic 6: food, body, cells, alleles blood, less, area, present, gmo, crops, population, stoptopic 7: something, group, dna, certain, type, early, large, cause, less, cellsTable 7: Topics identified by SeededLDA for GENE3.2 Seeded LDAWe experiment by providing seed words for top-ics that fall into the three categories.
The seedwords for the three courses are listed in tables 3and 4.
The seed words for LOGISTICS and GEN-ERAL are common across all the three courses.The seed words for the COURSE topic are chosenfrom the course-syllabus of the courses.
This con-struction of seed words enables the model to beapplied to new courses easily.
Topics 3a, 3b, and3c denote the course specific seed words for DISR-TECH, WOMEN, and GENE courses respectively.Since the syllabus is only an outline of the class,it does not contain all the terms that will be usedin class discussions.
To capture other finer coursecontent discussions as separate topics, we includek more topics when we run the SeededLDA.
Wenotice that not including more topics here, onlyincluding the seeded topics (i.e., run SeededLDAwith exactly three topics) results in some wordsfrom course content discussions, which were notspecified in the course-seed words, appearing inthe LOGISTICS or GENERAL topics.
Thus, the kextra topics help represent COURSE topics that donot directly correspond to the course seeds.
Notethat these extra topics are not seeded.
We exper-imented with different values of k on our exper-iments and found by manual inspection that thetopic-terms produced by our model were well sep-arated for k = 3.
Thus, we run SeededLDA with7 total topics.
Tables 5, 6, and 7 give the top-ics identified for DISR-TECH, WOMEN and GENEby SeededLDA.
The topic assignments so obtainedare used as input features to the PSL model?thepredicate for the first topic is LOGISTICS, the sec-ond one is GENERAL and the rest are summed upto get the topic assignment for COURSE.3.3 Using topic assignments in PSLWe construct two models?a) DIRECT model, in-cluding all features except features from topic30survival = 0.0 polarity = 0.25 logistics = 0.657general = 0.028course = 0.314JSTOR allowed 3 items (texts/writings) on my ?shelf?
for 14 days.
But, I read the items and wish to return them, butcannot, until 14 days has expired.
It is difficult then, to do the extra readings in the ?Exploring Further?
section of Week1 reading list in a timely manner.
Does anyone have any ideas for surmounting this issue?survival = 0.0 polarity = 0.0 logistics = 0.643general = 0.071course = 0.285There are some mistakes on quiz 2.
Questions 3, 5, and 15 mark you wrong for answers that are correct.survival = 0.0 polarity = 0.25 logistics = 0.652general = 0.043course = 0.304I see week 5 quiz is due April 1( by midnight 3/31/13).I am concerned about this due date being on Easter, some of uswill be traveling, such as myself.
Can the due date be later in the week?
Thank youTable 8: Logistics posts containing negative sentiment for dropped-out studentssurvival = 1.0 polarity = 0.0 logistics = 0.67general = 0.067course = 0.267I was just looking at the topics for the second essay assignments.
The thing is I dont see what the question choices are.I have the option of Weeks and I have no idea what that even means.
Can someone help me out here and tell me whatthe questions for the second essay assignment are I think my computer isnt allowing me to see the whole assignment!Someone please help me out and let me know that the options are.survival = 1.0 polarity = 0.25 logistics = 0.769general = 0.051course = 0.179I?d appreciate someone looks into the following: Lecture slides for the videos (week 5) don?t open (at all) (irrespectiveof the used browser).
Some required reading material for week 5 won?t open either (error message).
I also have a sensethat there should be more material posted for the week (optional readings, more videos, etc).
Thanks.
?
I am notseeing a quiz posted for Week 5.survival = 1.0 polarity = 0.78 logistics = 0.67general = 0.067course = 0.267Hopefully the Terrell reading and the Lecture PowerPoints now open for you.
Thanks for reporting this.Table 9: Example of change in sentiment in a course logistic threadsurvival = 1.0 polarity = 0.25 logistics = 0.372general = 0.163course = 0.465I?ve got very interested in the dynamic of segregation in terms of space and body pointed by Professor Brown andfound a document written by GerShun Avilez called ?Housing the Black Body: Value, Domestic Space,and SegregationNarratives?.survival = 1.0 polarity = 0.9 logistics = 0.202general = 0.025course = 0.772I think that you hit it on the head, the whole idea of Emancipation came as a result not so much of rights but of the needto get the Transcontinental Railroad through the mid-west and the north did not want the wealth of the southern slaveowners to overshadow the available shares.
There are many brilliant people ?good will hunting?, and their brillianceeither dies with them or dies while they are alive due to intolerance.
Many things have happened in my life to cause meto be tolerant to others and see what their debate is, Many very evil social ills and stereotypes are a result of ignorance.It would be awesome if the brilliant minds could all come together for reform and change.survival = 1.0 polarity = 0.167 logistics = 0.052general = 0.104course = 0.844I think our values are shaped by past generations in our family as well ?
sometimes negatively.
In Bliss, Michiganwhere I come from, 5 families settled when the government kicked out the residents ?
Ottowa Tribe Native Americans.I am descended from the 5 families.
All of the cultural influences in Bliss were white Christian ?
the Native Americanpopulation had never been welcomed back or invited to stay as they had in Cross Village just down the beach.
Myfamily moved to the city for 4 years during my childhood, and I had African American, Asian, and Hispanic classmatesand friends.
When we moved back to the country I was confronted with the racism and generational wrong-doings ofmy ancestors.
At the tender age of 10 my awareness had been raised!
Was I ever pissed off when the full awareness ofthe situation hit me!
I still am.Table 10: Posts talking about COURSE contentDIRECT DIRECT+TOPICposts(U,P ) ?
polarity(P ) ?
survival(U) posts(U,P ) ?
topic(P, LOGISTICS) ?
?polarity(P ) ?
survival(U)posts(U,P ) ?
?polarity(P ) ?
?survival(U) posts(U,P ) ?
topic(P, LOGISTICS) ?
?polarity(P ) ?
survival(U)posts(U,P ) ?
survival(U) posts(U,P ) ?
topic(P, GENERAL) ?
?survival(U)posts(U,P ) ?
upvote(P ) ?
survival(U) posts(U,P ) ?
topic(P, COURSE) ?
upvote(P ) ?
survival(U)posts(U1, P ) ?
posts(U2, P ) ?
topic(P, COURSE) ?
survival(U1) ?survival(U2)Table 11: Rules modified to include topic featuresmodeling, and b) DIRECT+TOPIC model, includ-ing the topic assignments as features in the model.Our DIRECT model is borrowed from Ramesh(2014).
We refer the reader to (Ramesh et al.,2013) and (Ramesh et al., 2014) for a completelist of features and rules in this model.Table 11 contains examples of rules in the DI-RECT model and the corresponding rules includ-ing topic assignments in DIRECT+TOPIC model.The first and second rules containing polarity arechanged to include LOGISTICS topic feature, fol-lowing our observation that polarity matters inmeta-course posts.
While the DIRECT model re-gards posting in forums as an indication of sur-vival, in the DIRECT+TOPIC model, this rule ischanged to capture that students that post a lot ofgeneral stuff only on the forums do not necessar-ily participate in course-related discussions.
Thefourth rule containing upvote predicate, which sig-nifies posts that received positive feedback in theform of votes, is changed to include the topic-feature COURSE.
This captures the significanceof posting course-related content that gets posi-tive feedback as opposed to logistics or generalcontent in the forums.
This rule helps us discernposts in general/logistic category that can get a lot31of positive votes (upvote), but do not necessarilyindicate student survival.
For example, some in-troduction threads have a lot of positive votes, butdo not necessarily signify student survival.4 Empirical EvaluationWe conducted experiments to answer the follow-ing question?how much do the topic assignmentsfrom SeededLDA help in predicting student sur-vival?
We also perform a qualitative analysisof topic assignments, the sentiment of posts, andtheir correspondence with student survival.COURSE MODEL AUC-PRPOS.AUC-PRNEG.AUC-ROCDISR-TECHDIRECT 0.764 0.628 0.688DIRECT+TOPIC 0.794 0.638 0.708WOMENDIRECT 0.654 0.899 0.820DIRECT+TOPIC 0.674 0.900 0.834GENEDIRECT 0.874 0.780 0.860DIRECT+TOPIC 0.894 0.791 0.873Table 12: Performance of DIRECT and DI-RECT+TOPIC models in predicting student sur-vival.
Statistically significant scores typed in bold.4.1 Datasets and Experimental SetupWe evaluate our models on three CourseraMOOCs: DISR-TECH, WOMEN-CIVIL, and GENE,respectively.
Our data consists of anonymized stu-dent records, grades, and online behavior recordedduring the seven week duration of each course.
Welabel students as survival = 1.0 if they take the fi-nal exam/quiz and survival = 0.0 otherwise.
Inour experiments, we only consider students thatcompleted at least one quiz/assignment.
We eval-uate our models using area under precision-recallcurve for positive and negative survival labels andarea under ROC curve.
We use ten-fold cross-validation on each of the courses, leaving out 10%of users for testing and revealing the rest of theusers for training the model weights.
We evaluatestatistical significance using a paired t-test with arejection threshold of 0.05.4.2 Survival Prediction using topic featuresTable 12 shows the prediction performance of theDIRECT and DIRECT+TOPIC model.
The inclu-sion of the topic-features improves student sur-vival prediction in all the three courses.4.3 Discussion topic analysis using topicfeaturesTable 8 shows some posts by users that did notsurvive the class.
All these posts have negativesentiment scores by Opinionfinder and belong toLOGISTICS.
Also, in the forum, all these postswere not answered.
This suggests that studentsmight drop out if their course-logistics questionsare not answered.
Table 9 gives examples of stu-dent posts that also have a negative sentiment.
Butthe sentiment of the thread changes when the issueis resolved (last row in the table).
We observe thatthese two students survive the course and a timelyanswer to their posts might have been a reason in-fluencing these students to complete the course.Tables 8 and 9 show how student survival maydepend on forum interaction and responses theyreceive.
Our approach can help discover potentialpoints of contention in the forums, identifying po-tential drop outs that can be avoided by interven-tion.Table 10 shows posts flagged as COURSE by theSeededLDA.
The polarity scores in the COURSEposts indicate opinions and attitude toward coursespecific material.
For example, post #3 in Table 10indicates opinion towards human rights.
While thepost?s polarity is negative, it is clear that this po-larity value is not directed at the course and shouldnot be used to predict student survival.
In fact, allthese users survive the course.
We find that par-ticipation in course related discussion is a sign ofsurvival.
These examples demonstrate that analy-sis on COURSE posts can mislead survival and jus-tify our using topic predictions to focus sentimentanalysis on LOGISTICS posts.5 DiscussionIn this paper, we have taken a step toward un-derstanding discussion content in massive openonline courses.
Our topic analysis is coarse-grained, grouping posts into three categories.
Inour analysis, all the meta-content?course logis-tics and course feedback?were grouped under thesame topic category.
Instead, a finer-grained topicmodel could be seeded with different componentsof meta-content as separate topics.
The same ap-plies for course-related posts too, where a finer-grained analysis could help identify difficult topicsthat may cause student frustration and dropout.Acknowledgements We thank the instructors for letting ususe data from their course.
This work is supported by Na-tional Science Foundation under Grant No.
CCF0937094.Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendationsexpressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do notnecessarily reflect the views of the National Science Founda-tion.32ReferencesStephen H. Bach, Bert Huang, Ben London, and Lise Getoor.2013.
Hinge-loss Markov random fields: Convex infer-ence for structured prediction.
In Uncertainty in ArtificialIntelligence.Matthias Broecheler, Lilyana Mihalkova, and Lise Getoor.2010.
Probabilistic similarity logic.
In Uncertainty in Ar-tificial Intelligence (UAI).Lise Getoor and Ben Taskar.
2007.
Introduction to StatisticalRelational Learning (Adaptive Computation and MachineLearning).
The MIT Press.Jagadeesh Jagarlamudi, Hal Daum?e, III, and RaghavendraUdupa.
2012.
Incorporating lexical priors into topicmodels.
In Proceedings of the 13th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, EACL ?12, pages 204?213, Stroudsburg, PA,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Angelika Kimmig, Stephen H. Bach, Matthias Broecheler,Bert Huang, and Lise Getoor.
2012.
A short introductionto probabilistic soft logic.
In NIPS Workshop on Proba-bilistic Programming: Foundations and Applications.Arti Ramesh, Dan Goldwasser, Bert Huang, Hal Daume III,and Lise Getoor.
2013.
Modeling learner engagement inMOOCs using probabilistic soft logic.
In NIPS Workshopon Data Driven Education.Arti Ramesh, Dan Goldwasser, Bert Huang, Hal Daume III,and Lise Getoor.
2014.
Learning latent engagement pat-terns of students in online courses.
In Proceedings of theTwenty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence.Glenda S. Stump, Jennifer DeBoer, Jonathan Whittinghill,and Lori Breslow.
2013.
Development of a framework toclassify mooc discussion forum posts: Methodology andchallenges.
In NIPS Workshop on Data Driven Education.Theresa Wilson, Paul Hoffmann, Swapna Somasundaran, Ja-son Kessler, Janyce Wiebe, Yejin Choi, Claire Cardie,Ellen Riloff, and Siddharth Patwardhan.
2005.
Opinion-Finder: A system for subjectivity analysis.
In Proceedingsof HLT/EMNLP on Interactive Demonstrations.33
