Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Predicting and Improving Text Readability for Target Reader Populations (PITR) @ EACL 2014, pages 57?65,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMedical text simplification using synonym replacement:Adapting assessment of word difficulty to a compounding languageEmil Abrahamsson1Timothy Forni1Maria Skeppstedt1Maria Kvist1,21Department of Computer and Systems Sciences (DSV)Stockholm University, Sweden{emab6827, tifo6794, mariask}@dsv.su.se2Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics (LIME)Karolinska Institutet, Swedenmaria.kvist@karolinska.seAbstractMedical texts can be difficult to under-stand for laymen, due to a frequent occur-rence of specialised medical terms.
Re-placing these difficult terms with eas-ier synonyms can, however, lead to im-proved readability.
In this study, we haveadapted a method for assessing difficultyof words to make it more suitable to med-ical Swedish.
The difficulty of a wordwas assessed not only by measuring thefrequency of the word in a general cor-pus, but also by measuring the frequencyof substrings of words, thereby adapt-ing the method to the compounding na-ture of Swedish.
All words having aMeSH synonym that was assessed as eas-ier, were replaced in a corpus of medicaltext.
According to the readability measureLIX, the replacement resulted in a slightlymore difficult text, while the readabilityincreased according to the OVIX measureand to a preliminary reader study.1 IntroductionOur health, and the health of our family andfriends, is something that concerns us all.
To beable to understand texts from the medical domain,e.g.
our own health record or texts discussing sci-entific findings related to our own medical prob-lems, is therefore highly relevant for all of us.Specialised terms, often derived from latin orgreek, as well as specialised abbreviations, are,however, often used in medical texts (Kokkinakisand Toporowska Gronostaj, 2006).
This has theeffect that medical texts can be difficult to compre-hend (Keselman and Smith, 2012).
Comprehend-ing medical text might be particularly challengingfor those laymen readers who are not used to look-ing up unknown terms while reading.
A survey ofSwedish Internet users showed, for instance, thatusers with a long education consult medical infor-mation available on the Internet to a much largerextent than users with a shorter education (Find-ahl, 2010, pp.
28?35).
This discrepancy betweendifferent user groups is one indication that meth-ods for simplifying medical texts are needed, tomake the medical information accessible to every-one.Previous studies have shown that replacing dif-ficult words with easier synonyms can reduce thelevel of difficulty in a text.
The level of diffi-culty of a word was, in these studies, determinedby measuring its frequency in a general corpus ofthe language; a measure based on the idea thatfrequent words are easier than less frequent, asthey are more familiar to the reader.
This syn-onym replacement method has been evaluated onmedical English text (Leroy et al., 2012) as wellas on Swedish non-medical text (Keskis?arkk?a andJ?onsson, 2012).
To the best of our knowledge, thismethod has, however, not previously been evalu-ated on medical text written in Swedish.
In ad-dition, as Swedish is a compounding language,laymen versions of specialised medical terms areoften constructed by compounds of every-daySwedish words.
Whether a word consists of easilyunderstandable constituents, is a factor that alsoought to be taken into account when assessing thedifficulty of a word.The aim of our study was, therefore, to in-vestigate if synonym replacement based on termfrequency could be successfully applied also onSwedish medical text, as well as if this methodcould be further developed by adapting it to thecompounding nature of Swedish.2 BackgroundThe level of difficulty varies between differenttypes of medical texts (Leroy et al., 2006), butstudies have shown that even brochures intended57for patients, or websites about health issues, can bedifficult to comprehend (Kokkinakis et al., 2012;Leroy et al., 2012).
Bio-medical texts, such asmedical journals, are characterised by sentencesthat have high informational and structural com-plexity, thus containing a lot of technical terms(Friedman et al., 2002).
An abundance of med-ical terminology and a frequent use of abbrevia-tions form, as previously mentioned, a strong bar-rier for comprehension when laymen read medicaltext.
Health literacy is a much larger issue thanonly the frequent occurrence of specialised terms;an issue that includes many socio-economic fac-tors.
The core of the issue is, however, the read-ability of the text, and adapting word choice to thereader group (Zeng et al., 2005; Leroy et al., 2012)is a possible method to at least partly improve thereadability of medical texts.Semi-automatic adaption of word choice hasbeen evaluated on English medical text (Leroy etal., 2012) and automatic adaption on Swedish non-medical text (Keskis?arkk?a and J?onsson, 2012).Both studies used synonym lexicons and replacedwords that were difficult to understand with moreeasily understandable synonyms.
The level of dif-ficulty of a word was determined by measuring itsfrequency in a general corpus.
The English studybased its figures for word frequency on the numberof occurrences of a word in Google?s index of En-glish language websites, while the Swedish studyused the frequency of a word in the Swedish Pa-role corpus (Gellerstam et al., 2000), which is acorpus compiled from several sources, e.g.
news-paper texts and fiction.The English study used English WordNet as thesynonym resource, and difficult text was trans-formed by a medical librarian, who chose eas-ier replacements for difficult words among candi-dates that were presented by the text simplifica-tion system.
Also hypernyms from semantic cat-egories in WordNet, UMLS and Wiktionary wereused, but as clarifications for difficult words (e.g.in the form: ?difficult word, a kind of semantic cat-egory?).
A frequency cut-off in the Google WebCorpus was used for distinguishing between easyand difficult words.
The study was evaluated byletting readers 1) assess perceived difficulty in 12sentences extracted from medical texts aimed atpatients, and 2) answer multiple choice questionsrelated to paragraphs of texts from the same re-source, in order to measure actual difficulty.
Theevaluations showed that perceived difficulty wassignificantly higher before the transformation, andthat actual difficulty was significantly higher forone combination of medical topic and test setting.The Swedish study used the freely availableSynLex as the resource for synonyms, and oneof the studied methods was synonym replacementbased on word frequency.
The synonym replace-ment was totally automatic and no cut-off wasused for distinguishing between familiar and rarewords.
The replacement algorithm instead re-placed all words which had a synonym with ahigher frequency in the Parole corpus than the fre-quency of the original word.
The effect of thefrequency-based synonym replacement was auto-matically evaluated by applying the two Swedishreadability measures LIX and OVIX on the orig-inal and on the modified text.
Synonym replace-ment improved readability according to these twomeasures for all of the four studied Swedish textgenres: newspaper texts, informative texts fromthe Swedish Social Insurance Agency, articlesfrom a popular science magazine and academictexts.For synonym replacement to be a meaningfulmethod for text simplification, there must existsynonyms that are near enough not to change thecontent of what is written.
Perfect synonyms arerare, as there is typically at least one aspect inwhich two separate words within a language dif-fer; if it is not a small difference in meaning, itmight be in the context in which they are typi-cally used (Saeed, 1997).
For describing med-ical concepts, there is, however, often one setof terms that are used by health professionals,whereas another set of laymen?s terms are used bypatients (Leroy and Chen, 2001; Kokkinakis andToporowska Gronostaj, 2006).
This means thatsynonym replacement could have a large poten-tial for simplifying medical text, as there are manysynonyms within this domain, for which the dif-ference mainly lies in the context in which theyare typically used.The availability of comprehensive synonym re-sources is another condition for making it possi-ble to implement synonym replacement for textsimplification.
For English, there is a consumerhealth vocabulary initiative connecting laymen?sexpressions to technical terminology (Keselmanet al., 2008), as well as several medical termi-58Original Med r?ontgen kan man se en ?okad trabekulering, osteoporossamt pseudofrakturer.Transformed Med r?ontgen kan man se en ?okad trabekulering, bensk?orhetsamt pseudofrakturer.Translated original With X-ray, one can see an increased trabeculation, osteoporosisand pseudo-fractures.Translated transformed With X-ray, one can see an increased trabeculation, bone-brittlenessand pseudo-fractures.Table 1: An example of how the synonym replacement changes a word in a sentence.nologies containing synonymic expressions, e.g.MeSH1and SNOMED CT2.
Swedish, with fewerspeakers, also has fewer lexical resources than En-glish, and although SNOMED CT was recentlytranslated to Swedish, the Swedish version doesnot contain any synonyms.
MeSH on the otherhand, which is a controlled vocabulary for index-ing biomedical literature, is available in Swedish(among several other languages), and containssynonyms and abbreviations for medical concepts(Karolinska Institutet, 2012).Swedish is, as previously mentioned, a com-pounding language, with the potential to createwords expressing most of all imaginable concepts.Laymen?s terms for medical concepts are typi-cally descriptive and often consist of compoundsof words used in every-day language.
The wordhumerusfraktur (humerus fracture), for instance,can also be expressed as ?overarmsbenbrott, forwhich a literal translation would be upper-arm-bone-break.
That a compound word with manyconstituents occurring in standard language couldbe easier to understand than the technical termsof medical terminology, forms the basis for ouradaption of word difficulty assessment to medicalSwedish.3 MethodWe studied simplification of one medical textgenre; medical journal text.
The replacementmethod, as well as the main evaluation method,was based on the previous study by Keskis?arkk?aand J?onsson (2012).
The method for assessingword difficulty was, however, further developedcompared to this previous study.As medical journal text, a subset of the journalL?akartidningen, the Journal of the Swedish Med-ical Association (Kokkinakis, 2012), was used.1www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/2www.ihtsdo.orgThe subset consisted of 10 000 randomly selectedsentences from issues published in 1996.
As syn-onym lexicon, the Swedish version of MeSH wasused.
This resource contains 10 771 synonyms,near synonyms, multi-word phrases with a verysimilar meaning and abbreviation/expansion pairs(all denoted as synonyms here), belonging to 8 176concepts.Similar to the study by Keskis?arkk?a and J?onsson(2012), the Parole corpus was used for frequencystatistics.
For each word in the L?akartidningensubset, it was checked whether the word had a syn-onym in MeSH.
If that was the case, and if thesynonym was more frequently occurring in Parolethan the original word, then the original word wasreplaced with the synonym.
An example of a sen-tence changed by synonym replacement is shownin Table 1.There are many medical words that only rarelyoccur in general Swedish, and therefore are notpresent as independent words in a corpus of stan-dard Swedish, even if constituents of the wordsfrequently occur in the corpus.
The method usedby Keskis?arkk?a and J?onsson was further developedto handle these cases.
This development was builton the previously mentioned idea that a compoundword with many constituents occurring in standardlanguage is easier to understand than a rare wordfor which this is not the case.
When neither theoriginal word, nor the synonym, occurred in Pa-role, a search in Parole was therefore instead car-ried out for substrings of the words.
The originalword was replaced by the synonym, in cases whenthe synonym consisted of a larger number of sub-strings present in Parole than the original word.To insure that the substrings were relevant words,they had to consist of a least four characters.Exemplified by a sentence containing the wordhemangiom (hemangioma), the extended replace-ment algorithm would work as follows: The al-59gorithm first detects that hemangiom has the syn-onym blodk?arlstum?or (blood-vessel-tumour) inMeSH.
It thereafter establishes that neither he-mangiom nor blodk?arlstum?or is included in theParole corpus, and therefore instead tries to findsubstrings of the two words in Parole.
For he-mangiom, no substrings are found, while foursubstrings are found for blodk?arlstum?or (Table2), and therefore hemangiom is replaced byblodk?arlstum?or.Word 1 2 3 4hemangiom - - - -blodk?arlstum?or blod k?arl blodk?arl tum?orTable 2: Example of found substringsAs the main evaluation of the effect of the syn-onym replacement, the two readability measuresused by Keskis?arkk?a and J?onsson were applied,on the original as well as on the modified text.LIX (l?asbarhetsindex, readability measure) is thestandard metric used for measuring readability ofSwedish texts, while OVIX (ordvariationsindex,word variation index) measures lexical variance,thereby reflecting the size of vocabulary in the text(Falkenjack et al., 2013).The two metrics are defined as follows(M?uhlenbock and Johansson Kokkinakis, 2009):LIX =OM+L ?
100OWhere:?
O = number of words in the text?
M = number of sentences in the text?
L = number of long words in the text (morethan 6 characters)OVIX =log(O)log(2?log(U)log(O))Where:?
O = number of words in the text?
U = number of unique words in the textThe interpretation of the LIX value is shown inTable 3, while OVIX scores ranging from 60 to 69indicate easy-to-read texts (M?uhlenbock and Jo-hansson Kokkinakis, 2009).LIX-value Genreless than 25 Children?s books25-30 Easy texts30-40 Normal text/fiction40-50 Informative texts50-60 Specialist literaturemore than 60 Research, dissertationsTable 3: The LIX-scale, from M?uhlenbock and Jo-hansson Kokkinakis (2009)To obtain preliminary results from non-automatic methods, a very small manual evalua-tion of correctness and perceived readability wasalso carried out.
A randomly selected subset ofthe sentences in which at least one term had beenreplaced were classified into three classes by aphysician: 1) The original meaning was retainedafter the synonym replacement, 2) The originalmeaning was only slightly altered after the syn-onym replacement, and 3) The original meaningwas altered more than slightly after the synonymreplacement.
Sentences classified into the first cat-egory by the physician were further categorisedfor perceived readability by two other evaluators;both with university degrees in non-life sciencedisciplines.
The original and the transformed sen-tence were presented in random order, and theevaluators were only informed that the simplifica-tion was built on word replacement.
The follow-ing categories were used for the evaluation of per-ceived readability: 1) The two presented sentencesare equally easy/difficult to understand, 2) One ofthe sentences is easier to understand than the other.In the second case, the evaluator indicated whichsentence was easier.4 ResultsIn the used corpus subset, which contained150 384 tokens (26 251 unique), 4 909 MeSHterms for which there exist a MeSH synonym werefound.
Among these found terms, 1 154 werereplaced with their synonym.
The 15 most fre-quently replaced terms are shown in Table 4, manyof them being words typical for a professional lan-guage that have been replaced with compoundsof every-day Swedish words, or abbreviations thathave been replaced by an expanded form.The total number of words increased from150 384 to 150 717 after the synonym replace-60Original term (English) Replaced with (Literal translation) naorta (aorta) kroppspuls?ader (body-artery) 34kolestas (cholestasis) gallstas (biliary-stasis) 33angio?odem (angioedema) angioneurotiskt ?odem (angio-neurotic-oedema) 29stroke (stroke) slaganfall (strike-seizure) 29TPN (TPN) parenteral n?aring, total (parenteral nutrition, total) 26GCS (GCS) Glasgow Coma Scale (Glasgow Coma Scale) 20mortalitet (mortality) d?odlighet (deathrate) 20?odem (oedema) svullnad (swelling) 20legitimation (licensure) licens (certificate) 18RLS (RLS) rastl?osa ben-syndrom (restless legs-syndrome) 18anemi (anemia) blodbrist (blood-shortage) 17anh?origa (family) familj (family) 17ekokardiografi (echocardiography) hj?artultraljuds- (heart-ultrasound 17unders?okning -examination)artrit (arthritis) ledinflammation (joint-inflammation) 16MHC (MHC) histokompatibilitets- (histocompatibility- 15komplex complex)Table 4: The 15 most frequently replaced terms.
As the most frequent synonym (or synonym with mostknown substrings) is always chosen for replacement, the same choice among a number of synonyms, ora number of abbreviation expansions, will always be made.
The column n contains the number of timesthe original term was replaced with this synonym.ment.
Also the number of long words (more thansix characters) increased from 51 530 to 51 851.This resulted in an increased LIX value, as can beseen in Table 5.
Both before and after the transfor-mation, the LIX-value lies on the border betweenthe difficulty levels of informative texts and non-fictional texts.
The replacement also had the effectthat the number of unique words decreased with138 words, which resulted in a lower OVIX, alsoto be seen in Table 5.For the manual evaluation, 195 sentences, inwhich at least one term had been replaced, wererandomly selected.
For 17% of these sentences,the original meaning was slightly altered, and for10%, the original meaning was more than slightlyaltered.
The rest of the sentences, which re-tained their original meaning, were used for mea-suring perceived readability, resulting in the fig-ures shown in Table 6.
Many replaced terms oc-curred more than once among the evaluated sen-tences.
Therefore, perceived difficulty was alsomeasured for a subset of the evaluation data, inwhich it was ensured that each replaced term oc-curred exactly once, by only including the sen-tence in which it first appeared.
These subset fig-ures (denoted Unique in Table 6) did, however,only differ marginally from the figures for the en-tire set.
Although there was a large difference be-tween the two evaluators in how they assessed theeffect of the synonym replacement, they both clas-sified a substantially larger proportion of the sen-tences as easier to understand after the synonymreplacement.LIX OVIXOriginal text 50 87.2After synonym replacement 51 86.9Table 5: LIX and OVIX before and after synonymreplacement5 DiscussionAccording to the LIX measure, the medical textbecame slightly more difficult to read after thetransformation, which is the opposite result tothat achieved in the study by Keskis?arkk?a andJ?onsson (2012).
Similar to this previous study,however, the text became slightly easier to readaccording to the OVIX measure, as the numberof unique words decreased.
As words longerthan six characters result in a higher LIX value, avery plausible explanation for the increased LIX-value, is that short words derived from Greek orLatin have been replaced with longer compounds61Perceived effect Evaluator 1 Evaluator 2of replacement All (Unique) All (Unique)No difference 51% (52%) 29% (28%)Easier 42% (42%) 54% (52%)More difficult 7% (7%) 17% (21%)Table 6: Results for the manual classificationof perceived difficulty.
Evaluator 1 classified143 sentences and Evaluator 2 classified 140 sen-tences.
The (Unique) column contains resultswhen only the first a occurrence of a replacementof a particular term is included.
A binomial signtest (Newbold et al., 2003, p. 532) was performedon the effect of the replacement, with the null hy-pothesis that the probability of creating a more dif-ficult sentence was equal to that of creating an eas-ier one.
This hypothesis could be rejected for bothevaluators; when including all sentences and alsowhen only including the (Unique) subset, show-ing that the differences were statistically signifi-cant (p0.01).of every-day words.
Replacing an abbreviation oran acronym with its expanded long form has thesame effect.
Expanding acronyms also increasesthe number of words per sentence, which also re-sults in a higher LIX value.Studies on English medical text indicate, how-ever, that simple surface measures do not accu-rately reflect the readability (Zeng-Treitler et al.,2007; Wu et al., 2013), and user studies have beenperformed to construct readability measures bet-ter adapted to the domain of medical texts (Kim etal., 2007; Leroy and Endicott, 2012).
Therefore,although the manual evaluation was very limitedin scope, the results from this evaluation mightgive a better indication of the effects of the sys-tem.
This evaluation showed that the perceivedreadability often improved with synonym replace-ment, although there were also replacements thatresulted in a decrease of perceived readability.Further studies are required to determine whetherthese results are generalisable to a larger group ofreaders.
Such studies should also include an eval-uation of actual readability, using methods similarto those of Leroy et al.
(2012).
The cases, in whichthe synonym replacement resulted in a perceiveddecrease in readability should also be further stud-ied.
It might, for instance, be better to use a fre-quency cut-off for distinguishing between rare andfrequent words, as applied by Leroy et al.
(2012),rather than always replacing a word with a morefrequent synonym.The manual evaluation also showed that theoriginal semantic meaning had been at leastslightly altered in almost a third of the sentences,which shows that the set of synonyms in SwedishMeSH might need to be adapted to make the syn-onyms suitable to use in a text simplification sys-tem.
The replacements in Table 4 show threetypes of potential problems.
First, there are alsodistant synonyms, as exemplified by oedema andswelling, where oedema means a specific type ofswelling in the form of increased amount of liq-uid in the tissues, as opposed to e.g.
increasedamount of fat.
Second, the MeSH terms are notalways written in a form that is appropriate to usein running text, such as the term parenteral nu-trition, total.
Such terms need to be transformedto another format before they can be used for au-tomatic synonym replacement.
Third, althoughthe abbreviations included in the manual evalua-tion were all expanded to the correct form, ab-breviations within the medical domain are oftenoverloaded with a number of different meanings(Liu et al., 2002).
For instance, apart from be-ing an acronym for restless legs syndrome, RLScan also mean reaction level scale (Cederblom,2005).
Therefore, in order to include abbrevia-tions and acronyms in the synonym replacementmethod studied here, an abbreviation disambigua-tion needs to be carried out first (Gaudan et al.,2005; Savova et al., 2008).
An alternative couldbe to automatically detect which abbreviations andacronyms that are defined in the text when theyfirst are mentioned (Dann?ells, 2006), and restrictthe replacement method to those.The sentence in Table 1 shows an example ofa successful synonym replacement, replacing aword typically used by health professionals (os-teoporosis) with a word typically used in every-day language (bone-brittleness).
This sentencealso gives an example of when not enough isreplaced in the sentence for it to be easy tounderstand.
Neither trabeculation, nor pseudo-fractures, are included in MeSH, which shows theimportance of having access to comprehensive ter-minological resources for the method of synonymreplacement to be successful.
Extracting termsthat are frequently occurring within the text genrethat is to be simplified, but which are neither in-cluded in the used terminology, nor in a corpus62of standard language such as Parole, could be amethod for finding candidates for expanding theterminological resources.
Semi-automatic meth-ods could be applied for finding synonyms to thesenew candidate terms, as well as to existing termswithin the terminology for which no synonyms areprovided (Henriksson et al., 2013).Table 1 also exemplifies a further issue not ad-dressed here, namely the frequent occurrence ofinflected words in Swedish text.
No morphologicnormalisation, e.g.
lemmatisation, was performedof the text that was to be simplified or of theterms in MeSH (e.g.
normalising pseudo-fracturesto pseudo-fracture).
Such a normalisation wouldhave the potential of matching, and thereby replac-ing, a larger number of words, but it would also re-quire that the replaced word is inflected to matchthe grammatical form of the original word.An alternative to using frequency in the Parolecorpus, or occurrence of substrings in a word inParole, for determining when a synonym is to bereplaced, is to use the frequency in a medical cor-pus.
That corpus then has to be targeted towardslaymen, as word frequency in texts targeted to-wards health professionals would favour word re-placements with words typical to the professionallanguage.
Examples of such patient corpora couldbe health related web portals for patients (Kokki-nakis, 2011).
However, as also texts targeted to-wards patients have been shown to be difficult tounderstand, the method of searching for familiarwords in substrings of medical terms might berelevant for assessing word difficulty also if easymedical corpora would be used.6 Future workA number of points for future work have al-ready been mentioned, among which evaluatingthe method on a large set of target readers hasthe highest priority.
Adapting the method to han-dle inflected words, studying how near synonymsand ambiguity of abbreviations affect the contentof the transformed sentences, as well as studyingmethods for semi-automatic expansion of termi-nologies, are other topics that have already beenmentioned.It might also be the case that what synonym re-placements are suitable are dependent on the con-text in which a word occurs.
Methods for adaptingassessment of word difficulty to context have beenstudied within the Semeval-2012 shared task onEnglish lexical simplification (Specia et al., 2012),although it was shown that infrequent words aregenerally perceived as more difficult, regardless ofcontext.In addition to these points, it should be notedthat we in this study have focused on one typemedical text, i.e.
medical journal text.
As men-tioned in the introduction, there is, however,another medical text type on which applyingtext simplification would also be highly relevant,namely health record text (Kvist and Velupillai,2013; Kandula et al., 2010).
The electronic healthrecord is nowadays made available to patients viae-services in a number of countries, and there isalso an on-going project constructing such a ser-vice in Sweden.
Apart from health record textalso containing many words derived from greekand latin, there are additional challenges associ-ated with this type of text.
As health record text iswritten under time pressure, it is often written ina telegraphic style with incomplete sentences andmany abbreviations (Friedman et al., 2002; Aan-taa, 2012).
As was exemplified among the top 15most frequently replaced words, abbreviations isone of the large problems when using the synonymreplacement method for text simplification, as theyare often overloaded with a number of meanings.Future work, therefore, also includes the eval-uation of synonym replacement on health recordtext.
It also includes the study of writing tools forencouraging health professionals to produce textthat is easier to understand for the patient, or atleast easier to transform into more patient-friendlytexts with methods similar to the method studiedhere (Ahltorp et al., 2013).7 ConclusionA method used in previous studies for assess-ing difficulty of words in Swedish text was fur-ther developed.
The difficulty of a word was as-sessed not only by measuring the frequency ofthe word in a general corpus, but also by measur-ing the frequency of substrings of words, therebyadapting the method to the compounding nature ofSwedish.
The replacement was mainly evaluatedby the two readability measures LIX and OVIX,showing a slightly decreased OVIX but a slightlyincreased LIX.
A preliminary study on readersshowed, however, an increased perceived readabil-ity after the synonym replacement.
Studies on alarger reader group are required to draw any con-63clusions on the general effect of the method for as-sessment of word difficult.
The preliminary resultsare, however, encouraging, showing that a methodthat replaces specialised words derived from latinand greek by compounds of every-day Swedishwords can result in a increase of the perceivedreadability.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank the three reviewers formany useful comments.
This work was partly sup-ported by a grant from the V?ardal FoundationReferencesKirsi Aantaa.
2012.
Mot patientv?anligare epikriser,en kontrastiv unders?okning [towards more patientfriendly discharge letters, a contrastive study].
Mas-ter?s thesis, Department of Nordic Languages, Uni-versity of Turku.Magnus Ahltorp, Maria Skeppstedt, Hercules Dalianis,and Maria Kvist.
2013.
Using text prediction for fa-cilitating input and improving readability of clinicaltext.
Stud Health Technol Inform, 192:1149.Staffan Cederblom.
2005.
Medicinska f?orkortningaroch akronymer (In Swedish).
Studentlitteratur,Lund.Dana Dann?ells.
2006.
Automatic acronym recogni-tion.
In Proceedings of the 11th conference on Eu-ropean chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (EACL).Johan Falkenjack, Katarina Heimann M?uhlenbock, andArne J?onsson.
2013.
Features indicating readabilityin Swedish text.
In Proceedings of the 19th NordicConference of Computational Linguistics (NODAL-IDA 2013), pages 27?40.Olle Findahl.
2010.
Svenskarna och Internet.
.se.Carol Friedman, Pauline Kra, and Andrey Rzhetsky.2002.
Two biomedical sublanguages: a descriptionbased on the theories of zellig harris.
J Biomed In-form, 35(4):222?35, Aug.S.
Gaudan, H. Kirsch, and D. Rebholz-Schuhmann.2005.
Resolving abbreviations to their sensesin medline.
Bioinformatics, 21(18):3658?3664,September.M Gellerstam, Y Cederholm, and T Rasmark.
2000.The bank of Swedish.
In LREC 2000.
The 2nd In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, pages 329?333, Athens, Greece.Aron Henriksson, Mike Conway, Martin Duneld, andWendy W. Chapman.
2013.
Identifying syn-onymy between SNOMED clinical terms of vary-ing length using distributional analysis of electronichealth records.
In Proceedings of the Annual Sym-posium of the American Medical Informatics Asso-ciation (AMIA 2013), Washington DC, USA.Sasikiran Kandula, Dorothy Curtis, and Qing Zeng-Treitler.
2010.
A semantic and syntactic text sim-plification tool for health content.
AMIA Annu SympProc, 2010:366?70.Karolinska Institutet.
2012.
Hur man anv?anderden svenska MeSHen (In Swedish, trans-lated as: How to use the Swedish MeSH).http://mesh.kib.ki.se/swemesh/manual se.html.Accessed 2012-03-10.Alla Keselman and Catherine Arnott Smith.
2012.
Aclassification of errors in lay comprehension of med-ical documents.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,45(6):1151?1163.Alla Keselman, Robert Logan, Catherine Arnott Smith,Gondy Leroy, and Qing Zeng-Treitler.
2008.
Devel-oping informatics tools and strategies for consumer-centered health communication.
In J Am Med In-form Assoc, volume 15:4, pages 473?483.Robin Keskis?arkk?a and Arne J?onsson.
2012.
Auto-matic text simplification via synonym replacement.In Proceedings of Swedish Language TechnologyConference 2012.Hyeoneui Kim, Sergey Goryachev, Graciela Rosem-blat, Allen Browne, Alla Keselman, and Qing Zeng-Treitler.
2007.
Beyond surface characteristics: anew health text-specific readability measurement.AMIA Annu Symp Proc, pages 418?422.Dimitrios Kokkinakis and Maria Toporowska Gronos-taj.
2006.
Lay language versus professional lan-guage within the cardiovascular subdomain - a con-trastive study.
In Proceedings of the 2006 WSEASInt.
Conf.
on Cellular & Molecular Biology, Bio-physics & Bioengineering.Dimitrios Kokkinakis, Markus Forsberg, Sofie Johans-son Kokkinakis, Frida Smith, and Joakim?Ohl?en.2012.
Literacy demands and information to cancerpatients.
In Proceedings of the 15th InternationalConference on Text, Speech and Dialogue, pages64?71.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2011.
Evaluating the coverageof three controlled health vocabularies with focus onfindings, signs and symptoms.
In NEALT Proceed-ings Series, editor, NODALIDA, volume 12, pages27?31.Dimitrios Kokkinakis.
2012.
The journal of theSwedish medical association - a corpus resource forbiomedical text mining in Swedish.
In The ThirdWorkshop on Building and Evaluating Resources forBiomedical Text Mining (BioTxtM), an LREC Work-shop.
Turkey.64Maria Kvist and Sumithra Velupillai.
2013.
Profes-sional language in swedish radiology reports ?
char-acterization for patient-adapted text simplification.In Scandinavian Conference on Health Informatics,Copenhagen, Denmark, August.Gondy Leroy and Hsinchun Chen.
2001.
Meetingmedical terminology needs-the ontology-enhancedmedical concept mapper.
IEEE Transactions onInformation Technology in Biomedicine, 5(4):261?270.Gondy Leroy and James E. Endicott.
2012.
Com-bining nlp with evidence-based methods to find textmetrics related to perceived and actual text difficulty.In IHI, pages 749?754.Gondy Leroy, Evren Eryilmaz, and Benjamin T.Laroya.
2006.
Health information text character-istics.
In AMIA Annu Symp Proc, pages 479?483.Gondy Leroy, James E Endicott, Obay Mouradi, DavidKauchak, and Melissa L Just.
2012.
Improvingperceived and actual text difficulty for health infor-mation consumers using semi-automated methods.AMIA Annu Symp Proc, 2012:522?31.Hongfang Liu, Alan R Aronson, and Carol Friedman.2002.
A study of abbreviations in medline abstracts.Proc AMIA Symp, pages 464?8.Katarina M?uhlenbock and Sofie Johansson Kokkinakis.2009.
Lix 68 revisited - an extended readabil-ity measure.
In Proceedings of Corpus Linguistics2009.Paul Newbold, William L. Carlson, and Betty Thorne.2003.
Statistics for business and economics.Prentice-Hall, Upper Saddle River, N. J., 5. ed.
edi-tion.John I. Saeed.
1997.
Semantics.
Blackwell Publishers,Oxford.Guergana K. Savova, Anni Coden, Igor L. Sominsky,Rie Johnson, Philip V. Ogren, Piet C. de Groen, andChristopher G. Chute.
2008.
Word sense disam-biguation across two domains: Biomedical literatureand clinical notes.
Journal of Biomedical Informat-ics, 41(6):1088?1100.Lucia Specia, Sujay Kumar Jauhar, and Rada Mihal-cea.
2012.
Semeval-2012 task 1: English lexicalsimplification.
In *SEM, First Joint Conference onLexical and Computational Semantics, pages 347?355, Montr?eal, Canada.Danny T Y Wu, David A Hanauer, Qiaozhu Mei, Pa-tricia M Clark, Lawrence C An, Jianbo Lei, JoshuaProulx, Qing Zeng-Treitler, and Kai Zheng.
2013.Applying multiple methods to assess the readabilityof a large corpus of medical documents.
Stud HealthTechnol Inform, 192:647?51.Qing T. Zeng, Tony Tse, Jon Crowell, Guy Divita,Laura Roth, and Allen C. Browne.
2005.
Identify-ing consumer-friendly display (cfd) names for healthconcepts.
In Proceedings of AMIA Annual Sympo-sium, pages 859?863.Qing Zeng-Treitler, Hyeoneui Kim, Sergey Goryachev,Alla Keselman, Laura Slaughter, and Catherine.
A.Smith.
2007.
Text characteristics of clinical reportsand their implications for the readability of personalhealth records.
Medinfo, 12(Pt 2):1117?1121.65
