Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH) @ EACL 2014, pages 22?31,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsNew Technologies for Old Germanic.
Resources and Research on ParallelBibles in Older Continental Western GermanicChristian Chiarcos, Maria Sukhareva, Roland Mittmann,Timothy Price, Jens Chobotsky, and Gaye DetmoldGoethe University Frankfurt, Germany{lastname}@em.uni-frankfurt.deAbstractWe provide an overview of on-going ef-forts to facilitate the study of older Ger-manic languages currently pursued at theGoethe-University Frankfurt, Germany.We describe created resources, such as aparallel corpus of Germanic Bibles and amorphosyntactically annotated corpus ofOld High German (OHG) and Old Saxon,a lexicon of OHG in XML and a multi-lingual etymological database.
We discussNLP algorithms operating on this data,and their relevance for research in the Hu-manities.RDF and Linked Data represent new andpromising aspects in our research, cur-rently applied to establish cross-referencesbetween etymological dictionaries, infernew information from their symmetric clo-sure and to formalize linguistic annota-tions in a corpus and grammatical cate-gories in a lexicon in an interoperable way.1 BackgroundWe describe on-going efforts at the Goethe Uni-versity Frankfurt on the study of older Continen-tal Western Germanic languages, in particular, OldHigh German (OHG, ancestor of German), OldSaxon (OS, ancestor of Low German) and (to alesser extent) Old Low Franconian (OLF, ancestorof Dutch) and their relation to Old English (OE),Gothic, German and other Germanic languages aswell as the relation of OHG and OS religious textsto their Latin sources.
This line of research is con-ducted in the context of two larger efforts, the OldGerman Reference Corpus and the LOEWE clus-ter ?Digital Humanities?, in collaboration with theApplied Computational Linguistics group at theGoethe-Universitt Frankfurt.The Old German Reference Corpus is a DFG-funded project that emerged from the Deutsch Di-achron Digital (DDD) initiative, conducted in co-operation between HU Berlin, U Frankfurt andU Jena, and aims to provide a morphosyntacti-cally annotated, exhaustive reference corpus ofOld High German and Old Saxon.
The LOEWEcluster ?Digital Humanities?,1funded through aprogramm of the State of Hessen, is a collabo-ration between U Frankfurt, TU Darmstadt andFreies Deutsches Hochstift Frankfurt aiming todevelop methodologies and infrastructures to fa-cilitate information-technological support of re-search in the humanities.The collaboration between the humanities andNLP described here is guided by different, thoughconverging interests: For the humanities, the lan-guage resources, annotations, alignment and toolscreated in collaboration with NLP researchersrepresent novel instruments complementing tradi-tional philological approaches, e.g., to investigateemergence and decay of syntactic patterns.From an NLP perspective, the Germanic lan-guages provide a test-bed to develop strategiesfor novel algorithms for alignment and annotationprojection.
In particular, the abundance of parallel(Bible) texts for all major language stages of mostGermanic languages, the excellent NLP supportfor modern Germanic languages, and the availabil-ity of a considerable body of annotated historicaltexts allow us to study the impact of the factorof diachronic relatedness when building resourcesfor low-resource languages.2 Corpus DataAlong with annotated corpora provided by thirdparties (Tab.
1), two important data sets have beenconstructed in the course of our research.
Theseinclude a massive, verse-aligned Bibles corpus1http://www.digital-humanities-hessen.de22covering all Germanic languages, and the Old Ger-man Reference Corpus.
In additional, a thematicalalignment of quasi-parallel text within and acrossbiblical texts was extrapolated from the literature.2.1 Germanic parallel Bible corpusBible data represents the majority of parallel dataavailable for historical Germanic languages, andfor the case of OS and OHG, gospel harmoniesrepresent even the majority of data currentlyknown.
Hence, we began compiling a corpus ofBible texts, excerpts and fragments for all Ger-manic languages marked up with IDs for verses (ifpossible), chapters and books.
For data represen-tation, we employed an XML version of the CES-scheme developed by (Resnik et al., 1997).
Hav-ing outgrown the scale of Resnik?s earlier projectby far, we are currently in transition to TEI P5XML format.
At the moment, 271 texts with about38.4M tokens have already been processed (Tab.2).
Copyright prevents redistributing most of thisdata under a free or an academic license, but weplan to share the extraction and conversion scriptswe used.
.
Except for automatically parsed Biblesin modern English, German and Swedish, the textsin this collection are not annotated.
Where anno-tations are available from other corpora (Tab.
1),however, these were aligned with our Bibles.2.2 Old German Reference CorpusThe Old German Reference Corpus (Referenzkor-pus Altdeutsch) (Mittmann, 2013) is a joint projectin cooperation between HU Berlin, U Frankfurtand U Jena, conducted in the wider context of theDeutsch Diachron Digital (DDD) initiative.
TheDDD initiative aims to provide deeply-annotatedreference corpora of different historical stages ofGerman.
The Old German Reference Corpus com-prises all preserved texts from the oldest stages ofcontinental Western Germanic (OHG and OS) dat-ing from ca.
750 to 1050 CE, 650,000 tokens intotal.
Among the largest coherent subcorpora areTatian (OHG), Otfrid of Weissenburg (OHG) andthe Heliand (OS).
From these, only Tatian can beverse-aligned with the gospels (and is included inTab.
1 and 2), while the Heliand and Otfrid are freerenderings of the gospels.
For these, the literatureprovides a section-level alignment only.The DDD builds on the earlier efforts of theTITUS project (Thesaurus of Indo-European Textand Language Materials, Thesaurus Indogerman-ischer Text- und Sprachmaterialien) that pro-vided digitized editions of texts in old Germaniclanguages as well as other Indo-European andselected non-Indo-European languages (Gippert,2011).2The annotations are mostly derived from the lit-erature and existing glossaries that provide gram-matical information for all known OHG and OSwords, together with their exact source.
Thesehave been digitized, automatically applied to thetext, manually refined using the annotation soft-ware ELAN,3augmented with metadata, and fi-nally published via the ANNIS database (Lindeand Mittmann, 2013).The annotated corpus is published under a CC-BY-SA license over http://www.laudatio.org, where ELAN and relANNIS files are pro-vided.
So far, the OHG Tatian is available, furtherdata sets are currently in preparation.2.3 Thematical alignment within and acrossbiblical textsTranslations of religious texts are well-suited forlanguage comparison as well as NLP experimentsexploiting parallel data as they are not only faith-fully translated, but also, they come with a verse-level alignment which can serve as a basis for sta-tistical word-level alignment, using, e.g., GIZA++(Och and Ney, 2003).
Where such a verse-level isnot explicitly given, it can be automatically iden-tified for actual translations.
However, for inde-pendent compositions such as gospel harmonies,alignment is harder to identify and can only be es-tablished at the level of sections.
In addition, sim-ilar links also exist between different parts of theBible, e.g., parallel passages in different gospels.For these, an index providing a coarse-grainedthematical alignment at the level of sections wasextrapolated from the literature.
This index canbe exploited to increase the coverage of the align-ment: where no exact translation is available (his-torical language data is often fragmentary), a the-matically matching section is retrieved.
Further-more, consulting the verse under consideration to-gether with renderings of quasiparallel parts of thesame text allows historical linguists to grasp thedegree of grammatical variability for the phenom-ena they are interested in.
Language comparisoncan thus be particularly well accomodated if mul-2http://titus.uni-frankfurt.de/texte/texte2.htm#ahd and #asachs3http://www.lat-mpi.eu/tools/elan23language period syntax tok.
corpusEnglishModern 19th CS 21K (Kroch et al., 2010)British 18th CS 32K (Kroch et al., 2010)Early 17th CS 22K (Kroch et al., 2004)Modern 16th CS 21K (Kroch et al., 2004)Middle 14th CS 66K (Kroch and Taylor, 2000)Old 10th CS 78K (Taylor et al., 2003b)DS 7K (Haug and J?hndal, 2008)Icelandic Middle 16th CS 40K (R?ognvaldsson et al., 2012)High Early Mod.16th CS 27K (Light, 2013)German Old 9th CH 41K Sect.
2.2Gothic 4th DS 56K (Haug and J?hndal, 2008)Table 1: Verse-aligned older Germanic Bible textsfrom various corpora with manual annotations formorphosyntax and syntax (CH chunks, CS con-stituents, DS dependencies)after 1800- 1600- 1400- 1100- before1900 1900 1800 1600 1400 1100Insular West GermanicEnglish 2 2 2 6 3 (+2) 1Pidgin/Creol 2Scots (6) (1)Frisian 2 (+8) (12) Continental West GermanicDutch 4 1 5 (1)L. Franconian (47) 21Afrikaans 3German 3 1 (19) 1 (+4) 1 (+1) 1dialects 3 (+2)Yiddish 1Low German 3 (+18) (66) (2) 1Plautdietsch 2Danish 1 North & East GermanicSwedish 3 (3) (1)Bokm?al 2Nynorsk 2Icelandic 1 1Faroese 1Norn (2)Gothic 1tokens 21.8M 3.2M 2.7M 9.2M 1.2M 0.2MTable 2: Verse-aligned texts in the Germanic par-allel Bible corpus (parentheses indicate marginalfragments with less than 50,000 tokens)tiple versions of the same passage in the same lan-guage can be provided.To exploit redundancy and to enlarge the num-ber of parallel and quasi-parallel passages for agiven phenomenon searched in the corpus, cross-references within the Bible and between the Bibleand derived texts have been identified.
For ex-ample, coarse-grained thematical alignment be-tween different gospels is provided by the Euse-bian Canon Tables and their subordinate Ammo-nian sections and are extendable to the Latin Ta-tian.
For OS Heliand, a free adaptation of gospels,we have only a section-level thematical alignmentwith Tatian provided by Sievers (1872).Information on these cross-references has beendigitized and employed to create an interlinked in-dex of thematically similar sections in the gospelsand the OS and OHG gospel harmonies.
Our BibleWest Germanic other reconstr.lexicon OE OHG OS OLF OFr ON Got PGmc PIEentries (XML, in K)25 24 9 2 13 12 5 9 7triples (RDF, in M)1.2 1.6 .6 .2 .6 .7 .4 .2 .2lemon:Words & links (in K)OE 25 1OHG 2 26 7 2 3 1OS 1 4 9 1 2 1ON 1 1 14Got 1 1 1 1 6PGmc 5 3 3 1 2 4 2 8PIE 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 8German 16 23 8 4 10 12 7 6 3English 10 4 2 5 9 2symmetric closure of etym.
links (triples per lang.
in K)+11 +14 +11 +5 +9 +8 +5 +21 +9links to (L)LOD data sets (triples per data set in K)OLiA 24 22 8 2 12 11 5 8 7lexvo 132 186 82 21 68 82 49 14 15Glottolog 15 11 8 3 7 11 6 9 13Table 3: Statistics on the etymological dictio-naries, including Old Low Franconian (OLF),Old Frisian (OFr), Old Norse (ON), Gothic(Got), Proto-Germanic (PGmc) and Proto-Indo-European (PIE)data is thus accompanied with an index that linksdisparate texts from different time periods and indistinctive styles and variant languages on the ba-sis of thematical similarity as identified in the liter-ature.
For gospels and gospel harmonies, we iden-tified 4560 inter-text groups made up of the relatedchunks between all the originals and languages in-volved that represents the basis for a more fine-grained level of alignment (Price, 2012).3 Linked Lexicon DataA large lexical database of etymologically linkeddictionaries of old Germanic languages (OS,OHG, OE, Gothic, Old Norse, Old Frisian, OldLow Franconian, Proto-Germanic; also Proto-Indo-European) has been developed in the con-text of the LOEWE cluster ?Digital Humanities?at the U Frankfurt.
Building on the etymologi-cal and translational dictionaries of Old Germaniclanguages by Gerhard K?obler,4the project ?Histor-ical Linguistic Database?
developed user-friendlymeans of comparing etymologically related formsbetween historical dialects and their daughter lan-guages (Price, 2012).
The original PDF datawere converted into an XML representation, cross-references have been resolved and the results are4http://www.koeblergerhard.de/ahdwbhin.html24imported into an XML database.
A web interfacehas been developed, that transforms user queriesinto XQuery and visualizes the results in a conve-nient way using XSLT.To provide a machine-readable representationof the etymological dictionaries, an RDF versionhas been compiled.
Applying the Linked Dataparadigm (Bizer et al., 2009) to etymological lex-icons is particularly promising as they are char-acterized by a heavy linkage across different lan-guages, so that etymological lexicons for differ-ent languages are very likely to complement eachother.
RDF provides the means to represent thecross-language linking using a uniform formalism,and subsequently, to facilitate information aggre-gation over multiple etymological lexicons as wellas language-specific lexical resources.We converted the K?obler lexicons to RDF inconformance to the Lemon model (McCrae etal., 2011), an LMF-based vocabulary to repre-sent machine-readable lexicons by using SemanticWeb standards.
This conversion followed the threemain objectives:(i) linkability: XML-based query languagessuch as XQuery and XPath, used to create the userinterface to the lexicons, limit our lexicon to atree-structure representation.
However, as our lex-icons complement each other, it would be desir-able to provide explicit cross-references betweenthese entries, and to allow them to be queriedjointly.
Within the RDF data model, the relationswithin and beyond a single lexicon can be repre-sented and queried with equal ease, surmountingconstraint imposed by XML.
(ii) interoperability: Instead of resource-specific abbreviations for languages and gram-matical categories, we represent linguisticinformation and meta data by reference tocommunity-maintained vocabularies publiclyavailable as part of the (Linguistic) Linked OpenData cloud, namely lexvo (de Melo, to appear,ISO 639-3 language codes), Glottolog (Nordhoffand Hammarstr?om, 2011, language families) andOLiA (Chiarcos, 2008, linguistic categories).Reusing vocabularies shared among many partiesover the Web of Data has the advantage thatresources dealing with related phenomena inthe same language can be easily identified andtheir information integrated without additionalconversion steps.
(iii) inference: The original lexicons were dis-tributed in individual PDF files, and the XML rep-resentation was created as a faithful representationof their content, augmented with markup for rele-vant linguistic features.
These files, however, pro-vided complementary information, so that, say, alexicon entry in the OS dictionary provided a ref-erence to an etymological corresponding OHG en-try, but this reference was not found in the OHGdictionary.
Such gaps can be easily detected (andfilled) through symmetric closure in the RDF datamodel.The results of this conversion are summarized inTab.
3.
In the original XML (first row), every en-try corresponds to a lemma of the language underconsideration, with different etymologies (and/orsenses) being associated with it.
In RDF (secondrow), each of these homographs (together with itsdefinition number) is defined as a lemon:Wordwith a homography relation with the homographset (represented by a lemon:Word without defi-nition number).
The number of lemon:Wordsis thus slightly higher than the number of en-tries in the original dictionaries.
Differently fromthe XML, however, information from differentdata sets can be easily aggregated, and triplesoriginating from one document can be comple-mented with triples from another, shown here forthe symmetric closure of etymological relations(third row) that can be easily generated using asimple SPARQL pattern like CONSTRUCT { ?o?p ?s } WHERE {?s ?p ?o}.
The last rowshows links to other data sets from the (Linguis-tic) Linked Open Data cloud.
Most original en-tries were complemented with grammatical infor-mation using different (and not fully consistent)abbreviations.
For the most frequent abbrevia-tions used, a link to the corresponding OLiA con-cept was generated.
These definitions are thusinteroperable beyond these lexicons and can becompared, e.g., with those of lexical-semantic re-sources for Modern German and English as com-piled in (Eckle-Kohler et al., to appear).
Similarly,language abbreviations were mapped to ISO 639-3 codes (in lexvo), or, where these were not avail-able, to Glottolog.
Even though the number of datain historical languages is constantly increasing andthere is a demand for fine-grained language codesfor them, neither of the aforementioned resourcesprovide such codes.
So we had to use a link to thecorresponding language family instead.25language period scheme corpus referenceEnglishModern PTB (Taylor et al., 2003a; Kroch et al., 2010)Early Mod.
PPCEME (Kroch et al., 2004)Middle PPME2 (Kroch and Taylor, 2000)OldYCOE (Taylor et al., 2003b)PROIEL (Taylor et al., 2003b)High GermanModern STTS (Schiller et al., 1999)Early Mod.
PCENHG (Light, 2013)OldSect.
2.2T-CODEX (Petrova et al., 2009)Dutch Modern Alpino (Bouma et al., 2001)Old Norse Menota (Haugen et al., 2008)Danish Modern EAGLES (Leech and Wilson, 1996)Swedish Modern Mamba (Nivre et al., 2006)Icelandic IcePaHC (R?ognvaldsson et al., 2012)Gothic PROIEL (Haug and J?hndal, 2008)(a) Morphosyntactic annotationslanguage period scheme corpus referenceEnglishModernPTB (Taylor et al., 2003a; Kroch et al., 2010)Stanford deps (De Marneffe and Manning, 2008)Penn2Malt deps (Johansson and Nugues, 2007)Early Mod.
PPCEME (Kroch et al., 2004)Middle PPME2 (Kroch and Taylor, 2000)OldYCOE (Taylor et al., 2003b)PROIEL (Taylor et al., 2003b)High GermanModernTIGER (Brants et al., 2004)T?uba-D/Z (Telljohann et al., 2003)NEGRA (Skut et al., 1997)Early Mod.
PCENHG (Light, 2013)Dutch Modern Alpino (Bouma et al., 2001)Swedish Modern Mamba (Nivre et al., 2006)Icelandic IcePaHC (R?ognvaldsson et al., 2012)Gothic PROIEL (Haug and J?hndal, 2008)(b) Syntactic annotationsTable 4: List of annotation schemes represented as OWL2/DL ontologies and relevant Germanic corpora4 NLP methods appliedWe sketch selected NLP applications developed onthe data described before, the automated phrase-level alignment of quasi-parallel text, and twoexperiments on annotation projection on paralleltext.
All of these experiments are still in a rela-tively early stage.4.1 Automated phrase-level alignment ofquasi-parallel textThe needs of historical lingustics demand a morefine-grained alignment than the currently avail-able thematical alignment of Heliand with Ta-tian and the gospels.
We thus investigate parallelphrase detection between Heliand (OS) and Tatian(OHG), resp., Heliand and the West Saxon gospels(OE).To identify cognate phrases, we explore 6 typesof similarity metrics ?
(wOS, wOHG) for every OSword wOSand its potential OHG cognate wOHG.1.
geometry ?g= difference between the relativepositions of wOSand wOHG.2.
identity ?i(wOS, wOHG) = 1 iff wOHG=wOS(0 otherwise)3. lexicon ?lex(wOS, wOHG) = 1 iff wOHG?W (0 otherwise) where W is a set of possibleOHG translations for wOSsuggested by a lexicon,i.e., eitherdirect etymological link in (the symmetricclosure of) the etymological dictionaries, orindirect shared German gloss in the etymo-logical dictionaries4.
orthography similarity measure based oncharacter replacement likelihood:relative Levenshtein similarity?lev(wOS, wOHG) = 1 ?ld|wOS|+|wOHG|where ld is the standard Levenstein distanceand |wOS| and |wOHG| are the number ofcharacters in each word.statistical character replacement probabilityas approximated by a character-based statisti-cal machine translation system (Neubig et al.,2012)5. normalization ?norm(wOS, wOHG) =?i(w?OS, wOHG) , with w?OSbeing the OHG ?nor-malization?
of the original wOS.
Here, normaliza-tion uses a weighted Levenshtein distance and afixed list of OHG target words (Bollmann et al.,2011).6. cooccurrences ?p(wOS, wOHG) =P (wOS|wOHG)P (wOHG|wOS), calculatedon thematically aligned sections from both texts.For any two thematically aligned OS and OHGword vectors, we thus span up a similarity ma-trix between both word vectors on the basis ofthese metrics.
On the matrices, different opera-tions can be applied to calculate similarity derivedmetrics, including point-wise multiplication or ad-dition, thresholds and a smoothing operator, thataligns words due to the similarity of its neighbors.The resulting matrix is then decoded by a greedyalgorithm that aligns the words with the highestscore, and then iterates for the remaining words.At the moment, we provide a graphical interfaceover a webpage that allows a philologist to dynam-26ically define an alignment function and that pro-vides a graphical visualization of the result.
Dur-ing a partial qualitative evaluation a historical lin-guist was asked to compare the results of align-ment based on various metrics applied to a smalltext passage.
He took into consideration the over-all match of the topic of the aligned passages aswell as the number of parallel passages that themetrics failed to align.
Eventually, it was indi-cated that the best results can be achieved by com-bining multiple metrics.
A combination of eitherdirect lexicon-based or normalization-based align-ment and geometrical alignment appears to be par-ticularly promising.
Yet, systematic experimentsto automatically explore this feature space are stillbeing prepared and depend on the availability of agold alignment for selected verses.4.2 Projecting dependency relationsAs shown in Tab.
1, we only possess shallow syn-tactic annotations of OHG (and OS) text.
We arethus particularly interested in establishing richersyntactic annotations.
A challenging aspect in thisrespect is the limited availability of parallel train-ing data for historical language stages.
However,due to diachronic relatedness, we may expect thatsyntactic patterns of Old Germanic languages arepreserved in their modern descendants.
Such anapproach requires a consistent hyperlemmatiza-tion, e.g., against a modern languageWe tested this idea on Bible texts from four cor-pora with closely related annotation schemes forsyntax (Tab.
1, corpora with CS-syntax): Icelandic(IS), Early Modern High German (DE), Mid-dle English (ME) and Old English (OE).
Theseschemes originate in the Penn Treebank scheme(Taylor et al., 2003a), and we thus parsed a mod-ern English Bible with a parser trained on the PennTreebank.
As older Germanic languages are char-acterized by a higher degree of word order flexi-bility than Modern English, we converted histor-ical and modern annotations to dependency rela-tions using standard tools for this task (Johans-son and Nugues, 2007).
Word-alignment was ob-tained with GIZA++ and 1:1 alignment was en-forced using the translation table.
Then, we pro-jected dependency relations and the English wordsas hyperlemmas for the historical texts.
The his-torical texts had comparable POS annotation thatwas only slightly normalized across the corpora asit preserved more morphological information thanModern English POS tags.On these projections, a fragment-aware parserwas trained using the English (hyper)lemmas andthe original POS tags (Spreyer and Kuhn, 2009).We limited the amount of parallel data available toa training set of 437 sentences per language and atest set of 174 per language.
Our hypothesis wasthat in this setting, (projected) training data fromrelated languages can be used in place of train-ing data for the language under consideration, ifthe amount of data is sufficient and the languagesare sufficiently closely related.
Furthermore, weassumed that with an increasing number of lan-guages considered (and thus training set size), thequality of the projected annotations would contin-uously improve as long as the languages are suffi-ciently closely related.For evaluation, we employed the unlabeled at-tachment score (UAS) (Collins et al., 1999) onthe test data and compared with the (dependencyversion of) the original annotation in these cor-pora.
Tab.
5 compares the performance of aparser trained on target language data with parserstrained on (hyperlemmatized) related languages.The scores in the second column are the baselineUAS where the parser was applied to the samelanguage as it was trained on.
The third columnshows the difference with the parser applied to alanguage but trained on projections into anotherlanguage.
The fourth and the fifth column pro-vides the results of the parser trained on one ortwo additional related languages respectively.The results showed that, among the West Ger-manic languages (but not IS), a parser trainedon two or more related languages can reach thesame performance or even outperforms a parsertrained on the target language.
Furthermore, aparser trained on (projected) annotations from twoor more related languages is likely to outperforma parser trained on a single related language.
Ac-cordingly, in absence of parallel texts for the targetlanguage, the parser can be successfully trained onannotation projections from two or more relatedlanguages.
It should be noted, however, that theoverall performance of the parser was relativelypoor.
This may be, however, an artifact of the greatgrammatical divergency between Modern English(and, to a limited degree, ME: reduced morphol-ogy, strict word order) and older Germanic lan-guages (rich morphology, flexible word order).Subsequent experiments will thus address the27inclusion of richer morphological features, projec-tions from other languages and evaluation againstanother set of dependency (DS) annotations forGothic and Old English (Tab.
1), for which relatedannotation schemes for Latin, Greek and Czechare available ?
all of these languages are charac-terized by rich morphology and flexible syntax.on on related languagesTgt Tgt Best monoling.
Best biling.
Triling.lang.
model ?UAS model ?UAS model ?UASDE .41 IS +.02n.s.+ME +.05?+OE +.04?
?IS .32 ME ?.06??
?+DE ?.03n.s.+OE ?.04?ME .60 IS ?.04??
?+OE ?.01n.s.+DE ?.02n.s.OE .30 ME .00n.s.+IS .00n.s.+DE .00n.s.Table 5: Performance of parsing models (UAS dif-ference vs. 2nd col. with ?2:?p < .05,?
?p < .01,??
?p < .005)4.3 Harmonization of grammatical featuresAnother line of studies addresses the projection ofgrammatical features as represented in POS tagsand dependency labels.
Unfortunately, modernand historical language stages are annotated ac-cording to a great variety of annotation schemeswhich can not be trivially mapped to a general-ization without substantial loss of information (as,e.g., in the approach by Petrov et al., 2012).
Forprocessing of multilingual corpora the problem ofheteroginity of linguistic annotations is very acute.Above, we described an experiment that used PTBstyle annotations only.
This limitation was im-posed by the annotation schema of the target cor-pora that had PTB style syntactic annotations.We thus follow Chiarcos (2008) and representthe most relevant Germanic annotation schemesas OWL2/DL ontologies, and link these to anoverarching Reference Model.
Unlike a tagset,whose string-based annotations require disjointcategories at a fixed level of granularity, thisontology-based approach allows to decompose thesemantics of annotations and consider all aspectsindependently.
For example, a tagger may cor-rectly identify plural agreement but incorrectly as-sume that it pertains a noun, as in the Penn Tree-bank tag NNS.
In the original tagset, a correspond-ing tag for, say, adjectives, does not exist, but us-ing the ontology, a plural adjective could neverthe-less be represented in the form of different RDFtriples.
With lexicon data being available in RDFand linked to the OLiA Reference Model, as well(Sect.
3), the incorrect word class can be spot-ted, and corrected, but the agreement informationcould remain unaffected.These annotations have also been successfullyemployed in ensemble combination architectures,where information from different sources (say,NLP tools) was integrated on the basis of theReference Model and disambiguated using onto-logical axioms (Chiarcos, 2010; Pareja-Lora andAguado de Cea, 2010).
In an annotation pro-jection scenario, these sources could be projec-tions from different languages annotated accord-ing to different schemes, e.g., German, English,Swedish or Latin.
These experiments are currentlybeing conducted, but Annotation Models for sev-eral schemes are already available (Tab.
4).5 Digital HumanitiesOur ultimate goal is to facilitate studies of histori-cal and empirical linguists and philologists.One research question under consideration iswhether the Heliand influenced Luther (Price,2012), who, apparently, possessed one copy.Based on a thorough comparison of thematicallyaligned passages, evidence for or against this hy-pothesis may be gathered, and this investigationcan be simplified by limiting the search to parallelphrases automatically identified (Sect.
4.1).Another research question pertains to divergen-cies between, e.g., OHG texts and their Latinsource.
As most OHG material is translated in aliteral fashion, and the word order was relativelyflexible, the OHG syntax may have been adjustedto mirror the Latin original.
Research of OHGsyntax thus concentrates on passages where OHGsyntax differs from the Latin source (Hinterh?olzland Petrova, 2009).Different types of divergencies have been iden-tified by qualitative research.
Early translationsunlike modern ones tend to be very literal, of-ten not being only word by word translation butalso preserving the syntax of the original.
Nev-ertheless, due to strong grammatical differencesbetween two languages, various divergencies on(morpho)syntactic and lexical levels were un-avoidable.
Such, the transition from the Latin syn-thetic to OHG analytic wordforms in case of thedeponent verbs is systematically observed.
Alsothe changes of the word position as well as miss-ing a word in translation or adding a word that isnot present in the Latin original can be frequentlyfound.
Such divergencies can be often explained28by stylistic or pragmatic reasons as well as by per-sonal preferences of the translator.This line of research is currently supportedthrough automated word-level alignment betweenthe OHG and Latin versions of Tatian.
We builta parallel corpus using GIZA++ and used theTreeAligner (Lundborg et al., 2007) for search andevaluation.
On this basis, a philological compari-son of OHG Tatian and its Latin source is beingconducted.
More helpful, however, would be acomparison of different syntactic patterns in OHGand Latin which motivates our experiments in an-notation projection (Sect.
4.2).Finally, our experiments in the ontology-basedharmonization of different annotation schemes(Sect.
4.3) will facilitate subsequent typologicaland linguistic comparison across corpora withmanual annotations for syntax and/or morphologyaccording to different schemes.6 SummaryWe sketched major research directions on the de-velopment of resources, NLP tools and algorithmsto facilitate the study Old Germanic languagescurrently pursued at the Goethe-University Frank-furt in the context of two related research initia-tives, the LOEWE cluster ?Digital Humanities?and the project ?Old German Reference corpus?.Our efforts resulted in the creation of the fol-lowing resources:?
a massive parallel corpus of TEI-conformant Bibles including all con-temporary Germanic languages as well asearly stages of Germanic languages (Sect.2.1).?
an exhaustive, morphosyntactically anno-tated corpus of OHG and OS with mor-phosyntactic annotations.
Annotations wereautomatically derived from glossaries andmanually refined (Sect.
2.2).?
an index providing a thematical alignmentof the four gospels with each other as well aswith OHG and OS gospel harmonies (Sect.2.3).
This high quality alignment provides asolid basis for further more fine-grained au-tomatic alignment (Sect.
4.1).?
XML versions of lexical resources, includ-ing etymological dictionaries of Old Ger-manic languages (Sect.
3)?
an RDF-based linked etymologicaldatabase of Old Germanic languagescompiled from the latter (Sect.
3)?
a Linked Data representation of annotationschemes for corpora, NLP tools and gram-matical features in the linked lexicon data(Sect.
3, 4.3)The resources created provide an excellent test-bed for various NLP algorithms, particularly forexperiments on alignment and annotation projec-tion techniques: We developed different metricsfor quasi-parallel alignment applied to the cor-pus of gospel harmonies (Sect.
4.1).
For subse-quent analysis, evaluation and refinement by his-torical linguists, we provide a graphical visualiza-tion and user interface in a form of a webpage.This is an on-going project and further researchwill aim at refining metrics and their combination.Our massive parallel corpus is a perfect prereq-uisite for annotation projection (Sect.
4.2).
Ourexperiments on annotation projections and cross-lingual parser adaptation showed that it is possibleto use (hyperlemmatized) training data from mul-tiple closely related languages in place of trainingdata for the language under consideration, and onsmall sets of parallel training data available, thisdid not lead to a significant loss of performance.The only exception in the experiment (IS) is alsomost remote from the other languages considered.A severe limitation of this experiment was thatit required operating on (variants of) the same an-notation scheme.
Another line of our research isfocused on researching of ways to surmount suchrestrictions.
We thus adopt a modular approachwith annotation schemes linked to the OLiA Ref-erence Model to harmonize annotations and gram-matical features from lexicons (Sect.
4.3).Finally, applications of these algorithms and re-sources in research questions in philology, histor-ical linguistics and comparative linguistics weresketched in Sect.
5.While most resources described in this pa-per have been developed for several years at theGoethe-University Frankfurt, the increased focuson NLP and Linked Data represent novel develop-ments pursued by the newly established AppliedComputational Linguistics Lab at the Goethe Uni-versity Frankfurt.
Different aspects of researchsketched in this paper thus describe on-going ac-tivities at different degrees of completion.29AcknowledgementsThe research of Christian Chiarcos, MariaSukhareva, Tim Price, Gaye Detmold, and JensChobotsky described in this paper was supportedby the research cluster ?Digital Humanities?
at theGoethe-University Frankfurt, funded through theLOEWE programme of the federal state of Hes-sia.
The research of Roland Mittmann was con-ducted in the project ?Old German Reference cor-pus?, funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemein-schaft (DFG).ReferencesChristian Bizer, Tom Heath, and Tim Berners-Lee.2009.
Linked Data ?
The story so far.
InternationalJournal on Semantic Web and Information Systems(IJSWIS), 5(3):1?22.Marcel Bollmann, Florian Petran, and Stefanie Dip-per.
2011.
Rule-based normalization of historicaltexts.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on LanguageTechnologies for Digital Humanities and CulturalHeritage (LaTeCH-2011), pages 34?42, Hissar, Bul-garia, September.Gosse Bouma, Gertjan Van Noord, and Robert Malouf.2001.
Alpino: Wide-coverage computational analy-sis of Dutch.
Language and Computers, 37(1):45?59.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Peter Eisenberg, Sil-via Hansen-Schirra, Esther K?onig, Wolfgang Lezius,Christian Rohrer, George Smith, and Hans Uszkor-eit.
2004.
Tiger: Linguistic interpretation of a ger-man corpus.
Research on Language and Computa-tion, 2(4):597?620.Christian Chiarcos.
2008.
An ontology of linguisticannotations.
LDV Forum, 23(1):1?16.Christian Chiarcos.
2010.
Towards robust multi-tooltagging.
An OWL/DL-based approach.
In Proc.
ofthe 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL-2010), pages 659?670,Uppsala, Sweden.Michael Collins, Lance Ramshaw, Jan Haji?c, andChristoph Tillmann.
1999.
A statistical parser forCzech.
In Proc.
of the 37th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL-1999), pages 505?512, Maryland, June.Marie-Catherine De Marneffe and Christopher D Man-ning.
2008.
The Stanford typed dependencies rep-resentation.
In Proceedings of the COLING-2008Workshop on Cross-Framework and Cross-DomainParser Evaluation, pages 1?8.Gerard de Melo.
to appear.
Lexvo.org: Language-related information for the linguistic linked datacloud.
Semantic Web Journal, pages 1?7.Judith Eckle-Kohler, John McCrae, and ChristianChiarcos.
to appear.
lemonUby ?
A large, in-terlinked, syntactically-rich resource for ontologies.Semantic Web Journal: Multilingual Linked OpenData.Jost Gippert.
2011.
The TITUS Project.
25 yearsof corpus building in ancient languages.
In Per-spektiven einer corpusbasierten historischen Lin-guistik und Philologie.
Internationale Tagung desAkademienvorhabens ?Alt?agyptisches W?orterbuch?an der Berlin-Brandenburgischen Akademie derWissenschaften, pages 169?192, Berlin, December.Dag TT Haug and Marius J?hndal.
2008.
Creat-ing a parallel treebank of the old Indo-Europeanbible translations.
In Proceedings of the LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage Data Workshop(LaTeCH 2008), pages 27?34, Marrakech, Morocco,June.Odd Einar Haugen, Tone Merete Bruvik, MatthewDriscoll, Karl G Johansson, Rune Kyrkjeb?, andTarrin Wills.
2008.
The Menota handbook: Guide-lines for the electronic encoding of Medieval Nordicprimary sources.Roland Hinterh?olzl and Svetlana Petrova.
2009.
In-formation Structure and Language Change: NewApproaches to Word Order Variation in Germanic.Mouton de Gruyter.Richard Johansson and Pierre Nugues.
2007.
Ex-tended constituent-to-dependency conversion forEnglish.
In Proceedings of the 16th Nordic Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (NoDaLiDa-2007), pages 105?112, Tartu, Estonia, May.Anthony Kroch and Ann Taylor.
2000.
ThePenn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of Middle English(PPCME2).
Department of Linguistics, Universityof Pennsylvania.
CD-ROM.Anthony Kroch, Beatrice Santorini, and Lauren Delfs.2004.
The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of EarlyModern English (PPCEME).
Department of Lin-guistics, University of Pennsylvania.
CD-ROM.Anthony Kroch, Beatrice Santorini, and Ariel Diertani.2010.
The Penn-Helsinki Parsed Corpus of ModernBritish English (PPCMBE).
Department of Linguis-tics, University of Pennsylvania.
CD-ROM.Geoffrey Leech and Andrew Wilson.
1996.
EAGLESguidelines: Recommendations for the morphosyn-tactic annotation of corpora.Caitlin Light.
2013.
Parsed Corpus of EarlyNew High German (PCENHG), v. 0.5.
Uni-versity of Pennsylvania, http://enhgcorpus.wikispaces.com/.Sonja Linde and Roland Mittmann.
2013.
Old GermanReference Corpus.
Digitizing the knowledge of the19th century.
In Paul Bennett, Martin Durrell, Silke30Scheible, and Richard J. Whitt, editors, New Meth-ods in Historical Corpus Linguistics = Korpuslin-guistik und interdiziplinre Perspektiven auf Sprache?
Corpus linguistics and Interdisciplinary perspec-tives on language (CLIP), volume 3 of Korpuslin-guistik und interdiziplinre Perspektiven auf Sprache?
Corpus linguistics and Interdisciplinary perspec-tives on language (CLIP), T?ubingen.
Narr.Joakim Lundborg, Torsten Marek, Ma?el Mettler, andMartin Volk.
2007.
Using the StockholmTreeAligner.
In Proceedings of the 6th Workshopon Treebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT-2007),pages 73?78.John McCrae, Dennis Spohr, and Philipp Cimiano.2011.
Linking lexical resources and ontologies onthe semantic web with lemon.
In The SemanticWeb: Research and Applications, pages 245?259.Springer.Roland Mittmann.
2013.
Digitalisierung historischerGlossare zur automatisierten Vorannotation vonTextkorpora am Beispiel des Altdeutschen.
Journalfor Language Technology and Computational Lin-guistics (JLCL), 27(2):39?52.Graham Neubig, Taro Watanabe, Shinsuke Mori, andTatsuya Kawahara.
2012.
Machine translation with-out words through substring alignment.
In Proc.
ofthe 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (ACL-2012), pages 165?174,Jeju Island, Korea, July.Joakim Nivre, Jens Nilsson, and Johan Hall.
2006.
Tal-banken05: A Swedish treebank with phrase struc-ture and dependency annotation.
In Proc.
of the 5thInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC-2006), pages 1392?1395.Sebastian Nordhoff and Harald Hammarstr?om.
2011.Glottolog/langdoc: Defining dialects, languages,and language families as collections of resources.
InProceedings of the First International Workshop onLinked Science 2011 (LISC-2011).Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Antonio Pareja-Lora and Guadalupe Aguado de Cea.2010.
Ontology-based interoperation of linguistictools for an improved lemma annotation in Span-ish.
In Proc.
of the 6th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC-2010),Valetta, Malta, May.Slav Petrov, Dipanjan Das, and Ryan McDonald.
2012.A universal part-of-speech tagset.
In Proc.
of the 8thInternational Conference on Language Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC-2012), pages 2089?2096, Is-tanbul, Turkey.Svetlana Petrova, Michael Solf, Julia Ritz, ChristianChiarcos, and Amir Zeldes.
2009.
Building andusing a richly annotated interlinear diachronic cor-pus: The case of Old High German Tatian.
TAL,50(2):47?71.Timothy Blaine Price.
2012.
Multi-faceted alignment:Toward automatic detection of textual similarity ingospel-derived texts.
In Proceedings of HistoricalCorpora 2012, Frankfurt, Germany.Philip Resnik, Mari Broman Olsen, and Mona Diab.1997.
Creating a parallel corpus from the book of2000 tongues.
In Proc.
of the Text Encoding Initia-tive 10th Anniversary User Conference (TEI-10).Eir?
?kur R?ognvaldsson, Anton Karl Ingason, Einar FreyrSigurdsson, and Joel Wallenberg.
2012.
The Ice-landic Parsed Historical Corpus (IcePaHC).
In Proc.of the 8th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-2012), Istanbul,Turkey, May.Anne Schiller, Simone Teufel, Christine St?ockert, andChristine Thielen.
1999.
Guidelines f?ur das Taggingdeutscher Textcorpora mit STTS.
Technical report,Universit?aten Stuttgart und T?ubingen.Wojciech Skut, Brigitte Krenn, Thorsten Brants, andHans Uszkoreit.
1997.
An annotation scheme forfree word order languages.
In Proc.
of the 5th Con-ference on Applied Natural Language Processing,pages 88?95.Kathrin Spreyer and Jonas Kuhn.
2009.
Data-drivendependency parsing of new languages using incom-plete and noisy training data.
In Proc.
of the13th Conference on Computational Natural Lan-guage Learning (CoNLL-2009), pages 12?20, Boul-der, CO, June.Ann Taylor, Mitchell Marcus, and Beatrice Santorini.2003a.
The Penn Treebank: An overview.
In AnneAbeill, editor, Treebanks, pages 5?22.
Springer,Dordrecht.Ann Taylor, Anthony Warner, Susan Pintzuk, andFrank Beths.
2003b.
The York-Toronto-Helsinkiparsed corpus of Old English prose.Heike Telljohann, Erhard W Hinrichs, Sandra K?ubler,Heike Zinsmeister, and Kathrin Beck.
2003.
Style-book for the T?ubingen treebank of written German(T?uBa-D/Z).
Technical report, Seminar f?ur Sprach-wissenschaft, Universit?at T?ubingen, Germany.31
