Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 1?5,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Case Study: NLG meeting Weather Industry Demand for Qualityand Quantity of Textual Weather ForecastsSomayajulu G Sripada, Neil Burnett andRoss TurnerArria NLG Plc{yaji.sripada,neil.burnett,ross.turner}@arria.comJohn Mastin and Dave EvansMet Office{john.mastin,dave.evans}@metoffice.gov.ukAbstractIn the highly competitive weather indus-try, demand for timely, accurate and per-sonalized weather reports is always onthe rise.
In this paper we present a casestudy where Arria NLG and the UK na-tional weather agency, the Met Officecame together to test the hypothesis thatNLG can meet the quality and quantitydemands of a real-world use case.1 IntroductionModern weather reports present weather predic-tion information using tables, graphs, maps,icons and text.
Among these different modalitiesonly text is currently manually produced, con-suming significant human resources.
Thereforereleasing meteorologists?
time to add value else-where in the production chain without sacrificingquality and consistency in weather reports is animportant industry goal.
In addition, in order toremain competitive, modern weather servicesneed to provide weather reports for any geo-location the end-user demands.
As the quantityof required texts increases, manual productionbecomes humanly impossible.
In this paper wedescribe a case study where data-to-text NLGtechniques have been applied to a real-world usecase involving the UK national weather service,the Met Office.
In the UK, the Met Office pro-vides daily weather reports for nearly 5000 loca-tions which are available through its public web-site.
These reports contain a textual componentthat is not focused on the geo-location selectedby the end-user, but instead describes the weath-er conditions over a broader geographic region.This is done partly because the time taken tomanually produce thousands of texts requiredwould be in the order of weeks rather thanminutes.
In this case study a data-to-text NLGsystem was built to demonstrate that the site-specific data could be enhanced with site-specifictext for nearly 5000 locations.
This system, run-ning on a standard desktop, was tested to pro-duce nearly 15000 texts (forecasts for 5000 loca-tions for 3 days into the future) in less than a mi-nute.
After internally assessing the quality ofmachine-generated texts for nearly two years, theMet Office launched the system on their beta site(http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/public/weather/forecast-data2text/) in December 2013 for externalassessment.
A screenshot of the forecast forLondon Heathrow on 5th March 2014 is shownin Figure 1.
In this figure, the machine-generatedtext is at the top of the table.
Ongoing work hasextended the processing capabilities of this sys-tem to handle double the number of locations andan additional two forecast days.
It has beenfound that the processing time scales linearly.2 Related WorkAutomatically producing textual weather fore-casts has been the second favorite application forNLG, with 15 entries on Bateman and Zock?s listof NLG application domains (the domain ofmedicine comes on top with 19 entries) [Bate-man and Zock, 2012].
NLG applications in theweather domain have a long history.
FOG was anearly landmark NLG system in the domain ofweather reports [Goldberg et al, 1994].
Workingas a module of the Forecast Production Assistant(FPA), FOG was operationally deployed at Envi-ronment Canada to produce weather reports forthe general public and also for marine users inboth English and French.
Using sampling andsmoothing over space and time, FOG reducesraw data into a few significant events which arethen organized and realized in textual form.MULTIMETEO is another industry deployed mul-ti-lingual weather report generator [Coch 1998].The focus of MULTIMETEO is ?interactive genera-tion via knowledge administration?.1Figure 1.
Screenshot of Text-Enhanced Five-day Weather Forecast for London Heathrow on 5 March 2014showing only part of the data tableExpert forecasters post-edit texts (interactivity)in their native language and this knowledge isthen reused (knowledge administration) for au-tomatically generating texts in other languages.
Itis claimed that such interactive generation is bet-ter than using machine translation for multi-lingual outputs.
SUMTIME-MOUSAM is yet anoth-er significant weather report generator that wasoperationally deployed to generate forecasts inEnglish for oil company staff supporting oil rigoperations in the North Sea [Sripada et al,2003a].
Adapting techniques used for time seriessegmentation, this project developed a frame-work for data summarization in the context ofNLG [Sripada et al, 2003b].
This time seriessummarization framework was later extended tosummarizing spatio-temporal data in the ROAD-SAFE system [Turner et al, 2008].
ROADSAFE toowas used in an industrial context to produceweather reports (including text in English and atable) for road maintenance in winter months.The NLG system reported in the current casestudy builds upon techniques employed by earli-er systems, particularly SUMTIME-MOUSAM andROADSAFE.The main dimension on which the applica-tion described in this paper differs most from thework cited previously is the quantity of textualweather forecasts that are generated.
Previouswork has either focused on summarising forecastsites collectively (in the case of FOG and ROAD-SAFE), been limited in the number of sites fore-cast for (15 in the case of MULTIMETEO) or lim-ited in geographic extent (SUMTIME-MOUSAMconcentrated on oil rig operations in the NorthSea).
This aspect of the system, amongst others,posed a number of challenges discussed in Sec-tion 3.3 System DescriptionFor reasons of commercial sensitivity, the systemdescription in this section is presented at an ab-stract level.
At the architecture level, our systemuses the Arria NLG Engine that follows thestandard five stage data-to-text pipeline [Reiter,2007].
The system integrates application specificmodules with the generic reusable modules fromthe underlying engine.
Input to the system ismade up of three components:1.
Weather prediction data consisting of sev-eral weather parameters such as tempera-ture, wind speed and direction, precipita-tion and visibility at three hourly intervals;2.
Daily summary weather prediction dataconsisting of average daily and nightlyvalues for several weather parameters asabove; and3.
Seasonal averages (lows, highs and mean)for temperature.Because the system is built on top of the Ar-ria NLG Engine, input data is configurableand not tied to file formats.
The system can beconfigured to work with new data files withequivalent weather parameters as well as dif-ferent forecast periods.
In other words, thesystem is portable in principle for other usecases where site-specific forecasts are requiredfrom similar input data.23.1 Expressing Falling Prediction Quality forSubsequent Forecast DaysAs stated above, the system can be configured togenerate forecast texts for a number of days intothe future.
Because prediction accuracy reducesgoing into the future, the forecast text on day 1should be worded differently from subsequentdays where the prediction is relatively more un-certain.
An example output text for day 1 isshown in Figure 2 while Figure 3 shows the day3 forecast.
Note the use of ?expected?
to denotethe uncertainty around the timing of the tempera-ture peak.Staying dry and predominantly clear with only afew cloudy intervals through the night.
A mildnight with temperatures of 6C.
Light windsthroughout.Figure 2.
Example output text for day 1Cloudy through the day.
Mainly clear into thenight.
Highest temperatures expected during theafternoon in the region of 12C with a low ofaround 6C during the night.
Light to moderatewinds throughout.Figure 3.
Example output text for day 33.2 Lack of Corpus for System DevelopmentA significant feature of the system developmenthas been to work towards a target text specifica-tion provided by experts rather than extract sucha specification from corpus texts, as is generallythe case with most NLG system developmentprojects.
This is because expert forecasters donot write the target texts regularly; therefore,there is no naturally occurring target corpus.However, because of the specialized nature ofthe weather sublanguage (Weatherese), whichhas been well studied in the NLG community[Goldberg et al, 1994, Reiter et al 2005, Reiterand Williams 2010], it was possible to supple-ment text specifications obtained from experts.In addition, extensive quality assessment (detailsin section 3.4) helped us to refine the systemoutput to the desired levels of quality.3.3 Achieving Output QuantityThe main requirements of the case study havebeen 1) build a NLG capability that produces thequantity of texts required and 2) achieve thisquantity without sacrificing the quality expectedfrom the Met Office.
As stated previously, thequantity requirement has been met by generating15,000 texts in less than a minute, without needfor high end computing infrastructure or parallel-ization.
Figure 4 is a box plot showing characterlengths of forecast texts for an arbitrary set ofinputs.
The median length is 177 characters.
Theoutliers, with length 1.5 times the interquartilerange (1.5 * 134 = 201 characters) above the up-per quartile or below the lower quartile, relate tosites experiencing particularly varied weatherconditions.
Feedback on the appropriateness ofthe text lengths is discussed in Section 3.4.Figure 4.
Boxplot of forecast character lengthFigure 5.
System Processing TimeThe system has recently been extended to gen-erate 50,000 texts without loss of performance.This extension has doubled the number of sitesprocessed to 10,000 and extended the forecast to5 days.
It has also increased the geographic ex-tent of the system from UK only to worldwide,discussed in Section 3.5.
The plot in Figure 5shows the relationship between processing time3and the addition of new forecast sites.
The resultswere obtained over 10 trials using a MacBookPro 2.5 GHz Intel Core i5, running OS X 10.8with 4GB of RAM.3.4 Achieving Output QualityAchieving the required text quality was drivenby expert assessment of output texts that oc-curred over a period of two years.
This is be-cause experts had to ensure that the system out-put was assessed over the entire range of weatherconditions related to seasonal variations over thecourse of a year.
The following comment aboutthe output quality made by a Met Office expertsummarizes the internal feedback:"They were very, very good and I got lots of ver-bal feedback to that affect from the audience af-terwards.
Looking back after the weekend, theforecasts proved to be correct too!
I've beenlooking at them at other times and I think they'rebrilliant.
"After successfully assessing the output qualityinternally, the Met Office launched the system onthe Invent part of their website to collect end-user assessments.
Invent is used by the Met Of-fice to test new technology before introducingthe technology into their workflows.
With thehelp of a short questionnaire 1  that collects as-sessment of those end-users that use weather in-formation for decision-making, quality assess-ment is ongoing.
The questionnaire had threequestions related to quality assessment shown inFigures 6-8.
In the rest of the section we describethe results of this questionnaire based on 35 re-sponses received between 1st January 2014 and6th March 2014.The first question shown in Figure 6 relates toassessing the usefulness of textual content inhelping the end-user understand a weather reportbetter.
Out of the 35 respondents, 34 (97%) an-swered ?yes?
and 1 (3%) answered ?no?
for thequestion in Figure 6.
The second question shownin Figure 7 relates to assessing if the text size isoptimal for this use case.
Here, out of the 35 re-spondents, 26 (74%) felt the text is ?about right?size, 7 (20%) felt it is either ?too short?
or ?toolong?
and 2 (6%) were ?unsure?.
The third ques-tion shown in Figure 8 relates to finding out ifthe end-user might want a forecast that includestextual content.
Here, 32 (91%) wanted textualcontent while 3 (9%) did not want it.1http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/invent/feedbackThe Met Office is currently evaluating the newcapability based upon the feedback received andhow it can be applied to meet the demands ofusers across their portfolio of products.Did you find the text on the weather forecastpage helped you to understand the forecast bet-ter?
*YesNoFigure 6.
Question about textual content help-ing the end-user understand the forecast betterHow did you find the text used?
*Too shortAbout rightToo longUnsure / don't knowFigure 7.
Question about length of the forecasttextWould you recommend this feature?
*YesNoFigure 8.
Question about the end-user?s opin-ion on textual content as part of a weather reportThe questionnaire also asked for free textcomments.
An example of one such comment is:"Succinct and clear text.
Contains all the im-portant features and is well presented.
Saves ushaving to summarise the visual descriptions our-selves (or rather helps to shape our conclusionsabout the 24 hour weather pattern).
"A big challenge during the development ofsuch a system is providing quality assurance4when generating such a large volume of texts.
Anumber of automated checks had to be applied tothe complete output during system testing as wellas targeted sampling of input data to produce arepresentative sample of outputs for manual as-sessment.3.5 Extending the Geographic ExtentExtending the scope of the system from UK-onlysites to handling worldwide locations brings sub-tle challenges in addition to scaling the system,principally:1. handling time zone changes; and2.
adapting to different climates.In the case of point 1 above, time descriptionscan become ambiguous where the sunrise andsunset time vary across geographies.
Such timesneed to be carefully observed to avoid generatingwords such as ?sunny?
after dark.
For point 2,general terminologies relating to description oftemperatures cannot be universally appliedacross locations.
For example, the meaning ofterms such as ?cool?
differs at locations withinthe tropics versus locations north (or south) of 45degrees of latitude.4 ConclusionWe have presented a case study describing anapplication of NLG technology deployed at theMet Office.
The system has been developed tomeet the text production requirements for thou-sands of forecast locations that could not havebeen sustainable with human resources.
Thesoftware can write a detailed five-day weatherforecast for 10,000 locations worldwide in undertwo minutes.
It would take a weather forecastermonths to create the equivalent quantity of out-put.In meeting the requirements of this particularuse case a number of challenges have had to bemet.
Principally, these challenges have been fo-cused upon processing speed and output textquality.
While we have managed to achieve therequired processing performance relativelyquickly without the need for large amounts ofcomputing resources or high-end computing in-frastructure, ensuring the necessary output quali-ty has been a longer process due to the high op-erating standards required and the high resourcecost of quality assurance when delivering texts atsuch scale.This application of NLG technology to site-specific weather forecasting has potential for anumber of enhancements to the type of weatherservices that may be provided in the future, mostnotably the opportunity for very geographicallylocalized textual forecasts that can be updatedimmediately as the underlying numerical weatherprediction data is produced.ReferencesE.
Goldberg, N. Driedger, and R. Kittredge.Using Natural-Language Processing to ProduceWeather Forecasts.IEEE Expert, 9(2):45--53, 1994.J.
Coch.
Interactive generation and knowledge admin-istration in MultiMeteo.In Proceedings of the Ninth International Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, pages 300--303, Niagara-on-the-lake, Ontario, Canada, 1998.software demonstration.Bateman J and Zock M, (2012) Bateman/Zock list ofNLG systems, http://www.nlg-wiki.org/systems/.S.
Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy, (2003a)?SumTime-Mousam: Configurable Marine WeatherForecast Generator?, Expert Update, 6(3), pp 4-10,(2003)S. Sripada, E. Reiter, J.
Hunter and J. Yu (2003b).Generating English Summaries of Time Series Da-ta using the Gricean Maxims.
In Proceedings ofKDD 2003, pp 187-196.E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, J.
Hunter, J. Yu and Ian Davy(2005).
Choosing Words in Computer-GeneratedWeather Forecasts.
Artificial Intelligence.
167(1-2):137-169E.
Reiter (2007).
An architecture for data-to-text sys-tems, In ENLG 07, pp97-104.Reiter, Ehud and Williams, Sandra (2010).
Generatingtexts in different styles.
In: Argamon, Shlomo;Burns, Kevin and Dubnov, Shlomo eds.
The Struc-ture of Style: Algorithmic Approaches to Mannerand Meaning.
Heidelberg: Springer, pp.
59?78E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, J.
Hunter, J. Yu, and Ian Da-vy(2005).
Choosing words in computer-generatedweather forecasts.
Artificial Intelligence.
167(1-2):137-169 (2005)R. Turner, S. Sripada, E. Reiter, & I. Davy(2008).
Using spatial reference frames to generategrounded textual summaries of geo-referenced da-ta.
Proceedings of the INLG 2008, Salt Fork, Ohio.5
