Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature (CLfL) @ EACL 2014, pages 17?24,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuotations, Relevance and Time Depth:Medieval Arabic Literature in Grids and NetworksPetr Zem?anekInstitute of Comparative LinguisticsCharles University, PragueCzech Republicpetr.zemanek@ff.cuni.czJi?r??
Mili?ckaInstitute of Comparative LinguisticsCharles University, PragueCzech Republicjiri@milicka.czAbstractThis contribution deals with the use ofquotations (repeated n-grams) in the worksof medieval Arabic literature.
The analysisis based on a 420 millions of words histor-ical corpus of Arabic.
Based on repeatedquotations from work to work, a networkis constructed and used for interpretationof various aspects of Arabic literature.Two short case studies are presented, con-centrating on the centrality and relevanceof individual works, and the analysis of atime depth and resulting impact of a givenwork in various periods.1 Quotations and Their DefinitionThe relevance of individual works in a given liter-ature and the time depth of such relevance are ofinterest for many reasons.
There are many meth-ods that can reveal such relevance.The current contribution is based on quotationextraction.
Quotations, both covert and overt, bothfrom written and oral sources, belong to constitu-tive features of medieval Arabic literature.There are genres which heavily depend on es-tablishing credible links among sources, espe-cially the oral ones, where a trusty chain oftradents is crucial for the claims that such chainsaccompany.
Other links may point to the impor-tance of a given work (or its part) and may un-cover previously unseen relations within a givenliterature or a given genre/register, or reveal con-nections among genres/registers within a given lit-erature.
As such, the results are interesting in awide research range, from linguists or literaturetheorists to authors interested in the interactionsof various subsets of a given literature.The research on quotations, their extraction anddetection is rich in the NLP, but the algorihms usedare based mainly on the quotation-marker recog-nition, e.g.
Pareti et al.
(2013), Pouliquen et al.
(2007) and Fernandes et al.
(2011), or on the meta-data procesing (e.g.
Shi et al.
2010), to name just afew examples.
It can be said that most of the con-tributions focus on issues different from the onedescribed in this contribution and choose a differ-ent approach.Our understanding of quotations in this projectis limited to similar strings of words, i.e.
thequotations are very close to borrowings or rep-etition of verbatim or almost verbatim passages.Technically, it can be viewed as an n-gram that isbeing repeated in at least two works.
These re-peated n-grams create links that exhibit some hier-archy, e.g.
on the chronological line.
The only ap-proach known to us that can be paralleled to ours isthe one described in Kolak and Schilit (2008) forquotation mining within the Google Books corpuswith algorithm searching for verbatim quotationsonly.In a different context and without direct inspira-tion we developed an algorithm that is tolerant toa certain degree of lexical and morphological vari-ation and word order variability.
The reason forthis tolerance is both the type of the Arabic lan-guage (flective morphology and free word order),but also the fact that the quotations in medievalArabic literature tend not to be very strict.
Despiteof the fact that the matching is not so rigorous, weassume that the length of n-grams we use drasti-cally decreases possibilities of random matches.The frequency of such n-gram repetition in var-ious literary works can point to several aspects,however, in this contribution we will limit our-selves to interpreting such links in a rather cau-tious and not too far-reaching manner, mainly aspointers to the fact that the writer of the bookwhere the quotations appear was also a reader ofthe book from which the quotations stem and thathe was to a certain degree influenced by it.This does not necessarily mean that the lineageof quotations is complete in our picture, for we17have to admit that there could be some author ?member of the lineage ?
who is not involved inour corpus.
In our graph, however, edges point tothe first instance of a given n-gram in our data.2 The Data, Its Organization andExtractionIt is obvious that for the type of the task mentionedin the previous chapter, there is a need of an appro-priate data set.2.1 Historical Corpus of ArabicAll the data in this contribution come from a his-torical corpus of Arabic (CLAUDIA ?
CorpusLingu?Arabic?Universalis DIAchronicus).
Thiscorpus covers all the main phases of the Arabicwritings, from the 7thcentury to mid 20thcenturyC.E.
It contains ca.
2 thousand works and ca.
420million words.
The individual works are present intheir entirety, i.e.
each file contains a full text of agiven literary work, based on edited manuscripts.All the main registers (genres) that appeared in thehistory of Arabic literature are represented in thecorpus.All the texts in the corpus are raw, without ad-ditional annotation.
The files contain only a basicannotation of parts to be excluded from analyses(introductions, editorial forewords, etc.).
This isof importance for the algorithms development, asthe ambiguity of a text written down in Arabic let-ters is rather high (cf.
e.g.
Beesley 2001, Buck-walter 2004 or Smr?z 2007 passim).
On the otherhand, it is certainly clear that the ambiguity sig-nificantly decreases when the n-gram information(i.e.
context) is introduced.As such, the corpus can be viewed as a network-like representation of Arabic literature.
Each workis assigned several attributes, such as authorship,position on the time line, genre characteristics, etc.As several of the attributes can be viewed fromseveral angles, it should be made clear that thegenre characteristics currently used correspond torather traditional terms used in Arabic and Islamicstudies.
Currently, the attributes assigned to the in-dividual works are based on extra-corpus informa-tion and all of them were assigned manually fromstandard sources.A short remark on the character of Arabic lit-erature is appropriate.
One should bear in mindthat the approach to literature as consisting only ofbelles-lettres is relatively new, and for Arabic lit-erature can be applied at the soonest at the end ofthe 19thcentury.
All the previous phases must beseen as containing very different genres, includ-ing science, philosophy, popular reading and po-etry as well as a huge bulk of writings connectedwith Islam, thus representing rather the concept of?Schrifttum?
as expressed in the canonical com-pendia on Arabic literature, such as Brockelmann(last edition 1996).
This is also reflected in cur-rent contribution, as many of our examples areconnected with Islamic literature covering all theaspects of the study of religion.
This includes the-ology, Islamic law, history, evaluation of sources,tradition, etc.
Further information can be founde.g.
in Kuiper 2010.2.2 The Grid and the NetworkThe construction of a grid from a corpus consistsbasically in defining some constitutive units thatserve as nodes.
There are several possibilities ofconstituting such units, but some obvious solu-tions might not work very well.
At first glance, it isadvisable to find as small a unit as possible, whilestill retaining its meaningfulness; we decided toidentify such units with individual works, or titles,with possible further division: Arabic literature isfull of several-volume sets, and as our analysesshowed, it may be sometimes useful to treat themas multi-part units, where individual parts can betreated as individual nodes (e.g., in some of ouranalyses it appeared that only a second volume ofa three-volume set was significant).
Treating suchparts as individual nodes reveals similar cases in-stantly and can prevent overlooking important fea-tures during the analysis.The nodes should allow reasonable links lead-ing from one node to another.
These links arecrucial for any possible interpretation, as theyshow various types of relations between individ-ual nodes.
These nodes can be again grouped to-gether, to show relations among different types ofgrouped information (i.e.
links between titles ortheir parts, among authors, centuries, genres, etc.
).The nodes as such create the basis for the con-struction of both the grid and the network.
Aspointed out, currently the main axes used forgrid and network construction are the authorship,chronological line, and the register information.The links among individual nodes are interpretedas relational links, or edges, in a network.
Theselinks also reflect quantitative data (currently, the18number of quotations normalized to the lengths ofthe documents).
The grid currently consists of thechronological line and the line of the works (doc-uments).
Above this grid, a network consisting ofedges connecting the works is constructed.
Thegrid in our approach corresponds to a firm framewhere some basic attributes are used.
The net-work then consists of the relations that go acrossthe grid and reveal new connections between indi-vidual units.A terminological remark is appropriate here.The network constructed above the grid corre-sponds to a great deal to what is called a weightedgraph (the width of edges reflects the frequencyof links).
The term directed graph could also beused, however, in our current conception of thenetwork, the links are not really oriented, as the di-rection of links pointing to contemporary authorsis sometimes not clearly determinable, contrary toauthors with greater time gap.1That is why wecall these links edges and not arcs, and possibly,the graph could be called a semi-directed graph.Kolak and Schilit (2008) observe that the stan-dard plagiarism detection algorithms are use-less for unmarked quotation mining and sug-gest straightforward and efficient algorithm for re-peated passage extraction.
The algorithm is suit-able for modern English texts, since quotations aremore or less verbatim and the word order is stable.But it is insufficient for medieval Arabic texts asthe quotations are usually not really strict and theword order in Arabic is variable.
We decided thatour algorithm must be a) word order insensitive;b) tolerant to certain degree of variability in thecontent of quotations, so that the algorithm allowssome variation introduced by the copyist, and re-flects possibilities of change due to the fact thatArabic is a flective language.2.3 Quotations extraction: technicaldescriptionThe basic operation in the process is the quotationsextraction.
The procedure itself could be used inplagiarism detection, however, such labels do notmake sense in case of medieval literature with dif-ferent scales of values.The quotation extraction process consists offour phases:1Our time reference is based on the date of death of re-spective authors, and thus can be considered as ?raw?.
Dataon the publication of a respective book are often not availablefor more distant periods.1.
The corpus is prepared for analysis.
Numer-als and junk characters are removed from thecorpus, as well as all other types of noise.
Re-verse index of all word types in the corpus isconstructed (in case of texts written in Ara-bic script, a special treatment of diacriticalsigns and the aliph-grapheme and its variantsis necessary).2.
All repeating n-grams greater than 7 tokensare logged (the algorithm is tolerant to theword order variability and to the variabilityof types up to 10 %)2: Tokens of everyn-gram in the text are sorted according totheir frequency in the whole corpus (for ev-ery n in some reasonable range, in our casen ?< 7; 200 >).
(a) The positions of round(0.1n) + 1 leastfrequent tokens3are looked up in the re-verse index.
(b) The neighbourhoods of the positions aretested for being quotations of the lengthof n tokens.
(c) Quotations are merged so that quota-tions larger than n tokens are detectedas well.3.
For each pair of texts i, j the following index?
(i,j)is calculated (N is the number of to-kens in a text, M is the number of tokens thatare part of quotations of the text j in the text i,K is the set of all pairs of texts in the corpus;h is the parameter that determines number ofedges visible in the graph, for details see be-low):2The minimal length of the quotation and the percentageof word types variability should have been determined on anempirical basis, maximizing recall and precision.
The prob-lem is that the decision whether the repeating text passageis a quotation or not is not a binary one.
Kolak and Schilit(2008) note the problem and let their subjects evaluate resultsof their algorithm on a 1?5 scale.
As we did not manage to dovast and proper evaluation of the outputs of our algorithm us-ing various minimal lengths of the quotations and degrees ofvariability, we relied on our subjective experience.
The mini-mal length was set so that it exceeds length of the most com-mon Arabic phrases and Islamic eulogies and the percentageof variable words was set to cover some famous examples offormulaicity in Arabic literatureIt needs to be said that some minor changes of the param-eters do not influence the results excessively, at least for thecase studies we present here.3The reason being the 10% tolerance.19?i,j= log2hMi,jNiNj?
(k,l)?KMk,lNkNlIt should be noted that the formula givenabove is inspired by the Mutual Informationbut it has no interpretation within the theoryof information.
It was constructed only totransform the number of quoted tokens intosome index that could be graphically repre-sented in some reasonable way convenient tothe human mind.4.
The edges representing links with ?
lowerthan a certain threshold are omitted.
Thethreshold is set to 0.5 according to the limitsof the programs producing graphic represen-tation of the graph (the width of the line rep-resenting the edge is associated directly withthe index ?).
The index is normalized by theparameter h so that the user can set densityof the graph, i.e.
manipulate the index onan ad hoc basis with consideration for suit-able number of edges and their ideal averagewidth.
E.g., the number of word tokens in-volved in autoquotations in Qur?an is 13 956and the overall number of tokens is 80 047.MQur?an,Qur?anNQur?anNQur?an=13 95680 0472= 0.00000218For our corpus, the average value is0.000025, setting h < 16.23 then meansthat the Qur?anic autoquotation link will notbe represented in the graph.
Setting h =0.346574 means that an average link gets?
= 0.5.
Setting h = 2 means that an av-erage link gets ?
= 1.The relation is exported to the .dot formatand the graph is generated by popular appli-cations GraphViz and GVEdit.4The resulting database is stored in a binary for-mat, but the graphical user interface allows the re-searchers to export graphs in accordance to theirconcepts.
The features of the graphs can bechanged by manipulating the h parameter andsome other options.
The appearance of the nodescan be freely adjusted as well.More detailed information on the overall techni-cal process is available directly from the authors.4http://www.graphviz.org3 The Analysis and InterpretationThe results are currently stored in a database andare available for further analyses.
It is clear thatresults from a corpus of 420 million words offermany ways of interpretation.The usage of the extracted data is to a certain de-gree limited in nature.
It is mainly suitable for dis-cussion of relations among individual nodes (doc-uments, titles) or their groups.
However, furtherprocessing of the data will enable a wider paletteof possibilities.
Currently, and also due to the lim-itations of this paper, only a few examples will begiven.3.1 Central Nodes and RelevanceThe centrality of a given document may point toits relevance for its surroundings.
If the relationsthat were found by our algorithms are interpretedmerely as showing influence of predecessors onthe author and his influence on his successors, thenthe number of links to and from an author and hisparticular book shows the relevance of that book.In graph theory, there is no general agreementon how centrality should be defined.
We expandthe large number of indices of the degree centralitywith our own index that is based on the same ideaas the ?
index (J is the set of all texts):CD(i) =?j?JMi,jNiNjThe measurement of this rather primitive andstraightforward index results in table 1.
The tablealso contains the plain number of edges at h = 10(marked as edg.
):As the pointers to the subject of the respectiveworks show, it was not only Islamic subjects thatfound their way to the most cited works in Arabicliterature ?
historical literature as well as educa-tive literature obviously played an important rolein the medieval Arabic civilization.It is interesting that az-Zayla?i?s node comprisesonly the second volume of his three-volume Nasabar-Raya (Erection of the Flag) ?
the other vol-umes exhibit either no edges or very few (0?1 and1?0 respectively and the quotations point to his2ndvolume).
Another interesting fact is that az-Zayla?i is rather less-known today ?
a short ref-erence can be found in Lane 2005: 150 (fn.
2 and3).
This is also confirmed by the situation today.An Internet search for this author (including Ara-bic sources) yields only a short paragraph on his20Degree Cited Citing Cited CitingCDCDCDedg.
edg.1 0.0958 0.0278 0.0681 70 122 0.08257 0.0789 0.0036 23 53 0.07763 0.0001 0.0775 0 24 0.07277 0.0597 0.0130 155 05 0.04562 0.0038 0.0418 35 13Table 1: Texts sorted according to the degree cen-trality (first five texts).
Authors with their worksand genre:1 = az-Zayla?i ?
Nasab ar-Raya, vol.
2 (Islam)2 = Abu Nu?aym al-Isbahani ?
Axbar Isbahan(history)3 = Abu Nu?aym al-Isbahani ?
Tarix Isbahan(history)4 = an-Nasa?i ?
Sunna (Islam)5 = al-Yafi?i ?
Mir?at al-Jinan (educative li-terature ?
adab).birth (small village in Somalia, no date) and death(Cairo 1360).Ibn Xaldun (d. 1382) is a very well-known fig-ure today, respected for his History.
Today, es-pecially his Introduction (Muqaddima) is appreci-ated as an insightful methodological propedeutics.In Figure 2, his relevance in the Middle Ages ismeasured: it comprises 4 volumes: Introductionand History vols.
1?3.
The graph shows (apartfrom numerous autoquotations) that his 3rdvol-ume is the central one, where most of incomingand outgoing links can be found.
On the otherhand, his Muqaddima, which is praised today forits originality, remains isolated (our data do notcover the second half of the 20thcentury, wherethis appreciation could be found).3.2 Time DepthAs our network combines a grid with chronolog-ical axis, it is rather easy to follow the distribu-tion of links connected to a given node not onlythe relevance to other nodes, but also in time.
Asrelevance of a given work is mostly judged fromour current point of view (i.e.
from what is con-sidered important in the 21stcentury), an unbiasedanalysis may give interesting results showing bothinspirational sources of a given work and its influ-ence on other authors; it can also show the limitsof such influence.Figure 1 concentrates on the figure of az-Zayla?i(d. 1360), who obviously played an important rolein transmitting the knowledge (or discussion, atleast) between different periods (cf.
3.1).
The sec-ond volume of his Nasab ar-Raya is a clear centerof the network.The dating of the numerous sources that he usedwhile writing his book starts ca.
from the 10thcen-tury and to a great deal almost ignores 11thand12thcenturies.
There is a thick web of links tohis contemporaries, and his direct influence is verystrong on the authors of the following century, butslowly wanes with the passage of time ?
althoughthere are some attestations of his influence in the16thand 17thcenturies, they are getting less andless numerous.
In the 20thcentury there are onlytwo authors at whom we found some reflection ofaz-Zayla?i ?s work.From the point of view of the 21stcentury, az-Zayla?i is a marginal figure, both for the Westernand Arabic civilizations.
On the other hand, as ourdata show, his importance was crucial for the dis-cussion on Islamic themes for several centuries,which is, apart from the data given above, con-firmed also by frequent quotations of his name andwritings in the titles starting from the 15thcenturyon.5It is appropriate to repeat here that such conclu-sions can be viewed as mere signals, as we can-not exclude that there is some title occurring in thequotations lineage but missing in our data.It should also be stressed that these conclusionsreflect only verbatim quotations and are not basedon the contents of these works.
In other words, therelations do not represent an immediate reflectionof the spread of ideas of a given author but rathershow the usage of a given work in various periodsof the evolution of Arabic literature.4 Future WorkIt is clear that there are many ways in which wecan continue in our project.
In the near future, weplan to work on the following topics:?
experimenting with various lengths of theshortest quotation and the degree of allowedvariability, maximizing recall and precision.5The title of the book is attested in other writings in ourdataset in the 15?17thcenturies only; the name of the authorappears abundantly in the 15thcentury (ca 1050x), 16thcen-tury (ca 560x), 17thcentury (ca 500x).
The 18thcentury givesonly 45 occurrences, later on his name can be found only inspecialized Islamic treatises.21?
enriching the palette of nodes?
attributes toenable a broader scope of analyses based bothon external sources and inner textual proper-ties of given texts;?
comparison of the complexity of the graphsof various subcorpora organized according todifferent criteria;?
comparison of various indices of centrality;?
detailed interpretation of edges;?
comparison with other corpora and?
network of autoquotations within one text.AcknowledgmentsThe research reflected in this article has been sup-ported by the GA?CR (Czech Science Foundation),project no.
13-28220S.We would also like to thank to the anonymousreviewers for their inspiring comments.ReferencesKenneth R. Beesley.
2001.
Finite-State Morphologi-cal Analysis and Generation of Arabic at Xerox Re-search: Status and Plans in 2001.
ACL Workshop onArabic Language Processing: Status and Perspec-tive.
Toulouse, France: 1?8.Carl Brockelmann.
1996.
Geschichte der ArabischenLiteratur, (4 Volume Set).
Brill, Leiden (1stedition:1923).Tim Buckwalter.
2004.
Issues in Arabic Orthographyand Morphology Analysis.
The Workshop on Com-putational Approaches to Arabic Script-based Lan-guages, COLING.
Geneva: 31?34.William Paulo Ducca Fernandes, Eduardo Motta andRuy Luiz Milidi?u.
2011.
Quotation Extraction forPortuguese.
Proceedings of the 8th Brazilian Sym-posium in Information and Human Language Tech-nology.
Cuiab?a: 204?208.Okan Kolak and Bill N. Schilit.
2008.
GeneratingLinks by Mining Quotations.
HT ?08: Proceedingsof the nineteenth ACM conference on Hypertext andhypermedia.
New York: 117?126.Kathleen Kuiper.
2010.
Islamic Art, Literature andCulture.
Rosen Publishing Group.Andrew J.
Lane.
2005.
A Traditional Mu?taziliteQur?an Commentary: The Kashshaf of Jar Allah al-Zamakhsari (d.538/1144).
Brill, Leiden.Silvia Pareti, Tim O?Keefe, Ioannis Konstas, James R.Curran and Irena Koprinska.
2013.
AutomaticallyDetecting and Attributing Indirect Quotations.
Pro-ceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing.
Seattle: 989?999.Bruno Pouliquen, Ralf Steinberger and Clive Best.2007.
Automatic Detection Of Quotations in Mul-tilingual News.
Proceedings of Recent Advances inNatural Language Processing 2007.
Borovets.Xiaolin Shi, Jure Leskovec and Daniel A. McFarland.2010.
Citing for High Impact.
Proceedings of the10th annual joint conference on Digital libraries.New York: 49?58.Otakar Smr?z.
2007.
Functional Arabic Morphology.Formal System and Implementation.
Doctoral The-sis, Charles University, Prague.22Figure 1: Case study: Zayla?i?s Nasab ar-Raya 3 in its context.
Parameter h = 2.
Cut out.23Figure 2: Case study: the network around the Ibn Xaldun?s works.
Parameter h = 1.6667.24
