Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Predicting and Improving Text Readability for Target Reader Populations (PITR) @ EACL 2014, pages 47?56,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSyntactic Sentence Simplification for FrenchLaetitia BrouwersAspirante FNRSCENTAL, IL&CUCLouvainBelgiumDelphine BernhardLiLPaUniversit?e de StrasbourgFranceAnne-Laure LigozatLIMSI-CNRSENSIIEFranceThomas Franc?oisCENTAL, IL&CUCLouvainBelgiumAbstractThis paper presents a method for the syn-tactic simplification of French texts.
Syn-tactic simplification aims at making textseasier to understand by simplifying com-plex syntactic structures that hinder read-ing.
Our approach is based on the studyof two parallel corpora (encyclopaedia ar-ticles and tales).
It aims to identify the lin-guistic phenomena involved in the manualsimplification of French texts and organ-ise them within a typology.
We then pro-pose a syntactic simplification system thatrelies on this typology to generate simpli-fied sentences.
The module starts by gen-erating all possible variants before select-ing the best subset.
The evaluation showsthat about 80% of the simplified sentencesproduced by our system are accurate.1 IntroductionIn most of our daily activities, the ability to readquickly and effectively is an undeniable asset,even often a prerequisite (Willms, 2003).
How-ever, a sizeable part of the population is not ableto deal adequately with the texts they face.
Forinstance, Richard et al.
(1993) reported that, in 92applications for an unemployment allowance filledby people with a low level of education, about halfof the required information was missing (some ofwhich was crucial for the processing of the appli-cation), mainly because of comprehension issues.These comprehension issues are often relatedto the complexity of texts, particularly at the lex-ical and syntactic levels.
These two factors areknown to be important causes of reading difficul-ties (Chall and Dale, 1995), especially for youngchildren, learners of a foreign language or peoplewith language impairments or intellectual disabil-ities.In this context, automatic text simplification(ATS) appears as a means to help various peo-ple access more easily the contents of the writtendocuments.
ATS is an application domain of Nat-ural Language Processing (NLP) aiming at mak-ing texts more accessible for readers, while en-suring the integrity of their contents and structure.Among the investigations in this regard are thoseof Caroll et al.
(1999), Inui et al.
(2003) and, morerecently, of Rello et al.
(2013), who developedtools to produce more accessible texts for peoplewith language disabilities such as aphasia, deaf-ness or dyslexia.
In the FIRST project, Barbu etal.
(2013) and Evans and Or?asan (2013) imple-mented a simplification system for patients withautism, who may also struggle to understand diffi-cult texts.However, reading assistance is not only in-tended for readers with disabilities, but also forthose who learn a new language (as first or sec-ond language).
De Belder and Moens (2010) fo-cused on ATS for native English schoolchildren,while Siddharthan (2006), Petersen and Ostendorf(2007) and Medero and Ostendorf (2011) focusedon learners of a second language.
Williams andReiter (2008), Aluisio et al.
(2008) and Gasperinet al.
(2009) addressed ATS for illiterate adults.Most of these studies are dealing with the En-glish language, with the exception of some workin Japanese (Inui et al., 2003), Spanish (Saggionet al., 2011; Bott et al., 2012), Portuguese (Alu?
?sioet al., 2008) and French (Seretan, 2012).ATS was also used as a preprocessing step toincrease the effectiveness of subsequent NLP op-erations on texts.
Chandrasekar et al.
(1996)first considered that long and complex sentenceswere an obstacle for automatic parsing or machinetranslation and they showed that a prior simplifi-cation may result in a better automatic analysisof sentences.
More recently, Heilman and Smith(2010) showed that adding ATS in the context47of automatic question generation yields better re-sults.
Similarly, Lin and Wilbur (2007) and Jon-nalagadda et al.
(2009) optimized information ex-traction from biomedical texts using ATS as a pre-processing step.In these studies, the simplifications carried outare generally based on a set of manually definedtransformation rules.
However, ATS may alsobe solved with methods from machine transla-tion and machine learning.
This lead some re-searchers (Zhu et al., 2010; Specia, 2010; Wood-send and Lapata, 2011) to train statistical modelsfrom comparable corpora of original and simpli-fied texts.
The data used in these studies are of-ten based on the English Wikipedia (for originaltexts) and the Simple English Wikipedia, a simpli-fied version for children and non-native speakersthat currently comprises more than 100,000 arti-cles.
Similar resources exist for French, such asVikidia and Wikimini, but texts are far less nu-merous in these as in their English counterpart.Moreover, the original and simplified versions ofan article are not strictly parallel, which furthercomplicates machine learning.
This is why, so far,there was no attempt to adapt this machine learn-ing methodology to French.
The only previouswork on French, to our knowledge, is that of Sere-tan (2012), which analysed a corpus of newspa-pers to semi-automatically detect complex struc-tures that has to be simplified.
However, her sys-tem of rules has not been implemented and evalu-ated.In this paper, we aim to further investigate theissue of syntactic simplification for French.
Weassume a midway point between the two main ten-dencies in the field.
We use parallel corpora sim-ilar to those used in machine learning approachesand analyse it to manually define a set of simpli-fication rules.
We have also implemented the syn-tactic part of our typology through a simplificationsystem.
It is based on the technique of overgen-eration, which consists in generating all possiblesimplified variants of a sentence, and then on theselection of the best subset of variants for a giventext with the optimization technique known as in-teger linear programming (ILP).
ILP allows us tospecify a set of constraints that regulate the selec-tion of the output by the syntactic simplificationsystem.
This method has already been applied toATS in English by Belder and Moens (2010) andWoodsend and Lapata (2011).To conclude, the contributions of this paper are:(1) a first corpus-based study of simplification pro-cesses in French that relies on a corpus of parallelsentences, (2) the organization of this study?s re-sults in what might be the first typology of sim-plification for French based on a corpus analysisof original and simplified texts; (3) two new crite-ria to select the best subset of simplified sentencesamong the set of variants, namely the spelling listof Catach (1985) and the use of keywords, andfinally (4) a syntactic simplification system forFrench, a language with little resources as regardstext simplification.In the next sections, we first present the cor-pora building process (Section 2.1) and describea general typology of simplification derived fromour corpora (Section 2.2).
Then, we present thesystem based on the syntactic part of the typol-ogy, which operates in two steps: overgenerationof all possible simplified sentences (Section 2.3.1)and selection of the best subset of candidates us-ing readability criteria (Section 2.3.2) and ILP.Finally, we evaluate the quality of the syntacti-cally simplified sentences as regards grammatical-ity, before performing some error analysis (Sec-tion 3).2 Methodology2.1 Corpus DescriptionWe based our typology of simplification rules onthe analysis of two corpora.
More specifically,since our aim is to identify and classify the var-ious strategies used to transform a complex sen-tence into a more simple one, the corpora had toinclude parallel sentences.
The reason why weanalysed two corpora is to determine whether dif-ferent genres of texts lead to different simplifica-tion strategies.
In this study, we focused on theanalysis of informative and narrative texts.
The in-formative corpus comprises encyclopaedia articlesfrom Wikipedia1and Vikidia2.
For the narrativetexts, we used three classic tales by Perrault, Mau-passant and Daudet and their simplified versionsfor learners of French as a foreign language.To collect the first of our parallel corpora, weused the MediaWiki API to retrieve Wikipediaand Vikidia articles with the same title.
The1http://fr.wikipedia.org2This site is intended for young people from eight to thirteen years and gathers moreaccessible articles than Wikipedia, both in terms of language and content.
It is available atthe address http://fr.vikidia.org48WikiExtractor3was then applied to the articlesto discard the wiki syntax and only keep the rawtexts.
This corpus comprises 13,638 texts (7,460from Vikidia and only 6,178 from Wikipedia,since some Vikidia articles had no counterpart inWikipedia).These articles were subsequently processed toidentify parallel sentences (Wikipedia sentencewith a simplified equivalent in Vikidia).
The align-ment has been made partly manually and partlyautomatically with the monolingual alignment al-gorithm described in Nelken and Shieber (2006),which relies on a cosine similarity between sen-tence vectors weighted with the tf-idf.
This pro-gram outputs alignments between sentences, alongwith a confidence score.
Among these files,twenty articles or excerpts from Wikipedia wereselected along with their equivalent in Vikidia.This amounts to 72 sentences for the former and80 sentences for the latter.The second corpus is composed of 16 narra-tive texts, and more specifically tales, by Perrault,Maupassant, and Daudet.
We used tales sincetheir simplified version was closer to the origi-nal than those of longer novels, which made thesentence alignment simpler.
The simplified ver-sions of these tales were found in two collectionsintended to learners of French as a foreign lan-guage (FFL): ?Hachette - Lire en franc?ais facile?and ?De Boeck - Lire et s?entrainer?.
Their levelof difficulty ranges from A1 (Daudet) to B1 (Mau-passant) on the CEFR scale (Council of Europe,2001), with Perrault being A2.
The texts were dig-itized by OCR processing and manually aligned,by two annotators, with an adjudication phase forthe disagreement cases.
In this corpus, we anal-ysed 83 original sentences and their correspond-ing 98 simplified versions, which gives us a sizeroughly similar to the Wikipedia-Vikidia corpus.The two corpora created are relevant for a man-ual analysis, as done in the next section, but theyare too small for automatic processing.
We planto implement a method to align automatically thenarrative texts in the near future and thus be ableto collect a larger corpus.2.2 Simplification TypologyThe observations carried out on these two cor-pora have made it possible to establish a typol-ogy organised according to three main linguistic3http://medialab.di.unipi.it/wiki/Wikipedia\_Extractorlevels of transformation: lexical, discursive andsyntactic, which can be further divided into sub-categories.
It is worth mentioning that in previ-ous work, simplification is commonly regarded aspertaining to two categories of phenomena: lexi-cal and syntactic (Carroll et al., 1999; Inui et al.,2003; De Belder and Moens, 2010).
Little atten-tion has been paid to discourse in the area of auto-matic simplification (Siddharthan, 2006).The typology is summarized in Table 1.
Asregards the lexicon, the phenomena we observedinvolve four types of substitution.
First, dif-ficult terms can be replaced by a synonym oran hypernym perceived as simpler.
Second,some anaphoric expressions, considered simpleror more explicit, are preferred to their counter-parts in the original texts.
For example, in ourthree tales, simplified nominal anaphora are regu-larly used instead of pronominal anaphora.
Third,rather than using synonymy, the authors of thesimplified texts sometimes replace difficult wordswith a definition or an explanatory paraphrase.
Fi-nally, in the particular case where the original textscontain concepts in a foreign language, these non-French terms are translated.At the discourse level, the authors of simpletexts pay particular attention to the organizationof the information which has to be clear and con-cise.
To this end, clauses may be interchangedto ensure a better presentation of the information.In addition, information of secondary importancecan be removed while explanations or examplesare added for clarity.
These two phenomena canappear to be contradictory (deletion and addition),but they actually operate in a common goal: makethe main information more comprehensible.
Par-ticular attention is also placed on the coherenceand cohesion of the text: Authors tend to explainthe pronouns and explicit the relations betweensentences.
The last observed strategy is that im-personal structures are often personalized.Finally, at the syntactic level, five types ofchanges are observed: tense modification, dele-tion, modification, splitting and grouping.
The lasttwo types can be considered together since theyare two opposite phenomena.?
First, the tenses used in the simplified ver-sions are more common and less literary thanthose used in the original texts.
Thus, thepresent and present perfect are preferred tothe simple past, imperfect and past perfect.49Lexicon Discourse SyntaxTranslation Reorganisation TenseAnaphoric synonyms Addition ModificationDefinition and paraphrase Deletion GroupingSynonym or hypernym Coherence and cohesion DeletionPersonalisation SplittingTable 1: Typology of simplifications?
Secondary or redundant information, that isgenerally considered removable at the syn-tactic level, is not included in the simplifiedtexts.
Adverbial clauses, some adverbs andadjectives and subordinate clauses, amongothers, are omitted.?
When some complex structures are notdeleted, then they are often moved or modi-fied for better clarity.
Such structures includenegative sentences, impersonal structures, in-direct speech and subordinate clauses.?
The authors sometimes choose to divide longsentences or conversely merge several sen-tences into one.
The grouping of elements ismuch less frequent than the division of sen-tences.
To split a sentence, the authors gen-erally transform a secondary clause?be it rel-ative, coordinate, subordinate, participial oradjectival?into an independent clause.This classification can be compared with that ofMedero et al.
(2011) who propose three categories?
division, deletion and extension ?
or that of Zhuet al.
(2010), which includes division, deletion, re-organization, and substitution.Among those transformations, some are hardlyimplementable.
This is the case when a changerequires the use of semantics.
For example, nounmodifiers may sometimes be removed, but in othercases, they are necessary.
However, there are of-ten neither typographical nor grammatical markeddifferences between the two cases.Another issue is that other syntactic changesshould be accompanied by lexical transforma-tions, which are difficult to generalize.
For exam-ple, transforming a negative sentence into its af-firmative equivalent requires to find a verb whoseaffirmative form includes the meaning of the neg-ative construction to replace.There are also changes that are very particularand require a manual rather than an automatic pro-cessing of the text, in the sense that each case isdifferent (even if part of a more global rule).
Inaddition, they usually involve discourse or lexicalinformation and not just syntactic one.Finally, the syntactic changes impacting otherparts of the text or concerning elements that de-pend on another structure require more compre-hensive changes to the text.
Therefore, they arealso difficult to handle automatically.
Thus, tochange the tense of a verb in a sentence, we mustensure that the sequence of tenses agree in the en-tire text.2.3 The Sentence Simplification SystemWe used this typology to implement a system ofsyntactic simplification for French sentences.
Thesimplification is performed as a two-step process.First, for each sentence of the text, we generate theset of all possible simplifications (overgenerationstep), and then, we select the best subset of sim-plified sentences using several criteria.2.3.1 Generation of the Simplified SentencesThe sentence overgeneration module is based on aset of rules (19 rules), which rely both on morpho-syntactic features of words and on syntactic rela-tionships within sentences.
To obtain this infor-mation, the texts from our corpus are analyzedby MELT4(Denis and Sagot, 2009) and Bon-sai5(Candito et al., 2010) during a preprocessingphase.
As a result, texts are represented as syn-tax trees that include the information necessary toapply our simplification rules.
After preprocess-ing, the set of simplification rules is applied recur-sively, one sentence at a time, until there is no fur-ther structure to simplify.
All simplified sentencesproduced by a given rule are saved and gathered ina set of variants.The rules for syntactic simplification includedin our program are of three kinds: deletion rules(12 rules), modification rules (3 rules) and split-ting rules (4 rules).
With regards to our typology, itcan be noted that two types of rules have not beenimplemented: aggregation rules and tense simpli-fication rules.
The merging strategies (in whichseveral sentences are aggregated into one) were4https://gforge.inria.fr/projects/lingwb5http://alpage.inria.fr/statgram/frdep/fr_stat_dep_parsing.html50not observed consistently in the corpus.
Moreover,aggregation rules could have come into conflictwith the deletion rules, since they have oppositegoals.
Concerning tense aspects, some of themare indeed more likely to be used than others inVikidia.
However, this strategy has not been im-plemented, since it implies global changes to thetext.
For instance, when a simple past is replacedby a present form, we must also adapt the verbs inthe surrounding context in accordance with tenseagreement.
This requires to consider the wholetext, or at least the paragraph that contains themodified verbal form, and be able to automaticallymodel tense agreement.
Otherwise, we may alterthe coherence of the text and decrease its readabil-ity.This leaves us with 19 simplification rules.6Toapply them, the candidate structures for simplifi-cation first need to be detected using regular ex-pressions, via Tregex7(Levy and Andrew, 2006)that allows the retrieval of elements and relation-ships in a parse tree.
In a second step, syntactictrees in which a structure requires simplificationare modified according a set of operations imple-mented through Tsurgeon.The operations to perform depend on the typeof rules:1.
For the deletion cases, simply deleting allthe elements involved is sufficient (via thedelete operation in Tsurgeon).
The ele-ments affected by the deletion rules are ad-verbial clauses, clauses between brackets,some of the subordinate clauses, clauses be-tween commas or introduced by words suchas ?comme?
(as), ?voire?
(even), ?soit?
(ei-ther), or similar terms, some adverbs andagent prepositional phrases.2.
For the modification rules, several opera-tions need to be combined: some terms aredropped (via Tsurgeon delete), othersare moved (operation Tsurgeon move)and specific labels are added to the text to sig-nal a possible later processing.
These labelsare useful for rules implying a modificationof tense or mode aspects for a verb.
In suchcases, tags are added around the verb to indi-cate that it needs to be modified.
The mod-ification is performed later, using the conju-6These 19 rules are available at http://cental.fltr.ucl.ac.be/team/lbrouwers/rules.pdf7http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tregex.shtmlgation system Verbiste.8For instance, tochange a passive into an active structure, notonly the voice must be changed, but some-times also the person, so that the verb agreeswell with the agent that has become the newsubject.
As regards modification rules, threechanges were implemented: moving adver-bial clauses at the beginning of the sentence,transforming passive structures into activeforms, and transforming a cleft to a non-cleft.3.
For the splitting rules, we followed a two-step process.
The subordinate clause is firstdeleted, while the main clause is saved as anew sentence.
Resuming from the originalsentence, the main clause is, in turn, removedto keep only the subordinate clause, whichmust then be transformed into an independentclause.
In general, the verbal form of the sub-ordinate clause needs to be altered in order tooperate as a main verb.
Moreover, the pro-noun governing the subordinated clause mustbe substituted with its antecedent and the sub-ject must be added when missing.
In the caseof a relative clause, the relative pronoun thusneeds to be substituted by its antecedent, butit is also important to consider the functionof the pronoun to find out where to insert thisantecedent.
Our splitting rules apply when asentence includes either relative or participleclauses, or clauses introduced by a colon or acoordinating conjunction.All these simplification rules are applied recur-sively to a sentence until all possible alternativeshave been generated.
Therefore, it is common tohave more than one simplified variant for a givensentence.
In this case, the next step consists in se-lecting the most suitable variant to substitute theoriginal one.
The selection process is described inthe next section.2.3.2 Selection of the Best SimplificationsGiven a set of candidate simplified sentences for atext, our goal is to select the best subset of simpli-fied sentences, that is to say the subset that max-imizes some measure of readability.
More pre-cisely, text readability is measured through differ-ent criteria, which are optimized with an IntegerLinear Programming (ILP) approach (Gillick andFavre, 2009).
These criteria are rather simple in8This software is available at the address http://sarrazip.com/dev/verbiste.html under GNU general public license and was developed by Pierre Sar-razin.51this approach.
They are used to ensure that notonly the syntactic difficulty, but also the lexicalcomplexity decrease, since syntactic transforma-tions may cause lexical or discursive alterations inthe text.We considered four criteria to select the mostsuitable sentences among the simplified set: sen-tence length (in words) (hw), mean word length(in characters) in the sentence (hs), familiarity ofthe vocabulary (ha), and presence of some key-words (hc).
While the first two criteria are prettyobvious as regards implementation, we measuredword familiarity based on Catach?s list (1985).9Itcontains about 3,000 of the most frequent wordsin French, whose spelling should be taught in pri-ority to schoolchildren.
The keywords were in thisstudy simply defined as any term occurring morethan once in the text.These four criteria were combined using integerlinear programming as follows:10Maximize : hw+ hs+ ha+ hcWhere : hw= wps??isi?
?ilwisihs= cpw??ilwisi?
?ilcisiha= aps??isi?
?ilaisihc=?jwjcjSubject to:?i?gksi= 1 ?gksioccij?
cj?i, j?isioccij?
cj?j(1)The above variables are defined as follows:?
wps: desired (mean) number of words per sentence?
cpw: desired (mean) number of characters per word?
aps: desired (mean) number of words absent fromCatach?s list for a sentence?
si: binary variable indicating whether the sentence ishould be kept or not, with i varying from 1 to the totalnumber of simplified sentences?
cj: binary variable indicating whether keyword j is inthe simplification or not, with j varying from 1 to thetotal number of keywords?
lwi: length of sentence i in words?
lci: number of characters in sentence i?
lai: number of words absent from Catach?s list in sen-tence i?
wj: number of occurrences of keyword j?
gk: set of simplified sentences obtained from the sameoriginal sentence k?
occij: binary variable indicating the presence of term jin sentence i9This list is available at the site http://www.ia93.ac-creteil.fr/spip/spip.php?article2900.10We used an ILP module based on glpk that is available at the address http://www.gnu.org/software/glpk/wps, cpw and aps are constant parameterswhose values have been set respectively to 10, 5and 2 for this study.
5 for cpw corresponds to thevalue computed on the Vikidia corpus, while forwps and aps, lower values than observed wereused to force simplification (respectively 10 in-stead of 17 and 2 instead of 31).However, these parameters may vary dependingon the context of use and the target population, asthey determine the level of difficulty of the simpli-fied sentences obtained.The constraints specify that (i) for each originalsentence, at most one simplification set should bechosen, (ii) selecting a sentence means selectingall the terms it contains and (iii) selecting a key-word is only possible if it is present in at least oneselected sentence.We illustrate this process with the Wikipedia ar-ticle entitled Abel.
This article contains 25 sen-tences, from which 67 simplified sentences havebeen generated.
For the original sentence (1a) forexample, 5 variants were generated and simplifi-cation (2) was selected by ILP.
(1a) Original sentence11: Ca?
?n, l?a?
?n?e, cultive laterre et Abel ( ?etymologie : de l?h?ebreusouffle,vapeur,existence pr?ecaire) garde le trou-peau.
(1b) Possible simplifications :Simplification 1 : Ca?
?n, l?a?
?n?e, cultive la terre etAbel garde le troupeau.Simplification 2 : Ca?
?n, l?a?
?n?e, cultive la terre.Abel garde le troupeau.Simplification 3 : Ca?
?n, l?a?
?n?e, cultive la terre.Simplification 4 : Abel garde le troupeau.(...
)(1c) Selected simplification (2) : Ca?
?n, l?a?
?n?e,cultive la terre.
Abel garde le troupeau.3 EvaluationSyntactic simplification involves substantialchanges within the sentence both in terms ofcontents and form.
It is therefore important tocheck that the application of a rule does not causeerrors that would make the sentences producedunintelligible or ungrammatical.
A manualevaluation of our system?s efficiency to generatecorrect simplified sentences was carried out onour two corpora.
In each of them, we selected aset of texts that had not been previously used for11Ca?
?n, the eldest brother, farms the land and Abel (etymology : from Hebrewbreath,steam,fragile existence) looks after the flock.52Sentence length Word length Word familiarity KeywordsExpected values 10 5 2 /Original 19 6.1 11 5Simplification 1 11 4.3 5 5Simplification 2 5 4.6 2 5Simplification 3 6 4.5 3 3Simplification 4 4 4.7 2 2Simplification 5 9 6.3 5 5Simplification 6 12 7.3 8 2Table 2: Values of the criteria in IPL for example (1).the typological analysis, that is to say 9 articlesfrom Wikipedia (202 sentences) and two talesfrom Perrault (176 sentences).
In this evaluation,all simplified sentences are considered, not onlythose selected by ILP.
The results are displayed inTable 3 and discussed in Section 3.1.
Two typesof errors can be detected: those resulting frommorpho-syntactic preprocessing, and particularlythe syntactic parser, and the simplification errorsper se, that we discuss in larger details in Section3.2.3.1 Quantitative EvaluationOut of the 202 sentences selected in the informa-tive corpus for evaluation, 113 (56%) have under-gone one or more simplifications, which gives us333 simplified variants.
Our manual error analy-sis revealed that 71 sentences (21%) contain someerrors, among which we can distinguish those dueto the preprocessing from those actually due to thesimplification system itself.
It is worth mention-ing that the first category amounts to 89% of theerrors, while the simplification rule are only re-sponsible for 11% of those.
We further refined theanalysis of the system?s errors distinguishing syn-tactic from semantic errors.The scores obtained on the narrative corpus areslightly less good: out of the 369 simplified vari-ants produced from the 154 original sentences, 77(20.9%) contain errors.
This value is very simi-lar to the percentage for the informative corpus.However, only 50.7% of these errors are due to thepreprocessing, while the remaining 49.3% comefrom our rules.
It means that our rules yield about10.3% incorrect simplified variants compared to2.7% for the informative corpus.
Nevertheless,these errors are caused mostly by 2 or 3 rules:the deletion of subordinate clauses, of infinitivesor of clauses coordinated with a colon.
This lossin efficiency can be partly explained by the greaterpresence of indirect speech in the tales that includemore non-removable subordinate clauses, difficultto distinguish from removable clauses.Globally, our results appear to be in line withthose of similar systems developed for English.12Yet, few studies have a methodology and evalu-ation close enough to ours to allow comparisonof the results.
Siddharthan (2006) assessed hissystem output using three judges who found thatabout 80% of the simplified sentences were gram-matical, while 87% preserved the original mean-ing.
These results are very similar to our find-ings that mixed the syntactic and discourse dimen-sions.
Drndarevi?c et al.
(2013) also presented theoutput of their system to human judges who esti-mated that 60% of the sentences were grammaticaland that 70% preserved the initial meaning.
Thesescores appear lower than ours, but Drndarevi?c etal.
also used lexical rules, which means that theirerror rate includes both grammatical and lexicalerrors.3.2 Error AnalysisAs regards syntax, the structure of a sentence canbe modified so that it becomes grammatically in-correct.
Three simplification rules are concerned.Deletion rules may cause this kind of problem, be-cause they involve removing a part of the sentence,considered as secondary.
However, sometimes thedeleted element is essential, as in the case of theremoval of the referent of a pronoun.
This type ofproblem arises both with the deletion of a subor-dinate clause or that of an infinitive clause.
Dele-tion rules are also subject to a different kind oferrors.
During the reconstruction of the sentenceresulting from the subordinate clause, some con-stituents, such as the subject, may not be properlyidentified and will be misplaced in the new sen-tence.At the semantic level, the information conveyedby the original sentence may be modified or evenremoved.
When an agent or an infinitive clause12We do not discuss French here, since no simplification system were found for French,as explained previously.53Wikipedia-Vikidia corpusnb.
sent.
% correct % preproc.
errors % simplification errors333 262 (78.7 %) 63 (18.9%)8 (2.4 %)syntax: semantics:6 (1.8%) 2 (0.6%)Narrative corpusnb.
sent.
% correct % preproc.
errors % simplification errors369 292 (79.1 %) 39 (10.6%)38 (10.3 %)syntax: semantics:20 (5.4%) 18 (4.9%)Table 3: Performance of the simplification system on both corporaare suppressed, the meaning of the sentence maybe disrupted or some of the content lost.
For in-stance, in the following sentence ?
extracted fromthe Wikipedia article abb?e (abbot) ?
the infinitiveclause explaining the term is dropped:(2a) C?est aussi depuis le XVIIIe si`eclele terme en usage pour d?esigner un clercs?eculier ayant au moins rec?u la ton-sure.13(2b) C?est aussi depuis le XVIIIe si`eclele terme en usage.To fix the errors identified above, our rules shouldbe refined and developed, with the addition ofbetter tools for sentence regeneration as well assome exclusion criteria for the incorrect sentenceswithin the ILP module, as discussed in the nextsection.4 Perspectives and ConclusionsThis article describes an automatic syntactic sim-plification system for French intended for childrenand language learners.
It is based on a set of rulesdefined after a corpus study, which also led to thedevelopment of a typology of simplifications inFrench.
It would be easy to extend our typology toother target users based on other appropriate cor-pora, such as people with language disorders.Our approach also uses the technique of over-generation, which makes it possible to retain thebest set of simplifications based on readability cri-teria.
Note that among those employed, some hadnot been considered previously and produce inter-esting results.
Finally, we showed that the perfor-mance of our system is good (about 80 % of thegenerated sentences are correct) and in line withprevious studies.13It is also the term in use since the 18th to refer to a secu-lar cleric who, at least, received the tonsure.The evaluation showed that the rules imple-mented are more suitable for expository texts,probably because they are more explicit, as stylethere is of a minor importance.
In addition, thesystem set up was first tested on and thereforeadapted to Wikipedia.
It was only subsequentlyapplied to narratives, that revealed new challenges,especially concerning the deletion rules.
The in-formation provided in secondary clauses or com-plements indeed seems most essential to under-standing the story, especially when it comes to di-rect or indirect speech.
In order to comprehendthe differences in terms of efficiency and rules tobe applied between genres, it would be necessaryto extend our study to other texts collected in thecorpora.We envision multiple perspectives to improveour system.
First, syntactic simplification could besupplemented by lexical simplification, as is donein some studies for English (Woodsend and Lap-ata, 2011).
Moreover, our error analysis has high-lighted the need to add or repeat words when asentence is split.
It would therefore be useful touse a tool that manages references in order to im-prove the quality of simplified text.
In addition,the sentence selection module could include addi-tional selection criteria, based on the work done inreadability of French (Franc?ois and Fairon, 2012).A final perspective of improvement would be tomake the rule system adapt to the target audienceand the genre of the texts.
This would require as-sessing the relevance of various transformationsand selection criteria of the best simplifications.This perspective would also require assessing theeffectiveness of the rules by means of comprehen-sion tests both on the original and simplified sen-tences, which we plan to do.54ReferencesS.
Alu?
?sio, L. Specia, T. Pardo, E. Maziero, andR.
Fortes.
2008.
Towards brazilian portuguese auto-matic text simplification systems.
In Proceedings ofthe eighth ACM symposium on Document engineer-ing, pages 240?248.E.
Barbu, P. de Las Lagunillas, M. Mart?n-Valdivia, andL.
Urena-L?opez.
2013.
Open book: a tool for help-ing asd users?
semantic comprehension.
NLP4ITA2013, pages 11?19.S.
Bott, L. Rello, B. Drndarevic, and H. Saggion.
2012.Can Spanish Be Simpler?
LexSiS: Lexical Simpli-fication for Spanish.
In Proceedings of COLING2012, pages 357?374.M.
Candito, B. Crabb?e, and P. Denis.
2010.
Statisti-cal french dependency parsing: treebank conversionand first results.
In Proceedings of the Seventh In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2010), pages 1840?1847.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, D. Pearce, Y. Canning, S. De-vlin, and J. Tait.
1999.
Simplifying Text forLanguage-Impaired Readers.
In Proceedings ofEACL, pages 269?270.N.
Catach.
1985.
Les listes orthographiques de basedu franc?ais.
Nathan, Paris.J.S.
Chall and E. Dale.
1995.
Readability Revisited:The New Dale-Chall Readability Formula.
Brook-line Books, Cambridge.R.
Chandrasekar, C. Doran, and B. Srinivas.
1996.Motivations and methods for text simplification.
InProceedings of the 16th conference on Computa-tional linguistics, pages 1041?1044.Council of Europe.
2001.
Common European Frame-work of Reference for Languages: Learning, Teach-ing, Assessment.
Press Syndicate of the Universityof Cambridge.J.
De Belder and M.-F. Moens.
2010.
Text Simplifica-tion for Children.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Accessible Search Systems.P.
Denis and B. Sagot.
2009.
Coupling an annotatedcorpus and a morphosyntactic lexicon for state-of-the-art pos tagging with less human effort.
In Pro-ceedings of PACLIC.B.
Drndarevi?c, S.?Stajner, S. Bott, S. Bautista, andH.
Saggion.
2013.
Automatic text simplification inspanish: a comparative evaluation of complement-ing modules.
In Computational Linguistics and In-telligent Text Processing, pages 488?500.R.
Evans and C. Or?asan.
2013.
Annotating signs ofsyntactic complexity to support sentence simplifica-tion.
In Text, Speech, and Dialogue, pages 92?104.T.
Franc?ois and C. Fairon.
2012.
An ?AI readability?formula for French as a foreign language.
In Pro-ceedings of EMNLP 2012, pages 466?477.C.
Gasperin, E. Maziero, L. Specia, T. Pardo, andS.
Aluisio.
2009.
Natural language processingfor social inclusion: a text simplification architec-ture for different literacy levels.
Proceedings ofSEMISH-XXXVI Semin?ario Integrado de Software eHardware, pages 387?401.D.
Gillick and B. Favre.
2009.
A scalable global modelfor summarization.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Integer Linear Programming for Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 10?18.M.
Heilman and N. A. Smith.
2010.
Extracting Simpli-fied Statements for Factual Question Generation.
InProceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Question Gen-eration.K.
Inui, A. Fujita, T. Takahashi, R. Iida, and T. Iwakura.2003.
Text simplification for reading assistance: aproject note.
In Proceedings of the second interna-tional workshop on Paraphrasing, pages 9?16.S.
Jonnalagadda, L. Tari, J. Hakenberg, C. Baral, andG.
Gonzalez.
2009.
Towards Effective SentenceSimplification for Automatic Processing of Biomed-ical Text.
In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2009.R.
Levy and G. Andrew.
2006.
Tregex and tsurgeon:tools for querying and manipulating tree data struc-tures.
In Proceedings of LREC, pages 2231?2234.L.
Lin and W. J. Wilbur.
2007.
Syntactic sentencecompression in the biomedical domain: facilitat-ing access to related articles.
Information Retrieval,10(4):393?414, October.J.
Medero and M. Ostendorf.
2011.
Identifying Tar-gets for Syntactic Simplification.
In Proceedings ofthe SLaTE 2011 workshop.R.
Nelken and S.M.
Shieber.
2006.
Towards robustcontext-sensitive sentence alignment for monolin-gual corpora.
In Proceedings of EACL, pages 161?168.S.
E. Petersen and M. Ostendorf.
2007.
Text Simpli-fication for Language Learners: A Corpus Analysis.In Proceedings of SLaTE2007, pages 69?72.L.
Rello, C. Bayarri, A. G`orriz, R. Baeza-Yates,S.
Gupta, G. Kanvinde, H. Saggion, S. Bott, R. Car-lini, and V. Topac.
2013.
Dyswebxia 2.0!
: moreaccessible text for people with dyslexia.
In Proceed-ings of the 10th International Cross-DisciplinaryConference on Web Accessibility, page 25.J.F.
Richard, J. Barcenilla, B. Brie, E. Charmet,E.
Clement, and P. Reynard.
1993.
Le traite-ment de documents administratifs par des popula-tions de bas niveau de formation.
Le Travail Hu-main, 56(4):345?367.H.
Saggion, E.
Mart?
?nez, E. Etayo, A. Anula, andL.
Bourg.
2011.
Text simplification in simplext.making text more accessible.
Procesamiento dellenguaje natural, 47:341?342.V.
Seretan.
2012.
Acquisition of syntactic simplifica-tion rules for french.
In LREC, pages 4019?4026.A.
Siddharthan.
2006.
Syntactic Simplification andText Cohesion.
Research on Language & Computa-tion, 4(1):77?109, jun.L.
Specia.
2010.
Translating from Complex to Sim-plified Sentences.
In Proceedings of the 9th Inter-national Conference on Computational Processingof the Portuguese Language (Propor-2010)., pages30?39.S.
Williams and E. Reiter.
2008.
Generating basicskills reports for low-skilled readers.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 14(4):495?525.J.D.
Willms.
2003.
Literacy proficiency of youth:Evidence of converging socioeconomic gradients.International Journal of Educational Research,5539(3):247?252.K.
Woodsend and M. Lapata.
2011.
Learning toSimplify Sentences with Quasi-Synchronous Gram-mar and Integer Programming.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP, pages 409?420.Z.
Zhu, D. Bernhard, and I. Gurevych.
2010.
A Mono-lingual Tree-based Translation Model for SentenceSimplification.
In Proceedings of COLING 2010,pages 1353?1361.56
