Proceedings of Frame Semantics in NLP: A Workshop in Honor of Chuck Fillmore (1929?2014), pages 34?37,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsWho evoked that frame?
Some thoughts on context effects and event typesKatrin ErkDepartment of LinguisticsThe University of Texas at AustinAustin, Texas 78712katrin.erk@mail.utexas.eduIn memoriam Charles Fillmore, 1929-2014AbstractLexical substitution is an annotation taskin which annotators provide one-wordparaphrases (lexical substitutes) for indi-vidual target words in a sentence context.Lexical substitution yields a fine-grainedcharacterization of word meaning that canbe done by non-expert annotators.
We dis-cuss results of a recent lexical substitutionannotation effort, where we found strongcontextual modulation effects: Many sub-stitutes were not synonyms, hyponyms orhypernyms of the targets, but were highlyspecific to the situation at hand.
This dataprovides some food for thought for frame-semantic analysis.1 IntroductionFillmore (1985) introduces the term ?semantics ofunderstanding?, or U-semantics.
In contrast to thesemantics of truth (T-semantics), the goal of U-semantics is to ?uncover the nature of the relation-ship between linguistic texts and the interpreter?sfull understanding of the texts in their contexts?.
Acentral concept of the semantics of understandingis that of the interpretive frames that are necessaryfor understanding a sentence.
Frames are the ?co-herent schematizations of experience?
underlyingthe words in a given sentence.This idea of a semantics of understanding, ora frame semantics, has been made concrete inFrameNet (Fillmore et al., 2003), a large lexicaldatabase that lists frames for English words andconstructions.
At this point, it comprises morethan 1,100 frames covering more than 12,000 lex-ical units (LUs), which are pairs of a term and itsframe.
Researchers working on other languageshave adopted the FrameNet idea.
Among oth-ers, there are now FrameNet resources for Span-ish (Subirats and Petruck, 2003), Japanese (Oharaet al., 2004), Italian (Tonelli and Pianta, 2008;Lenci et al., 2010), as well as frame-semantic an-notation for German (Erk et al., 2003).The definition of frames proceeds in a corpus-based fashion, driven by the data (Ellsworth et al.,2004).
We stand in this tradition by reporting on arecent annotation effort (Kremer et al., 2014) thatcollected lexical substitutes for content words inpart of the MASC corpus (Ide et al., 2008).
If weview substitute sets as indications of the relevantframe, then this data can give us interesting indi-cators on perceived frames in a naturally occurringtext.2 Lexical substitutionThe Lexical Substitution task was first introducedin the context of SemEval 2007 (McCarthy andNavigli, 2009).
For this dataset, annotators areasked to provide substitutes for a selected word(the target word) in its sentence context ?
at leastone substitute, but possible more, and ideally asingle word, though all the datasets contain somemulti-word substitutes.
Multiple annotators pro-vide substitutes for each target word occurrence.Table 1 shows some examples.By now, several lexical substitution datasets ex-ist.
Some are ?lexical sample?
datasets, that is,only occurrences of some selected lemmas are an-notated (McCarthy and Navigli, 2009; Biemann,2013), and some are ?all-words?, providing sub-stitutes for all content words in the given sen-tences (Sinha and Mihalcea, 2014; Kremer et al.,2014).
In addition, there is a cross-lingual lex-ical substitution dataset (McCarthy et al., 2013),where annotators provided Spanish substitutes forEnglish target words in English sentence context.Lexical substitution is a method for character-izing word meaning in context that has several at-tractive properties.
Lexical substitution makes itpossible to describe word meaning without hav-ing to rely on any particular dictionary.
In addi-34relation verb nounsyn 12.5 7.7direct-hyper 9.3 7.6trans-hyper 2.8 4.7direct-hypo 11.6 8.0trans-hypo 3.7 3.8wn-other 60.7 66.5not-in-wn 0.9 2.2Table 2: Analysis of lexical substitution data: Re-lation of the substitute to the target, in percentagesby part of speech (from Kremer et al.
(2014))tion, providing substitutes is a task that seems tobe well doable by untrained annotators: Both Bie-mann (2013) and our recent annotation (Kremer etal., 2014) used crowdsourcing to collect the sub-stitutes.13 Analyzing lexical substitutesIn a recent lexical substitution annotation ef-fort (Kremer et al., 2014), we collected lexicalsubstitution annotation for all nouns, verbs, andadjectives in a mixed news and fiction corpus, us-ing untrained annotators via crowdsourcing.
Thedata came from MASC, a freely available part ofthe American National Corpus that has alreadybeen annotated for a number of linguistic phenom-ena (Ide et al., 2008).
All in all, more than 15,000target tokens were annotated.After the annotation, we performed a number ofanalyses in order to better understand the natureof lexical substitutes, by linking substitutes to in-formation on WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998).
Amongother things, we analyzed the relation between tar-gets and substitutes: Did substitutes tend to besynonyms, hypernyms, or hyponyms or the tar-gets?
To classify substitutes, the shortest routefrom any synset of the target to any synset ofthe substitute was used.
The results are shownin Table 2, for substitutes that are synonyms(syn), hypernyms (direct-hyper, trans-hyper) andhyponyms (direct-hypo, trans-hypo) of the target.The ?wn-other?
line shows the percentage for sub-stitutes that are in WordNet but not a synonym,hypo- or hypernym of the target, and ?not-in-wn?1The third example in Table 1 shows that errors do hap-pen: The substitute ?accusation?
is not appropriate there.Analyses indicate that such errors are rare, though.are substitutes not covered by WordNet.
For sub-stitutes that are synonyms, hypernyms, and hy-ponyms, we see percentages between 8% and 15%for both verbs and nouns.
We also see that thereare few substitutes that are not in WordNet, only1-2%.
Strikingly, 60-66% of all substitutes are inWordNet, but are ?wn-other?
: neither synonymsnor (transitive) hyponyms or hypernyms of the tar-get.
Some of these items can be viewed as missinglinks in the taxonomy.
For example, in the secondsentence of Table 2, two of the ?wn-other?
sub-stitutes of keep are own and possess.
But whileown and possess are not linked to keep in Word-Net, the FrameNet frame RETAINING, which haskeep as a lexical unit, inherits from POSSESSION,which has both own and possess as lexical units.But this does not apply to all the ?wn-other?
sub-stitutes.
Some are better explained as effects ofcontextual modulation, fine-grained meaning dis-tinctions that the sentence context brings about.
Inthe first example in Table 1, there is the possibilitythat the speaker could be laughing at the other per-son, and the shoulder-clapping clarifies that thispossibility does not correspond to the facts.
Inthe second example in the table, the words pos-sess, enshrine and stage are more specific than thesubstitutes that are in WordNet, and maybe moreappropriate too.
In the third example, the wordcharge has the meaning of dependent, but the situ-ation that the sentence describes suggests that thedependents in questions may be something likeunderlings or prisoners.When we look at this data from a frame-semantic analysis point of view, the first questionthat arises is: How specific should the frames bethat are listed in FrameNet?
For the second ex-ample, would we want a very specific ?person asprecious jewel?
frame to be associated with thelexical unit ?keep??
From a U-semantics point ofview, one could argue that we would in fact wantto have this frame, after all: It describes a rec-ognizable abstract situation that is important forthe understanding of this sentence.
But it does notseem that all ?wn-other?
cases need to correspondto particular frames of the target word.
For ex-ample, in the first sentence on Table 1, it does notseem that clarify should be an actual frame involv-ing the word show.From a computational linguistics point of view,a fine-grained analysis would be necessary in or-der to correctly predict lexical substitutes like35sentence substitutesI clapped her shoulder to show I was not laughing at her.
demonstrate, express, establish, indicate, prove,convey, imply, display, disclose, clarifyMy fear is that she would live, and I would learn that I had lost her longbefore Emil Malaquez translated her into a thing that can be kept, ad-mired, and loved.preserve, retain, hold, fix, store, own, possess,enshrine, stageThe distinctive whuffle of pleasure rippled through the betas on thebridge, and Rakal let loose a small growl, as if to caution his chargesagainst false hope.dependent, command, accusation, private, com-panion, follower, subordinate, prisoner, team-mate, ward, junior, underling, enemy, group,crew, squad, troop, team, kidTable 1: Example from lexical substitution data: Target words underlined, and WordNet-unrelated sub-stitutes shown in italics.this ?
but on the other hand, experience withword sense disambiguation has shown that fine-grained senses are hard to assign with good accu-racy (Palmer et al., 2007).Another question that this data poses is: Whatare the items that evoke a frame?
That is, whatwords or phrases in a sentence are responsible thata particular frame becomes important for under-standing the sentence?
In FrameNet it is a sin-gle lemma, multi-word expression or constructionthat evokes a frame.
But one way of looking atthe contextual modulation effects in the lexicalsubstitution data is to say that multiple terms orconstructions in the context ?conspire?
to makea frame relevant.
In the second sentence of Ta-ble 1, we can point to multiple factors that leadto substitutes like possess and enshrine.
There isfact that the THEME of keep is thing, along withthe fact that the same thing is being admired andloved, and maybe also the fact that some womanhad been translated to said thing.
This thought isreminiscent of McRae and colleagues, who studygeneral event knowledge and argue that it is notjust verbs that introduce the events, but also argu-ments (McRae et al., 2005) and combinations ofverbs and their arguments (Bicknell et al., 2010).ReferencesK.
Bicknell, J. Elman, M. Hare, K. McRae, and M. Ku-tas.
2010.
Effects of event knowledge in process-ing verbal arguments.
Journal of Memory and Lan-guage, 63(4):489?505.C.
Biemann.
2013.
Creating a system for lexical sub-stitutions from scratch using crowdsourcing.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, 47(1):97?122.M.
Ellsworth, K. Erk, P. Kingsbury, and S. Pad?o.
2004.PropBank, SALSA and FrameNet: How design de-termines product.
In Proceedings of the LRECWorkshop on Building Lexical Resources From Se-mantically Annotated Corpora, Lisbon, Portugal.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, S. Pad?o, and M. Pinkal.
2003.Towards a resource for lexical semantics: A largeGerman corpus with extensive semantic annotation.In Proceedings of ACL, Sapporo, Japan.C.
Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An electroniclexical database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.C.
J. Fillmore, C. Johnson, and M. Petruck.
2003.Background to framenet.
International Journal ofLexicography, 16(3):235?250.C.
J. Fillmore.
1985.
Frames and the semantics ofunderstanding.
Quaderni di Semantica, 6:222?254.N.
Ide, C.F.
Baker, C. Fellbaum, C. Fillmore, andR.
Passonneau.
2008.
MASC: The manually anno-tated sub-corpus of American English.
In Proceed-ings of LREC, pages 2455?2461, Marrakech, Mo-rocco.G.
Kremer, K. Erk, S. Pad?o, and S. Thater.
2014.
Whatsubstitutes tell us - analysis of an ?all-words?
lexicalsubstitution corpus.
In Proceedings of EACL.A.
Lenci, M. Johnson, and G. Lapesa.
2010.
Buildingan italian framenet through semi-automatic corpusanalysis.
In Proceedings of LREC, La Valletta.D.
McCarthy and R. Navigli.
2009.
The English lexi-cal substitution task.
Language Resources and Eval-uation, 43(2):139?159.D.
McCarthy, R. Sinha, and R. Mihalcea.
2013.
Thecross-lingual lexical substitution task.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 47(3):607?638.K.
McRae, M. Hare, J. L. Elman, and T. Ferretti.
2005.A basis for generating expectancies for verbs fromnouns.
Memory & Cognition, 33(7):1174?1184.K.
Ohara, S. Fujii, T. Ohori, R. Suzuki, H. Saito, andS.
Ishizaki.
2004.
The Japanese FrameNet project:An introduction.
In Proceedings of the LREC Work-shop on Building Lexical Resources from Semanti-cally Annotated Corpora, Lisbon, Portugal.M.
Palmer, H. Trang Dang, and C. Fellbaum.
2007.Making fine-grained and coarse-grained sense dis-tinctions, both manually and automatically.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 13:137?163.36R.
Sinha and R. Mihalcea.
2014.
Explorations in lexi-cal sample and all-words lexical substitution.
Natu-ral Language Engineering, 20(1):99?129.C.
Subirats and M.R.L.
Petruck.
2003.
Surprise!
Span-ish FrameNet!
In Proceedings of the Workshop onFrame Semantics, XVII.
International Congress ofLinguists, Prague, Czech Republic.S.
Tonelli and E. Pianta.
2008.
Frame informationtransfer from english to italian.
In Proceedings ofLREC, Marrakech, Morocco.37
