Proceedings of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Type Theory and Natural Language Semantics (TTNLS), pages 89?96,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPropositions, Questions, and Adjectives: a rich type theoretic approachJonathan GinzburgCLILLAC-ARP& Laboratoire d?Excellence (LabEx)?Empirical Foundations of LinguisticsUniversit?e Paris-Diderot, Sorbonne Paris-Cit?eyonatan.ginzburg@univ-paris-diderot.frRobin Cooper Tim FernandoUniversity of Gothenburg Trinity College, Dublincooper@ling.gu.se Tim.Fernando@cs.tcd.ieAbstractWe consider how to develop types cor-responding to propositions and questions.Starting with the conception of Proposi-tions as Types, we consider two empiricalchallenges for this doctrine.
The first re-lates to the putative need for a single typeencompassing questions and propositionsin order to deal with Boolean operations.The second relates to adjectival modifica-tion of question and propositional entities.We partly defuse the Boolean challengeby showing that the data actually argueagainst a single type covering questionsand propositions.
We show that by ana-lyzing both propositions and questions asrecords within Type Theory with Records(TTR), we can define Boolean operationsover these distinct semantic types.
We ac-count for the adjectival challenge by em-bedding the record types defined to dealwith Boolean operations within a theory ofsemantic frames formulated within TTR.1 IntroductionPropositions as types has long been viewed as asine qua non of many a type theoretic approach tosemantics (see e.g., the seminal work of (Ranta,1994)).
Although this has lead to a variety ofvery elegant formal accounts, one can question itsappropriateness as a type for NL propositions?the denotata of declaratives and of nouns such as?claim?
and the objects of assertion.
One imme-diate issue concerns semantic selection?how tospecify the semantic types of predicates such as?believe?
and ?assert?
so that they will not selectfor e.g., the type of biscuits or the type of naturalnumbers, given their inappropriateness as objectsof belief or assertion.
However, one resolves thisissue, we point to two other significant challenges:1.
Recently there have been a number of pro-posals that questions and propositions are of asingle ontological category (see (Nelken andFrancez, 2002; Nelken and Shan, 2006)) andmost influentially work in Inquisitive Seman-tics (IS) (Groenendijk and Roelofsen, 2009).A significant argument for this is exampleslike (1), where propositions and questionscan apparently be combined by boolean con-nectives.
(1) If Kim is not available, who shouldwe ask to give the talk?In Inquisitive Semantics, such data are han-dled by postulating a common type for ques-tions and propositions as sets of sets ofworlds.
It is not a priori clear how propo-sitions as types can account for such cases.2.
Adjectives pose a challenge to all existingtheories of questions and propositions, pos-sible worlds based (e.g., (Karttunen, 1977;Groenendijk and Stokhof, 1997; Groenendijkand Roelofsen, 2009), or type theoretic, as inType Theory with Records (TTR, (Cooper,2012; Ginzburg, 2012)).
There is nothingin the semantic entity associated with a po-lar question as in (2), be it a two cell parti-tion (as in partition semantics) or a constantfunction from records into propositions (as inGinzburg 2012) that will allow it to distin-guish difficult from easy questions.
Similarly,since the denotation of a question is not con-ceived as an event, this denotation is not ap-propriate for the adjective quick:(2) A: I have a quick question: is everynumber above 2 the sum of twoprimes?B: That?s a difficult question.89And yet, these two distinct classes of adjec-tives can simultaneously apply to a questiontogether with ?resolved?, a target of all exist-ing theories of questions, as in (3), calling fora unified notion of question:(3) The quick question you just posedis difficult and for the moment unre-solved.?Difficult?
and ?silly?
apply to both proposi-tional and question entities, suggesting theneed for a unified meaning for the adjectiveand a means of specifying its selection sothat it can modify both questions and propo-sitions:(4) a. silly claim (a claim silly to assert)b. silly question (a question silly toask);c. difficult claim (a claim difficult toprove)In this paper we partly defuse the Booleanchallenge by showing that the data actually ar-gue against a single type covering questions andpropositions.
We show that by analyzing bothpropositions and questions as records within TTR,we can define Boolean operations over these dis-tinct semantic types.
We then propose to dealwith the adjectival challenge by embedding thetypes initially defined within a theory of semanticframes (Fillmore, 1985; Pustejovsky, 1995) for-mulated within TTR.2 Questions and Propositions: a unifiedsemantic type?Although there has been a recent trend to assumea commonality of type for questions and propo-sitions, both Hamblin and Karttunen gave argu-ments for distinguishing questions as an ontologi-cal category from propositions?
(Hamblin, 1958)pointing out that interrogatives lack truth values;to which one can add their incompatibility with awider scoping alethic modality:(5) a.
It?s true/false who came yesterdayb.
# Necessarily, who will leave tomorrow?Whereas (Karttunen, 1977) pointed to the exis-tence of predicates that select interrogatives, butnot for declaratives and vice versa:(6) a. Bo asked/investigated/wondered/#believed /# claimed who came yesterday.b.
Bo # asked/# investigated/# wondered/believed /claimed that Mary came yester-day.We argue that although speech acts involvingquestions and propositions can be combined byboolean connectives they are not closed underboolean operations.
Furthermore, we argue thatthe propositions and questions qua semantic ob-jects cannot be combined by boolean operationsat all.
This, together with the examples above,strongly suggests that questions and propositionsare distinct types of semantic objects.We use embedding under attitude verbs as a testfor propositions and questions as semantic objects.Here we do not find mixed boolean combinationsof questions and propositions.
Thus, for exam-ple, wonder selects for an embedded question andbelieve for an embedded proposition but a mixedconjunction does not work with either, showingthat it is neither a question nor a proposition:(7) The manager *wonders/*believes thatseveral people left and what rooms weneed to clean.The verb know is compatible with bothinterrogative and declarative complements,though(Vendler, 1972; Ginzburg and Sag, 2000)argue that such predicates do not take questions orpropositions as genuine arguments (i.e.
not purelyreferentially), but involve coercions which leadsto a predication of a fact.
The well formednessof these coercion processes require that sentencesinvolving decl/int conjunctions such as (8) canonly be understood where the verb is distributedover the two conjuncts: ?knows that John?s smartand knows what qualifications he has?
:(8) The manager knows that John?s smart andwhat qualifications he has.Compare (9a,b)?in the second mixed casethere is only a reading which entails that it is sur-prising the conference was held at the usual timewhereas arguably in the first sentence only theconjunction but not the individual conjuncts needbe surprising.
(9) a.
It?s surprising that the conference washeld at the usual time and so few peopleregistered.90b.
It?s surprising that the conference washeld at the usual time and how few peo-ple registered.Embedded conditional questions are impossiblealthough, of course, embedded questions contain-ing conditionals are fine:(10) *The manager wonders if Hollande left,whether we need to clean the west wing.a.
The manager wonders whether, if Hol-lande left, we need to clean the west wing.Why, then, do apparent mixed boolean com-binations appear in root sentences?
Our answeris that natural language connectives, in additionto their function as logical connectives combin-ing propositions, can be used to combine speechacts into another single speech act.
This, however,can only be expressed in root sentences and speechacts are not closed under operations correspond-ing to boolean connectives.
For example in (11a),where a query follows an assertion is fine whereasthe combination of an assertion with a precedingquery is not, as in (11b):(11) a. John?s very smart but does he have anyqualifications?b.
*Does John have any qualificationsand/but he?s smartThis is puzzling because a discourse corre-sponding to a string of the same separate speechacts works well:(12) Does John have any qualifications?
(noanswer) But he?s smart.Similarly, while we can apparently conditionalizea query with a proposition, we cannot conditional-ize an assertion with a question, nor can we condi-tionalize a query with a question:(13) a.
If Hollande left, do we need to clean thewest wing?
( ?If Hollande left, I ask youwhether we need to clean the west wing?),b.
*If whether Hollande left/did Hollandeleave, we need to clean the west wing?c.
*If who left, do we need to clean the westwing?However we treat these facts, it seems clear thatit would be dangerous to collapse questions andpropositions into the same type of semantic objectand allow general application of semantic booleanoperators.
This would seem to force you into a sit-uation where you have to predict acceptability ofthese sentences purely on the basis of a theory ofsyntax, although semantically/pragmatically theywould have made perfect sense.
It seems to us thatdistinguishing between questions and propositionsand combinations of speech acts offers a more ex-planatory approach.3 Austinian Types for Propositions andQuestions3.1 TTR as synthesizing Constructive TypeTheory and Situation SemanticsThe system we sketch is formulated in TTR(Cooper, 2012).
TTR is a framework that draws itsinspirations from two quite distinct sources.
Onesource is Constructive Type Theory, whence therepertory of type constructors, and in particularrecords and record types, and the notion of wit-nessing conditions.
The second source is situa-tion semantics (Barwise and Perry, 1983; Barwise,1989) which TTR follows in viewing semantics asontology construction.
This is what underlies theemphasis on specifying structures in a model the-oretic way, introducing structured objects for ex-plicating properties, propositions, questions etc.
Italso takes from situation semantics an emphasis onpartiality as a key feature of information process-ing.
This aspect is exemplified in a key assumptionof TTR?the witnessing relation between recordsand record types: the basic relationship betweenthe two is that a record r is of type RT if eachvalue in r assigned to a given label lisatisfies thetyping constraints imposed by RT on li:(14) record witnessingThe record:?????
?l1= a1l2= a2.
.
.ln= an?????
?is of type:?????
?l1: T1l2: T2(l1).
.
.ln: Tn(l1, l2, .
.
.
, ln?1)?????
?91iff a1: T1, a2: T2(a1), .
.
.
, an:Tn(a1, a2, .
.
.
, an?1)This allows for cases where there are fields inthe record with labels not mentioned in the recordtype.
This is important when e.g., records are usedto model contexts and record types model rulesabout context change?we do not want to have topredict in advance all information that could bein a context when writing such rules.
(15) illus-trates this: the record (15a) is of the type (15b),though the former has also a field for FACTS;(15b) constitutes the preconditions for a greeting,where FACTS?the contextual presuppositions?has no role to play.
(15) a.???????????????
?spkr = Aaddr = Butt-time = t1c1 = p1Moves =?
?qud ={}facts = cg1????????????????b.????????????
?spkr : INDaddr : INDutt-time : TIMEc1 : addressing(spkr,addr,utt-time)Moves =??
: list(LocProp)qud ={}: set(Question)????????????
?3.2 PropositionsOur starting point is the situation semantics no-tion of an Austinian proposition (Barwise andEtchemendy, 1987).
(Ginzburg, 2012) introducesAustinian propositions as records of the form:(16)[sit = ssit-type = T]This gives us a type theoretic object correspond-ing to a judgement.
The type of Austinian proposi-tions is the record type (17a),where the type Rec-Type?is a basic type which denotes the type of(non-dependent) record types closed under meet,join and negation.1Truth conditions for Austinian1When we say ?the type of record types?, this should beunderstood in a relative, not absolute way.
That is, this meansthe type of record types up to some level of stratification, oth-erwise foundational problems such as russellian paradoxescan potentially ensue.
See (Cooper, 2012) for discussion anda more careful development.propositions are defined in (17b):(17) a. AustProp =def[sit : Recsit-type : RecType?]b.
A proposition p =[sit = s0sit-type = ST0]is true iffs0: ST0We introduce negative types by the clause in(18a).
Motivated in part by data concerning nega-tive perception complements ((Barwise and Perry,1983; Cooper, 1998), we can characterize wit-nesses for negative types by (18b).
(18) a.
If T is a type then ?T is a typeb.
a : ?T iff there is some T?such that a : T?and T?precludes T .
We assume the exis-tence of a binary, irreflexive and symmet-ric relation of preclusion which satisfiesalso the following specification:T?precludes T iff either (i) T = ?T?or,(ii) T, T?are non-negative and there is noa such that a : T and a : T?for any mod-els assigning witnesses to basic types andp(red)types(19a) and (19b) follow from these two defini-tions:(19) a. a : ?
?T iff a : Tb.
a : T ?
?T is not necessary (a may not beof type T and there may not be any typewhich precludes T either).Thus this negation is a hybrid of classical andintuitionistic negation in that (19a) normally holdsfor classical negation but not intuitionistic whereas(19b), that is failure of the law of the excludedmiddle, normally holds for intuitionistic negationbut not classical negation.The type of negative (positive) Austinian propo-sitions can be defined as (20a,b), respctively:(20) a.
[sit : Recsit-type : RecType??]b.
[sit : Recsit-type : RecType]92If p:Prop and p.sit-type is T1?
T2(T1?
T2) we say that p is the conjunction(disjunction) of[sit = p.sitsit-type = T1]and[sit = p.sitsit-type = T2].3.3 QuestionsExtensive motivation for the view of questionsas propositional abstracts has been provided in(Ginzburg, 1995; Ginzburg and Sag, 2000)?TTRcontributes to this by providing an improved no-tion of simultaneous, restricted abstraction: A (ba-sic, non-compound) question is a function fromrecords into propositions.
In particular, a polarquestion is a 0-ary propositional abstract, whichin TTR makes it a constant function from the uni-verse of all records into propositions.
We pro-pose a refinement of this view which we believemaintains the essential insights of the proposi-tional function approach, motivated in part by theneed to enable conjunction and disjunction to bedefined for questions.We introduce a notion of Austinian questionsdefined as records containing a record and a func-tion into record types, the latter associated withthe label ?abstr(act)?.
The role of wh-words onthis view is to specify the domains of these func-tions; in the case of polar questions there is no re-striction, hence the function component of such aquestion is a constant function.
(21) exemplifiesthis for a unary ?who?
question and a polar ques-tion:(21) a.
Who =[x1: Indc1 : person(x1)]; Whether = Rec;b.
?Who runs?
7??
?sit =r1abstr = ?r:Who([c : run(r.x1)])??;c.
?Whether Bo runs?
7??
?sit =r1abstr = ?r:Whether([c : run(b)])?
?We characterize the type AustQuestion withinTTR by means of the parametric type given in(22); the parametric component of the type char-acterizes the range of abstracts that build up ques-tions:(22) AustQuestion(T) =def[sit : Recabstr : (T ?
RecType)]Given this, we define the following relation be-tween a situation and a function, which is the ba-sis for defining key coherence answerhood no-tions such as resolvedness and aboutness (weakpartial answerhood (Ginzburg and Sag, 2000))and question dependence (cf.
erotetic implica-tion,(Wi?sniewski, 2001)):(23) s resolves q, where q is ?r : (T1)T2, (insymbols s?q) iff either(i) for some a : T1s : q(a),or(ii) a : T1implies s : ?q(a)Austinian questions can be conjoined and dis-joined though not negated.
The definition forconj/disj-unction, from which it follows that q1and (or) q2is resolved iff q1is resolved and (or)q2is resolved, is as follows:(24)[sit = sabstr = ?r : T1(T2)]?
(?
)[sit = sabstr = ?r : T3(T4)]=??????
?sit = sabstr = ?r:[left:T1right:T3](q1(r.left) ?
(?)q2(r.right))??????
?Following (Cooper and Ginzburg, 2012)) we ar-gue that ?negative questions?
involve questions re-lating to negative propositions rather than nega-tions of positive questions.
As Cooper andGinzburg show, such negative questions are cru-cially distinct from the corresponding positivequestion.
Since we have a clear way of distin-guishing negative and positive propositions, we donot conflate positive and negative polar questions.4 Connectives in dialogueWe assume a gameboard dialogue semantics(Ginzburg, 2012) which keeps track of questionsunder discussion (QUD).
One of the central con-versational rules in KoS is QSPEC, a conversa-tional rule that licenses either speaker to followup q, the maximal element in QUD with asser-tions and queries whose QUD update Depends on93q.
These in turn become MaxQUD.
Consequently,QSPEC seems to be able to handle the commonestcase of successive questions, as in (25).(25)a.
Ann: Anyway, talking of over the road,where is she?
Is she home?Betty: No.
She?s in the Cottage.b.
Arthur: How old is she?
Forty?Evelyn: Forty one!Nonetheless, not all cases of successive ques-tions do involve a second question which is a sub-question of the first, as exemplified in (26):(26) On the substantive front, we now havepreliminary answers to two key ques-tions: What did the agency do wrong?And who ordered it to target conservativegroups?
Notwithstanding Miller?s resig-nation, which the President himself an-nounced on Tuesday evening, the answersappear to be: not nearly as much as re-cent headlines suggest; and, nobody inthe Obama Administration.
(The NewYorker, May 16, 2013)In contrast to cases covered by QSPEC, thesecases are strange if the second question is posedby the addressee of the first question?one gets thefeeling that the original question was ignored:(27) A: What did the agency do wrong?
B:Who ordered it to target conservativegroups?
(Ginzburg, 2012) postulates an additional con-versational rule that allows a speaker to follow upan initial question with a non-influencing question,where the initial question remains QUD-maximal.We believes this basic treatment allows one to ex-plain how the mixed cases involving conjunctionsof assertions and queries can be captured.
and,butand or can be used as discourse particles whichexpress a relationship between a speech act andthe one preceding it:?
and can indicate that the following questionis Independent of MaxQUD.?
but indicates that the following questionis not independent, but unexpected givenMaxQUD:?
John?s smart (no response) But whatqualifications does he have??
John?s smart might be offered as an en-thymematic argument (Breitholtz, 2011;Breitholtz and Cooper, 2011) to a con-clusion, e.g.
?we should hire John?.
butindicates that the answer to the ques-tion might present an enthymematic ar-gument against this conclusion.?
or can indicate that q1 addresses the sameultimate issue as MaxQUD, so retain bothas MaxQUD; sufficient to address one issuesince it will resolve both simultaneously:(28) a.
Would you like coffee and biscuitsor would you like some fruit or apiece of bread and jam or what doyou fancy?b.
are you gonna stay on another day orwhat are you doing?c.
David Foster Wallace is overratedor which novel by him refutes thisview?5 Abstract Entities and AdjectivesHow to deal with adjectival modification of propo-sitional and question entities, exemplified in (3,4)above?
The extended notion of question requiredcan be explicated within Cooper 2012?s theoryof semantic frames, inspired by (Fillmore, 1985;Pustejovsky, 1995).
Neither Ty2 (Groenendijk andStokhof, 1997) nor inquisitive semantics in propo-sitional or first order formulation support the de-velopment of such an ontology.
Cooper formu-lates a frame as a record type (RT).
In (29) weexemplify a possible frame for question.
Here,the illoc role represents a question?s role in dis-course, whereas the telic role describes the goal ofthe process associated with resolving a question?
finding a resolving answer.
The frame repre-sents a ?default?
view of a question, which vari-ous in effect non-subsective adjectives can modify(e.g., ?unspoken question?
negates the existenceof an associated utterance, while ?open question?negates the end point of the resolution event).22Here Resolve maps an austinian proposition and an aus-tinian question to a predicate type.
In a more detailed accountone would add an additional argument for an informationstate, given the arguments that this notion is agent?relative(Ginzburg, 1995) and much subsequent literature.94(29) Question =def???????????????
?T : Typeexternal : AustQuestion(T),illoc :???
?u : EventA : Indc2 : Ask(A,external,u)???
?telic :[p : AustPropc1 : Resolve(p,external)]???????????????
?A type-driven compositional analysis is for-mulated with adjectives as record type modifiers(functions from RTs to RTs) that pick out frame el-ements of the appropriate type (for a related viewcf.
Asher & Luo 2012).
For example, difficultquestion has the record type in (30):(30)??????
?T : Typeexternal : AustQuestiontelic :[p : AustPropc1 : difficult(Resolve(p,external))]??????
?Records and record types come with a well-known notion of subtyping, often construed syn-tactically (see e.g., (Betarte and Tasistro, 1998)).However, given our ontological perspective on se-mantics, we take a semantic perspective on sub-typing (see e.g.
(Frisch et al., 2008) for a detailedexposition of such an approach.
), wherein T < T?iff {s|s : T} ?
{s|s : T?}.
Given this, a record ofthe type (29) above can be viewed as also havingtype:(31)[T : Typeexternal : AustQuestion(T)]This forms the basis of our account of how anadjective such as difficult applies simultaneouslyto question and to path.
Difficult is specified asin (32)?
a function from record types subsumedby the record type given in the domain whoseoutput involves a modification of the restrictionfield of the telic role.
This yields (32b) whencombined with question and (32c) when combinedwith path:3(32) a. f : (RT <????
?external : TypeP : Typetelic :[c1 : P]?????
)RT[P;difficult(P)]3Here difficult maps any type P into the predicate typedifficult(P ).
One probably needs to narrow this specifica-tion somewhat.b.??????
?T : Typeexternal : AustQuestion(T)telic :[p : AustPropc1 : difficult(Resolve(p,external))]???????c.????
?external : PhysTrajectorytelic :[a : Indc1 : difficult(Cross(a,external))]????
?Turning to propositions, we postulate (33) as atype for proposition.
This allows us, for instance,to specify the adjective silly as modifying alongthe illoc dimension, thereby capturing silly claim(a claim silly to assert) and silly question (a ques-tion silly to ask); given the specification of the telicdimension and our lexical entry for difficult, diffi-cult claim is correctly predicted to mean ?a claimdifficult to prove?.
(33) Proposition =def????????????
?external : AustProp,illoc :???
?u : EventA : Indc2 : Assert(A,external,u)???
?telic :[f : Factc1 : Prove(f,external)]????????????
?Subject matter adjectives such as political, per-sonal, moral, philosophical as in (34) lead us toanother intrinsic advantage for rich type theoriessuch as TTR over possible worlds based type the-ories, relating to the types AustQuestion/Prop.
(34) a.
A: Are you involved with Demi Lovato?B: That?s a personal question.b.
A: One shouldn?t eat meat.
B:That?s a moral claim.Subject matter adjectives target the external roleof a question/proposition.
This can be explicatedon the basis of the predicate types which consti-tute the sit-type (abstr type) field in propositions(questions).
Given the coarse granularity of possi-ble worlds, it to unclear how to do so in ontologiesbased on sets of possible worlds.AcknowledgmentsEarlier versions of portions of this work werepresented at the workshop Conference on Logic,95Questions and Inquiry (LoQI) in Paris and at acourse on TTR given in June 2013 in Gothen-burg.
We thanks audiences on those occasions, aswell as two anonymous referees for very stimu-lating comments.
This work is supported by theFrench Investissements d?Avenir?Labex EFL pro-gram (ANR-10-LABX-0083).ReferencesJon Barwise and John Etchemendy.
1987.
The Liar.Oxford University Press, New York.Jon Barwise and John Perry.
1983.
Situations and At-titudes.
Bradford Books.
MIT Press, Cambridge.Jon Barwise.
1989.
The Situation in Logic.
CSLI Lec-ture Notes.
CSLI Publications, Stanford.Gustavo Betarte and Alvaro Tasistro.
1998.
Martin-l?of?s type theory with record types and subtyping.In G. Sambin and J. Smith, editors, 25 Years of Con-structive Type Theory.
Oxford University Press.Ellen Breitholtz and Robin Cooper.
2011.
En-thymemes as rhetorical resources.
In Ron Artstein,Mark Core, David DeVault, Kallirroi Georgila, ElsiKaiser, and Amanda Stent, editors, SemDial 2011(Los Angelogue): Proceedings of the 15th Workshopon the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue.Ellen Breitholtz.
2011.
Enthymemes under Discus-sion: Towards a micro-rhetorical approach to dia-logue modelling.
In Proceedings of SPR-11 ILCLIInternational Workshop on Semantics, Pragmatics,and Rhetoric Donostia, 9-11 November 2011.R.
Cooper and J. Ginzburg.
2012.
Negative inquisi-tiveness and alternatives-based negation.
In MariaAloni, Vadim Kimmelman, Floris Roelofsen, Gal-itW.
Sassoon, Katrin Schulz, and Matthijs West-era, editors, Logic, Language and Meaning, volume7218 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages32?41.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg.Robin Cooper.
1998.
Austinian propositions,davidsonian events and perception complements.In Jonathan Ginzburg, Zurab Khasidashvili,Jean Jacques Levy, Carl Vogel, and Enric Vallduvi,editors, The Tbilisi Symposium on Logic, Language,and Computation: Selected Papers, Foundations ofLogic, Language, and Information, pages 19?34.CSLI Publications, Stanford.Robin Cooper.
2012.
Type theory and semantics influx.
In Ruth Kempson, Nicholas Asher, and TimFernando, editors, Handbook of the Philosophy ofScience, volume 14: Philosophy of Linguistics.
El-sevier, Amsterdam.C.J.
Fillmore.
1985.
Frames and the semantics of un-derstanding.
Quaderni di semantica, 6(2):222?254.Alain Frisch, Giuseppe Castagna, and V?eronique Ben-zaken.
2008.
Semantic subtyping: Dealing set-theoretically with function, union, intersection, andnegation types.
Journal of the ACM (JACM),55(4):19.Jonathan Ginzburg and Ivan A.
Sag.
2000.
Interrog-ative Investigations: the form, meaning and use ofEnglish Interrogatives.
Number 123 in CSLI Lec-ture Notes.
CSLI Publications, Stanford: California.Jonathan Ginzburg.
1995.
Resolving questions, i. Lin-guistics and Philosophy, 18:459?527.Jonathan Ginzburg.
2012.
The Interactive Stance:Meaning for Conversation.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford.J.
Groenendijk and F. Roelofsen.
2009.
Inquisitive se-mantics and pragmatics.
In Meaning, Content, andArgument: Proceedings of the ILCLI InternationalWorkshop on Semantics, Pragmatics, and Rhetoric.www.
illc.
uva.
nl/inquisitive-semantics.Jeroen Groenendijk and Martin Stokhof.
1997.
Ques-tions.
In Johan van Benthem and Alice ter Meulen,editors, Handbook of Logic and Linguistics.
NorthHolland, Amsterdam.C.
L. Hamblin.
1958.
Questions.
Australian Journalof Philosophy, 36:159?168.Lauri Karttunen.
1977.
Syntax and semantics of ques-tions.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 1:3?44.Rani Nelken and Nissim Francez.
2002.
Bilattices andthe semantics of natural language questions.
Lin-guistics and Philosophy, 25:37?64.Rani Nelken and Chung-Chieh Shan.
2006.
A modalinterpretation of the logic of interrogation.
Journalof Logic, Language, and Information, 15:251?271.James Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.MIT Press, Cambridge.Aarne Ranta.
1994.
Type Theoretical Grammar.
Ox-ford University Press, Oxford.Zeno Vendler.
1972.
Res Cogitans.
Cornell UniversityPress, Ithaca.Andrzej Wi?sniewski.
2001.
Questions and inferences.Logique et Analyse, 173:5?43.96
