Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra) @ EACL 2014, pages 30?35,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a Spanish-German Dictionary for Hybrid MTAnne G?ohringInstitute of Computational LinguisticsUniversity of Zurichgoehring@cl.uzh.chAbstractThis paper describes the development ofthe Spanish-German dictionary used inour hybrid MT system.
The compilationprocess relies entirely on open source toolsand freely available language resources.Our bilingual dictionary of around 33,700entries may thus be used, distributed andfurther enhanced as convenient.1 IntroductionNowadays it is possible to set up a baseline SMTsystem for any language pair within a day, givenenough parallel data, as well as the software totrain and decode, is freely available.
WhereasSMT systems profit from large amounts of data,following the general motto ?more data is betterdata?, the rule-based MT systems on the otherhand benefit from high quality data.
Develop-ing a hybrid MT system on a rule-based architec-ture1, one of our aims is to build and extend a highquality Spanish-German dictionary.
We focus onthe unidirectional lexical transfer from Spanish toGerman, as we are translating only in this direc-tion.
We want to balance the disadvantage of rule-based systems with respect to lexical coveragewhen compared to statistical MT systems trainedon large scale corpora.
To achieve this goal, wehave merged existing resources into one bilingualdictionary.
As a result we now have a consolidatedSpanish-German dictionary of around 33,700 en-tries.In the following section, we will give anoverview of resources for German and Spanish re-lated to our work.
In section 3 we will explainwhich resources we used and how we combinedthem.
We will also present some figures about the1Our system is derived from Apertium/Matxin, and so isthe dictionary format (see 3.1).coverage of the resulting bilingual dictionary.
Sec-tion 4 is dedicated to specific German linguistic is-sues we have addressed to complete our dictionarywith the necessary morphological information.
Inthe last section, we present our ideas for futurework.2 Related work and resourcesMany monolingual and bilingual resources forSpanish and German already exist, some are pub-licly available, others only under license.
The webservices Canoo, Leo and Systran are freely acces-sible but prohibit any automated content extrac-tion.
Also the German wordnet GermaNet restrictsits usage to the academic community.
The Hygh-Tra project develops hybrid high quality transla-tion systems based on commercial resources pro-vided by Lingenio, a language tool company spe-cialized in machine translation (Babych et al.,2012).In our project we work on similar systems butwe follow a free resources and open source policy.This is the case of the open source suite of lan-guage analyzers FreeLing (Padr?o and Stanilovsky,2012), which offers a Spanish dictionary that con-tains over 550,000 full-fledged word forms.
Thebilingual dictionary ?ding-es-de?2compiled forthe ?ding?
dictionary lookup program providesmore than 21,000 entries.Besides lexicons, other types of resources mayprovide us with extra material.
Escart?
?n (2012) hasbuilt a Spanish-German corpus with the specificaim to study multiword expressions in a transla-tion context.
There are larger parallel corpora likeAcquis JRC, Europarl (Koehn, 2005), and Mul-tiUN (Eisele and Chen, 2010), and also differentmultilingual wordnets such as BabelNet (Navigliand Ponzetto, 2012) and the Multilingual CentralRepository (Gonzalez-Agirre et al., 2012).2savannah.nongnu.org/projects/ding-es-de30Yet another kind of valuable resources are themonolingual and parallel treebanks like the Span-ish AnCora (Taul?e et al., 2008) and IULA tree-banks (Marimon et al., 2007), the German TiGer(Brants et al., 2004), the multilingual ?universaldependency treebank?
(McDonald et al., 2013),and the Spanish-German SQUOIA treebank (Riosand G?ohring, 2012).All the open resources listed above have playedor will play a role in building and extending ourbilingual dictionary.3 Compilation of a Spanish-Germandictionary3.1 FormatAs we started our machine translation project us-ing the Apertium/Matxin framework (Mayor et al.,2012), we adopted its dictionary format.
Thoughthe XML format is specific to our application, it isper definition easy to adapt.
As shown in Fig.
1, abilingual entry <e> has at least a left and a rightside, <l> and <r> respectively, and this pair typ-ically refers to a paradigm <par>.
Furthermore,attributes can be set to whole paradigms as well asto individual entries.
We have defined general andmore refined paradigms to represent the Germanmorphological classes and the features we need forgenerating the correct word forms.3<e><p><l>nota</l><r>Bemerkung</r></p><par n=?NC_NN_FEM?/></e><e><p><l>nota</l><r>Hinweis</r></p><par n=?NC_NN_MASC?/></e>Figure 1: Two entries of the Spanish commonnoun nota (en: note; grade, mark).3.2 Synonyms and polysemous wordsOften a Spanish word has many German transla-tions, and vice versa.
This fact is of course re-flected in our dictionary, where a Spanish lexicalunit (a lemma of a given part-of-speech) has mul-tiple entries, i.e.
different corresponding Germanlexical units.Fig.
2 shows the same example as in Fig.
1, thepolysemous Spanish noun nota, together with Ger-man translations grouped according to the differ-ent senses.
Note that the German word Note is not3See also Fig.
4 in section 4.2.nota ???????????????
?Bemerkung, Hinweis, Notiz(sense 1: memo, note, notice)Note, Schulnote, Zensur(sense 2: mark, grade)Musiknote, Note(sense 3: musical note)Figure 2: Different senses of the Spanish nounnota and their corresponding German translations.always the correct translation as it does not entailall senses: it is not a valid translation for sense 1.On the one hand, the dictionary should containas many word translations as possible in order toachieve a high coverage for both languages.
Onthe other hand, the more fine-grained the choicesin the lexicon are, the harder the lexical dis-ambiguation becomes (Vintar et al., 2012).
Al-though hand-written selection rules narrow downthe choice in specific cases, machine learning ap-proaches are required in order to make better lexi-cal choices in general.3.3 First compilationWe first merged the entries of the ?ding-es-de?
dic-tionary to the translations of the AnCora/FreeLingvocabulary we obtained by crawling the SpanishWiktionary in 2011.
Since this first compilationperiod, we have manually added new entries as re-quired by the development of our MT system.
Atthe end of 2013, the collected bilingual entries forthe open classes noun, verb, adverb and adjectiveamounted to 25,904 (see Tab.
1).At this point we decided to systematically ex-tend our bilingual dictionary and evaluate its cov-erage .
Translating from Spanish to German, weare first of all interested in the coverage of thesource language Spanish.
Compared to the morethan 88,000 lemmas with about double as muchsenses contained in the DRAE4, our bilingual dic-tionary covers not even 5% of the monolingual en-tries.
But the DRAE is a reference dictionary, withcertain shortcomings such as missing the newestneologisms and keeping obsolete words in its lex-icon.
Furthermore, it is not a free resource.4Diccionario de la Real Academia Espa?nola; 22nd editionDRAE (2001); see www.rae.es.313.4 Exploiting Wiktionary and BabelNetFreeLing?s Spanish lexicon contains 49,477 lem-mas of common nouns and 7649 verb lemmas.
Be-fore the addition of more data, our dictionary cov-ered only 19.44% of FreeLing?s nouns and 22.9%of its verbs.
Crawling the Wiktionary pages forthe missing lemmas, we collected no more than309 additional noun and 78 verb entries.
Due tothis marginal increase, we decided to test othersources.
Through BabelNet?s API we were ableto extract 21,587 German translations of 13,824Spanish common nouns.
We used the morphologytool mOLIFde (Clematide, 2008) to analyze theGerman side of these BabelNet word pairs.
Wediscarded those pairs that did not receive any anal-ysis.
The remaining candidate entries amount to7149.
Though we have not yet assess the qualityof this material, the observed coverage gain fromthese potential bilingual entries looks promising.Adding entries for 5528 Spanish nominal lemmasincreases the coverage of common nouns by morethan 11% (see Tab.
1).es-de.dix end 2013 + new currentSpanish-German entriesnoun 16,136 7,149 23,285verb 4,256 4,256adverb 316 316adjective 5,196 640 5,836Total 25,904 33,693Unique Spanish lemmasnoun 10,559 5,528 16,087adjective 3,029 627 3,656Table 1: Size of the Spanish-German dictionary atthe end of 2013 and after adding entries extractedfrom BabelNet.Starting with the vocabulary extracted from acorpus of European Spanish newspaper texts, weexpect our bilingual dictionary to be biased withrespect to the language variety, register and genre.In our MT project we focus on Peruvian Spanish.Therefore, we want to measure the specific lexicalcoverage for this variety.
In a first step, we com-pared our Spanish-Quechua dictionary with theSpanish-German lexicon by computing the over-lap of their Spanish vocabularies.
Only 50% ofthe 2215 single Spanish verbs with a Quechuatranslation also have a German equivalent.
Crawl-ing Wiktionary for the untranslated 1115 Spanishverbs, we obtained 33 new German verbs.
Thiscrawl ES Wiktionarylemma?query BabelNetfor ES synsetsget DE translationsof ES synsetsDE morphological analysisget DE translation linknoyesadd new ES-DE entriesselect ES lemmasnot in bilingual dict.Bilingual dictionarySpanish lemmasGerman lemmasFigure 3: Compilation workflowresults in a recall of under 3%, which shows thelimit of the method.In a next step, we measured the overlap for thenouns5before and after harvesting the BabelNettranslations: the 594 newly covered nouns repre-sent an increase of 8%.
The following examplesof missing word equivalences show that we canmanually find their German translations: abigeo(de: Viehdieb; en: rustler, cattle thief), zapallo(de: K?urbis; en: pumpkin).
However, we wantto translate as many of these words as possible au-tomatically into German.
Looking at the failures,we observe a large number of participles and ad-jectives analyzed as common nouns.
In a next step,we need to loosen the part-of-speech restriction wehave imposed on the filtering.3.5 Corpus coverageWe have collected articles from an online news-paper6in order to test the coverage on a Peruviancorpus.
This small ad hoc corpus contains about5Note that the ?noun?
entries in the Spanish-Quechua dic-tionary also cover Spanish adjectives as there is no morpho-logical distinction between nouns and adjectives in Quechua.6http://diariodelcusco.com3210,000 words.
In the near future, we will gathermore articles and periodically measure the cover-age of the growing collection.
For the evaluation,we let the MT system do a raw translation (lexi-cal transfer) without lexical disambiguation.
Be-fore the extension of the dictionary, the ?out-of-vocabulary?
ratio of common nouns was 11.95%for tokens and 16.66% for types.
With the addi-tional entries extracted from BabelNet, OOV ra-tios decreased to 7.39% and 11.16%, respectively.Note that the unknown types not only contain sin-gle lemmas but also multiword expressions thatare not yet listed in the bilingual dictionary.Applying the same procedure as described insection 3.4, we have added 640 new entries foradjectives to our dictionary.
As a result, theOOV ratios of adjective types have decreased from41.62% to 37.03%.
Although the corpus cover-age for adjectives improved, it is still low, partlydue to the fact that we have not yet treated theparticiples as adjectives.
For example, our dictio-nary does not have adjective entries for commonverb participles like acompa?nado (en: accompa-nied).
Other examples of untranslated adjectivesare some toponyms like lime?no (from Lima), miss-ing from our bilingual dictionary, and cusque?no(from Cuzco), absent even from the Spanish fullform lexicon.
Some common adjective pairs mightnot be found in BabelNet, e.g.
virtual - virtuell,but are present in the Wiktionary, and vice versa.For this reason, we combined all possible sourcesin order to maximize the automatic extension ofour dictionary.4 German morphology featuresApart from extending the dictionary with new en-tries, we added the missing parts of the morpho-logical information needed for the translation fromSpanish to German.4.1 German noun genderFor German nouns, in addition to the lemmas,we need at least the gender.
In fact, the mini-mum information depends on the morphologicaltool we use to generate the German forms.7Dueto the German agreement constraints, we need thegender of a noun in order to generate the correctinflections on the elements of the noun phrase.87This would also be necessary for Spanish, but we aretranslating only in one direction, from Spanish to German.8Note that German adjectives are inflected according tothe gender of the head noun, e.g.
in accusative case ?dieGender information is unequally present in the dif-ferent sources we have exploited: Almost all theentries retrieved from the ?Ding?
lexicon and theWiktionary pages contain the gender of the noun,but BabelNet does not indicate this information.We applied the same morphology tool(Clematide, 2008) used for generation to an-alyze the German side of the ?with respect tothe gender?
underspecified dictionary entries.We extracted the analyses with more than onepossible gender and manually checked whetherthe selected gender corresponded to the intendedmeaning of the Spanish-German lemma pair.
Weobserve different kind of ambiguities: There aretrue gender alternatives, e.g.
der/das Hektar isboth masculine and neuter, but also homographswith different senses: die Flur (en: acre) vs derFlur (en: hall).
Variable word segmentationwithin compounds leads to another type ofgender ambiguities: the feminine derivative dieWahrsagerei (en: fortune telling) is more probablethan the neuter compound das Wahrsager-Ei (en:the fortune teller?s egg).Automatic gender attribution through morpho-logical analysis is error-prone and far from com-plete.
Nearly a third of the candidate entries ex-tracted from BabelNet received an analysis.
Wehave manually annotated 5% of those entries toroughly estimate the a posteriori precision: 78.5%are correct, 16% wrong, and about 5.5% unclear.Finally, we need to include the linguistic genderalternation paradigm to gentry nouns and profes-sions.
For example, the Spanish word periodistarefers to both the male and female journalists, butGerman distinguishes between Journalist (masc.
)and Journalistin (fem.
).4.2 German verb auxiliaryGerman verbs typically use only one of the twoauxiliary verbs ?haben or sein?
to form the per-fect tenses.
Nevertheless, some verbs may alter-natively use one or the other, depending on thecontext.
Reflexive verbs never use the auxiliarysein nor do verbs with a direct object.
The mostcommon verb type that requires sein as auxiliaryare motion verbs, such as fahren (en: drive).
Butif the same verb9has a direct object, the auxiliaryhaben appears in the perfect tense form.grosse Frau?
(the tall woman) vs ?den grossen Mann (the tallman).9The same surface form may have different verb subcate-gorization frames.33sein: Ich bin von A nach B gefahren.
(1) IchIbinamvonfromAAnachtoBBgefahren.driven.
?I drove from A to B.?haben: Ich habe [mein Auto]DirObjvon A nach Bgefahren.
(2) IchIhabehavemeinmyAutocarvonfromAAnachtoBBgefahren.driven.
?I drove my car from A to B.?Where do we get this information from and howshould we best encode this alternative behavior inour dictionary?
Unfortunately we cannot automat-ically get the auxiliaries for every German verbfrom Canoo, so we extracted 4056 verbs from theWiktionary dump made available by Henrich etal.
(2011).
Furthermore, we collected 5465 pagesby crawling the Wiktionary for German verbs10.As Tab.
2 shows, there are more verbs with aux-iliary haben than with sein, therefore we choosethe auxiliary haben to be the default.
We filteredthe verbs with sein from both sources and mergedthem, which resulted in a list of 394 verbs11.Source verbs auxiliarieshaben sein bothdump2011 4056 3721 293 17crawl2013 5469 4814 351 200merged 394Table 2: Auxiliary verb distributionThe header of our dictionary contains a specificparadigm for the verb entries for which the Ger-man translation has to be generated with sein inthe perfect tenses.
This is a derivative version ofthe default verb paradigm, as Fig.
4 shows.To select the correct auxiliary we need the syn-tactic analysis of the German verb phrase or atleast the information about the presence or ab-sence of a direct object.
If the parse tree obtainedfrom the analysis of the Spanish source sentence iserroneous, we must rely on other means to disam-biguate the verb auxiliaries.
Which methods arebest suited to solve this task is a topic for futurework.10http://de.wiktionary.org/w/index.php?title=Kategorie:Verb_(Deutsch) [retrieved2013-12-27]1143 verbs are only in dump2011, 101 only in crawl2013,250 in both lists.<pardef n="VM_VV_MAIN_BE"><e><p><l><s n="parol"/>VM</l><r><s n="aux"/>sein<s n="pos"/>VV</r></p><par n="Verb"/></e></pardef>Figure 4: Paradigm definition (<pardef>) formain verb pairs (es:VM?de:VV) with explicit valuesein for the auxiliary attribute (aux) on the Ger-man side (<r>).5 ConclusionIn our hybrid MT system with a rule-based kernel,the bilingual dictionary plays a crucial role.
Wehave built a Spanish-German dictionary from dif-ferent freely available resources with general MTin mind.
This dictionary contains around 33,700entries at the moment of writing.12This paper describes the extraction of new en-tries from BabelNet and Wiktionary.
We haveshown that these sources can both contribute to theenhancement of our dictionary, albeit on differentscales and in a complementary manner.
Encour-aged by the coverage boost yielded from the ad-dition of nouns and adjectives extracted from Ba-belNet, we want to apply a similar procedure toverbs.
We will also crawl the Wiktionary for theSpanish adjectives and their German equivalents,and continue to gather more information from thenet as it gets available.
Word derivation is anotherissue that we want to address, mainly to cover ad-verbs with the suffix -mente, and also to includeeven more adjectives.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank Annette Rios forher helpful advise and for proof-reading the fi-nal version of this paper.
This work is funded bythe Swiss Nation Science Foundation under grant100015 132219/1.12Available from our project?s website: http://tiny.uzh.ch/2Q34ReferencesBogdan Babych, Kurt Eberle, Johanna Gei?, MireiaGinest?
?-Rosell, Anthony Hartley, Reinhard Rapp,Serge Sharoff, and Martin Thomas.
2012.
De-sign of a hybrid high quality machine translationsystem.
In Proceedings of the Joint Workshop onExploiting Synergies between Information Retrievaland Machine Translation (ESIRMT) and Hybrid Ap-proaches to Machine Translation (HyTra), pages101?112, Avignon, France, April.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Peter Eisenberg, Sil-via Hansen-Schirra, Esther K?onig, Wolfgang Lezius,Christian Rohrer, George Smith, and Hans Uszko-reit.
2004.
TIGER: Linguistic interpretation of aGerman corpus.
Research on Language and Com-putation, 2(4):597?620.Nicoletta Calzolari, Khalid Choukri, Thierry Declerck,Mehmet U?gur Do?gan, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mar-iani, Jan Odijk, and Stelios Piperidis, editors.
2012.Proceedings of the Eight International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC?12),Istanbul, Turkey, May.
European Language Re-sources Association (ELRA).Simon Clematide.
2008.
An OLIF-based open in-flectional resource and yet another morphologicalsystem for German.
In A. Storrer, A. Geyken,A.
Siebert, and K. M. W?urzner, editors, Text Re-sources and Lexical Knowledge, number 8 in Text,Translation, Computational Processing, pages 183?194.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, Germany, Septem-ber.
KONVENS 2008: Selected Papers from the 9thConference on Natural Language Processing.Andreas Eisele and Yu Chen.
2010.
MultiUN:A Multilingual Corpus from United Nation Doc-uments.
In Daniel Tapias, Mike Rosner, Ste-lios Piperidis, Jan Odjik, Joseph Mariani, BenteMaegaard, Khalid Choukri, and Nicoletta Calzo-lari (Conference Chair), editors, Proceedings ofthe Seventh Conference on International LanguageResources and Evaluation, pages 2868?2872.
Eu-ropean Language Resources Association (ELRA),May.Carla Parra Escart??n.
2012.
Design and compilationof a specialized Spanish-German parallel corpus.
InCalzolari et al.
(Calzolari et al., 2012).Aitor Gonzalez-Agirre, Egoitz Laparra, and GermanRigau.
2012.
Multilingual Central Repository ver-sion 3.0: upgrading a very large lexical knowl-edge base.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-tional Global WordNet Conference (GWC?12), Mat-sue, Japan.Verena Henrich, Erhard Hinrichs, and Tatiana Vodola-zova.
2011.
Semi-Automatic Extension of Ger-maNet with Sense Definitions from Wiktionary.
InProceedings of the 5th Language & TechnologyConference (LTC 2011), pages 126?130, Pozna,Poland, November.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: a parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th MT Summit, pages 79?86, Phuket, Thai-land, September.
European Association for MachineTranslation.Montserrat Marimon, Natalia Seghezzi, and N?uria Bel.2007.
An Open-source Lexicon for Spanish.
Proce-samiento del Lenguaje Natural, 39:131?137.Aingeru Mayor, I?naki Alegria, Arantza D?
?az de Ilar-raza, Gorka Labaka, Mikel Lersundi, and Kepa Sara-sola.
2012.
Matxin, an open-source rule-basedmachine translation system for Basque.
MachineTranslation, (25):53?82.Ryan McDonald, Joakim Nivre, Yvonne Quirmbach-Brundage, Yoav Goldberg, Dipanjan Das, Kuz-man Ganchev, Keith Hall, Slav Petrov, HaoZhang, Oscar T?ackstr?om, Claudia Bedini, N?uriaBertomeu Castell?o, and Jungmee Lee.
2013.Universal Dependency Annotation for MultilingualParsing.
In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics(Volume 2: Short Papers), pages 92?97, Sofia, Bul-garia, August.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Roberto Navigli and Simone Paolo Ponzetto.
2012.BabelNet: The Automatic Construction, Evaluationand Application of a Wide-Coverage MultilingualSemantic Network.
Artificial Intelligence, 193:217?250.Llu?
?s Padr?o and Evgeny Stanilovsky.
2012.
FreeLing3.0: Towards Wider Multilinguality.
In Calzolariet al.
(Calzolari et al., 2012).Annette Rios and Anne G?ohring.
2012.
A tree is aBaum is an ?arbol is a sach?a: Creating a trilingualtreebank.
In Calzolari et al.
(Calzolari et al., 2012),pages 1874?1879.Mariona Taul?e, M. Ant`onia Mart?
?, and Marta Re-casens.
2008.
AnCora: Multilevel Annotated Cor-pora for Catalan and Spanish.
In Nicoletta Calzo-lari, Khalid Choukri, Bente Maegaard, Joseph Mar-iani, Jan Odijk, Stelios Piperidis, and Daniel Tapias,editors, Proceedings of the Sixth International Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Mar-rakech, Marroco.
?Spela Vintar, Darja Fi?ser, and Aljo?sa Vr?s?caj.
2012.Were the clocks striking or surprising?
Using WSDto improve MT performance.
In Proceedings ofthe Joint Workshop on Exploiting Synergies be-tween Information Retrieval and Machine Transla-tion (ESIRMT) and Hybrid Approaches to MachineTranslation (HyTra), pages 87?92, Avignon, France,April.
Association for Computational Linguistics.35
