Proceedings of the EMNLP 2014 Workshop on Arabic Natural Langauge Processing (ANLP), pages 1?7,October 25, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Twitter to Collect a Multi-Dialectal Corpus of ArabicHamdy Mubarak, Kareem DarwishQatar Computing Research InstituteQatar Foundation{hmubarak,kdarwish}@qf.org.qaAbstractThis paper describes the collection and clas-sification of a multi-dialectal corpus of Ara-bic based on the geographical information oftweets.
We mapped information of user lo-cations to one of the Arab countries, andextracted tweets that have dialectal word(s).Manual evaluation of the extracted corpusshows that the accuracy of assignment oftweets to some countries (like Saudi Arabiaand Egypt) is above 93% while the accuracyfor other countries, such Algeria and Syria isbelow 70%.1 IntroductionArabic is a morphologically complex lan-guage (Holes, 2004).
With more than 380million people whose mother tongue is Arabic, itis the fifth most widely spoken language.
Mod-ern Standard Arabic (MSA) is the lingua francaamongst Arabic native speakers, and is used informal communications, such as newspaper, officialspeeches, and news broadcasts.
However, MSA israrely used in day to day communication.
Nearlyall the Arabic speakers use dialectal Arabic (DA)in everyday communication (Cotterell et al., 2014).DA may differ from MSA in morphology andphonology (Habash et al., 2012).
These dialectsmay differ also in vocabulary and spelling fromMSA and most do not have standard spellings.There is often large lexical overlap between di-alects and MSA.
Performing proper Arabic dialectidentification may positively impact many NaturalLanguage Processing (NLP) application.
For exam-ple, transcribing dialectal speech or automaticallytranslating into a particular dialect would be aidedby the use of targeted language models that aretrained on texts in that dialect.
This has led to recentinterest in the automatic collection large dialectalcorpora and the identification of different Arabicdialects (Al-Mannai et al., 2014; Elfardy et al.,2013; Cotterell et al., 2014; Zaidan et al., 2014).There are many varieties of dialectal Arabic dis-tributed over the 22 countries in the Arabic world.There are often several variants of a dialect withinthe same country.
There is also the difference be-tween Bedouin and Sedentary speech, which runsacross all Arabic countries.
However, in naturallanguage processing, researchers have merged di-alectal Arabic into five regional language groups,namely: Egyptian, Maghrebi, Gulf (Arabian Penin-sula), Iraqi, and Levantine (Cotterell et al., 2014; Al-Sabbagh and Girju, 2012).In this paper, we use geographical information inuser Twitter profiles to collect a dialectal corpus fordifferent Arab countries.
The contributions of thispaper are:1.
We show that we can use Twitter as a sourcefor collecting dialectal corpra for specific Arabcountries with reasonable accuracy.2.
We show that most Arabic dialectal words areused in more than one country, and cannot beused separately to collect a dialectal corpus percountry.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 sur-veys pervious work on dialect classification; Sec-tion 3 describes dialectal Arabic and some of thepossible ways to breakdown Arabic dialects; sec-tion 4 describes how tweets are collected and classi-fied; section 4 shows how to extract dialectal wordsand shows that many of them are used in more thanone country; Section 5 describes our evaluation ap-proach and reports on evaluation results; and Sec-tion 6 contains conclusion and future work.12 Previous WorkPrevious work on Arabic dialect identification usesn-gram based features at both word-level andcharacter-level to identify dialectal sentences (El-fardy et al., 2013; Cotterell et al., 2014; Zaidan et al.,2011; Zaidan et al., 2014).
Zaidan et al.
(2011) cre-ated a dataset of dialectal Arabic.
They performedcross-validation experiments for dialect identifica-tion using word n-gram based features.
Elfardyet al.
(2013) built a system to distinguish betweenEgyptian and MSA.
They used word n-gram featurescombined with core (token-based and perplexity-based features) and meta features for training.
Theirsystem showed a 5% improvement over the systemof Zaidan and Callison-Burch (2011).
Later, Zaidanet al.
(2014) used several word n-gram based andcharacter n-gram based features for dialect identifi-cation.
The system trained on word unigram-basedfeature performed the best with character five-gram-based feature being second best.
A similar result isshown by Cotterell et al.
(2014) where word unigrammodel performs the best.
Recent work by Darwishet al.
(2014) indicates that using a dialectal word listto identify dialectal Egyptian tweets is better thantraining on one of the existing dialect corpora.All of the previous work except Cotterell etal.
(2014)1evaluated their systems using cross-validation.
These models heavily rely on the cover-age of training data to achieve better identification.This limits the robustness of identification to gen-res inline with the training data.
In this paper, weexploit geographic information supplied by users toproperly identify the dialect of tweets.There is also increasing interest in the literature togeotag tweets due to its importance for some appli-cations such as event detection, local search, newsrecommendation and targeted advertising.
For ex-ample, Mahmud et el.
(2012) (Mahmud et al., 2012)presented a new algoritm for inferring home loca-tions of Twitter users by collecting tweets from thetop 100 US cities using the geo-tag filter option ofTwitter and latitude and longitude for each city us-ing Googles geo-coding API.
Bo Han et al.
(2014)(Han et al., 2014) presented an integrated geolo-cation prediction framework and investigated what1Zaidan et al.
(2014) applied their classifier to a differentgenre but did not evaluate it?s performance.factors impact on prediction accuracy.
They ex-ploited the tweets and profile information of a givenuser to infer their primary city-level location.3 Dialectal Arabic (DA)DA refers to the spoken language used fordaily communication in Arab countries.
Thereare considerable geographical distinctions be-tween DAs within countries, across country bor-ders, and even between cities and villages asshown in Figure 1.
According to Ethnologue(http://www.ethnologue.com/browse/names), thereare 34 variations of spoken Arabic or dialects inArabic countries in addition to the Modern StandardArabic (MSA).Some recent works (Zbib et al., 2012; Cotterellet al., 2014) are based on a coarser classification ofArabic dialects into five groups namely: Egyptian(EGY), Gulf (GLF), Maghrebi (MGR), Levantine(LEV), and Iraqi (IRQ).
Other dialects are classifiedas OTHER.Zaidan and Callison-Burch (2014) mentioned thatthis is one possible breakdown but it is relativelycoarse and can be further divided into more dialectgroups, especially in large regions such as Maghreb.The goal of this paper is to collect a large, clean cor-pus for each country and study empirically if someof these dialects can be merged together.We found that there are very few dialectal wordsthat are used in a country and not used in any othercountry.
For example, we took the most frequentEgyptian dialectal words in the Arabic Online Com-mentary Dataset (AOCD) described in Zaidan andCallison-Burch (2014) according to what they callthe dialectness factor, which is akin to mutual in-formation.
The AOCD contains comments fromnewspapers from dialect groups and these commentswere classified into different dialects using crowdsouring.
We examined whether they appear in dif-ferent dialects or not.
As shown in Table 1, mostEgyptian dialectal words are being used in differentdialects.With this finding, we realized that unique dialec-tal words for each country are not common in thesense that they are few and in the sense that relyingon them to filter tweets would likely yield a smallnumber of tweets.
Thus, we opted not to use such2Figure 1: Different Arabic Dialects in the Arab World (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arabic_dialects)Word Word in Tweet Dialect?X (dy) ?Y?
?KY?
??
'AK Q??@??A??
?XHA?AKB@ ????
@ Sudan?X (dh) ??AJK.??JJ.??
@ ?X !
?KA???Q?
???J?JK.???
??
??K QK@XQJ?
?C?
Sudan?A??
(E$An)??Cm?
'@ ??
?Y??Jm.?
'@ ???A??
AJ?
??J.K?A??
AJ?
?m'@ Gulf?GAK (tAny)??
@ ?J?
?GAK ???
A?kA??KY?K.?
LevantineTable 1: Egyptian dialectal Words in other Dialects.
We use Buckwalter transliteration in this paperwords to extract tweets for each dialect.
From theAOCD, we extracted all unique uni-grams, bigrams,and trigrams, and counted the occurrence of these n-grams from the comments that were marked to be-long to different dialects and also in a large MSAcorpus composed of 10 years worth of Aljazeera ar-ticles, containing 114M tokens2.
We retained the n-grams that appeared at least 3 or more times in eitherthe dialectal comments.
In all, we extracted roughly45,000 n-grams.
The n-grams were manually judgedas dialectal or not, and also to which dialect they aremost commonly used in.
The judgments were per-formed by one person who is a native Arabic speakerwith good exposure to different dialects.Table 2 lists some words along with their frequen-cies and to which dialect (or MSA) they belong.Since MSA words compose more than 50% of the2http://aljazeera.networds in dialectal text, it is not surprising that wordsthat appear frequently in the corpora of different di-alects are indeed MSA.
Further, we found that Al-jazeera articles contain many dialectal words.
Uponfurther investigation, we found the articles containtranscripts of interviews, where often times the in-terviewees used dialects, and quotes within articles,where the quoted persons used dialectal utterances.We also found that this was not unique to Aljazeeraarticles.When we examined the Arabic GigaWord cor-pus3, which is a commonly used MSA corpus, wefound that it contains many dialectal words as well.For example, the word ?Y?
(kdh) is mentioned 2,574times and the word?A?
?
?
(El$An) is mentioned974 times).
This was the main motivating factor formanually judging n-grams as dialectal or not.
Of then-grams we manually tagged, approximately 2,5003https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2011T113Word EGY LEV GLF IRQ MGR MSA Classification?X (dy) 541 1 3 0 7 98 EGY?J?
(lyh) 380 23 73 0 22 3734 EGY??
(ly$) 28 218 193 18 12 6118 LEV?J?
(hyk) 20 348 9 0 2 4891 LEV?
@ (Ay$) 10 53 87 2 2 87 GLF?
?.K(yby) 1 3 99 1 2 21 GLF?J?
($nw) 0 1 5 5 1 850 IRQ??
@ (Akw) 1 0 1 4 0 0 IRQ?@?
(wA$) 2 8 32 5 477 0 MGRA?J?
(kymA) 4 3 3 0 246 0 MGR?k.Ag (HAjp) 317 8 10 0 120 24468 MSAPA?
(SAr) 24 153 79 3 16 12348 MSATable 2: Dialectal Words Frequencies in AOCD and MSA (Aljazeera)were dialectal.
We assumed that if a sentence con-tained one of these n-grams, then the sentence is di-alectal.
This assumption is consistent with recentpublished work by Darwish et al.
(2014).
The dis-tribution of these dialectal n-grams was: 54% uni-grams like??
(m$), 39% bigrams like ?
?X ??
(hmdwl), and 7% trigrams such as?PA ?
AK@ A ?
(mA>nA EArf).
We plan to make the list of dialectaln-grams available to the research community.Based on interaction with people at Twitter, theestimated number of Arabic microblogs on Twitteris in excess of 15 million per day.
The ubiquity ofArabic tweets has been one of the strongest motiva-tions for us to investigate the building of an Arabicdialectal corpus from tweets.
Also, tweets are moresimilar to verbal utterances than formal text, whichmay be helpful in building language models that arebetter suited for dialectal Arabic speech recognition.4 Collecting and Classifying Tweets4.1 Tweets CollectionWe collected 175 M Arabic tweets in March 2014(5.6M tweets per day) by issuing the query lang:aragainst Twitter API4.
Each tweet has a user ID, andfollowing this ID we can extract the following in-formation from users profile: user name, user timezone, and user location.
The user location has theuser declared geographical location.
This could bein the form of a city name, country name, landmarkname, country nickname, etc.
Such information isavailable for roughly 70% of tweets.
Precise geo-tagging of tweets, namely latitude and longitude,was available for a very small percentage of tweets.Further, due to the fact that some countries, partic-ularly in the Gulf region, have large expat commu-nities, geo-tagging of tweets only indicate where thetweet is authored but cannot reliably indicate the di-alect.
By retaining tweets where the user declared alocation, we were left with 123M tweets, i.e.
70%of the tweets.4.2 Tweet NormalizationTweets and user locations were normalized andcleaned in the manner described in Darwish etal.
(2012) by mapping frequent non-Arabic charac-ters and decoration to their mappings, handling re-peated characters, etc.
Below in an example thatshows a tweet before and after normalization:4http://dev.twitter.com4Before: A?A K.A K???????Q.?
mbrwwwwwwk yAbA$A.After: A?AK.AK??Q.?
mbrwk yA bA$A.Translation: Congratulations sir.4.3 User LocationsBy looking at user locations, we found that the topunique 10K user locations cover 92M tweets.
Thisis approximately 75% of tweets that have user lo-cations.
We used the GeoNames5geographicaldatabase, which contains eight million place namesfor each country, to initially assign a user location toone of the Arab countries.GeoNames has many places without Arabictransliteration, and also users write their locations inArabic or English, in full or abbreviated forms, andusing formal or informal writings.
Thus, we manu-ally revised mapping that matched in GeoNames andattempted to map non-matching ones to countries.Examples of such mappings are shown in Table 3.There were some cases where we could not mapa user location to a single Arab country because it isnot unique to a particular Arab country or it is notindicative of any country.
Such examples include:QJ.??
@ ?G.Q??@????
@ ?Great Arab Homeland,??QKQm.?'@?
JK.Q ?
?
@ ?Arabian Peninsula,?
or?
JQ???
?
@ ?the East-ern.?
In all, approximately 3,500 user locations weremapped to specific countries and the remaining werenot.
By excluding tweets with non-deterministicuser locations, we were left with 62M tweets thathave deterministic mappings between user locationsand Arab countries.
We plan to make the manuallyreviewed list of user locations publicly available.4.4 Filtering on Dialectal WordsWe used the aforementioned list of dialectal n-gramsthat we manually extracted to filter the tweets, by re-taining those that contain at least one of the n-grams.By doing so, we extracted 6.5M tweets (i.e.
3.7% of5http://www.geonames.org/the original tweets).
Their by-country breakdown isas follows: 3.99M (61%) from Saudi Arabia (SA),880K (13%) from Egypt (EG), 707K (11%) fromKuwait (KW), 302K (5%) from United Arab Emi-rates (AE), 65k (2%) from Qatar (QA), and the re-maining (8%) from other countries such as Moroccoand Sudan.
The distribution of tweets per-country isshown in Figure 2.Figure 2: Dialectal Tweets Distribution5 Evaluation of Dialectal TweetsTo evaluate the accuracy of tweets belonging to thedialect commonly spoken in the different countriesthat they were assigned to, we randomly extracted100 tweets per dialect to be manually tagged for di-alect.We used CrowdFlower crowd-sourcing website6to evaluate the dialects of tweets.
We asked peoplefrom the countries associated with each of the as-sociated tweet to judge whether the tweets indeedmatch the dialect in their country or not.
We askedfor 3 judgments per tweet.
We utilized 20 chal-lenge questions to verify that the judges were doinga good job.
We were able to get a sufficient numberof judges to finish task for some countries but notall.
For example, we were not able to find judgesfrom Qatar and Bahrain.
Table 4 lists the accuracyof classification using dialectal words filter and userlocation.Errors occurred because some words are mostlyused in dialects but less frequently used in MSA6http://www.crowdflower.com/5User Location in Profile Country?AKQ?
@ (AlryAD), Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, KSA,PAj.m?
'@ (AlHjAz) Saudi ArabiaIK???
@ (Alkwyt), Q8, kwt, Z @Q?m.?
'@ AljhrA,Q??@IK??
kwyt AlEz KuwaitEgypt, Q???
(mSr), Cairo, Alex, AJKY?
@ ?
@ >m AldnyA,?Qg.jyzp EgyptTable 3: Mapping User Location to Arab Countries(like ?
?
?(tTlE)), and the second reason issometimes a user profile has user location that wasmapped to an Arab country, but the user writestweets using another dialect that is different than onefor the stated country.Examples of tweets that were tagged as Egyptiancorrectly and incorrectly are shown in table 5.Dialect AccuracySaudi 95%Egyptian 94%Iraqi 82%Lebanese 75%Syrian 66%Algerian 60%Table 4: Per country classification accuracy6 ConclusionTwitter can be used to collect dialectal tweets foreach Arab country with high accuracy for somecountries and average accuracy for other countriesusing the geographical information associated withTwitter user profiles.
We were able to find dialec-tal tweets belonging to different dialects with goodaccuracy by identifying tweets where users used di-alectal word n-grams and declared their user loca-tions to belong to particular countries.
We tabulateda list of roughly 2,500 dialectal n-grams and 3,500countries/user locations pairs that we used for iden-tification.
We plan to release them publicly.
Also,we showed that cross-dialect dialectal words overlapis common, which adds to the complexity of identi-fying tweets that belong to specific dialects.
Thus,using geographical information can greatly enhancedialect identification.For future work, we plan to analyze the correct-ness of users?
claims on their locations by differentmethods like tweet geographical information (lati-tude and longitude), collecting dialectal words foreach country, etc.
Also, we plan to empirically reex-amine the dialect conflation schemes that are com-monly used in the literature.
Existing schemes forexample tend to conflate dialects of all Gulf coun-tries, include Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar,United Arab Emirates, and Oman.
We believe thatthe dialect spoken in the Western part of Saudi Ara-bia is sufficiently different from that in Kuwait forexample.
We would like to study the overlap be-tween dialects spoken in different countries to ascer-tain dialects of which countries can be safely con-flated.ReferencesKamla Al-Mannai, Hassan Sajjad, Alaa Khader, FahadAl Obaidli, Preslav Nakov and Stephan Vogel.
2014.Unsupervised Word Segmentation Improves DialectalArabic to English Machine Translation.
Arabic Natu-ral Language Processing Workshop, EMNLP-2014.R.
Al-Sabbagh and R. Girju.
2012.
YADAC: Yet anotherDialectal Arabic Corpus.
In LREC.
pp.
28822889.Leo Breiman.
2001.
Random Forests.
Machine Learning.45(1):5-32.Ryan Cotterell and Chris Callison-Burch.
2014.
A Multi-Dialect, Multi-Genre Corpus of Informal Written Ara-bic.
LREC-2014, pages 241?245.Kareem Darwish, Walid Magdy, Ahmed Mourad.
2012.Language Processing for Arabic Microblog Retrieval.CIKM-2012, pages 2427?2430.Kareem Darwish, Hassan Sajjad, Hamdy Mubarak.2014.
Verifiably Effective Arabic Dialect Identifica-tion.
EMNLP-2014.Heba Elfardy, Mona Diab.
2013.
Sentence Level DialectIdentification in Arabic.
ACL-2013, pages 456?461.Habash, Nizar, Ramy Eskander, and Abdelati Hawwari.2012.
A morphological analyzer for Egyptian Ara-bic.
Proceedings of the Twelfth Meeting of the Spe-cial Interest Group on Computational Morphology andPhonology, Association for Computational Linguis-tics, 2012.6Tweet User Location Is EGY??Q????KA?
?X ??PY??
@ ?AK@ ?KAJk?A?A?
??
@ Cairo Egypt Yes???
?K Yg ??B????
?JK Am.
??KA?X ?A?????KA????
@ I.??
?A?k@ :( Masr Yes????
@ ????
@ ?J.?
iJ.??@????
?P ?PX@??
Alex No (MSA)??????
?.XA???@?Q?K?QKA?QJ?
?AK ?J??PA?
AK @ Egyptian Yes?JK A?J?
@ ?Qm?
?P?JK A?k???
QKYK@?PY?KA?HAK @???@?J??
@ ?Qm?cairo No (MGR)Table 5: Examples of Collected Egyptian TweetsHan, Bo, Paul Cook, and Timothy Baldwin.
2014.
Text-Based Twitter User Geolocation Prediction.
JournalArtificial Intelligence Res.
(JAIR) 49 (2014): 451-500.Clive Holes.
2004 Modern Arabic: Structures, functions,and varieties.
Georgetown University Press, 2004.Mahmud, Jalal, Jeffrey Nichols, and Clemens Drews.2012.
Where Is This Tweet From?
Inferring Home Lo-cations of Twitter Users.
ICWSM.
2012.Omar F. Zaidan, Chris Callison-Burch.
2011.
The ArabicOnline Commentary Dataset: An Annotated Datasetof Informal Arabic with High Dialectal Content.
ACL-11, pages 37?41.Omar F. Zaidan, Chris Callison-Burch.
2014.
Arabic Di-alect Identification.
CL-11, 52(1).Rabih Zbib, Erika Malchiodi, Jacob Devlin, DavidStallard, Spyros Matsoukas, Richard Schwartz,John Makhoul, Omar F. Zaidan, Chris Callison-Burch.
2012.
Machine translation of Arabic dialects.NAACL-2012, pages 49?59.7
