Proceedings of the 2014 Workshop on the Use of Computational Methods in the Study of Endangered Languages, pages 54?62,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, 26 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsCreating Lexical Resources for Endangered LanguagesKhang Nhut Lam, Feras Al Tarouti and Jugal KalitaComputer Science departmentUniversity of Colorado1420 Austin Bluffs Pkwy, Colorado Springs, CO 80918, USA{klam2,faltarou,jkalita}@uccs.eduAbstractThis paper examines approaches to gener-ate lexical resources for endangered lan-guages.
Our algorithms construct bilin-gual dictionaries and multilingual the-sauruses using public Wordnets and a ma-chine translator (MT).
Since our work re-lies on only one bilingual dictionary be-tween an endangered language and an ?in-termediate helper?
language, it is applica-ble to languages that lack many existingresources.1 IntroductionLanguages around the world are becoming extinctat a record rate.
The Ethnologue organization1re-ports 424 languages as nearly extinct and 203 lan-guages as dormant, out a total of 7,106 recordedlanguages.
Many other languages are becomingendangered, a state which is likely to lead to theirextinction, without determined intervention.
Ac-cording to UNESCO, ?a language is endangeredwhen its speakers cease to use it, use it in fewerand fewer domains, use fewer of its registers andspeaking styles, and/or stop passing it on to thenext generation...?.
In America, UNESCO reports134 endangered languages, e.g., Arapaho, Chero-kee, Cheyenne, Potawatomi and Ute.One of the hallmarks of a living and thrivinglanguage is the existence and continued produc-tion of ?printed?
(now extended to online pres-ence) resources such as books, magazines and ed-ucational materials in addition to oral traditions.There is some effort afoot to document record andarchive endangered languages.
Documentationmay involve creation of dictionaries, thesauruses,text and speech corpora.
One possible way to re-suscitate these languages is to make them moreeasily learnable for the younger generation.
To1http://www.ethnologue.com/learn languages and use them well, tools such asdictionaries and thesauruses are essential.
Dictio-naries are resources that empower the users andlearners of a language.
Dictionaries play a moresubstantial role than usual for endangered lan-guages and are ?an instrument of language main-tenance?
(Gippert et al., 2006).
Thesauruses areresources that group words according to similarity(Kilgarriff, 2003).
For speakers and students of anendangered language, multilingual thesauruses arealso likely to be very helpful.This study focuses on examining techniquesthat leverage existing resources for ?resource-rich?
languages to build lexical resources for low-resource languages, especially endangered lan-guages.
The only resource we need is a singleavailable bilingual dictionary translating the givenendangered language to English.
First, we create areverse dictionary from the input dictionary usingthe approach in (Lam and Kalita, 2013).
Then, wegenerate additional bilingual dictionaries translat-ing from the given endangered language to sev-eral additional languages.
Finally, we discuss thefirst steps to constructing multilingual thesaurusesencompassing endangered and resources-rich lan-guages.
To handle the word sense ambiguity prob-lems, we exploit Wordnets in several languages.We experiment with two endangered languages:Cherokee and Cheyenne, and some resource-richlanguages such as English, Finnish, French andJapanese2.
Cherokee is the Iroquoian languagespoken by 16,000 Cherokee people in Oklahomaand North Carolina.
Cheyenne is a Native Ameri-can language spoken by 2,100 Cheyenne people inMontana and Oklahoma.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows.
Dictionaries and thesauruses are introducedin Section 2.
Section 3 discusses related work.
In2ISO 693-3 codes for Cherokee, Cheyenne, English,Finnish, French and Japanese are chr, chy, eng, fin, fra andjpn, respectively.54Section 4 and Section 5, we present approachesfor creating new bilingual dictionaries and multi-lingual thesauruses, respectively.
Experiments aredescribed in Section 6.
Section 7 concludes thepaper.2 Dictionaries vs. ThesaurusesA dictionary or a lexicon is a book (now, in elec-tronic database formats as well) that consists of alist of entries sorted by the lexical unit.
A lexicalunit is a word or phrase being defined, also calleddefiniendum.
A dictionary entry or a lexical en-try simply contains a lexical unit and a definition(Landau, 1984).
Given a lexical unit, the defini-tion associated with it usually contains parts-of-speech (POS), pronunciations, meanings, exam-ple sentences showing the use of the source wordsand possibly additional information.
A monolin-gual dictionary contains only one language suchas The Oxford English Dictionary3while a bilin-gual dictionary consists of two languages such asthe English-Cheyenne dictionary4.
A lexical entryin the bilingual dictionary contains a lexical unit ina source language and equivalent words or multi-word expressions in the target language along withoptional additional information.
A bilingual dic-tionary may be unidirectional or bidirectional.Thesauruses are specialized dictionaries thatstore synonyms and antonyms of selected wordsin a language.
Thus, a thesaurus is a resourcethat groups words according to similarity (Kilgar-riff, 2003).
However, a thesaurus is different froma dictionary.
(Roget, 1911) describes the orga-nizes of words in a thesaurus as ?...
not in alpha-betical order as they are in a dictionary, but ac-cording to the ideas which they express.... Theidea being given, to find the word, or words, bywhich that idea may be most fitly and aptly ex-pressed.
For this purpose, the words and phrasesof the language are here classed, not according totheir sound or their orthography, but strictly ac-cording to their signification?.
Particularly, a the-saurus contains a set of descriptors, an indexinglanguage, a classification scheme or a system vo-cabulary (Soergel, 1974).
A thesaurus also con-sists of relationships among descriptors.
Each de-scriptor is a term, a notation or another string ofsymbols used to designate the concept.
Examples3http://www.oed.com/4http://cdkc.edu/cheyennedictionary/index-english/index.htmof thesauruses are Roget?s international Thesaurus(Roget, 2008), the Open Thesaurus5or the one atthesaurus.com.We believe that the lexical resources we createare likely to help endangered languages in sev-eral ways.
These can be educational tools for lan-guage learning within and outside the communityof speakers of the language.
The dictionaries andthesauruses we create can be of help in developingparsers for these languages, in addition to assistingmachine or human translators to translate rich oralor possibly limited written traditions of these lan-guages into other languages.
We may be also ableto construct mini pocket dictionaries for travelersand students.3 Related workPrevious approaches to create new bilingual dic-tionaries use intermediate dictionaries to findchains of words with the same meaning.
Then,several approaches are used to mitigate the ef-fect of ambiguity.
These include consulting thedictionary in the reverse direction (Tanaka andUmemura, 1994) and computing ranking scores,variously called a semantic score (Bond andOgura, 2008), an overlapping constraint score, asimilarity score (Paik et al., 2004) and a con-verse mapping score (Shaw et al., 2013).
Othertechniques to handle the ambiguity problem aremerging results from several approaches: mergingcandidates from lexical triangulation (Gollins andSanderson, 2001), creating a link structure amongwords (Ahn and Frampton, 2006) and buildinggraphs connecting translations of words in sev-eral languages (Mausam et al., 2010).
Researchersalso merge information from several sources suchas bilingual dictionaries and corpora (Otero andCampos, 2010) or a Wordnet (Istv?n and Shoichi,2009) and (Lam and Kalita, 2013).
Some re-searchers also extract bilingual dictionaries fromcorpora (Ljube?i?c and Fi?er, 2011) and (Bouamoret al., 2013).
The primary similarity among thesemethods is that either they work with languagesthat already possess several lexical resources orthese approaches take advantage of related lan-guages (that have some lexical resources) by usingsuch languages as intermediary.
The accuracies ofbilingual dictionaries created from several avail-able dictionaries and Wordnets are usually high.However, it is expensive to create such original5http://www.openthesaurus.de/55lexical resources and they do not always exist formany languages.
For instance, we cannot find anyWordnet for chr or chy.
In addition, these exist-ing approaches can only generate one or just a fewnew bilingual dictionaries from at least two exist-ing bilingual dictionaries.
(Crouch, 1990) clusters documents first usinga complete link clustering algorithm and gener-ates thesaurus classes or synonym lists based onuser-supplied parameters such as a threshold sim-ilarity value, number of documents in a cluster,minimum document frequency and specificationof a class formation method.
(Curran and Moens,2002a) and (Curran and Moens, 2002b) evaluateperformance and efficiency of thesaurus extrac-tion methods and also propose an approximationmethod that provides for better time complexitywith little loss in performance accuracy.
(Ram?rezet al., 2013) develop a multilingual Japanese-English-Spanish thesaurus using freely availableresources: Wikipedia and Wordnet.
They extracttranslation tuples from Wikipedia from articles inthese languages, disambiguate them by mappingto Wordnet senses, and extract a multilingual the-saurus with a total of 25,375 entries.One thing to note about all these approaches isthat they are resource hungry.
For example, (Lin,1998) works with a 64-million word English cor-pus to produce a high quality thesaurus with about10,000 entries.
(Ram?rez et al., 2013) has the en-tire Wikipedia at their disposal with millions ofarticles in three languages, although for experi-ments they use only about 13,000 articles in total.When we work with endangered or low-resourcelanguages, we do not have the luxury of collectingsuch big corpora or accessing even a few thousandarticles from Wikipedia or the entire Web.
Manysuch languages have no or very limited Web pres-ence.
As a result, we have to work with whateverlimited resources are available.4 Creating new bilingual dictionariesA dictionary Dict(S,T) between a source languageS and a target language T has a list of entries.
Eachentry contains a word s in the source language S,part-of-speech (POS) and one or more translationsin the target language T. We call such a transla-tion t. Thus, a dictionary entry is of the form<si,POS,ti1>, <si,POS,ti2>, ....This section examines approaches to create newbilingual dictionaries for endangered languagesfrom just one dictionary Dict(S,I), where S is theendangered source language and I is an ?inter-mediate helper?
language.
We require that thelanguage I has an available Wordnet linked tothe Princeton Wordnet (PWN) (Fellbaum, 1998).Many endangered languages have a bilingual dic-tionary, usually to or from a resource-rich lan-guage like French or English which is the inter-mediate helper language in our experiments.
Wemake an assumption that we can find only one uni-directional bilingual dictionary translating from agiven endangered language to English.4.1 Generating a reverse bilingual dictionaryGiven a unidirectional dictionary Dict(S,I) orDict(I,S), we reverse the direction of the entriesto produce Dict(I,S) or Dict(S,I), respectively.
Weapply an approach called Direct Reversal withSimilarity (DRwS), proposed in (Lam and Kalita,2013) to create a reverse bilingual dictionary froman input dictionary.The DRwS approach computes the distance be-tween translations of entries by measuring their se-mantic similarity, the so-called simValue.
The sim-Value between two phrases is calculated by com-paring the similarity of the ExpansionSet for ev-ery word in one phrase with ExpansionSet of ev-ery word in the other phrase.
An ExpansionSet ofa phrase is a union of the synset, synonym set, hy-ponym set, and/or hypernym set of every word init.
The synset, synonym, hyponym and hypernymsets of a word are obtained from PWN.
The greateris the simValue between two phrases, the more se-mantically similar are these phrases.
According to(Lam and Kalita, 2013), if the simValue is equal toor greater than 0.9, the DRwS approach producesthe ?best?
reverse dictionary.For creating a reverse dictionary, we skip en-tries with multiword expression in the translation.Based on our experiments, we have found that ap-proach is successful and hence, it may be an effec-tive way to automatically create a new bilingualdictionary from an existing one.
Figure 1 presentsan example of generating entries for the reversedictionary.4.2 Building bilingual dictionaries to/fromadditional languagesWe propose an approach using public Word-nets and MT to create new bilingual dictionariesDict(S,T) from an input dictionary Dict(S,I).
Aspreviously mentioned, I is English in our exper-56Figure 1: Example of creating entries for a reversedictionary Dict(eng,chr) from Dict(chr,eng).
ThesimValue between the words "ocean" and "sea" is0.98, which is greater than the threshold of 0.90.Therefore, the words "ocean" and "sea" in Englishare hypothesized to have both meanings "ame-quohi" and "ustalanali" in Cherokee.
We add theseentries to Dict(eng, chr).iments.
Dict(S,T) translates a word in an endan-gered language S to a word or multiword expres-sion in a target language T. In particular, we createbilingual dictionaries for an endangered languageS from a given dictionary Dict(S,eng).
Figure 2presents the approach to create new bilingual dic-tionaries.Figure 2: The approach for creating new bilin-gual dictionaries from intermediate Wordnets anda MT.For each entry pair (s,e) in a given dictionaryDict(S,eng), we find all synonym words of theword e to create a list of synonym words in En-glish: SY Neng.
SY Nengof the word eng isobtained from the PWN.
Then, we find all syn-onyms of words belonging to SY Nengin sev-eral non-English languages to generate SY NL,L ?
{fin, fra, jpn}.
SY NLin the language L isextracted from the publicly available Wordnet inlanguage L linked to the PWN.
Next, translationcandidates are generated by translating all wordsin SY NL, L ?
{eng, fin, fra, jpn} to the targetlanguage T using an MT.
A translation candidate isconsidered a correct translation of the source wordin the target language if its rank is greater than athreshold.
For each word s, we may have manycandidates.
A translation candidate with a higherrank is more likely to become a correct translationin the target language.
The rank of a candidate iscomputed by dividing its occurrence count by thetotal number of candidates.
Figure 3 shows an ex-ample of creating entries for Dict(chr,vie), wherevie is Vietnamese, from Dict(chr,eng).Figure 3: Example of generating new entries forDict(chr,vie) from Dict(chr,eng).
The word "ayvt-seni" in chr is translated to "throat" in eng.
Wefind all synonym words for "throat" in English togenerate SY Nengand all synonyms in fin, fra andjpn for all words in SY Neng.
Then, we translateall words in all SY NLs to vie and rank them.
Ac-cording to rank calculations, the best translationsof "ayvtseni" in chr are the words "c?
h?ng" and"h?ng" in vie.575 Constructing thesaurusesAs previously mentioned, we want to generate amultilingual thesaurus THS composed of endan-gered and resource-rich languages.
For example,we build the thesaurus encompassing an endan-gered language S and eng, fin, fra and jpn.
Ourthesaurus contains a list of entries.
Every entry hasa unique ID.
Each entry is a 7-tuple: ID, SY NS,SY Neng, SY Nfin, SY Nfra, SY Njpnand POS.Each SY NLcontains words that have the samesense in language L. All SY NL, L ?
{S, eng, fin,fra, jpn} with the same ID have the same sense.This section presents the initial steps in con-structing multilingual thesauruses using Wordnetsand the bilingual dictionaries we create.
Theapproach to create a multilingual thesaurus en-compassing an endangered language and severalresource-rich languages is presented in Figure 4and Algorithm 1.Figure 4: The approach to construct a multilingualthesaurus encompassing an endangered languageS and resource-rich language.First, we extract SY NLin resource-rich lan-guages from Wordnets.
To extract SY Neng,SY Nfin, SY Nfraand SY Njpn, we use PWNand Wordnets linked to the PWN provided bythe Open Multilingual Wordnet6project (Bondand Foster, 2013): FinnWordnet (FWN) (Lind?n,2010), WOLF (WWN) (Sagot and Fi?er, 2008)and JapaneseWordnet (JWN) (Isahara et al.,2008).
For each Offset-POS, we extract its cor-responding synsets from PWN, FWN, WWN and6http://compling.hss.ntu.edu.sg/omw/JWN to generate SY Neng, SY Nfin, SY NfraandSY Njpn(lines 7-10).
The POS of the entry isthe POS extracted from the Offset-POS (line 5).Since these Wordnets are aligned, a specific offset-POS retrieves synsets that are equivalent sense-wise.
Then, we translate all SY NLs to the givenendangered language S using bilingual dictionar-ies we created in the previous section (lines 11-14).
Finally, we rank translation candidates andadd the correct translations to SY NS(lines 15-19).
The rank of a candidate is computed by di-viding its occurrence count by the total number ofcandidates.
If a candidate has a rank value greaterthan a threshold, we accept it as a correct transla-tion and add it to SY NS.Algorithm 1Input: Endangered language S, PWN, FWN,WWN, JWN, Dict(eng,S), Dict(fin,S), Dict(fra,S)and Dict(jpn,S)Output: thesaurus THS1: ID:=02: for all offset-POSs in PWN do3: ID++4: candidates := ?5: POS=extract(offset-POS)6: SY NS:= ?7: SY Neng=extract(offset-POS, PWN)8: SY Nfin=extract(offset-POS, FWN)9: SY Nfra=extract(offset-POS, WWN)10: SY Njpn=extract(offset-POS, JWN)11: candidates+=translate(SY Neng,S)12: candidates+=translate(SY Nfin,S)13: candidates+=translate(SY Nfra,S)14: candidates+=translate(SY Njpn,S)15: for all candidate in candidates do16: if rank(candidate) > ?
then17: add(candidate,SY NS)18: end if19: end for20: add ID, POS and all SY NLinto THS21: end forFigure 5 presents an example of creating an en-try for the thesaurus.
We generate entries for themultilingual thesaurus encompassing of Cherokee,English, Finnish, French and Japanese.We extract words belonging to offset-POS"09426788-n" in PWN, FWN, WWN and JWNand add them into corresponding SY NL.
ThePOS of this entry is "n", which is a "noun".Next, we use the bilingual dictionaries we cre-58Figure 5: Example of generating an entry in themultilingual thesaurus encompassing Cherokee,English, Finnish, French and Japanese.ated to translate all words in SY Neng, SY Nfin,SY Nfra, SY Njpnto the given endangered lan-guage, Cherokee, and rank them.
According to therank calculations, the best Cherokee translation isthe word ?ustalanali?.
The new entry added to themultilingual thesaurus is presented in Figure 6.Figure 6: An entry of the multilingual thesaurusencompassing Cherokee, English, Finnish, Frenchand Japanese.6 Experimental resultsIdeally, evaluation should be performed by volun-teers who are fluent in both source and destinationlanguages.
However, for evaluating created dic-tionaries and thesauruses, we could not recruit anyindividuals who are experts in two correspondinglanguages.
We are in the process of finding vol-unteers who are fluent in both languages for someselected resources we create.6.1 Datasets usedWe start with two bilingual dictionaries:Dict(chr,eng)7and Dict(chy,eng)8that weobtain from Web pages.
These are unidirectionalbilingual dictionaries.
The numbers of entriesin Dict(chr,eng) and Dict(chy,eng) are 3,199and 28,097, respectively.
For entries in theseinput dictionaries without POS information, ouralgorithm chooses the best POS of the Englishword, which may lead to wrong translations.
TheMicrosoft Translator Java API9is used as anothermain resource.
We were given free access to thisAPI.
We could not obtain free access to the APIfor the Google Translator.The synonym lexicons are the synsets of PWN,FWN, JWN and WWN.
Table 1 provides some de-tails of the Wordnets used.Wordnet Synsets CoreJWN 57,179 95%FWN 116,763 100%PWN 117,659 100%WWN 59,091 92%Table 1: The number of synsets in the Wordnetslinked to PWN 3.0 are obtained from the OpenMultilingual Wordnet, along with the percentageof synsets covered from the semi-automaticallycompiled list of 5,000 "core" word senses in PWN.Note that synsets which are not linked to the PWNare not taken into account.6.2 Creating reverse bilingual dictionariesFrom Dict(chr,eng) and Dict(chy,eng), we createtwo reverse bilingual dictionaries Dict(eng,chr)with 3,538 entries and Dict(eng,chy) with 28,072entriesNext, we reverse the reverse dictionaries weproduce to generate new reverse of the reverse(RR) dictionaries, then integrate the RR dictio-naries with the input dictionaries to improve thesizes of dictionaries.
During the process of gen-erating new reverse dictionaries, we already com-puted the semantic similarity values among wordsto find words with the same meanings.
We use asimple approach called the Direct Reversal (DR)approach in (Lam and Kalita, 2013) to create7http://www.manataka.org/page122.html8http://www.cdkc.edu/cheyennedictionary/index-english/index.htm9https://datamarket.azure.com/dataset/bing/microsofttranslator59these RR dictionaries.
To create a reverse dictio-nary Dict(T,S), the DR approach takes each entry<s,POS,t> in the input dictionary Dict(S,T) andsimply swaps the positions of s and t. The newentry <t,POS,s> is added into Dict(T,S).
Figure 7presents an example.Figure 7: Given a dictionary Dict(chy,eng), wecreate a new Dict(eng,chy) using the DRwS ap-proach of (Lam and Kalita, 2013).
Then, we createa new Dict(chy,eng) using the DR approach fromthe created dictionary Dict(eng,chy).
Finally, weintegrate the generated dictionary Dict(chy,eng)with the input dictionary Dict(chy,eng) to create anew dictionary Dict(chy,eng) with a greater num-ber of entriesThe number of entries in the integrated dictio-naries Dict(chr,eng) and Dict(chy,eng) are 3,618and 47,529, respectively.
Thus, the number of en-tries in the original dictionaries have "magically"increased by 13.1% and 69.21%, respectively.6.3 Creating additional bilingual dictionariesWe can create dictionaries from chr or chy toany non-eng language supported by the MicrosoftTranslator, e.g., Arabic (arb), Chinese (cht), Cata-lan (cat), Danish (dan), German (deu), HmongDaw (mww), Indonesian (ind), Malay (zlm), Thai(tha), Spanish (spa) and vie.
Table 2 presents thenumber of entries in the dictionaries we create.These dictionaries contain translations only withthe highest ranks for each word.Although we have not evaluated entries in theparticular dictionaries in Table 1, evaluation ofdictionaries with non-endangered languages, butusing the same approach, we have confidence thatthese dictionaries are of acceptable, if not verygood quality.Dictionary Entries Dictionary Entrieschr-arb 2,623 chr-cat 2,639chr-cht 2,607 chr-dan 2,655chr-deu 2,629 chr-mww 2,694chr-ind 2,580 chr-zlm 2,633chr-spa 2,607 chr-tha 2,645chr-vie 2,618 chy-arb 10,604chy-cat 10,748 chy-cht 10,538chy-dan 10,654 chy-deu 10,708chy-mww 10,790 chy-ind 10,434chy-zlm 10,690 chy-spa 10,580chy-tha 10,696 chy-vie 10,848Table 2: The number of entries in some dictionar-ies we create.6.4 Creating multilingual thesaurusesWe construct two multilingual thesauruses:THS1(chr, eng, fin, fra, jpn) and THS2(chy, eng,fin, fra, jpn).
The number of entries in THS1and THS2are 5,073 and 10,046, respectively.These thesauruses we construct contain wordswith rank values above the average.
A similarapproach used to create Wordnet synsets (Lamet al., 2014) has produced excellent results.
Webelieve that our thesauruses reported in this paperare of acceptable quality.6.5 How to evaluateCurrently, we are not able to evaluate the dictio-naries and thesauruses we create.
In the future, weexpect to evaluate our work using two methods.First, we will use the standard approach which ishuman evaluation to evaluate resources as previ-ously mentioned.
Second, we will try to find anadditional bilingual dictionary translating from anendangered language S (viz., chr or chy) to another?resource-rich?
non-English language (viz., fin orfra), then, create a new dictionary translating fromS to English using the approaches we have intro-duced.
We plan to evaluate the new dictionary wecreate, say Dict(chr,eng) against the existing dic-tionary Dict(chr,eng).7 Conclusion and future workWe examine approaches to create bilingual dictio-naries and thesauruses for endangered languagesfrom only one input dictionary, publicly avail-able Wordnets and an MT.
Taking advantage ofavailable Wordnets linked to the PWN helps re-duce ambiguities in dictionaries we create.
We60run experiments with two endangered languages:Cherokee and Cheyenne.
We have also experi-mented with two additional endangered languagesfrom Northeast India: Dimasa and Karbi, spo-ken by about 115,000 and 492,000 people, respec-tively.
We believe that our research has the po-tential to increase the number of lexical resourcesfor languages which do not have many existing re-sources to begin with.
We are in the process ofcreating reverse dictionaries from bilingual dictio-naries we have already created.
We are also inthe process of creating a Website where all dic-tionaries and thesauruses we create will be avail-able, along with a user friendly interface to dis-seminate these resources to the wider public aswell as to obtain feedback on individual entries.We will solicit feedback from communities thatuse the languages as mother-tongues.
Our goalwill be to use this feedback to improve the qual-ity of the dictionaries and thesauruses.
Some ofresources we created can be downloaded fromhttp://cs.uccs.edu/?linclab/projects.htmlReferencesAdam Kilgarriff.
2003.
Thesauruses for natu-ral language processing.
In Proceedings of theJoint Conference on Natural Language Processingand Knowledge Engineering, pages 5?13, Beijing,China, October.Benoit Sagot and Darja Fi?er.
2008.
Building a freeFrench Wordnet from multilingual resources.
InProceedings of OntoLex, Marrakech, Morocco.Carolyn J. Crouch 1990.
An approach to the auto-matic construction of global thesauri, InformationProcessing & Management, 26(5): 629?640.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
Wordnet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts, USA.Dagobert Soergel.
1974.
Indexing languages and the-sauri: construction and maintenance.
Melville Pub-lishing Company, Los Angeles, California.Dhouha Bouamor, Nasredine Semmar and PierreZweigenbaum.
2013 Using Wordnet and SemanticSimilarity for Bilingual Terminology Mining fromComparable Corpora.
In Proceedings of the 6thWorkshop on Building and Using Comparable Cor-pora, pages 16?23, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Dekang Lin.
1998.
Automatic retrieval and cluster-ing of similar words.
In Proceedings of the 17th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics (Volume 2), pages 768?774, Montreal, Quebec,Canada.Francis Bond and Kentaro Ogura.
2008 Combin-ing linguistic resources to create a machine-tractableJapanese-Malay dictionary.
Language Resourcesand Evaluation, 42(2): 127?136.Francis Bond and Ryan Foster.
2013.
Linking andextending an open multilingual Wordnet.
In Pro-ceedings of 51st Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL 2013), pages1352?1362, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.Hitoshi Isahara, Francis Bond, Kiyotaka Uchimoto,Masao Utiyama and Kyoko Kanzaki.
2008.
De-velopment of Japanese Wordnet.
In Proceedingsof 6th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC 2008), pages 2420?2423, Marrakech, Moroco, May.James R. Curran and Marc Moens.
2002a.
Scalingcontext space.
In Proceedings of the 40th AnnualMeeting of Association for Computational Linguis-tics (ACL 2002), pages 231?238, Philadelphia, USA,July.James R. Curran and Marc Moens.
2002b.
Improve-ments in automatic thesaurus extraction, In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Unsupervised lexicalacquisition (Volume 9), pages 59?66, Philadelphia,USA, July.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Jessica Ram?rez, Masayuki Asahara and Yuji Mat-sumoto.
2013.
Japanese-Spanish thesaurus con-struction using English as a pivot.
arXiv preprintarXiv:1303.1232.Jost Gippert, Nikolaus Himmelmann and Ulrike Mosel,eds.
2006.
Essentials of Lnguage Documenta-tion.
Vol.
178, Walter de Gruyter GmbH & Co. KG,Berlin, Germany.Khang N. Lam and Jugal Kalita.
2013.
Creating re-verse bilingual dictionaries.
In Proceedings of theConference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics: HumanLanguage Technologies (NAACL-HLT), pages 524?528, Atlanta, USA, June.Khang N. Lam, Feras A. Tarouti and Jugal Kalita.2014.
Automatically constructing Wordnet synsets.To appear at the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (ACL 2014),Baltimore, USA, June.Kisuh Ahn and Matthew Frampton.
2006.
Automaticgeneration of translation dictionaries using interme-diary languages.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Workshop on Cross-Language Knowledge In-duction, pages 41?44, Trento, Italy, April.
EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Krister Lind?n and Lauri Carlson 2010.
FinnWordnet -WordNet p?finska via ?vers?ttning, LexicoNordica.Nordic Journal of Lexicography (Volume 17), pages119?140.61Kumiko Tanaka and Kyoji Umemura.
1994.
Construc-tion of bilingual dictionary intermediated by a thirdlanguage.
In Proceedings of the 15th Conference onComputational linguistics (COLING 1994), Volume1, pages 297?303, Kyoto, Japan, August.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Kyonghee Paik, Satoshi Shirai and Hiromi Nakaiwa.2004.
Automatic construction of a transfer dictio-nary considering directionality.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Multilingual Linguistic Resources,pages 31?38, Geneva, Switzerland, August .
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Mausam, Stephen Soderland, Oren Etzioni, Daniel S.Weld, Kobi Reiter, Michael Skinner, Marcus Sam-mer and Jeff Bilmes 2010.
Panlingual lexical trans-lation via probabilistic inference.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 174(2010): 619?637.Nikola Ljube?i?c and Darja Fi?er.
2011.
Bootstrap-ping bilingual lexicons from comparable corpora forclosely related languages.
In Proceedings of the14th International Conference on Text, Speech andDialogue (TSD 2011), pages 91?98.
Plze?n, CzechRepublic, September.Pablo G. Otero and Jos?
R.P.
Campos.
2010.
Auto-matic generation of bilingual dictionaries using in-termediate languages and comparable corpora.
InProceedings of the 11th International Conference onComputational Linguistic and Intelligent Text Pro-cessing (CICLing?10 ), pages 473?483, Ias?i, Roma-nia, March.Peter M. Roget.
1911.
Roget?s Thesaurus of EnglishWords and Phrases.... Thomas Y. Crowell Com-pany, New York, USA.Peter M. Roget.
2008.
Roget?s International The-saurus, 3rd Edition.
Oxford & IBH PublishingCompany Pvt, New Delhi, India.Ryan Shaw, Anindya Datta, Debra VanderMeer andKaushik Datta.
2013.
Building a scalable database- Driven Reverse Dictionary.
IEEE Transactions onKnowledge and Data Engineering, 25(3): 528?540.Sidney I. Landau 1984.
Dictionaries: the art andcraft of lexicography.
Charles Scribner?s Sons, NewYork, USA.Tim Gollins and Mark Sanderson.
2001.
Improvingcross language information retrieval with triangu-lated translation.
In Proceedings of the 24th AnnualInternational ACM SIGIR Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval, pages90?95, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, September.Varga Istv?n and Yokoyama Shoichi.
2009.
Bilin-gual dictionary generation for low-resourced lan-guage pairs.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (Volume 2), pages 862?870, Singapore,August.
Association for Computational Linguistics.62
