Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Metaphor in NLP, pages 1?10,Baltimore, MD, USA, 26 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsConversational Metaphors in Use: Exploring the Contrast betweenTechnical and Everyday Notions of MetaphorHyeju Jang, Mario Piergallini, Miaomiao Wen, and Carolyn Penstein Ros?eLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213, USA{hyejuj, mpiergal, mwen, cprose}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractMuch computational work has been doneon identifying and interpreting the mean-ing of metaphors, but little work has beendone on understanding the motivation be-hind the use of metaphor.
To computation-ally model discourse and social position-ing in metaphor, we need a corpus anno-tated with metaphors relevant to speakerintentions.
This paper reports a corpusstudy as a first step towards computa-tional work on social and discourse func-tions of metaphor.
We use Amazon Me-chanical Turk (MTurk) to annotate datafrom three web discussion forums cover-ing distinct domains.
We then comparethese to annotations from our own anno-tation scheme which distinguish levels ofmetaphor with the labels: nonliteral, con-ventionalized, and literal.
Our hope is thatthis work raises questions about what newwork needs to be done in order to addressthe question of how metaphors are used toachieve social goals in interaction.1 IntroductionOur goal is to understand and characterizethe ways that nonliteral language, especiallymetaphors, play a role in a variety of conversa-tional strategies.
In contrast to the large bodyof work on uncovering the intended propositionalmeaning behind metaphorical expressions, we aremost interested in the illocutionary and perlocu-tionary force of the same contributions.People use metaphorical expressions in a vari-ety of ways in order to position themselves so-cially and express attitudes, as well as to maketheir point more effective, attractive, and convinc-ing.
Metaphors can be used to describe unfa-miliar situations and feelings when the speakerfeels that literal description is inadequate.
Theycan also be used to display the speaker?s creativ-ity and wit.
They can further be used as a tac-tic for persuasion or manipulation by foreground-ing aspects that would not ordinarily be relevant.Cameron (2007) shows that we can understandsocial interactions and their contexts better byclosely looking at these patterns of metaphor use.Metaphors can vary in how conventionalizedthey are, from those which have lost their orig-inal concrete meanings to completely novel andvivid metaphors.
Intuitively, it also makes sensethat metaphors which are more conventional andless obviously metaphorical will be used withless conscious thought than more novel or vividmetaphors.
There are thus reasons to suspectthat distinguishing between levels of metaphoric-ity could give insight into patterns of use.In this paper, we are interested in where wecan draw a line between levels of metaphoricity.As a first step towards our long-term goal, wepresent a corpus study in three web discussionforums including a breast cancer support group,a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC), anda forum for street gang members, which coverdistinctly different domains and have differingcommunity structure.
First, we investigate howlaypeople intuitively recognize metaphor by con-ducting Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) ex-periments.
Second, we introduce a new annota-tion scheme for metaphorical expressions.
In ourannotation scheme, we try to map the metaphorspectrum of nonliteralness to three types of lan-guage: nonliteral, conventionalized, and literal.Our hope is that this distinction provides somebenefit in examining the social and discoursefunctions of metaphor.
Next, we compare MTurk1results with our annotations.
Different people willplace the dividing line between literal languageand metaphorical language in different places.
Inthis work we have the opportunity to gauge howmuch everyday conceptions of metaphoricity di-verge from theoretical perspectives and thereforehow much models of metaphoricity may need tobe adapted in order to adequately characterizemetaphors in strategic use.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2relates our work to prior work on annotation anda corpus study.
Section 3 describes the data usedfor annotation.
Section 4 illustrates the functionsmetaphor serves in discourse through a qualitativeanalysis of our data.
Section 5 explains our anno-tation scheme.
Section 6 presents our annotationand MTurk experiments.
Section 7 discusses theresults.
Section 8 concludes the paper.2 Relation to Prior WorkIn this section, we introduce the two main bodiesof relevant prior work on metaphor in languagetechnologies: computational metaphor processingand metaphor annotation.2.1 Computational Work on MetaphorMuch of of the computational work on metaphorcan be classified into two tasks: automatic identi-fication and interpretation of metaphors.Metaphor identification has been done usingdifferent approaches: violation of selectional pref-erences (Fass, 1991), linguistic cues (Goatly,1997), source and target domain words (Stefanow-itsch and Gries, 2006), clustering (Birke andSarkar, 2006; Shutova et al., 2010), and lexi-cal relations in WordNet (Krishnakumaran andZhu, 2007).
Gedigian et al.
(2006) and Li andSporleder (2010) distinguished the literal and non-literal use of a target expression in text.
In addi-tion, Mason (2004) performed source-target do-main mappings.Metaphor interpretation is another large partof the computational work on metaphor.
Start-ing with Martin (1990), a number of re-searchers including Narayanan (1999), Barn-den and Lee (2002), Agerri et al.
(2007),and Shutova (2010) have worked on the task.Metaphor identification and interpretation wasperformed simultaneously in (Shutova, 2013;Shutova et al., 2013b).As we have seen so far, much of the com-putation work has focused on detecting and un-covering the intended meaning behind metaphor-ical expressions.
On the other hand, Klebanovand Flor (2013) paid attention to motivations be-hind metaphor use, specifically metaphors usedfor argumentation in essays.
They showed amoderate-to-strong correlation between percent-age of metaphorically used words in an essay andthe writing quality score.
We will introduce theirannotation protocol in Section 2.2.However, to the best of our knowledge, notmuch computational work has been done onunderstanding the motivation behind the useof metaphor besides that of Klebanov andFlor (2013).
Our work hopefully lays additionalfoundation for the needed computational work.2.2 Metaphor AnnotationOne of the main challenges in computational workon metaphor is the lack of annotated datasets.
An-notating metaphorical language is nontrivial be-cause of a lack of consensus regarding annotationschemes and clear definitions.
In this section, weintroduce some work dedicated to metaphor anno-tation and a corpus study.Wallington et al.
(2003) conducted experimentsto investigate what identifies metaphors.
Two dif-ferent teams annotated the same text with differ-ent instructions, one asked to label ?interestingstretches?
and the other ?metaphorical stretches?.They also asked annotators to tag words or phrasesthat indicated a metaphor nearby, in order to inves-tigate signals of metaphoricity.Pragglejaz Group (2007) presented a metaphorannotation scheme, called the Metaphor Identifi-cation Procedure (MIP), which introduced a sys-tematic approach with clear decision rules.
In thisscheme, a word is considered to be metaphorical ifit is not used according to its most basic concretemeaning, and if its contextual meaning can be un-derstood in comparison with the most basic con-crete meaning.
This method is relatively straight-forward and can give high inter-reliability.
De-pending on how one decides upon the basic mean-ing of words, this scheme can be used for differentapplications.
However, defining the basic mean-ing of a word is nontrivial, and following the def-2inition of basic meaning introduced in the papertends to result in a large proportion of words be-ing annotated as metaphor.
Many of the annotatedwords would not be considered to be metaphorsby a layperson due to their long and widespreadusage.Later works by Steen (2010), Shutova andTeufel (2010), and Shutova et al.
(2013a) ex-panded upon MIP.
Steen (2010) discussed thestrengths and weaknesses of MIP, and intro-duced the Metaphor Identification Procedure VUUniversity Amsterdam (MIPVU).
Shutova andTeufel (2010) and and Shutova et al.
(2013a)added a procedure for identifying underlying con-ceptual mappings between source and target do-mains.So far, these presented schemes do not distin-guish between degrees of metaphoricity, and werenot specifically designed for considering moti-vations behind metaphor use.
Unlike the anno-tation schemes described above, Klebanov andFlor (2013) built a metaphor annotation proto-col for metaphors relevant to arguments in essays.They were interested in identifying metaphors thatstand out and are used to support the writer?s ar-gument.
Instead of giving a formal definition ofa literal sense, the annotators were instructed tomark words they thought were used metaphori-cally, and to write down the point being madeby the metaphor, given a general definition ofmetaphor and examples.
Our work is similar tothis work in that both corpus studies pay attentionto motivations behind metaphor use.
However,our work focuses on more conversational discus-sion data whereas they focused on essays, whichare more well-formed.3 DataWe conducted experiments using data from threedifferent web forums including a Massive OpenOnline Course (MOOC), a breast cancer supportgroup (Breastcancer), and a forum for street gangmembers (Gang).
We randomly sampled 21 posts(100 sentences) from MOOC, 8 posts (103 sen-tences) from Breastcancer and 44 posts (111 sen-tences) from Gang.We chose these three forums because they alloffer conversational data and they all differ interms of the social situation.
The forums dif-fer significantly in purpose, demographics andthe participation trajectory of members.
There-fore, we expect that people will use language dif-ferently in the three sets, especially related tometaphorical expressions.MOOC: This forum is used primarily for task-based reasons rather than socializing.
People par-ticipate in the forum for a course, and leave whenthe course ends.
As a result, the forum doesnot have continuity over time; participants do notspend long time with the same people.Breastcancer: People join this forum for bothtask-based and social reasons: to receive informa-tional and emotional support.
People participatein the forum after they are diagnosed with cancer,and may leave the forum when they recover.
Thisforum is also used episodically by many users, buta small percentage of users stay for long periodsof time (2 or more years).
Thus, continuity al-lows shared norms to develop over years centeredaround an intense shared experience.Gang: In this forum, members belong to a dis-tinct subculture prior to joining, whereas Breast-cancer and MOOC members have less sharedidentity before entering the forum.
This forumis purely social.
There is no clear endpoint forparticipation; members leave the forum wheneverthey are not interested in it any more.
Users maystay for a week or two, or for years.4 Qualitative AnalysisMetaphors can be used for a number of conver-sational purposes such as increasing or decreas-ing social distance or as a tactic of persuasion ormanipulation (Ritchie, 2013).
In this section, weperform a qualitative analysis on how metaphorfunctions in our data.
We illustrate some exam-ples from each domain with an analysis of howsome functions of social positioning are observed.The choice of metaphor may reflect somethingabout the attitude of the speaker.
For example,journey is a metaphor frequently used in the breastcancer support discussion forum1as seen in exam-ples (2) ?
(5) from the Breastcancer forum.
Peo-ple compare chemotherapy to a journey by usingmetaphors such as journey, road and moves along.A journey has a beginning and a goal one trav-els towards, but people may take different paths.1http:breastcancer.org3This conveys the experience of cancer treatmentas a process of progressing along a path, strug-gling and learning, but allows for each person?sexperience to differ without judgment of personalsuccess or failure (Reisfield and Wilson, 2004).By contrast, another common metaphor comparescancer treatment to battles and war.
This metaphorinstead conveys an activity rather than passivity, astruggle against a defined foe, which can be wonif one fights hard enough.
But it also creates neg-ative connotations for some patients, as forgoingtreatment could then be seen as equivalent to sur-render (ibid.).
(1) Hello Ladies!
I was supposed tostart chemo in January, ...
I cantstart tx until that is done.
So I willbe joining you on your journey thismonth.
I AM SICK OF the ANXI-ETY and WAITING.
(2) So Ladies, please add anothermember to this club.
Looks like wewell all be leaning on each other.But I promise to pick you up if youfall if you can catch me once in awhile!
(3) The road seems long now but it re-ally moves along fast.
(4) I split this journey into 4 stages andI only deal with one.In addition, using metaphors can have an ef-fect of increasing empathetic understanding be-tween the participants (Ritchie, 2013).
We cansee this in examples (1) ?
(4), where participantsin the same thread use similar metaphors relat-ing chemotherapy to a journey.
Reusing eachother?s metaphors reduces emotional distance andhelps to build empathic understanding and bond-ing through a shared perception of their situations.Metaphor also serves to suggest associationsbetween things that one would not normally asso-ciate.
Example (5) from the MOOC forum framesparticipation in discussions as stepping into anarena, which refers to an area for sports or com-petition.
By making such an analogy, it conveysan environment of direct competition in front of alarge audience.
It suggests that a student may beafraid of contributing to discussion because theymay make a wrong statement or weak argumentand another person could counter their contribu-tions, and they will be embarrassed in front oftheir classmates.
(5) Hi, Vicki, great point ?
I do wishthat teachers in my growing upyears had been better facilitatorsof discussion that allowed EVERY-one to practice adn become skill-ful at speaking...I think in the earlyyears some of us need some hand-holding in stepping into the arenaand speakingMetaphors can also be used simply as a form ofwordplay, to display one?s wit and creativity.
Thiscan be seen in the exchange in examples (6) ?
(8),from the Gang forum.
A common metaphor usedon that forum is to refer to someone as food tomean that they are weak and unthreatening.
Thewriter in (6) expands on this metaphor to suggestthat the other person is especially weak by callinghim dessert, while the writer in (7) then challengeshim to fight by exploiting the meaning of hungryas ?having a desire for food?.
The first writer (8)then dismisses him as not worth the effort to fight,as he does not eat vegetables.
(6) So If She Is Food That Must MakeU Desert(7) if u hungry nigga why wait?
(8) I Dont Eat Vegatables.5 Our Annotation SchemeWhen we performed qualitative analysis as in Sec-tion 4, we found that more noticeable metaphorssuch as ?journey?, ?pick you up?, and ?fall?
in (1)and (2) seem more indicative of speaker attitudeor positioning than metaphors such as ?point?
in(5).
This might suggest the degree of metaphoric-ity affects how metaphors function in discourse.In this section, we describe our metaphor anno-tation scheme, which tries to map this variationamong metaphors to a simpler three-point scale ofnonliteralness: nonliteral, conventionalized, andliteral.5.1 Basic ConditionsOur annotation scheme targets language satisfyingthe following three conditions:41. the expression needs to have an original es-tablished meaning.2.
the expression needs to be used in context tomean something significantly different fromthat original meaning.3.
the difference in meaning should notbe hyperbole, understatement, sarcasm ormetonymyThese conditions result in metaphorical ex-pressions including simile and metaphorical id-ioms.
We consider simile to be a special case ofmetaphor which makes an explicit comparison us-ing words such as ?like?.
We include metaphor-ical idioms because they are obviously nonliteraland metaphorical despite the fact that they havelost their source domains.Have an original meaning: The expression orthe words within the expression need to have orig-inal established meanings.
For example, in thesentence ?I will be joining you on your journeythis month?
of (1) in Section 4, the word ?journey?refers to chemotherapy given the context, but hasa clear and commonly known original meaning ofa physical journey from one place to another.Alter the original and established meaningsof the words: The usage needs to change the orig-inal meaning of the expression in some way.
Theintended meaning should be understood througha comparison to the original meaning.
For thesame example, in ?I will be joining you on yourjourney this month?, the intended meaning can beunderstood through a comparison to some char-acteristics of a long voyage.
For metaphorical id-ioms such as ?he kicked the bucket,?
the nonliteralmeaning of ?he died?
is far from the literal mean-ing of ?he struck the bucket with his foot.
?Should not merely be hyperbole, understate-ment, sarcasm, or metonymy: To reduce thescope of our work, the usage needs to alter theoriginal meaning of the expression but should notsimply be a change in the intensity or the polar-ity of the meaning, nor should it be metonymy.Language uses like hyperbole and understatementmay simply change the intensity of the meaningwithout otherwise altering it.
For sarcasm, theintended meaning is simply the negation of thewords used.
Metonymy is a reference by asso-ciation rather than a comparison.
For example, in?The White House denied the rumor?, the WhiteHouse stands in for the president because it is as-sociated with him, rather than because it is beingcompared to him.
Note that metaphorical expres-sions used in conjunction with these techniqueswill still be coded as metaphor.5.2 Decision StepsTo apply the basic conditions to the actual annota-tion procedure, we come up with a set of decisionquestions (Table 1).
The questions rely on a va-riety of other syntactic and semantic distinctionsserving as filtering questions.
An annotator fol-lows the questions in order after picking a phraseor word in a sentence he or she thinks might benonliteral language.
We describe some of our de-cisions below.Unit: The text annotators think might be non-literal is considered for annotation.
We allow aword, a phrase, a clause, or a sentence as theunit for annotation as in (Wallington et al., 2003).We request that annotators include as few wordsas necessary to cover each metaphorical phrasewithin a sentence.Category: We request that annotators code acandidate unit as nonliteral, conventionalized, orliteral.
We intend the nonliteral category to in-clude nonliteral language usage within our scope,namely metaphors, similes, and metaphorical id-ioms.
The conventionalized category is intendedto cover the cases where the nonliteralness of theexpression is unclear because of its extensive us-age.
The literal category is assigned to words thatare literal without any doubt.Syntactic forms: We do not include prepo-sitions or light verbs.
We do not considerphrases that consist of only function words suchas modals, auxiliaries, prepositions/particles orinfinitive markers.
We restrict the candidatemetaphorical expressions to those which containcontent words.Semantic forms: We do not include singlecompound words, conventional terms of address,greeting or parting phrases, or discourse markerssuch as ?well?.
We also do not include termi-nology or jargon specific to the domain being an-notated such as ?twilight sedation?
in healthcare,since this may be simply borrowing others?
words.5No.
Question Decision1 Is the expression using the primary or most concrete meanings of the words?
Yes = L2 Does the expression include a light verb that can be omitted without changingthe meaning, as in ?I take a shower?
?
?I shower??
If so, the light verbexpression as a whole is literal.Yes = L3 Is the metaphor composed of a single compound word, like ?painkiller?, usedin its usual meaning?Yes = L4 Is the expression a conventional term of address, greeting, parting phrase or adiscourse marker?Yes = L5 Is the expression using terminology or jargon very common in this domain ormedium?Yes = L6 Is the expression merely hyperbole/understatement, sarcasm or metonymy?
Yes = L7 Is the expression a fixed idiom like ?kick the bucket?
that could have a verydifferent concrete meaning?Yes = N8 Is the expression a simile, using ?like?
or ?as?
to make a comparison betweenunlike things?Yes = N9 Is the expression unconventional/creative and also using non-concrete mean-ings?Yes = N10 Is there another common way to say it that would convey all the same nuances(emotional, etc.)?
Or, is this expression one of the only conventional ways ofconveying that meaning?If yes tothe latter= C11 If you cannot otherwise make a decision between literal and nonliteral, justmark it as C.Table 1: Questions to annotate (N: Nonliteral, C: Conventionalized, L: Literal).6 ExperimentIn this section, we present our comparative studyof the MTurk annotations and the annotationsbased on our annotation scheme.
The purposeof this experiment is to explore (1) how laypeo-ple perceive metaphor, (2) how valid the anno-tations from crowdsourcing can be, and (3) howmetaphors are different in the three different do-mains.6.1 Experiment SetupWe had two annotators who were graduate stu-dents with some linguistic knowledge.
Both werenative speakers of English.
The annotators wereasked to annotate the data using our annotationscheme.
We will call the annotators trained an-notators from now on.In addition, we used Amazon?s MechanicalTurk (MTurk) crowdsourcing marketplace to col-lect laypeople?s recognition of metaphors.
Weemployed MTurk workers to annotate each sen-tence with the metaphorical expressions.
Eachsentence was given along with the full post it camefrom.
MTurkers were instructed to copy and pasteall the metaphors appearing in the sentence togiven text boxes.
They were given a simple def-inition of metaphor from Wikipedia along with afew examples to guide them.
Each sentence waslabeled by seven different MTurk workers, and wepaid $0.05 for annotating each sentence.
To con-trol annotation quality, we required that all work-ers have a United States location and have 98%or more of their previous submissions accepted.We monitored the annotation job and manuallyfiltered out annotators who submitted uniform orseemingly random annotations.6.2 ResultsTo evaluate the reliability of the annotations, weused weighted Kappa (Cohen, 1968) at the wordlevel, excluding stop words.
The weighted Kappavalue for annotations following our annotationscheme was 0.52, and the percent agreement was95.68%.
To measure inter-reliability between twoannotators per class, we used Cohen?s Kappa (Co-6hen, 1960).
Table 2 shows the Kappa values foreach dataset and each class.
Table 4 shows thecorpus statistics.Dataset N C N+C Weightedall 0.44 0.20 0.49 0.52breastcancer 0.69 0.20 0.63 0.71Gang 0.26 0.28 0.39 0.34MOOC 0.41 0.13 0.47 0.53Table 2: Inter-reliability between two trained an-notators for our annotation scheme.To evaluate the reliability of the annotations byMTurkers, we calculated Fleiss?s kappa (Fleiss,1971).
Fleiss?s kappa is appropriate for assessinginter-reliability when different items are rated bydifferent judges.
We measured the agreement atthe word level, excluding stop words as in com-puting the agreement between trained annotators.The annotation was 1 if the MTurker coded a wordas a metaphorical use, otherwise the annotationwas 0.
The Kappa values are listed in Table 3.Dataset Fleiss?s Kappaall 0.36breastcancer 0.41Gang 0.35MOOC 0.30Table 3: Inter-reliability among MTurkers.We also measured the agreement between theannotations based on our scheme and MTurk an-notations to see how they agree with each other.First, we made a gold standard after discussingthe annotations of trained annotators.
Then, tocombine the seven MTurk annotations, we givea score for an expression 1 if the majority ofMTurkers coded it as metaphorically used, other-wise the score is 0.
Then, we computed Kappavalue between trained annotators and MTurkers.The agreement between trained annotators andMTurkers was 0.51 for N and 0.40 for N + C. Wecan see the agreement between trained annotatorsand MTurkers is not that bad especially for N.Figure 1 shows the percentage of words labeledas N, C or L according to the number of MTurk-ers who annotated the word as metaphorical.
Asseen, the more MTurkers who annotated a word,Dataset N N+ Call 0.51 0.40breastcancer 0.64 0.47Gang 0.36 0.39MOOC 0.65 0.36Table 5: Inter-reliability between trained annota-tors and MTurkers.the more likely it was to be annotated as N or Cby our trained annotators.
The distinction betweenNonliteral and Conventionalized, however, is a bitmuddier, although it displays a moderate trend to-wards more disagreement between MTurkers forthe Conventionalized category.
The vast majorityof words (>90%) were considered to be literal, sothe sample size for comparing the N and C cate-gories is small.Figure 1: Correspondence between MTurkers andtrained annotators.
X-axis: the number of MTuck-ers annotating a word as metaphor.7 DiscussionIn this section, we investigate the disagreementsbetween annotators.
A problem inherent to the an-notation of metaphor is that the boundary betweenliteral and nonliteral language is fuzzy.
Differentannotators may draw the line in different placeseven when it comes to phrases they are all famil-iar with.
It is also true that each person will havea different life history, and so some phrases whichare uninteresting to one person will be strikinglymetaphorical to another.
For example, someonewho is unfamiliar with the internet will likely findthe phrase ?surf the web?
quite metaphorical.Since we did not predefine the words or phrasesthat annotators could consider, there were oftencases where one person would annotate just the7Dataset Posts Sent.
Words Content Words N C N/Sent.
C/Sent.MOOC 21 100 2005 982 23 59 0.23 0.59Breastcancer 8 103 1598 797 27 41 0.26 0.4Gang 44 111 1403 519 30 51 0.27 0.46Table 4: Data statistics.noun and another might include the entire nounphrase.
If it was part of a conventional multi-wordexpression, MTurkers seemed likely to include theentire collocation, not merely the metaphoricalpart.
Boundaries were an issue to a lesser extentwith our trained annotators.One of our datasets, the Gang forum, uses a lotof slang and non-standard grammar and spellings.One of our trained annotators is quite familiar withthis forum and the other is not.
This was the setthey had the most disagreement on.
For exam-ple, the one annotator did not recognize names ofcertain gangs and rap musicians, and thought theywere meant metaphorically.
Similarly, the MTurk-ers had trouble with many of the slang expressionsin this data.Another issue for the MTurkers is the distinc-tion between metaphor and other forms of nonlit-eral language such as metonymy and hyperbole.For example, in the Gang data, the term ?ass?
isused to refer to a whole person.
This is a typemetonymy (synecdoche) using a part to refer tothe whole.
MTurkers were likely to label suchexpressions as metaphor.
Hyperbolic expressionslike ?never in a million years?
were also markedby some MTurkers.In a few cases, the sentence may have requiredmore context to decipher, such as previous postsin the same thread.
Another minor issue was thatsome data had words misspelled as other words orgrammatical errors, which some MTurkers anno-tated as metaphors.Certain categories of conventionalizedmetaphors that would be annotated in theoriginal presentation of MIP (Pragglejaz-Group,2007) were never or almost never annotated byMTurkers.
These included light verbs such as?make?
or ?get?
when used as causatives orthe passive ?get?, verbs of sensation used forcognitive meanings, such as ?see?
meaning ?un-derstand?, and demonstratives and prepositions inthemselves.
This may indicate something aboutthe relevance of these types of metaphors forcertain applications.8 ConclusionWe annotated data from three distinct conver-sational online forums using both MTurks andour annotation scheme.
The comparison betweenthese two annotations revealed a few things.
Oneis that MTurkers did not show high agreementamong themselves, but showed acceptable agree-ment with trained annotators for the N category.Another is that domain-specific knowledge is im-portant for accurate identification of metaphors.Even trained annotators will have difficulty if theyare not familiar with the domain because they maynot even understand the meaning of the languageused.Our annotation scheme has room for improve-ment.
For example, we need to distinguish be-tween the Conventionalized and Nonliteral cate-gories more clearly.
We will refine the codingscheme further as we work with more annotators.We also think there may be methods of pro-cessing MTurk annotations to improve their cor-respondence with annotations based on our cod-ing scheme.
This could address issues such as in-consistent phrase boundaries or distinguishing be-tween metonymy and metaphor.
This could makeit possible to use crowdsourcing to annotate thelarger amounts of data required for computationalapplications in a reasonable amount of time.Our research is in the beginning phase work-ing towards the goal of computational modelingof social and discourse uses of metaphor.
Our nextsteps in that direction will be to work on develop-ing our annotated dataset and then begin to investi-gate the differing contexts that metaphors are usedin.
Our eventual goal is to be able to apply compu-tational methods to interpret metaphor at the levelof social positioning and discourse functions.8AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by NSF grant IIS-1302522, and Army research lab grant W911NF-11-2-0042.ReferencesRodrigo Agerri, John Barnden, Mark Lee, and AlanWallington.
2007.
Metaphor, inference and domainindependent mappings.
In Proceedings of RANLP,pages 17?23.
Citeseer.John A Barnden and Mark G Lee.
2002.
An artifi-cial intelligence approach to metaphor understand-ing.
Theoria et Historia Scientiarum, 6(1):399?412.Julia Birke and Anoop Sarkar.
2006.
A clustering ap-proach for nearly unsupervised recognition of non-literal language.
In EACL.Lynne J Cameron.
2007.
Patterns of metaphoruse in reconciliation talk.
Discourse & Society,18(2):197?222.J.
Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nom-inal scales.
Educational and Psychological Mea-surement, 20:37?46.Jacob Cohen.
1968.
Weighted kappa: Nominal scaleagreement provision for scaled disagreement or par-tial credit.
Psychological bulletin, 70(4):213.Dan Fass.
1991. met*: A method for discriminatingmetonymy and metaphor by computer.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 17(1):49?90.Joseph L Fleiss.
1971.
Measuring nominal scaleagreement among many raters.
Psychological bul-letin, 76(5):378?382.Matt Gedigian, John Bryant, Srini Narayanan, and Bra-nimir Ciric.
2006.
Catching metaphors.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third Workshop on Scalable Natu-ral Language Understanding, pages 41?48.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Andrew Goatly.
1997.
Language of Metaphors: Lit-eral Metaphorical.
Routledge.Beata Beigman Klebanov and Michael Flor.
2013.Argumentation-relevant metaphors in test-taker es-says.
Meta4NLP 2013, pages 11?20.Saisuresh Krishnakumaran and Xiaojin Zhu.
2007.Hunting elusive metaphors using lexical resources.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Computationalapproaches to Figurative Language, pages 13?20.Association for Computational Linguistics.Linlin Li and Caroline Sporleder.
2010.
Using gaus-sian mixture models to detect figurative language incontext.
In Human Language Technologies: The2010 Annual Conference of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, HLT ?10, pages 297?300, Stroudsburg, PA,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.James H Martin.
1990.
A computational model ofmetaphor interpretation.
Academic Press Profes-sional, Inc.Zachary J Mason.
2004.
Cormet: a computational,corpus-based conventional metaphor extraction sys-tem.
Computational Linguistics, 30(1):23?44.Srinivas Narayanan.
1999.
Moving right along: Acomputational model of metaphoric reasoning aboutevents.
In AAAI/IAAI, pages 121?127.Pragglejaz-Group.
2007.
Mip: A method for iden-tifying metaphorically used words in discourse.Metaphor and symbol, 22(1):1?39.Gary M Reisfield and George R Wilson.
2004.
Useof metaphor in the discourse on cancer.
Journal ofClinical Oncology, 22(19):4024?4027.SL.
David Ritchie.
2013.
Metaphor (Key Topics inSemantics and Pragmatics).
Cambridge universitypress.Ekaterina Shutova and Simone Teufel.
2010.Metaphor corpus annotated for source-target do-main mappings.
In LREC.Ekaterina Shutova, Lin Sun, and Anna Korhonen.2010.
Metaphor identification using verb and nounclustering.
In Proceedings of the 23rd Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics,pages 1002?1010.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Ekaterina Shutova, BarryJ.
Devereux, and Anna Ko-rhonen.
2013a.
Conceptual metaphor theory meetsthe data: a corpus-based human annotation study.Language Resources and Evaluation, 47(4):1261?1284.Ekaterina Shutova, Simone Teufel, and Anna Korho-nen.
2013b.
Statistical metaphor processing.
Com-putational Linguistics, 39(2):301?353.Ekaterina Shutova.
2010.
Automatic metaphor inter-pretation as a paraphrasing task.
In Human Lan-guage Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conferenceof the North American Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 1029?1037.Association for Computational Linguistics.Ekaterina Shutova.
2013.
Metaphor identification asinterpretation.
Atlanta, Georgia, USA, page 276.9Gerard J Steen, Aletta G Dorst, J Berenike Herrmann,Anna Kaal, Tina Krennmayr, and Trijntje Pasma.2010.
A method for linguistic metaphor identifica-tion: From MIP to MIPVU, volume 14.
John Ben-jamins Publishing.Anatol Stefanowitsch and Stefan Th Gries.
2006.Corpus-based approaches to metaphor andmetonymy, volume 171.
Walter de Gruyter.AM Wallington, JA Barnden, P Buchlovsky, L Fel-lows, and SR Glasbey.
2003.
Metaphor annota-tion: A systematic study.
COGNITIVE SCIENCERESEARCH PAPERS-UNIVERSITY OF BIRMING-HAM CSRP.10
