Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature (CLfL) @ EACL 2014, pages 31?39,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsStructure-based Clustering of NovelsMariona Coll ArdanuyTrier Universityardanuy@uni-trier.deCaroline SporlederTrier Universitysporledc@uni-trier.deAbstractTo date, document clustering by genresor authors has been performed mostly bymeans of stylometric and content features.With the premise that novels are societiesin miniature, we build social networksfrom novels as a strategy to quantify theirplot and structure.
From each social net-work, we extract a vector of features whichcharacterizes the novel.
We perform clus-tering over the vectors obtained, and theresulting groups are contrasted in terms ofauthor and genre.1 IntroductionIn recent years, the interest for quantitative meth-ods of literary analysis has grown significantly.Humanities scholars and researchers are increas-ingly aware of the potential of data-driven ap-proaches in a field that has traditionally been stud-ied from a ?close reading?
perspective.
Largerepositories of literary text together with the devel-opment of promising techniques from fields suchas text mining or information extraction offer ad-vantages that open new possibilities to the field ofliterature studies.So far, most quantitative studies of literaturehave focused mainly on form and content.
Struc-ture and plot, considered key dimensions in anovel, have often been ignored due to the com-plexity in quantifying them.
In this study, we ex-plore the contribution of features that are directlyrelated to them.
With this goal, we represent anovel as a social network of characters (a tech-nique that is not novel in the field of quantitativeliterary analysis), from which to extract featuresthat can be used to perform document clustering.The outcome of the clustering will be a groupingof novels according to their structural similarity.This is an exploratory study to determine towhat degree the structure and plot of a novel arerepresentative of the genre to which it belongs andcharacteristic of the style of its author.
Two hy-potheses are made on the basis of this premise.The first is that the structure and plot of the novelrepresented as a static and dynamic social networkis key to predict the literary genre to which a novelbelongs.
The second is that the inner structure ofthe society depicted by the author in a novel isrepresentative of this author.
This approach intro-duces the use of automatically extracted static anddynamic networks to perform large-scale analysesof novels, by representing them as vectors of fea-tures that can then be used to compare the novelsin terms of genre and authorship.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
InSection 2 we present the related work.
Section 3describes the method employed in turning a novelinto the vector of features chosen to characterizeit.
The experiments conducted are discussed inSection 4 and the results and analysis of them inSection 5.
We discuss the results in Section 6 andconclude in Section 7.2 Related Work2.1 Unsupervised Document ClassificationUnsupervised document classification (or ?docu-ment clustering?)
consists in automatically group-ing a set of documents based on the similaritiesamong them.
Unlike its supervised counterpart,it does not require neither labeled training datanor prior knowledge of the classes into which thetexts are to be categorized.
Instead, documents?represented as vectors of features?that are similarare grouped together, yielding a clustering that isdependent on the features chosen to characterizethe document.
Due to the lack of supervision, itis not guaranteed that the resulting clustering cor-responds to the classes in which we are interested(Zhang, 2013).Unsupervised authorship analysis from docu-31ments is the task of automatically grouping textsthat share the same author, by determining the setof features that distinguish one author from anyother.
The first approaches focused mainly on sty-lometrics (Ledger and Merriam (1994), Holmesand Forsyth (1995), Baayen et al.
(1996), andAaronson (2001)).
More recent approaches usecontent-based features, such as Akiva and Kop-pel (2012) and Layton et al.
(2011).
Pavlyshenko(2012) brings document clustering by author to theliterature domain.
The lexicon of the author is inthis work represented as semantic fields (the au-thor?s idiolect) on which Singular Value Decom-position is applied.Much less effort has been devoted to the task ofclustering documents by the genre in which theyfall.
Examples of this are Gupta et al.
(2005),Poudat and Cleuziou (2003), and Bekkerman etal.
(2007).
The work of Allison et al.
(2011) usesstylometric features to cluster 36 novels accord-ing to genre.
The resulting clustering is only par-tially successful, but made its authors realize thatthe classification was not only obeying to genrecriteria, but also to authorship.
The stylistic signa-ture of every document corresponded to a strong?author?
signal, rather than to the ?genre?
signal.2.2 Literary Quantitative AnalysisThe reviewed approaches have in common thatthey use stylometric or content-based features.However, a novel should not be reduced to the di-mensions of punctuation, morphology, syntax andsemantics.
This literary form has a depth, a com-plex structure of plot, characters and narration.The plot of a novel is defined in the Russian struc-turalism school by the collection of its charactersand the actions they carry out (Bakhtin (1941),Propp (1968)).
It could be said that every novel isa society in miniature.1Moretti (2011), concernedabout how plot can be quantified, explores exten-sively the impact characters have on it.
To thisend, Moretti represents the characters of WilliamShakespeare?s Hamlet as a social network.
Sev-eral experiments (removing the protagonist, iso-lates, or a connecting character from the network)show how the plot changes accordingly to the al-teration in the structure of characters.
Sack (2012)1This is particularly evident in William M. Thackeray?snovel Vanity Fair through the ironic and mocking voice ofthe narrator, making the reader aware of his describing muchmore than just the adventures and missfortunes of a collectionof invented characters.proposes using social networks of characters as amechanism for generating plots artificially.One of the first attempts of combining so-cial networks and literature was in Alberich etal.
(2002).
They built a social network from theMarvel comics in which characters are the nodes,linked by their co-occurrence in the same book.The authors note that the resulting network wasvery similar to a real social network.
In Newmanand Girvan (2003), the authors used a hand-builtsocial network with the main characters of Vic-tor Hugo?s Les Mis?erables to detect communitiesof characters that were densely connected.
Thesecommunities, in the words of the authors, ?clearlyreflect[ed] the subplot structure of the book?.Elson et al.
(2010) introduced an interestingidea: so far, two characters had always been linkedby an edge if they occurred in the same text-window.
In their approach, characters are linkedif they converse.
The networks are built in an au-tomatic fashion, and heuristics are used to clus-ter co-referents.
The authors?s analysis of the net-works debunks long standing literary hypotheses.Celikyilmaz et al.
(2010) extracts dialogue inter-actions in order to analyze semantic orientationsof social networks from literature.
In order toperform large-scale analyses of the works, bothRydberg-Cox (2011) and Suen et al.
(2013) extractnetworks from structured text: Greek tragedies thefirst, plays and movie scripts the latter.All the approaches mentioned above producestatic networks which are flat representations ofthe novel as a whole.
In them, past, present, andfuture are represented at once.
By means of staticnetworks, time turns into space.
The recent workby Agarwal et al.
(2012) questions the validity ofstatic network analysis.
Their authors introducethe concept of dynamic network analysis for lit-erature, motivated by the idea that static networkscan distort the importance of the characters (ex-emplified through an analysis of Lewis Carroll?sAlice in Wonderland).
A dynamic social networkis but the collection of independent networks foreach of the parts in which the novel is divided.3 Turning Novels into Social Networks3.1 Human Name RecognitionA social network is a structure that captures therelations between a set of actors.
The actors in anovel are its characters, and thus extracting personnames from the raw text is necessarily the first step32to construct a social network from a novel.
To thatend, we used the Stanford Named EntityRecognizer (Stanford NER)2, to which we ap-plied post-processing recognition patterns in or-der to enhance its performance in the literary do-main.3Stanford NER tags the entities on a per-token basis.
The name ?Leicester?
might be taggedas person in one paragraph and as locationin the next one.
With the assumption that a novelis a small universe in which one proper name islikely to refer to the same entity throughout thenovel, we eliminate these inconsistencies by re-tagging the file, so that each entity recognized dur-ing the filtering is tagged as person throughoutthe file.
Each proper name that has been taggedas a person more times than as a location isalso re-tagged consistently as person.Table 1 shows the evaluation of the person namerecognizer in novels both originally in English andtranslated, both before (StanfordNER) and af-ter (FilteredNER) the filtering.
The filteringimproves the performance of the entity recognizersignificantly in the case of English literature, andonly slightly in foreign literature.
We evaluatedeight chapters randomly picked from eight differ-ent novels.4Precision Recall F1ScoreStanfordNER-Eng 0.9684 0.8101 0.8822FilteredNER-Trn 0.9816 0.9970 0.9892StanfordNER-Eng 0.9287 0.7587 0.8351FilteredNER-Trn 0.8589 0.8277 0.8430Table 1: Evaluation of person recognition.3.2 Character ResolutionA list of person names is not a list of char-acters.
Among the extracted names are ?MissLizzy?, ?Miss Elizabeth?, ?Miss Elizabeth Bennet?,?Lizzy?, ?Miss Eliza Bennet?, ?Elizabeth Bennet?,and ?Elizabeth?, all of them names correspond-ing to one only character, the protagonist of Jane2http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml3A list of 178 honorifics such as ?Sir?, ?Lady?, or ?Pro-fessor?
indicating that the adherent proper name is a person,and a list of 83 verbs of utterance such as ?say?, ?complain?or ?discuss?
in both present and past forms indicating the im-mediate presence of a person.4Little Dorrit and The Pickwick Papers by Charles Dick-ens, Pride and Prejudice from Jane Austen, Dr. Jekyll andMr.
Hyde by R. L. Stevenson, The Hunchback of Notre-Dameby Victor Hugo, The Phantom of the Opera by Gaston Ler-oux, War and Peace by Leo Tolstoy, and Don Quixote of LaMancha by Miguel de Cervantes.Austen?s Pride and Prejudice.
A social networkrelates entities, and thus it is a crucial step to groupall the co-referents together.
The task of characterresolution has been done in three steps:?
Human name parsing.
We used anextended version of the Python modulepython-nameparser5to parse the rec-ognized names into its different components,so that a name like ?Mr.
Sherlock Homes?,would have ?Mr.?
tagged as title, ?Sherlock?as first name and ?Holmes?
as last name.?
Gender assignation.
Each human name is as-signed a gender (male, female, or unknown).We have four lists: with typical male ti-tles (?Sir?, ?Lord?, etc.
), with female titles(?Miss?, ?Lady?, etc.
), with 2579 male firstnames6and with 4636 female first names7.To assign a gender to a human name, firstthe title is considered.
If the title is empty ornon-informative, the first name is considered.If none are informative of the gender of thecharacter, immediate context is considered:a counter keeps track of counts of ?his?
and?himself?
(on the one hand), and of ?her?
and?herself?
(on the other) appearing in a win-dow of at most 3 words to the right of thename.
Depending on which of the two coun-ters is higher, the human name is assignedone gender or the other.
If the conditions arenot met, the gender remains unknown.?
Matching algorithm.
A matching algorithmis responsible for grouping the different co-referents of the same entity from less to moreambiguous:1.
Names with title, first name and lastname (e.g.
?Miss Elizabeth Bennet?).2.
Names with first name and last name(e.g.
?Elizabeth Bennet?).3.
Names with title and first name(e.g.
?Miss Elizabeth?).4.
Names with title and last name(e.g.
?Miss Bennet?).5.
Names with only first name or lastname (e.g.
?Elizabeth?
or ?Bennet?
).For each matching step, three points are con-sidered: a first name can appear as a nick-5http://code.google.com/p/python-nameparser/6Source: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/Groups/AI/areas/nlp/corpora/names/male.txt7Source: http://www.cs.cmu.edu/Groups/AI/areas/nlp/corpora/names/female.txt33name (?Lizzy?
is ?Elizabeth?
)8, a first namecan appear as an initial (?J.
Jarndyce?
is?John Jarndyce?
), and the genders of thenames to match must agree (?Miss Sed-ley?
matches ?Amelia Sedley?, but not ?JosSedley?).
If after these steps a referent isstill ambiguous, it goes to its most commonmatch (e.g.
?Mr.
Holmes?
might refer both to?Sherlock Holmes?
and to his brother ?My-croft Holmes?.
According to our algorithm,?Mr.
Holmes?
matches both names, so we as-sume that it refers to the most relevant char-acter of the novel, in this case the protagonist,?Sherlock Holmes?.Evaluating character resolution is not a simpletask, since the impact of a misidentification willdepend on the relevance of the wrongly identifiedcharacter.
The evaluation that we propose (see Ta-ble 2) for this task takes into consideration onlythe 10 most relevant characters in 10 novels.9Precision Recall F1ScoreEnglishLit 0.9866 0.9371 0.9612ForeignLit 0.9852 0.9086 0.9454Table 2: Evaluation of character resolution.The evaluation of the gender assignment task (seeTable 3) is done on the total number of charactersfrom six different novels.10Precision Recall F1ScoreEnglishLit 0.9725 0.8676 0.9171ForeignLit 0.9603 0.5734 0.7175Table 3: Evaluation of gender assignment.3.3 Network ConstructionAs mentioned in Section 2, two main approachesto create character networks from literary fiction8A list of names and their hypocoristics is used todeal with this.
Source: https://metacpan.org/source/BRIANL/Lingua-EN-Nickname-1.14/nicknames.txt9TheMystery of Edwin Drood andOliver Twist by CharlesDickens, Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen, Vanity Fairby William M. Thackeray, The Hound of the Baskervilles byArthur Conan Doyle, Around the World in Eighty Days byJules Verne, The Phantom of the Opera by Gaston Leroux,Les Mis?erables by Victor Hugo, The Three Musketeers byAlexandre Dumas, and Madame Bovary by Gustave Flaubert.10Oliver Twist by Charles Dickens, Sense and Sensibilityby Jane Austen, The Hound of the Baskervilles by Arthur Co-nan Doyle, Around the World in Eighty Days by Jules Verne,The Phantom of the Opera by Gaston Leroux, On the Eve byIvan Turgenev.have been proposed.
In the first one (hereafterconversational network), nodes (i.e.
characters)are related by means of an edge if there is a spo-ken interaction between them.
In the second ap-proach (hereafter co-occurrence network), nodesare linked whenever they co-occur in the samewindow of text.
A conversational network is well-suited to represent plays, where social interactionis almost only represented by means of dialogue.However, much of the interaction in novels is doneoff-dialogue through the description of the narra-tor or indirect interactions.
Thus, using a conver-sational network might not suffice to capture allinteractions, and it would definitely have severelimitations in novels with unmarked dialogue, lit-tle dialogue or none.11The networks built in this approach are staticand dynamic co-occurrence networks.12A staticnetwork allows better visualization of the novelas a whole, and the features extracted from it cor-respond to a time agnostic analysis of the novel?splot.
A dynamic network is a sequence of sub-networks, each of which constructed for each ofthe chapters into which the novel is divided.
In it,one can visualize the development of the charac-ters throughout the novel.
In both networks, nodesare linked if they co-occur in the same window oftext, which in our case is set to be a paragraph,a natural division of text according to discourse.The graph is undirected (the direction of the in-teraction is ignored) and weighted (the weight isthe number of interactions between the two linkednodes).
In 1stperson novels, the off-dialogue oc-currences of pronoun ?I?
are added to the node ofthe character who narrates the story, in order toavoid the narrator (probably the protagonist of thenovel) to be pushed to the background.We used the python library Networkx13toconstruct the networks and the network analysissoftware Gephi14to visualize them.11Examples are Cormac McCarthy?s On the road, GeorgeOrwell?s Nineteen Eighty-Four, and Margaret Yourcenar?sMemoirs of Hadrian.12In section 3.4, we offer a qualitative analysis of some net-works.
We have already motivated our choice for using co-occurrence networks instead of conversational.
Both meth-ods would yield very different networks.
The reason why wedo not provide compared results between both approaches isthat we do not consider them quantitatively comparable, sincethey represent and capture different definitions of what a so-cial relation is.13http://networkx.github.io/14http://gephi.org/34Figure 1: Static network of Pride and Prejudice.3.4 Network AnalysisThe aim of extracting social networks from nov-els is to turn a complex object (the novel) into aschematic representation of the core structure ofthe novel.
Figures 1 and 2 are two examples ofstatic networks, corresponding to Jane Austen?sPride and Prejudice and William M. Thackeray?sVanity Fair respectively.
Just a glimpse to the net-work is enough to make us realize that they arevery different in terms of structure.Pride and Prejudice has an indisputable maincharacter (Elizabeth) and the whole network is or-ganized around her.
The society depicted in thenovel is that of the heroine.
Pride and Prejudice isthe archetypal romantic comedy and is also oftenconsidered a Bildungsroman.The community represented in Vanity Faircould hardly be more different.
Here the noveldoes not turn around one only character.
Instead,the protagonism is now shared by at least twonodes, even though other very centric foci can beseen.
The network is spread all around these char-acters.
The number of minor characters and isolatenodes is in comparison huge.
Vanity Fair is a satir-ical novel with many elements of social criticism.Static networks show the skeleton of novels, dy-namic networks its development, by incorporatinga key dimension of the novel: time, represented asa succession of chapters.
In the time axis, charac-ters appear, disappear, evolve.
In a dynamic net-work of Jules Verne?s Around the World in EightyDays, we would see that the character Aouda ap-pears for the first time in chapter 13.
From thatFigure 2: Static network of Vanity Fair.moment on, she is Mr. Fogg?s companion for therest of the journey and the reader?s companion forthe rest of the book.
This information is lost in astatic network, in which the group of very staticgentlemen of a London club are sitting very closefrom a consul in Suez, a judge in Calcutta, and acaptain in his transatlantic boat.
All these char-acters would never co-occur (other than by men-tions) in a dynamic network.4 ExperimentsAt the beginning of this paper we ask ourselveswhether the plot of a novel (here represented asits structure of characters) can be used to identifyliterary genres or to determine its author.
We pro-pose two main experiments to investigate the roleof the novel structure in the identification of an au-thor and of a genre.
Both experiments are consid-ered as an unsupervised classification task.4.1 Document Clustering by GenreData collection.15This study does not have aquantified, analogous experiment with which tocompare the outcome.
Thus, our approach hasrequired constructing a corpus of novels fromscratch and building an appropriate baseline.
Wehave collected a representative sample of the mostinfluential novels of the Western world.
The re-sulting dataset contains 238 novels16.
Each novel15The complete list of works and features usedfor both experiments can be found in http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/?csporled/SocialNetworksInNovels.html.16Source: http://www.gutenberg.org/35was annotated with the genre to which it belongs.The task of assigning a genre to a novel is not triv-ial.
The Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtinrelates the inherent difficulties in the study of thenovelistic genre, being the novel the ?sole genrethat continues to develop, that is as yet uncom-pleted?
(Bakhtin, 1981).
Different sources dif-fer in categorizing the same novels, some novelsare labeled with more than one genre, and evensome novels are not categorized at all.
The pro-cess of building and labeling the corpus has there-fore been long and laborious.The decision on how many genres there shouldbe was taken based on observation, resulting in 11most seen genres: adventure, historical, romance,satirical, gothic, Bildungsroman, picaresque, mys-tery, social criticism, science fiction, and childrenfiction.
In order to annotate the data, differentsources were contrasted, among which the studyguides from Spark Notes17and Shmoop18, pop-ular reading web portals such as Goodread19, theWikipedia20, and different literary research studiesfor each particular novel.
Each novel has been an-notated with a maximum of three genres in thosecases in which sources did not agree.Experimental Setup.
We propose four differ-ent set-ups, representing different fractions of thedata set.
The enCorpus is the set of 184 novelsoriginally written in English.
The trCorpus is theset of 54 novels originally not written in English,in their translated version.
The alCorpus is thewhole dataset, 238 novels.
The 19Corpus is a sub-set of 118 British novels from the 19th Century.4.2 Document Clustering by AuthorData collection.
The evaluation of document clus-tering by author does not pose nearly as manychallenges.
For this experiment, we have disre-garded 1stperson narratives.21We collected 45novels from 7 different authors: five British au-thors from the 19th Century (Jane Austen (6 nov-els), Charles Dickens (11), Elizabeth Gaskell (5),George Eliot (7), and William Thackeray (6)), andtwo Russian realism authors (Ivan Turgenev (6)17http://www.sparknotes.com/18http://www.shmoop.com/literature/19http://www.goodreads.com/20http://www.wikipedia.org21Whereas the point of view in which the story is writtenmight be indicative of a genre (e.g.
some genres might bemore prone to use 1stperson), in most cases it is not of anauthor, since they are many the authors that equally use dif-ferent points of view in their novels.and Fyodor Dostoyevsky (4)).
For investigativereasons, we have also included the seven novelsfrom the Harry Potter fantasy series, by the con-temporary British author J. K. Rowling.Experimental Setup.
We propose four differentset-ups, focusing on the author.
Table 4 shows theauthors included in each experiment.#Corpus AuthorsCorpus1 Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot, GaskellCorpus2 Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot, Gaskell,Dostoyevsky, TurgenevCorpus3 Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot, Gaskell,RowlingCorpus4 Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, Eliot, Gaskell,Dostoyevsky, Turgenev, RowlingTable 4: Authors in each corpus fraction.4.3 Feature SelectionThe static features that we have used for cluster-ing are mostly well-known metrics drawn fromsocial network analysis.
These include measuressuch as graph density, average clustering coeffi-cient, diameter, radius, proportion of eccentric,central and isolate nodes, and relevance of themain node.
Variations of social network analysismetrics are: proportion of male characters, rela-tive weight of the main node, relative weight ofthe second biggest node, of the ten most impor-tant nodes, and of the isolate nodes, and propor-tion of edges of the main character.
Dynamic fea-tures control the continued presence of the protag-onist throughout the novel, the varying proportionof characters in each stage of the novel, and pro-portion of characters appearing in only one stage.In the clustering experiment by genre, we dif-ferenciate between features that apply to 1stand3rdperson point-of-view to avoid the dispropor-tionate weight of the narrator to incline the results.Some features not used in the author experimentare added, such as the absolute size of the networkboth in terms of nodes and of length of the novel,the presence of the main character in the title of thebook, the point-of-view, the number of chaptersand whether the narrator is known.
The author ex-periment has a total of 27 features, while the genreexperiment has 5522.
The baseline we propose isbased on content: for each novel a vector with araw Bag-of-words representation is generated.For the clustering, we use the Weka EM imple-mentation, in which the number of clusters was al-22See footnote 15.36ready pre-defined to the desired number of classes(11 in the case of clustering by genre, 5-8 in thecase of clustering by author).5 Results and AnalysisThe results of the clustering are evaluated with re-spect to the annotated data.
The task of evaluat-ing the results of a clustering is not trivial, sinceone cannot know with certainty which labels cor-respond to which clusters.
In this approach, thelabelling of the classes relies on Weka?s23(Hall etal., 2009) Classes to clusters evaluation function-ality, which assigns a label to the cluster whichcontains most of the elements of the labeled class,as long as the class is not defining another cluster.The evaluation is based on three popular metrics:purity, entropy and F1measure.
In the clusteringexperiments by genre, if one novel is classified asat least one of the correct classes, we consider it tobe correct.#Corpus Baseline Our approachMetric Pur Ent F1S Pur Ent F1SenCorpus 0.45 0.34 0.31 0.46 0.34 0.33trCorpus 0.56 0.28 0.34 0.44 0.31 0.27alCorpus 0.42 0.35 0.27 0.40 0.36 0.2619Corpus 0.53 0.29 0.34 0.58 0.29 0.40Table 5: Genre clustering evaluation.Table 5 shows the results of both the baseline andour approach in the clustering task by genre.24The clustering results are negative, even thoughnot random.
The performance is slightly better inworks originally written in English (enCorpusand 19Corpus).
The reason why the 19Corpusperforms significantly better than the rest of thecollections is probably to be found in the fact thatall other collections contain documents from verydifferent ages (up to five centuries of difference)and countries of origin.
Since novels usually de-pict the society of the moment, it is not surpris-ing that the more local the collection of texts, thehigher the performance of the approach is.As can be seen in Table 6, the performance ofboth the baseline and our approach in clusteringby author is much higher than by genre.25Theperformance of the baseline approach decreases as23http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/index.html24The yielded clusters and their quality can befound in http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/?csporled/SocialNetworksInNovels.html25See footnote 24.#Corpus Baseline Our approachMetric Pur Ent F1S Pur Ent F1SCorpus1 0.74 0.20 0.74 0.63 0.26 0.63Corpus2 0.64 0.23 0.55 0.60 0.28 0.60Corpus3 0.74 0.19 0.71 0.71 0.22 0.71Corpus4 0.58 0.25 0.52 0.62 0.24 0.60Table 6: Author clustering evaluation.it goes away from the same period and same ori-gin, but also as the number of authors in whichto cluster the novels increases.
Our approach doesnot suffer too much from the increasing number ofclasses in which to cluster.
Interesting enough, wesee how the baseline and our approach yield simi-lar results in both clustering tasks even if the fea-tures could not be more different from one vectorto the other.
As future work, we plan to combineboth methods in order to enhance the results.6 Discussion6.1 Clustering by GenreGenres are not clear and distinct classes.
By ob-serving the ?incorrectly labeled?
cases from ournetwork-based method, we find some interestingpatterns: some genres tend to be misclassified al-ways into the same ?incorrect?
genre.
It is thecase, for example, of the categories Bildungsro-man and picaresque.
Some novels that shouldhave been labeled Bildungsroman are instead con-sidered picaresque, or vice versa.
Indeed, one caneasily find certain characteristics that are sharedin both genres, such as a strong protagonist anda whole constellation of minor characters aroundhim or her.
What distinguishes them from beingthe same genre is that the focus and goal in a Bil-dungsroman is on the development of the maincharacter.
Picaresque novels, on the contrary, usu-ally have no designed goal for the protagonist,and consist of a sequence of adventures, most ofthem unrelated and inconsequential to each other.The same kind of strong relationship exists, in alesser extent, between historical, social and satir-ical genres.
These three genres are somewhat in-tertwined.
Social criticism might be carried outthrough a satirical novel, which might be set totake place in the past, making it a historical novel.Our method classifies these three genres indis-tinctly together, and this might well be because oftheir very similar structural characteristics.We consider this experiment a first step in thetask of novel clustering by genre.
The method that37we have presented is far from being perfected.
Wehave used all the features that we have designed inan unweighted way and without optimizing them.However, it is assumed that some features willhave a bigger impact than others at determininggenres.
A blunt analysis of the role of the fea-tures informs that the relevance of the protagonistnode is key, for example, to identify genres suchas Bildungsroman and picaresque.
A high propor-tion of minor or isolate nodes is, for example, avery good indicator of satirical, social, and histor-ical genres.
An unknown narrator is a good indi-cator that we are in front of a science fiction novel,while a mixed point of view is usually kept for ei-ther science fiction, gothic, or mystery novels.6.2 Clustering by AuthorThe clustering by author is much clearer than theclustering by genre, and very interesting patternscan be found when looked in detail.
One can learn,for instance, that the structure of Jane Austen nov-els are in the antipodes of the structure of WilliamM.
Thackeray?s works (as could be inferred fromFigures 1 and 2).
These two authors are, alongsideRowling, the easiest authors to identify.
In fact,a clustering of only the novels by these three au-thors result in a perfectly clear-cut grouping withno misclassifications.
Dickens and Eliot are on theother hand the most difficult authors to identify,partly because their structures are more varied.An in-depth study of the role of each featurein the clustering provides a very interesting viewof the literary work of each author.
We can seein our sample that female writers (in particularAusten and Gaskell) have a much higher propor-tion of female characters than male writers (in par-ticular Dickens, Turgenev, and Dostoyevsky), withThackeray and Rowling depicting a more equalsociety.
Examples of behaviors that can be readfrom the clustering are many.
The very low graphdensity of Thackeray?s novels contrasts with thehigh density of the novels by Austen and Tur-genev, whereas all of Gaskell?s novels have a strik-ingly similar graph density.
In the case of theHarry Potter books, the first ones are significantlydenser than the last ones.
The role of the protago-nist also varies depending on the author.
It is veryimportant in the works by Austen, Gaskell, andRowling, in which the presence of the protagonistis constant throughout the novel.
Turgenev?s pro-tagonists are also very strong, even though theirpresence varies along the chapters.
Thackeray, onthe other hand, is by far the author that gives moreweight to minor characters and isolates.
Turgenevhas a high proportion of isolate nodes, while theyare almost null in works by Rowling and Austen.The dynamic features show the different distribu-tions of characters over the time of the novel.
Theyallow us see very clearly in which stages coincidethe maximum number of characters (the fallingaction in the case of Austen, the d?enouement inthe case of Eliot, the rising action in the case ofRowling).
They allow us to see also how a veryhigh proportion of characters in Thackeray?s nov-els appear in only one stage in the novel, to thendisappear.
In the other side of the spectrum areAusten and Dostoyevsky, whose characters arrivein the novel to stay.
These are only some of themost evident conclusions that can be drawn fromthe author-clustering experiment.
A more in-depthanalysis could be useful, for example, to identifychanges in the work of one same author.7 ConclusionThis work is a contribution to the field of quantita-tive literary analysis.
We have presented a methodto build static and dynamic social networks fromnovels as a way of representing structure and plot.Our goal was two-fold: to learn which role thestructure of a novel plays in identifying a novel-istic genre, and to understand to what extent thestructure of the novel is a fingerprint of the styleof the author.
We have designed two experimentsshaped as unsupervised document classificationtasks.
The first experiment, clustering by genreresulted in a negative clustering but, if analyzedqualitatively, shows that the approach is promis-ing, even if it must be polished.
The second ex-periment, clustering by author, outperformed thebaseline and obtained good enough positive re-sults.
Authorship attribution is mostly used for ei-ther forensic purposes or plagiarism identification.However, we have shown that an analysis of thefeatures and yielded clustering can also be usedto explore structural inter- and intra-similaritiesamong different authors.8 AcknowledgementsThe authors thank the anonymous reviewers fortheir helpful comments and suggestions.38ReferencesScott Aaronson.
2001.
Stylometric clustering: A com-parison of data-driven and syntactic features.
Tech-nical report, Computer Science Department, Univer-sity of California, Berkeley.Apoorv Agarwal, Augusto Corvalan, Jacob Jensen, andOwen Rambow.
2012.
Social network analysis ofalice in wonderland.
In Workshop on ComputationalLinguistics for Literature, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 88?96.Navot Akiva and Moshe Koppel.
2012.
Identify-ing distinct components of a multi-author document.EISIC, pages 205?209.Ricardo Alberich, Josep Mir?o-Juli`a, and FrancescRossell?o.
2002.
Marvel universe looks almost like areal social network.
cond-mat/.Sarah Allison, Ryan Heuser, Matthew Jockers, FrancoMoretti, and Michael Witmore.
2011.
Quantitativeformalism: an experiment.
Literary Lab, Pamphlet1.Harald Baayen, Hans van Halteren, and Fiona Tweedie.1996.
Outside the cave of shadows: using syntacticannotation to enhance authorship attribution.
Liter-ary and Linguistic Computing, 11:121?131.Mikhail Bakhtin.
1981.
Epic and novel: Towardsa methodology for the study of the novel.
InJ.
Michael Holquist, editor, The dialogic imagina-tion: four essays.
Unversity of Texas Press.Ron Bekkerman, Hema Raghavan, and James Al-lan Koji Eguchi.
2007.
Interactive clustering oftext collections according to a user-specified crite-rion.
In In Proceedings of IJCAI, pages 684?689.Asli Celikyilmaz, Dilek Hakkani-tur, Hua He, GregKondrak, and Denilson Barbosa.
2010.
The actor-topic model for extracting social networks in literarynarrative.
In NIPS Workshop: Machine Learning forSocial Computing.David K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2010.
Au-tomatic attribution of quoted speech in literary nar-rative.
In Association for the Advancement of Artifi-cial Intelligence.David K. Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen R.McKeown.
2010.
Extracting social networks fromliterary fiction.
In Proceedings of the 48th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Suhit Gupta, Hila Becker, Gail Kaiser, and SalvatoreStolfo.
2005.
A genre-based clustering approach tocontent extraction.
Technical report, Department ofComputer Science, Columbia University.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The weka data mining software: An update.SIGKDD Explorations, Volume 11.David I. Holmes and Richard S. Forsyth.
1995.
Thefederalist revisited: New directions in authorshipattribution.
Literary and Linguistic Computing,10:111?127.Robert Layton, Paul Watters, and Richard Dazeley.2011.
Automated unsupervised authorship analy-sis using evidence accumulation clustering.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 19:95?120.Gerard Ledger and Thomas Merriam.
1994.
Shake-speare, fletcher, and the two noble kinsmen.
Liter-ary and Linguistic Computing, 9:235?248.Franco Moretti.
2011.
Network theory, plot analysis.Literary Lab, Pamphlet 2.M.
E. J. Newman and M. Girvan.
2003.
Finding andevaluating community structure in networks.
Physi-cal Review E, 69:1?16.Bohdan Pavlyshenko.
2012.
The clustering of author?stexts of english fiction in the vector space of se-mantic fields.
The Computing Research Repository,abs/1212.1478.C?eline Poudat and Guillaume Cleuziou.
2003.
Genreand domain processing in an information retrievalperspective.
In ICWE, pages 399?402.Vladimir I.
A. Propp.
1968.
Morphology of the folk-tale.
University of Texas Press.Jeff Rydberg-Cox.
2011.
Social networks and the lan-guage of greek tragedy.
Journal of the Chicago Col-loquium on Digital Humanities and Computer Sci-ence, 1:1?11.Graham Alexander Sack.
2011.
Simulating plot: To-wards a generative model of narrative structure.
InComplex Adaptive Systems: Energy, Informationand Intelligence: Papers from the 2011 AAAI FallSymposium (FS-11-03), pages 127?136.Graham Sack.
2012.
Character networks for narrativegeneration.
In Intelligent Narrative Technologies:Papers from the 2012 AIIDE Workshop, AAAI Tech-nical Report WS-12-14, pages 38?43.Caroline Suen, Laney Kuenzel, and Sebastian Gil.2013.
Extraction and analysis of character inter-action networks from plays and movies.
Retrievedfrom : http://dh2013.unl.edu/abstracts/ab-251.html,July.Bin Zhang.
2013.
Learning Features for Text Classifi-cation.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Washington.39
