Proc.
of 5th Workshop on Cognitive Aspects of Computational Language Learning (CogACLL) @ EACL 2014, pages 1?2,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsChallenging incrementality in human language processing: twooperations for a cognitive architecturePhilippe BlacheAix-Marseille Universit?e & CNRSLPL (UMR7309), 13100, Aix-en-Provence, Franceblache@blri.frThe description of language complexity and thecognitive load related to the different linguisticphenomena is a key issue for the understandingof language processing.
Many studies have fo-cused on the identification of specific parametersthat can lead to a simplification or on the con-trary to a complexification of the processing (e.g.the different difficulty models proposed in (Gib-son, 2000), (Warren and Gibson, 2002), (Hawkins,2001) ).
Similarly, different simplification fac-tors can be identified, such as the notion of activa-tion, relying on syntactic priming effects making itpossible to predict (or activate) a word (Vasishth,2003).
Several studies have shown that complex-ity factors are cumulative (Keller, 2005), but canbe offset by simplification (Blache et al., 2006).
Itis therefore necessary to adopt a global point ofview of language processing, explaining the inter-play between positive and negative cumulativity,in other words compensation effects.From the computational point of view, somemodels can account more or less explicitly forthese phenomena.
This is the case of the Surprisalindex (Hale, 2001), offering for each word an as-sessment of its integration costs into the syntacticstructure.
This evaluation is done starting from theprobability of the possible solutions.
On their side,symbolic approaches also provide an estimationof the activation degree, depending on the num-ber and weight of syntactic relations to the currentword (Blache et al., 2006); (Blache, 2013).These approaches are based on the classical ideathat language processing is incremental and oc-curs word by word.
There are however several ex-perimental evidences showing that a higher levelof processing is used by human subjects.
Eye-tracking data show for example that fixations aredone by chunks, not by words (Rauzy and Blache,2012).
Similarly, EEG experiments have shownthat processing multiword expressions (for exam-ple idioms) relies on global mechanisms (Vespig-nani et al., 2010); (Rommers et al., 2013).Starting from the question of complexity and itsestimation, I will address in this presentation theproblem of language processing and its organiza-tion.
I propose more precisely, using computa-tional complexity models, to define a cohesion in-dex between words.
Such an index makes it possi-ble to define chunks (or more generally units) thatare built directly, by aggregation, instead of syn-tactic analysis.
In this hypothesis, parsing consistsin two different processes: aggregation and inte-gration.AcknowledgmentsThis work, carried out within the Labex BLRI(ANR-11-LABX-0036), has benefited from sup-port from the French government, managed bythe French National Agency for Research (ANR),under the project title Investments of the FutureA*MIDEX (ANR-11-IDEX-0001-02).Short biographyPhilipe Blache is Senior Researcher at CNRS(Aix-Marseille University, France).
He is theDirector of the BLRI (Brain and Language Re-search Institute), federating 6 research laborato-ries in Linguistics, Computer Science, Psychologyand Neurosciences.Philippe Blache earned an MA in Linguisticsfrom Universit?e de Provence and a MSc in Com-puter Science from Universit?e de la M?editerran?ee,where he received in 1990 his PhD in Artificial In-telligence.During his career, Philippe Blache has focusedon Natural Language Processing and Formal Lin-guistics, with a special interest in spoken languageanalysis.
He has proposed a linguistic theory,called Property Grammars, suitable for describ-ing language in its different uses, and explaininglinguistic domains interaction.
His current aca-1demic works address the question of human lan-guage processing and its complexity.Philippe Blache has been director of two CNRSlaboratories in France (2LC and LPL).
He hasserved on numerous boards (European Chapterof the ACL, ESSLLI standing committee, CSLP,etc.).
He is currently member of the Scien-tific Council of Aix-Marseille Universit?e, mem-ber of the ?Comit?e National de la Recherche Sci-entifique?
in computer science and he chairs theTALN conference standing committee.ReferencesPhilippe Blache, Barbara Hemforth, and St?ephaneRauzy.
2006.
Acceptability prediction by means ofgrammaticality quantification.
In ACL-44: Proceed-ings of the 21st International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics and the 44th annual meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, July.Philippe Blache.
2013.
Chunks et activation : unmod`ele de facilitation du traitement linguistique.
InProceedings of TALN-2014.Edward Gibson.
2000.
The Dependency Locality The-ory: A Distance-Based Theory of Linguistic Com-plexity.
In Alec Marantz, Yasushi Miyashita, andWayne O?Neil, editors, Image, Language, Brain,pages 95?126.
Cambridge, Massachussetts, MITPress.John Hale.
2001.
A probabilistic earley parser as apsycholinguistic model.
In Proceeding of 2nd Con-ference of the North American Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, Pittsburgh,PA.John Hawkins.
2001.
Why are categories adjacent.Journal of Linguistics, 37.Frank Keller.
2005.
Linear Optimality Theory as aModel of Gradience in Grammar.
In Gradience inGrammar: Generative Perspectives.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.St?ephane Rauzy and Philippe Blache.
2012.
Robust-ness and processing difficulty models.
a pilot studyfor eye-tracking data on the french treebank.
InProceedings of the 1st Eye-Tracking and NLP work-shop.Joost Rommers, Antje S Meyer, Peter Praamstra, andFalk Huettig.
2013.
Neuropsychologia.
Neuropsy-chologia, 51(3):437?447, February.Shravan Vasishth.
2003.
Quantifying processing dif-ficulty in human sentence parsing: The role of de-cay, activation, and similarity-based interference.In Proceedings of the European Cognitive ScienceConference 2003.Francesco Vespignani, Paolo Canal, Nicola Molinaro,Sergio Fonda, and Cristina Cacciari.
2010.
Predic-tive mechanisms in idiom comprehension.
Journalof Cognitive Neuroscience, 22(8):1682?1700.Tessa Warren and Ted Gibson.
2002.
The influence ofreferential processing on sentence complexity.
Cog-nition, 85:79?112.2
