Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages 229?232,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26?27, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPostech?s System Description for Medical Text Translation TaskJianri Li Se-Jong Kim Hwidong Na Jong-Hyeok LeeDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang, Republic of Korea{skywalker, sejong, leona, jhlee}@postech.ac.krAbstractThis short paper presents a system descriptionfor intrinsic evaluation of the WMT 14?s med-ical text translation task.
Our systems consistof phrase-based statistical machine translationsystem and query translation system betweenGerman-English language pairs.
Our work fo-cuses on the query translation task and weachieved the highest BLEU score among theall submitted systems for the English-Germanintrinsic query translation evaluation.1 OverviewThe goal of WMT14?s medical text translationtask is investigation of capability of machinetranslation (MT) technologies when it is appliedto translating texts and query terms in medicaldomain.
In our work, we focus on its applicationon cross-lingual information retrieval (CLIR)and evaluation of query translation task.CLIR techniques aim to increase the accessi-bility of web documents written by foreign lan-guage.
One of the key techniques of cross-lingualIR is query translation, which aims to translatethe input query into relevant terms in target lan-guage.One way to translate queries is dictionary-based query translation.
However, an input queryusually consists of multiple terms, which causelow coverage of bilingual dictionary.
Alternativeway is translating queries using statistical ma-chine translation (SMT) system.
However, trans-lation model could contain some noise that ismeaningless translation.
The goal of our methodis to overcome the shortcomings of these ap-proaches by a heuristic hybrid approach.As a baseline, we use phrase-based statisticalmachine translation (PBSMT) (Koehn, Och, &Marcu, 2003) techniques to handle queries thatconsist of multiple terms.
To identify multipleterms in a query, we analyze three cases of theformation of queries and generate query transla-tion candidates using term-to-term dictionariesand PBSMT system, and then score these candi-dates using co-occurrence word frequency meas-ure to select the best candidate.We have done experiment on two languagepairs?
English-German?
German-EnglishThe rest of parts in this paper are organized asfollowing: section 2 describes the techniques andsystem settings used in our experiment, section 3presents used corpus and experiment result, andsection 4 shows a brief conclusion of our work.2 Method2.1 Phrase-based machine translation sys-temThe phrase-based statistical machine translationsystem is implemented using MOSE?S toolkits(Koehn et al., 2007).
Bidirectional word align-ments were built by MGIZA 1 , a multi-threadversion of GIZA++ (Och & Ney, 2003), run on a24 threads machine.
The alignment symmetriza-tion method is grow-diag-final-and (Koehn et al.,2003), and lexicalized-reordering method is msd-bidirectional-fe (Koehn et al., 2007).For each monolingual corpus, we used a five-gram language model, which was built byIRSTLM toolkit2 (Federico, Bertoldi, & Cettolo,2008) with improved Kneser Ney smoothing(Chen & Goodman, 1996; Kneser & Ney, 1995).The language model was integrated as a log-linear feature to decoder.All the sentences in the training, developmentand test corpus were tokenized by inserting spac-es between words and punctuations, and thenconverted to most probable cases by truecaseing.Both tokenization and truecasing were done byembedded tools in the MOSE?S toolkits.
Finally,all the sentences in the train corpus were cleanedwith maximum length 80.1 http://www.kyloo.net/software2 http://sourceforge.net/projects/irstlm229Figure 1.
Flow from queries to query translation candidates for each case.2.2 Query translation systemIn general, an input query is not a full sentence.Instead, most of queries contain one or morephrases that consist of several keywords.
Fur-thermore, in the medical domain, many key-words are unfamiliar terminologies for generalusers.
Therefore, term-to-term translation dic-tionaries in medical domain could be useful re-sources to translate the queries.
In our experi-ment, we used the parallel terms from UnifiedMedical Language System (UMLS) and titles ofWikipedia in medical domain, as the term-to-term translation dictionary.First of all, if a given query is a combinationof two or more phrases that concatenated byterms like comma, coordinate conjunction, thenthe given query is divided into several singlephrases, and each of them is translated by ourSMT system as a new single query.
If the newquery satisfies one of cases shown in Figure 1,then its query translation candidates are selectedaccording to the corresponding case, and selectthe best one of them using proposed measures.Otherwise, if the new query does not satisfy anycase, the top 1 result by our PBSMT system isselected as the best query translation candidate.Our method combines the translation results ofsingle queries by following rules: 1) if the origi-nal query consists of multiple phrases concate-nated by functional words like coordinate con-junctions, then the translation results are com-bined by translated functional words, 2) if theoriginal query is concatenated by punctuation,then the results are combined by the originalpunctuation.
Finally, the final result is selectedby comparing the result from QT system andPBSMT system using the co-occurrence wordfrequency measure (see Section 2.2.4).
The fol-lowing three subsections describe how we selecttranslation candidate case by case.2.2.1 Case 1: Full matchingIf a single query exactly matches one instance inthe dictionary, query translation candidates arethe target-side entries in the translation diction-ary (Case 1 in Figure 1).
If a query translationcandidate qt is a sequence of words (w1 to wn), itis ranked by the co-occurrence word frequencymeasure (CF) using the provided articles of Wik-ipedia in the medical domain:,              (1)where freq(w1) is the frequency of a unigram w1in the articles; freq(wi, wi-1) is the frequency of a230bigram ?wi wi-1?
in the articles; and Nuni and Nbi isthe sum of frequency of all unigram and bigram,respectively.2.2.2 Case 2: Full inclusionIf a source-side entry of the term-to-term transla-tion dictionary exactly includes a query, its querytranslation candidate is its SMT result whose allwords appear in the target-side entry of the trans-lation dictionary (Case 2 in Figure 1).
Among thetop 10 results by our PBSMT system, we selectthe results satisfying this case, and rank themusing CF and our PBSMT result score(ScoreSMT):,  (2)where ?
is the weight by the provided develop-ment set; and QT is the set of query translationcandidates for a query.2.2.3 Case 1: Full matchingIf the left phrase tleft or right phrase tright of a que-ry exactly matches one instance in the dictionary,its query translation candidate is its SMT resultthat includes all words in the target-side entry ofthe translation dictionary (Case 3 in Figure 1).To rank our SMT results satisfying this case, ifthe total number of words in tleft and tright is sameor larger than that in a query, ScoreQT is used,and the other case uses the weighted ScoreQT(WScoreQT):,  (3)where N(tleft) is the number of words in tleft; and qis a given query.2.2.4 Select final resultIf a query satisfies any case above, and the can-didate with highest score is selected, then wecompare the candidate with translation of origi-nal query directly obtained from PBSMT systemusing equation (1).
The final result would be theresult with higher score between them.3 Experiment3.1 CorpusWe only use constrained data provided by WMT2014 medical translation task.To train PBSMT system, we use parallel cor-pora?
EMEA?
MuchMore?
Wikipedia-titles?
Patent-abstract, claim, title?
UMLSWe simply mixed up all available parallel cor-pora to train a unique translation model.And for English-German language pair we usemonolingual corpora?
Wikipedia-articles?
Patent-descriptions?
UMLS descriptionsAnd for German-English language pair we usemonolingual corpora?
Wikipedia-articles?
Patent-descriptions?
UMLS descriptions?
AACT?
GENIA?
GREC?
FMA?
PILWe also use target side of parallel corpora asadditional monolingual resource to train lan-guage model.
We separately train a 5-gram lan-guage model for each monolingual corpus andintegrate them as features to log-linear model inthe PBSMT system.For the query translation (QT) system, we useparallel corpus Wikipedia-titles and UMLS dic-tionary, and use monolingual corpus Wikipedia-articles.3.2 Experiment SettingFor the tuning of PBSMT system, we use devel-opment set provided by WMT 14 medical task(khresmoi-summary-dev).
And we use querytranslation development set (khresmoi-query-dev) for the tuning of QT system.We test our systems on two test set providedby WMT 14 medical task.?
khresmoi-summary-test (for PBSMT)?
khresmoi-query-test (for QT)231For comparison with result from QT system,we translate the test set of query translation task(khresmoi-query-test) using PBSMT systemwithout any post-processing.In our experiment, the performance of transla-tion system is measured by BLEU (%) and trans-lation error rate - TER (%).
All these results areevaluated from the evaluation website3.3.3 Experiment ResultTable 1 shows the results for the task of transla-tion of sentences from summaries of medicalarticles.Table 2 shows the results for the task of trans-lation of queries entered by users of medical in-formation search engines.
The performance ofQT system is relatively higher than PBSMT sys-tem.
Especially, the BLEU score of QT systemon English-German language pair is the highestscore among the all submitted systems.Language Pair BLEU TEREnglish-German 15.8 0.746German-English 26.9 0.618Table 1: BLEU scores of result from PBSMT systemfor summary translation task.Language Pair BLEU TERPBSMT English-German 15.1 0.748German-English 22.1 0.638QT English-German 15.3 0.746German-English 24.5 0.586Table 2: BLEU scores of result for query translationtask.4 ConclusionWe describe the PBSMT system and QT systemthat are developed for summary translation andquery translation of WMT 14 medical translationtask.
We focus on intrinsic query translationevaluation and propose a hybrid approach bycombining dictionary-based approach and SMTbased approach using heuristics.
The result ofquery translation experiment shows that ourmethod obtained higher translation accuracy thanthe baseline (PBSMT) system.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by the NationalKorea Science and Engineering Foundation3 http://matrix.statmt.org(KOSEF) (NRF-2010-0012662), in part by theBrain Korea 21+ Project, and in part by the Ko-rea Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE)under Grant No.10041807.ReferencesChen, S. F., & Goodman, J.
(1996).
An empiricalstudy of smoothing techniques for languagemodeling.
Paper presented at the Proceedings ofthe 34th annual meeting on Association forComputational Linguistics.Federico, M., Bertoldi, N., & Cettolo, M. (2008).IRSTLM: an open source toolkit for handling largescale language models.
Paper presented at theInterspeech.Kneser, R., & Ney, H. (1995).
Improved backing-offfor m-gram language modeling.
Paper presented atthe Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 1995.ICASSP-95., 1995 International Conference on.Koehn, P., Hoang, H., Birch, A., Callison-Burch, C.,Federico, M., Bertoldi, N., .
.
.
Herbst, E. (2007).Moses: open source toolkit for statistical machinetranslation.
Paper presented at the Proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL on InteractivePoster and Demonstration Sessions, Prague, CzechRepublic.Koehn, P., Och, F. J., & Marcu, D. (2003).
Statisticalphrase-based translation.
Paper presented at theProceedings of the 2003 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics on Human LanguageTechnology-Volume 1.Och, F. J., & Ney, H. (2003).
A systematiccomparison of various statistical alignment models.Comput.
Linguist., 29(1), 19-51. doi:10.1162/089120103321337421232
