Workshop on Humans and Computer-assisted Translation, pages 29?37,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26 April 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMeasuring the Cognitive Effort of Literal Translation ProcessesMoritz SchaefferDalgas Have 15Copenhagen Business SchoolDenmarkms.ibc@cbs.dkMichael CarlDalgas Have 15Copenhagen Business SchoolDenmarkmc.isv@cbs.dkAbstractIt has been claimed that human translators relyon some sort of literal translation equivalencesto produce translations and to check theirvalidity.
More effort would be required iftranslations are less literal.
However, to ourknowledge, there is no established metric tomeasure and quantify this claim.
This paperattempts to bridge this gap by introducing ametric for measuring literality of translationsand assesses the effort that is observed whentranslators produce translations which deviatefrom the introduced literality definition.1 IntroductionIn his seminal paper, Ivir (1981: 58) hypothisesthat:?The translator begins his search for translationequivalence from formal correspondence, and it isonly when the identical-meaning formalcorrespondent is either not available or not able toensure equivalence that he resorts to formalcorrespondents with not-quite-identical meanings orto structural and semantic shifts which destroy formalcorrespondence altogether.
But even in the latter casehe makes use of formal correspondence as a check onmeaning - to know what he is doing, so to speak.
?Related to this notion of ?formalcorrespondence?
is the law of interference whichaccounts for the observation that ?in translation,phenomena pertaining to the make-up of thesource text tend to be transferred to the targettext?
(Toury, 1995: 275).However, context or cross-linguistic differencesmay make it necessary to abandon formalcorrespondence: it is often necessary to departfrom a one-to-one correspondence betweensource and target text items, levels or ranks,which is confirmed by the statement ?without it[formal correspondence], there would be nothingto shift from?
(Malmkj?r 2011a: 61).Tirkkonen-Condit (2005) reformulates Ivir?sformal correspondence translation hypothesisinto a monitor model: ?It looks as if literaltranslation is a default rendering procedure,which goes on until it is interrupted by a monitorthat alerts about a problem in the outcome.
?Tirkkonen-Condit (2005:408)Thus, the formal correspondence hypothesis, theliteral translation default rendering procedure,the law of interference and the monitor model areall related concepts which seem to assume thatone-to-one literal translation correspondences areeasier to produce than translations that formallydeviate from the source text, as the latter wouldrequire more effort, and hence will take longerfor a translator to produce.While it has been difficult to describe in whatexactly consist literal translation (Malmkj?r2011b), we define (ideal) literal translation inthis paper by the following criteria:a) Word order is identical in the source andtarget languagesb) Source and target text items correspond one-to-one29Killer nurse receives four live sentences11 asesino 7 el_enfermero 15 recibe 28 cuatro 12 perpetuas 13 cadenas6 el_asesino 5 enfermero_asesino 3 es_condenado12 cadenas 11 perpetuas3 el_enfermero 4 enfermero 3 condenado_a2 asesino2 enfermero_asesino 4 asesino 2 recibe_a3 un_enfermero2 enfermerac) Each source word has only one possibletranslated form in the given contextAlthough this definition of literality ignores awide range of phenomena and kinds ofequivalence, it allows for quantification andcomparison across multiple languages.
Any(voluntary or structural) deviation from thesecriteria would imply a relaxation from a literaltranslation and thus lead to greater effort, asmeasured by e.g.
longer production times andmore gaze activities.In this paper we assess this hypothesis byanalyzing the gazing behavior of translators.
As abasis for our investigation we use the TPR-DB(Carl, 2012), which currently contains more than940 text production sessions (translation, post-editing, editing and copying) in more than 10different languages1.
For each translation andpost-editing session keystroke and gaze data wascollected and stored, and translations weremanually aligned.
The TPR-DB is thereforeideally suited for answering aspects of thecognitive processes during translation which areshared across individuals and languagecombinations.In section 2 we operationalize literal translationfrom a process point of view.
We describe atransducer to measure the similarity of wordorder in the source and target language strings, toaccount for criteria (a) and (b).
We introduce the1 The figures relate to TPR-DBv1.4 which can bedownloaded from:http://bridge.cbs.dk/platform/?q=CRITT_TPR-dbnotion of translation choices, derived from acorpus of alternative translations to account forcriterion (c) above.
In section 3, we correlate thepredictions of the literal translation defaultrendering procedure with observed translators?behavior.
Section 4 discusses the results.2 Operationalizing literal translationIn this section, we first present a quantificationof translation choices (literality criterion c) andthen describe the computation of alignment crossvalues which account for literality criterion (b)and (c).2.1 Translation ChoicesA source word can often be translated in manydifferent ways.
In order to quantify suchtranslation choices, Choice Network Analysishas been suggested (Campbell, 2000) as amethod to infer cognitive processes from thedifferent choices made by different translators:the more choices and the more complex choicesa translator has to consider, the more effortful thetranslation of this particular item is.
Campbell(2000) argues that translations by differenttranslators of the same source text can be used todraw inferences about the cognitive processesduring translation.In line with these considerations, to estimate thetranslation effort for lexical selection, we countthe number of different translation realizationsfor each word.
We use the TPR-DB (Carl, 2012,Carl et al.
2014) which contains (among others) alarge number of different translations for thesame source text.
For instance, Figure 1 showsthe number of Spanish translation choicesFigure 1: Translation choices and numbers of occurrences as retrieved from 31 En -> ES translations in the TPR-DB30produced by 31 different translators for the sameEnglish source sentence.
Figure 1 only showstranslations which occur at least twice.
Figure 2shows one of the realized translations.There is a considerable variance in the number oftranslation variants for different words.
In 11 outof 31 translations ?Killer?
was aligned with?asesino?, in 6 cases with ?el asesino?
etc.
whilefor 28 out of 31 cases ?four?
was translated as?cuatro?.
Thus, according to the abovehypothesis, the translation production of ?Killer?would be more effortful than it would be totranslate ?live?
than the translation of ?four?.Figure 2: Oracle translation with wordalignments2.2 Alignment crossingsIn order to quantify translation locality criterion(a) and (b), we adopt a local metric to quantifythe similarity of the source and target languageword order, relative to the previous alignmentposition.
The metric is implemented as atransducer which produces translations word byword, writing the correct target language wordorder into an output buffer, while a readingdevice successively scans the source text to findthe reference word(s) for the next word in thetranslation.Given a reference source text (ST), an outputoracle translation (TT), and the ST-TTalignments (as in Figure 2), the CrossT valuesindicate the distance between ST referenceexpressions of successive TT words, in terms ofprogressions and regressions.For instance, assume the English source sentence?Killer nurse receives four live sentences?
wastranslated into Spanish with the alignmentrelations as shown in Figure 2.
In order toproduce the first Spanish TT word ?El?, twoEnglish words (?Killer?
and ?nurse?)
have to beconsumed in the reference text, which results in aCross value of 2.
Since the second source word(?nurse?)
emits two adjacent TT words, nofurther ST word has to be consumed to produce?enfermero?, which results in the value Cross=0.To produce the third Spanish word, ?asesino?,one ST word to the left of ?nurse?
has to beprocessed, leading to the Cross value -1.
Thenext Spanish word ?recibe?
is the translation oftwo words to the right of the current ST cursorposition; ?cuatro?
one ST word ahead etc.
withtheir respective Cross values of 2 and 1.
Figure 3illustrates this process.
The inclined reader maycontinue this example and reconstruct how theCrossT values {2,0,-1,2,1,2,-1} are incrementallygenerated.
Thus, Cross values indicate theminimum length of the progressions andregressions on the reference text required togenerate the output string.Figure 3: Computation of alignment crossings (CrossT) aslength of progressions and regressions in the reference ST.Cross values can also be computed from thesource text.
For the CrossS values we would then31assume the ST text to be the output text and theTT text to be the reference.While CrossT values reflect the alignment effortfor mapping ST tokens on the TT structure, as isrequired for translation production, CrossSvalues have a reverse interpretation, as theyrepresent the mapping effort of TT tokens on theST structure, as is more likely the case duringrevision.
Figure 4 shows the CrossS values forthe sentence in Figure 2.
Note that the sequenceof CrossT and CrossS are not symmetrical: in thegiven example CrossS: {3,-2,3,1,2,-1}.
In section3 we will show that both types of effort occur intranslation and in post-editing.The Cross value is small if source and targetlanguages are (structurally) similar, and consistsonly of one-to-one token correspondences.
Themore both languages structurally differ or theless compositional the translations are, the biggerwill become the Cross values.Similarly, we expect to observe a larger numberof translation choices as semantic shifts areintroduced by the translator or if only ?not-quite-identical meanings?
are available.3 Translators behaviourDifferent parts of the TPR-DB have been usedfor the different analysis reported in this section.A set of 313 translations have been investigatedto map translation crossings in section 3.1;  86sessions were used for the post-editingexperiment in section 3.2, and 24 translations fortranslation choices reported in section 3.3.A simple linear regression was carried, toascertain the extent to which total reading time(GazeS and GazeT) can be predicted by Crossvalues in sections 3.1 and 3.2, and by translationchoices in section 3.3.
The correlation for Crossvalues in sections 31 and 3.2 was calculated fromvalue 1 to the peak in each distribution in thenegative and positive directions.
Only Crossvalues from -8 to 8 are reported because itemswith higher Cross values are very rare, resultingin vastly unequal numbers of items.3.1 Alignment CrossingThis section reports an analysis of 313translation sessions with 17 different source textsinto six different languages as contained in theTPR-DB.
The target languages were Danish,Spanish, English, Chinese, Hindi and German;the source languages were English and Danish.Figure 5 depicts gazing time on an ST token witha given CrossT value, while Figure 6 depictsgazing time on the TT tokens with a givenCrossS value.
These figures show that higherCrossT and CrossS values are strongly correlatedwith GazeS and GazeT and thus more effortful toprocess than lower CrossT and CrossS values.Figure 5: Average gazing time (vertical) on ST token withdifferent CrossT values (horizontal)Correlation between CrossT values and TotalReading Time on Source TextAs shown in Figure 5, a strong positivecorrelation was found between CrossT valuesand total reading time on the source text (r=.97for negative CrossT values and r=.91 for positiveCrossT values).
The regression model predictedFigure 4: ST alignment crossings (CrossS), as generatedwhen checking the ST against the TT3297% and 82% of the variance for negative andpositive values.
The model was a good fit for thedata (F=205.7, p<.0005 and F=22.89, p<.005,respectively).
For every single increase in thenegative CrossT value, the total reading time onthe source text increased by 516ms, for positiveCrossT value, the total reading time on thesource text increased by 347ms.Figure 6: Average gazing time (vertical) on TT tokens fordifferent CrossS values (horizontal)Correlation between CrossS values and TotalReading Time on Target TextAlso for negative and positive CrossS values andtotal reading time on the TT a strong positivecorrelation was found (r=.92 and r=.93,respectively).
The regression model predicted84% and 85% of the variance, and was a good fitfor the data (F=36.97, p<.001, F=30.69, p<.003).For every single increase in the negative CrossSvalue, the total reading time on the target textincreased by 389ms, for positive CrossS valuesthe total reading time on the target text increasedby 301ms.3.2 Alignment crossing in post-editingThis section reports an analysis over 86 differentpost-editing sessions from the TPR-DB of 9different English source texts which weretranslated into three different target languages,German, Hindi and Spanish.
As in section 3.1 theanalysis shows that CrossT and CrossS valuescorrelate with the total reading time per word(GazeS and GazeT).
Figures 7 and 8 plot gazingtimes on ST and TT token with different CrossTand CrossS values during post-editing.Figure 7: Average gazing time on ST tokens during post-editing for different CrossT values (horizontal)Correlation between CrossT values and totalreading time on source textFigure 8: Average gazing time (vertical) on TT tokensduring post-editing for different CrossS values (horizontal)Similarly, a strong positive correlation was foundbetween negative CrossT values and totalreading time on the source text (r=.95 and r=.98),and the regression model predicted 88% and94% of the variance for negative and positiveCrossT values.
The model was a good fit for thedata (F=38.50, p<.003 and F=67.56, p<.004).
Forevery single increase of the negative CrossTvalue, the total reading time on the target textincreased by 723ms, while for positive CrossTvalues reading time increased by 566ms.33Correlation between CrossS values and totalreading time on target textA strong positive correlation was found betweenCrossS values and total reading time on thetarget text (r=.95), and the regression modelpredicted 87% and 89% of the variance fornegative and positive CrossS values respective.The model was a good fit for the data (F=35.26,p<.004 and F=38.50, p<.003).
For every singleincrease in the negative CrossS value, the totalreading time on the target text increased by1179ms, while for positive CrossS valuesreading time increased by 1016ms.3.3 Translation choicesThe data used for translation from scratch usedfor this purpose are 24 translations of 3 differenttexts from English into Danish and the data forpost-editing used for this purpose are 65 post-edited translations of 9 different source textsinvolving one source language (English) and twotarget languages (German and Spanish).
Thenumber of alternative translations for everysource item of the different source texts werecounted.
Only words which had up to 9alternative choices were included in the analysis,partly so that a comparison between translationfrom scratch and post-editing was possible andpartly because there are few items with morethan 9 alternative translations.Figure 9: Correlation of alternative translation (horizontal)and average production time (vertical) for translation(TRA) and post-editing (PE).Correlation between duration and alternativesAs shown in Figure 9, for translation fromscratch and for post-editing there was a strongcorrelation between the time it took participantsto produce a target word and the number ofalternatives for every source word (r=.89 andr=.99, respectively).
With few choices post-editors are quicker than translators, but thisdistance decreases as the number of translationchoices increase.
The regression model predicted76% and 97% of the variance and was a good fitfor the data (F=26.14, p<.001) for Translationand (F=269.50, p<.0001) for post-editing.
Forevery increase in the number of alternatives, theproduction time increased by 117ms,respectively 278ms for translation and post-editing.Figure 10: Correlation of alternative translation(horizontal) and average gazing time on TT words (vertical)during translation (TRA) and post-editing (PE).Correlation between total reading time on thetarget text and alternativesSimilarly, Figure 10 depicts a strong correlationfor translation from scratch and for post-editingbetween the total reading time on the target textper word and the number of translation choicesfor every source word (r=.90 and r=.87respectively).
The regression model predicted77% and 72% of the variance and the model wasa good fit for the data; F=28.45, p<.001 andF=21.80, p<.002 for translation and post-editingrespectively.
For every increase in the number ofalternatives, the total reading time on the targettext increased by 153ms, and 120ms.Correlation between total reading time on thetarget text and alternativesFor translation from scratch, there was a strongcorrelation between total reading time on thesource text per word and he number ofalternatives for every source word (r=.76), butthe regression model only predicted 52% of thevariance.
The model was a good fit for the data34(F = 9.74 , p < .017).
For every increase in thenumber of alternatives, the total reading time onthe source text increased by a modest 47ms.Figure 11 Correlation of alternative translation (horizontal)and average gazing time on ST words (vertical) duringtranslation (TRA) and post-editing (PE).However, as depicted in Figure 11, for post-editing there was no correlation between totalreading time on the source text per word and thenumber of alternatives for every source word.4 DiscussionThe investigation reported here is not the first ofits kind.
Dragsted (2012) compared eyemovement measures (total reading time andnumber of fixations) and pauses for words whichwere translated by 8 participants using the sametarget word with words for which the eightparticipants used different words.She found that the total reading time and thenumber of fixations on words with many (5-8)alternatives target text items was significantlyhigher than the number of fixations on wordswith only one or two different target items.
Shealso found that the pauses prior to critical wordswere longer for words with many alternatives ascompared to words with one or two alternatives.This seems to confirm the assumption that themore lexical choices a translator has to consider,the more effortful the processing of this itembecomes.
Campbell (2000: 38) suggests that ?thecomplexity of choices available to the translatorto select from?
can be taken as a measure of theeffort of the related cognitive processes.Our analysis investigates this suggestion on alarger scale, involving more language pairs andtwo conditions: translation from scratch andpost-editing.
It shows similar results to those ofDragsted (2012), but in addition shows thateffect of alternatives on production time perword was much stronger for post-editing ascompared to translation (171ms for translationvs.
278ms for post-editing).
This suggests thathighly (translation) ambiguous texts shouldperhaps not be considered for post-editing.
In(Carl and Schaeffer, 2014) we look at this effectin more detail by investigating the wordtranslation entropy in human and machineproduced translations and propose a translationambiguity threshold that might be suitable forpost-editing.The effect of translation choices on total TTreading time was comparable for translation andpost-editing (153ms for translation vs. 120 forpost-editing).
For total ST reading time there wasno effect for post-editing, while every additionaltranslation choice increased the total ST readingtime by 47ms, however modest compared to theeffect on TT reading time.
This finding suggeststhat in from scratch translation choices arealready processed during ST reading, whileduring post-editing choices are consideredmainly when the gaze is on the TT.As a second variable we investigate ST-TTcrossing values.
Higher Cross values indicatenon-monotonous translation relations such aslocal distortions of ST-TT alignment,discontinuous, idiomatic or multi-word units, allof which require larger sequences of the sourceand/or target text to be integrated and related,and thus increased effort when maintaining andprocessing larger numbers of items in workingmemory.
The large increases of total ST readingtime for tokens with higher CrossT values intranslation and post-editing suggests thatintegrating larger ST chunks is also moreeffortful during translation and post-editing.Similar findings are also reported by Jensen et al.
(2010) who investigate gazing time for English-Danish verbal translations when they switch theirsentence position (SVO ?
SOV) vs. they remainin both languages in the same sentence position(SVO ?
SVO).
Our investigation generalizes35these finding to different language pairs and allkinds of relative ST-TT distortion.Another observation is related to the largeincreases in total TT reading time for higherCrossS values, during translation and post-editing.
This observation suggests that translatorsnot only read the ST to generate a TT equivalent,but they also check the produced TT whether itcorresponds to the ST. As one could expect, thistendency is very pronounced during post-editing,but appears interestingly also during translationfrom scratch.
The observation is in line with aprevious assumption of Carl and Dragsted (2012:141) who find that source text related processesare ?triggered by problems associated with textproduction rather than?
during source textreading.Note that for all analysis, both translation andpost-editing, reading time increased much morewith negative Cross values than this is the casefor positive Cross values.
This coincides with thefinding that regressions - which negative Crossvalues reflect - are more effortful to process thanprogressions, since regressions often mirrormisunderstanding and imply the integration ofalready parsed input text (e.g.
Reichle et al2009).5 Conclusion and outlookThere has been some discussion in the translationprocess research (TPR) literature on the?tendency of the translating process to proceedliterally to a certain extent?
Tirkkonen-Condit(2004: 183), where a deviation from the idealdefault translation would result in higher effort.However, to our knowledge the literal defaulttranslation hypothesis has never been quantifiedand empirically assessed in a larger context.
Inthis paper we bridge this gap.
We provide aquantifiable definition of literal translation as acontinuous concept involving alternativetranslation choices and source-target distortions,apply it to a collection of translation and post-editing sessions from the TPR-DB and assesstranslation effort by measuring gazing andtranslation time.
We find that gaze activity andproduction time is inversely proportional to theliterality of the produced translations.
Usinglinear regression we find in particular:?
More translation choices lead to longerreading and processing time?
Longer relative source-target languagedistortions increase gaze activity.?
Regressions are more effortful thanprogressions?
Translators and post-editors map notonly the source text against the target, butalso the target against the source textThese findings suggest a model in which,paradoxically, translators already know thetranslations which they produce; they merelyrefer to the ST - and to the TT for cross-checking- to verify the translation hypothesis which theyalready have in mind.A number of issues remain open for furtherresearch.
For instance, the impact of the targetlanguage and the (syntactic) similarity of thesource and target languages.
According to thehypothesis supported here, closely relatedlanguages with similar word order and similarconceptual repository will more likely have moreliteral translations.
They will more often consistof monotonous one-to-one translations,approaching an ideal literal translation(Schaeffer, 2013).
The more syntactic reorderingbetween source and target text take place themore it will become non-literal.Another set of questions relates to whether andhow the methods discussed here can be used toassess the cognitive effort for translating and/orpost-editing entire sentences and texts and theimpact on post-editing practice.AcknowledgmentsThis project has received funding from theEuropean Union's Seventh FrameworkProgramme for research, technologicaldevelopment and demonstration under grant36agreement no 287576.
We are grateful to allcontributors to the TPR database for allowing usthe use of their data.ReferencesCampbell, Stuart.
2000.
?Choice Network Analaysisin Translation Research.?
In InterculturalFaultlines.
Research Models in Translation StudiesI.
Textual and Cognitive Aspects, edited by MaeveOlohan, 29?42.
Manchester: St Jerome.Carl, Michael.
2012.
?The CRITT TPR-DB 1.0: ADatabase for Empirical Human Translation ProcessResearch.?
In Proceedings of the AMTA 2012Workshop on Post-Editing Technology andPractice (WPTP 2012), edited by Sharon O?Brien,Michel Simard, and Lucia Specia, 9?18.Stroudsburg, PA: Association for MachineTranslation in the Americas (AMTA).Carl, Michael, Mercedes Garc?a Mart?nez, Bartolom?Mesa-Lao, Nancy Underwood.
2014.
?CFT13: Anew resource for research into the post-editingprocess.?
Proceedings of LRECCarl, Michael, and Barbara Dragsted.
2012.
?Insidethe Monitor Model?
: Processes of Default andChallenged Translation Production.?
Translation:Computation, Corpora, Cognition 2 (1): 127?145.Carl, Michael, and Moritz Schaeffer (2014) ?WordTransition Entropy as an Indicator for ExpectedMachine Translation Quality?, Proceedings ofLRECDragsted, Barbara.
2012.
?Indicators of Difficulty inTranslation ?
Correlating Product and ProcessData.?
Across Languages and Cultures 13 (1)(June 1): 81?98.
doi:10.1556/Acr.13.2012.1.5.http://www.akademiai.com/openurl.asp?genre=article&id=doi:10.1556/Acr.13.2012.1.5.Ivir, Vladimir.
1981.
?Formal Correspondence Vs.Translation Equivalence Revisited.?
Poetics Today2 (4): 51?59.Jensen, Kristian T.H., Annette C. Sj?rup, and LauraW.
Balling.
2010.
?Effects of L1 Syntax on L2Translation.?
In Methodology, Technology andInnovation in Translation Process Research: ATribute to Arnt Lykke Jakobsen, edited by F. Alves,S.
pferich, and Mees Inger M., 319?336.Copenhagen: Samfundslitteratur.Malmkj?r, Kirsten.
2011a.
?Linguistic Approaches toTranslation.?
In Oxford Handbook of TranslationStudies, edited by Kirsten Malmkj?r and KevinWindle, 57?70.
Oxford: OUP.Malmkj?r, Kirsten.
2011b.
?Translation Universals.
?In The Oxford Handbook of Translation Studies,edited by Kirsten Malmkj?r and Kevin Windle,83?94.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Reichle, Erik D., Tessa Warren, Kerry McConnell.(2009).
?Using E-Z Reader to model the effects ofhigher level language processing on eyemovements during reading.?
Psychonomic Bulletin& Review, 16(1), 1?21.Schaeffer, Moritz.
2013.
The Ideal Literal TranslationHypothesis: The Role of Shared RepresentationsDuring Translation.
PhD Thesis.
University ofLeicester.Tirkkonen-Condit, Sonja.
2004.
?Unique Items: Over-or Under-Represented in Translated Language??
InTranslation Universals: Do They Exist?Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.Tirkkonen-Condit, Sonja.
2005.
?The Monitor ModelRevisited: Evidence from Process Research.
?Meta: Translators?
Journal 50 (2): 405?414.Toury, Gideon.
1995.
Descriptive Translation Studiesand Beyond.
Benjamins Translation Library V4.Vol.
75.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: JohnBenjamins.37
