Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH) @ EACL 2014, pages 100?109,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsFrom Syntax to Semantics.
First Steps Towards TectogrammaticalAnnotation of LatinMarco PassarottiCIRCSE Research CentreUniversit?
Cattolica del Sacro CuoreLargo Gemelli, 1 ?
20123 Milan, Italymarco.passarotti@unicatt.itAbstractAssuming that collaboration betweentheoretical and computational linguistics isessential in projects aimed at developinglanguage resources like annotated corpora, thispaper presents the first steps of the semanticannotation of the Index Thomisticus Treebank,a dependency-based treebank of MedievalLatin.
The semantic layer of annotation of thetreebank is detailed and the theoreticalframework supporting the annotation style isexplained and motivated.1 IntroductionStarted in 1949 by father Roberto Busa SJ, theIndex Thomisticus (IT; Busa, 1974-1980) hasrepresented a groundbreaking project that laidthe foundations of computational linguistics andliterary computing.
The IT is a morphologicallytagged and lemmatized corpus of Medieval Latincontaining the opera omnia of Thomas Aquinas(118 texts), as well as 61 texts by other authorsrelated to Thomas, for a total of around 11million tokens.The Index Thomisticus Treebank (IT-TB:http://itreebank.marginalia.it) is the syntacticallyannotated portion of the IT.
Presently, the IT-TBincludes around 220,000 nodes (approximately,12,000 sentences).The project of the IT-TB is now entering anew phase aimed at enhancing the availablesyntactic annotation with semantic metadata.Starting such a task needs to choose a theoreticalapproach and framework that supports theannotation style.
Indeed, performing linguisticannotation of a textual corpus should be strictlyconnected to fundamental issues in theoreticallinguistics in a kind of virtuous circle.
On itsside, theoretical linguistics serves as thenecessary backbone for solid annotationguidelines; no theory-neutral representation of asentence is possible, since every representationstyle needs a theory to extract its meaning.
Onthe other hand, applying a theoretical frameworkto real data makes it possible to empirically testand possibly refine it.
According to EvaHaji?ov?, ?corpus annotation serves, amongother things, as an invaluable test for thelinguistic theories standing behind the annotationschemes, and as such represents an irreplaceableresource of linguistic information for theconstruction and enrichment of grammars, bothformal and theoretical?
(Haji?ov?, 2006: 466).Further, the task of developing languageresources like annotated corpora supportsinteraction between intuition-based and corpus-based/-driven approaches in theoreticallinguistics (Tognini-Bonelli, 2001).
No intuition-based grammar is able to manage all the possible100variations in real data, and no induction-basedgrammar can reflect all the possible well-formedconstructions of a language (Aarts, 2002;Sinclair, 2004a).This paper describes the first steps towards thesemantic annotation of the IT-TB, by firstpresenting and motivating its theoreticalbackground (section 2) and then sampling anumber of specific aspects of annotation (section3).
Finally, section 4 reports a discussion andsketches the future work.2 The Theoretical Background of theIndex Thomisticus TreebankHosted at the CIRCSE research centre of theUniversit?
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore in Milan,Italy (http://centridiricerca.unicatt.it/circse), theIT-TB is a dependency-based treebank(McGillivray et al., 2009).
The choice of arepresentation framework alone does notdetermine the representation for a givensentence, as there can be many (correct)dependency-based (as well as constituency-based) trees for even simple sentences.
Thus, afine-grained linguistic theory must be selected tosupport the specific aspects raised by a large-scale annotation of real data.
In this respect, theannotation style of the IT-TB is based onFunctional Generative Description (FGD; Sgallet al., 1986), a dependency-based theoreticalframework developed in Prague and intensivelyapplied and tested while building the PragueDependency Treebank of Czech (PDT).FGD is rooted in Praguian structuralism-functionalism dating back to the 30s, oneassumption of which is the stratificationalapproach to sentence analysis pursued byFunctional Sentence Perspective (FSP), alinguistic theory developed by Jan Firbas in themid-1950s on the basis of Vil?m Mathesius?work (Firbas, 1992).
According to FSP, thesentence is conceived as: (a) a singular andindividual speech event [utterance-event]; (b)one of the possible different minimalcommunicative units (means) of the givenlanguage [form]; (c) an abstract structure (apattern) [meaning].Considering language as a form-meaningcomposite is a basic assumption also of FGD,which is particularly focused on the last pointabove, aiming at the description of the so-called?underlying syntax?
of the sentence.
Underlyingsyntax (the meaning) is separated from (but stillconnected with) surface syntax (the form) andrepresents the linguistic (literal) meaning of thesentence, which is described through dependencytree-graphs.This approach is consistent with the functionaland pragmatic analysis of language pursued bythe Prague Linguistic Circle since its verybeginning, along the so-called ?first period?
ofthe Circle (Raynaud, 2008).
Language isconceived as ?un syst?me de moyensd?expression appropri?s ?
un but?
(?a system ofpurposive means?
; Cercle linguistique de Prague,1929: 7).
The ?moyens d?expression?
correspondto the ?form?
(surface syntax), while the fact thatthey are ?appropri?s ?
un but?
corresponds to the?meaning?
(underlying syntax).The description of surface and underlyingsyntax in FGD is dependency-based mostlybecause dependency grammars are predicate-focused grammars.
This enables FGD to face oneof the basic statements of the Prague LinguisticCircle: ?l?acte syntagmatique fondamental [?
]est la pr?dication?
(?the basic syntagmatic act ispredication?
; Cercle linguistique de Prague,1929: 13).
Further, during the second period ofthe theory of predication pursued by the Circle,while accounting for the three-level approach tosentence in FSP, Dane?
claims that ?
[t]he kernelsyntactic relation is that of dependance?
(Dane?,1964: 227) and stresses the strict connectionholding between form and meaning: ?we areconvinced that the interrelations of both levels,semantic and grammatical must necessarily bestated in order to give a full account of an overalllinguistic system?
(Dane?, 1964: 226).Consistently with such a theoreticalbackground, the PDT (as well as the IT-TB) is a101dependency-based treebank with a three-layerstructure, in which each layer corresponds to oneof the three views of sentence mentioned above(Haji?
et al., 2000).
The layers are ordered asfollows:- a morphological layer: morphologicaltagging and lemmatization;- an ?analytical?
layer (i.e.
the presentlyavailable layer of annotation of the IT-TB): annotation of surface syntax;- a ?tectogrammatical?
layer: annotation ofunderlying syntax.The development of each layer requires theavailability of the previous one(s).
Both theanalytical and the tectogrammatical layersdescribe the sentence structure with dependencytree-graphs, respectively named analytical treestructures (ATSs) and tectogrammatical treestructures (TGTSs).In ATSs every word and punctuation mark ofthe sentence is represented by a node of a rooteddependency tree.
The edges of the treecorrespond to dependency relations that arelabelled with (surface) syntactic functions called?analytical functions?
(like Subject, Object etc.
).TGTSs describe the underlying structure ofthe sentence, conceived as the semanticallyrelevant counterpart of the grammatical means ofexpression (described by ATSs).
The nodes ofTGTSs represent autosemantic words only, whilefunction words and punctuation marks are leftout.
The nodes are labeled with semantic roletags called ?functors?.
These are divided into twoclasses according to valency: (a) arguments,called ?inner participants?, i.e.
obligatorycomplementations of verbs, nouns, adjectivesand adverbs: Actor, Patient, Addressee, Effectand Origin; (b) adjuncts, called ?freemodifications?
: different kinds of adverbials, likePlace, Time, Manner etc..
The ?dialogue test?
byPanevov?
(1974-1975) is used as the guidingcriterion for obligatoriness.
TGTSs feature twodimensions that represent respectively thesyntactic structure of the sentence (the verticaldimension) and its information structure (?topic-focus articulation?, TFA), based on theunderlying word order (the horizontaldimension).
In FGD, TFA deals with theopposition between contextual boundness (the?given?
information, on the left) and contextualunboundness (the ?new?
information, on theright).
Also ellipsis resolution and coreferentialanalysis are performed at the tectogrammaticallayer and are represented in TGTSs throughnewly added nodes (ellipsis) and arrows(coreference).Since its beginning, the IT-TB has beenfollowing the PDT annotation style for bothtypological and structural reasons.
As far as theformer are concerned, Latin and Czech sharecertain relevant properties, such as being richlyinflected, showing discontinuous phrases, andhaving a moderately free word-order and a highdegree of synonymity and ambiguity of theendings.
Both languages have three genders(masculine, feminine, neuter), cases with roughlythe same meaning and no articles.
As for thelatter, the tight connection between the three-layer structure of the PDT and a soundbackground theory like FGD integrates eachlayer of annotation into a more generalframework driven by a functional perspectiveaimed at understanding the underlying meaningof sentences through its relation with the surfaceform.
Moreover, tectogrammatical annotationincludes several pragmatic aspects that, althoughmuch present in Latin linguistics research, arestill missing from the available treebanks ofLatin1.The organization of functors into innerparticipants and free modifications is furtherexploited by linking textual tectogrammaticalannotation with fundamental lexical information1Some semantic-pragmatic annotation of Latin textsis available only in the PROIEL corpus (Haug &J?ndal, 2008).
The Latin subset of PROIEL includesClassical texts from the 1st century BC (Caesar,Cicero), the Peregrinatio Aetheriae and the NewTestament by Jerome (both from the 5th century AD).102provided by a valency lexicon that features thevalency frame(s) for all those verbs, nouns,adjectives and adverbs capable of valency thatoccur in the treebank.
The valency lexicon of theIT-TB is being built in a corpus-driven fashion,by adding to the lexicon all the valency-capablewords that annotators progressively get through2.3 Moving From Analytical toTectogrammatical Tree StructuresAs the tectogrammatical annotation of the IT-TBhas just started and no Latin texts annotated atthe tectogrammatical layer are available yet, wecannot train and use probabilistic NLP tools tobuild TGTSs.
Thus, the annotation workflow isbased on TGTSs automatically converted fromATSs.
The TGTSs that result from conversionare then checked and refined manually by twoindependent annotators.
Conversion is performedby adapting to Latin a number of ATS-to-TGTSscripts provided by the NLP framework Treexdeveloped in Prague (Popel and ?abokrtsk?,2010).
Relying on ATSs, the basic functions ofthese scripts are: (a) to collapse ATSs nodes offunction words and punctuation marks, as theyno longer receive a node for themselves inTGTSs, but are included into the autosemanticnodes; (b) to assign basic functors (such as Actorand Patient); (c) to assign ?grammatemes?, i.e.semantic counterparts of morphologicalcategories (for instance, pluralia tantum aretagged with the number grammateme ?singular?
).The annotation guidelines are those for thetectogrammatical layer of the PDT (Mikulov?
etal., 2006).In the following, three examples oftectogrammatical annotation of sentences takenfrom the IT-TB are reported and discussed indetail.2A syntactic-based valency lexicon of the IT-TB(named IT-VaLex) was induced automatically fromthe analytical layer of the treebank and made availableon-line (http://itreebank.marginalia.it/itvalex)(McGillivray and Passarotti, 2009).3.1 Example AFigure 1 reports the ATS of the followingsentence of the IT-TB: ?tunc enim unaquaequeres optime disponitur cum ad finem suumconvenienter ordinatur;?
(?So, each thing isexcellently arranged when it is properly directedto its purpose;?, Summa contra Gentiles 1.1).Figure 1.
Analytical Tree Structure AExcept for the technical root of the tree(holding the textual reference of the sentence),each node in the ATS corresponds to one wordor punctuation mark in the sentence.
Nodes arearranged from left to right according to surfaceword-order.
They are connected in governor-dependent fashion and each relation is labelledwith an analytical function.
For instance, therelation between the word res and its governordisponitur is labelled with the analytical functionSb (Subject), i.e.
res is the subject of disponitur.Four kinds of analytical functions that occur inthe tree are assigned to auxiliary sentencemembers, namely AuxC (subordinatingconjunctions: cum), AuxK (terminal punctuationmarks), AuxP (prepositions: ad) and AuxY(sentence adverbs: enim, tunc).
The otheranalytical functions occurring in this sentencesare the following: Atr (attributes), Adv (adverbsand adverbial modifications, i.e.
adjuncts), AuxS103(root of the tree), Obj (direct and indirectobjects), Pred (main predicate of the sentence).Figure 2 shows the TGTS corresponding to theATS of this sentence.Figure 2.
Tectogrammatical Tree Structure A3As only autosemantic nodes can occur inTGTSs, auxiliary sentence members labelledwith AuxC, AuxK, or AuxP are collapsed.Analytical functions are replaced withfunctors.
The nodes of the lemmas tunc and enimare both assigned the functor PREC, since theyrepresent expressions linking the clause to thepreceding context; further, tunc and enim aregiven nodetype ?atom?
(atomic nodes), which isused for adverbs of attitude, intensifying ormodal expressions, rhematizers and textconnectives (which is the case of tunc and enim)(Mikulov?
et al., 2006: 17).
Res is the Patient(PAT) of dispono, as it is the syntactic subject ofa passive verbal form (disponitur)4.
Both theadverbial forms of bonus (optime) and convenio(convenienter) are labelled with functor MANN,which expresses manner by specifying anevaluating characteristic of the event, or a3In the default visualization of TGTSs, wordformsare replaced with lemmas.4Conversely, syntactic subjects of active verbal formsare usually labelled with the functor ACT (Actor).However, this does not always hold true, since thefunctor of the subject depends on the semanticfeatures of the verb.property.
Unusquisque is a pronominal restrictiveadnominal modification (RSTR) that furtherspecifies the governing noun res.
The clauseheaded by ordinatur (lemma: ordino; analyticalfunction: Adv) is assigned the functor COND, asit reports the condition on which the eventexpressed by the governing verb (disponitur;lemma: dispono) can happen.
The lemma finis isassigned the functor DIR3 (Directional: to),which expresses the target point of the event.Finis is then specified by an adnominalmodification of appurtenance (APP).Three newly added nodes occur in the tree(square nodes), to provide ellipsis resolution ofthose arguments of the verbs dispono and ordinothat are missing in the surface structure.
Disponois a two-argument verb (the two arguments beingrespectively the Actor and the Patient), but onlythe Patient is explicitly expressed in the sentence,i.e.
the syntactic subject res.
The missingargument, i.e.
the Actor (ACT), is thus replacedwith a ?general argument?
(#Gen), because thecoreferred element of the omitted modificationcannot be clearly identified, even with the helpof the context.
The same holds also for the Actorof the verb ordino (#Gen), whose Patient(#PersPron, PAT) is coreferential with the nounres, as well as the possessive adjective suus(#PersPron, APP).
In the TGTS, thesecoreferential relations are shown by the bluearrows that link the two #PersPron nodes withthe node of res.
#PersPron is a ?t-lemma?
(tectogrammatical lemma) assigned to nodesrepresenting possessive and personal pronouns(including reflexives).The nodes in the TGTS are arranged from leftto right according to TFA, which is signalled bythe colour of the nodes (white nodes: topic;yellow nodes: focus) A so-called ?semantic partof speech?
is assigned to each node: for instance,?denotational noun?
is assigned to finis.
Finally,the illocutionary force class informing about thesentential modality is assigned to the mainpredicate of the sentence dispono (?enunciative?
).1043.2 Example BFigure 3 shows the ATS of this sentence: ?undeet earum artifices, qui architectores vocantur,nomen sibi vindicant sapientum.?
(?Thus, alsothe makers of them, who are called architects,claim the title of wise men for themselves?,Summa contra Gentiles 1.1).Figure 3.
Analytical Tree Structure BIn addition to the analytical functions assignedto auxiliary sentence members in the tree offigure 1, this tree features one occurrence ofAuxZ (particles that emphasize a specificsentence member) and two of AuxX (commas).Figure 4 presents the TGTS of the sentence inquestion.Figure 4.
Tectogrammatical Tree Structure BSentence members labelled with AuxK, orAuxX are collapsed.The tree reported in figure 4 features arrows ofdifferent colour.
The red arrows that link boththe relative pronoun qui and the reflexivepronoun sibi (assigned t-lemma #PersPron) withthe noun artifex stand for so-called ?grammaticalcoreferences?, i.e.
coreferences in which it ispossible to pinpoint the coreferred expression onthe basis of grammatical rules.
Instead, the bluearrow represents a ?textual coreference?, i.e.
acoreference realized not only by grammaticalmeans, but also via context (mostly withpronouns) (Mikulov?
et al., 2006: 998 and1,100).
In figure 4, a blue arrow links earum(#PersPron) with the word ars, which occurs inthe previous sentence in the text.Sibi (#PersPron) is assigned the functor BEN,because it is the beneficiary of the action carriedout by the Actor (artifex) of the verb vindico.Sapiens has functor ID (Identity), which labelsexplicative genitives.
Earum (#PersPron) is thePatient (PAT) of the noun artifex, because agentnouns are valency-capable nouns; for this reason,a newly added node with functor PAT is madedependent on the agent noun architector.
This isassigned functor EFF (Effect), which is used forarguments referring to the result of the event,among which are obligatory predicativecomplements (i.e.
the role played by architectorwith respect to voco).
Voco is a RSTR, which isthe functor assigned to the main predicates ofattributive relative clauses.
Et is a rhematizer,which has the noun artifex in its scope.According to Mikulov?
et al.
(2006: 1,170), in aTGTS the node representing the rhematizer isplaced as the closest left sister of the first node ofthe expression that is in its scope.
This is why thenode of et in the TGTS reported in figure 4depends on vindico instead of artifex, while inthe ATS of figure 3 it depends on the node ofartifices.
Despite its left position in the TGTS,the node of et is marked as focus in TFA andthus the colour of its node is yellow.1053.3 Example CFigure 5 presents the ATS of the followingsentence: ?ego in hoc natus sum, et ad hoc veniin mundum, ut testimonium perhibeam veritati.?
(?For this I was born and for this I came to theworld, to provide the truth with evidence?,Summa contra Gentiles 1.1, quoting the Gospelof John 18:37).Figure 5.
Analytical Tree Structure CThis sentence features two main predicatescoordinated by the conjunction et: veni and natussum, the latter being a complex verb, formed bythe perfect participle natus and by the auxiliaryverb sum, which is assigned the analyticalfunction AuxV (collapsed in the correspondingTGTS).
The fact that the two predicates arecoordinated is signalled by the suffix _Coappendend to their analytical function (Pred).Those nodes that depend on the coordinatingconjunction et and are not labelled with ananalytical function suffixed with _Co are meantto depend on every member of the coordination.Thus, ego is the subject of both natus sum andveni, as well as the subordinate clause headed byperhibeam (via the subordinative conjunction ut)represents an adverbial modification of both theverbs.Figure 6 presents the TGTS corresponding tothe ATS of figure 5.Figure 6.
Tectogrammatical Tree Structure CThe conjunction et is assigned nodetype?coap?
(coordinations and appositions) andfunctor CONJ (Conjunction), used for the rootnodes of paratactic structures.Veritas is the Addressee (ADDR) of the verbperhibeo5.
Mundus is assigned functor DIR3 andsubfunctor ?basic?, the latter specifying that herethe meaning of DIR3 is the basic one, i.e.
?whereto?6.
The two occurrences of hic are respectivelythe Aim (AIM) of the verb nascor and of theverb venio, as well as the subordinate clauseheaded by perhibeo represents the Aim of boththe coordinated predicates.The TGTS in figure 6 presents two textualcoreferences, linking both the occurrences of hicwith perhibeo.
Indeed, the subordinate clause?[?]
ut testimonium perhibeam veritati?
iscoreferent with the two occurrences of hic andmakes their meaning explicit in a cataphoricmanner; this is signalled by the direction of thearrows, which go from left to right (cataphora)instead of from right to left (anaphora), like infigures 2 and 4.4 Discussion and Future WorkRecently funded by the Italian Ministry ofEducation, Universities and Research (MIUR),the project aimed at both providing semanticannotation of Latin texts and building asemantic-based valency lexicon of Latin has just5On the bordeline between Beneficiary and Addresse,see Mikulov?
et al.
(2006: 123-126).6Instead, the DIR3 node occurring in the tree offigure 2 is specified by subfunctor ?target?.106started.
So far, only the first 200 sentences ofSumma contra Gentiles of Thomas Aquinas havebeen fully annotated at tectogrammatical level(corresponding to 3,112 words and 451punctuation marks).
Such a limited experienceon data does not make it possible to provide anevaluation neither of the ATS-to-TGTSconversion scripts nor of the inter-annotatoragreement.
Presently, the valency lexiconcontains 221 verbs; the task of building thelexical entries for nouns, adjectives and adverbsis going to start in the very near future.Analytical annotation is available not only forMedieval Latin texts, but also for Classical Latin,as the guidelines for the analytical layer ofannotation of the IT-TB are shared with the LatinDependency Treebank (LDT;http://nlp.perseus.tufts.edu/syntax/treebank/), adependency-based treebank including around55,000 words from texts of different authors ofthe Classical era (Bamman et al., 2007).
Byexploiting the common annotation style of theIT-TB and the LDT, our project will alsoperform tectogrammatical annotation of theClassical Latin texts available in the LDT andwill build the corresponding valency lexicon.While enhancing a corpus with a new layer ofannotation from scratch still remains a labor-intensive and time-consuming task, today this issimplified by the possibility of exploiting theresults provided by previous similar experiencesin language resources development.
Such resultscan be used for porting background theories,methods and tools from one language to anotherin a rapid and low-cost fashion.
This is theapproach pursued by our project, which wants toapply to Latin a treebank scenario originallycreated for Czech and now used also for otherlanguages (including Arabic and English).
Suchan application meets and raises a number ofissues specifically related to corpora of ancientlanguages, which make tectogrammaticalannotation of such data a particularly difficulttask.
For instance, while treebanks of modernlanguages mostly include texts taken fromnewspapers, this does not hold true for both theIT-TB and the LDT, which contain respectivelyphilosophical (IT-TB) and literary texts (LDT).These textual genres present several specificlinguistic features in terms of syntax (quitecomplex in poetry), semantics (some wordsundergo a kind of technical shift of meaning inphilosophical texts) and lexicon (high registerwords are pretty frequent).
Further, the absenceof native speakers often makes differentinterpretations of texts possible and increases thedifficulty of tasks like TFA.As mentioned above, a large-scale applicationof a linguistic theory to real data helps toempirically test how much sound the theory is.
Inour case, the evaluation of the degree ofapplicability of FGD to Latin is at its verybeginning.
However, analytical annotation hasshown a strong compatibility between the ATS-based description of surface syntax and itsapplication to Latin.
As a matter of fact, the PDTmanual for analytical annotation was adapted injust a few details for the treatment of specificconstructions of Latin (such as the ablativeabsolute or the passive periphrastic) that could besyntactically annotated in several different ways(Bamman et al., 2008).
This experiencerepresents a positive background for a projectthat wants to build a set of theoretically-motivated advanced language resources for Latinthat will provide users with information aboutmorphology, surface syntax and semantics atboth textual and lexical level.Such advanced language resources for Latinwill both improve the understanding of Latinlanguage and question the usual researchmethods pursued by scholars in Classics.As for the former, research in Latin linguisticsdealing with issues like semantic role labelling,valency, ellipsis resolution, coreferential analysisand information structure will finally be able toground on a relevant amount of empiricalevidence not created for the aims of one specificresearch, thus preventing the vicious circle ofbuilding a corpus just for studying a singlelinguistic phenomenon (Sinclair, 2004b).
Also,making available language resources that both107feature Latin texts of differents eras and share thesame annotation style with language resources ofmodern languages will impact diachronicresearch and support studies in comparativelinguistics.As for the latter, building advanced languageresources for Latin by connecting a large-scaleempirical analysis of Latin data with a modernand broadly evaluated linguistic theoryrepresents a challenging and unconventionalapproach, which is expected to strongly impactthe usual research methods in the field ofClassics.
Indeed, due to an age-old split holdingbetween linguistic and literary studies, the studyof Latin (and of Ancient Greek, as well) has beenprimarily pursued by focusing on literary,philological and glottological aspects.
Further, alarge number of classicists is, still today,unwilling both to apply computational methodsto textual analysis and to use language resourceslike annotated corpora and computational lexica.Computational linguists, in turn, are more proneto develop language resources and NLP tools forliving languages, which have strongercommercial, media and social impact.Considering collaboration between Classics andcomputational linguistics to be essential, thisproject provides an opportunity for innovation ofboth fields.Both the treebanks and the valency lexiconwill be publicly available datasets with explicitannotation guidelines.
This will make the resultsachieved by using these language resourcesreplicable, which is a not yet consolidatedpractice in Classics.AcknowledgmentsThis research is part of the project ?Developingand Integrating Advanced Language Resourcesfor Latin?, supported by the Italian Ministry ofEducation, Universities and Research (MIUR) aspart of the grant FIR-2013.ReferencesJan Aarts.
2002.
Does corpus linguistics exist?
Someold and new issues.
Leiv Breivik and AngelaHasselgren (eds.
), From the COLT?s mouth?andothers.
Rodopi, Amsterdam, 1-17.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Gregory Crane andSavina Raynaud.
2007.
Guidelines for the SyntacticAnnotation of Latin Treebanks.
?Tufts UniversityDigital Library?.
Available online fromhttp://hdl.handle.net/10427/42683.David Bamman, Marco Passarotti, Roberto Busa andGregory Crane.
2008.
The annotation guidelines ofthe Latin Dependency Treebank and IndexThomisticus Treebank.
The treatment of somespecific syntactic constructions in Latin.Proceedings of the Sixth International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2008).
ELRA, Marrakech, 71-76.Roberto Busa.
1974-1980.
Index Thomisticus.Frommann-Holzboog, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt.Cercle linguistique de Prague.
1929.
Th?sespr?sent?es au Premier Congr?s des philologuesslaves.
Travaux du Cercle linguistique de Prague1: M?langes linguistiques d?di?s au PremierCongr?s des philologues slaves.
Jednota?eskoslovensk?ch matematik?
a fysik?, Prague, 5-29.Franti?ek Dane?.
1964.
A three-level approach tosyntax.
Josef Vachek (ed.
), Travaux linguistiquesde Prague 1: L?
?cole de Prague d?aujourd?hui.
?ditions de l?Acad?mie Tch?coslovaque desSciences, Prague, 225-240.Jan Firbas.
1992.
Functional Sentence Perspective inWritten and Spoken Communication.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Jan Haji?, Alena B?hmov?, Eva Haji?ov?
andBarbora Vidov?
Hladk?.
2000.
The PragueDependency Treebank: A Three-Level AnnotationScenario.
Anne Abeill?
(ed.
), Treebanks: Buildingand Using Parsed Corpora.
Kluwer, Amsterdam,103-127.Eva Haji?ov?.
2006.
Old Linguists Never Die, TheyOnly Get Obligatorily Deleted.
ComputationalLinguistics, 32(4): 457-469.Dag Haug and Marius J?hndal.
2008.
Creating aParallel Treebank of the Old Indo-European BibleTranslations.
Proceedings of the LanguageTechnology for Cultural Heritage Data Workshop(LaTeCH 2008).
ELRA, Marrakech, 27-34.Barbara McGillivray and Marco Passarotti.
2009.
TheDevelopment of the Index Thomisticus Treebank108Valency Lexicon.
Proceedings of LaTeCH-SHELT&R Workshop 2009, Athens, March 30,2009.
43-50.Barbara McGillivray, Marco Passarotti and PaoloRuffolo.
2009.
The Index Thomisticus TreebankProject: Annotation, Parsing and Valency Lexicon.Traitement Automatique des Langues, 50(2): 103-127.Marie Mikulov?, et alii.
2006.
Annotation on theTectogrammatical Layer in the PragueDependency Treebank.
Institute of Formal andApplied Linguistics, Prague.
Available online fromhttp://ufal.mff.cuni.
cz/pdt2.0/doc/manuals/en/t-layer/html/index.html.Jarmila Panevov?.
1974-1975.
On verbal Frames inFunctional Generative Description.
Prague Bulletinof Mathematical Linguistics, 22: 3-40.
Part IIpublished in PBML, 23: 17-52.Martin Popel and Zden?k ?abokrtsk?.
2010.TectoMT: Modular NLP Framework.
Proceedingsof IceTAL, 7th International Conference onNatural Language Processing, Reykjav?k, Iceland,August 17, 2010.
293-304.Savina Raynaud.
2008.
The basic syntagmatic act ispredication.
Slovo a slovesnost, 69(1-2): 49-67.Petr Sgall, Eva Haji?ov?, and Jarmila Panevov?.1986.
The Meaning of the Sentence in its Semanticand Pragmatic Aspects.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht, NL.John Sinclair.
2004a.
Intuition and Annotation ?
theDiscussion Continues.
Karin Aijmer & BengtAltenberg (eds.
), Advances in Corpus Linguistics.Papers from the 23rd International Conference onEnglish Language Research on ComputerizedCorpora (ICAME 23).
Rodopi, Amsterdam, 39-59.John Sinclair.
2004b.
Corpus and Text: BasicPrinciples.
Martin Wynne (ed.
), DevelopingLinguistic Corpora: a Guide to Good Practice.Oxbow Books, Oxford, 1-16.
Available onlinefrom http://ahds.ac.uk/linguistic-corpora/Elena Tognini-Bonelli.
2001.
Corpus Linguistics atWork.
J. Benjamins, Amsterdam Philadelphia.109
