Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 143?146,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTBI-Doc: Generating Patient & Clinician Reports from Brain ImagingDataPamela Jordan1, Nancy L. Green2, Christopher Thomas3, Susan Holm1Learning Research & Development Center, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA1Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina Greensboro, Greensboro, NC2Department of Computer Science, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA3pjordan@pitt.edu, nlgreen@uncg.edu, clt29@pitt.edu,susan.holm@gmail.comAbstractThe TBI-Doc prototype demonstrates thefeasibility of automatically producingdraft case reports for a new brain imagingtechnology, High Definition Fiber Track-ing (HDFT).
Here we describe the ontol-ogy for the HDFT domain, the system ar-chitecture and our goals for future researchand development.1 IntroductionThe goal of TBI-Doc is to automatically producea draft of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) case re-port similar to existing expert-authored reportsthat interpret the results of a High Definition Fibertracking (HDFT) procedure (Shin et al., 2012).HDFT is a new, revolutionary technology for ren-dering detailed images of the brain and is expectedto have significant implications for TBI patients?prognosis and treatment.
The typical patient forwhom HDFT is indicated has suffered multipleimpacts to the head over an extended period oftime.
Although these patients suffer significantsymptoms, in most cases current imaging tools(e.g.
MRI and CT) are unable to pinpoint the lo-cations of the injuries, much less any evidence ofTBI.
Fortunately, HDFT is providing a wealth ofdetails for the patient and clinician about the TBI.Unfortunately, the 25 page, expert-generated re-port takes up to 10 hours of effort to produce oncethe HDFT procedure is completed: part of the timeis analysis and part is report writing.Accordingly, TBI-Doc?s success will be mea-sured in terms of reducing the amount of humantime involved in creating the final report presentedto the patient and clinicians.
In this paper we de-scribe the TBI-Doc prototype which demonstratesthe feasibility of the system.
The main contribu-tion at this stage of development and the focus ofthis paper is the ontology necessary for generatingthe reports and the system architecture.
We con-clude with our goals for future research and devel-opment.2 The HDFT Results andExpert-Authored Case ReportsCurrently HDFT produces data on 13 brain tracts.One such tract, which we focused on for theTBI-Doc prototype, is the superior longitudinalfasciculus (SLF) which connects regions of thefrontal lobe with the parietal and temporal lobes(Fernandez-Miranda et al., 2012).
The brain re-gions that a tract connects and the areas of the tractthat appear abnormal suggest the brain functionsthat may be impacted (Shin et al., 2012).To identify abnormalities, the imaging processmathematically compares the volume of the pa-tient?s right and left hemisphere for a particu-lar tract (Shin et al., 2012) and looks for unex-pected asymmetries.1 The volume is also com-pared against the HDFT data of a population ofindividuals who have not suffered any TBI.
Fi-nally, the analyst also uses his/her knowledge ofthe anatomy of a healthy brain to identify abnor-malities and can further characterize the density,distribution and connectivity of the fibers of thetract by visually examining a representation of it,as shown within Figure 1 for the fronto-occiptalfasciculus tract.
As part of the reporting, the an-alyst describes the above comparisons, marks upthe visual representations of the tract that illustratehis/her observations and includes graphs that rep-resent the volume comparisons.Because HDFT is new, currently, there are rel-atively few ideal expert-generated case reportsupon which to model TBI-Doc?s reports.
Whenwe began the development of TBI-Doc, an ana-lyst had written 29 case reports but only 2-3 ofthese reports were considered model final reports.1Some tracts normally are expected to have some asym-metries between hemispheres.143Figure 1: Tract Report Excerpt: shows HDFT im-ages of fibers representing the FOF TractThe content and format of the final case report iscontinuing to evolve as the primary physician andnurse on the HDFT team provide feedback on thetype of report they believe will be most benefi-cial.
As of yet, there has been no feedback frompatients or other types of treating clinicians (e.g.speech therapists, physical therapists, etc.)
on thecontent and format that they find most helpful.For the prototype we focused on modeling thetract section of one of the case reports but usedthe remaining reports for determining the ontol-ogy.
An excerpt of the SLF tract section of thatmodel case report is shown in Figure 2.3 The TBI-Doc System DesignGiven the existing analyst workflow, we designedthe TBI-Doc system process (see Figure 3) as fol-lows; after interpreting and manually annotatingHDFT images of tracts, and creating and annotat-Figure 2: Expert Observation being Modeleding data graphics that show quantitative HDFT re-sults, the analyst uses TBI-Doc?s graphical user in-terface (GUI) to provide his qualitative evaluationof the HDFT results and preferences for tailoringthe report.
Using the analyst?s specifications pro-vided through the TBI-Doc GUI and the annotatedtract images and data graphics, TBI-Doc automat-ically produces a first draft of the case report.
Thedraft is then manually reviewed and edited by theanalyst before delivery.
The case report is deliv-ered to the clients as a file that can be printed onpaper and viewed on a tablet.The architecture of TBI-Doc (shown by the re-mainder of Figure 3) follows the standard NLGpipeline (Reiter et al., 2000) and is similar to thearchitecture of the healthcare-related systems de-scribed in (Green et al., 2011; Hunter et al., 2012;Scott et al., 2013).
The TBI-Doc GUI representsthe TBI-Doc ontology and its columns (an excerptis shown in Table 1) cue the analyst to enter his/herqualitative judgments about the data for a tractat the region level, which is the lowest judgmentlevel as it describes the endpoints of subsections ofa tract, bundles between regions, hemisphere leveland overall.
The ontology was derived by analyz-ing existing reports to understand what is being de-scribed across all of the reports and by interview-ing HDFT team members.
The ontology identi-fies states (e.g.
measures), relations (e.g.
similarFigure 3: The TBI-Doc Process144Table 1: Example Input for SLF Tract AssessmentTract SPARSEAssessmentTract hemi- Area Area Second Measure Evaluation Kind ofsphere Type Name End Point ComparisonSLF left OverallTract tract density very sparse healthySLF left BundleBtwnRegions DLPFC pTemporal density sparse rightSLF left BundleBtwnRegions DLPFC pTemporal connectivity reduced rightSLF left SpecificRegion DLPFC connectivity little rightSLF left SpecificRegion pTemporal connectivity little rightSLF left SpecificRegion DLPFC density sparse rightSLF left SpecificRegion pTemporal density sparse rightSLF left BundleBtwnRegions DLPFC pParietal connectivity little rightSLF left BundleBtwnRegions DLPFC pParietal density sparse rightSLF right OverallTract tract density normal healthySLF right OverallTract tract density some sparse healthyto), and entities (e.g.
tract(s), regions(s), connec-tion(s), measurements such as density) relevant tothe HDFT reporting domain.When the qualitative judgment entries or up-dates are complete, the analyst requests that a re-port be generated.
The TBI-Doc Document Plan-ner (logic implemented in Java) selects appro-priate content from the database using the TBI-Doc Data Interface and adds messages constructedfrom that content as leaves of the Document Plan.For the parts of the report that are not dependenton values in the database, the Document Planneralso adds English (canned) text as leaves of theDocument Plan.
The Document Planner is a set ofrules for what content to select and how to orderthat content.
For example, an abbreviated excerptof the content selection rules follow.GENERATETRACTSECTION(tract, patientId)GETTRACTSTATUS(tract,patientId)If status=reduced thenGETTRACTFUNCTION(tract)GENTRACTOBSERVATION(tract,patientId)GENTRACTOBSERVATION(tract, patientId)If Evaluation=reduced & TractOverall thenGENTRACTSUMMARYSENTENCEElsIf hemi not both & AreaType=OverallTract thenGENHEMISPHERESUMMARYSENTENCEregions=GATHERREGIONS(SpecificRegion,BundleBtwnRegions)orderedRegions=ORDERREGIONS(regions)For region in orderedRegions doGENSENTENCE(region)While there is often just a single sentence for atract or hemisphere summary, region descriptionsare generally multi-sentential.
Currently the or-derRegions function is designed as a default setof guidelines for ordering the region descriptions.The output of the Document Plan is then a seriesof predicates that represent the content to be real-ized.
Some content, such as getTractFunction, isstatic and does not pass through the pipeline to theMicroplanner.The TBI-Doc Microplanner transforms thepredicates output from the Document Plan intoSimpleNLG sentence specifications (in Java) viaa set of mapping rules.
The Microplanner selectsmapping rules based on the predicates to be real-ized and any context variables that are available.The mapping rules indicate what syntactic struc-tures to create for a predicate and where to attachthem in the sentence being built.
Currently, forthis demonstration prototype we have not yet ad-dressed lexical realization and sentence aggrega-tion.
In the final step of the pipeline, SimpleNLG(Gatt and Reiter, 2009) renders the sentence spec-ifications as English sentences.
Once the pipelineis complete, the TBI-Doc Formatter combines allthe sentences from SimpleNLG and the cannedtext into an HTML document which can then bedisplayed by a browser and edited via an XML ed-itor.Rather than implementing each of the abovesteps one-by-one to cover all possible cases, eachstep was implemented to focus on replicating theobservation section of one case report.
This al-lowed us to perform an end-to-end demonstrationof the feasibility of this design.
Thus many ofthe rules described above are incomplete for al-ternative pathways.
TBI-Doc can currently gen-erate from input data an observation section suchas the one shown below.
The judgments enteredon behalf of the analyst for this demonstrationare shown in Table 1 and represent what was ex-pressed in the expert-written observations sectionin Figure 2:145Observations Left SLF is particularly sparsethroughout the tract.
The left tract from theDLPFC to the pTemporal region when com-pared to the right has a sparse density and a re-duced connectivity.
In particular little connectiv-ity and sparse density are observed in the DLPFCand pTemporal regions as well as between theDLPFC and pParietal regions on the left.
Overallthe right tract appears similar to a healthy tractbut still appears somewhat sparse.4 Future WorkThe current TBI-Doc is a demonstration of the fea-sibility of generating case reports and the maincontribution of the work thus far has been to de-fine an ontology for the HDFT domain.
However,because HDFT is a new technology that is continu-ing to be improved rapidly and the reporting goalsare still evolving, the ontology is not yet complete.Because the ontology drives the rest of the system,it follows that the rest of the system componentsstill need more development.For the demonstration we focused on reportingon one of the 13 existing types of brain tracts.While we anticipate that the ontology will gener-alize well to the other tract types, each tract typemay introduce some extensions to the ontology.
Inaddition the HDFT developers anticipate provid-ing data on additional tract types over time.Since knowledge acquisition is still ongoing,the Document Planner logic is still very shallow.As a result, the demonstration version of TBI-Doc is currently limited to reacting to descriptorchanges and does not yet alter the document struc-ture or intelligently alter content selection.
TheMicroplanner currently does some context check-ing to select the appropriate set of transforma-tion rules to apply but this will need expansionas the Document Planner becomes more complete.More specifically, the sentence structure needs tovary depending on the choices made by the Doc-ument Planner.
In addition, lexical selection inwhich internal abbreviations are mapped to userpreferred forms needs more work (e.g.
dependingon user preferences, DLPFC could map to dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex and pParietal to posteriorParietal).Our longer term interest is to explore waysto appropriately adapt the reports for differentclients.
A patient for whom the HDFT results indi-cate cognitive processing issues may find a differ-ent style of report and reading level more suitablethan a supporting family member or a treating clin-ician.
Different treating clinicians may prefer re-ports with different content selected.
For example,a speech therapist may prefer a report that focuseson the injuries that relate to a patient?s speech andlanguage goals, while a sleep specialist may prefera different focus.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by US Army Com-bat Casualty Care Research Program contractsCDMRP PT110773 (W81XH-12-2-0140) & USArmy 12342013 (W81XWH-12-2-0319).
Wethank Walter Schneider, Kevin Jarbo, Lauren Wa-gener, Will Bird & the HDFT team for their exper-tise and for involving us in their research.ReferencesJuan C Fernandez-Miranda, Sudhir Pathak, JohnathanEngh, Kevin Jarbo, Timothy Verstynen, Fang-ChengYeh, Yibao Wang, Arlan Mintz, Fernando Boada,Walter Schneider, et al.
2012.
High-definition fibertractography of the human brain: neuroanatomicalvalidation and neurosurgical applications.
Neuro-surgery, 71(2):430?453.Albert Gatt and Ehud Reiter.
2009.
Simplenlg: A re-alisation engine for practical applications.
In Pro-ceedings of the 12th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 90?93.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Nancy Green, Rachael Dwight, Kanyama Navoraphan,and Brian Stadler.
2011.
Natural language genera-tion of biomedical argumentation for lay audiences.Argument & Computation, 2(1):23?50.James Hunter, Yvonne Freer, Albert Gatt, Ehud Reiter,Somayajulu Sripada, and Cindy Sykes.
2012.
Au-tomatic generation of natural language nursing shiftsummaries in neonatal intensive care: Bt-nurse.
Ar-tificial intelligence in medicine, 56(3):157?172.Ehud Reiter, Robert Dale, and Zhiwei Feng.
2000.Building natural language generation systems, vol-ume 33.
MIT Press.Donia Scott, Catalina Hallett, and Rachel Fetti-place.
2013.
Data-to-text summarisation of pa-tient records: Using computer-generated summariesto access patient histories.
Patient education andcounseling, 92(2):153?159.Samuel S Shin, Timothy Verstynen, Sudhir Pathak,Kevin Jarbo, Allison J Hricik, Megan Maserati,Sue R Beers, Ava M Puccio, Fernando E Boada,David O Okonkwo, and Walter Schneider.
2012.High-definition fiber tracking for assessment of neu-rological deficit in a case of traumatic brain injury:finding, visualizing, and interpreting small sites ofdamage: Case report.
Journal of neurosurgery,116(5):1062?1069.146
