Language Technology for Closely Related Languages and Language Variants (LT4CloseLang), pages 76?84,October 29, 2014, Doha, Qatar.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploring cross-language statistical machine translationfor closely related South Slavic languagesMaja Popovi?cDFKI Berlin, Germanymaja.popovic@dfki.deNikola Ljube?i?cUniversity of Zagreb, Croatianikola.ljubesic@ffzg.hrAbstractThis work investigates the use of cross-language resources for statistical machinetranslation (SMT) between English andtwo closely related South Slavic lan-guages, namely Croatian and Serbian.
Thegoal is to explore the effects of translatingfrom and into one language using an SMTsystem trained on another.
For translationinto English, a loss due to cross-translationis about 13% of BLEU and for the othertranslation direction about 15%.
The per-formance decrease for both languages inboth translation directions is mainly dueto lexical divergences.
Several languageadaptation methods are explored, and it isshown that very simple lexical transforma-tions already can yield a small improve-ment, and that the most promising adap-tation method is using a Croatian-SerbianSMT system trained on a very small cor-pus.1 IntroductionStatistical machine translation has become widelyused over the last decade ?
open source tools suchas Moses (Koehn et al., 2007) make it possibleto build translation systems for any language pairwithin days, or even hours.
However, the prereq-uisite is that appropriate bilingual training data isavailable, which is actually one of the most se-vere limitations of the statistical approach ?
largeresources are only available for a few languagepairs and domains.
Therefore exploiting languagecloseness can be very convenient if there are noappropriate corpora containing the desired lan-guage, but it is possible to acquire corpora con-taining a closely related one.
Croatian and Ser-bian are very close languages, and both1are under-1as well as other South Slavic languagesresourced in terms of free/open-source languageresources and tools, especially in terms of paral-lel bilingual corpora.
On the other hand, Croatianhas recently become the third official South Slaviclanguage in the EU2, and Serbian3is the officiallanguage of a candidate member state.
Thereforeinvestigating cross-language translation for thesetwo languages can be considered very useful.Both languages belong to the South-WesternSlavic branch.
As Slavic languages, they havea free word order and are highly inflected.
Al-though they exhibit a large overlap in vocabularyand a strong morphosyntactic similarity so that thespeakers can understand each other without diffi-culties, there is a number of small, but notable andfrequently occurring differences between them.In this paper, we investigate the impact of thesedifferences on cross-language translation.
Themain questions are:?
How much will the translation performancedecrease if a Serbian-English SMT system isused for translation from and into Croatian?
(and the other way round)?
What are the possibilities for diminishing thisperformance decrease?1.1 Related workFirst publications dealing with statistical machinetranslation systems for Serbian-English (Popovi?cet al., 2005) and for Croatian-English (Ljube?i?cet al., 2010) are reporting results of first stepson small bilingual corpora.
Recent work onCroatian-English pair describes building a paral-lel corpus in the tourism domain by automaticweb harvesting (Espl?-Gomis et al., 2014) and re-sults of a SMT system built on this parallel cor-pus which yielded significant improvement (10%2together with Slovenian and Bulgarian3together with Bosnian and Montenegrin76BLEU) over the Google baseline in the tourism do-main (Toral et al., 2014).
A rule-based Apertiumsystem (Peradin et al., 2014) has been recently de-veloped for translation from and into Slovenian(also closely related language, but more distant).Techniques simpler than general SMT suchas character-level translation have been investi-gated for translation between various close lan-guage pairs, where for the South Slavic groupthe Bulgarian-Macedonian pair has been ex-plored (Nakov and Tiedemann, 2012).
Character-based translation has also been used for translat-ing between Bosnian and Macedonian in order tobuild pivot translation systems from and into En-glish (Tiedemann, 2012).Developing POS taggers and lemmatizers forCroatian and Serbian and using Croatian modelson Serbian data has been explored in (Agi?c et al.,2013).To the best of our knowledge, a systematic in-vestigation of cross-language translation systemsinvolving Croatian and Serbian, thereby exploit-ing benefits from the language closeness and ana-lyzing problems induced by language differenceshas not been carried out yet.2 Language characteristics2.1 General characteristicsCroatian and Serbian, as Slavic languages, havea very rich inflectional morphology for all wordclasses.
There are six distinct cases affectingnot only common nouns but also proper nounsas well as pronouns, adjectives and some num-bers.
Some nouns and adjectives have two dis-tinct plural forms depending on the number (lessthan five or not).
There are also three genders forthe nouns, pronouns, adjectives and some numbersleading to differences between the cases and alsobetween the verb participles for past tense and pas-sive voice.As for verbs, person and many tenses are ex-pressed by the suffix, and the subject pronoun (e.g.I, we, it) is often omitted (similarly as in Spanishand Italian).
In addition, negation of three quiteimportant verbs, ?biti?
(to be, auxiliary verb forpast tense, conditional and passive voice), ?imati?
(to have) and ?ht(j)eti?
(to want, auxiliary verb forthe future tense), is formed by adding the negativeparticle to the verb as a prefix.As for syntax, both languages have a quite freeword order, and there are no articles.2.2 DifferencesThe main differences between the languages areillustrated by examples in Table 1.The largest differences between the two lan-guages are in the vocabulary.
Months have Slavic-derived names in Croatian whereas Serbian usesstandard set of international Latin-derived names.A number of other words are also completely dif-ferent (1), and a lot of words differ only by oneor two letters (2).
In addition, Croatian languagedoes not transcribe foreign names and words,whereas phonetical transcriptions are usual in Ser-bian although original writing is allowed too (3).Apart from lexical differences, there are alsostructural differences mainly concerning verbs.After modal verbs such as ?morati?
(to have to)or ?mo?ci?
(can) (4), the infinitive is prescribed inCroatian (?moram raditi?
), whereas the construc-tion with particle ?da?
(that/to) and present tense(?moram da radim?)
is preferred in Serbian.
Aninspection of the Croatian and Serbian web cor-pora4(Ljube?i?c and Klubi?cka., 2014) shows theprescription being followed by identifying 1286vs.
29 occurrences of the two phrases in the Croat-ian and 40 vs. 322 occurrences in the Serbian cor-pus.
It is important to note that the queried cor-pora consist of texts from the Croatian and Ser-bian top-level web domain and that the results indiscriminating between Croatian and Serbian lan-guage applied to these corpora are not used at thispoint.The mentioned difference partly extends to thefuture tense (5), which is formed in a similarmanner to English, using present of the verb"ht(j)eti" as auxiliary verb.
The infinitive is for-mally required in both variants, however, when?da?+present is used instead, it can additionallyexpress the subject?s will or intention to performthe action.
This form is frequent in Serbian (?ja?cu da radim?
), whereas in Croatian only the infini-tive form is used (?ja?cu raditi?).
This is, again,followed by corpus evidence with 0 vs. 71 occur-rences of the phrases in the Croatian corpus and 13vs.
22 occurrences in the Serbian corpus.
Anotherdifference regarding future tense exists when thethe auxiliary and main verb are reversed (5b): inCroatian the final "i" of the infinitive is removed(?radit?cu?
), whereas in Serbian the main and theauxiliary verb merge into a single word (?radi?cu?
).4the corpora can be queried via http://nl.ijs.si/noske/77Croatian Serbian Englishvocabulary1) word level gospodarstvo ekonomija economytjedan nedelja weektisu?ca hiljada one thousandmonths sije?canj januar January2) character level to?cno ta?cno accurateEuropa Evropa Europevjerojatno verovatno probablyvijesti vesti newsterorist terorista terrorist3) transcription Washington Va?ington Washingtonstructure (verbs)4) modal verbs moram raditi moram da radim I have to workmogu raditi mogu da radim I can work5) future tense a) ja?cu raditi ja?cu da radim I will workb) radit?cu radi?cu I will work6) ?trebati?
= should a) trebam raditi treba da radim I should worktreba?
raditi treba da radi?
you should work= need b) trebam posao treba mi posao I need a jobPetar treba knjige Petru trebaju knjige Petar needs booksTable 1: Examples of main differences between Croatian and Serbian.Corpus evidence follows this as well with 611 vs.9 occurrences in the Croatian corpus and 4 vs.103 occurrences in the Serbian one.
A very im-portant difference concerns the verb ?trebati?
(toneed, should) (6).
In Croatian, the verb takes thetense according to the subject and it is transitive asin English.
In Serbian, when it means ?should?
(6a) it is impersonal followed by ?da?
and thepresent of the main verb (?treba da radim?).
Whenit means ?to need?
(6b), the verb is conjugated ac-cording to the needed object (?treba?
(job), ?tre-baju?
(books)), and the subject which needs some-thing (I, Petar) is an indirect grammatical object indative case (?meni?, ?Petru?
).Apart from the described differences, there isalso a difference in scripts: Croatian uses only theLatin alphabet whereas Serbian uses both Latinand Cyrillic scripts5.
However, this poses no prob-lem regarding corpora because a Cyrillic Serbian5During the compilation process of the Serbian web cor-pus (Ljube?i?c and Klubi?cka., 2014), 16.7% of retrieved textwas written in the Cyrillic script.text can be easily transliterated into Latin.0204060801001  2  3  4  5  6n-gram lengthn-gram overlap [F-score, %]sr-hr, charsr-hr, wordhr-en, charsr-en, charhr-en, wordsr-en, wordFigure 1: n-gram overlap on word level andon character level between Croatian-Serbian,Croatian-English and Serbian-English.The idea of Figure 1 is to illustrate the close-ness and the differences between the two closelanguages of interest by numbers: overlapping of78word level and character level n-grams for n =1, ...6 in training, development and test corpora to-gether is presented via the F-score.
In order to givea better insight, overlaps with English are calcu-lated as well.
It can be seen that the Croatian-Serbian overlap on character level is very high,and still rather high on the word level.
Charac-ter overlaps with English are below the Croatian-Serbian overlap on the word level, whereas theword level overlaps with English are very low.3 Translation experimentsIn order to explore effects of the describedlanguage differences on cross-languageSMT, four translation systems have beenbuilt: Croatian?English, Serbian?English,English?Croatian and English?Serbian.
Forthe sake of brevity and clarity, we will use theterms ?corresponding source/output?
when thetest language is same as the language used fortraining, and ?other source/output?
when thecross-language translation is performed.
Fortranslation into English, the translation outputsof the other source text and its adapted variantsare compared to the translation output of thecorresponding source test with respect to theEnglish reference.
For translation from English,the other translation output and its adapted ver-sions are compared to the corresponding outputwith respect to the corresponding reference.
Theinvestigated adaptation methods are described inthe next section.3.1 Language adaptation methodsThe following methods were investigated foradaptation of the test set in the other language:?
lexical conversion of the most frequent words(conv);The most frequent6different words togetherwith simple morphological variations are re-placed by the words in the corresponding lan-guage.
This method is simple and fast, how-ever it is very basic and also requires knowl-edge of the involved languages to be set up.It can be seen as a very first step towards theuse of a rule-based Croatian-Serbian system.?
Croatian-Serbian translation system trainedon three thousand parallel sentences (3k);6occurring ?
1000 times in the training corpusThis method does not require any languageknowledge, and a small bilingual corpus isoften not very difficult to acquire.
It is evennot very difficult to create it manually froma monolingual corpus by translating it, al-though in that case the language knowledgeis needed.?
Croatian-Serbian translation system trainedon the large parallel corpus (200k);This method is interesting in order to see theupper limits of the adaptation, however it isnot realistic ?
if a large in-domain corpus isavailable in both languages, there is no needfor cross-language translation, but pivoting orsynthetic corpora can be used.The language adaptation is performed in the fol-lowing way: for translation into English, the otherlanguage test set is first preprocesssed, i.e.
con-verted or translated into the corresponding lan-guage, and then translated.
For the other transla-tion direction, the English test is translated into theother language and then converted/translated intothe corresponding one.In addition, training a system using the con-verted corpus has also been investigated for alltranslation directions.4 Experimental set-upThe enhanced version7of the SEtimes corpus (Ty-ers and Alperen, 2010) is used for translationexperiments.
The corpus is based on the con-tent published on the SETimes.com news portalwhich publishes ?news and views from SoutheastEurope?
in ten languages: Bulgarian, Bosnian,Greek, English, Croatian, Macedonian, Roma-nian, Albanian and Serbian.
We used the paral-lel trilingual Croatian-English-Serbian part of thecorpus.
The detailed corpus statistic is shown inTable 2.
The Croatian language is further referredto as hr, Serbian as sr and English as en.The translation system used is the phrase-basedMoses system (Koehn et al., 2007).
The evalu-ation metrics used for assessment of the transla-tions are the BLEU score (Papineni et al., 2002)and the F-score, which also takes recall into ac-count and generally better correlates with humanrankings which has been shown in (Melamed etal., 2003) and confirmed in (Popovi?c, 2011).
For7http://nlp.ffzg.hr/resources/corpora/setimes/79Croatian (hr) Serbian (sr) English (en)Train sentences 197575avg sent length 22.3 22.5 23.9running words 4410721 4453579 4731746vocabulary 149416 144544 76242Dev sentences 995avg sent length 22.2 22.5 24.0running words 22125 22343 23896running OOVs 1.7% 1.6% 0.8%Test sentences 1000avg sent length 22.3 22.4 23.8running words 22346 22428 23825running OOVs 1.5% 1.4% 0.7%Table 2: Corpus statisticstranslation into Croatian and Serbian, F-scores oncharacter level are also calculated.5 Results5.1 Croatian?Serbian language adaptationThis section presents the results of conversion andtranslation between Croatian and Serbian in orderto better understand advantages and disadvantagesof each of the adaptation methods.
The effects ofeach method on translation into and from Englishwill be reported in the next section.Table 3 shows the BLEU and F-scores as wellas the percentage of running OOVs for each adap-tation method.
If no adaptation is performed (firstrow), the word level scores are about 40%, CHARFscore is close to 75% , and a large number of OOVsis present ?
13% of running words are unseen.
Alarge portion of these words differ only by oneor two characters, and for a standard SMT sys-tem there is no difference between such words andcompletely distinct ones.The conv method, i.e.
simple replacement of aset of words, already makes the text more close:it reduces the number of OOVs by 3-5% and im-proves the scores by 3%.
The best results are ob-tained, as it can be expected, by 200k adaptation,i.e.
translation using the large Croatian-Serbiantraining corpus; the amount of OOVs in the adaptedtext is comparable with the text in the correspond-ing language (presented in Table 2).
The 3k trans-lation system, being the most suitable for ?real-word?
tasks and improving significantly the text inthe other language (almost 10% reduction of OOVsand 13% increase of scores) seems to be the mostpromising adaptation method.5.2 Croatian/Serbian?English translationThe translation results into and from Englishare presented in Table 4.
It can be seen thatthe BLEU/WORDF loss induced by cross-languagetranslation is about 12-13% for translation intoEnglish and about 13-15% for the other direc-tion.
The effects of language adaptation meth-ods are similar for all translation directions: thesimple lexical conversion conv slightly improvesthe translation outputs, and the best option is touse the 200k translation system.
The small train-ing corpus achieves, of course, less improvementthan the large corpus.
On the other hand, takinginto account the significant improvement over theoriginal of the text of the other language (about9%) and the advantages of the method discussedin Sections 3.1 and 5.1, this performance differ-ence is actually not too large.
Future work shouldexplore techniques for improvement of such sys-tems.Last two rows in each table represent the re-sults of the additional experiment, namely us-ing the converted other language corpus for train-ing.
However, the results do not outperformthose obtained by (much faster) conversion of thesource/output, meaning that there is no need forretraining the translation system ?
it is sufficientto adapt only the test source/output.Translation examplesTable 5 presents two translation examples: thesource/reference sentence in all three languages,the cross-language translation output, the trans-80direction method BLEU WORDF CHARF OOVnone 40.1 43.1 74.7 13.3hr?sr conv 43.7 46.3 76.4 10.73k 54.8 55.9 80.8 4.6200k 64.3 65.4 85.2 1.4sr?hr conv 43.5 46.1 76.3 8.53k 54.0 55.9 80.9 4.3200k 64.1 65.3 85.1 1.4Table 3: BLEU and F-scores for Croatian-Serbian conversion and translation used for adaptation.lation outputs of adapted sources, as well as thetranslation output of the corresponding source.The examples are given only for translation intoEnglish, and the effects for the other translation di-rection can be observed implicitly.
Generally, themain source of errors are OOV words, but struc-tural differences also cause problems.For the first sentence (1), the conv method issufficient for obtaining a perfect cross-translationoutput: the obstacles are three OOV words, all ofthem being frequent and thus converted.
The out-puts obtained by 3k and 200k methods as well asthe output for the corresponding language are ex-actly the same and therefore not presented.The second sentence (2) is more complex: itcontains three OOV words, two of which are notfrequent and thus not adapted by conv, and onefuture tense i.e.
a structural difference.
The OOVwords do not only generate lexical errors (untrans-lated words) but also incorrect word order (?from17 dje?cjih kazali?ta?).
The conv method is able torepair only the month name, whereas other errorsinduced by language differences8are still present.The 3k translation system resolves one more OOVword (?theater?)
together with its position, as wellas the future tense problem, but the third OOVword ?children?s?
is still untranslated and in thewrong position.
This error is fixed only when 200ktranslation system is used, since the word occurs inthe large corpus but not in the small one.
It shouldbe noted that the word is, though, an OOV onlydue to the one single letter and probably could bedealt with by character-based techniques (Nakovand Tiedemann, 2012) which should be investi-gated in future work.8It should be noted that errors not related to the languagedifferences are out of the scope of this work.6 ConclusionsIn this work, we have examined the possibilitiesfor using a statistical machine translation systembuilt on one language and English for translationfrom and into another closely related language.Our experiments on Croatian and Serbian showedthat the loss by cross-translation is about 13% ofBLEU for translation into English and 15% fortranslation from English.We have systematically investigated severalmethods for language adaptation.
It is shown thateven a simple lexical conversion of limited num-ber of words yields improvements of about 2%BLEU, and the Croatian-Serbian translation systemtrained on three thousand sentences yields a largeimprovement of about 6-9%.
The best results areobtained when the translation system built on thelarge corpus is used; however, it should be takeninto account that such scenario is not realistic.We believe that the use of a small parallel cor-pus is a very promising method for language adap-tation and that the future work should concen-trate in improving such systems, for example bycharacter-based techniques.
We also believe that arule-based Croatian-Serbian system could be use-ful for adaptation, since the translation perfor-mance has been improved already by applying avery simple lexical transfer rule.
Both approacheswill be investigated in the framework of the ABU-MATRAN project9.Depending on the availability of resources andtools, we plan to examine texts in other related lan-guages such as Slovenian, Macedonian and Bul-garian (the last already being part of ongoing workin the framework of the QTLEAP project10), andalso to do further investigations on the Croatian-Serbian language pair.9http://abumatran.eu/10http://qtleap.eu/81(a) translation into Englishtraining source BLEU WORDFsr?en hr 29.8 34.1hr-sr.conv 32.3 36.4hr-sr.3k 37.6 41.1hr-sr.200k 42.3 45.6sr 42.9 46.0hr?en sr 31.4 35.5sr-hr.conv 32.8 36.8sr-hr.3k 37.2 40.8sr-hr.200k 41.7 44.9hr 43.2 46.3sr-hr.conv?en hr 32.2 36.2hr-sr.conv?en sr 33.5 37.4(b) translation from Englishreference output BLEU WORDF CHARFhr sr 20.6 25.4 62.7sr-hr.conv 22.8 27.4 64.2sr-hr.3k 29.3 33.4 68.5sr-hr.200k 33.5 37.2 71.2hr 35.5 38.9 72.1sr hr 20.3 25.3 62.7hr-sr.conv 22.6 27.4 64.2hr-sr.3k 29.8 33.7 68.4hr-sr.200k 34.0 37.5 71.3sr 35.3 38.5 72.1sr en?hr-sr.conv 22.6 27.4 64.2hr en?sr-hr.conv 23.2 27.7 64.2Table 4: BLEU, WORDF and CHARF scores for translation (a) into English; (b) from English.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by the QTLEAPproject ?
EC?s FP7 (FP7/2007-2013) under grantagreement number 610516: ?QTLEAP: Qual-ity Translation by Deep Language EngineeringApproaches?
and the ABU-MATRAN project ?EC?s FP7 (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agree-ment number PIAP-GA-2012-324414: ?ABU-MATRAN: Automatic building of Machine Trans-lation?.References?eljko Agi?c, Nikola Ljube?i?c and Danijela Merkler.2013.
Lemmatization and Morphosyntactic Tag-ging of Croatian and Serbian, In Proceedings ofthe 4th Biennial International Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing, pages 48?57,Sofia, Bulgaria, August.Miquel Espl?-Gomis and Filip Klubi?cka and NikolaLjube?i?c and Sergio Ortiz-Rojas and Vassilis Pa-pavassiliou and Prokopis Prokopidis 2014.
Com-paring Two Acquisition Systems for AutomaticallyBuilding an English-Croatian Parallel Corpus fromMultilingual Websites, In Proceedings of the 9th In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC), Reykjavik, Iceland, May.Nikola Ljube?i?c and Filip Klubi?cka 2014.
{bs,hr,sr}WaC ?
Web corpora of Bosnian, Croatianand Serbian, In Proceedings of the 9th Web asCorpus Workshop (WaC-9), Gothenburg, Sweden,April.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,82sr Pregled poslovnih i ekonomskih vesti sa Balkana od 15. avgusta.1) hr Pregled poslovnih i gospodarskih vijesti s Balkana od 15. kolovoza.en A review of business and economic news from the Balkans since 15 August.training: sr?ensource: hr A review of business and gospodarskih vijesti from the Balkans since 15 kolovoza .hr-sr.conv A review of business and economic news from the Balkans since 15 August .sr Srpski grad Subotica bic?e doma?cin 16. izdanja Me?dunarodnog festivalade?cjih pozori?ta od 17. do 23. maja.2) hr Subotica u Srbiji bit c?e doma?cin 16 .
Me?dunarodnog festivaladje?cjih kazali?ta od 17. do 23. svibnja.en Subotica, Serbia, will host the 16th edition of the International Festival ofChildren?s Theatres from May 17th to May 23rd .training: sr?ensource: hr Subotica in Serbia will be will host the 16th International Festivalfrom 17 dje?cjih kazali?ta to 23 svibnja.hr-sr.conv Subotica in Serbia will be will host the 16th International Festivalfrom 17 dje?cjih kazali?ta to 23 May.hr-sr.3k Subotica in Serbia will host the 16th International Theatre Festivalfrom 17 dje?cjih to 23 May.hr-sr.200k Subotica in Serbia will host the 16th International Children?sTheatre Festival from 17 to 23 May.sr The Serbian town of Subotica will host the 16th edition of theInternational Children?s Theatre Festival from 17 to 23 May.Table 5: Two examples of cross-translation of Croatian source sentence into English usingSerbian?English translation system.Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ond?rej Bojar, AlexandraConstantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: opensource toolkit for statistical machine translation, InProceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the ACLon Interactive Poster and Demonstration Sessions,pages 177?180, Prague, Czech Republic, June.Nikola Ljube?i?c, Petra Bago and Damir Boras.
2010.Statistical machine translation of Croatian weatherforecast: How much data do we need?, In Proceed-ings of the ITI 2010 32nd International Conferenceon Information Technology Interfaces, pages 91?96,Cavtat, Croatia, June.I.Dan Melamed, Ryan Green and Joseph P. Turian.2003.
Precision and Recall of Machine Transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the Human Language Tech-nology Conference (HLT-NAACL), pages 61?63, Ed-monton, Canada, May/June.Preslav Nakov and J?rg Tiedemann.
2012.
Combin-ing word-level and character-level models for ma-chine translation between closely-related languages,In Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation of Computational Linguistics (ACL), pages301?305, Jeju, Republic of Korea, July.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward and Wie-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation, In Proceedingsof the 40th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), pages 311?318,Philadelphia, PA, July.Hrvoje Peradin, Filip Petkovski and Francis Tyers.2014.
Shallow-transfer rule-based machine trans-lation for the Western group of South Slavic lan-guages, In Proceedings of the 9th SaLTMiL Work-shop on Free/open-Source Language Resources forthe Machine Translation of Less-Resourced Lan-guages, pages 25?30, Reykjavik, Iceland, May.Maja Popovi?c, David Vilar, Hermann Ney, Slobo-dan Jovi?ci?c and Zoran ?ari?c.
2005.
Augment-ing a Small Parallel Text with Morpho-syntacticLanguage Resources for Serbian?English Statisti-cal Machine Translation In Proceedings of theACL-05 Workshop on Building and Using Parallel83Texts: Data-Driven Machine Translation and Be-yond, pages 119?124, Ann Arbor, MI, June.Maja Popovi?c.
2011.
Morphemes and POS tags forn-gram based evaluation metrics, In Proceedings ofthe Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Transla-tion (WMT 2011), pages 104?107, Edinburgh, Scot-land, July.J?rg Tiedemann.
2012.
Character-based pivot transla-tion for under-resourced languages and domains, InProceedings of the 13th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (EACL), pages 141?151, Avignon, France,April.Antonio Toral, Raphael Rubino, Miquel Espl?-Gomis,Tommi Pirinen, Andy Way and Gema Ramirez-Sanchez 2014.
Extrinsic Evaluation of Web-Crawlers in Machine Translation: a Case Study onCroatian?English for the Tourism Domain, In Pro-ceedings of the 17th Conference of the European As-sociation for Machine Translation (EAMT), pages221?224, Dubrovnik, Croatia, June.Francis M. Tyers and Murat Alperen.
2010.
South-East European Times: A parallel corpus of theBalkan languages, In Proceedings of the LRECWorkshop on Exploitation of Multilingual Resourcesand Tools for Central and (South-) Eastern Euro-pean Languages, pages 49?53, Valetta, Malta, May.84
