Proceedings of the 2014 ACL Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Computational Linguistics, pages 63?70,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuantifying the role of discourse topicalityin speakers?
choices of referring expressionsNaho OritaDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Marylandnaho@umd.eduEliana VornovDepartments of Computer Science and LinguisticsUniversity of Marylandevornov@umd.eduNaomi H. FeldmanDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Marylandnhf@umd.eduJordan Boyd-GraberCollege of Information Studies and UMIACSUniversity of Marylandjbg@umiacs.umd.eduAbstractThe salience of an entity in the discourseis correlated with the type of referring ex-pression that speakers use to refer to thatentity.
Speakers tend to use pronouns torefer to salient entities, whereas they uselexical noun phrases to refer to less saliententities.
We propose a novel approach toformalize the interaction between salienceand choices of referring expressions us-ing topic modeling, focusing specificallyon the notion of topicality.
We show thattopic models can capture the observationthat topical referents are more likely to bepronominalized.
This lends support to the-ories of discourse salience that appeal tolatent topic representations and suggeststhat topic models can capture aspects ofspeakers?
cognitive representations of en-tities in the discourse.1 IntroductionSpeakers?
choices of referring expressions (pro-nouns, demonstratives, full names, and so on) havebeen used as a tool to understand cognitive rep-resentations of entities in a discourse.
Many re-searchers have proposed a correlation between thetype of a referring form and saliency (or accessi-bility, prominence, focus) of the entity in the dis-course (Chafe, 1976; Gundel et al., 1993; Bren-nan, 1995; Ariel, 1990).
Because a pronoun car-ries less information compared to more specifiedforms (e.g., she vs. Hillary Clinton), theories pre-dict that speakers tend to use pronouns when theythink that a referent is sufficiently salient in thediscourse.
When the referent is less salient, morespecified forms are used.
In other words, the like-lihood of pronominalization increases as referentsbecome more salient.Topic modeling (Blei et al., 2003; Griffiths etal., 2007) uses a probabilistic model that recoversa latent topic representation from observed wordsin a document.
The model assumes that words ap-pearing in documents have been generated from amixture of latent topics.
These latent topics havebeen argued to provide a coarse semantic repre-sentation of documents and to be in close corre-spondence with many aspects of human seman-tic cognition (Griffiths et al., 2007).
This previ-ous work has focused on semantic relationshipsamong words and documents.
While it is oftenassumed that the topics extracted by topic modelscorrespond to the gist of a document, and althoughtopic models have been used to capture discourse-level properties in some settings (Nguyen et al.,2013), the ability of topic models to capture cogni-tive aspects of speakers?
discourse representationshas not yet been tested.In this paper we use topic modeling to formal-ize the idea of salience in the discourse.
We fo-cus specifically on the idea of topicality as a pre-dictor of salience (Ariel, 1990; Arnold, 1998) andask whether the latent topics that are recovered bytopic models can predict speakers?
choices of re-ferring expressions.
Simulations show that the ref-erents of pronouns belong, on average, to higherprobability topics than the referents of full nounphrases, indicating that topical referents are morelikely to be pronominalized.
This suggests that63the information recovered by topic models is rele-vant to speakers?
choices of referring expressionsand that topic models can provide a useful tool forquantifying speakers?
representations of entities inthe discourse.The structure of this paper is as follows.
Sec-tion 2 briefly reviews studies that look at the cor-relation between saliency and choices of refer-ring expression, focusing on topicality, and intro-duces our approach to this problem.
Section 3 de-scribes a model that learns a latent topic distribu-tion and formalizes the notion of topicality withinthis framework.
Section 4 describes the data weused for our simulation.
Section 5 shows simula-tion results.
Section 6 discusses implications andfuture directions.2 Saliency and referring expressionsVarious factors have been proposed to influencereferent salience (Arnold, 1998; Arnold, 2010).These factors include giveness (Chafe, 1976; Gun-del et al., 1993), grammatical position (Bren-nan, 1995; Stevenson et al., 1994), order of men-tion (J?arvikivi et al., 2005; Kaiser and Trueswell,2008), recency (Giv?on, 1983; Arnold, 1998), syn-tactic focus and syntactic topic (Cowles et al.,2007; Foraker and McElree, 2007; Walker et al.,1994), parallelism (Chambers and Smyth, 1998;Arnold, 1998), thematic role (Stevenson et al.,1994; Arnold, 2001; Rohde et al., 2007), coher-ence relation (Kehler, 2002; Rohde et al., 2007)and topicality (Ariel, 1990; Arnold, 1998; Arnold,1999).
Psycholinguistic experiments (Arnold,1998; Arnold, 2001; Kaiser, 2006) show that de-termining the salient referent is a complex processwhich is affected by various sources of informa-tion, and that these multiple factors have differentstrengths of influence.Among the numerous factors influencing thesalience of a referent, this study focuses on top-icality.
In contrast to surface-level factors suchas grammatical position, order of mention, and re-cency, the representation of topicality is latent andrequires inference.
Because of this latent repre-sentation, it has been challenging to investigate therole of topicality in discourse.Many researchers have observed that there is acorrelation between a linguistic category ?topic?and referent salience and have suggested that top-ical referents are more likely to be pronominal-ized (Ariel, 1990; Dahl and Fraurud, 1996).
How-ever, Arnold (2010) points out that examining therelation between topicality and choices of refer-ring expressions is difficult for two reasons.
First,identifying the topic is known to be hard.
Arnold(2010) shows that it is hard to determine what thetopic is even in a simple sentence like Andy brewsbeer (Is the topic Andy, beer, or brewing?).
Sec-ond, researchers have defined the notion of ?topic?differently as follows.?
The topic is often defined as what the sen-tence is about (Reinhart, 1981).?
The topic can be defined as prominentcharacters such as the protagonist (Francik,1985).?
The topic is often associated with old infor-mation (Gundel et al., 1993).?
The subject position is considered to be a top-ical position (Chafe, 1976).?
Repeated mentions are topical (Kameyama,1994).?
Psycholinguistic experiments define a dis-course topic as a referent that has alreadybeen mentioned in the preceding discourseas a pronoun/the topic of a cleft (Arnold,1999) or realized in subject position (Cowles,2003).?
Centering theory (Grosz et al., 1995; Bren-nan, 1995) formalizes the topic as abackward-looking center that is a single en-tity mentioned in the last sentence and in themost salient grammatical position (the gram-matical subject is the most salient, and fol-lowed by the object and oblique object).?
Giv?on (1983) suggests that all discourse enti-ties are topical but that topicality is defined bya gradient/continuous property.
Giv?on showsthat three measures of topicality ?
recency(the distance between the referent and thereferring expression), persistence (how longthe referent would remain in the subsequentdiscourse), and potential interference (howmany other potential referents of the refer-ring expression there are in the preceding dis-course) ?
correlate with the types of referenceexpressions.
Note that these scales measuretopicality of the referring expression, but notthe referent per se.The variation in the literature seems to de-rive from three fundamental properties.
First, asArnold (2010) pointed out, there is variation in the64linguistic unit that bears the topic.
For example,Reinhart (1981) defines each sentence as havinga single topic, whereas Giv?on (1983) defines eachentity as having a single topic.
Second, there is avariation in type of variable.
For example, Giv?on(1983) defines topicality as a continuous property,whereas Centering seems to treat topicality as cat-egorical based on the grammatical position of thereferent.
Third, many studies define ?topic?
as acombination of surface linguistic factors such asgrammatical position and recency.
When topical-ity is defined in terms of meaning, as in Reinhart(1981), we face difficulty in identifying what thetopic is, as summarized in Arnold (1998).
None ofthe existing definitions/measures seem to providea way to capture latent topic representations, andthis makes it challenging to investigate their role indiscourse representations.
It is this idea of latenttopic representations that we aim to formalize.Our study investigates whether topic modeling(Blei et al., 2003; Griffiths et al., 2007) can beused to formalize the relationship between topi-cality and choices of referring expressions.
Be-cause of their structured representations, consist-ing of a set of topics as well as information aboutwhich words belong to those topics, topic modelsare able to capture topicality by means of semanticassociations.
For example, observing a word Clin-ton increases the topicality of other words associ-ated with the topic that Clinton belongs to, e.g.,president, Washington and so on.
In other words,topic models can capture not only the salience ofreferents within a document, but also the salienceof referents via the structured topic representationlearned from multiple texts.We use topic modeling to verify the prevailinghypothesis that topical referents are more likely tobe pronominalized than lexical nouns.
Examin-ing the relationship between topicality and refer-ring expressions using topic modeling provides anopportunity to test how well the representation re-covered by topic models corresponds to the cogni-tive representation of entities in a discourse.
If wecan recover the observation that topical referentsare more likely to be pronominalized than morespecified forms, this could indicate that topic mod-els can capture not only aspects of human seman-tic cognition (Griffiths et al., 2007), but also as-pects of a higher level of linguistic representation,discourse.3 Model3.1 Recovering latent topicsWe formalize topicality of referents using topicmodeling.
Each document is represented as aprobability distribution over topics.
Each topic isrepresented as a probability distribution over pos-sible referents in the corpus.
In training our topicmodel, we assume that all lexical nouns in the dis-course are potential referents.
The topic model istrained only on lexical nouns, excluding all otherwords.
This ensures that the latent topics captureinformation about which referents typically occurtogether in documents.1Rather than pre-specifying a number of latenttopics, we use the hierarchical Dirichlet process(Teh et al., 2006), which learns a number of topicsto flexibly represent input data.
The summary ofthe generative process is as follows.1.
Draw a global topic distributionG0?
DP(?,H) (where ?
is a hyperparame-ter and H is a base distribution).2.
For each document d ?
{1, .
.
.
, D} (whereD denotes the number of documents in thecorpus),(a) draw a document-topic distributionGd?
DP(?0, G0) (where ?0is a hyper-parameter).
(b) For each referent r ?
{1, .
.
.
, Nd}(where Nddenotes the number of refer-ents in document d),i. draw a topic parameter ?d,r?
Gd.ii.
draw a word xd,r?
Mult(?d,r).This process generates a distribution over topicsfor each document, a distribution over referents foreach topic, and a topic assignment for each refer-ent.
The distribution over topics for each docu-ment represents what the topics of the documentare.
The distribution over referents for each topicrepresents what the topic is about.
An illustra-tion of this representation is in Table 3.1.
Top-ics and words that appear in the second and thirdcolumns are ordered from highest to lowest.
Wecan represent topicality of the referents using this1Excluding pronouns from the training set introduces aconfound, because it artificially lowers the probability of thetopics corresponding to those pronouns.
However, in this pa-per our predicted effect goes in the opposite direction: wepredict that topics corresponding to the referents of pronounswill have higher probability than those corresponding to thereferents of lexical nouns.
Excluding pronouns thus makes usless likely to find support for our hypothesis.65probabilistic latent topic representation, measur-ing which topics have high probability and assum-ing that referents associated with high probabilitytopics are likely to be topical in the discourse.Word Top 3 topic IDs Associated words in the 1st topicClinton 5, 26, 61 president, meeting, peace,Washington, talksFBI 148, 73, 67 Leung, charges, Katrina,documents, indictmentoil 91, 145, 140 Burmah, Iraq, SHV, coda,pipelineTable 1: Illustration of the topic distributionGiven this generative process, we can useBayesian inference to recover the latent topic dis-tribution.
We use the Gibbs sampling algorithmin Teh et al.
(2006) to estimate the conditionaldistribution of the latent structure, the distribu-tions over topics associated with each document,and the distributions over words associated witheach topic.
The state space consists of latent vari-ables for topic assignments, which we refer to asz = {zd,r}.
In each iteration we compute the con-ditional distribution p(zd,r|x, z?d,r, ?
), where thesubscript ?d, r denotes counts without consider-ing zd,rand ?
denotes all hyperparameters.
Recov-ering these latent variables allows us to determinewhat the topic of the referent is and how likely thattopic is in a particular document.
We use the latenttopic and its probability to represent topicality.3.2 A measure of topicalityDiscourse theories predict that topical referentsare more likely to be pronominalized than morespecified expressions.2We can quantify the effectof topicality on choices of referring expressionsby comparing the topicality of the referents of twotypes of referring expressions, pronouns and lexi-cal nouns.
If topical words are more likely to bepronominalized, then the topicality of the referentsof pronouns should be higher than the topicality ofthe referents of lexical nouns.Annotated coreference chains in the corpus, de-scribed below, are used to determine the referentof each referring expression.
We look at the topicassigned to each referent r in document d by thetopic model, zd,r.
We take the log probability2Although theories make more fine-grained predictionson the choices of referring expressions with respect tosaliency, e.g., a full name is used to refer to less salient entitycompared to a definite description (c.f.
accessibility mark-ing scale in Ariel 1990), we focus here on the coarse contrastbetween pronouns and lexical nouns.of this topic within the document, log p(zd,r|Gd),as a measure of the topicality of the referent.We take the expectation over a uniform distri-bution of referents, where the uniform distribu-tions are denoted u(lex) and u(pro), to obtainan estimate of the average topicality of the ref-erents of lexical nouns, Eu(lex)[log p(zd,r|Gd)],and the average topicality of the referents of pro-nouns, Eu(pro)[log p(zd,r|Gd)], within each docu-ment.
The expectation for the referents of the pro-nouns in a document is computed asEu(pro)[log p(zd,r|Gd)] =Nd,pro?r=1log p(zd,r|Gd)Nd,pro(1)where Nd,prodenotes the number of pronouns ina document d. Replacing Nd,prowith Nd,lex(thenumber of lexical nouns in a document d) gives usthe expectation for the referents of lexical nouns.To obtain a single measure for each document ofthe extent to which our measure of topicality pre-dicts speakers?
choices of referring expressions,we subtract the average topicality for the referentsof lexical nouns from the average topicality for thereferents of pronouns within the document to ob-tain a log likelihood ratio qd,qd= Eu(pro)[log p(zd,r|Gd)]?Eu(lex)[log p(zd,r|Gd)](2)A value of qdgreater than zero indicates that thereferents of pronouns are more likely to be topicalthan the referents of lexical nouns.4 Annotated coreference dataOur simulations use a training set of the Ontonotescorpus (Pradhan et al., 2007), which consists ofnews texts.
We use these data because each entityin the corpus has a coreference annotation.
We usethe coreference annotations in our evaluation, de-scribed above.
The training set in the corpus con-sists of 229 documents, which contain 3,648 sen-tences and 79,060 word tokens.
We extract onlylexical nouns (23,084 tokens) and pronouns (2,867tokens) from the corpus as input to the model.3Some preprocessing is necessary before usingthese data as input to a topic model.
This necessityarises because some entities in the corpus are rep-resented as phrases, such as in (1a) and (1b) below,3In particular, we extracted words that are tagged as NN,NNS, NNP, NNPS, and for pronouns as PRP, PRP$.66where numbers following each expression repre-sent the entity ID that is assigned to this expressionin the annotated corpus.
However, topic modelsuse bag-of-words representations and therefore as-sign latent topic structure only to individual words,and not to entire phrases.
We preprocessed theseentities as in (2).
This enabled us to attribute entityIDs to individual words, rather than entire phrases,allowing us to establish a correspondence betweenthese ID numbers and the latent topics recoveredby our model for the same words.1.
Before preprocessing(a) a tradition in Betsy?s family: 352(b) Betsy?s family: 348(c) Betsy: 1842.
After preprocessing(a) tradition: 352(b) family: 348(c) Betsy: 184Annotated coreference chains in the corpus wereused to determine the referent of each pronounand lexical noun.
The annotations group all re-ferring expressions in a document that refer to thesame entity together into one coreference chain,with the order of expressions in the chain corre-sponding to the order in which they appear in thedocument.
We assume that the referent for eachpronoun and lexical noun appears in its corefer-ence chain.
We further assume that the referentneeds to be a lexical noun, and thus exclude allpronouns from consideration as referents.
If a lex-ical noun does not have any other words before itin the coreference chain, i.e., that noun is the firstor the only word in that coreference chain, we as-sume that this noun refers to itself (the noun itselfis the referent).
Otherwise, if a coreference chainhas multiple referents, we take its referent to bethe lexical noun that is before and closest to thetarget word.5 ResultsTo recover the latent topic distribution, we ran 5independent Gibbs sampling chains for 1000 iter-ations.4Hyperparameters ?, ?0, and ?
were fixedat 1.0, 1.0, and 0.01, respectively.5The model re-4We used a Python version of the hierarchical Dirichletprocess implemented by Ke Zhai (http://github.com/kzhai/PyNPB/tree/master/src/hdp).5Parameter ?
controls how likely a new topic is to be cre-ated in the corpus.
If the value of ?
is high, more topics arecovered an average of 161 topics (range: 160?163topics).We computed the log likelihood ratio qd(Equa-tion 2) for each document and took the average ofthis value across documents for each chain.
Theformula to compute this average is as follows.For each chain g,1.
get the final sample s in g.2.
For each document d in the corpus,i.
compute qdbased on s.3.
Compute the average of all qdin the cor-pus.The average log likelihood ratio in each chain con-sistently shows values greater than zero acrossthe 5 chains.
The average log likelihood ratioacross chains is 1.0625 with standard deviation0.7329.
As an example, in one chain, the aver-age of the expected values for the referents of pro-nouns across documents is?1.1849 with standarddeviation 0.8796.
In the same chain, the averageof the expected values for the referents of lexicalnouns across documents is?2.2356 with standarddeviation 0.5009.We used the median test6to evaluate whetherthe two groups of the referents are different withrespect to the expected values of the log probabil-ities of topics.
The test shows a significant differ-ence between two groups (p < 0.0001).We also computed the probability density p(q)from the log likelihood ratio qdfor each docu-ment using the final samples from each chain.Graph 1 shows the probability density p(q) fromeach chain.
The peak after zero confirms the ob-served effect.Table 2 shows examples of target pronouns andlexical nouns, their referents, and the topic as-signed to each referent from a document.
Table 3shows the distribution over topics in the documentobtained from one chain.
Topics in Table 3 areordered from highest to lowest.
Only four topicswere present in this document.
The list of referentsassociated with each topic in Table 3 is recoveredfrom the topic distribution over referents.
This listshows what the topic is about.discovered in the corpus.
Parameter ?0controls the sparse-ness of the distribution over topics in a document, and param-eter ?
controls the sparseness of the distribution over wordsin a topic.6The median test compares medians to test group differ-ences (Siegel, 1956).67Topic ID Assciated words Probability1 Milosevic, Kostunica, Slobodan, president, Belgrade, Serbia, Vojislav, Yugoslavia, crimes, parliament 0.642 president, Clinton, meeting, peace, Washington, talks, visit, negotiators, region, .
.
.
, Alabanians 0.163 people, years, U.S., president, time, government, today, country, world, way, year 0.164 government, minister, party, Barak, today, prime, east, parliament, leader, opposition, peace, leadership 0.04Table 3: The document-topic distribution0.00.20.4?1 0 1 2 3qprobability density p(q) Gibbs chain IDchain.01chain.02chain.03chain.04chain.05Figure 1: The probability density of p(q)Target Referent Referent?s Topic IDhis Spilanovic 1he Spilanovic 1its Belgrade 1Goran Minister 4Albanians Albanians 2Kosovo Kosovo 1Table 2: Target words, their corresponding refer-ents, and the assigned topics of the referentsThe topics associated with the pronouns his,he and its have the highest probability in thedocument-topic distribution, as shown in Table 3.In contrast, although the topic associated withthe word Kosovo has the highest probability inthe document-topic distribution, the topics asso-ciated with nouns Goran and Albanians do nothave high probability in the document-topic dis-tribution.
This is an example from one document,but this tendency is observed in most of the docu-ments in the corpus.These results indicate that the referents of pro-nouns are more topical than the referents of lexi-cal nouns using our measure of topicality derivedfrom the topic model.
This suggests that our mea-sure of topicality captures aspects of salience thatinfluence choices of referring expressions.However, there is a possibility that the effectwe observed is simply derived from referent fre-quencies and that topic modeling structure doesnot play a role beyond this.
Tily and Piantadosi(2009) found that the frequency of referents has asignificant effect on predicting the upcoming ref-erent.
Although their finding is about comprehen-der?s ability to predict the upcoming referent (notthe type of referring expression), we conductedan additional analysis to rule out the possibilitythat referent frequencies alone were driving our re-sults.In order to quantify the effect of referent fre-quency on choices of referring expressions, wecomputed the same log likelihood ratio qdwithreferent probabilities.
The probability of a refer-ent in a document was computed as follows:p(ri|docd) =Cd,riCd,?
(3)where Cd,ridenotes the number of mentions thatrefer to referent riin document d and Cd,?denotesthe total number of mentions in document d. Wecan directly compute this value by using the anno-tated coreference chains in the corpus.The log likelihood ratio for this measure is2.3562.
The average of the expected values forthe referents of pronouns across documents is?1.1993 with standard deviation 0.6812.
The av-erage of the expected values for the referents oflexical nouns across documents is ?3.5556 withstandard deviation 0.9742.
The median test showsa significant difference between two groups.
(p <0.0001).
These results indicate that the frequencyof a referent captures aspects of its salience thatinfluence choices of referring expressions, raisingthe question of whether our latent topic represen-tations capture something that simple referent fre-quencies do not.In order to examine to what extent the relation-ship between topicality and referring expressionscaptures information that goes beyond simple ref-erent frequencies, we compare two logistic regres-68sion models.7Both models are built to predictwhether a referent will be a full noun phrase or apronoun.
The first model incorporates only the logprobability of the referent as a predictor, whereasthe second includes both the log probability of thereferent and our topicality measure as predictors.8The null hypothesis is that removing our topi-cality measure from the second model makes nodifference for predicting the types of referring ex-pressions.
Under this null hypothesis, twice thedifference in the log likelihoods between the twomodels should follow a ?2(1) distribution.
Wefind a significant difference in likelihood betweenthese two models (?2(1) = 118.38, p < 0.0001),indicating that the latent measure of topicality de-rived from the topic model predicts aspects of lis-teners?
choices of referring expressions that arenot predicted by the probabilities of individual ref-erents.6 DiscussionIn this study we formalized the correlation be-tween topicality and choices of referring expres-sions using a latent topic representation obtainedthrough topic modeling.
Both quantitative andqualitative results showed that according to this la-tent topic representation, the referents of pronounsare more likely to be topical than the referents oflexical nouns.
This suggests that topic models cancapture aspects of discourse representations thatare relevant to the selection of referring expres-sions.
We also showed that this latent topic repre-sentation has an independent contribution beyondsimple referent frequency.This study examined only two independent fac-tors: topicality and referent frequency.
However,discourse studies suggest that the salience of a ref-erent is determined by various sources of informa-tion and multiple discourse factors with differentstrengths of influence (Arnold, 2010).
Our frame-work could eventually form part of a more com-plex model that explicitly formalizes the interac-tion of information source and various discoursefactors.
Having a formal model would help by al-lowing us to test different hypotheses and developa firm theory regarding cognitive representationsof entities in the discourse.7Models were fit using glm in R. For the log-likelihoodratio test, lrtest in R package epicalc was used.8We also ran a version of this comparison in which fre-quency of mention was included as a predictor in both mod-els, and obtained similar results.One possibility for exploring the role of vari-ous discourse factors in our framework is to userecent advances in topic modeling.
For example,TagLDA (Zhu et al., 2006) includes part-of-speechas part of the model, and syntactic topic models(Boyd-Graber and Blei, 2008) incorporate syntac-tic information.
Whereas simulations in our studyonly used nouns as input, it has been observed thatthe thematic role of the entity influences referentsalience (Stevenson et al., 1994; Arnold, 2001;Rohde et al., 2007).
Using part-of-speech and syn-tactic information together with the topic informa-tion could help us approximate the influence of thethematic role and allow us to simulate how thisfactor interacts with latent topic information andother factors.It has been challenging to quantify the influenceof latent factors such as topicality, and the simula-tions in this paper represent only a first step towardcapturing these challenging factors.
The simula-tions nevertheless provide an example of how for-mal models can help us validate theories of the re-lationship between speakers?
discourse represen-tations and the language they produce.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Ke Zhai, Viet-An Nguyen, and fouranonymous reviewers for helpful comments anddiscussion.ReferencesMira Ariel.
1990.
Accessing noun-phrase antecedents.Routledge, London.Jennifer Arnold.
1998.
Reference form and discoursepatterns.
Ph.D. thesis, Stanford University Stanford,CA.Jennifer Arnold.
1999.
Marking salience: The simi-larity of topic and focus.
Unpublished manuscript,University of Pennsylvania.Jennifer Arnold.
2001.
The effect of thematic roleson pronoun use and frequency of reference continu-ation.
Discourse Processes, 31(2):137?162.Jennifer Arnold.
2010.
How speakers refer: the role ofaccessibility.
Language and Linguistics Compass,4(4):187?203.David M Blei, Andrew Y Ng, and Michael I Jordan.2003.
Latent Dirichlet allocation.
Journal of Ma-chine Learning Research, 3:993?1022.Jordan L Boyd-Graber and David M Blei.
2008.
Syn-tactic topic models.
In Neural Information Process-ing Systems, pages 185?192.69Susan E Brennan.
1995.
Centering attention indiscourse.
Language and Cognitive Processes,10(2):137?167.Wallace Chafe.
1976.
Givenness, contrastiveness, def-initeness, subjects, topics, and point of view.
InC. N. Li, editor, Subject and Topic.
Academic Press,New York.Craig G Chambers and Ron Smyth.
1998.
Structuralparallelism and discourse coherence: A test of Cen-tering theory.
Journal of Memory and Language,39(4):593?608.H Wind Cowles, Matthew Walenski, and Robert Klu-ender.
2007.
Linguistic and cognitive prominencein anaphor resolution: topic, contrastive focus andpronouns.
Topoi, 26(1):3?18.Heidi Wind Cowles.
2003.
Processing informationstructure: Evidence from comprehension and pro-duction.
Ph.D. thesis, University of California, SanDiego.Osten Dahl and Kari Fraurud.
1996.
Animacy in gram-mar and discourse.
Pragmatics and Beyond New Se-ries, pages 47?64.Stephani Foraker and Brian McElree.
2007.
The roleof prominence in pronoun resolution: Active ver-sus passive representations.
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 56(3):357?383.Ellen Palmer Francik.
1985.
Referential choice andfocus of attention in narratives (discourse anaphora,topic continuity, language production).
Ph.D. thesis,Stanford University.Talmy Giv?on.
1983.
Topic continuity in discourse: Aquantitative cross-language study, volume 3.
JohnBenjamins Publishing.Thomas L Griffiths, Mark Steyvers, and Joshua BTenenbaum.
2007.
Topics in semantic representa-tion.
Psychological Review, 114(2):211.Barbara J Grosz, Scott Weinstein, and Aravind K Joshi.1995.
Centering: A framework for modeling the lo-cal coherence of discourse.
Computational Linguis-tics, 21(2):203?225.Jeanette K Gundel, Nancy Hedberg, and RonZacharski.
1993.
Cognitive status and the form ofreferring expressions in discourse.
Language, pages274?307.Juhani J?arvikivi, Roger PG van Gompel, Jukka Hy?on?a,and Raymond Bertram.
2005.
Ambiguous pro-noun resolution contrasting the first-mention andsubject-preference accounts.
Psychological Sci-ence, 16(4):260?264.Elsi Kaiser and John C Trueswell.
2008.
Interpretingpronouns and demonstratives in Finnish: Evidencefor a form-specific approach to reference resolution.Language and Cognitive Processes, 23(5):709?748.Elsi Kaiser.
2006.
Effects of topic and focus onsalience.
In Proceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung,volume 10, pages 139?154.
Citeseer.Megumi Kameyama.
1994.
Indefeasible semanticsand defeasible pragmatics.
In CWI Report CS-R9441 and SRI Technical Note 544.
Citeseer.Andrew Kehler.
2002.
Coherence, reference, and thetheory of grammar.
CSLI publications, Stanford,CA.Viet-An Nguyen, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Philip Resnik,Deborah A Cai, Jennifer E Midberry, and YuanxinWang.
2013.
Modeling topic control to detect in-fluence in conversations using nonparametric topicmodels.
Machine Learning, pages 1?41.Sameer S Pradhan, Eduard Hovy, Mitch Mar-cus, Martha Palmer, Lance Ramshaw, and RalphWeischedel.
2007.
Ontonotes: A unified relationalsemantic representation.
International Journal ofSemantic Computing, 1(4):405?419.Tanya Reinhart.
1981.
Pragmatics and linguistics: Ananalysis of sentence topics in pragmatics and philos-ophy I. Philosophica, 27(1):53?94.Hannah Rohde, Andrew Kehler, and Jeffrey L Elman.2007.
Pronoun interpretation as a side effect of dis-course coherence.
In Proceedings of the 29th An-nual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society,pages 617?622.Sidney Siegel.
1956.
Nonparametric statistics for thebehavioral sciences.
McGraw-Hill.Rosemary J Stevenson, Rosalind A Crawley, and DavidKleinman.
1994.
Thematic roles, focus and the rep-resentation of events.
Language and Cognitive Pro-cesses, 9(4):519?548.Y.
W. Teh, M. I. Jordan, M. J. Beal, and D. M. Blei.2006.
Hierarchical Dirichlet processes.
Journalof the American Statistical Association, 101:1566?1581.Harry Tily and Steven Piantadosi.
2009.
Refer effi-ciently: Use less informative expressions for morepredictable meanings.
In Proceedings of the work-shop on the production of referring expressions:Bridging the gap between computational and empir-ical approaches to reference.Marilyn Walker, Sharon Cote, and Masayo Iida.
1994.Japanese discourse and the process of centering.Computational Linguistics, 20(2):193?232.Xiaojin Zhu, David Blei, and John Lafferty.
2006.TagLDA: Bringing document structure knowledgeinto topic models.
Technical report, Technical Re-port TR-1553, University of Wisconsin.70
