Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 11?15,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Conceptual Spaces to Model Domain Knowledgein Data-to-Text SystemsHadi Banaee and Amy LoutfiCenter for Applied Autonomous Sensor SystemsO?rebro UniversityO?rebro, Sweden{hadi.banaee, amy.loutfi}@oru.seAbstractThis position paper introduces the utilityof the conceptual spaces theory to concep-tualise the acquired knowledge in data-to-text systems.
A use case of the proposedmethod is presented for text generationsystems dealing with sensor data.
Mod-elling information in a conceptual spaceexploits a spatial representation of domainknowledge in order to perceive unexpectedobservations.
This ongoing work aimsto apply conceptual spaces in NLG forgrounding numeric information into thesymbolic representation and confrontingthe important step of acquiring adequateknowledge in data-to-text systems.1 IntroductionKnowledge acquisition (KA) is important forbuilding natural language generation (NLG) sys-tems.
Two KA techniques including corpus-basedKA and structured expert-oriented KA have beenpreviously studied for NLG systems in (Reiteret al., 2003) to improve the quality of acquiredknowledge.
Both techniques use rule-based ap-proaches in order to enrich the similarities be-tween generated texts and natural human-writtentexts.
An important class of NLG frameworkswhich use a rule-based approach is data-to-textsystems where a linguistic summarisation of nu-meric data is produced.
The main architecture ofdata-to-text systems has been introduced by Reiter(2007) which includes the following stages: signalanalysis, data interpretation, document planning,microplanning and realisation.
Domain knowl-edge for these systems is formalised as a taxon-omy or an ontology of information.
In a data-to-text architecture, all the stages are using the pro-vided taxonomy.
In particular, the signal analysisstage extracts the information that is determinedin taxonomies such as simple patterns, events, andtrends.
Also, the data interpretation stage abstractsinformation into the symbolic messages using thedefined taxonomies.Most recent data-to-text frameworks have beendeveloped using Reiter?s architecture with the ad-dition of providing the taxonomies or ontologiescorresponding to the domain knowledge.
For in-stance, the work on summarising the gas turbinetime series (Yu et al., 2007) has used expert knowl-edge to provide a taxonomy of the primitive pat-terns (i.e.
spikes, steps, oscillations).
Similarly,the systems related to the Babytalk project (Portetet al., 2009; Gatt et al., 2009; Hunter et al.,2012) have stored medically known observation(e.g.
bradycardia) in local ontologies.
In order toavoid generating ambiguous messages, these sys-tems simplify the stored information in the tax-onomies by using only the primitive changes in-teresting for the end users.
The core of such sys-tems is still based on this fact - that the content ofthe generated text is dependent on the richness ofthe domain knowledge in the provided taxonomieswhich are usually bounded by expert rules.
Thisorganised domain knowledge is usually an inflexi-ble input to the framework which restricts the out-put of the stages in data-to-text architecture.
Forinstance, the taxonomy in (Yu et al., 2007) doesnot allow the system to represent unexpected ob-servations (e.g.
wave or burst) out of the prede-fined domain knowledge.
Likewise, in the medicaldomain, an unknown physiological pattern will beignored if it does not have a corresponding entityin the provided ontology by expert.
This limitationin data-to-text systems reveals the necessity of re-organising domain knowledge in order to span un-seen information across the data.This position paper introduces a new approach,inspired by the conceptual spaces theory, to modelinformation into a set of concepts that can be usedby data-to-text systems.
The conceptual spaces11theory creates a spatial model of concepts that rep-resents knowledge or information.
This theorypresents a promising alternative to modelling thedomain knowledge in taxonomies or ontologies,particularly when a data-driven analysis is to becaptured in natural language.
This paper outlinesthe notion of conceptual spaces and illustrates howit can be used in a use case.
Section 2 reviewsthe theory of conceptual spaces and its notions.Section 3 presents the approach for applying theconceptual spaces in NLG frameworks.
In Section4, a simple application of the proposed method isshown.
Finally, we address the challenges and out-line our plans for future work.2 On the Theory of Conceptual SpacesThe idea of conceptual spaces has been developedby Ga?rdenfors (2000) as a framework to repre-sent knowledge at the conceptual level.
A concep-tual space is formed in geometrical or topologicalstructures as a set of quality dimensions describ-ing the attributes of information to be represented.For instance, a conceptual space might comprisedimensions such as width, weight, or saltiness.
Adomain is represented to be a set of interdepen-dent dimensions which cannot logically be sepa-rated in a perceptual space.
A typical example ofa domain is ?colour?
which can be defined throughmulti dimensions like hue, saturation, and bright-ness.
Properties are the convex regions in a sin-gle domain describing the particular attributes ofthe domain.
As an example, ?green?
is a propertycorresponding to a region in the colour domain(Fig.
1, right).
In natural language, properties aremostly associated with adjectives in a particulardomain.
A conceptual space contains a member-ship distance measure for each property within thedomains which represents the regions occupied bythe property and allows to depict the notion of sim-ilarity (Rickard et al., 2007).Concepts are formed as regions in a conceptualspace.
In particular, a concept is represented as aset of related properties which might cover multi-ple domains together with information how thesedomains are correlated.
For instance, the conceptof ?apple?
can be represented as regions in colour,size and taste domains (Fig.
1).
The representationof concepts in space contains an assignment ofweights to the domains or dimensions, in order todistinguish between similar concepts (Ga?rdenfors,2004).
In natural languages, concepts often cor-ColourDomainTasteSizehuesaturationbrightnessredwhiteblackgreenmedi umsweet-sourgreenFigure 1: A typical example of a conceptual space to rep-resent ?apple?
concept.respond to nouns or describe verbs when time isinvolved as a dimension (Rickard et al., 2007).The most representative instance of a concept is itsprototypical member which is represented as an n-dimensional point in the concepts region.
The con-ceptual space can be geometrically divided (e.g.using Voronoi tessellation (Ga?rdenfors, 2004)) toa set of categories corresponding to the prototypi-cal members.
Objects (such as instances, entities,or observations) in a conceptual space are identi-fied in the concept regions which characterised asvectors of quality values.
For example, a particularinstance of ?apple?
is depicted in Fig.
1 as a vec-tor of properties <green, medium, sweet?sour>.An object contains a property depending on thenearness of its point to the defined region of theproperty.
This notion leads to have a similaritymeasure within a domain to identify the proper-ties of objects.
Similarity is an essential notion inany conceptual space framework which is definedon individual domains.
The geometrical represen-tation of conceptual spaces provides the ability ofusing distance measures, which is missed in purelysymbolic representations, to consider the similar-ity of concepts and instances.3 Proposed Approach: ConceptualSpaces for Data-to-Text SystemsThis section describes the usage of conceptualspaces for modelling numeric knowledge as con-cepts into a spatial representation.
The proposedapproach shows how to use conceptual space the-ory to reorganise the predefined taxonomies intoa set of concepts in order to represent unexpectedpatterns.
The idea consists of two phases, con-structing a conceptual space corresponding to thetaxonomy, and enhancing the regions in the spacebased on new observations.
The general steps ofthe proposed approach are described as follows:12Step 1: Build the required taxonomy of ob-servations and patterns in the same way as tradi-tional data-to-text systems in order to provide a setof primitive information requirements using theexpert-oriented, domain, or corpus-based knowl-edge.
Primitive entities from these taxonomy willbe the n-dimensional vectors of concepts in con-ceptual space.Step 2: Initialise a conceptual space and de-termine its components, including quality dimen-sions, domains, and concepts corresponding to thedomain knowledge and the context of data.
Us-ing similarity measures on the determined dimen-sions, the model is able to define the geometricaldistance between each pair of vectors and iden-tify the nearest concept for any point in space.
Bydefining the applicable domains and dimensions,the conceptual space is able to characterise a vastrange of interesting concepts, which may not besimilar to the provided entities.Step 3: Specify the ontological instances gath-ered in step one as concepts regions.
This stepgrounds the primitive observations to a set of pro-totypical members as n-dimensional vectors in thecreated conceptual space.
Also the space wouldbe classified into a set of categories presenting theproperties of the prototypical members.
The maincontribution of this approach is based on the fact -that by providing the semantic information as geo-metrical vectors, the model is spanned to concep-tualise the information categories which enablescalculating the similarities between knowledge en-tities like new (non-primitive) extracted patterns asnew vectors in the space.
However, a new entitycould be 1) close to an existing prototypical mem-ber and placed in its geometrical category, or 2) ananomalous point and placed as a new prototype inthe space.Step 4: Rearrange the conceptual categoriescorresponding to the prototypical members byadding new instances to the model as new vec-tor points.
The symbolic properties of prototyp-ical members in space are used to describe novelproperties of unknown entities.
When a new ob-servation appears in space as a vector, it leads toreorganise the boundaries of concepts regions re-lated to the new inserted member.
The expandedspace will provide more descriptive regions for un-considered entities.
It is notable that the provideddomains and dimensions enables the conceptualspace to grow with new entities which are event~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OntologicalPatternsConceptual SpaceData InterpretationMicroplanning andRealisationDocument PlanningInput DataTextSignal analysisFigure 2: The conceptual space in data-to-text architectureas an alternative for ontological patterns.sans association with existing categories.Different stages of data-to-text architecture canbe connected to the built conceptual space insteadof their relations to the ontology.
Specifically, pat-tern discovery in the signal analysis stage does notneed to be limited to rules and domain constraints.Data-to-text approaches which use ontologiesfor signal processing are able to apply probabilis-tic or fuzzy processes to map the patterns of datainto the ?most likely?
concepts in ontology.
How-ever, one advantage of the proposed approach isthat enables the system to represent new conceptsthat are non-relatively deviant cases, as well ascovering intermediate patterns.
So, any extractedinformation from data can be formalised in theconceptual space and then be characterised in asymbolic representation.
Another advantage ofthis model is that the conceptual space assists thesystem to enrich the quality of represented mes-sages in the final text with considering unseen, butinteresting information for the end users.
Fig.
2depicts the conceptual space in relation with thestages of the data-to-text architecture.4 Use Case: From Data Streams toConceptual RepresentationKnowledge extraction in data streams exploits themost informative observations (e.g.
patterns andevents) through the data (Rajaraman et al., 2011).In most of data-to-text systems, much attentionhas been given to the sensor data as the best indica-tor of data streams (e.g.
weather sensor channels,gas turbine time series, and physiological data inbody area networks).
A robust text generation sys-tem for sensor data needs to provide a comprehen-sive information structure in order to summarisenumeric measurements.
Here, we explain how theproposed approach can apply to model the definedtaxonomies in sensor data applications, particu-larly for gas turbine time series (Yu et al., 2007)13and neonatal intensive care data (Gatt et al., 2009).The main challenge here is the definition of con-cepts and quality dimensions from non-sensibleobservations in time series data.
However, a pre-liminary model is introduced as follows:Based on the acquired knowledge in both sys-tems, the patterns are categorised to 1) primi-tive disturbance shapes: spikes, steps, and oscil-lations, or 2) partial trends: rise, fall, and vary-ing.
These observations are associated with a setof attributes and descriptions for their magnitude,direction and/or speed (e.g.
downward, upward,or rapidly, normally, etc.).
A typical demonstra-tion of taxonomies/ontologies in traditional data-to-text systems dealing with sensor data has beenshown in Fig.
3-a.
Our method exploits thesestructures to build an applicable conceptual spacerelated to the acquired knowledge.
It is worth not-ing that building the components of the concep-tual spaces for different sensor data in other con-texts would differ.
To cover the observations intime series, two domains are defined: shape andtrend domains.
For the shape domain, the rules be-hind the definition of primitive events lead to de-termine quality dimensions.
For instance, ?spike?is defined as ?small time interval with almost samestart and end, but big difference between max andmin values?.
So, the spike concept can be char-acterised in the shape domain by quality dimen-sions: time interval (?t), start-end range (?se),and min-max range (?mm).
The prototypicalmember of spike concept can be represented asa vector of properties: v1:<short ?t, small ?se,big ?mm>.
Same dimensions can describe thesteps and oscillations, shown in Fig.
3-b (top).
Forthe trend domain, finding descriptive dimensionsand properties is dependent on the selected fea-tures in the trend detection process (Banaee et al.,2013).
Here, the provided quality dimensions forthe trend domain include: trend orientation (?
),and trend duration (?d).
As an example, ?sud-den rise?
concept can be represented as a regionin the trend domain with a prototypical membervector v2:<positive sharp ?, short ?d>, shown inFig.
3-b (bottom).
The complex concepts can bespanned to multi domains with their properties re-gions.
For instance, ?rapid upward spike?
patternis definable as a region in space, spanned in bothshape and trend domains, which its representativevector has five property values in all dimensionslike: v3:<v1, v2>.setSpikeStepOscillationmmbigsmalllongshortSKaSeDomainshorttoolongsharSgradualstead\longSudden riseSlow decaystead\long! ?
?
Normal decrease?G>@TrenGDomain5isingsuGGen risegraGual rise?
'eca\sloZ Geca\?bigsmalla Taxonomy and 2ntology oI PatternsE &onceptual Space SKape and Trend domainsSpiNeStepOscillationGoZnZarG upZarGsKarp steaG\Figure 3: A conceptual space proposed for modelling do-main knowledge in sensor data.
a) Taxonomy and ontologyof patterns, b) Shape domain and trend domain.This modelling has an effect on signal analysingin that any unseen event and trend can be extractedand represented by finding the nearest prototypicalinstances in the corresponding vector space.
Fig.3-b (bottom) depicts an example of two points rep-resented ?sudden rise?
and ?slow decay?
trends inthe space.
The location of a new instance in space,e.g.
<steady, long> is computable by calculatinggeometrical distances of their properties, and con-sequently the corresponding descriptive symbolscan be inferred as ?normal decrease?.This use case focuses on event-based observa-tions based on the shapes and trends of patterns insensor data.
Other contexts may be interested torepresent other observations like repetitive rules,motifs and unexpected trends which need partic-ular studies on how to model these issues in con-ceptual spaces and capture their properties.145 Discussion and ConclusionThis position paper has presented the notion ofconceptual spaces as an alternative approach tomodelling domain knowledge in data-to-text sys-tems.
The next obvious steps are to use conceptualspaces in a NLG framework and experimentallyvalidate their suitability for capturing data-drivenevents, patterns, etc.
This paper has attempted tomotivate the use of conceptual spaces in order tocope with information which cannot be accuratelymodelled by experts.
Still, however, some remain-ing challenges are to be addressed.
One challengeis determining a comprehensive set of domainsand quality dimensions representing the acquiredknowledge in a conceptual space.
Another chal-lenge is grounding concepts to linguistic descrip-tion in order to provide a thorough symbolic de-scription of quantitative vectors in the space.
Afurther challenge is lexicalisation in modelling theconceptual spaces, which is related to choosing ac-curate words for the conceptual regions regardingto the semantic similarities for properties of theconcepts, without using expert knowledge.AcknowledgmentsThe authors of this work are partially supported bySAAPHO project: Secure Active Aging: Partici-pation and Health for the Old (AAL-2010-3-035).ReferencesEhud Reiter, Somayajulu G. Sripada, and RomaRobertson.
2003.
Acquiring Correct Knowledge forNatural Language Generation.
Journal of ArtificialIntelligence Research, 18:491?516.Ehud Reiter.
2007.
An architecture for data-to-textsystems.
ENLG?11: the Eleventh European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation, 97?104.Jin Yu, Ehud Reiter, Jim Hunter, and Chris Mellish.2007.
Choosing the content of textual summaries oflarge time-series data sets.
Natural Language Engi-neering, 13(1):25?49.Franc?ois Portet, Ehud Reiter, Albert Gatt, Jim Hunter,Somayajulu Sripada, Yvonne Freer, and CindySykes.
2009.
Automatic generation of textual sum-maries from neonatal intensive care data.
ArtificialIntelligence, 173(7):789?816.Albert Gatt, Franc?ois Portet, Ehud Reiter, Jim Hunter,Saad Mahamood, Wendy Moncur, and SomayajuluSripada.
2009.
From data to text in the neonatalintensive care unit: Using NLG technology for deci-sion support and information management.
AI Com-munications, 22(3):153?186.James Hunter, Yvonne Freer, Albert Gatt, Ehud Reiter,Somayajulu Sripada, and Cindy Sykes.
2012.
Au-tomatic generation of natural language nursing shiftsummaries in neonatal intensive care: BT-Nurse.Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, 56(3):157?172.Peter Ga?rdenfors.
2000.
Conceptual Spaces: The Ge-ometry of Thought.
MIT Press.Cambridge, MA.John T. Rickard, Janet Aisbett, and Greg Gibbon.2007.
Reformulation of the theory of conceptualspaces.
Information Sciences, 177(21):4539?4565Peter Ga?rdenfors.
2004.
Conceptual spaces as a frame-work for knowledge representation.
Mind and Mat-ter, 2(2):9?27.Anand Rajaraman, and Jeffrey D. Ullman 2011.
Min-ing of massive datasets.
Cambridge UniversityPress.H.
Banaee, M. U. Ahmed, A. Loutfi 2013.
A Frame-work for Automatic Text Generation of Trends inPhysiological Time Series Data.
SMC?13: IEEE In-ternational Conference on Systems, Man, and Cy-bernetics, 3876?3881.15
