Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 11?18,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Creation of a Corpus for Argumentation Miningthe Biomedical Genetics Research LiteratureNancy L. GreenDept.
of Computer ScienceU.
of N. Carolina GreensboroGreensboro, NC 27402, USAnlgreen@uncg.eduAbstractArgumentation mining involves automat-ically identifying the premises, conclu-sion, and type of each argument as wellas relationships between pairs of argu-ments in a document.
We describe ourplan to create a corpus from the biomedi-cal genetics research literature, annotatedto support argumentation mining re-search.
We discuss the argumentation el-ements to be annotated, theoretical chal-lenges, and practical issues in creatingsuch a corpus.1 IntroductionArgumentation mining is a relatively new chal-lenge in corpus-based discourse analysis that in-volves automatically identifying argumentationwithin a document, i.e., the premises, conclusion,and type of each argument, as well as relation-ships between pairs of arguments in the docu-ment.
To date, researchers have investigatedmethods for argumentation mining of non-scientific text and dialogue.
However, the lack ofappropriately annotated corpora has hinderedresearch on argumentation mining of scientificresearch articles.
Using the term ?argument?
in arelated but different sense than here, researchershave investigated annotation of scientific ab-stracts and full-text articles (e.g.
Teufel, 2002;Mizuta et al., 2005; Liakata et al., 2012).
How-ever, the annotated corpora they have created arenot designed for argumentation mining in theabove sense.Our goal is to create a freely available corpusof open-access, full-text scientific articles fromthe biomedical genetics research literature, anno-tated to support argumentation mining research.The corpus also would provide a rich new re-source for researchers in related areas includinginformation retrieval, information extraction,summarization, and question-answering.
There isa critical need for automated analysis of the rap-idly growing genetics research literature.
Availa-bility of the corpus should promote the develop-ment of computational tools for use by biomedi-cal and genetics researchers.
In the future, e.g., atool enabled by argumentation mining could beused to automatically summarize arguments inthe research literature that a certain genetic muta-tion is a cause of breast cancer.
Methods devel-oped from experimentation with this corpusshould be adaptable to other scientific domainsas well.Section 2 of this paper discusses some termsfrom argumentation theory that are relevant toour goals and surveys related work.
Section 3discusses examples of argumentation in the tar-get literature.
The next three sections discusschallenges, practical issues, and future plans forcreating the corpus.2 Background2.1 Argumentation TheoryTraditionally, an argument is said to consist of aset of premises and a conclusion, and a formalmodel such as deductive logic is used to deter-mine whether the argument is valid.
An argu-ment can be attacked by refuting a premise or bypresenting an argument for a conclusion in con-tradiction to the original conclusion.
HoweverToulmin (1998), who was concerned with mod-eling arguments in fields such as law and sci-ence, argued that logical validity is too restrictivea criterion for determining argument acceptabil-ity.
Toulmin distinguished two types of premis-11es: data, i.e., observations or conclusions of oth-er arguments, and warrant, i.e., a field-dependent accepted principle (such as a legalrule or a ?law?
of science).Argumentation schemes are abstract descrip-tions of forms of argument that are used to con-struct acceptable arguments in everyday conver-sation, law, and science (Walton et al., 2008).Argumentation schemes may describe non-deductively valid arguments, and their conclu-sions may be retracted when more information isobtained.
For example, an abductive argumenta-tion scheme, often used in genetic counseling(Green et al., 2011), is reasoning from observa-tions to a hypothesized cause.
Critical questionsassociated with argumentation schemes play animportant role in evaluating argument acceptabil-ity (Walton et al., 2008).
For example, one of thecritical questions of the abductive argumentationscheme is whether there is an alternative, moreplausible explanation for the observation used asa premise.
An enthymeme is an argument withimplicit premises or conclusion.
Argumentationschemes are sometimes useful in reconstructionof missing components of enthymemes.2.2 Argumentation CorporaA corpus of genetic counseling patient letterswas analyzed in several ways to design a compu-tational model for generation of arguments fromhealthcare experts to patients (Green et al.,2011).
An annotation scheme was developed todescribe the conceptual model of genetic diseaseand inheritance communicated to patients(Green, 2005a).
Formal argumentation schemesdescribing arguments found in the corpus weredefined (Green et al., 2011).
Analyses of prag-matic features included rhetorical relations(Green, 2010a), ordering constraints and dis-course markers (Green et al., 2011), point ofview (Green 2005b), and use of probability ex-pressions (Green 2010b).
However, it was not agoal of that project to provide a publicly availa-ble corpus.The Araucaria argumentation diagrammingtool was developed to aid human analysts andstudents to visualize and annotate naturally oc-curring arguments (Reed and Rowe, 2004).
Dia-grams can be stored as text files with stand-offannotation of premises and conclusions, argu-mentation schemes, and relationships betweenarguments.
The Araucaria project has created apublicly available corpus of annotated argumen-tation from newspaper articles, parliamentaryrecords, magazines, and on-line discussionboards (Reed et al., 2010).
The corpus has beenused in some argumentation mining research(Mochales and Moens, 2011; Feng and Hirst,2011; Cabrio and Villata, 2012).2.3 Argumentation MiningTo date, researchers have investigated methodsfor argumentation mining of non-science con-tent: legal documents (Mochales and Moens,2011; Bach et al., 2013; Ashley and Walker,2013; Wyner et al., 2010), on-line debates (Cab-rio and Villata, 2012), product reviews (Villalbaand Saint-Dizier, 2012; Wyner et al., 2012), andnewspaper articles and court cases (Feng andHirst, 2011).
Here we summarize the work that ismost relevant to our project.Mochales and Moens (2011) experimentedwith the Araucaria corpus and a legal corpus.They developed a multi-stage approach to argu-mentation mining.
The first stage, argumentativeinformation detection, addresses the problem ofclassifying a sentence (or sentential subunit) asbeing part of an argument or not.
Next, argumentboundary detection, or segmentation, is the prob-lem of determining the boundaries of each argu-ment.
Third, argumentative proposition classifi-cation labels the sentences in an argument ac-cording to their role as a premise or the conclu-sion.
Lastly, argumentation structure detection isthe problem of detecting the relationships be-tween arguments, i.e., whether two atomic argu-ments are ?chained?
(the conclusion of one is apremise of another), whether multiple argumentsare provided in support of the same conclusion,and whether one argument attacks another argu-ment in some way.
Statistical techniques wereused for the first three stages, while manuallyconstructed context-free grammar rules wereused for argumentation structure detection.Cabrio and Villata (2012) used an approach toargumentation structure detection based on cal-culating textual entailment (Dagan 2006) to de-tect support and attack relations between argu-ments in a corpus of on-line dialogues statinguser opinions.Feng and Hirst (2011) focused on the problemof argumentation scheme recognition in the Ar-aucaria corpus.
Assuming that the conclusionand premises of an argument have been identi-fied already, classification techniques achievedhigh accuracy for two argumentation schemesdescribed in (Walton et al., 2008), argumentfrom example and practical reasoning.
Thoseschemes are less likely to be useful in analysis ofscientific texts however.12In fact, since scientific research articles sub-stantially differ from the genres that have beenexplored for argumentation mining so far, it is anopen question what techniques will be successfulin the scientific literature.2.4 Argumentative Zoning and RelatedAnnotation SchemesSome NLP researchers have studied ways to au-tomatically identify discourse structure in scien-tific text.
The motivation is to provide contextualinformation that will improve automatic infor-mation access without the need to represent orreason about domain knowledge (Teufel, 2010).These researchers have developed several anno-tation schemes.The argumentative zoning (AZ) annotationscheme was developed for automatically classi-fying the sentences of a scientific article in termsof their contribution of new knowledge to a field(Teufel and Moens, 2002; Teufel, 2010).
Ap-plied to articles in computational linguistics, AZlabels ?zones?
or variable-length sequences ofsentences with one of seven categories:  AIM(the research goal of the article), BASIS (thecontribution of existing knowledge to aknowledge claim of the article), CONTRAST(criticizing or negatively contrasting competi-tors?
knowledge claims to a knowledge claim ofthe article), TEXTUAL (indicating the structureof the article), BACKGROUND (generally ac-cepted background knowledge), OTHER (exist-ing knowledge claims), and OWN (describingany aspect of a new knowledge claim made bythe authors).An extension of AZ (AZ-II) developed for ap-plication to chemistry articles, refined AZ?s dis-tinctions into fifteen categories (Teufel, 2010).
Inanother extension of AZ developed for geneticsarticles (Mizuta et al., 2005), the AZ OWN cate-gory was replaced by categories distinguishingdescriptions of methodology (MTH), experi-mental results (RSL), insights from experimentalresults or previous work (INS), and implications(such as conjectures and applications) of experi-mental results or previous work (IMP).The CoreSC (Core Scientific Concepts) anno-tation scheme was developed for automatic clas-sification of sentences in terms of the compo-nents of a scientific investigation: Hypothesis,Motivation, Goal, Object, Background, Method,Experiment, Model, Observation, Result andConclusion (Liakata et al., 2012a).
An automaticclassifier for CoreSC was developed and evalu-ated on a corpus of 265 full-text articles in bio-chemistry and chemistry.
A comparison study(Liakata et al., 2012b) in which articles were an-notated with both AZ-II and CoreSC ?found thatCoreSC provides finer granularity ?
while thestrength of AZ-II lies in detecting the attributionof knowledge claims and identifying the differentfunctions of background information?
(Liakata etal.
2012b, p. 45).
Liakata et al.
(2012b) com-pared CoreSC to two other scientific discourseannotation schemes (Thompson et al., 2011; DeWaard and Pander Maat, 2009).
The threeschemes were found to be complementary, oper-ating at different levels of granularity.However, none of the above annotationschemes address argumentation as described insection 2.3.
They are not designed to identify thepremises and conclusion of each argument (in-cluding missing components of enthymemes)and the argumentation scheme, nor relationshipsbetween pairs of arguments.
Nevertheless, weplan to coordinate our efforts with that researchcommunity to benefit from their expertise and toensure that our corpus will ultimately provide avaluable resource for their research.3 ExamplesIn this section we discuss examples of some ofthe arguments in an article (Schrauwen et al.,2012) that is representative of the articles to beincluded in the corpus.
The main claim of thisarticle is that a c.637+1G>T mutation of theCABP2 gene in the region 11q12.3-11q13.3(DFNB93) is a cause of autosomal recessivenon-syndromic hearing loss (arNSHL) in hu-mans.
The article?s body is divided into four sec-tions: Introduction, Material and Methods, Re-sults, and Discussion.
The following examples inTable 1 are from the first subsection of the Re-sults section (under the subheading ?Next-Generation Sequencing of the DFNB93 RegionIdentifies a Splice-Site Mutation in CABP2?
).The excerpt has been manually segmented intoregions of text conveying arguments.
Adjacentsegments not conveying arguments have beenomitted to save space; the approximate numberof omitted lines is given in square brackets.
Also,for readability, alternative identifiers of geneticvariants have been replaced by ellipses.131 ?The DFNB93 region contains more than300 annotated and hypothetical genes,and several genes are expressed in themouse and human inner ear.
Becausethere are many strong candidate genes inthe region, we sequenced all genes andnoncoding genes in this region by usinga custom DNA capture array to identifythe disease-causing mutation in one af-fected individual from the family.
[skip next 5 lines]2 ?After the identified homozygous vari-ants were filtered through the 1000 Ge-nomes Project November 2010 releaseand dbSNP131, 47 previously unreportedvariants remained and included two exo-nic mutations, one splicing mutation, sixnontranslated mutations, 16 intergenic(downstream or upstream) mutations,and 22 intronic mutations.3 The two exonic variants included onenonsynonymous variant, c.1379A>G ?in PPFIA1 ?
and synonymous variantc.174G>A ?
in GAL3ST3 ... Thesplice-site variant, c.637+1G>T ?
waslocated at the 5?
donor site of intron 6 ofCABP2 (Figure 1 and Figure S1, availa-ble online).
?The variants in PPFIA1 and CABP2were subsequently validated by SangerDNA sequencing, which only confirmedthe splicing variant in CABP2.
[skip next 4 lines]4 Next, we checked the inheritance of theCABP2 variant in the entire Sh10 family(Figure 1) and screened an additional100 random Iranian controls to ensurethat the variant is not a frequent poly-morphism.
The mutation was not detect-ed in any of the controls, and inheritancewas consistent with hearing loss in thefamily.Table 1.
Excerpt from (Schrauwen et al., 2012)In an annotation scheme such as AZ, the firstsentence of segment 1 might be classified asBKG (background) and the second as MTH(methodology).
In CoreSC, the second sentencemight be classified as Hypothesis and Method.However, the following argument is also com-municated in (1) to the intended audience of sci-entists.
(A genetics researcher has confirmed ourinterpretation of the arguments in this paper.
)Note that in the following analyses in our paper,square brackets indicate implicit information de-rivable from the discourse context or domainknowledge.
In the following argument, two ofthe premises are implicit, i.e., this is an exampleof an enthymeme.
Also, premises are distin-guished as Data or Warrant, where the formertype of premise corresponds to old or new evi-dence or a conclusion of another argument in thearticle, and the latter to generally accepted prin-ciples or assumptions in genetics.
It is under-stood by the intended audience that warrants mayhave exceptions and that the conclusions of thefollowing arguments are tentative.Note that the conclusion of Argument 1 hasbeen recovered from the phrase there are manystrong candidate genes in the region.
The argu-ment can be analyzed in terms of a type of ab-ductive argumentation scheme, i.e., reasoningfrom effect (arNSHL) to plausible cause (a muta-tion in the DFNB932 region).
For a specificationof the argumentation schemes identified in thegenetics paper, see (Green and Schug, in prepa-ration).Argument 1:Data: Several genes in the DFNB93 region areexpressed in the human inner ear.Data: [arNSHL involves the inner ear]Warrant: [If a gene is expressed in a tissue relat-ed to a genetic condition then a mutation of thatgene may be a cause of that condition]Warrant: [Autosomal recessive genetic condi-tions are caused by homozygous mutations.
]Conclusion: A [homozygous] mutation of a genein the DFNB93 region may be a cause ofarNSHL in humans.In an annotation scheme such as AZ, the sub-ordinate clause at the beginning of segment 2might be classified as MTH, and the main clauseas RSL (results).
However it has been analyzedin Argument 2 as an instance of an argumenta-tion scheme involving the elimination of candi-dates.
Note that the identity of the arNSHL-affected individual whose DNA was tested(V:14) and the family to which she belonged (Sh10) was not specified in this section, but wasgiven in the Material and Methods section.
Alsonote that the first premise in Argument 2 is theconclusion of the preceding Argument 1.
In ourpaper, this is indicated by providing the previousargument?s identifier in parentheses.14Argument 2:Data: (Argument 1) [A homozygous mutation ofa gene in the DFNB93 region may be a cause ofarNSHL in humans]Data: [In a DNA sample from one arNSHL-affected individual, identified as V:14 of familySh10] 47 previously unreported [i.e.
not frequentpolymorphisms] homozygous variant alleles inthe DFNB93 region were identified.Warrant: [If a variant is a frequent polymorphismthen it is not a cause of a genetic condition]Conclusion: [One of the 47 variants may be thecause of arNSHL in individual V:14]Various clauses in segment 3 might be classi-fied as MTH or RSL in a scheme such as AZ.
Inan argumentation analysis, however, it conveysan argument that the CABP2 mutation may bethe cause of arNSHL in one individual (:V14),after the elimination of the other candidates.Argument 3Data: (Argument 2) [One of the 47 variants maybe the cause of arNSHL in individual V:14]Data: Only splice-site variant c.637+1G>T ofCABP2 was confirmed.Warrant: [Only confirmed exonic or splice-sitevariants may be the cause of arNSHL.
]Conclusion: [The c.637+1G>T variant of CABP2may be the cause of arNSHL in individual V:14]Segment 4 uses two different sets of data toargue that the c.637+1G>T variant of CABP2may be the cause of arNSHL in the family ofV:14,  Sh10.
In a scheme such as AZ, the firstsentence would probably be described as MTHand the second as RSL.
However, an argumenta-tion analysis provides two arguments, 4a and 4b.They each support the same conclusion, which isnot explicitly stated in the text.Argument 4aData: (Argument 3) [The c.637+1G>T variant ofCABP2 may be the cause of arNSHL in individ-ual V:14]Data: Inheritance of the variant segregates witharNSHL in family Sh10.Warrant: [A mutation that is present in one af-fected family member may be the cause of anautosomal recessive genetic condition in the restof the family if the mutation segregates with thegenetic condition in the family (i.e., the mutationis present in all and only the family memberswho have the genetic condition, and the oc-curence of the condition is consistent with auto-somal recessive inheritance)]Conclusion: [The c.637+1G>T variant of CABP2may be the cause of arNSHL in family Sh10]Argument 4bData: Inheritance of the variant c.637+1G>T ofCABP2 segregates with arNSHL in family Sh10.Data: The variant c.637+1G>T of CABP2 is notfound in the DNA of a control group of 100 indi-viduals [who are not in family Sh10 and who arenot affected with arNSHL]Warrant: [If a variant segregates with an autoso-mal recessive condition in a family but is notfound in the DNA of a control group of individu-als who are not affected with the condition, thenit may be the cause of the condition in thatfamily]Conclusion: [The c.637+1G>T variant of CABP2may be the cause of arNSHL in family Sh10]In addition to identifying individual argu-ments, argumentation mining addresses relation-ships between pairs of arguments.
Arguments 1-4a illustrate a chain of arguments, i.e., where theconclusion of Argument i is a premise of Argu-ment i+1.
Also, arguments 4a and 4b illustratetwo arguments in support of the same conclu-sion.
Note that, individually, Arguments 1-3 arerelatively weak.
However, Argument 1 might beuseful in answer to a query such as What regionsmay carry a mutation leading to arNSHL?
Ar-guments 2-3 might be useful in answer to a querysuch as Have any individual cases of arNSHLbeen attributed to a mutation of CABP2?
Argu-ments 1-4a and Argument 4b could be given asthe answer to the query What mutation may bethe cause of arNSHL in an affected family?
(Notethat in an interactive query facility, instead ofpresenting the user with a chain of arguments,the system could leave it up to the user to ?drilldown?
to see the subarguments in a chain.
)The above arguments are provided here forpurposes of illustration.
In the remainder of thegenetics article the main claim (that the CABP2mutation is a cause of arNSHL in humans) issupported by arguments that the mutation is thecause of arNSHL in two other families.
Also,using a different type of argumentation, it pro-vides a biochemical explanation for how the mu-tation may cause an abnormality in the inner earthat could cause hearing loss.
In addition to themain claim, the article contains several othersupported claims, e.g., that the c.637+1G>T var-iant of CABP2 may be a founder mutation.154 ChallengesArgumentation mining of this type of discoursewill be challenging.
A challenge that is sharedwith BioNLP text mining in general is dealingwith the extensive use of biological, chemical,and clinical terminology in the BioNLP domain.A number of challenges specific to argumenta-tion mining are discussed next.To specify an argument it is necessary to iden-tify the premises (or data and warrant), conclu-sion, and argumentation scheme.
However, asillustrated in the previous examples, argumentswith implicit components (enthymemes) arecommon, e.g., where a conclusion is implicit orused as an implicit premise of another argument.A related challenge is to supply domainknowledge for reconstructing implicit warrantsin this genre.
Another related challenge is theneed to make use of discourse context to supplymissing information, e.g., where context is re-quired to supply the identity of individual V:14in Argument 2.
Note that in that case, it was nec-essary to read the previous Materials and Meth-ods section to supply that information.Another problem illustrated in the example isthat argument boundaries do not coincide withsentential subunit boundaries.
For example, seg-ment 4 contains parts of Argument 4a and 4b inthe first sentence and parts of those two argu-ments in the second sentence.
Furthermore, iden-tification of argument components does not ap-pear to be systematically associated with dis-course markers such as ?therefore?.
However, thearguments contain lexical items relating to scien-tific discovery (e.g., ?confirmed?, ?detected?,?consistent with?, ?indicate?, ?is likely that?, ?ex-pected to?, ?showed?, ?suggests?)
that may aid inautomatic identification of the components.Our analysis of argumentation in genetic coun-seling (Green et al., 2011) and in the geneticsresearch literature (Green and Schug, in prepara-tion) has identified other (and more specific) ar-gumentation schemes and critical questions thanthose listed in (Walton et al., 2008).
Since someof the argumentation schemes we have identifiedare causal, lexical patterns of causality may beuseful features for use in argumentation mining.5 Practical Considerations for Creatingthe CorpusIn order to ensure that the future corpus can befreely disseminated, we will select articles fromjournals that are fully open-access, i.e., that arepublished under the Creative Commons attribu-tion license ?which allows articles to be re-usedand re-distributed without restriction, as long asthe original work is correctly cited?(http://www.biomedcentral.
com.about).
To date,we have identified the following fully open-access journals that contain biomedical geneticsresearch articles:?
BMC http://www.biomedcentral.com jour-nals: BMC Genetics, BMC Genomics, BMCMedical Genetics, BMC Medical Genomicsand BMC Molecular Biology,?
PLoS http://www.plos.org/ journals: Genet-ics, Biology, MedicineA number of other journals (e.g.
American Jour-nal of Human Genetics), indexed by PubMedhttp://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov, make a sub-set of their articles available as open-access.After selecting articles for the corpus, we willdefine and evaluate the intercoder reliability (Ar-stein and Poesio, 2008) of the following types ofannotations:?
Data, warrant, and conclusion and argumen-tation scheme of each argument,?
Multiple arguments for the same conclusion,and?
Chained relationships between arguments,i.e., where the conclusion of an argument isthe premise of a subsequent argument.Note that we plan to employ graduate studentswith a background in genetics and biochemistryas coders.Identifying implicit components of argumentswill be challenging for coders.
However, thereare a number of constraints that will be given inthe instructions to help the coders.
First, theywill be given a list of commonly accepted princi-ples of genetics as possible warrants, such asMendel?s laws, the concept of segregation in apedigree, etc.
Second, coders will be instructedto look for chained arguments, i.e., where thepremises/conclusions of chained arguments canbe reconstructed from the relationship betweentwo arguments.
Third, coders will be given a de-scription of argumentation schemes, which alsoconstrain the interpretation of argument compo-nents.A pilot annotated corpus and associated docu-mentation of the argumentation coding schemewill be made available to other researchers on atemporary basis for the purpose of publicizingthe planned corpus and getting feedback frompotential stakeholders.An important consideration is the selection ofcorpus annotation tools to facilitate argumenta-tion mining research.
On the one hand, the text16mining community uses linguistic annotationtools such as GATE (http://gate.ac.uk/), UIMA(http://www.ibm.com/research/uima), and Open-NLP tools http://opennlp.sourceforge.net).
Itwould be advisable to use tools that would allowthat community to benefit from the argumenta-tion corpus, as well as to allow argumentationmining researchers to use previously developedtools.
For example, argumentation mining re-searchers may find it useful to automatically pre-process the corpus with linguistic annotations aswell as the annotation schemes described in sec-tion 2.4.
BioNLP researchers may find it usefulto consider argumentation annotations as well.Just as modality and negation currently are usedfor BioNLP tasks, a text segment?s participationin argumentation as outlined in this paper mayprovide useful context at a deeper level of analy-sis.On the other hand, the argumentation and edu-cational community uses tools for diagrammingargumentation, e.g.Araucaria http://arg.computing.dundee.ac.uk andLASAD http://cscwlab.in.tu-clausthal.de/ lasad).It is important to maintain compatibility betweenargumentation mining corpora developed withlinguistic annotation tools and corpora developedwith diagramming tools.6 ConclusionThis paper described our plan to create a freelyavailable corpus of open-access, full-text scien-tific articles from the biomedical genetics re-search literature, annotated to support argumen-tation mining research.
It discussed the argumen-tation elements to be annotated, theoretical chal-lenges, and practical issues in creating such acorpus.
We hope this workshop will provide anopportunity for us to get feedback from potentialusers (or contributors) to this effort, and possiblyeven identify synergistic research opportunities.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Dr. Malcolm Schug of the BiologyDepartment of the University of North CarolinaGreensboro for verifying our interpretation of thearguments in the genetics article.ReferencesArtstein, R. and Poesio, M. 2008.
Inter-Coder Agree-ment for Computational Linguistics.
ComputationalLinguistics 34(4): 555-596.Ashley, K.D.
and Walker, V.R.
2013.
Towards Constructing Evidenced-Based Legal Arguments UsingLegal Decision Documents and Machine Learning.In Proc.
ICAIL 2013, June 10-14, Rome.Bach, N.X., Minh, N.L., Oanh, T.T., and Shimazu, A.2013.
A Two-Phase Framework for Learning Logical Structures of Paragraphs in Legal Articles.
ACMTrans.
Asian Lang.
Inform.
Process.
12, 1, Article 3(March 2013).Cabrio, E. and Villata, S. 2012.
Generating AbstractArguments: A Natural Language Approach.
In Verheij, B., Szeider, S., and Woltran, S.
(eds.)
Compu-tational Models of Argument: Proceedings ofCOMMA 2012.
Amsterdam, IOS Press, 454-461.Dagan, I., Dolan, B., Magnini, B., and Roth, D. 2009.Recognizing textual entailment: Rationale, evaluation, and approaches.
Natural Language Engineering 15(4): i-xvii.De Waard, A. and Pander Maat, H. 2012.
KnowledgeAttribution in Scientific Discourse: A Taxonomy ofTypes and Overview of Features.
In Proc.
of theACL 2012 Workshop on Detecting Structure in Scientific Discourse.Feng, V.W.
and Hirst, G. 2011.
Classifying Arguments by Scheme.
In Proceedings of the 49th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Portland, OR, 987-996.Green, N. 2005a.
A Bayesian Network CodingScheme for Annotating Biomedical InformationPresented to Genetic Counseling Clients.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics 38: 130-144.Green, N. 2005b.
Analysis of Linguistic Features Associated with Point of View for Generating Stylistically Appropriate Text.
In J. G. Shanahan, JamesG., Qu, Y., and Wiebe, J.
(Eds).
Computing Attitudeand Affect in Text: Theory and Applications, 33-40.Secaucus, NJ: Springer-Verlag.Green, N. 2010a.
Representation of Argumentation inText with Rhetorical Structure Theory.
Argumentation 24(2): 181-196.Green, N. 2010b.
Analysis of communication of uncertainty in genetic counseling patient letters fordesign of a natural language generation system.
Social Semiotics.
20(1):77-86.Green, N., Dwight, R.,  Navoraphan, K., and Stadler,B.
2011.
Natural Language Generation of Transparent Arguments for Lay Audiences.
Argument andComputation 2(1): 23-50.17Green, N. and Schug, M. In preparation.
ModelingArgumentation in Scientific Discourse.Liakata, M, et al.
2012a.
Automatic recognition ofconceptualization zones in scientific articles andtwo life science applications.
Bioinformatics 28(7).Liakata, M., et al.
2012b.
A Three-Way Perspectiveon Scientific Discourse Annotation for KnowledgeExtraction.
In Proc.
of the ACL 2012 Workshop onDetecting Structure in Scientific Discourse, 37-46.Mizuta, Y., Korhonen, A., Mullen, T. and Collier, N.2005.
Zone Analysis in Biology Articles as a Basisfor Information Extraction.
International Journal ofMedical Informatics 75(6): 468-487.Mochales, R. and Moens, M. 2011.
Argumentationmining.
Artificial Intelligence and Law 19, 1-22.Monteserin, A. and Amandi, A.
2010.
Building userargumentative models.
Applied Intelligence 32, 131-145.Reed, C. and Rowe, G. 2004.
Araucaria: Software forargument analysis, diagramming and representation.International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools14, 961-980.Reed, C., Mochales-Palau, R., Moens, M., and Mil-ward, D. 2010.
Language resources for studyingargument.
In Proceedings of the 6th Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation, LREC2008,ELRA, 91-100.Schrauwen et al.
2012.
A Mutation in CABP2, Ex-pressed in Cochlear Hair Cells, Causes Autosomal-Recessive Hearing Impairment.
The AmericanJournal of Human Genetics 91, 636-645, October 5,2012.Teufel, S. and Moens, M. 2002.
Summarizing Scientific Articles: Experiments with Relevance andRhetorical Status.
Computational Linguistics 28(4),409-445.Teufel, S. 2010.
The Structure of Scientific Articles:Applications to Citation Indexing and Summariza-tion.
Stanford, CA, CSLI Publications.Thompson, P., Nawaz, R., McNaught, J. and Anani-adou, S. 2011.
Enriching a biomedical event corpuswith meta-knowledge annotation.
BMC Bioinformatics, 12: 393.Toulmin, S. E. 1998.
The Uses of Argument, Cam-bridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Villalba, M.P.G.
and Saint-Dizier, P. 2012.
SomeFacets of Argument Mining for Opinion Analysis.In Proc.
COMMA 2012, 23-34.Walton, D., Reed, C., and Macagno, F. 2008.
Argu-mentation Schemes.
Cambridge University Press.Wyner, A., Mochales-Palau, R., Moens, M-F, andMilward, D. 2010.
Approaches to Text MiningArguments from Legal Cases.
In Semantic Processing of Legal Texts, 60-79.Wyner, A., Schneider, J., Atkinson, K., and Bench-Capon, T. 2012.
Semi-Automated ArgumentativeAnalysis of Online Product Reviews.
In Proc.COMMA 2012, 43-50.18
