Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Health Text Mining and Information Analysis (Louhi) @ EACL 2014, pages 46?53,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA System for Building FrameNet-like Corpus for the Biomedical DomainHe TanSchool of EngineeringJ?onk?oping University, Swedenhe.tan@jth.hj.seAbstractSemantic Role Labeling (SRL) plays animportant role in different text miningtasks.
The development of SRL systemsfor the biomedical area is frustrated by thelack of large-scale domain specific corporathat are annotated with semantic roles.
Inour previous work, we proposed a methodfor building FramenNet-like corpus for thearea using domain knowledge provided byontologies.
In this paper, we present aframework for supporting the method andthe system which we developed based onthe framework.
In the system we have de-veloped the algorithms for selecting ap-propriate concepts to be translated into se-mantic frames, for capturing the informa-tion that describes frames from ontologyterms, and for collecting example sentenceusing ontological knowledge.1 IntroductionSemantic Role Labeling (SRL) is a process that,for each predicate in a sentence, indicates what se-mantic relations hold among the predicate and itsassociated sentence constituents.
The associatedconstituents are identified and their semantic rolelabels are assigned, as in: [TransporterCBG] de-livers [Entitycortisol] [Destinationto target cells].SRL could play an important role in text min-ing tasks such as information extraction, questionanswering and text summarization.
With the ad-vent of large resources like FrameNet (Fillmoreet al., 2001) and PropBank (Palmer et al., 2005),SRL has become a well-defined task with a sub-stantial body of work and comparative evaluation.Much of this work has focused on the argumentsof verbs, and has been trained and evaluated onnewswire text.Recently, work has turned to bring SRL to thebiomedical area (Wattarujeekrit et al., 2004; Tsaiet al., 2006; Dolbey et al., 2006; Bethard et al.,2008).
Biomedical text considerably differs fromthe PropBank and FrameNet data, both in the styleof the written text and the predicates involved.Predicates in the data are typically verbs, biomed-ical text often prefers nominalizations, gerundsand relational nouns (Cohen et al., 2008; Kil-icoglu et al., 2010).
Predicates like endocytosisand translocate, though common in biomedicaltext, are absent from both the FrameNet and Prop-Bank data (Wattarujeekrit et al., 2004; Bethard etal., 2008; Tan, 2010).
Predicates like block, gen-erate and transform, have been used in biomedicaldocuments with different semantic senses and re-quire different number of semantic roles comparedto FrameNet (Tan, 2010) and PropBank data (Wat-tarujeekrit et al., 2004).The projects, such as PASBio (Wattarujeekritet al., 2004), BioProp (Tsai et al., 2006) andBioFrameNet (Dolbey et al., 2006), have made ef-forts on building resources for training SRL sys-tems in the biomedical domain.
PASBio annotatedthe semantic roles for 31 predicates (distributed29 verbs) in style of PropBank.
It used a modelfor a hypothetical signal transduction pathway ofan idealized cell, to motivate verb choices.
Bio-Prop, also a PropBank-like corpus, annotated thesemantic roles of 30 frequent biomedical verbsfound in the GENIA corpus.
BioFrameNet built aFrameNet-like corpus having 32 verbs and nounsannotated with the semantic roles.
It considers acollection of GeneRIF (Gene References in Func-tion) texts that are annotated by the protein trans-port classes in the Hunter Lab knowledge base.
Upuntil recently, these corpora are relatively small.One of obstacles to building FrameNet-like re-sources is to manually construct large, coherentand consistent frame sets for the domain.
In (Tanet al., 2012) we argue that we can build large-scaleFrameNet-like resources using domain knowledgefrom ontologies.
A large number of ontologies46have been developed in biomedical area, such asOBO ontologies (Smith et al., 2007).
Many ofthem represent the knowledge of domain-specificevents (any activities, processes and states).
Al-though most of the ontologies are controlled vo-cabularies and do not explicitly describe the at-tributes of events, this information is implicitlycontained in ontology terms.
Together with theknowledge explicitly represented in the data mod-els of ontologies the information can guide us inconstructing large, coherent and consistent framesets and also ease the task of collecting examplesentences.
In next section we describe the back-ground knowledge and then present how the on-tological knowledge can be used to build frame-semantic descriptions.
Section 3 describes a gen-eral framework that supports this ontology-drivenconstruction of frame-semantic descriptions andthe current system we have developed based onthe framework.
Related work is given in section4.
Then we conclude the paper with a conclusionand the discussion of future work.2 Ontology and Frame SemanticsOntology is a formal representation of knowledgeof a domain of interest.
An ontology includesconcepts that represent classes of entities withina domain, and defines different types of relationsamong concepts, as well as the rules for combin-ing these concepts and relations.
Most currentlywidely used ontologies in the biomedical domainare controlled vocabularies.
The data models es-sentially contain lists of concepts, and organizethem in an is-a and part-of hierarchy.In practice, a concept contains one or moreterms that are chosen for naming the concept.
Apreferred term is assigned as the name of the con-cept, and others could become synonyms.
Termsare carefully chosen to clearly and precisely cap-ture the intended meaning of the entities the con-cept refer to.
The terms are noun or noun phrases.As showed in the results of the survey of nam-ing conventions in OBO ontologies (Schober etal., 2009), multi-word terms are constructed in aconsistent manner.
They are created by re-usingstrings that appear in the terms already defined inthis or in other ontologies.
Although attributes ofthe entities belonging to concepts are not explic-itly described in the data model, they remain im-plicit in the terms (Stevens et al., 2000).
The con-stituents of the terms might contain the informa-Table 1: Protein Transport ConceptsGO:0009306 protein secretionGO:0017038 protein importGO:0071693 protein transport within extracellular regionGO:0072322 protein transport across periplasmic spaceGO:0072323 chaperone-mediated protein transportacross periplasmic spaceGO:0042000 translocation of peptides or proteins intohostGO:0051844 translocation of peptides or proteins intosymbiontGO:0051808 translocation of peptides or proteins intoother organism involved in symbiotic interactiontion.The Gene Ontology (GO) (The Gene OntologyConsortium, 2000) is the most widely usedcontrolled vocabulary in the area.
It providesthe terms for declaring molecular functions,biological processes and cellular componentsof gene and gene products.
Table 1 lists thenames of 8 subclasses of GO:0015031 proteintransport in the is-a hierarchy.
The head of aphrase determines the semantic category of objector situation which the phrase refer to.
Therefore,the head words of the terms, translocation,import, secretion and transport, refer to a?protein transport?
category, since the conceptsrepresent different kinds of ?protein trans-port?.
Other constituents of the terms expressthe attributes or properties of the event.
Forexample, translocation of peptides orproteins into other organism involvedin symbiotic interaction (GO:0051808),express the entity (peptides or proteins), thedestination (into other organism) and the con-dition (involved in symbiotic interaction)of a protein transport event.
These informationare not represented in the model of the ontology.Frame Semantics (Fillmore, 1985) is the studyof how the words evoke or activate frame knowl-edge, and how the frames thus activated can beused to understand the text that contains the words.Frame semantics assumes that in order to under-stand the meanings of the words in a language,we must first have knowledge of the backgroundand motivation for their existence in the languageand for their use in discourse.
The knowledge isdefined in the conceptual structures (frames).
Inthe FrameNet, the lexicographic application of thetheory, a semantic frame describes an event, a sit-uation or an object, together with the frame ele-47ments (FE) that represent the aspects and compo-nents of the frame.
Lexical units (LU) that be-long to the frame, are the words that evoke theframe.
Each frame is associated with examplesentences within which LUs and FEs are marked.The FrameNet builds frames by collecting andanalysing the attestations of words with semanticoverlap from the British National Corpus (BNC).We propose that the domain knowledge con-tained in ontologies can instruct us in building aFrameNet-like corpus, without having an existinglarge scale domain corpus like BNC.
The con-struction starts with creating large coherent andconsistent frame sets and then collecting associ-ated example sentences.
The information implic-itly contained in ontology terms together with theknowledge represented in the models of ontologiesprovide the background knowledge that is requiredto building the frame-semantic descriptions.
Afterthe frames are created, associated example sen-tences can be collected using knowledge basedsearch engines for biomedical text, and then be an-notated.For example, a frame Protein Transport can becharacterized based on the concept GO:0015031protein transport.
In the frame, by studyingthe terms of the subclasses and descendants of theconcept (such as those in table 1), the aspects andcomponents of the frame (such as entity, destina-tion and condition), and the domain-specific wordsevoking the frame (like translocation, import, se-cretion and transport) are captured.
Furthermore,we can identify a inheritance relation between thisframe and the frame Transport built based on theconcept GO:0006810 transport, since there isthe is-a relation between GO:0006810 transportand GO:0015031 protein transport in the GO.Now a complete frame-semantic description forProtein Transport, including FEs, LUs, and relationsto other frames, is obtained after all the relatedconcepts and relations are studied.3 The SystemIn this section we present a framework thatsupports this ontology-driven construction ofFrameNet-like corpus and describe the currentsystem we have developed based on the frame-work.Figure 1: A Framework of Ontology-driven Build-ing Corpus3.1 FrameworkIn Fig 1 we propose the framework for support-ing the ontology-driven construction of domaincorpus with frame-semantics annotations.
Beforestarting the building process, a sub-ontology ofbiomedical events is extracted from an ontologyor an ontology database in which relations be-tween ontology terms are identified.
Firstly, con-cepts representing biomedical events, are gath-ered.
A concept represents a biomedical eventif it is a concept that is classified to a type ofevent in top-domain ontology (like the semantictype T038 Biologic Function in UMLS seman-tic network (Bodenreider, 2004)), or is a subclassor descendant of a concept that has been identi-fied as a representation of biomedical event, or canbe defined as a concept describing event based onits definition.
After the concepts are identified, anevent sub-ontology, including the concepts and therelations between them in original ontologies, isextracted.
A root is assigned to the sub-ontologyif the concepts are from more than one sub-treesin original ontologies.The concept selection tool suggests the appro-priate concepts that will be translated into frames.The algorithm may consider the characteristicsthat indicate the generalness of a concept as theselection criteria, such as the location of the con-cept in the hierarchy and the number of subclassesand descendants the concept has.
Further, the con-cept could be manually identified by domain ex-perts.
After a concept is selected, the frame de-48scribing the event represented by the concept, iscreated.
Relations between frames are decided ac-cording to the relations between the correspondingconcepts.
The name and definition of a frame isedited by domain experts based on the definitionof the concept.The frame description is accomplished bystudying the sub-tree under the concept.
After col-lecting the terms in the sub-tree, the parsing termtool analyses the compositional structure of theterm, which elucidate the meaning of a term.
Thetool may derive the compositional structure of aterm based a syntax parse of the term.
LUs andFEs then are suggested based on the compositionalstructures.
A final frame-semantic description isdecided with interactions to domain experts.The associated example sentences of a framecould be collected using semantic search enginesfor biomedical text, like GoPubMed (Doms andSchroeder, 2005).
Such search engines annotatedocuments with concepts of domain ontologiesby mapping phrases in text of documents to con-cepts.
Based on this underlying domain knowl-edge search engines are able to maximize preci-sion and recall of the documents that the user isinterested to collect specific information.
There-fore, example sentences can be collected from thedocuments annotated by the concepts in the sub-tree used to characterize the associated frame.
Inthe end annotating example sentences with LUsand FEs of the associated frame is completed bydomain experts under the assistance of annotationtools.3.2 The SystemWe have developed a system based on the frame-work for building FrameNet-like corpus using do-main ontologies.An Event Sub-OntologyIn the current system we experimented with theGO biological process ontology (data-version:2012-10-27).
In UMLS semantic network theroot node of the ontology biological process(GO:0008150) is classified into the semantic typeT038 Biologic Function .
The ontology con-tains 24,181 concepts and 65,988 terms.
Theterms include the names of the concepts andtheir exact synonyms.
Other synonyms (broad,narrow and related synonyms) are not included,since only terms intending to precisely capture themeaning of a concept are considered.
For ex-ample, fat body metabolism, a broad synonymof GO:0015032 storage protein import intofat body, describes a much broader activity thanthat belongs to the concept.Method for Concept SelectionDifferent types of frames are used to describe dif-ferent situations.
Frames can range from highlyabstract to very specific.
To assist the user in se-lecting appropriate concepts to be translated intoframes, the system provides the structure informa-tion of the ontology, and the definitions of the con-cepts and their locations in the ontology.The event ontology O can be represented as adirected graph G. Graph elements are consideredto calculate the structure information of O and thelocation of the concepts in G including,- the root, the node having no outgoing is-aarcs.
The graph G has one root.- a leaf node , a node having no ingoing is-aarcs in the graph.- sibling nodes, nodes connected to the samenode through is-a arcs.- descendant nodes of a node ni, nodes in thesub-tree rooted at ni.- a path pij, any sequence of directed edgesfrom the node nito the node nj.- a generation gi, the set of all sibling nodesconnected to the node ni.- depth, the cardinality of a path- breadth, the cardinality of a generation.As the structure information of O we calculatethe number of nodes in G, the average and maxi-mal shortest paths from the root to leaves, the av-erage and maximal breadth of the generations hav-ing different distances from the root.
To show thelocation of a concept in G, we calculate the short-est path from the concept to the root, and the num-ber of its descendants and siblings.The user selects appropriate concepts basedon the above information, and may also usingtheir own domain knowledge.
For example, aframe could be constructed based on the conceptGO:0006810 transport.
The structural informa-tion as showed in table 2 suggests that the conceptis richly described in the ontology and it covers alarge set of related events.
Further, the user (a do-main expert) himself/herself could be aware thattransport events have been studied in the area over49#node depth of #sibling avg.
depth max.
depth avg.
max.
#leafshortest path of SPR of SPR breadth breadth.to root (SPR) from leaves from leavesbiological process 24181 - - 6.5 14 3.7 413 12871transport 1210 2 5 5.9 14 3.5 41 754protein transport 182 3 41 5.7 9 4.2 40 132Table 2: The structural information of GO biological process ontology (data-version: 2012-10-27) and the sub-trees under the concept GO:0006810 transport and GO:0015031 proteintransport.the last 30 years.
Most cellular processes are ac-companied by transport events.
For understandingbiomedical texts, transport events are among themost important things to know about.Method for Parsing TermsAfter a concept is selected, the terms in the sub-tree rooted at the concept are collected to be anal-ysed for building frame description.
In the currentsystem the analysis is separated into three steps.Terms are noun phrases (NP).
The first step is totokenize phrase string into an ordered sequence ofan atomic (non-decomposable) token.
The phrasestring is split on white-space characters and non-alphanumeric characters.
White-space characterare discarded, but non-alphanumeric charactersare preserved and treated as special word tokens.For example, ?alpha-glucoside transport ?
(GO:0000017) is tokenized into {alpha, -, gluco-side, transport}The second step is to identify the head word ofNP.
We assume that the head of a phrase is com-posed of only one token.
A naive Bayes classifierclassifies a token as the head of a phrase, if thehighest value for the posterior probability of beingthe head word given the token is obtained amongall the tokens in the phrase.
The posterior prob-ability of being the head word w given token t isestimated using Bayes rule (Mitchell, 1997):P (w|t) =P (w)P (t|w)P (t)As P (t) is independent of w being the head, it canbe ignored.
This gives: P (w|t) = P (w)P (t|w).A token is either the head word or not the headwork of a phrase, so P (w) is a constant.
P (t|w)is estimated by the feature probabilities of token t.Assuming that the features xiare all conditionallyindependent of one another, we haveP (t|w) =n?i=1P (xi= aik|w)P (xi= aik|w) is estimated using the maximumlikelihood estimation method.
Let n(xi= aik, t)be the number of occurrences of token t where at-tribute xiis aikand t is a head word, and n(w) bethe number of occurrences of the token t where tis a head word.
Then P (xi= aik|w) is estimatedbyP (xi= aik|w) =n(xi= aik, w) + ?n(w) + ?|V |where ?
is the earlier defined Laplace smoothingparameter, and |V | is the number of distinct valuesof the attribute xi.Attributes of a token t in a phrase p include,?
token string,?
the part-of-speech (POS) of t in p, (the POSof t in p is assigned using MedPost POS Tag-ger (Smith et al., 2004)),?
the POS of the tokens before and after t in p,?
the length of p (the number of tokens in p),?
the position of t in p.We have evaluated the method on identifyingthe heads of terms in GO biological process on-tology.
The length of terms in the ontology rangesfrom 1 to 39.
For each length, 10% of terms arerandomly selected as training data if it is applica-ble.
The result of 10-fold cross validation showedthat 93.9% of the heads are correctly identified onaverage.A term, a NP, has a noun as its head.
Thesystem collects other forms (such as verb, objec-tive, etc.)
having the same meaning as the headby looking up the SPECIALIST Lexicon (Boden-reider, 2004), a general English lexicon includingmany biomedical term.
Words in different formsare all suggested as predicates for frame.The last step is to capture the information hid-den in modifiers in phrases.
Modifiers describe thehead word of a phrase and makes its meaning morespecific.
They modify phrases by adding informa-tion about ?where?, ?when?, or ?how?
something50Table 3: Major Modifier Types in Ontology TermsPre-modifiers head Post-modifiersattributive adjective noun prepositional phraseed-participial adjective ed-clauseing-participial adjective ing-clausenoun to-clauseappositive noun phraseis done.
The information gives the suggestionson what FEs to be defined for a frame.
In a NP,the head word is preceded by a determiner or oneor more pre-modifiers, and may also be followedby one or more post-modifiers.
The major struc-tural types of pre-modifiers and post-modifiers aregiven in table 3.
We observed that determiners andrelative clauses rarely appear in ontology terms.The number of FEs is limited in a frame.
Theinformation about the major attributes of event ap-pears frequently in the terms.
For example, in thesub-tree under GO:0006810 transport, 92.6%terms contain the entity undergoing the ?transport?event, and 19.3% terms describe the destination(see Table 4).
Therefore, although there maybea large number of terms in a sub-tree, a very smallnumber of the terms can be used to capture themajor attributes of the event.To facilitate the user in identifying the FEs,the system collects a smallest set of terms cover-ing all the attributes of the event that have beendescribed in the sub-tree.
The attributes of theevent reside in different modifier types appearingin the terms.
Further, prepositional phrase mod-ifiers starting with different prepositions may de-scribe different properties.
The algorithm for col-lecting the term set is given as follows,T ={the set of terms in the sub-tree} ;M={the set of modifier types m} ;P,L = ?
;repeatl = the longest t ?
T ;foreach m in l doif ( m is a prepositional phrase and mstarts with a preposition p /?
P ) or m /?
Pthenadd l to L ;foreach m,p in l doif m, p /?
P thenadd m, p to P ;endbreak ;endremove l from T ;until T = ?
or length(l) = 1;return LMethod for Collecting Example SentencesThe example sentences are retrieved from thePubMed/MEDLINE database by using the GoP-ubMed.
The sentences to be annotated, are al-ways the most relevant and from the latest publi-cations.
For a LU, we acquired sentences by usingthe GO terms with the head from which the LU isderived.
The query starts from using the most gen-eral GO terms.
In cases when only specific GOterms are available and the number of query re-sults is too small, the query term is generalized byremoving modifiers from terms.
For example, thelexical units, release.n and release.v, are de-rived and only derived from renin release intoblood stream (a synonym of GO:0002001 reninsecretion into blood stream).
No query re-sult returns for the GO term (AND operator is usedto combine the tokens in the term in the query).The general term ?protein release?
is used as thequery term instead.Annotation ToolThe current system contains a tool that sup-ports manual annotation following the FrameNet?sguidelines described in (Ruppenhofer et al., 2005).File FormatThe corpus is stored in XML files using the sameformat as the FrameNet.
The correspondences be-tween frames and ontology concepts are stored ina RDF file.
Such relations could benefit integra-tions of different lexical resources and/or knowl-edge bases in the future.
A correspondence is en-coded as follows:<correspondence id="1"><concept rdf:about="http://www.geneontology.org/go#GO:0006810"/><frame rdf:about="http://hj.se/ontobiofn/frames#0000001"/><comment/></correspondence>It provides the features: concept (the URI ofsome concept of an ontology); frame (the URI ofthe frame translated from the concept); comment(the comment on this correspondence given by theuser); and an id assigned to this correspondence.3.3 Evaluation of the SystemWe have successfully built a FrameNet-like cor-pus using the method of ontology-driven construc-tion (Tan et al., 2012).
The construction is donemanually by 2 master students with biology back-ground.
The corpus covers transport events in thedomain.
The GO is used as the source ontology fordomain knowledge.
The corpus contains 2 frames.51TE TO TDS TC TL TP TT TDR TA TPLProtein Transport 99.5% 8.6% 37.4% 16.4% 7.1% 4.6% 1.0% 0.3% 0.2% 0%(581 terms) (578) (50) (159) (95) (41) (27) (6) (2) (1) (0)Transport 92.6% 12.2% 19.3% 9.9% 5.7% 7.3% 1.9% 1.5% 1.8% 0.36%(2235 terms) (2070) (272) (432) (221) (127) (164) (43) (34) (40) (8)Table 4: The percentage of the GO terms that indicate the FEs (the number of GO terms).
FEs are Transport Entity (TE),Transport Origin (TO), Transport Destination (TDS), Transport Condition (TC), Transport Location (TL), Transport Path(TP), Transport Transporter (TT),Transport Direction (TDR), Transport Attribute (TA), Transport Place (TPL).Table 5: Time for Building the Corpususing system manualconstruct frames 2 days 2 weeksgather and annotateexample sentences 2.5 weeks 3 weeksThe Transport frame follows the definition of theGO concept, GO:0006810 transport (Tan et al.,2012).
It has a sub-frame Protein Transport, whichcharacterizes transport events of proteins (Tan etal., 2011).
It follows the definition of GO:0015031protein transport.
To accomplish the descrip-tion of the two frames, 2235 terms and 581 terms,respectively, were collected and analysed from theGO.
Based on the background knowledge implic-itly described in the terms, 10 FEs are identifiedfor the frame Transport (inherited by the frame Pro-tein Transport), and 129 LUs are collected.
Max-imally for each LU 10 annotated sentences aregathered.
Totally, 955 example sentences were re-trieved from PubMed and annotated.We evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency ofthe system.
2 different master students are askedto build a FrameNet-like corpus covering transportand protein transport events using the method.
TheGO is also provided as the source ontology.
The2 students have biology background and have theknowledge of the FrameNet and ontology.
Bothstudents correctly complete the task using the sys-tem in the evaluation.
They build the 2 framesTransport and Protein Transport, and construct thesame frame descriptions using the domain knowl-edge from the GO.
They are also required to max-imally collect and annotate 10 sentences for eachLU.
The set of the example sentences are not ex-actly the same set of sentences chosen in the pre-vious corpus.
Table 5 shows the time they use onaverage and the time spent in the manual construc-tion.4 Related WorkInterfacing ontologies and lexical resources hasbeen initiated in several work (Guarino, 1998;Gangemi et al., 2003; Niles and Pease, 2003).The work in (Gangemi et al., 2003; Niles andPease, 2003) has attempted to reorganize Word-Net?s top-level synset taxonomy using ontologyconcepts.
More recently, the FrameNet projectlinks FrameNet?s semantic types to ontology con-cepts, to constrain the filler types of frame el-ements for specific domains (Scheffczyk et al.,2006).
It is the first step of their work aiming atimproving FrameNet capability for deductive rea-soning with natural language.
The authors suggestthat the alignment between lexicons and ontolo-gies could restructure the lexicon on the basis ofontological-driven principles, and enables ontolo-gies to be used automatically by natural languageprocessing (NLP) applications.5 ConclusionIn this paper we present our method for buildingFrameNet-like corpus for biomedical area start-ing with use of ontological domain knowledge.Ontological knowledge can lead to well-definedsemantics exposed on the corpus, which can bevery valuable in NLP and text mining applications.We have developed a framework of supporting themethod and implemented a system based on theframework.
In the current system we developedthe algorithms for selecting appropriate conceptsto be translated into semantic frames, for capturingthe information that describes aspects and compo-nents of frames from ontology terms, and for col-lecting example sentence using ontology concepts.In the future we will continue to extend the cor-pus using ontological knowledge.
The event ontol-ogy to be used as domain knowledge will includeterms from different ontologies.
We will evaluateour system when it deals with different ontologiesand their terms.
Another direction of the futurework is to investigate how the ontological knowl-52edge bundled with the corpus are used by NLP andtext mining applications.ReferencesSteven Bethard, Zhiyong Lu, James H Martin, andLawrence Hunter.
2008.
Semantic role labeling forprotein transport predicates.
BMC Bioinformatics,9:277.Olivier Bodenreider.
2004.
The unified medical lan-guage system (umls): integrating biomedical termi-nology.
Nucleic Acids Research, pages D267?D270.K.
Bretonnel Cohen, Martha Palmer, and LawrenceHunter.
2008.
Nominalization and alternations inbiomedical language.
PLoS ONE, 3(9).Andrew Dolbey, Michael Ellsworth, and Jan Schef-fczyk.
2006.
Bioframenet: A domain-specificframenet extension with links to biomedical ontolo-gies.
In Proceedings of KR-MED, pages 87?94.Adress Doms and Michael Schroeder.
2005.
Gop-ubmed: exploring pubmed with the gene ontology.Nucleic Acids Research, 33:W783?786.Charles J. Fillmore, Charles Wooters, and Collin F.Baker.
2001.
Building a large lexical databankwhich provides deep semantics.
In Proceedings ofthe PACLIC.Charles J. Fillmore.
1985.
Frames and the semantics ofunderstanding.
Quaderni di Semantica, 6(2):222?254.Aldo Gangemi, Nicola Guarino, Claudio Masolo, andAlessandro Oltramari.
2003.
Sweetening wordnetwith dolce.
AI Magazine, 3(24):13?24.Nicola Guarino.
1998.
Some ontological principles fordesigning upper level lexical resources.
In Proceed-ings of First International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, pages 527?534.Halil Kilicoglu, Marcelo Fiszman, Graciela Rosemblat,Sean Marimpietri, and Thomas C. Rindflesch.
2010.Arguments of nominals in semantic interpretation ofbiomedical text.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Work-shop on BioNLP.Tom Mitchell.
1997.
Machine Learning.
McGraw-Hill.Ian Niles and Adam Pease.
2003.
Linking lexicons andontologies: Mapping wordnet to the suggested uppermerged ontology.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Inter-national Conference on Information and KnowledgeEngineering.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The proposition bank: an annotated corpus ofsemantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31:71?105.Josef Ruppenhofer, Michael Ellsworth, Miriam R. L.Petruck, Christopher R. Johnson, and Jan Schef-fczyk.
2005.
FrameNet II: Extended theory andpractice.
Technical report, ICSI.Jan Scheffczyk, Adam Pease, and Michael Ellsworth.2006.
Linking framenet to the sumo ontology.
InInternational Conference on Formal Ontology in In-formation Systems.Daniel Schober, Barry Smith, Suzanna Lewis, WaclawKusnierczyk, Jane Lomax, Chris Mungall, ChrisTaylor, Philippe Rocca-Serra, and Susanna-AssuntaSansone.
2009.
Survey-based naming conventionsfor use in obo foundry ontology development.
BMCBioinformatics, 10(1):125.L.
Smith, T. Rindflesch, and W. J. Wilbur.
2004.
Med-Post: a part-of-speech tagger for bioMedical text.Bioinformatics, 20(14):2320?2321.Barry Smith, Michael Ashburner, and et al.
2007.The obo foundry: coordinated evolution of ontolo-gies to support biomedical data integration.
NatureBiotechnology, 25(11):1251?1255.Robert Stevens, Carole A. Goble, and Sean Bechhofer.2000.
Ontology-based knowledge representation forbioinformatics.
Briefings in Bioinformatics, 1:398?414.He Tan, Rajaram Kaliyaperumal, and Nirupama Benis.2011.
Building frame-based corpus on the basis ofontological domain knowledge.
In Proceedings ofthe 2011 Workshop on BioNLP, pages 74?82.He Tan, Rajaram Kaliyaperumal, and Nirupama Benis.2012.
Ontology-driven construction of corpus withframe semantics annotations.
In CICLing 2012, PartI, LNCS 7181, pages 54?65.He Tan.
2010.
A study on the relation betweenlinguistics-oriented and domain-specific semantics.In Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop onSWAT4LS.The Gene Ontology Consortium.
2000.
Gene ontol-ogy: tool for the unification of biology.
Nature Ge-netics, 25:25?29.Richard Tzong-Han Tsai, Wen-Chi Chou, Ying-ShanSu, Yu-Chun Lin, Cheng-Lung Sung, Hong-Jie Dai,Irene Tzu-Hsuan Yeh, Wei Ku, Ting-Yi Sung, andWen-Lian Hsu.
2006.
Biosmile: adapting semanticrole labeling for biomedical verbs: an exponentialmodel coupled with automatically generated tem-plate features.
In Proceedings of the 2005 Workshopon BioNLP.Tuangthong Wattarujeekrit, Parantu K Shah, and NigelCollier.
2004.
Pasbio: predicate-argument struc-tures for event extraction in molecular biology.BMC Bioinformatics, 5:155.53
