Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Linguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 118?125,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Assessing Changes in Degree of Depression through FacebookH.
Andrew Schwartz?Johannes Eichstaedt?Margaret L. Kern?Gregory Park?Maarten Sap?David Stillwell?Michal Kosinski?and Lyle Ungar?
?Psychology and Computer & Information Science, University of Pennsylvania?Psychometrics Centre, University of Cambridgehansens@seas.upenn.eduAbstractDepression is typically diagnosed as be-ing present or absent.
However, depres-sion severity is believed to be continu-ously distributed rather than dichotomous.Severity may vary for a given patient dailyand seasonally as a function of many vari-ables ranging from life events to environ-mental factors.
Repeated population-scaleassessment of depression through ques-tionnaires is expensive.
In this paper weuse survey responses and status updatesfrom 28,749 Facebook users to develop aregression model that predicts users?
de-gree of depression based on their Face-book status updates.
Our user-level pre-dictive accuracy is modest, significantlyoutperforming a baseline of average usersentiment.
We use our model to estimateuser changes in depression across seasons,and find, consistent with literature, users?degree of depression most often increasesfrom summer to winter.
We then show thepotential to study factors driving individ-uals?
level of depression by looking at itsmost highly correlated language features.1 IntroductionDepression, a common mental disorder, greatlycontributes to the economic, social, and phys-ical burden of people worldwide.
Along withother mental disorders it has been related toearly termination of education, unstable mar-riages, teenage pregnancy, financial problems, roleimpairment, heart disease, and other negative out-comes (Kessler and Bromet, 2013; Lichtman et al.,2014)Currently, depression is primarily assessedthrough surveys.
Diagnoses require a medical orpsychological evaluation, and are typically classi-fied into discrete categories (absent, mild, moder-ate, severe).
Clinicians rely on retrospective re-ports by patients to monitor symptoms and treat-ment.
Unobtrusive assessments based on languageuse in Facebook and social media usage couldamend both the self-help resources available to pa-tients as well as repertoire of clinicians with richerinformation.
Such a tool could allow for more fre-quent and fine grained (i.e., continuously scored)assessment and could provide contextualized in-formation (e.g.
specific words and online activi-ties that are contributing to the user?s depressionscore).Here, we predict and characterize one?s degreeof depression (DDep) based on their language usein Facebook.
Datasets connecting surveyed de-pression with language in Facebook are rare atbest.
To operationalize DDep, we use the depres-sion facet scores of the ?Big 5?
item pool (Gold-berg, 1999) from the MyPersonality dataset.
Thisprovides a continuous value outcome, for whichwe fit a regression model based on ngrams, LDAtopics, and lexica usage.
By predicting continuousvalues, rather than classes, one can track changesin DDep of varying size across time; we find sig-nificantly more users?
DDep increases from sum-mer to winter than vice-versa.Our primary contribution is the explorationof predicting continuous-valued depression scoresfrom individuals?
social media messages.
To thebest of our knowledge this has not previously beenstudied, with other social media and depressionwork focused on discrete classes: present or ab-sent.
We compare our predictive model of DDepto one derived from a state-of-the-art sentimentlexicon and look at changes across seasons.
Fi-nally, we characterize DDep by looking at its topngram and topic correlates.1182 Background2.1 DepressionDepression is generally characterized by persistentlow mood, poor concentration, fatigue, and littleinterest in normally enjoyable activities.
Depres-sion can range from mild to severe, and can occuras an acute episode (major depressive episode),extend chronically over time (major depressivedisorder, persistent depressive disorder), reoccurafter a period of remission (recurrent depression),or occur at specific periods (seasonal affective dis-order, postpartum depression, premenstrual dys-phoric disorder).
Prevalence rates vary; the WorldHealth Organization estimates that over 350 mil-lion people worldwide have a depressive disorder,with many more reporting at least some symptoms(Organization, 2012).
In the U.S., in the WorldHealth Mental Survey, over half of the respondents(62%) endorsed at least one diagnostic stem ques-tions for depression, with 19.2% meeting criteriafor at least one major depressive episode (Kessleret al., 2010).Although depression has long been defined asa single disease with a set of diagnostic criteria,it often occurs comorbidly with other psycholog-ical and physical disorders.
Anxiety, anger, andother psychological disorders often co-occur withdepression, and some have suggested that anx-iety and depression are different manifestationsof the same underlying pathology (Mineka et al.,1998).
An expert panel convened by the Ameri-can Heart Association recently recommended thatdepression be considered a formal risk factor forheart disease (Lichtman et al., 2014).
Depres-sion has been related to a range of physical con-ditions, including asthma, cancer, cardiovasculardisease, diabetes, and chronic pain (Kessler andBromet, 2013), although the causal direction isconfounded; it may be that other factors causeboth depression and physical illness (Friedmanand Kern, 2014).As noted previously, assessing degree of de-pression as a continuous value allows us to lookat changes in depression across time.
There hasbeen longstanding interest and discussion of sea-sonal patterns of depression, with observations ofseasonal depressive patterns apparent in ancienttimes, and the first systematic description occur-ring in 1984 (Westrin and Lam, 2007).
Com-monly called Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD),the DSM-V now refers to this pattern as recur-rent major depressive disorder with a seasonal pat-tern.
A clinical diagnosis of seasonal depressionrequires that two major depressive episodes haveoccurred in the past two years, with the onset andremission showing a regular temporal pattern (pre-dominantly with onset occurring in the fall/winterand full remission in spring/summer).Patients with depression often have commonsymptoms of low energy, reduced or intensifiedpsychomotor movements, low concentration, in-decisiveness, and thoughts of death, as well asrelated symptoms such as fatigue, insomnia, andweight gain.
A challenge in diagnosis is that it re-lies on a patient?s historical report, and other pos-sible causes such as physical illness must be ruledout.
Further, with stigmas against mental illnessand feats about seeking treatment, many cases gounrecognized, causing considerable burden on theindividual and society as a whole.
Prevalence ratesvary, but rigorous reviews suggest a prevalence of.4% in the U.S., although estimates have been re-ported as high as 10% (Blazer et al., 1998; Mag-nusson and Partonen, 2005).There are a number of different hypothesesabout the pathophysiology of S A D, including cir-cadian, neurotransmitter, and genetic causes (Lamand Levitan, 2000).
Reviews suggest that lighttherapy is an effective and well-tolerated treat-ment, with effects equal to or larger than antide-pressants (Golden et al., 2005; Lam and Levitan,2000; Thompson, 2001; Westrin and Lam, 2007).Attempts to explain why light therapy is so ef-fective have included shifting photoperiods (light-dark cycles, with less light in the winter), changesin melotonin secretion, and circadian phase shifts(Lam and Levitan, 2000).One related explanation for the photoperiod ef-fect is latitude, with the prevalence of seasonaldepression increasing with growing distance fromthe equator.
Although there has been some supportfor this hypothesis in the U.S. (Rosen et al., 1990),findings in other countries have been mixed (Mer-sch et al., 1999).
Although latitude may play somerole, other factors such as climate, genetic vulner-ability, and the sociocultural context may have astronger impact.Altogether, inconsistent results suggest thatthere is considerable variation in the magnitude,causes and manifestations of seasonal depression,much of which is not fully understood, in part dueto diagnostic issues (Lam and Levitan, 2000).
A119Dislike myself.Am often down in the dumps.Have frequent mood swings.Feel desperate.Feel comfortable with myself.
(-)Seldom feel blue.
(-)Am very pleased with myself.
(-)Table 1: The seven items of the depression facetfrom the 100-item International Personality ItemPool (IPIP) proxy to the NEO-PI-R (Goldberg,1999).
(-) indicates a reverse coded item.weekly or even daily depression assessment toolwould allow us to more fully understand the sea-sonal and other temporal changes in depression.We use the ?depression facet?
scores de-rived from a subset of the ?big-5?
personalityitems.
Specifically, depression is one of sev-eral facets (e.g.
anger, depression, anxiety, self-consciousness, impulsiveness, vulnerability) ofthe neuroticism personality factor.
Neuroticismrefers to individual differences in the tendency toexperience negative, distressing emotions, and be-havioral and cognitive styles that result from this(McCrae and John, 1992).
It includes traits suchas tension, depression, frustration, guilt, and self-consciousness, and is associated with low self-esteem, irrational thoughts and behaviors, ineffec-tive coping styles, and somatic complaints.Various scales have been developed to mea-sure neuroticism, such as the Eysenck PersonalityQuestionnaire (Eysenck and Eysenck, 1975) andthe NEO-PI-R (Costa and McCrae, 1992).
Someitems on these scales overlap with self-reporteditems that screen for depression (e.g., personalityitem: ?I am often down in the dumps?
; depressionscreening item: ?how often have you been feel-ing down, depressed, or hopeless??
; see Table 1.
),such that the personality items effectively providea proxy measure of depressive tendencies.2.2 Related WorkDepression has been linked with many online be-haviors.
In fact, even Internet usage itself seems tovary as a function of being depressed(Katikalapudiet al., 2012).
Other behaviors include social net-working (Moreno et al., 2011) and differences inlocation sharing on Facebook (Park et al., 2013).Most related to our work, are those using lin-guistic features to assess various measures of de-pression.
For example, De Choudhury et al.
(2013) used online posting behavior, networkcharacteristics, and linguistic features when try-ing to predict depression rather than find its corre-lates.
They used crowdsourcing to screen Twitterusers with the CES-D test (Beekman et al., 1997),while others analyzed one year of Facebook sta-tus updates for DSM diagnostic critera of a MajorDepressive Episode (Moreno et al., 2011).
In ad-dition, Park et al.
(2013) predicted results of theBeck Depression Inventory (Beck et al., 1961).While previous works have made major head-way toward automatic depression assessment toolsfrom social media, to the best of our knowledge,none have tried to predict depression as a con-tinuum rather than a discrete, present or absent,attribute.
For instance, Neuman et al.
(2012)classified blog posts based on whether they con-tained signs of depression, and De Choudhury etal.
(2013) classified which newfound motherswould suffer from postpartum depression.3 Predicting Degree of Depression3.1 MethodDataset.
We used a dataset of 28,749 nonclini-cal users who opted into a Facebook application(?MyPersonality?
; Kosinski and Stillwell, 2012)between June 2009 and March 2011, completeda 100-item personality questionnaire (an Interna-tional Personality Item Pool (IPIP) proxy to theNEO-PI-R (Goldberg, 1999), and shared accessto their status updates containing at least 500words.
Users wrote on average of 4,236 words(69,917,624 total word instances), and a subset of16,507 users provided gender and age, in which57.0% were female and the mean age was 24.8.The dataset was divided into training and test-ing samples.
In particular, the testing sample con-sisted of a random set of 1000 users who wroteat least 1000 words and completed the personal-ity measure, while the training set contained the27,749 remaining users.Degree of depression.
We estimated user-leveldegree of depression (DDep) as the average re-sponse to seven depression facet items, which arenested within the larger Neuroticism item pool.For each item, users indicated how accuratelyshort phrases described themselves (e.g., ?oftenfeel blue?, ?dislike myself?
; responses rangedfrom 1 = very inaccurate to 5 = very accu-120(a)050100150?2 ?1 0 1 2Degree of Depression (DDep) as assessed by surveyNumber of users(b)050100150?2 ?1 0 1 2Degree of Depression (DDep) as predicted by languageNumber of usersFigure 1: Histograms of (a) survey-assessedand (b) predicted user-level degree of depressionDDep.rate).
Figure 1a shows the distribution of survey-assessed DDep (standardized).
The items can beseen in Table 1.Figure 2 shows the daily averages of survey-assessed DDep, collapsed across years.
A LOESSsmoother over the daily averages illustrates a sea-sonal trend, with depression rising over the wintermonths and dropping during the summer.Regression modeling.
In order to get a contin-uous value output from our model, we exploredregression techniques over our training data.Since this first work exploring regression wasconcerned primarily with language content, ourfeatures for predicting depression were basedentirely on language use (other social mediaactivity and friend networks may be considered infuture work).
These features can be broken intofour categories:ngrams: Ngrams of order to 1 to 3, found via Hap-pierFunTokenizer, and restricted to those used byat least 5% of users (resulting in 10,450 ngrams).The features were encoded as relative frequency ofmentioning each ngram (ng):rel freq(user, ng) =freq(user, ng)?ng?
?ngsfreq(user, ng?
)topics: 2000 LDA derived Facebook topics.1Us-age was calculated as the probability of the topicgiven the user:usage(top|user) =?ng?topicp(top|ng) ?
rel freq(user, ng)1downloaded from wwbp.org/data.html?0.250.000.25Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov DecDate of Survey AdministrationSurvey?assessedDegreeofDepressionFigure 2: Seasonal trends in degree of depres-sion as assessed by surveys.
Red line is a LOESSsmoothed trend (+/- 1 SE) over the average ofscores from users who completed the survey onthat day.lexica: 64 LIWC categories (Pennebaker et al.,2007) as well as the sentiment lexicon from NRCCanada (Mohammad et al., 2013).2Usage of alexicon (lex) was calculated similar to the LDAtopics, where w is the weight of the word in thelexicon in the case of sentiment and always 1 inthe case of LIWC which has no weights:usage(lex, user) =?ng?lexw(ng, lex) ?
rel freq(user, ng)number of words: Encoded simply as the integervalue for that user.We used penalized linear regression to fit ourfeatures to DDep.
We experimented with a few pe-nalization types over the training set and settled onL2 (?ridge regression?
), using Principal Compo-nents Analysis to first reduce the ngram and topicfeatures to 10 % of their original size.
In order toensure users tested provided an adequate amountof features, we only tested over those with at least1,000 words.
However, we found that includingmore users in our training set at the expense ofwords per user increased model accuracy.
Thus,we only required our training data users to men-tion 500 words, essentially allowing more noise inorder to increase the number of training examples.We also experimented with training models ontwo sets of messages: all messages and the sub-set of messages written in the same three-monthseason as the survey administration (season only2downloaded from www.saifmohammad.com121Model Season test (r) All test (r)Baselinesentiment.124 .149Season .321 .340All .351 .386Table 2: Accuracy of various models against testsets containing only messages from the seasonand year in which the user took the survey aswell as a test using all of user?s messages.
Mod-els: Baselinesentimenta model based on a state-of-the-art sentiment lexicon (Mohammad et al.,2013); Season: model trained on messages sentonly during the same season and year in whicheach user took the survey; All model trained onall messages of each user.messages).
Because the degree of depression mayvary over time, we reasoned that messages writtencloser to survey administration might better reflectthe degree of depression assessed by the survey.When generating predictions on users in the testset, we applied both the all messages model andthe season only messages model to features fromall messages and then to just the features from thesame season as the survey administration.3.2 Evaluation and ResultsWe evaluated accuracy using the Pearson corre-lation coefficient r between our predictions andsurvey-assessed DDep.
As a baseline, we built aregression model simply using the NRC sentiment(Mohammad et al., 2013) feature.Accuracies are shown in Table 2.
Accuracy washighest (r = .386) when we trained a model overall messages from users in the training set and thenapplied this model to all messages by users in thetest set.
Though our model allows for seasonalchange in depression, we suspect the test across allmessages was more accurate than that of only us-ing the season in which the users depression wasassessed due to the larger amount messages andlanguage features provided to the model.Both models (season-only messages, and allmessages) gave significant (p < 0.05) improve-ment over the baseline (r = .149) and thoughthese accuracies may look small, it?s worth not-ing that a correlation above r = 0.3 is often re-garded as a strong link between a behavior and apsychological outcome (Meyer et al., 2001).
Still,we fit many behavior variables (i.e., language usefeatures) to an outcome and so we might hope04080120160?0.6 ?0.3 0.0 0.3 0.6Seasonal Difference (Winter?Summer) in Predicted Degree of DepressionNumberofusersFigure 3: Histogram of differences between winterand summer predictions of user-level DDep.
Av-erage user-level predicted DDep values were sig-nificantly higher in the winter months (t = 4.63,p < .001).for higher variance explained.
We suspect hav-ing more users to train on and taking more fea-tures into account could improve results.
For ex-ample, people who nearly stopped writing for aseason would be thrown out of our analyses sinceit is completely based on language content, eventhough they are more likely to be depressed (so-cial isolation is a common symptom in depres-sion).
Similarly, we do not use demographics inour models, even though women are more likelyto become depressed than men.To assess individual seasonal changes in de-gree of depression, we predicted summer and win-ter DDep values for each user with at least 1000words across both summer-only and winter-onlymessages, respectively.
We then compared thedifferences across the seasonal predictions; Fig-ure 3 shows the distribution of user-level seasonaldifferences across 676 users with sufficient lan-guage for both seasonal predictions.
In line withthe trends seen in survey data, average user-levelDDep values, as predicted by language, were sig-nificantly higher in the winter months (t = 4.63,p < .001).4 Differential Language AnalysisFigure 4 shows the 100 ngrams most highly cor-related with depression score across the 21,913Facebook users in our dataset writing at least1,000 words.
Unlike typical word clouds, theclouds represent language that differentiates usersscoring high on depression.
The size of a wordrepresents its correlation with depression (larger122= stronger), the color its relative frequency (grey= rarely used, blue = moderately used, red = fre-quently used).The f-word emerges as both the most correlatedfeature (as indicated by the size of the word) andis highly frequent (indicated by the red color).
To-gether with words such as ?pissed?
and ?bloody?,these curse words suggest hostility or aggression.Similarly, words such has ?hate?
and ?lonely?
sug-gest negative social relationships.Perhaps surprisingly, the words ?depression?and ?depressed?
emerge as highly correlated fea-tures.
These face valid features occur infrequently(as indicated by their grey color), yet are stronglyassociated with depressive tendencies, demon-strating the high statistical power of our approachapplied to this large dataset in identifying signif-icant but rarely used language features.
The bothfrequent and highly correlated word ?why?
hints atsigns of hopelessness and meaninglessness, a corefeature of depressive disorders.As illustrated in Figure 5, extending the wordsand phrase results, automatically derived topicsdemonstrate substantial overlap with the majorclinical symptoms of major depressive disorder(American Psychiatric Association et al., 2013).Hopelessness and meaninglessness are seeminglyexpressed by ?hopeless?
and ?helpless?.
Perhapsthe most noticable symptom of depression, de-pressed mood, is expressed in topics mentioning?feel?, ?crap?, ?sad?, and ?miserable?.Depression often affects psychomotor function,either in terms of fatigue and low energy or in-versely as insomnia and hyperactivity.
Such symp-toms are reflected in words such as ?tired?, and?sleep?.
Depression is often expressed somati-cally through bodily symptoms, captured through?hurt?, ?my head?
and ?pain?.One of the most predictive questions on de-pressive screening questionnaires asks about sui-cidal thought, which appears with topics related tothoughts of death, with words such as ?kill?, ?die?,and ?dying?.Topics also reflected hostility, aggression, andnegative relationships with other people.
Loneli-ness has emerged as one of the strongest predic-tors of physical morbidity and mortality (Hawk-ley and Cacioppo, 2010), and both ?lonely?
and?alone?
appear as some of the most correlated sin-gle words.
Given such striking descriptive results,future work might try to detect depression associ-Figure 5: Top ten topics most positively correlatedwith depression (from r = .14 at top to r = .11at bottom).
All are significant at a Bonferroni-corrected threshold of p < 0.001.
Word size cor-responds to prevalence within the topics.ated conditions as well such as insomnia, loneli-ness, and aggression.5 ConclusionDepression can be viewed as a continuous con-struct that changes over time, rather than simply asbeing a disease that one has or does not have.
Weshowed that regression models based on Facebooklanguage can be used to predict an individual?s de-gree of depression, as measured by a depressionfacet survey.
In line with survey seasonal trendsand the broader literature, we found that language-based predictions of depression were higher inthe winter than the summer, suggesting that our123Figure 4: The 100 ngrams most correlated with DDep (ranging from r = .05 to r = .10).
All aresignificant at a Bonferroni-corrected threshold of p < 0.001.
Ngram size corresponds to correlationstrength (larger words are more distinguishing).
Color corresponds to relative frequency (red if frequent,blue moderate, grey infrequent).continuous predictions are capturing small, yetmeaningful within-person changes.
With furtherdevelopment of regression models, many userswrite enough on Facebook that we could estimatechanges in their level of depression on a monthlyor even weekly basis.
Such estimates, correlatedwith word use over time offers potential both forresearch at the group-level (?What are the socialand environmental determinants of depression?
?,?How well are talk or medication-based interven-tions working??)
as well as, eventually, for med-ical and therapeutic application at the individuallevel (?How well am I doing and what depression-relevant thoughts or behaviors have I disclosed inthe past week??
).ReferencesAPA American Psychiatric Association, Ameri-can Psychiatric Association, et al.
2013.
Diagnosticand statistical manual of mental disorders.Aaron T Beck, Calvin H Ward, Mock Mendelson,Jeremiah Mock, and JK Erbaugh.
1961.
An inven-tory for measuring depression.
Archives of generalpsychiatry, 4(6):561.Aartjan TF Beekman, DJH Deeg, J Van Limbeek,AW Braam, MZ De Vries, W Van Tilburg, et al.1997.
Criterion validity of the Center for Epi-demiologic Studies Depression scale (CES-D): re-sults from a community-based sample of older sub-jects in The Netherlands.
Psychological medicine,27(1):231?236.Dan G Blazer, Ronald C Kessler, and Marvin S Swartz.1998.
Epidemiology of recurrent major and minordepression with a seasonal pattern.
The National Co-morbidity Survey.
The British Journal of Psychia-try, 172(2):164?167.Paul T Costa and Robert R McCrae.
1992.
Profes-sional manual: revised NEO personality inventory(NEO-PI-R) and NEO five-factor inventory (NEO-FFI).
Odessa, FL: Psychological Assessment Re-sources.Munmun De Choudhury, Scott Counts, and EricHorvitz.
2013a.
Predicting postpartum changes inemotion and behavior via social media.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2013 ACM annual conference onHuman factors in computing systems, pages 3267?3276.
ACM.Munmun De Choudhury, Michael Gamon, ScottCounts, and Eric Horvitz.
2013b.
Predicting de-pression via social media.
In AAAI Conference onWeblogs and Social Media.Hans Jurgen Eysenck and Sybil Bianca GiulettaEysenck.
1975.
Manual of the Eysenck Personal-ity Questionnaire (junior and adult).
Hodder andStoughton.Howard S Friedman and Margaret L Kern.
2014.Personality, Well-Being, and Health*.
Psychology,65(1):719.124Lewis R Goldberg.
1999.
A broad-bandwidth, publicdomain, personality inventory measuring the lower-level facets of several five-factor models.
Personal-ity psychology in Europe, 7:7?28.Robert N Golden, Bradley N Gaynes, R David Ek-strom, Robert M Hamer, Frederick M Jacobsen, Tr-isha Suppes, Katherine L Wisner, and Charles B Ne-meroff.
2005.
The efficacy of light therapy in thetreatment of mood disorders: a review and meta-analysis of the evidence.
American Journal of Psy-chiatry, 162(4):656?662.Louise C Hawkley and John T Cacioppo.
2010.
Lone-liness matters: a theoretical and empirical review ofconsequences and mechanisms.
Annals of Behav-ioral Medicine, 40(2):218?227.R Katikalapudi, Sriram Chellappan, Frances Mont-gomery, Donald Wunsch, and Karl Lutzen.
2012.Associating Internet usage with depressive behav-ior among college students.
Technology and SocietyMagazine, IEEE, 31(4):73?80.Ronald C. Kessler and Evelyn J. Bromet.
2013.
TheEpidemiology of Depression Across Cultures.
An-nual Review of Public Health, 34(1):119?138, Mar.Ronald C Kessler, Howard G Birnbaum, VictoriaShahly, Evelyn Bromet, Irving Hwang, Katie AMcLaughlin, Nancy Sampson, Laura Helena An-drade, Giovanni de Girolamo, Koen Demyttenaere,et al.
2010.
Age differences in the prevalence andco-morbidity of DSM-IV major depressive episodes:results from the WHO World Mental Health SurveyInitiative.
Depression and anxiety, 27(4):351?364.M.
Kosinski and D.J.
Stillwell.
2012. myPersonalityProject.
http://www.mypersonality.org/wiki/.Raymond W Lam and Robert D Levitan.
2000.
Patho-physiology of seasonal affective disorder: a review.Journal of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, 25(5):469.Judith H Lichtman, Erika S Froelicher, James A Blu-menthal, Robert M Carney, Lynn V Doering, NancyFrasure-Smith, Kenneth E Freedland, Allan S Jaffe,Erica C Leifheit-Limson, David S Sheps, et al.2014.
Depression as a Risk Factor for Poor Prog-nosis Among Patients With Acute Coronary Syn-drome: Systematic Review and RecommendationsA Scientific Statement From the American HeartAssociation.
Circulation.Andres Magnusson and Timo Partonen.
2005.
FocusPoints.
CNS Spectr, 10(8):625?634.Robert R McCrae and Oliver P John.
1992.
An intro-duction to the five-factor model and its applications.Journal of personality, 60(2):175?215.Peter Paul A Mersch, Hermine M Middendorp, An-toinette L Bouhuys, Domien GM Beersma, and Rut-ger H van den Hoofdakker.
1999.
Seasonal affec-tive disorder and latitude: a review of the literature.Journal of affective disorders, 53(1):35?48.Gregory J Meyer, Stephen E Finn, Lorraine D Eyde,Gary G Kay, Kevin L Moreland, Robert R Dies,Elena J Eisman, Tom W Kubiszyn, and Geoffrey MReed.
2001.
Psychological testing and psycholog-ical assessment: A review of evidence and issues.American psychologist, 56(2):128?165.S Mineka, D Watson, and LA Clark.
1998.
Comorbid-ity of anxiety and unipolar mood disorders.
Annualreview of psychology, 49:377.Saif M. Mohammad, Svetlana Kiritchenko, and Xiao-dan Zhu.
2013.
NRC-Canada: Building the State-of-the-Art in Sentiment Analysis of Tweets.
In Pro-ceedings of the seventh international workshop onSemantic Evaluation Exercises (SemEval-2013), At-lanta, Georgia, USA, June.Megan A Moreno, Lauren A Jelenchick, Katie G Egan,Elizabeth Cox, Henry Young, Kerry E Gannon,and Tara Becker.
2011.
Feeling bad on Face-book: Depression disclosures by college students ona social networking site.
Depression and anxiety,28(6):447?455.Yair Neuman, Yohai Cohen, Dan Assaf, and GabbiKedma.
2012.
Proactive screening for depressionthrough metaphorical and automatic text analysis.Artificial intelligence in medicine, 56(1):19?25.World Health Organization.2012.
Depression fact sheet.http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs369/en/.Sungkyu Park, Sang Won Lee, Jinah Kwak, MeeyoungCha, and Bumseok Jeong.
2013.
Activities on Face-book Reveal the Depressive State of Users.
Journalof medical Internet research, 15(10).James W. Pennebaker, C.K.
Chung, M. Ireland,A.
Gonzales, and R.J. Booth.
2007.
The devel-opment and psychometric properties of LIWC2007.Austin, TX, LIWC.
Net.Leora N Rosen, Steven D Targum, Michael Terman,Michael J Bryant, Howard Hoffman, Siegfried FKasper, Joelle R Hamovit, John P Docherty, BettyWelch, and Norman E Rosenthal.
1990.
Prevalenceof seasonal affective disorder at four latitudes.
Psy-chiatry research, 31(2):131?144.C Thompson.
2001.
Evidence-based treatment.
Sea-sonal affective disorder: practice and research,pages 151?158.Asa Westrin and Raymond W Lam.
2007.
Seasonalaffective disorder: a clinical update.
Annals of Clin-ical Psychiatry, 19(4):239?246.125
