Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 6?10,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsPatientNarr: Towards generating patient-centric summariesof hospital staysBarbara Di Eugenio, Andrew D. Boyd, Camillo Lugaresi, Abhinaya Balasubramanian,Gail M. Keenan, Mike Burton, Tamara G. Rezende Macieira, Karen Dunn LopezUniversity of Illinois at ChicagoChicago, IL, USACarol FriedmanColumbia UniversityNew York, NY, USAJianrong Li, Yves A. LussierUniversity of ArizonaTucson, AZ, USAAbstractPatientNarr summarizes information takenfrom textual discharge notes written byphysicians, and structured nursing docu-mentation.
It builds a graph that highlightsthe relationships between the two types ofdocumentation; and extracts informationfrom the graph for content planning.
Sim-pleNLG is used for surface realization.1 IntroductionEvery year, 7.9% of the US population is hos-pitalized (CDC, 2011).
Patients need to under-stand what happened to them in the hospital, andwhat they should do after discharge.
PatientNarrwill ultimately be able to generate concise, lay-language summaries of hospital stays.
We hy-pothesize that such summaries will help patientstake care of themselves after they are discharged,and supplement current approaches to patient ed-ucation, which is not always effective (Olson andWindish, 2010).PatientNarr needs to summarize documentationthat is currently segregated by profession; asa minimum, as physician discharge notes andas nursing plans-of-care.
We contend that bothsources are necessary to provide the patient withfull understanding, also because much of the directcare provided by nurses will need to be continuedfollowing discharge (Cain et al., 2012).In our case, PatientNarr summarizes data thatis heterogeneous (textual for physician dischargenotes, structured for nursing documentation).This paper describes the steps we have undetakenso far: (a) To demonstrate that physician and nursedocumentations diverge, we map both to a graph,and study the relationships therein.
This graphsupports content planning.
(b) We have devel-oped the pipeline that extracts the information tobe communicated, and renders it in English viaSimpleNLG (Gatt and Reiter, 2009).Related work.
NLG and Summarization in thebiomedical domain have been pursued for a fewyears (Di Eugenio and Green, 2010), but mostwork addresses health care personnel: to navi-gate cancer patients?
medical histories (Hallett,2008; Scott et al., 2013); to generate textual sum-maries describing a hospitalized infant for nurses(Portet et al., 2009); to generates reports of carefor hand-off between emergency workers (Schnei-der et al., 2013).
Most applications of NLG thattarget patients focus on behavioral changes (Reiteret al., 2003), or patient counseling (Green et al.,2011).
Only few NLG systems attempt at generat-ing personalized medical information from med-ical records or data (Williams et al., 2007; Ma-hamood and Reiter, 2011).2 A motivating exampleSo far, we have gained access to 28 de-identifieddischarge notes of cardiology patients from theUniversity of Illinois Hospital and Health ScienceSystem (UIHHSS).
Figure 1 shows about 20% ofthe physician discharge notes for Patient 9.
It isdifficult to understand, not only because of jargon,but also because of ignorance of relevant domainrelationships.
Importantly, these notes do not talkabout issues that are potentially important for thepatient, like his state of mind, which are more of-ten addressed by nurses.
In our case, the nursingdocumentation is not textual, but entered via theHANDS tool, and stored in a relational database(Keenan et al., 2002).
A tiny portion of the ini-tial plan-of-care (POC) for Patient 9 is shown inFigure 2 (this nursing data is reconstructed, seeSection 3).
One POC is documented at everyformal handoff (admission, shift change, or dis-charge).
HANDS employs the NANDA-I taxon-6Patient was admitted to Cardiology for new onset a fib in RVR.
Was given an additional dose of diltazem 30mg po when firstseen.
Patient was started on a heparin drip for possible TEE and cardioversion.
Overnight his HR was in the 100-110s; howeverdid increase to 160s for which patient was given 120mg er of diltazem.
HR improved; however, in the morning while awakeand moving around, HR did increase to the 130-140s.
Patient was given another dose of IV dilt 20mg.
[...] Upon dischargewas given two prescriptions for BP, HCTZ and losartan given LVH seen on echo.
Patient was counseled on the risks of strokeand different options for anticoagulation.
[...]Figure 1: Excerpt from physician discharge notes (Patient 9)omy of nursing diagnoses, represented by squaresin Figure 2; the Nursing Outcomes Classification(NOC) ?
circles; and the Nursing InterventionsClassification (NIC) ?
triangles (NNN, 2014).
InFigure 2, Acute Pain is a diagnosis, and AnxietyLevel and Pain Level (some of) its associated out-comes.
Anxiety Reduction is an intervention asso-ciated with Anxiety Level; Pain Management andAnalgesic Administration are interventions associ-ated with Pain Level.
A scale from 1 to 5 indicatesthe initial value associated with an outcome (i.e.,the state the patient was in when s/he was admit-ted), the expected rating, and the actual rating atdischarge.
In Figure 2, the current level for PainLevel and Anxiety Level is 2 each, with an expectedlevel of 5 at discharge, i.e., no pain/anxiety.Figure 2: Excerpt from nursing documentationFigures 1 and 2 suggest that physician and nurs-ing documentations provide different perspectiveson patients: e.g., Anxiety is not even mentionedin the discharge notes.
One of the authors (anursing student) wrote summaries for five of the28 discharge summaries and their correspondingHANDS POCs ?
Figure 3 shows the summary forPatient 9.
This initial round of human authoringwas meant to provide some preliminary guidelinesto generate automatic summaries.
Please see Sec-tion 5 for our plans on obtaining a much largerquantity of more informed human-authored sum-maries.3 Extracting relationships betweenphysician notes and nursing dataTo extract and relate information from ourtwo sources, we rely on UMLS, MedLEE andHANDS.
UMLS, the Unified Medical LanguageSystem (NLM, 2009), includes 2.6 million con-cepts (identified by Concept Unique Identifiers orCUIs) organized in a network.
Importantly, manydifferent medical and nursing terminologies havebeen incorporated into UMLS, including thoseused by HANDS (NANDA-I, NIC and NOC).UMLS provides mapping between their conceptsand CUIs, via 8.6 million concept names and rela-tionships between terminologies.
Some relation-ships are of a hierarchical nature, where one con-cept is narrower than the other (e.g., Chest X-rayand Diagnostic radiologic examination).MedLEE is a medical information extractionsystem (Friedman et al., 2004).
In its semi-structured output, recognized entities are mappedto the corresponding CUI in UMLS.HANDS has not been adopted at UIHHSS yet.Hence, we reconstructed HANDS POCs for those28 patients on the basis of 40,661 cases collectedat four hospitals where HANDS is in use.
Foreach of the 28 patients, the same nursing studentwho authored the five summaries, selected simi-lar cases, and used them to produce high-qualityrecords consistent with actual nursing practice.To relate physician and nursing documenta-tions, we seed a graph with two sets of CUIs:those returned by MedLEE as a result of process-ing the physician discharge notes; and the CUIscorresponding to all the NANDA-I, NIC and NOCterms from the HANDS POCs.
We then grow thegraph by querying UMLS for the set of conceptsrelated to each of the concepts in our set; the con-cepts that were not already part of the graph arethen used to begin a new round of growth (westop at round 2, to keep the time used by UMLSto answer, reasonable).
From this graph, wekeep the concepts that either belong to one of the7You were admitted with new onset of atrial fibrillation.
You reported feeling weakness, chest pressure and increased shortnessof breath.
You reported acute pain and you were anxious.
During your hospitalization you were treated with analgesics for yourpain and pain management was performed by the nursing team.
Your shortness of breath improved.
Your decreased cardiacoutput was treated with medication administration and knowledge about cardiac precautions, hypertension management, yourtreatment regimen and the prescribed medication were taught to you by the nurses.
A Transophageal Echocardiography wasperformed.
You met the expected outcomes for your condition and you were discharged under the condition improved foryour home.
You have an appointment scheduled at Union Medical Center on [DATE] with Physician [DR.].
The list of yourmedications is attached to this discharge.Figure 3: Human-authored summary (Patient 9)source lists, or that are required to form a con-nection between a doctor-originated concept anda nurse-originated concept that would otherwiseremain unconnected.
All other concepts are re-moved.
The result is a graph with several separateconnected components, which correspond to clus-ters of related concepts occurring in the dischargenotes or in the plans of care, or forming connec-tions between the two sources.We count distances in terms of relationships tra-versed, starting from the nursing concepts sincethey are fewer, and since path traversal is re-versible.1 Concepts can overlap; or be directlyconnected (distance one); or be directly connectedthrough an intermediate concept (distance two).We do not consider distances beyond two.
Table 1shows results for our specific example, Patient 9,and average results across our 28 test cases.
As wecan see, there are very few concepts in common,or even at distance 1.
Our results provide quanti-tative evidence for the hypothesis that physiciansand nurses talk differently, not just as far as ter-minology is concerned, but as regards aspects ofpatient care.
This provides strong evidence for ourhypothesis that a hospitalization summary shouldinclude both perspectives.4 Automatically generating the summaryIn this baseline version of PatientNarr, we focusedon understanding how the vital parameters haveimproved over time, the treatment given for im-provement and the issues addressed during theprocess.
The summary generated by PatientNarrfor Patient 9 is shown in Figure 4.
We extractinformation of interest from the graph obtainedat the previous step; we couch it as features ofphrasal constituents via the operations provided bythe SimpleNLG API.
SimpleNLG then assemblesgrammatical phrases in the right order, and helps1In UMLS, any relationship from concept A to concept B,has a corresponding relationship from B to A, not necessarilysymmetric.in aggregating related sentences.Since there are far fewer nursing than doctorconcepts, we start from the NANDA-I codes, i.e.,the diagnoses.
The name associated in UMLSwith the corresponding CUI is used.
For eachNANDA-I node, we highlight the treatments given(the NIC codes), e.g.
see the sentence startingwith Acute onset pain was treated [...] in Fig-ure 4.
For both diagnosis and treatments, we at-tempt to relate them to doctor?s nodes.
Specif-ically, we exploit the relationships in the UMLSontology and include nodes in the graph we con-structed that are at distance 1 or 2, and that areeither doctor?s nodes, or intermediate nodes thatconnect to a doctor?s node.
For example, in Dys-rhythmia management is remedy for tachycardiaand Atrial Fibrillation, Dysrhythmia managementis a NIC intervention that is related to CardiacArrhythmia; in turn, Cardiac Arrhythmia is a di-rect hypernym of tachycardia and Atrial Fibrilla-tion which were both extracted from the physiciannotes by MedLEE.
Cardiac Arrhythmia was dis-covered by our graph building procedure, as de-scribed in Section 3.We then highlight what improved during thehospital stay.
As we mentioned earlier, the NOCcodes (outcomes) are associated with a scale from1 to 5 which indicates the initial value, the ex-pected rating, and the actual rating at discharge.
Ifthe relative increase between admission and dis-charge encompasses more than 2 points on thescale, it is considered significant; if it encompasses1 or 2 points, it is considered slight.
In those casesin which more than one outcome is associated witha diagnosis, but improvement is not uniform, weinclude a cue ?On the other hand?.
For Patient 9,in the last POC recorded just before discharge,Anxiety Level is up 2 points (to 4), whereas PainLevel is up 3.
We also indicate to the patientif the final rating reached the rating that was ini-tially hoped for; it did not for Anxiety Level (Seethe two sentences starting from Pain level and Vi-8# CUIs from # CUIs from # of # of CUI pairs # of CUI pairsDischarge Notes Nursing POCs common CUIs at Distance 1 at Distance 2Patient 9 83.00 28.00 0.00 3.00 13.00Average 90.64 22.43 0.46 3.00 9.11Table 1: Concept overlap in discharge notes and nursing POCsYou were admitted for atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.
Acute onset pain related to pain was treated withpain management, monitoring of blood pressure, temperature, pulse rate and respiratory rate and administration of analgesic.Pain level and vital signs have improved significantly and outcomes have met the expectations.
On the other hand, level ofanxiety has improved slightly.
Cardiac Disease Self-Management, Disease Process (Heart disease), Hypertension Management,Cardiac Disease Management, Hypertension Management and Treatment Regimen were taught.
Low Cardiac Output relatedto heart failure was treated with cardiac precautions, monitoring of blood pressure, temperature, pulse rate and respiratoryrate, and dysrhythmia management.
Dysrhythmia management is remedy for tachycardia and atrial fibrillation.
As a result,cardiac pump effectiveness, cardiopulmonary status and cardiac tissue perfusion status have improved slightly.
Actual NegativeBreathing Pattern related to respiration disorders was treated with respiration monitoring.
Respiratory Status has improvedsignificantly.
You have an appointment at Union Medical Center on DATE at TIME.
The list of medication is attached to thisdischarge.Figure 4: PatientNarr generated summary (Patient 9)tal signs [...].
On the other hand, [...]).
For themoment, we do not mention outcomes for whichno improvement, or a setback, has been recorded.The summary also includes: mentions of edu-cation that has been imparted; and reminders offuture appointments and of medicines to be taken.5 Future WorkThe research described in this paper lays the foun-dations for our project, but clearly much work re-mains to be done.
To start with, we plan to builda corpus of gold-standard summaries, in order toderive (semi-)automatic models of the informa-tion to be included from physician notes and fromnursing documentation.
The five human authoredsummaries we currently have at our disposal arenot sufficient, neither in quality nor (obviously)in quantity.
We intend to inform their generationvia a number of focus groups with all stakeholdersinvolved: patients, doctors and nurses.
To startwith, the five summaries we do have were pre-sented to the Patient Advisory Board of an unre-lated project.
These two patients noted that all un-familiar terms should be explained, and that whatthe patient should do to improve their health afterdischarge, should be included.Secondly, we will generate lay languageby taking advantage of resources such as theConsumer Health Vocabulary (Doing-Harris andZeng-Treitler, 2011; CHV, 2013), which mapsmedical terms to plain-language expressions.
Ad-ditionally, we will pursue more sophisticated ex-traction and rendering of rhetorical relationshipsamong events and their outcomes (Mancini et al.,2007).Last but not least, we will perform user stud-ies, both controlled evaluation of our summarieswhile still at the development stage, and eventu-ally longer-term assessments of whether our sum-maries engender better adherence to medicationsand better keeping of follow-up appointments, andultimately, better health.AcknowledgementsWe thank three anonymous reviewers for theirhelpful comments.
For partial financial support,we acknowledge award NPRP 5-939-1-155 fromthe Qatar National Research Fund, the UIC De-partment of Biomedical and Health InformationSciences, and the UIC Institute for TranslationalHealth Informatics.ReferencesCarol H. Cain, Estee Neuwirth, Jim Bellows, ChristiZuber, and Jennifer Green.
2012.
Patient expe-riences of transitioning from hospital to home: anethnographic quality improvement project.
Journalof Hospital Medicine, 7(5):382?387.CDC.
2011.
Hospital utilization (innon-federal short-stay hospitals).
Cen-ters for Disease Control and Prevention,http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/hospital.htm.Last accessed on 11/26/2013.2013.
Consumer Health Vocabulary Initiative.9http://www.layhealthinformatics.org/.
Last ac-cessed on 5/19/2014.Barbara Di Eugenio and Nancy L. Green.
2010.Emerging applications of natural language gener-ation in information visualization, education, andhealth-care.
In Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Dam-erau, editors, Handbook of Natural Language Pro-cessing, Second Edition, chapter 23, pages 557?575.CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group, Boca Raton,FL.
ISBN 978-1420085921.Kristina M. Doing-Harris and Qing Zeng-Treitler.2011.
Computer-assisted update of a consumerhealth vocabulary through mining of social networkdata.
Journal of Medical Internet Research, 13(2).C.
Friedman, L. Shagina, Y. Lussier, and G. Hripc-sak.
2004.
Automated encoding of clinical docu-ments based on natural language processing.
Jour-nal of the American Medical Informatics Associa-tion, 11(5):392.Albert Gatt and Ehud Reiter.
2009.
SimpleNLG: Arealisation engine for practical applications.
In Pro-ceedings of the 12th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 90?93.
Association forComputational Linguistics.N.
Green, R. Dwight, K. Navoraphan, and B. Stadler.2011.
Natural language generation of biomedical ar-gumentation for lay audiences.
Argument and Com-putation, 2(1):23?50.C.
Hallett.
2008.
Multi-modal presentation of medicalhistories.
In IUI ?08: Proceedings of the 13th Inter-national Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces,pages 80?89, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.G.M.
Keenan, J.R. Stocker, A.T. Geo-Thomas, N.R.Soparkar, V.H.
Barkauskas, and J.A.N.L.
Lee.
2002.The HANDS Project: Studying and Refining theAutomated Collection of a Cross-setting ClinicalData set.
CIN: Computers, Informatics, Nursing,20(3):89?100.Saad Mahamood and Ehud Reiter.
2011.
Generat-ing affective natural language for parents of neona-tal infants.
In Proceedings of the 13th EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, pages12?21, Nancy, France, September.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Clara Mancini, Christian Pietsch, and Donia Scott.2007.
Visualising discourse structure in interactivedocuments.
In Proceedings of the Eleventh Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation,pages 89?92, Saarbru?cken, Germany, June.NLM.
2009.
UMLS Reference Manual.
Techni-cal report, National Library of Medicine, Septem-ber.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK9676/(Last accessed on 12/09/2013).2014.
NNN: Knowledge-based terminologies defin-ing nursing.
http://www.nanda.org/nanda-i-nic-noc.html.
(Last accessed on 5/19/2014).Douglas P. Olson and Donna M. Windish.
2010.
Com-munication discrepancies between physicians andhospitalized patients.
Archives of Internal Medicine,170(15):1302?1307.Franc?ois Portet, Ehud Reiter, Jim Hunter, SomayajuluSripada, Yvonne Freer, and Cynthia Sykes.
2009.Automatic generation of textual summaries fromneonatal intensive care data.
Artificial Intelligence,173:789?816, May.Ehud Reiter, Roma Robertson, and Liesl Osman.
2003.Lessons from a failure: Generating tailored smokingcessation letters.
Artificial Intelligence, 144:41?58.Anne Schneider, Alasdair Mort, Chris Mellish, EhudReiter, Phil Wilson, and Pierre-Luc Vaudry.
2013.MIME - NLG Support for Complex and Unsta-ble Pre-hospital Emergencies.
In Proceedings ofthe 14th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 198?199, Sofia, Bulgaria, Au-gust.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Donia Scott, Catalina Hallett, and Rachel Fetti-place.
2013.
Data-to-text summarisation of pa-tient records: Using computer-generated summariesto access patient histories.
Patient Education andCounseling, 92(2):153?159.Sandra Williams, Paul Piwek, and Richard Power.2007.
Generating monologue and dialogue topresent personalised medical information to pa-tients.
In Proceedings of the Eleventh EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, pages167?170, Saarbru?cken, Germany, June.10
