Workshop on Humans and Computer-assisted Translation, pages 22?27,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26 April 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsOn-The-Fly Translator Assistant(Readability and Terminology Handling)Svetlana SheremetyevaNational Research South Ural State University / pr.Lenina 74, 454080Chelyabinsk, RussiaLanA Consulting ApS/ Moellekrog 4, Vejby, 3210, Copenhagen, Denmarklanaconsult@mail.dkAbstractThis paper describes a new methodology fordeveloping CAT tools that assist translators oftechnical and scientific texts by (i) on-the-flyhighlight of nominal and verbal terminology in asource language (SL) document that lifts possiblesyntactic ambiguity and thus essentially raises thedocument readability and (ii) simultaneoustranslation of all SL document one- and multi-component lexical units.
The methodology isbased on a language-independent hybrid extractiontechnique used for document analysis, andlanguage-dependent shallow linguistic knowledge.It is targeted at intelligent output andcomputationally attractive properties.
The approachis illustrated by its implementation into a CAT toolfor the Russian-English language pair.
Such toolscan also be integrated into full MT systems.1 IntroductionExploding volume of professional publicationsdemand operative international exchange ofscientific and technical information and thus putin focus operativeness and quality of translationservices.
In spite of the great progress of MT thatsaves translation time, required translationquality so far cannot be achieved without humanjudgment (Koehn, 2009).
Therefore in greatdemand are CAT tools designed to support andfacilitate human translation.CAT tools are developed to automatepostediting and often involve controlledlanguage.
The most popular tools are translationmemory (TM) tools whose function is to save thetranslation units in a database so that they can bere-used through special "fuzzy search" features.The efficiency of TM (as well as translationquality as such) is directly related to the problemof the comprehensiveness of multilinguallexicons.
A translator who, as a rule, does notpossess enough of expert knowledge in ascientific or technological domain spends about75% of time for translating terminology, whichdo not guarantee the correctness of translationequivalents she/he uses.
The percentage ofmistakes in translating professional terminologyreaches 40% (Kudashev, 2007).
It is thereforeessential to develop methodologies that couldhelp human translators solve this problem, thehuge resource being the Internet, if properlyused.
In this paper we suggest one of thepossible ways to do so.We would like to address the importance oftext readability in the human translationperformance.
Readability relates to (though doesnot coincide with)   the notion of translatabilityin MT research.
Readability in human translationis associated with the level of clarity of a SL textfor human understanding.
Every translatorknows how difficult it can be to understandprofessional texts, not only because of theabundance of terminology but also due tocomplex syntax and syntactic ambiguity.
Theultimate example of a low readability text is thepatent claim (Shinmori et al., 2003) that iswritten in the form of one nominal sentence withextremely complex ?inhuman?
syntacticstructure that can run for a page or more.
Lowreadability is often the case with scientific andtechnical papers as well.22In this paper we describe our effort to develop aportable between domains and languages CATtool that can on-the-fly improve the readabilityof professional texts and provide for reliableterminology translation.We paid special attention to multiword nounterminology, the most frequent and importantterminological unit in special texts that can rarelybe   found in full in existing lexicons.
Whentranslated properly, multicomponent NPs do notonly provide for the correct understanding of thecorresponding target language (TL) term but inmany cases lift syntactic ambiguity.The tool can find a broad application, e.g., itcan be useful for any non-SL speaker for a quickdocument digest.
The settings of the tool allowthe extraction of keyword translation pairs incase it is needed, e.g., for search purposes.
It canalso be integrated into a full MT system.We implemented our methodology into afully functional tool for the Russian-Englishlanguage pair and conducted experiments forother domains and language pairs.
In selectingRussian as a first SL we were motivated by twomajor considerations.
Firstly, Russia has a hugepool of scientific and technical papers which areunavailable for non-Russian speakers withoutturning to expensive translation services.Secondly, our scientific challenge was to developa hybrid methodology applicable to inflectinglanguages.
Popular SMT and hybrid techniquesworking well on configurational andmorphologically poor languages, such asEnglish, fail on non-configurational languageswith rich morphology (Sharoff, 2004).
Russian isan ultimate example of such a language.
It has afree word order; a typical Russian word has from9 (for nouns) up to 50 forms (for verbs).
In whatfollows we first present the tool and thendescribe the underlying methodology.Figure 1.
A screenshot of the Russian-to-English CAT tool user interface at the bookmark ?show all?.The left pane displays a SL interactive text of a scientific paper in mathematical modelling withexplicitly marked (bold faced) nominal terminology and verbs (in blue).
The left pane contains thealphabetically ordered list of all 1-4 component Russian terms with their English equivalents.
On thetop of the right pane there is a type-in area which permits searching for the translations of terms longerthan 4 words in the tool knowledge base.
The second bookmark on the top of the Ru-En equivalentarea allows opening a user dictionary for the user to collect terms she/he might need in the future.232 The ToolThe tool takes a SL text an as input and on thefly produces output at two levels:?
a marked-up interactive SL text withhighlighted multi-component nominal andverbal terminology (NPs and VPs);?
a list of all single- and multi-component SL-TL units found in the input text.Text mark-up improves input readability andhelps translator quicker and better understand thesyntactic structure of the input.
This featurecombined with on-the-fly translation of all  1-4component SL text lexical units reducestranslation time and effort and raises translationquality.
The tool can be used as an e-dictionarywhere terms are searched through a type-in areain the user interface.Translation equivalents are normalized asfollows.
SL NPs are outputted in nominativesingular, while VPs are presented in a finite formkeeping the SL voice, tense and number features.For example, in  the Russian-to-English tool  theRussian VP wordform ???????????????
?_pastparticiple, perfective, plural (literally ?done?
)will be outputted as ?????????????
?_ finite,past, plural = ?were mounted?.The tool user interface has a lot of effort-savingfunctionalities.
A click on a unit in the markedup input text in the left pane highlights its TLequivalent in the alphabetically sorted list oftranslations on the right pane.
It is possible tocreate user dictionaries accumulatingterminology from different texts, saving thesedictionaries and projects, etc.
A screenshot ofthe user interface in shown in Figure 1.3 Methodology and Development Issues3.1 ArchitectureThe overall architecture of the tool is shown inFigure 2.
The tool engine consists of a shallowanalyzer including three fully automaticmodules, - a SL hybrid NP extractor, shallowparser and imbedded machine translation modulemeant to translate terminology.
The knowledgebase contains shallow linguistic knowledge, -lexicons and rules.The NP extractor is a hybrid stand-alone toolpipelined to the system.
We built it following themethodology of NP extraction for the Englishlanguage as described in (Sheremetyeva, 2009)and ported it to the Russian language.Figure 2.
The architecture of the CAT tool.24The extraction methodology combines statisticaltechniques, heuristics and very shallow linguisticknowledge.
The knowledge base consists of anumber of unilingual  lexicons, - sort of extendedlists of stop words forbidden in particular (first,middle or last) positions in a  typed lexical unit(Russian NP in our case).NP extraction procedure starts with n-gramcalculation and then removes n-grams, whichcannot be NPs by successive matchingcomponents of calculated n-grams against thestop lexicons.
The extraction itself thus neitherrequires such demanding NLP procedures, astagging, morphological normalization, POSpattern match, etc., nor does it rely on statisticalcounts (statistical counts are only used to sort outkeywords).
The latter makes this extractionmethodology suitable for inflecting languages(Russian in our case) where frequencies of n-grams are low.Porting the NP extractor from English toRussian consisted in substituting English stoplexicons of the tool with the Russian equivalents.We did this by translating each of the Englishstop lists into Russian using a free online systemPROMT (http://www.translate.ru) followed bymanual brush-up.The NP extractor does not rely on apreconstructed corpus, works on small texts,does not miss low frequency units and canreliably extract all NPs from an input text.
Weexcluded a lemmatizer from the originalextraction algorithm    and    kept     all extractedRussian NPs in their textual forms.
The nounphrases thus extracted are of 1 to 4 componentsdue to the limitations of the extractor that uses a4-gram model.
The extractor was also used forlexicon acquisition.The shallow parser consists of an NPchunker, VP chunker and tagger.
The first usersthe knowledge dynamically produced by the NPextractor (lists of all NPs of an input text in theirtext form).
The VP chunker and tagger turn tothe Russian entries of the tool bilingual lexicon.The tagger is actually a supertagger as it assignssupertags coding all morphological features, suchas part-of-speech, number, gender, tense, etc.The machine translation module translatestext chunks into English using simple transferand generation rules working over the space ofsupertags as found in the CAT tool bilinguallexicon.3.2 Bilingual lexiconTo ensure correct terminology translation thebilingual lexicon of the tool should necessarilybe tuned to a specific domain for which it is to beused.
The lexicon is organized as a set of shallowcross-referenced monolingual entries of lexicalunits listed with their part-of-speech class andexplicit paradigms of domain-relevantwordforms.
This is the type of resource that,once build for some other purpose, can be simplyfed into the system.
Acquisition of this type ofknowledge for every new pair of languages iswhat existing SMT tools can provide either inadvance or on the fly, as reported in (2012 etal.,).
In our work striving for correctness wecombined automatic techniques with manualcheck and manual acquisition.The Russian vocabulary was created in twosteps.
First, an initial corpus of Russianscientific papers on mathematical modelling ofapproximately 80 000 wordforms was acquiredon Internet.
We then ported the NP extractordescribed above to other Russian parts-of-speechand automatically extracted domain specifictyped lexical units (NPs, VPs, ADJs, etc)consisting of 1 up to 4 components from thecorpus.
These automatically extracted lists oflexemes were further checked by humanacquirers and 14 000 of them were used as a seedRussian vocabulary.The seed vocabulary was then used to acquirelonger Russian lexemes both from the initialcorpus, and the Internet, which is in fact anunlimited corpus.
The following methodologywas applied.
The seed lexical units were used askeywords in the Internet search engines.
NewRussian terminological units including seedterms highlighted in the two first pages of thesearch results were included in the lexicon.
Forexample, for the seed (key) term?????????????????
the following multi-component terms popped-up on the Internet:????????????????
???????????
????????,????????????????
??????
?
??????????????????
?, ????????????????
????-?????????,etc.
As a result, the seed Russian vocabulary wasextended to 60 000 single- and multi-componentunits up to seven-eight words long.Lexical acquisition of English equivalents wasdone based on existing domain lexicons,parallel/comparable corpora and raw Internetresources.
The last needs to be explained.
In caseneither existing lexicons, nor parallel/comparablecorpora could provide for a reliable English25equivalent, which was mostly the case with longterms, translation hypotheses were made basedon different combinations of translation variantsof component words.
Every translationhypothesis was then checked in the Internetsearch engine.
If an engine (we used Google)showed a translation version in the search results,the hypothesis was considered confirmed and theEnglish equivalent was included in the toollexicon.
For example, the Russian term ????????????????????
????????
could not be found inany of existing lexicons, the following Englishequivalents of the Russian term componentswere found:???
?
swarm; ?????????????
- conception,expression, representation, performance,configuration; ???????
?
bit, fraction, particle,shard, corpuscle.If you create a translation hypothesis by usingthe first translation variant for every componentof the Russian term you will get: ?swarmconception of a bit?
or ?bit swarm conception?.Used as key words in Google, the search resultsdo not contain these words combined in a term.This translation hypothesis was rejected.
Anotherhypothesis ?particle swarm representation?
usedas key words in Google gives the English term?Particle Swarm Optimization and PriorityRepresentation?
from the paper on mathematicalmodelling  by Philip Brooks, a native Englishspeaker.
?Particle swarm representation?
isaccepted as a correct English translation of theRussian term ???????
?????????????????????.
Though tedious, this methodologyallowed careful detection of the up-to-datehighly reliable translation that could hardlybe achieved otherwise.3.3 WorkflowThe raw SL document first goes to the automaticNP extractor, which produces a list of one- tofour component noun phrases.
The dynamicallycreated NP list is then used as knowledge for theNP chunker, which by matching the extracted listagainst the input text chunks (brackets) nounphrases in the document.
The morphologicaltagger completes morphological analysis of thesechunks by looking them up in the NP entries ofthe tool lexicon.
The text strings betweenchunked NPs is then supplied to the VP chunkerthat matches this input against verb wordforms,as listed in the morphological zones of verbentries.
In case of a match the text string ischunked as VP and a corresponding supertagfrom the lexicon is assigned.
The text stringswhich were left between NP and VP chunks arethen looked up in the rest of the entries of thelexicon and tagged.
The fact that in everychunking/tagging pass only the type-relevantlexicon entries are searched practically lifts theambiguity problem in morphological analysis.Finally, based on classified chunk borders, thedocument is turned into an interactive(?clickable?)
text with NP and VP phraseshighlighted in different colours.The output of the shallow analysis stage (fully(super) tagged lexical units) is passed to themachine translation module that followingsimple rules generates SL-TL lexical pairs for allthe lexica of the text (See Figure 1).4 Status and ConclusionsThe viability of the methodology we havedescribed was proved by its implementation in aRussian-English CAT tool for the domain ofscientific papers on mathematical modelling.
Thetool is fully developed.
The domain bilingualstatic knowledge sources have been carefullycrafted based on corpora analysis and internetresources.
The programming shell of the tool islanguage independent and provides forknowledge administration in all the tool modulesto improve their performance.The extractor of Russian nominal terminologycurrently performs with 98, 4 % of recall and 96,1% precision.
The shallow clunker based on theextraction results and lexicon shows even higheraccuracy.
This is explained, on the one hand, bythe high performance of the NP extractor, and,on the other hand, by the nature of inflectinglanguages.
Rich morphology turns out to be anadvantage in our approach.
Great variety ofmorphological forms lowers ambiguity betweenNP components and verb paradigms.We could not yet find any publicationsdescribing research meant for similar output.This leaves the comparison between othermethodologies/tools and ours as a future work.
Ingeneral user evaluation results show a reasonablysmall number of failures that are being improvedby brushing up the bilingual lexicon.We intend to a) improve the quality of the toolby updating the tool knowledge based on the userfeedback; b) integrate the tool into a full MTsystem and  c) develop a search facility on thebasis of the our extraction strategy.26ReferencesEnache Ramona, Cristina Espana-Bonet, AarneRanta, Llu?s Marquez.
2012.
A Hybrid System forPatent Translation.
Proceedings of the EAMTConference.
Trento..Italy, MayKoehn Philipp.
2009.
A process study of computer-aided translation, Philipp Koehn, MachineTranslation Journal, 2009, volume 23,number 4, pages 241-263Kudashev Igor S. 2007.
Desining TranslationDictionaris of Special Lexica /I.S.Kudashev.
?Helsinki University Print,  ?
445 p.Sharoff,  Serge .
2004.
What is at stake: a case studyof Russian expressions starting with a preposition.Proceedings of the ACL Workshop onMultiword Expressions: IntegratingProcessing, July.Sheremetyeva, Svetlana.
2009.
On ExtractingMultiword NP Terminology for MT.
Proceedingsof the EAMT Conference.
Barcelona, Spain,May.Shinmori A., Okumura M., Marukawa Y. IwayamaM.
2003.
Patent Claim Processing for Readability -Structure Analysis and Term Explanation,Workshop on Patent Corpus Processing.conjunction with ACL 2003, Sapporo.
Japan,July.27
