Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH) @ EACL 2014, pages 9?12,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsHow to semantically relate dialectal Dictionariesin the Linked Data FrameworkThierry DeclerckUniversity of SaarlandComputer Linguistics DepartmentPostach 15 11 50D-66041declerck@dfki.deEveline Wandl-VogtInstitute for Corpus Linguistics andText Technology, Austrian Academy ofSciences.Sonnenfelsgasse 19/8, A-1010 ViennaEveline.Wandl-Vog@oeaw.ac.atAbstractWe describe on-going work towards publishinglanguage resources included in dialectal dictionariesin the Linked Open Data (LOD) cloud, and so tosupport wider access to the diverse cultural dataassociated with such dictionary entries, like thevarious historical and geographical variations of theuse of such words.
Beyond this, our approach allowsthe cross-linking of entries of dialectal dictionaries onthe basis of the semantic representation of theirsenses, and also to link the entries of the dialectaldictionaries to lexical senses available in the LODframework.
This paper focuses on the description ofthe steps leading to a SKOS-XL and lemon encodingof the entries of two Austrian dialectal dictionaries,and how this work supports their cross-linking andlinking to other language data in the LOD.1 IntroductionThe starting point for our work is given by twoAustrian dialectal dictionaries: The Dictionary ofBavarian dialects of Austria (W?rterbuch derbairischen Mundarten in ?sterreich, WB?
)1 andthe Dictionary of the Viennese dialect(W?rterbuch der Wiener Mundart, WWM) 2 .Both dictionaries have been made available to usin an electronic version: WB?
in a proprietaryXML schema and WWM in Microsoft Word.
We1http://verlag.oeaw.ac.at/Woerterbuch-der-bairischen-Mundarten-in-Oesterreich-38.-Lieferung-WBOe2 See (Hornung & Gr?ner, 2002).used the TEI ?OxGarage?3 service to convert theWWM Word document into a TEI compliantXML representation.
Table 1 below showspartially an example of an entry in the printedversion of WB?.Table 1: An example for an entry in the WB?In a previous work we ported elements of WB?onto SKOS4 in order to be able to publish entries3 See http://oxgarage.oucs.ox.ac.uk:8080/ege-webclient/4 ?SKOS - Simple Knowledge Organization System -provides a model for expressing the basic structureand content of concept schemes such as thesauri,classification schemes, subject heading lists,taxonomies, folksonomies, and other similar types ofcontrolled vocabulary.
As an application of theResource Description Framework (RDF), SKOSallows concepts to be composed and published on theWorld Wide Web, linked with data on the Web andintegrated into other concept schemes.
?9of this dictionary in the Linked Data 5  cloud(Wandl-Vogt & Declerck, 2013).
We usedrecently a similar approach for porting the TEIVersion of the WWM dictionary into SKOS,leading to few modifications in our previousmodel.A motivation for this additional step was toinvestigate if our SKOS-based model can supportthe (automatised) cross-linking of the dialectaldictionary data6.
In this particular case, we cantake advantage of a property of dialectaldictionaries concerning the expression ofmeanings of entries: Although conceived asmonolingual reference works, dialectaldictionaries share with bilingual dictionaries thefact that they express the meanings of theirentries in a different language.
The meta-language for expressing the meanings of entriesin both WB?
and WWM is Standard German,sometimes accompanied by Austrian German.This is exemplified in the WB?
entry ?Puss?
inTable 1 above, which is using both the StandardGerman ?Ku??
and the Austrian German?Busserl?
for expressing one meaning of theword ?Puss?
(this meaning being ?kiss?).
Othermeanings are ?Geb?ck?
and ?PflN?7.
Additionallines for the entry ?Puss?
in WB?, not displayedin this submission due to lack of space, aregiving more details on those meanings, pr?cisingthat in the ?Geb?ck?
case we deal with a smallsweet pastry (?Kl.
s?
?es Geb?ck?)
and in the?PflN?
case with a ?bellis perennis?
flower.8The related entry in WWM dictionary is?Bussal?, which is displayed in Table 2.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/skos-primer/)5 For more details see http://linkeddata.org/.6 The topic of ?cross-linking?
is in fact very relevantto lexicographers, as can be seen in (Wandl-Vogt,2005).7 The word ?Geb?ck?
(pastry) is Standard Germanand the string ?PflN?
is an abbreviation for theGerman name ?Pflanzenname?
(name of a plant)8 More details are given in (Author2 & Author1, 2013).
Weconcentrate in this submission on the sense ?small sweetpastry?
to exemplify our approach.We can see that this entry carries two meanings,which are the same as the two first meanings ofthe WB?
entry ?Puss?.
Linking entries indistinct dialectal dictionaries can thus beimplemented on the basis of meanings that areshared across the dictionaries.
But, while for thesecond meaning the readers familiar with theGerman language will immediately recognizethat both strings ?Kl.
s?
?es Geb?ck?
(WB?)
and?kleines S??geb?ck?
(WWM) have the samemeaning, this is not evident for other readers andfor computer program that should cross-link thedictionary data from those two sources.In order to automatically cross-link entries fromboth dictionaries, we wrote first a program forextracting the strings expressing the meaningsfor each entry and applied an algorithm forcomparing the extracted strings.
For this lattertask, it is necessary to first linguistically analysethe strings, since pure string matching cannotprovide accurate comparisons: lemma reductionand PoS tagging are giving additional indicatorsfor matching strings expressing meanings.
Tomark linguistically analysed meanings as related,use also semantic representation languagesdeveloped in the context of W3C standardization,more specifically SKOS-XL9 and lemon102 Extraction and Linguistic Analysis ofStrings marking MeaningsWe wrote for the extraction of strings markingthe meanings of entries task specific Perl scripts,adapted to the XML schemas of WB?
andWWM (in its converted TEI format).
Second, weprovided an automatic linguistic analysis of thoseextracted meanings, using lexical and syntacticanalysis grammars written with the NooJ finite9 http://www.w3.org/TR/skos-reference/skos-xl.html10 http://lemon-model.net/ and  (McCrae et al., 2012).Bussal, Bussi, Bussl, das, 1) Kuss (Syn.
:Schm$tss); 2) kleines S?
?geb?ck; Pl.Bussaln; viele Komp.
wie Nussbussalusw.
?Table 2: The related entry in the WWMdictionary10state platform 11 .
This included tokenization,lemmatisation, Part-of-Speech (POS) taggingand constituency as well as dependency analysis.The strings marking in both dictionaries the?sweet pastry?
meaning are enriched with thefollowing linguistic features:WB?
: (NP s?
?es (ADJ, lemma = s?
?, MOD)Geb?ck (N, lemma = Geb?ck, HEAD))WWM: (NP (kleines (ADJ, lemma = klein,MOD) S?
?geb?ck (N, compound: s??
(ADJ,lemma = s?
?, MOD) + Geb?ck (N, lemma =Geb?ck, HEAD)), HEAD))In those examples (sweet pastry and small sweetpastry), we can see the distinct serializations ofsimilar meanings in German.
The secondexample uses a compound noun (?S??geb?ck?
),which has the same meaning as the simplenominal phrase in the first example (?s??esGeb?ck?).
In order to automatically establish thissimilarity, it is necessary to perform amorphological decomposition of the head nounin the second example.
It is also necessary tohave the lemma of the adjective in the firstexample, in order to compare it with the firstelement of the compound noun in the secondexample.The fact, that both linguistically analysedmeanings (strings) share the same lemmas foradjectival modifiers and head nouns is the basisfor cross-linking the entries.
This cross-linkinghas to be expressed in Semantic Web standards(e.g.
compatible to RDF) in order to be publishedin the Linked Data cloud.3 Porting the Dictionary Data into theLinked Open Data framework3.1 Porting the dictionaries into SKOSAnalogue to the described SKOSification ofWB?
(see Wandl-Vogt & Declerck, 2013), theWWM was ported into SKOS.
Departing fromthe former experiment, we decided to not encodeanymore the whole dictionary as a SKOSconcept scheme.
Rather we introduce the listingof entries (each encoded as a skos:Concept) asbeing member of a skos:Collection.11 See http://www.nooj4nlp.net/pages/nooj.htmlComplementary to this, extracted senses (seeformer section) are each encoded asskos:Concept being included in askos:ConceptScheme.
This decision is due to thefact that the senses can be organized along theline of (SKOS) semantic relations, whereas thestrings marking the entries are in fact justmember of a list, which is building the dictionary.The headword (string) of the dictionary entries isencoded as a value of the SKOS-XL prefLabelproperty.
Alternative strings (like ?Bussi?
in theWWM example in Table 2) are encoded with theSKOS-XL altLabel property.
The use of SKOS-XL allows us to ?reify?
the value of the range ofthe label properties, and thus to have there notonly a literal but further information, like PoS.Since senses are also represented in thedictionaries by strings, we apply the sameprocedure: a sense has skos-xl labels in which wecan encode the lemma of the components of thestrings, the corresponding PoS but also relatedsenses, within the local concept scheme or in theLOD, like for example with objects in theDBpedia instantiation of Wiktionary12.3.2 Representing the meanings in lemonThe linguistically analysed meanings cannotbe (straightforwardly) represented in SKOS,and for this we opted for the lemon model,which has been developed specifically forthe purpose of representing linguisticinformation of lexical entries related toknowledge organization systems.
The lemonencoding of the meanings is incorporated asthe value of the SKOS-XL ?Label?
property.Taking as an example the one meaning of?Puss?
in WB?
that consists of two words(?s?
?es Geb?ck?, sweet pastry), we can seethat it is for necessary to tokenize the stringrepresenting the meaning of the entry?Puss?
: the first token can then belemmatized to ?s???
(sweet), while for thesecond token the lemma is identical to thewritten form used.
We represent the12 So for example the sense ?Kuss?
for both theentries ?Puss?
and ?Bussal?
is declared as being askos:exactMatch with the URL:http://wiktionary.dbpedia.org/page/Kuss-German-Noun-1de.
From there we can get then all multilingualequivalents listed in this resource.11tokenization information using the lemonproperty ?decomposition?.4 Cross referencing of dictionaryentries through similar meaningsThe establishment of a relation between ?Puss?in WB?
and ?Bussal?
in WWM is made possibleon the base of the successful mapping of both theadjectival modifier ?s???
and the head noun?Geb?ck?, which are present in both thedefinitions in WB?
and WWM.
This similarityis encoded using the ?related?
property of SKOS.Interesting is also the fact that a user searchingthe electronic version of the dictionaries couldgive the High German form ?Geb?ck?
and wouldget from both dictionaries all the entries whichhave this word in their definition.
The same forthe High German adjectival form ?s??
?.Instead of the meanings we extracted from thedictionaries, we can use the DBpediainstantiation of Wiktionary as a reference for thesenses of the entries of the dictionary, pointingdirectly to linguistic and knowledge objects thatare already in the LOD.
Using the?decomposition?
and ?subSenses?
properties oflemon, we link to URLs in DBpedia/Wiktionaryrepresenting the sense for each token.5 ConclusionWe described the actual state ofRDF/SKOS/lemon modeling of (senses of)entries of dialectal dictionaries, so that thoseentries can be cross-linked via their similarsenses.
We have shown that NL processing ofthe strings for marking the meanings of theentries is necessary in order to make themcomparable.
We further have shown that ourencoding of the entries of the dictionaries is alsosupporting the linking to already existing lexicalsenses and other language data in the LOD.
Themodel have been implemented in the TopBraidercomposer13 and all the entries of the dictionaries,as instances of the defined classes and properties,are automatically mapped onto the correspondingTurtle syntax14 and will be made available verysoon as deferentiable URLs, making thus less-13 http://www.topquadrant.com/tools/IDE-topbraid-composer-maestro-edition/14 http://www.w3.org/TeamSubmission/turtle/resourced language data available in the LOD.Future work will consist in applying a similarapproach to historical and geographical contextsgiven in the entries of the dialectal dictionaries.AcknowledgmentsThe work by University of Saarland described inthis paper is partially supported by the PHEMEproject, funded by the European Commissionunder number 611233.ReferencesWandl-Vogt, E. and Declerck, T. (2013) Mapping aTraditional Dialectal Dictionary with Linked OpenData.
In Proc.
of eLex 2013, Tallin, Estonia.Hornung, M., Gr?ner, S. (2002) W?rterbuch derWiener Mundart; Neubearbeitung.
?bvhpt, Wien.McCrae, J., Aguado-de-Cea, G., Buitelaar P.,Cimiano P., Declerck, T., G?mez-P?rez, A., Gracia,J., Hollink, L., Montiel-Ponsoda, E., Spohr, D.,Wunner, T. (2012) Interchanging lexical resourceson the Semantic Web.
In: Language Resources andEvaluation.
Vol.
46, Issue 4, Springer:701-719.Miles, A., Matthews, B., Wilson, M. D., Brickley, D.(2005) SKOS Core: Simple KnowledgeOrganisation for the Web.
In Proc.
InternationalConference on Dublin Core and MetadataApplications, Madrid, Spain,Moulin, C. (2010) Dialect dictionaries - traditionaland modern.
In: Auer, P., Schmidt, J.E.
(2010) (eds)Language and Space.
An International Handbookof Linguistic Variation.
Volume 1: Theories andMethods.
Berlin / New York.
pp: 592-612.Romary, L. (2009) Questions & Answers for TEINewcomers.
Jahrbuch f?r Computerphilologie 10.Mentis Verlag,Schreibman, S. (2009) The Text Encoding Initiative:An Interchange Format Once Again.
Jahrbuch f?rComputerphilologie 10.
Mentis Verlag.Wandl-Vogt, E. (2005) From paper slips to theelectronic archive.
Cross-linking potential in 90years of lexicographic work at the W?rterbuch derbairischen Mundarten in ?sterreich (WB?).
In:Complex 2005.
Papers in computationallexicography.
Budapest: 243-254.W?rterbuch der bairischen Mundarten in ?sterreich(WB?)
(1963-).
Wien.
Accessed athttp://hw.oeaw.ac.at/wboe/31205.xml?frames=yes(25.5.2)12
