Proceedings of the Joint Workshop on Social Dynamics and Personal Attributes in Social Media, pages 68?76,Baltimore, Maryland USA, 27 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Semi-Automated Method of Network Text Analysis Applied to 150Original ScreenplaysStarling David Hunter IIICarnegie Mellon UniversityTepper School of Businessstarling@andrew.cmu.eduAbstractIn this paper I apply a novel method of networktext analysis to a sample of 150 originalscreenplays.
That sample is divided evenly be-tween unproduced, original screenplays (n =75) and those that were nominated for BestOriginal Screenplay by either the Academy ofMotion Picture Arts & Sciences or by majorfilm critics associations (n = 75).
As predicted,I find that the text networks derived from un-produced screenplays are significantly lesscomplex, i.e.
they contain fewer concepts(nodes) and statements (links).
Unexpectedly, Ifind that those same networks are more cohe-sive, i.e.
they  exhibit higher density and core-ness.1 IntroductionDiesner & Carley (2005, p. 83) employ the termnetwork text analysis (NTA) to describe a widevariety of ?computer supported solutions?
thatenable analysts to ?extract networks of concepts?from texts and to discern the ?meaning?
repre-sented or encoded therein.
The key underlyingassumption of such methods or solutions, theyassert, is that the ?language and knowledge?
em-bodied in a text may be ?modeled?
as a network?of words and the relations between them ?
(ibid,emphasis added).
A second important assump-tion is that the position of concepts within a textnetwork provides insight into the meaning orprominent themes of the text as a whole.Broadly considered, creating networks fromtexts has two basic steps: (1) the assignment ofwords and phrases to conceptual categories and(2) the assignment of links to pairs of those cate-gories.
Approaches to NTA differ with regard tohow these steps are performed, as well as to thelevel of automation or computer support, the lin-guistic unit of analysis (e.g.
noun or verbs), andthe degree and basis of concept generalization.In the social sciences, several studies in the lasttwo decades have linked the structural propertiesof text networks to measures of individual,group/team, and organizational performance(Nadkarni & Narayaran, 2005).
The quantitativeempirical literature on this topic can be dividedinto two groups or streams?educational psy-chology (EP) and managerial and organizationalcognition (MOC).
The former typically linksstructural properties of text networks abstractedfrom documents like exams and case analyses toacademic performance and learning outcomes.The latter abstracts text networks from reportsgenerated by firm?s managers, e.g.
letters toshareholders and 10-K filings, and links thoseproperties directly or indirectly to firm perfor-mance.Across both streams, the structural propertiesof networks that have been examined fall intothree broad categories?measures of complexityor size, measures of cohesion or connectedness,and measures of centrality or concentration.
An-other point of consensus concerns the underlyingrelationships from which the text networks areconstructed.
Most of the quantitative and empiri-cal studies have relied upon logical relationshipsamong concepts in documents for that purpose.These relationships include, but are not limitedto, dependence, chronology, similarity, function-ality, causality, and composition (Popping, 2003,pp.
94-5).
The second and less commonly usedtype of relationship involves the co-occurrenceof concepts within a user-defined window (e.g.Carley, 1997).
Notably, grammatical and lexicalrelationships have received no attention in theempirical literature.
However, Hunter (in press)recently described a ?novel?, semi-automatedmethod of network text analysis whereby multi-morphemic compounds (e.g.
abbreviations, acro-nyms, blend words, clipped words, and com-pound words) in a text are linked via shared ety-mological roots.
He applied that method to sam-ple of seven recent winners of the AcademyAward for Best Original Screenplay and foundthat the most centrally-positioned words in fiveof the seven networks corresponded very closelyto the themes contained in the films?
synopses68found on Wikipedia, IMDb and Rotten Toma-toes.This study represents the first application ofHunter?s method to a sample of screenplays ofsufficient size to permit multivariate statisticalanalysis.
The specific aim of the study is to ex-amine the relationship between text networks?properties and performance outcomes.
To thatend, I herein develop and test two falsifiable hy-potheses concerning that relationship on a sam-ple of 150 contemporary screenplays?half win-ners and nominees of major awards and the otherhalf unproduced screenplays obtained from twoonline screenplay portals.
Consistent with theprior literature I find that the more favorably rat-ed screenplays?i.e.
the award winners and nom-inees?have significantly larger text networksthan the unproduced ones.
Unexpectedly, I findthat text networks of these screenplays exhibitsignificantly lower cohesiveness, i.e.
lower den-sity and coreness.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
In section 2, Theory & Hypotheses, Isummarize the relevant social science literatureon text network properties and performance andformulate two hypotheses concerning that rela-tionship.
In the third section, Data & Methods, Idescribe the data set and the method for con-structing the text networks for each screenplay inthe sample.
In the fourth section, Results & Dis-cussion, I report the level of statistical supportfound for each hypothesis and discuss the impli-cation of the results for current and future re-search in this area.2 Theory & HypothesesFigure 1, below, is adapted from Carley (1997)and it is typical of many network representationsof texts.
The network itself was constructed fromthe following two sentences:  ?Organizations useinformation systems to handle data.
Informationis processed by organizations who are interestedin locating behavioral trends.
?Several things about the network are note-worthy.
First, observe that there are seven con-cepts depicted as nodes in the network, each ofwhich appears only once.
They are ?organiza-tions?, ?information systems?, ?process?, ?in-formation?, ?interested?, ?locating?, and?trends.?
Second, see that there are also sevenstatements, i.e.
pairs of concepts: (1) ?infor-mation systems?
and ?process?
(2) ?informationsystems?
and ?organizations?
(3) ?process?
and?information?
(4) ?process?
and ?organizations?
(5) ?interested?
and ?organizations?
(6) ?inter-ested?
and ?locating?
and (7) ?locating?
and?trends.?
Third, note that the map itself is com-prised of the network formed by all seven state-ments.
Typically, the analyst must read some orall of the statements in a map in order to extractthe meaning of the text as a whole.
In this regard,it is then notable that the seven concepts are im-plicated in varying numbers of statements.
Spe-cifically, the concepts labeled ?organization?
and?process?
are found in three statements while allother concepts are found in either two or one.Figure1: A Simple Text Network(adapted from Carley, 1997)In the social science literature, the mostwidely-investigated structural property of textnetworks are the number of concepts and thenumber of links between pairs of concepts.
Forexample, Calori, Johnson & Sarnin (1994) stud-ied the moderating effects of ?environmentalcomplexity?, i.e.
the scope of the organization asmeasured by the number of distinct businessesand geographic segments,  on the relationshipbetween  the ?cognitive complexity of the chiefexecutive?
and firm performance.
One of theirmeasures of cognitive complexity  was the num-ber of concepts abstracted from interviews witheach CEO about their firm?s environment.
Theyhypothesized that cognitive maps of CEOs ofmore diverse firms had more ?comprehensive?,i.e.
larger, cognitive maps than CEOs of morefocused firms.
This hypothesis was NOT sup-ported.
However, they also hypothesized thatcognitive maps of CEOs in firms with greaterinternational geographic scope would containmore concepts.
This hypothesis was supported.Nadkarni (2003, p. 336) employed the term?comprehensiveness?
to refer to the ?number ofconcepts in a mental model.?
In a study of stu-dents exposed to three different instructionalmethods, he hypothesized and found (1) signifi-cant differences in the comprehensiveness of the69mental models of students of student acrossmethods and (2) greater comprehensiveness insaid models among students with low-learningmaturity who were exposed to a ?hybrid?
methodof instruction, i.e.
a mix of lecture-discussion andexperiential learning.Nadkarni & Narayaran (2005) examined therelationship of two measures of ?complexity?
?the number of concepts and the number of state-ments?on learning outcomes.
Specifically, theyreported a positive relationship between thenumber of concepts and links found in ?text-based causal maps?
abstracted from students?written case analyses and their course grades.Carley (1997) compared the mental modelsof eight project teams, each with 4-6 members,enrolled in an information systems project courseat a private university.
Each team was required to?analyze a client?s need and then design andbuild an information system to meet that needwithin one semester.?
Five of these teams wereeventually deemed successful and three were not.At three points during the semester, each teamwas required to provide responses to two open-ended questions?
?What is an information sys-tem??
and ?What leads to information systemsuccess or failure??
Their answers were codedand used as data.
On average, the ?cognitivemaps?
of the members of successful groups hadsignificantly more concepts and more statements(links) compared to maps by members of non-successful groups.
In light of the aforementionedstudies, the first hypothesis (H1) is that networkcomplexity, measured as the number of conceptsand/or links, is positively related to performance.As a class, measures of network cohesion in-dicate the degree to which the nodes in a networkare connected to one another.
Common measuresof cohesion include, but are not limited to, densi-ty, fragmentation, connectedness, average pathdistance, and diameter (Borgatti, Everett, andFreeman, 2002).
But while many such measuresexist, very few empirical studies have directlyexamined the linkage between the cohesion intext networks and measures of performance.
Onesuch study is Nadkarni & Narayaran?s (2005)aforementioned analysis of text-based causalmaps abstracted from business case studies.
Theyhypothesized and found network density?measured as the ratio of the number of links tothe number of possible links?to be positivelyrelated to three measures of academic perfor-mance?test grades, case analysis grades, andclass participation scores.A second such study is Bodin?s (2012) inves-tigation of ?university physics student?s epistem-ic framing when solving and visualizing a  phys-ics problem using a particle-spring model sys-tem?
(p. 1).
In that study, concept networks weredeveloped from two sets of interview transcriptswhere students described the task and (physics)problem they were about to solve, as well as theirplanned strategies for solving the problem.
Ananalysis of networks drawn prior to and rightafter completion of the assignment revealed a24% increase in the number of concepts, a 71%increase in the number of links, and 12% in-crease in network density.
While all of thesequantities were in the predicted direction, no sta-tistical significance was indicated.
Still, the exist-ing empirical evidence suggests network densityis positively related to performance.
And be-cause various network cohesion measures areclosely related conceptually?and can be strong-ly correlated, as well (Borgatti, Everett,&Johnson, 2014)?then it is more appropriate tophrase the second hypothesis (H2) in more gen-eral terms, i.e.
that  network cohesion is positive-ly related to performance.3 Methods & DataAs indicated in the preceding section, the empiri-cal literature has been focused on two kinds oftexts?student assignments and firm reporting?and two kinds of performance?grades and fi-nancial performance.
But there is nothing inher-ent in these network text analytic methods thatlimits investigation to the texts mentioned above.Nor has any of the research reviewed indicatedotherwise.
That said, a number of specific ration-ales motivated the selection of screenplays, ingeneral, and original screenplays in particular.First, screenplays are highly structured texts,both logically and temporally, with the three-actstructure in screenwriting being a prime example(Field, 1998).
Second, there exists a large, wide-ly-read, and broadly-disseminated body ofknowledge concerning the theory and best prac-tice of screenwriting (e.g.
Snyder, 2005; McKee,2010; Field, 2007).
Third, screenplays are care-fully evaluated by many interested parties onnumerous dimensions, not the least of which arecommercial success and artistic merit (Simonton,2005; Pardoe & Simonton 2008).
Finally, theperformance of their authors is discrete and quiteunambiguous: more than 15,000 screenplays areregistered in the US each year with the Writer?sGuild of America but fewer than 700 get ?green-70lighted?
and are subsequently produced (Eliash-berg, Elberse, & Enders, 2006).
Further, thosescreenplays that do get ?green-lighted?
eithergarner awards or critical acclaim or they do not(Simonton, 2004, 2005).Somewhat surprisingly, textual analyses ofscreenplays are relatively rare when compared toanalyses of other literary forms such as novels,plays, and poetry.
The only studies of which I amaware that links textual variables of screenplaysto performance are those by  Elishaberg, Hui, &Zhang (2007, 2014) whose kernel-based ap-proach to the study of 300 movies released be-tween 1995 and 2010 significantly predicted Re-turn on investment, i.e.
box office revenues as apercentage of budget.
The present study repre-sents the first attempt to link textual measures ofscreenplays to a non-financial-related perfor-mance measure.Screenplays contained in the sample were ob-tained from a variety of sources.
The oldest andmost prestigious awards in American cinema arethe Academy Awards, aka the ?Oscars?
(Os-borne, 1989) and several studies have been doneexplaining their artistic and commercial im-portance (e.g., Krauss, Nan, Simon, et al, 2008;Lee, 2009; Simonton, 2004).
Academy Awardnominated and winning screenplays are routinelystudied by aspiring screenwriters (New YorkFilm Academy, 2014) and widely availableonline either for free (Simply Scripts, 2014) orpurchase (Script Fly, 2014).
Winners and nomi-nees of other awards are often available online,as are the screenplays of films which garner noparticular artistic acclaim.
There are, as well,numerous online forums, websites, and blogsdevoted to their discussion and analysis.
Moreo-ver, the screenplays for award-nominated, award-winning, and critically-acclaimed films are usu-ally made available by their producers or studiosduring the award season, but not all of them re-main so.
In this study, the ?produced?
or high-performing sample of screenplays are of twokinds.
The first consists of nominees and winnersof the Academy Award for Best Original Screen-play.
Five screenplays are nominated each yearmaking for a potential sample of 40 screenplays.However, two screenplays by Woody Allen?Blue Jasmine and Midnight in Paris?were notavailable.
Another five nominees whose filmswere all or partially in foreign-languages werealso excluded?Pan?s Labyrinth (Spanish),Amour (French), A Separation (Farsi), Babel(Arabic, English, Spanish, and Japanese), andLetters from Iwo Jima (Japanese).
Thus therewere 32 remaining Academy Award nominatedscreenplays for films released in the years 2006-2013.Another fifty-two (52) screenplays were nom-inated in the years 2006-13 for Best OriginalScreenplay by the 32 regional members of theAmerican Film Critics Association, e.g.
the NewYork, Washington D.C., and San Francisco FilmCritics Circles.
Several of these were not com-mercially or otherwise available.
These includeUpstream Color, The Tree of Life, Frances Ha,World?s End, Sound of My Voice, United 93, andStranger than Fiction.
Toy Story 3 was excludedbecause, while an original screenplay, it was partof a film franchise.
The South African film BlackBook was excluded, as well, because it was not inEnglish.
The remaining 43 screenplays were ob-tained.
Thus there was a total of 75 screenplayscontained in the produced and thus ?high-performing?
category.Another 75 unproduced screenplays wererandomly selected from two online screenplaydatabases?Simply Scripts and Trigger StreetLabs.
The former hosts pages within its site titled?Unproduced Scripts?
where screenwriters areinvited to upload their screenplays.
Trigger StreetLabs is a portal maintained by actor Kevin Spac-ey?s Trigger Street Productions.
It allows writersto post original short stories, short films, andscreenplays.
Thirty-eight (38) screenplays postedbetween January 1, 2006 and December 31st,2013 and between 100 and 140 pages were ran-domly selected from both sites.
One was thenselected at random and eliminated, making thetotal number of unproduced screenplays seventy-five (75).Diesner (2012) outlines four steps for the cre-ation of a text network?
(1) Selection (2) Ab-straction (3) Relation and (4) Extraction.
Thefirst step involves identification of those wordsthat will be subjected to subsequent analysis andthe elimination of those that will not.
FollowingHunter (in press), this stage involved retention ofall multi-morphemic compounds comprised oftwo or more free (unbound) morphemes.
Theseincluded, but were not limited to, closed and hy-phenated compound words, clipped words, blendwords or portmanteau, and all acronyms, anacro-nyms, abbreviations, and initialisms.Also included were selected instances of con-version, certain prefixes and suffixes, plus se-lected multi-word compounds and infixes,  Ex-amples are shown in Table 1 below.
And thoughit may seem otherwise, this is no random group-ing.
Rather, they comprise a well-defined, inter-71related set that is extensively-studied in the fieldof morphology.
Specifically, they all belong tothe branch of morphology known as word-formation, the study of creation of new or ?nov-el?
words principally through changes in theirform (Wisniewski, 2007).Because no existing text mining software se-lects these groups words from a text, the processfor identifying them was only semi-automatedwith the help of  a software program called Au-tomap 3.0.10 (Carley, 2001-2013).Table 1: Examples of 12 Types of NovelWords in the SampleType ExamplesCompounding >ClosedCompoundsbriefcase, cowboy,deadline,  handcuffs,inmateCompounding >Copula-tive compoundsattorney-client,actor/modelCompounding > OpenCompoundspost office, fire alarmCompounding >Hyphen-ated Compoundsopen-minded, panic-stricken, tree-linedCompounding > Multi-word CompoundsOver-the-top, jack-in-the-box, sister-in-lawDerivation > Affixation>Prefixunderstand, overdrive,overhand, underhandedDerivation > Affixation>Suffixawesome, hardware,software, clockwiseDerivation > Affixation>InfixUnbloodybelievable,fanbloomingtasticDerivation > non-Affixation> Abbreviations,AcronymsDMV, MTV, FBI,VCR, Yuppie, radar,scuba, laserDerivation> non-Affixation> Blend Wordsmedevac, motel, guess-timate, camcorder,helipadDerivation> non-Affixation> Clipped WordsInternet, hi-fi, email,slo-mo, vid-comDerivation> non-Affixation> Conversioneyeball; photoshopThe process was as follows.
First the screen-play was converted to a text file and uploaded toAutomap.
After removing single letters, extraspaces, and spurious characters, two routineswere run within Automap?Identify Possible Ac-ronyms and Concept List.
The former routineidentified and extracted all words that were capi-talized.
Several of these turned out to acronymsor abbreviations.
The latter routine used wasConcept List (Per Text) which generated a list ofall unique words for each text.
Excluded fromconsideration were all proper nouns (GreenZone, Hollywood), place and organization names(South Pole, Scotland Yard, Burger King), prod-uct names (Land Rover), holidays (New Year?sEve, Christmas Eve), as well as any other wordor phrase connoting a specific person, place, orthing through capitalization.
Also eliminatedwere all instances of screenplay and film jargon,e.g.
ECU (extreme close-up), off-screen, VO(voice-over) and POV (point of view), as well asmulti-word exclamations and interjections suchas good night, goodbye, OMG (oh my God), etc.The second of the four steps of constructing atext network involves abstraction of the selectedmulti-morphemic compounds to higher-orderconcepts.
In this study, each of the free (un-bound) morphemes in each compound was as-signed to its etymological root, typically the In-do-European, Latin, or Greek (Watkins, 2011).By definition, from every etymological rootdescends or originates at least one word, other-wise it is not a root.
That relationship is genitive,i.e.
a relational case typically expressing source,possession, or partition.
It is hierarchical and di-rected?from the root (parent) to word (descend-ent).
Thus, in the third step of network construc-tion, two or more etymological roots were linkedor related when words (free morphemes) de-scending from them co-occurred within the sameword, as the following examples demonstrates.Consider a text that contains the followingnine words: the closed compound words man-power, sunlight, southwestern, and gentlemen;the open compounds vesper rose, and nativetongue; the hyphenated compound solar-powered self-possessed; and the proper nounSecretary General.
As shown in Table 2, below,these words are all multi-morphemic compounds,each element of which descends from two differ-ent etymological roots.Table 2: Selected Indo-European Roots andtheir Derivatives (Watkins, 2011)Roots (definition) Selected Derivativeswes-pero- (evening) West, Visigoth, vesperwrod- (rose) rose, julep, rhodiumdnghu- (tongue) tongue, language,   linguistleuk- (light, brightness) light, lux, illumination,lunar, luster, illustrate, lucid,man-1 (man) man, mannequin, menschpoti (powerful; lord) possess, power, possible,potent, and pashasaewel (the sun) sun, south, solar, solsticegene- (to give birth) gender, general, gene, geni-us, engine, genuine, gentle,pregnant, nation,  native.s(w)e- (self) self, suicide, secede, secret,secure, sever, sure, sober,sole, idiom, and idiot.72Figure 2: A Text Network Based on Etymological Relationships among Selected Multi-morphemic Compounds Contained in Table 1Recall that a statement in NTA is comprisedof two concepts and the relationship that linksthem.
In Figure 2, above, each of these wordsappears on the link between the two etymologicalroots?the concepts?that co-occur within theword.
Put another way, the relationship is the co-occurrence of two different etymological roots inthe same multi-morphemic compound or multi-word expression?co-occurrence in what is es-sentially a window of one word.
For example,the etymological roots gene- (to give birth; be-get)  and man-1 (man) are linked by their co-occurrence in the compound word gentleman.Taken together, that word and those two rootscomprise a statement.
And as shown below, it ispossible to construct an entire map or networkfrom these interconnected statements.
Specifical-ly, that network is comprised of eight concepts?namely, the Indo-European roots dnghu-, gene-,man1, s(w)e-, poti-, saewel-, leuk, wrod- andwes-pero?and the nine multi-morphemic com-pounds?native tongue, gentleman, SecretaryGeneral, self-possessed, manpower, solar power,sunlight, vesper rose, and southwestern.A similar approach was used to constructingtext networks for each of the 150 screenplays inthe sample.
Specifically, after matching all of theabove classes of multi-morphemic compounds totheir corresponding etymological roots, all pairsof roots for each screenplay were converted intoa symmetrical matrix which was then uploadedinto version 6.487 of the UCINet software pro-gram (Borgatti, Everett, and Freeman, 2002).Text networks were then generated using version2.118 of the NetDraw software program embed-ded in UCINet.
Figure 3, below, is depicted maincomponent of the text network for the screenplayof Zero Dark Thirty.
which was nominated forBest Original Screenplay in 2012.
The maincomponent is the largest group of mutually-reachable nodes in a network.
Note that the nodelabels are etymological roots, typically Indo-European (Watkins, 2011) In the case of wordswith non-Indo-European roots, the base form ofthe component of the multi-morphemic com-pound is used.The fourth stage involves the extraction ofmeaning from the completed text network.
Butsince the investigation of meaning is not a part ofthis analysis, it is excluded from further consid-eration.
See Hunter (in press) for a detailed dis-cussion and examples.
Table 3, below, summa-rizes some basic statistics and network metricsfor the 150 screenplays in the sample.Table 3 Summary Statistics (n =150)Variable Mean RangeWords (000?s) 20.9 9.3 - 36.2Genre = Comedy Only 0.17 0 - 1Concepts/Nodes 176 84 - 320Statements/Pairs of Nodes 173 72 - 337Density 1.2% 0.66 - 2.50%Core-Periphery 1.7% 0.40 - 3.10%Normalized Degree 0.32 0.14 - 1.06Network Centralization 1.7% 0.83 - 4.43%734 Results & DiscussionRecall that the first hypothesis (H1) proposedthat network complexity was positively related toperformance.
Following the prior literature,complexity was measured as both the number ofconcepts in a network, i.e.
the number of uniqueetymological roots, and as the number of state-ments, i.e.
the number of pairs of concepts.. Be-cause these values were very highly correlated (?
= 0.98, p < 0.0001) their respective z-scoreswere averaged to obtain a single value for com-plexity.
Table 4a, below, presents the results of amultinomial regression of screenplay genre,word count, and network complexity on screen-play type.
The positive coefficients on complexi-ty indicate that, as predicted, text networks ofscreenplays of winners and nominees of Acade-my Awards (?= 0.574, p < 0.0001) and critics?awards (?
= 0.359, p < 0.01) have significantlygreater complexity than text networks of unpro-duced screenplays.
The Nagelkerke, Cox &Snell, and McFadden pseudo-R2 values were30.6%, 26.7%, and 15.0%, respectively.
Thus,H1 is strongly supported.Table 4a: Multinomial Regression of Genre,Word Count, and Network Complexity onType of ScreenplayCategory Variable EstimateCritic?sAwardsGenre = Comedy -3.775SQRT(Words/1000) -0.114Complexity 0.359**AcademyAwardsGenre = Comedy -0.315*SQRT(Words/1000) 0.011Complexity 0.574****The second hypothesis (H2) predicted thatnetwork cohesion would be positively related toperformance.
In this study cohesion was meas-ured by density and coreness (the degree towhich the network is characterized by a tightlyinterconnected core and a much less tightly con-nected periphery).Because these two values were highly corre-lated (?
= 0.55, p < 0.001), the z-scores for eachmeasure were averaged to obtain a single valuefor cohesion.
Table 4b presents the results of amultinomial regression of screenplay genre,word count, and network cohesion on screenplaytype.
The negative and significant value of thecoefficients indicates that cohesion is negativelyassociated with performance, the exact oppositeof what was predicted.Specifically, cohesion of text networks derivedfrom screenplays in the Academy (?
= -0.870, p< 0.0001) and critics award (?
= -0.413, p <0.001) categories is significantly lower than thatfor unproduced screenplays.
That means theytypically have both lower density and/or a lesscore-periphery type structure.
The Nagelkerke,Cox & Snell, and McFadden pseudo-R2 valueswere 36.8%, 32.1%, and 18.7%, respectively.Taken together, the results suggest that textnetworks derived from original screenplays se-lected by the Academy and by film critics havevery different structural properties than text net-works derived from unproduced screenplays.
Inshort, the former are larger, yet held together byproportionately fewer linkages.Table 4b: Multinomial Regression of Genre,Word Count, and Network Cohesion onType of ScreenplayCategory Variable ?
?Critic?sAwardsGenre = Comedy -3.809SQRT(Words/1000) -0.139Cohesion -0.413***AcademyAwardsComedy -0.395**SQRT(Words/1000) -0.078Cohesion -0.870****The reason for this disparity may well have todo with the size of the networks under examina-tion.
In both the educational psychology and themanagerial and organizational cognition litera-tures, the typical size of the networks is about 1/6that of those examined here.
Recall that as a net-work grows, the number of possible connectionsgrows exponentially.
As such, density becomessmaller at an exponential rate.
In this study, thetext networks derived from both sets of screen-plays had concept to statement ratios of close tounity.
Thus, given that the award winners andnominees had much larger text networks, it fol-lows logically that those networks were alsomuch less dense.74Figure 3: Main Component of the Text Network of Zero Dark ThirtyIn closing, it is important to recognize threeimportant limitations of the current study.
Firstly,the sample size is relatively small?only half thesize of that found in the only other study ofscreenplays that includes textual analysis, i.e.Eliashberg, Hui, & Zhang (2014).
The sample isalso not ideally constructed.
Rather than compar-ing award winners to unproduced screenplays, abetter sample would include entries from ascreenplay competition and the study designwould attempt to select finalists and winnersfrom that sample.
Winners of top competitionsare very frequently optioned and eventually pro-duced.
Alternatively, another approach would beto increase sample size  and to include screen-plays which garnered no critical or artisticawards.
Even though many such screenplays canbe located, finding a representative sample ofthem is difficult because they are not uniformlyavailable.
Still, if that hurdle can be overcome,the sample could be used to study box-officerevenues, potentially improving upon the currentunderstanding of screenplays?
contribution to afilm?s financial success.A third limitation of this study concerns thelabor-intensive nature of the coding.
At present,the process outlined above is only semi-automated.
Unless and until advanced computa-tional methods of text analysis can be developedand applied, sample sizes will remain small andthe coding prone to human error.Finally, recall that the fourth stage of networktext analysis involves the extraction of meaningfrom the network itself.
Typically, this involves astudy of the most central nodes (concepts), aswell as the statements (links) associated withthem.
For example, in the case of Zero DarkThirty the most influential node or concept, asmeasured by network constraint, is the Indo-European root wegh- which means ?way?
andfrom which descends such words as way andweight.
One of the multi-morphemic compoundsassociated with that concept in the Figure 3,above, is ?hijacker?
which is a clipped word, thefull form being ?highwayjacker?
(Online Etymo-logical Dictionary, 2014).
Other multi-morphemic compounds associated with highlyinfluential nodes in the network include SEAL,CIA, WMD, QRF (Quick Reaction Force), andNSA.
As noted by Hunter (in press), otheraward-winning and critically-acclaimed screen-plays exhibit the same pattern, i.e.
words associ-ated with influential nodes are also closely relat-ed to key themes of the story.
Anecdotally, theunproduced screenplays give less evidence ofthis tendency.
Future research might examinewhether this difference is systematic.
To thatend, all data involved in this study?the text ofall 150 screenplays and all of the network cod-ing?will be made freely available to interestedand qualified researchers upon request.75ReferencesBodin, M. (2012).
Mapping university students?
epis-temic framing of computational physics using net-work analysis.
Physical Review Special Topics-Physics Education Research, 8(1), 1-14.Borgatti, S. P., Everett, M. G., & Freeman, L. C.(2002).
Ucinet for Windows: Software for social net-work analysis.Calori, R., Johnson, G., & Sarnin, P. (1994).
CEOs'cognitive maps and the scope of the organiza-tion.
Strategic Management Journal, 15(6), 437-457.Carley, K. M. (1997).
Extracting team mental modelsthrough textual analysis.Journal of OrganizationalBehavior, 18(1), 533-558.Carley, K.M.
(2001-13), Automap 3.0.10.
Center forComputational Analysis of Social and OrganizationalSystems (CASOS), Institute for Software ResearchInternational (ISRI), School of Computer Science,Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA.Diesner, Jana, (2012).
Uncovering and Managing theImpact of Methodological Choices for the Computa-tional Construction of Socio-Technical Networksfrom Texts.
Dissertations.
Paper 194.Eliashberg, Jehoshua, Anita Elberse, and Mark AAMLeenders (2006).
The motion picture industry: Criticalissues in practice, current research, and new researchdirections.
Marketing Science 25(6), 638-661.Eliashberg, J., Hui, S. K., & Zhang, Z. J.
(2007).
Fromstory line to box office: A new approach for green-lighting movie scripts.
Management Science, 53(6),881-893.Eliashberg, J., Hui, S. K., & Zhang, Z. J.
(2014, forth-coming).
Assessing Box Office Performance UsingMovie Scripts: A Kernel-based Approach.
IEEETransactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering.Field, S. (2007).
Screenplay: The foundations ofscreenwriting.
Random House LLC.Hunter, S. (2014, forthcoming).
A Novel Method ofNetwork Text Analysis.
Open Journal of Modern Lin-guistics.Krauss, J., Nann, S., Simon, D., Gloor, P. A., &Fischbach, K. (2008).
Predicting Movie Success andAcademy Awards through Sentiment and Social Net-work Analysis.
Proceedings of the 16th EuropeanConference on Information Systems, 2026-2037.Lee, F. L. (2009).
Cultural discount of cinematicachievement: the academy awards and US movies?East Asian box office.
Journal of Cultural Economics,33(4), 239-263.McKee, R. (2010).
Story: Substance, Structure, Styleand the Principles of Screenwriting, Harper Collins,New York.Nadkarni, S. (2003).
Instructional methods and mentalmodels of students: An empirical investiga-tion.
Academy of Management Learning & Educa-tion, 2(4), 335-351.Nadkarni, S., & Narayanan, V. K. (2005).
Validity ofthe structural properties of text-based causal maps: Anempirical assessment.
Organizational Research Meth-ods, 8(1), 9-40.Nadkarni, S., & Narayanan, V. K. (2007).
Strategicschemas, strategic flexibility, and firm performance:the moderating role of industry clockspeed.
Strategicmanagement journal, 28(3), 243-270.New York Film Academy: Bachelor of Fine Arts inScreenwriting.
(2014).
Retrieved fromhttp://www.nyfa.edu/bfa/screenwriting.phpOsborne, R., & Davis, B.
(1989).
60 years of the Os-car: the official history of the Academy Awards.
NewYork: Abbeville Press.Pardoe, I., & Simonton, D. K. (2008).
Applying dis-crete choice models to predict Academy Award win-ners.
Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A(Statistics in Society), 171(2), 375-394.Popping, R. (2003).
Knowledge graphs and networktext analysis.
Social Science Information 42(1):91-106.Script Fly.
(2014).
Retrieved from http://scriptfly.comSimply Scripts.
(2014).
Retrieved fromhttp://simplyscripts.comSimonton, D. K. (2004).
Film awards as indicators ofcinematic creativity and achievement: A quantitativecomparison of the Oscars and six alternatives.
Crea-tivity Research Journal, 16(2-3), 163-172.Simonton, D. K. (2005).
Film as art versus film asbusiness: Differential correlates of screenplay charac-teristics.
Empirical Studies of the Arts, 23(2), 93-117.Snyder, B.
(2005).
Save the Cat.
Michael Wiese Pro-ductions.Watkins, C. (2011), The American Heritage Diction-ary of Indo-European Roots, 3rd Edition, HoughtonMifflin Harcourt, Boston MA.Wisniewski, K. (2007).
Word formation.http://www.tlumaczenia-angielski.info/linguistics/word-formation.htm76
