Proceedings of the 8th International Natural Language Generation Conference, pages 103?107,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19-21 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Framework for Health Behavior Change using Companionable RobotsBandita SarmaUniversity of North Texasbanditasarma@my.unt.eduAmitava DasUniversity of North TexasAmitava.Das@unt.eduRodney D. NielsenUniversity of North TexasRodney.Nielsen@unt.eduAbstractIn this paper, we describe a dialoguesystem framework for a companionablerobot, which aims to guide patients to-wards health behavior changes via natu-ral language analysis and generation.
Theframework involves three broad stages,rapport building and health topic identifi-cation, assess patient?s opinion of change,and designing plan and closing session.The framework uses concepts from psy-chology, computational linguistics, andmachine learning and builds on them.
Oneof the goals of the framework is to ensurethat the Companionbot builds and main-tains rapport with patients.1 IntroductionHuman beings engage in many activities or be-haviors that can aggravate existing health prob-lems or lead to new ones.
Abandoning such be-haviors with the help of motivational interview-ing or counseling sessions is called health behav-ior change.
Providing counseling sessions that re-sult in behavior change is a difficult task even forexpert practitioners, and hence poses a great chal-lenge for automated dialogue systems.
The pro-cess demands constant monitoring and an in-depthunderstanding of the patient1.
A wrong move onthe counselor?s part could undo what might oth-erwise be a successful attempt to bring about thetargeted health behavior change.
This could re-quire the counselor to return to the first stage ofthe process and regain the patient?s trust.In this paper, we describe a framework for acompanionable robot, which can counsel its hu-man companion and assist them in making health-ier choices for a better life.
In our previous work1The terms patient and user are used interchangeablythroughout the paper to refer to the human using the Com-panionbot.
(Nielsen et al., 2010), we described an overall ar-chitecture for a companion robot capable of proac-tive dialogue with patients.
This paper focuseson a natural language processing framework forhealth behavior change dialogue.
Bickmore andSidner (2006) outline a plan-based framework,COLLAGEN, based on the transtheoretical modeland motivational interviewing to generate healthbehavior change counseling dialogue for physicalactivity promotion.
COLLAGEN conducts a ses-sion in four steps: greeting exchange, discussionof previous day?s exercise, discussion of plans fornext day, and finally, farewell exchange.
In addi-tion to having similar steps, our framework alsodiscusses in detail the natural language process-ing modules that are involved in judging the user?smindset at each step and guiding him/her towardsmaking a decision on changing health behavior.
Intheir follow up work (Bickmore et al., 2009), theydiscuss several issues such as minimizing repet-itiveness in the behavioral, linguistic and visualaspect of the agent, establishing a therapeutic al-liance between the user and the agent for a suc-cessful dialogue, maintaining continuity over mul-tiple sessions, and the challenge of open-endedquestion generation.
In addition to these issues,there might be verbal resistance from the patientto the suggestions by the Companionbot.Use of telemedicine is becoming a commonpractice in providing remote clinical health care.
Itinvolves the use of various technologies like tele-phone, Facsimile, e-mail, video meetings, etc.
toprovide medical services.
However, telemedicineis not flexible and adaptive, or when it is, it re-quires a human in the loop.
It might also requirelong wait times on the patient side to receive aresponse from a health expert.
Using compan-ionable robots to provide guidance for health be-havior change can provide greater flexibility com-pared to standard telemedicine practices.
Bajwa(2010) described a virtual medical expert system103that leverages natural language processing tech-niques to provide medical help to user queriesfrom a knowledge base using pattern matching.In case the query does not have a match in theknowledge base, it is directed to an expert.
Thepresent work is along similar lines in terms of pro-viding medical advice but in case of an unknownhealth condition, the Companionbot provides in-formation through Web search.
In addition to this,our framework adds the capability of generatingsmall talk, which will help the user overcome inhi-bitions that might arise in talking to a robot insteadof a human.
The medical advice provided by theCompanionbot will be in the form of suggestionsrather than instructions.
This is intended to makeusers reflect on their own choices comfortably in-stead of receiving instructions from the Compan-ionbot?s advice.
The Nursebot project (Roy et al.,2000) discussed five different functions to assistthe elderly through personal robots.
One of thefunctions is to provide virtual telemedicine basedfacilities.
Another robot called Paro (Kidd et al.,2006) was developed to cater to the social needs ofelderly in nursing homes and was capable of gen-erating a small set of vocal utterances in additionto limited voice recognition and body movement.Our framework, when implemented successfully,will be capable of engaging the user in a completeconversation, both casual and therapeutic.2 FrameworkThe proposed dialogue system framework con-sists of three broad stages.
The first stage aimsto build rapport with the patient and identify thehealth topic to be discussed.
The second stageinvolves identifying the issues and challenges thepatient perceives associated with enacting relevanthealth behavior changes and motivating the patientto make the most appropriate change(s).
The finalstage summarizes the overall plans and goals, andencourages the patient to follow through.
The en-tire process from building rapport with the patientthrough motivating changes in health-related be-havior may span several sessions, and of course, islikely to be repeated for other behaviors.2.1 Build rapport & identify health topicIn order to initiate a counseling session it is essen-tial to build and maintain rapport with the patient.This helps the patient feel more comfortable withthe situation, which facilitates more open commu-nication.
Reasonable rapport needs to be estab-lished in the initial stages when the Companionbotis first introduced to the patient.
However, sincethe Companionbot is meant to be present con-stantly with its human companion, rapport build-ing and maintenance is expected to be an on-going process.
Throughout both the casual andhealth behavior change dialogue, the Companion-bot will identify the patient?s interpersonal rela-tions, health conditions and beliefs, likes and dis-likes, habits, hobbies, and routines.
These will bestored in a user model, which the language gen-eration engine will exploit to engage the user indialogue that is guided by, and infused with, per-sonal context.
A language understanding compo-nent will constantly assess the user?s engagementlevel in the conversation.
If the user seems tobe disinterested at any point, a Typical Day strat-egy (Mason and Butler, 2010) is used to deal withthe situation where the Companionbot will ask theuser what a typical day for them is like.When the system has achieved an adequate levelof rapport, the next step is to identify a healthtopic of concern to the patient, so that there canbe a focused discussion geared towards health be-havior change.
The present project will start witha small list of conditions and the behaviors that,when altered, can bring about an improvement inthe condition.
For example, heart disease includesdiet and exercise, among others, as the associ-ated behaviors.
These conditions will be identi-fied primarily using named-entity recognition andkeyword spotting.
If the Companionbot identi-fies heart disease as the topic, then the discussioncould focus on food habits or exercise related is-sues.2.2 Assess patient?s opinion of changeOnce a health concern is identified, the next stepis to determine how important the patient thinksit is to change the associated behaviors and howconfident they are about enacting those changes.This is an important stage because not all peoplehave the same mindset regarding behavior change.Some might understand the importance of it butare not confident about achieving it while othersmight not consider it important at all.
In order tounderstand the user?s mindset, Mason and Butler(2010) suggest asking the user to assign cardinalvalues to quantify these opinions.
The values maybe on a scale of 0 to 10, where 0 is the lowest and104Figure 1: Block diagram for assessing patient?sopinion of change10 is the highest.If there is a large difference between the userratings of importance and confidence, the Com-panionbot will discuss the lower-ranked factor first(Mason and Butler, 2010).
If the scores are ap-proximately equal (e.g., the patient gives both im-portance and confidence a medium rating), thenthe Companionbot?s dialogue will focus on help-ing the user understand the importance of the be-havior change (Mason and Butler, 2010).
Low val-ues for both importance and confidence scores in-dicate that the user is not ready for these healthbehavior changes (Mason and Butler, 2010), andthe Companionbot should move on to a differenthealth topic or behavior.
If both the scores arehigh, the Companionbot can move on to the nextstage, summarizing the discussion and motivatingthe behavior changes.
Figure 1 shows the blockdiagram representation for this module.2.3 Design plan & close the sessionThe Companionbot moves toward concluding theconversation by asking an open-ended question re-garding how the user feels about the health be-havior changes that they have been discussing.A user?s attitude can be categorized into one ofthree categories, ready for change, not ready forchange, or ambivalent.
If the patient is ready forchange, the Companionbot will provide sugges-tions on how to bring about the change in the be-Figure 2: Block diagram for designing plan andclosing the sessionhavior in previous step by leveraging knowledgefrom the user model and the conversation history.There may be patients who belong to the secondcategory and are not ready for the health behav-ior change.
We have already discussed ways onhow to tackle such a situation in Subsection 2.2.If the patient is ambivalent about changing a be-havior, the Companionbot will close by providinginformation to help the patient reflect on the prosand cons of the health behavior change until it isappropriate to bring it up again in a future ses-sion.
A knowledge base will be maintained aboutthe behaviors associated with common and criti-cal health conditions.
Information about a healthcondition, which is outside the domain of cur-rent knowledge base, will be retrieved using Websearch.
Figure 2 shows the block diagram repre-sentation of this stage.If a session exceeds a pre-defined time, deemedto be the limit of most patients?
ability to stay ad-equately focused on health behavior change, orif the system recognizes that the patient is los-ing their focus, the Companionbot will check-inwith the patient, and if appropriate, will bring thesession to a close following strategies that parallelthose described in the preceding paragraph.3 ChallengesAutomatic generation of dialogue becomes a par-ticularly challenging task when its purpose is to105guide people through sensitive or personal issueslike health behavior change.
Some patients maynot like to be told what is good or bad for them.In such a case, the patient might begin resistingsuggestions for change (Mason and Butler, 2010).This places the entire counseling session in a pre-carious position and any wrong move on the Com-panionbot?s part could push the patient to a higherlevel of resistance.
To mitigate this scenario, theCompanionbot will include patient resistance de-tection in the framework.
If mild resistance is de-tected, the discourse is automatically directed to-wards bringing the user back on track.
Whereas ifthere is high resistance, the Companionbot moveson to a different topic In case the user continues re-sisting then the Companionbot will close the ses-sion.For successful implementation of therapeuticdialogue systems, it is essential to ensure that theydo not sound monotonous.
This is possible onlyif the responses are generated dynamically andhardcoding is limited.
During rapport buildingand user modeling, questions will be generated bythe Companionbot from various sources like theInternet, medical forms, information provided byphysicians, family members, etc.
At other times,responses will be constructed using both syntacticand semantic information from the user utterances.Since multiple sessions might be held with theuser to discuss a specific behavior, it is neces-sary to maintain continuity between the sessions(Bickmore et al., 2009).
Bickmore and Sidner(2006) advocate dedicating a part of the dialogueto reviewing prior discussions, associated actions,and patient plans, as well as discussing what thepatient has done since the last session to followthough on their plans.
The Companionbot main-tains a detailed user model including logs of theprevious sessions, which will be used to reviewprior discussions, plans and actions and to guideongoing motivational interviews.Another challenge is choosing appropriate eval-uation measures to determine the system?s use-fulness in bringing about the desired change inthe patient.
The efficacy of the system will bejudged by monitoring the users behavior regularly.Any noticeable changes, such as weight gain orloss and increased or decreased smoking, will betracked.
How frequently a patient interacts withthe Companionbot is an implicit qualitative mea-sure of how much they appreciate it.
We also planto use questionnaires to elicit user ratings of thesystem for its acceptability and quality on a Lick-ert scale (Lickert, 1932).4 ConclusionIn this paper we proposed a novel frameworkfor automatic health behavior change counsel-ing.
Successful implementation of this frame-work would mean that the Companionbot could beused to guide patients towards bringing changes intheir behavior for a healthier life.
This can reducethe long wait period in conventional telemedicinepractices from the time the patients contact theremote heatlh care provider to the instance theyreceive the instruction (Bajwa, 2010).
Since theCompanionbot will be capable of small talk aimedat connecting with the user on an emotional level,we hypothesize it will be perceived as being muchmore natural than existing conversational robots.ReferencesCory D. Kidd, Will Taggart and Sherry Turkle.
2006.A Sociable Robot to Encourage Social Interactionamong the Elderly.
IEEE International Conferenceon Robotics and Automation, 3972?3976.Imran S. Bajwa.
2010.
Virtual Telemedicine UsingNatural Language Processing.
International Jour-nal of Information Technology and Web Engineer-ing, 5(1):43?55.Nicholas Roy, Gregory Baltus, Dieter Fox, FrancineGemperle, Jennifer Goetz, Tad Hirsch, DimitrisMargaritis, Michael Montemerlo, Joelle Pineau,Jamieson Schulte and Sebastian Thrun.
2000.
To-wards Personal Service Robots for the Elderly.Workshop on Interactive Robots and Entertainment.Pip Mason and Christopher C. Butler.
2010.
HealthBehavior Change.
Elsevier Health Sciences.Rensis Likert.
1932.
A Technique for the Measurementof Attitudes.
Archives of Psychology, 140:1?55.Rodney D. Nielsen, Richard Voyles, Daniel Bolanos,Mohammad H. Mahoor, Wilson D. Pace, Katie A.Siek and Wayne H. Ward.
2010.
A Platform forHuman-Robot Dialog Systems Research.
In Pro-ceedings of AAAI Fall Symposium, Dialog withRobots, 161?162.Timothy W. Bickmore and Candace L. Sidner.2006.
Towards Plan-based Health Behavior ChangeCounseling Systems.
In proceedings of AAAISpring Symposium on Argumentation for Con-sumers of Healthcare.106Timothy Bickmore, Daniel Mauer, Francisco Crespoand Thomas Brown.
2008.
Negotiating Task In-terruptions with Virtual Agents for Health Behav-ior Change.
In Proceedings of the 7th InternationalJoint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Mul-tiagent Systems, 1241?1244.Timothy Bickmore, Daniel Schulman and CandaceSidner.
2009.
Issues in Designing Agents for LongTerm Behavior Change.
CHI?09 Workshop on En-gagement by Design.107
