Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Language Technologies and Computational Social Science, pages 28?32,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 26, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsInducing Information Structures for Data-driven Text AnalysisAndrew SalwayUni Research ComputingN-5008 BergenNorwayandrew.salway@uni.noSamia TouilebUniversity of BergenN-5020 BergenNorwaysamia.touileb@gmail.comEndre TvinnereimUni Research RokkansenteretN-5015 BergenNorwayendre.tvinnereim@uni.noAbstractWe report ongoing work that is aiming todevelop a data-driven approach to textanalysis for computational social science.The novel feature is the use of a grammarinduction algorithm to identify salientinformation structures from an unannotatedtext corpus.
The structures provide richerrepresentations of text content thankeywords, by capturing patterning related towhat is written about key terms.
Here weshow how information structures wereinduced from texts that record politicalnegotiations, and how the structures wereused in analyzing relations between countriesand negotiation positions.1 IntroductionThere is a widespread need for automated textanalysis to be integrated into research methodsfor computational social science (e.g.
Grimmerand Stewart, 2013).
In order to analyze highlydiverse content, techniques tend to treat texts asbags of words, e.g.
for search, to summarizecontent with word clouds, and to model topics.Such techniques capture the general ?aboutness?of texts, but they do little to elucidate the actualstatements that are made about key concepts.Conversely, structured representations ofstatements can be generated, up to a point, byinformation extraction systems but these arecostly to port to new languages and domains.Thus, we are motivated to develop a portabletechnique that can generate richer representationsof text content than keywords.
Our idea is toadapt and apply a grammar induction algorithmto identify salient information structures in thesurface form of texts.
It seems to us that, to theextent that there is patterning, informationstructures may be induced from an unannotatedtext corpus with little or no need for language-specific and domain-specific resources.
Unlikeapproaches under the rubrics of unsupervised andopen information extraction (e.g.
Riloff, 1996;Sekine, 2006; Etzioni et al., 2008), we avoid theuse of parsers, part-of-speech taggers, and pre-specified entities for which relations are sought.The approach that we envisage fits with theethos of exploratory ?data-driven?
research.Rather than approaching a corpus with ahypothesis and an a priori coding scheme, aresearcher is given an overview of the content interms of computationally tractable informationstructures that were induced from the corpus.Such structures map to surface forms in text andcan hence be used directly in quantitativeanalyses for further exploration and to testhypotheses, once they have been interpreted asinteresting by a researcher.
Working in this waywill avoid the expense and bottleneck of manualcoding, and reduce the potential for biases.In the following we motivate our use of theADIOS algorithm for grammar induction (2.1),and introduce the Earth Negotiations Bulletin(2.2).
Section 3 describes our method anddiscusses the information structures identified inENB texts.
Section 4 takes some preliminarysteps in using these information structures toidentify dyads of (dis-) agreement and to extractmarkers of quantifiable negotiation positions.
Inclosing, Section 5 offers some tentativeconclusions and ideas for future work.2 Background2.1 Grammar induction for text miningHarris (1954; 1988) demonstrated how linguisticunits and structures can be identified manuallythrough a distributional analysis of partiallyaligned sentential contexts.
We are struck byHarris?
insight that the linguistic structuresderived from a distributional analysis may reflect28domain-specific information structures,especially in the ?sublanguages?
of specialistdomains (Harris, 1988).
Whilst the textualmaterial typically analyzed by social scientistsmay not be as restricted in content and style asthat analyzed by Harris, our work proceeds onthe assumption that, at least in some domains, itis restricted enough such that there is sufficientpatterning for an inductive approach.Harris?
ideas about distributional analysis havebecome a cornerstone for some of the work inthe field of automated grammatical inference,where researchers attempt to induce grammaticalstructures from raw text.
In this field theemphasis is on generating complete grammaticaldescriptions for text corpora in order tounderstand the processes of language learning;see D?Ulizia et al.
(2011) for a review.For example, the unsupervised ADIOSalgorithm (Solan et al., 2005) recursively induceshierarchically structured patterns from sequentialdata, e.g.
sequences of words in sentences ofunannotated text, using statistical information inthe sequential data.
Patterns may includeequivalence classes comprising items that sharesimilar distributional properties, where itemsmay be words or other patterns.
As a toyexample of a pattern, take ?
(the (woman|man)went to the (house|shop|pub))?, with equivalenceclasses ?(woman|man)?
and ?
(house|shop|pub)?.2.2 The Earth Negotiations BulletinWithin political science, text corpora provide avaluable resource for the analysis of politicalstruggle and structures.
For international climatenegotiations, the Earth Negotiation Bulletin(ENB) constitutes an online record of thepositions and proposals of different countries,their agreements and disagreements, and changesover time.
As such it can provide insights into,e.g., how institutional structures and bargainingstrategies affect policy outcomes.
Since 1995,every day of formal climate negotiations underthe UN Framework Convention on ClimateChange (UN FCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol hasbeen summarized in a separate 2-4 page issue ofthe ENB1.
The ENB seeks to cover the majortopics of discussion and which negotiators(referred to by country name) said what.
Thepublication is used by scholars to addressresearch questions such as whether countrieswith more extreme positions have more or lesssuccess (Weiler, 2012) and whether democracies1 http://www.iisd.ca/linkages/vol12/and autocracies (Bailer, 2012) or developed anddeveloping countries (Castro et al., 2014) behavedifferently in negotiations.
From our perspective,the ENB?s restricted content and style makes itappropriate to test our inductive approach.3 Inducing Information StructuresWe are investigating how the ADIOS algorithm(Solan et al., 2005) can be adapted and appliedfor mining the content of unannotated corpora;cf.
Salway and Touileb (2014).
Our objective ofidentifying salient information structures, ratherthan generating a complete grammaticaldescription, leads us to modify the learningregime of ADIOS.
Firstly, we modify the way inwhich text is presented to ADIOS by presentingsentences containing terms of interest (for theENB texts these were country names), ratherthan processing all sentences: we expect morerelevant patterning in these sentences, and thinkthe patterning will be more explicit if not dilutedby the rest of the corpus.
Secondly, as describedin more detail below, we focus the algorithm onfrequent structures through an iterative processof selection and substitution.3.1 MethodOur data set comprised all texts from the ENBvolume 12, numbers 1-594, which cover theperiod 1995-2013.
Preprocessing involvedremoving boilerplate text, sentencesegmentation, and making all text lowercase.Then, all sentences mentioning one or morecountries were selected.
Every mention of acountry, or a list of countries, was replaced withthe token ?COUNTRY?
: this serves to makepatterning around mentions of countries moreexplicit.
A list of country names was the onlydomain- and language-specific resource requiredfor the processing described below.The resulting file of 32,288 sentences wasprocessed by an implementation of the ADIOSalgorithm, in which we modified the originallearning regime to bias it towards frequentstructures.
After one execution of ADIOS weselected the five most frequent patterns (and anypatterns contained within them) and replaced allinstances of them in the input file with a uniqueidentifier for each pattern: as with the?COUNTRY?
token, we believe that this servesto make relevant patterning more explicit.
Weexecuted ADIOS and selected and substitutedfrequent patterns nine more times.293.2 ResultsIn this way 53 patterns were identified, some ofwhich are shown in Table 1 (patterns 1-7).
Herepatterns and equivalence classes are bracketedand nested.
The sequential items in a pattern areseparated by whitespace and the alternative itemsin an equivalence class are separated by ?|?.?COUNTRY?
stands for a mention of a country,or a list of countries.
In some cases we havemanually merged and simplified patterns forclarity, but the structuring that they describe wasall induced automatically.Pattern 1 captures a simple relation betweencountries that appears frequently in sentenceslike ?China supported by Saudi Arabia said??.
Itcould thus be used as a simple template forextracting data about how countries align withone another (see section 4.1).
Patterns 2-4represent a multitude of ways in which acountry?s stated positions on issues can bereported.
These patterns do not describe theissues, but could be used as cues to locate textfragments that do, e.g.
by taking the text thatfollows ?COUNTRY said|noted|recommended|(etc.)??
(see section 4.2).
Patterns 5 and 6appear to have captured a wide variety of verbsand noun phrases respectively.
Presumably theseverbs relate to things that countries say that theywill do, or that they think should be done.
Thenoun phrases appear to raise topics fordiscussion; consider how pattern 6 appears aspart of 7.
There were other patterns that did notcontain any equivalence classes: these oftencaptured domain terminology, e.g.
?
(developingcountries)?, ?
(commitment period)?.Patterns 1-6 all have a relatively shallowstructure.
In order to induce further structure wemade new input files, based on what we saw inthe initial patterns.
We chose the most frequent?speech acts?
from patterns 2-4, and for each onemade a separate file containing only sentencesthat contained ?COUNTRY SPEECH_ACT?, e.g.one file that contained all the sentences matching?COUNTRY expressed?.
Each speech act filewas processed with 10 iterations of selection andsubstitution (cf.
section 3.1).
The resultingpatterns, including 8-10 in Table 1, do indeedhave richer structures and show in a morenuanced way how countries?
positions arereported in the ENB texts.These results are encouraging for the idea ofinducing information structures from anunannotated text corpus.
The examples shown inTable 1 would not surprise anybody who wasfamiliar with the ENB material.
However, theyprovide a useful summary view of what istypically written about countries.
Further, sincethey relate directly to surface forms in the text,they may be valuable for guiding furtherquantitative analyses, e.g.
by pinpointing wheresignificant expressions of country positions,arguments and affinities are to be found.1.
(COUNTRY ((supported|opposed) by) COUNTRY)2.
(COUNTRY (said|noted|recommended|explained|responded|stressed| questioned|addressed|reiterated|reported|urged|amended|invited?
)); the equivalence class contains 51 words3.
(COUNTRY ((clarified|urged|reported) that)4.
(COUNTRY ((presented|demanded|outlined|favored (the|a))5.
(to (apply|safeguard|undertake|link|deliver?
)); the equivalence class contains 63 words6.
(the (merit|cost effectiveness| merits|importance|idea?)
of); the equivalence class contains 84 words7.
((COUNTRY (noted|said|questioned|?))
(the (merit|cost effectiveness| merits|importance|idea?)of))8.
(COUNTRY expressed ((disappointment|concern) that)|((support|appreciation)for)|((readiness|willingness) to)|(satisfaction (with the) (outcome|reconstitution|functioning|work) (ofthe)))9.
(COUNTRY called (((for |on) (parties|(developed countries)) to)|((for a) (cautious|threephased|common|phased|bottom up|budget|global) approach to)|(for an(overview|elaboration|analysis|evaluation|examination) of)))10.
(COUNTRY highlighted ((the (need|basis) for)|(the (benefits|possibility|establishment) of)|(the(consideration|impact|impacts) of)|(the (use|involvement) of)|((the need to) (err|focus) on)|(the(role|importance) (of the))))Table 1: Ten of the patterns automatically induced from Earth Negotiations Bulletin texts.304 Using selected information structuresHere we describe our first steps in using some ofthe induced structures to infer coalitions (4.1)and to scale negotiation positions (4.2).4.1  Dyads of support and oppositionThe pattern ?
(COUNTRY ((supported|opposed)by) COUNTRY)?, cf.
Table 1,  was used as aregular expression to extract instances whererelations between countries were recorded withrespect to stated positions.
This gave 1145instances of support, and 592 of opposition, ofteninvolving multiple countries; recall that?COUNTRY?
may stand for a list of countries.
Acount was made for each pair of countries insupport and opposition, with a distinction madebetween ?C1 supported by C2?
and ?C2supported by C1?.
Figure 1 is a scatterplot madefrom these counts.
It shows, for example, that theUS very often finds its statements supported byCanada.
Further, whilst the US tends to supportthe EU relatively often, the EU supports the USonly about as often as it opposes the US.Figure 1: Dyads of support and opposition4.2 Scaling negotiation positionsPatterns 2-4 from Table 1 were combined into aregular expression to extract instances of thestatements made by countries.
For each country afile was made with the text following everyinstance of ?COUNTRY said | noted |recommended | (etc.
)?, until the end of thesentence.
The collection of country files was thenanalyzed with Wordfish (Slapin and Proksch,2008): this tool, which implements a scalingmodel, positions texts (here reflecting countries)on a political/ideological dimension based on therelative frequency of discriminating words.For the 40 countries with the most statements,the parameter indicating country position on theinduced dimension ranged in ascending orderfrom Austria (-2.38) via Belgium, Germany, theUK, Switzerland, the US, Canada, Australia,Norway, France, Russia, New Zealand to Japan(-.62) and on to Papua New Guinea (-.26),Tuvalu, Peru, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina,Malaysia, South Korea, Colombia, Saudi Arabia,Chile, Kuwait, Nigeria, Grenada, Uganda,Bangladesh, China, Egypt, the Philippines, SouthAfrica, Indonesia, Venezuela, Iran, Bolivia,Barbados, India and Algeria (1.44).The method thus perfectly identifies the maincleavage in international climate negotiationsbetween developed and developing countries (cf.Castro et al., 2014).
The bifurcation is robust toalternative specifications.
Among the ten mostdiscriminating lemmas used by developingcountries are ?equal?, ?distribut?, ?resourc?,?histor?, and ?equiti?, suggesting an emphasis onfairness and rich countries?
historical emissions.5 Closing RemarksThe novel use of a grammar induction algorithmwas successful in elucidating the content of acorpus in a complementary way to bag-of-wordstechniques: some of the induced structures wereuseful for guiding subsequent analyses as part ofa data-driven approach to computational socialscience.
Specifically, in this case, the structuresfacilitated text analysis at the statement level, i.e.statements about country relations and countries?positions.
This meant we could plot countryrelations and scale country positions even thoughour source texts were not organized by country.Given its inherent portability, we see thepotential for applying the grammar inductionapproach to many other corpora, most obviouslythe other 32 ENB volumes, and other texts withsimilarly restricted content and style, e.g.parliamentary proceedings.
It remains a largelyopen question as to what happens when the textinput becomes more heterogeneous, but seeSalway and Touileb (2014) regarding theprocessing of blog posts.In ongoing work we are seeking to understandmore about how the parameters of the ADIOSalgorithm, and the modifications we make, affectthe set of structures that it identifies.
Also we areconsidering evaluation metrics to validate theinduced patterns and to measure recall.31AcknowledgementsWe are very grateful to Zach Solan for providingan implementation of the ADIOS algorithm, andto Knut Hofland for his help in creating ourcorpus of ENB texts.
This research wassupported by a grant from The Research Councilof Norway?s VERDIKT program.ReferencesStefanie Bailer.
2012.
Strategy in the climate changenegotiations: do democracies negotiate differently?Climate Policy 12(5): 534-551.Paula Castro, Lena H?rnlein, and KatharinaMichaelowa.
2014.
Constructed peer groups andpath dependence in international organizations.Global Environmental Change.Arianna D?Ulizia, Fernando Ferri and PatriziaGrifoni.
2011.
A survey of grammatical inferencemethods for natural language learning.
ArtificialIntelligence Review 36(1):1-27.Oren Etzioni, Michele Banko, Stephen Soderland andDaniel S. Weld.
Open Information Extraction fromthe Web.
Comms.
of the ACM 51(12): 68-74.Justin Grimmer and Brandon M. Stewart.
2013.
Textas Data: The Promise and Pitfalls of AutomaticContent Analysis Methods for Political Texts.Political Analysis 21(3):267-297.Zellig Harris.
1954.
Distributional Structure.
Word10(2/3):146-162.Zellig Harris.
1988.
Language and Information.Columbia University Press, New York.Eileen Riloff.
1996.
Automatically GeneratingExtraction Patterns from Untagged Text.
Procs.13th National Conference on Artificial Intelligence(AAAI-96):1044-1049.Andrew Salway and Samia Touileb.
2014.
ApplyingGrammar Induction to Text Mining.
To appear inProcs.
ACL 2014.Satoski Sekine.
2006.
On-Demand InformationExtraction.
Procs.
COLING/ACL 2006: 731-738.Jonathan Slapin and Sven-Oliver Proksch.
2008.
AScaling Model for Estimating Time-Series PartyPositions from Texts.
American Journal ofPolitical Science 52(3):705-722.Zach Solan, David Horn, Eytan Ruppin, and ShimonEdelman.
2005.
Unsupervised learning of naturallanguages.
PNAS 102(33):11629-11634.Florian Weiler.
2012.
Determinants of bargainingsuccess in the climate change negotiations.
ClimatePolicy 12(5):552-574.32
