Proceedings of the 2014 Joint Meeting of SIGMORPHON and SIGFSM, pages 37?45,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Conversion of Dialectal Tamil Text to Standard WrittenTamil Text using FSTsMarimuthu KAU-KBC Research Centre,MIT Campus of Anna University,Chrompet, Chennai, India.marimuthuk@live.comSobha Lalitha DeviAU-KBC Research Centre,MIT Campus of Anna University,Chrompet, Chennai, India.sobha@au-kbc.orgAbstractWe present an efficient method to auto-matically transform spoken language textto standard written language text for var-ious dialects of Tamil.
Our work is novelin that it explicitly addresses the problemand need for processing dialectal andspoken language Tamil.
Written languageequivalents for dialectal and spoken lan-guage forms are obtained using FiniteState Transducers (FSTs) where spokenlanguage suffixes are replaced with ap-propriate written language suffixes.
Ag-glutination and compounding in the re-sultant text is handled using ConditionalRandom Fields (CRFs) based wordboundary identifier.
The essential Sandhicorrections are carried out using a heuris-tic Sandhi Corrector which normalizesthe segmented words to simpler sensiblewords.
During experimental evaluationsdialectal spoken to written transformer(DSWT) achieved an encouraging accu-racy of over 85% in transformation taskand also improved the translation qualityof Tamil-English machine translationsystem by 40%.
It must be noted thatthere is no published computational workon processing Tamil dialects.
Ours is thefirst attempt to study various dialects ofTamil in a computational point of view.Thus, the nature of the work reportedhere is pioneering.1 IntroductionWith the advent of Web 2.0 applications, the fo-cus of communication through the Internet hasshifted from publisher oriented activities to useroriented activities such as blogging, social mediachats, and discussions in online forums.
Giventhe unmediated nature of these services, usersconveniently share the contents in their nativelanguages in a more natural and informal way.This has resulted in bringing together the con-tents of various languages.
More often these con-tents are informal, colloquial, and dialectal innature.
The dialect is defined as a variety of alanguage that is distinguished from other varie-ties of the same language by features of phonol-ogy, grammar, and vocabulary and by its use bya group of speakers who are set off from othersgeographically or socially.
The dialectal varia-tion refers to changes in a language due to vari-ous influences such as geographic, social, educa-tional, individual and group factors.
The dialectsvary primarily based on geographical locations.They also vary based on social class, caste,community, gender, etc.
which differ phonologi-cally, morphologically, and syntactically (Ha-bash and Rambow, 2006).
Here we study spokenand dialectal Tamil language and aim to auto-matically transform them to standard written lan-guage.Tamil language has more than 70 millionspeakers worldwide and is spoken mainly insouthern India, Sri Lanka, Singapore, and Ma-laysia.
It has 15 known dialects 1  which varymainly based on geographic location and reli-gious community of the people.
The dialectsused in southern Tamil Nadu are different fromthe dialects prevalent in western and other partsof Tamil Nadu.
Sri Lankan Tamil is relativelyconservative and still retains the older features ofTamil2.
So its dialect differs considerably fromthe dialects spoken elsewhere.
Tamil dialect isalso dependent on religious community.
The var-1http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Tamil_dialects2 www.lmp.ucla.edu37iation of dialects based on caste is studied anddescribed by A.K.
Ramanujan (1968) where heobserved that Tamil Brahmins speak a very dis-tinct form of Tamil known as Brahmin Tamil(BT) which varies greatly from the dialects usedin other religious communities.
While perform-ing a preliminary corpus study on Tamil dialects,we found that textual contents in personal blogs,social media sites, chat forums, and comments,comprise mostly dialectal and spoken languagewords similar to what one can hear and use inday-to-day communication.
This practice iscommon because the authors intend to establish acomfortable communication and enhance intima-cy with their audiences.
This activity producesinformal, colloquial and dialectal textual data.These dialectal and spoken language usages willnot conform to the standard spellings of LiteraryTamil (LT).
This causes problems in many textbased Natural Language Processing (NLP) sys-tems as they generally work on the assumptionthat the input is in standard written language.
Toovercome this problem, these dialectal and spo-ken language forms need to be converted toStandard Written language Text (SWT) beforedoing any computational work with them.Computational processing of dialectal andspoken language Tamil is challenging since thelanguage has motley of dialects and the usage inone dialect varies from other dialects from veryminimal to greater extents.
It is also very likelythat multiple spoken-forms of a given word with-in a dialect which we call as ?variants?
may cor-respond to single canonical written-form wordand a spoken-form word may map to more thanone canonical written-form.
These situations ex-ist in all Tamil dialects.
In addition, it is verylikely to encounter conflicts with the spoken andwritten-forms of one dialect with other dialectsand vice versa.
Most importantly, the dialects areused mainly in spoken communication and whenthey are written by users, they do not conform tostandard spoken-form spellings and sometimesinconsistent spellings are used even for a singlewritten-form of a word.
In other words Schiff-man (1988) noted that every usage of a givenspoken-form can be considered as Standard Spo-ken Tamil (SST) unless it has wrong spellings tobecome nonsensical.Few researchers have attempted to transformthe dialects and spoken-forms of languages tostandard written languages.
Habash and Rambow(2006) developed MAGEAD, a morphologicalanalyzer and generator for Arabic dialects wherethe authors made use of root+pattern+featuresrepresentation for the transformation of Arabicdialects to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) andperformed morphological analysis.
In the case ofTamil language, Umamaheswari et al.
(2011)proposed a technique based on pattern mappingand spelling variation rules for transforming col-loquial words to written-language words.
Thereported work considered only a handful of rulesfor the most common spoken forms.
So this ap-proach will fail when dialectal variants of wordsare encountered because it is more likely that thespelling variation rules of the spoken languagevary from the rules of dialectal usages.
This limi-tation hinders the possibility of the system togeneralize.
Alternatively, performing a simplelist based mapping between spoken and writtenform words is also inefficient and unattainable.Spoken language words exhibit fairly regularpattern of suffixations and inflections within agiven paradigm (Schiffman, 1999).
So we pro-pose a novel method based on Finite StateTransducers for effectively transforming dialec-tal and spoken Tamil to standard written Tamil.We make use of the regularity of suffixations andmodel them as FSTs.
These FSTs are used toperform transformation which produces words instandard literary Tamil.Our experimental results show that DSWTachieves high precision and recall values.
In ad-dition, it improves the translation quality of ma-chine translation systems when unknown wordsoccur mainly due to colloquialism.
This im-provement gradually increases as the unknownword rate increases due to colloquial and dialec-tal nature of words.Broadly, DSWT can be used in a variety ofNLP applications such as Morphological Analy-sis, Rule-based and Statistical Machine Transla-tion (SMT), Information Retrieval (IR), Named-Entity Recognition (NER), and Text-To-Speech(TTS).
In general, it can be used in any NLP sys-tem where there is a need to retrieve written lan-guage words from dialectal and spoken languageTamil words.The paper is further organized as follows: Insection 2, the challenges in processing Tamil di-alects are explained.
Section 3 explains the cor-pus collection and study.
Section 4 explains thepeculiarities seen in spoken and dialectal Tamil.Section 5 introduces the system architecture ofDSWT.
Section 6 describes conducted Experi-mental evaluations and the results.
Section 7 dis-cusses about the results and the paper concludeswith a conclusion section.382 Challenges in Processing Tamil Di-alectsTamil, a member of Dravidian language family,is highly inflectional and agglutinative in nature.The phenomenon of agglutination becomes muchpronounced in dialects and spoken-form com-munication where much of the phonemes of suf-fixes get truncated and form agglutinated wordswhich usually have two or more simpler words inthem.
A comprehensive study on the Grammarof Spoken Tamil for various syntactic categoriesis presented in Schiffman (1979) and Schiffman(1999).
Various dialects are generally used inspoken discourse and while writing them peopleuse inconsistent spellings for a given spoken lan-guage word.
The spelling usages primarily de-pend on educational qualification of the authors.Sometimes, the authors intentionally use certaintypes of spelling to express satire and humor.Due to this spelling and dialectal variationmany-to-one mapping happens where all the va-riants correspond to single canonical writtenform.
This is illustrated with the dialectal andspelling variants of the verb ?paarkkiReen?
(see)in Fig 1.Figure 1. many-to-one mappingFor the words that belong to the above case,there is no hard rule that a particular pattern ofspelling will be used and referred to while thetext is written by people.
In addition to this map-ping, one-to-many mapping is also possiblewhere a single spoken form maps to multiplecanonical written forms.Figure 2. one-to-many mappingIn the case of one-to-many mapping, multiplewritten language words will be obtained.
Choos-ing a correct written language word over otherwords is dependent on the context where the di-alectal spoken language word occurs.
In somecases, the sentence may be terminated by punc-tuations such as question marks which can bemade use of to select an appropriate written lan-guage word.
To achieve correct selection of aword, an extensive study has to be conducted andis not the focus of this paper.
In the current workwe are interested in obtaining as many possiblemappings as possible.
Many-to-one mappingoccurs mainly due to dialectal and spelling varia-tions of spoken-forms whereas one-to-manymapping happens because a single spoken-formmay convey different meanings in different con-texts.
Dialectal spoken forms of many-to-one andone-to-many mappings are more prevalent thanone-to-one mapping where a dialectal spokenform maps to exactly one written form word.3 Data Collection and Corpus StudyThe dialectal spoken form of a language is pri-marily used for colloquial and informal commu-nication among native speakers.
They are alsocommonly seen in personal blogs, social mediachats and comments, discussion forums etc.
Giv-en this informal nature of the language usage,such a variety is not used in formal print andbroadcasting media as they mainly use standardliterary Tamil.In our preliminary study, we found that textualcontents in personal blogs, tweets, and chatshave significantly large number of dialectal andspoken language words than those are found inother standard online resources such as newspublishers, entertainment media websites etc.Since we focus on processing various Tamildialects and their spoken language variants, wehave collected publicly available data from theabove mentioned online resources for this work.The collected data belongs to authors fromvarious geographic locations where differentTamil dialects exist.
The textual contents in theselected resources mainly contain movie reviews,narratives, travel experiences, fables, poems, andsometimes an informal discourse, all in a casualand colloquial manner.
Further, we were able tocollect variants of spoken forms which vary withrespect to person, social status, location, com-munity, gender, age, qualification etc.engaengee(where)engaL(ours)39Though Tamil language has 15 dialects, in thiswork, we focused only on 5 dialects namely,Central Tamil dialect, Madurai Tamil, Tirunelve-li Tamil, Brahmin Tamil, Kongu Tamil andcommon spoken language forms.
In Table 1, wepresent the corpus distribution with respect to thedialects and the number of dialectal and spokenlanguage words.Name of the TamilDialectNo.
of  DialectalwordsCentral Tamil dialect 584Madurai Tamil 864Tirunelveli Tamil 2074Brahmin Tamil 2286Kongu Tamil 910Common Spoken Forms 5810Table 1.
Corpus distribution among dialectsWe performed an in-depth study on the collecteddata and found some peculiarities which exist insome dialects.
Some of the observed peculiaritiesare described in Section 4.4 Tamil Dialects and their PeculiaritiesSome dialectal words have totally differentmeaning in SST and in other dialects or in stan-dard literary Tamil.
For instance, consider thefollowing dialectal sentence (Tirunelveli Tamil)ela,    inga   vaala.Hey   here   come?Hey come here!
?The words ?ela?
and ?vaala?
convey differentmeanings in different contexts and dialects.
InSST they denote ?leaf?
and ?tail?
respectivelywhile in Tirunelveli Tamil dialect they conveythe meaning ?hey?
and ?come?
respectively.Though these ambiguities are resolved whenthe context is considered, they make the trans-formation task challenging since this is a word-level task and no context information is takeninto account during transformation.The example in table 2, illustrates spellingbased variants where the variants map to singlecanonical written form.
We observed that themost common form of spoken-language usage isthe use and representation of ?enRu?
(ADV) asfour variants which are shown in Table 2.Spoken formVariantsWritten formEquivalent[Noun/Pronoun/Verb]+ ?nu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb] +?enRu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb]+ ?nnu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb] +?enRu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb]+ ?unu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb] +?enRu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb]+ ?unnu?
[Noun/Pronoun/Verb] +?enRu?Table 2.
Spoken variants and written languageThe dialectal variants of the verb ?vanthaarkaL?
(they came) is illustrated in table 3.Dialectal variants Written form Equivalent[Verb] + ?aaka?
[Verb] + ?aarkaL?
[Verb] + ?aangka?
[Verb] + ?aarkaL?Table 3.
Dialectal variants & written languageIt can be observed from Table 3 that the di-alectal suffixes vary from each other but they allmap to same written form suffix.
Despite the di-alectal variation, they all convey the same mean-ing.
But they vary syntactically.
The ?aaka?
suf-fix functions as adverbial marker in standard lite-rary Tamil whereas it acts as person, number,gender (PNG) marker in Madurai Tamil dialect.5 System ArchitectureIn this section we describe our system architec-ture which is depicted in Figure 3.
Our dialectalspoken to written transformer (DSWT) has threemain components namely, Transformation En-gine, CRF word boundary identifier and heuristicSandhi corrector.Transformation Engine contains FSTsfor the dialectal and spoken languageto standard written language transfor-mation.
The resultant words may beagglutinated and is decomposed withthe help of  CRF boundary identifier.CRF Word Boundary Identifier mod-ule identifies the word boundaries inagglutinated words and splits them in-to a set of constituent simpler words.Heuristic Sandhi Corrector modulemakes necessary spelling changes tothe segmented constituent words andstandardizes them to canonical andmeaningful simpler words.40Figure 3.
System Architecture5.1 Transformation EngineThe function of Transformation engine is totransform dialectal and spoken language wordsinto standardized literary Tamil words, similar tothe official form of Tamil that is used in gov-ernment publications such as official memoran-dums, news and print media, and formal politicalspeeches.Modeling FSTs for TransformationGiven the regular pattern of inflections within aparadigm, we use paradigm based approach forthe variation modeling.
Specifically, the dialectalusages, spoken language forms and their variantsare modeled as ?root+spoken-language-suffix?where it will get transformed into ?root+written-language-suffix?
after transformation.
We hadused AT&T's FSM library3 for generating FSTs.The FST shown in Fig.
4 shows the state transi-tions for some spoken language words.Figure 4.
Sample FSTIt can be observed from Figure 4 that spokenand dialectal words are processed in right to leftfashion.
This way of processing is adopted since3 http://www2.research.att.com/~fsmtools/fsm/the number of unique suffixation is few whencompared to the number of root words.
This willmake the suffix matching faster and henceachieves quick transformation.
This makes FSTsas an efficient tool for dialectal or variation mod-eling.Algorithm for TransformationThe algorithm that is used to transform dialectaland spoken language text is given below.1: for each dialectal/spoken-language word2:   check possible suffixations in FST3:      for each suffixation4:        if  FST accepts & generates writtenlanguage equivalents for all suffixes5:          return (root + written-language-suffix)6:       else7:         return dialectal/spoken-language-word8: for each agglutinated & compound word9:     do CRF word boundary identification10:       for each constituent word (CW)11:           do Sandhi Correction12:              return simple constituent words5.2 Decomposition of Agglutinated andCompound Words using CRFSince Tamil is a morphologically rich language,the phenomenon of agglutination and compound-ing in standard written language Tamil is highand very common.
It is also present in dialectaland spoken language Tamil.
This poses a numberof challenges to the development of NLP sys-tems.
To solve these challenges, we segment theagglutinated and compound words into simplerconstituent words.
This decomposition isachieved using two components namely41Agglutinated word  orCompound WordBoundary Identificationand Word SegmentationSandhi Correction FunctionsNo Change Insertion Deletion SubstitutionnampuvathillaiyenRu(will not be believing)nampuvathillaiyenRuillainampuvathuenRumuththokuppukaLutaya(comprising of threevolumes)muththokuppukaLutayathokuppukaLutayamuuTable 4.
Boundary identification and Sandhi CorrectionTable 4 clearly manifests the boundary of a constituent word within a compound or an agglutinatedword which may contain one or more word-boundaries.
It is observed that for ?n?
constituent words ina compound or an agglutinated word, there exists exactly (n-1) shared word-boundaries where (n>0).CRF word boundary identifier and HeuristicSandhi Corrector.
We have developed the wordboundary identifier for boundary identificationand segmentation as described in Marimuthu etal.
(2013) and heuristic rule based Sandhi correc-tor for making spelling changes to the segmentedwords.CRF Word-Boundary IdentifierCRF based word-boundary identifier marks theboundaries of simpler constituent words in ag-glutinated and compound words and segmentsthem.
CRFs are a discriminative probabilisticframework for labeling and segmenting sequen-tial data.
They are undirected graphical modelstrained to maximize a conditional probability(Lafferty et al., 2001).Generally word-boundary identification is stu-died extensively for languages such as Chineseand Japanese but the necessity for Indian lan-guages was not considered until recently.
Al-though there is no standard definition of word-boundary in Chinese, Peng et al.
(2004) describea robust approach for Chinese word segmenta-tion using linear-chain CRFs where the flexibili-ty of CRFs to support arbitrary overlapping fea-tures with long-range dependencies and multiplelevels of granularity are utilized by integratingthe rich domain knowledge in the form of mul-tiple lexicons of characters and words into theframework for accurate word segmentation.In case of Japanese, though the word bounda-ries are not clear, Kudo et al.
(2004) used CRFsfor Japanese morphological analysis where theyshow how CRFs can be applied to situationswhere word-boundary ambiguity exists.Marimuthu et al.
(2013) worked on wordboundary identification and segmentation in Ta-mil where they model the boundary identificationas a sequence labeling task [i.e.
a tagging task].The absence of word-boundary ambiguity inTamil language favors the boundary identifica-tion task and predominantly eliminates the needfor providing further knowledge to CRFs such asmultiple lexicons as in the case of Chinese wordsegmentation.
Hence we have used word levelfeatures alone for training the CRFs.Sandhi Correction using Word-level Contex-tual RulesWord-level contextual rules are the spellingrules in which each constituent word of an agglu-tinated or compound word is dependent either onthe previous or the next or both constituentwords to give a correct meaning.After boundary identification, suppose an ag-glutinated or a compound word is split into threeconstituent words, Sandhi correction for the firstconstituent word is dependent only on the secondconstituent word while the second word's Sandhicorrection depends on both first and third consti-tuent word whereas the third constituent word'sSandhi correction depends on second constituentword alone.Sandhi correction is performed using theserules to make necessary spelling changes to theboundary-segmented words in order to normalizethem to sensible simpler words.
It is accom-plished using three tasks namely insertion, dele-tion, and substitution as described in Marimuthuet al.
(2013).For instance, after boundary identification theword ?nampuvathillaiyenRu?
(will not be believ-ing) will be boundary marked and Sandhi cor-rected as shown in the Table 4 above.Advantages of Word boundary IdentificationMorphological Analysis of simpler words ismuch easier than analyzing agglutinated andcompound words.42Tamil Dialects No.
of dialectal words Precision (%) Recall (%) F-Measure (%)Central Tamil dialect 584 88.0 89.3 88.6Madurai Tamil 864 85.2 87.5 85.3Tirunelveli Tamil 2074 83.4 88.6 85.9Brahmin Tamil 2286 87.3 89.5 88.4Kongu Tamil 910 89.1 90.4 89.7Common Spoken Forms 5810 86.0 88.3 87.1Table 5.
Direct Evaluation ResultsSo the word-boundary identifier eases the task ofmorphological analyzer in identifying the indi-vidual morphemes.
In addition, it nullifies theunknown words category if it occurs due to ag-glutination and compounding.
As a result, it im-proves the recall of the morphological analyzerand any advanced NLP system.
For example,with Tamil, SMT models usually perform betterwhen the compound words are broken into theircomponents.
This 'segmentation' gives the wordalignment greater resolution when matching thegroupings between the two languages.6 Experimental EvaluationHere we perform evaluation of the performanceof DSWT with test corpus of 12528 words.
Weperform two types of evaluations: direct and indi-rect evaluation.In direct evaluation, we evaluate the systemusing gold standard.
In indirect evaluation thesystem is evaluated using machine translationapplication.
The aim in indirect evaluation is tounderstand the effect of dialectal and spoken lan-guage transformation in machine translation.6.1 Direct EvaluationWe evaluate DSWT performance using thestandard evaluation metrics: Precision, Recall,and F-measure.
Precision and Recall values arecalculated separately for each dialect using agold standard.
They are calculated using the cas-es described below:A: The dialectal or spoken language transforma-tion yields one or many correct standard writtenlanguage words.B: The dialectal or spoken language transforma-tion yields at least one correct standard writtenlanguage word.C: The dialectal or spoken language transforma-tion yields no output.D: Number of dialectal or spoken languagewords given as input.Precision is then calculated as: A/(D-C)Recall is calculated as: (A+B)/DF-Measure is the harmonic mean of Precisionand Recall.The obtained results for the considered 5 Tamildialects and common spoken language forms aresummarized in Table 5 above.6.2 Indirect EvaluationFor indirect evaluation, we had used DSWT withGoogle Translate (GT) to measure the influenceof DSWT in Tamil-English machine translation,and evaluated the improvement.Our test data had 100 Tamil sentences whichare of dialectal and colloquial in nature.
At first,we used GT to translate these sentences to Eng-lish.
This is Output1.
Then we used our DSWTto transform the dialectal sentences into standardwritten Tamil.
After this, the standard sentenceswere translated to English using GT.
This cor-responds to Output2.We then performed subjective evaluations ofOutput1 and Output2 with the help of three na-tive Tamil speakers whose second language isEnglish.
The three evaluation scores for eachsentence in Output1 and Output2 are averaged.The obtained scores are shown in Table 6.Subjective EvaluationScores before  dialectalTransformationSubjective EvaluationScores after dialectalTransformationNo.
ofsentencesAchievedScoresNo.
ofSentencesAchievedScores20 0 4 070 1 14 18 2 28 22 3 30 30 4 24 4Table 6.
Subjective evaluation resultsWe used a scoring scale of  0-4 where0 ?
no translation happened.43Before performing Dialectal Transformation Task After performing Dialectal Transformation TaskDialectal Spoken Tamil Google Translate results Standardized Written Tamil Google Translate results.
(otanee  vanthuru)vanturu otane.
(?)
.
(utanee  vanthuvitu)Come immediately.
(?).
(otanee  vanthurula)vanturula otane.
(?)
.
(utanee  vanthuvitu)Come immediately.
(?).
(avanga  vanthaanga)she had come.
(?)
.
(avarkaL  vanthaarkaL)They came.
(?).
(avuka vanthaaka)avuka to come.
(?)
.
(avarkaL  vanthaarkaL)They came.
(?
)Table 7.
Tamil-English Google Translate results before and after dialectal text transformationSentences marked as (?)
are incorrectly translated into English and those that are marked as (?)
maybe partially correct.
The sentences that are marked as (?)
are the correct English translations.1 ?
lexical translation of few words happenand no meaning can be inferred from thetranslation output.2 ?
complete lexical translations happen andsome meaning can be inferred from thetranslation output.3 ?
meaning can be inferred from translationoutput but contains some grammaticalerrors.4 ?
complete meaning is understandable withvery minor errors.It can be observed from the results in Table 6that GT failed to translate dialectal and spokenlanguage sentences.
But the failure got mitigatedafter transformation causing dramatic improve-ment in translation quality.
The following Tableillustrates few examples where the translationquality has improved after transforming dialectalspoken language.It must be noted from Table 7 that after thetransformation of dialectal spoken language, allthe sentences were able to achieve their Englishequivalents during machine translation.
Thissuggests that almost all word categories in Tamilcan achieve improved translations if the wordsare given as standard simple written languagewords.
This experiment emphasizes the impor-tance of feeding the machine translation systemswith standard written language text to achievequality translations and better results.7 Results and DiscussionWe observe that the achieved accuracy is higherfor Kongu Tamil dialect when compared to otherdialects.
This is because words in this dialect arerarely polysemous in nature.
But the number ofpolysemous words is high in the case of Maduraiand Tirunelveli Tamil dialect and this resulted inlow accuracy of transformation.While performing transformation, the possiblecauses for ending up with unknown words maybe due to the absence of suffix patterns in FSTs,errors in input words, uncommonly transliteratedwords, and English acronyms.
The standard writ-ten language words convey a particular meaningin standard literary Tamil and completely differ-ent meaning in dialectal usages.
For instance,consider the verb ?vanthaaka?.
In standard lite-rary Tamil, this is used in the imperative sense?should come?
while in Tirunelveli Tamil dialectit is used in the sense ?somebody came?.8 Conclusion and Future WorkWe have presented a dialectal and spoken lan-guage to standard written language transformerfor Tamil language and evaluated its perfor-mance directly using standard evaluation metricsand indirectly using Google Translate for Tamilto English machine translation.
The achievedresults are encouraging.There is no readily available corpus forprocessing dialectal and spoken Tamil texts andwe have collected the dialectal and spoken lan-guage corpus for developmental and evaluationtasks.
This corpus can be made use of for devel-oping other NLP applications.In case of one-to-many mapping, multiplewritten language forms will be emitted as out-puts.
Hence, determining which written-form ofword to be adopted over other resultant written-forms has to be done based on the meaning of thewhole sentence in which the spoken-languageword occurs.
This will be the focus of our futuredirection of the work.44ReferencesA.
K. Ramanujan.
1968.
Spoken and Written Tamil,the verb.
University of Chicago.
Pages 74.Fuchun Peng, Fangfang Feng and Andrew McCallum.2004.Chinese Segmentation and New Word Detec-tion using Conditional Random Fields, ComputerScience Department Faculty Publication Series.Paper 92.
University of Massachusetts ?
Amherst.Harold F. Schiffman.
1979.
A Grammar of SpokenTamil, Christian Literature Society, Madras, India.Pp.
i-viii, 1-104.Harold F. Schiffman.
1988.
Standardization or res-tandardization: The case for ?Standard?
SpokenTamil, Language in Society, Cambridge UniversityPress, United States of America.
Pages 359-385.Harold F. Schiffman.
1999.
A Reference Grammar ofSpoken Tamil, Cambridge University Press, Pp.
i-xxii,1-232.J.
Lafferty, A. McCallum, and F. Pereira.
2001.
Con-ditional Random Fields: Probabilistic Models forSegmenting and Labeling Sequence Data.
In Pro-ceedings of the 18th International Conference onMachine Learning, pages 282?289.Marimuthu K., Amudha K., Bakiyavathi T. and SobhaLalitha Devi.
2013.
Word Boundary Identifier as aCatalyzer and Performance Booster for TamilMorphological Analyzer, in proceedings of 6thLanguage and Technology Conference, HumanLanguage Technologies as a challenge for Com-puter Science and Linguistics, Poznan, Poland.Milton Singer and Bernard S. Cohn.
2007.
The Struc-ture of Variation: A Study in Caste Dialects, Struc-ture and Change in Indian Society, University ofChicago, Chapter 19, pages 461-470.Nizar Habash and Owen Rambow.
2006.
MAGEAD:A Morphological Analyzer and Generator for theArabic Dialects, In proceedings of the 21st Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguisticsand 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, Sydney, Aus-tralia.
Pages 681-688Sajib Dasgupta and Vincent Ng.
2007.
UnsupervisedWord Segmentation for Bangla, In proceedings ofthe Fifth International Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing(ICON), Hyderabad, India.Taku Kudo, Kaoru Yamamoto and Yuji Matsumoto.2004.
Applying Conditional Random Fields to Jap-anese Morphological Analysis, In proceedings ofEmpirical Methods on Natural LanguageProcessing, Barcelona, Spain.Umamaheswari E, Karthika Ranganathan, Geetha TV,Ranjani Parthasarathi, and Madhan Karky.
2011.Enhancement of Morphological Analyzer withcompound, numeral and colloquial word handler,Proceedings of ICON-2011: 9th International Con-ference on Natural Language Processing, Macmil-lan Publishers, India.45
