Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Language Technologies and Computational Social Science, pages 5?7,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 26, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsOverview of the 2014 NLP Unshared Task in PoliInformaticsNoah A. Smith?Claire Cardie?Anne L. Washington?John D.
Wilkerson?
?School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA?Department of Computer Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA?School of Public Policy, George Mason University, Arlington, VA 22201, USA?Department of Political Science, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA?Corresponding author: nasmith@cs.cmu.eduAbstractWe describe a research activity carriedout during January?April 2014, seeking toincrease engagement between the naturallanguage processing research communityand social science scholars.
In this activ-ity, participants were offered a corpus oftext relevant to the 2007?8 financial cri-sis and an open-ended prompt.
Their re-sponses took the form of a short paperand an optional demonstration, to which apanel of judges will respond with the goalof identifying efforts with the greatest po-tential for future interdisciplinary collabo-ration.1 IntroductionIn recent years, numerous interdisciplinary re-search meetings have sought to bring togethercomputer scientists with expertise in automatedtext data analysis and scholars with substan-tive interests that might make use of text data.The latter group has included political scientists,economists, and communications scholars.
AnNSF Research Coordination Network grant to en-courage research using open government data wasawarded to co-authors Washington and Wilker-son in 2013.
The network for Political Informat-ics, or PoliInformatics, brought together a steeringcommittee from diverse research backgrounds thatconvened in February 2013.
At that meeting, asubstantive focus on the 2007?8 nancial crisis wasselected.Drawing inspiration from the ?shared task?model that has been successful in the natural lan-guage processing community, we designed a re-search competition for computer scientists.
In ashared task, a gold-standard dataset is created inadvance of the competition, inputs and outputs aredefined by the organizers, typically creating a su-pervised learning setup with held-out data used forevaluation.
Constraints on the resources that maybe used are typically set in place as well, to fo-cus the energies of participants on a core prob-lem, and the official evaluation scores are pub-lished, usually as open-source software.
Final sys-tems (or system output) is submitted by a dead-line and judged automatically against the gold-standard.
Participants report on their systems inshort papers, typically presented at a meeting as-sociated with a conference or workshop.With neither a clear definition of what the fi-nal outcome might be, nor the resources to createthe necessary gold-standard data, we developed amore open-ended competition.
A text corpus wascollected and made available, and a prompt wasoffered.
Participants were given freedom in howto respond; competition entries took the form ofshort research papers and optional demonstrationsof the results of the projects.
Rather than an ob-jective score, a panel of judges organized by thePoliInformatics steering committee offered publicreviews of the work, with an emphasis on poten-tial for future interdisciplinary research efforts thatmight stem from these preliminary projects.2 SetupThe prompts offered to participants were:Who was the financial crisis?
We seek to un-derstand the participants in the lawmaking andregulatory processes that formed the government?sresponse to the crisis: the individuals, indus-tries, and professionals targeted by those poli-cies; the agencies and organizations responsi-ble for implementing them; and the lobbyists,witnesses, advocates, and politicians who wereactively involved?and the connections amongthem.What was the financial crisis?
We seek to un-derstand the cause(s) of the crisis, proposals forreform, advocates for those proposals, arguments5for and against, policies ultimately adopted by thegovernment, and the impact of those policies.The set of datasets made available is listed inTable 1.
Several additional datasets were sug-gested on the website,1but were not part of theofficial data.3 ResponseForty teams initially registered to participate in theunshared task; ten submitted papers.
The teamscame from a variety of institutions spread acrosssix countries.
Half of the teams included links toonline demonstrations or browsable system out-put.
At this writing, the papers are under reviewby the panel of judges.
We provide a very briefsummary of the contributions of each team.3.1 Who was the financial crisis?Bordea et al.
(2014) inferred importance and hi-erarchy of topics along with expertise mining tofind which participants in the discourse might beexperts (e.g., Paul Volcker and ?proprietary trad-ing?)
based on FOMC, FCIC, and Congressionalhearing and report data.Baerg et al.
(2014) considered transcripts of theFOMC, developing a method for scaling the pref-erences of its members with respect to inflation(hawks to doves); the method incorporates auto-matic dimensionality reduction and expert topicinterpretation.Zirn et al.
(2014) also focused on the transcripts,distinguishing between position-taking statementsand shorter ?discussion elements?
that expressagreement or disagreement rather than substance,and used this analysis to quantify similarity amongFOMC members and take first steps toward extrac-tion of sub-dialogues among them.Bourreau and Poibeau (2014) focused on theFCIC report and the two Congressional reports,identifying named entities and then visualizingcorrelations among mentions both statically (asnetworks) and dynamically.
Clark et al.
(2014)considered Congressional hearings, applying areasoning model that integrates analysis of socialroles and relationships with analysis of individ-ual beliefs in hope of detecting opinion shifts andsigns of influence.With an eye toward substantive hypothesesabout dependencies among banks?
access to1https://sites.google.com/site/unsharedtask2014bailout funds relating to underlying social con-nections, Morales et al.
(2014) automatically ex-tracted a social network from the corpus alongsidestructured data in Freebase.3.2 What was the financial crisis?Miller and McCoy (2014) considered FOMC tran-scripts, applying topic models for dimensionalityreduction and viewing topic proportions as timeseries.In a study of the TARP, Dodd-Frank, and thehealth reform bills, Li et al.
(2014) explored theideas expressed in those bills, applying models oftext reuse from bills introduced in the 110th and111th Congresses.Wang et al.
(2014) implemented a query-focused summarization system for FOMC andFCIC meeting transcripts and Congressional hear-ings, incorporating topic and expertise measuresinto the score, and queried the corpus with candi-date causes for the crisis, derived from Wikipedia(e.g., ?subprime lending?
and ?growth housingbubble?
).Kleinnijenhuis et al.
(2014) considered Con-gressional hearings alongside news text from theUnited States and the United Kingdom, carryingout keyword analysis to compare and measure di-rectional effects between the two, on different di-mensions.4 ConclusionThe unshared task was successful in attracting theinterest of forty participants working on ten teams.A highly diverse range of activities ensued, eachof which is being reviewed at this writing by apanel of judges.
Reviews and final outcomes willbe posted at the https://sites.google.com/site/unsharedtask2014 as soon asthey are available, and a presentation summariz-ing the competition will be part of the ACL 2014Workshop on Language Technologies and Com-putational Social Science.AcknowledgmentsWe thank the participants and judges for their timeand effort.
This activity was supported in part byNSF grants 1243917 and 1054319.6?
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC):?
Meeting transcripts are only made available five years after each meeting date.
(The 2008 transcripts came availablearound the time of the activity and were kindly made available by participant William Li.)?
Meeting minutes are available for all meetings to date.?
Federal Crisis Inquiry Commission (FCIC; an independent commission created by Congress to investigate the causes ofthe crisis):?
Report?
Transcript of the first public hearing?
Congressional reports:?
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs: ?Wall Street and the financial crisis: anatomyof a financial collapse??
House Committee on Financial Services: ?The stock market plunge: what happened and what is next???
Congressional bills:?
Troubled Assets Relief Program, 2008 (TARP)?
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010)?
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Stimulus)?
Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008?
Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley)?
Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (Gramm-Leach-Bliley)?
In addition to the above financial reform bills, the text of all versions of all Congressional bills introduced in the110th and 111th Congresses?
Congressional hearings, segmented into turns:?
Monetary policy (26)?
TARP (12)?
Dodd-Frank (61)?
Other selected committee hearings relating to financial reform (15)Table 1: Text datasets made available to unshared task participants.
These can be downloaded at https://sites.google.com/site/unsharedtask2014.ReferencesNicole Rae Baerg, Will Lowe, Simone Ponzetto,Heiner Stuckenschmidt, and C?acilia Zirn.
2014.
Es-timating central bank preferences.Georgeta Bordea, Kartik Asooja, Paul Buitelaar, andLeona O?Brien.
2014.
Gaining insights into theglobal financial crisis using Saffron.Pierre Bourreau and Thierry Poibeau.
2014.
Map-ping the economic crisis: Some preliminary inves-tigations.Micah Clark, Adam Dalton, Tomas By, Yorick Wilks,Samira Shaikh, Ching-Sheng Lin, and Tomek Strza-lkowski.
2014.
Influence and belief in Congres-sional hearings.Jan Kleinnijenhuis, Wouter van Atteveldt, and AntskeFokkens.
2014.
Chicken or egg?
the reciprocal in-fluence of press and politics.William P. Li, David Larochelle, and Andrew W. Lo.2014.
Estimating policy trajectories during the fi-nancial crisis.John E. Miller and Kathleen F. McCoy.
2014.
Chang-ing focus of the FOMC through the financial crisis.Michelle Morales, David Brizan, Hussein Ghaly,Thomas Hauner, Min Ma, and Andrew Rosenberg.2014.
Application of social network analysis in theestimation of bank financial strength during the fi-nancial crisis.Lu Wang, Parvaz Mahdabi, Joonsuk Park, Dinesh Pu-ranam, Bishan Yang, and Claire Cardie.
2014.Cornell expert aided query-focused summarization(CEAQS): A summarization framework to PoliIn-formatics.C?acilia Zirn, Michael Sch?afer, Simone Paolo Ponzetto,and Michael Strube.
2014.
Exploring structural fea-tures for position analysis in political discussions.7
