Proceedings of the 2014 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2014), pages 112?117,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26-27 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSeeking Informativeness in Literature Based DiscoveryJudita PreissUniversity of Sheffield, Department of Computer ScienceRegent Court, 211 PortobelloSheffield S1 4DP, United Kingdomj.preiss@sheffield.ac.ukAbstractThe continuously increasing number ofpublications within the biomedical domainhas fuelled the creation of literature baseddiscovery (LBD) systems which identifyunconnected pieces of knowledge appear-ing in separate literatures which can becombined to make new discoveries.
With-out filtering, the amount of hidden knowl-edge found is vast due to noise, making itimpractical for a researcher to examine, orclinically evaluate, the potential discover-ies.
We present a number of filtering tech-niques, including two which exploit theLBD system itself rather than being basedon a statistical or manual examination ofdocument collections, and we demonstrateusefulness via replication of known dis-coveries.1 Introduction and backgroundThe number of publications in the biomedical do-main has been observed to increase at a great rate,making it impossible for one person to read all,and thus potentially leaving knowledge hidden:for example, Swanson (1986) found one publica-tion mentioning a connection between Raynaud?sDisease and blood viscosity while another pointedout the effect of fish oil on blood viscosity, butthere was no publication making the connectionbetween fish oil and Raynaud?s Disease.
Auto-mated approaches to knowledge discovery oftenset up the problem as outlined by Swanson; A be-ing the source term (in this case Raynaud?s Dis-ease), with a possible target term, C, being speci-fied (fish oil) and any connections between themform the linking, B, terms.
If C is not speci-fied, all possible hidden links from A are exploredand discovery is classified as open.
If both A andC terms are supplied, the discovery is closed andonly any linking, B, terms are being sought.Independent of how a connection between an Aterm and a B is defined (whether this is based on Aand B co-occurring in the same title, in the samesentence or the same document, or some otherrelation), an obvious difficulty is the amount ofdata generated by a technique along these lines:with no filtering, a great number of connectionswill be made through terms such as clinical studyor patient, and, if not also linked through otherterms, these should be discarded.
A number ofapproaches to term reduction have been explored.Swanson and Smalheiser (1999)?s knowledgediscovery system, Arrowsmith,1contains an in-creasing, currently 9,500 term (Swanson et al.,2006), stoplist, created semi-automatically.2Sucha stoplist is unlikely to be complete ?
the listhas grown from 5,000 (Swanson and Smalheiser,1997) to 9,500 words (Swanson et al., 2006) andis likely to keep increasing.
Over fitting is po-tentially an issue, in this case the list generatedhas been criticized for being tuned for the originalRaynaud?fish oil discovery (Weeber et al., 2001).A word based stoplist also does not take into ac-count the potential ambiguity of terms: one sensemay be highly frequent and uninformative, guar-anteeing it an appearance in the stoplist, while an-other sense may be rare but highly informative.Instead of using words directly, it is possible toemploy a (much smaller) controlled vocabulary:Medical Subject Headings (MeSH), consisting of22,500 codes, are (mostly) manually assigned toeach document indexed in Medline ?
even thoughmultiple MeSH codes for a document are allowed,restricting to this set greatly reduces dimensional-ity.
For example, Srinivasan (2004) uses MeSHbased topic profiles to connect A to topics C viathe most likely MeSH terms.1Available at http://arrowsmith.psych.uic.edu/arrowsmith_uic/index.html2Note that only 365 words of this stoplist are publiclyavailable.112Keeping entire vocabularies is possible if topicsare limited, for example, Fleuren et al (2011) ex-tract statistics regarding gene co-occurrence, andrestricts their hidden knowledge generation to bi-ological mechanisms related to them.Another difficulty in using word vocabularies isthe necessary identification of multiwords, Wee-ber at al.
(2001) avoid previously tried n-gramtechniques (e.g.
(Gordon and Lindsay, 1996)) byswitching knowledge discovery to UMLS ConceptUnique Identifiers (CUIs).
Using MetaMap (Rind-flesch and Aronson, 1994) to assign CUIs to textsdiscards non content words (CUIs only exist forconcepts), resolves ambiguity and deals with mul-tiwords in one, thus reducing the number of termsconsidered in later stages.
Weeber et al.
also ex-ploit the broad subject categories that UMLS as-signs to each CUI, which allow the authors to per-form domain specific filtering to reduce dimen-sionality.
This they do on a per search basis, tun-ing the filtering to the replication experiments pre-sented.Dimensionality reduction can also be performedat the relation level.
Swanson?s (1997) originalwork deemed two terms connected if they bothappeared in the title of an abstract ?
titles werethought to be the most informative, and descrip-tive, part of each article.
As the number of ab-stracts explored during the knowledge discoveryprocess increased, and connections were extendedto whole abstracts (rather than titles only), theamount of hidden knowledge generated increaseddramatically and with it did the need for term andconnection filtering.Hristovski et al (2006) argue for filtering withinthe relation definition ?
co-occurrence does notprovide any basis for a relation between twoterms, no underlying semantic reason, and thus, aswell as leading to many spurious links, it yieldsno justification for a hidden connection that isfound.
They extract subject-relation-object triples,with relations such as treats or affects formingtheir UMLS concept relations, leading to a muchsmaller number of (more accurate) relations to de-rive hidden knowledge from.While re-ranking (placing the most ?useful?links at the top of the list) the resulting hiddenknowledge is clearly valuable, removing termsfrom consideration prior to identifying hiddenknowledge will reduce the computational loadas well as avoid noisy hidden knowledge beingproduced and possibly accidentally being highlyranked.We explore a number of filtering approaches in-cluding two novel techniques which can be inte-grated into any method designed using the Swan-son framework, and we compare these againstpreviously explored filtering methods.
Section 2outlines our knowledge discovery approach, Sec-tion 3 presents a number of filtering approacheswith Section 4 discussing results based on repli-cation of existing knowledge and Section 5 drawsour conclusions.2 Knowledge discovery systemThere are two main components which definean LBD system created following the Swansonframework: the terms and the relations.
Based onarguments presented in Section 1, our system em-ploys UMLS CUIs as produced by SemRep (Rind-flesch and Fiszman, 2003), a natural language pro-cessing system which identifies semantic relationsin biomedical text.3SemRep extracts relation triples from text byrunning a set of rules over the output of an under-specified parser.
The rules, such as the mappingof treatment to TREATS, map syntactic indicatorsto predicates in the Semantic Network.
Further re-strictions are imposed regarding the permissibilityof arguments, the viability of the given proposi-tions, and other syntactic constraints, resulting inrelations such as?
Epoprostenol TREATS Raynaud Phenomenon?
blood rheology DIAGNOSES Raynaud DiseaseEach triple is also output with the correspondingCUIs.All 29 non negative relations were extracted(such as AFFECTS, ASSOCIATED WITH, INTER-ACTS WITH, .
.
.
), while negative relations (suchas NEG AFFECTS, NEG ASSOCIATED WITH,NEG INTERACTS WITH, .
.
. )
were dropped.
Theextracted relations form the connections betweenCUIs: i.e., the set of linking CUIs B is createdby following all SemRep links from the CUI A,which lead to C through another SemRep relation.3In this work, the SemRep annotated Medline data,database semmedVER24 (processed up to November 2013)run over 23,319,737 citations to yield 68,000,470 predica-tions, was downloaded from http://skr3.nlm.nih.gov and used throughout.1133 Filtering approachesWhile employing CUIs (rather than words) elimi-nates non content words (thus immediately reduc-ing noise), it does not eliminate CUIs correspond-ing to patient, week, statement .
.
.
We present, andin Section 4 evaluate (individually and in combi-nation), four filtering approaches of which two are,to our knowledge, completely novel.3.1 SynonymsWhile not a filtering method under the usual def-inition, the identification of synonym CUIs andcollapsing thereof results in the reduction of thenumber of CUIs being used (i.e.
the technique fil-ters out some CUIs).A manual examination of the documents con-taining CUI C0034734, Raynaud Disease, re-vealed that some of the expected connections weremissing and were linked to CUI C0034735, Ray-naud Phenomenon, instead.
The resulting hid-den knowledge is greatly affected by the particu-lar CUI chosen as the source term A, yet in thiscase, the two CUIs are synonymous.
The MR-REL related concepts file within UMLS containspairs of CUIs within related relationships, includ-ing the SY (source asserted synonymy) relation-ship4, and CUIs C0034734 and C0034735 appearin the SY relationship in this list.
Identifying con-cepts within the SY relationship has the followingadvantages:?
Merging such synonyms into classes will al-low the retrieval of more hidden knowledge ifthe multiple synonymous CUIs correspond tothe start point, A (as in the case of RaynaudDisease).?
There will be potentially more hidden knowl-edge created if a multiclass CUI is a linkingterm (as A connected to C0034734 and Cconnected to C0034735 would not have beenfound to be connected if these were the onlypotential overlap).?
Synonymous hidden knowledge (and linkingterms) will merge, reducing the amount ofknowledge (and terms) to manually explore.Merging synonyms into single CUI classes re-duces the 561,155 CUIs present in UMLS to540,440 CUI classes.54Due to the version of SemRep files used, UMLS 2013AAis employed throughout.5Note that other MRREL related relationships were ex-3.2 Semantic typesThe UMLS Semantic Network consists of 133 se-mantic types, a type of subject category, which isassigned to each CUI.
Many of these categoriesare clearly unhelpful for knowledge discovery (forexample, geographic area or language), and 70semantic types are manually selected for removal(by examining the basic information about the re-lation, as well as the structure of the network andthe CUIs assigned each semantic type).
This re-moves a further 121,284 CUIs.3.3 Discarding common linking termsIn some cases, a given CUI is clearly too generalto be a useful linking term, but its semantic typecontains more specific CUIs which should not beremoved.
Restricting semantic type filtering basedon the depth within the hierarchy is also not a vi-able option, as UMLS is composed of differenthierarchies, each with a different level of granu-larity and establishing an overall threshold wouldlikely include general terms for some while dis-carding crucial terms for others.
Therefore anotherapproach is needed for these CUIs.Along the lines of Swanson et al (2006), a sto-plist can be built to contain such terms, withoutover-training for a particular discovery and with-out the need for manual intervention: we hypoth-esize that any CUIs which are linking terms moreoften than others can effectively form a stoplist.The creation of this stoplist can be performediteratively:1.
Start with an empty stoplist set S.2.
Create hidden knowledge based on SemRepconnections between CUIs, removing anyconnections to CUIs in set S (the hiddenknowledge is acquired from Medline articlespublished between 1865 and 2000).3.
Randomly select 10,000 hidden knowledgepairs, identify their linking CUIs, and addany linking CUIs appearing in more thanthreshold of pairs to S (the value of thresh-old needs to be empirically determined).4.
If Step 3 increased the size of S, return toStep 2.Note that since the training set is not designed forany particular discovery, this should not result inan over trained stoplist.plored, but completing cycles lead to multiple extremely largeequivalence classes.1143.4 Breaking high frequency connectionsThe creation of a stoplist will always suffer fromomissions and inclusions of CUIs that should notbe filtered out in every instance.
The last approachis based on a slightly different underlying idea: in-stead of finding frequently appearing terms, thisapproach bases its decisions on the number ofterms a given term is connected to.Two CUIs A and B are deemed connected if a(non negative) SemRep relation exists which linksthem.
If A corresponds to a term such as studyor patient, it is expected to be connected to a largenumber of CUIs.
We hypothesize that terms whichare so highly connected are likely to be relativelygeneral terms, and so uninformative linking terms.This gives rise to the following filtering options:1.
Break (discard) all connections to CUI Awhen the C(A) > threshold.2.
Discard the connection between CUIs A andB when min(C(A), C(B)) > threshold.
(Where C(A) represents the number of CUIslinked to A, and the threshold needs to be empiri-cally determined.
)Method 1 effectively forms a stoplist of highlyconnected CUIs, but method 2 is different: onlyconnections satisfying the condition are brokenwhile A remains under consideration.
This allowsfiltering method 2 to leave a frequently connectedterm to be a linking term for a rare term (unlikemethod 1, which would discard such a term).4 ResultsSwanson?s original discoveries (Swanson, 1986;Swanson, 1988) were verified through clinical tri-als and evaluation of LBD systems often involvesreplication of these discoveries (Gordon and Lind-say, 1996; Weeber et al., 2001).
From literature,we identify seven separate discoveries to replicate(presented with the labels used in Table 1):RD: Raynaud disease and fish oil (Swanson,1986).Arg: Somatomedin C and arginine (Swanson,1990).Mg: Migraine disorders and magnesium (Hu etal., 2006).ND: Magnesium deficiency and neurologic dis-ease (Smalheiser and Swanson, 1994).INN: Alzheimer?s and indomethacin (Smalheiserand Swanson, 1996a).estrogen: Alzheimer?s disease and estrogen(Smalheiser and Swanson, 1996b).Ca2+iPLA2: Schizophrenia and Calcium-Independent Phospholipase A2 (Smalheiserand Swanson, 1997).The same subset of Medline as in each origi-nal discovery is employed for replication, andany abstracts containing a direct link between thetwo terms are removed (note that including thesewould not have affected the original discoveries asthese only used titles) ?
thus any connections be-tween A and C are necessarily hidden and requireat least one linking term.The Raynaud-fish oil and migraine-magnesiumconnections are the most commonly replicateddiscoveries, while the remaining discoveries arerarely explored.
For CUI based investigations, thisis likely due to the difficulty of selecting a repre-sentative CUI for the sought concepts.
The sec-ond concept in the Schizophrenia and Calcium-Independent Phospholipase A2 connection is par-ticularly tricky: UMLS suggests CUI C1418624(PLA2G6 gene) as the most likely match, followedby CUI C2830173 (Calcium-Independent Phos-pholipase A2) as the second most likely.
How-ever, neither CUI is found in any relations in thegiven date range by SemRep.
Closer examina-tion reveals that the Ca2+iPLA2 connections inthe 1960-1997 Medline range are between CUIC0538273 (PLA2G6 protein, human).
Not onlydoes this highlight the difficulty of the replicationtask, it further motivates the need for a ?synonym?
(or related concept) list.The number of linking terms found betweeneach pair of sought terms is presented in Table 1(zero linking terms means the connection was notfound) for a subset of the filtering results.
ST rep-resents semantic type filtering, HF the breaking ofhigh frequency connections (a min subscript de-noting the version which takes into account con-nectivity of both CUIs), together with the thresh-old value, and LT elimination of common linkingterms, again with the relevant threshold value.While the Raynaud-fish oil connection appearsto be consistently produced by the system, Table 2reveals the value of filtering: with no filtering, thetwo linking terms are pure noise and the connec-tion should not be made.
Employing UMLS syn-115RD Arg Mg ND INN estrogen Ca2+iPLA2No filtering 2 235 78 98 370 500 7Synonyms (Sy) 6 173 58 65 296 415 16Sy & LT-200 3 145 48 56 265 0 16Sy & HF-2900 6 149 56 52 243 0 14Sy & HFmin-900 6 73 22 27 82 164 9Sy & HFmin-400 6 25 5 8 25 65 8Sy & ST 4 130 47 43 234 331 13Sy & ST & LT-200 3 108 41 38 207 0 13Sy & ST & HF-2500 4 120 47 38 205 0 13Sy & ST & HFmin-900 6 73 22 27 82 164 9Sy & ST & HFmin-400 4 28 6 12 30 73 6Table 1: Number of hidden links found during replicationonyms adds genuine linking terms,6and restrict-ing by semantic types drops the remaining generalterms.
Discarding common linking terms finds an-timicrobial susceptibility to be a frequently usedlinking term, and it is also dropped.
A great ad-vantage of the technique can be seen when con-nections are made through hundreds of terms ?in this case, higher thresholds (and thus more ag-gressive filtering) can be employed to reduce thenumber of linking terms to the most promising set.Should these not be sufficient, the threshold canbe increased to produce more linking terms and assuch, the burden on the user in checking a largenumber of linking terms when a hidden connec-tion is suspected can be greatly reduced, withoutsacrificing connections should more be needed.Term NF Sy Sy ST LT-200acetylsalicyclic acid ?
X X Xantimicrobial susceptibility ?
X X ?blood viscosity ?
X X Xbrain infarction ?
X X Xpatient X X ?
?volunteer helper X X ?
?Table 2: Linking term analysis for RDFor example, common linking term filtering re-moves the term estrogen from consideration astherapeutic estrogen is a commonly used linkingterm, making the estrogen-AD link impossible tofind.
Linking term frequencies (on a 10,000 pairsample) exceeding values from 50 to 200 (in incre-ments of 50) were tested resulting in the removal6Note that the merging of synonyms is achieved with-out the need to back off to general classes (e.g.
(Srinivasan,2004)), which have been observed to lead to connectionsbased on ?aboutness?
rather than producing genuine hiddenknowledge (Beresi et al., 2008).of between 1,902 and 227 CUIs.
Therapeutic es-trogen appears in all the lists.
Similarly, the CUIis dropped when high frequency connections arebroken using the first technique, which is based onstoplists.
This highlights the value of the secondhigh frequency connection technique, which onlydiscards particular connections (rather than CUIs)and therapeutic estrogen CUI remains a search-able CUI.As shown, the system replicates most of thepreviously published discoveries with its main as-set being noise reduction: the number of linkingterms for a suspected connection (closed discov-ery) can be greatly reduced to remove spuriousconnections, with backoffs available to yield moreconnections should more be required.
For novelapplications (i.e.
open discovery), the techniquegreatly reduces the amount of hidden knowledgegenerated from a source term A.
For example, theamount of hidden knowledge generated from so-matomedin C drops from 82,601 CUIs when nofiltering is performed, to 3,005 CUIs with syn-onym, semantic type and breaking connectionswith frequency more than 200, which representsa great reduction for a user who is likely lookingfor a particular type of C term.5 Conclusions and future workWe present and demonstrate the effectiveness of anumber of filtering methods, including two noveltechniques based on any LBD system built accord-ing to the Swanson framework ?
one approachbased on stoplist methods, but requiring no man-ual intervention except for a user?s selection of athreshold, and the second based on removing con-nections when these are deemed to be likely to116contribute mainly noise.
A great advantage of thesecond approach is shown to be the fact that termsare not directly discarded, as with a stoplist, andthus a fairly common term can remain a sourceterm when required.While the method is evaluated by replicatingknown discoveries, we suggest that the noise re-duction performed is ultimately leading to a muchmore user friendly LBD system, and plan to inves-tigate other evaluation approaches, such as times-licing (Yetisgen-Yildiz and Pratt, 2009), as part offuture work.AcknowledgementsJudita Preiss was supported by the EPSRC grantEP/J008427/1: Language Processing for Litera-ture Based Discovery in Medicine.ReferencesUlises Cervino Beresi, Mark Baillie, and Ian Ruthven.2008.
Towards the evaluation of literature based dis-covery.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on NovelEvaluation Methodologies (at ECIR 2008), pages 5?13.Wilco W. M. Fleuren, Stefan Verhoeven, Raoul Frijters,Bart Heupers, Jan Polman, Ren?e van Schaik, Jacobde Vlieg, and Wynand Alkema.
2011.
Copub up-date: Copub 5.0 a text mining system to answer bio-logical questions.
Nuclear Acids Research, 39 (WebServer issue).
doi:10.1093/nar/gkr310.Michael D. Gordon and Robert K. Lindsay.
1996.
To-ward discovery support systems: a replication, re-examination, and extension of Swanson?s work onliterature-based discovery of a connection betweenRaynaud?s and fish oil.
Journal of the American So-ciety for Information Science, 47(2):116?128.Thomas C. Rindflesch Hristovski D, Friedman C andPeterlin B.
2006.
Exploiting semantic relationsfor literature-based discovery.
In Proceedings of the2006 AMIA Annual Symposium, pages 349?353.Xiaohua Hu, Xiaodan Zhang, Illhoi Yoo, and YanquingZang.
2006.
A semantic approach for mining hid-den links from complementary and non-interactivebiomedical literature.
In SDM.Thomas C. Rindflesch and Alan R. Aronson.
1994.Ambiguity resolution while mapping free text tothe UMLS Metathesaurus.
In J. G. Ozbolt, edi-tor, Proceedings of the Eigheeth Annual Symposiumon Computer Appplications in Medical Care, pages240?244.Thomas C. Rindflesch and Marcelo Fiszman.
2003.The interaction of domain knowledge and linguis-tic structure in natural language processing: inter-preting hypernymic propositions in biomedical text.Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 36(6):462?477.Neil R. Smalheiser and Don R. Swanson.
1994.
As-sessing a gap in the biomedical literature: Mag-nesium deficiency and neurologic disease.
Neuro-science Research Communications, 15(1):1?9.Neil R. Smalheiser and Don R. Swanson.
1996a.
In-domethacin and Alzheimer?s disease.
Neurology,46:583.Neil R. Smalheiser and Don R. Swanson.
1996b.
Link-ing estrogen to Alzheimer?s disease.
Neurology,47:809?810.Neil R. Smalheiser and Don R. Swanson.
1997.Calcium-independent phospholipase a2 andschizophrenia.
Arch Gen Psychiatry, 55(8):752?753.Padmini Srinivasan.
2004.
Text mining generatinghypotheses from medline.
Journal of the Ameri-can Society for Information Science and Technology,55(5):396?413.Don R. Swanson and Neil R. Smalheiser.
1997.
Aninteractive system for finding complementary litera-tures: A stimulus to scientific discovery.
ArtificialIntelligence, 91:183?203.Don R. Swanson and Neil R. Smalheiser.
1999.
Linkanalysis of MEDLINE titles as an aid to scientificdiscovery: Using Arrowsmith as an aid to scientificdiscovery.
Library Trends, 48:48?59.Don R. Swanson, Neil R. Smalheiser, and Vetle I.Torvik.
2006.
Ranking indirect connnections inliterature-based discovery: The role of medical sub-ject headings.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science and Technology, 57(11):1427?1439.Don R. Swanson.
1986.
Fish oil, Raynaud?s syndrome,and undiscovered public knowledge.
Perspectives inBiology and Medicine, 30:7?18.Don R. Swanson.
1988.
Migraine and magnesium ?
11neglected connections.
Perpectives in Biology andMedicine, 31(4):526?557.Don R. Swanson.
1990.
Somatomedin c and arginine:Implicit connections between mutually isolated lit-eratures.
Perspectives in Biology and Medicine,33(2):157?186.Marc Weeber, Rein Vos, Henny Klein, and Lolkje T. W.de Jong-van den Berg.
2001.
Using concepts inliterature-based discovery: Simulating Swanson?sReynaud ?
fish oil and migraine ?
magnesium dis-coveries.
Journal of the American Society for Infor-mation Science and Technology, 52(7):548?557.M.
Yetisgen-Yildiz and W. Pratt.
2009.
A new eval-uation methodology for literature-based discovery.Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 42(4):633?643.117
