Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Translation (HyTra) @ EACL 2014, pages 67?68,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdventures in Multilingual ParsingJoakim NivreUppsala universityDepartment of Linguistics and PhilologyUppsala, Sweden1 IntroductionThe typological diversity of the world?s languagesposes important challenges for the techniques usedin machine translation, syntactic parsing and otherareas of natural language processing.
Statisti-cal models developed and tuned for English donot necessarily perform well for richly inflectedlanguages, where larger morphological paradigmsand more flexible word order gives rise to datasparseness.
Since paradigms can easily be cap-tured in rule-based descriptions, this suggests thathybrid approaches combining statistical modelingwith linguistic descriptions might be more effec-tive.
However, in order to gain more insight intothe benefits of different techniques from a typolog-ical perspective, we also need linguistic resourcesthat are comparable across languages, somethingthat is currently lacking to a large extent.In this talk, I will report on two ongoing projectsthat tackle these issues in different ways.
In thefirst part, I will describe techniques for joint mor-phological and syntactic parsing that combinesstatistical dependency parsing and rule-based mor-phological analysis, specifically targeting the chal-lenges posed by richly inflected languages.
In thesecond part, I will present the Universal Depen-dency Treebank Project, a recent initiative seekingto create multilingual corpora with morphosyntac-tic annotation that is consistent across languages.2 Morphological and Syntactic ParsingIn Bohnet et al.
(2013), the goal is to improve pars-ing accuracy for morphologically rich languagesby performing morphological and syntactic analy-sis jointly instead of in a pipeline.
In this way, wecan ideally make use of syntactic information todisambiguate morphology, and not just vice versa.We use a transition-based framework for depen-dency parsing, and explore different ways of in-tegrating morphological features into the model.Furthermore, we investigate the use of rule-basedmorphological analyzers to provide hard or softconstraints in order to tackle the sparsity of lexi-cal features.
Evaluation on five morphologicallyrich languages (Czech, Finnish, German, Hungar-ian, and Russian) shows consistent improvementsin both morphological and syntactic accuracy forjoint prediction over a pipeline model, with furtherimprovements thanks to the morphological ana-lyzers.
The final results improve the state of theart in dependency parsing for all languages.3 Treebanks for Multilingual ParsingIn McDonald et al.
(2013), we present a new col-lection of treebanks with homogeneous syntacticannotation for six languages: German, English,Swedish, Spanish, French and Korean.
The an-notation is based on the Google universal part-of-speech tags (Petrov et al., 2012) and the Stanforddependencies (de Marneffe et al., 2006), adaptedand harmonized across languages.
To show theusefulness of such a resource, we also present acase study of cross-lingual transfer parsing withmore reliable evaluation than has been possible be-fore.
The ?universal?
treebank is made freely avail-able in order to facilitate research on multilingualdependency parsing.1A second release includingeleven languages is planned for the spring of 2014.4 ConclusionAlthough both projects reviewed in the talk maycontribute to a better understanding of how natu-ral language processing techniques are affected bylinguistic diversity, there are still important gapsthat need to be filled.
For instance, the universaltreebank annotation still fails to capture most ofthe morphological categories used by the parser.In the final part of the talk, I will try to outlinesome of the challenges that lie ahead of us.1Downloadable at https://code.google.com/p/uni-dep-tb/.67ReferencesBernd Bohnet, Joakim Nivre, Igor Boguslavsky,Rich?ard Farkas, Filip Ginter, and Jan Haji?c.
2013.Joint morphological and syntactic analysis for richlyinflected languages.
Transactions of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, 1:415?428.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Bill MacCartney, andChristopher D. Manning.
2006.
Generating typeddependency parses from phrase structure parses.
InProceedings of the 5th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC).Ryan McDonald, Joakim Nivre, Yvonne Quirmbach-Brundage, Yoav Goldberg, Dipanjan Das, Kuz-man Ganchev, Keith Hall, Slav Petrov, HaoZhang, Oscar T?ackstr?om, Claudia Bedini, N?uriaBertomeu Castell?o, and Jungmee Lee.
2013.
Uni-versal dependency annotation for multilingual pars-ing.
In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics (Vol-ume 2: Short Papers), pages 92?97.Slav Petrov, Dipanjan Das, and Ryan McDonald.
2012.A universal part-of-speech tagset.
In Proceedings ofthe 8th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC).68
