Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 99?103,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsParaphrasing Swedish Compound Nouns in Machine TranslationEdvin Ullman and Joakim NivreDepartment of Linguistics and Philology, Uppsala Universityedvinu@stp.lingfil.uu.se joakim.nivre@lingfil.uu.seAbstractThis paper examines the effect of para-phrasing noun-noun compounds in statis-tical machine translation from Swedishto English.
The paraphrases are meantto elicit the underlying relationship thatholds between the compounding nouns,with the use of prepositional and verbphrases.
Though some types of noun-nouncompounds are too lexicalized, or havesome other qualities that make them un-suitable for paraphrasing, a set of roughlytwo hundred noun-noun compounds areidentified, split and paraphrased to beused in experiments on statistical machinetranslation.
The results indicate a slightimprovement in translation of the para-phrased compound nouns, with a minorloss in overall BLEU score.1 IntroductionSwedish is a highly productive language, newwords can be constructed fairly easily by concate-nating one word with another.
This is done acrossword classes, although, as can be expected, pre-dominantly with content words.
Due to this highproductivity, an exhaustive dictionary of nouncompounds in Swedish does not, and can not exist.Instead, in this project, noun compounds are ex-tracted from the Swedish Europarl corpus (Koehn,2005) and a subset of Swedish Wikipedia,1usinga slight modification of the splitting method de-scribed in Stymne and Holmqvist (2008), basedon previous work by Koehn and Knight (2003).The assumption that paraphrases of noun com-pounds can help in machine translation is sup-1http://sv.wikipedia.org/ported in Nakov and Hearst (2013).
Althoughthis study was conducted with English compoundnouns, a similar methodology is applied to theSwedish data.
The split compound nouns are para-phrased using prepositional and verb phrases, rely-ing on native speaker intuition for the quality andcorrectness of the paraphrases.
A corpus is thenparaphrased using the generated paraphrases andused to train a statistical machine translation sys-tem to test whether or not an improvement of qual-ity can be observed in relation to a baseline sys-tem trained on the unmodified corpus.
The resultsshow a minor improvement in translation qualityfor the paraphrased compounds with a minor lossin overall BLEU score.2 BackgroundPrevious studies on the semantics of compoundnouns have, at least for the English language, ingeneral focused on finding abstract categories todistinguish different compound nouns from eachother.
Although different in form, the main ideais that a finite set of relations hold between theconstituents of all compound nouns.
Experimentshave been done to analyse such categories in Girjuet al.
(2005), and applied studies on paraphrasingcompound nouns with some form of predicativerepresentation of these abstract categories wereperformed in Nakov and Hearst (2013).Studies on Swedish compound nouns have hada slightly different angle.
As Swedish noun com-pounding is done in a slightly different mannerthan in English, two nouns can be adjoined toform a third, two focal points in previous studieshave been detecting compound nouns (Sj?oberghand Kann, 2004) and splitting compound nouns(Stymne and Holmqvist, 2008; Stymne, 2009).Swedish nouns are compounded by concatenat-99Type Interfixes ExampleNone riskkapital(risk + kapital)risk capitalAdditions -s -t frihetsl?angtan(frihet + l?angtan)longing for peaceTruncations -a -e pojkv?an(pojke + v?an)boyfriendCombinations -a/-s -a/-t arbetsgrupp-e/-s -e/-t (arbete + grupp)working groupTable 1: Compound formation in Swedish;adapted from Stymne and Holmqvist (2008).ing nouns to each other, creating a single unbrokenunit.
Compound nouns sometimes come with theinterfixes -s or -t, sometimes without the trailing -eor -a from the first compounding noun, and some-times a combination of the two.
It should be notedthat this is not an exhaustive list of interfixes, thereare some other, more specific rules for noun com-pounding, justified by for example orthographicconventions, not included in Table 1, nor coveredby the splitting algorithm.
Table 1, adapted fromStymne and Holmqvist (2008), shows the morecommon modifications and their combinations.In Koehn and Knight (2003) an algorithm forsplitting compound nouns is described.
The algo-rithm works by iterating over potential split pointsfor all tokens of an input corpus.
The geometri-cal mean of the frequencies of the potential con-stituents are then used to evaluate whether the to-ken split actually is a compound noun or not.3 Paraphrasing Compound NounsTo extract candidate compound nouns for para-phrasing, we first tagged the Swedish Europarlcorpus and a subset of Swedish Wikipedia us-ing TnT (Brants, 2000) trained on the Stockholm-Ume?a Corpus.
The resulting corpus was used tocompile a frequency dictionary and a tag dictio-nary, which were given as input to a modified ver-sion of the splitting algorithm from Koehn andKnight (2003), producing a list of nouns with pos-sible split points and the constituents and theirtags, if any, sorted by descending frequency.
Themodifications to the splitting algorithm include alower bound, ignoring all tokens shorter than 6characters in the corpus.
This length restrictionis added with the intention of removing noise andlowering running time.
Another constraint addedis not to consider substrings shorter than 3 char-acters.
The third and last change to the algorithmis the addition of a length similarity bias heuristicto decide between possible split points when thereare multiple candidates with a similar result, giv-ing a higher score to a split point that generatessubstrings which are more similar in length.Due to the construction of the splitting algo-rithm, not all split nouns are noun compounds,and without any gold standard to verify against,a set of 200 compound nouns were manually se-lected by choosing the top 200 valid compoundsfrom the frequency-sorted list.
The split com-pound nouns were then paraphrased by a nativespeaker of Swedish and validated by two other na-tive speakers of Swedish.
The paraphrases wererequired to be exhaustive (not leave out importantsemantic information), precise (not include irrel-evant information), and standardized (not deviatefrom other paraphrases in terms of structure).Nakov and Hearst (2013) have shown that ver-bal paraphrases are superior to the more sparseprepositional paraphrases, but also that preposi-tional paraphrases are more efficient for machinetranslation experiments.
However, when examin-ing the compound nouns closely it becomes ob-vious that the potential paraphrases fall in one ofthe following four categories.
The first category iscompound nouns that are easy to paraphrase bya prepositional phrase only, (Examples 1a, 1b),sometimes with several possible prepositions, asin the latter case.
(1) a. psalmf?orfattare (hymn writer)f?orfattarewriteravofpsalmerhymnsb.
j?arnv?agsstation (railway station)stationstation{f?or,{for,p?a,on,l?angs}along}j?arnv?agrailwayThe second category overlaps somewhat with thefirst category in that the compound nouns could beparaphrased using only a prepositional phrase, butsome meaning is undoubtedly lost in doing so.
Assuch, the more suitable paraphrases contain bothprepositional and verb phrases (Examples 2a, 2b).
(2) a. barnsk?adespelare (child actor)sk?adespelareactorsomwho?arisbarnchild100b.
studioalbum (studio album)albumalbuminspelatrecordediinenastudiostudioThe third and fourth category represent noun com-pounds that are not necessarily decomposable intotheir constituents.
Noun compounds in the thirdcategory can be paraphrased with some difficultyusing prepositional phrases, verb phrases as wellas deeper knowledge of the semantics and prag-matics of Swedish (Examples 3a, 3b).
(3) a. v?arldskrig (world war)krigwarsomthatdrabbaraffectshelawholev?arldenworldb.
l?angdskid?akning (cross-country ski-ing)skid?akningskiingp?aonplanlevelmarkgroundNoun compounds in the fourth category are evenharder, if not impossible to paraphrase.
The mean-ing of compound nouns that fall into this categorycannot be extracted from the constituents, or themeaning has been obscured over time (Examples4a, 4b).
There is no use paraphrasing these com-pound nouns, and as such they are left out.
(4) a. stadsr?attighet (city rights)b. domkyrka (cathedral)All compound nouns that are decomposable intotheir constituents were paraphrased according tothe criteria listed above as far as possible.4 Machine Translation ExperimentsTo evaluate the effect of compound paraphrasing,a phrase-based statistical machine translation sys-tem was trained on a subset of roughly 55,000sentences from Swedish-English Europarl, withthe Swedish compound nouns paraphrased beforetraining.
The system was trained using Moses(Koehn et al., 2007) with default settings, using a5-gram language model created from the Englishside of the training corpus using SRILM (Stolcke,2002).
A test set was paraphrased in the same wayand run through the decoder.
We tested two ver-sions of the system, one where all 200 paraphraseswere used, and one where only the paraphrases inthe first two categories (transparent prepositionaland verb phrases) were used.
As a baseline, weused a system trained with the same settings onthe unmodified training corpus and applied to theunmodified test corpus.The systems were evaluated in two ways.
First,we computed standard BLEU scores.
Secondly,the translation of paraphrased compounds wasmanually evaluated, by the author, in a randomsample of 100 sentences containing one or more ofthe paraphrased compounds.
Since the two para-phrase systems used different paraphrase sets, themanual evaluation was performed on two differentsamples, in both cases comparing to the baselinesystem.
The results are shown in Table 2.Looking first at the BLEU scores, we see thatthere is a small drop for both paraphrase systems.This drop in performance is most certainly a sideeffect of the design of the paraphrasing script.There is a certain crudeness in how inflectionsare handled resulting in sentences that may be un-grammatical, albeit only slightly.
Inflections in thecompounding nouns is retained.
However, in para-phrases of category 2 and 3, the verbs are alwaysin the present tense, as deriving the tense from thecontext can be hard to do with enough precisionto make it worthwhile.
Consequently, the slightlybetter score for the system that only uses para-phrases of category 1 and 2 is probably just dueto the fact that fewer compounds are paraphrasedwith verbal paraphrases.Turning to the manual evaluation, we see first ofall that the baseline does a decent job translatingthe compound nouns, with 88/100 correct transla-tions in the first sample and 81/100 in the secondsample.
Nevertheless, both paraphrase systemsachieve slightly higher scores.
The system usingall paraphrases improves from 88 to 93, and thesystem that only uses the transparent paraphrasesimproves from 81 and 90.
Neither of these differ-ences is statistically significant, however.
McNe-mar?s test (McNemar, 1947) gives a p value of 0.23for S1 and 0.11 for S2.
So, even if it is likely thatthe paraphrase systems can improve the quality ofcompound translation, despite a drop in the overallBLEU score, a larger sample would be needed tofully verify this.5 DiscussionThe results from both the automatic and the man-ual evaluation are inconclusive.
On the one hand,overall translation quality, as measured by BLEU,is lowered, if only slightly.
On the other, themanual evaluation shows that, for the paraphrased101System BLEU CompS1 S2Baseline 26.63 88 81All paraphrases 26.50 93 ?Paraphrases 1?2 26.59 ?
90Table 2: Experimental results.
Comp = translationof compounds; S1 = sample 1; S2 = sample 2.compound nouns, the experimental decoders per-form better than the baseline.
However, this im-provement cannot be established to be statisticallysignificant.
This does not necessarily mean thatparaphrasing as a general concept is flawed interms of translation quality, but judging from thesepreliminary results, further experiments with para-phrasing compound nouns need to address a fewissues.The lack of quality in the paraphrases, proba-bly attributable to how inflections are handled inthe paraphrasing scripts, might be the reason whythe first experimental system performs worse thanthe second.
This could indicate that there is lit-tle to be won in paraphrasing more complex com-pound nouns.
Another possible explanation lies inthe corpus.
The tone in the Europarl corpus is veryformal, and this is not necessarily the case with themore complex paraphrases.The number of compound nouns actually para-phrased might also attribute to the less than stel-lar results.
If, when training the experimentalsystems using the paraphrased Swedish corpora,the number of non-paraphrased compound nounsoutweigh the number of paraphrased compoundnouns the impact of the paraphrases might actu-ally only distort the translation models.
This couldvery well be the problem here, and it is hard fromthese experiments to judge whether or not the so-lution is to have more paraphrasing, or none at all.6 ConclusionWe have reported a pilot study on using paraphras-ing of compound nouns to improve the qualityof machine translation from Swedish to English,building on previous work by Nakov and Hearst(2013).
The experimental results are inconclusive,but there is at least weak evidence that this tech-nique may improve translation quality specificallyfor compounds, although it may have a negativeeffect on other aspects of the translation.
Furtherexperiments could shed some light on this.There are a couple of routes that are interestingto follow from here.
In Nakov and Hearst (2013),a number of verbal and prepositional paraphrasesare gathered through the means of crowd sourc-ing, and compared to paraphrases gathered froma simple wild card keyword search using a webbased search engine.
Since the paraphrases in theexperiments described in this paper are done bythe author and verified by no more than two othernative speakers of Swedish, the paraphrases mightnot be generic enough.
By crowd sourcing para-phrase candidates the impact of one individual?spersonal style and tone can be mitigated.Another interesting topic for further research isthe one of automated compound noun detection.The algorithm used for splitting compound nounsreturns a confidence score which is based on thegeometrical mean of the frequencies of the con-stituents together with some heuristics based onthings such as relative length of the constituentsand whether or not the constituent was found at allin the corpus.
This confidence score could poten-tially be used for ranking not the most frequentlyoccurring compound nouns, but the compoundswhere the classifier is most confident.A number of improvements on the applied sys-tem can probably lead to a wider coverage.
Forone, to alter the algorithm so as to allow for re-cursive splitting would help in detecting and dis-ambiguating compound nouns consisting of threeor more constituents.
This might be helpful since,as previously mentioned, Swedish is a highly pro-ductive language, and it is quite common to seecompound nouns consisting of three or more con-stituents.
It should be noted however, that for thisto have the desired effect, the paraphrasing wouldhave to be done recursively as well.
This couldpotentially lead to very long sentences generatedfrom very short ones, if the sentence includes acompound consisting of three or more parts.Some other minor improvements or possible ex-tensions over the current implementation includestaking into account all orthographical irregulari-ties to get a broader coverage, running the algo-rithm over a more domain specific corpus to getmore relevant results, and finally, automating theactual paraphrasing.
This last step, however, is ofcourse far from trivial.102ReferencesThorsten Brants.
2000.
TnT: A statistical part-of-speech tagger.
In Proceedings of the 6th Con-ference on Applied Natural Language Processing,pages 224?231.Roxana Girju, Dan Moldovan, Marta Tatu, and DanielAntohe.
2005.
On the Semantics of Noun Com-pounds.
Computer Speech & Language, 19(4):479?496.Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight.
2003.
Empiricalmethods for compound splitting.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th Conference on European Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 187?193.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, andRichard Zens.
2007.
Moses: Open source toolkitfor statistical machine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL on InteractivePoster and Demonstration Sessions, pages 177?180.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus forstatistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of the10th Machine Translation Summit, pages 79?86.Quinn McNemar.
1947.
Note on the Sampling Errorof the Difference Between Correlated Proportions orPercentages.
Psychometrika, 12(2):153?157.Preslav I. Nakov and Marti A. Hearst.
2013.
Seman-tic Interpretation of Noun Compounds Using Ver-bal and Other Paraphrases.
ACM Transactions onSpeech and Language Processing, 10(3):1?51.Jonas Sj?obergh and Viggo Kann.
2004.
Finding thecorrect interpretation of swedish compounds, a sta-tistical approach.
In Proceedings of the 4th Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation.Andreas Stolcke.
2002.
SRILM: An extensible lan-guage modeling toolkit.
In Proceedings of the 7thInternational Conference on Spoken Language Pro-cessing.Sara Stymne and Maria Holmqvist.
2008.
Process-ing of swedish compounds for phrase-based statisti-cal machine translation.
In Proceedings of the 12thAnnual Conference of the European Association forMachine Translation, pages 180?189.Sara Stymne.
2009.
Compound Processingfor Phrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation.Ph.D.
thesis, Department of Computer and Informa-tion Science, Link?opings Univ.103
