Proceedings of the 8th Workshop on Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH) @ EACL 2014, pages 91?94,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsDeveloping a Tagalog Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)?Disaster?
Dictionary for Understanding Mixed Language Social Media:A Work-in-Progress PaperAmanda Andrei, Alison Dingwall, Theresa Dillon, Jennifer MathieuMITRE Corporation7515 Colshire DriveMclean, Virginia 22042 USAaandrei@mitre.orgAbstractIn the wake of super typhoon Yolanda(known internationally as Haiyan) in thePhilippines in 2013, many individuals inthe Philippines turned to social media toexpress their thoughts and emotions in avariety of languages.
In order to under-stand and analyze the sentiment of pop-ulations on the ground, we used a novelapproach of developing a conceptual Lin-guistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)dictionary comprised of Tagalog words re-lating to disaster.
This work-in-progresspaper documents our process of filteringand choosing terms and offers suggestionsfor validating the dictionary.
When resultson how the dictionary was used are avail-able, we can better assess the process forcreating conceptual LIWC dictionaries.1 BackgroundBy engaging in a variety of social networkingand blogging activities, individuals often revealtheir ?perceptions, attitudes, beliefs, and behav-iors?
(Maybury, 2010) through multiple social me-dia platforms such as Facebook and Twitter.
In ad-dition, social media provides an important sourcefor breaking news, especially during natural disas-ters and emergencies (Nagar et al., 2012; Crowe,2012).
During events such as the 2010 earthquakein Haiti and the 2011 tsunami in Japan, individu-als turned to social media to report injuries, ask forassistance, and publish personal accounts (Gao etal., 2011; Abbasi et al., 2012).
Likewise, the 2013disaster of super typhoon Yolanda (known inter-nationally as Haiyan) in the Philippines triggereda wide use of social media during the period of thestorm.1.1 PhilippinesWith its two official languages (English and Fil-ipino) and dozens of other local languages and di-alects, the Philippines has a complex and politi-cized history of multilingualism (Gonzalez, 1998;Nical et al., 2004; Ang, 1978).
Both the gram-mar and vocabulary of Filipino (also known asPilipino) is based primarily from Tagalog, a lan-guage originating from the regions surroundingthe capital city of Manila, although some schol-ars argue that Filipino is essentially Tagalog (Ang,1978; Baumgartner, 1989).In 2011, the Philippines had the highest per-centage of active online users in the world (GlobalWebIndex, 2011).
In 2012, the nation had morethan 10 million active Twitter users, which rankedit tenth in countries with the most Twitter users(Abuy, 2012).
Tweets from the Philippines arein mixed languages, with 80% in English andthe other 20% in Filipino languages (Pilkington,2011).
Furthermore, the Philippines is the mostdisaster-prone nation in the world (CDRC Admin,2013; Bankoff, 2002), making it a prime candidatefor analyzing sentiment in social media during andfollowing a natural disaster.1.2 Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count(LIWC)As social media analysis continues to mature as afield, if social media is to be leveraged more ef-fectively for disaster response and relief there is aneed for more quantitative methods to supplementcurrent qualitative techniques and subject matterexpertise (Servi and Elson, 2012).
Servi & El-son (2012) used the novel approach of combiningmathematical algorithms with a social psychologytool, Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)(Pennebaker et al., 2007), to detect and forecastemotional trends in Twitter in an unbiased way.LIWC uses internal ?dictionaries?
of wordswhich correspond to various domains of linguistic91processes, psychological processes, personal con-cerns, and spoken categories.
For instance, onedictionary under psychological processes is filledwith positive emotion words (e.g., ?love,?
?nice,?and ?sweet?).
Another dictionary under personalconcerns includes death words (e.g., ?bury,?
?cof-fin,?
?kill?).
When a researcher runs a text filethrough LIWC, the program compares the wordsin the file to the dictionaries and outputs a ratioof dictionary words to total words (e.g., 1% of allwords are positive emotion words).
Researchershave used LIWC to analyze a variety of texts, mostnotably newspaper coverage of a bonfire tragedy atTexas A&M (Gortner and Pennebaker, 2003), oneof the earliest examples of using LIWC to under-stand emotions around disaster management.First created in English, LIWC has also beentranslated into other languages.
This project is de-veloping a set of LIWC dictionaries in Tagalogin order to understand social media usage in thePhilippines, particularly usage during the typhoon.Tagalog was chosen and distinguished from Fil-ipino for three main reasons: namely, that moreinformation about and translations in Tagalog arereadily available, to highlight the fact that thereare more Philippine languages beyond ?Filipino?that could be translated as well, and because mosttweets originated from Manila, where Tagalog isthe main Philippine language spoken.2 ProcessOn November 8, 2013, super typhoon Yolandamade landfall in the central Philippines.
Over 11million people were affected, with 2.5 million peo-ple in need of food aid and over 2,000 people dead(BBC News Asia, 2013).As the Philippines is linguistically diverse, thereremained a need to also explore the tweets thatwere posted in mixed languages, primarily Taga-log since it is one of the major languages in the na-tion.
A LIWC dictionary of disaster-related wordsin Tagalog was developed in order to gauge howmany tweets during the period of the typhoon re-lated to the disaster.
To explore the impact of thetyphoon from the publics perspective in social me-dia, mixed language Twitter posts geographicallyrestricted to the Philippines were analyzed.Using a commercially available social searchand analytics too which filters Twitter contentbased on variables such as location, time and date,tweet type (original, retweet, reply), language (al-though Tagalog is not included) and others, a vol-ume of approximately 1.5 million tweets from thePhilippines were identified within a two-week daterange around the typhoon.
This set was isolatedbased on restricting the tweets to those originatingfrom the Philippines between the dates of Novem-ber 3-18, 2013 and included any of the followingterms: typhoon, yolanda, haiyan, supertyphoon,as well as corresponding hashtags.A wide range of words and concepts relatingto typhoons and disasters, such as baha (storm),donasyon (donation), nagugutom (starving), patay(dead), and sagip (save) were identified.
Relatedterms were also identified and included in thesearch, such as #bangon (rise up), a nationalis-tic call of inspiration; #walangpasok (no entry),colloquially a school closing alert; Libreng Tawag(free calls), used to alert users which telecom-munication companies were allowing no chargephone calls; and PAGASA (hope), which is also anacronym for the Philippine weather alert service.In order to develop a clean data set, these termswere then narrowed down based on what wouldmake appropriate inclusions for a LIWC dictio-nary, resulting in the discarding of hash tags,multi-word phrases, and proper nouns.
Certainwords were also found to be too broad (i.e., falsepositives), such as donasyon, which was usedin non-disaster contexts just as frequently as intyphoon-related tweets within the date range ana-lyzed.
Words like nagugutom and patay were actu-ally used more frequently in non-disaster contexts(e.g., ?I am starving, I want a sandwich?
).The dictionary was designed to include differ-ent grammatical forms of words.
For example,for nouns, both baha (flood) and bahang (flood),where ng is a linking suffix, were included.
Forverbs, different tenses were included, e.g., tulong(help), tumulong (helped), and tumutulong (helps).In the case of the verbs, other forms of the wordswere searched, but not included in the dictionaryif they were not frequently used in tweets.
Thecomplete dictionary is included in the Appendix.3 Remarks and Future WorkThe Tagalog LIWC disaster dictionary was devel-oped to quickly explore and understand percep-tions expressed on social media about the typhoon.While the terms were included for the 2013 ty-phoon, additional research and validation is re-quired for generalization for understanding future92natural disasters.
While social media can containa wealth of information, the processes of filteringand searching for terms would benefit from a morerigorous standard of including words in the dictio-nary.
For instance, researchers may want to con-sider what counts as high frequency for a word,e.g., if it appears over a certain absolute number oftimes or if it appears in high proportion comparedto other words.
Overall, a move from qualitativeanalysis to more quantitative analysis would clar-ify the connection between the dictionary and thesource corpus.The process of creating a conceptual LIWC dic-tionary should also be vetted against other usecases and concepts.
For instance, the word lin-dol (earthquake) was included in the dictionarysince earthquakes are common in the Philippines,although earthquake activity was not recorded dur-ing the typhoon.
The dictionary could be eval-uated or validated against other social media re-sponses to other recent disasters, such as the Oc-tober 2013 earthquake in Bohol, an island near thetyphoon-struck areas, in order to see how userstweet about disasters.Geography also plays an important role in howthe disaster dictionary can be used.
For the pur-poses of creating this dictionary, tweets were re-stricted to the Philippines.
It would be worthwhileto examine if the same words in the dictionary oc-cur if tweets were collected from different origins,such as Leyte (the island which sustained most ofthe damage) versus Manila (the capital city of thePhilippines) versus a location with a large concen-tration of Filipino immigrants (such as California,USA).Additionally, other concepts related to disas-ter management should be explored and consid-ered for inclusion in the dictionary, such as wordsrelating to property, family, and emotions.
Asthe original (English-language) LIWC applicationalready has categories for such concepts, futurework would include translating the complete set ofLIWC dictionaries into Tagalog while also includ-ing culturally specific words without exact trans-lations.
This work is currently in progress.Furthermore, the areas hit by the typhoon speakand use social media in other Philippines lan-guages in addition to Tagalog (primarily Cebuanoand Waray).
It may also be helpful to have dic-tionaries in other languages predominant in thearea where a disaster occurs.
This may be a dif-ficult task to undertake, as translations for otherPhilippine languages are not as readily availableas translations for Tagalog.This paper details the process for creating thedictionary; how the dictionary was used in actualsocial media datasets concerning the typhoon isstill in progress.
Upon reviewing how the disas-ter dictionary was used, this process of creatingconcept LIWC dictionaries and its utility will bebetter assessed and validated.
Since this tool andthe additional LIWC dictionaries are still in theirpreliminary formats, there are no current plans tomake the tools commercially available until theyare reviewed and vetted by native Tagalog speak-ers.
As the work progresses, the disaster dictio-nary will be maintained and kept up-to-date in or-der to include additional terms which may applyto future disasters.ReferencesMohammad-Ali Abbasi, Shamanth Kumar, Jose Au-gusto Andrade Filho, and Huan Liu.
2012.
Lessonslearned in using social media for disaster relief- ASU crisis response game.
Social Comput-ing, Behavioral-Cultural Modeling and Prediction,7227, 282-289.Abiel Abuy.
2012.
?Twitter crosses 500 mil-lion mark, Philippines in the top 10 in terms ofTwitter accounts.?
2 Aug 2012.
KabayanTech.http://kabayantech.com/2012/08/twitter-crosses-500-million-mark-philippines-in-the-top-10-in-terms-of-twitter-accounts/Gertrudes R. Ang.
1978.
The Filipino as a bilingual ormultilingual: Some implications.
Philippine Quar-terly of Culture and Society, 187-189.Gregory Bankoff.
2002.
Cultures of disaster: Societyand natural hazard in the philippines.
Routledge-Curzon, New York, NY.Joseph Baumgartner.
1989.
The controversy about thenational language: Some observations.
PhilippineQuarterly of Culture and Society, 168-172.BBC News Asia.
2013.
?Typhoon Haiyan:Aid in numbers.?
14 Nov 2013.
BBC News.http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-24899006CDRC Admin.
2013.
?Philippines is most disaster-affected country in 2012.?
8 Apr 2013.
Citizens?Disaster Response Center.
http://www.cdrc-phil.com/philippines-is-most-disaster-affected-country-in-2012/Adam Crowe.
2012.
Disasters 2.0: The applicationof social media systems for modern emergency man-agement.
CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL.93Juiji Gao, Geoffrey Barbier, and Rebecca Goolsby.2011.
Harnessing the crowdsourcing power of so-cial media for disaster relief.
Intelligent Systems,IEEE, 26(3), pp.10,14, May-June 2011.Global WebIndex.
2011.
?Global Mapof Social Networking 2011.?
GlobalWe-bIndex.Net.
https://globalwebindex.net/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/06/Global-Map-of-Social-Networking-GlobalWebIndex-June-20112.pdfAndrew Gonzalez.
1998.
The language planning situ-ation in the Philippines.
Journal of Multilingual andMulticultural Development.
19(5), 487-525.Eva-Maria Gortner and James W. Pennebaker.
2003.The archival anatomy of a disaster: Media cover-age and community-wide health effects of the TexasA&M bonfire tragedy.
Journal of Social and Clini-cal Psychology.
22, 580-603.Mark Maybury.
2010.
?Social Radar forSmart Power.?
The MITRE Corporation.http://www.mitre.org/sites/default/files/pdf/10 0745.pdfSeema Nagar, Aaditeshwar Seth, and Anupam Joshi.2012.
Characterization of social media response tonatural disasters.
Proceedings of the 21st interna-tional conference companion on World Wide Web(WWW ?12 Companion), ACM, 671-674.Iluminado Nical, Jerzy J. Smolicz, and Margaret J. Sec-ombe.
2004.
Rural students and the Philippinebilingual education program on the island of Leyte.Medium of instruction policies - Which agenda?Whose agenda?, 153-176.
Lawrence Erlbaum As-sociates, Mahwah, NJ.James W. Pennebaker, Roger J. Booth, and Martha E.Francis.
2007.
Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count:LIWC2007 Operators manual.
LIWC.net.Andy Pilkington.
2011 ?Axe shows consistencyis key to a successful multi-lingual page inthe Philippines.?
26 Oct 2011.
WaveMetrix.http://wave.wavemetrix.com/content/axe-shows-consistency-key-successful-multi-lingual-page-philippines-00844Les Servi and Sara Beth Elson.
2012.
A mathematicalapproach to identifying and forecasting shifts in themood of social media users.
The MITRE Corpora-tion.
Bedford, MA.Paul Schachter, and Fe T. Otanes.
1972.
Tagalog Ref-erence Grammar.
University of California Press,Berkeley, CA.A AppendixThe completed dictionary is included in the fol-lowing table.
consists of the Tagalog and Englishcolumns.
In some cases, multiple dictionary en-tries correspond to the same Tagalog lexeme.
Forexample:bagyongbagyo-ngstorm-LIGATUREFor more on Tagalog grammar, see Schachterand Otanes 1972.Tagalog Englishbagyo stormbagyong stormbaha floodbahang floodbiktima victimshangin windlindol earthquakelumikas evacuatenagsilikas refugeesnasawi casualtysagip rescuesagipin rescuesinalanta devastatedsugatan woundedtulong helptumulong helptumutulong helpulan rain94
