Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Literature (CLfL) @ EACL 2014, pages 25?30,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTime after Time:Representing Time in Literary TextsMichael LevisonSchool of ComputingQueen?s University, Canadalevison@cs.queensu.caGreg LessardFrench StudiesQueen?s University, Canadagreg.lessard@queensu.caAbstractThe representation of temporal informa-tion in text represents a significant com-putational challenge.
The problem is par-ticularly acute in the case of literary texts,which tend to be massively underspeci-fied, often relying on a network of seman-tic relations to establish times and timings.This paper shows how a model based onthreaded directed acyclic graphs makes itpossible to capture a range of subtle tem-poral information in this type of text andargues for an onomasiological approachwhich places meaning before form.1 Time and TextThis paper deals with the representation of tem-poral phenomena in literary texts.
As a result, itbuilds on work from a number of fields.1Thus, ittakes as given the longstanding observation fromphilosophy that time is not a simple issue of days,months and years, but reflects issues of perceptionand culture (Ricoeur, 1983).
At the same time,it assumes that the study of temporal phenomenawill be enhanced by use of a formal representation(Allen, 1984).
It further assumes the traditionalnarratological distinction between the informationwhich underlies a text, variously known as the fab-ula or histoire and which we will henceforth callthe story and some particular instantiation of thisin text, often called the sjuzhet or r?ecit, which wewill henceforth call the narrative (Genette, 1972).Mani (2010), based on earlier work, suggeststhat the temporal relations BEFORE, DURING,IMMEDIATELY BEFORE, BEGINS, ENDS, SI-MULTANEOUS AND OVERLAPS are adequatefor representing time in human languages.
Thisraises the interesting empirical question of how1In what follows, for lack of space, we restrict ourselvesto citing some typical examples from a vast literature.well this model applies to literary texts, given theircomplex but typically underspecified nature.
Infact, in the case of time, a literary text often givesno explicit indication of temporal phenomena, butrelies on encyclopedic knowledge available to thereader.
In addition, we might ask how differenttemporal relations are distributed across literarytexts, as compared with what is found in exposi-tory or other types of texts, or simpler narratives.At the same time, as Lascarides and Asher (1991)point out, it is important to see temporal relationsas a subset of a broader range of relations includ-ing Narration, Explanation, Background, and Re-sult, all of which have temporal implications.There does exist a growing body of analyses ofnarrative texts, but most of these are based on rel-atively simple third person narratives such as fa-bles.
Such texts tend to be event-driven (one thingfollows another) and they tend to lack more com-plex literary phenomena such as first person narra-tive, where all information is not known, multiple,sometimes competing, perspectives, and signifi-cant temporal shifts.
It will be important to anal-yse literary texts in their full complexity beforewe are capable of pronouncing on the use of time.This will no doubt be aided by research on nar-rative generation, such as (Callaway and Lester,2002), (Riedl and Young, 2012), and (Montfort,2007), where temporal representations at the ab-stract level are made use of, but this must be com-plemented by empirical work on actual texts.The empirical study of temporal relations incomplex literary texts will be complicated by thefact that, despite recent progress (for example,Kolomiyets et al.
(2012)), parsers still do notmatch the performance of humans in assigningtemporal points and relations.
As a result, build-ing a detailed corpus of literary texts will still takesome time and much human effort.
When it isundertaken, one of the fundamental decisions tobe faced will be what is to be represented.
Most25work to date takes texts themselves as the objectof tagging, and schemes such as TimeML (Puste-jovsky et al., 2003) are designed to allow quiteprecise temporal information to be added to textsin the form of markup.
As a result, they focuson phenomena in the narrative rather than in thestory.
To put this another way, they adopt a se-masiological perspective (from form to meaning),rather than an onomasiological one (from meaningto form) (Baldinger, 1964).
However, it is reason-able to ask whether the appropriate level of rep-resentation should in fact be one level up, at thelevel of the story.
We argue here that this is thecase.
Elson (2012) takes a first step in this direc-tion by mapping the textual layer to a propositionallayer; however, most of the texts he deals withare relatively simple.
We will show below how,in some complex examples, representing temporalphenomena at the story level requires at the leastadditional ?machinery?
based on multiple points ofview, temporal shifts including prolepsis, and en-cyclopedic knowledge, but that it also offers in-sights into narrative structure not apparent at thetextual level.2 DAGs and ThreadingThe story which underlies a literary text may berepresented by means of a directed acyclic graph,henceforth DAG, composed of nodes connectedby unidirectional edges.
The acyclicity requiresthat no sequence of edges may return to an earliernode.
The nodes carry segments of meaning repre-sented by semantic expressions.
These are func-tional representations, described in (Levison et al.,2012).
Each semantic expression is composed ofelements drawn from a semantic lexicon.A simple example might be stab(brutus,caesar), where the two entities brutus andcaesar denote certain human beings, and stabis a function which takes two entities and returns acompletion2having the obvious meaning.
On thebasis of functions such as these, it is possible toconstruct the DAG shown in Fig.
1.3The unidirectional edges between the various2A completion may be thought of as the semantic equiva-lent of an utterance, an entity as the semantic equivalent of anoun, and an action as the semantic equivalent of a verb.3The DAGs shown here were constructed with yEd(http://www.yworks.com/en/products_yed_about.html), which generates a GraphML representationfor each graph.
For simplicity, we have ignored represen-tation of tense and aspect in these examples, although theformalism permits this.Figure 1: A DAG for the various states of Caesarnodes represent semantic dependency, that is, thefact that subsequent nodes depend upon informa-tion contained in previous nodes, and by transitiveclosure, parents of previous nodes.
So, in Fig.
1,the expression stab(brutus, caesar) de-pends on the fact that Caesar is at the Senate, whileCaesar being dead depends on the stabbing.
Therelation carried by edges may be one of order (onenode occurs before another), or of some sort ofcausality, whereby a subsequent node is made pos-sible by a previous node.
In addition, nodes whichconvey a coarse level of meaning may themselvesbe refined into DAGs at a finer level.
And so on,recursively.Since a DAG exists prior to any text which rep-resents it, a text may begin at the start of the DAGand follow the nodes, as in Caesar arrived at theSenate, then Brutus stabbed him, then he died, oralternatively at the end, as in Caesar died becauseBrutus stabbed him after his arrival at the Senate,in the middle, as in Brutus stabbed Caesar after hearrived at the Senate, and then he died, or even ina zigzag order, as in Caesar arrived at the Senateand then died because Brutus stabbed him.4Each of these narrations may be represented bya sequence of nodes, in other words, a thread,showing the order in which the meaning carriedby the nodes is presented to the reader.
Note thatthe thread passes through some or all of the nodes,but need not follow the edges of the DAG.
Nor isit constrained to be acyclic: it may visit the samenode more than once.
An example of this is pro-vided by a narration in which the same event isrecounted twice.
To take an extreme case, in themovie Groundhog Day (http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0107048/), the character Philrelives the same day and its events many times.In our DAGs, we represent threads by a dot-4For more examples, see (Mani, 2012).26ted line to distinguish them from the edges of theDAG.
By threading coarse or refined DAGs, thenarration can be at different levels of detail.
In ad-dition, a single DAG may be traversed by multiplethreads representing, among other things, differ-ent points of view.
So, for example, suppose that athird party, say Livia, finds Caesar?s dead body,observes the stab wounds, and concludes that apreviously living Caesar has been killed.
From thepoint of view of the Livia thread, the ?Caesar isdead?
node is traversed before the stabbing node(although from Livia?s point of view, it may not beclear who has done the stabbing).
Alternatively,a fourth character may observe a stabbing in thedistance, then on approach note that the stabbee isCaesar, assumed alive until that point, and finallylearn that Caesar is dead.3 Relative and Absolute TimestampsWithin the DAG model, the simple chronologicalordering of events or activities requires no extrafeatures except perhaps ?colouring?
certain edgesto distinguish between those which denote chrono-logical dependence and those whose dependenceis based on other reasons.
Figure 1 above illus-trates this.
However, more complex temporal rela-tionships such as ?while?
can be signified by nodesindicating relative or absolute times, as in:reltime(7){relative time}exacttime(0900, 5, Mar, 2013){exact time}Consider, for example, the DAG shown in Fig.2.
Here, both event1 and event2 take place af-ter reltime(7) and before reltime(8).5Ifno other activities take place in the same context,we might conclude that while event1 was takingplace, event2 was happening elsewhere.
Bothevents conclude before event4.
In addition,event3 occurs after event1, but it may havestarted before or after reltime(8); and thereis no information about its relation to event4.Additional arguments can be added to specifywhether an event is durative or punctual, be-cause nothing says that event1 actually began atreltime(7) and ended at reltime(8).
Thefunction exacttime() allows us to anchor partsof the DAG at, or more precisely after, specificmoments.5The parameters to reltime, by the way, are irrelevant;they are included only for the purposes of this commentary.Figure 2: A DAG showing relative times andevents4 Some Empirical Tests of the FormalismTo empirically test the model proposed here, wewill examine several actual texts.
Of course, theserepresent only a small selection of a vast rangeof temporal phenomena.
Our object is simply toshow how the proposed model may be applied.4.1 ProlepsisAs noted earlier, a literary text may bring into playa variety of perspectives.
One of these is pro-lepsis, or foreknowledge of a future event.
Con-sider the following example from Homer?s Iliad.6Achilles asks Zeus for success in a battle and thatPatroclus survive the battle.
Zeus grants the firstwish, but not the second.7As a result, he (Zeus)and by extension, we, as readers, know that Pa-troclus will die.
However Patroclus himself is un-aware of this.
We may represent this part of thestory by means of the DAG shown in Fig.
3, whichcontains two sets of dependencies, one which linksZeus to the decision that Patroclus will die, and theother which links Patroclus to his fighting and dy-ing.
We may then capture the temporality of thenarrative by threading this DAG.8An example like this may seem arcane, butcases of multiple points of view, or multiplethreading, are found in a variety of textual models.Thus, in a murder mystery, the detective comesto understand the ordering of particular events, in-cluding the murder, and may subsequently explain6This instance of prolepsis is discussed in Grethlein(2010).7Iliad, ch.
16, v. 249, http://classics.mit.edu/Homer/iliad.html.8Threads are shown here by numbered dotted lines to in-dicate their order, while dependencies are shown by unnum-bered solid lines.27Figure 3: A DAG for part of the Iliadthis to the reader.4.2 Parallel Series of EventsConsider the following passage from the ConanDoyle story entitled The Red-headed League.9When I saw him that afternoon soenwrapped in the music at St. James?sHall .
.
.10?You want to go home, no doubt,Doctor,?
he remarked as we emerged.
?Yes, it would be as well.?
?And I have some business to dowhich will take some hours.
.
.
.
to-daybeing Saturday rather complicates mat-ters.
I shall want your help to-night.?
?At what time??
?Ten will be early enough.?
?I shall be at Baker Street at ten.?.
.
.
It was a quarter-past nine whenI started from home and made my way.
.
.
to Baker Street.
.
.
.
On entering hisroom I found Holmes in animated con-versation with two men, .
.
.The text itself provides two absolute times, oneprescriptive, that of the time when Watson is tomeet Holmes, and the other descriptive, the timereported by Watson for his leaving home.
Anothermore approximate time is also provided, the factthat Watson and Holmes are listening to music inSt James?s Hall on a Saturday afternoon.
All ofthese could be marked up in the text itself.
How-ever, others would provide a greater challenge.
OnWatson?s return to meet Holmes, he discovers that9First published in the Strand magazine in 1891.
Seehttp://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/1661.10Several non-pertinent elements of the text have beenelided.
These are shown by suspension points.Figure 4: A DAG for part of the Red-headedLeagueothers are present, presumably at Holmes?
invita-tion, although this is not specified in the text it-self.
The chronology of Watson?s activities is pro-vided only by its placement in the text, betweenthe conversation with Holmes and the return tomeet Holmes, while the arrival of the others can-not be marked up at all at the textual level since itis not even mentioned in the text.
Such a modelprovides a serious challenge to a semasiologicalmarkup, for obvious reasons.
However, it may beeasily represented by a DAG, as shown in Fig.
4.Note that the nodes of the DAG are all en-closed in a higher-level node situated on Satur-day.
This ?envelope?
provides the framework forthe detailed events.
However, within this enve-lope, a branching occurs, separating Watson?s ex-plicitly noted activities from those which we mustsuppose Holmes to have accomplished.
The twoseries are bracketed between a relative temporalmarker (the moment when Watson and Holmesleave each other) and an absolute temporal marker(Watson?s arrival at Holmes?
lodgings around 10).4.3 Access to Encyclopaedic InformationReading a text is not a simple activity.
Amongother things, it requires a constant reference tobackground ?encyclopaedic?
information.
The na-ture of this information will vary from readerto reader.
As an illustration, consider the fol-lowing paragraph, which opens Flaubert?s novelSalammb?o.1111We provide here the English translation fromhttp://www.gutenberg.org/files/1290/1290-h/1290-h.htm#link2HCH0001.28Figure 5: A DAG for the introduction toSalammb?oIt was at Megara, a suburb ofCarthage, in the gardens of Hamilcar.The soldiers whom he had commandedin Sicily were having a great feast to cel-ebrate the anniversary of the battle ofEryx, and as the master was away, andthey were numerous, they ate and drankwith perfect freedom.At the most basic level, any reader may use thetense (had commanded) and some lexical items(anniversary) to determine the anteriority of thebattle of Eryx with respect to the feast.
However,more educated readers will probably be able to usethe proper name Carthage to locate the text in thefar past, while even more educated readers will beable to use the names Hamilcar and Eryx to placethe feast after the period 244-242 BCE.We may represent the interplay between whatis given by the text and the information availableto the reader (which, importantly, is also repre-sentable by a DAG) as shown in Fig.
5, wherewe see that the node exist(troops...),represented in the text, depends on the nodecommand(hamilcar...) also represented inthe text.
However, this latter node is a subnode ofthe higher-level node describe(hamilcar),which provides information (including tempo-ral information) not present in the text.
Sim-ilarly, the node exist(battle...), presentin the text, is part of another higher-levelnode (describe(punic-war)), which con-tains more detailed encyclopaedic information.This model captures both the temporal elastic-ity provided by the interplay of logical depen-dency and the varying levels of temporal assign-ment noted above.
To put this another way, it cap-tures the set of readings which the same text maycarry for different readers.
In particular, differentreadings may thread this DAG at different levelsof granularity, some coarse, some finer.5 Conclusions and Next StepsAlthough they are limited to issues of time, theexamples studied above suggest that an onomasi-ological approach gives access to textual and lit-erary phenomena which escape tagging of tex-tual contents alone.
While the use of DAGs andthreading currently requires human intervention,the output of the model, by its formality, providesa means of studying in detail the instantiation ofstories as narratives, and thereby, a complement toexisting approaches to literary time.ReferencesJames F. Allen.
1984.
Towards a general theory ofaction and time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23:123?154.Kurt Baldinger.
1964.
S?emasiologie et onomasiologie.Revue de linguistique romane, 28:249?272.Charles Callaway and James Lester.
2002.
Nar-rative prose generation.
Artificial Intelligence,139(2):213?252.David K. Elson.
2012.
Modeling Narrative Discourse.PhD thesis, Columbia University.G?erard Genette.
1972.
Figures III.
?Editions du Seuil,Paris.Jonas Grethlein.
2010.
The narrative reconfigurationof time beyond Ricoeur.
Poetics Today, 31(2):313?329.Oleksandr Kolomiyets, Steven Bethard and Marie-France Moens.
2012.
Extracting narrative timelinesas temporal dependency structures.
In Proceedingsof the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL?2012), pp.
88-97.Alex Lascarides and Nicholas Asher.
1991.
Discourserelations and defeasible knowledge.
In Proceedingsof the 29th Annual Meeting of the Association ofComputational Linguistics (ACL91), pp.
55-63.Michael Levison, Greg Lessard, Craig Thomas, andMatthew Donald.
2012.
The Semantic Representa-tion of Natural Language.
Bloomsbury Publishing,London.Inderjeet Mani.
2012.
Computational Modeling ofNarrative.
Morgan and Claypool, San Rafael, CA.Inderjeet Mani.
2010.
The Imagined Moment: Time,Narrative and Computation.
University of NebraskaPress, Lincoln, Nebraska.29Nick Montfort.
2007.
Ordering events in interactivefiction narratives.
In Proceedings of the AAAI FallSymposium on Interactive Narrative Technologies.Technical Report FS-07-05, B.S.
Magerki and M.Riedl, eds., AAAI Press, Menlo Park, CA, pp.
87?94.James Pustejovsky, Jose M. Casta?no, Robert Ingria,Roser Saur?
?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, andGraham Katz.
2003.
TimeML: Robust specificationof event and temporal expressions in text.
In FifthInternational Workshop on Computational Seman-tics (IWCS-5).Paul Ric?ur.
1983.
Temps et r?ecit.
Volume 1.?Editionsdu Seuil, Paris.Mark Riedl and R. Michael Young.
2010.
Narrativeplanning: balancing plot and character.
Journal ofArtificial Intelligence Research, 39:217?268.30
