Proceedings of the 2014 Workshop on Biomedical Natural Language Processing (BioNLP 2014), pages 98?106,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26-27 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting drug indications and adverse drug reactions from Spanishhealth social mediaIsabel Segura-Bedmar, Santiago de la Pe?na, Paloma Mart?
?nezComputer Science DepartmentCarlos III University of Madrid, Spain{isegura|spena|pmf}@inf.uc3m.esAbstractIn this paper, we present preliminary re-sults obtained using a system based on co-occurrence of drug-effect pairs as a firststep in the study of detecting adverse drugreactions and drug indications from socialmedia texts.
To the best of our knowl-edge, this is the first work that extractsthis kind of relationships from user mes-sages that were collected from an onlineSpanish health-forum.
In addition, we alsodescribe the automatic construction of thefirst Spanish database for drug indicationsand adverse drug reactions.1 IntroductionThe activity of Pharmacovigilance (science de-voted to the detection and prevention of any possi-ble drug-related problem, including adverse drugeffects) has gained significant importance in therecent decades, due to the growing number of drugsafety incidents (Bond and Raehl, 2006) as well asto their high associated costs (van Der Hooft et al.,2006).Nowadays, the major medicine regulatory agen-cies such as the US Food and Drug Administra-tion (FDA) or the European Medicines Agency(EMA) are working to create policies and prac-tices to facilitate the reporting of adverse drug re-actions (ADRs) by healthcare professionals andpatients.
However, several studies have shown thatADRs are under-estimated because many health-care professionals do not have enough time to usethe ADR reporting systems (Bates et al., 2003;van Der Hooft et al., 2006; McClellan, 2007) .In addition, healthcare professionals tend to re-port only those ADRs on which they have abso-lute certainty of their existence.
Unlike reportsfrom healthcare professionals, patient reports of-ten provide more detailed and explicit informationabout ADRs (Herxheimer et al., 2010).
Neverthe-less, the rate of ADRs reported by patients is stillvery low probably because many patients are stillunaware of the existence of ADR reporting sys-tems.
In addition, patients may feel embarrassedwhen describing their symptoms.In this paper, we pose the hypothesis thathealth-related social media can be used as a com-plementary data source to the ADR reporting sys-tems.
In particular, health forums contain a largenumber of comments describing patient experi-ences that would be a fertile source of data to de-tect unknown ADRs.Several systems have been developed for ex-tracting ADRs from social media (Leaman et al.,2010; Nikfarjam and Gonzalez, 2011).
Howeverto the best of our knowledge, only one work in theliterature has focused on the detection of ADRsfrom social media in Spanish (Segura-Bedmar etal., 2014).
Indeed, it is only concerned with thedetection of mentions of drugs and their effects,without dealing with the extraction of the relation-ships between them.
In this paper, we extend thisexisting work in order to extract drug indicationsand adverse drug reactions from user comments ina Spanish health-forum.The remaining of this paper is structured as fol-lows: the next section surveys related work onADR detection from social media.
Section 3 de-scribes the creation of a gold-standard corpus weused for our experiments.
Sections 4 and 5 re-spectively describe the techniques employed andtheir results.
Lastly, some conclusive remarks andfuture perspectives are given in Section 6.2 Related WorkIn recent years, the application of Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) techniques to mine drugindications and adverse drug reactions from textshas been explored with promising results, mainlyin the context of drug labels (Gurulingappa et al.,982013; Li et al., 2013; Kuhn et al., 2010; Fung et al.,2013), biomedical literature (Xu and Wang, 2013),medical case reports (Gurulingappa et al., 2012)and health records (Friedman, 2009; Sohn et al.,2011).
However, as it will be described below, theextraction of these drug relationships from socialmedia has received much less attention.To date, most of research on drug name recogni-tion concerns either biomedical literature (Segura-Bedmar et al., 2013; Krallinger et al., 2013) orclinical records (Uzuner et al., 2010), thus leavingunexplored this task in social media texts.To our knowledge, there is no work in the lit-erature that addresses the extraction of drug in-dications from social media texts.
Regarding thedetection of ADRs, Leaman et al., (2010) devel-oped a system to automatically recognize adverseeffects in user comments from the DailyStrength1health-related social network.
A corpus of 3,600comments was manually annotated with a totalof 1,866 drug conditions, including beneficial ef-fects, adverse effects, indications and others.
Thisstudy focused only on a set of four drugs, andthereby, drug name recognition was not addressed.The system used a dictionary-based approach toidentify adverse effects and a set of keywords inorder to distinguish adverse effects from the otherdrug conditions.
The dictionary consisted of 4,201concepts, which were collected from several re-sources such as the COSTART vocabulary (FDA,1970), the SIDER database (Kuhn et al., 2010),the MedEffect database2and a list of colloquialphrases manually collected from the comments.The system achieved a precision of 78.3% and arecall of 69.9% (an f-measure of 73.9%).Later, Nikfarjam and Gonzalez (2011) appliedassociation rule mining to extract frequent pat-terns describing opinions about drugs.
The ruleswere generated using the Apriori tool, an imple-mentation of the Apriori algorithm (Agrawal et al.,1994) for association rule mining.
The main ad-vantage of this approach over the dictionary basedapproach is that the system is able to detect termsnot included in the dictionary.
The results of thisstudy were 70.01% precision and 66.32% recall,for an f-measure of 67.96%.Benton et al.,(2011) collected a lexicon of laymedical terms from websites and databases aboutdrugs and their adverse effects to identify drug ef-1http://www.dailystrength.org/2http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/dhp-mps/medeff/index-eng.phpfects.
Then, the authors applied the Fishers exacttest (Fisher, 1922) to find all the drug-effect pairsthat co-occurred independently by chance in a cor-pus of user comments.
To evaluate the system, theauthors focused only on the four most commonlyused drugs to treat breast cancer.
Precision andrecall were calculated by comparing the adverseeffects from their drug labels and the adverse ef-fects obtained by the system.
The system obtainedan average precision of 77% and an average recallof 35.1% for all four drugs.To the best of our knowledge, the system de-scribed in (Segura-Bedmar et al., 2014) is the onlyone that has dealt with the detection of drugs andtheir effects from Spanish social media streams.The system used the Textalytics tool3, which fol-lows a dictionary-based approach to identify en-tities in texts.
The dictionary was constructedbased on the following resources: CIMA4andMedDRA5.
CIMA is an online information centermaintained by the Spanish Agency for Medicinesand Health Products (AEMPS).
CIMA providesinformation on all drugs authorized in Spain,though it does not include drugs approved only inLatin America.
CIMA contains a total of 16,418brand drugs and 2,228 generic drugs.
Many branddrugs have very long names because they includeadditional information such as dosages, mode androute of administration, laboratory, among oth-ers (for example, ESPIDIFEN 400 mg GRANU-LADO PARA SOLUCION ORAL SABOR ALBARI-COQUE).
For this reason, brand drug names weresimplified before being included in the dictionary.After removing the additional information, the re-sulting list of brand drug names consisted of 3,662terms.
Thus, the dictionary contained a total of5,890 drugs.
As regards to the effects, the au-thors decided to use MedDRA, a medical multi-lingual terminology dictionary about events asso-ciated with drugs.
MedDRA is composed of a fivelevels hierarchy.
A total of 72,072 terms from themost specific level, ?Lowest Level Terms?
(LLTs),were integrated into the dictionary.
In addition,several gazetteers including drugs and effects werecollected from websites such as Vademecum6, aSpanish online website that provides informationto patients on drugs and their side effects, and3https://textalytics.com/4http://www.aemps.gob.es/cima/5http://www.meddra.org/6http://www.vademecum.es/99the ATC system7, a classification system of drugs.Thus, the dictionary and the two gazetteers con-tained a total of 7,593 drugs and 74,865 effects.The system yielded a precision of 87% for drugsand 85% for effects, and a recall of 80% for drugsand 56% for effects.3 The SpanishADR corpusSegura-Bedmar et al., (2014) created the firstSpanish corpus of user comments annotated withdrugs and their effects.
The corpus consists of400 comments, which were gathered from Fo-rumClinic8, an interactive health social platform,where patients exchange information about theirdiseases and their treatments.
The texts were man-ually annotated by two annotators with expertisein Pharmacovigilance.
All the mentions of drugsand effects were annotated, even those contain-ing spelling or grammatical errors (for example,hemorrajia (haemorrhage)).
An assessment of theinter-annotator agreement (IAA) was based on theF-measure metric, which approximates the kappacoefficient (Cohen, 1960) when the number of truenegatives (TN) is very large (Hripcsak and Roth-schild, 2005).
This assessment revealed that whiledrugs showed a high IAA (0.89), their effects pointto moderate agreement (0.59).
This may be dueto drugs have specific names and there are a lim-ited number of them, however their effects are ex-pressed by patients in many different ways due tothe variability and richness of natural language.The corpus is available for academic purposes9.In this paper, we extend the Spanish corpus toincorporate the annotation of the relationships be-tween drugs and their effects.
In particular, weannotated drug indications and adverse drug reac-tions.
These relationships were annotated at com-ment level rather than sentence level, because de-termining sentence boundaries in this kind of textscan be problematic since many users often writeungrammatical sentences.
Guidelines were cre-ated by two annotators (A1, A2) and a third an-notator (A3) was trained on the annotation guide-lines.
Then, we split the corpus in three subsets,and each subset was annotated by one annotator.Finally, IAA was measured using kappa-statisticon a sample of 97 documents randomly selected.These documents were annotated by the three an-7http://www.whocc.no/atc ddd index/8http://www.forumclinic.org/9http://labda.inf.uc3m.es/SpanishADRCorpusnotators and annotation differences were analysed.As Table 1 shows, the resulting corpus has 61drug indications and 103 adverse drug reactions.The average size of a comment is 72 tokens.
Theaverage size of a text fragment describing a drugindication is 34.7 tokens and 28.2 tokens for ad-verse drug reactions.Annotation Sizedrugs 188effect 545drug indication 61adverse drug reaction 103Table 1: Size of the extended SpanishADR corpus.As it is shown in Table 2, the IAA figures clearlysuggest that the annotators have high agreementamong them.
We think that the IAA figures werelower with the third annotator because he did notparticipate in the guidelines development process,and maybe, he was not trained well enough to per-form the task.
The main source of disagreementamong the annotators could arise from consider-ing whether a term refers to a drug effect or not.This is due to some terms are too general (such astrastorno (upset), enfermedad (disease), molestia(ache)).
The annotators A1 and A2, in general,ruled out all the relation instances where thesegeneral terms occur, however they were consid-ered and annotated by the third annotator.A2 A3A1 0.8 0.69A2 - 0.68Table 2: Pairwise IAA for each combination oftwo annotators.
IAA was measured using Cohens?kappa statistic4 MethodsIn this contribution, some refinements to the sys-tem (Segura-Bedmar et al., 2014) are proposed.The error analysis performed in (Segura-Bedmaret al., 2014) showed that most of false positivesfor drug effects were mainly due to the inclu-sion of MedDRA terms referring to proceduresand tests in the dictionary.
MedDRA includesterms for diseases, signs, abnormalities, proce-dures and tests.
Therefore, we decided not to in-clude terms corresponding to the ?Procedimientos100m?edicos y quir?urgicos?
and ?Exploraciones com-plementarias?
categories since they do not repre-sent drug effects.
Thus, we created a new dic-tionary that only includes those terms from Med-DRA that actually refer to drug effects.
As in thesystem (Segura-Bedmar et al., 2014), we appliedthe Textalytics tool, which follows a dictionary-based approach, to identify drugs and their ef-fects occurring in the messages.
We created aGATE10pipeline application integrating the Tex-talytic module and the gazetteers collected fromthe Vademecum website and the ATC system pro-posed in (Segura-Bedmar et al., 2014).In addition, we created an additional gazetteerin order to increase the coverage.
We developed aweb crawler to browse and download pages relatedto drugs from the MedLinePlus website11.
Un-like Vademecum, which only contains informationfor drugs approved in Spain, MedLinePlus alsoincludes information about drugs only approvedin Latin America.
Terms describing drug effectswere extracted by regular expressions from thesepages and then were incorporated into a gazetteer.Then, the new gazetteer was also integrated intothe GATE pipeline application to identify drugsand effects.
Several experiments with differentsettings of this pipeline are described in the fol-lowing section.The main contribution of this paper is to pro-pose an approach for detecting relationships be-tween drugs and their effects from user commentsin Spanish.
The main difficulty in this task is thatalthough there are several English databases suchas SIDER or MedEffect with information aboutdrugs and their side effects, none of them are avail-able for Spanish.
Moreover, these resources donot include drug indications.
Thus, we have au-tomatically built the first database, SpanishDrug-EffectBD, with information about drugs, their drugindications as well as their adverse drug reactionsin Spanish.
Our first step was to populate thedatabase with all drugs and effects from our dic-tionary.
Figure 1 shows the database schema.Active ingredients are saved into the Drug ta-ble, and their synonyms and brand names into theDrugSynset table.
Likewise, concepts from Med-DRA are saved into the Effect table and their syn-onyms are saved into the EffectSynset table.
Asit is shown in Figure 1, the database is also de-10http://gate.ac.uk/11http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/spanish/signed to store external ids from other databases.Thus, drugs and effects can be linked to externaldatabases by the tables has externalIDDrug andhas externalIDDrug, respectively.To obtain the relationships between drugsand their effects, we developed several webcrawlers in order to gather sections describingdrug indications and adverse drug reactions fromdrug package leaflets contained in the follow-ing websites: MedLinePlus, Prospectos.Net12andProspectos.org13.
Once these sections were down-loaded, their texts were processed using the Text-Alyticis tool to recognize drugs and their effects.As each section (describing drug indications or ad-verse drug effects) is linked to one drug, we de-cided to consider the effects contained in the sec-tion as possible relationships with this drug.
Thetype of relationship depends on the type of section:drug indication or adverse drug reaction.
Thus forexample, a pair (drug, effect) from a section de-scribing drug indications is saved into the DrugEf-fect table as a drug indication relationship, while ifthe pair is obtained from a section describing ad-verse drug reactions, then it is saved as an adversedrug reaction.
This database can be used to au-tomatically identify drug indications and adversedrug reactions from texts.
Table 3 shows the num-ber of drugs, effects and their relationships storedinto the database.Concepts Synonymsdrugs 3,244 7,378effects 16,940 52,199drug indications 4,877adverse drug reactions 58,633Table 3: Number of drugs, effects, drug indica-tions and adverse drug effects in the SpanishDrug-EffectBD database.As regards to the extraction of the relationshipsbetween drugs and their effects occurring in thecorpus, first of all, texts were automatically an-notated with drugs and effects using the GATEpipeline application.
Then, in order to generateall possible relation instances between drugs andtheir effects, we considered several sizes of win-dow: 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50.
Given a size n, anypair (drug, effect) co-occurring within a windowof n-tokens are treated as a relation instance.
Af-12http://www.prospectos.net/13http://prospectos.org/101Figure 1: The SpanishDrugEffectBD database schematerwards, each relation instance is looked up in theDrugEffect table in order to determine if it is a pos-itive instance and if this is the case, its type: drugindication or adverse drug reaction.5 ExperimentsSeveral experiments have been performed in orderto evaluate the contribution of the proposed meth-ods and resources.
Table 4 shows the results forthe named entity recognition task of drugs and ef-fects using the dictionary integrated into the Tex-tAlytic tool.
The first row shows the results withthe dictionary built from the CIMA and MedDRAresources, while the second one shows the resultsobtained using the new dictionary in which thoseMedDRA terms corresponding to ?Procedimien-tos m?edicos y quir?urgicos?
and ?Exploracionescomplementarias?
categories were ruled out.
Asit can be seen in this table, the new dictionary per-mits to obtain a significant improvement with re-spect to the original dictionary.
For effect type,precision was increased almost a 40% and re-call a 7%.
As regards to the contribution of thegazetteers, the coverage for effects improves al-most a 6% but with significant decrease in preci-sion of almost 21%.
Regarding to the detection ofdrugs, the use of gazetteers improves slightly theprecision and achieves a significant improvementin the recall of almost 35%.The major cause of false negatives for drug ef-fects was the use of colloquial expressions (suchas ?me deja ko?
(it makes me ko)) to describe anadverse effect.
These phrases are not included inour dictionary.
Another important cause was thedictionary and gazetteers do not cover all the lex-ical variations of a same effect (for example de-presi?on (depression), depresivo (depress), me de-primo (I get depressed)).
In addition, many falsenegatives were due to spelling mistakes (for ex-ample hemorrajia instead of hemorragia (haemor-rhage)) and abbreviations (depre is an abbreviationfor depresi?on (depression)).Regarding to the results for the relation extrac-tion task, Table 5 shows the overall results ob-tained using a baseline system, which considersall pairs (drug, effect) occurring in messages aspositive relation instances, and a second approachusing the SpanishDrugEffectBD database (a rela-tion instance is positive only if it is found into thedatabase).
In both experiments, a window size of250 tokens was used.
The database provides a highprecision but with a very low recall of only 15%.102Approach Entity P R F1Dictionarydrugs 0.84 0.46 0.60effect 0.45 0.38 0.41New dictionarydrugs 0.84 0.46 0.60effect 0.84 0.45 0.59New dictionary plus gazetteersdrugs 0.86 0.81 0.84effect 0.63 0.51 0.57Table 4: Precision, Recall and F-measure for named entity recognition task.As it can be seen in Table 6, when the type of therelationship is considered, the performance is evenlower.Approach P R F1Baseline 0.31 1.00 0.47SpanishDrugEffectBD 0.83 0.15 0.25Table 5: Overall results for relation extraction task(window size of 250 tokens).Relation P R F1Drug indication 0.50 0.02 0.03Adverse drug reaction 0.65 0.11 0.18Table 6: Results for drug indications and adversedrug reactions using only the database (windowsize of 50 tokens).Figure 2 shows an example of the output of oursystem using the database.
The system is able todetect the relationship of indication between al-prazolman and ansiedad (anxiety), but fails in de-tecting the adverse drug reaction between alpra-zolman and dependencia (dependency).
The ad-verse drug reaction between lamotrigina and ver-tigo is detected.The co-occurrence approach provides better re-sults than the use of the database.
Table 7 showsthe results for different size of windows.
As it wasexpected, small sizes provide better precision butlower recall.6 ConclusionIn this paper we present the first corpus where400 user messages from a Spanish health socialnetwork have been annotated with drug indica-tions and adverse drug reactions.
In addition, wepresent preliminary results obtained using a verysimple system based on co-occurrence of drug-effect pairs as a first step in the study of detectingSize of window P R F110 0.71 0.24 0.3620 0.59 0.53 0.5630 0.52 0.69 0.5940 0.47 0.77 0.5850 0.44 0.84 0.58Table 7: Overall results for relation extraction taskusing the co-occurrence approach considering dif-ferent window sizes.adverse drug reactions and drug indications fromsocial media streams.
Results show that there isstill much room for improvement in the identifica-tion of drugs and effects, as well as in the extrac-tion of drug indications and adverse drug rections.As it was already mentioned in Section 2, therecognition of drugs in social media texts hashardly been tackled since most systems were fo-cused on a given and fixed set of drugs.
Moreover,little research has been conducted to extract rela-tionships between drugs and their effects from so-cial media.
Most systems for extracting ADRs fol-low a dictionary-based approach.
The main draw-back of these systems is that they fail to recog-nize terms which are not included in the dictio-nary.
In addition, the dictionary-based approachis not able to handle the large number of spellingand grammar errors in social media texts.
More-over, the detection of ADRs and drug indicationshas not been attempted for languages other thanEnglish.
Indeed, automatic information extractionfrom Spanish-language social media in the field ofhealth remains largely unexplored.Social media texts pose additional challengesto those associated with the processing of clin-ical records and medical literature.
These newchallenges include the management of meta-information included in the text (for example astags in tweets)(Bouillot et al., 2013), the detectionof typos and unconventional spelling, word short-103Figure 2: An example of the output of the system using the database.enings (Neunerdt et al., 2013; Moreira et al., 2013)and slang and emoticons (Balahur, 2013), amongothers.
Another challenge that should be takeninto account is that while clinical records and med-ical literature can be mapped to terminological re-sources or biomedical ontologies, lay terminologyused by patients to describe their treatments andtheir effects, in general, is not collected in any ter-minological resource, which would facilitate theautomatic processing of this kind of texts.In this paper, we also describe the automaticcreation of a database for drug indications and ad-verse drug reactions from drug package leaflets.To the best of our knowledge, this is the firstdatabase available for Spanish.
Although the useof this database did not improve the results dueto its limited coverage, we think that the databasecould be a valuable resource for future efforts.Thus, we plan to translate the database into an on-tology and to populate it with more entities and re-lationships.
As future work, we plan the followingtasks:?
To create a lexicon containing idiomatic ex-pressions used by patients to express drug ef-fects.?
To use techniques such as lemmatization andstemming to cope with the problem of lexicalvariability and to resolve abbreviations.?
To integrate advanced matching methods ca-pable of dealing with the spelling error prob-lem.?
To increase the size of the corpus.?
To apply a SVM classification approach toextract relationships between drugs and theireffects.We hope our research will be beneficial toAEMPS as well as to the pharmaceutical indus-try in the improvement of their pharmacovigilancesystems.
Both the corpus and the database arefreely available online14for research purposes.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the EU project Trend-Miner [FP7-ICT287863], by the project MUL-TIMEDICA [TIN2010-20644-C03-01], and bythe Research Network MA2VICMR [S2009/TIC-1542].ReferencesRakesh Agrawal, Ramakrishnan Srikant, et al.
1994.Fast algorithms for mining association rules.
InProc.
20th int.
conf.
very large data bases, VLDB,volume 1215, pages 487?499.Alexandra Balahur.
2013.
Sentiment analysis in socialmedia texts.
WASSA 2013, page 120.David W Bates, R Scott Evans, Harvey Murff, Peter DStetson, Lisa Pizziferri, and George Hripcsak.
2003.Detecting adverse events using information technol-ogy.
Journal of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation, 10(2):115?128.Adrian Benton, Lyle Ungar, Shawndra Hill, Sean Hen-nessy, Jun Mao, Annie Chung, Charles E Leonard,and John H Holmes.
2011.
Identifying potentialadverse effects using the web: A new approach to14http://labda.inf.uc3m.es/SpanishADRCorpus104medical hypothesis generation.
Journal of biomedi-cal informatics, 44(6):989?996.CA Bond and Cynthia L Raehl.
2006.
Adverse drugreactions in united states hospitals.
Pharmacother-apy: The Journal of Human Pharmacology andDrug Therapy, 26(5):601?608.Flavien Bouillot, Phan Nhat Hai, Nicolas B?echet, San-dra Bringay, Dino Ienco, Stan Matwin, Pascal Pon-celet, Mathieu Roche, and Maguelonne Teisseire.2013.
How to extract relevant knowledge fromtweets?
In Information Search, Integration and Per-sonalization, pages 111?120.
Springer.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreementfor nominal scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20(1):37?46.FDA.
1970.
National adverse drug reaction directory:Costart (coding symbols for thesaurus of adverse re-action terms).
Rock-Irvine, Charles F, Sharp,) r,MD, Huntington Memorial Hospital, Stuart l, Sil-verman, MD, University of California, los Angeles,West los Angeles-Veterans Affairs Medical Center,Osteoporosis Medical Center.Ronald A Fisher.
1922.
On the interpretation of chi-squared from contingency tables, and the calcula-tion of p. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society,85(1):87?94.Carol Friedman.
2009.
Discovering novel adversedrug events using natural language processing andmining of the electronic health record.
In ArtificialIntelligence in Medicine, pages 1?5.
Springer.Kin Wah Fung, Chiang S Jao, and Dina Demner-Fushman.
2013.
Extracting drug indication infor-mation from structured product labels using naturallanguage processing.
Journal of the American Med-ical Informatics Association, 20(3):482?488.Harsha Gurulingappa, Abdul Mateen-Rajput, LucaToldo, et al.
2012.
Extraction of potential adversedrug events from medical case reports.
J BiomedSemantics, 3(1):15.Harsha Gurulingappa, Luca Toldo, Abdul Mateen Ra-jput, Jan A Kors, Adel Taweel, and Yorki Tayrouz.2013.
Automatic detection of adverse events to pre-dict drug label changes using text and data min-ing techniques.
Pharmacoepidemiology and drugsafety, 22(11):1189?1194.A Herxheimer, MR Crombag, and TL Alves.
2010.Direct patient reporting of adverse drug reactions.
atwelve-country survey & literature review.
HealthAction International (HAI)(Europe).
Amsterdam.George Hripcsak and Adam S Rothschild.
2005.Agreement, the f-measure, and reliability in infor-mation retrieval.
Journal of the American MedicalInformatics Association, 12(3):296?298.Martin Krallinger, Florian Leitner, Obdulia Rabal,Miguel Vazquez, Julen Oyarzabal, and Alfonso Va-lencia.
2013.
Overview of the chemical compoundand drug name recognition (chemdner) task.
InBioCreative Challenge Evaluation Workshop vol.
2,page 2.Michael Kuhn, Monica Campillos, Ivica Letunic,Lars Juhl Jensen, and Peer Bork.
2010.
A side ef-fect resource to capture phenotypic effects of drugs.Molecular systems biology, 6(1).Robert Leaman, Laura Wojtulewicz, Ryan Sullivan,Annie Skariah, Jian Yang, and Graciela Gonzalez.2010.
Towards internet-age pharmacovigilance: ex-tracting adverse drug reactions from user posts tohealth-related social networks.
In Proceedings ofthe 2010 workshop on biomedical natural languageprocessing, pages 117?125.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Qi Li, Louise Deleger, Todd Lingren, Haijun Zhai,Megan Kaiser, Laura Stoutenborough, Anil G Jegga,Kevin Bretonnel Cohen, and Imre Solti.
2013.
Min-ing fda drug labels for medical conditions.
BMCmedical informatics and decision making, 13(1):53.Mark McClellan.
2007.
Drug safety reform atthe fdapendulum swing or systematic improvement?New England Journal of Medicine, 356(17):1700?1702.Silvio Moreira, Joao Filgueiras, and Bruno Martins.2013.
Reaction: A naive machine learning approachfor sentiment classification.
In Proceedings of the7th InternationalWorkshop on Semantic Evaluation(SemEval 2013), page 490.Melanie Neunerdt, Michael Reyer, and Rudolf Mathar.2013.
A pos tagger for social media texts trained onweb comments.
Polibits, 48:59?66.Azadeh Nikfarjam and Graciela H Gonzalez.
2011.Pattern mining for extraction of mentions of adversedrug reactions from user comments.
In AMIA An-nual Symposium Proceedings, volume 2011, page1019.
American Medical Informatics Association.Isabel Segura-Bedmar, Paloma Mart?
?nez, and Mar?aHerrero-Zazo.
2013.
Semeval-2013 task 9: Ex-traction of drug-drug interactions from biomedicaltexts (ddiextraction 2013).
Proceedings of Semeval,pages 341?350.Isabel Segura-Bedmar, Ricardo Revert, and PalomaMartnez.
2014.
Detecting drugs and adverse eventsfrom spanish social media streams.
In Proceedingsof the 5th International Louhi Workshop on HealthDocument Text Mining and Information Analysis(Louhi 2014).Sunghwan Sohn, Jean-Pierre A Kocher, Christopher GChute, and Guergana K Savova.
2011.
Drug side ef-fect extraction from clinical narratives of psychiatryand psychology patients.
Journal of the AmericanMedical Informatics Association, 18(Suppl 1):i144?i149.105?Ozlem Uzuner, Imre Solti, and Eithon Cadag.
2010.Extracting medication information from clinicaltext.
Journal of the American Medical InformaticsAssociation, 17(5):514?518.Cornelis S van Der Hooft, Miriam CJM Sturkenboom,Kees van Grootheest, Herre J Kingma, and BrunoH Ch Stricker.
2006.
Adverse drug reaction-relatedhospitalisations.
Drug Safety, 29(2):161?168.Rong Xu and QuanQiu Wang.
2013.
Large-scaleextraction of accurate drug-disease treatment pairsfrom biomedical literature for drug repurposing.BMC bioinformatics, 14(1):181.106
