Proceedings of the of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Dialogue in Motion (DM), pages 68?72,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSituationally Aware In-Car Information PresentationUsing Incremental Speech Generation: Safer, and More EffectiveSpyros Kousidis1, Casey Kennington1,2, Timo Baumann4, Hendrik Buschmeier2,3,Stefan Kopp2,3, and David Schlangen11Dialogue Systems Group,2CITEC,3Sociable Agents Group ?
Bielefeld University4Department of Informatics, Natural Language Systems Division ?
University of Hamburgspyros.kousidis@uni-bielefeld.deAbstractHolding non-co-located conversationswhile driving is dangerous (Horrey andWickens, 2006; Strayer et al., 2006),much more so than conversations withphysically present, ?situated?
interlocutors(Drews et al., 2004).
In-car dialoguesystems typically resemble non-co-locatedconversations more, and share theirnegative impact (Strayer et al., 2013).
Weimplemented and tested a simple strategyfor making in-car dialogue systems awareof the driving situation, by giving themthe capability to interrupt themselveswhen a dangerous situation is detected,and resume when over.
We show that thisimproves both driving performance andrecall of system-presented information,compared to a non-adaptive strategy.1 IntroductionImagine you are driving on a relatively free high-way at a constant speed and you are talking with theperson next to you.
Suddenly, you need to overtakeanother car.
This requires more attention from you;you check the mirrors before you change lanes, andagain before you change back.
Plausibly, an attent-ive passenger would have noticed your attentionbeing focused more on the driving, and reacted tothis by interrupting their conversational contribu-tion, resuming when back on the original lane.Using a driving simulation setup, we implemen-ted a dialogue system that realises this strategy.
Byemploying incremental output generation, the sys-tem can interrupt and flexibly resume its output.We tested the system using a variation of a stand-ard driving task, and found that it improved bothdriving performance and recall, as compared to anon-adaptive baseline system.Figure 1: Overview of our system setup: humancontrols actions of a virtual car; events are sent toDM, which controls the speech output.2 The Setup2.1 The Situated In-Car SystemFigure 1 shows an overview of our system setup,with its main components: a) the driving simulatorthat presents via computer graphics the driving taskto the user; b) the dialogue system, that presents,via voice output, information to the user (here, cal-endar entries).Driving Simulation For the driving simulator,we used the OpenDS Toolkit,1connected to a steer-ing wheel and a board with an acceleration andbrake pedal, using standard video game hardware.We developed our own simple driving scenarios(derived from the ?ReactionTest?
task, which is dis-tributed together with OpenDS) that specified thedriving task and timing of the concurrent speech,as described below.
We modified OpenDS to passreal-time data (e.g.
car position/velocity/events inthe simulation, such as a gate becoming visibleor a lane change) using the mint.tools architec-ture (Kousidis et al., 2013).
In addition, we havebridged INPROTK (Baumann and Schlangen, 2012)with mint.tools via the Robotics Service Bus (RSB,Wienke and Wrede (2011)) framework.1http://www.opends.eu/68Figure 2: Driver?s view during experiment.
Thegreen signal on the signal-bridge indicates the tar-get lane.Dialogue System Using INPROTK, we imple-mented a simple dialogue system.
The notion of?dialogue?
is used with some liberty here: the userdid not interact directly with the system but ratherindirectly (and non-intentionally) via driving ac-tions.
Nevertheless, we used the same modularisa-tion as in more typical dialogue systems by using adialoge management (DM) component that controlsthe system actions based on the user actions.
Weintegrated OpenDial (Lison, 2012) as the DM intoINPROTK,2though we only used it to make simple,deterministic decisions (there was no learned dia-logue policy) based on the state of the simulator(see below).
We used the incremental output gen-eration capabilities of INPROTK, as described in(Buschmeier et al., 2012).3 ExperimentWe evaluated the adaptation strategy in a drivingsimulation setup, where subjects performed a 30minute, simulated drive along a straight, five-laneroad, during which they were occasionally facedwith two types of additional tasks: a lane-changetask and a memory task, which aim to measure thedriving performance and the driver?s ability to payattention to speech while driving, respectively.
Thetwo tasks occured in isolation or simultaneoulsy.The Lane-Change Task The driving task weused is a variant of the well-known lane-changetask (LCT), which is standardised in (ISO, 2010):It requires the driver to react to a green light posi-tioned on a signal gate above the road (see Figure 2).The driver (otherwise instructed to remain in themiddle lane) must move to the lane indicated by2OpenDial can be found at http://opendial.googlecode.com/.Table 1: Experiment conditions.Lane Change Presentation mode AbbreviationYes CONTROL CONTROL_LANEYes ADAPTIVE ADAPTIVE_LANEYes NO_TALK NO_TALK_LANENo CONTROL CONTROL_EMPTYthe green light, remain there until a tone is sounded,and then return again to the middle lane.
OpenDSgives a success or fail result to this task dependingon whether the target lane was reached within 10seconds (if at all) and the car was in the middle lanewhen the signal became visible.
We also added aspeed constraint: the car maintained 40 km/h whenthe pedal was not pressed, with a top speed of 70km/h when fully pressed.
During a Lane-change,the driver was to maintain a speed of 60 km/h, thusadding to the cognitive load.The Memory Task We tested the attention ofthe drivers to the generated speech using a simpletrue-false memory task.
The DM generated utter-ances such as ?am Samstag den siebzehnten Mai12 Uhr 15 bis 14 Uhr 15 hast du ?gemeinsam Essenim Westend mit Martin?
?
(on Saturday the 17thof May from 12:15?14:15 you are meeting Mar-tin for Lunch).
Each utterance had 5 informationtokens: day, time, activity, location and partner,spoken by a female voice.
After utterance comple-tion, and while no driving distraction occurred, aconfirmation question was asked by a male voice,e.g.
?Richtig oder Falsch?
?
Freitag?
(Right orwrong?
?
Friday).
The subject was then requiredto answer true or false by pressing one of two re-spective buttons on the steering wheel.
The tokenof the confirmation question was chosen randomly,although tokens near the beginning of the utterance(day and time) were given a higher probability ofoccurrence.
The starting time of the utterance re-lative to the gate was varied randomly between 3and 6 seconds before visibility.
Figure 3 gives aschematic overview of the task and describes thestrategy we implemented for interrupting and re-suming speech, triggered by the driving situation.3.1 ConditionsTable 1 shows the 4 experiment conditions, de-noting if a lane change was signalled, and whatpresentation strategy was used.
Each condition ap-peared exactly 11 times in the scenario, for a totalof 44 episodes.
The order of episodes was randomly69t1t2sucgatelane t301234am Samstag den siebzehn- den siebzehnten Mai ?am Samstag den siebzehnten Mai um 12 Uhr hast du ?Besprechung mit Peter?ADAPTIVECONTROLFigure 3: Top view of driving task: as the car moves to the right over time, speech begins at t1, the gate withthe lane-change indicator becomes visible at t2, where in the adaptive version speech pauses.
Successfullane change is detected at suc; successful change back to the middle lane is detected at lane, and resumes.
(If no change back is detected, the interruption times out at t3).
All red-dotted lines denote events sentfrom OpenDS to the Dialogue Manager.generated for each subject.
With this design, sub-jects perceive conditions to be entirely random.3.2 Dependent VariablesThe dependent variables for the Memory taskare (a) whether the subject?s answer was correct(true/false), and (b) the response delay, which isthe time from the end of the clarification ques-tion to the time the true or false button waspressed.
For the driving task, the dependent vari-ables are the OpenDS performance measurementssuccess/failure (as defined above) and reaction time(time to reach the target lane).3.3 ProcedureAfter signing a consent form, subjects were led intothe experiment room, where seat position and audiolevel were adjusted, and were given written instruc-tions.
Next, the OpenDS scenario was initiated.
Thescenario started with 10 successive lane-change sig-nal gates without speech, for driving training.
Anexperimenter provided feedback during trainingwhile the subjects familiarized themselves with thedriving task.
Following the training gates came aclearly-marked ?START?
gate, signifying the be-ginning of the experiment to the subjects (at thispoint, the experimenter left).
There was a ?FINISH?gate at the end of the scenario.
The whole stretch ofroad was 23 km and took approximately 30 minutesto complete.
After the driving task, the subjectswere given a questionnaire, which asked them toidentify the information presentation strategies andassign a preference.Table 2: Subjects?judgement of taskdifficulty.Diff.
Freq.4 (easy) 83 72 11 (hard) 1Table 3: Subjects?
systempreference.Preference Freq.ADAPTIVE 3CONTROL 9Neither 54 ResultsIn total, 17 subjects (8 male, 9 female, aged 19-36) participated in the study.
All of the subjectswere native German speakers affiliated with AN-ONYMIZED University.
As reported in the post-testquestionnaire, all held a driving license, two hadprevious experience with driving simulators andonly one had previous experience with spoken dia-logue systems.
Table 2 shows the subjects?
assess-ment of difficulty, while Table 3 shows their prefer-ence between the different strategies.
Most subjectsfound the task relatively easy and either prefer thespeech not to adapt or have no preference.Memory task The overall percentages of correctanswers to the system?s recall questions (across allsubjects) are shown in Table 4.
We see that the sub-jects?
performance in this task is considerably bet-ter when the system adapts to the driving situation(ADAPTIVE_LANE condition) rather than speakingthrough the lane change (CONTROL_LANE con-dition).
In fact, the performance in the ADAPT-IVE_LANE condition is closer to the control upper70Table 4: Performance in memory task per condi-tion.Condition PercentageCONTROL_EMPTY 169/180 (93.9%)ADAPTIVE_LANE 156/172 (90.7%)CONTROL_LANE 150/178 (84.3%)Table 5: Success in driving task per condition (asreported by OpenDS).Condition SuccessNOTALK_LANE 175/185 (94.6%)ADAPTIVE_LANE 165/174 (94.8%)CONTROL_LANE 165/180 (91.7%)bound (CONTROL_EMPTY condition).
We testedsignificance of the results using a generalized lin-ear mixed model with CONDITION and SUBJECTas factors, which yields a p-value of 0.027 whencompared against a null model in which only SUB-JECT is a factor.
No significant effects of between-subjects factors gender, difficulty or preferencewere found.
In addition, the within-subject variabletime did not have any significant effect (subjects donot improve in the memory task with time).The average response delay (from the end ofthe recall question to the button press) per condi-tion across all subjects is shown in Figure 4.
Sub-jects reply slower to the recall questions in theCONTROL_LANE condition, while their perform-ance in the ADAPTIVE_LANE condition is indis-tinguishable from the CONTROL_EMPTY condi-tion (in which there is no distraction).
Addition-ally, there is a general decreasing trend of responsedelay with time, which means that users get ac-quainted with the task (type of information, formatof question) over time.
Both factors (conditionand time) are significant (repeated measures AN-OVA, 2x2 factorial design, Fcondition= 3.858, p =0.0359,Ftime= 4.672, p= 0.00662).
No significanteffects were found for any of the between-subjectfactors (gender, difficulty, preference).Driving task The success rate in the lane-changetask per condition is shown in Table 5.
Here toowe find that the performance is lower in the CON-TROL_LANE condition, while ADAPTIVE_LANEdoes not seem to affect driving performance, whencompared to the NOTALK_LANE condition.
Theeffect is significant (p = 0.01231) using the sameGLMM approach and factors as above.ADAPTIVE_LANE CONTROL_EMPTY CONTROL_LANECondition05001000150020002500300035004000UserResponse Delay (ms)Figure 4: User answer response delay under threeconditions.5 Discussion, Conclusions, Future WorkWe have developed and tested a driving simula-tion scenario where information is presented by aspoken dialogue system.
Our system has the uniqueability (compared to today?s commercial systems)to adapt its speech to the driving situation: it in-terrupts itself when a dangerous situation occursand later resumes with an appropriate continuation.Using this strategy, information presentation hadno impact on driving, and dangerous situations noimpact on information recall.
In contrast, a systemthat blindly spoke while the driver was distractedby the lane-change task resulted in worse perform-ance in both tasks: subjects made more errors inthe memory task and also failed more of the lane-change tasks, which could prove dangerous in areal situation.Interestingly, very few of the subjects preferredthe adaptive version of the system in the post-taskquestionnaire.
Among the reasons that they gavefor this was their inability to control the interrup-tions/resumptions of the system.
We plan to ad-dress the issue of control by allowing future ver-sions of our system to accept user signals, such asspeech or head gestures; it will be interesting to seewhether this will impact driving performance or not.Further, more sophisticated presentation strategies(e.g., controlling the complexity of the generatedlanguage in accordance to the driving situation) canbe tested in this framework.Acknowledgments This research was partly sup-ported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft(DFG) in the CRC 673 ?Alignment in Communic-71ation?
and the Center of Excellence in ?Cognit-ive Interaction Technology?
(CITEC).
The authorswould like to thank Oliver Eckmeier and MichaelBartholdt for helping implement the system setup,as well as Gerdis Anderson and Fabian Wohlge-muth for assisting as experimenters.ReferencesTimo Baumann and David Schlangen.
2012.
The In-proTK 2012 release.
In NAACL-HLT Workshop onFuture directions and needs in the Spoken DialogCommunity: Tools and Data (SDCTD 2012), pages29?32, Montr?al, Canada.Hendrik Buschmeier, Timo Baumann, BenjaminDosch, Stefan Kopp, and David Schlangen.
2012.Combining incremental language generation and in-cremental speech synthesis for adaptive informationpresentation.
In Proceedings of the 13th AnnualMeeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourseand Dialogue, pages 295?303, Seoul, South Korea.Frank A. Drews, Monisha Pasupathi, and David L.Strayer.
2004.
Passenger and cell-phone conver-sations in simulated driving.
In Proceedings of the48th Annual Meeting of the Human Factors and Er-gonomics Society, pages 2210?2212, New Orleans,USA.William J. Horrey and Christopher D. Wickens.
2006.Examining the impact of cell phone conversationson driving using meta-analytic techniques.
HumanFactors, 48:196?205.ISO.
2010.
Road vehicles ?
Ergonomic aspects oftransport information and control systems ?
Simu-lated lane change test to assess in-vehicle second-ary task demand.
ISO 26022:2010, Geneva, Switzer-land.Spyros Kousidis, Thies Pfeiffer, and David Schlangen.2013.
MINT.tools: Tools and adaptors supportingacquisition, annotation and analysis of multimodalcorpora.
In Interspeech 2013, Lyon, France.
ISCA.Pierre Lison.
2012.
Probabilistic dialogue models withprior domain knowledge.
In Proceedings of the 13thAnnual Meeting of the Special Interest Group on Dis-course and Dialogue, pages 179?188, Seoul, SouthKorea.David L Strayer, Frank A Drews, and Dennis J Crouch.2006.
A comparison of the cell phone driver and thedrunk driver.
Human Factors, 48:381?91.David L Strayer, Joel M Cooper, Jonna Turrill, JamesColeman, and Nate Medeiros.
2013.
Measuringcognitive distraction in the automobile.
Technicalreport, AAA Foundation for Traffice Safety.J Wienke and S Wrede.
2011.
A middleware for col-laborative research in experimental robotics.
In Sys-tem Integration (SII), 2011 IEEE/SICE InternationalSymposium on, pages 1183?1190.72
