Proceedings of the 10th Workshop on Multiword Expressions (MWE 2014), pages 57?61,Gothenburg, Sweden, 26-27 April 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting MWEs from Italian corpora:A case study for refining the POS-pattern methodologyMalvina NissimFICLITUniversity of Bolognamalvina.nissim@unibo.itSara CastagnoliLILECUniversity of Bolognas.castagnoli@unibo.itFrancesca MasiniLILECUniversity of Bolognafrancesca.masini@unibo.itAbstractAn established method for MWE extrac-tion is the combined use of previously iden-tified POS-patterns and association mea-sures.
However, the selection of such POS-patterns is rarely debated.
Focusing on Ital-ian MWEs containing at least one adjec-tive, we set out to explore how candidatePOS-patterns listed in relevant literatureand lexicographic sources compare withPOS sequences exhibited by statisticallysignificant n-grams including an adjectiveposition extracted from a large corpus ofItalian.
All literature-derived patterns arefound?and new meaningful candidate pat-terns emerge?among the top-ranking tri-grams for three association measures.
Weconclude that a final solid set to be used forMWE extraction will have to be further re-fined through a combination of associationmeasures as well as manual inspection.1 IntroductionThe CombiNet project1has the goal of buildingan online resource for Word Combinations in Ital-ian, including MWEs of various degrees of fixed-ness (such as phrasal lexemes, collocations andusual combinations) as well as distributional pro-files of Italian lexemes.
Within this project, thepresent paper aims at investigating ways to refinea well-known methodology for MWE-extraction,namely the combined use of previously identifiedPOS-patterns and association measures (Evert andKrenn, 2005).
While POS-patterns are widely usedto extract MWEs from corpora in order to constrainthe array of possible outputs (Krenn and Evert,2001; Wermter and Hahn, 2006, e.g.
), the way inwhich POS-patterns are created in the first place ismuch less addressed.
This step is however crucial,1https://sites.google.com/site/enwcin/homeespecially considering that the list of patterns isnecessarily language-specific.
The goal of this pa-per is to propose a method to optimize ?
in terms ofboth recall and precision ?
the list of POS patternsto be used for the subsequent extraction of potentialMWEs.
In order to do this, we compare predeter-mined patterns, which would be normally used asa first-pass sieve for potential MWEs, with pat-terns exhibited by statistically significant n-gramsextracted from data.2 MethodologyIn this pilot study, we focus on MWEs containingat least one adjective, and we limit the extractionto trigrams (Section 2.1).
We make use of thefollowing sets of data: (a) a list of frequently usedItalian adjectives; (b) a list of previously identifiedPOS-patterns containing at least one adjective.2The adjectival lemmas were taken from theSenso Comune dictionary,3which contains 2,010fundamental lemmas of the Italian lexicon, 211 ofwhich are adjectives (e.g.
bello ?beautiful?, brutto?ugly?, ricco ?rich?).
These adjectives are used toconstrain the extraction procedure, and we refer tothis set as {SC}.The list of predetermined POS-patterns forMWEs involving one adjective was obtained bymerging the following information: (a) patternsof word combinations included in existing com-binatory dictionaries for Italian (Piunno et al.,2013), see Table 1a; (b) additional combinatorytypes mentioned in the relevant theoretical litera-ture (Voghera, 2004; Masini, 2012), summarisedin Table 1b; and (c) a few more patterns based onour own intuition, i.e.
identified by elaborating onthe previous two lists (Table 2).
This joint collec-tion contains a total of 19 patterns, most of whichare bigrams (11), and fewer are trigrams (8).
Note2For information on POS tags see Appendix.3http://www.sensocomune.it/57that trigrams (put together in Table 2) come for themost part from our intuition, indicating that thesepatterns are rather neglected in the literature andin combinatory dictionaries of Italian, which tendto focus on bigrams.
For this reason, and becauselonger sequences are intrinsically more idiosyn-cratic, we concentrate on trigrams for this pilotexperiment, although in the discussion we take intoaccount bigrams, too (Section 3).Table 1: Italian POS-patterns with ADJ(s)POS-pattern Example Translation(a) from lexicographic sourcesADJ ADJ stanco morto dead tiredADJCONADJ vivo e vegeto live and kickingADJ NOUN prima classe first classADJ PRE pronto a ready toADV ADJ molto malato very illNOUN ADJ casa editrice publishing houseVER ADJ uscire pazzo to go crazy(b) from relevant literatureADJ PRO qual esso which/whoADJiADJipapale papale bluntlyARTPRE ADJ alla francese French-stylePRE ADJ a caldo on the spotPRE ADJNOUN di bassa lega vulgar/coarsePRE NOUNADJ a senso unico one-wayPRO ADJ tal altro some other2.1 Extracting the trigramsFrom the corpus La Repubblica (Baroni et al.,2004), which consists of 300M words of newswirecontemporary Italian, we extracted all trigrams fea-turing at least one adjective, deriving this informa-tion from the pre-existing POS tags in the corpus.All trigrams were extracted as sequences of lem-mas.
We created three separate lists according tothe adjective?s position in the trigram (first, second,or third).
All instances containing any punctuationitem were discarded.For each of the three sets, we kept only trigramsoccurring more than five times in the whole cor-pus.
As a further step, we selected those instancesfeaturing one of the 211 adjectives in {SC}, yield-ing a total of 89,217 different trigrams featuringan adjective as first member (191 adjectives from{SC} occur in this position), 100,861 as second(192 adjectives), and 114,672 as third (193).2.2 Ranking the trigramsWe used the Text-NSP package (Banerjee and Ped-ersen, 2003) to rank the trigrams in each of thethree sets according to three association measures(AMs), namely the Poisson-Stirling measure (PS),the log-likelihood ratio (LL) and pointwise mu-tual information (PMI).
However, on the basis ofpreliminary inspection and observations in the liter-ature on ranking Italian MWEs extracted from cor-pora (Nissim and Zaninello, 2013), we discardedPMI as not too accurate for this task.
We alsoconsidered raw frequencies, as they have provedgood indicators for collocations, on a par with AMs(Krenn and Evert, 2001; Bannard, 2007).The idea is to check which POS sequences areexhibited by the highest instances in the rank, un-der the rationale that such patterns might be goodrepresentations of Italian MWEs containing adjec-tives, and can be used for further extraction andcharacterisation of the phenomenon (in dictionar-ies and resources).
Thus, we selected the top 10%instances in each rank, extracted their POS patterns,and ranked such patterns according to the numberof times they appeared.
Tables 3?5 report the tenmost frequent patterns according to each measure,when an adjective is found in first, second, andthird position, respectively.3 Analysis and discussionBy comparing the ranked patterns in Tables 3?5with the predetermined POS-patterns for trigramsin Table 2, we draw the following observations.We first consider patterns that are ranked highfor all measures.
Some find a correspondence tothose in Table 2, implying that these are likely tobe solid, characteristic POS sequences to be usedin extraction (ADJ CONJ ADJ (for ADJ in firstposition), ADJ PRE VER, PRE ADJ NOUN, andVER PRE ADJ).
Other found patterns, instead, arenot among the pre-identified ones, but are definitelytypical sequences, as the analysis of some of theextracted trigrams shows.
Among these: ADJ PRENOUN (ospite d?onore ?special guest?
), VER ARTADJ (essere il solo ?to be the only one?
), NOUNPRE ADJ (agente in borghese ?plain-clothes po-liceman?
), ARTPRE ADJ NOUN (all?ultimo mo-mento ?at the last moment?).
Envisaging an ex-traction procedure based on POS sequences, suchstructures should be included to improve recall.Conversely, the PRE ART ADJ pattern exhibitsan incomplete sequence, and is therefore unsuitablefor MWE extraction.
Since the inclusion of suchpatterns would possibly affect precision, they needto be filtered out on the grounds of grammatical58Table 2: Trigram POS-patterns containing ADJ(s)POS-pattern Example Translationfrom literature and resourcesADJ CON ADJ pura e semplice pure and simplePRE ADJ NOUN a breve termine short-runPRE NOUN ADJ in tempo reale (in) real-timefrom our own intuitionADJ PRE VER duro a morire die-hardNOUN ADJ ADJ prodotto interno lordo gross national productNOUN NOUN ADJ dipartimento affari sociali social affairs divisionPRE ADJ VER per quieto vivere for the sake of quiet and peaceVER PRE ADJ dare per scontato to take for grantedTable 3: Top 10 POS patterns featuring an adjective as word1, extracted from the top 10% trigrams rankedaccording to LL, PS, and raw frequency.LL PS raw frequencyADJ PRE VER ADJ NOUN PRE ADJ NOUN PREADJ PRE ART ADJ NOUN ARTPRE ADJ NOUN ARTPREADJ NOUN PRE ADJ NOUN ADJ ADJ ARTPRE NOUNADJ PRE NOUN ADJ ARTPRE NOUN ADJ PRE ARTADJ NOUN ARTPRE ADJ PRE VER ADJ PRE VERADJ ARTPRE NOUN ADJ PRE NOUN ADJ NOUN ADJADJ PRE DET ADJ CON ADJ ADJ PRE NOUNADJ CON ADJ ADJ NPR NPR ADJ CON ADJADJ CHE CLI ADJ NOUN CON ADJ NOUN CONADJ DET NOUN ADJ PRE ART ADJ CON ARTconstraints, or, ultimately, manual inspection.Additionally, there are patterns that contain orare portions of more relevant patterns for MWE-hood.
Some capture what are in fact bigrams (Ta-ble 6), while others are portions of 4-grams orpossibly larger sequences, namely NOUN ADJPRE (NOUN), (NOUN) ADJ ARTPRE NOUN,and NOUN ARTPRE ADJ (NOUN), where the?missing?
POS is given in brackets.
Examples are:concorso esterno in (omicidio) ?external partici-pation in (murder)?, (banca) nazionale del lavoro?National (Bank) of Labour?, and paese del terzo(mondo) ?third world (country)?, respectively.
Run-ning a full-scale extraction procedure that accountsfor all n-grams should naturally take care of this.Some of patterns from Table 2 are ranked highonly by some measures: PRE NOUN ADJ onlyaccording to PS and raw frequency (Table 5), andNOUN ADJ ADJ both for second and third po-sition, but only by PS.
Overall, with respect totheir ability to extract previously identified POS-patterns, AMs perform similarly when the adjectiveis the first member (Table 3), whereas PS seemsto be more indicative when the adjective is secondand third (Tables 4-5), together with raw frequency,while LL seems to be generally performing theworst.
This point calls for a combination of AMs(Pecina, 2008), but will require further work.As for predetermined patterns that are not foundamong the top ones, we observe that NOUN NOUNADJ is basically an adjective modifying a noun-noun compound, and should be best treated as a?complex bigram?.
Similarly, the PRE ADJ VERpattern can be seen as an extension of the ADJ VERbigram, which is usually not considered (Table 1).Investigating the combination of bigrams, trigramsand n-grams with n>3 is left for future work.4 ConclusionIn summary, basically all of the literature/intuition-based patterns are retrieved from highly rankedplain trigrams.
However, top-ranking trigrams alsoexhibit other POS sequences which should be in-cluded in a set of patterns used for MWE extrac-59Table 4: Top 10 POS patterns featuring an adjective as word2, extracted from the top 10% trigrams rankedaccording to LL, PS, and raw frequency.LL PS raw frequencyART ADJ NOUN ART ADJ NOUN ART ADJ NOUNNOUN ADJ PRE ARTPRE ADJ NOUN ARTPRE ADJ NOUNPRE ADJ NOUN PRE ADJ NOUN PRE ADJ NOUNARTPRE ADJ NOUN NOUN ADJ ARTPRE NOUN ADJ PREDET ADJ NOUN NOUN ADJ PRE NOUN ADJ ARTPREART ADJ NPR NOUN ADJ CON NOUN ADJ CONART ADJ CON DET ADJ NOUN ADV ADJ PREADV ADJ PRE VER ADJ NOUN DET ADJ NOUNDET ADJ VER NOUN ADJ ADJ ADV ADJ ARTPREVER ADJ PRE ADV ADJ PRE ADV ADJ CONTable 5: Top 10 POS patterns featuring an adjective as word3, extracted from the top 10% trigrams rankedaccording to LL, PS, and raw frequency.LL PS raw frequencyVER ART ADJ ART NOUN ADJ ART NOUN ADJPRE ART ADJ ARTPRE NOUN ADJ ARTPRE NOUN ADJNOUN PRE ADJ PRE NOUN ADJ VER ART ADJNOUN ARTPRE ADJ NOUN ARTPRE ADJ PRE ART ADJVER ARTPRE ADJ VER ART ADJ PRE NOUN ADJVER PRE ADJ NOUN PRE ADJ NOUN ARTPRE ADJNOUN ART ADJ PRE ART ADJ NOUN PRE ADJADV ART ADJ NOUN ADV ADJ VER PRE ADJADV ADV ADJ VER PRE ADJ NOUN ADV ADJART DET ADJ NOUN ADJ ADJ VER ARTPRE ADJTable 6: Extracted trigram patterns that subsume a bigram pattern (boldfaced).Pattern Example TranslationADJ PRE ART degno di un worthy of aADJ NOUN PRE utile netto di net profit ofADJ NOUN ARTPRE alto funzionario del senrior official ofART ADJ NOUN il pubblico ministero the public prosecutorNOUN ADJ PRE centro storico di historical centre ofARTPRE ADJ NOUN della pubblica amministrazione of the public administrationDET ADJ NOUN altro duro colpo another hard blowADV ADJ PRE sempre pronto a always ready totion to improve recall.
At the same time, severalpatterns extracted with this technique are to be dis-carded.
Some are just irrelevant (e.g.
ADJ CHECLI, nero che le ?black that them?
): in this respect,combining various AMs or setting grammaticalconstraints could help refine precision, but humanintervention also seems unavoidable.
Others arenot meaningful trigrams as such, but may be mean-ingful as parts of larger MWEs or because theycontain meaningful bigrams.
Here, it would be in-teresting to explore how to combine n-grams withdifferent n-values.This pilot experiment shows that trigram rankingis useful to extract new patterns that are not consid-ered in the initial set.
The latter can be thereforeexpanded by following the proposed methodology,as a preliminary step towards the actual extractionof candidate MWEs from corpora.
Clearly, the va-lidity of the expanded POS-pattern set can only beevaluated after the extraction step is completed.60AcknowledgmentsThis research was carried out within the PRINproject 2010-2011 (n. 20105B3HE8 003) WordCombinations in Italian: theoretical and descrip-tive analysis, computational models, lexicographiclayout and creation of a dictionary, coordinated byRaffaele Simone (Roma Tre University) and fundedby the Italian Ministry of Education, University andResearch (MIUR).
We are grateful to the anony-mous reviewers for their useful comments.ReferencesSatanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
The de-sign, implementation, and use of the ngram statisticspackage.
In A. F. Gelbukh, editor, volume 2588 ofLecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 370?381.Colin Bannard.
2007.
A measure of syntactic flex-ibility for automatically identifying multiword ex-pressions in corpora.
In Proc.
of the Workshop onA Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions,pages 1?8, Prague, ACL.Marco Baroni, Silvia Bernardini, Federica Comastri,Lorenzo Piccioni, Alessandra Volpi, Guy Aston, andMarco Mazzoleni.
2004.
Introducing the La Re-pubblica Corpus: A Large, Annotated, TEI(XML)-Compliant Corpus of Newspaper Italian.
In Proc.
ofLREC 2004, pages 1771?1774.Stefan Evert and Brigitte Krenn.
2005.
Using smallrandom samples for the manual evaluation of statis-tical association measures.
Computer Speech & Lan-guage, 19(4):450?466.
Special issue on MultiwordExpression.Brigitte Krenn and Stefan Evert.
2001.
Can we do bet-ter than frequency?
A case study on extracting PP-verb collocations.
In Proc.
of the ACL-EACL Work-shop on Collocations, pages 39?46, Toulouse.Francesca Masini.
2012.
Parole sintagmatiche in ita-liano.
Caissa, Roma.Malvina Nissim and Andrea Zaninello.
2013.
Mod-eling the internal variability of multiword expres-sions through a pattern-based method.
ACM Trans.Speech Lang.
Process., 10(2):7:1?7:26.Pavel Pecina.
2008.
A Machine Learning Approachto Multiword Expression Extraction.
In Proceed-ings of the LREC 2008 Workshop Towards a SharedTask for Multiword Expressions, pages 54?57, Mar-rakech, Morocco.
European Language ResourcesAssociation.Valentina Piunno, Francesca Masini and Sara Castag-noli.
2013.
Studio comparativo dei dizionari com-binatori dell?italiano e di altre lingue europee.
Com-biNet Technical Report.
Roma Tre University andUniversity of Bologna.Miriam Voghera.
2004.
Polirematiche.
In Grossmann,Maria & Franz Rainer, editors, La formazione delleparole in italiano, T?ubingen, Max Niemeyer Verlag,56-69.Joachim Wermter and Udo Hahn.
2006.
You can?tbeat frequency (unless you use linguistic knowl-edge): A qualitative evaluation of association mea-sures for collocation and term extraction.
In Proc.of COLING-ACL ?06, pages 785?792, USA.AppendixThe tagset for all patterns extracted fromthe corpus ?La Repubblica?
is accessible athttp://sslmit.unibo.it/?baroni/collocazioni/itwac.tagset.txt.
Inthe context of this experiment we collapsed allfine-grained tags into the corresponding coarse-grained tag (e.g.
all verbal tags such as VER:fin orVER:ppast were collapsed into VER).
The POStags used in this paper are to be interpreted as inthe Table below.Table 7: POS tags used in this paper.abbreviation part of speechADJ adjectiveADV adverbART articleARTPRE prepositional articleCHE any function of the word ?che?
(adjective, conjunction, pronoun)CLI cliticDET determinerNOUN nounPRE prepositionVER verb61
