Proceedings of the First Workshop on Argumentation Mining, pages 102?103,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 26, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSurvey in sentiment, polarity and function analysis of citationMyriam Hern?ndez AEscuela Polit?cnica NacionalFacultad de Ingenier?a de SistemasQuito, Ecuadormyriam.hernandez@epn.edu.ecJos?
M. G?mezUniversidad de AlicanteDpto de Lenguajes y Sistemas Inform?ticosAlicante, Espa?ajmgomez@ua.esAbstractIn this paper we proposed a survey insentiment, polarity and function analysisof citations.
This is an interesting areathat has had an increased development inrecent years but still has plenty of roomfor growth and further research.
Theamount of scientific information in theweb makes it necessary innovate theanalysis of the influence of the work ofpeers and leaders in the scientific com-munity.
We present an overview of gen-eral concepts, review contributions to thesolution of related problems such as con-text identification, function and polarityclassification, identify some trends andsuggest possible future research direc-tions.1 Extended abstractThe number of publications in science growsexponentially each passing year.
To understandthe evolution of several topics, researchers andscientist require locating and accessing availablecontributions from among large amounts ofavailable electronic material that can only benavigated through citations.
Citation analysis is away of evaluating the impact of an author, a pub-lished work or a scientific media.Sugiyama (2010) established that there aretwo types of research in the field of citationanalysis of research papers: citation count toevaluate the impact (Garfield, 1972) and citationcontent analysis (Councill et al., 2008).The advantages of citation count are the sim-plicity and the experience accumulated in scien-tometric applications, but many authors havepointed out its weakness.
One of the limitationsis that the count does not difference between theweights of high and low impact citing papers.PageRank (Page et al., 1998) partially solved thisproblem with a rating algorithm.
Small (1973)proposed co-citation analysis to supplement thequalitative method with a similarity measure be-tween works A and B, counting the number ofdocuments that cite them.Recently, this type researchers?
impact meas-ure has been widely criticized.
Bibliometric stud-ies (Radicchi, 2012) show that incomplete, erro-neous or controversial papers are most cited.This can generate perverse incentives for newresearchers who may be tempted to publish alt-hough its investigation is wrong or not yet com-plete because this way they will receive highernumber of citations (Marder et al., 2010).
In fact,it also affects the quality of very prestigiousjournals such as Nature, Science or Cell becausethey know that accepting controversial articles isvery profitable to increase citation numbers.Moreover, as claimed by Siegel and Baveye(2010), it is more influential the quantity of arti-cles than their quality or than the relationshipbetween papers with a higher number of citationsand the number of citations that, in turn, theyreceive (Webster et al., 2009).Other limitation of this method is that a cita-tion is interpreted as an author being influencedby the work of another, without specifying typeof influence (Zhang et al., 2013) which can bemisleading concerning the true impact of a cita-tion (Young et al., 2008).
To better understandthe influence of a scientific work it is advisableto broaden the range of indicators to take intoaccount factors like the author's disposition to-wards the reference, because, for instance, a crit-icized quoted work cannot have the same weightthan other that is used as starting point of a re-search.102These problems are added to the growing im-portance of impact indexes for the researchers?career.
It is becoming more important to correctthese issues and look for more complete metricsto evaluate researchers?
relevance taking intoaccount many other ?quality?
factors, one ofthem being the intention of the researcher whenciting the work of others.Automatic analysis of subjective criteria pre-sent in a text is known as Sentiment Analysis.
Itis part of citation content analysis and is a cur-rent research topic in the area of natural languageprocessing in the field of opinion mining and itsscope includes monitoring emotions in fields asdiverse as marketing, political science and eco-nomics.
It is proposed that this type of analysisbe applied in the study of bibliographic citations,as part of citation content analysis, to detect theintention and disposition of the citing author tothe cited work, and to give additional infor-mation to complement the calculation of the es-timated impact of a publication to enhance itsbibliometric analysis (Jbara and Radev, 2012).This analysis includes syntactic and semanticlanguage relationships through speech and natu-ral language processing and the explicit and im-plicit linguistic choices in the text to infer cita-tion function and feelings of the author regardingthe cited work (Zhang et al., 2013).A combination of a quantitative and qualita-tive/subjective analysis would give a more com-plete perspective of the impact of publications inthe scientific community (Jbara et al., 2013).Some methods for subjective citation analysishave been proposed by different authors, but theycall for more work to achieve better results indetection, extraction and handling of citationscontent and to characterize in a more accurateway the profile of scientists and the criticism oracceptance of their work.Although work in this specific area has in-creased in recent years, there are still open prob-lems that have not been solved and they need tobe investigated.
There are not enough open cor-pus that can be worked in shared form by re-searchers, there is not a common work frame tofacilitate achieving results that are comparablewith each other in order to reach conclusionsabout the efficiency of different techniques.
Inthis field it is necessary to develop conditionsthat allow and motivate collaborative work.AcknowledgmentsThis research work has been partially funded by theSpanish Government and the European Commissionthrough the project, ATTOS (TIN2012-38536-C03-03), LEGOLANG (TIN2012-31224), SAM (FP7-611312) and FIRST (FP7-287607).ReferenceCouncill, I. G., Giles, C. L., & Kan, M. Y.
(2008,May).
ParsCit: an Open-source CRF ReferenceString Parsing Package.
In LREC.Garfield, E. (1972, November).
Citation analysis as atool in journal evaluation.
American Associationfor the Advancement of Science.Jbara, A., & Radev, D. (2012, June).
Reference scopeidentification in citing sentences.
In Proceedings ofthe 2012 Conference of the North American Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics: Human Language Technologies (pp.
80-90).Association for Computational Linguistics.Jbara, A., Ezra, J., & Radev, D. (2013).
Purpose andPolarity of Citation: Towards NLP-based Biblio-metrics.
In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT (pp.
596-606).Marder, E., Kettenmann, H., & Grillner, S. (2010).Impacting our young.
Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences, 107(50), 21233-21233.Page, L., Brin, S., Motwani, R., & Winograd, T.(1999).
The PageRank citation ranking: bringingorder to the web.Radicchi, F. (2012).
In science ?there is no bad pub-licity?
: Papers criticized in comments have highscientific impact.
Scientific reports, 2.Small, H. (1973).
Co?citation in the scientific litera-ture: A new measure of the relationship betweentwo documents.
Journal of the American Societyfor information Science, 24(4), 265-269.Sugiyama, K., Kumar, T., Kan, M. Y., & Tripathi, R.C.
(2010).
Identifying citing sentences in researchpapers using supervised learning.
In InformationRetrieval & Knowledge Management, (CAMP),2010 International Conference on (pp.
67-72).IEEE.Webster, G. D., Jonason, P. K., & Schember, T.
O.(2009).
Hot Topics and Popular Papers in Evolu-tionary Psychology: Analyses of Title Words andCitation Counts in Evolution and Human Behavior,1979-2008.
Evolutionary Psychology, 7(3).Young, N. S., Ioannidis, J. P., & Al-Ubaydli, O.(2008).
Why current publication practices may dis-tort science.
PLoS medicine, 5(10), e201.Zhang, G., Ding, Y., & Milojevi?, S. (2013).
Citationcontent analysis (cca): A framework for syntacticand semantic analysis of citation content.
Journalof the American Society for Information Scienceand Technology, 64(7), 1490-1503.103
