Proceedings of the 5th Workshop on Language Analysis for Social Media (LASM) @ EACL 2014, pages 8?16,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsEstimating Time to Event from Tweets Using Temporal ExpressionsAli H?urriyeto?glu, Nelleke Oostdijk, and Antal van den BoschCentre for Language StudiesRadboud University NijmegenP.O.
Box 9103, NL-6500 HD Nijmegen, The Netherlands{a.hurriyetoglu,n.oostdijk,a.vandenbosch}@let.ru.nlAbstractGiven a stream of Twitter messages aboutan event, we investigate the predictivepower of temporal expressions in the mes-sages to estimate the time to event (TTE).From labeled training data we learn av-erage TTE estimates of temporal expres-sions and combinations thereof, and de-fine basic rules to compute the time toevent from temporal expressions, so thatwhen they occur in a tweet that mentionsan event we can generate a prediction.
Weshow in a case study on soccer matchesthat our estimations are off by about eighthours on average in terms of mean abso-lute error.1 IntroductionTextual information streams such as those pro-duced by news media and by social media reflectwhat is happening in the real world.
These streamsoften contain explicit pointers to future events thatmay interest or concern a potentially large amountof people.
Besides media-specific markers such asevent-specific hashtags in messages on Twitter1,these messages may contain explicit markers ofplace and time that help the receivers of the mes-sage disambiguate and pinpoint the event on themap and calendar.The automated analysis of streaming text mes-sages can play a role in catching these importantevents.
Part of this analysis may be the identifi-cation of the future start time of the event, so thatthe event can be placed on the calendar and appro-priate action may be taken by the receiver of themessage, such as ordering tickets, planning a se-curity operation, or starting a journalistic investi-gation.
The automated identification of the time toevent (TTE) should be as accurate and come early1http://twitter.comas possible.
In this paper we explore a hybrid rule-based and data-driven method that exploits the ex-plicit mentioning of temporal expressions to arriveat accurate and early TTE estimations.The idea of publishing future calendars with po-tentially interesting events gathered (semi-) auto-matically for subscribers, possibly with personal-ization features and the option to harvest both so-cial media and the general news, has been imple-mented already and is available through servicessuch as Zapaday2, Daybees3, and Songkick4.
Toour knowledge, based on the public interfaces ofthese platforms, these services perform directedcrawls of (structured) information sources, andidentify exact date and time references in posts onthese sources.
They also manually curate event in-formation, or collect this through crowdsourcing.In this study we do not use a rule-based tempo-ral tagger such as the HeidelTime tagger (Str?otgenand Gertz, 2013), which searches for only a lim-ited set of temporal expressions.
Instead, we pro-pose an approach that uses a large set of temporalexpressions, created by using seed terms and gen-erative rules, and a training method that automati-cally determines the TTE estimate to be associatedwith each temporal expression sequence in a data-driven way.
Typically, rule-based systems do notuse the implicit information provided by adverbs(?more?
in ?three more days?)
and relations be-tween non-subsequent elements, while machine-learning-based systems do not make use of thetemporal logic inherent to temporal expressions;they may identify ?three more days?
as a temporalexpression but they lack the logical apparatus tocompute that this implies a TTE of about 3 ?
24hours.
To make use of the best of both worldswe propose a hybrid system which uses informa-tion about the distribution of temporal expressions2http://www.zapaday.com3http://daybees.com/4https://www.songkick.com/8as they are used in forward-looking social mediamessages in a training set of known events, andcombines this estimation method with an exten-sive set of regular expressions that capture a largespace of possible Dutch temporal expressions.Thus, our proposed system analyzes social me-dia text to find information about future events,and estimates how long it will take before theevent takes place.
The service offered by this sys-tem will be useful only if it generates accurate es-timations of the time to event.
Preferably, theseaccurate predictions should come as early as pos-sible.
Moreover, the system should be able, inthe long run, to freely detect relevant future eventsthat are not yet on any schedule we know in anylanguage represented on social media.
For now,in this paper we focus on estimating the start-ing time of scheduled events, and use past andknown events for a controlled experiment involv-ing Dutch twitter messages.For our experiment we collected tweets refer-ring to scheduled Dutch premier league soccermatches.
This type of event generally triggersmany anticipatory discussions on social mediacontaining many temporal expressions.
Given aheld-out soccer match not used during training,our system predicts the time to the event based onindividual tweets captured in a range from eightdays before the event to the event time itself.
Eachestimation is based on the temporal expressionswhich occur in a particular twitter message.
Themean absolute error of the predictions for each ofthe 60 soccer matches in our data set is off byabout eight hours.
The results are generated in aleave-one-out cross-validation setup5.This paper starts with describing the relation ofour work to earlier research in Section 2.
Section 3describes the overall experimental setup, includinga description of the data, the temporal expressionsthat were used, our two baselines, and the evalua-tion method used.
Next, in Section 4 the results arepresented.
The results are analyzed and discussedin Section 5.
We conclude with a summary of ourmain findings and make suggestions for the direc-tion future research may take (Section 6).5Tweet ID?s, per tweet estimations, occurred time ex-pressions and rules can be found at http://www.ru.nl/lst/resources/2 Related WorkFuture-reference analysis in textual data has beenstudied from different angles.
In the realm ofinformation retrieval the task is more commonlydefined as seeking future temporal references inlarge document collections such as the Web bymeans of time queries (Baeza Yates, 2005).
Var-ious studies have used temporal expression ele-ments as features in an automatic setting to im-prove the relevance estimation of a web docu-ment (Dias et al., 2011; Jatowt and Au Yeung,2011).
Information relevant to event times hasbeen the focus of studies such as those by Beckeret al.
(2012) and Kawai et al.
(2010).Our research is aimed at estimating the time toevent of an upcoming event as precisely as possi-ble.
Radinsky et al.
(2012) approach this problemby learning from causality pairs in texts from long-ranging news articles.
Noro et al.
(2006) describea machine-learning-based system for the identifi-cation of the time period in which an event willhappen, such as in the morning or at night.Some case studies are focused on detectingevents as early as possible as their unfolding isfast.
The study by Sakaki et al.
(2010) describes asystem which analyzes the flow of tweets in timeand place mentioning an earthquake, to predict theunfolding quake pattern which may in turn providejust-in-time alerts to people residing in the loca-tions that are likely to be struck shortly.
Zielinskiet al.
(2012) developed an early warning systemto detect natural disasters in a multilingual fash-ion and thereby support crisis management.
Thequick throughput of news in the Twitter networkis the catalyst in these studies focusing on natu-ral disasters.
In our study, we rather rely on theslower build-up of clues in messages in days be-fore an event, at a granularity level of hours.Ritter et al.
(2012) aim to create a calendar ofevents based on explicit date mentions and wordstypical of the event.
They train on annotated opendomain event mentions and use a rule-based tem-poral tagger.
We aim to offer a more generic so-lution that makes use of a wider range of tempo-ral expressions, including indirect and implicit ex-pressions.Weerkamp and De Rijke (2012) study this typeof more generic patterns of anticipation in tweets,but focus on personal future activities, while weaim to predict as early as possible the time toevent of events that affect and interest many users.9Our estimations do not target time periods such asmornings or evenings but on the number of hoursremaining to the event.TTE estimation of soccer matches has been thetopic of several studies.
Kunneman and Van denBosch (2012) show that machine learning meth-ods can differentiate between tweets posted be-fore, during, and after a soccer match.
Estimat-ing the time to event of future matches from tweetstreams has been studied by H?urriyetoglu et al.
(2013), using local regression over word time se-ries.
In a related study, Tops et al.
(2013) use sup-port vector machines to classify the time to eventin automatically discretized categories.
At bestthese studies are about a day off in their predic-tions.
Both studies investigate the use of temporalexpressions, but fail to leverage the utility of thisinformation source, most likely because they uselimited sets of less than 20 regular expressions.
Inthis study we scale up the number of temporal ex-pressions.3 Experimental Set-UpWe carried out a controlled case study in which wefocused on Dutch premier league soccer matchesas a type of scheduled event.
These types of gameshave the advantage that they occur frequently,have a distinctive hashtag by convention, and oftengenerate thousands to several tens of thousands oftweets per match.Below we first describe the collection and com-position of our data sets (Subsection 3.1) and thetemporal expressions which were used to base ourpredictions upon (Subsection 3.2).
Then, in Sub-section 3.3, we describe our baselines and evalua-tion method.3.1 Data SetsWe harvested tweets from twiqs.nl6, a databaseof Dutch tweets collected from December 2010onwards.
We selected the six best performingteams of the Dutch premier league in 2011 and20127, and queried all matches in which theseteams played against each other in the calendaryears 2011 and 2012.
The collection procedure re-sulted in 269,999 tweets referring to 60 individualmatches.
The number of tweets per event rangesfrom 321 to 35,464, with a median of 2,723 tweets.6http://twiqs.nl7Ajax, Feyenoord, PSV, FC Twente, AZ Alkmaar, and FCUtrecht.Afterwards, we restricted the data to tweets sentwithin eight days before the match8and elimi-nated all retweets.
This reduced the number oftweets in our final data set to 138,141 tweets.In this experiment we are working on the as-sumption that the presence of a hashtag can beused as proxy for the topic addressed in a tweet.Inspecting a sample of tweets referring to recentsoccer games not part of our data set, we devel-oped the hypothesis that the position of the hash-tag may have an effect as regards the topicality ofthe tweet.
Hashtags that occur in final position (i.e.they are tweet-final or are only followed by oneor more other hashtags) are typically metatags andtherefore possibly more reliable as topic identifiersthan tweet non-final hashtags which behave morelike common content words in context.
In orderto be able to investigate the possible effect that theposition of the hashtag might have, we split ourdata in the following two subsets:FIN ?
comprising tweets in which the hashtagoccurs in final position (as defined above);84,533 tweets.NFI ?
comprising tweets in which the hashtag oc-curs in non-final position; 53,608 tweets.Each tweet in our data set has a time stamp ofthe moment (in seconds) it was posted.
Moreover,for each soccer match we know exactly when ittook place.
This information is used to calculatefor each tweet the actual time that remains to thestart of the event and the absolute error in estimat-ing the time to event.3.2 Temporal ExpressionsIn the context of this paper temporal expressionsare considered to be words or phrases which pointto the point in time, the duration, or the frequencyof an event.
These may be exact, approximate, oreven right out vague.
Although in our current ex-periment we restrict ourselves to an eight-day pe-riod prior to an event, we chose to create a grosslist of all possible temporal expressions we couldthink of, so that we would not run the risk of over-looking any items and the list can be used on fu-ture occasions even when the experimental set-ting is different.
Thus the list also includes tem-poral expressions that refer to points in time out-side the time span under investigation here, such8An analysis of the tweet distribution shows that the eight-day window captures about 98% of the tweets in the largerdata set from which it was derived.10as gisteren ?yesterday?
or over een maand ?in amonth from now?, and items indicating durationor frequency such as steeds ?continuously?/?timeand again?.
No attempt has been made to distin-guish between items as regards time reference (fu-ture time, past time) as many items can be used inboth fashions (compare for example vanmiddag invanmiddag ga ik naar de wedstrijd ?this afternoonI?m going to the match?
vs ik ben vanmiddag naarde wedstrijd geweest ?I went to the match this af-ternoon?.The list is quite comprehensive.
Among theitems included are single words, e.g.
adverbssuch as nu ?now?, zometeen ?immediately?, straks?later on?, vanavond ?this evening?, nouns such aszondagmiddag ?Sunday afternoon?, and conjunc-tions such as voordat ?before?
), but also word com-binations and phrases such as komende woensdag?next Wednesday.
Temporal expressions of the lat-ter type were obtained by means of a set of 615seed terms and 70 rules, which generated a total ofaround 53,000 temporal expressions.
In addition,there are a couple of hundred thousand temporalexpressions relating the number of minutes, hours,days, or time of day;9they include items contain-ing up to 9 words in a single temporal expression.Notwithstanding the impressive number of itemsincluded, the list is bound to be incomplete.We included prepositional phrases rather thansingle prepositions so as to avoid generating toomuch noise.
Many prepositions have several uses:they can be used to express time, but also forexample location.
Compare voor in voor drieuur ?before three o?clock?
and voor het stadion?in front of the stadium?.
Moreover, prepositionsare easily confused with parts of separable verbswhich in Dutch are abundant.Various items on the list are inherently ambigu-ous and only in one of their senses can be con-sidered temporal expressions.
Examples are week?week?
but also ?weak?
and dag ?day?
but also?goodbye?.
For items like these, we found thatthe different senses could fairly easily be distin-guished whenever the item was immediately pre-ceded by an adjective such as komende and vol-gende (both meaning ?next?).
For a few highlyfrequent items this proved impossible.
These arewords like zo which can be either a temporal ad-verb (?in a minute?
; cf.
zometeen) or an intensi-fying adverb (?so?
), dan ?then?
or ?than?, and nog9For examples see Table 1 and Section 3.3.?yet?
or ?another?.
As we have presently no wayof distinguishing between the different senses andthese items have at best an extremely vague tem-poral sense so that they cannot be expected to con-tribute to estimating the time to event, we decicedto discard these.10In order to capture event targeted expressions,we treated domain terms such as wedstrijd ?soc-cer match?
as parts of temporal expressions in casethey co-occur with a temporal expression.For the items on the list no provisions weremade for handling any kind of spelling variation,with the single exception of a small group ofwords (including ?s morgens ?in the morning?, ?smiddags ?in the afternoon?
and ?s avonds ?in theevening?)
which use in their standard spelling thearchaic ?s and abbreviations.
As many authorsof tweets tend to spell these words as smorgens,smiddags and savonds we decided to include theseforms as well.The items on the list that were obtained throughgeneration include temporal expressions such asover 3 dagen ?in 2 days?, nog 5 minuten ?another5 minutes?, but also fixed temporal expressionssuch as clock times.11The rules handle frequentlyobserved variations in their notation, for exampledrie uur ?three o?clock?
may be written in full oras 3:00, 3:00 uur, 3 u, 15.00, etc.Table 1 shows example temporal expression es-timates and applicable rules.
The median estima-tions are mostly lower than the mean estimations.The distribution of the time to event (TTE) fora single temporal expression often appears to beskewed towards lower values.
The final columnof the table displays the applicable rules.
The firstsix rules subtract the time the tweet was posted(TT) from an average marker point, heuristicallydetermined, such as ?today 20.00?
(i.e.
8 pm) forvanavond ?tonight?.
The second and third rulesfrom below state a TTE directly, again heuristi-cally set ?
over 2 uur ?in 2 hours?
is directly trans-lated to a TTE of 2.3.3 Evaluation and BaselinesOur approach to TTE estimation makes use ofall temporal expressions in our temporal expres-sion list that are found to occur in the tweets.
A10Note that nog does occur on the list as part of variousmultiword expressions.
Examples are nog twee dagen ?an-other two days?
and nog 10 min ?10 more minutes?.11Dates are presently not covered by our rules but will beadded in future.11Temporal Expression Gloss Mean TTE Median TTE Rulevandaag today 5.63 3.09 today 15:00 - TT hvanavond tonight 8.40 4.78 today 20:00 - TT hmorgen tomorrow 20.35 18.54 tomorrow 15:00 - TT hzondag Sunday 72.99 67.85 Sunday 15:00 - TT hvandaag 12.30 today 12.20 2.90 2.75 today 12:30 - TT hom 16.30 at 16.30 1.28 1.36 today 16:30 - TT hover 2 uur in 2 hours 6.78 1.97 2 hnog minder dan 1 u within 1 h 21.43 0.88 1 hin het weekend during the weekend 90.58 91.70 No RuleTable 1: Examples of temporal expressions and their mean and median TTE estimation from trainingdata.
The final column lists the applicable rule, if any.
Rules make use of the time of posting (TweetTime, TT).match may be for a single item in the list (e.g.zondag ?Sunday?)
or any combination of items(e.g.
zondagmiddag, om 14.30 uur, ?Sunday af-ternoon?, ?at 2.30 pm?).
There can be other wordsin between these expressions.
We consider thelongest match, from left to right, in case we en-counter any overlap.The experiment adopts a leave-one-out cross-validation setup.
Each iteration uses all tweetsfrom 59 events as training data.
All tweets fromthe single held-out event are used as test set.In the FIN data set there are 42,396 tweets withat least one temporal expression, in the NFI dataset this is the case for 27,610 tweets.
The numberof tweets per event ranges from 66 to 7,152 (me-dian: 402.5; mean 706.6) for the FIN data set andfrom 41 to 3,936 (median 258; mean 460.1) for theNFI data set.We calculate the TTE estimations for everytweet that contains at least one of the temporal ex-pression or a combination in the test set.
The esti-mations for the test set are obtained as follows:1.
For each match (a single temporal expressionor a combination of temporal expressions)the mean or median value for TTE is usedthat was learned from the training set;2.
Temporal expressions that denote an exactamount of time are interpreted by means ofrules that we henceforth refer to as Exactrules.
This applies for example to tempo-ral expressions answering to patterns such asover N {minuut | minuten | kwartier | uur |uren | dag | dagen | week} ?in N {minute |minutes | quarter of an hour | hour | hours |day | days |week}?.
Here the TTE is assumedto be the same as the N minutes, days orwhatever is mentioned.
The rules take prece-dence over the mean estimates learned fromthe training set;3.
A second set of rules, referred to as the Dy-namic rules, is used to calculate the TTE dy-namically, using the temporal expression andthe tweet?s time stamp.
These rules applyto instances such as zondagmiddag om 3 uur?Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m.?.
Here we as-sume that this is a future time reference on thebasis of the fact that the tweets were postedprior to the event.
With temporal expressionsthat are underspecified in that they do not pro-vide a specific point in time (hour), we pos-tulate a particular time of day.
For exam-ple, vandaag ?today?
is understood as ?todayat 3 p.m., vanavond ?this evening?
as ?thisevening at 8 p.m. and morgenochtend ?to-morrow morning?
as ?tomorrow morning at10 a.m.?.
Again, as was the case with the firstset of rules, these rules take precedence overthe mean or median estimates learned fromthe training data.The results for the estimated TTE are evaluatedin terms of the absolute error, i.e.
the absolute dif-ference in hours between the estimated TTE andthe actual remaining time to the event.We established two naive baselines: the meanand median TTE measured over all tweets of FINand NFI datasets.
These baselines reflect a bestguess when no information is available other thantweet count and TTE of each tweet.
The meanTTE is 22.82 hours, and the median TTE is 3.63hours before an event.
The low values of the12baselines, especially the low median, reveal theskewedness of the data: most tweets referring toa soccer event are posted in the hours before theevent.4 ResultsTable 2 lists the overall mean absolute error (innumber of hours) for the different variants.
Theresults are reported separately for each of the twodata sets (FIN and NFI) and for both sets aggre-gated (FIN+NFI).
For each of these three variants,the table lists the mean absolute error when onlythe basic data-driven TTE estimations are used(?Basic?
), when the Exact rules are added (?+Ex.?
),when the Dynamic rules are added (?+Dyn?
), andwhen both types of rules are added.
The coverageof the combination (i.e.
the number of tweets thatmatch the expressions and the rules) is listed in thebottom row of the table.A number of observations can be made.
First,all training methods perform substantially betterthan the two baselines in all conditions.
Second,the TTE training method using the median as esti-mation produces estimations that are about 1 hourmore accurate than the mean-based estimations.Third, adding Dynamic rules has a larger pos-itive effect on prediction error than adding Ex-act rules.
The bottom row in the table indicatesthat the rules do not increase the coverage of themethod substantially.
When taken together andadded to the basic TTE estimation, the Dynamicand Exact rules do improve over the Basic estima-tion by two to three hours.Finally, although the differences are small, Ta-ble 2 reveals that training on hashtag-final tweets(FIN) produces slightly better overall results (7.62hours off at best) than training on hashtag-non-final tweets (8.50 hours off) or the combination(7.99 hours off), despite the fact that the trainingset is smaller than that of the combination.In the remainder of this section we report onsystems that use all expressions and Exact and Dy-namic rules.Whereas Table 2 displays the overall mean ab-solute errors of the different variants, Figure 1 dis-plays the results in terms of mean absolute error atdifferent points in time before the event, averagedover periods of one hour, for the two baselines andthe FIN+NFI variant with the two training meth-ods (i.e.
taking the mean versus the median of theobserved TTEs for a particular temporal expres-sion).
In contrast to Table 2, in which only a milddifference could be observed between the medianand mean variants of training, the figure shows asubstantial difference.
The estimations of the me-dian training variant are considerably more accu-rate than the mean variant up to 24 hours beforethe event, after which the mean variant scores bet-ter.
By virtue of the fact that the data is skewed(most tweets are posted within a few hours beforethe event) the two methods attain a similar overallmean absolute error, but it is clear that the medianvariant produces considerably more accurate pre-dictions when the event is still more than a dayaway.While Figure 1 provides insight into the ef-fect of median versus mean-based training withthe combined FIN+NFI dataset, we do not knowwhether training on either of the two subsets isadvantageous at different points in time.
Table 3shows the mean absolute error of systems trainedwith the median variant on the two subsets oftweets, FIN and NFI, as well as the combinationFIN+NFI, split into nine time ranges.
Interest-ingly, the combination does not produce the lowesterrors close to the event.
However, when the eventis 24 hours away or more, both the FIN and NFIsystems generate increasingly large errors, whilethe FIN+NFI system continues to make quite ac-curate predictions, remaining under 10 hours offeven for the longest TTEs, confirming what we al-ready observed in Figure 1.TTE range (h) FIN NFI FIN+NFI0 2.58 3.07 8.511?4 2.38 2.64 8.715?8 3.02 3.08 8.949?12 5.20 5.47 6.5713?24 5.63 5.54 6.0925?48 13.14 15.59 5.8149?96 17.20 20.72 6.9397?144 30.38 41.18 6.97> 144 55.45 70.08 9.41Table 3: Mean Absolute Error for the FIN, NFI,and FIN+NFI systems in different TTE ranges.5 AnalysisOne of the results observed in Table 2 was therelatively limited role of Exact rules, which wereintended to deal with exact temporal expressionssuch as nog 5 minuten ?5 more minutes?
and over13System FIN NFI FIN+NFIBasic +Ex.
+Dyn.
+Both Basic +Ex.
+Dyn.
+Both Basic +Ex.
+Dyn.
+BothBaseline Median 21.09 21.07 21.16 21.14 18.67 18.72 18.79 18.84 20.20 20.20 20.27 20.27Baseline Mean 27.29 27.29 27.31 27.31 25.49 25.50 25.53 25.55 26.61 26.60 26.63 26.62Training Median 10.38 10.28 7.68 7.62 11.09 11.04 8.65 8.50 10.61 10.54 8.03 7.99Training Mean 11.62 11.12 8.73 8.29 12.43 11.99 9.53 9.16 11.95 11.50 9.16 8.76Coverage 31,221 31,723 32.240 32,740 18,848 19,176 19,734 20,061 52,186 52,919 53,887 54,617Table 2: Overall Mean Absolute Error for each method: difference in hours between the estimated timeto event and the actual time to event, computed separately for the FIN and NFI subsets, and for thecombination.
For all variants a count of the number of matches is listed in the bottom row.een uur ?in one hour?.
This can be explained bythe fact that as long as the temporal expression isrelated to the event we are targeting, the point intime is denoted exactly by the temporal expressionand the estimation obtained from the training data(the ?Basic?
performance) will already be accurate,leaving no room for the rules to improve on this.The rules that deal with dynamic temporal expres-sions, on the other hand, have quite some impact.As was explained in Section 3.2 our list of tem-poral expressions was a gross list, including itemsthat were unlikely to occur in our present data.
Inall we observed 770 of the 53,000 items listed,955 clock time rule matches, and 764 time ex-pressions which contain number of days, hours,minutes etc.
The temporal expressions observedmost frequently in our data are:12vandaag ?today?
(10,037), zondag ?Sunday?
(6,840), vanavond?tonight?
(5167), straks ?later on?
(5,108), van-middag ?this afternoon?
(4,331), matchday ?matchday?
(2,803), volgende week ?next week?
(1,480)and zometeen ?in a minute?
(1,405).Given the skewed distribution of tweets over theeight days prior to the event, it is not surprising tofind that nearly all of the most frequent items referto points in time within close range of the event.Apart from nu ?now?, all of these are somewhatvague about the exact point in time.
There are,however, numerous items such as om 12:30 uur?at half past one?
and over ongeveer 45 minuten?in about 45 minutes?)
which are very specific andtherefore tend to appear with middle to low fre-quencies.13And while it is possible to state anexact point in time even when the event is in themore distant future, we find that there is a clear12The observed frequencies can be found between brack-ets.13While an expression such as om 12:30 uur has a fre-quency of 116, nog maar 8 uur en 35 minuten ?only 8 hoursand 35 minutes from now?
has a frequency of 1.tendency to use underspecified temporal expres-sions as the event is still some time away.
Thus,rather than volgende week zondag om 14.30 uur?next week Sunday at 2.30 p.m.?
just volgendeweek is used, which makes it harder to estimatethe time to event.Closer inspection of some of the temporalexpressions which yielded large absolute errorssuggests that these may be items that refer tosubevents rather than the main event (i.e.
thematch) we are targeting.
Examples are eerst ?first?,daarna ?then?, vervolgens ?next?, and voordat ?be-fore?.6 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented a method for the estimation ofthe TTE from single tweets referring to a futureevent.
In a case study with Dutch soccer matches,we showed that estimations can be as accurate asabout eight hours off, averaged over a time win-dow of eight days.
There is some variance inthe 60 events on which we tested in a leave-one-out validation setup: errors ranged between 4 and13 hours, plus one exceptionally badly predictedevent with a 34-hour error.The best system is able to stay within 10 hoursof prediction error in the full eight-day window.This best system uses a large set of hand-designedtemporal expressions that in a training phase haveeach been linked to a median TTE with whichthey occur in a training set.
Together with thesedata-driven TTE estimates, the system uses a setof rules that match on exact and indirect time ref-erences.
In a comparative experiment we showedthat this combination worked better than only hav-ing the data-driven estimations.We then tested whether it was more profitableto train on tweets that had the event hashtag at theend, as this is presumed to be more likely a meta-14Figure 1: Curves showing the absolute error (in hours) in estimating the time to event over an 8-dayperiod (-192 to 0 hours) prior to the event.
The two baselines are compared to the TTE estimationmethods using the mean and median variant.tag, and thus a more reliable clue that the tweetis about the event than when the hashtag is notin final position.
Indeed we find that the overallpredictions are more accurate, but only in the fi-nal hours before the event (when most tweets areposted).
24 hours and earlier before the event itturns out to be better to train both on hashtag-finaland hashtag-non-final tweets.Finally, we observed that the two variants ofour method of estimating TTEs for single tempo-ral expressions, taking the mean or the median,leads to dramatically different results, especiallywhen the event is still a few days away?whenan accurate time to event is actually desirable.The median-based estimations, which are gener-ally smaller than the mean-based estimations, leadto a system that largely stays under 10 hours oferror.Our study has a number of logical extensionsinto future research.
First, our method is notbound to a single type of event, although we testedit in a controlled setting.
With experiments ontweet streams related to different types of eventsthe general applicability of the method could betested: can we use the trained TTE estimationsfrom our current study, or would we need to re-train per event type?Second, we hardcoded a limited number of fre-quent spelling variations, where it would be amore generic solution to rely on a more system-atic spelling normalization preprocessing step.Third, so far we did not focus on determiningthe relevance of temporal expressions in case thereare several time expressions in a single message;we treated all occurred temporal expressions asequally contributing to the estimation.
Identifyingwhich temporal expressions are relevant in a sin-gle message is studied by Kanhabua et al.
(2012).Finally, our method is limited to temporal ex-pressions.
For estimating the time to event onthe basis of tweets that do not contain tempo-ral expressions, we could benefit from term-basedapproaches that consider any word or word n-gram as potentially predictive (H?urriyetoglu et al.,2013).AcknowledgmentThis research was supported by the Dutch na-tional programme COMMIT as part of the Infinitiproject.15ReferencesRicardo Baeza Yates.
2005.
Searching the future.
InIn ACM SIGIR Workshop on Mathematical/FormalMethods for Information Retrieval (MF/IR 2005).Hila Becker, Dan Iter, Mor Naaman, and Luis Gravano.2012.
Identifying content for planned events acrosssocial media sites.
In Proceedings of the fifth ACMInternational Conference on Web Search and DataMining, WSDM ?12, pages 533?542, New York,NY, USA.
ACM.Ga?el Dias, Ricardo Campos, and Al?
?pio Jorge.
2011.Future retrieval: What does the future talk about?
InIn Proceedings SIGIR2011 Workshop on EnrichingInformation Retrieval (ENIR2011).Ali H?urriyetoglu, Florian Kunneman, and Antalvan den Bosch.
2013.
Estimating the time betweentwitter messages and future events.
In DIR, pages20?23.Adam Jatowt and Ching-man Au Yeung.
2011.
Ex-tracting collective expectations about the future fromlarge text collections.
In Proceedings of the 20thACM International Conference on Information andKnowledge Management, CIKM ?11, pages 1259?1264, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Nattiya Kanhabua, Sara Romano, and Avar?e Stewart.2012.
Identifying relevant temporal expressions forreal-world events.
In Proceedings of The SIGIR2012 Workshop on Time-aware Information Access,Portland, OR.Hideki Kawai, Adam Jatowt, Katsumi Tanaka, KazuoKunieda, and Keiji Yamada.
2010.
Chronoseeker:Search engine for future and past events.
In Pro-ceedings of the 4th International Conference onUniquitous Information Management and Commu-nication, ICUIMC ?10, pages 25:1?25:10, NewYork, NY, USA.
ACM.Florian A Kunneman and Antal van den Bosch.
2012.Leveraging unscheduled event prediction throughmining scheduled event tweets.
BNAIC 2012 The24th Benelux Conference on Artificial Intelligence,page 147.Taichi Noro, Takashi Inui, Hiroya Takamura, and Man-abu Okumura.
2006.
Time period identification ofevents in text.
In Proceedings of the 21st Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics andthe 44th annual meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, ACL-44, pages 1153?1160,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Kira Radinsky, Sagie Davidovich, and ShaulMarkovitch.
2012.
Learning causality fornews events prediction.
In Proceedings of the21st International Conference on World Wide Web,WWW ?12, pages 909?918, New York, NY, USA.ACM.Alan Ritter, Oren Etzioni Mausam, and Sam Clark.2012.
Open domain event extraction from twitter.In Proceedings of the 18th ACM SIGKDD Inter-national Conference on Knowledge Discovery andData mining, KDD ?12, pages 1104?1112, NewYork, NY, USA.
ACM.Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.2010.
Earthquake shakes twitter users: Real-timeevent detection by social sensors.
In Proceedingsof the 19th International Conference on World WideWeb, pages 851?860.
ACM.Jannik Str?otgen and Michael Gertz.
2013.
Multilin-gual and Cross-domain Temporal Tagging.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, 47(2):269?298,Jun.Hannah Tops, Antal van den Bosch, and Florian Kun-neman.
2013.
Predicting time-to-event from twittermessages.
BNAIC 2013 The 24th Benelux Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, pages 207?2014.Wouter Weerkamp and Maarten De Rijke.
2012.
Ac-tivity prediction: A twitter-based exploration.
InProceedings of the SIGIR 2012 Workshop on Time-aware Information Access, TAIA-2012, August.Andrea Zielinski, Ulrich B?ugel, L. Middleton, S. E.Middleton, L. Tokarchuk, K. Watson, and F. Chaves.2012.
Multilingual analysis of twitter news in sup-port of mass emergency events.
In A. Abbasi andN.
Giesen, editors, EGU General Assembly Confer-ence Abstracts, volume 14 of EGU General Assem-bly Conference Abstracts, pages 8085+, April.16
