Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: From Linguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 38?45,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 27, 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsAssessing Violence Risk in Threatening CommunicationsKimberly GlasgowJohns Hopkins UniversityApplied Physics Laboratory,andCollege of Information Studies,University of Marylandkimberly.glasgow@jhuapl.eduRonald SchoutenHarvard Medical School,andDepartment of Psychiatry,Massachusetts General Hospitalrschouten@mgh.harvard.eduAbstractViolence risk assessment is an importantand challenging task undertaken by men-tal health professionals and others, in bothclinical and nonclinical settings.
To date,computational linguistic techniques havenot been used in the risk assessment pro-cess.
However they could contribute to thecurrent threat assessment process by al-lowing for early detection of elevated risk,identification of risk factors for violence,monitoring of violent intent, and determi-nation of threat level.
We analyzed a sam-ple of communications to judges that werereferred to security personnel for evalua-tion as constituting potential threats.
Wecategorized them along multiple dimen-sions including evidence of mental illness,presence and nature of any threat, andlevel of threat.
While neither word count-based or topic models were able to effec-tively predict elevated risk, we found top-ics indicative of persecutory beliefs, para-noid ideation, and other symptoms of AxisI and Axis II disorders.1 IntroductionMental health professionals are called upon to as-sess the risk of violence in many different settings,from the determination of the need for hospital-ization or increased treatment to consultations forthe criminal justice system (Skeem and Monahan,2011).
These assessments include examination ofthe verbal content of a subject?s communications,primarily for the purpose of detecting symptomsof thought disorder or evidence of impending vio-lent behavior.
Language technology is rarely uti-lized in these efforts, yet it could be a valuable toolfor detecting evidence of illness and increased vi-olence risk in verbal and written communications.We analyzed a unique data set of threateningcommunications sent to judges.
Examination ofthese written communications indicate that, forthis sample, explicit threats are rare, but evidenceof mental illness is common.
We applied two typesof computational methods to the communicationsin the sample?topic models, and a simple compu-tational text analysis method: LIWC (Pennebakeret al., 2001).
The results point towards a usefulrole for such methods in the analysis of threaten-ing communications, as well as limitations.
Ad-vances in language technology methods, as well asthe availability of more data, may both be neededto make substantial progress.2 Violence Risk Assessment and MentalHealth ProfessionalsAssessment of the risk of violence is a task thatbelongs to a diverse group of mental health profes-sionals (MHPs): those who provide clinical care,forensic MHPs specializing in mental health is-sues related to the legal system, and those who en-gage in the even more specialized field of threatassessment.
Other disciplines involved in threatassessment include law enforcement, security pro-fessionals, and intelligence analysts.Violence risk assessment is a routine aspect ofthe work of mental health professionals treating38people with mental illness.
While violence againstothers on the part of people with diagnoses ofmental illness is far less prevalent than is popularlythought, the increased risk attributable to these ill-nesses is barely statistically significant (Steadmanet al., 1998; Swanson et al., 1990).
This increasedrisk is largely attributable to a small group of in-dividuals who have a history of childhood or adultantisocial behavior in combination with substanceuse disorders and psychotic illness (Elbogen andJohnson, 2009).2.1 Methods and Practice of Violence RiskAssessmentTreating clinicians are responsible for evaluatingtheir patients to determine if they pose a risk ofviolence and adjusting treatment accordingly, orarranging for hospitalization, as needed.
The riskof violence, as evidenced by threats or attempts toharm self or others, are two of the bases for hos-pitalizing people with mental illness against theirwill.
This assessment primarily relies upon infor-mation obtained through interviewing and observ-ing the patient, as well as information from col-lateral sources when it is available.
The patient?slanguage is taken into account largely as a partof the mental status examination, in which atten-tion is paid to the content and form of the patient?sthoughts, which are characteristically disrupted incertain illnesses.
Clinicians look at many factorsto determine if someone poses a risk of violence,but a patient?s written communications is typicallynot one of them.MHPs who practice in the field of forensic men-tal health do so as an even larger component oftheir work.
Many are routinely asked to assess therisk of violence in both the civil and criminal jus-tice systems.
In the civil justice system, for exam-ple, they may be called upon as expert witnessesin civil commitment proceedings or as consultantson such matters.
In the criminal justice system,they may be asked to assess the risk of violencein conjunction with the issuance of restraining or-ders, determination of conditions of bail and pro-bation, and sentencing.
While judges make the ul-timate decisions, they generally rely highly uponthe clinical judgment of MHPs with regard to di-agnosis and assessment of the risk of violence.In recent years, a number of tools have been in-troduced to assist in the assessment of violencerisk, such at the HCR-20 (Webster et al., 1982),COVR (Monahan et al., 2006), and VRAG (Quin-sey et al., 1998).
None of these instruments con-sider linguistic factors.
They utilize actuarial de-terminations of violence risk.
These instrumentsdo not provide strict cutoff scores that differen-tiate between nonviolent and violent individuals.Rather, they serve as adjunct tools to clinical judg-ment.
As a result, the current best practice in vio-lence risk assessment consists of structured clini-cal judgment, a process in which actuarial risk as-sessments are combined with clinical judgment toreach a determination regarding a specific individ-ual?s risk.Whereas treating clinicians primarily rely uponexamination of the patient in assessing the riskof violence, forensic MHPs are expected to gobeyond the clinical examination and incorporateinformation from a variety of collateral sources,such as medical and mental health records, psy-chological testing, legal documents, police re-ports, and criminal histories in order to increasethe objectivity and ?scientific?
basis of their opin-ion.
As in clinical care, language is an importantpart of the mental status examination.
More de-tailed review of the evaluee?s communications ismore common in forensic work, as it may provideinsight into the writer?s emotional state, motiva-tion, and intention, as well as thought processes.The content, syntax, and grammar of communica-tions, as well as the page layout, variations in fontsize, use of color, and graphics may all be consid-ered in assessing for presence of a mental disorderand indications of violence risk.2.2 Threat AssessmentThreat assessment is a discipline that relates to, yetis separate from, clinical violence risk assessment.Meloy, et al.
distinguish between the two fields,noting that violence risk assessment is consulta-tive in nature, and generally aimed at assisting le-gal decision-making and managing a particular in-dividual over the long term.
They note that threatassessment is operational, rather than consultative,in nature and is aimed at protecting victims by de-termining the level of risk that they face at a givenmoment in time (Meloy and Hoffmann, 2013).Although the emphasis is different, both take intoaccount the likelihood that a given individual willact in a violent fashion.
Threat assessment goesbeyond the determination of risk of physical vio-lence and extends to insider threats such as sabo-39tage, espionage, hacking, harassment, and attackson reputation.
Language assumes an even greaterrole in the analysis of threat than it does in vio-lence risk assessment.The Risk Assessment Guideline Elements forViolence (RAGE-V) produced by the Associationof Threat Assessment Professionals lists a widerange of behaviors and risk factors to be consid-ered in assessing the threat of violence.
It containsno reference to the analysis of written materials orcommunications, other than suicide notes.
(Avail-able at www.atapworldwide.org).3 The Language of ThreatAnalysis of language is an important aspect ofthreat assessment and has traditionally been uti-lized in much the same manner as in forensic eval-uations.
That is, it has largely involved ad hoc,impressionistic assessments of communications.Efforts towards a more methodical approach tolinguistic analysis of threatening communicationshave been made.
However, many of these still relyprimarily on human judgment of content.
Smithand Shuy describe closely examining language asevidence for clues to race, ethnicity, or genderof a perpetrator, for identifying false allegations,and for related law enforcement tasks (Smith andShuy, 2002).
Scalora describes analyzing threat-ening language towards members of Congress interms of several thematic areas relating to presenceand types of demands (such as policy changes orpersonal favors) (Scalora et al., 2003), and Cal-houn (Calhoun, 1998) examines threatening or in-appropriate communications and assaults againstfederal judicial officials based upon factors suchas the directness or immediacy of the threat.In other related work, efforts to predict caseoutcomes for a set of 96 FBI cases involvingthreatening communications have incorporated in-terviews and automated text processing (Smith,2008) Computational methods have also been ap-plied to the communications of terrorist or radi-cal religious extremist groups to detect aggressiveor violent intent, using function word categories(Pennebaker et al., 2008) or frame analysis (San-filippo, 2010).4 DataOur data consisted of 60 documents that weresent to judges in a major metropolitan area in theUnited States.
These documents were genuine,natural, purposeful communications from a senderto at least one judge or court official.
They wereperceived as threatening, and referred to court se-curity officers for risk assessment.
These refer-rals were usually made by judges, though Dis-trict Attorneys and Clerks of the Court can alsoreport threats to court security.
The documentsrepresented all cases that contained written mate-rial (not just verbal threats) from the two largestdistricts within the purview of the office responsi-ble for trial court security for this region.
Judgesmay refer a potentially threatening communicationbased on a perceived risk of harm to self, or to thesecurity of the courtroom.All documents were in English.
All documentsunderwent optical character recognition (OCR),and the output of the OCR process was reviewedto correct errors in the text.
Handwritten portionsof documents were manually transcribed.Each document was manually annotated for thepresence of atypical formatting or text features,(e.g., the inclusion of magazine cut-out words orimages, or the use of unusual bolding or italics,centering, or large point size in text), or presenceof handwritten comments in addition to the text.These documents include legal documents, letters,faxes, cards, and other printed materials, as wellas hard copies of emails.Documents were also coded for indications ofpsychotic symptoms, Axis I mental disorders suchas mania, depression, anxiety and psychotic disor-ders, or Axis II disorders such as personality dis-orders, developmental disabilities or autism spec-trum disorders, utilizing the multi-axial diagnos-tic scheme contained in the Diagnostic and Statis-tical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR)(American Psychiatric Association, 2000).
Psy-chotic symptoms are characteristic of a number ofAxis I disorders, but were coded separately dueto their special significance in the conveyance anddetermination of violence risk.
Where indicationsof one of these types of disorders were present, thestrength of the evidence was rated as significant, orvery compelling.
Forty-eight of the 60 documentsshowed significant or very compelling indicationsof at least one of these disorders.A high, medium, or low judgment for risk of vi-olence was made in the manner common in threatassessment practice, i.e., an overall impressionbased upon the intensity of emotion conveyed, thepresence of paranoid ideation directed toward the40Indications of Mental Illness Psychotic Axis I Disorder Axis II DisorderAbsent 34 24 29Present 26(7,19) 36(15,21) 31(3,28)Table 1: Indications of mental illness appeared in most of the threatening communications.
When indi-cations were present, these were shown as counts of total number of document, and further broken downinto counts of (very compelling, significant).recipient, and specificity and nature of any threat.This annotation was performed by one of the au-thors, who is a board-certified forensic psychiatristwith over 20 years?
experience in both violencerisk assessment and clinical practice.The presence of an actual threat in the doc-ument, and the nature of that threat, were alsorecorded.
Interestingly, while all documents werereferred out of concern for the personal safety ofat least one judge or court official, in or outsidethe courtroom, only a minority of the documentsthreatened violence.
Just three of the 60 docu-ments made clear threats of violence, while an-other five contained vague or ambiguous threats.Fewer than half (26) contained threats of any kind,and most of these were threats to take legal ac-tion.
Other documents expressed threats to repu-tation ?
they purported to ?expose?
or embarrassthe judge in some way.
Some threatened to filean ethics complaint.
Other threats were more fan-ciful and clearly outside the power of the authorto effect.
For example, they threatened to reportthe judge to a non-existent ?people?s committee,?or threatened punishment from God.
Some docu-ments contained more than one threat.Type of Threat No.
of DocumentsNone 34Violence 8 (3 clear, 5 vague)Legal Action 16Ethics Complaint 4Reputation 8Other 2Table 2: Actual threats of violence are uncommon.Most communications do not contain a threat.Based on application of the standard threat as-sessment methods described above to each docu-ment, the perceived risk was rated low for two-thirds of the documents (41), moderate for 18, andhigh for only one document.
These methods con-sisted of examining each document in isolation.Where two or more communications were avail-able from a single sender, the documents were ex-amined individually, with an effort to isolate eachdocument from its companions, in order to main-tain a focus on language used in the document it-self, and enable clearer comparison with the auto-mated methods used later.In the actual practice of threat assessment, ifmultiple documents were attributed to a singlesender, and the case was not referred for assess-ment until after multiple documents had been re-ceived, the documents would be assessed togetheras a pattern of communications.
Our approachmore closely parallels the situation faced in as-sessing anonymous threatening communications,where knowledge of personal, historical, or clin-ical factors of the sender is not available.
As-sessment in these circumstances must rely moreheavily on linguistic factors of the communica-tions (Simons and Tunkel, 2013).The fact that a single assessor reviewed all thedocuments is a limitation of the current study,which can be addressed in future work.This research was approved as exempt by thePartners Institutional Review Board, with the pro-visions that the confidentiality of materials and theprivacy of individuals be protected.5 MethodsThe potential for computational text analyticmethods to contribute to violence risk assessmentand threat assessment has been noted (Meloy andHoffmann, 2013).
We apply two such methods,LIWC and topic models, to our sample of threat-ening communications.Word count-based methods, such as LIWC(Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count) are widelyused.
LIWC?s central premise is that words peo-ple use reveal their psychological or emotionalstate, and may provide insight into their percep-tions and intentions.
LIWC has been applied toassessing text for a range of psychological phe-nomena (Pennebaker et al., 2001), and recentlyhas been used for detecting indications of decep-41tion, and of aggression and hostility in the com-munications of terrorist groups (Pennebaker et al.,2008; Chung and Pennebaker, 2011).LIWC is organized into a set of dozens of cat-egories that contain words and word stems.
Thesemay be grammatical categories such as preposi-tions or pronouns, or they may be more psycho-logically informed categories such as ?anger?
(at-tack, battle, angry, enemy, violent, etc.).
LIWCcalculates the percentage of words in a documentthat belong in each of its categories.We also employ topic models, which are prob-abilistic models for illuminating an underlying se-mantic or thematic structure within a set of doc-uments (Blei and Lafferty, 2009).
As an unsu-pervised method, a topic model is not based onsome predetermined set of associated words, as isLIWC, with its dozens of categories for functionwords, emotion words, and so on.
Instead the top-ics emerge based on the statistical properties of thedocuments themselves.
This is a consequence ofdocuments that are about different things typicallyusing different words with different frequencies.When the most frequent words in a topic co-here, it is relatively simple to infer what the topicis ?about.?
For example, applying topic model-ing to over twenty years of the Yale Law Journalyielded topics appear to relate to various areas ofthe law, such as labor (labor, workers, employees,union, employer) and contract law (contract, lia-bilities, parties, contracts, party, creditors) (Blei,2012).To help avoid overtraining the model, locationnames were removed from the documents.
Namesof individuals were replaced with tokens for lastname (LN), male first name (MFN), female firstname (FFN), or middle initial (MI).
References tofamous historical figures (e.g., Abraham Lincoln,Hitler, Winston Churchill) were not altered.We run a Latent Dirichlet Allocation topicmodel (Blei, Ng, and Jordan 2003) using MAL-LET (McCallum, 2002) (McCallum 2002) on theset of threatening communications.
In additionto ignoring the standard English stopwords in ourdocuments, we also ignore a small set of ex-tremely common words in the documents (district,court, judge), the ?LN?
(last name) token, and themonths of the year.Despite the relatively small size of our doc-ument corpus, a number of intriguing topicsemerge.
We observe topics relating to corruption,misconduct and ethics, conspiracy or other delu-sional beliefs, and family and community relation-ships.6 FindingsExpressions of Anger and Negative Emotionand Violence Risk Expression of anger andnegative emotions has long been considered a fac-tor in violence risk assessment and threat assess-ment.
It has been observed that acts of targetedviolence commonly arise from a grievance on thepart of the perpetrator, such as a perceived injus-tice (Calhoun and Weston, 2003).
Chung andPennebaker also find significantly elevated rates ofanger words in the language of Al Qaeda leaderscompared to controls (Pennebaker et al., 2008).
Inour threatening communications to judges, how-ever, we do not observe a comparable effect withrespect to perceived violence risk.
Words reflect-ing anger, death, or negative emotions are not usedmore frequently in documents that indicate ele-vated risk.
Nor do they vary significantly acrossdocuments reflecting Axis I, Axis II, or psychoticsymptoms.This may reflect a limitation of any tool suchas LIWC that uses word lists to capture emo-tion.
The expressive capacity of natural lan-guage is much greater.
For example, one threaten-ing communication that contained no terms fromLIWC?s anger, death, or negative emotion cate-gories, called others ?animals?
and ?CRIMINALTRASH!
?, who would be ?held accountable?
fortheir actions.Themes Induced through TopicModeling Un-surprisingly, given that these threatening com-munications were sent to judges, often by liti-gants, terms referencing the judicial system appearprominently in many topics.
A closer look revealsthemes relating to claims of judicial misconduct orethical violations, conspiracies and fundamentallysinful or evil acts (?malum in se?).
Such topics aresuggestive of symptoms such as persecutory be-liefs, paranoid ideation, hyperreligiosity, and hy-permorality that can be found in both Axis I andAxis II disorders.
Tellingly, these themes emergedfrom the corpus, not from an a-priori categoriza-tion of terms.Not all topics show potential links to detectablepsychopathology.
Another topic relates to familyand emotional attachment, and may be indicativeof child custody or child welfare issues.
Topics42Risk Level Number of Documents Anger Death Negative EmotionElevated 19 1.22 (1.02) 0.21 (0.40) 2.42 (1.35)Low 41 1.06 (0.74) 0.20 (0.40) 2.50 (1.45)All 60 1.11 (0.83) 0.20 (0.40) 2.47 (1.45)Table 3: Threatening communications judged to show an elevated risk cannot be distinguished from lowrisk documents, based on LIWC categories of anger, death, or negative emotion.
Means and standarddeviations based on LIWC scores are reported.from this 10-topic LDA include?
Relationships, family, and community: lovechildren years told thing drug wife fam-ily conviction make date person communityfelony simply letter dss?
Conspiracy and injustice: criminal filed or-der attorney trial conspiracy federal jus-tice conduct made constitutional dr se abusemalum?
Misconduct, ethics: judicial complaints ap-pointed justice case attorneys federal com-mission attorney misconduct ethical conductcomplaint respect integrity.Efforts to build predictive models for identify-ing documents containing indications of Axis I,Axis II, or psychotic symptoms based solely ontopic distributions were not entirely successful.For example, a logistic regression model usingfeatures based on a 10-topic LDA outperformedchance on a test set at predicting presence of Axis Isymptoms, achieving excellent recall, but low pre-cision.
This may have been due to the small sizeof the document collection.
Additionally, the over-lap of symptoms between Axis I and Axis II mayhave lead to topics that do not effectively distin-guish between them.7 DiscussionIt is not surprising that judges can be the object ofconsiderable ire and attention directed at them bydisappointed litigants, family members, or otherswho have concerns about legal and social issues.They sit at the apex of a system that resolves inter-personal conflicts and administers justice, but withno shortage of disappointed parties.Because of the important role they play in oursociety, judges are normally accorded consider-able respect and deference.
The majority of dis-appointed litigants use socially acceptable meansof redressing their grievances, e.g.
appealing thedecision, seeking other legal remedies, or morerarely, filing complaints of judicial misconduct.Others express their disagreement and disappoint-ment in a more direct fashion, either by choice orbecause they cannot restrain themselves from do-ing so, in some cases by communicating impliedor direct threats to judges.
In doing so, they crossthe boundary of respect for judges and the legalsystem that prevents the majority of litigants frompersonalizing and pursuing their grievances.Some such communications are referred bytheir recipients to a protective service responsi-ble for the court in question.
The ensuing threatassessment process yields a determination of thelevel and type of violence risk, and the need forany protective measures.
The majority of the com-munications referred for examination are deter-mined to represent low risk of violence.
Others,however, are considered to represent significantrisk of harm and to require actions to eliminate ordiminish the threat.Since the office responsible for court securityhas not yet cataloged its threatening communica-tions, we cannot ensure that this sample is per-fectly representative of all threatening communi-cations received by the courts.
Plans to imple-ment such a database are under development.
Inaddition, we do not have a sample of communica-tions to judges that the recipients themselves didnot find sufficiently threatening to refer for assess-ment, nor do we know the prevalence of such com-munications.This pilot study represents an attempt to usecomputational linguistic analysis to explore whataspects of written communications to judges re-sult in the perception of threat and the determina-tion of risk level.
We analyzed a sample of doc-uments referred by their recipients as potentiallythreatening.
In this sample we found evidence ofdirect or implied threat of violence in a small mi-nority of examples.
An expert rater categorized43only one communication as indicating a high levelof threat.
Evidence of mental illness on the part ofthe senders was found in the majority of examples(80 percent).Possible explanations for the disparity betweenthe universal perceptions of threat by recipientsand expert assessment of threat may include acombination of the following:1.
The very act of sending an argumentative orhostile communication to a judge representsa breach of normative behavior, and suggeststhat the sender may have difficulty control-ling hostile impulses and maintaining appro-priate boundaries.2.
The popular belief that mental illness is as-sociated with a high risk of violence mayincrease the likelihood that communicationscontaining evidence of psychotic beliefs andother forms of disordered thinking, but no ev-idence of threat, get referred by court person-nel for further investigation.3.
Over-assessment of mental illness by the ex-pert rater, in spite of efforts to be conservativein those ratings.4.
Under-assessment of violence risk by the ex-pert rater, however it should be noted thatdocuments spanned a period from 1995 to2013 and there have been no episodes ofviolence against judges in that jurisdictionto date.
Whether that represents the truelevel of actual risk or the successful effortsof court security personnel in managing thethreat cannot be determined.The purpose of the current pilot study was toexplore if language technology could be used toidentify those aspects of a communication thatrender it threatening to its recipients or correlatewith expert assessment of the level of violencethreat they present.
We applied these tools to arelatively small group of 60 written communica-tions sent to judges.
A single forensic psychia-trist, experienced in threat and violence risk as-sessment, rated each document individually for thestudy factors.
The results were promising, yet notdispositive, with regard to the ability of languagetechnology to identify those factors that render acommunication ?threatening,?
are predictive of in-creased risk, or indicative of mental illness.The next steps for this work include examina-tion of a larger number of communications re-ferred for assessment of possible increased riskof violence.
Communications addressed to otherpublic figures, as well as organizations and theirpersonnel, can be analyzed and compared to thosereceived by judges.
Progress on automating theextraction of text features that were manually an-notated, including distinctive orthographic fea-tures (contextually inappropriate use of capitaliza-tion and emphasis), and number and titles of recip-ients would be valuable.
In addition, it will be im-portant to have the presence of indicators of men-tal illness and level of risk, rated independently bymultiple experts in the field of threat assessmentin a two part process.
First, the documents willbe rated in the absence of any contextual infor-mation.
Second, evaluators will be provided withadditional information regarding the individual?sbackground and asked to rerate the communica-tions.8 ConclusionMental health professionals are asked to assessthe risk of violence on a regular basis and in awide variety of settings.
The accuracy and reli-ability of this complex and challenging task in-creases with the amount of information availableto the evaluator.
To date, those charged with con-ducting these assessments have not utilized auto-mated approaches for linguistic analysis to informtheir assessments.
The results of this pilot studysuggest that such analysis may be a useful addi-tion to the traditional tools currently used in vio-lence threat assessment.
The availability of sucha tool could increase the accuracy and objectiv-ity of currently applied threat assessment methods.However, more data is needed to train and buildmodels, and fully test their utility.
Supervised ma-chine learning approaches, or more sophisticatedtopic models, may be needed to tackle the com-plexities of supporting violence risk assessmentthrough language technology.Acknowledgments We thank the anonymousreviewers and Jordan Boyd-Graber for their in-sightful comments.ReferencesAmerican Psychiatric Association.
2000.
Diagnostic44and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-IV-TRR?.
American Psychiatric Pub.David M. Blei and John D. Lafferty.
2009.
Topic mod-els.
Text mining: classification, clustering, and ap-plications, 10:71.David M Blei.
2012.
Probabilistic topic models.
Com-munications of the ACM, 55(4):77?84.F Calhoun and S Weston.
2003.
Contemporary threatmanagement.
San Diego, CA: Specialized TrainingServices.Frederick S Calhoun.
1998.
Hunters and howlers:Threats and violence against federal judicial offi-cials in the United States, 1789-1993.
Number 80.US Department of Justice, US Marshals Service.Cindy K Chung and James W Pennebaker.
2011.
Us-ing computerized text analysis to assess threateningcommunications and behavior.
Threatening commu-nications and behavior: Perspectives on the pursuitof public figures, page 332.E.
B. Elbogen and S. C. Johnson.
2009.
The intricatelink between violence and mental disorder: Resultsfrom the national epidemiologic survey on alcoholand related conditions.
Archives of General Psychi-atry, 66(2):152?161, February.Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
Mallet: A ma-chine learning for language toolkit.J.
Reid Meloy and Jens Hoffmann.
2013.
InternationalHandbook of Threat Assessment.
Oxford UniversityPress.John Monahan, Henry J Steadman, Paul S Appelbaum,Thomas Grisso, Edward P Mulvey, Loren H Roth,Pamela Clark Robbins, Stephen Banks, and Eric Sil-ver.
2006.
The classification of violence risk.
Be-havioral sciences & the law, 24(6):721?730.James W Pennebaker, Martha E Francis, and Roger JBooth.
2001.
Linguistic inquiry and word count:LIWC 2001.
Mahway: Lawrence Erlbaum Asso-ciates, page 71.James W Pennebaker, Cindy K Chung, et al.
2008.Computerized text analysis of al-qaeda transcripts.A content analysis reader, pages 453?465.Vernon L. Quinsey, Grant T. Harris, Marnie E. Rice,and Catherine A. Cormier.
1998.
Violent offenders:Appraising and managing risk.
American Psycho-logical Association.Antonio P. Sanfilippo.
2010.
Content Analysis forProactive Protective Intelligence.
Pacific NorthwestNational Laboratory.Mario J Scalora, Jerome V Baumgartner, Mary AHatch Maillette, Christmas N Covell, Russell EPalarea, Jason A Krebs, David O Washington,William Zimmerman, and David Callaway.
2003.Risk factors for approach behavior toward the UScongress.
Journal of threat assessment, 2(2):3555.Andr?e Simons and Ronald Tunkel.
2013.
The as-sessment of anonymous threatening communica-tions.
International Handbook of Threat Assess-ment, pages 195?213.Jennifer L Skeem and John Monahan.
2011.
Currentdirections in violence risk assessment.
Current Di-rections in Psychological Science, 20(1):38?42.S Smith and R Shuy.
2002.
Forensic psycholinguis-tics: using language analysis for identifying and as-sessing offenders.
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin,71(4):1621.S Smith.
2008.
From violent words to violent deeds:assessing risk from FBI threatening communicationcases.
Stalking, Threatening, and Attacking PublicFigures: a psychological and behavioral analysis,page 435455.H.
J. Steadman, E.P.
Mulvey, J. Monahan, and et al.1998.
Violence by people discharged from acutepsychiatric inpatient facilities and by others in thesame neighborhoods.
Archives of General Psychia-try, 55(5):393?401, May.Jeffrey Swanson, Charles Holzer, Vijay Ganju, andRobert Jono.
1990.
Violence and psychiatric dis-order in the community: evidence from the epi-demiologic catchment area surveys.
Hospital &community psychiatry, 41(7):761?770, July.
PMID:2142118.Christopher D Webster, Kevin S Douglas, Derek Eaves,and Stephen D Hart.
1982.
Assessing risk for vio-lence, version 2 (hcr-20).
Sigma, 1993:1997.45
