The Bas ic  B lock  Mode l  of Extended Exp lanat ionsDavid J. Mooney and Sandra Carberry and Kathleen F. McCoyDepartment of Computer and Information Sciences103 Smith HallUniversity of DelawareNewark, Delaware 19716Abst rac tIn this paper we argue that current generation method-ologies are inadequate for determining the high-levelstructure characteristic ofnaturally-occurring extendedexplanations.
Our analysis of such explanations indi-cates that high-level structure - composed of a unify-ing framework and its associated basic blocks - mustbe determined by bottom-up rocesses that attempt osatisfy speaker, listener, and compositional goals, afterwhich top-down strategies can be used to organize thematerial about the selected framework.
In addition to adescription of this structure, this paper describes threetypes of repetition whose use is dependent on this high-level structure; their use not only contributes to the co-hesiveness of extended explanations, but supports ourthesis of the non-recursive nature of the high-level struc-ture.
We conclude with an outline of our computationalstrategy for generating this structure.INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, we describe the high-level structure ofnaturally-occurring, extended explanations and con-tend that the organizational strategies currently em-ployed for structuring short explanations are inade-quate for generating this characteristic high-level struc-ture.
Our analysis suggests that text structure is notcompletely recursive as others have claimed (\[Grosz andSidner, 1986\], [Reichman, 1978\], [Polanyi, 1986\], \[Mannand Thompson, 1988\]), but rather that the high-levelstructure of extended explanations is determined byprocesses eparate from those which organize text atlower levels.
Evidence for the non-recursive nature ofthis structure is provided by repetition, which is fre-quently used in extended explanations for a wide varietyof purposes.
This device, whose use has been neglectedby current explanation research, exhibits a distinct re-lationship to the structure of extended explanations,implying that it, too, cannot be generated by recursivestrategies.Our analysis is based on several sources, the primaryof which is the testimony before congressional com-mittees regarding the Three Mile Island (TMI) acci-dent (\[Representatives, 1979\], \[Representatives, 1980\]).These explanations were punctuated with numerous in-terruptions and characteristically involved the opera-tion of complex physical devices and extended causalchains of events.
The majority of these explanationswere planned beforehand and required many pages oftext - typically five, ten, or more, exclusive of interrup-tions.
Furthermore, the testimony comes from a varietyof sources: operators who were on the scene as the acci-dent developed; engineers who gave post-accident eval-uations; executives from the company that designed theplant.
This variety allowed examination of explanationsof the same set of events from many perspectives.A secondary source was transcripts of a medical classinvolved in patient diagnosis.
While these transcriptsdiffered greatly form those of TMI - in particular, theexplanations provided were relatively short; they wereunplanned; and they were concerned with diagnosticstrategy as opposed to causal events - they exhibitedmany of the characteristics found in the TMI explana-tions.The next section provides a brief overview of currentmodels for structuring text, followed by a descriptionof the basic block, the unit of discourse on which ourmodel of discourse is based.
We then identify threetypes of repetition whose use supports our contentionsof the non-recursive nature of basic block structure.
Weconclude by describing the characteristics of high-levelstructure of extended explanations, followed by a briefdescription of our strategy for computationally gener-ating this structure.
A more detailed description of ourstrategy and its role in a complete generational systemis contained in \[Mooney, el al.
1989\].THE BAS IC  BLOCK MODEL OFEXTENDED DISCOURSEGiven any large body of information to convey, thereare many possible combinations of that material, somemore cohesive than others.
Frequently, deciding how toorganize a large body of material is more difficult thandetermining what to include.
Our research is concernedwith the identification of a coherent unifying framework112about which an extended explanation can be organizedand the criteria for selecting from among several frame-works when more than one viable alternative xists.CURRENT MODELS OF  TEXTSTRUCTURECOMPUTATIONAL MODELS Two gen-eral methodologies have been applied to the structur-ing of explanations: schemas (\[McKeown, 1985\], \[Mc-Coy, 1985\], \[Paris, 1987\]) and plans based on rhetori-cal structure theory (RST) (\[Hovy and McCoy, 1989\],\[Hovy, 1988a\], \[Moore and Paris, 1988a\], \[Moore andSwartout, 1988b\]).
Each methodology assumes thattext is hierarchically structured and that its operatorscan be recursively expanded at any level within the dis-course hierarchy.
While these methods have provento be effective for organizing short pieces of text, wemaintain that they are inadequate for generating thecharacteristic high-level structure of eztended explana-tions and certain forms of repetition.
Rather, we main-tain that this high-level structure can only he capturedby a separate, bottom-up rocess.
Once this has beencompleted, the integration of appropriate repetition canproceed in conjunction with, hut independently of, theapplication of recursive strategies to the organization oftext at lower levels.RHETORIC  Rhetoric, the formal study of the artof good writing, provides general strategies for orga-nizing text at a high level that are absent from thecomputational models.
Analysis - "the method of ex-planation whereby a subject is divided into its separatecomponent parts" 1 _ is possibly the most instrumentalof these strategies.
There are no hard-and-fast rulesfor determining what constitutes an appropriate anal-ysis of a subject.
As \[Wicker and Albrecht, 1960\] ob-serves, a subject may be classified in as many ways asit has characteristics/parts/stages/etc.
However, thereare three criteria which experts (\[Wicker and Albrecht,19601, \[Arena, 1975\], \[Thompson, 19571, \[Daniel, 19671,\[Kane and Peters, 1966\]) mutually consider essential fora satisfactory organizational strategy:1.
The scheme should be logical; a single, consistentcriterion should be used for the analysis (e.g., time,steps in a process).2.
The scheme should exhaust all of the possibilities;everything to be conveyed should be encompassed bythe scheme.3.
The resultant categories hould be mutually exclu-sive; nothing should belong to more than one.While the type of explanation with which this paperis concerned exhibits a high-level organization reflec-tive of these criteria, the criteria by themselves do notl\[Arena, 1975\] page 107Now, what happened at Three Mile Island was that afeedwater transient was experienced, and by that I mean,simply, we lost feedwater to the plant momentarily.Now, with loss of feedwater to the steam generator, theplant will experience a momentary pressurization above itsnormal pressure.
This pressurization is released by a reliefvalve located at the top of the pressurizer.
It simply opensand lets out a little bit of steam to take care of the excesspressure that is < interruption occurs here >Then at 15 seconds into the event-keeping in mind thatthe valves opened maybe 5 seconds into the event-at 15 sec-onds the pressure started coming down because the valvehad opened and cut off the pressure.The valve should have reclosed when it got back downto about 2,250 pounds; it did not reclose.
The pressure pro-ceeded to comeon down.
At about 30 seconds into the event,this water here started isappearing, ofcourse, because nowyou are continuing to remove a very large amount of heathere, which is then coming off as secondary side steam gen-eration, and this water will proceed to disappear if you donot start replacing it.And the auxiliary feedwater which normally comes on tomake sure this does not go dry came on at about 30 secondsinto the event.
And at least the pumps were running.
So thispicture here is just the first 30 seconds and-or thereabouts.And this figure here is indicative of the situation from 1to 6 minutes into the event.Figure 1: A Typical Primary Segmentprovide the specificity necessary for computational gen-eration.
In addition, these guidelines include no sugges-tions for dealing with situations in which no logical, all-inclusive framework can be identified, nor do they offersuggestions for selecting among several organizationalschemes which meet the prescribed criteria equally well.Furthermore, the guidelines are not sufficient in-and-ofthemselves to account for all of the observed phenom-ena discussed in the following sections.BAS IC  BLOCKSOur model is based on a discourse unit which we havetermed a basic block.
A basic block consists of two ele-ments:1. an organizational focus, such as a person or location,and2.
a set of propositions to be conveyed that are relatedto that focus.
2The focus is what makes a cohesive unit of the materialin the block; it is the thread common to all of thismaterial, whether directly or indirectly.2The term basic blockis also used to refer to the segmentof text generated from these propositions.113A basic block will be realized as a primary segmentof text which occupies the first level of the discoursehierarchy.
In a coherent discourse, the foci on whichthe basic blocks are based are themselves related, eachrepresenting a different aspect of some unifying frame-work.
This framework is analogous to the organiza-tional scheme of rhetorical analysis.The testimony from which the basic block in Fig-ure 1 was extracted 3 illustrates these points.
This blockreferences a particular time frame: zero to thirty sec-onds of the accident at TMI.
The remaining blocks ofthat testimony (not shown) are' similarly constructedaround time frames, e.g., one to six minutes, six min-utes to one hour, etc.
Observed frameworks demon-strate a gamut of types: properties of the concepts (lo-cation, time), planning strategies in which events areinvolved (medical diagnosis), and characteristics thatare not only inherent in the material but also due inpart to the speaker's perception of them (significantfactors).
There appears to be no limit to what can con-stitute an acceptable framework, only that it is derivedfrom the material itself and not from an independentdevice solely concerned with text structure.
What maybe a potential framework for one set of material may betotally inadequate for another.
Note that these featuresare reflective of the guidelines uggested by analysis.In addition to forming a cohesive unit, basic blockstructure is explicitly distinguished in the following twoways.
First, it is often explicitly marked.
In Figure 1,the speaker closes the block with explicit reference toits focus: "So this picture here is just the first 30 sec-onds and-or thereabouts."
The subsequent block in thistestimony is also well marked, this time by its initialsentence (which is the last sentence of the figure): "Andthis figure here is indicative of the situation from 1 to6 minutes."
While the explicit marking of basic blocksin discourse provides persuasive vidence for their dis-tinctive role in the discourse hierarchy, even strongertestimony is supplied by the manner in which certainforms of repetition are used.REPET IT IONOur analysis of naturally-occurring extended explana-tions has identified three types of repetition whose usereflects a close dependence on the basic block structureof extended explanations: Final Summaries, TransitionSummaries, and Back-on-Track repetitions.F INAL  SUMMARIESThe term Final Summary is self-descriptive: it appearsat the end of a discourse 4,emphasizing the major points3 Space limitations prevent inclusion of the complete text.4We loosely interpret he term discourse to refer to apiece of text that can stand as an independent discourseeven when extracted from a larger text of which it may bea component, as in the case of a chapter from a technicalbook.1.
They are getting a little out of place here.2.
So at the end of one hour things look pretty good.3.
The fact is around this period of time he also got thewater up in the steam generator, but he had plenty of heatremoval capability.4.
But I am sure he was getting a little concerned about hereactor coolant pumps because they were - their flow wasdropping off, and if you read some of the material producedby the operators and the utility, it indicates they were get-ting vibration, and they were getting ammeter surging, thesurging effect on the ammeter itself.5.
So there was something strange about pumping this fluid,whatever it was; he did not and has no way to know thatthis is here, and he has no way to know that this conditionhas developed over here, no direct way.
\[Indicating\]6.
He does know that his pressurizer is in good condition,and he is trained, I believe, to think that when the pressur-izer is full, the system is in good shape, aaFrom \[Representatives, 1979\]Figure 2: Transition Summary: Eventsof the text.
The final summary serves several purposes:?
It is a means of emphasizing material that an authorfinds most important.?
It is a vehicle for including information that does notfit within the framework of the main body of text.?
It is a "traditional" closing device.In the final summaries which we have examined, thereis a strong correlation between the points included inthe summary and the basic block structure of the text.Although a final summary is not constrained to addresseach basic block, there is usually a one-to-one relationbetween the foci of the blocks and the items stressed ina summary.
These features are demonstrated by therather extensive final summary contained in the ap-pendix 5TRANSIT ION SUMMARIESUnlike the situation for final summaries, both theconditions calling for the use of a transition summaryand the determination of its contents are relativelyclear-cut.
Transition summaries are similar to finalsummaries in that they summarize important informa-tion, but the similarities end there.
While final sum-maries are used to conclude a discourse, transition sum-maries are used to signal a shift in circumstances that5The summary has been condensed from the original,which was punctuated with numerous questions.
Althoughthe speaker indicates ix major points, only five are dis-cussed, the extended questioning preventing him from con-cluding his summary.114are not implicated by the preceding material and forwhich the listener is probably unprepared; where a fi-nal summary stresses the major points of a completediscourse, a transition summary emphasizes that ma-terial instrumental to a listener's understanding of thischange in direction and consequently prevents poten-tial confusion.
Transition summaries consist of a sum-mary of the material which implicates an expected, butunrealized, continuance of the discourse.
Additionally,reference to the material which is responsible for pre-venting this expected outcome and an indication thateverything is not as it seems may also be included.
Notethat this information, unlike that in a final summary,may play a very minor role in the overall text.
Transi-tion summaries also exhibit a relation to basic blocks.While final summaries are found only at the end of atext, transition summaries have only been observed atthe end of blocks within the body of the text.Figure 2 provides a typical example of a transitionsummary.
Lines 3 and 6 describe the facts, presentedin the testimony preceding this summary, that implyto the operator that everything is under control; lines2 and 6 summarize this condition.
However, the factscontained in lines 4 and 5 (also presented in the earliertestimony), indicate that all is not as well as the op-erator may have thought.
In fact, the conditions theydescribe lead to the next sequence of events, in whichthe serious problems become vident.
Thus, this sum-mary provides a transition from a situation in whichthings seem to be under control to one in which theyare not.BACK-ON-TRACK REPET IT IONBack-on-track repetition is a recovery device, usuallybrief, which occurs after an interruption.
Our tran-script analysis uggests that its primary use is to refo-cus the dialogue on the interrupted segment.
Its formis the same regardless of the cause of the interruption,consisting of one of the following:?
a repetition of the last concept presented (or par-tially presented) before the interruption.
This oftenconsists of an (almost) exact reproduction of the orig-inal phrase;?
one or two lines summarizing the main point(s) im-mediately preceding the interruption;?
a sentence that refers generally to the interruptedcontext.Figure 3 provides an example of the first type.Research (e.g., \[Reichman, 1978\], \[Grosz and Sidner,1986\]) indicates that an interrupting segment is explic-itly closed before returning to the one interrupted.
Al-though repetition cannot serve as a closing device it-self, it frequently accompanies those that do.
Whilethe conditions for use of back-on-track repetition arevague, we have observed that back-on-track repetitionsvery frequently accompany interruptions which occurAt this point the operator was obliged to shut off the reactorcoolant pumps, the reason being as follows: we know thefact that there were significant vibrations as determined byvibrational logs, and there were ammeter problems.
As theoperator observed the ammeter, it was oscillating.< interruption >OK.
He was obliged to trip the reactor coolant pumps, aaFrom \[Representatives, 1979\].
Italics mine.Figure 3: Back-On-Track: Literal Repeatwithin a basic block, but not between them.
This can beexplained by hypothesizing that if a speaker has com-pleted a block, his mental stack is essentially empty(except for the highest level goal); consequently thereis nothing to which to return.
However, when the blockhas not been completed, the speaker needs to returnattention to the open focus space on top of the stack.This serves not only as a clue to the listener but mayalso allow the speaker to collect his thoughts.The relationship between basic blocks and repeti-tion is strong evidence for the distinctive role playedby basic blocks in the discourse hierarchy; it also ar-gues the inadequacy of recursive strategies to generatethese rhetorical devices.
Completely recursive organi-zational strategies assume that their operators can beexpanded at any level within the discourse hierarchy.Consequently, we could expect them to generate tran-sition summaries at the end of any segment of text, notjust at the end of a basic block; we could expect themto generate final summaries at the end of any segmentwhich contained several constituent subsegments, notjust at the end of an entire discourse; and we couldexpect hem to generate back-on-track repetition afterany interruption, not only those occurring within a ba-sic block.
However, the above types of repetition ex-hibit a distinct relationship to the basic block structureand to no other level of segmentation smaller than thebasic block within the hierarchy.
Since the applicationof a recursive operator is independent of the level ofrecursion, such organizational strategies cannot guar-antee that these types of repetition will be generatedonly in relation to the basic block structure.CHARACTERIST IC  H IGH-LEVELSTRUCTUREGiven the existence of a high-level structure as evi-denced by explicit markings and repetition, we mustconsider how such a framework is chosen.
If the onlyconsideration were the identification of a set of related115foci which can partition the material to be conveyed,then any set of related concepts about which the ma-terial can be cohesively organized would suffice.
Con-sider the motivation behind the block of Figure 1.
Onthe surface, the events in this block all occurred withinthe first thirty seconds of the accident.
However, it isdoubtful whether the driving force behind the construc-tion of this block was to communicate the time framein which these events occurred; rather, what is of im-portance is their relative sequence in the total seriesof events, their cause-effect relations, and their impacton the resulting accident.
One could argue that theindividual events in this block represent a cause-effectchain, and hence their mutual grouping; but this chainis continued in the next block of the testimony.
Ap-parently, other factors beyond the ability to cohesivelyjuxtapose clauses contribute to the segmentation andthe high-level framework about which it is constructed.In most of the dialogues examined, basic blocks froma given discourse were of approximately the same size.Furthermore, the size of basic blocks was approximatelythe same from dialogue to dialogue; the "ideal" size ofa basic block seems to be three or four paragraphs inlength for an explanation of three pages.
We contendthat the high-level structure of extended explanationsreflects the characteristics of an "ideal" framework inwhich:?
The basic block foci about which the material is or-ganized reflect various aspects of the unifying frame-work.?
Basic blocks are the same size.?
The length of each basic block approximates the idealsize.Our basic block model of discourse posits that the at-tainment of each of these features, termed composilionalgoals, is instrumental in the selection of a high-levelframework.We postulate that a speaker attempts to identify anorganizational framework that is capable of coherentlyexpressing all of the material he wishes to convey whilesatisfying the compositional goals.
Of course, a speakeris rarely blessed with the ideal situation.
As a result,certain anomalies do occur; e.g., we have observed ex-planations that exhibit a well-defined high-level struc-ture that accounts for all of the basic blocks except forthe final one, which is at best loosely related to the oth-ers.
In addition, some explanations contain final sum-maries that include material not found in the text (seeF INAL  SUMMARIES) ,  while others are composedof blocks that are not balanced.
The problem appearsto be one of finding a satisfactory, rather than an opti-mal, unifying framework.
It seems that the satisfactionof some goals will be sacrificed in favor of others so thata framework that provides the best overall solution willbe selected.A MODEL FOR GENERATIONWe are currently developing a computational systemfor generating extended explanations that capturesthe structural characteristics observed in naturally-occurring, descriptive xplanations.
Our strategy, mo-tivated by the basic block model of discourse, is basedon the hypothesis that the high-level structure of adiscourse can be determined by bottom-up processesthat attempt to satisfy speaker, listener, and compo-sitional goals.
Once this organization has been estab-lished, top-down processes (e.g., RST or schemas.
See\[Hovy, 1988b\] or \[McKeown, 1985\], for example.)
canbe used to organize the information within the resultingbasic blocks and to supplement that information basedon the choice of framework.
This section describes ourgeneral strategy for identifying an organizational frame-work and the resulting basic blocks given an initial setof concepts to be conveyed.IDENTIF ICAT ION OF  CANDIDATEFRAMEWORKSWe suggest that a speaker, when organizing an ex-tended explanation, will be faced with one of the fol-lowing general situations:?
He already has a well-defined organizational structurein which the material to be conveyed has already beenorganized.?
He has a set of goals about which he wants to struc-ture the discourse.
In this situation, the goals serveas basic block foci about which he must now attemptto partition his material.?
The speaker is starting "from scratch"; he needs tofind a unifying framework about which he can struc-ture what he wants to say.
It is this situation whichour strategy intends to capture.Our strategy assumes that the generation processstarts with some initial state of affairs and a goal tobe achieved.
Based on this, a rough set of informationto be conveyed will be identified.
The selection of thismaterial is not our concern; rather, we are concernedwith determining a reasonable high-level structure forthis information.
We assume that the material to beconveyed has been categorized into at least two levelsof importance: that which must be included at all costs(the kernel), and that which would be nice to include,but due to time, style, or coherence may be left out.The process of identifying candidate frameworks beginswith the kernel.The implication of the discussion describing the char-acteristics of basic blocks suggests that a unifyingframework will be some feature to which all of the ker-nel concepts can be related.
In our model, we assumethat the domain knowledge is maintained as a hierar-chical network.
Such a representation suggests that anode to which all of these concepts converge could serve116as the unifying framework.
The basic block foci, whichrepresent various aspects of this framework, would thencorrespond to children of this node.Given a set of propositions to be conveyed, one israndomly selected from the kernel and a trace is per-formed upwards from each of its arguments throughthe hierarchy.
The traversal of the hierarchy is per-formed using generalization links, e.g.
ISA, ISPART,and SUBGOAL, incrementing counters associated witheach node that is traversed.
Consider, for example, thetwo propositions (agent open1 Fred1) and (object open1valve1).
Using ISA  links, we might expect a traver-sal starting from the action open1 to pass through thenodes opening-event, general-event, etc.
Furthermore,openl may have been a substep of a higher-level planwhich would also be encountered while performing atraversal using SUBGOAL links.
By the same token,we could expect a traversal starting at Fred1 which usesISA  links to encounter person, animal, etc., while oneoriginating from valve1 might pass through the nodesvalve, mechanical-device, etc.
Since valve1 is also partof secondary.system1, a traversal through secondary-system1 is initiated in the same manner.Once the traversal has been completed for each ele-ment of the kernel, the nodes are ranked according totheir counters; this will give some idea of the numberof concepts that converge on each.
Only those nodeson which a majority of the kernel concepts convergewill be further considered as possible candidates for theunifying framework.
To continue our example, supposethat, given a kernel of sixty propositions, our traversalresulted in a convergence of fifty of those propositionson the person node, ten on mechanical-device, fifteen onevent, and even fewer on the remaining nodes.
Giventhat we are only interested in nodes at which the major-ity of propositions converge, only person will be givenfurther consideration.In all likelihood, none of the selected candidates willaccount for all of the kernel concepts.
However, it maybe possible to link a candidate to concepts not directlyassociated with it by finding ties between these conceptsand ones for which the candidate already accounts, pos-sibly via a property they have in common.
With respectto our example, assume that (object open1 valve1) doesnot converge on person.
However, because (agent open1Fred1) does, and each of these propositions concerns theevent open1, the first proposition can be effectively in-corporated into this framework.
Additionally, it may bepossible to include such material in a final summary orin a "catchall" block.
That speakers do introduce suchmaterial in a final summary is evidenced by the samplefinal summary contained in the appendix, in which allof the "significant factors" addressed in the summaryhad been discussed in the main body of the text exceptfor the fourth.
We claim that inclusion in a final sum-mary is warranted if the speaker intended to include afinal summary initially, and if the amount of materialis of the same order as that comprising the individualsegments of the summary.
The transcripts also supplyevidence for speakers' use of catchall basic blocks at theend of a discourse.
We claim that for such an optionto be viable, there must be sufficient material to con-struct an adequate basic block and that the materialmust form a cohesive unit.
sSELECT ION OF  THE UNIFY INGFRAMEWORKOnce potential frameworks have been identified, eachmust be evaluated according to how well it meets thecriteria described above:?
How thoroughly does a candidate account for the se-lected material??
How uniformly does a candidate distribute the con-cepts among the resulting basic blocks??
How closely do the generated blocks conform to theideal size?Additionally, a candidate may be evaluated as to howwell it meets the needs of a user model.The actual blocks are constructed around a candi-date's immediate descendents, not the candidate itself.So, for example, if a candidate were the node person,its children - actual people involved in the events - willbecome the basic block foci.
The ideal case is one inwhich each child of the candidate accounts for approx-imately the same number of concepts.
The balanceeach candidate achieves can be determined by compar-ing the counters of its children.
At the same time,the candidate will be rated according to how closelyits blocks conform to the ideal size.
Lastly, we canrate the candidates on how well they meet the de-mands, if any, imposed by a user model.
For exam-ple, if we know the user is familiar with the location inwhich the events occurred, basic blocks based on loca-tion should be given higher ratings; organizing an ex-planation around a framework with which the listeneris familiar will facilitate his assimilation of the informa-tion.Once this process has been accomplished, the candi-date with the highest rating will be selected as the bestoverall framework.
At this point, the material has beeneffectively partitioned about the resulting basic blocks;the material within each individual block can then beorganized using a top-down methodology (e.g., RST orschemas), and then realized into text.CONCLUSIONSThis paper has identified several characteristics ofnaturally-occurring explanations that cannot be ac-counted for by recursive text organization strategies.While recursive methods uch as RST and schemas areSSee \[Mooney, et al 1989\] for a more completediscussion.117adequate for local organization of text, they are insuffi-cient for the determination of high-level structure, pro-viding neither criteria which describe what constitutesan acceptable framework for a discourse nor any clues asto how this framework should be constructed.
We havepresented a computational strategy for generating thehigh-level structure for extended explanations that ad-dresses both issues.
Our strategy is based on the basicblock, a discourse unit consisting of an organizationalfocus and text structured about that focus.
We con-tend that basic block structure cannot be adequatelygenerated by recursive structur{ng methods, but mustbe identified by bottom-up strategies driven by the in-formation to be conveyed.
Support for our contentionsis provided by repetition, a device frequently used inextended explanations for a variety of purposes.Our anMysis of high-level structure suggests a strat-egy for generating extended explanations which we arecurrently implementing as part of a larger system de-signed to generate xtended explanations in an interac-tive environment.
The system is intended as a testbedfor identifying viable organizational strategies and re-covery techniques due to user interruptions within thebasic block paradigm.
We believe that our analysisof basic block structure provides criteria necessary forbridging the gap between the generation of short ex-planations and the successful generation of extendedexplanations by explicating how the framework of anextended explanation can be constructed and how rep-etition can be cohesively incorporated into it.Re ferences\[Arena, 1975\] L. A.
Arena.
Linguistics and Composi-tion.
Georgetown University Press, 1975.\[Daniel, 1967\] R. W. Daniel.
A ContemporaryRhetoric.
Little, Brown and Company, 1967.\[Grosz and Sidner, 1986\] B. J. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12, 1986.\[Hovy, 1988a\] E. Hovy.
Approaches to the Planning ofCoherent Text.
Fourth International Workshop onNatural Language Generation, 1988.\[Hovy, 1988b\] E. H. Hovy.
Planning Coherent Multi-sentential Text.
In: Twentysixth Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, ACL,1988.\[Hovy and McCoy, 1989\] E. Hovy and K. McCoy.
Fo-cusing Your RST: A Step Toward Generating Co-herent Multisentential Text.
In: Proceedings of theEleventh Annual Meeting of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, Cognitive Science Society, 1989.\[Kane and Peters, 1966\] T. S. Kane and L. J. Peters.A Practical Rhetoric of Expository Prose.
OxfordUniversity Press, 1966.\[Mann and Thompson, 1988\] W. C. Mann and S. A.Thompson.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: Towarda Functional Theory of Text Organization.
Text, 8,1988.\[McCoy, 1985\] K. F. McCoy.
Correcting Object-RelatedMisconceptions.
PhD thesis, University of Pennsyl-vania, 1985.\[McKeown, 1985\] K. McKeown.
Text Generation.Cambridge University Press, 1985.\[Mooney, et al 1989\] D. J. Mooney, S. Carberry, andK.
F. McCoy.
The Identification of a Unifying Frame-work for the Organization of Extended, InteractiveExplanations.
Technical Report 90-1, University ofDelaware, 1989.\[Moore and Paris, 1988a\] J. Moore and C. Paris.
Con-structing Coherent Text using Rhetorical Relations.In: Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Meeting of theCognitive Science Society, Cognitive Science Society,1988.\[Moore and Swartout, 1988b\] J. D. Moore and W. R.Swartout.
A Reactive Approach to Explanation.Fourth International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, 1988.\[Paris, 1987\] C. Paris.
The Use of Explicit User Modelsin Text Generation: Tailoring to a User's Level ofExpertise.
PhD thesis, Columbia University, 1987.\[Polanyi, 1986\] L. Polanyi.
The Linguistic DiscourseModel: Towards a Formal Theory of Discourse Struc-ture.
Technical Report 6409, BBN, 1986.\[Reichman, 1978\] R. Reichman.
Conversational Co-herency.
Cognitive Science, 2, 1978.\[Representatives, 1979\] U.S. House of Representatives,Ninetysixth Congress: first session.
Accident at theThree Mile Island Nuclear Powerplant: OversightHearings before a Task Force of the Subcommitteeon Energy and the Environment of the Committee onInterior and Insular Affairs.
U.S. Government Print-ing Office, 1979.\[Representatives, 1980\] U.S. House of Representatives,Ninetysixth Congress: second session.
Nuclear Pow-erplant Safety after TMI: Oversight Hearings beforea Task Force of the Subcommittee on Energy and theEnvironment of the Committee on Interior and Insu-lar Affairs.
U.S. Government Printing Office, 1980.\[Thompson, 1957\] W. N. Thompson.
Fundamentals ofCommunication.
McGraw Hill, 1957.\[Wicker and Albrecht, 1960\] C. V. Wicker and W. P.Albrecht.
The American Technical Writer.
AmericanBook Company, 1960.118APPENDIXA sample  f ina l  summaryThat is a very quick summary of the sequence of events.Let me turn to what we consider to be the significant factorsin the accident.
\[Slide\] We have identified six here.
Theseare the same six factors which the NRC has developed andhas discussed in some of their proceedings.Certainly, the delayed auxiliary feedwater Was a Signifi-cant factor.
Auxiliary feedwater block valves should havebeen open.
They were not.
They stayed closed for about 8minutes.
That produced behavior in the reactor coolant sys-tem which the operators were not familiar with from theirprevious experience or from training, and inhibited theirability to get the accident under control.The second significant factor was the pilot-operated pres-surizer relief valve not reseating.
That was a straight me-chanical failure.
Probably of greater significance was thelack of recognition of that fact until 2 and one quarter hoursinto the event.A third significant item was the securing of the shut-offof the high-pressure injection flow prematurely.
As you re-call, I indicated that the high-pressure injection came on atapproximately 1,600 pounds, as designed.
And some of thepumps were shut down in subsequent minutes of the tran-sient.
And our calculations indicate that had those pumpsbeen left on and allowed to perform the high-pressure injec-tion function, that there would not have been core damage,there would not have been release of radioactivity at thelevel that was observed at the Three Mile Island incident.The fourth significant factor is related to containmentisolation.
We have talked a little bit about that here.
Thecontainment isolation design at Three Mile Island was onein which the isolation occurs at a 4-pounds-per-square-inchreactor building pressure.
In other designs there are otherevents which trigger containment isolation.
The significanceof this isolation situation is that in the early phases of theaccident GPU had an automatic transfer of fluid from thesump of the reactor building into the waste tanks.
Andin the early phases, when we were blowing the water, thesteam, out of the relief valve into the quench tank and thenalternately when the rupture disk broke into the bottom ofthe reactor building, fluid was being automatically trans-ferred out of the reactor building into the waste tanks.
Thewaste tanks overflowed and spilled onto the floor of the aux-iliary building, and radiation was released from the aux-iliary building.
And this occurred in the period prior tothe 4-pound, achieving the 4-pound pressure in the reactorbuilding, and the isolation associated with that.I think this certainly calls for some reassessment.
Whatare the signals on which you isolate the reactor building,and, I think equally important, the question of what linesdo you isolate and what lines do you not isolate?
Becausethere are some lines, such as the supply to seal injection andthe reactor coolant pumps, you do not want to isolate; youwant to leave those open.
Other lines clearly you do wantto isolate.
So, I think it indicates a complete reassessmentof the containment isolation philosophy.The fifth item, identified as the "inappropriate emphasison pressurizer level indication," early in the days followingthe accident here was a good deal of talk about erroneouspressurizer indication.
And we have done a fair amount ofinvestigation and satisfied ourselves that the level indicationas displayed on the control panel was indicating essentiallythe amount of water that was in the pressurizer, that therewas not an erroneous instrumentation reading, and that infact he had an indication of how much water was in thatpressurizer.The point here is that he interpreted that, apparently -we are doing a lot of reading between the lines here - butapparently he interpreted that indication as meaning he hada full reactor system when in fact what he had was a systemwhere he had the temperature of the water in the hot leg ofthe reactor coolant system at the saturation pressure, andflashing and creating steam in the reactor coolant system,even though he had indications of full pressurizer all duringthe time that he was continuing to blow steam out of thepilot-operated relief valves.But I think the significant factor here is the inappropriateemphasis that was placed on the pressurizer level alone ata time when.he had other indications available to him thatshould have triggered his concern about what conditionsexisted in the reactor coolant system.
7rFrom \[Representatives, 1979\]119
