The Local  Organizat ion of  TextPenelope SibunDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003sibun@cs.umass.edu or penni@umass.bitnetAbstractIn this paper, I present a model of the local organizationof extended text.
I show that texts with weak rhetoricalstructure and strong domain structure, such as descrip-tions of houses, digital circuits, and families, are bestanalyzed in terms of local domain structure, and ar-gue that global structures that may be inferred froma domain are not always appropriate for constructingdescriptions in the domain.
I present a system I am im-plementing that uses short-raTtge strategies to organizetext, and show how part of a description is organized bythese strategies.
I also briefly discuss a model of incre-mental text generation that dovetails with the model oflocal organization presented here.Motivation for local organizationThe approach to organizing extended text describedhere has both psychological nd computational moti-vation.
It aims both to model how people use languageand to provide a flexible architecture for a system's lan-guage use.
In this section, I describe the empirical datathat form the basis of this research, and characterizethe local organization of the collected texts.
In thenext two sections, I describe a computational rchitec-ture to implement local text organization and discussits advantages of generality and flexibility, and give anexample of how this architecture works.An extended text has a structure; this structure is adescription of how the components relate so that sensecan be made of the whole.
Two sources of this organiza-tion are rhetoricial structure, which describes the wayelements of the text fit together, and domaitt structure,which describes relations among domain objects.
Forthis research I chose three domains with strong domainstructure, and a task--description--with weak rhetor-ical structure.
I have tape-recorded 29 people givingdescriptions of house layouts, electronic ircuit layouts,and family relationships.
Description fragments of ahouse and of a family, and the questions asked to ob-tain the descriptions, are given in figure 1.
(Because ofspace considerations, the fragments are somewhat ab-breviated.
)Many approaches to text organization 1 are basedon analyses of text in terms of rhetorical structure.However, there are few segments of text with inter-esting rhetorical structure in my corpus.
For exam-ple, an analysis of the texts using Mann and Thomp-son's (1987) Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) wouldresult primarily in the relations sequence  and jo in tand would contain few of the the relations like evi-dence or jus t i fy  that give RST its descriptive power.Similarly, it is unclear what work a system like that ofGrosz and Sidner (1986) would do in analyzing a de-scription.Since the structure of descriptions cannot be ana-lyzed adequately with rhetorical relations, perhaps itcan be explained in terms of the domain.
Houses, chips,and families are strongly structured.
A family's rela-tionships can be captured in a family tree; one mightsuppose that a description of the family would also beorganized in this way.
A house can be encoded in anumber of ways; for instance, it has a component hier-archy, being composed of rooms composed of furnish-ings.
Linde (1974) has proposed another comprehensivestructure for houses: a phrase structure grammar thatdetermines how the rooms may be visited in a traversalof a house layout.Surprisingly, these global, hierarchical domain struc-tures are not exploited in the organization of descrip-tions in my corpus.
While family trees and compositionhierarchies can be inferred from descriptions of familiesand houses, this does not mean that these structuresguide the process of organizing them.
For instance,my family informants did not simply construct heirdescriptions by starting at the root of the appropriatetree and doing a depth-first or breadth-first traversalof it.
Instead, to select a next family member to talkabout, they would apply one of several criteria.
Gener-ally, a sibling, spouse, parent, or child would be the nextchoice, and this might incidentally constitute part of atree walk.
But that this choice is local is evidenced bythe next choice, which may not be construable, in anyXWhat I call text organization is usually referred to astext planning.120on our r ighthand s ide  would be a door ,which l eads  to  Penn i ' s  roomand you walk in  there .
.
.and there  are two windows,in  the .
.
.oppos i te  corner  from the one inwhich you enterone '  s on the le f thand wal l ,and one 's  on the wal l  that  you would befacingthen, on the righthand side...of her room,i s  the c losetF ragment  o f  a house  descr ipt ion .In response to the question: "Could you please describe for me the layout of your house.
"there 's  my mother Kathar ine ,  my fa ther  John,my s i s te r  Penni,  and mei t ' s  my mother ' s  re la t ives  that  we go to  seeMargaret and B i l l ,who are  Mommy' s .
.
.urn .
.
.Margaret ' s  my great -auntso  i t  must be Mommy's auntF ragment  o f  a fami ly  descr ipt ion .In response to the question: "Can you tell me how everyone who comes to Thanksgiving is related to each other?
"Figure I: Sample descriptions.principled way, as part of the overall structure of thedescription that one might have postulated at the pre-vious step.
Where to begin the family description alsoappears to be a locally conditioned choice.
Informantsbegin at various points, such as themselves or long-deadprogenitrixes, but the majority start their descriptionof the family by mentioning the hostess and host of theThanksgiving dinner they are attending; we may sup-pose that at a different ime of year the descriptions arelikely to start off differently.Further evidence that people do not structure theirdescriptions using obvious global domain structuresmay be adduced from examples in which speakers ex-plicitly deny knowledge of such structures, as in thefollowing fragment.and a l so .
.
.
tun .
.
.E leanor and E l i zabeth  comewho are .
.
.
cous ins  o f .
.
.a l l  of us .
.
.um.
.
.I don ' t  know what generat ion  cous ins  theyareHere, the speaker shows by her description of twofamily members that she does not know her relationshipto them, even though it would be clear if a family treewere being used to organize the description (the womenin question are in fact first cousins twice removed of thespeaker).Genealogical trees, phrase structure grammars, andcomponent hierarchies are useful for succinctly repre-senting information about houses, chips, and familiesBut there is no a priori reason to suppose that a de-scription of such things are the products of such easilyarticulable schemas or grammars.
When we examinetexts of the sort that we wish to generate, we mustdistinguish the mechanisms that direct the process ofchoosing what to say next from a retrospective descrip-tion of its result.The texts I have collected can be best analyzed aslocally organized by a process of deciding what to saynezt This decision is based principally on what hasalready been said and what is currently available tosay.
For example, if one has just mentioned a largewindow in the kitchen, one can mention whatever is tothe left of the window, whatever is to the right of it,which way it is facing, what it looks like, or how it issimilar to a window in another room of the house.
Ifone has mentioned an aunt, one can give her name, saywhether she is married, mention her sister, enumerateher children, or talk about how much money she earns.The strong domain structure of subjects like houses,chips, and families ensures that a description can becontinued from any point: once a description has beenstarted, there is always something, often many things,that can be said next.
In structured omains, there isalways a default choice for the next thing to say.
Inspatial domains like houses, spatial proximity providesthis default.
Everything in a house, be it a room, awall, or a kitchen appliance, is next to something else.Spatial proximity does not constrain house descriptions,121but it ensures that a description does not come to apremature dead end.Descriptions are finite.
Though there may always bemore to say, there are points at which a descriptionmay stop, when the task may be considered accom-plished.
Linde (1974) proposed s completeness criterionfor house descriptions, which is reflected in my data aswell as hers.
It states that a description may stop anytime after all the rooms have been mentioned, but it isnot complete if it stops before.
A similar criterion holdsin the family descriptions collected: they were given inanswer to the question, "Can yoti tell me how everyonewho comes to Thanksgiving is related to each other?
"In this case, then, the criterion is mentioning everyonewho attends.Knowing how to continue and knowing when to stoptogether ensure that a description can be generated de-pending solely on local organization.
The strong do-main structure of houses and families makes the work-ing of these mechanisms for continuation and termina-tion particularly clear, and thus these domains are agood site for studying this approach to organizing text.However, the local organization of text is also evidentin many other uses of language.
People's conversationis often locally organized (Levinson, 1983); some inter-active systems are currently being designed with thisapproach (Frohlich & Luff, 1989).Because I am interested not only in how a programmay organize text but also in how people do so, I studypeople speaking rather than people writing.
A writtentext may be edited and reorganized, and this processoften involves explicitly thinking about rhetorical struc-ture.
A spoken description is likely to require that thespeaker organize her text locally--she cannot plan itout ahead of time.
Studying spoken text reveals moreof the underlying mechanisms oflanguage, because timeconstraints and the inability to edit what has alreadybeen said make post-processing impossible.Computat iona l  a rch i tec tureI am implementing a system that employs local orga-nization of text as described in this paper.
The imple-mentation comprises: a semantic net knowledge base;an organizer composed of strategies and metastrategies;and a generator.
Local organization is achieved usingshort-range strategies, each of which is responsible fororganizing only a short segment of text, between a wordand a clause in length.Until recently, I have employed Mumble-86 (Meteeret al, 1987) as the generator for this system.
Construc-tion is underway, however, on a simpler generator thatmore accurately implements he principles of generationimplied by the structure of the organizer.
The system iscurrently implemented only for descriptions of houses;the examples in this section will thus be drawn fromthe house domain.The knowledge base is a semantic net that encodesthe objects, properties, and relations of a domain.
Theorganizer keeps a pointer to the current node in the de-scription.
A strategy describes the current node andothers related to it via local connections in the net-work.
Strategies are selected sequentially, based onlocal conditions; if there is no strategy available or ifmore than one strategy is appropriate, metastrategies(Davis, 1980) resolve the conflict, using a techniquesimilar to universal subgoaling in Soar (Laird, NewellRosenbloom, 1987).
Metastrategies are responsiblefor control: they sequence and combine strategies.
Likestrategies, they can cause the production of text.This architecture has several advantages.
First, it isflexible: because there is no fixed priority scheme andbecause strategies are small, the strategies can be com-bined in a variety of ways to produce texts that areconstrained only by the appropriateness of each strat-egy as determined by the strategies' interaction with theknowledge base.
Second, the architecture is extensible:new strategies can easily be added to extend the orga-nizer to different ypes of text.
Finally, the organizer ismainly domain-independent: while some strategies maybe particular to houses, most strategies are not.The strategies are applied to the knowledge base andselect the items that make up the description.
Thestrategies find the appropriate l xical items(s) for eachknowledge base item that is expressed; these lexicalitems and the knowledge base items themselves are de-termined by the domain.
While the strategies are sim-ple, complex behavior emerges from their interactionwith the knowledge base; this locally organizes the ex-tended text.Each strategy falls into one of four classes, withvarying degrees of domain independence: discourse cuestrategies; linguistic strategies; parameterizable domain-independent strategies; and semi-domain-independentstrategies.
Figure 2 gives examples of each.Of the domain-independent strategies, discourse cuestrategies focus attention, in a way similar to the cluewords described by Reichman (1985), and linguisticstrategies mention objects and associated properties.ment lon-sa l lent -ob ject ,  used to say "there is a win-dow," may as easily express "there is a penguin" or"there is a policy."
descr ibe-object  is similarly all-purpose, and can produce "the window with two flank-ing windows" or "the man with one black shoe.
"The parameterizable domain-independent strategieshave slightly different extual realizations in differentdomains, but these differences can be captured by pa-rameters.
The example given in figure 2 is typical: thestrategy is realized as a prepositional phrase in eachdomain, and only the preposition changes.The semi-domain-independent strategies accomplishtasks such as a sweep that seem particular to the do-main, but are similar to tasks in other domains.
Asweep begins at an object and names another bearingsome spatial relationship to it, and then another object122Discourse Cue Strategiesin t roduce/sh i f t -a t tent ion  "then," "and," "now"re fer -back / re ln force  "again," "once more"Linguistic Strategiesment lon -sa l lent -ob jec t  "there is z""we have z"descr ibe -ob jec t  "the z is ~,""the y z""the z (which) has z""the z with z"Parameterisable Domain-independent Strategiess i tuate  "in the kitchen""during the morning""about the election"Semi-domain-independent Strategiessweep Enumerate objects connected each to thenext by the same relation.fol low a path  Traverse a natural connection be-tween parts of the knowledge to be described.Figure 2: Strategies.that bears the same relationship to the just-mentionedone, until there are none left; for example, "to the leftof the window is a stove and then a refrigerator" isa sweep-left .
Similar constructions may be found inother domains.
A description of one's day may start atsome event and mention the next event and the eventafter that.
In this case, the relationship is temporal,rather than physical.Metastrategies select strategies based on the contezt,which comprises:Local  Context?
What has just been said.?
What is immediately connected to the current itemin the knowledge base.?
What strategies are applicable.Global  Context?
Discourse and speaker parameters.
(For example, aspeaker's propensity to mention objects to the fightbefore objects to the left.)
It is here that anythingconsidered a global goal would be encoded.?
The completeness criterion.In future implementations, the context may also in-volve some model of the hearer.
This would be part ofthe local context: what one knows about one's hearerand about what one's hearer knows changes, particu-larly under the assumption that hearer and speaker areengaged in a two-way interaction.A strategy conflict set contains whatever strategiesare currently applicable.
If it contains a single strat-egy, that one is selected.
If more than one is in theset, met"strategies may resolve the conflict by selectingone or by combining some or all of them.
Finally, ifno strategy presents itself, the met,strategies apply adefault strategy.The met"strategy f ind - " in teres t ing" - l lnk  is trig-gered after the introduction of a new topic, which haslinks to many other items in the knowledge base.
Whatis "interesting" or salient depends on:?
The  domain:  In spatial description, objects thatare large or have many features are interesting.?
The  s t ructure  o f  the  domain:  Objects that aremore connected to other objects are more interesting.?
The  local context :  If a window has just been men-tioned, there is reason to mention other windows.?
The  global context :  There may be an inclinationto mention furnishings but not structural features ofthe house, or vice versa; there may be differing levelsof detail required.123Some metastrategies combine strategies.
Such metas-trategies apply when several strategies are appropriateat some point in the description and there is a felicitousway to combine them.
clrcular-sweep is an example:it combines a number of sweep strategies ( weep-left,sweep-right, and sweep-under), and includes addi-tional or ientation strategies to orient hearers betweensweeps, k ltty-corner is a metastrategy that is usedto describe s room in which the most salient featureis diagonally opposite the current location.
The objectthat is "kitty corner" from it is mentioned first, andthe rest of the room is described in relation to it.
2 Thefirst fragment in figure 1 exemplifies the kltty-cornermetastrategy.find-new-topic is the default metastrategy just incase there is nothing "interesting" to say.
In a spatialdomain, the default is to select an object to describeusing spatial proximity.Example  o f  descr ip t ion  organ izat ionIn this section, I describe the organization ofa fragmentof a description in my corpus.
While the system isnot yet fully implemented tohandle all the details, thisexample is sufficiently complex to show the operation ofthe architecture in selecting appropriate strategies andmetastrategies.
Though the strategies used are simple,complex choices, varying with context, are made.
Onthe following page are the text and a sketch of the areabeing described.In the fragment in figure 3, the speaker is describingthe bedroom he shares with his wife Carol.
Each lineof the fragment, in most cases, is the result of a singlestrategy.The sketch in figure 4 of the bedroom is provided asan aid to the reader in understanding John's descrip-tion.
There is no corresponding representation in thesystem.The global context used by this speaker includes pa-rameters that predispose him to mention rather thanignore room furnishings, as well as "stuff"--small arti-cles than can be found in, on, or near pieces of furniture.The strategy ment ion-stuf f  is a particular form ofdescrlbe-object, and as such is concerned with men-tioning associated properties of the object rather thanphysical proximity; this is suggested by the speaker'stypically using the preposition "with," rather than anobviously spatial one.The global context also of course includes the com-pleteness criterion which is unsatisfied throughout thisstretch of text.
The fragment starts when the speakerhas just finished describing the kitchen and the nextspatially proximate thing is the door to the bedroom.When the node to be described is a physical object,2For a fuller treatment ofhow the system computes de-ictic and other spatial terms Uke "kitty corner," left," and"right," see (Sibun & Huettner, 1989).the mention-object s rategy is always available; be-cause this object is a door, ment ion-room is availableto talk about the room that the door leads into.
Themetastrategies r olve this conflict in favor of the moreparticular ment ion-room {1}.Because the last strategy used was mentlon-room,mention-sal ient-object becomes available; if thereis a particularly "salient" object in a room, descrip-tions can then be organized around it.
As it happens,salience in this domain tends to depend primarily onsize; the kingsize bed fits the bill {2}.
There are twoobjects patially proximate to the bed; one is selectedand the strategy mentlon-object is used to mentionthe endtable {3}.
The endtable is connected to severalother items in the knowledge base, but because thereis a context parameter to mention "stuffs" this is whathappens next {4}.Now, there are two unmentioned objects spatiallyproximate to the endtablemthe window and the "wall"(which is actually a covered-up chimney).
The "wall"is mentioned because, like furnishings, it has extent inthe room, and the context disposes the process towardmentioning such objects {5}.
The local context keepstrack of what has just been mentioned; another featureit records is the direction in which the spatial proximityfinks have been followed.
The "wall" is next along thetrajectory from the bed through the endtable.The "wall" is spatially linked to three things: thewindow on the endtable side of it, the window that isalong the same trajectory that has been followed, andthe chests, which are also along that trajectory.
Thewindow along the trajectory is the choice selected fromthese three for two reasons: there is a tendency to main-tain trajectories; 3 and the last thing mentioned is partof the structure of the room, as is the window, but notthe chests.
But this selection of the window presents aproblem (at least, we can infer that it presents a prob-lem to the speaker), because this window is connectedvia a similarity link to the previous window, which hasnot been mentioned.
So the speaker performs a repairconsisting of backing up, mentioning the overlookedwindow, reiterating mention of the wall, and, finally,mentioning the selected window {6}.While the next window is a promising candidate be-cause it is the same sort of thing as that just mentioned,the parameter for mentioning furniture overrides this,and the cedar chests come next in the description {7},followed by their associated "stuff" {8}.
The windowis again available but so is the bureau, which is thepreferred choice because it is furniture {9}.
The bu-reau has spatial proximity links to two windows andthe "small thing," as well as links to its "stuff," so theset of available strategies comprises ones that mentioneach of these things.
A metastrategy can resolve this3Ullmer-Ehrich (1982) notes a similar tendency in thedorm room descriptions that she collected.124and then  there 's  the  bedroom {1}and there 's  a huge k ings ize  bed  {2}and there 's  an endtab le  next  to  i t  {3}with a lamp and a clock rad/o {4}and some s tu f f  o f  minel i ke  the  Boston  Un ivers i ty  cupand .
.
.
then  there 's  a wa l l - -  {5}and then  there 's  a window beh ind  that  {6}and there 's  a wa l l ,  and there 's  another  windowand there 's  some.
.
.
cedar  chests  of  Caro l ' s  {7}that  have b lankets  and sheets  in  them {8}and .
.
.
there 's  her  bureau  {9}in  the  midd le  o f  two windows on e i ther  s ide  {10}w i th  a l l  o f  her  makeup on top  of  i t  and c lo thesand there 's .
.
.a  smal l  th ing  w i th  a l l  her  c lo thesand there 's  another  great  b ig  bookshe l fand a l l  her  spare  booksand there 's  a smal l  end tab le  over  on her  s ideum.
.
.a  smal l  d ig i ta l  c lock  and more k leenexand .
.
.OKFigure 3: John's  description.,J.I window II on0,a ,o J IbedI end tableII window I\[ bookshelf \[Qmal lthingRFigure 4: Sketch of bedroom.125conflict by realizing that strategies for saying that thereis an object of the same sort on two different sides ofthe current object can be combined by saying that thebureau is between the two windows {10}.
4The description for the rest of the room continues ina manner similar to that already discussed.Incremental  generationThe organizer described here is composed of strategiesthat are often responsible for sub-clausal units of text;furthermore, the strategies have already imposed an or-ganization on the text, obviating the need for the gen-erator to do more than enforce gramma~icalitT/.
hemodel of local text organization I van developing is cou-pled with a model of incremental generation, in whichthe increments are often smaller than a sentence.
(Gaz-rett's investigation of speech errors (1975) constitutesearly work in this area; De Smedt & Kempen (1987),and Kempen & Hoenkamp (1987) discuss a similar,more fully-developed incremental generation project.
)A typical generator produces a sentence at a time.
How-ever, spoken text is replete with restarts, fragments,and ungrammaticalities.
This suggests that not onlydo people organize their text incrementally, but gener-ate it in increments as well.Usually, an incremental generator is successful in gen-erating grammatical text.
The textthen /in  the k i tchen  /there is a large windowis the result of three sequentially operating strategies:in t roduce/sh l t t -a t tent ion ,  s i tuate,  and ment ion -sa l lent -ob ject .
An incremental generator will be ableto produce this text in the increments specified by thestrategies.A system that generates in strategy-sized incrementscan result, in principled ways, in ungrammatical text.A common error, exemplified byand a lo t  of o ther  people /who /I wasn' t  qu i te  sure what they d idcan be explained by the operation of the strategiesment ion -ob jec t ,  add-c lausa l -modi f ier ,  and a setof strategies to express some additional information,which, because a dependent clause has already beenstarted, happens to result in the ungrammatical re-sumptive pronoun "they.
"Locally-organized, occasionally ungrammatical textmay be prototypical, but it is certainly not the only sort'Note that the previous window conflict was not resolvedby saying that the "wall" was between the two windows.The difference can be explained by the observation that the"wall," despite its extent into the room, is a structural ob-ject, wld/e the bureau is furniture.of text we wish to generate.
To be comprehensive, mysystem will require some capability to post-process textafter it is organized and before it is generated (Hovy,1989, suggests a post-processing model).
Output of mysystem might also be appropriate input for a text revi-sion system (e.g., Meteer & McDonald, 1986).Related researchThere are many other projects whose goal is to organize,or plan, extended text.
The main difference betweenthese and mine is flexibility and level of organization:most text planning systems rely on global structures toorganize paragraph-sized text.
These structures, whichare usually schemas or plans, constrain the text to re-flect particular hetorical and domain relations, but atthe expense of flexibility.
My system builds structurelocally with no recourse or reference to an overall struc-ture.Through analysis of written texts, McKeown (1985)has developed a small set of schemas, built from rhetor-ical predicates, that would provide types of descriptions(for example, constituency) for objects in a knowledgebase.
ParAs has extended this work to use a processtrace which derives its structure in part from the do-main (Paris & McKeown, 1987; Paris, 1988).
This al-ternative strategy builds and traverses a path throughthe knowledge base when it is determined, on the basisof a sparse model of user expertise, that a process de-scription of an object is more appropriate than a declar-ative one; the two strategies may be interleaved.
Dale(1989) similarly organizes text by means of a domainstructure, in this case, a recipe plan.Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mann & Thompson,1987) is also drawn from an analysis of written texts;it differs from McKeown's work in that it is composedof a large number of rhetorical relations, rather thana small number of schemas.
RST may thus be moreflexible, but is is still assumed that the relations will becombined into a single global tree covering an extendedtext.While most text planning systems have worked onproducing single texts in response to queries, some re-search has been more particularly concerned with inter-active text.
Much recent work in this area has been forexplanation systems (e.g., Maybury, 1989), and someof this work explicitly addresses allowing a human userto ask follow-up questions (Moore & Swartout, 1989).However, such systems till build and use global struc-tures for extended texts.An argument is sometimes made that global struc-ture is needed to capture high-level rhetorical goals inthe output text (see Appelt, 1985); Gricean Maxims(Grice, 1975) are often invoked.
Hut, as Hovy (1988)points out, "be polite" is not a decomposable goal; theobjective of being polite is achieved through local de-cisions.
Such local decisions can comfortably be inte-grated with a model of local organization of text.126AcknowledgementsI thank Bonnie Webber and David Chapman for muchuseful discussion i  the preparation ofthis paper.
I alsothank Bruce Leban for helping to make the Mac drawthe picture.
This work was supported in part by the AirForce Systems Command, Rome Air Development Cen-ter, Grii~ss AFB, New York, 13441 under contract No.F30602-85-C-0008, as part of the Northeast ArtificialIntelligence Consortium (NAIC).Re ferencesAppelt, D., "Planning English Referring Expres-sions."
Artificial Intelligence 26, pp 1-33, 1985.Dale, R., "Generating Recipes: An Overview of Epi-cure."
In Eztended Abstracts Presented at the Sec-ond European Natural Language Generation Wor~hop,pp 7-13, 1989.Davis, R., "Meta-rules: Reasoning about Control.
"Artificial Intelligence 15, pp 179-222, 1980.De Smedt, K. and G. Kempen, "Incremental Sen-tence Production, Self-correction, and Coordination.
"In G. Kempen (ed), NaturaILanguage Generation: NeloResults in Artificial Intelligence, Psychology and Lin-guistics, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, pp 36,5-376, 1987.Frohlich, D. and P. Luff, "Applying the Technology ofConversation to the Technology for Conversation."
InProceedings of the Computers and Conversation Sym-posium, University of Surrey, England, 1989.Garrett, M., "The Analysis of Sentence Produc-tion."
Psychology of Learning and Motivation, Volume9, pp 133-177, 1975.Grice, H., "Logic and Conversation," In P. Cole andJ.
Morgan (eds.
), Syntaz and Semantics 3: Speech Acts,pp 41-58, 1975.Gross, B. and C. Sidner, "Attention, Intentions, andthe Structure of Discourse."
Computational Linguis-tics, (12)3, 1986.Hovy, E., "Two Types of Planning in Language Gen:eration."
In Proceedings of the ~6th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pp 179-186, 1988.Hovy, E., "Unresolved Issues In Paragraph Plan-ning."
To appear in Proceedings of the Second EuropeanNatural Language Generation Wor~hop, 1989.Kempen, G. and E. Hoenkamp, "An IncrementalProcedural Grammar for Sentence Formulation."
Cog-nitive Science 11, pp 201-258, 1987.Laird, J., A. Newell, and P. Rosenbloom, "Soar: AnArchitecture for General Intelligence."
Artificial Intel-ligence, 33, pp 1-64, 1987.Levinson, S., Pragmatics.
Cambridge UniversityPress, 1983.Linde, C., The Linguistic Encoding of Spatial Infor-mation.
Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia University,1974.Mann, W. and S. Thompson, Rhetorical StructureTheory: A Theory of Tezt Organization.
ReportISI/RS-87-190, Information Sciences Institute, 1987.Maybury, M., "Enhancing Explanation Coherencewith Rhetorical Strategies."
In Proceedings of the Euro-pean Association of Computational Linguistics,, pp 168-173, 1989.McKeown, K., Test Generation.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, 1985.Meteer (Vanghan), M. and D. McDonald, "A Modelof Revision in Natural Language Generation.
In Pro-ceedings of the ~th  Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp 90-96, 1986.Meteer, M., D. McDonald, S. Anderson, D. Forster,L.
Gay, A. Huettner, and P. Sibun, MUMBLB-86: De-sign and Implementation.
COINS Technical Report 87-87, University of Massachusetts, 1987.Moore, J. and W. Swartout, "A Reactive Approachto Explanation."
In Proceedings of the InternationalJoint Conference on Tezt Generation IJCAI, 1989.Paris, C., "Tailoring Object Descriptions to a User'sLevel of Expertise."
Computational Linguistics 14(3),pp 64-78, 1988.Paris, C. and K. McKeown, "Discourse Strategies forDescribing Complex Physical Objects."
In G. Kempen(ed), Natural Language Generation: New Results in Ar-tificial Intelligence, Psychology and Linguistics, Marti-,us Nijhoff Publishers, pp 97-115, 1987.Reichman, R., Getting Computers to Talk Like Youand Me.
MIT Press, 1985.Sibun, P. and A. Huettner, "Spatial Deixis in Gen-erating Descriptions."
COINS Technical Report 89-34,Department ofComputer and Information Science, Uni-versity of Massachusetts, 1989.Ullmer-Ehrich, V., "The Structure of Living SpaceDescriptions."
In R. Jar,ella and W. Klein, eds.,Speech, Place, and Action, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.,1982.127
