Using Discourse Focus, Temporal Focus, and Spatialto Generate Multisentential TextMark T. MayburyRome Air Development CenterIntelligent Interface Group (COES)Griffiss AFB, Rome New York 13441-5700maybury@tops20.radc.af .milandComputer LaboratoryCambridge University, England CB2 3QGFocusAbstractThis paper claims that reliance on discourse focus toguide the production of rhetorically structured texts isinsufficient over lengthier stretches of prose.
Instead,this paper argues that at least hree distinct attentionalconstraints are required: discourse focus \[Sidner,1979, 1983; Grosz and Sidner, 1986\], temporal focus\[Webber, 1988\], and a novel notion of spatial focus.The paper illustrates the operation of this tripartitetheory of focus in a computational system(TEXPLAN) that plans multisentential text.IntroductionEffective generation of prose demands not only knowledgeof rhetorical structure but also rich models of entities,events and states, knowledge of tense and aspect, andmechanisms to track focus of attention with respect odiscourse, time, and space.
McKeown \[1982\] useddiscourse focus (DF) \[Sidner, 1979, 1983\] to guide theselection, order, and realization of rhetorical schema-baseddescriptions of database contents.
McKeown suggestedthe following focus shift preferences to mediate amongcompeting propositional content:1. shift DF to an entity mentioned in the previousproposition2.
maintain current DF3.
resume apast DF4.
shift DF to an entity most related to the current DFThe three global registers (past, current, and potentialfocus) tracked DF and were updated by examining thecontent of a rhetorical proposition (instantiated withinformation from a knowledge base) guided by the type ofthe rhetorical predicate (e.g., identification, attributive).In contrast to schema-based systems, recent work basedon Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) \[Mann andThompson, 1987\] attempts to produce ffective text usingplan-based strategies.
Only Hovy's \[1988\]implementation of RST has examined the task ofconveying events and states.
Hovy's \[1988\] "structurer"uses his sequence RST operator to produce the followingnarration of events in a naval domain (where C4 indicatesa condition or level of operational readiness):Knox, which is C4, is en route to Sasebo.Knox, which is at 18N 79E, heads SSW.
Itarrives on 4/24.
It loads for 4 days.To produce this text, Hovy's sequence operator is givena beginning "action."
The nucleus of the sequenceoperator allows the text to "grow" and indicate thec i rcumstances ,  at t r ibutes ,  and/or purpose  of thisaction.
Similarly, the satellite of the sequence  operatorallows the text to indicate the a t t r ibutes  and/ordeta i l s  of the next contiguous action in some sequence.The satellite also includes arecursive call to the sequenceoperator for the next action.Unfortunately, Hovy's operators, like text schema, failto indicate what effects these orderings or the addition ofinformation at growth points have on the hearer.Therefore, they fail to characterize the motivation forselecting among the different arrangements that narrativeemploys to achieve specific effects on the hearer (e.g.,creating interest, suspense, or mystery).
In addition, theplan operator does not consider states as first order objectsin some causal chain (the fact "Knox is C4" is just anattribute xtending off the "en route" event).
This isimportant because states have complex relations (e.g.,enablement, causation) to other states and events in theworld.
Finally, sequences are assumed to be contiguousand yet events are often simultaneous or overlapping intime \[Allen, 1984\].This purely RST-based approach was improved uponby Hovy and McCoy \[1989\] by incorporating Focus Trees\[McCoy and Cheng, 1988\] to guide the ordering andinterrelationships of sentence topics.
This combinedapproach produced:With readiness C4, Knox is en routeto Sasebo.
It is at 79N 18E headingSSW.
It wil l  arrive 4/24 and wil lload for four days.Text coherence is improved not only by regroupingcontent (a result of restrictions on the traversal of theFocus Tree) but also by using tensed verbs (e.g., futuretense of "arrive" in the last utterance) to explicitly indicate70the temporal relations among events.
Unfortunately, nodetails of how this tense is generated are provided.Furthermore, examination of human generated proseindicates that not only DF but additional constraints ontemporal focus and spatial focus are necessary to producelengthier prose.Therefore, the remainder of this paper first details atripartite theory of focus and proposes focus shift rules.Next an ontology of events and states is introduced thatserves as the basis for a model of tense and aspect which,guided by temporal focus, is used to verbalize vents andstates.
The temporal organization and realization ofevents is exemplified in the context of report generation.Finally, an example from a route planner is given toillustrate spatial organization and the use of spatial focus.Discourse Focus, Temporal Focus, andSpatial FocusLike Hovy \[1988\], TEXPLAN uses a hierarchical plannerto select, structure, and order propositional content using alibrary of plan operators (detailed in a subsequent section).To achieve a given discourse goal (e.g., get the reader toknow about an event), the planner selects amongcompeting plan operators using general plan operatorselection heuristics \[Moore, 1989\] such as prefer planoperators that meet al preconditions, that have fewersubplans, that have fewer new variables and so on.
Theleaf nodes of the resulting text plan are speech acts withassociated propositional content in the form of rhetoricalpredicates \[c.f.
McKeown, 1982\].
As in McKeown'sTEXT, TEXPLAN tracks past, current, and potentialdiscourse focus (DF) in global registers.
When the textplanner selects a particular hetorical proposition, theattentional mechanism extracts the default discourse focus(a position associated with each rhetorical predicate) andupdates the global registers.
This focus information isthen used to guide surface choice.In contrast to DF, Webber \[1988\] proposed TemporalFocus (TF) as the event currently being focused ontemporally and suggests that TF is used to integrateevents into some evolving spatio-temporal event/situationstructure.
TF can shift depending on the relations thathold between events and their times of occurrence.Webber \[1988\] suggests three TF shifts: maintenance,forward, and backward.
Nakhimovsky \[1988\] classifieslocal TF shifts as: forward, sideways, and backward"micromoves".
Forward and backward shifts correspond tointroducing the consequence or preparatory phases ofevents \[Moens and Steedman, 1988\].
Backward shiftsstart a new discourse segment.
In TEXPLAN, TFindicates the Reichenbachian \[1947\] reference time.
TFshifts (local or micromoves) are implemented via the planoperators and are ordered as follows:1.
Maintain current 'IF (maintenance)2.
TF progresses "naturally" forward (progression)3.
Shift TF to a simultaneous event/state (lateral shift)In addition two other long distance temporal shifts arepossible but are not addressed in the currentimplementation:4.
Shift TF to a prior event/state.
(flashback)5.
Shift "IF to a distant future vent/state.
(flashforward)Temporal shifts are conveyed to the reader in part by verbtense and aspect as in the use of future tense in "John justarrived.
He was in an accident yesterday and ..."Temporal shifts are also indicated by adverbials (e.g., "fiveminutes later"), explicit references to time ("at sevenp.m.
"), and cue words (e.g., "simultaneously").TEXPLAN tracks TF by recording pointers to events thatappear in the propositional content selected by the textplanner just as it records DF from selected propositionalcontent following McKeown (1982).
As with DF, past,current, and potential temporal focus registers are updatedafter each utterance.Just as discourse can be topically and temporallyorganized, psychologists have observed that humansutilize spatial organizations, for example when whenpeople describe their apartments \[Linde and Labov, 1975\].Shifts analogous to those of DF and TF can occur alongthe dimension ot of discourse or time but rather space.
Idefine spatial focus (SF) as the current entity or group ofentities (and its/their associated spatial ocation) that thereader is attending to in space.
The notion of spatial focusis related but distinct from Conklin's (1983) notion ofvisual saliency.
Visual saliency is the noteworthiness(from one perspective) of an entity in relation to a set ofstatic objects.
Spatial focus, in contrast, refers to acurrently focused entity (a "moving target") that isspatially related to the other entities currently in thebackground (static entities) or foreground (dynamicentities).
Just as DF and TF follow regular shifts, thefollowing ordered legal shifts appear to govern SF:1.
Maintain the current SF2.
Shift SF to an entity spatially related to the current SF3.
Shift SF to some distant point or region.Shifts in rule 2 can be relational (e.g., behind, in-front-of,left-of, right-of, above, below, on-top-of, etc.)
or in termsof distance (e.g., "five miles away").
Shifts in rule 3signal a new discourse segment.
Just as TF can refer topoints or intervals of time, SF can refer to either a pointin space ("At 23* latitude 5 ?
longitude"), a region (e.g.,"In Chesterville today .... ") or a set of points or regions(analogous to discourse focus spaces \[Grosz, 1977\]).After each utterance, by examining the underlyingpropositional content TEXPLAN updates global registersthat encode the past, current, and potential spatial foci.
Inthe current implementation, the system prefers topicalover causal over temporal over spatial orderings.The next sections illustrate the input to the generator,and how TEXPLAN uses the notions of Reichenbachiantime and temporal focus to narrate vents and states.
By71tracking TF and exploiting the temporal information inthe underlying event/state model, TEXPLAN is able toselect, order, and linguistically realize events and states.The realization component of the system selects properverb tense and aspect and indicates hifts in TF, forexample, through the use of adverbials.
A final sectionillustrates the use of SF in locative instruction (i.e., routeplans).Event and State OntologyAs Hovy and McCoy's example in the introductionillustrates, more sophisticated representations of verbtense and aspect is key to generating coherent narrativetext.
This demands a more sophisticated representation fevents, states, and their relationship to tense and aspect.Representing and linguistically realizing events concernsissues of temporality, causality, and enablement aswell asverb tense and aspect.
Discussion of noninstantaneousevents dates at least to Aristotle's distinction betweenprocess (energia) and state (stasis) and these issues havebeen the focus of attention i  philosophy, linguistics, andcomputational linguistics \[c.f.
Allen, 1988\].
While anontology of events and states is beyond the scope of thispaper, it is necessary as a starting point for generation toindicate the nature of the underlying propositional contentand so we make a few intuitive distinctions.Events are physical, linguistic, or psychologicalhappenings at some time and place.
States, in contrast,refer to perpetual or temporally unbounded conditions suchas the physical, psychological, or emotional state of anagent or entity.
States include relations that hold betweenagents or entities (e.g., possession, ownership)\[Nakhimovsky, 1988\].
This classification is but one(conceptual) classification of events and states.
Ehrich\[1986\], for example, uses the features of duration,resultativity, and intentionality oproduce an orthogonalcategorization.Processes, in contrast o states, involve changes ortransformations over the interval for which they hold andoften have some associated rate of progress toward a goalor a rate of consumption of resources \[Nakhimovsky,1988\].
Nakhimovsky makes a key distinction betweenevents, processes and states:For a linguist, the distinction between event-processis one of aspecmal perspective: "The term 'process'means a dynamic situation viewed imperfectively, andthe term 'event' means a dynamic situation viewedperfectively" (Comrie, 1976: 51).
The distinctionprocess-state is one of aspectual class.In this paper the term event is used to refer both to aninstantaneous event (e.g., snap, click, wink) as well asevents with a duration which can be viewed perfectively(event) or imperfectively (process).A collection of related events and states constitutes anevent/state network analogous to Webber's \[1987\]event/situation structure.
This network of events andstates erves as the basis for generation i TEXPLAN.
Inthe input to the text generator, each event or state isrepresented in a frame-like structure.
Events and stateshave associated attributes, roles, and relationships.
Theterm attributes refers to characteristics local to the event orstate such as its time of occurrence (a point or interval),its type (e.g., physical, linguistic), and any constituents(i.e,, subevents or substates).
Roles refer to the semanticrole an entity plays in the event or state (e.g., agent,patient).
Finally, relations refer to the associatedenablement(s), cause(s), and effect(s) of an event or state.Tense and AspectThe rich notions of time associated with events and statesare conveyed in part through verb tense.
English verbtense (e.g., simple past, present, and future; and past,present, and future perfect) relies on a tripartite notion oftime which includes: the point or time at which theutterance is spoken (S), the point at which the eventhappens (E), and the point of reference (R) \[Reichenbach,1947\].
R is the time "talked about" or "focused on" andin TEXPLAN corresponds to the above notion of TF.Because the absolute time of the event (E) appears in theevent structure, the linguistic realization component canselect he appropriate verb tense by reasoning about thetime the speaker is narrating (S) (e.g., "now") and thetime the overall narration focuses on (R).
This contrastswith verb choice based solely on the underlying eventstructure \[e.g., Kalita, 1989, p. 410\].
Table 1 relates E,R, and S to tense where "<" indicates temporalantecedence and "=" indicates temporal simultaneity.T imeE=R=SE=R<SS<E=RE<R=SE<R<SS<E<RTense Examplesimple present "John eats.
"simple past "John ate the beans.
"simple future "John will eat the beans.
"present perfect "John has eaten.
"past perfect "John had eaten the beans.
"future perfect "John will have eaten.
"Table 1This point-based time representation could be extended toconsider time intervals \[Allen, 1984\].TEXPLAN's sentence generator uses an admittedlysimplif ied 1 prototypical verb sequence followingWinograd \[1983\] (e.g., Modal + Have + Bel + Be2 +Main-verb).
Individual verbs include both modals uch as"will", "can", "could" (which have only one form), andordinary verbs which have five basic forms in thirdperson, singular: infinitive (e.g., "to walk"), simplepresent ("walks"), simple past ("walked"), presentparticiple ("walking"), and past participle ("walked").Future tense does not have its own syntactic form and isimplemented by the modals "will" or "shall".In contrast to tense, ~pect is a grammatical categoryof the verb implemented by affixes, auxiliaries, and so onlMatthiesen (1984) has discussed more general tenseassignment.72\[Nakhimovsky, 1988\].
This arises from the temporalcharacteristics of the underlying event (i.e., point versusinterval), the relationship of the reference time (R) toevent ime (E) (e.g., E < R indicates perfective; E = Rimperfective) and the lexical aspect of the verb (e.g., theprogressive "I am eating" versus the culmination "I amfinishing").
The current implementation addresses onlythe first two cases.
Perfective sequences use Have (e.g.,has taken), progressive use Bel (e.g., was taking), andpassive use Be2 (e.g., was taken).The LACE SimulationWith the representation of events and states, theirtemporal structure, and their relation to tense and aspectdetailed, this section turns to the task of planning andrealizing narrative.
While text analysis motivated focusmodels and narrative plans (described below), there was apractical need to narrate simulation events and states incomplex multi-agent simulations.
In particular, narrativeplans and temporal focus were tested in LACE (Land AirCombat in ERIC), a knowledge-based battle simulationsystem \[Anken, 1989\].
LACE is coded in ERIC, anobject-oriented simulation language \[Hilton, 1987\].Narration in LACE is complex because multiple,autonomous agents interact simultaneously to achievetheir individual goals.
For example, attacking forcesattempt to bomb targets, refuel aircraft, move cargo, andsuppress ground forces with electronic ountermeasures.In contrast, defending forces attempt to detect, track, anddestroy intruders.
To give a feel for the nature of thesophistication of the simulation, there are over 150classes each with dozens of behaviors.
In a typical run ofthe simulation, hundreds (and potentially thousands) ofinstances of objects are generated.
If several agents (e.g.,10 or 15) are given goals to pursue at the start of asimulation run, their actions generate thousands of eventsper minute as agents react o both the environment and tothe behavior of other agents in the simulation.
Forexample, if a long-range radar detects an intruding aircraftit will order its associated mobile surface-to-air-missilesites to electronically track, pursue (i.e., along the ground)and fire at the incoming target.
The generation task, then,is to produce a report of the events after simulatingconflicts between two opposing military forces.
Overfifty texts where produced, an example of which is detailedbelow.The input to narration generation is a network ofevents and states from the underlying simulation.
Eachmachine second that the simulation clock ticks LACErecords the situations that occur at that moment.
Thesimulation measures time using Common Lisp'suniversal time (i.e., as seconds since the year 1900).These event snapshots (e.g., at time 34300023 #<search-radar-291> began sweeping) are slotted into therepresentation of events which includes their associatedproperties (i.e., attributes such as location and duration;relations to other events such as causal and temporalconnections; and any associated roles such as the agent,patient, and so on).
Collectively these structurescharacterize the event/state network that represents anoverall spatio-temporal-causal picture of the simulation.This event/state n twork is preprocessed toprune details.For example, persistent or uninteresting (e.g., frequent,non-unique, or unimportant) events can be deleted.Accessing this event/state n twork, TEXPLAN's narrativeplans select, order, and realize vents to compose a report.Event selection from the event/state n twork is guidedby the saliency of the occurrence.
In the currentimplementation, event or state saliency is a function of:1. the kind and amount of links associated withan event or state in the event/state n twork2.
the frequency of occurrence in the event/statenetwork3.
domain-specific knowledge of importanceThe first item concerns issues such as does the eventachieve a main goal of a key agent in the simulation, doesit motivate, enable, or cause a number of events or statesto occur, and so on.
The second item is simply theobservation that frequent or commonplace events areboring.
For example in LACE long-range radar areconstantly sweeping, SAM 1 sites are alwaysrepositioning themselves, and aircraft are always flyingpoint-based ingress/egress routes.
An example of the thirditem is that mission types have an order of interestingness(e.g., offensive air attack > SAM suppression > refueling> transportation).
This is analogous to Kittredge's et al\[1986\] weather reports which indicate warnings first andthen WINDS > CLOUD-COVER > PRECIP ITAT ION > FOG&MIST> V IS IB IL ITY .
There are other issues involved illsaliency that are beyond the scope of this paper such asthe inferribility of events and states, event and statepersistence, and the representation f perceptual saliencywhich requires complex user modelling.
The next sectionaddresses the key problem: how do we select, order, andpresent events from the event/state structure in a report?Report GenerationThe most basic form of narration recounts events in theirtemporal order of occurrence.
This occurs in a journal,record, account, or chronicle, collectively termed a report.Reports typically consist of the most important or salientevents in some domain during one period of time (e.g.,stock market report, weather eport, news report, battlereport).
Sometimes reports focus on events and statesinvolving one dimension of an agent as in a medicalrecord, an educational record, or a political record.TEXPLAN plans narrative by reasoning about whateffects certain rhetorical strategies or speech acts will haveon the user if they are employed.
This is accomplished byrepresenting each communicative act (either a rhetoricalact or a speech act) as an operator in a library of planswhich are reasoned about by a hierarchical text planner\[Sacerdoti, 1977\] similar to that used by Hovy \[1988\] and1Surface to Air Missile73\[Moore, 1989\].
Communicative acts have specificconstraints, enabling conditions, effects on the hearer, anddecompositions.
A rhetorical act characterizes thecommunicative function of one or more utterances (e.g.,describe, define, compare, narrate) and may employ otherrhetorical acts and/or speech acts to achieve its associatedgoals.
In contrast, a speech act \[Searle, 1969, 1975\]refers to the illocutionary force of utterances (e.g., inform,request, warn, promise).
The propositional content of aspeech act is a rhetorical predicate whose function is toabstract particular kinds of information from a knowledgebase (e.g., constituency predicates refer for subparts ofentities whereas c lass i f i ca t ion  predicates refer tosubtypes of entities, l og ica l -de f in i t ion  predicatesinclude the genus and differentia of an entity.)
Overtwenty rhetorical predicates and fifty plan operators havebeen implemented that are able to produce a variety oftexts including description, narration, exposition, andargument.Plan operators are represented in an extension of firstorder predicate calculus that allows for optionality in thedecomposition.
Like conventional planners, each planoperator defines the constraints and preconditions thatmust hold before acommunicative act applies, its intendedeffect, as well as its refinement or decomposition intosubacts.
Constraints, unlike preconditions, cannot beachieved or planned for if they are false.
In plan operators,variables are italicized (e.g., H, S, and entity) andconstants appear in upper-case plain type.
Intensionaloperators, such as WANT, KNOW and BELIEVE appear incapitals.
KNOW details an agent's specific knowledge ofthe truth-values of propositions (e.g., KNOW (H,Red (ROBIN-I)) or KNOW (H, -Yellow (ROBIN-l)) ) wheretruth or falsity is defined by the propositions in theknowledge base.
That is, KNOW(H, P) implies P ^BELIEVE (H, P).
Of COurse an agent can hold an invalidbelief (e.g., BELIEVE (JOHN, Yel low (ROBIN-l)) ).KNOW-ABOUT is a predicate that is an abstraction of a setof epistemic attitudes of some agent oward an individual.An agent can KNOW-ABOUT an entity or event (e.g., KNOW-ABOUT(H, ROBIN-i) or  KNOW-ABOUT(H, EXPLOSION-4 4 5 ) ) i f  they KNOW its characteristics, components,subtypes, or purpose.For example the top-level narration plan shown inFigure 1 encodes the communicative act of speaker (S)narrating some sequence of safient events in topical orderso that the hearer (H) knows about hem.
Similar top-level plan operators narrate vents causally, temporallyand spatially.
If the events can be sequenced in severalways, the planner prefers topical to causal to temporal tospatial otder~gs.
The narrate-report-topically planoperator is chosen when there is no obvious temporal orspatial sequencing, for example, when multiple eventsoccur simultaneously or when they occur in similarspatial ocations.After an event/state structure iscaptured from a typicalrun of the LACE simulation (e.g., some blue forces areattacking some red targets), the generation of a report isinitiated by posting the top-level goal "narrate all theevents in the event/state network".
This matches theheader of the plan operator in Figure 1 (as well as others)and the unordered list of events is bound to the eventsparameter of the header.
This nar ra te - repor t -topically plan operator is selected because (1) relative tothe number of events, there are few principle agents (i.e.,missions) which enables topical grouping and (2) becauseother plan operators are less appealing (for example, a top-level temporal organization would be confusing becausethey are many simultaneous events involving differentagents).
The decomposition of the plan operator firstintroduces the events using the introduce plan operatorwhich indicates the static background or frameworkwithin which the events in the foreground are to beinterpreted.
The introduce plan operaator describes theprinciple time, place, agents (i.e., characters) using avariety of rhetorical means including definition,attribution, illustration, and division (i.e., classificationand constituency) (see Maybury \[1990\] for details).
InLACE information in the introduction is retrieved fromthe overall mission package which drives the entiresimulation (represented in a frame-like structure).
Thispackage includes the time of the major missions, theirlocation, their type, and so on.
In this case thisinformation is described using two rhetorical predicates:logical definition (which indicates the genus and differentiaof the package) and constituency (which indicates thesubparts, in this case missions).NAMEHEADERCONSTRAINTSPRECONDITIONSEFFECTSDECOMPOSITIONnarrate-report -topicallyNarrate(S, H, events)Topical-Sequence(events) ^ Ve e events Event(e)Ve E events KNOW-ABOUT (S, e)Vt E Topics (events) KNOW-ABOUT (H, t)Introduce(S, H, events) ^Vtop ic  e Order-According-to-Salience (Topics (events))Narrate-Sequence(S, H, Events-with-Topic(events,  topic))Figure 1.
Top-level, Uninstantiated Text Plan Operator for Report Narration74NAME narrate-temporal-sequenceHEADER Narrate-Sequence(S, H, events)CONSTRAINTS Temporal-Sequence (events) ^ Ve  E events Event (e)PRECONDITIONS VeE events.
KNOW-ABOUT(S, e)EFFECTS ~e E events KNOW-ABOUT (H, e)DECOMPOSITION ~e E Select-and-order-chronological ly (events)Inform(S, H, Event(e))Figure 2.
Uninstantiated Operator for Temporal Sequence NarrationNext the subjects or topics which the events concernare ordered according to saliency.
Saliency is determinedby the frequency, uniqueness, importance, and so on ofevents in the domain as detailed in the previous ection.After events are grouped topically in order of salience, thenarrate-temporal-sequence plan shown in Figure 2selects salient events and then exploits their temporalorder to sequence them.As plan operator decompositions are achieved, they arerecorded in a hierarchical text plan (a communicativeaction decomposition) which records the structure, order,and content of the final text (see Figure 3).
Each node inthe text plan corresponds to a plan operator whichformalizes a communicative act.
The leaf nodes of thetext structure indicate speech acts with associatedrhetorical propositions, rhetorical predicates instantiatedwith propositional content from the event/state structure.In Figure 3, the event sequence is introduced bydescribing the mission package which initiated theprevious run of the simulation (#<air-strike-10>) byinforming the hearer of its logical definition (i.e.,superclass and distinguishing features) and then byindicating its constituents or components.
Next eventsare narrated in topical groups, each of which is temporallysequenced.
The text plan is linearized and each speech actwith its rhetorical proposition is linguistically realizedusing a unification-based surface generator \[Maybury,1989\].
The final surface form of the text structure inFigure 3 is shown in Figure 4.
The surface generatorincludes an orthographic layout module that examines thetext structure and begins a new paragraph when a newdiscourse segment begins (e.g., before the introduction andafter each topical narration sequence).While the plan operators guide the ordering ofpropositional content (and thus focus shifts), globalregisters for DF, 'IF, and SF are updated by examining thepropositional content selected by the text planner.
Theseregisters are used by the surface generator to guide surfacechoice.
For example, a noun phrase is pronominalized ifit is given (versus new) and was the previous current DF.And by examining the relationship of speaker time (S),event ime (E), and reference time (R based on TF), therealization component is able to choose appropriate verbtense (e.g., if E=R<S then use simple pasO.
Similarly,the realization of temporal adverbs, which help to conveytemporal relations among events, (e.g., "and then", "threeminutes later", "simultaneously", "before", "after") isguided by the relationship of past to current TF.
Forexample if the time of the current TF equals that of thepast TF then connectives such as "simultaneously" or "atthe same time" introduce utterances.
Both temporal andspatial adverbs (exemplified in the next section) often referanaphoncally tothe current TF (e.g., "ten minutes later")or SF (e.g., "three miles away").
During realization,events that are of the same class, occur at the same timeand share a semantic patient are combined as in "Oneminute later Erfurt-A and Erfurt-D simultaneously fired amissile at offensive counter air mission 102."
The adverb"again" is used when an event has already occurred, andthus functions as an anaphor.Other classes of adverbs can also enrich the eventdescription.
These include adverbs regarding manner (e.g.,"deftly", "sadly"), rate (e.g., "slowly", "rapidly"), duration(e.g., "for twenty minutes"), frequency ("every tenminutes"), and numeration (e.g., "seventeen times").Some adverbs (e.g., manner, ate, durative, locative) regardinternal properties of the event whereas others relate thecurrent event o other events and therefore are externalsuch as temporal adverbs (e.g., "simultaneously","yesterday") or "anaphodc" adverbs (e.g., "again", "asbefore").
The relationship of these and other classes ofadverbials to DF, TF, and SF remains an interesting areafor further work.75Narrate(S, H, event-sequence)Introduce(S, H, event-sequence)1 ?Describe(S, H, #<air-strike-10>) Narrate-SequencelS, H, topicl-events))/ \Inform(S, H, Logical-Definit ion(#<air-str ike-10>)Inform(S, H, Consti~tuency(#<air-strike-10>) /Inform(S, H, Event (#<ev-begin-mission>)) Inform(S, H, Event(#<ev-dispense>))Figure 3.
Narrative Text Structure of LACE reportAir-str ike 10 was an attack against Dresden airf ield in the Fulda-Gap region of West Germany onTuesday December 2, 1987.
Air-str ike i0 included three Offensive Counter Air Missions (OCAI00,OCAI01, and OCAI02), one SAM Suppression Mission (SSM444), one Transportat ion Mission (TRANSi00), andone air refuel ing mission (RFLi00).Offensive Counter Air Mission i00 began mission execution at 8:20::0 Tuesday December 2, 1987.902TFW-F-16c dispensed four aircraft for Offensive Counter Air Mission I00.
Eight minutes laterOffensive Counter Air Mission 100 began flying its ingress route.
Three minutes later Al lstedt-B andAl lstedt-C simultaneously fired a missi le at Offensive Counter Air Mission I00.
And f i fty-nineseconds later Offensive Counter Air Mission I00 was ordered to abort its mission.
One second laterAl lstedt-C and Al lstedt-B again simultaneously fired a missi le at Offensive Counter Air Mission i00.Two minutes later Al lstedt-B again fired a missi le at Offensive Counter Air Mission I00.
Then oneminute later Erfurt -A fired a missi le at Offensive Counter Air Mission i00.
Then two minutes laterHaina-B fired a missi le at Offensive Counter Air Mission I00.
Seven minutes later Offensive CounterAir Mission i00 ended its mission.
It generated its post-mission report.In the meantime SAM Suppression Mission 444 began mission execution at 8:30::0 Tuesday December 2,1987.
126TFW-F-4g dispensed one aircraft for SAM Suppression Mission 444.
SAM Suppression Mission444 began flying its ingress route.
Thirteen minutes later Mobi le-SAMl fired a missi le at SAMSuppression Mission 444.
Then f i fty-nine seconds later SAM Suppression Mission 444 was ordered toabort its mission.
And then one second later Mobile-SAM2 fired a missi le at SAM Suppression Mission444.
One minute later Mobile-SAM2 and Mobile-SAMl s imultaneously f ired a missi le at SAM SuppressionMission 444.In the meantime Offensive Counter Air Mission 101 began mission execution at 8:41::40 TuesdayDecember 2, 1987.
900TFW-F-4c dispensed four aircraft for Offensive Counter Air Mission i01.
Thenseven minutes later Offensive Counter Air Mission I01 began flying its ingress route.
Then tenminutes later it bombed its target.
It began flying its egress route.
Thirty-Six minutes later itended its mission.
It generated its post-mission report.Meanwhile Transportat ion Mission 250 ...Figure 4.
Temporally and Topically Focused LACE report76Locative InstructionsWhile space limitations prohibit a full explication ofspatial plan operators, a short indicative example isprovided.
TEXPLAN produces locative instructions, thatis directions that enable an agent o get from point a topoint b, in the context of the Map Display System(Hilton, 1987; Hilton and Anken, 1990), a cartographicdatabase underlying LACE which includes thousands ofentities uch as roads, bridges, airports and so on.
Forexample if the user asks how to get from Mannheim toHeidelberg, the underlying application plans a route whichTEXPLAN organizes and presents as:From Mannheim take Route 38 Southeast forfour k i lometers  to the in tersect ion  ofRoute 38 and Autobahn A5.
From theintersect ion of Route 38 and Autobahn A5take Autobahn A5 Southeast  for sevenk i lometers to Heidelberg.
He ide lberg islocated  in b lock  32umv7070 at 49.39 ?lat itude and 6.68 ?
longitude, 4 ki lometersNorthwest  of Dossenheim, six k i lometersNorthwest of Edingen, and five ki lometersSouthwest of Eppelheim.The structure of the text follows the spatial progression ofthe route.
TEXPLAN tracks the spatial focus (eachsegment of the route) as the planner sequentially informsthe user of each segment.
This information is then usedto guide the realization of locative adverbials andprepositions.
For example, directionals such as"Southeast" and distances uch as "for four kilometers" arecomputed by examining the focus of the currentproposition with respect to the previous patial focus.Finally, constraints on the realization of deicticanaphora (e.g., selecting "here" versus "there", "this"versus "that") can be related to SF, analogous to the useof DF to guide pronominalization.
One view is to basedeictic anaphora on the relation of the speaker's physicallocation to that of specficand (e.g., "I am here, you arethere").
However, choice sometimes seems to be based onthe relation of the specificand to the SF (e.g., substituting"here" in the second utterance of the above route plan).This is an issue of current investigation.Limitations, Future WorkDespite the advantages oftopical and temporal order in theLACE report, it remains imply a recounting of salientevents, Even though it has a setting, it is not a storybecause it falls to explicitly indicate causal relationsamong events and states.
Current research is focusing onanalyzing the causal structure of short stories in anattempt to develop a theory of story structure/plot and itsrelationship to the event/state ontology (i.e., issues ofmotivation, enablement, causation, effect, and purpose, aswell as spatiality and temporality).Another area for research is the explicit representationof narrative techniques (e.g., suspense, surprise, mystery)as text plans.
Because the text plans explicitly indicatewhat cognitive/psychological effect heir application hason the hearer, they should be readily extensible to accountfor (simple) narrative techniques.
Finally, more researchneeds to be done to investigate the various linguisticaspects of temporal and spatial adverbials and their relationto the event/state structure and text planning.
Inparticular, temporal and spatial shift rules require moredetailed examination.ConclusionThis paper indicates how discourse focus, temporal focus,and a new notion of spatial focus can be used by a textplanner to select and order content.
In addition, the paperdiscusses how discourse, temporal, and spatial focuscaches can be used to guide surface choices (e.g.,pronominalization, the generation of tense and aspect, andthe production of temporal and spatial adverbials).
Theuse of these focal models in conjunction with narrativetext plans allows the system to generate multiparagraphreports about he activities of a knowledge based simulatoras well as locative insguctions from a route planner.AcknowledgmentsI am grateful to Karen Sparck Jones and Steve Pulman ofCambridge University for many stimulating discussionsas well as to the reviewers for useful feedback.References\[Allen, 1984\] Allen, J. F. 1984.
"Towards a GeneralTheory of Time and Action."
Artificial Intelligence23(2):123-154.\[Allen, 1988\] Allen, J. F. editor, June, 1988.
"SpecialIssue on Tense and Aspect."
ComputationalLinguistics 14(2):\[Anken, 1989\] Anken, C. S. June, 1989.
"LACE: LandAir Combat in Eric."
Rome Air Development CenterDL-9-0043.\[Ehrich, 1987\] Ehrich, V. 1987.
"The Generation ofTense."
Natural Language Generation: RecentAdvances in Artificial Intelligence, Psychology andLinguistics, editor G. Kempen.
423-440.
Dordrecht:Martinus Nijhoff.\[Grosz, 1977\] Grosz, B. J.
"The Representation a d Useof Focus in a System for Understanding Dialogs.
"Proceedings of the Fifth Annual IJCAI, Cambridge,MA, 1977.67-76.\[Grosz and Sidner, 1986\] Grosz, B. J. and C. Sidner.
July-September, 1986, "Attention, Intentions, and theStructure of Discourse."
Computational Linguistics12(3):175-204.77\[Hilton, 1987\] Hilton, M. July, 1987.
"ERIC: AnObject-Oriented Simulation Language."
Rome AirDevelopment Center TR-87-103.\[Hilton and Anken, 1990\] Hilton, M. L. and C. S.Anken.
February, 1990.
"Map Display System: AnObject-Oriented Design and Implementation."
RomeAir Development Center Technical Report 90-54.\[Hovy, 1988\] Hovy, E. 1988.. "Planning CoherentMultisentential Text."
Proceedings of the 26thMeeting of the ACL, Buffalo, NY, June 7-10, 1988.163-169.\[Hovy and McCoy, 1989\] Hovy, E. and K. McCoy.
1989.
"Focusing Your RST: A Step Toward GeneratingCoherent Multisentential Text."
Submitted toConference of Cognitive Science Society, March 20,1989.\[Kalita, 1989\] Kalita, J.
1989.
Automatically GeneratingNatural Language Reports.
International Journal ofMan-Machine Studies 30(1989):399-423.\[Kittredge et al, 1986\] Kittredge, R., A. Polgu~re and E.Goldberg.
25-29 August, 1986.
"SynthesizingWeather Forecasts from Formatted Data."
Proceedingsof COLING-86, The 1 lth International Conference onComputational Linguistics, University of Bonn,West Germany, 1986.
563-565.\[Linde and Labov, 1975\] Linde, C. and Labov, W.
1975.
"Spatial Networks as a Site for the Study ofLanguage and Thought."
Language, 51(1975) 924-939.\[Mann and Thompson, 1987\] Mann, W. and S.Thompson.
July, 1987.
"Rhetorical Structure Theory:A Theory of Text Organization."
InformationSciences Institute RS-87-190.\[Matthiesen, 1984\] Matthiesen, C. November, 1984.Choosing Tense in English, USC/ISI TR RR-84-143.\[Maybury, 1989\] Maybury, M. T. 1989b.
"GENNY: AKnowledge-Based Text Generation System.
"International Journal of Information Processing andManagement 25(2): 137-150.\[Maybury, 1990\] Maybury, M. T. 1990.
"CustomExplanations: Exploiting User Models to PlanMulfisentential Text."
Proceedings of the SecondInternational Workshop on User Models, Universityof Honolulu, Hawaii, 30 March - 1 April, 1990.\[McCoy and Cheng, 1988\] McCoy, K. F. and J. Cheng.1988.
"Focus of Attention: Constraining what canbe said next."
Presented at the Fourth InternationalWorkshop on Text Generation, Catalina Island, LosAngeles, CA, 1988.\[McKeown, 1982\] McKeown, K. R. 1982.
GeneratingNatural Language Text in Response to QuestionsAbout Database Structure.
University ofPennsylvania PhD dissertation, TR MS-CIS-82-5.\[Moens and Steedman, 1988\] Moens, M. and M.Steedman.
June, 1988.
"Temporal Ontology andTemporal Reference."
Computational Linguistics14(2):15-28.\[Moore, 1989\] Moore, J. D. November, 1989.
A ReactiveApproach to Explanation in Expert and Advice-Giving Systems.
Ph.D. dissertation, University ofCalifornia at Los Angeles.\[Nakhimovsky, 1988\] Nakhimovsky, A. June, 1988.
"Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structureof Narrative."
Computational Linguistics 14(2):29-43.\[Reichenbach, 1947\] Reichenbach, H. 1947.
TheElements of Symbolic Logic.
London: Macmillan.\[Searle, 1969\] Searle, J .R .
1969.
Speech Acts.Cambridge University Press.\[Searle, 1975\] Searle, J. R. 1975.
"Indirect Speech Acts.
"Syntax and Semantics 3: Speech Acts, editors P.Cole and J. L. Morgan.
59-82.
New York: AcademicPress.\[Sidner, 1979\] Sidner, C. L. 1979.
Toward aComputational Theory of Definite AnaphoraComprehension i  English Discourse.
Ph Ddissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,Cambridge, MA.\[Sidner, 1983\] Sidner, C. L. 1983.
"Focusing in theComprehension of Definite Anaphora.
"Computational Models of Discourse, editors M.Brady and R. Berwick.
267-330.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.\[Webber, 1987\], B. L. 1987.
"The Interpretation f Tensein Discourse."
Proceedings of the 25th AnnualConference of the ACL, Stanford University, PaloAlto, CA, 1987.
147-154.\[Winograd, 1972\] Winograd, T. 1972.
"UnderstandingNatural Language."
from Cognitive Psychology3(1).
Orlando, Florida: Academic Press.78
