Reassessing Rhetorical Abstractions and Planning Mechanisms 1Daniel D. SuthersDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, Massachusetts 01003suthers@cs.umass.eduAbstractThe utihty of rhetorical abstractions and certain textplanning mechanisms were assessed from the stand-point of accounting for how an explainer chooses andstructures content under multiple perspectives to meetknowledge communication goals.
This paper discussesways in which they were found to be inadequate, ar-gues for greater emphasis on an epistemological level ofanalysis, and proposes a mixed architecture matchingcomputational mechanisms to the explanation planningsubtasks they are suited for.IntroductionOur research is concerned with explanation in itsbroad sense, as "the act or process of making plainor comprehensible; lucidation; clarification" (Ameri-can Heritage Dicgionary).
In many physical science do-mains, an explanation can be based on a variety of mod-els of the phenomenon being explained.
These modelsdiffer on the type of properties and relationships em-phasized; what ontology is used and whether the phe-nomenon is described at a macroscopic, microscopic, oratomic granularity; what factors are ignored or assumedto be constant; the use of general statements vs. con-crete examples; and in general on what concepts func-tion as primitives, providing the basis for understand-ing the topic phenomenon.
Selection of an appropriatemodel of the topic is an important aspect of contentselection which impacts on the interlocutor's compre-hension of the explanation and on its appropriatenessfor his or her purposes.
We use the term perspeet lveto refer to an abstract characterization f the kind ofknowledge provided by a class of models.
Our notionof perspective is a composite of distinctions made byFalkenhainer & Forbus (submitted), Stevens & Collins(1980) Stevens & Steinberg (1981) and White & Fred-eriksen (1989).1 Copyright @ 1990, Daniel D. Suthers Permission granted tocopy for non-profit academic purposes.Most existing work in explanation and text planninghas been directed at other problems, and hence hasutilized single-perspective knowledge bases to simplifythe research.
(Notable exceptions include McCoy, 1989and McKeown et al 1985.)
A number of such re-search efforts emphasize rhetorical abstractions for theanalysis of natural explanations and for expressing atheory of explanation (Hovy, 1988; Mann & Thomp-son, 1986; Maybury, 1988; McKeown, 1985; Moore,1989).
A variety of mechanisms for selecting and or-ganizing the content of explanations have also been ex-plored.
This includes schema filling (McKeown 1985)and structure matching (Hovy 1988), graph traversalalgorithms (Paris & McKeown 1986), and top-down ex-pansion planning (Cawsey, 1989; Moore, 1989).Our own work on choosing explanatory content frommultiple-perspective knowledge bases has uncoveredsome limitations of rhetorical abstractions, and led usto question previous applications of the computationalmechanisms listed above.
The purpose of this paper isto present our perception of the roles and limitations ofthese items, and suggest some alternatives.
(We do notemphasize our work on perspective and content organi-zation here: see Suthers & Woolf, 1990.)
We begin withan example, used to illustrate some of the problems.An ExampleThe following example explanation will be used toillustrate our points.
The domain is elementary elec-tricity.
We emphasize the communication of an under-standing of concepts uch as "charge", "current", and"capacitance" within the context of qualitative reason-ing about the behavior of simple circuits and their com-ponents.
The explanation is an edited version of a hu-man protocol.QI :  How does a capacilor s?ore charge?El: A capacitorE2: can be thought of as two fiat metallic plates137I j -  Background - ~l .
'C?nstit ...iI ~At t r ibut ive?1 2 3 4{ ~.
Conc lus ion  ?
-......~se-EffectI F ,  I l l us t ra t ion5 6 7 8 9Figure 1: One possible RST analysis (partial)E3: situated close to each other and parallel to eachother,E4: with air in between.E5: If you connect a capacitor to a battery,E6: as follows:I I +I I -E7: then positive charge builds up on one plate and neg-ative charge on the other,E8: until the voltage across the capacitor is equal to thevoltage of the battery.
?9: The charge stays there when you disconnect he bat-tery.One possible rhetorical analysis of the first explana-tion, using relations from McKeown (1985) and Mann &Thompson (1986), is given in Figure 1.
(Whether or notthis is an optimal analysis is not the point; rather we areconcerned with the role of rhetorical abstractions andvarious characterizations of the content planning task?
in accounting for the explanation.)
The analysis doespoint out some features of interest.
For example, wenote that the explanation starts with Background ma-terial (El-E4) before proceeding to the primary expla-nation (E5-E9).
The Background relation in this casedescribes the high level organization of the explanation.The question is how this relation should be manifest inthe mechanism for generating the explanation.
Also ofinterest are the explainer's determination that a processaccount of how the capacitor carries out its function isappropriate; use of an abstract structural model of thecapacitor, simplified to what is needed to support theprocess account; and use of a concrete situation for theenablement condition of the process.P rob lems w i th  Rhetor i ca l  Abst rac t ionsRhetorical relations were an important developmentin explanation research, since they provided a first passat abstractions for a general description of explanatorystructure, and in bringing various roles of the partsof explanation into the foreground, pointed out phe-nomena in need of further study.
They are also usefulvia their "relational propositions" (Mann & Thomp-son 1983), for conveying propositional information im-plicitly in the structure of the text, hence reducing itslength and redundancy.
However, we claim that rhetor-ical abstractions fail to make the necessary distinctionsfor further advances in a theoretical understanding ofexplanation.Potpourr i .
Rhetorical abstractions are descriptive ofexplanatory tezt, i.e.
the end product of some expla-138nation generation process, and so describe with one de-vice structure due to a variety of distinct knowledgesources bearing on such a process.
These knowledgesources operate on different levels of information, andhence need to be separated in a theory of explanationgeneration.
For example, (drawing on relations in McK-eown, 1985 and Mann & Thompson~ 1986) some corre-spond directly to the fundamental structure of domainobjects and processes (e.g.
Constituency and Causal-ity), while others are about derived relations betweenconcepts which may vary according to the context (e.g.Comparison).
Relations such as Amplification, Back-ground, Evidence, and Illustration are primarily aboutrelationships between propositions which arise in partout of consideration of what the interlocutor knows andneeds to know to better grasp a point.
Illocutionaryacts are involved in the relations as well (most blatantly,Concession; others are not themselves illocutionary actsbut only make sense in the context of certain such acts).Finally, relations uch as Topic and Conclusion appearto be due to conventions governing writing style whichdirect focus of attention.
Grosz & Sidner (1986) madesimilar criticisms from the standpoint of characterizingdiscourse coherence.
They suggested that each rhetori-cal relation combines domain information with certaingeneral relations between propositions, between actions,and between intentions.Impl ic i t  Features  Unaccounted  For.
Rhetoricalabstractions are also inappropriate for a theory of con-tent selection because, in describing the final text, theyfail to identify important relations between the chosencontent and external material, such as what is knownabout the user, or information left o~$ of the explana-tion.
For example, E5-E6 is more specific than is neces-sary and includes a concrete xample.
A more generaland accurate way to state the condition for initiation ofthe charging process would be "If a voltage is appliedto the plates ...'.
However, the explainer has opted toreplace this with one of the many particular configura-tions which meet the condition.
A rhetorical analysisof the text canno$ even $ell us $ha~ ~his has happened,let alne why, because it does not describe relations be-tween the contents of the text and what is no~ included,viz., other models of the process being described.
It canonly report that an illustration is being used.
Anotherexample is provided by E9.
Retention of charge whenthe voltage is removed is what is meant by "storage" inthis case, so the fact expressed in E9 is essential to an-swering the question.
Rhetorically, we can only identifyrelationships E9 has to the rest of the text, e.g.
that it isa Conclusion.
This does not illuminate the relationshipbetween its content and the goal of the explanation.Ep istemologica l  Analysis.
The success of an expla-nation is primarily a function of choice and organiza-tion of knowledge.
Hencc, to account for how thesechoices further knowledge communication goals, onemust examine explanation in part from an epistemo-logical standpoint.
Such an analysis examines how ex-planations are guided by:?
the types of knowledge in a given domain, and itslogical and etiological structure (Rissland, 1978);?
the types of knowledge which, in principle, couldfulfill a given request for information;?
the role of an individual's knowledge in under-standing new concepts and situations, and hencein understanding a given explanation (Paris, 1987);and?
the ways in which individuals are willing or ableto undertake conceptual change (Goldstein, 1979;Hewson, 1981; White & Frederiksen, 1989; van-Lchn, 1987).As discussed in Suthers (1989), most previous work hasoffered solutions to the subproblems of explanation inthe form of mechanisms and data structures which arein part the result of, rather than the expression of, epis-tcmological considerations.
Epistemological problemshave been avoided through direct selection of contentbased on well-formulated queries; the simplicity of theknowledge bases used, which only permit one way ofdiscussing each topic; and through implicit conflationof epistemological constraints on organization of the ex-planation with those of rhetorical and linguistic origin.A major goal of our research (Suthers & Woolf, 1990)is an explicit theory of the epistemological structure ofthe activity of explaining.Roles of Computational MechanismsIn this section we illustrate how inclusion of back-ground material and the use of multiple perspectivespose problems for various mechanisms in the literature,and suggest a mixed architecture solution.S t ructure  Match ing .
By "structure matching" wemean methods where abstract descriptions of the struc-ture of explanations are matched to a collection ofpropositions (or other content o be expressed) in orderto organize this material.
This includes bottom-up com-position of structural units (Hovy, 1988) and schemafilling (McKeown, 1985).
We question their adequacyfor accounting for the prerequisite structure of expla-nations, such as the Background relation of the exam-ple.
In our view, the explanation is organized this way139because the explainer ecognized in his process model(expressed in E5-Eg) concepts the interlocutor may notbe familiar with (the parts of a capacitor), and thenadded material prerequisite to understanding the pro-cess explanation (the structural description expressed inEl-E4).
The background material is not automaticallypart of the relevant knowledge pool for this question,and structure matching methods leave choice of con-tent and perspective to other mechanisms.
Suppose,then, that some other mechanism accounts for inclu-sion of the background in the pool.
It is included asbackground by virtue of relationships between the inter-locutor's assumed knowledge state and the conceptual-izations contained in the first attempt at a knowledgepool.
Pattern matching techniques which are ignorantof such relationships and see only the composite poolwould be unable to identify the part of the knowledgepool which plays the role of "background", and accountfor placement of background before primary material.Graph  Traversal .
These are algorithms for selec-tively following links in a knowledge base, with the pathso traced out providing the content and structure ofthe explanation (Paris & McKeown 1986).
Such meth-ods model how an explanation exploits the structure ofknowledge.
They implicitly embody the heuristic thatit will be easier for the interlocutor to reconstruct theknowledge if it is presented such that each unit is in-troduced in relation to the previous unit.
For example,parts of an object are introduced in relation to con-taining or adjacent parts, and process descriptions or-ganized to follow temporal and causal relations in theforward direction.
However, graph traversal is limitedto modeling local organization, or global organizationwhich is a composite of local choices.
Traversal meth-ods don't naturally extend to global organization whichoccurs at a higher level of abstraction than the linksfollowed, e.g.
the presentation of a coherent structuralmodel before a process account begins.Top-Down Goal  Expans ion.
Top-down expansionof a discourse goal (Cawsey, 1989; Moore, 1989) is astronger candidate for a uniform mechanism for expla-nation, integrating content selection and structuring.The background problem can be handled with precon-ditions on plan operators, as Cawsey does.
It simplifiesmodeling explanations such as our example if one canspecify the kind of background knowledge required inpreconditions at the highest level of plan operators.
Toillustrate, consider a rhetorical plan operator which con-tains an optional satellite for Background but does notspecify what constitutes background knowledge.
Ex-pansion of the satellite would have to be predicated ona comparison of the content selected by expansion ofthe nucleus with the user model.
This decision couldnot be made at the time the operator is selected by theplanning system, since the knowledge pool for the nu-cleus would not have been selected yet.
Instead, onewould have to place the satellite decision on hold, ex-pand the nucleus, collect together the knowledge se-lected at the leaves of its expansion, and perform thecomparison before deciding on the satellite.
(One couldmake the decisions concerning the need for backgroundlocally to each leaf, avoiding the need for a high leveldecision depending on knowledge selected at many lo-calities.
But then one could not model the structure ofexplanations such as this one, where the need for prereq-uisite material is anticipated and provided in advanceas a coherent model, rather than as an interruption tothe flow of the process description.)
Then, if it wasdecided that some background was required, expansionof the satellite would have to occur under a binding ofsome variable in the satellite to the concepts for whichbackground is required.With regards to perspective, some problems emerge.Content selection in top-down expansion can be influ-enced by the current perspective if some mechanism forsharing perspective decisions across the expansion treeis provided.
However, neither the choice of perspec-tive nor the actual mechanism by which it influencescontent selection are modeled appropriately by top-down expansion.
Choice of perspective tries to balancethe (sometimes conflicting) constraints of adequacy andcomprehensibility.
Adequacy constraints come from ex-amination of the informative goals (McKeown et al1985).
Comprehensibility requires answering the ques-tion: given the concepts which have been used in thedialogue so far, and/or which the explainer has evidencethe interlocutor is familiar with, what other conceptsare also likely to be familiar?
This suggests a strength-of-association mechanism (McCoy 1989), which we com-ment on further in the next section.
As Hovy (1990)points out, top-down planning is prescriptive, and doesnot handle conflicting oals easily.
The influence of per-spective on content selection involves what Hovy callsrestrictive planning: some perspective goals, once gen-erated, remain active throughout a span of discourse,and operate as preferences applied to choice points incontent selection.
They cannot be erased once satisfied,and they may change dynamically.
Finally, McDonald& Pustejovsky (1985) point out that a uniform mecha-nism may not be desirable, as it incorrectly implies thatall information is equally available during each point ofthe text planning process.
A principled match of dis-tinct computational mechanisms to each subtask of the140(Query) --> Ident i fy}VRef ine < .
.
.
.tvRetr ievefVModify .
.
.
.
.tVOrder --> (Realize)Figure 2: Content planning tasksexplanation planning t&sk is one way to express one'stheory of what kind of process explanation is.
For thesereasons, we postulate a separate level of planning for co-ordinating perspective decisions.A M ixed  Arch i tec ture .
In our current approach,planning occurs at two granularities: selection and re-trieval of coherent packages of knowledge similar toSuthers' (1988a,b) "views" or Souther, Acker, Lester,& Porter's (1989) "viewpoints"; and editing and order-ing the propositions and examples which make up theseviews.
Planning at the granularity of views is concernedwith purely epistemological constraints on identificationof appropriate content, including choice of perspectiveand prerequisite xplanations.
At the finer granular-ity, further epistemological constraints governing thecomprehensibihty of the explanation are apphed, andrhetorical and linguistic constraints play a role as well.The question at hand is: wA~z~ sort of t~zsl~ is cor~ter~plar~r~ir~g ?
We postulate several, and comment on possi-ble computational mechanisms for each.
Figure 2 givesthe rough relationships between the different asks.
Theprocess is reminiscent of case-based esign, where oneidentifies and refines design specifications, and retrievesand reconfigures a previous solution to fit the circum-stances.An explainer must first ident i fy  at least some of itsgoals.
These are of two types, as discussed above: pre-scriptive informative goals, and restrictive goals such ascomprehensibihty.
We mentioned that the latter sug-gests a concept association mechanism.
This could bedone by activating weighted links between concepts, orthough intermediate frames of attribute weights, as inMcCoy (1989).
However, one would have to install a po-tentially combinatorial number of associations betweenconcepts.
Because we wish to make an epistemologicaltheory explicit and implement i with an abstract inter-face to the knowledge base, we are investigating use ofa mechanism akin to prototype induction, to generatean abstract description of the desired perspective fromthe user model and dialogue history.At the view granularity, content selection may be seenas re f inement  of explanatory goals into a specificationof the appropriate addition to the relevant knowledgepool.
This refinement includes consideration of whattype of knowledge, in principle, could fulfill the infor-mative goal; of the concepts the interlocutor is likely tounderstand; and of the models which have already beenshared in the dialogue.
We are attempting to treat thisrefinement task as top-down planning, though our workhas not progressed fax enough to comment further onthis.Retr ieva l  requires a knowledge-base pecific mech-anism: its only theoretical importance to us is that itcorrectly operationalize the dimensions used to describethe desired view (Suthers 1988a,b).
We are examininga variant of compositional modehng (Falkenhalner &Forbus, submitted) for this purpose.Once a knowledge pool is available, some data drivenactivities occur at a finer granularity, resulting in mod-i f ication of the relevant knowledge pool.
This includesfiltering activities, such as removing particular proposi-tions likely to be famihax to the interlocutor; and aug-menting activities, such as illustrating abstract state-ments with examples.
These are oppor~g~istic planningtasks, that can be approached with critics which matchto the knowledge pool and user model, and specify re-placements or deletions to be made.
As shown in fig-ure 2, data driven operators may also reinvoke contentplanning at the refinement level to access material ina different ype of model.
For example, we have seenhow process propositions may involve use of structuralconcepts the interlocutor is not likely to understand,causing the explainer to plan a prerequisite xplana-tion.
An explicit record of the prerequisite relationsbetween views is created, important for ordering theexplanation.Order ing  is sensitive to prerequisite and illustrationlinks installed by the modification processes.
Hence fig-ure 2 should not be interpreted as a claim that order-ing considerations do not arise during content selection.The ordering task involves two kinds of processes.
Oneembodies epistemological constraints by ezploi~ir~g ex-isting structure in the knowledge pool.
As discussedpreviously, techniques for traversing links in the knowl-edge pool apply here.
The result will likely be a par-tial ordering.
Further ordering requires imposition ofstructure for rhetorical, linguistic, and pictorial reasons141during realization (generation of text and graphics).Matching of rhetorical patterns to the knowledge poolmay be more appropriate at this later stage.In summary, we have argued for a mixed architec-ture matching prescriptive, restrictive, and opportunis-tic mechanisms to explanation subtasks.
Coordinationof these diverse processes may, at the implementationlevel, require an agenda control mechanism as in Niren-burg, Lesser, & Nyberg (1989).ConclusionsSingle-perspective knowledge bases, i.e.
those whichprovide only a single conceptual basis for a given de-scription or explanation, have dominated existing workin planning expository text.
This research has over-emphasized rhetorical abstractions as the basis for the-ories of content planning, and used computational for-malisms such as top-down goal expansion, traversal al-gorithms, and opportunistic structure matching which,taken alone, fail to fully account for the search for ap-propriate conceptualizations during content selection.We suggest a greater emphasis on epistemological b-stractions, and viewing content selection in terms ofidentification, refinement, retrieval, modification, andordering tasks.
Rhetorical abstractions retain a placein initial analyses of explanations, to point out featuresin need of further study, and in the later stages of textplanning, to further constrain a partial ordering of con-tent and implicitly convey content via textual structure.Finally, the devices of top-down goal expansion, traver-sal algorithms, and structure matching retain potentialutility for high level content planning, exploiting thestructure of knowledge when ordering an explanation,and further ordering an explanation on a rhetorical ba-sis, respectively.AcknowledgmentsThe author has been supported by the National Sci-ence Foundation under grant number MDR 8751362,and by Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, CA.
Par-tial support was also received from the Office of NavalResearch under a University Research Initiative Grant,contract no.
N00014-86-K-0764.
Thanks are due to myadvisors, Edwina Rissland and Beverly Woolf; to KlausSchultz for his expert explanations; to Matthew Cornellfor assistance with the research, and to the reviewers forcomments.ReferencesCawsey, A.
(1989).
Generating Ezplanatory Discourse:A Plan-Based, Interactive Approach.
Ph.D. Disserta-tion, University of Edinburgh.Falkenhainer ?~ Forhus (submitted).
CompositionalModeling: Finding the right model for the job.
Sub-mitted to Artificial Intelligence.Goldstein, I.
(1979).
The genetic graph: a representa-tion for the evolution of procedural knowledge.
Inter-national Journal of Man.Machine Studies, vol.
11, pp.51-77.Grosz, B. J.
& Sidner, C. L. (1986).
Attention, in-tention, and the structure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, vol.
12, no.
3, pp.
175-204.Hewson, P. W. (1981).
A conceptual change approachto learning science.
European Journal of Science Edu-cation, vol.
3, no.
4, pp.
383-396.Hovy, E. H. (1988).
Planning coherent multisententialtext.
Proc.
~6th Meeting of the A CL, Buffalo, NewYork; Reprinted as ISI/RS-88-208, Information Sci-ences Institute, Marina del Rey, California.Hovy, E. H. (1990).
Pragmatics and natural anguagegeneration.
Artificial Intelligence, vol.
43, no.
2, pp.153-197.Mann, W. C., &: Thompson, S. A.
(1983).
RelationalPropositions in Discourse.
ISI/RR-83-115, InformationSciences Institute, University of Southern California,Marina del Rey, California.Mann, W. C., & Thompson, S. A.
(1986).
Rhetor-ical structure theory: Description and construction oftext structures; Proceeding8 of the NA TO Advanced Re-search Workshop on Natural Language Generation, Ni-jmegen, The Netherlands, August 19-23, 1986.Maybury, M. (1988).
Explanation rhetoric: The rhetor-ical progression ofjustifications.
Proc.
AAAI-88 Work-shop on Ezplanation, St. Paul, August 22, 1988, pp.16-20.McCoy, K. F. (1989).
Generating context-sensitive re-sponses to object-related misconceptions.
Artificial In-telligence, vol.
41, no.
2, pp.
157-195.McDonald, D. D. & Pustejovsky, J. D. (1985).Description-directed natural language generation.Proc.
9th Int.
Joint Conf.
on Artificial Intelligence,Los Angeles, August 18-23, 1985, pp.
799-805.McKeown, K. It.
(1985).
Discourse strategies for gen-erating natural anguage text.
Artificial Intelligence,vol.
27, no.
1, pp.
1-41.McKeown, K.
It., Wish, M., ~ Matthews, K.(1985).
Tailoring explanations for the user.
Proc.
9thInt.
Joint Conf.
on Artificial Intelligence, Los Ange-les, August 18-23, 1985, pp.
794-798.Moore, J. D. (1989).
A Reactive Approach to Ezpla-nation in Ezpert and Advice-giving Systems.
Ph.D.Dissertation, University of California, Los Angeles.142Nirenburg, S., Lesser, V., & Nyberg,  E. (1989).Controlling a language generation planner.
Proc.
11thInt.
Joint Conf.
on Artificial Intelligence, Detroit,pp.
1524-1530.Paris, C. L. (1987).
Combining discourse strategies togenerate descriptions to users along a Naive/Expertspectrum.
Proc.
lOth Int.
Joint Conf.
on ArtificialIntelligence, August 1987, Milan, Italy, pp.
626-632.Paris~ C. L. ?~ McKeown, K. It.
(1986).
Discoursestrategies for describing complex physical objects; Pro-ceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop onNatural Language Generation, Nijmegen, The Nether-lands, August 19-23, 1986.
Also published by MartinusNijhoff, Dordrecht, 1987.Rissland, E. L. (1978).
(Formerly Michener.)
Under-standing Understanding Mathematics.
Cognitive Sci-ence, vol.
2, no.
4.Souther, A. Acker, L., Lester, J., g~ Porter ,  B.(1989).
Using view types to generate xplanations inintelligent utoring systems.
Proc.
Cognitive ScienceConf., Montreal, 1989.Stevens, A. L. /k Collins, A.
(1980).
Multiple con-ceptual models of a complex system.
In R. E. Snow, P.Fcderico, and W. E. Montague (Eds.
), Aptitude, Learn-ing, and Instruction (Vo!.
$).
Hillsdale, N J: Erlbaum,1980.
pp.
177-197.Stevens, A. L. ~ Steinberg, C. (1981).
A typology ofexplanations and its application to intelligent computeraided instruction.
Report No.
4626, Bolt Beranek andNewman Inc., Cambridge, MA.Suthers, D. D. (1988a).
Providing multiple views ofreasoning for explanation.
Proc.
InL Conf.
on In-telligent Tutoring Systems, Montreal, June 1988, pp.435-442.Suthers, D. D. (1988b).
Providing multiple views forexplanation.
Proc.
AAAI-88 Workshop on Ezplana-tion, St. Paul, August 22, 1988, pp.
12-15.Suthers, D. D. (1989).
Perspectives in Explanation;COINS Technical Report 89-24, Computer and Infor-mation Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst.Suthers, D. D ,  & Woolf, B. P. (1990).
Account-ing for the Epistemological Structure of Explanation.Spring Symposium on Knowledge Based Environmentsfor Learning and Teaching, March 27-29, Stanford.Available as COINS Technical Report 90-36, Computerand Information Science, University of Massachusetts,Amherst.vanLehn, K. (1987).
Learning one subprocedure perlesson.
Artificial Intelligence, vol.
31, no.
1, pp.
1-40.White~ B. Y.
& Frederiksen~ J.
It.
(1990).
CausalModel Progressions as a Foundation for IntelligentLearning Environments.
Artificial Intelligence, vol.42, no.
1, pp.
99-157.143
