Speaker Attitudes in Text PlanningChr i s t ine  DEFRISEIR ID IAUnivers i t6 L ibre de Bruxel lesSergei NIRENBURGCenter  for  Mach ine  Translat ionCarnegie  Mel lon  Univers i tyABSTRACT.
Natural language generation needs an in-put language whose expressive power is sufficient forgenerating texts with the level of quality desired by var-ious NLP applications.
Inoar generator, DIOGENES(e.g.,Nirenburg et al, 1989), we use the text meaning repre-sentation language TAMERLAN(Nirenburg and Defrise,1989 and forthcoming).
Expressions in this languageare used as input by the DIOGENES text planner to pro-duce text plan expressions in the text plan language,TPL, that in their turn serve as input o syntactic realiza-tion.
In this paper we describe the treatment ofone ofthe several types of knowledge ncoded inTAMERLAN,namely, speaker attitudes.
We aLso illustrate how theseinput components are used in producing text plans.I.
In t roduct ionOur reasons for introducing attitudes as an explicit part of therepresentation f the meaning of a natural language clauseare manifold.
In what follows we will review three (partiallyinterconnected) reasons.
Representing attitudes a) helps rea-soning about speaker goals, b) highlights the argumentativestructure of a discourse and c) provides aconvenient vehiclefor representing modal meanings, including negation.Almost all spoken and written discourse involves the par-ticipants' opinions, so much so that producing a perfectly'objective' text is an almost impossible task.
Within the setof possible goals relating to generating text, the introduction(explicit or implicit, lexicalized or not) of the producer'sopinions and points of view serves two goals:?
modifying the consumer's model of the producer bystating facts (including opinions) about self which arenot in principle observable by the consumer?
modifying the consumer's opinions by stating pro-ducer's opinions about facts of the world (the lattercan in principle be observed by the consumer)The above distinctions only become visible if one decidesto represent attitudes overtly.
Once this decision is made, itbecomes clear that it brings about better description possibil-ities for additional linguistic phenomena, such as the argu-mentative structure of discourse.
It has been observed (e.g.,Anscombre and Ducrot, 1983) that texts have a well-definedargumentative structure which reflects the producer's cur-rent goals and influences uch processes as the ordering oftext components and lexical selection in generation.
Theargumentative structure of a text is realized (or, in text un-derstanding, detected) through linguistic means uch as theuse of scalar adverbs ('only', 'even', 'almost', hardly', etc.
),connectives ('but', 'since'), adjectives ('unbearable', 'fasci-nating', etc.).
Sets of such lexical items may have to beconsidered equivalent from a purely semantic point of view,but different in a facet of their pragmatic effect known asargumentative orientation.
For example, to illustrate the in-terplay between semantic content and argumentative orienta-tion (i.e.
the producer's attitude towards an event), contrast(1) and (2), which have opposite truth conditions, but thesame pragmatic va lue- -  from both (1) and (2) the consumerwill infer that the producer regards Burma as an inefficientsleuth.
In this example it is sufficient o retain pragmaticinformation concerning the producer's judgment of Burmawhile the semantic differences (induced by the use of "few"versus "none at all") can be disregarded.
However, in othercontexts the semantics will matter much more - -  consider,for instance, (3) for which there can be no paraphrase with"no clues at all.
"(1) Nestor Burma found few clues.
Nobody wassurprised.
(2) Nestor Burma found no clues at all.
Nobodywas surprised.
(3) Nestor Burma found few clues.
But it wasstill better than having none at all.The difference between (4) and (5), whose truth conditionsare similar, is purely argumentative (or attidudinal) - -  (4)expresses a positive (optimistic!)
attitude, (5) the oppositepoint of view.
This example shows how crucial theextractionof the argumentative structure is, since it is the only clue forthe inacceptability of (6).
(4) Nestor has a little money.150(5) Nestor has little money.
(6) ?Nestor has little money.
He wouldn't mindspending some on chocolate.Finally, we use the attitude markers as a means of ex-pressing modality.
Traditionally, formal semanticists haveextended first order logic to modal ogic in order to accountfor modals.
This places the modals at a purely semantic level,and does not allow for a distinction between what is observ-able for beth producer and consumer, and what is not - -  suchas opinions, beliefs, etc.
We consider that expressions like'perhaps,' 'possibly,' 'it is almost certain that' are clues as towhat the producer's beliefs and attitudes are towards facts ofthe world and help the consumer modify or update his modelof the producer.
It is for the above reasons that we decidedto include a detailed specification of producer attitudes intothe input specification for generation.1.1.
Attitudes in TAMERLANTAMERLAN is a frame-based representation la guage for rep-resenting text meanings.
In our approach, treatment ofmean-ing is agent-centered, that is, all the processes of (and theknowledge used for) understanding, representation and real-ization of meaning are described with respect to the modelof an intelligent agent.
This agent includes a model of theworld, a model of language and a model of language un-derstanding and generation.
1.
The world model includesknowledge (beliefs) about other agents in the world, includ-ing interlocutors.
Inunderstanding language communication(text or dialog), an intelligent agent extracts and representsa) text meaning; b) the active set of producer (speaker, au-thor) goals and plans that led to the production of this textand c) a set of active parameters of the speech situation,including spatiotemporal characteristics, knowledge aboutparticipants and a set of pragmatic factors imilar to Hovy's(1988) rhetorical goals.
These three items form what we callthe supermeaning ofa text.To represent text meaning proper, TAMERLAN uses thefollowing basic entity types: clause, relation and attitude.TAMFaLAN clauses delimit he propositional nd pragmaticcontent of target language utterances.
Relations representlinks among events, objects, or textual objects (e.g., sen-tences, paragraphs, etc.).
A definition and detailed escrip-tion of TAMF~LAN is given in Nirenburg and Defrise (forth-coming).Attitudes are represented in TAMFERLAN as a quintupleattitudei = typei, valuei,  attr ibuted - toi, scopei ,  t imei,where typei is the type of the attitude; valuei is the valueof the attitude, represented as a point or an interval on a*A more detailed escription of our approach to agent-centeredprocessing see in Nirenburg et al, 1986.
{0,1} scale; attributed- toi points at the intelligent agentthis attitude isattributed to; scopei takes as its value that partof the meaning representation to which the attitude is held;and finally timei represents he time at which this attitude isheld.In somewhat greater detail, the definition of the fragmentof TAMERLAN dealing with attitudes i as follows.<att i tude> ::=<att i tude- type> ::=<att i tude-va lue> ::=<numer ica l -va lue> ::=<att i tude- type><att i tude-va lue><scope><att r ibuted- to><att i tude- t ime>epistemic  I deont ic  Ivo l i t ion I expectat ionI eva luat ive  I sal iency<numer ica l -va lue><point>* I<semi- in terva l>*  I<interval>*<semi- interva l><interval><point><scope>::= > <point> I < <point>::= <point> <point>::= n, 0 <= n <= 1::= any Tamer lan express ionor set of such<att r ibuted- to><att i tude- t ime>::=::=any instance of theonto log ica l  type~' intel l igent-agent ' 's ince <time> unti lI s ince <time>unti l  <t ime><time><time> ::= <abso lute - t ime> I<t ime-var iab le><abso lute- t ime> ::= <month>-<date>-<year>-<hours>:<minutes>:<seconds>.<second- f ract ions><t ime-va l i rab le> ::= t ime_<integer>The taxonomy of attitude types is an enhancement of Re-ichman's treatment of "context spaces" (1985: 56).
We usethe terminology (if not exactly the spirit) of her distinctionamong the epistemic, evaluative and deontic issue-type con-text spaces.
Context space is Reichman's term for a discoursesegment.
The issue context space corresponds to our atti-tude component, while the non-issue context space providesa shallow taxonomy for discourse segment types (Reichmandefines comment, narrative support, and nonnarrative sup-port as the non-issue type values).
It will be discussed and151illustrated in the next section.Ontological types are concepts in the intelligent agent'sontology and domain model.
The organization of the ontol-ogy used in the DIOGENES project see, e.g., in Nirenburg andLevin (1989).
Instances of ontological types are actual mean-ings, including those comprising a TAMERLAN text.
Someinstances are "remembered instances" (e.g., John Kennedy,The Washington Post etc.)
and are stored in the agent'sepisodic memory.
The absolute time at (or since or until)which an attitude has been held is shown, for instance, as05-12-90-13:45:11.56.
Relative (or unknown) times are lo-cally represented asvariables and treated with the help oftemporal relations in TAMERLAN.The attributed-to component of the attitude simply bindsthe attitude to a particular cognitive agent (which may be theproducer of the utterance or some other known or unknownagent), who endorses the responsibility of the content ofthe utterance.
This is important for understanding reportedslxech, and more generally the polyphony phenomena, inthe sense of Ducrot (1984).
Ducrot's theory of polyphony,an approach to extended reported speech treatment, providesa framework for dealing with the interpretation f a numberof semantic and pragmatic phenomena, e.g.
the differencein meaning and use between 'since' and 'because', certainparticularities ofnegative sentences, etc.The scope of the attitude representation pi points the entityto which this attitude is expressed.
The values of the scopecan be an entire clause, a part of it or even another attitudevalue, with its scope.
In understanding the text the text con-sumer notes the attitudes of the producer toward the content.The attitudes can be expressed toward events (7), objects (8),properties (9) or other attitudes (10).
(7) The train, unfortunately, eft at 5 p.m.(8) This book is interesting.
(9) The meeting was reprehensibly unproductive.
(10) Unfortunately, I ought o leave.McKeown and Elhadad (1989) also treat argumentativescales and attitudinals in a generation environment.
They,however, consider these phenomena as part of syntax, thusavoiding the need to add a special pragmatic omponent totheir system.
This decision is appropriate from the pointof view of minimizing the changes in an existing eneratordue to the inclusion of attitude information.
However, ifcompatibility were not an issue, we believe that introducinga separate component is a more appropriate choice.2.
Attitude TypesThe following example illustrates lexical realizations of theepistemie attitude (grouped by approximate attitude-value).1 Paul left.
I know for sure Paul left.
I believe withoutdoubt hat Paul left.
It is true that Paul left.0.9 Paul must have left.
Most probably, Paul left.0.8 Paul may have left.
I'm prepared to believe that Paulleft.
Perhaps Paul left.
I'm almost sure Paul left.0.6 It is possible that Paul left.
I would think Paul left.Chances are Paul left.0.5 I don't know whether Paul left (or not).0.3 It is unlikely that Paul left.
I doubt whether Paul left.0 Paul didn't leave.
It is impossible for Paul to have left.I don't know that Paul left.
I don't believe (at all) thatPaul left.
It is not true that Paul left.
I know that Pauldidn't leave.
I believe (without adoubt) that Paul didn'tleave.In our representation wedo not distinguish what is fromwhat the agent knows, believes or is certain about.
"Ob-jective" reality, thus, doesn't exist in the system.
Facts andevents belong to the "projected reality" (Jackendoff's term),i.e., reality as perceived by an intelligent agent.
The fact thatsomething isor is not, happened or did not happen, bears themark of the agent's perception.
Hence the epistemic attitude.Degrees of knowledge are identified with degrees of beliefand degrees of certainty.
If an agent knows something, heis certain about it and believes it.
"Paul left" = "I (the textproducer) believe that Paul left" = "I know that Paul left.
"Similarly, we feel that if someone says "Paul didn't leave,"it really means (to the text consumer who interprets it) "Theproducer doesn't believe at all that Paul left" = "The producerdoesn't know that Paul left" = "It is impossible for Paul tohave left" = "The producer doesn't believe that Paul left" ="It's not true that Paul left."
Negation can be understood asan attitude towards the event "Paul left."
Hence our decisionto collapse the parity of sentence with the epistemic attitudesof the agent.
Seeing negation as the realization of an agent'sattitude has further advantages.
Some uses of negation (the"polemic" use, in denials) as in the following dialog:A: Paul came to the party yesterday.B: He didn't come.
<I saw him downtown withhis girlfriend.
At the time of the party, he waso .
.demand an analysis that take into account more than parity,contrasting explicitly different agent's attitudes towards thesame event (this is similar to Ducrot's (1983) "polyphony").we can provide a good representation f the above dialogusing the "attributed-to" slot of an epistemic attitude frame.This representation will include the representation f the152meaning of the clause "Paul came to the party yesterday" ina TAMERLAN clause, say, clause_l, and two epistemic attitudeframes, as follows:(attitude 1(type ep~stemic)(value i)(attributed-to A)(scope clause_l))(attitude 2(type ep~stemic)(value 0)(attributed-to B)(scope clause I))In generating spoken text, the fact that the representationcontains opposite pistemic attitudes with similar scopes willbe realized through marked intonation.
In contrast, a text fea-turing a simple negation (not a denial of a previous assertion,but a simple negative assertion) will not be represented usingtwo opposite-value epistemic attitudes with similar scope.Furthermore, representing parity as an attitude gives rise to"formulas" that elegantly translate certain semantic relationsbetween sentences.
For instance the synonymy of the naturallanguage sentences "The book is not interesting" and "Thebook is uninteresting" is translated in terms of attitudes asThe equality will be valid only if the "attributed-to" slots ofthe relevant attitudes have the same fillers.
The above meansthat negation is generally understood as having a "loweringeffect" - -  something not interesting is less than interesting.When the condition about the "attributed-to" fillers is notfulfilled, negation must be understood as polemical, and inthis case the meaning of "the book is not interesting" could,in fact, be as in "the book is not interesting; it is fascinating.
"(Once again, in speech a marked intonation will be used.
)The realization of the deontic attitude can be illustrated asfollows:1 I must go.
I have to go0.8-0.2 I ought to go.
I 'd better go.
I should go.
You maygo.0 I needn't go.Some illustrationsof the realization of the volition attitude:1 I wish ...
I want to...
I will...
I will gladly...0.8-0.2 I hesitate to...
It may be a good idea to...reluctant to...0 I 'm unwilling to...
I refuse to...
I don't want...I 'mSome lexical realizations of the expectation attitude:(attitude 3(type ep~stemic)(value 0)(attributed-to A)(scope (clause 2 attitude_4)))(attitude 4(type evaluative)(value I)(attributed-to A)(scope clause 2))and(attitude 5(type ep~stemic)(value i)(attributed-to A)(scope (clause 2 attitude_6)))(attitude 6(type evaluative)(value 0)(attributed-to A)(scope clause 2))respectively (clause_2 represents the meaning glossed as"this book," because the entire sentences only express theattitude toward the book).
Therefore,(epistemic 0 (evaluative 1)) = (epistemic 1 (evaluative 0))1 Not surprisingly... As expected... Of course...Needless to say...0.8-0.2 Even (as in "Even Paul left")0 Surprisingly...
It couldn't be expected...The last two attitudes, evaluative and saliency can havein their scope not only clauses, relations or attitudes like theprevious ones, but also objects and properties.
2 It is thereforedifficult to give a limited and exhaustive set of examples ofrealizations.The evaluative scale goes, like the others, from 1 to 0.The endpoints are interpreted as roughly "the best" ("verygood") and "the worst" ("very bad").
Depending on thescope, realizations will greatly vary and will include no lex-ical realization at all.
If the scope is an event, adverbs likefortunately and unfortunately will be used.
If the scope is thephysical appearance ofa person, theendpoints of the scale ofevaluative attitude will be realized as "attractive" and "ugly,"etc.The saliency attitude plays an important role in selectingthe syntactic structure of the target sentences and in the lexi-cal selection.
Thus, it will influence the order of elements ina2The evaluative attitude to "the book" in the example abovewould, in fact, belong to this latter class.
Its scope is a clauseonly because there is no predication i  the sentence other than theattitudinal one.
In a sentence like "John read an interesting book"the attitude is clearly toward an object instance.153conjunction; itwill be realized syntactically through topical-ization ("It is Paul who ...") and lexically through connectiveexpressions such as last but not least or most importantly.3.
Text Plan RepresentationIn a nutshell, the flow of data in DIOGENES can be describedas follows.
The first processing component in DIOGENESis its text planner which, taking into account he input "su-permeaning" produces a text plan, a structure containinginformation about the order and boundaries of target lan-guage sentences; the decisions of reference realization andlexical selection (for both open and most closed-class lexi-cal items).
At the next stage, a set of semantics-to-syntaxmapping rules are used to produce a set of target-languagesyntactic stn~ctures (we are using the f-structures of LFG- -  see, e.g., Nirenburg and Levin, 1989).
Finally, a syntac-tic realizer produces a target language text from the set off-structures.The text plan language we use in DIOGENES includes thefollowing types of constructs - - the plan-sentence, the plan-clause, two kinds of plan-roles and the plan modifier.
Theframes for these constructs are as follows:(S_#(type plan-sentence)(subtype <TYPE>)(clauses (<C_#>*)))(C #(type plan-clause)(head <word-sense>)(realization {ellipsis I pro I lexical})(features <feature-value>* )(topic {passive I cleft I passive-cleftI active})(role <R #>)*(modifiers <MOD #>* <R #>*))(R_#(type plan-role)(head <word-sense>)(realization {ellipsis I pro(features <feature-value>* )(role <R #>)*(modifiers <MOD #>* <C #>* <R)I lexical})#>*)(R #(type plan-role)(head $SET$)(elements <R #><R #>*)(type {CONJ T DISJ})(realization {ellipsis I pro(features <feature-value>* ))I lexical})(MOD #(type plan-modifier)(head <word-sense>)(realization {ellipsis I pro(features <feature-value>* )(modifiers <MOD #>* )I lexical})Types of plan sentences at present include simple,compound-conjunctive and compound-disjunctive.
Therea l i za t ion  property has 3 possible values - lexical,ellpisis and pro.
top ic  is used to mark the topical-ized/focused elements in the clause; this property is alsoused to specify that the clause will be active or passive andwhether it will feature an active or passive cleft construction.modi f ie rs  is a slot in which all the modifiers of a givenplan concept are listed.The text planner will to determine which of the thematicroles in the input are to be realized as arguments and which,as modifiers.3.1.
Text Planning Rules for Attitudes.Text planning rules in DIOGENES deal with a variety of phe-nomena.
Some are devoted to text structure proper - -  thenumber and order of sentences and clauses to express themeanings of input; clause dependency structures, etc.
Oth-ers deal with treatment of reference - -  pronominalization,ellipsis, etc.
Still others take care of lexical selection, deter-mine tense and mood features of the target ext, etc.
In thissection we illustrate text planning rules devoted to realizationof attitudes.Rule A1 deals with an attitude of the evaluative type; rulesA2 through A4 with attitudes of the epistemic type.Ai.
IF (and (= clause i.attitude.typeevaluative)(= clause i.attitude.value(< 0.3~)(= clause i.attitude.scopeclause--i.proposition))THEN (add-unit-filler C i~attitude ~unfortunately)A2.
IF (and (= clause i.attitude.typeepistemic)(= clause i.attitude.value(= clause i.attitude.scopeclause_i.proposition))THEN (add-unit-facet-filler C i~features 'mood 'declarative)i)A3.
IF (andTHEN(= clause i.attitude.typeepistemic)(= clause i.attitude.value(= clause i.attitude.scopeclause i.proposition))(add-unit-facet-filler C i0)154'features 'mood 'negative)A4.
IF (and (= clause i.attitude.typeepistemic)(= clause i.attitude.value(= clause-i.attitude.scopeclause i.proposition))THEN (add-unit-filler C i~attitude ~perhap~0.5)Attitudes get realized either lexically, through the inclu-sion of a lexical unit or through grammatical features.
In thesample rules, the if clauses check the values in TAMERLANand, depending on the actual match, either add features tothe text plan or add a lexical realization for the attitudinalmeaning (as in Rule A4).4.
Status and Future WorkIn the DIOGENES project we adopt he methodological attitudeof developing the generator functionalities in a breadth-firstfashion.
That is to say that, unlike many other projects,we do not tend to describe xhaustively a specific linguis-tic phenomenon (e.g., negation, anaphora, aspect, scope ofquantifiers) or type of processing (e.g., text planning, lexicalselection, syntactic realization) before proceeding tothe nextone (this approach can be considered depth-first).
We preferto go for a complete functioning system which contains all(or, in practice, most) of the above components and coversall (or most) of the above phenomena.
It is clear that, at thebeginning, the treatment of each (or most) of these compo-nents is incomplete, and not every phenomenon is describedin sufficient detail.
However, this methodology allows us tobenefit from a complete xperimentation e vkonment andan open-ended architecture that facilitates the addition ofknowledge to the system and its testing and debugging.
Atpresent we have a working prototype text planning and gen-eration system with narrow coverage.
Our current work isdevoted to expanding the knowledge needed for achieving adeeper level of analysis of each of the linguistic phenomenacovered in the system.Meaning.
Center for Machine Translation, Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity.Duerot, O.
1984.
Polyphonie.
In La//es, 4.Hovy, E. 1987.
Generating Natural Language under PragmaticConstraints.
Yale University Ph.D. Dissertation.McKeown, K. and M. Elhadad.
1989.
A Comparison of SurfaceLanguage Generators: A Case Study in Choice of Connectives.MS.
Columbia University.Nirenburg, S.and V. Raskin.
1987.
The Subworld Concept Lexiconand the Lexicon Management System.
Computational Linguistics,Volume 13, Issue 3-4.Nirenburg, S., E. Nyberg, R. McCardell, S. Huffman, E. Kenschaftand I. Nirenburg.
1988.
Diogenes-88.
Technical Report CMU-CMT-88-107.
Carnegie-Mellon University.
June.Nirenburg, S. and L. Levin.
1989.
Knowledge RepresentationSupport.
Machine Translation, 4, pp.
25 - 52.Nirenburg, S., E. Nyberg and C. Defrise.
1989.
Text Planningwith Opportunistic Control.
Technical Report CMU-CMT-88-113.Carnegie-Mellon University.
June.Reichman, R. 1985.
Getting Computers to Talk Like You andMe.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.AcknowledgementThe first author was supported by the Belgian National In-centive Program for fundamental research in Artificial In-telligence initiated by the Belgian state m Prime Minister'sOffice - -  Science Policy Programming.Bibliography.Anscombre, J.-C. and O. Ducrot.
1983.
L'argumentation dans lalangue.
Brussels: Mardaga.Defrise, C. and S. Nirenburg (in preparation).
Aspects of Text155
