Selection: Salience, Relevance and the Coupling betweenDomain-Level Tasks and Text PlanningT.
PattabhiramanNick CerconeCentre for Systems ScienceSimon Fraser UniversityBurnaby, B.C., Canada V5A 1S6patta@cs.sfu.ca and nick@cs.sfu.caAbstractIn this paper we examine some issues pertaining to the taskof selection in text planning.
We attempt o distinguishsalience and relevance, and characterize their role asimportant fundamental notions governing selection.
We alsoformulate the problem of selection of text content in terms ofthe coupling between domain-level tasks and text planningtasks.
We describe our research on generating bus routedescriptions.Keywords: Natural Language Generation, Text Planning,Selection, Salience, Relevance, Coupling, Route Descriptions1.
IntroductionMost models of natural language generation, be theycomputational or psychological, recognize that the task oftext planning (also called conceptnalization\[14\], \[10\]),comprises the following essential subtasks: (1) contentselection and (2) content organization.
The task of contentselection (hereafter, selection) is concerned withcomputing, or retrieving from a knowledge base, theprimary content of texts.
Selection may also include aphase of content expansion, also called additional topicinclusion \[8\].
Content expansion consists in inferentiallygenerating or selecting additional material for expression itext, once the primary material is selected.
The task ofcontent organization, also called topic organization \[8\],content ordering or linearization \[13\], \[14\] deals withordering the chosen content into a sequence ofpropositional (linear) representations, appropriate forrealization into coherent text.Many text planning models concentrate chiefly oncontent organization and porhaps content expansion.
Suchplanners accept as input a pre-selected, and to some extent,pre-sequenced collection of representations that serve asthe raw material of text content.
The knowledge base fromwhich these input elements are selected, as well as theselection process itself, are treated to be external to the textplanner.
In such systems, whatever selection is porformedby the text planner is confined to the task of choosing asubset of the input elements according to control exercisedby knowledge sources resident within the text planner.Other examples of systems in which pre-selected content isinput to the text planner include natural languagegeneration front-ends to export systems, database systemsor other application programs- in other words, a problem-solver or a host system which is devoted to domain-levelnon-linguistic activities.In some other models, such as those of Paris \[23\], theknowledge base from which much of the text content isdrawn is resident within the text generation system itself.Selection in such systems is totally a responsibility of thetext planner.
In the TAILOR system of \[23\], for instance,facts describing objects are stored in a knowledge base, andthe textual component selects the content of the descriptionfrom the knowledge base under the regulatory influence ofa user model.
The urge to generate text is input to thegenerator in the form of a request for the definition of anobject.In all cases, the beholder of the natural anguage outputsees the text as coming from a single program which canporform domain-level tasks as well as text production tasks:the speaker and the thinker are one and the same.
If thebeholder were a text planning researcher, she could beinclined to pose questions about the origin of text content.Our recent research as been motivated and directed by theadoption of such a role.
The problem of selection in texts(in our case, multisentential descriptive texts) led us toexamine the nature of input to the text planner, and theboundary between the domain-level program and the textplanner.
When we regarded the thinker and the speaker as aunified whole, we were led to search for very generalfactors that influenced selection in diverse domains ofdiscourse production.
When we viewed domain-levelactivities and text planning activities as distinct asks, weexamined the division of duties between the text plannerand its underlying program in the task of selection, andexplored the conditions under which the modular boundarybetween the domain-level and the text-planning level couldbe kept intact and those under which it might break down.This papor is devoted to a presentation f our research onsome issues portinent o selection in text planning.
Wefound that the fundamental notions that were crucial tounderstanding selection in text planning were salience andrelevance.
These are not altogether unfamiliar notions.Conklin and McDonald \[2\] and Waltz \[33\] describe someeffects of salience in generating scene descriptions.Researchers in natural language understanding havestudied salience and relevance in some detail and have used79them profitably in their accounts.
However, in the naturallanguage generation research community, the terms areused in their literal sense, and often interchangeably,whereas in fact they are distinct notions.
In this paper wepresent the notions of salience and relevance as they pertainto natural anguage generation, in particular, to (content)selection.Our presentation i  section 2 is a synthesis of severalanalyses of salience and relevance in the disciplines oflanguage understanding, psycholinguistics andcommunication.
In section 3 we consider the couplingbetween domain-level tasks and text planning tasks fromthe point of view of selection.
Our work in the domain ofroute description generation is presented in section 4.
Inthis domain, interesting questions emer!~e r garding modeof knowledge representation, connecUons between textplanning and domain-level problem solving, and selection.In the concluding section we briefly state our current workand research plans for the near future.2.
Salience and RelevanceSalience and relevance are theoretical notions which areinfluential in accounting for how or why certain objects,concepts, properties or actions are highlighted or preferredin natural language processing.
Of particular interest to thesubject of this paper is the role of these important notionsin controlling selection (and omission) in text planning.What is common to salience and relevance is their role asdeterminants of decisions in selection.However, salience isconnected with speaker-external objects or properties,while relevance is related to speaker-internal f ctors uchas goals and motivation.2.1 SalienceSalience explains the prioritization or foregrounding ofobjects or information.
Such prioritization may arise fromdirect perception of the world or context, or fromconceptual knowledge, built up by shared perceptualexperiences of the speaker and the hearer.
According toSridhar \[30\] and Levelt \[14\], salience guides the directionof the speaker's attention by making certain aspects of asituation stand out relative to others.
By virtue of beingascribed to factors of context, situation or background,salience is a relatively fixed notion, invariant with respectto specific perceivers.
Salience information can thereforebe lexicalized, stored as an invariant component of theknowledge base, incorporated asa structural property of thedesign of the knowledge base, and/or built into the controlprocesses that select ext content from the knowledge base.Perceptual salience arises from the prominence ofexternal characteristics such as size (bigness), amplitude ofsound (loudness), colour (brightness), etc.
Osgood andBock \[22\] call this factor vividness.
Conceptual salienceoriginates in (shared) experiential knowledge.
Forexample, the slyness of foxes, the strength of gorillas, andother such distinguishing characteristics are conceptuallysalient \[4\].
The head of a queue of people is a concepmaUysalient part of the queue with respect to its function \[7\].Conceptual salience also arises from the degree ofunexpectedness, unusualness ordeviation from the norm ofan object or event, giving the object or event of descriptionits information va/ue and thus motivating its selection inthe planned text.
Salience is attributed to properties ofobjects as well as to components of complex objects.An important implication of salience for objects thatpossess it is the ease of their availability in the knowledgebase or knowledge structure \[34\].
The higher the level ofsalience of an object, the higher is its level of activation inthe speaker's mind, and therefore, the ~-e~ter is itsprobability of being selected in the speaker s description,and the earlier is it likely to be mentioned in thedescription.
This fact has been recognized by Conklin andMcDonald \[2\], Osgood \[21\], Sridhar \[30\] and Levelt \[14\];Salience and Text Planning.
The significance of visualsalience in text planning has been pointed out by Conklinand McDonald \[2\] in their empirical study involving scenedescriptions (of suburban houses) and the GENAROprogram that generates similar descriptions.
In GENARO,the chosen representation for the set of objects is a list,ordered according to decreasing levels of salience of theobjects.
Non-salient objects are not represented.
This listmediates between the deep generation component and thedomain data base in regulating the order of description ofobjects.Other Work on Salience.
Sridhar \[30\] amplifies uponearlier psycholinguisfic treatments of the role of salience insingle sentence production.
He examines the effects ofsalience on intrasentential syntactic ordering in phenomenalike passivization, topicalization and constituent order shift.His results are of significance to the realization componentof natural language generation.
On the subject of contentselection in the description of states and events, Sridharhypothesizes that actions are more salient than statechanges, which in turn are more salient than constant s ates.Ortony \[20\] invokes salience in explaining theinterpretation of metaphor.
Herskovits \[7\] uses salience inher account of prepositional semantics and the constructionof mental models from prepositional phrases.2.2 RelevanceRelevance constrains participants' utterances andinterpretations in communicative contexts.
It connects textsand their generators through goals: speakers are assumedto generate utterances which they believe to be relevant totheir goals \[1\].
It connects the context of text generationwith the generator and the text by the fact thatcommunication as well as the goals themselves are situatedin context, and by the assumption that the conversational(or communicative) goals are relevant to the generator'spersonal goals.
The speaker's communicative goals arecharacterized bythe speaker wanting the goals to be madeknown to the hearer, and intending to reach them by thehearer knowing .~d adopting them \[25\].
Relevance is thusan important nouon that connects texts, contexts, pewersand hearers.
Selecting relevant information in a textplanning scenario is thus an issue of selecting informationthat is pertinent to the generator's communicative goals.Leech \[12\] defines relevance as follows:An utterance is relevant o a speech situation if it can beinterpreted as contributing to the conversational goals ofthe speaker or hearer.Haslett \[6\] modifies this definition to account for thecommunicative actions and knowledge.
Her definition ofrelevance is stated as follows:An utterance, action or unit of knowledge is relevant o a80speech situation ?"
it can be interpreted as contributing tothe communicative goals of the speaker or listener.Relevance and Coherence.
Haslett\[6\] emphasizesrelevance over coherence as the essential property of textsemerging in communicative contexts.
While coherence isessential in interpreting texts, it is not sufficient inaccounting for how texts are planned and generated.
Textsmake sense not only in the general way of beinginterpretable, but also m the particular way of contributingto conversational goals.
Generators try to make their textsboth relevant and coherent.
A relevant ext must also becoherent in the sense of being meaningful to theconversational goals.
However, not all coherent texts needbe relevant (el.
retorts like yes, but that's not relevant to theissue).
In their work on generating expert systemexplanations, Moore and Swartout \[19\] implicitly aff'mnthe precedence of relevance over coherence.
Although thefiner details of how they generate xplanations are notdirectly relevant o the concerns of this paper, their stresson the role of the generator's goals in accounting forselected text content s of significance.
A similar view isevident in Paris \[24\].Relevance and Selection.
I-Iaslett's definition is suitedto our purposes, ince it explicitly recognizes the role of thesources (representations) as well as the kn?wledg~nvolved in processes selecting text content.
Knowledgecould be represented in any number of ways.
However thedefinition of Haslett has implications for the design ofparticular text planners and specific models of textplanning: a very natural design (for the knowledge basethat stores much of what is eventually expressed in text, aswell as for the processes that select from the knowledgebase) will be one which aids, and is in harmony with, thegoal structures present in the given setting or domain oftext generation.
Mann and Moore \[15\], in their work on theKDS system of text generation, point out the importance ofrelevance in judging whether an item of knowledge shouldbe selected for expression i  text.
Their method, however,has numerous deficiencies, a discussion of which ispresented in \[15\].
Paris \[24\] also recognizes explicitly therelation between selection and relevance through goals.Other Work on Relevance.
Sperber and Wilson\[29\] stress the role of relevance in languagecomprehension.
Their work is partly a response to theshortcomings of the semiotic code model of verbalcommunication.
They emphasize the place of intendedinference in verbal communication, over and above theencoding and decoding of messages.
The reader is referredto \[6\] for a critique of the theory of Sperber and Wilsonfrom the point of view of relevance, van Dijk and Kintsch\[32\] and Schank \[28\] treat the more local, restricted issueof topical relevance in sentences.2.3 Relevance and Salience ContrastedSalience is a speaker-external, contextual principle, whilerelevance is a speaker-internal principle related to thespeaker's goals.
Waltz \[33\] states that in generating scenedescriptions, what the speaker notices is a function ofexternal factors (scene characteristics) and internal factors(like goals).
Thus he effectively recognizes the distinctionbetween salience and relevance, though he doesn't use theterm relevance to describe the external factors.
Similarly,psycholinguists like Sridhar \[30\] use the term salience todescribe relevance as presented here.
Notions derived fromsalience and relevance include focus and attention.Not all settings of text production may admitcharacterization of salience, but all settings involverelevance, to the extent hat text production in the givensetting is purposive.
However, relevance can be a nebulousmatter in many text production settings.
Relevance andsalience could sometimes reinforce ach other and at othertimes, conflict with each other.
When they do conflict,relevance, given Haslett's definition, would have greaterweight in its dictates on selection decisions in particularand language generation decisions in general.
Thisobservation is in accord with Sridhar's psycholinguisticfindings on single sentence production.3.
Domain-Level  Tasks andText  P lann ing  TasksWe have noted relevance and salience as fundamentalnotions that guide selection of text content.
The effects ofrelevance and salience can be brought out in text planningsystems in several ways, of which one is sketched below.We assume that the primary content of texts is drawn froma knowledge base, which may consist of several componentmodules in the implementation.A large body of surely-irrelevant knowledge is notp resented.
This corresponds toa closed worm assumption r knowledge bases with respect to relevance and salience.The knowledge base only contains potentially relevant andsalient items for all likely instances of text production.Selection is still responsible for choosing only the portionof the knowledge base that is pertinent o a particularinstance of text planning.
The tmnciples of relevance andsalience, as may be embodied in a text planner, are thus amatter of representation as well as control.
The controlcould be exercised by a variety of knowledge modules,such as the user model (as in the ease of Paris \[23\]), thehearer model (in effect, the user model) (as in the case ofDale \[3\]), etc.
What needs to be said is selected; at thesame time, what should be omitted is skipped, by the searchprocess turning a blind eye to irrelevant knowledge, as itwere.
Selection processes mediate between the controllingknowledge sources and the knowledge base from whichcontent is selected.The texts .produced by such systems may be perceived tobe emerging from communicative goals, thoughcommunicative goals themselves are not explicitlyrepresented.
In the text planning models of \[3\] and \[23\],communicative goals need not be explicitly represented,since relevance information is implicit in the semantics andthe content of the user model.
When do the goalsthemselves require explicit representation a d reasoning inthe selection process?
This question directs our analysistowards two aspects:1. the nature of the text produced2.
the connection (or, coupling) betweendomain-level tasks and text planning tasks3.1 Explanation GenerationThe text could be self-referential, in that (for instance) thegenerator might allude to, justify or explain the priorcontent of text that it produced or the actions that wereB1performed at the non-linguistic, domain-level.
(The identityof meta-language with object-language is a quintessentialcharacteristic of natural languages).
An exemplary case inpoint is that of explanation generation in expert systems.Explanation systems explicitly represent goals so as toexplain their domain-level actions, or to exp.lain their ownprior utterances, for instance in answenng follow-upquestions in dialogues with the user, as in the works ofMoore and Paris \[18\], Paris \[24\] and Moore and Swartout\[19\].
The explanation system of McKeown \[16\] identifiesits goals with the user's goals, which are hence representedin detail.3.2 Coupling between Domain-Level TasksandText Planning TasksWe observed in the introduction that the speaker and thethinker are one and the same, in that a single system isperceived to perform domain-level activities such asproblem-solving, action planning, etc, as well as textproduction tasks.
In this context, we could speak of loosecoupling and tight coupling between domain-level and textplanning tasks.
Loose coupling implies modularizationbetween the two tasks m process models andimplementations.
On the one hand we could ask whetherthe domain-level tasks are in some sense naturally coupledto text planning tasks, and on the other, we could ask whatthe chosen theoretical paradigm, modelling method,implementation rapplication has to do with the coupling.Assuredly, the knowledge of relevance and ,salience thatis necessary in selecting text content is conceptuallydistributed between the non-linguistic, domain-level andthe text production level.
Therefore, the knowledge and theprocesses involved in selecting are, in principle, distributedat both levels.
In actual implementations or computationalprocess models, if the coupling between domain-level tasksand text planning tasks is loose, then additional work willhave to be done to make the coupling appear fight (i.e., tomake the thinker identical with the speaker).
This issuearises in the construction of explanation facilities for expertsystems and front-end natural language generators forvarious application programs.
Virtual tight coup.ling isachieved by building interfaces, or by augmenting thedesign of the expert system and/or the text planner.In the Explainable Expert System architecture describedin Paris \[24\], this is achieved by designing expert systemswith explanation in mind, and by using for explanations thesupport knowledge applied in deriving the expert system.Problem-solving knowledge is kept insulated in theimplementation from the knowledge necessary forgenerating explanations.
Selection in the explanation task isdecided by the text planner and mediated by the use of arich text plan language, described in Moore and Paris \[18\].The design of powerful plan languages (for selecting textcontent from the knowledge base) is an interesting researchproblem \[9\].In the EPICURE recipe-generation system of Dale \[3\],tight coupling is achieved by modelling discourse plans tobe isomorphic to domain-level p ans.
There is no domain-level activity proceeding independently of (separatelyfrom) text planning.
In the work of Appelt \[1\], tightcoupling is ensured in the theoretical paradigm of actionplannin8 in which both domain-level tasks and utteranceproduction (linguistic) tasks are uniformly viewed asgoal-directed actions.
Content selection in Appelt'ssystem is distributed in a complex way throughout thegeneration process by commitment tothe view that the taskof what to say is inseparable from the task of how to say.What about complex domains of language generation inwhich domain-level activities are naturally coupled to textplanning activities, irrespective of the theoretical paradigmthat may be used?
In the next section we turn our attentionto one such domain, viz., that of route communication.4.
Generating Route Descr ipt ionsIn this section we describe the domain of route descriptiongeneration, and report some aspects of our research ongenerating descriptions ofbus route directions from a givensource to an intended estination within a city.
Our workincludes an implementation in CProlog of a prototypesystem that generates descriptions of bus route directions inVancouver.
A representation f the city or region in whichroute description generation occurs is available in the formof a cognitive map.
The map serves as the knowledge basein the domain-level activity of finding a mute, as well as inproviding the primary content of route description texts.4.1 Route CommunicationThe verbal protocol that consists of requesting routedirections and giving them is termed route communicationby Klein\[ll\].
Klein uses route communications thatoccurred naturally on the streets of Frankfurt in exploringthe relation between the cognitive (domain-level) task ofroute fmding and the linguistic task of generating a routedescription as manifested in the choice of local deicticterms like here, there, left and right.
Wunderlich andReinelt \[35\] deal with the discourse structure of routecommunication.
Although full route communication ccu~as a dialogue, the roles of the participants are notsymmetric as they would be, say, in a casual conversation.All varieties of route communication i volve selectingfrom maps.
However, the nature of information selected,and in particular the kind of spatial information included inthe route description depend on such factors as the mode oftransportation used, whether the questioner herself will benavigating or whether she will be using a public wansportsystem, etc.Bus Route Descriptions.
In our research on generatingbus route directions we emulated the methods of Klein\[11\] and Wunderlich and Reinelt\[35\] to gather andanalyze natural text.
Our primary linguistic d_am consist ofover 40 bus route descriptions to various destinations inVancouver, and include written (printed) as well as spokendescriptions.
We concentrate on the route description phaseof the dialogue, which emerges more or less as monologicaltext Route descriptions involve knowledge of differentgranularities.
For instance, when the full journey involvestaking two or more buses, the connecting buses may beavailable at the point of disembarkation (from the previousbus) itself, or just across the street.
But often, one may haveto walk a fair distance before transferring to the next bus.
Insuch cases, the bus route description also includes walk-route information, as illustrated by the italicized portion ofthe following text:from Klngsway and Edmonds you want to catch busnumber 106 called Metrotown ... take it down to the82Edmonds kytrain station ... lake the skytrain as far asBurrard station ... and at Burrard station you want towalk north on Burrard one block ... as far as WestPender ... and on West Pender going westbound it's busnumber 19 and it's called Stanley ParkRoute Descriptions vs Route Sketches.
Routedescriptions are also interesting in that they can also becommunicated non-verbally (graphically) in the form of aroute sketch.
The following spoken text describes how toget from Lougheed Mall to Grouse Mountain inVancouver.
The "..."s correspond to pauses or confirmatoryexpressions like ok or yeah by the questioner.from Lougheed Mall.9 ... ok, you could catch a 151 or a152 called Vancouver ... get off at Hastings andKootenay right by the Kootenay Loop ... on Hastings infront of the loop transfer to bus number 28 called PhibbsExchange ... will cross Second Narrows Bridge to PhibbsExchange on the other side ... and that's where youcould catch the 232 Grouse Mountain bus ... and it goesfight up to Grouse Mountain.The information conveyed by this text could also beexpressed graphically as illustrated in figure 1.
There areinteresting parallels between natural language routedescriptions and route sketches as bearers of information.
Aone-to-one correspondence may be seen between certainaspects of route sketches and natural language routedescriptions.
However, route descriptions are linear, andthe use of certain mechanisms uch as connectives,pronominals and deictic terms is exclusively associatedwith the use of natural language as the medium ofdescription.4.2 Planning and Discourse Units inRoute Description GenerationA journey consists of a series of connected route sections.However, not all route sections need be described in a routedescription.
For instance, when a public transportationsystem is used, all the details of the turns taken by theconveyance used are not relevant for the description.However, when one has to drive or walk, information oneach route section and turn should be communicated.Thus, route planning units at the domain level are ingeneral more detailed than route description units at thediscourse level.Route descriptions consist of a sequence of units, eachspecifying, at the very least, a source, a destination and aroute label.
In the case of bus route descriptions, uch a unitconsists of a specification of a boarding point, adisembarkation point and the bus label for a single bus ride.Such units provide the skeletal plans for route descriptiontexts.
In figure 1, the skeletal plans correspond to theconnected sequence of arrows marked with the bus labels.The skeletal plans are computed by the route finder usingthe knowledge base (map), and are input o the text planner.The text planner may augment he skeletal plans byselecting from the knowledge base additional descriptionsof landmarks, location, orientation and so on.4.3 Knowledge Base and Route FinderWe have described the design of the knowledge base andthe route finder in \[26\].
For discussions of issues on theform, content, function and structure of spatial knowledgein the domain of route description generation, the reader isreferred to Habel \[5\], and to experimental works such asthose of McNamara \[17\] and Thorndyke \[31\].As noted earlier, the cognitive (problem-solving) task ofroute finding and the linguistic task of descriptiongeneration are simultaneously manifested in routecommunication.
We do not make specific cognitive claimsregarding how the route finding and description generationtasks are interleaved.
In instances o f  human routecommunication, one may become aware of the finalsections of the route even before the initial sections arerealized into descriptions.
However, a route section willhave to be determined before it is realized.
Accordingly,we separate route finding and route description generation,and feed the text planner with the sequence of skeletalplans (described in section 4.2) furnished by the routefinder.The route finder is specialized for the descriptiongeneration task, in the sense that its output units correspondto the discourse units (skeletal plans) of the descriptions.The sequence of skeletal plans processed by the textplanner preserves the spatiotemporal connectivity of thejourney described.
The route finder thus contributes to thediscourse structure, coherence and gross linearization of theroute description.
Therefore the text planner need notmaintain any explicit paragraph-level r presentation for theoverall text in its discourse model.The input to the route finder is a top-level goalrepresented in Prolog as in.9_ rfind(pats_house,sfu).It outputs the following skeletal plans in sequence.
Weuse the Prolog list notation to indicate that the threeelements of the skeletal plan have no positionalsignificance in the representation.1.
\[source(pats house),dest(lougheezlmall),rlabel(busid(lm 134))\]2.\[source(lougheeclmall),dest(sfu),rlabel(busid(sfu 145))\]4.4 SelectionInput to the text planner is a sequence of skeletal plansgenerated by the route finder.
The planner consists of twomajor submodules that correspond to two ordered stages ofprocessing: (1) selector and (2) realization-specification (r-spec) synthesizer.
The details of the r-spec synthesizer andother aspects of the route description generation systemwill be presented in \[27\].
The selector augments theskeletal plan with additional information retrieved (orcomputed) from the knowledge base (map), possibly underthe control of various knowledge sources.
The output ofthe selector is an expanded plan.
The expanded plan isinput to the r-spec synthesizer, which accommodates theinformation in the plan into one or more r-specs.
It attendsto such tasks as forming predicates, choosing the utterancetype and certain language-oriented asks like topicalization,choice of verb modality and tense.
The r-specs are input tothe realization module which generates surface sentences.The text planner thus deals with two distinct sorts ofrepresentations, one of which is closer to the domain(knowledge-base) and one, to the language.83Phibbs Eli 232 Grouse MountainNarrowsBridge28 Phibbs Ex.
t.-ID Grouse Mountain151/152 VancouverK HASTINGSOOTENAYElLougheed MallFigureWhat kind of extra information is selected?
Thefollowing are some of the kinds of information selected atthis stage.?
Direction or orientation, as in thedescriptions On West Pender goingwestbound it's bus number 19.
Walk northon Renfrew.?
Distance information, for realizing suchdescriptions as You walk north on Burrardone block as far as West Pender.?
Landmarks and location descriptions forsources and destinations of route sections, asincluded in the descriptions Get off atHastings and Kootenay right by theKootenay Loop.
On Hastings in front of theloop transfer to bus number 28 called PhibbsExchange.?
Additional descriptions of route sectionsinvolving landmarks, as in Will cross SecondNarrows Bridge to Phibbs Exchange on theother side.?
Straightforward matters like retrieving namescorresponding to route labels in the skeletalplan (bus number, bus name, etc).How is the information derived?
Computation ofdirection (orientation) information requires availability of aco-ordinate system and additional inference modules.
Thetext planner (selector) uses additional procedural domainknowledge for retrieving or computing orientationinformation.
Information so computed is expressedlinguistically as north, left, right, and so on, andincorporated into the text plan.
The search andcomputation of orientation from a map using qualitative or1: FrornLougheed Mall to Grouse Mountainquantitative information forms a separate subject matter ofstudy by itself.Distance is expressed in route descriptions in terms ofvarious units, as, for example, in one block, 200 yards orthree stoplights, but may not be represented in the map inthe same terms.
In our system we simplify the task ofdistance estimation/evaluation by directly representingdistances in terms required by the text planner.Retrieving landmarks for describing locations of sourcesand destinations requires examining finer-grainer spatiallayout information at the neighbourhood of these points.Salience plays a key role in the choice of landmarks chosenfor location description.
Along with the task of choosingthe landmark comes the task of computing the locativerelation between the two objects (for example, adjacence),and expressing the relation in language (as in right by).Salience also influences the choice of landmarks chosenfor describing long route sections (as in will cross SecondNarrows Bridge...).
In our implementation we haverepresented certain landmarks along the bus route stages.Given the end-points of a route section, the landmarksalong the way can be selected for description.
It is to benoted that landmarks like the Second Narrows Bridgearen't quite points, but are idealized as points andrepresented in the knowledge base as such.
Ourimplementation at present doesn't include the detailedrepresentations and procedures necessary for derivingorientation, distance and location information.
We sidestepthe task by incorporating such information in the formrequired by the text planner.What is the rationale for selecting such information?The kinds of information described in this section arecommon in route descriptions, but are neverthelesssecondary to the essential information contained in theskeletal plans.
When a route section should be covered by awalk or a drive, some kind of distance information isrequired.
Location information is crucial at transfer points(intermediate destinations).
Additional descriptions of84routes in terms of landmarks crossed give the prospectivetraveller a feel for how long she needs to be on the bus,train, etc, and assure her that she is still on the right track.Orientation information is given in bus route descriptionswhen the listener has to take a bus after a spell of walk(self-navigation), as evident in the description...you want to walk north on Burrard one block as far asWest Pender... and on West Pender going westbound it'sbus number 19...But one cannot always attribute motives for includingadditional material in route descriptions.
At present weinclude in the text plan all additional relevant material thatcan be extracted from the knowledge base.How is the selected information incorporated in theplan?
Additional information selected at this stage isincorporated in a skeletal plan like\[source(lougheed mall),dest(hastings@ kootenay),flabel(busid(van 151 ))\]by adding to the list or by argument-adjunction a dreplacement.
For example, the skeletal plan given abovemay be expanded as:\[source(lougheed_mall),dest(d(hastings@kootenay),loc(next(kootenay_loop))),rlabel(busid(busnumber(151),busname(vancouver))),via(brentwood mall)\]Discussion.
We have used the skeletal plan as a substrateon which further information is deposited by the selector inthe text planner.
At the same time, the informationavailable in the skeletal plan enables fast access to theinformation eeded by the selector, by providing the route-label, source and destination ames.
This corresponds toour intuition regarding route description generation usingvisual search over maps: once we spot the end-points of aroute section, we can easily spot the additional relevantobjects around the end-points and over the route-sectionconnecting them.
The selector derives the informationfrom the same knowledge base (map) consulted by theroute finder.The text plan thus has a dual function: (1) for selectionfrom the knowledge base, in its skeletal form and (2) forconversion into text eventually, in its expanded form.
Theexpanded plan also has a third important function: a copyof the expanded plan is retained in the discourse record forconsultation when the corresponding r-spec and sentences,and the next expanded plan are generated.
It thus provides arecord of the objects that have been introduced in thediscourse, and forms the basis for decisions onpronominalization, referential expression generation andother factors that govern text coherence.It is to be noted that the domain of route descriptiongeneration i volves the use of a knowledge base which isprimarily object-oriented.
The knowledge base consists ofpoints, landmarks, bus routes, streets and so on.
The routefinder works with the knowledge base and gives someobjects the status of source, desanaaon and route-label inparticular instances of route finding.
The selector in the textplanner picks up some more objects, endowing them withsuch attributes as landmarks, distance, direction.
As theexpanded plan stands now, it can just as well be expressedpictorially as a route-sketch.5.
Work in Progress and Future WorkWe have examined the roles of salience and relevance asdeterminants of selection decisions, and presented theirdistinction mostly in intuitive terms.
The notions hould beformulated in more precise terms to be usable in specificmodels or implementations.
We are continuing ourinvestigation on ,salience and relevance by attempting tocast them in concrete terms in the domain we are currentlyexamining, viz., route description generation.
As in thecase of Grice's maxims and many other pragmaticprinciples, the formulation of formal principles appears tobe a difficult task.
Herskovits \[7\] has encountered similardifficulties in attempting to formalize salience andrelevance rigorously (in her case, for the purpose ofpreposition understanding).We are also continuing our research on the couplingbetween the thinker and the speaker.
Examining the kindsand degrees of coupling will help us understand the natureof text planning tasks, design better text planners andcompare various models of natural anguage generation.Our system is intended to generate bus route descriptions.However, there are other route descriptions that are moredemanding in the kind of knowledge representation a dprocessing that they require, and more complex in theirsyntax.
The repreesentations for text plans and r-specs weuse are also limited in variety and are tailored to thedomain under examination.
We are at present completingthe implementation f the system.Route description generation is in itself a very complexprocess, and this research can proceed along several linesof further work: introduction of various knowledge sourcesto regulate selection from the knowledge base,representation of more detailed spatial knowledge atseveral levels, and so on.
Upon completion of the currentimplementation effort, our primary plans, however, are toexamine the implications of the system as a process modelfor speech-like monological multisentential text generation,refine its details and examine its applicability to otherdomains.AcknowledgmentsOur thanks are due to Ed Hovy, Fred Popowich and DanFass for help with some of the literature, and to the threeanonymous reviewers for their comments.
This work hasbeen supported in part by a Simon Fraser UniversityGraduate Research Fellowship and a British ColumbiaAdvanced Systems Institute Graduate Student Scholarship.ReferencesI.
Appelt, D.E.
Planning English Sentences.
CambridgeUniversity Press, 1985.2.
Conklin, EJ.
and McDonald, D.D.
Salience: The Keyto the Selection Problem in Natural Language Generation.Proceedings of the 20th ACL Conference, Toronto, 1982,pp.
129-135.3.
Dale, R. Generating Recipes: An Overview ofEPICURE.
The Second European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, Edinburgh, 1989, Extendedabstract.854.
Fass, D. Lexical Semantic Constraints.
CSS/LCCR TR89-11, Centre for Systems Science, Simon FraserUniversity,1989.5.
Habel, C. Cognitive Linguistics: The Processing ofSpatial Concepts.
Lilog-Report 45, IBM DeutschlandGmbH, 1988.6.
Haslett, BJ.
Communication: Strategic Action inContext.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1987.7.
Herskovits, A.
Language and Spatial Cognition: AnInterdisciplinary Study of the Prepositions in English.Cambridge University Press, 1986.8.
Hovy, E.H. Planning Coherent Multisentential Text.Proceedings,26th Conference of the ACL, Buffalo, 1988.9.
Hovy, E.H.
Unresolved Issues in Paragraph Planning.Selected Papers from the Second European Workshop onLanguage Generation, Edinburgh, 1989.
Mellish, C. andDale, R., Editors, to appear, 1990.
Preprint obtained fromthe author.10.
Kempen, G. and Hoenkamp, E. "An IncrementalProcedural Grammar for Sentence Formulation".
CognitiveScience 11 (1987), 201-258.U.
Klein, W. Local Deixis in Route Directions.
InSpeech, Place and Action, Jarvella, RJ.
and Klein, W.,Editors, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., 1982, pp.
161-182.12.
Leech, G. Principles ofPragmatics.
Longman,London, 1983.13.
Levelt, W. J. M. Linearization i  Describing SpatialNetworks.
In Processes, Beliefs, and Questions, Peters,S.
and Saarinen, E., Editors, Reidel, Dordrecht, 1982, pp.199-220.14.
Levelt, WJ.M.
Speaking: From Intention toArticulation.
M.I.T.Press, 1989.15.
Mann W. C. and Moore, J.
A.
Computer as Author-Results and Prospects.
IS!/RR-79-82, Information SciencesInstitute,1980.16.
McKeown, K.R.
"Generating Goal-OrientedExplanations".
International Journal of Expert Systems 1,4 (1988), 377-395.17.
McNamara, T.P.
"Mental Representation f SpatialRelations".
Cognitive Psychology 18 (1986), 87-121.18.
Moore, J.D.
and Paris, C.L.
Planning Text forAdvisory Dialogues.
Proceedings of the 27th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, Vancouver, 1989, pp.
203-211.19.
Moore, J.D.
and Swartout, W.R. A Reactive Approachto Explanation.
Presented atthe Fourth InternationalWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, Preprint,1988.20.
Ortony, A.
"Beyond Literal Similarity".Psychological Review 86, 3 (1979), 161-179.21.
Osgood, C.E.
Where do sentences come from?
InSemantics: An Interdisciplinary Reader in Philosophy,Linguistics and Psychology, Steinberg, D. D. andJakobovits, L. A., Editors, Cambridge University Press,1971.22.
Osgood, C.E.
and Book, J.K. Salience and Sentencing:Some Production Principles.
In Sentence Production:Developments in Research and Theory, Rosenberg, S.,Editor, Erlbaum, Hilldale, NJ., 1977.23.
Paris, C.L.
Responding toa User's DomainKnowledge: Incorporating the User's Level of Expertiseinto a Generation System.
Proceedings of the InternationalComputer Science Conference, Hong Kong, 1988, pp.301-309.24.
Paris, C.L.
Generation and Explanation: Building anExplanation Facility for the Explainable Expert SystemsFramework.
Submitted tothe Fourth InternationalWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, draft version,1988.25.
Parisi, D. and Castelfranchi, C. A Goal Analysis ofSome Pragmatic Aspects of Language.
In Possibilities andLimitations of Pragmatics, Parrett, H., Sbisa, M. andVerscheuren, J.
Editors, John Benjamins B.V.,Amsterdam, 1981, pp.
551-567.26.
Pattabhiraman, T. and Cercone, N. Representing andUsing Protosemantic Information i  Generating Bus RouteDescriptions.
In Knowledge Based Computer Systems,Ramani, S. et al, Editors, Narosa Publishing House, 1990,pp.
341-352.
To appear in the Springer-Verlag LNCSSeries.27.
Pattabhiraman, T. and Cercone, N. Generation ofSpeech-Like Monologue: The Case of Bus RouteDescriptions.
CSS, Simon Fraser University, 1990.Unpublished manuscript.28.
Schank, R. "Rules and Topics in Conversation".Cognitive Science I (1977), 421 A.A.A..29.
Sperber, D. and Wilson, D. Relevance:Communication a d Cognition.
Basil Bhackwell, 1986.30.
Sridhar, S.N.
Cognition and Sentence Production.Springer-Verlag, 1988.
Springer Series in Language andCommunication, 22.31.
Thorndyke, P.W.
"Distance Estimation fromCognitive Maps".
Cognitive Psychology13 (1981),526-550.32. van Dijk, T.A.
and Kintsch, W. Strategies ofDiscourse Comprehension.
Academic Press, 1983.33.
Waltz, D. Generating and Understanding SceneDescriptions.
In Elements of Discourse Understanding,Joshi, A. et al, Editors, Cambridge University Press, 1982,pp.
266-282.34.
Weiner, EJ.
"A Knowledge Representation Approachto Understanding Metaphors".
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics 10 (1984), 1-14.35.
Wunderlich, D. and Reinelt, R. How to Get ThereFrom Here.
In Speech, Place and Action, Jarvella, R.J. andKlein, W., Editors, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., 1982, pp.183-201.86
