Presuppositions and Default Reasoning:A Study in Lexical PragmaticsRobert E. MercerDepartment of Computer ScienceMiddlesex CollegeUniversity of Western OntarioLondon, Ontario, CANADAN6A 5B7mercer@csd, uwo.
caAbstractExplaining how the meaning of words relate to the meaning of the utterance inwhich they are used is of utmost importance.
The most common approaches viewthe meaning of an utterance as a composition of the meanings of it parts, whichof course include the words used to construct the utterance.
This approach is suc-cessful for entailments.
However, similar approaches to explain the presuppositionaibehaviour of utterances have for the most part failed.
In this paper we describe theapplication of Default Logic to the representation and the generation of natural lan-guage presuppositions.
The view is taken that the presuppositions of an utteranceare conjectures made by the hearer based upon the assumption that the speakeris following Grice's maxims of cooperative conversation.
These conjectures repre-sent information implicitly contained in the utterance which cannot be generated byclassicM techniques.
The compositional framework is maintained.
The difference isthat functional units rather than predetermined semantic units axe inherited by themeaning structure.
The function's meaning changes depending on the contents ofthe meaning structure.
Hence, we view the study of these functional units as iexicaipragmatics rather than lexical semantics.
Default Logic is one formal method forperforming default reasoning in the area of Artificial Intelligence called KnowledgeRepresentation.
Default reasoning attempts to fill with conjectures the gaps leftby classical forms of reasoning.
We suggest that the use of non-classical inferenc-ing techniques such as default reasoning will prove fruitful in the realm of lexicalreasoning.1 IntroductionLexical semantics deals with various aspects of the meanings of words.
One such aspectis entailment.
The standard meaning of the logical notion of entailment can be naturallyextended to natural anguage sentences ( ee \[Cruse, 1986\], for example).
We can abstractaway from the linguistic setting and formalize this linguistic entailment relation, by con-sidering meaning postulates and the logical entailment relation (usually as some form ofdeduction).Here, we are interested in the kinds of meanings that we can give to words in variouscontexts which puts the meaning postulate within the scope of a negation.
We again wishto abstract away from the linguistic setting and formalize this process.
We accomplishthis using Default Logic.
Exactly how this formal method transfers back to the practicallinguistic setting is left for future investigation.We have coined the expression lezical pragmatics to emphasize the significant differ-ences between the semantic and pragmatic aspects of a lexical item's meaning.
Whereas224the semantics of a lexical item remains constant in all contexts, and hence can be pre-computed, the pragmatics of a lexical item is determined by the context in which it isfound.
The pragmatics of a lexical item must then be represented as a function which iscomputed in context.
The use of default rules shows precisely what the pragmatic notionneeds to be.2 BackgroundWhat is a natural anguage presupposition?
Being implied by a simple natural anguagesentence and the natural (or preferred) interpretation f its simple negation is the primaryquality that qualifies an inference as a presupposition.
This evaluation of inferences icalled the negation test.
Presuppositions are generated from lexical and syntactic ontexts.Those contexts which pass the negation test can be termed presuppositional triggers.
Thepresuppositional trigger that is of concern here is the definition of words.
In (1) the truthof the affirmative a-sentence always implies the truth of the c-sentence, and the truth ofthe negative b-sentence normally implies the truth of the c-sentence.
(1) a.
My cousin is a bachelor.b.
My cousin is not a bachelor.c.
My cousin is a male adult.The natural anguage presupposition has been a well-studied linguistic phenomenon.Because it has received so much attention, it has naturally been given a variety of defini-tions.
So, before presenting the technical details of our work, it should be clarified thatthe point of view of Gasdar \[1979\] is assumed.
In particular, presuppositions are consid-ered as part of the information conveyed by an utterance (not appropriacy conditions formaking an utterance) given that the utterance was made cooperatively in the sense ofGrice's maxims of cooperative conversation \[Grice, 1975\].
So, in the case of (lb) the viewwould be that what is being communicated is that 'the speaker knotvs 1 that my cousin is amarried male adult.
', not that it is inappropriate o utter the sentence in contexts whichdon't allow for the truth of 'My cousin is a male adult.'.
Although the speaker-hearerview of communication is implicit in Gazdar's approach, we have made it explicit in ourcommunication model.
This has been done because we are interested in what informationis needed and what forms of inference are required to enable a hearer to infer the correctpresuppositions from an utterance.Presuppositions have the quality that there are linguistically natural means for indi-cating that a simple negation is not to be interpreted normally, that is, some form of"presupposition cancellation" is to be performed.
(What is meant by the terminologyin scare quotes also differs from method to method.)
It is this latter problem, how toproduce only the correct presuppositions of sentences, that has received most of the at-tention in the literature.
It is called the projection problem.
From a lexical point of view,the projection problem can be interpreted as how do the meanings of the lexical itemscontribute to the meaning of the utterance.Examples are given in (2).
It is important o note that two methods are used toindicate that the negation is to be interpreted in an unnatural manner.
(2a) illustrates1 See \[Gazdar, 1979\] for a discussion of the motivation for the epistemic qualification of the proposition.Gazdar uses the usual omniscient interpretation of the epistemic operator, Know.
This causes someproblems which are not important here.225that one method is to make the normal (presuppositional) inference inconsistent.
(2b)indicates a second method.
This sentence is actually a disguised form for 'My cousin is abachelor and not a spinster (case 1) or my cousin is a spinster and not a bachelor (case2).'.
The the speaker cannot commit himself to the natural interpretation f the negationsbecause ach of the cases commits the speaker to deny the presuppositions required bythe natural interpretation.
Details are given in the next section.
(2) a.
My cousin is not a bachelor.
He is only three years old.b.
My cousin is a bachelor or a spinster.Note that the sentences in (3) do interpret 'bachelor' in the normal way under normalcircumstances.
(3) a.
My cousin is a bachelor or Mary will be unhappy.b.
If your cousin is a bachelor then he will be able to attend the party.3 Presuppositions and Default LogicThroughout our work the projection problem has been approached from a knowledgerepresentation point of view.
A basic assumption has been that a hearer's interpretationof a natural language utterance should include the inferences that can be generated fromthree sources: the sentence uttered, knowledge about the world, and knowledge aboutlanguage use.For the purposes of this paper the most important knowledge source is the lexicon.It is here that some of the knowledge about language use is stored (for our purposes thedefinitions of words).
Other linguistic knowledge, such as Grice's maxims, has been placedin the general inference procedure.
What information is to be stored in the lexicon andin what form has been the focus of this study into the phenomenon called presupposition.Previously, the standard "solution" to the projection problem has been one of threekinds: a set of rules that take the presuppositions of the clauses and remove the undesirablepresuppositions a  the sentence meaning is being composed \[Karttunen, 1973, Karttunen,1974, Karttunen and Peters, 1979, Soames, 1979\]; a set of rules, invoked after the sentencehas been fully interpreted, that cancel the unwanted presuppositions from a complete setof potential presuppositions \[Gazdar, 1979\]; or a set of rules that embody both of thesemethods \[Soames, 1982\].In the work discussed below, we have rejected these solutions and have replaced themwith a method that views presupposing as a form of inference.
Before giving details ofthe method, it would be appropriate to point out the philosophical differences betweenthis new method and the previous ones, indicating both the need for default reasoningand the benefits that are obtained.Previous methods and the new one agree that the information concerning the presup-positions associated with words is located in the lexicon.
Where they differ is whatform this information takes.
This representation has important ramifications on thekinds of knowledge needed outside the lexicon.
More specifically, previous methodsput extensional knowledge in the lexicon, that is, the knowledge of a particular lexi-cal item is designated as presuppositional and non-presuppositional (or what has beentermed "what is said").
So in the case of 'bachelor', 'unmarried' would be designatedas non-presuppositional; 'male' and 'adult', presuppositional.
What this precomputing of226presuppositions requires is that knowledge be contained in a projection method whichcan eradicate the unwanted presuppositions in sentences like (2).
\[Karttunen, 1973,Karttunen, 1974\], \[Karttunen and Peters, 1979\], and \[Soames, 1982\] exemplify this dis-tribution of knowledge.
\[Gazdar, 1979\] did not have to resort to such a distributionof knowledge, however this method succumbs to other problems.
The new method hasevolved naturally from Gazdar's ideas but does not succumb to the same problems.The new method iffers in the following important respect: the information about pre-suppositions i  stored in the lexicon as intensional information, that is, in a pre-computedform.
As an utterance is processed to derive its meaning, the intensional information forall of the presuppositional triggers is incorporated into the structure which represents hemeaning of the utterance.
Later, we will see that an appropriate structure is a defaulttheory.
Since the intensional information is then computed in the appropriate context(the structure representing the utterance's meaning), the presuppositional informationis correctly generated.
By formulating the problem of presupposition generation i  thisway, the importance of the complete context for the correct generation of an utterance'spresuppositions dramatically exposes the pragmatic nature of presuppositions.
Hence,the kind of information that is stored in the lexicon and the kind of processing used toconnect he information to the structure representing the meaning of the utterance tendsto suggest hat it should be under the heading of lexical pragmatics rather than lexicalsemantics.This new method can be viewed as a reasonable extension to Carnap's meaning pos-tulates \[Carnap, 1956\].
The meaning postulate is extended to include the intensionalinformation, which can be given a precise meaning.
The extensional approach on theother hand cannot be an used to extend the idea of a meaning postulate since the notionof the universality of the meaning postulate is lost.Another important repercussion is that the previous methods are ad hoc, that is,they are not based on fundamental principles that have their foundations outside theparticular method.
On the other hand the default method can actually provide a betterunderstanding of the phenomenon a d leads to a definition based on foundations which arenot intimately connected to the phenomenon a d which are not complicated by operationalfeatures.Other benefits are obvious.
We are dealing with a very large task when we confrontthe natural language understanding problem.
We don't need to compound the difficulty ofthis task with purported solutions that lead to knowledge needlessly distributed amongstvarious parts of the solution.
The default reasoning method has succeeded in making whatseems to be a most natural break, that is, the knowledge associated with the lexical entriesis located in the lexicon and the knowledge concerning the basic inference mechanism islocated in the inference ngine.3.1 Deta i l s  o f  the  Representat ionThe work on presuppositions and default reasoning began with \[Mercer and Reiter, 1982\]reporting on its embryonic stages.
Here we looked at representing presuppositions adefault rules in Reiter's \[1980\] Default Logic.
More recently, we have viewed this methodas a natural way to extend Carnap's notion of a meaning postulate.
This extension differsfrom the original in two significant ways.
Firstly, we make the change from a one-waymaterial implication in the meaning postulate to a logical equivalence.
So, we are notonly accepting that the right hand side of (4) are necessary elements of the definition227of 'bachelor', we are also accepting that these are sufficient, as well.
Much debate hasfocussed on this issue.
We agree that it is probably impossible to arrive at a necessary andsufficient set of conditions for the definition of a lexical item.
However, this is not a theoryabout the correct definition of lexicai tems.
Rather, it is an agent-centred method abouthow an agent uses his knowledge to derive other facts.
Hence, we do take as given thatat any moment an agent does have necessary and sufficient conditions defining a lexicalitem.
This definition may be subject o change.
How an agent discovers that his definitionneeds modification, and how this is performed is not part of our immediate concern.
If (4)were a one-way material implication, the contrapositive of (4) would say that the negationof any of the three right hand side predicates i sufficient o negate 'bachelor'.
However,it does not say that the negation of 'bachelor' necessarily requires that the negation ofone of the right hand side predicates i the cause.
What having necessary and sufficientconditions allows an agent o do is determine that one of the right hand side items in (5)is causing the negation of 'not a bachelor' although it cannot be determined which one.
(4) Vx.BACHELOR(z) ~ MALE(z) A ADULT(z) A-,MARRIED(z)(5) Vz.-,BACHELOR(x) ~_ ~MALE(x) V ~ADULT(z) V MARRIED(x)Secondly, we add more information about the lexicai item in question.
This extrainformation concerns the presupposed ~ parts when the lexicai tem occurs in the scope ofa negation.
This extra information takes the form of default rules and implicitly adds anew form of inference, as well.
So for example, we add to the representation f 'bachelor'the two default rules (6) and (7).
(6) -,BACHELOR(z) A LF(BACH ELOR, m): MALE(m)MALE(x)(7) ~BACHELOR(z) A LF(BACHELOR, z):  ADULT(z)ADULT(x)A more detailed iscussion of Default Logic is given in the next section.
For the present,an interpretation f these two default rules is sufficient.
(6) is to interpreted as stating thatif the non-bachelorhood f a is provable from the default heory (x will be substitutedappropriately throughout the rule with the appropriate constant) and if the linguisticform (that is, the sentence) predicates bachelorhood about a, then if it is consistent in thedefault heory to infer that x is male then infer that x is male.
(7) says the same thingabout a and the property of being an adult.
Default rules will be used to determine whichof the right hand side elements i causing the negation.
So, under normal circumstances(6) and (7) will generate MALE(x) and ADULT(a) which together with (5) gives theresult that MARRIED(x).2 Earlier work has called these the noncriterial parts.
The one part negated by the preferred interpreta-tion was called the criterial part.
This terminology was used because we were concerned with describingthe negated and unnegated parts of the preferred interpretation without referring to presuppositions.
Sincethis terminology differs from the use of criterial in \[Cruse, 1986\], say, (each of male, adult, and unmarriedwould be crlterial), and since it is not so critical here to be so pedantic about the term presupposition,we will use this latter terminology.2283.2 Deta i l s  o f  the  Generat ion  MethodThe study of the method using Default Logic as a replacement for the projection meth-ods is the main theme of \[Mercer, 1987\].
A summary of this work appears in \[Mer-cer, 1988b\].
An important contribution is the connection made between presupposi-tions and the context, in particular Gazdar's formalization of Grice's maxims.
Moreprecisely, default heories corresponding to a well-defined set of cases which can be de-rived from the hearer's knowledge base (KBH) and the utterance (represented as G(u)to convey Gazdar's view of the Gricean maxims) generate the appropriate presupposi-tions for sentences uch as those found in (2) and (3).
The precise details for com-puting the set of cases (which can be found in \[Mercer, 1987, Mercer, 1988b\]) are notimportant for this paper.
Instead, some examples will be provided in order that anunderstanding of how the Default Logic method generates the appropriate presupposi-tions for a variety of sentences.
The default heories that correspond to the cases men-tioned above will be given without any explanation.
Interested readers are encouragedto seek further explanation i the references given above.
More recently, \[Mercer, 1988a,Mercer, 1990\] have solved problems left open in \[Mercer, 1987\], specifically, how negationinteracts with sentential adverbs in the context of conditionals, and a generalization ofGazdar's view of clausal implicatures.
The default method now captures all of the knownproblems for any of the previous methods plus the problem of disjunctive presuppositionswhich none of the previous methods could handle.Before embarking on a study of the application of Default Logic to the problem ofnatural anguage presuppositions, a brief introduction to Default Logic is in order.
Theinference rules of classical logic produce safe deductions.
Deductions are safe if they are,in some sense, already known.
Examples of this type of inference include: deducing thata particular individual has a property from the knowledge that all individuals have thatproperty; deducing the truth of two conjuncts given the truth of the conjunction; anddeducing the consequent of a material implication given the truth of the antecedent.Default Logic, on the other hand, allows (in a principled manner) the conjecturingof new information in the face of incomplete information.
Remembering the discussionsurrounding (5), the representation f a negated lexical item does not provide complete in-formation, and since a more complete interpretation f the negated lexical item is required,conjecturing of the extra information is necessary.A default rule is a rule of inference as shown in (8),(8) .
?where are all first order formulae whose free variables are among thoseof ~ = ml,.. .
,  ram.
Intuitively, a default rule can be interpreted as for all individualsz l , .
.
.
,  zm, if a(~) is believed and if #(~) is consistent with our beliefs, then w(g) maybe believed.
The a, #i's, and w are referred to as the prerequisite, justifications, andconsequent of the default rule, respectively.Normal defaults are default rules with the properties n = 1 and/31 (~) = w(~:).
Sinceall the default rules used throughout this paper are normal, discussion is restricted tothis class.
In addition to this structural property, normal defaults have other importantproperties which are discussed below.
Closed defaults are default rules that contain nofree variables in any of the first-order formulae.
Open defaults are default rules that arenot closed.
An open default is meant to represent the set of closed defaults obtained229by replacing all its free variables by ground terms.
Default rule schemata are meta-default rules that represent the set of open default rules obtained by replacing all therecta-variables with the appropriate substitution instance (for example, predicates, orformulae).
A default theory, A, is composed of a set of first-order formulae W, and a setof default rules, D. The default rules can be viewed as extending the first-order formulaewith the consequents of the default rules.
An extension, E of a closed default heory is aconstructable fixed point having the properties listed below.1.
WC_E2.
if E ~- a, then a E E (E is logically closed, that is, Th(E) = E, where Th is a fixedpoint operator defined by3.
for each default, a(g) : ~(~) E D, if a(g) E E, and -~( i )  ~ E, then #(~) E ENormal default heories always have an extension.
Multiple extensions are produced whentwo defaults conflict.
Normal defaults conflict when their consequents cannot simultane-ously be in the same extension.
These multiple xtensions are orthogonal, that is, pairwise,they differ on the truth value of at least one formula.
The third point in the definitionof E is very important.
Limiting the discussion to the effect that this definition has onthe application discussed in the remainder of this paper, since the first-order part of thedefault heory and all its entailments are in E, if a conflict occurs between a default andanything in the logical closure of W the consequent of the default rule is in no extensionof A.Although Default Logic has a proof theory, it will not be described here.
Rather all ofthe discussion regarding presuppositions will use the definition of extensions just given.We are able to do this since the logic has a kind of soundness and completeness result.That is, the proof theory cannot generate any formulae that is not in some extension, andif a formulae is in an extension, then the proof theory can generate it.For purposes of all the following examples, the definition of 'bachelor' is representedby the first order sentence (4).
Then the negation of 'bachelor' would be represented by(5).
Similarly the definitions for 'spinster', and its negation, are given by (9) and (10),respectively.
(9) Vx.SPINSTER(x) ~- FEMALE(m) A ADULT(m) A-,MARRIED(x)(10) Vx.~SPINSTER(x) _-- ~FEMALE(x) V -,ADULT(m) V MARRIED(m)The pragmatic rule for generating presuppositions from all lexical items can be captured asa default rule schema (11), where PRE represents information about the presuppositionalfeatures of the negated lexeme.
The knowledge of presuppositional features could then bepart of the lexicon and could be represented as (12).
(11) -uP(x) A iF(P, x) : Px(x) Pl(x) , if PRE(P, P1) is in the lexicon(12) PRE(BACHELOR, MALE)PRE ( BA CHEL OR, A D UL T)PRE( SPINSTER, FEMALE)PRE( SPINSTER, AD UL T)230This method is just an economical form of representation.
Since (11) is a schema itreally represents the set of its instances.
These instances can be obtained as neededby appropriately substituting for P and P1 throughout the schema.
For the case of'bachelor' we have already seen the instances as (6) and (7).
The instances for 'spinster',are similar.
All of the examples below will use the already substituted instances ratherthan the schema.
Before turning to the examples, we first need a more precise definitionof presuppositions based on defaults.3.2 .1  A Def in i t ion  o f  Presupposit ionsIn addition to the broad coverage, the default method provides a definition of presup-position not forthcoming from the previous methods.
Before giving the definition ofpresuppositions, werequire the prior definition of the consequents of the default heory.Definit ion 1 I f  D is any set of defaults thenCONSEQUENTS(D) = {w(m) Ia(x) : #'(z) ' ' ' " /~n(x)  E DFor purposes of the next definition, the only defaults in KBH, are the presupposition-generating defaults found in the speaker's lexicon.Definit ion 2 Let u be a sentence uttered by a speaker, S, in accordance with Grice'sMaxims of Cooperative Conversation.
Let KBH be the bearer's knowledge base before theutterance, and let the default theories ~ucase l , .
.
.
, AUcue n be the first order cases ofthe theory KBtt U {~(u)}.
A sentence c~ is a presupposition of u with respect o KBH ifand only if(i) a is in all extensions of AUca,ei, for i = 1 .
.
.
.
, n,(ii) a is in the deductive closure of CONSEQUENTS{D})(iii) a is not an entailment of KBH W {G(u)}(iv) oe is not inferable from KBH3.2 .2  Example  1 - -  Simple NegationIn the situation in which 'My cousin is not a bachelor.'
has been uttered, and the logicalform created maps 'my cousin' onto the constant cl, the representation f the sentencewould be that given in (13).
However, included in the hearer's lexicon is the informationprovided by the extended meaning postulate for 'bachelor' represented by (14)-(16).
Thesefour items taken together provide the default heory that represents the meaning of thisutterance.
(13) "-BA CHEL OR(c1)(14) -.BACHELOR(x) A iF(BACHELOR, x): MALE(x)MALE(x)(15) -,BACHELOR(z) A LF(BACttELOR, x) : ADULT(x)ADULT(x)231(16) Vx.~BACHELOR(x) ~ ..MALE(x) V ~ADULT(x) V MARRIED(x)It can easily be seen that all extensions of the default heory consisting of (13)-(16) (thereis only one) contains MALE(c1) and ADULT(cl).
By the definition given in the previoussection, these are the lexical presuppositions of the utterance derived from 'bachelor'.3.2 .3  Example  2 - -  Negat ion with Qualif icationIn the situation in which 'My cousin is not a bachelor, because my cousin is just three yearsold.'
has been uttered, and the logical form created maps 'my cousin' onto the constantcl, the representation of the sentence would be that given in (17).
Again, included inthe heater's lexicon is the information provided by the extended meaning postulate for'bachelor' represented by (18)-(20).
These four items taken together provide the defaulttheory that represents the meaning of this utterance.
(17) -BACHELOR(ct) A-~ADULT(cl)(18) -~BACHELOR(x) A LF(BACHELOR, x) : MALE(x)MALE(x)(19) ~BACHELOR(x) A LF(BACHELOR, x): ADULT(x )ADULT(x)(20) Vx.~BACHELOR(x) ~ ~MALE(x) V ~ADULT(x) V MARRIED(x)It can be easily seen that all extensions of the default heory consisting of (13)-(16) (thereis only one) contains MALE(c1) but does not contain ADULT(c1).
The reason is that-~ADULT(cl) is an entailment of this default heory which defeats the justification of thedefault rule (19) thereby not allowing its consequent into the extension.
Hence MALE(c1)is a lexical presupposition of the utterance, but ADULT(c1) is not.3.2 .4  Example  3 - -  Mult ip le  Cases with No Cancel lat ionIn the situation in which 'My cousin is a bachelor or Mary will be unhappy.'
has beenuttered, and the logical form created maps 'my cousin' onto the constant cl, and 'Mary'onto the constant ml, the representation f the sentence would be that given by the twocases (21) and (22).
As stated earlier, the computation of these cases is not given here.However, it should be obvious that these two cases are the two disjuncts of the exclusiveor representation f the utterance.
(21)(22)(23)(24)(25)BA CHEL OR(c l) A --1 UNHA PP Y (ml)--BACHELOR(el) A UNHAPPY(ml)~BA CHELOR(x) A LF( BA CHELOR, x): MALE(x)MALE(x)-.BACHELOR(x) A LF(BACHELOR, x) : ADULT(m)ADULT(x)Vx.BACttELOR(x) ~ MALE(x) A ADULT(x) A --MARRIED(x)232(26) Vx.~BACHELOR(z) ~ -,MALE(x) V -ADULT(z) V MARRIED(x)Together with the lexical information that is available for 'bachelor', which is given in(23)-(26) we obtain MALE(c1) and ADULT(cl) in all extensions of all cases.
So, theseare presuppositions of the utterance.3.2 .5  Example  4 - -  Mult ip le  Cases with Cancel lat ionIn the situation in which 'My cousin is a bachelor or a spinster.'
has been uttered, andthe logical form created maps 'my cousin' onto the constant cl, the representation f thesentence would be that given by the two cases (27) and (28).
(27) BA CHEL OR(c1) A -,SPINSTER(el)(28) -BA CHEL OR(cl) A SPINSTER(cl)-BACHELOR(z) A LF(BACHELOR, z):  MALE(z)(29) MALE(x)(30) -,BACHELOR(x) ^  LF(BACHELOR, z) : ADULT(x)ADULT(x)(31) Vz.BACHELOR(z) _= MALE(z) A ADULT(z) A -~MARRIED(x)(32) Vz.-,BACHELOa(z) =_ -,MALE(x) v -~ADULT(z) v MARRIED(z)(33) -,SPINSTER(z) ^ LF(SPINSTER, z):  FEMALE(x)FEMALE(z)(34) -SPINSTER(z) A LF(SPINSTER, z):  A D ULT(x)ADULT(x)(35) Yz.SPINSSTER(z) ~ FEMALE(x) ^  ADULT(z) A -,MARRIED(x)(36) ?z.-~SPINSTER(x) _=-~FEMALE(x) V -~ADULT(z) V MARRIED(x)(37) Vz.MALE(z) D ~FEMALE(x)The first case, represented by (27), together with the lexical information representedby (29)-(37) form a default theory which allows MALE(cl) and ADULT(cl) to be de-rived as entailments.
Consequently, no extension of this theory contains FEMALE(cl),the consequent of the default rule (33), since the justification is defeated by MALE(el).ADULT(c1) can also be derived using the default rule (34).Similarly, in the second case, represented by (28), together with the lexical infor-mation represented by (29)-(37) form a default theory which allows FEMALE(cl) andADULT(cl) to be derived as entailments.
Since the justification of default rule (29) isdefeated by FEMALE(cl), no extension of this theory contains MALE(cl).
ADULT(c1)can also be derived using the default rule (30).Since not all extensions contain MALE(cl) and not all contain FEMALE(cl), neitherof these formulae are presuppositions of the utterance.
Although ADULT(c1) is in allextensions of all the cases it is not a presupposition of the utterance since it is entailedby it.2333.3 Lex ica l  P ragmat icsAs mentioned earlier, we consider that this enterprise falls under the heading of lexicalpragmatics.
Now that a short description of this study of presuppositions has been given,it is appropriate to make more precise what we mean by the term, lexical pragmatics.The key difference between semantics and pragmatics has always been the role of con-text.
It is evident from the previous discussion that for natural language presuppositionsthe role of context is paramount.
There are explicit negations which produce differentoutcomes depending on the (non)existence of further qualifications.
Sentences which haveexactly the same syntactic structure, 'A or B.
', have different presuppositional behavioursdepending upon the content of 'A' and 'B'.
Although the role of context is fundamental,here we would like to focus instead on the functional units, the default rules, in order tomake more direct connections back to the source of these ideas: knowledge representationand default reasoning in Artificial Intelligence.Once the semantic meaning of 'bachelor' has been agreed upon, (38) say, this meaningremains unchanged no matter what context it is put in.
This property is referred toas monotonicity.
Monotonicity requires the behaviour of the inference mechanisms to belocalized.
All classical inference mechanisms are monotonic.
So, for instance, the malenessof a person is always the case given that the person is a bachelor.
Consequently, theseattributes can be precomputed and associated with the lexical item 'bachelor'.
(38) MALE(x) A ADULT(x) A--MARRIED(x)On the other hand the meaning of 'not a bachelor' has two components: the semanticcomponent, (39), and the pragmatic component, which is most commonly defined in termsof what is normally the case.
Again, the semantic omponent is unchanging.
It statesthat at least one of the disjuncts is true whenever the person is 'not a bachelor'.
On thepragmatic side, our approach is to reject the normal case only if something contradictsit.
This non-monotonic form of reasoning is demonstrated by Default Logic.
The defaultrules make explicit what it is that can defeat he generation of the consequence of thatrule.
These rules are intensional objects whose meanings are made explicit only in context.However, these rules can still be attached irectly to the lexical item in exactly the samemanner as the precomputed semantic omponents.
(39) -~MALE(x) V -~ADULT(x) V MARRIED(x)The contextual nature of the presupposition i ference as captured by default reason-ing indicates that one difference between semantics and pragmatics revolves around themonotonic/non-monotonic character of semantic and pragmatic inferences.
This viewadds a new dimension to pragmatics.
We believe that it is this view that has the most tooffer the lexicon.4 What  RemainsHow to apply this method in a practical implementation still needs to be investigated.Some of the remaining problems are in the domain of research in Default Logic.
DefaultLogic is not even semi-decidable in the first order case.
In the propositional case it isintractable ven for syntactically very restricted forms of theories.
One issue which hasrecently become a focus of attention in the default reasoning area is the notion of scope,234that is, when deciding whether the default succeeds, what part of the theory should heinvestigated for the potentially defeating information.
\[Etherington et al, to appear\] Theinterest in scope is twofold: to make default reasoning more tractable, and the commonlyheld belief that defaults in general are somewhat localized in their influence.
For ourpurposes here, the sentence presents a very natural scope.
It is probably not coinciden-tal that most of the examples given above deal with intrasentential competition amongpresuppositional triggers and entailments.Although this view of scoping can be used to overcome a variety of problems, some ofthe very (in)famous examples of presupposition deal with noun phrases.
Here, we comein contact with referring phrases, which again force us into potentially considering everyobject in our domain as a possible argument to defeat he default assumption.
However,we believe that a proper reading of Grice and an application of Gazdar's epistemic viewof communication can provide the needed relief from this problem (although the detailshave yet to he worked out).
In particular, if the speaker uses a particular eferringexpression i  the utterance, then the speaker is suggesting that it is under this descriptionthat the information is stored.
Thus the speaker is also communicating that he knowsthe information being communicated is related to this descriptor rather than some otherdescriptor.
Our task of deciding what the speaker is communicating is therefore limitedto this descriptor.
(This of course requires an epistemic operator that is not omniscient.
)This limitation assumes that there is no commonly known synonym for the referringexpression (which the speaker would not need to include in the utterance).
If commonsynonyms exist, then we regard this as a problem of knowledge representation, that is,how do we deal with these localized equalities without recourse to a promiscuous equalityrelation.Earlier we suggested that we have been interested in formalizing the notion of pre-supposition.
Inherent in this task is the use of a formal apparatus, in this case, DefaultLogic.
The application of these ideas to the practical situation of lexicon design and usewill require some more effort.
For example, the lexical presuppositions that have beendiscussed are attached to particular lexical items.
So, for instance, the presuppositionsof 'not a bachelor' do not hold for the logically equivalent expression 'not an unmarriedadult male' nor does ' female' which logically entails 'not a bachelor' allow the default as-sumption of 'adult' to hold.
In order to prevent hese unwanted inferences, we have usedguards on the default rules (the LF  predicate) to limit them to appropriate contexts.Another method would be to allow defaults to enter the inferencing process for limitedperiods of time rather than being constantly available.
How this method compares withthe standard view of default rules in a Default Logic remains to be investigated.
Oncethese questions are answered, the attachment of the defaults to lexical items in the lexiconand their proper use in computing the meaning of an utterance can be achieved.Lastly, it is of some importance to see what questions can be asked given this viewof lexical features.
Figure 1 represents a small portion of an ISA hierarchy of somehearer, H. The arcs have been labelled with features and the nodes have been labelledby the term which is associated with the set of features defined by the path from theroot node.
The deciding criterion for a negated lexeme's meaning is associated with thelast feature which labels the last arcs in the paths from the root node to the negated andunnegated lexical nodes.
In this instance the non-presuppositional feature is MARRIED- -  "-,MARRIED.
The emboldened path in Figure 1 represents he preferred interpretationof 'not a bachelor', that is, 'a married adult male'.
Given this simplistic taxonomicstructure two questions arise.
Can the lexicon be organized in such a way that the235s ?HUMAN ~'"" A E HUMAN" 7 ~  "FEMALE HUMAN" M L ?
.m.
.HUSBAND of \e BACHELORFigure 1: Portion of H's ISA hierarchy.presuppositional nd non-presuppositional features are given implicitly by the structurerather than having to be explicitly represented?
Negation would normally modify only thelast arc.
Given that this type of representation can be achieved are there any interestinganswers that arise from the structure, that is, are presuppositions given by the way westructure our linguistic (world) knowledge?5 ConclusionWe have investigated a formal approach to the definition of natural anguage presupposi-tions.
It has involved defining the presuppositions of lexical items as default rules togetherwith the use of Default Logic proof theory in appropriate contexts to generate the pre-suppositions of utterances containing the lexical items that generate presuppositions.This is but one use of defaults in the lexicon.
Other uses are fairly obvious - -  andthey are obvious in a sense that makes the boundary between the lexicon and classicalknowledge representation very fuzzy.
For example, the notion of canonical traits is theclassical example given to support the use of default reasoning in knowledge represen-tation: Tweety is a bird, therefore it (probably) flies.
As well, what happens when astandard concept is modified, for example, dog vs toy dog.
The issue of what gets negatedis very similar in nature to the problem of presuppositions: one item in the concept dog isnegated everything else (by default) stays the same.
So, in the toy dog situation the aliveproperty is negated but toy dogs still have four legs, two ears, and a tail, it barks, andso on.
These features may need to be appropriately modified (for example the barking isimaginary).
However, the uses in the lexicon of techniques from knowledge representationseem open-ended.6 AcknowledgementsThis work was partially supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering ResearchCouncil of Canada grant 0036853, and the Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Systems,a Canadian Network of Centres of Excellence.236References\[Carnap, 1956\] R. Carnap.
Meaning and Necessity.
Chicago University Press, 1956.\[Cruse, 1986\] D. A. Cruse.
Lezicai Semantics.
Cambridge University Press, 1986.\[Etherington et al, to appear\] D. W. Etherington, S. Kraus, and D. Perlis.
Nonmono-tonicity and the scope of reasoning.
Artificial Intelligence, to appear.\[Gazdar, 1979\] G. J. M. Gazdar.
Pragmatics: Implicature, Presupposition, and LogicalForm.
Academic Press, 1979.\[Griee, 1975\] H. P. Grice.
Logic and conversation.
In P. Cole and J. L. Morgan, editors,Syntax and Semantics, v.3, Speech Acts, pages 41-58.
Academic Press, 1975.\[Karttunen and Peters, 1979\] L. Karttunen and S. Peters.
Conventional implicature.
InC-K. Oh and D. A. Dineen, editors, Syntax and Semantics, v.11, Presuppositions, pages1-56.
Academic Press, 1979.\[Karttunen, 1973\] L. Karttunen.
Presuppositions of compound sentences.
Linguistic In-quiry, 4:169-193, 1973.\[Karttunen, 1974\] L. Karttunen.
Presupposition and linguistic ontext.
Theoretical Lin-guistics, 1:181-194, 1974.\[Mercer and Reiter, 1982\] R. E. Mercer and R. Reiter.
The representation of pre-suppositions using defaults.
In Proceedings of the ~th Biennial Conference of theCSCSI/SCEIO, pages 103-107, 1982.\[Mercer, 1987\] R. E. Mercer.
A Default Logic Approach to the Derivation of NaturalLanguage Presuppositions.
PhD thesis, Dept.
of Computer Science, University of BritishColumbia, 1987.\[Mercer, 1988a\] It.
E. Mercer.
Solving some persistent presupposition problems.
In Pro-ceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, pages 420-425, 1988.\[Mercer, 1988b\] It.
E. Mercer.
Using default logic to derive natural anguage presupposi-tions.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th Biennial Conference of the CSCSI/SCEIO, pages 14-21,1988.\[Mercer, 1990\] It.
E. Mercer.
Deriving natural anguage presuppositions from complexconditionals.
In Proceedings of the 8th Biennial Conference of the CSCSI/SCEIO,pages 114-120, 1990.\[Iteiter, 1980\] R. Iteiter.
A logic for default reasoning.
Artificial Intelligence, 13:81-132,1980.\[Soames, 1979\] S. Soames.
A projection problem for speaker presuppositions.
LinguisticInquiry, 10:623-666, 1979.\[Soames, 1982\] S. Soames.
How presuppositions are inherited: A solution to the projectionproblem.
Linguistic Inquiry, 13:483-545, 1982.237
