Representation of Semantic Knowledge with TermSubsumption LanguagesGerrit Burkert, Peter ForsterInstitut fffr Informatik, Universit~t StuttgartBreitwiesenstr.
20/22D-7000 Stuttgart 80, Germanye-mail:burkert@informatik, uni-stuttgart, deforster@informatik, uni-stuttgart, deAbstractOne problem in the design of a lexicon for natural language processing is the repre-sentation of semantic knowledge.
We examine the adequacy of knowledge representa-tion formalisms developed in artificial intelligence, in particular of term subsumptionlanguages for these issues.
In order to derive some basic requirements for a suitablerepresentation language we analyze a number of definitions of a monolingual dictio-nary.1 IntroductionThe lexicon as one of the major linguisitic knowledge sources of a natural language process-ing (NLP) system contains among others morphological, syntactic and semantic knowl-edge.
The design of an appropriate l xicon involves the following questions:?
Which size is required for the lexicon for a given application?
* What are the units of the vocabulary??
How should lexical information be represented??
What kinds of techniques should be applied for generating a large lexicon, e.g., couldthe lexicon be partially generated by extracting information from machine-readabledictionaries?In this paper we address the third problem, more precisely the representation of se-mantic information.Semantic knowledge iscrucial for both understanding and generating natural language.One important class of representation models for semantic knowledge are the networkmodels, which have been influenced by early association models.
In network models, wordmeanings can be described by relationships to other word meanings.
In contrast, othermodels for representing semantic knowledge aim at the representation f structural aspectsof word meanings o that a particular word meaning is built up by a set of particularsemantic features.During the last years, a number of knowledge representation (KR) systems have beenbuilt using term subsumption languages (TSLs).
TSLs are formal anguages for definingconcepts by reference to superconeepts and by specification ofadditional features.
Becauseof the similarity of concept descriptions inTSLs and dictionary definitions based on "genus67proximum et differentia specifica', it seems useful to investigate to what extent TSLs canbe used for the representation f word meanings.In the next section, we discuss ome properties of TSLs and their relation to other KRformalisms.
In order to get some hints whether TSLs are suitable for the representationof word meanings we examine several dictionary definitions.
Next, we give a short intro-duction to our terminological formalism and outline, how the formalism can be integratedinto a lexicon.
Finally, we summarize the results and give a short survey of our currentwork.2 Knowledge representation and TSLsIn the field of AI, many researchers have addressed the problem of knowledge representa-tion; in this area semantic networks played an important role.
In semantic networks theknowledge is described by nodes and links.
While Quillian aimed at the representationof word meanings \[Quillian 68\], semantic networks have also been used to model proposi-tions, events, spatial relationships and so on.
Since semantic networks failed in providinga unique semantic interpretation, several researchers examined the "semantics of semanticnetworks" (\[Woods 75\], \[Brachman 79\]).Another approach is to organize knowledge in chunks called frames \[Minsky 75\] whichare used to represent "stereotypical situations".
Frames typically allow the specificationof default slot values, perspectives and attached procedures.
Collections of frames can becombined to frame-systems.
The expressive power of frame systems makes it impossibleto provide a well defined semantics for them.Both, elements of different network formalisms and basics of the frame theory, haveinfluenced the structural inheritance networks and the subsequent implementations (KL-ONE, \[BrachmanSchmolze 85\]).
The basic idea is to postulate a level of knowledge repre-sentation with "knowledge structuring primitives, rather than particular knowledge prim-itives" (\[Brachman 79\]), the so-called epistemological level.
The basic buildung blocksof KL-ONE representations are "concepts", i.e.
structured conceptual objects.
"Roles"are possible relationships between two concepts.
The subsumption relation organizes theconcepts in a concept axonomy.
Concepts are described with respect o their supercon-cepts by restricting and differentiating roles.
In particular, roles can be restricted by thenumber (number estriction) and the range (value restriction) of allowed role fillers.
If thespecified restrictions constitute necessary and sufficient conditions for the concept, it iscalled a defined concept, wheras primitive concepts only need necessary conditions.
Clas-sification, an important inference mechanism of KL-ONE like systems, inserts concepts atthe correct place in the concept hierarchy.A logical reconstruction of KL-ONE revealed that the semantic status of a numberof notions of KL-ONE was rather unclear.
TSLs are formal knowledge representationlanguages derived from KL-ONE providing well-defined semantics which enables the de-cision whether the inferences are sound and complete.
A number of KR systems basedon TSLs have been developed, for instance, Krypton \[Brachman et al 85\], KL-Two \[Vi-lain 85\], Back \[Peltason et al 89\], Loom \[MacGregorBates 87\].
Besides a component fordefining concepts and reasoning about the relationships between concepts (terminologicalcomponent, TBox) these systems include an assertional component (ABox) that allowsthe definition of assertions about individuals.683 Representing word meanings with TSLsWhile aspects of syntactic structure are rather well understood in NLP, the problem ofrepresenting semantic information is far from being solved.
Scientists from various re-search areas, e.g., linguistics, philosophy of language, lexicology and artificial intelligence,are dealing with problems concering the nature of word meanings and means for theirrepresentation.In the following, we make some general remarks on semantic description without goinginto details of any semantic theory.
A particular aspect all semantic theories are concernedwith is the principle of compositionality: the meaning of a sentence is a function of themeaning of each of its components and its context.
As a first approximation, one could ab-stract away from the context or assume a typical context (paradigmatic analysis).
A goodsemantic theory, however, must allow the notion of semantic variation.
So, in addition tothe enumeration of possibly different senses of a word, we have to examine the meaningof a word in varying contexts (syntagmatic analysis).
Also, a finite enumeration of wordsenses does not suffice to explain the creative use of words (\[BoguraevPustejovsky 90\]).In addition to syntactic and semantic knowledge, the process of understanding naturallanguage involves extralinguistic (encyclopedic) knowledge.
Mechanisms for the combi-nation of these types of knowledge are an important prerequisite for natural languageunderstanding.The analysis of word meanings is also the subject of dictionary definitions.
During thelast years, there has been an increasing interest in methods for extracting lexical semanticinformation from machine-readable dictionaries (see for example \[BoguraevBriscoe 89\]).There is, however, no consensus about the representation formalism into which the mean-ing descriptions hould be transformed.
In our opinion, the suitability of AI-based KRformalisms for the representation of semantic knowledge and as a means for the combi-nation of linguistic and extralinguistic knowledge has to be investigated.
As a first step,we are analyzing a number of simple dictionary definitions in order to derive some basicrequirements which a representation language has to meet to be usable for the represen-tation of word meanings.
The results will allow us to assess the suitability of TSLs forthat matter.In a dictionary, different meanings of a word are usually specified by means of def-initions, examples, references and pictures.
1 Subsequently, we will concentrate on theanalysis of meaning definitions.
There exist different ypes of definitions, e.g., 2?
definition by reference to synonyms- acclaim: applause; approval.- complaint: illness; disease.- jowl: jaw.?
definition by reference to antonyms- absolute: not relative.1A comparison between different ypes of dictionaries and a closer investigation of the definitions in adictionary can not be given here.
See for example \[Hausmann 85\].2Even though we investigated german definitions from the Duden Bedentung~wJrterbuch (\[Duden 85\])the def in i t ions  we mention in this section are taken from the machine-readable version of the OxfordAdvanced Learner's Dictionary (\[OALD 88\]) because it turned out to be difficult to translate the germandefinitions without loss of information.59- affected: not natural or genuine.- wild: (of plants) not cultivated.?
definiton by reference to hyperonyms and modifying elements- park: public garden or public recreation ground in a town.- bobsled: large, long sleigh with brake and steering wheel, used for racing.- blackboard: board used in schools for writing and drawing on with chalk.We will have a closer look at nominal definitions of the latter type which contain agenus term of the defined word.
3The first part of the definition of park, namely "public garden", can be representedby a concept with superconcept garden and a relation called PROPERTY to the conceptpublic:a park is agardenwith PROPERTY publicA visualization of this definition (in a KL-ONE-Iike graphical notation) is given inFig.
1.~arden )PROPERTYFigure 1: Representation of parkThe concept identifiers, e.g., garden, in the example have to be distinguished from thecorresponding word forms.
4 Each concept represents one of the possible meanings of thecorresponding word.This example shows at least two problems of representing word meanings with TSLs.The main problem arises from the fact, that the epistemological primitives of a TSL donot give enough specifications for the representation of word meanings.
Many nominaldefinitions contain nouns modified with adjectives.
We need a number of predefined3In the German monolingual defining dictionary \[Duden 85\] around 70~ out of a sample of 126 ran-domly chosen definitions of nouns are of that type.4 In order to distinguish between concepts and words concepts are in the following printed in t ypewr it e rstyle.70and modifiable roles, like the relation PROPERTY between the nominal concepts and theconcepts representing these adjectives.Another important relation for the representation of noun meanings is the part-wholerelation, called meronyrny.
An example is the definition of bobsled:' large, long sleigh withbrake and steering wheel, used for racing.
The concept bobsled refers to the parts brakeand s teer ing-ghee l :a bobsled is asleighwith PROPERTY largewith PROPERTY longwith PART brakewith PART steering-wheelwith FUNCTION racingThis example shows a third class of important relations for the definition of nounmeanings, i.e.
the normal uses or functions of a thing.
The relations can be furtherspecialized, e.g., the PART relation describes different types of meronymy like COMPONENT,MEMBER, MATERIAL (see \[Miller et al 90\]).The part-whole relation is a relation between nominal concepts and can be representedin a TSL-based KR formalism by means of roles.
Number and type of given parts canbe described by number restriction and value restriction respectively.
Different parts of athing have to be specified by different subroles of a more general PART role.
In the exampleabove the two components brake and steering-wheel have to be related to bobsled bytwo COMPONENT roles:a bobsled is asleighwith COMPONENTI brakewith COMPONENT2 steering-wheelThe roles are organized in a role hierarchy:COMPONENT is a PARTCOMPONENTlis a COMPONENTCOMPONENT2 is a COMPONENTThe PROPERTY relation is a relation between nominal concepts and "property concepts",e.g., public in the first example.
Such kinds of concepts do not fit into a term hierarchybecause they usually do not have suitable superconcepts or individuals.
Consequently,the most important inference mechanism of TSLs, namely classification is unsuitable forthe representation of property concepts.
We presumably need another formalism for therepresentation of properties, in which other relations, for example antonymy, play animportant role (\[GrossMiller 90\]).
This formalism has to be combined with the termsubsumption formalism.The FUNCTION relation relates nominal concepts to concepts representing verb mean-ings, e.g.,71a bobs led  is asleighwith ...with FUNCTION racingThe representation f verb meanings involves a number of further problems, e.g., therepresentation f space and time, that can not be investigated in this paper.Returning to the representation f nominal concepts, we try to represent the completedefinition of park: public garden or public recreation ground in a town:a park is agardenwith PROPERTY publ icoris arecreation-gro~mdwith PROPERTY publ icwith LOCATION townThis example demonstrates the necessity of concept disjunction.
Disjunction is fre-quently used in definitions.
Therefore, a KR formalism adequate for the representationof semantic knowledge has to provide a form of concept disjunction.
Disjunction is notallowed in TSLs because it is contrary to the claim that concepts hould only be definedwith respect o their superconcepts.
In the example, both "garden with property pub-lic" and "recreation-ground with property public and with location town" (subsequentlytermed p-garden and p-recreat ion-ground respectively) are subconcepts of park, asillustrated in Fig.
2.publ ic\-gro dJPROPERTY PROPERTY f II / /%\ -  /  -groundJ_O.....f.
'?'?
)Figure 2: Another representation f parkThis representation f park is unsuitable because it does not guarantee that all parksare public gardens or public recreation grounds in a town.
A solution to this problem isthe notion of a "covering", which was inroduced in NIKL (\[Moser 83\]).
If park is definedas a covering of p-garden and p-recreation-ground, every instance of park will be an72instance of at least p-garden or p-recreation-ground.
In NIKL coverings are used toenhance concept specifications but they are ignored by the classifier.The investigation of further nominal definitions revealed that several other extensionsto TSLs are necessary:?
boil: hard (usn red, often painful) poisoned swelling under the skin, which burstswhen ripe.?
boulevard: wide city street, often with trees on each side.These examples indicate the existence of typical features of a concept, called "defaults".Inferences with defaults require the use of nonmonotonic reasoning techniques which areoutside the scope of a TSL classifier.The following examples how that similarity between concepts is another importantrelation.?
lemur: nocturnal animal of Madagascar, similar to a monkey but with a foxlike face.?
marimba: musical instrument similar to the xylophone.?
quail: small bird, similar to a partridge, valued as food.Most of the requirements mentioned above can not be integrated into a TSL main-taining sound and complete inferences.
Because these requirements seem to be necessaryfor the representation f word meanings, TSLs can provide only a "representational ker-nel", which has to be embedded into a component with greater expressive power.
Thiscomponent has to allow enhanced concept descriptions, e.g., concept disjunction, defaultsand similarity of concepts.4 An Approach to the IntegrationAs a first step we have implemented a KR system that consists of a terminological ndan assertional component.
The formalism used is similar to the formalism described in\[Nebel 90\].
The restricted expressiveness enables inferences that are sound and completeand makes the formalism suitable as a platform for the extensions described above.A small fragment of the TBox language is illustrated in the following example.
Theconcept bobsled is described as a subconcept of sleigh with two PART relations, namelyCOMPONENT1 and COMPONENT2.
These roles have to defined separately as specializationsof COMPONENT.
The concept bobsled is primitive because the specifications are necessarybut not sufficient for the definition of bobsled.
(defrole (PART))(defrole COMPONENT (PART))(defrole COMPONENT1 (COMPONENT))(defrole COMPONENT2 (COMPONENT))(defconcept bobsled (sleigh) :primitive(:all COMPONENTI brake)(:all COMPONENT2 steering-wheel))73The system is implemented in CLOS (Common Lisp Object System) and an overviewof its syntax and semantics i  given in \[Forster et al 91\].The formalism has to be integrated into a lexicon, a possible architecture of whichis shown in Fig.
3.
The lexicon consists basically of two components: one containingword forms and another for the representation f word meanings.
The latter has to beembedded into a component for the representation f more general world knowledge.wordworld meaningsknowledge ~wordformslexiconFigure 3: Integration of the components5 Conc lus ionWe have outlined that TSLs are KR formalisms with some interesting features.
Thewell-defined semantics allows to decide whether the inference algorithms are sound andcomplete.In order to use TSLs for the representation f word meanings we examined a number ofdictionary definitions.
TSLs seem to be adequate for the representation f some aspectsof noun meanings, for example the subsumption and part-whole relations.
There are,however, important aspects of word meanings which can not be expressed in TSLs, e.g.,concept disjunction, defaults and similarity between concepts.
As a consequence the TSLformalism has to be embedded into a representation system with more expressive power.Re ferences\[BoguraevBriscoe 89\] B. Boguraev and T. Briscoe (Eds.).
Computational Lezicographyfor Natural Language Processing.
Longman Group UK Limited, 1989.\[BoguraevPustejovsky 90\] B. Boguraev and J. Pustejovsky.
Lexical Ambiguity andKnowledge Representation.
In N. V. Findler (Ed.
), 13th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, llelsinki, 1990.\[Brachman etal.
85\] R. Brachman, V. Gilbert and H. Levesque.
An Essential HybridReasoning System Knowledge and Symbol Level Accounts of KRYPTON.
In Proc.of IJCAI-85, pp.
532-539, Los Angeles, CA, August 1985.
IJCAI, Inc.\[Brachman 79\] R. Brachman.
On the Epistemological Status of Semantic Networks.
InN.
V. Findler (Ed.
), Associative Networks - The Representation and Use of Knowl-74edge by Computers.
Academic Press, New York, 1979.
Also BBN Report 38077, April1978.\[BrachmanSchmolze 85\] R. J. Brachman and J. Schmolze.
An Overview of the KL-ONEKnowledge Representation System.
Cognitive Science, 2(9):45, 1985.\[Duden 85\] Duden.
Duden Bedeutungswfrterbueh.
Bibliographisches Institut, 1985.\[Forster et al 91\] P. Forster, G. Burkert and O. Eck.
Wissensrepr~entation mit TED undALAN.
Forthcoming: Interner Arbeitsbericht, Institut fiir Informatik, Universit~itStuttgart, 1991.\[GrossMiller 90\] D. Gross and K. J. Miller.
Adjectives in WordNet.
International Journalof Lexicography, 3:265-277, 1990.\[Hausmann 85\] F. J. Hausmann.
Lexikologie, pp.
367-411.
Athenaum Verlag, 1985.\[MacGregorBates 87\] R. MacGregor and R. Bates.
The Loom Knowledge RepresentationLanguage.
Technical Report, USC/Information Sciences Institute, 1987.\[Miller et al 90\] G. A. Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross and K. J. Miller.Introduction to WordNet: An On-line Lexical Database.
International Journal ofLexicography, 3:235-244, 1990.\[Minsky 75\] M. Minsky.
A Framework for Representing Knowledge.
In P. H.
Winston(Ed.
), The Psychology of Computer Vision, pp.
211-277.
McGraw-Hill, New York,1975.\[Moser 83\] M. Moser.
An Overview of NIKL, the New Implementation f KL-ONE.
InResearch in Natural Language Understanding.
Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, Inc.,Cambridge, MA, 1983.
BBN Technical Report 5421.\[Nebel 90\] B. Nebel.
Reasoning and Revision in Hybrid Representation Systems.
LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence.
Springer Verlag, 1990.\[OALD 88\] OALD.
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary Electronic Version.
OxfordUniversity Press, Cambridge, 3rd edition, 1988.\[Peltason et al 89\] C. Peltason, A. Schmiedel, C. Kindermann and J. Quantz.
The BACKSystem Revisited.
Technical Report kit - report 75, Projektgruppe KIT- FachbereichInformatik-TU Berlin, 1989.\[Quillian 68\] M. Quillian.
Semantic Memory.
In M. Minsky (Ed.
), Semantic InformationProcessing.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1968.
Also PhD Thesis, CarnegieInstitute of Technology, 1967.\[Vilain 85\] M. Vilain.
The restricted language architecture of a hybrid representationsystem.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-85, Los Angeles, Ca., pp.
547-551.
IJCAI, 1985.\[Woods 75\] W. Woods.
What's in a link: Foundations for semantic networks.
In D. G. Bo-brow and A. Collins (Eds.
), Representation and Understanding: Studies in CognitiveScience, pp.
35-82.
Academic Press, New York, 1975.75
