Predictable Meaning Shift:Some Linguistic Properties of Lexical Implication RulesNicholas OstlerTouche Ross Management ConsultantsB.T.S.
AtkinsOxford University Press17 Oakley RoadLondon N1 3LLUK.nicholas_ostler@ eurokom.ie11 South StreetLewes, Sussex BN7 2BTUK.btatkins@uk.ac.oxford.vaxAbstractDrawing on a growing database of systematic relationships between word-senses,the authors argue that a significant class of these represent Lexical ImplicationRules, a set of formal rules within the domain of lexical semantics; these theydistinguish from other types of semantic relation more closely dependent onmetaphor and world-knowledge.
Some formal properties of Lexical ImplicationRules are proposed, as evidence of their linguistic, rather than real-world, nature.1.
Introduction: Lexical Implication RulesIt is a truism that people, in interpreting and producing language, make use ofboth linguistic and real-world knowledge.
We contend that part of that linguisticknowledge is a knowledge of lexical semantics.
Lexical semantics i discerniblefrom real- world knowledge, because the inferences used are in certain casesformally distinct from commonsense inferences and from metaphors based onanalogies.
That is the position we attempt to substantiate in this paper.The focus of this paper is a series of arguments justifying the existence of LexicalImplication Rules (henceforth "LIRs").
Such rules in principle generate derivedlexical entries from base lexical entries.
We contend that they are bona fide rules inthe formal grammar of languages involved; it is wrong to see them as merereflections, quasi-systematic effects of applying the formal structures of alanguage in a real-world context.As evidence of this we adduce formal properties of the incidence of some of therules.
We postulate:?
that application of the rules is sometimes blocked by the pre-existingtopography of the lexicon (pre-emption);?
that formal features of the words involved, apparently unrelated to thesemantic effect of the rules, may inhibit LIR application;?
that semantic features of the words input, apparently unrelated to thesemantic effect of the rules themselves, may similarly inhibit LIR application;?
that some rules are specific to particular languages, and indeed to specificdialects of a given language.All these facts seem incompatible with the hypothesis that LIRs are side-effects ofthe the interaction of language use with speakers' knowledge of the real world.They call for a structured theory of lexical semantics, and this paper is intended as acontribution to building such a theory.11Lexical semantics is nonetheless constrained bythe real world, to the extent that (a) real-worldknowledge and analogy will of course be necessary in many cases to give a complete interpretation76The position outlined here arises from current work on the analysis andcategorization f a database of well over 100 instances of predictable xical andsemantic alternations.
These instances of systematic word-sense relationship arehard to categorize fully, but the majority appear to have properties which showthem not to be mere corollaries of speakers' free play with analogy and terseassumption of real-world situations.
They have something in common with the setof Lexical Rules used in Lexical Functional Grammar (cf Bresnan (1982)), but areprimarily conceptual rather than syntactic.
While it is already clear that there is greatvariety in the theoretical status of the rules in this set, we shall argue that there isclear evidence that at least some of these rules, the LIRs, must be defined asapplying to word-meanings; they are not derivable as generalizations over world-knowledge, or facts about he world or the society described, but must be stated ina full grammar of the language in which they occur.The significance of this is more than a theoretical nicety.
It is important tocomputational linguistics to include these facts in its lexicon, rather than as a specialkind of world knowledge, since the former will be in general more restricted andhence more manageable.2.
Some First Examples of LIRs; Contrast with some other Semantic ShiftsA few straightforward examples from English will give a first intuitive feel for thekind of lexical implications to be represented asLIRs.LIR Hunting PluralNC (count noun) singular: animal -> NPL: in hunting contexte.g.
I can see an elephant.
/ They've gone out after elephant.also tiger, shark, shrimp, partridge, pigeon etc.
(1)LIR Vehicle Verb (2)NC singular : vehicle -> VTI (verb transitive/intransitive): to travel/transportusing that vehiclee.g.
He's got a new cycle.
/ Let's cycle into town.also motor, ferry, canoe, ship, jet etc.LIR Animal - MeatNC: animal -> NU (uncountable ormass): meat from that animale.g.
Mary had a little lamb.
/ He won't touch lamb any more.also chicken, goose, monkey, dog, swordfish, shark etc.
(3)LIR Power Source Attribute (4)NU: energy source -> NMOD (noun modifier): powered by that sourcee.g.
There's no gas left.
/ A gas oven.also steam, water, wind, coal, air etc.LIR Dance VerbNC: dance -> VI: do that dancee.g.
Can you do a waltz?
/ He's learning to waltz.also tango, quickstep, foxtrot, cancan etc.
(5)of language as it is used; and (b) something impossible orimperceptible will not be lexicalized.
(We characterize b low the phenomenon f pragmatic exclusion.
).77LIR-ful Derived Noun (6)NC: container -> \[NC+ful \]NC: amount it contains/its contentse.g.
I don't use a thimble.
/ Add a mere thimbleful of brandy.also all purpose-built containers (trunk, tank, jug, hamper, bucket, basket etc.
),and some other items that can be viewed as containers (e.g.
spade, spoon, fork,hand, fist, belly,...)L1R Container - Amount/Contents (7)NC: container (purpose-built only) -> NC: amount it contains/its contentse.g.
The glass broke.
/ Add a glass of wine.
Don't drink the whole glass.also all purpose-built containers (trunk, tank, jug, hamper, bucket, basket etc.
)LIR Material AdjectiveNU: material -> NMOD: made of that materiale.g.
It's best quality linen.
/ A linen sheet.also polyester, plastic, stone, diamond, granite, lead etc.
(8)LIR -en Derived Adjective (defunct?
)NU: material -> \[NU+-en\] ADJ : made of that materiale.g.
The ring is made of a gold.
/ A golden ring.also wood, leather, oak, lead, woolLIR Constitution - StateNU: form of government -> NC: state with that forme.g.
Dem~racy is at risk.
/ Democracies must take action.also oligarchy, monarchy, tyranny, dictatorship etc.
(9)(10)LIR Nationality PluralADJ: nationality -> \[the ADJ\]Np L ?
people of that nationalitye.g.
The French nation.
/ The French have objected to this.also Swiss, Dutch, Chinese, Spanish etc.
(11)LIR Produce YoungNC: animal young -> VI: produce younge.g.
It's a foal.
/ The mare will foal shortly.also cub, pup, whelp, lamb etc.
(12)LIR Feeling - Evoking (13)ADJ: (of subject) feeling an emotion -> ADJ: (of cause) evoking that emotione.g.
She's sad about it.
/ It was a sad day.also happy, angry, nostalgic, melancholy etc.LIRNC:e.g.alsoCutter - Cuttool for cutting/piercing -> VTI: to use that tool onWhere's the knife?
/ She tried to knife me.saw, bayonet, spear, axe, harpoon etc.
(14)LIRNC:e.galsoFood Item - Massfood item -> NU: food substanceHere's an egg.
/ He won't eat egg.potato, lettuce, banana, coconut, haggis, sausage, pie etc.
(15)LIRs are distinguished invarious ways from some comparable phenomenadiscussed in the literature:781.
They are more systematic than the Lexical Network framework used by Norvigto link the remoter senses of take in Norvig & Lakoff (1987); cf also Norvig(1989).2.
Each implication instance has a single clear base form.
In this they are unlikethe semantic alternations arising from the metaphorical concepts uch as "argumentis war" or "communication is a conduit" of Lakoff & Johnson (1980) and Sweetser(1990), which are often better epresented asprojections from one network ofsemantic relations on to an isomorphic one.3.
They do not depend on special background knowledge, unlike many of theinnovative denominals of Clark & Clark (1979) (e.g.We all Wayned and Cagneyed).24.
They are not coerced by a governing head, unlike the instances of contextualdetermination (three martinis ago, before the jet engine) pointed out by Fillmore(p.c.).3.
Formal Definition of LIRsThe form of an LIR may be given schematically asfollows, using Cruse'sterminology (cf Cruse 1986):A lexical unit LU1, consisting of a lexical component LC1 (consisting ofphonological, orthographic, morphological nd syntactic information) and asemantic omponent SC1, implies the existence of a lexical unit LU2, with lexicalcomponent LC1 or LC2 and semantic omponent SC2.More graphically:(i) LC l \ [ .
.
.a .
.
.
\ ]  : SC 1 \ [ .
.
.
t~.. .
\ ] - -> LC 1 \ [ .
.
.a.
.
.
\ ]  : SC 2 \[...x...\]or(j) LC 1 \[...a...\] : SC 1 \[...~...\] --> LC 2 \[...0~...\] : SC 2 \[...'t...\]This means that within our definition of LIRs are included all defivational rules,since these always affect he sense of their input-word.Note that, on this theory, LIRs may alter the lexical component of an input word,but they must alter its semantic omponent.
The formal change brought about by anLIR may be vacuous, but the semantic hange can never be.
LIRs, therefore, onour conception, are centrally concerned with semantics, but only incidentally withformal transformations.
Hence, for example, the many lexical processes inEnglish which involve transition from a count noun to a mass noun (e.g.
Tree -Wood; Animal - Fur; Animal - Meat; Food Item - Mass) will be viewed asdistinct LIRs.The arrow in the LIR-schema makes it clear that LIRs are viewed as denvationalprocesses, not as symmetrical relations.
The claim is made that each implicationinstance has a single clear base form.
3 This is not an idle claim, but is in fact2Historically many LIRs may have begun as post-hoc generalizations ver such "contextual"innovations.3This accords with Aronoffs principle of Word-based Morphology (1976).79supported by the facts adduced to show the conditions under which LIRs areblocked (viz by Pre-emption, and by Formally- and Semantically-BasedExceptions, as exhibited below).
Such constraints on the application of a ruleblock the existence of a potential output for a given input.
Without cleardirectionality in the LIRs that are blocked, such constraints would be meaningless,or at least unspecific in their effect.4.
Our Database and its Usefulness in Lexicography.
The R61e of Theory.Created (by Atkins) in an effort o systematize and accelerate he process ofdictionary compiling, the database draws on the relationships discussed by Fillmore(e.g.
1969, 1978 and elsewhere) ; Apresjan's cases of regularpolysemy (1973);Leech's emantic transfer rules (1981); the verb alternations oted in Levin(forthcoming); the cases of systematic polysemy discussed in Miller (1978), Clark& Clark (1979), Aronoff (1980) and Lehrer (1990); items participating in the cross-language l xicalizafion patterns which Talmy discusses (1985); the nom/nalcompounds analysed by Levi (1982); and Pustejovsky's generative l xicon(1991).The database is far from complete.
It consists at present of a dBaselII Plus file, ofwhich each of the 130 records holds information on one particular type ofsystematic meaning shift, and separate lists (as complete as possible) of the sets ofwords which participate ineach type, and those which might be expected to, but donot.At present the lists of words which participate in the various identified meaningshifts may be used to remind a lexicographer that a particular word is expected tohave certain specified usages, and to structure in advance certain aspects of thedictionary entry accordingly.
In lexicography, when teams of a dozen or so peoplework on producing for one dictionary consistent descriptions of 100,000 or morewords, such preparatory marking of items in the wordlist already makes thecompiling faster and more consistent across members of the team.
The computercan present them with an appropriate pro-forma entry to complete, rather than theirhaving to compile ach word from scratch.But besides these pragmatic aims, we are also concerned to clarify the theoreticalstatus of the various types of meaning shift.
Success here will allow rules to beformulated more accurately and comprehensively.
In addition, by illuminating thesemantic primitives which play a r61e in the rules, it should also lead towardsstandardization f the semantic component of lexical entries.We now turn to the evidence for LIRs as linguistic rules.5.
Formal Properties of LIRs - I: Pre-emptionPre-emption is the prevention of application of a rule because the place for its outputis, in some way, already taken.
4 We have noted two kinds of pre-emptionblocking LIRs: semantic pre-emption, where the sense is already represented by a4pre-emption is explicitly noted in this context by Clark & Clark (1979: p. 798).
Cf alsoGruber (1976: 295-6).
These, however, only note the phenomenon of what we call semantic pre-emption.80different word; and lexicalpre-emption, where the word has already been assigneda different sense.Semantic Pre-emption(i)Hunting Plural is blocked by the pre-existence of the collective plural noun cattle: *they're out after ox/cow/bull/bullock.
(ii)Vehicle Verb is blocked by the existence of special-purpose v rbs drive, sail, fly(even if these are not strictly accurate statements of the power-source involved):*we carted/boated/planed home.
(iii)Animal Meat is pre-empted by the Anglo-Norman terms beef, mutton, pork, vealvenison : *have some more gravy on your bullock/sheep/pig/calf/deer.
(iv)Power Source Attribute is pre-empted by the adjective lectric :*electricity motor/power/light.Lexical Pre-emptionDance Verb is blocked in the case of reel because the verb form that would resultis already there with a different meaning, viz "to stagger, as from a shock".
Henceit is not available to mean "do the (Highland) reel": *the party reeled the night away.Although pre-emption of these kinds does appear to be a sufficient condition, andhence good evidence, for a semantic shift's being an LIR, it is not apparently anecessary one: sometimes it fails to work where LIRs do seem to be involved.For instance, -ful Derived Noun creates Contents and Amount senses, sometimeson the basis of quite unpromising nouns: belly -> a bellyful of rice & beans, cap -> a capful of disinfectant,fist -> a fistful of dollars, hand -> a handful of dust,needle -> a needleful of cotton, pocket -> a pocketful of rye, shovel -> a shovelfulof spaghetti, spade -> a spadeful of earth, spoon -> a spoonful of sugar etc.However, the rule also applies to 'true' Container nouns (words whose primarysense is a hyponym of container): bottle... -> bottleful, bucketful, cupful glassfulpotful, sackful, tankful, thimbleful.
In these applications, the rule's semantic effectseems to be indistinguishable from that of Container - Amount/Contents.Nonetheless, this latter is not pre-empted e.g.
he drank the whole bottle(ful); thepail holds eight bottle(ful)s of milk.
5Another case of failed pre-emption concerns the LIR Material  Adjective.
This rulewhich allows the names of materials to be used as adjectives to describe objectsmade of the material is unaffected by the application of the somewhat sporadic -enDerived Adjective rule.E.g.,a gold ring vs. a golden ringa silk shirt vs. a silken shirtan oak chest vs. an oaken chesta leather bottle vs. a leathern bottle5There must be an LIR involved here, and not just a vagueness in the sense of "container nouns":the senses Amount and Contents are clearly distinct from the sense Container.
To show this it isenough to point out that nouns like handful and bottleful have the senses Amount and Contentsbut not the sense Container.81buta silver ring vs. *a silvern ringa hair shirt vs. *a hairen shirta teak chest vs. *a teaken chesta rubber bottle vs. *a rubbern bottle 6For the moment it is enough to point out that pre-emption is not always clear-cutand co-ercive.
Where it is present, however, it indicates clearly the presence of anLIR.Pre-emption proper, however, should be distinguished from what we might callpragmatic exclusion.
These are cases where a predicted application of a rule isblocked because of external fact about the world.
Compounding with place-namescan imply Source as well as DestinationT: e.g.
When is the London train due in?
(="train from London") vs.
When is the London train due to leave?
(="train forLondon").
However, the Source option seems trangely to be excluded for roads.
"The London road" means the road to London, not away from it.
The paradoxgoes away when one considers the point of view of road users.
Either they are inLondon, or they are not.
If they are, then every road they might take is a road fromLondon; talking about "the London road" in this sense is of little use to them.
Ifthey are somewhere else, then every road from London is co-extensive with a roadto London: why bother to distinguish?
Both sets of road-users can be kept happy ifthe convention is adopted that "London road" = "road to London".6.
Formal  Properties of  L IRs - 2: Formal ly-Based Except ionsCertain constraints on particular LIRs are quite formal.
They have to do with non-semantic aspects of the lexical items involved, principally their phonological form,but also their morphological or syntactic sub-category.
Such examples provideperhaps the clearest evidence that LIRs are not an effect of pragmatic attempts to usewords tersely and interpret them constructively.Phonological Exceptions(i)Constitut ion - State provides quite generally for mass nouns designating types ofgovernment toact as count nouns designating states under such government.Hence there is democracy, tyranny, dictatorship, oligarchy, and there aredemocracies, tyrannies, dictatorships, oligarchies.
8 However, there is one largeclass of nouns, those ending in -ism, for which this LIR is blocked: there are no*fascisms, *communisms, *nazisms, *totalitarianisms, *marxisms, *leninisms,6Evidently, there is vagueness inthe precise definition of the two processes concerned.
Somewould say the adjectives in -(e)n are moving away from their original meaning "made of" tosomething vaguer such as "redolent of"; others that he outputs of Material Adjective are notreally adjectives, but just compound uses of the original nouns.
There are tests that bear on thesepoints but the results are variable and inconclusive.7Obviously, these possibilities are not exhaustive.8Some types of r6gime have no corresponding term for a theory of government: e.g.
republic,kingdom, dukedom, heptarchy.
This is because not all r6gime-terms are derived from terms forpolitical theories (contrast monarchy (which is) with kingdom (which is not)).
In other cases,the possibility of a corresponding r6gime is only pragmatically excluded : politics, not grammar,precludes anarchies, bureaucracies and officialdoms.82*stalinisms or *maoisms, although it is quite clear which states would have beencandidates for such titles.
9(ii)Nationality Plural allows for nationality adjectives, when preceded by the definitearticle, to also function as terms for a plural noun, referring to a given group of, orto all people of, that nationality.
Strangely, however, the rule is subject o aphonological restriction: only terms ending in a sibilant consonant are eligible.
Sowe may refer to the Swiss, the Spanish, the Dutch, the French, the Japanese, butnot (as a collective plural) to *the Belgian, *the German, *the Coptic, *the Iraqi or*the Malay.
10Morphological ExceptionProduce Young provides for the use of any name of a young mammal as a verbto denote the giving of birth to such an animal.
Thus cows calve 11, mares foal,ewes lamb, vixens cub, dogs whelp, cats litter, sows farrow, seals pup, and doesfawn.
However, the rule excepts diminutives: kitten, piglet and puppy form noverbs.
12Syntactic ExceptionFeeling - Evoking applies to adjectives, converting an attribute of a person feelingan emotion to that of any object causing the emotion.
It appears to be systematicallyblocked from applying to any adjective which is only used preedicatively.
Hence wehave the following contrasts:a happy child*a glad child: the child is happy:: a happy occasion: the child is glad:: *a glad occasion: the occasion is happy: *the occasion is glada fearful child*an afraid child: the child is fearful:: a fearful occasion: the child is afraid::*an afraid occasion: the occasion is fearful:*the occasion is afraida unhealthy child*an ill child: the child is unhealthy:: a unhealthy occasion : the occasion is unhealthy: the child is ill::*an ill occasion :*the occasion is illa rapt child : the child is rapt:: a rapt occasion*an agog child : the child is agog ::*an agog occasion: ?the occasion is rapt:*the occasion is agog9An exception to the constraint isdespotism, especially in the usage oriental despotism.10Non-naturalized names are another, perhaps semantic, exception.
The Hausa, the Wolof, theKonkani, the Tuareg strike this writer at least as acceptable collective plurals.
Interestingly, too,the Maya seem OK, while the Inca and Chibcha re not.11Th e verb calve instead of the expected *calf is a mild case of pre-emption i ModemEnglish.
The voicing-alternation, however, was once regular, and is merely evidence that heorigins of this LIR go back at least o Middle English.12Though, as the examples show, these could also be excluded by pre-emption.837.
Formal Properties of LIRs - 3: Semantically-Based ExceptionsBeside these uncanny exceptions to LIRs based on features of the word-formsinvolved, LIRs are also subject o systematic exceptions which pick on features ofthe sense.
In drawing attention to them, we notice some surprisingly intricatestructure in the lexicon.Cutter Cut enables nouns representing cutting instruments obe used as verbs.So people can be knifed, bayoneted, speared, harpooned, axed, tomahawked, orscythed own; various tools can scissor, drill or saw through material.
Why thendo sword, dagger and their hyponyms take no part in this verbal carnage?
Why isit impossible to speak of *swording, *daggering, *poniarding, *bodkinning,*rapiering, *scimitaring, *sabring, *stilettoing, *claymoring or whatever else onemight do to an adversary with a specific bladed weapon?
It begins to look likemore than an accident, since there are plenty of non-derived verbs to cover, in lessspecific ways, the stabbing, slashing, chopping, hacking, pricking and piercingactions that would be connoted.Another strangely coherent semantic onstraint is on Food Item - Mass.
Thisallows a count noun for food to appear as a mass noun when the units of that foodare not evident.
Hence although the primary meaning of the nouns is the discreteanimal, fruit or vegetable, one can nevertheless refer to some egg, some crab,some salmon, some potato, some carrot, some apple, some cabbage tc., connotinga mass of the relevant food substance typically on a plate.
Only one form of foodseems to resist: pulses.
No matter how finely you grind or mash them, you cannotrefer to "*some pea", "*some bean", "*some lentil".
Refried beans are still beans,not bean.
Neither of the authors is a native user of garbanzo (a North Americanname for chickpea), but we would predict hat you cannot have a side-dish ofgarban zo.
138.
Formal Properties of LIRs - 4: Specificity to Language, and to DialectFurther evidence comes from cases where an LIR appears to be present in onelanguage, but not in another.The form of the argument is quite simple: consider two languages (for the sake ofargument, called A and B) and two sets of words, apparently translation equivalentsone for one between the two languages.
Suppose that the members of the set in Aall have an extra sense which members of the set in B lack.
Such cases are clearevidence of that the assignment of senses is language-dependent; a d the facts areexplained by positing an LIR to be present in A and not in B.
The only alternativewould be to appeal to pragmatic interpretation f the context.
14 But pragrnatics ia species of commonsense: it cannot explain why the interpretation of vocabularydiffers systematically from one speech-community to another.13The historical situation here seems alittle-muddled, since pea is a singularized hack-formationfrom pease, originally a mass-noun meaning peas.
This itself seems to have been a reanalysis ofa descendant of an originally plural noun in Latin, pisa.
In modern Indian English, dal is usedquite happily as a mass-noun for a different son of pulses.14As, for example, Aronoff (1980: pp.755-7) attempts oexplain away the need for specificdetails in rules of morphological semantics by appealing to features of the context ininterpretation.
His argument is significantly weakened by cases where languages with closemorphological processes (e.g.
agent nouns in English and French) apparently show quite differentconstraints on their interpretation: e.g.
c'est un bon conducteur has no sense synonymous withthe simple il conduit bien ; but cf.
he's a good driver = he drives well.84An example may make the point clearer.
In Ancient Greek, there is a set ofadjectives (clearly marked as such morphologically) which associate their head-noun with a particular time of day.
( E.g.
eo:os - at dawn, early; orthr ios - in themorning; mese:mbr inos  - at noon; dei l inos - in the afternoon; hesper ios - in theevening; nukteros - at night; mesonukt ios - at midnight; pannukh ios  - all nightlong).
English also has such a set of adjectives but they are few, and confined to alearned register (e.g.
matutinal ,  nocturnal  ); the major translation equivalents inEnglish are attributive uses of nouns (e.g.
morn ing  papers ,  noon-day  sun,afternoon tea etc.).
Ancient Greek goes on to use its temporal adjectivespredicatively, with the sense of adverbial qualifiers of the action predicated:e.g.orthrios he:ko:n - coming in the morning (Plato, Protagoras 313B)egre:i mese:mbrinos - you wake at noon (Aristophanes, Wasps 774)eudon pannukhioi - they slept all night long (Homer, Iliad 2.2)Evidently, there is no such predicative use of English temporal adjectives or nouns:prepositional phrases (as used above in the glosses) are the closest hat can beoffered.
15Hence there is an adverbial sense of Greek temporal adjectives, used predicatively,which has no parallel in English.
A neat formulation of the case would thus be toformulate an Ancient Greek LIR, absent in English, which goes:LIR Time Predication (16)ADJ : temporal, ?p(head-NP) -> ADJ predicative: temporal, t~(head-S) 16To avoid positing an LIR here would take some special pleading.
In this case onewould need to argue that the distinction of senses made in English is simply absentin Greek, so that temporal adjectives are available to do more promiscuous service.This would amount o saying that Ancient Greek simply made no linguisticdistinction between assigning a time-reference to an action and assigning a time-reference to the agent of that action.However, our point here is not to argue for a specific analysis of the Greek facts.
Itis simply to point out that sense-shifts of the type that LIRs represent are sometimeslanguage-specific.
Either we can encapsulate he differences in a single LIR,present in language A, absent in B.
Or else we can posit a different assignment ofsemantic primitives, with B being systematically stricter in the senses allowed fora given class of words (-- in this case, English will not allow its temporaladjectives to assign a time-reference to a whole action).
Either way, we shall havegained some concrete vidence on linguistic semantics.
What we are not free toclaim is that pragmatic considerations alone can resolve such systematic differencesbetween languages.A similar cross-linguistic argument for the linguistic reality of LIRs can be madefrom dialectal differences within the same language.Consider for example the treatment of "day-nouns" in Standard British English asagainst their treatment invarious other dialects, including Cockney and GeneralAmerican.
Whereas the indexical nouns today, tonight, yesterday, tomorrow occuras adverbs in all dialects, the days of the week Sunday  through Saturday cannot15And these in fact have precise translation equivalents, using prepositions, in Ancient Greek.16~X) here represents he syntactic unit of whose sense the adjective's sense is predicated.85occur adverbially in Standard British English: he came *(on) Tuesday.
To accountfor this, one could posit an LIR Day Noun - Adverb, with a more restricteddomain in Standard British English than in the other dialects.But to posit this is already to accept that the LIR is a feature of the grammar ofEnglish.
Contrastive analysis, whether applying within a language or betweenlanguages, will, we expect, continue to raise a host of problems for any approachwhich tries to account for the fine detail of semantics as side-effects of pragmafics.The real world, and the human condition, is not so different from one language-community to another (let alne between dialect-areas).
But as languages and theirgrammars differ, so does their lexical semantics.ReferencesAronoff, Mark (1976) Word Formation in Generative Grammar, LI Monograph1, MIT Press, Cambridge MA, USA.Aronoff, Mark (1980) Contextuals, Language 56:4, pp.
744-758.Apresjan, Ju.D.
(1973) Regular Polysemy, Linguistics 142, Mouton, The Hague,NL.Bresnan, Joan (1982) (ed.)
The Mental Representation f Grammatical Relations,MIT Press, Cambridge MA, USA.Clark, E.V.
& H.H.
Clark (1979) When nouns surface as verbs, Language 55:4,pp.
767-811.Cruse, D.A.
(1986) Lexical Semantics, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.Fillmore, C.J.
(1969) Types of lexical information, pp.
109-137 in F. Kiefer ed.,Studies in Syntax and Semantics, Reidel, Dordrecht, NL.Fillmore, C.J.
(1978) On the organization of semantic information i  the lexicon,Parasession on the Lexicon, Chicago Linguistic Society, University of Chicago,USA.Gruber, Jeffrey (1976) Lexical structures in syntax and semantics.
North-Holland, Amsterdam, NL.Lakoff, George & Mark Johnson (1980) Metaphors We Live By, University ofChicago Press, Chicago, USA.Leech, Geoffrey (1981) Semantics, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Lehrer, Adrienne (1990) Polysemy, conventionality and the structure of thelexicon.
Cognitive Linguistics 1.2, pp.
207-246.Levi, Judith N. (1982) Complex Nominals: New Discoveries, New Questions.Proceedings of the Xlllth International Congress of Linguists, Tokyo, pp.
183-19786Levin, Beth (forthcoming) Towards a Lexical Organization of English Verbs,University of Chicago Press, Chicago, USA.Miller, George A.
(1978) Semantic Relations Among Words, pp.
60-117 in M.Halle et al ed.
Linguistic Theory and Psychological Reality, MIT Press,Cambridge MA, USA.Norvig, Peter (1989) Building a Large Lexicon with Lexical Network Theory.Proceedings of the First International Language Acquisition Workshop, Detroit,USA.Norvig, Peter & George Lakoff (1987) Taking: a study in Lexical Network TheoryProceedings of the 13th Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, pp.
195-205.Pustejovsky, James (1991) The Generative Lexicon, Computational Linguistics17.Sweetser, E. (1990) From etymology topragmatics: metaphorical nd culturalaspects of semantic structure, Cambridge University Press, UK.Talmy, Leonard (1985) Lexicalization patterns: Semantic structure in lexical forms,in T. Shopen ed., Language typology and syntactic description.
Volume 3:Grammatical categories and the lexicon, Cambridge University Press, UK.87
