General  Lexical Representat ion for an EffectPredicateMartha PalmerNational University off Singapore,Department ofInformation Systems and Computer ScienceLower Kent Ridge RoadSingaporempaimer~nusdiscs, bitnetAbstractThis paper argues that there is no reason to distinguish between lexical informationand real-world information on the basis of the formalisms used; that both types ofknowledge can be expressed in the same formalism.
However, it Mso argues thatthere is information that is uniquely lexical in content, and this information consistsof verb- independent definitions for thematic relations uch as cause and effect hatalter the representation f a verb depending on the presence or absence of certainverb arguments.1 Introduct ionWhen considering the question of whether or not lexical information can be separated fromreal-world knowledge, it must first be recognized that most lexical information in a naturallanguage processing system is expressed in terms of properties defined in a knowledge baserepresenting the domain model - i.e., the "world," whether eal or otherwise.
For example,semantic lass constraints consist of properties uch as an imate  or mach ine-par t  whichare associated with generic entities.
Semantics is often described as the link betweensyntax and the knowledge base, so by definition it must have one foot in the knowledge basecamp.
In the absence of concrete xamples of lexical facts or rules that are provably moredifficult to represent than real-world knowledge, it also seems reasonable to assume thatthe knowledge representation formalism used for the domain model could serve to modelthe associated lexical information.
This is not intended to imply that it will be possible tofully represent all of both types of information.. Formalisms for knowledge representationhave been acknowledged to be inadequate for representing real-world knowledge, let alnelexical information \[1\].
It does make it especially burdensome to prove that a formalismthat is inadequate for real world knowledge is even more inadequate for lexical information.The question remains, is there lexical information which is uniquely "lexical" in thatit can be distinguished from real-world knowledge albeit it may be expressed identically?This paper argues for the affirmative response.
Given the approach to semantic repre-sentation implemented in PUNDIT and KERNEL \[2\], \[3\], \[10\] which is closely alignedto Jackendoff's lexical conceptual structures \[4\], \[5\], it is argued that the definitions ofthematic relations such as cause and effect correspond to "uniquely lexical" items ofinformation.1982 Reviewing the effect definit ionIt has already been proposed, \[7\], \[9\], that the thematic relation effect can be formalizedas a predicate which takes two arguments, an Intermediary and another predicate.
This isbriefly summarized here.
Examples of three verbs from a domain of pulley word problemsthat include this definition in their lexical conceptual representations are connect, hangand suspend.2.1 Contact  verbsWe will first look at attach and then contrast it with connect.
An example sentencefrom the pulley domain is A particle is attached #o/at\] the end of a string.
The finalsemantic representation f this sentence needs to include a fixed, direct contact betweenthe particle and the end of the string.
This is accomplished by mapping the referent fortheparticle, part le le l ,  onto one Patient role, and the referent for the end, end l  onto thesecond Patient role in the following lexical conceptual structure: 1attach-:contact(Patient 1,Patient2))The semantic representation resulting from this lexical conceptual structure becomescontact (part ic le l ,end l ) .
At first glance, connect seems to be quite similar to attach,but the possible inclusion of an Intermediary makes an important difference.
Examples ofconnect as used in the pulley domain include: A particle is connected to the end of a string,A string connects two particles, A particle is connected by a string to another particle...In all of these phrases, the final semantic representation should include a fixed contactbetween location points on each of the two objects being connected to each other.
In thefirst phrase, A particle is connected to the end of a string, the particle and the end arebeing attached irectly to each other.
In the second and third phrases, A string connectstwo particles and A particle is connected by a string to another particle, the two particlesare being indirectly linked with each other by the use of an Intermediary, the string.
Thereis still a fixed contact involved, in fact there are two fixed contacts, but they are betweenthe particles and the ends of the strings, not between the particles themselves.
This useof a string as a Intermediary to effect a connection between two objects is captured bythe following eneral definition of connect which can produce distinct representations forthe different usages of connect given in the examples here.connect -:effect(Intermediary),contact(Patientl,Patient2))Instantiating this definition by the referents to the noun phrases from A string connectstwo particles results in:1 The use  o f  standard thematic role names in the verb definitions i not intended to mislead the readerinto thinking that the arguments o the predicates correspond directly to traditional thematic roles.
Theyare simply arguments to predicates, and could just have easily been labelled Argl and Arg2, and havebeen labelled as such in various incarnations.
However, the author finds it difficult to keep Argl andArg2 straight, and has resorted to the thematic role names in the hopes of preserving some clarity aroundwhich argument is which.199effect(stringl,contact(particlel,particle2))At this stage, the representation does not capture the contacts between the particlesand the string.
To achieve that it is necessary to apply the following linguistic definitionof the effect thematic relation that is independent of the verb, i.e., it applies to morethan one verb:effect(Intermediary),Relation(Argl,Arg2) -:Relation(Argl,Intermediary) ANDRelation(Intermediary, A g2)Matching this definition to our instantiated lexical conceptual structure from abovereplaces the general Relation predicate with contact, Intermediary with s t r ing l ,  Arglwith part ic le l  and Arg2 with partlele2.
It results in:effect(stringl),contact(particlel,particle2)) -:contact(particlel,stringl)contact(stringl,particle2)This demonstrates that the general definition given above, a classic definition of logicaltransitivity (not linguistic transitivity!
), can capture the essence of the meaning of theeffect thematic relation in that the Intermediary effects an indirect contact between twoobjects by being in direct contact with each of them.The principle difference between connect and attach is the possible inclusion Of theIntermediary.
When the Intermediary in connect is not present, it is not assumed, andthe desired representation is exactly the same as the representation for attach.
This canbe captured by a definition such as the one given below:effect(absent,Relation(Arg 1,Arg2) -:Relation(Argl,Arg2)Given our first example phrase, A particle is connected to the end of a string, the firstrepresentation produced would be:effect(absent,contact(particle 1 , nd 1))The application of the absent definition strips off the effect predicate, and the re-sulting representation is identical to the attach representation given above, i.e., con-tac t (par t i c le l ,end l ) .
This allows us to produce two quite different semantic represen-tations for the different usages of connect in our example sentences.
22This would also be consistent with the view that the different usages are actually separate l xicalitems, which should receive separate s matic representations, as in fact they do here.
Then the principal200The verb-independence of the linguistic definition for effect is substantiated by ap-plying it to hang and suspend as described in the following section.2 .2 Suppor t  verbsTwo principal suppor t  verbs in the pulley domain are hang and suspend which are usedquite similarly as in A particle is hung from a pulley by a string, Two particles are sus-pended from a pulley, aThe lexieal conceptual structure for hang and suspend is similar to connect and is givenbelow:hang -:effect(Intermediary,support(Patient, Source))The first phrase, A particle is hung from a pulley by a string is treated almost identicallyto A particle is connected to another particle by a string.
The string is the Intermediary,the particle is the Patient and the pulley is the Source, giving us:hang -:effect(string1,support(particle1, pulley1))The same linguistic definition for effect is applied, this time to suppor t  predicatesinstead of contact  predicates, and the next stage of the representation is as follows:effect(string 1,support(particle1, pulleyl)) -:support(particlel, stringl)),support (string 1 ,pulley 1 ))In other words, the support  of the particle is the string and the suppor t  of the stringis the pulley.
The important point here is that the same verb- independent linguisticdefinition of the effect thematic relation as a logical transitive relation that applies toconnect also applies to hang.
In this case an Intermediary effects a support relationshipbetween two objects by being supported by one of the objects and in turn supporting theother.However, there are differences in how this definition is applied to the suppor t  verbs.With connect,  if the Intermediary was absent,  it was assumed it did not exist.
Withthese suppor t  verbs, if it is absent it is assumed that it does exist.
This is captured bydefining the Intermediary in the context of a support  verb as an essential role whoserole of the lexical conceptual structure given here becomes that of determining which lexical i tems is beingused.3In the pulley domain, the basic predicate for hal.,g and suspend is actually locat ion ,  and the presenceof gravity allows the suppor t  relationship with the corresponding upwards and downwards forces to beinferred.
This has been changed to suppor t  in order I to focus the discussion on the transitivity i ssues_Thisis not intended to imply that  locat ion  would not be equally central to a more general definition of hang.201filler can be hypothesized \[8\].
This prevents the absent definition from applying, and thesame definition that applied in our first example also applies in the second example.
So,in Two particles are suspended from a pulley, the following instantiations occur, wherestr lng57 is an hypothetical string whose existence is assumedhang -:effect(string57,support(\[particlel, particle2\], pulleyl))This is expanded similarly to the expansion above, resulting in:effect(string57,support(\[particlel, particle2\], pulleyl)) -:support(\[particlel, particle2\], string57)),support(string57,pulleyl))This is intended to represent the information that the two particles are supported bythe string, and the string is in turn supported by the pulley.2.3  SummaryThis section has argued that the logical transitivity definition for the effect thematic rela-tion represents knowledge that is uniquely lexical.
It is derived from real world knowledgeand is expressed in the same formalism that real world knowledge is expressed in, but isspecifically concerned with the effect of the presence or absence of a particular type ofverb argument.3 An  extens ion  of the effect predicateThis section extends the previously defined notion of the effect thematic relation assummarized above by modifying it so that it can apply to the verb shoot as well.
Thisprovides further evidence for the argument hat there exists a category of knowledgepertaining to the impact occasioned by the presence or absence of a particular thematicrelation and that this category of knowledge is essentially lexical in nature.Standard flat predicate argument structure representations have had difficulty withshoot:John shot the turkey with a rifle.John shot the turkey with a bullet.John shot the turkey with a bullet from a rifle.John shot the turkey with his rifle (of?)
a bullet.202because of the complexity of the event (or events) being represented.
It has beenargued that both a launch event and a contact event take place with the rifle beingthe Instrument of the launch of the bullet and the bullet being an Instrument by whichJohn effects a contact with the turkey \[6\].
A general definition for this type of verb,which might also provide a core representation for other meanings or uses of shoot as wellas similar verbs such as fire is suggested below.
This definition makes use of an effectthematic relation very closely aligned to the notion of transitivity defined above, but thistime used with a Propellant, the object being set into motion, as well as an Intermediary..The central notion is once again one of logical transitivity, this time applied twice.shoot -:cause(Agent,effect_launch(Intermediary, Propellant,apply.force(Agent, Goal)))Given the sentence John shot the turkey with a bullet from a rifle, John is the Agentand the turkey is the Goal.
The rifle is the Intermediary and the bullet is the Propellant.This would result in:shoot -:cause(John,effect_launch(rifle, bullet,apply.force(John, turkey)))This is intended to represent John as the Agent of an event in which he uses a rifle(which propels a bullet) to apply-force against a turkey.
The representation of this eventcan be further expanded by the application of the following definition:cause(Agent,effect_launch(Intermediary, Propellant,apply.force(Agent, Goal)))-:apply_force(Agent,Intermediary) ANDapply_force(Intermediary, P opellant) ANDmove(Propellant,Intermediary,Goal) ANDapply_force(Propellant, Goal)apply_force(John,rifle) ANDapply_force(rifle, bullet) ANDmove(bullet,rifle,turkey) ANDapply_force(bullet,turkey)These predicates represent John's application of force to the rifle, (by pulling thetrigger), which then applies force to the bullet.
The bullet moves from the rifle to theturkey, and applies force to the turkey.
Similarly to hang, even if the Intermediary isnot linguistically realized, it still needs to be hypothesized, as does the Propellant.
If theminimal sentence of John shot the turkey is used, then the specifics of the Intermediary203and the Propellant have to be left undefined, but it is clear that some Intermediary andsome Propellant (perhaps a bow and arrow?)
have been used.
This is certainly notintended to be a complete representation f the event - the trigger is never mentionedexplicitly - and may need to be modified substantially before it could be used.
But it isintended to support he hypothesis that logical transitivity, as an inherent component ofthe meaning of the effect thematic relationship, adds a uniquely lexical component toverb representations.4 Conc lus ionThis paper argues that the definitions of the effect predicates presented here, as well asthe optionality or essentiallness of the roles , is a necessary part of the lexical semanticsof the verb, which may rely heavily on real-world knowledge about launching Propellants,yet is still essentially lexical as evidenced by its being independent of the context.
Thisin turn supports the claim that, while lexical information and real-world knowledge mayshare the same representation formalism, a distinction can still be maintained betweeninformation which is fundamentally exical in nature, and information which is not.Acknowledgements I would like to thank Tara Mohanan for the insightful commentsshe made with respect o the representation f shoot and her comments on a draft of thepaper.
I would also like to thank Alain Polguere for his comments.References\[11\[21\[3\]\[41\[51\[61\[71James Allen, "Natural Language, Knowledge Representation a d Logical Form",BBN symposium, Natural Language Processing: Language and Action in theWorld, Nov, 1989.Deborah A. Dahl and Martha S. Palmer and Rebecca J. Passonneau, "Nominal-izations in PUNDIT", Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, Ju1,1987L.
Hirschman and M. Palmer and J. Dowding and D. Dahl and M. Linebargerand R. Passonneau and F-M. Lang and C. Ball and C. Weir, "The PUNDITNatural-Language Processing System", AI Systems in Government Conf, Com-puter Society of the IEEE, Mar,1989R.
S. Jackendoff, Semantics and cognition, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.1983R.
S. Jackendoff, Semantics Structures, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.1990B.
Levin, Instrumental with and the control relation in English.
MIT AI Memo552, MIT, MIT Master's Thesis, 1979.M.
Palmer, "A case for rule-driven semantic analysis", Proceedings of the 19thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Stanford, CA,Jun, 1981204\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]Martha S. Palmer and Deborah A. Dahl and Rebecca J.
\[Schiffman\] Passonneauand Lynette Hirschman and Marcia Linebarger and John Dowding, "RecoveringImplicit Information", Proceedings ofthe e4th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Columbia University, New York, Aug,1986M.
Palmer, Semantic Processing for Finite Domains, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England,1990Rebecca Passonneau and Carl Weir and Tim Finin and Martha Palmer, "Inte-grating Natural Language Processing and Knowledge Based Processing", Pro-ceedings of Eighth National Conference on Artifical Intelligence, AAAI 90, 1990205
