Interpretation without SemanticsStephen HelmreichComputing Research LaboratoryBox 30001/3CRLNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM 88003-0001shelmrei@nmsu, eduAbstractI suggest that Geoffrey Nunberg's work can make two contributions to the issueof the relationship of lexical semantics to knowledge representation.
The first isthe claim that Lexical Semantics and Knowledge Representation are the same.
Thesecond (which is both more controversial and more difficult to implement) is that theconnection between this world knowledge and lexical items must be quite flexible, ifnot, in fact, non-existent and constructed anew for each interpretive act.
I outlineseveral arguments for this position and present a formal method of incorporatingthis within a standard Montague-grammar framework.1 IntroductionIn this paper, I attempt o relate the NLP issue of the relationship between lexical se-mantics and knowledge representation to the claims made by Geoffrey Nunberg in ThePragmatics of Reference \[1\].
His basic claim is that interpretation of lexical items in anutterance is almost entirely a pragmatic matter and not one related to language-specificsemantics.
He uses a theory of referring functions to account for the variety of uses towhich any one lexical item may be put.Though phrased in linguistic terminology, the corollary of this thesis for NLP is thatpurely linguistic lexical information is quite limited (perhaps only syntactic part of speechand phonological information), with encyclopedic and world-knowledge information con-stituting most of the knowledge base of the system.
In addition, Nunberg claims that theconnection between these linguistic symbols and the information i  the knowledge basemust be quite flexible (and, perhaps unspecified).The first claim echoes those viewpoints which see no justification for differentiatinglexical semantics and world knowledge.
It is the second claim that differentiates whatmight be called a "radical semantics" position from a "radical pragmatics" approach.
Inboth cases, lexical knowledge is treated identically with world knowledge.
In the firstcase, however, this information is regarded as "semantics", knowledge about the meaningof the lexical items.
(Langacker \[2\], Lakoff \[3\], Martin \[4\] and Pustejovsky \[5\] can be seenas typical of this approach.)
In the second, it is regarded purely as information aboutthe world and the connection between the use of lexical items in language and this worldknowledge is the result of pragmatic interpretation.Since it is this second claim that would require the most radical change in NLP systems,I shall concentrate on this aspect of Nunberg's approach.
In the remainder of this positionpaper I will first restate some of the arguments ofNunberg for such a pragmatic approachto lexical interpretation.
Then I shall set out in brief the approach I take in formalizingthis approach within a typical Montague Grammar.342 ArgumentationThe first argument points to the many uses of lexical items that cannot be "stored" aspart of the semantics of the item, but rather must be inferentially derived as part of theinterpretation of the utterance.
These include self-referential usages, ad hoc usages, andmetonymical nd metaphorical uses.Self-referential uses.
Example: Rice starts with an "r'.
Since these types of usages(referring to the phonological, orthographical, phonetic or other characteristics of thelexical item itself) are universal for every lexical item in every language, it is clearlywasteful to store this idiosyncratically aspart of the "meaning" of the lexical item.Ad hoc uses.
Example: Your coat is on the refrigerator door.
In these cases, theinterpretation depends on highly context-specific information.
In the example sentence,the intent of the speaker was to refer to the dry-cleaner's claim ticket which was attachedto the refrigerator door by a magnet.Metonymy and metaphor.
More complex issues arise with various common "literary"usages uch as metaphor or metonymy.
There are claims on both sides for idiosyncraticlexicalization and also for free generation (Martin \[6\], Fass \[7\], and Pustejovsky \[5\]).Taken together these types of usage are only suggestive.
They require an extension,an analytic leap: if these types of usage are be handled pragmatically, perhaps all typesof usage should be so handled.At this point, it should be pointed out that simply because particular information is (oris most conveniently) stored rather than derived is not an argument that this informationis semantic and not pragmatic.
As long as it can be so derived, it can be regarded asstored pragmatic information.A second argument in favor of treating the relationship between lexical items andworld knowledge as pragmatic rather than semantic is an Ockham's razor argument:If one can exhibit a pragmatic system that performs lexical interpretation as well asan idiosyncratic language-specific semantic system can, then it would be best to optfor the pragmatic system.
This is because the sub-systems needed by the pragmaticsystem (world-knowledge, context knowledge, and inferencing, at a minimum) are all typesof information and processing that are needed for other independent and non-linguisticactivities.
Why duplicate them with a specific linguistic-semantic system?
Note that thisargument in particular equires a demonstration f the existence and workability of sucha system.Yet a third argument of Nunberg that I feel has not been sufficiently understood andinternalized is that of the idealized speaker/hearer of the Chomsky model.
Nunberg claimsthat this model is sufficient for phonology and syntax, but fails for semantics.
Clearly atan individual level, the experiences on which world-knowledge is based varies widely fromone to another, and in addition, (even given a relative commonality of experience) theway in which this knowledge isorganized can be expected to vary widely from one personto another.
Therefore, there seems to be no reason for lexical knowledge to be in any wayidentical or identically organized from person to person.On yet another level, Nunberg claims that the way in which this lexical knowledge isutilized requires varying ways of looking at this knowledge.
Thus the meaning that oneattributes to a word in a particular context varies with the type of interaction, the socialgrouping in which one finds oneself, and the particular assumptions one makes about theinterlocutors.
Examples of this kind of varying usage are such terms as "classical music"or "jazz".
In one context, the term "classical music" might include Broadway musicals,35while in another it may refer only to the music of Mozart and early Beethoven.While speakers of the same language use the same lexical items and the same syntacticstructures, their internal representation f world knowledge and the way they connectthese representational structures with linguistic items may vary greatly from person toperson and from social group to social group.
Speakers of a language must take this intoaccount in trying to communicate.
They cannot assume that all other speakers have thesame shared knowledge, organized in the same way, and connected i entically to the samelexical items.The implications of this for NLP is that any language processing system should be ableto work equally well with world-knowledge r presentations that may vary significantly informat, structure, and contents.
If lexical items are strictly tied to elements in a particularknowledge base, this is not possible.3 ImplementationIt remains, however, to demonstrate hat such a system is feasible.
In the rest of thisposition paper, I shall outline the manner in which I have attempted this.
Formalizationsof Nunberg's referring functions have been made by Sag \[8\] (on a small scale) and byFauconnier \[9\] (in a more cognitive context).I have taken a typical Montague Grammar (truth-conditional/model th oretic) ap-proach (Dowty, Wall, and Peters \[10\]) and eliminated the function which provides inter-pretations for each lexical item in the language.
Instead, this is replaced by an InterpretiveComponent (which can be viewed ill tile large as related to Kamp's Discourse Represen-tation Theory \[11\]).The only requirement on the model is that it contain elements hat map onto the lexicalitems of the language (thus allowing for self-reference).
In fact, the only fixed "semantics"of the system associates lexical items in the language with these representative elementsin the model.In the Interpretive Component are Montague Grammar operators which function likeNunberg's referring functions.
That is, they operate on items (and sets of items, andintensions of sets of items) and return other items, sets of items, and intensions of sets ofitems.
These referring functions (MG operators) also contain usage/context and speakerindicators.Certain referring functions operate on the lexical items in the model and return setsof things that particular speakers (in particular contexts) often refer to by using thatparticular lexical item.
This is the closest to a "meaning" that the system contains.However, it is not part of the language, may vary greatly from speaker to speaker of thelanguage, and is subject to certain rules of application before an interpretation can begenerated.These particular referring functions are not directly inserted into the sentence to pro-vide its interpretation.
Rather, it is a matter of co-determining a context and an inter-pretation.
Part of the context is already given, while part is abductively added by thereferring functions themselves.I can show that this type of approach is useful for several purposes.
First of all, itprovides an existence proof for a semantic system that is both compositional nd has nolexical semantics, only a lexical pragmatics-a system in which lexical semantics i highlyconstrained and the connection between the lexical items and the encyclopedic knowledge36is flexible.
Second the concepts involved can be used to usefully distinguish betweenmetonymy and metaphor (by determining whether or not the referring functions usedhave 1-1 or 1-many extensional equivalents).
It also allows a definition of "same lexi~alitem," that is, two senses are the same lexical item if they~are reachable through the setof given referring functions.Although not an implementation f this approach, I would like to conclude by makinga brief reference to the work that Eric Iverson and I have been doing on meta5/metallel-a program of word sense disambiguation that also identifies instances of metaphor andmetonymy (Helmreich et al\[12\]).
Although our research as not been directly reflective ofthe concerns of lexical knowledge versus world knowledge, we are working with a programwhich treats both types of knowledge as equivalent.
That is, the structure of the lexiconcontains both encyclopedic and what would be called strictly lexical information.
Inaddition, metaphorical nd metonymical usages are not directly stored in the lexicon, butare derived inferentially on the basis of the linguistic and world-knowledge context.References\[1\] G. Nunberg, The Pragmatics of Reference, Indiana University Linguistics Club, Bloom-ington IN, 1978.\[2\] R. Langacker, Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Stanford University Press, StanfordCA, 1987.\[3\] G. Lakoff, Women, fire, and dangerous things, University of Chicago Press, Chicago IL,1987, University of Chicago Press.\[4\] J.H.
Martin, "A unified approach to conventional non-literal language", Proceedingsof the Fifth Rocky Mountain Conference on Artificial Intelligence (RMCAI-90), LasCruces, NM, 1990, pp.
5-40.\[5\] J. Pustejovsky, "The semantic representation f lexical knowledge" Proceedings of theFirst International Lexicai Acquisition Workshop, 1989.\[6\] J.H.
Martin, A Computational Model of Metaphor Interpretation.
Academic Press, Cam-bridge MA, 1990.\[7\] D. Fass, Met*: A Method \]for Discriminating Metonymy and Metaphor by Computer.CSS/LCCR TR 89-15, Centre for Systems Science: Burnaby, B.C., 1989.\[8\] I.
Sag, "Formal Semantics and Extralinguistic Context", Radical Pragmatics, P.
Cole,ed., Academic Press, New York NY, 1981.\[9\] G. Fauconnier, Mental Spaces: Aspects of Meaning Construction in Natural Language.MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1985.\[10\] D. Dowty, R. Wall, S. Peters, Introduction to Montague Semantics, Synthese LanguageLibrary 11, D. Reidel, Dordrecht Holland, 1981.\[11\] H. Kamp, "A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representation", J.A.G.
Groenendijk,T.M.V.
Jansen, and M.B.J.
Stokhof, eds., Formal Methods in the Study of Language,Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, 1981.\[12\] S. Helmreich, E. Iverson, and F. Laroche, "Modular Meta5: Further Research in Colla-tive Semantics", Memoranda in Computer and Cognitive Science, MCCS-90-192, Com-puting Research Laboratory, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces NM, 1990.37
