Acquiring and representing semantic informationin a Lexical Knowledge BaseNicoletta CalzolariDipartimento di Linguistica - Universit~ di PisaIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale dei C N R - PisaVia della Faggiola 3~1 56100 Pisa - ITALYe-mail: GLOTTOLO @ ICNUCEVMAbstractThe paper focuses on the description of the approach, taken within the ESPRITBRA project ACQUILEX, towards: i) acquisition of semantic information from sev-eral machine- readable dictionaries (in four languages), and ii) its representation ina common Lexical Knowledge Base.
Knowledge xtraction is guided by a) empiricalobservations and b) theoretical hypotheses.
As for representation, we stress the con-vergence of a) and b) towards the possibility of organizing the information extractedfrom MRDs in the form of 'meaning types' or 'templates', where a common meta-language is used to encode conceptual and relational information.
Examples takenfrom two Italian monoUngual dictionaries and from LDOCE are given.
Differentuses of these templates (e.g.
as guides in the semantic analysis of the definitions, asa structure for comparing, unifying, merging, integrating information coming fromdifferent sources and different languages, as a tool for correcting 'incoherences' indictionaries, etc.)
are described.Keywords: Computational Lexicography, Lexical Knowledge Base, Lexical Se-mantics.1 Large computational lexicons and the notion of"reusability"In order to cope with the task of building large computational lexicons where, to be ableto process real texts, hundreds of thousands of words are necessary and, moreover, wherealso semantic information is made explicit for very large portions of the lexicon, the notionof "reusability" has become a central notion in the field of computational lexicography.This concept came out at the Grosseto Workshop (1986) on "Automating the Lexicon",sponsored by the EC (see Walker, Zampolli, Calzolari, forthcoming), where, among theset of recommendations, there was that of designing "large reusable, multifunctional,precompetitive, multilingual linguistic resources".Reusable must be interpreted in two main senses:reusab le_ l :  to exploit and reuse lexical information implicitly or explicitly present inpreexisting lexical resources (MRDs, terminological DBs, textual corpora, etc.)
asan aid to construct large computational lexicons of the type reusable_2;reusable_2:  to construct Computational Lexicons in such a way that various users (differ-ent NLP systems - in different heoretical frameworks and for different applications-, but also human users such as lexicographers, linguists, common users) can extract- with appropriate interfaces - relevant lexical information.188Current work on Computational Lexicons can be divided into two major types, eachcorresponding to the two meanings above: reusable_l and reusable_2.ACQUILEX, an ESPRIT BRA project, can be seen as the prototype of the first ofthese main streams of research, linked with the notion 'reusable-l', while other projectsas e.g.
Eurotra-7 insert themselves in the second sense of the 'reusability' concept.2 MRDs as impl ic i t  Knowledge  BasesACQUILEX (see Boguraev et al 1988) focuses its research effort in developing techniquesand methodologies for utilising and interpreting existing machine-readable dictionaries(MRD) to construct components for NLP systems.
The main focus of the project is inthe extraction of lexical - -  syntactic and semantic - -  information from multiple machine-readable dictionaries in a multilingual context with the overall goal of constructing a singlemultilingual lexical knowledge base (LKB).
The dictionaries we are actually using in theproject are: two monolingual English, two Italian, one Dutch, one Spanish, one bilingualItalian - English, one Dutch - English.The information extracted is not only the information which is already explicit inMRDs (word-lists, part-of-speech, etc.
), but mainly the information which in MRDsis only implicitly present and not directly and immediately accessible (mostly semanticinformation, such as semantic taxonomies, other semantic relations, argument structures,etc.).
In the final LKB prototype it will be possible to "navigate" within the lexicon withaccess also through concepts and semantic relations.In this approach it is considered possible a procedural exploitation of the full rangeof semantic information implicitly contained in MRDs.
The dictionary is therefore con-sidered in this framework as a primary source of "basic general knowledge", and mainobjectives are word-sense acquisition and knowledge organization.
The main sources ofthis information are natural language definitions.
The reasons of their use can be foundin the following aspects:i) the lexicographic tradition has exerted a (usually unconscious) control over the defin-ing vocabulary (statement made really explicit only in LDOCE) and the schemataof defining formulas;ii) the texts of definitions do not describe singular objects or events but "typical" ones;iii) lexicographers have translated the concepts in their mind into definitions, and wecan try to move back along this path from definitions to concept acquisition;iv) the definitions incorporate a naif view of the semantic and world-knowledge infor-mation attached to lexical entries.The goal of ACQUILEX is the formalization of this basic general knowledge (whichcan also be considered as a prerequisite to domain-specific knowledge) in the form ofconcepts and semantic relations.
The method is heuristic and mainly inductive, throughprogressive generalization from the common elements.The main themes of research connected to this goal of knowledge acquisition are thefollowing:189the design of procedures for the extract ion of  superord inates  from natural an-guage definitions, for their disambiguation, and for the construction of taxonomiesall over the lexicon;the design of procedures for the (linguistic and computational) analysis of natu-ral language definitions with the aim of extract ing all the implicit  semanticinformation;the study of ways of formal ly represent ing the semant ic  informat ion whichis extracted - -  concepts, attributes, and relations between concepts - -  e.g.
in theform of 'typed feature structures';?
the study of how to link and unify taxonomies and conceptual or relational infor-mation coming from different sources, either monolingual or multilingual;?
the design and implementation f basic software for the creation, access and pro-cessing of lexical databases and a lexical knowledge base.These research themes tackled within ACQUILEX are aimed at meeting one of themajor bottlenecks of natural language processing, i.e.
the availability of "large" compu-tational exicons with particular emphasis on making also semantic information explicitand accessible.3 Semant ic  In format ion3.1 Towards  s tandard izat ion  a t  the  taxonomic  leve lThe procedural methodology for acquiring taxonomic information can be considered ratherwell established (see e.g.
Byrd et al 1987, Calzolari 1988).
In this respect, the dictionaryis considered as a "classificatory device", i.e.
an empirical means of instantiating concepts.The MRD gives in fact one possible way of learning a concept (where the "learning" processassumes an inductive form): linking a concept o all its instances.
All the instances of thesame category/class are in fact extracted and connected together.What is of interest with respect o taxonomies are not the leaf nodes, representingrather specific words, but middle- and top-level nodes in the IS-A hierarchy.
Theserepresent the core concepts by means of which the other words are defined via taxonomicrelationship.
An attempt o normal izat ion is therefore being made in the project atthe level of these core-nodes, in order both a) to give a more consistent structure to thehierarchy deriving from definitions, and b) to make possible the linking and merging oftaxonomies extracted from different dictionaries and from different languages.Analyses have already been performed which lead to the grouping of subsets of nodesunder a same "conceptual label" representing the generalization over specific lexicalizationof a similar lexical meaning.
These conceptual labels are obtained through a comparativeanalysis of the different axonomies for the different dictionaries, in order to create linksand mappings between them, and constitute a first simple attempt of standardization atthe semantic level.
They should be analysed and compared with semantic primitives orfeatures tated in other semantic systems.1903.2 More complex semantic and wor ld-knowledge information:"types" and representat ion in terms of common feature struc-turesThe aim of ACQUILEX in its second year is to extract, in addition to the simple IS-Alinks, more complex - -  and so far not really thoroughly analysed - -  semantic informa-tion hidden in the 'differentia' of the lexicographic definitions.
In a project with severalpartners there is the necessity of working with similar (global) strategies of knowledgeacquisition in order to reach the same result, i.e.
a common LKB.
We do not rely on arandom extraction, but apply a knowledge acquisition strategy which, according to ourviews, must be guided by:a) empirical observations,b) theoretical hypotheses.What is meant by a) is rather simple, being the so often observed systematic regular-ities and similarities of lexical items and definitional patterns.By b) we intend the use of the theoretical pproach to lexical semantics put forward byPustejovsky (see Pustejovsky 1989, Pustejovsky and Boguraev forthcoming) in his 'qualiastructures'.
This approach makes use of a knowledge representation framework to expressdifferent aspects of knowledge structures concerning words.
The qualia structure for anoun defines its essential attributes and "is in essence an argument structure for nouns".In ACQUILEX we use a similar approach and similar types of structures, but in abroader sense than the qualia structures used by Pustejovsky which are made up of fourmain Roles (Constitutive, Formal, Telic, Agentive).
These four main roles on the oneside do not cover the whole range of lexical notions which characterize nominals, and onthe other side do not include other pertinent world-knowledge information which can beuseful in many NLP tasks or applications and can be found in MRDs.We therefore take the underlying hypothesis of having "meaning types" and use thenotion of "template" as main structuring device for semantic information, but enlarge thisnotion of template to include and represent: i) other semantic information ot coveredby the four main roles, and moreover ii) also more general or encyclopedic nformationconcerning the concepts.
An example of the template derived from the analysis of thedefinitions of three monolingual dictionaries (two Italian, one English) is given in Figure 1for the concept of SUBSTANCE.Dictionary definitions are suitable for an explicit representation i  terms of featurestructures as data types, which reproduce (at least partially) in an explicit way the originallinear textual data (obviously not all of the definitions of a dictionary, and often not theentire definition).This feature structure can be seen as a "meaning type", representing a maximal framefor a class of words (e.g.
all the words defined by the word 'substance' orby its hyponyms).This frame, with all the potential attributes which in the definitions are found as mostrelevant for this subset, is inherited (as a "potential meaning type") by all the hyponymsof a "Top Node" (SUBSTANCE) and will be filled in some of its slots for each individualhyponym.If we consider the "meaning structure" of LIQUID (see Figure 2) it is constituted bya subset of the attributes of SUBSTANCE, the same holds for GAS, and so on.191There will obviously be different "meaning types" for different categories of words.
At-tributes for verbs usually represent thematic roles which are relevant for a given "ActionType" and, where possible, also aspectual information is now being semi-automaticallyextracted from the definitions (see Alonge 1991).
An example of the structures whichresult from dictionary definitions for the verbs of "hitting" and "dividing" is given inFigure 3.
When an argument slot is filled for a hyponym of "to hit", this is an inherentlyspecified argument (e.g.
in "to hammer" the instrument role is lexically specified).
How-ever, as seen above, the view of assigning to nouns descriptions in terms of "frames" isalso taken, with attributes or slots (and fillers), which are, at least partly, acquired froma procedural analysis of the definitions.Different ypes of templates with different attributes are typical of "derivatives", whichconstitute a very large portion of a lexicon.
They exhibit very special patterns andrelationships with respect o their bases, with very interesting properties from a linguisticpoint of view.
Their conceptual templates contain, among many others, attributes such as:AGENT, ACT_OF, PROPERTY_NAME, LOCATION, SET_OF, etc., but also attributesof a more encyclopedic nature such as: INHABITANT_OF, FOLLOWER.OF, etc.We can associate to each of these relational patterns, which contribute to defining avery large amount of lexical items, conceptual templates (sets of properties) which arethen inherited by default by all their defined words.
As an example, we can associate tothe AGENT attribute, among the others, the following set of attributes:IS_A : humanTELIC : verbwhere 'verb' is a variable which takes as value the base- verb for each derivative.
E.g.
:lavoratore: \[AGENT: lavorare\] by default also inherits: \[IS_A: human, TELIC: lavorare\].It is with data of these types that we are beginning to feed the common LKB, a networkconsisting not only of IS_A relations, but of all the different ypes of semantic relationsand semantic features implicitly present in the "differentia" part of all the definitions fromall the available sources.3.3 The  TemplatesThe templates, or feature structures, in which we represent the semantic information,will serve many purposes in the whole process of knowledge acquisition, organization andrepresentation.They can be used in the following tasks:a) As a guide both in the automatic or semi-automatic parsing of all the definitionsof a same lexicM field, from the top to leaf-nodes in the taxonomy, and in theinterpretation of the results of the parsing process (e.g.
to predict and constrainthe interpretation of certain types of structures, or the proper attachment of PPs,etc.).
In this syntactic/semantic parsing process the appropriate attribute/slots inthe template are filled with the pertinent values.b) As a common structure to be filled independently of the actual exical/surfaccrealizationsof the semantic features, both in different dictionaries for the same language andin different languages.
They act therefore as a scheme which makes uniform theinterpretation process throughout all the different sources.192c) As a tool for comparing information coming from different sources, while makingpossible a semi- automatic and partiM mapping of word--senses.
When a link or amapping is established, the data coming from different dictionaries are combined,according to the results of the ~omparison, either:i) by merging, when different surface lexicMizations are found for the same un-derlying concept (and in this case a score can be given to reinforce that infor-mation), orii) by integrating different ypes of information on the same lexical item, e.g.filling different attributes.d) As a tool for correcting errors or incoherencies, e.g.
in the use of superordinatesin the dictionary definitions.These tasks can be summarized as follows:?
disambiguation?
knowledge acquisition?
knowledge uniformization?
knowledge representation?
knowledge comparison- merging- integrationThese templates are inherited as potential "meaning types" by all the hyponyms, andthe taxonomies are the vehicles by means of which this information is inherited.
Obviouslysome of the values can be overridden by specific information.4 Conc lus ionsWith this common method of representing the information, the goal of sharing dataand establishing correspondances among different sources is achieved.
In this approachtaxonomies and conceptual templates constitute in fact the point of convergence betweendifferent sources and languages, and between the empirical and the theoretical pproaches.The taxonomies and the templates - - as developed within ACQUILEX - -  already con-stitute a first degree of normalization or standardization in the representation f semanticand world-knowledge information, both across many (about 10) dictionaries and (4) lan-guages, and between the lexicographic approach to semantics and theoretical pproaches.This is the first time that a project of semantic and world-knowledge information encodingfor a very large part of the lexicon is carried out in such an extensive way.1935 ReferencesAlonge A.
(1991), "Extraction of information on Aktionsart from Verb Definitions", inProceedings of Avignon Conference on NLP, Avignon.Byrd R.J., N. Calzolari, M. Chodorow, J. Klavans, M. Neff and O. Rizk (1987), "Toolsand Methods for Computational Lexicology", Computational Linguistics.
13(3-4), 219-240.Boguraev B.K., E. Briscoe, N. Calzolari, A. Cater, W. Meijs, A. Zampolli (1988),"Acquisition of Lexical Knowledge for Natural Language Processing Systems", proposalfor ESPRIT BRA, Cambridge (UK).Boguraev B. K., R.J. Byrd, J. L. Klavans, M. S. Neff (1989), "From Structural Anal-ysis of Lexical Resources to Semantics in a Lexical Knowledge Base", presented at theWorkshop on Lexicon Acquisition, IJCAI, Detroit.Calzolari N. (1988), "The dictionary and the thesaurus can be combined", in M.Evens (ed.
), Relational Models of the Lexicon, Studies in Natural Language Processing,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 75-96.Pustejovsky J.
(1989), "Current Issues in Computational Lexical Semantics", InvitedLecture, Proceedings of the Fourth Conference of the European Chapter of the ACL,Manchester, England.Pustejovsky J., B. Boguraev (forthcoming), "A richer Characterization f DictionaryEntries: The Role of Knowledge Representation", in S. Atkins, A. Zampolli (eds.
), Com-putational Approaches to the Lexicon: Automating the Lexicon, OUP.Walker D., A. Zampolli, N. Calzolari (eds.)
(forthcoming), Automating the Lexicon:Research and Practice in a Multilingual Environment, OUP.194SUBSTANCEFUNCTIONUSED_FOR (TELIC):USED_IN:USED_AS:USED_BY:PROPERTYNATURE:STRUCTURE:ORIGIN:STATE:TASTE:SMELL:COLOUR:SHAPE:ASPECT:LACKING:SIMILAR_TO:CONSTITUENCYCONSTITUTED_BY:MAIN:MUCH:CONSTITUENT_OF:MAIN:SOURCEDERIVED_FROM:PRODUCED_BY:PRODUCED_BY.MEANS_OF:LOCATION:CAUSE_OF:TYPIC_EXAMPLE:NAME:Figure 1: Example of the template for SUBSTANCE Nouns.195FUNCTIONUSED_FOR (TELIC):USED_IN:USED_AS:PROPERTYSMELL:COLOUR:CONSTITUENCYCONSTITUTED_BY:MAIN:MUCH:CONSTITUENT_OF:MAIN:SOURCEDERIVED_FROM:PRODUCED_BY:PRODUCED_BY_MEANS_OF:LOCATION:CA,USE_OF:L IQUIDFigure 2: Example of the template for LIQUID Nouns.C O L P I It E (to hit)WITH_INSTR:MANNER:OBJECT:ITERATIVITY:LOCATION:D IV IDE i tE ( tod iv ide)OBJECT:IN_PARTS:PART_NAME:PART_NUMBER:WITH_S.ONE:WITHANSTR:Figure 3: Examples of templates for Verbs derived from dictionary definitions.196ReferencesAlonge A.
(1991), "Extraction of information on Aktionsart from Verb Definitions", inProceedings of Avignon Conference on NLP, Avignon.Byrd R.J., N. Calzolari, M. Chodorow, J. Klavans, M. Neff and O. Rizk (1987), "Tools andMethods for Computational Lexicology", Compututional Lhtguistics.
13(3-4), 219-240.Boguraev B.K., E. Briscoe, N. Calzolari, A. Cater, W. Meijs, A. Zampolli (1988),"Acquisition of Lexical Knowledge for Natural Language Processing Systems", proposal forESPRIT BRA, Cambridge (UK).Boguraev B. K., R.J. Byrd, J. L. Klavans, M. S. Neff (1989), "From Structural Analysis ofLexical Resources to Semantics in a Lexical Knowledge Base", presented at the Workshopon Lexicon Acquisition, IJCAI, Detroit.Calzolari N. (1988), "The dictionary and the thesaurus can be combined", in M. Evens (ed.
),Relational Models of the Lexicon, Studies in N~ltural Language Processing, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, 75-96.Pustejovsky J.
(1989), "Current Issues in Computational Lexical Semantics", Invited Lecture,Proceedings of the Fourth Conference of the Eltro/)t'cln Chapter qf the ACL, Manchester,England.Pustejovsky J., B. Boguraev (forthcoming), "A richer Characterization f Dictionary Entries:The Role of Knowledge Representation", in S. Atkins, A. Zampolli (eds.
), ComputationalApproaches to the Lexicon: Automathlg the Lexicon, OUP.Walker D., A. Zampolli, N. Calzolari (eds.)
(forthc~ming), Atm)mathtg he Lexicon: Researchand Practice in a Multilingual Environment, OUP.197
