Lexical Structures for Linguist ic InferencePeter Anick and Sabine BerglerComputer Science DepartmentBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA 02254-9110anick@aiag, enet.
dec. comsabine @cs.
brandeis, eduAbst rac tIn order to resolve metonymy and other violations of selectional restrictions between lexicalitems, a language understander must be able to infer relationships that do not have explicitlexical analogs in tile sentence.
Although such inferencing has typically been relegated to theworld knowledge portion of a natural anguage processing system, there is also evidence, fromboth theoretical analysis in compositional semantics and distributional analysis of corpus data,that some cases of metonymy may best be processed with respect o more specific lexical andsyntactic onstructions.
In this paper, we argue how the richer vocabulary for lexical semanticsproposed in Pustejovsky's "Generative Lexicon" theory allows one to explore the role of lexicalinformation in such cases, and therefore sheds more light on the distinction between lexicalinferences, which follow from defaults associated with lexical items and rules of composition, andpragmatic inferences, which depend on reasoning with respect o the context of the utterance.1 Int roduct ionIs a lexicon merely a set.
of entry points into a conceptual, "real world" knowledge base, or doesit have its own rich structure and rules of inference, related to, yet distinct from the body ofworld knowledge?
Ill this paper, we explore this question from the point of view of the inferentialmachinery required to relate a verb and its arguments.
We will argue that a rich lexical semanticstructure makes it possible to express rules of composition with the degree of precision necessary toaccount for the many nuances of actual language use, capturing linguistic generalizations based onthe semantic ontent of lexical items rather than relying solely on general purpose inferencing overan encyclopedic knowledge base.One of the fundamental properties of most computational lexicons is an accounting of the rela-tionship between a verb and its arguments.
Typically, each argument position of a verb is annotatedwith "selectional restrictions" which are intended to constrain the set of nouns which may legallyfill the argument position 1.
Such constraints are useful for word sense disambiguation, since se-mantically anomalous colnbinations of senses can be readily identified and discarded uring parsing.A number of researchers have noted that such selectionai restrictions may legitimately be violatedunder certain circumstances, as ill the sentences below:(1) "The car drank gasoline."
(\[Wilks, 1978\])(2) "Ted played Bach."
(\[Fass, 1988\])1 If nouns are organized into a conceptual "isa" hierarchy, then a selectlonal restriction may be no more than areference to a position in the hierarchy.102In (1), the "car" violates the selectional restriction that the subject be animate.
In (2), theobject "Bach" is a person, violating the verb's selectional restrictions (i.e.
some form of music).Following \[Wilks,1978\], Fass \[1988\] interprets electional restrictions as preferences and goes on toaccount for violations of preferences via operations such as metonymy and metaphor.
For example,Fass postulates a number of metonymic substitution rules, such as "Artist for Artform", "Containerfor Contents", and "Part for Whole."
When a preference violation is encountered, his algorithmtries applying these metonymic inference rules to the offending noun in an attempt o find the"shortest" coherent path between the verb's preference and some metonymically related concept.Failing this, the algorithm goes on to explore metaphorical interpretations.
In a similar vein, \[Parisiand Castelfranchi, 1988\] make use of a semantic network encoding "encyclopedic" relations amonglexical concepts to derive paths between verbs and arguments which violate selectional restrictions.Using a shortest path heuristic, their algorithm interprets the senetence "The pot is boiling."
as"The liquid which is contained in the pot is boiling.
"While these algorithms work well on a small set of interesting examples, we feel that distance met-rics operating on unconstrained ncyclopedic knowledge insufficiently characterize the relationshipbetween lexical entries and metonymic nference.
In this paper, we present a richer representationalframework for lexical knowledge, based on Generative Lexicon theory \[Pustejovsky, 1991\], and de-scribe a methodology for exploring the interplay between word senses and the metonymic processesthey enter into.
\[Pustejovsky 1991\] distinguishes between "logical metonymy", whose resolutionfalls naturally out of operations on information contained irectly in lexical entries, and "pragmaticmetonymy", whose resolution depends on interpretation with respect o the proper pragmatic on-text.
We begin with an overview of the major components ofGenerative Lexicon theory and presentdata from the semantic domain of musical terms to illustrate how metonymic reasoning is facilitatedin a generative l xicon.
Then we indicate how in the case of reporting verbs the compositionalsemantics of the matrix verb and the subject produce pragmatic constrains on the complement.
Weconclude that it is advantageous to represent the conceptual knowledge that bears on the linguisticbehavior of words in the lexicon.2 Generat ive  Lex iconPustejovsky's Generative Lexicon theory \[Pustejovsky, 1991\] rejects the characterization f a lexiconas a static listing of word senses and focuses instead on elucidating the set of generative deviceswhich give rise to word senses and allow for the flexible and creative use of language.Generative Lexicon theory postulates a number of representational subsystems for the descriptionof lexical items and the rules of syntactic and semantic omposition.
These include, in additionto argument and event structures, (1) a qualia structure, which partitions the aspects of a noun'smeaning into formal, constitutive, agentive, and telic roles, or qualia, (2) a lexical inheritance networkreflecting the same partition, (3) Lexical Conceptual Paradigms, which describe sets of syntacticbehaviors which correspond to lexicai semantic ategories, and (4) generative devices for extendingthe logical senses of lexical items dynamically, as for instance coercion rules, mentioned later in thispaper.
By attempting to tease apart various aspects of the lexical semantics, the theory provides anew vocabulary with which to approach traditional linguistic problems.Qualia?
Const i tut ive Role: Relation t,o constituent parts.?
Formal Role: Distinguishes the word within a larger domain.103?
Telie Role: Purpose and function.?
Agentive Role: Whatever brings it about.To illustrate the use of qualia structures for handling selectional restrictions, consider threeschematic qualia structures for food-related nouns:food(x)\[const: phys_obj(x)\]\[formal: \]\[relic: eat (E ,z ,x ) \ ]\ [agentive: cook(w,x), prepare(y,x) \ ]meal(T,x)\[const: food(y)\]\[formal: amount(x,y)\]\ [ re l i c :  eat (T ,z ,x ) \ ]\[agentive: "food\]doughnut (x)\[eonst : dough(u)\]\[formal: cake(x) k ring-shaped(x)\]\[relic : "food\]\[agentive : bake(w,x)\]The empty formal role in the structure for "food" indicates that food is a mass noun and, as theconstitutive role indicates, composed of some physical material.
The telic role is doing most of thework of defining food as something which is eaten.
The agentive role adds that food typically arisesby cooking or preparing processes (although this is certainly defeasible).Doughnut also inherits the telic quale from food, but differs from food in that it specifies a value inits formal quale.
That is, it "packages" the mass noun in a specific way (cf.
Pelletier and Schubert\[1986\] , Krifka \[1987\] ).
This in fact, is the structural semantic haracterization f a packagingcoercion: taking a lexical structure with no formal role, and specifying the formal role (Pustejovsky\[1991\] for details).Now consider tile representation for meal.
A meal directly denotes both the event pertaining tothc activity of eating the food, as well as tile food itself.
The fact that meal is defined with respectto food is made evident in the fact that the formal role is a certain packaging of an amount of food,while the telic role includes the event denoting the occasion of the eating.
Now consider the followingsentences making use of these nouns.1.
John ate the doughnut.2.
John ate the meal.3.
John left after the meal.4.
John left after tile doughnut.Tile first problem presented by such data is how to describe the seleetional restriction imposedby the verb eat on its direct object, since it clearly allows for both physical objects and events.
The104qualia structure suggests a straightforward answer.
Instead of stating the restriction in terms of aformal or constitutive property, we may use the telic role.
That is, eat may take as direct object anynoun whose telic role is eat.
This may at first seem like a circular definition, but why should thetelic role be any less accessible to the selecting verb than, say, the formal role?
This approach alsorenders it unnecessary to create an explicit subclass of physical objects called edible-objects.
Theclass is implicitly defined via the telic quale.The next problem is how to accomodate doughnut as the object of a preposition selecting for anevent.
This sentence requires an inference (i.e.
that John left after eating the doughnut) that canonly be verified in the discourse context.
However, the lexical structures do provide a means forquickly identifying the potential interpretation.Pustejovsky \[1989, 1991\], has proposed a system of type coercion to explain how verbs like wantand believe can accept arguments of type S, VP, and NP without requiring multiple verb entries inthe lexicon.
Ite defines type coercion as "a semantic operation that converts an argument o thetype which is expected by a function, where it would otherwise lead to a type error."
This principleof type coercion can be applied to coercing an object into an event, as required for our doughnut.The telic and agentive roles identify readily available, definitional events associated with a nominal.In most of the examples of this kind of selectional restriction violation that we have encountered, itis the telic role that fills the expected event.By examing what systematic semantic relationships exist in the grammatical expressions of lexicalitems, we hope to apply the principles of the generative lexicon to new data and illustrate newphenomena in support of the view of the "non-static" lexicon.
Making use of data from humaninterest "notes" conferences, Wall Street Journal and Time magazine articles, our methodology is toanalyze a set of semantically related verbs with respect o their argument types in order to ascertainhow the lexical semnantic structure of the verb relates to the range of potential (e.g.
metonymic)concepts that may appear in an argument position.
2 We consider first a number of verbs in thedomain of music, such as "play", "perform", and "strum."
Then we turn to verbs of reporting, asfound in newspaper and magazine articles.3 Hierarchical classification and qualia structureOne question is how to assign tile definitional information to the respective qualia.
While it is beyondthe scope of this paper to adequately address this question, let us suggest hat the very structure ofthe definitions of words often suggests which qualia are of relevance.
Consider for example a facetedclassification scheme (cf.
Vickery \[1975\] ), as one might do for a subject matter indexing task forthe music domain (the data presented here is based on an electronic "notes" conference on music):music productioncreation "compose"performanceproduction meansvoice "sing"lips "whistle"musical instrument "play"in a particular mannerbrushing across strings "strum.
"sounding strings with a pick "pick"2We have made xtensive use of Levin's \[1990\] verb classification, and the methodology of verbal diathesis therein.105purposeentertaining an audience "perform"skill improvement "practice"The category "production means" describes, for example, verbs that incorporate different "tools"for making the music, i.e.
sing incorporates in its lexical meaning the use of voice, whistle the use oflips and play the use of an instrument.
Note that play does not specify the instrument, it implies aninstrument but can take as an argument a specification of the particular instrument.
Neither singnor whistle can take an instrument as argument.
The implied argument pertains to the constitutiverole.Perform and practice, both purposeful activities by definition, define that purpose in their relicrole.
Both words select for an event in object position.
An interesting difference between these twowords is the selectionai restriction on the event type for the object position: perform selects for theresult of an accomplishment, practice for an activity.
This fact explains a difference in metonymicbehavior that we will sketch below.3 .1  Poss ib le  v io la t ions  in  ob jec t  pos i t ionWe can arrive in a similar mnanner at a categorization of nouns in object position of verbs from ourmusical domain:Music "packagings"unit tune, song, melody, piece, chord, lick, note, repertoire, arrangementnmsical form jig, horT~pipe, symphony, sonatarelation to other performers lead, backuplocation in a piece ending, intronumber of perfomers olo, duetphysical presentation line, measure, bar, pagemusical instruments guitar, pianomusical instrument parts string, key, soundboard, bridgegenres jazz, bluesevents containing music gig, concert, job, festival, weddinglocations where music is played bar, club, concert hallcomposers Bach, Beethoveninstrument makers Fender, MartinThis faceted classification together with data analysis suggests that "music packagings" tune,song, ... are related to packagers \[Pelletier and Schubert 1989\], in fact "packaging" the mass termmusic into events.
This category can be further refined into "accomplishments" ( onata, piece, .
.
.
)and "achievements" (chord, note, ...  ).
This corresponds with the behavior of perform and practice:to practice a chordto practice a high noteto perform a sonatato perform a pieceThis discussion gives only a very rough first impression on the workings of the structures ofthe Generative Lexicon theory when it comes to violations of seleetional restrictions.
We showed,however, that it is not impossible to characterize the common sense knowledge that pertains to106linguistic behavior.
This is an important goal for a generative l xicon, as it aims to capture exactlythat body of knowledge that bears on the linguistic behavior of words (in context) in a structuredway, thus constraining common sense inferencing at an appropriate l vel of granularity.4 Lex ica l  const ra in ts  on  common sense  reason ingIn the previous section we have shown how to identify and categorize the conceptual or worldknowledge that directly bears on the syntactic behavior of verbs towards their direct objects inthe musical domain.
Let us now consider another semantic field, namely reporting verbs in thenewspaper context.
These verbs frequently occur with a metonymy in subject position.
We show howthe violations of the selectional restrictions can be dealt with in the Generative Lexicon framework,producing at the same time a pragmatic oherence constraint for the complement clause.Most utterance verbs can be used in reported speech in newspaper articles, selecting for twoarguments, namely a proposition as complement clause and a source as subject.
The interpretationof these instances of reported speech is that the journalist quotes or reports the proposition inthe complement clause giving as evidence for its credibility or reliability the original source of thereported material.
(cf.
Bergler, forthcoming)Two examples of reported speech in newspaper text.s are:A Lincoln spokesman said its management "never authorized or participated in any bugging ofanyone.
"He said "I have not misled anyone" about US policy in Iraq.-Wall Street Journal, 10/27/89-Boston Globe, 4/5/91Reporting verbs are pervasive in newspaper articles \[Bergler, 1991\] .
The sense of an utteranceverb as a reporting verb is sometimes slightly different from its literal sense.
We therefore introducea semantic type REPORTING-VERB, which allows us to define a small part of the lexical hierarchy ofreporting verbs as follows:u t te r (A ,B)\[Form: produce(P1, A, B)& is (B, sound)& is(B, words)\]\[Constitutive: intentional(P 1)\]\[Agentive: human(A) &individual(A) & use(A, voice)\]REPORTING-VERB(A,B)\[Form: utter(T1, C, utter(P1, A, B))& proposition(B)\]\[Telic: has-expertise(A, B) or has-insight(A, B)\[Constitutive: interpretation(T1, P1)\]\[Agentive: use(C, voice or writing)\]assert(A,  B)\[Form: utter(A, B) & true(B)\]107say(A, B)\[Form:\[Literal: utter(A,B)\]\ [REPORTING-VERB:assert(A,B)\] \]announce(A,B)\[Form: say(T1, A, B)\]\[Constitutive: new(B)\]\[Agentive:legitimation(A, T1)claim(A,B)\[Form:\[Literal: assert(A, P1) & own(P1, A, B);demand(T1, A, B)\]\[REPORTING-VERB: assert(A, B)& opposition(C, B)\]insist(A,B)\[Form: claim(A, B)\[Constitutive: MANNER: vehement\]This partial hierarchy is a very crude classification of the four reporting verbs say, announce,claim, and insist.
We have indicated a literal word sense where it differs significantly, but havemade no attempt o define the respective lexical entries completely.
Note that the semantic typeREPORTING--VERB specifies the basic "reporting situation", especially that the telic role (roughlydescribable as its "purpose") is that the source has expertise on the topic of the complement clauseor at least some (relevant) insight.As reported in Bergler \[1991\] , we find that reporting verbs frequently occur with different kindsof metonymy.
The violated selectional constraint is that the source of the utterance, i.e.
the agent,is not a single individual human being, but a city or institution or even a building, as illustratedbelow:1.
Marlin Fitzwater said ...2.
Washington said ...3.
The White Ilouse said ...4.
IBM announced ...All reporting verbs accept metonymic extensions where the original human source is replaced bysome significant superclass they fall into.
In the case of reporting verbs of special importance is theemployer (IBM) or the membership n a group (the French).
But we find also the characterizationof the source in terms of a role he or she played , as in the witness.
This "knowledge" can best bestored in the concept of REPORTING-VERB - -  all the verbs defined with a reporting verb sense willthen inherit the "permission" to use metonymic extensions to a superclass or a specific role playedin an event.But this is not a sufficient restriction on the possible metonymies.
Consider the following scenario:a German makes a disparaging remark ?
about tim German government in the United States.The types of expected escriptions of the source, that would be deemed appropriate, might bethe following:Hans Glueck said that ?
(Name)A German said that ?
(Nationality)?
A Mercedes Benz employee said that ?
(Affiliation)however, given what ?
denotes the following descriptions would be deemed inapproprite and in factuninformative (of.
Grice \[1967\], Gazdar \[1979\] )A human said that ?A vegetarian said that ?A European said that ?108This example illustrates that not all true descriptions of a source can be used as subject inreporting contexts.
The source has to be relevant o the topic of the complement clause.
Bergler\[forthcoming\] describes that the lexical realization of the source in newspaper articles generally addsto the evaluation of the credibility or reliability the source has with respect to the topic.
Thusa German in general has more competence and thus reliability on issues concerning the Germangovernment because of direct affectedness; this fact however is lost if we characterize him (correctly)as a European.This is little surprising; general pragmatic onsiderations such as Gricean maxims ("Be relevant","Be informative") account for this fact.
It has been noticed that it is extremely difficult to put thesepragmatic onsiderations into computational form \[Wilks, 1986\] .
We will show here that somepragmatic oherence can, however, be established on the basis of lexical semantics.When analyzing the subjects for all occurrences of seven reporting verbs in a corpus of 250,000words from the TIME Magazine (1963), we found that a small semantic grammar described thedifferent lexicalizations of the subject, moreover, that grammar shows that the source is often lex-calized as some institution or as holding a particular position.
It is beyond the scope of this paper todiscuss why this should be so; suffice it to allude to the fact that newspapers and magazines reportvery frequently on government activity and business developments and that iusider information isconsidered more valuable.The dilemma here is that a basically pragmatic problem is part of the selectional restrictionsof reporting verbs and that therefore the occurring systematicity has to have some reflection in alexical semantics.
What does the Generative Lexicon solution to this problem look like?Let us first state the problem with an example.
Announce selects for a subject that has some"legitimization" for making the statement that is repeated or paraphrased in the complement.
Therelation between subject and complement that constitutes the "legitimization" is established by theprojective conclusion space, a device that generates certain semantic relationships between lexicalitems dynamically, much in the way a semantic net records semantic relationships between wordsstatically.
3The iexical definition of officiafis in the American lleritage Dictionary is:official adjI.
Of, pertaining to, or authorized by a proper authority; authoritative.2.
Formal or ceremonious: an official banquet.nI.
One who holds an office or position.2.
A referee in a sport.and in the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English we find:offlc|al adj of or about a position of trust, power, and responsability: an official position/anofficial occasion/an official manner  o\] speaking.
-- opposite: unofficial; compare officiouswhich results in a GL  entry of the fornl 4otf ie ial(*x*,  y)\[Form: human(*x*), organization(y), position(.')
~ in(z,y)has-authority(z) ~i hold(*x*, :)\]aFor detail, see \[Pustejovsky 1991\]4see \[Bergler, forthcoming\] for detail.109\[Telie: work-forC*x*, y), trust(y, *x*)\]\[Constitutive: individual(*x*)\]\[hgentive: ~ y\]The combination Officials announced sounds very appropriate (semantically "comfortable") re-gardless of the content of the complement clause, because the semantic selectional restriction imposedby announce is met at the lexicai semantic level by the definition of official as somebody of authorityor trust, implicitly "legitimized".
This is why Officials announced sounds more like a phrasal patternthan like an ad hoc generative combination.This is an obvious case where a simple feature matching procedure can establish the coherencerelation given two lexical entries.
Consider the slightly more complex case of Chrysler officialsannounced (b, which introduces constraints on the content of the complement, restricting it to mattersrelated to the automobile industry in general.
Chrysler officials is a particularization of officials ingeneral and is thus more specific.
A more specific source has a more specific domain of expertise(and is thus often more reliable).
This means that the lexical coherence between Chrysler officialsand announce is established just like above with the additional constraint for the complement to becoherent (i.e.
to relate to something about) Chrysler.Lastly, the metonymic use of Chrysler announced ~ causes a violation of the selectional restrictionof announce, which leads to a coercion of Chrysler to an equivalent of Chrysler officials .The interpretation process of the three subject NP phrases Officials, Chrysler officials, andChrysler in the context of announce is entirely due to the lcxical semantics of the words involved,and has thus far not involved random common sense inference, which is one of the main ideas behindGL (namely to minimize common sense reasoning to the really hard cases).Let us now make the leap to say, a reporting verb that has no explicit semantic onstraints.
Weknow that anybody can say anything without in fact being of much consequence.
The use of say asa reporting verb in the newspaper context, however, restricts its use to statements where the sourcehas some insight or experience that justifies repeating or rephrasing his/her words.
This is a factrelated to the concept of REPORTING-VERB, in fact an anchor for coercion.The case of Officials said ~ is analog to the case of Officials announced ~b, with officials being in aposition of authority or trust filling the requirement associated with the concept REPORTING-VERB,an inherited and therefore weaker constraint han that for announce.
Similarly, Chrysler officialssaid that fb derives the coherence relation from the concept REPORTING-VERB and constrains thetopic of the complement clause to coher with Chrysler.Chrysler said (b is more marked than Chrysler announced qS, but indeed does occur frequently,for example in the Wall Street Journal corpus.
Interestingly, we found that in the sentences thatcontained a company name as subject of say, the complement phrase was frequently referring backto the subject with the pronoun it as in:?
AEG also said it expects group operating profit to remain at last year's level of 115 millionmarks .?
Chantal said it is in advanced stages of testing one of the drugs, Cyoctol, as a topical treatmentfor mild to severe acne.?
And Nissan Motor Co., reacting to foreign pressure on Japanese auto makers, said it plans toslash annual vehicle exports in half by the late 1990s.?
San Miguel said in a report to its stockholders that higher wages, production costs, and interestrates threaten growth prospects for the second half.5 We expect the process at work here to be very close to that of ellipsis resolution.II0This enhances the markedness of the sentences enforcing the same coercion based on a stipulationof metonymy as for announce.
But note that it is possible to use say in its reporting sense with amuch weaker coherence relation between the source and the complement than the one required forannounce .We have derived coherence relations between three different source NPs, Officials, Chrysler oJ~i-cials, and Chrysler to two reporting verbs, namely announce and say from the lexical semantics ofthe words involved and we have shown how the compositional behavior of the matrix clause in turnintroduces topic constraints on the complement.
This means that an issue as inherently pragmaticsounding as restricting tile metonymy in subject position of reporting verbs to extensions that bearrelevance to the complement clause can partly be resolved on the basis of lexical semantics, whentreating the lexicon not as a static, passive list of definitions but a dynamic structure that canincorporate procedures that were previously only found in common sense reasoning systems.
Theimportant advantage to pure common sense reasoning systems lies in the fact that the reasoning inGL is constrained by and limited to syntactic and lexical semantic knowledge, incorporating con-ceptual knowledge only where it bears on language behavior.
This results in much cheaper inferencemechanisms, but will not explain the truly creative use of language.5 Conc lus ionIn this paper we considered violations of selectional restrictions for verbs of different semantic fields.First, we discussed musical terms as they occur in an electronic "notes" conference and found thatviolations of the selectional restriction for the direct object (restricted to "music") in fact describea systematic set of "aspects" of music, indeed allowing us to formulate coercion rules that make itpossible to speak of the required semantic inferences ill general terms.
Coercion rules are a generativedevice, illustrating one of the dynamic aspects of the Generative Lexicon formalism, which aims torepresent world knowledge that is reflected in the syntactic and semantic behavior of words.
Theinference rules used in a generative lexicon are reminiscent of common sense reasoning but nmchmore tightly constrained (and therefore limited).We illustrated on the musical terms that interesting differences in the acceptance of violations ofthe selectional restrictions for the object position can be represented (and explained) by abstractionsthat often hold in other domains.
For instance we confirmed that the notion of "packager", occurringwith mass terms ill general, plays all important role in the musical domain as well.This approach is advantageous compared to purely syntactic/semantic or purely common sen-sical approaches because it identifies certain pragmatic onsiderations needed to describe syntac-tic/semantic behavior (notoriously missing or assumed in syntactic or formal semantic theories) yetconstrains the immense space for pragmatic inferences according to the lexical definitions and asmall set of generative devices, thus leaving to common sense reasoning proper only truly novel usesof language.The semantic domain of reporting verbs served to illustrate that not only can we resolve selec-tional violations within this paradigm, but that from the very compositional meaning of a reportingverb with its subject, we can automatically derive pragmatic onstraints on the topic of the comple-ment clause, thus limiting even here the work of the pragmatic inferencer.AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge James Pustejovsky for his invaluable help with this paper.111References\[Bet91\]\[Berng\]\[Fas88\]\[Gaz79\]\[Gri67\]\[Kri87\]\[l,ewlg\]\[PC88\]\[PL86\]\[Pus91a\]\[Pus91b\]\[Vie75\]\[Wil78\]\[Wi186\]S. Bergler.
The semantics of collocational patterns for reporting verbs.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Berlin, April 9-11, 1991, 1991.S.
Bergler.
Evidential Analysis of Reported Speech.
PhD thesis, Brandeis University,forthcoming.D.
Fass.
An account of coherence, semantic relations, metonymy, and lexical ambiguityresolution.
Ill S. Small, G. Cottrell, and M. Tanenhaus, editors, Lexical Ambiguity Res-olution: Perspectives from Psycholinguistics, Neuropsychology, and Artificial Intelligence.Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Mateo, 1988.G.
Gazdar.
Pragmatics: lmplicature, Presupposition, and Logical Form.
Academic Press,New York, 1979.H.P.
Grice.
Logic and conversation.
Unpublished MS. of the William James Lectures,\[Iarvard University, 1967.M.
Krifka.
Nominal reference and temporal constitution: Towards a semantics of quan-tity.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Amsterdam Colloquium, pages 153-173, University ofAmsterdam, 1987.B.
Levin.
Towards a Lexical Organization of English Verbs.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago, forthcoming.D.
Parisi and C. Castelfranehi.
Disambiguation in a lexically based sentence understandingsystem.
In S. Small, G. Cottrell, and M. Tanenhaus, editors, Lezical Ambiguity Resolution:Perspectives from Psycholinguistics, Neuropsychology, and Artificial Intelligence.
MorganKaufmann Publishers, San Mateo, 1988.F.J.
Pelletier and L.K.Schubert.
Mass expressions.
In D. Gabbay and F. Guenthner,editors, Handbook of Philosophical Knowledge, Vol.
4.
Reidel, Dordreeht, Holland, 1986.J.
Pustejovsky.
The Generative Lexicon: A Theory of Computational Le~:ical Semantics.MIT Press, Cambridge, 1991.J.
Pustejovsky.
Towards a generative l xicon.
Computational Linguistics, 17(3), 1991.B.C.
Vickery.
Classification and Indexing in Science.
Butterworth and Co., London,England, 1975.Y.A.
Wilks.
Making preferences more active.
Artificial Intelligence, 10:1-11, 1978.Y.A.
Wilks.
Relevance and beliefs.
In T. Myers, K. Brown, and B. MeGonigle, editors,Reasoning and Discourse Processes, pages 265-289.
Academic Press, New York, 1986.112
