Lexical and World Knowledge: Theoretical and Applied ViewpointsJohn S. WhitePRC Inc.1500 Planning Research DriveMcLean VA 22102(703) 556-1899white_john@po.gis.prc.comThree discussion points are addressed from two perspectives: that of an anthropologicaltradition in cognitive science, and that of application--oriented natural language processing.From the cognitive perspective, knowledge of the world is not as influenced by linguisticsemantics as we are tempted to think.
From the applied NLP perspective, the distinctionbetween world and lexical knowledge can be determined practically on the basis of what isneeded for the computational task.139Lexical and World Knowledge: Theoretical and Applied ViewpointsThis position paper expresses two perspectives to the issue of the relationship of lexicalsemantics and knowledge representation, one from a flavor of cognitive science andanother from the applied orientation to natural language processing (NLP).
Theperspectives are very different in their effects: this variety of cognitive science is highlybound to how humans categorize an arguably continuous universe; that variety of NLP isdevoted to how to make machines "do" language understanding just well enough toperform some delimitable tasks automatically.
The contrasts in the positions are obvious interms of fidelity to how it is that humans must actually organize their worlds and theirlexicons.
But there is a significant similarity as well, in that, once a fervently held viewabout determinism is expressed, it is possible to exploit he boundaries between lexical andworld knowledge for both the ends of cognitive science and NLP, without exactlyknowing what those boundaries are.The original gauntlet thrown for the Siglex workshop was a series of questions whichraise the relevant theoretical nd applied issues for determining the difference between typesof knowledge, the use of one for the determination f the other, and cross-culturalcorrelates of knowledge-representation/lexical representation phenomena.
This paper usesthree of these as a springboard (or better soapbox) for presenting my views on the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis (that is, the various deterministic positions on perception, cognition, andlanguage structure).
It is hoped that this such expression will be preaching to the choir,though it is possible that it will not be.
Upon the expression of those views, however, Iam more at liberty to show how, on the one hand, cultural knowledge helps solve lexicalproblems, and on the other, how useful exical organizations are as expressions of worldknowledge because they can be exploited efficiently.The three discussion points are addressed here are the methods of determining the scopeof lexical knowledge, cross linguistic evidence for lexical specificity, and implementedsystems to lexical/non-lexical knowledge.
Rather than a serial exposition of these,however, they are organized at the highest level by the methodological issue, treating thecross cultural perspective as a subordinate issue via the treatment of a cultural/lexicalproblem in anthropology, and then the implemented systems as examples ofmethodological practicalities.1.0.
Lexicai and extra-lexicai methodologies.
From the human languagepoint of view, there are intuitive tests in ordinary linguistic behavior for determining lexicaland non-lexical knowledge.
Among the variety of real and imagined failings of ourchildren, for example, we do not accuse them of being unable to speak their nativelanguage, or, if we do, it is not because they do not know the capital of Korea (and thusoccasionally miss the point of some utterance about where Reeboks come from).
Thisjudgment indicates that there is a boundary somewhere, and is probably asuitable first stepin developing a usable linguistic methodology, one consistent with the way linguisticjudgments are done.
Another method involves performing cognitive tests on bilingualsand monolinguals in the same cultural setting (which begs numerous questions); theapparent similarities in organizing behavior among should in principle be the influence ofworld knowledge alone, and the differences possibly of language influence (to the limitsexpressed rather abundantly both above and below).
This experiment is on the face of ittoo difficult to control; we seek a more bounded set of methods in the same spirit.140The next discussions beg the question of f'mding the boundary itself, but clearly exploit heboundary.
First, the boundary between cultural belief and lexicon is used to determine thelexemic status of a morpheme in Tojolabal-Maya.
Secondly, several examples inmachine-readable dictionary work are discussed to show how these can be used self-consciously to represent both the lexical and conceptual organization necessary for naturallanguage processing tasks as they are currently applied.1.1.
Lexicai/cultural interactions and Sapir-Whorf.
The following addressesthe issues of cross-cultural perspectives on lexical/world knowledge within the context ofthe methodological issues, and in turn addresses linguistic determinism problems that arisewhenever terminological structures are hypothesized to be related to the way people thinkabout he world.1.1.1.
Tojolabal evil eye.
In the study of the lexical semantics of Tojolabal-Maya(an indigenous language of the highlands of Chiapas, Mexico) I discovered a set ofphenomena associated with the indigenous belief of "evil eye" which apparently shed lighton the lexical unity of what seemed to be several homophonous words (White 1979).
Itwas notable that many of the objects in the world associated with evil eye were expressedby (or counted by) the same Tojolabal string, which heretofore was regarded as severaldifferent, homophonous words.The Tojolabal word sat has a broad range of translations.
It occurs in two parts of speech(noun and numeral classifier), and can mean "eye," "face," "top surface," and (as aclassifier) apiece of fruit,the sky, a word, or a coin.
It is tempting, especially because ofthe apparent divergence inpart of speech to regard the different sense of sat to be associatedwith different lexical items, and I had happily done just that until the people told me aboutthe full extent of effects of the evil eye.
Typically, you can infect a child with evil eye bypointing at its face (you are hereby advised against i ), but one also causes fruit on the treeto rot by pointing at it.
Meanwhile, involving your finger with the sky (pointing at themoon or a rainbow or counting the stars) will get you warts, and carrying a coin willprevent the dangerous effects of looking at a corpse.
The interaction of the affectors andaffecteds in these scenarios, along with the behavior of "ripe" and "unripe" objects, led toan observation that reducing that sat's to one also reduced the number of formulas for evileye.
This fact supports the hypothesis that there is one lexical entry sat in Tojolaballexicon, from which the several referents are results of extension processes.1.1.2.
The relevance of Sapir-WhorL Such investigation of cultural beliefcomplexes and their relationship to the lexical semantics of the language spoken by thatculture comes perilously close to raising the issues of influence of the one over the other,and in particular the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis.
It seems intuitively reasonable to suppose,as the anthropologists of the early 20th century did, that the specificity by which a class ofobjects is lexicalized has to do with the cultural relevance of the concepts associated withthat.
Surely the the number of lexemes used to discriminate among classes and subclassesof thing must, at least much of the time, be affected by the importance of that category to aparticular endeavor (e.g., breeders know more words for dogs than do non-breeders) Butthis presumes the primacy of the lexeme, that we categorize more where we have moreunique words within the category.
As we will discuss below, there are universal propertiesof taxonomic classes, internal to the lexical system itself, such as genericity,primary/secondary lexemes, expression of "truest" member, and so on (Berlin et al,op.cit.).
However, none of these properties automatically say anything about people'sability to conceive of, or perceive, the object/idea itself.141The classic examples are found in cross-linguistic color terminology.
What happens inlanguages where primary lexemic terms are quite restricted (e.g., only a black, white, red,and blue color word), is rather like what happens when I enter a paint store: the lack ofterms does not reflect knowledge of the world nor perceived istinctions in color.
Ofcourse, speaking with people whose language does not have a lexemic distinction betweenblue and green reveals that there is no trouble at all circumlocuting toexpress the perceiveddistinction between the "blue/green" of grass and the "blue/green" of the sky, and otherdistinctions finer still.
Relatively recent work by Kay and Kempton (1984) carried thisobservation to more empirical evels, to dispel the Whorfian claim that lack of aterminological distinction would change the perception of the boundaries between colors(the paper also is a good source for discussion of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis).Thus I reject he extremes of Sapir-Whorf interpretations (and the magic and perhaps elf-exculpation i herent in any deterministic theory), and maintain instead the more pedestrianview that humans transcend all sorts of constraints, including the strictures of language andits lexical systems.
This position allows a characterization f the specificity of lexical-semantic ategories in cross-linguistic comparison, but does not immediately allow us toknow what its relationship to world knowledge might be.
For now, I resort to theexplanation provided by Kay and Kempton, that lexical structure gives a channel forperception and cognition, barring other evidence or more convenient channels.
To thisextent, and no further, then, specificity in the lexicon influences world knowledgeorganization, and vice versa.Returning to the Tojolabal case, it is tempting to suspect that the association of conceptsunder evil eye was influenced by the lexical unity of sat  (i.e., supporting the Sapir-Whorfhypothesis as commonly put forth), there really is no grounds for that position any morethan the opposite position (that he strength of the belief system maintained the integrity ofthe reference of the lexical item).
Thus the phenomenon was neutral with respect o theinfluence of language on perception/cognition.1.2.
Natural Language Processing Methodologies.As has been hinted at already, the distinction between what is and is not lexical knowledgecan be visited practically.
The distinction hopefully reduces to that between what is theleast you have to know in order to do the work your lexicon has set you up to do in NLP,and what can you get away with excluding.
To whatever extent one can present worldknowledge in an algorithmic way that is perhaps the same way that you represent lexicalknowledge for those purposes with precisely those same limitations (I refer to feature/valuepairs, however computationally represented), one does it.
To the greatest extent possible,we reduce world knowledge to lexical (and maybe syntactic) differences caused by"domain" or "sublanguage" and code those difference as if lexical, and segregate theseentries in sub-dictionaries.
The discussion of NLP systems necessarily involves theworkshop issue of theoretical pproaches and implemented systems and their methods ofcombining lexical and non-lexical knowledge.Successfully implemented NLP systems do combine lexical and world knowledge togetherat some stage of their operations.
The actual decision as to which component certainknowledge should go depends more on software engineering, human factors, andefficiency issues than on capturing the natural inguistic/knowledge boundary.
This isalmost regrettable, xcept hat the realization allows us a clearer segregation among systemswhich are intended to model human behavior for its own sake, and those which aredestined to take advantage of task and domain boundaries to do a particular job.
It isfrequently argued that no such boundaries exist, that any discourse will be bound up in142world knowledge without which it cannot be interpreted completely.
And I agree:differentiating between the two senses of "speaker" is only helped slightly by verb caserole assignments, and hardly at all by domain delimitations (e.g., telephony) via specializeddictionaries.
In implemented systems, the choice in correctly translating or otherwiseprocessing "speaker" may lie between ad hoc feature value assignments (with concomitantloss of maintainability) and punting (letting the human disambiguate it at some point in theprocess).
The criterion for judging success in these, however, is efficiency and acceptanceby users/operators, criteria which are influenced by many factors beyond just thecorrectness of the knowledge representation.1.2.1 Machine Readable Dictionary Taxonomies.
The archetypal work in thecomputational manipulation of lexical structures i  Robert Amsler's work in developingtaxonomic structures from machine readable dictionaries.
As is probably well known(Amsler 1980, Amsler and White 1979), Amsler used the ISA links expressed by theformat of the dictionary entry between the word defined and the syntactic heads of thedefinition to build recursive, transitive taxonomic structures.
Among a great many thingsthat were discovered in that project was that there were principled ways to determinehidden structural information about he lexical hierarchies.
Several of these principles werequite similar to those derived in the discipline of cognitive science called ethnosemantics.Much work in this branch of anthropology emerged in the 1960's and early 1970's asattempts to design knowledge acquisition methods which could elicit culturally relevantorganizing principles from informants without imposing the investigators own organizingprinciples.
A landmark study by Berlin et al (1974) had concluded that there wereuniversal generalizations that could be drawn about how people categorize taxonomically,that categories of generalities in reference could be correlated with lexical expression.Thus in botanical taxonomies, it was observed that there are "levels" of organization thatcould be discovered by the lexemic status of the words occurring at various levels ofgenerality n the taxonomic structure.
Lexemic status in turn concerns whether the nodelabels are "primary" ("pool", "dog", "terrier") or secondary ("whirlpool", "wire-hairedterrier") and whether a node at a particular level can actually go without a label.
"Covertcateg.ories", as these unlabelled sets are called, were predicted to be able to occur only atcertain points in the taxonomic structure.In ethnosemantic methodology, covert categories are indicated when a great number ofwords with relatively specific referents eem to be defined by the informant as "a kind of"something very general.
An analogous phenomenon occurred in the generation oftaxonomic structures from machine readable dictionaries, in, of all places, botanicalterminology.
In the Merriam-Webster Modem Pocket Dictionary used in the Amsler work,specific plant varieties are often defined as "a plant related to the X's .... ",as in "agave (Any of several spiny-leaved plants related to the amaryllis)", "hellebore (apoisonous plant related to the lilies...") (G&C Merriam, 1971).
Along with theproliferation of very specific - to- very general links, clues such as the regularity of "relatedto" tip us off to covert categories, nodes on the taxonomy which have no overt labelexpressed by the direct ISA relation.
Figures 1 and 2 respectively show a relatively messytree generated by the ISA relation as manifest between an entry word and the head of itsdefinition text, and the same tree with the imposed covert categories revealed by theexpression "related to.
"143PLANT 2.1AHEANISE C ............Figure 1.
Partial "Plant" taxonomy derived from head terms alonePLANT 2.1AHERB.1A SHRUB.OA< T H E nTREE 1.1AANISE <THE LILIES>CARAWAY LILYCELERY TULIPDILL GARLICFENNEL HYACINTHHEMLOCK ASPARAGUS<THE DAISIES>DAISYFLEABANECORNFLOWERARTICHOKECOSMOSZINNIADAHLIAFigure 2.
Taxonomy augmented with covert categories ("related to")144There was a continuing temptation to regard higher levels of the hierarchy as somehowtranscendant of the language from which they were elicited, i.e., to have becomeknowledge representations whose nodes were labelled in an English-like meta-language.In part, this temptation arose out of the labels themselves, ince such words as "cause","thing", etc.
were at the tree tops.
At the time, I resisted because of the anthropologicalposition already noted.
However, I have since come to the healthier realization that thelexical structure can serve as domain knowledge for practical purposes.
I address thisfurther below.1.2.2.
Multi-lingual Lexical Structures.
Later work with machine readabledictionaries used such lexical structures, not as knowledge representation models, butrather to transfer in levels of generality between two different languages, given twomonolingual dictionaries and one bilingual which joined the two (White 1989).
The meansof transfer between one language and another (though not, of course, translation) was amatter of finding the fit for disambiguation one side, (using relatively undifferentiatedcollocational cues from the definition texts) and then transferring languages in an essentiallyword-for-word algorithm.The relations impose two dimensions: the ISA one between the entry term and the sense-definition head, and the relation (simply collocational) between the defining head and theother words in the definition.
Obviously there are more things expressed in the definitiontext than just these two relations.
But even this much avoids imposition of relations that arenot actually in the dictionary.
The eollocational words have their own ISA links to otherwords, and their own (non-reflexive) collocational links as well.
Thus it is possible totraverse lexical structures both hierarchically (ISA links) and laterally (collocation).Heretofore, it had only been advisable to build taxonomic structures from generaldictionaries, ince every term in a definition is also defined, assuring some sort of closure.With the addition of the collocational dimension, however vaguely defined, it is possible to"graft" non-general dictionaries (technical, special purpose, bilingual) onto the existinggeneral structures by matching collocations in to the non-generals to collocations in thespecifics.
The next step, for a Siemens translation databank experiment (both technical andmulti-lingual) was to map such glossaries into dual general purpose dictionaries (one foreach language).
By this means generality could be traversed and collocations pursued tomeet a broad range of application possibilities, including data extraction i to one languagefrom free-form text in another.Figure 3 represents a grown link between a technical English glossary, a correspondingGerman one, and the general dictionaries in between from which the general links amongcollocates can be grown.Figure 3. relational links across multi.lingual structuresThe elaboration of elicited relations into a structure, even a two dimensional one of theexplicit ISA and collocafional ssociations, can be employed to disambiguate free text, andextract information from that text with minimal natural language processing.
The MRD-145Tree GenerationDevice .1F (for,indicating,number,amount)Counter 2.0B (gas-filled,operate,conditions,magnitude,pulse,...)Geiger-Mueller-ZaehlrohrGeiger-Mueller Counter Geiger-Mueller-ZaehlerFigure 3.
Relational links across multi-lingual structures146derived lexical network can be used to look at free text and find a collocational fit between adatum point in the text and the other words around it, or the generic levels of the otherwords around it, or the collocations of the generic levels of the other words around it, orthe collocation of the datum point's generic levels.This ability to access taxonomic trees, collocates of tree members, and tree members ofcollocates, with no particular NLP in the ordinary senses of the term, should theoreticallyallow the disambiguation f a significant number, perhaps amajority, of the words the freetext, and, from there, include the words which have been impossible to disambiguate intothe set of known collocates.Every term, then, may be seen as the intersection of values in three dimensions: thehierarchical (its ISA link to its immediate superordinate), the collocational (the list ofwords with which it occurred in definition texts), and the transfer (the correspondingentry term in the target language, itself an intersection of three dimensions).
Using thisstructure, a collocation set can associate a term in a free text with a sense based upontext collocational matchings.
An ISA path may then be exploited to conceptually generalizea term matching a lower node, be translated into the target language anywhere along thatpath, and proceed upward in generality in the target language.Using this structure, a collocation set can associate a term in a free text with a sense basedupon text collocational matchings.
An ISA path may then be exploited to conceptuallygeneralize a term matching a lower node, be translated into the target language along thatpath up to the most general ISA link in the TEAM portion, and proceed upward ingenerality in the target language.
A general term in free text may use collocation links todirect a downward ISA path, translate along the path from the most general TEAM entrydownward, and have available the ISA tree for generalization in the other language.
Theproject design described here employs recent work in elicitation of machine- readabledictionary structures to perform multi-lingual processing.
The lexical- semantic semanticstructures, when optimized, form a base in which each term has a value on (at least) threedimensions.
A matching term in a text, then, can be disambiguated by matchingcollocation, can be generalized by its taxonomic path, and can be manipulated in either ofthese ways in any of the languages for which it has a transfer.This work is representative of the viewpoint of applied NLP, that is, that the consistencyand the recoverability of methodological assumptions and actions is more important thanthe "psychological reality" that was suggested by the similarity of dictionary and folktaxonomies.
The ISA relation is, or is very similar to, well attested lexical-semanticprinciples among speakers in many languages.
The "simply collocationar' relation is aconvenience toavoid making wrong relational hypotheses.The intent of this model was information extraction from messages in one language andrepresentation in a template in another (without ranslating it).
This effort ignored any ideathat the higher levels of MRD-generated structures represented metalinguistic expressionsof concepts rather than words themselves.
In this case, I at best begged the question, sincethe language of the words at all levels of all the hierarchies was directly relevant to thefunctioning of the systems.
So no claim was made about he organization of knowledge ondictionary taxonomies other than the words labeling the nodes had succeedingly moregeneral references.147Again, this work is indicative of a direction in which applications can beg several questionsabout he purely lexical versus the purely conceptual representations.
Traversinghierarchies generated by lexical processes as if they were cognitive categories evades thewhole issue of the boundary that must lie between them.
Further, the way that multi-lingual information isextracted above is completely artificial.
Yet the evaluation metric willbe how well the application does its job (precision, recall, efficiency), not the identificationof the lexical - non-lexical boundary.2.
Natural Language Processing Systems.
Application processes may beartificial, but the dictionary representation itself has valuable attributes derived from itsstatus as a human linguistic artifact.
As long as the organizing relations are derivable fromthe corpus itself (and not imposed from analyst interpretation), then there is an internalconsistency which forms the basis of efficient knowledge representation built byrecoverable principles.
The most promising new NLP systems may be those which usesome extemaUy-denved l xical system to represent the lexical semantics of the system, andits conceptual structure as well.
Notable among these is the work at New Mexico State injust the sort of dictionary work described above to the service of machine translation (Wilksand Slator 1987).From the very practical perspective of doing applied NLP it has become repeatedlyapparent hat lexical structures turn out to be an excellent basis for knowledgerepresentation, as long as the exact distinction between the two types of knowledge is notimportant for the intended application.In the Siemens METAL machine translation system, an intentionally minimalist set oflexical semantic features coded for words could be varied for specialized sub-lexiconsgermane to the particular subject area of the translation task (Bennett 1988).
In the MartinMarietta EQUAL database interface, general lexical semantic properties were segregatedfrom knowledge about the database schema, but the two components were of the samedata structure (frames), and linked themselves hierarchically during query generation(White 1988).
In the PRC PAKTUS system (for which I can only claim affiliationwithout echnical involvement), he description of word behavior is located in three areas ina PAKTUS system: the language-dependent l xical category networks, the language-independent, domain-independent conceptual frame structure, and an application-specificdomain network.
The underlying concept structure is not dependent upon any subjectdomain, yet, again, the parts are of the same data structure type and successful messageunderstanding depends on the connection of those structures (Loatman and Post 1988).
Ineach of these cases, especially in the latter two, the association of lexical-semanticinformation with complement-role information, and on through domain specific facts,results in a very general abstract representation rather like that of a well-articulated MTinterlingua.
While a combination of information from different components, therepresentational structure itself does not maintain the segregation of lexical and otherknowledge distinctly, having thus uniform access to the facts required to do its job (query adatabase, populate one, or disseminate a message).Now a great many systems to their credit do establish a component that expresses thissingularity and domain information.
And it can be done in a way that is dissimilar, at leastconceptually, tothe way lexical entries are coded for semantic properties.
For example, Icite the script designs of long vintage, still exploited in numerous ystems uch as theCMU KBMT system (Carbonell 1988).
However, this modularity does not distinctlysegregate the two types of knowledge.
There is nothing unconscionable about expressingknowledge of the world as values of features asserted in the lexicon, even when there is away of expressing the same information i  the script, if it happens to work better that way148for the purpose of the NLP task at hand, and is more easily maintained from a softwareengineering position.Having absolved the lapse in determining the true world vs. lexical nature of particularrelevant bits of information, approaches which exploit the lapse generally don't graspthose problems like overlap of the worlds (domains here) in which synonymy occurs.
Nordo they handle the subtleties of vagueness/homophony issues (*John plays the flute andHarry football) which turn up more than we expect in the operational use of machinetranslation.
Similarly, the peculiar problems of database interface, where ambiguitybetween field name and field value is more worldly than lexical, yet not intuitively either,invite practical lexical solutions which are forgiven when effective and maintainable.3.
Conclusion.
As we have seen, lexical and world knowledge must be distinguished,lest we lapse into an unenlightened determinism of human institutions.
At the same time,though, interesting realizations emerge through the inability to discretely segregate he two.From the point of view of the way humans really do organize their universes, evidencefrom worldview can lend evidence to lexical organization, even if we do not know wherethe boundary is.
From applied natural language processing, it is perhaps the case that NLPwill perform better once the boundaries are known.
But for now, lexical structures, whenbuilt from consistent, non-capricious principles, can serve as the bases both of lexical andconceptual components, erving the needs of the application as well as the needs ofsoftware ngineering.149ReferencesAmsler, R. 1980.
The Structure of the Merriam-Webster Pocket Dictionary.
Ph.D. Thesis,Austin, TX: University of Texas.Amsler, R. and J.
White, 1979.
Development of a Computational Methodology forDeriving Natural Language Semantic Structures via Analysis of Machine-ReadableDictionaries.
Technical Report TR MCS77-01315, Linguistics Research Center,University of Texas.Bennett, W. 1988.
"Methodological Considerations in the METAL Project."
Proceedingsof the Second International Conference on Theoretical nd Methodological Issues inMachine Translation of Natural Languages.
Carnegie-Mellon University Center forMachine Translation.Berlin, B., D. Breedlove and P. Raven.
I974.
Principles of Tzeltal Plant Classifi'cation.New York: Academic Press.Carbonell, J. and M. Tomita.
1985.
"New Approaches to Machine Translation.
"Proceedings of the First Conference on Theoretical and Methodological IssuesinbMachine Translation of Natural Languages.
Colgate University.Kay, P. and W. Kempton.
1984.
"What is the Sapir-Whorf Hypotthesis?"
AmericanAnthropologist 86.1.Loatman, B. and S. Post.
1988.
"Natural Language Processing for Intelligence MessageAnalysis" Signal Magazine.
September, 1988.G.&C.
Merriam.
1971.
The New Merriam-Webster Pocket Dictionary.
New York:Pocket Books.White, J.
1978.
"It's Impolite to Stare and Worse to Point: Linguistics and the TojolabalOccult"Proceedings of the 1977 Mid-America Linguistics Conference.
University ofMissouri- Columbia.White, J.
1988.
"Advantages of Modularity in Natural Language Interface."
Proceedingsof the Third Annual Rocky Mountain Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Denver:June, 1988.White, J.
1989.
"Determination f Lexical-Semantic Relations for Multi-lingualTerminology Structures."
In Relational Models of the Lexicon, ed.
M. Evens.Cambridge University Press.150Wilks, Y. and B. Slator.
1987.
"Towards Semantic Structure from Dictionary Entries.
"In Proceedings of the Second Annual Rocky Mountain Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
Boulder, Colorado.151
