Aspectual Requirements of Temporal Connectives:Evidence For A Two-Level Approach to SemanticsMichael HerwegUniversitiit HamburgFB lnformatikAB Wissens- und SprachverarbeitungBodenstedtstr.
16D-2000 Hamburg 50Germanye-mail: herweg@rz, inf ormatik, uni-hamburg, dbp.
deAbstractThis paper argues for a two-level theory of semantics as opposed to a one-leveltheory, based on the example of the system of temporal and durationM connectives.Instead of identifying the semantics of lexical items and larger constituents withconceptual structures, the two-level theory assumes that there is an intra-linguisticlevel of abstract semantic representations distinct from the extra-linguistic level ofconceptual representations.
It is argued that the two-level theory can give a moreappropriate treatment of polysemy as well as a better account of the conditions underwhich connectives may (more or less) be felicitously combined with complementexpressions which do not respect tile aspectual requirements of the connectives.1 Semantic Representations and ConceptualRepresentationsThis paper addresses a specific question in the theory of natural anguage semantics withthe example of a specific lexical domain.
The question is whether one should opt fora one-level or a two-level theory of semantic interpretation.
The lexical domain is thesystem of temporal and durational connectives such as after, before, while, when, as soonas, since, until and as long as (or rather their German equivalents).The one-level theory, which is the predominant one in cognitive and computationallinguistics, considers emantic representations to be part of the conceptual system.
Syn-tactic representations are directly mapped onto conceptual structures, with no separate,intra-linguistic semantic level mediating between the two kinds of representation (see,e.g., \[12\] and many others).
As a consequence, there is no distinction in principle betweengenuine linguistic knowledge about meanings and extra-linguistic, onceptually encodedknowledge.The two-level theory of semantic interpretation (see, e.g., \[3, 8, 13\]) claims that theinterpretation of a linguistic expression in a particular context of use involves the con-struction of a conceptual representation constrained by the semantic representation f theexpression.
Semantic and conceptual representations are distinct levels of mental rep-resentation which are governed by the principles of two separate cognitive modules, thesystems of grammatical nd conceptual knowledge, respectively.
Semantic representationsare structured configurations ofsemantic units which, on the one hand, are determined bythe grammatical system of the language in question and, on the other hand, are grounded152in - or motivated by - the conceptual system.
Semantic representations are abstract repre-sentations ofmeaning in that they are not identical with specific conceptual interpretationswhich an expression may have in a l~articular context of use.
Instead, they constrain therange of possible conceptual interpretations which may be contextually assigned to anexpression.
They do so by fixing general, abstract conditions for admissible conceptualinterpretations.
Semantic representations are the unique level on which the principles ofcompositionality of meaning are operative.Conceptual representations are structured configurations of conceptual units, whichare mental representations of certain aspects of the external world.
In the semantic inter-pretation of a linguistic expression in a given context of use, they serve as contextuallyspecified representations of meaning.
Being subject to the principles of the conceptualsystem, which mediates between various cognitive systems (visual, auditive, motoric, mo-tivational, inguistic, .. .  )
and in itself consists of several subsystems, conceptual represen-tations provide the level of integration of extra-linguistic, conceptually encoded knowledgein the course of the semantic interpretation f an expression.
Thus, conceptual represen-tations are the level on which non-compositional processes of interpretation take place.The crucial question for a decision between the two competing views is whether or notthere are generalizations and regularities concerning semantic structure which cannot betraced back to conditions of syntactic or conceptual structure.
And indeed, experimentalresearch in psycholinguistics suggests that, for example, delays in the production of themarked item as opposed to the production of the unmarked item of a pair of gradableadjectives (small vs. big, short vs. long) in describing relations between objects differingin size are due to features of the lexical items themselves and not to features of theconceptualization f the scene \[14\].
In particular, the markedness effect appears only inlanguage production tasks but not in non-linguistic tasks, as opposed to a congruencyeffect (the retrieval of a particular concept may be inhibited by a competing activatedconcept), which could be observed both in linguistic and non-linguistic tasks.
Thesefindings argue for the need to distinguish between the complexity of the abstract semanticrepresentations assigned to the lexical items in question and the complexity of the moreconcrete conceptual representation f a situation.
Bierwisch (in \[3\]) proposes a generalformat for semantic representations of gradable adjectives within the two-level theorywhich meets these demands.Once one accepts the need for distinguishing two levels of representation, i.e.
a levelof semantic representation subject o genuine linguistic knowledge and a level of concep-tual representation subject to extra-linguistic knowledge, one may assume a theoreticalperspective different from that adopted in various versions of the one-level theory withregard to a number of well-known problems in lexical semantics.
Let me briefly indicatethis new perspective with two examples: firstly, the interpretation f expressions which aresemantically deviant from a purely compositional point of view without neccessarily beingstrictly unacceptable, and secondly, the treatment of polysemy.
Each of these problemswill be addressed in more detail below with regard to temporal connectives.2 The Two-Leve l  Perspect ive  on Semant icsFirst of all, the two-level approach can shed some light on a problem for which, in compet-ing approaches, no theoretically satisfactory account has been given so far.
The problem isthe following.
In general, we have rather clear criteria by which the compositional seman-153tics of an expression can be determined.
However, actual discourse occasionally disregardscompositional semantics to a certain extent: There may be combinations of expressionswhich are deviant from a semantic point of view without being strictly unacceptable.
Ina number of cases, these constructions can more or less easily be given a special inter-pretation shaped by the context.
As a matter of fact, their semantic irregularity mayoften reveal itself only through a systematic study of the whole paradigm.
Consider thefollowing examples from the realm of the semantics of aspect, i.e.
that part of semanticsthat primarily deals with the basic distinction between state expressions and event-typeexpressions.
In each of these examples, there is a clash between the demands of the countadverbial and the aspect of the sentence the adverbial is applied to.
Example (1.a) istaken from \[1\].
(1) a.
?John slept three times last night.b.
?
?John was healthy three times last night.c.
*Three times, John did not write a paper on semantics last night.In each of these sentences, the count adverbial is applied to a sentence overtly describinga state, i.e.
a situation which homogeneously holds for a certain period of time.
Sincestate sentences, in contrast o event-type sentences such as John fell asleep, John regainedhis health and John wrote a paper on semantics, do not carry an internal criterion ofindividuation for the situations they describe, these cannot be counted straightforwardly.If a state holds homogeneously over a certain period of time, it also holds at all parts ofthat period; so on what grounds could we claim that a certain state held exactly threetimes last night?
The presence of a count adverbial may, however, force one to implicitlysupply an external criterion of individuation.
From a logical point of view, the sentence inquestion is thereby treated on a par with event-type xpressions.
The count constructionis then understood as specifying the numbcr of distinct maximum quantities of the state(cf.
\[10, 11\]).
The examples in (1) show that some sentences allow for such an adjustmentof their interpretation to the requirements of their context more easily than others.One popular strategy for treating examples uch as (1) is to note that these phenom-ena exist, but, due to a lack of theoretical means to cope with them, to not further dwellon the subject.
Another strategy is to assign less restrictive meanings to the expressionsin question, so that the critical constructions turn out to be regular.
The latter strategyhas a number of drawbacks.
In the first place, there is the borderline problem: It is hard- if not impossible - to give a theoretically sound explanation of why specific cases suchas (1.c) are really unacceptable.
In the second place, reduced acceptability often comesin degrees, as is shown by (1.a) and (1.b).
Ill the third place, the interpretation of thecritical combinations always involve some amount of inferential effort, which can easilybe acknowledged.
Neither the second nor the third problem can be dealt with simplyby allowing more combinations to be regular from a semantic point of view.
As I willargue below, both call for an explanation in terms of extra-linguistic knowledge of andassumptions about features of types of situations.
The two-level theory of interpretationclaims that semantically deviant, though more or less interpretable, constructions alwaysrequire a non-compositional reinterpretation f some expression.
The need for such a rein-terpretation follows directly from the semantic representations a signed to the respectiveexpressions.
However, the conditions under which certain reinterpretations can or cannotbe performed are spelled out on the extra-linguistic, onceptual level.
Consider the ex-amples in (1).
The difference between (1.a) and (1.b) is primarily based on a differenceregarding what we are willing to assume about the lenght of periods of the respective154kinds of states.
(1.a) does and (1.b) does not match our standard assumptions in thisrespect.
When we try to assign an interpretation to (1.b), we have to perform quite a lotof additional reasoning about the person's tate of health.
However, even such effort canhardly help us to find a sensible interpretation for (1.c).
Our knowledge about states uchas the one described there gives us hardly any clue about what the situation which thesentence purports to describe to us might look like.By providing us with a distinction between linguistic and extra-linguistic determinantsin the interpretation f a linguistic expression i  a particular context of use, the two-leveltheory yields a differentiated, modular theory of acceptability judgements with a cleardistinction between semantically regular and irregular constructions on the one hand andconceptually interpretable (acceptable) and uninterpretable (unacceptable) constructionson the other hand.
The requirements of temporal connectives regarding the aspect of theclauses they can combine with, which is a phenomenon i line with the one exemplifiedin (1), form a convincing case in favour of the two-level approach to semantics.
This willbe the subject of ?3.Furthermore, the two-level theory opens up a new perspective on the treatment of pol-ysemy in different linguistic fields.
This perspective diverges considerably from what hasbeen suggested within the one-level approach, most notably in prototype semantics in thestyle of the Lakoff school.
Instead of assigning a setof rather specific (though systemati-cally connected) conceptual meanings to a polysemous expression, each of which incorpo-rates a considerable amount of contextual information as well as assumptions about objecttypes, situation types and so on, one may confine oneself to a unique, sufficiently abstractsemantic representation, which constrains the range of admissible conceptual interpreta-tions.
The differentiation of particular conceptual interpretations in various contexts iscarried out by a number of general conceptual operations, the choice of which depends onvarious kinds of extra-linguistic knowledge and assumptions a well as contextual features.This general idea has been applied to a number of polysemous expressions already.
See,for example, Bierwisch \[2\] on nouns such as school and theatre, which can be used to referto buildings, institutions, cultural achievements and collections of processes, dependingon the particular context of use.
Herweg \[7\] studies polysemous spatial prepositions suchas in; Herweg \[8\] deals with polysemous temporal connectives.
Lung \[3\] gives an extensiveanalysis of the semantics and conceptual interpretations of dimensional djectives such aslong, short, wide and narrow.
Lung et al \[13\] describe a computer model of the inter-pretation of dimensional djectives implemented in the LILOG project of IBM Germany.The basis of this model is the two-level theory of interpretation with specific formats forsemantic representations and for the representation f the relevant conceptual knowledgeabout spatial properties of objects.In short, the two-level approach to polysemy claims in contrast to its competitors thatthe different readings of a polysemous lexical item in various contexts do not give rise toan abundance of semantic representations assigned to that expression.
Rather, the vari-ous readings are differentiated on the conceptual level, where extra-linguistic knowledgeabout object types, situation types and so on may be assessed in the interpretation f anexpression.
In ?4, I will illustrate the treatment of polysemy within the two-level theorywith the example of temporal and non-temporal readings of the connective be/ore.1553 Aspectual Requirements of ConnectivesBy a number of tests, most temporal connectives can be shown to regularly accept onlycomplement clauses of one particular aspect ill its whole range.
This defines the aspectualrequirements of the connectives as determined by their semantics.
Nevertheless, one oftenencounters combinations of a connective with a clause which, though not fully regularfrom a semantic point of view, can easily be conceptually understood.
However, thesecombinations vary considerably regarding their acceptability.
Their conceptual interpre-tations always involve some amount of inferential effort in order to produce an aspectualreinterpretation f the complement expression.
This reinterpretation serves to adjust theconceptual interpretation of the clause to the aspectual requirements of the connective.Obviously, this is essentially the same phenomenon we observed above (example (1)) withstate sentences in the context of count adverbials.In the underlying semantic theory of tense and aspect, I distinguish between expres-sions of two basic aspects: event-type xpressions and state expressions; the latter includeexpressions about ongoing processes (cf.
\[5\]).
A sentence based on an event-type x-pression reports that a situation which is conceptually categorized as an individual eventof the type in question occurs within a certain period of time.
A sentence based on astate expression asserts that a situation which is conceptually categorized as a state holdshomogeneously over a period of time.
In both cases, the respective times are specified bythe tenses and possibly the temporal adverbials of the sentences.
As is well known fromthe literature (e.g.
\[4\]), the aspect of a sentence can be determined by its combinatorialpotential with respect to time span adverbials ((with)in two hours) and durational ad-verbials (for two hours): Event-type xpressions only combine with time span adverbials(and count adverbials, for that matter), but not with durational adverbials; for state ex-pressions, it is just the other way around.
By this test, which makes use of the inherentsemantic properties of these kinds of adverbials, it can be shown that negation alwaysproduces a state expression.
(Some putative counter-examples are discussed in \[10\]).
Thenegated sentence ither says that a negative state, i.e.
the opposite of the mentionedstate, holds over a certain period of time, or that there is no event of the respective typewithin that period.
In either case, the sentence specifies a homogeneous property of thetime in question.
This will be relevant for the ensuing discussion (cf.
(1.c) above).
Thefollowing set of examples illustrates what has been said so far.
(2) \[event-type expressions\]a. Peter drank a bottle of wine in two hours.b.
*Peter drank a bottle of wine for two hours.
(3) \[state xpressions\]a.
*Peter waited for a wine dclivery in two years.b.
Peter waited for a wine delivery for two years.
(4) \[negated event-type xpressions\]a.
*In two years, Peter didn't drink a bottle of wine.b.
For two years, Peter didn't drink a bottle of wine.
(5) \[negated state expressions\]a.
*In two years, Peter didn't wait for a wine delivery.b.
For two years, Peter didn't wait for a wine delivery.In addition to the two basic aspects, there is a third, derived aspect, namely the perfectaspect.
The perfect aspect is the result of applying an operator to event-type xpressions156which associates to an event of the type in question a potentially bounded consequentstate proximal to that event.
For further details about this theory of the aspects and itsformal specification, the reader is referred to \[8, 9, 10\].In the following, I will illustrate ~the aspectual requirements of temporal connectives,the criteria used to determine these properties of the lexical semantics of the connectives,the operations of reinterpretation a d the conceptual conditions for these operations withsome examples taken from the system of German connectives.
German connectives showvery interesting aspectual requirements, which in many cases are more restrictive thanthose shown by their English counterparts.
For example, nachdem ('after') does notmerely require an event-type xpression in its complement clause (see (6.a)), but morespecifically a clause in the perfect aspect, i.e.
an expression representing an event of aparticular type plus a consequent state proximal to that event (see (6.b)).
The relevanttime of the event or state reported in the main clause (either the definite time of anevent or some arbitrary time at which the state in question holds) is located within thisconsequent state.
Note that the potentially bounded proximal consequent state playsa crucial role, i.e.
more than a simple relation of temporal ordering is needed in thesemantics of +nachdem (and, for that matter, in the semantics of English after).
(6.b)could not describe a situation in which Peter sits down in his chair, gets up, moves toanother place and only then reaches for the newspaper.
(6) a.
?
?Nachdem Peter sich in seinen Sessei setzte, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter sat down in his chair, he reached for the newspaper'\]b. Nachdem Peter sich in seinen Sessel gesetzt hatte, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter had sat down in his chair, he reached for the newspaper'\]Occasionally, nachdern is combined with a complement clause which, if taken on its own,has to be classified semantically as a state expression (see (7.a)).
This combination must,however, be considered as semantically deviant, since nachdem does not combine freelywith negated complement clauses (see (7.b), (7.c)).
Since negation, irrespective of whetherit is applied to a state expression (7.b) or an event-type expression (7.c), always producesa state expression, there should be no such restriction if the combination of nachdem witha state expression were fully regular from the point of view of compositional semantics.
(7) a. Nachdem Peter in seinem Sessel sal3, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter sat in his chair, he took tile newspaper'\]b.
*Nachdem Peter nicht in scinem Sessel sa6, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter did not sit ill his chair, he took tile newspaper'\]c. *Nachdem Peter sich nicht in seinen Sessel setzte, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter did not sit down in his chair, he took the newspaper'\]In assigning a conceptual interpretation to (7.a), the complement clause cannot be un-derstood as reporting a state, but calls for a non-compositional reinterpretation whichsupplies a change-of-state event as the first argument of tile relation expressed by nach-dem/after.
The appropriate reinterpretation of (7.a) is the ingressive reinterpretation,which assigns to the state of Peter sitting in his chair the event of the state's ingression.Thereby, the conceptual interpretation of the state expression is adjusted to the arrange-ment of events and states characteristic for the perfect aspect: The state that holds whenPeter sits in his chair is considered to be the consequent state of its own ingression, i.e.the state which results from a change-of state event of Peter sitting down and eventuallycomes to an end when Peter gets up again.157With very few exceptions, the change-of-state interpretation is difficult to obtain fornegated complement clauses, since the fact that something is not the case usually doesnot provide us with any significant emporal demarcation to which we can relate otherevents or states.
It is therefore in general neccessary to assert explicitly that a change-of-state event has occurred.
This can be done by means of mehr \['any more'\]:(8) a. Nachdem Peter nicht mehr in seinem Sessel saS, griff er nach der Zeitung.\['after Peter did not sit in his chair any more, he reached forthe newspaper'\]b.
?
?Nachdem Peter sich nicht mehr in seinen Sessel setzte, griff er nach derZeitung.\['after Peter did not sit down in his chair any more, he reached forthe newspaper'\]But even then, (8.b) is odd.
The reason is that the corresponding positive clause doesnot describe a state, but an event.
Thus, some additional reasoning is neccessary in orderto obtain a state which held at some time in the past and then changed into the statethat there is no event of Peter sitting down in his chair.
If there is an interpretation for(8.b) at all, it is a habitual interpretation (which of course is a special kind of a stateinterpretation): Peter took the newspaper after he quit his habit of regularly sitting downin a particular chair of his - whatever this is supposed to tell us.Can we, however, conclude from examples uch as (7.a) that at least all positive stateexpressions are accepted by nachdem, even though they must get a special interpreta-tion?
This is not so, because not all positive state expressions allow for an ingressivereinterpretation.
A state can be assigned an event representing its ingression only if thereexists a previous phase of the opposite state.
As an example, see (9), which cannot meansomething like 'after becoming a young person (= at the time when he was young), Peteralready played the piano like a virtuoso'.
(9) ?
?Nachdem Peter jung war, spielte er schon wie ein Virtuose Klavier.\['after Peter was young, he already played the piano like a virtuoso'\]Although the state of a given person being young is of course a temporary state, it doesnot have a beginning in the sense of an event marking the ingression of the state (see also*he became young, *he is already young).
There is no preceding state in which the personis not young.
Before being young, the person simply did not exist, which means that thenegative state expression cannot be applied to times prior to the person's lifetime.
(Bythe same token, the state of a given person being old does not have an end in the senseof an event consisting in the state's egression.)
This contrasts with (7.a): Before Petersat down in his chair, he did not sit in his chair, i.e.
the opposite of the state of Petersitting in his chair obtained.
Therefore, the complement clause in (7.a) does and thecomplement clause in (9) does not allow for all ingressive reinterpretation.
This differencein acceptability cannot be traced to any difference between the state expressions Peter inseinem Sessel sitz- \['Peter sit- in his chair'\] and Peterjung sei.
\['Peter be- young'\] regardingtheir semantic properties crucial in the context of temporal and aspectual interpretation;in other respects, these expressions show exactly the same relevant properties.It is part of our conceptual knowledge about different kinds of states whether a statefits the sequences of negative and positive phases that characterize the ingressive venttype (as well as other kinds of event types such as the egressive vent type).
A formal the-ory of the relevant properties of the conceptual domains of times, event types, events and158states (including processes), in which the conditions of different kinds of reinterpretationsof state expressions can directly be expressed as conditions concerning the arrangementof phases of the states in question, has been developed in \[8, 9, 10\]).
The theory containstwo basic sorts of predicates and individuals: event-type predicates, which express hetero-geneous properties of individual events, and state predicates, which express homogeneousproperties of periods of time.
In addition to standard propositional negation, there is apredicate negation restricted to state predicates.
This allows one to distinguish betweena proposition asserting that a positive state predicate does not hold at a given time, andthe application of a negative state predicate to a time, where the latter is obtained bynegating the corresponding positive predicate.A system of operators establishes various kinds of connections between the two do-mains.
There is, for example, an operator elating an event to a state consisting of theset of times which are temporally included in the time of occurrence of the event.
Thisoperator is intended to capture the (basic) meaning of the progressive aspect.
On theother hand, there is an ingressive and an egressive operator.
These operators map statesonto the corresponding ingressive and egressive vent types, respectively.
Both operatorscan only be applied to a state if phases of the state are preceded or followed by phases ofthe corresponding negative state.
Another operator worth mentioning maps states ontothe so called 'pofective' event type.
This event type characterizes events which consist inthe occurrence of a maximum period at which the state obtains (as in Peter was at thebeach twice this week; see also (1) above).
In contrast o the ingressive and the egressiveoperator, the pofeetive operator does not require that a phase of the state is flanked byphases of the negative state.
All that is required is that there are earlier and later times atwhich the state does not hold (in the sense of simple propositional negation).
With thesemeans, the formal system can capture tile difference between a state such as Peter beingyoung, which, though being a temporary state, cannot be said to have a beginning, andstates such as Peter sitting in Iris chair, which actually have a beginning.
This is exactlywhat is needed in order to cope with the difference between (7.a) and (9).Let us now turn to constructions involving a direction of reinterpretation pposite tothat discussed so far.
Take the following examples.
(io) a. Solange Peter in Hamburg war, lebte er bei seinen Eltern.\['as long as Peter was in Hamburg, he lived with his parents'\]b.
(?
)Solange Peter Maria traf, lebte er bei seinen Eltern.\['as long as Peter was meeting (meet-PAST) Maria, he lived with his parents'\]e. *Solange Peter Maria heiratete, lebte er bei seinen Eltern.\['as long as Peter married (marry-PAST) Maria, he lived with his parents'\]Whereas the interpretation of (7.a) involves the transition from a state to a type of eventsystematically associated with that state, the interpretation of (10.b) requires that anevent-type xpression is conceptually reinterpreted as a state expression.
The durationalconnective solange ('as long as') is semantically restricted to state expressions in thecomplement clause.
Thus, (10.a) is grammatical.
In (10.b), however, where solange iscombined with an expression reporting the occurrence of an event (note that there is noProgressive form in German; ( .
.
. )
Peter Maria traf is an event expression), the com-plement clause cannot be interpreted straightforwardly but must again be reinterpreted.The preferred reinterpretation gives tile clause a habitual or iterative reading.
By this, weobtain a (habitual or iterative) state, which eventually conforms with tile requirements ofthe connective.
The complement clause of (10.c) does not - or at least not that easily - al-159low for this or any other kind of statal reinterpretation f the event expression.
Therefore,(10.c) is irrevocably unacceptable.One major advantage of the two-level theory of interpretation is that one can preciselylocate the source of the difference in acceptability between (10.b) and (10.c) without havingeither to weaken the aspectual requirements of the connective or to alter the semanticclassification of the complement expressions.
The semantic part of the lexical entry ofsolange determines that this connective is restricted to state expressions as complements,and the clauses Peter Maria traf and Peter Maria heiratete are semantically nothingbut event-type xpressions.
Whenever one encounters semantically deviant combinationssuch as (10.b) and (10.c), one tries to find a reinterpretation f the complement clausewhich fulfills the semantic requirements of the connective.
This involves checking whichkind - if at all - of statal reinterpretation may be obtained for the event-type xpressionin question.
While doing so, one is led to access extra-linguistic, onceptually encodedknowledge about the types of events described.
Conceptual knowledge about the type ofevent of some person meeting some other person tells us that these events may - and infact often do - occur more than once, which is a prerequisite for a habitual or iterativereinterpretation.
Conceptual knowledge about the type of events of person x marryingperson y tells us that, with the exception of some rather unusual cases, this type of eventsdoes not occur often enough in x's and y's lifetime to form a habitual state of that couple.But note that nothing in the meaning of the verb marry Jcan sensibly be said to preventx and y from getting married on one day and getting a divorce on the next day over andover again, just as x and y are free to meet as often as they like - in the former case, x'sand y's habit simply would not fit our assumptions about the world.
And this is just whatmakes us accept (10.b), but leads us to reject (10.c).4 Temporal and Non-Temporal Readings of beforeIt is a well known fact that the temporal connective before as well as its equivalentsin other languages has a wide variety of non-temporal readings.
Consider the followingexamples.
In ( l l .a) ,  before has a purely temporal reading.
In ( l l .b-d),  the connectivehas various kinds of non-temporal readings: ( l l .b)  shows a likelihood reading, ( l l .c)  apreference reading, and ( l l .d)  a conditional reading.
(11) a.
Before the Edmonton Oilers played the Minnesota North Stars, they beat theLos Angeles Kings.b.
Before the Pittsburgh Penguins win the Stanley Cup, the Minnesota NorthStars will.c.
Before Wayne Gretzky signs with the Edmonton Oilers again, he will quitplaying hockey.d.
The Pittsburgh Penguins will not get their money before they havebeaten the Boston Bruins.In its temporal use, before says that the relevant ime of the situation reported in themain clause is located on the time scale prior to the time of the event introduced in thecomplement clause.
Since before puts no aspectual restriction on the main clause, therelevant ime is either the definite time of occurrence of an event or some indefinite timeat which a state holds.
In addition to this purely temporal relation, before determinesthat the time associated with the main clause situation is proximal to the complement160clause event, i.e.
it is placed within what I call the proximal pre-state of the event.
Notethat the notion of proximity is again crucial to the meaning of before, just as it is inthe case of German nachdem and English after: ( l l .a)  can hardly be used to convey theinformation that the Oilers played the North Stars in the spring of 1991 and beat theL.A.
Kings a year or a decade ago (which would not be excluded if the connective were toexpress nothing but a temporal ordering relation), even if the Oilers actually happenedto beat the L.A. Kings in 1990 and 1980 as well as in 1991.
Apart from marginal cases,relating the events in ( l l .a)  by means of before most naturally indicates that both eventsoccurred within the same season (or any other period which can serve as the conceptualbasis for fleshing out the notion of proximity in a given context).As for the preference and likelihood readings, a number of relevant features, such asthe choice of tenses, has already been brought to attention by I-Iein~im~iki \[6\]; so I willnot unneccessarily repeat them here.
There are, however, two things which Hein~im~ikidid not make particularly clear: first, under what circumstances these readings arise, andsecond, whether or not she thinks that the temporal and non-temporal readings followfrom different semantic representations of the connective.Note in the first place that tile non-temporal readings are only options we may choosein the interpretation of ( l l .b)  and ( l l .c).
If we consider ( l l .b)  to be a claim about twosuccessive seasons of the National Hockey League, say tile 1991 and the 1992 season, ( l l .b)may perfectly well be understood to tell us that in 1991 the Minnesota North Stars and in1992 the Pittsburgh Penguins will win the Stanley Cup.
(Since in this case NHL seasonsor years in their entirety form the basic units of time, we must count the time of the NorthStars' triumph as proximal to the Penguins' 1992 victory.)
If, however, ( l l .b)  is intendedto be a claim about the very same season, as, for example, when we are discussing theprospects of our favourite teams for the season to come, a temporal interpretation wouldnot make any sense.
After all, we know that there can be only one champion per season.In the same way, ( l l .c)  can simply mean that Wayne Gretzky will first quit his careerand then sign a contract with his former team.
But this temporal interpretation of thesentence would contradict our assumptions about what the president of a team normallyexpects from the players he employs.This shows that the preference and likelihood readings of before are alternatives tothe temporal interpretation of the connective which we choose in case the latter hardlymakes any sense.
The conditions under which these non-temporal readings car/ appearmust be spelled out in terms of our extra-linguistic knowledge of and assumptions aboutfeatures of types of situations, i.e.
they are genuinely conceptual in nature.
Tile relevantconditions are the following: A temporal interpretation contradicts what we think isplausible, and the two statements linked by the connective allow us to establish a contrastbetween types of situations.
In ( l l .b) ,  the neccessary contrast is given by two possibleoutcomes of the hockey season.
In (11.c), the contrast consists in a player's choice eitherto end or to continue his career, the latter being a prerequisite for being offere'd a newcontract.
Where there is no contrast, a preference or likelihood interpretation can hardlybe achieved; compare ( l l .b)  and ( l l .c)  to (12).
The two readings differ in that tilepreference reading requires that the situations are under a subject's control; see sentence(13), which has a likelihood reading only.
(12) a.
Before the Pittsburgh Penguins win tile Stanley Cup, Mario Lemieux willscore for them more than once.b.
Before Wayne Gretzky signs with the Edmonton Oilers again, he willdecide to continue his career.161(13) Before Wayne Gretzky signs with tile Edmonton Oilers again, the PacificOcean will dry out.I consider the basic meaning of before to be temporal.
The preference and likelihoodreadings require no special semantic representations, but arise through a conceptual rein-terpretation of the ordering relation conditioned by the circumstances outlined above.
Illthe basic temporal use, the ordering relation is interpreted as the temporal precedencerelation between times associated with situations.
In preference and likelihood readings,this relation is replaced by the relation of subjective prcference or likelihood, respectively,which ranks one type of situation superior to another type of situation.
(What comesfirst on the scale is more likely or preferred than what comes later, just as what is presentor in the past has a higher degree of certainty than what is yet to come.)
In both thetemporal and the non-temporal cases, there is a projection of parameters associated withsituations - their times or their types - onto a scale, on which situations can be locatedwith respect o that parameter.
The notion of proximity in the semantics of before alsocarries over to non-temporal uses.
In the cases discussed above it means that the typeof situation described in the main clause is among the closest alternatives to the type ofsituation described in the complement clause with respect o the nature of the scale.Nothing has been said so far about tile conditional reading of before in (11.d), whichis repeated here as (14):(14) The Pittsburgh Penguins will not get their money before they have beatenthe Boston Bruins.A conditional reading can only arise if the main clause contains a negation and the sub-ordinate clause is in the perfect aspect.
The reasoning that leads to a conditional readingcan be elucidated by considering what the standard temporal meaning of before yields inconnection with these types of clauses.
In its temporal interpretation, (14) says that priorto the consequent state of the Penguins' victory there is no event of the type that theteam is getting money.
This means that tile earliest possible change from a period withoutsuch an event to a period including such an event is when the victory has occurred.
Ifthere will be such an event at all, it must occur after the victory.
This reasoning leadsus to regard a victory of the Pittsburgh Penguins over the Boston Bruins as a conditionfor the occurrence of any event of the Penguins getting their money.
Here again, the twotypes of events are projected onto a non--temporal scale, which in this case is a scale onwhich events are preceded by their conditions.
The relation of proximity in the meaningof before now means that the realization of the event type introduced in the main clauseis among the immediate consequences of the type of event described in the subordinateclause.5 Conc lus ionLet me sum up my position.
There is evidence from experimental psycholinguistics thatwe have to take into account an intra-linguistic level of semantic representations di tinctfrom the extra-linguistic level of conceptual representations.
In theoretical linguistics, thetwo-level theory can, for example, give an explanation of the differences in acceptabilityamong expressions which are not fully correct from the point of view of compositionalsemantics.
The theory claims that semantically deviant, though more or less acceptable,constructions require a non-compositional reinterpretation f some expression.
Thereby,162the theory reflects the fact that their interpretation always involves a certain amount ofreasoning.
The need for an reinterpretation can be predicted from the semantic repre-sentations assigned to the respective i xpressions.
However, the conditions under whichcertain reinterpretations can or cannot be carried out are spelled out on the conceptuallevel.
Due to extra-linguistic knowledge about types of situations (or, in cases other thanthose discussed in the present paper, tyi:)es of objects or other kinds of entities), someexpressions allow for an appropriate reinterpretation and others do not.
In addition, thetwo-level theory suggests a different perspective on the treatment of polysemous expres-sions.
Rather than assigning a load of highly specialized semantic representations to theexpressions in question, each of which incorporates a considerable amount of contextualinformation and whose number might easily get out of control in various linguistic fields,the theory highlights that there is a division of labour between the semantic and the con-ceptual evel.
Each level of representation makes its own contribution to what eventuallywill be the interpretation of a linguistic expression in a particular context.Acknowledgements:I wish to thank Elke Jiiger for her assistance in the preparation of the manuscript andGeoff Simmons for correcting nay English.References\[1\] Bach, Emmon (1986): "The algebra of events".
Linguistics and Philosophy 9, 5-16.\[2\] Bierwisch, Manfred (1983): "Semantische und konzeptuelle Repr~entationenlexikalischer Einheiten".
in: R. Ruzicka & W. Motsch (eds.
): Untersuchungen zurSemantik.
Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 61-99 (studia grammatica 22).\[3\] Bierwisch, Manfred & Lang, Ewald (eds., 1989): Dimensional Adjectives.
Grammat-ical Structure and Conceptual Interpretation.
Berlin: Springer.\[4\] Dowty, David (1979): Word Meaning and montague Grammar.
The Semantics ofVerbs and Times in Generative Semantics and Montague's PTQ.
Dordrecht: Reidel.\[5\] Galton, Antony (1984): The Logic of Aspect.
An Axiomatic Approach.
Oxford:Clarendon Press.\[6\]\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]Hein~m~iki, Orvokki (1978): Semantics of English Temporal Connectives.
Blooming-ton/Indiana: Indiana University Linguistics Club.Herweg, Michael (1989): "Ans~tze zu einer semantischen Beschreibung topologischerPr~.positionen".
in: C. Babel et al (eds.
): Raumkonzepte in Verstehensprozessen.Interdisziplindre Beitriige zu Sprache und Raum.
Tiibingen: Niemeyer, pp.
99-127.Herweg, Michael (1990): Zeitaspekte.
Die Bedeutung yon Tempus, Aspekt und tem-poralen Konjunktionen.
Wiesbaden: Deutscher Universit~itsverlag.Herweg, Michael (to appear/a): "Temporale Konjunktionen und Aspekt.
Der sprach-lithe Ausdruck von Zeitrelationen zwischen Situationen".
to appear in Kognitionswis-senschafl.163\[10\] Herweg, Michael (to appear/b): "Perfective and imperfective aspect and the theoryof events and states", to appear in Linguistics.\[11\] Herweg, Michael (to appear/c): "A critical examination of two classical approachesto "aspect".
to appear in Journal of Semantics.\[12\] Jackendoff, Ray (1983): Semantics and Cognition.
Cambridge, Mass.
: The MITPress.\[13\] Lang, Ewald; Carstensen, Kai-Uwe; Simmons, Geoff (1991): Modelling SpatialKnowledge On A Linguistic Basis.
Theory-Prototype-Integration.
New York, Berlin,Heidelberg: Springer (Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 481).\[14\] Schriefers, Heribert (1990): "Lexical and conceptual factors in the naming of rela-tions".
Cognitive Psychology 22, 111-142.164
