A Goal-Based Grammar of RhetoricChrysanne  DiMarco,  Graeme Hirst, and Marzena Makuta -G i luk  *Univers i ty of Water looandUniversity of TorontoMay 28, 19931 An advocacy of rhetoricIn many applications in computational linguistics, such as machine translation, we want to un-derstand why a writer has used language in a particular way, what specific effects she intendedto convey, and which linguistic choices were made to achieve those goals.
This idea, that a writerhas specific communicative goals or intentions in mind when she composes text, goes back to thestudy of classical rhetoric, in which the rhetorical form of a writer's text was considered to reflecthis thoughts and intentions.
The rhetorical form was realized through the appropriate choice andorganization of words and syntactic structures meant to "evoke the desired response" (Corbett1971).
Content and form were recognized as inseparable, and as exerting a reciprocal influenceupon each other.In our work, we have integrated the theory of classical rhetoric with conteml)orary work inknowledge rel)resentation to develop an approach to relating high-level intentions, through a hi-erarchy of increasingly detailed linguistic knowledge, to specific syntactic hoices.
We have con-structed a multi-level grammar of rhetoric that ties rhetorical goals, such as formality and force,to syntactic hoices, through the intermediary of stylistic goals such as clarity and concreteness.When a writer sets out to produce a piece of text, he does so with a specific pragmatic goal,such as informing or persuading, in mind.
In order to achieve this goal, he must make particularlinguistic choices.
The mechanism that we propose for achieving the desired pragmatic effect isthe use of lower-level rhetorical goals.
For example, if the writer wishes to be I)ersuasive, he must.present he argument in such a way as to make the reader receptive to his message.
Thus, hemight use a combination of the rhetorical goals of force and amity to convey both a sense ofauthority and a desire to communicate.
He must then decide on the specitic linguistic choicesthat will realize these rhetorical goals.
Style is the medimrn that enables him to do this.
In orderto model formally the linguistic choices of a writer, we decompose complex rhetorical goals intosimpler stylistic goals that can then be related to lexical, syntactic, and semantic hoices.*l.
)iMarco and Makuta-(iiluk: I)epartnmnt of C, onlputer Science, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ()ntari*J,(',anada N21, 3(i;I; e-mail: cdimarco(o)logos.uwaterloo.ca; mlmlakuta(@logos.uwaterloo.ca.
Ilirst: \[)epari.nmnt of(',OUnl)U(.er Science, I lniverslty of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A4; e-mail: gh(t~cs.|.orontto.edu.152 A mul t i - leve l  g rammar  of  rhetor ic()ur grammar of rhetoric allows us to recognize, at the top level, how the overall structure of a textworks to achieve a certain communicative goal, and, at the lower level, how the individual piecesof text fit, together to produce subtle stylistic effects.
Thus, through multiple levels of abstraction,we tie together hetorical forms characteristic of high-level intentions and syntactic relationshipsassociated with stylistically significant effects.
Thus, we have four levels, the pr, gm~ttir, therht'loric~d, the stylistic, and the syntttetic.In DiMarco and Hirst (1993), DiMarco et al(1992), Green (1992), and tloyt (forthcoming), wedescribe the construction of a syntactic stylistic grammar that relates stylistic goals to abstractstylistic properties, and then relates these abstract properties to low-level syntax.
The foundationsof the grammar  draw on the work of Halliday (1985) and Halliday and Hasan (1976); we considerthe primitive stylistic effects of a sentence to be correlated with its underlying cohesive and hi-erarchical syntactic structure.
We assign each type of sentence component a primitive-elementcl;L~sitication on the basis of the nature of these fundamental structures.We then compose these primitive stylistic elements into higher-level, abstract stylistic proper-tit.s,or, elements.
In I)iMarco and Hirst (1993), we proposed a set of stylistic terms that made?~xplicit hese kinds of abstract properties.
Here are three examples:Het(?ropoise:  A sentence in which one or more parenthetical components are syntactically 'de-tached' and dissimilar from the other components at the same level in the parse tree.C( , ,nt roschemat ic :  A sentence with a central, dominant clause with one or more of the follow-ing optional features: coml)lex phrasal subordination, initial dependent clauses, terminal(lel)etl(lent clauses.R.
(~.s.hation: A shift in stylistic effect that occurs at the end of a sentence and is a move front arelative discord (an incongruity) to stylistic concord (normal usage).Each abstract stylistic element is defined as a composition of primitive stylistic elements.Next, the abstract stylistic elements are composed into stylistic goals.
Stylistic goals, suchas clarity and concreteness, are elusive qualities that were traditionally defined by stylists onlyI)y means of examples and informal rules.
However, with our grammar,  we can abstract from aplethora of low-level syntactic rules that stylists have used and can define formal rules for speciticstylistic goals.For example, the goal of concreteness i associated with heteropoise, a stylistic element thatchar;u:terizes the kinds of cohesive (and non-cohesive) syntactic interruptions that create forms ofstylistic emphasis.
In the grammar,  concreteness i  defined as various forms of stylistic highlighting,either emphasis (heteropoise, dissolution) or deviation from established usage (discord).An example of a concrete sentence that is a stylistic heteropoise, beginning with a canonicalstructure, but then emphatically interrupted, is this: Your writing, if I may say so without offence,is immatu~v.3 The  level  of  rhetor ica l  goalsIll Makuta-(~iluk (1991) and Makuta-Giluk and DiMarco (1993), we describe the developmentof a rhetorical grammar  that is built upon our stylistic grammar and composes rhetorical goalsfrom combinations of stylistic goals.
Where goal-directed style accounts for the stylistic choicesthat will express a certain effect, goal-directed rhetoric considers the higher-level linguistic choices16associated with specific rhetorical effects that also express the communicative goals of a text.Thus, we have formalized some of the syntactic aspects of the rhetorical structure of texts.There rnay be many reasons why an author writes a text and why she chooses to express it ina particular form.
These reasons are pragmatic goals (of.
Hovy (1988)).
Informing or persuadingare examples of such goals.
Once a writer commits herself to a specific pragmatic goal, she mustdetermine apl)ropriate content and linguistic realization.
Both these issues involve a number ofrhetorical options.
A possible mechanism for achieving tile desired pragmatic effect is using a setof rhetorical goals.
Once the writer knows which rhetorical effects she wants in tim text., she nowneeds to make the choices that realize these goals.
We decompose complex rhetorical goals intosimpler entities, the stylistic goals described above, such as simplicity or clarity.
In Makuta-(~iluk(1991) and Makuta-(iHluk and DiMarco (1993), we pointed out that a stylistic goal can be usedto realize more than one rhetorical goal, and a rhetorical goal can be achieved in several differentways.
The author must choose a set of interrelated stylistic goals to realize her particular setof rhetorical goals.
The stylistic goals taken separately do not determine the rhetorical effect ofthe text; it is their interplay that makes it possible to express a wide range of rhetorical goals.In our gramrnar, we have defined goals such as force/ineffectiveness, formality/informality, andamity/distauce.
For example, we define force to be characteristic of sentences that display one ()ftile following combinations of stylistic goals:forcedirectness and conciseness and concretenessdynamism and simplicityAn example of the first kind of forceful sentence is: Frankly, my dear, I do)l't give a da)lt)t.We associate ineffectiveness, the dual of force, with diffusive and garrulous communication:ineffectivenesscomplexityobscurity and verbosityobscurity and obliquenessTile following example of ineffectiveness i  from a textbook of rhetoric: The sequence of develop-me)tt is fortuitous and even implausible, for the treatment of rhetoric becomes more perfunctory aseruditiou in the works of rhetoriciaus increases, and rhetoric disappears abruptly when knowledgeof it is at a maximum, particularly from the works of the authors who acknowledge the influe)~ccof Cicero and Quintilian.
We define other rhetorical goals in an analogous manner.4 Mult iple levels of rhetorical relationsThe notion of multiple levels of rhetorical analysis is intrinsic to our formalization: communicativegoals are represented at several evels of abstraction, and each level is composed of elements fromthe level below.
We believe that this idea of stratified levels is applicable not only to syntacticaspects of rhetoric, but to lexical and semantic aspects as well, and have begun to apply ourapproach to studying \]tow lexical choices realize particular intentional goals (DiMarco, Hirst, andSl,c(lc 1993).17Eventually, we see lexis, syntax, and semantics being represented by separate primitive-levelr(q)resentations that act together to determine the realization of communicative goals at the stylis-tic, rhetorical, and pragmatic levels; our formalism is therefore both stratified and branching.Thus, the ways in which intentional relations interact with ideational, or informational, relations(Moore and Pollack 1992) can be accounted for nicely by our model of rhetoric, which integrates theell~cl,s of lexis, syntax, and semantics on rhetorical strncture within a single cohesive framework.5 Conc lus ion'lb construct a fidl computational theory of rhetoric, we will need to first develop complete formal-izations of the lexical and semantic aspects of style, and then integrate these representations withour current syntactic grammar.
The syntactic theory formalizes ome significant aspects of styleand rhetoric.
While it has limitations, it does explain several aspects of the writing process andhow intentional goals can be realized through several interrelated levels of rhetorical and stylisticgoals.References(:orbctt, Edward F).J.
Classical rhetoric for the modern student.
Oxford: Oxford University Press,1971.DiMarco, Chrysanne, and Hirst, Graeme.
"A computational theory of goal-based style in syntax.
"To appear in: Computational Linguistics, 1993.l)iMarco, Chrysanne; Hirst, Graeme; and Stede, Manfred.
"The semantic and stylistic differenti-ation of synonyms and near-synonyms."
Proceedings, AAA I Spring Symposium on BuildingLexicons for Machine Translation, Stanford, March 1993.I_)iMarco, Chrysanne; Green, Stephen J.; Hirst, Graeme; Mah, Keith; Makuta-Giluk, Marzena;and Ryan, Mark.
"Four papers on computational stylistics."
Research report CS-92-35,Faculty of Mathematics, University of Waterloo, June 1992.Green, Stephen.
A fu~zctional theory of style for natural language generation.
MMath thesis,Department ofComputer Science, University of Waterloo, 1992 \[published as research reportCS-92-48, Faculty of Mathematics, University of Waterloo\].Italliday, M.A.K.
Ai~ introduction to functional grammar.
London: Edward Arnold, 1985.Halliday, M.A.K., and Hasan, Ruqaiya.
Cohesion in English.
London: Longman Group Limited,1976.liovy, Eduard H. Generating natural anguage under pragmatic onstraints.
Hillsdale, N.I: LawrenceErlbaum Associates, 1988.Hoyt, Pat.
An efficient functional-.based stylistic analyzer.
(working title) MMath thesis, Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, forthcoming.Makuta-(liluk, Marzena.
A computational rhetoric for syntactic aspects of text.
MMath thesis,Department ofComputer Science, University of Waterloo, 1991 \[published as research reportCS-91-54, Faculty of Mathematics, University of Waterloo\].Makuta-Gihlk, Marzena and DiMarco, Chrysanne.
"A computational formalism for syntacticaspects of rhetoric."
Proceedings, First ConfeTvnce of the Pacific Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 63-72, Vancouver, Canada, April 1993.Moore, Johanna D. and Pollack, Martha E. "A problem for RST: The need for multi-level discourseanalysis."
Computational Linguistics, pages 537-544, Volume 18, Number 4, December 1992.18
