The Mul t i faceted  Organizat ion of  D iscourseDan SuthersLearning Research and Development Center3939 O'Hara StreetUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260suthers+@pitt.eduThe organization of discourse is multifaceted.
Theories that take a single perspective ondiscourse structure, examining for example only goal satisfaction or textual coherence or ignoringthe context in which a text was generated, will fail to identify the full functional significance ofthe content and organization of text.
The task of generating coherent ext to meet some commu-nicative intentions requires consideration of a number of constraints on content and organizationthat manifest in different ways in the end-product.
Therefore the task of analyzing a text withrespect o its coherence and intended functionality requires factoring distinct influences on theorganization of the text itself.D iverse  Accounts  of  CoherenceVarious accounts of discourse coherence have been offered in the literature, each with theirown merits and limitations.
For example, Grosz & Sidner \[1986\] defined a coherent discourse to beone in which a single discourse purpose is "shared bffy all the participants and when each utteranceof the discourse contributes to achieving this purpose."
Grosz and Sidner provided a clear accountof certain aspects of the hierarchical and prerequisite structure of discourse.
However they didnot  address the variety of communicative roles that sibling text segments can play with respectto each other.Intersegmental coherence is the concern of rhetorical structure theory (KST), whose propo-nents have stated (in various forms, and most directly by Hovy \[1988\]) that a coherent ext isone in which each contiguous egment of text is related by a rhetorical relation.
This claim isconcisely stated, easy to understand and apply, and intuitively appealing.
However it is deficientin being too weak in explanatory power and too strong in its conditions for coherence.
It istoo weak because the rhetorical relations themselves were developed by identifying relationshipsbetween contiguous egments of text in a corpus of texts considered to be coherent.
Becauseof this circularity, the rhetorical characterization of coherence does not account for the sourcesof coherence or say why the text is coherent: the rhetorical relations are merely descriptive ofcoherent ext.
The claim is too strong because coherence does not necessarily require rhetoricalrelations between every contiguous egment of a text.
The ordering of a text can be arbitrary atpoints.
There is unlikely to be a well motivated rhetorical relation between those segments whosecontiguity is arbitrary.
This problem has shown up in text generation: Moore ~ Paris \[1991\]encountered certain difficulties in the design of their explanation planner that they attributed tothe requirement that a rhetorical relation be present between each pair of contiguous egmentsin a plan.
It.ST has also been criticized for conflating different kinds of relations that should bedistinguished \[Grosz & Sidner 1986, Moore & Pollack 1993, Suthers 1990\].Finally, Hobbs' \[1979\] characterization of coherence as the ease of inferring coherence rela-tions linking the parts of the text has also been criticized on the basis that the coherence relationsserve no purpose once they have been inferred.
The reader is more concerned with discerning128the communicative intent of a text than with verifying its coherence, and the theoretician shouldbe as well.
The relations by which coherence is defined should be independently motivated forreasons of communicative functionality.
This view is not inconsistent with the view that co-herence relations must be recognized to succeed in making a text coherent.
The former simplyrequires that coherence relations serve some communicative function other than being recognizedas contributing to coherence.
Hobbs' characterization can be restated as follows: a discourse iscoherent o the extent that it makes its communicative functionality plain.
However this leavesus with the question of precisely which functionally motivated relations are needed to account forcoherence, and how these relations can provide a structural "test" for coherence that replaces theinitial approximation provided by Hovy's interpretation of RST.Some Aspects  of  D iscourse  S t ructureMy own work \[Suthers 1993a\] has been concerned with explanation as a question-answeringactivity in an instructional setting.
I have found it necessary to distinguish the following structuralaspects because ach requires examination of a different source of information and/or applicationof a different kind of planning knowledge:1.
Exchange St ructure :  The appropriateness of the dominating rhetorical acts I with respectto expectations created by prior exchanges.
(Is the rhetorical act appropriate for the questionjust asked?
Is the question being deferred?)2.
In fo rmat ive  S t ructure  (a special kind of goal satisfaction): The relevance of expressedinformation for performing an intended rhetorical act.
(E.g., When does a causal, functional,or structural description constitute an answer to a question?)3.
P ropos i t iona l  S t ructure  (a.k.a.
"informational" or "ideational"): The propositionalinter-relatedness of references to different domain entities in a given communicative act.
2(What propositions are being expressed?
How is each entity that is mentioned related tothe topic?)4.
"Contextual structure" in \[Suthers 1993a\] (but better understood in terms of tradeoffsbetween context-sensitive constraints on content choice rather than as structural): Theappropriateness of the contents of a communicative act in the context of the knowledgeavailable to the interlocutors and the knowledge xpressed in prior dialogue.
(E.g., does theutterance provide new information?
Does it elaborate on an explanation or argument underconstruction?)5.
Supplemental Structure: The ways in which one segment plays a supporting role withrespect o another segment, such as facilitating comprehension r retention \[Zukerman 1990\].Supplemental relations correspond roughly to those rhetorical relations where nuclearity isdetermined by intention rather than information.
As Moore & Moser note in their workshopabstract, these provide different kinds of dominance.6.
Sequential Structure: the consistency of the sequential presentation of the units of an ex-planation at all granularities with their intended communicative functionality.
A partialordering in terms of constraints derived from the above functional relationships \[Suthers1993b\].tOne of 14 rhetorical iLlocutions (account, compare, define, describe, illustrate, ...) applied to a topic (entityreference or proposition).=A communicative i\]locution (assent, inform, dissent, request) applied to one or more propositions.129Based on this structural taxonomy, two concise (though oversimplified) conditions for a co-herent explanation can be stated:?
The graph of informative, supplemental, and propositional relations between segments i  aconnected graph meeting the definitions of these relations (i.e., there are no isolated units ofanalysis, weaker than requiring a relation between each contiguous pair of units).?
The sequencing of the segments i consistent with the intended communicative functionalityof the segments, the functionality being discerned by the aforementioned relations \[Suthers1993b\].
(Given a more adequate treatment of exchange structure, the conditions could be extended toinclude the appropriateness of the dominating rhetorical acts for the exchange context.)
Thischaracterization of coherence addresses the weakness of the previous accounts by identifying thesources of coherence in independently motivated constraints on the content and organization ofan explanation without unnecessarily strong conditions or assumptions about hearer inferences.Additionally, the proliferation of coherence relations is reduced by separating supplemental rolesfrom domain-specific relations.My argument for the above taxonomy depends on my theoretical assumptions about the textplanning process rather than on direct linguistic evidence.
This deficiency can be addressed byempirical work.
However, regardless of whether this particular taxonomy proves to be the mostuseful, I expect that it is plausible enough to make the point that a complete description of thecoherence and communicative functionality of discourse requires acknowledgment of functionallydistinct categories of relationships between segments, not just different relationships within acategory.
This is especially the case in text genres that mix informational and intentional goals(such as instructional texts).
As Owen P~ambow pointed out in his workshop abstract, such genresrequire the development of new text planning architectures - the primary topic of Suthers \[1993a\].Some Remain ing  Quest ionsI believe that the need to consider the above aspects of discourse structure during textplanning is fairly well estabhshed.
(I take the above list to be an approximation to a lower bound,being the items I needed to process in my own planner.)
The question remains: which aspectsof discourse structure are processed by an agent in understanding a text.
7 This is an empiricalquestion which I won't speculate on further here.
However it should be noted that the abovecharacterization of coherence is oriented towards the needs of generation rather than the processof comprehension.
"Coherence" from the point of view of the understander need not be the sameas "coherence" from the point of view of the generator, as their processing requirements maydiffer.A related question is whether coherence is the combined effect of its aspects identified by theanalyst, or whether it suffices to attend to only one source of coherence when many are possible.Gisela Kedeker 3 argues that a hearer need only recognize the presence of one coherence relation;therefore when multiple relations hold between two segments (ideational, rhetorical, or segmentalin her terminology), the speaker can choose which to mark.
(She provides evidence that onecould have marked both.)
Yet marker choice does not rule out the need to process other aspectsof coherence, for example the planner must decide whether and how to use an ideational (e.g.causal) relation in constructing a rhetorical (e.g., evidential) one.aTalk at LB.DC, Pittsburgh, May 1993.130Conc lus ionBoth the analysis and generation of coherent and functional text depend on the coordina-tion of multiple types of structural relations at different granularities.
It is not productive toview discourse structure as consisting of a single class of relations: one risks omitting or con-flaring relevant yet distinct functionalities and sources of coherence.
The author has proposeddistinctions between exchange, informative, propositional, contextual, supplemental, nd sequen-tial structure \[Suthers 1993a\]: these differentiate types of intentional and rhetorical structure.Improved taxonomies are possible and may depend on whether one is primarily interested inmodeling eneration or understanding.
Regardless, we need to deal with multiple descriptionswhen analyzing a text.
The community should focus on factoring functionally distinct aspects ofdiscourse structure according to their functionality in generation and understanding processes.Re ferencesGrosz, B.
& Sidner,  C. \[1986\].
Attention, intention, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics.
Vol.
12, no.
3. pp.
175-204.Hobbs,  J .
\[1979\].
Coherence and coreference.
Cognitive Science.
Vol.
3, no.
1, pp.
67-90.Hovy, E. \[1988\].
Approaches to the planning of coherent text.
Presented at the 4th Interna-tional Workshop on Text Generation.
Catalina Island, California, July 1988.Moore,  J.
&: Paris,  C. \[1991\].
The EES explanation facility: its tasks and its architecture.Workshop on Comparative Analysis of Explanation Planning Architectures, 9th NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence.
July 1991, Anaheim, CA.Moore,  J .
& Pollack, M. \[1993\].
A problem for KST: The need for multi-level discourseanalysis.
Computational Linguistics.
Vol.
18, no.
4, pp.
537-544.Suthers ,  D. \[1990\].
Reassessing rhetorical abstractions and planning mechanisms.
5th Inter-national Workshop on Natural Language Generation.
June 1990, Dawson, Pennsylvania.Suthers ,  D. \[1993a\].
An analysis of explanation and its implications for the design of expla-nation planners.
Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Massachusetts.Suthers,  D. \[1993b\].
Sequencing explanations to enhance communicative functionality.
Toappear in Proc.
Cognitive Science.
June 1993, Boulder, Colorado.Zukerman,  I.
\[1990\].
Generating peripheral rhetorical devices by consulting a user model.
5thInternational Workshop on Natural Language Generation.
June 1990, Dawson, Pennsyl-vania, pp.
156-163.131
