Domain-Dependent and Domain-IndependentRhetorical RelationsJong-Gyun LimDepar tment  of Computer  Science450 Computer  Science Bu i ld ingCo lumbia  Un ivers i tyNew York, N.Y.  10027l im@cs .co lumbia .edu1.
Rhetor i ca l  Re la t ions  as  Text  P lann ing  OperatorsRhetorical relations have been used for text planning in many text generation sys-tems (\[McK82\] \[Hov88\] \[Moo89\], among others), hut how they are used vary rathersignificantly from one text planner to another.
While studying them in detail side byside (\[Lim92\]), I have observed the following:1.
A plan operator in a typical AI planner is to carry out an action whereas that ina text planner is to inform rhetorical relations among the actions and objects.2.
A goal (or intention) in an AI planner is to change the state of the world whereasthat in a text planner is to change the mental state of the hearer.More precisely, I was led to believe in the analogy between an text planning anda typical AI planning task as shown in Table 1.Intentions are goals of the text planner that can be realized by planning a textin terms of the rhetorical relations.
Thus, the role of the rhetorical relations is tomanipulate the mental objects in the mind of the hearer by creating or altering therelations among them.With this analogy, I view rhetorical relations as realization of intentions.
Further-more, this analogy leads me to believe that rhetorical relations hould be as numerousand varied as there are relations among actions and objects in the domain.
This viewseems to be in conflict with Dale's view (in this proceedings) which argues thatrhetorical relation should only include textual relations rather than mirroring domainrelations.
Assuming many-to-many relation between intentional and informational56AI Planning \[ Text Planningoperators (actions) !
rhetorical relationsstate of the world i mental statesgoals intentionsplan (network of actions) texts (network of rhetorical relations)Table 1: Comparison Between Text Planning and A Typical AI Planninglevels (see \[MP92\] and Korelsky and Kittredge in this proceeding), however, I thinkthe number of rhetorical relations hould depend on the number of relations in thedomain.
For example, if there is a domain relation R, then depending on who hishearer is and what his intentions are, a speaker may choose different method M toinform R to the hearer.
The method M may be planned in terms of several rhetoricalrelations or a single rhetorical relation may be used for more than one method likeM.
More on this is discussed later.This analogy is in line with Traum's position of viewing rhetorical relation asspeech acts or actions in general (in this proceedings).
In particular, this view agreeswith his point that a relation can be planned, performed, and recognized.
Sinceactions are unbounded so should be the relations, which concurs with his criticismthat it is meaningless to find the boundary for the right set of rhetorical relations.Traum, however, tends to emphasize the importance of intentions o much as toindicate that the role of rhetorical relations is only secondary and may not even benecessary in communicating intentions.
Very often (especially in casual conversation),rhetorical relations are implied and thus hidden from the surface form (e.g.
(2a) and(2b) in Traum's) .
However, it is clear that a coherent text is structured with somemeaningful rhetorical relations among its segments.
Therefore, without identifyingthose relations (hidden or otherwise) planned by the speaker, we cannot say that thehearer understood the speaker.
Thus, I take the position that in both text planningand recognition, rhetorical relations play a primary role in communicating intentions.2.
Need fo r  Domain -Dependent  Rhetor i ca l  Re la t ionsTypical AI planner epresents actions and objects in a hierarchical knowledge basewhere both domain-dependent and domain-independent concepts are represented.Hence, it is possible to plan at abstract level and generate plans in terms of theabstract plan operators.
Similarly, rhetorical relations and intentions in text planningmay include domain-independent types as well as domain-dependent o es.Without the domain-dependent Counterpart, however, abstract rhetorical relationsby themselves are not very useful except for the limited use of meta conversation(talking about abstract relations among abstract concepts.)
For example, rhetoricalrelations in TEXT \[McK82\], Hovy's RST plan operators \[Hov88\], and Moore's RST57plan operators \[Moo89\] are all domain-independent rhetorical relations.
Thus, theyall apply some facilities to the domain-independent r lations to generate informationabout domain-dependent relations.In TEXT, a domain-independent rhe orical predicate of a schema is implementedwith a detailed predicate function that contains directions to search through theknowledge base to retrieve the domain-dependent relations.
Unfortunately, this makesit hard to write new schemas.
Hovy's RST plan operators, on the other hand, areeasier to write because no domain-dependent plan operators need to be implemented.However, the burden is swifted to the text structuring process where selected pool ofpropositions must be interpreated and matched to some RST plan operators.
Thisnecessitates the encoding of knowledge that maps a domain specific proposition toa domain-independent rhetorical relation which in my opinion is as hard as writingdomain-dependent RST relations.Unlike Hovy's, Moore's plan operators contain intentional goals which make itpossible to generate structured network of RST relations using hierarchical p anning.However, an instantiated omain-independent relation typically does not capturethe specific relations of the instantiated information.
For example, the plan oper-ator PERSUADE-USER-TO-DO-ACT will be instantiated to (PERSUADED ?user(GOAL ?user (DO ?user ?act))) but same strategy will be used to persuade an ?userto do an ?act regardless of who the ?user or what the ?act might be.
In reality,different persuading strategy might be needed for persuading John to replace SETQto SETF and persuading John to jump off from an airplane.To solve this problem, Elhadad takes another extreme approach and introducesRST-like plan operators called topoi \[Elh92\].
Topoi are functionally equivalent toMoore's RST plan operators except hat they are completely domain-dependent planoperators.
The main advantages of using all domain-dependent rhetorical relationsin text planning is that one does not need to struggle with naming and matchinga specific relation to a generic level relation (like Evidence and Justifications) whilestill being able to build a text structure that reflects the rhetorical structure amongthe discourse units.
The disadvantage is that the recursively embedded structuralrelations that are captured by RST relations among the various levels of discourseunits can not be captured by topoi.
As far as text planning is concerned, however,that doesn't seem like a disadvantage b cause such an information isnot necessary forgenerating coherent text nor for responding to follow-up questions.
Also, coherenceof a text seems to depend more on the underlying domain plans than on the abstractrhetorical relations.3.
Where Are the Domain-Dependent  Rhetorical Relations?These observations lead me to conclude that the types of rhetorical relations andintentions that are most useful for text planning are those that are needed by thetext planner the most, and it seems that the most needed rhetorical relations arethe domain-dependent relations that capture the specific relations between the twodiscourse units.
How then do we collect hese domain-dependent rhetorical relations?My research is to collect these domain-dependent relations from a multi-agent pro-58gramming environment \[KP88\] and make them available to different kind of textplanners that use them to generate xplanations to the agents in that environment.From this domain, I have learned two things.
One is that the domain-dependentrelations have to be collected from a hybrid sources including rules in expert sys-tem, constraints in a scheduler, programs, and variables in the programs.
The otherobservation is that one planning method is not sufficient o handle the various textplanning tasks.
Therefore, my system allows both the application programs and theusers to define domain-dependent rhetorical relations and strategies to generate x-planation for those relations.
Depending on the nature of planning task, one planningmethod might be better suited than another.
Thus, my system has the flexibility tochoose among the different planning strategies.
So far, domain-dependent rhetoricalrelations have been sufficient for this text planning needs.References\[Elh92\]\[Hov88\]\[KP88\]\[Lim92\]\[McK82\]\[Moo89\]\[MP92\]M. Elhadad.
Using Argumentation to Control Lexical Choice: A Unification-based Approach.
PhD thesis, Columbia University, New York, NY, July1992.E.
H. Hovy.
Two types of planning in language generation.
In Proceedingsof the $6th ACL Conference, pages 179-186, Buffalo, June 1988.
ACL.P.
H. Kaiser, G. E. Feiler and S. S. Popovich.
Intelligent Assistance forSoftware Development and Maintenance.
IEEE Software, pages 40-49, May1988.J.
G. Lim.
Planning in AI and Text Planning in Natural Language Genera-tion.
Technical Report CUCS-038-92, Columbia University, New York, NY,July 1992. area paper.K.
R. McKeown.
Generating Natural Language Text in Response to Ques-tions About Database Structure.
PhD thesis, University of Pennsylvania,New York, NY, May 1982.
Also a Technical report, No MS-CIS-82-05,University of Pennsylvania, 1982.J.
D. Moore.
A Reactive Approach to Explanation in Expert and Advice-Giving Systems.
PhD thesis, University of California, Los Angeles, LosAngeles, CA, 1989.J.
Moore and M. Pollack.
A problem for RST: The Need for Multi-levelDiscourse Analysis.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4):534-544, 1992.59
