Using Cue Phrases to Determine a Set of Rhetorical RelationsAlistair KnottDepartment  of Artificial Intelligence, University of Edinburgh80, South Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1HN, Scotlandemail: A.Knott@aisb.ed.ac.uk'Relation based' approaches to discourse analysis and text generation suffer from a com-mon problem: there is considerable disagreement between researchers over the set of relationswhich is proposed.
Few researchers use identical sets of relations, and many use relationsnot found in any other sets.
This proliferation of relations has been pointed out before (egHovy \[1\]), and several methods for justifying a standard set of relations have been proposed:this paper reviews some of these, and presents a new method of justification which overcomessome awkward problems.1 Current  Approaches  to Just i fy ing  a Set of  Re la t ionsDescr ip t ive  AdequacyClearly, a set of relations must have 'good coverage'--it must be possible to analyse all thetexts of the kind targeted using the specified relations.
At the same time, this cannot bethe only requirement on a set of relations, because many different sets of relations can beused to describe the same set of texts.
For instance, the level of detail of the descriptionis not constrained: how do we decide whether or not to subdivide RESULT into VOLITIONALRESULT and NON-VOLITIONAL RESULT?
Again, different cuts through the space of relationsare possible: why distinguish between VOLITIONAL and NON-VOLITIONAL result, and notbetween, say, IMMEDIATE and DELAYED result?
In fact the notion of 'descriptive adequacy'seems to make little sense in isolation: in addition, it is necessary to specify a purpose forwhich the proposed escription is adequate.Psychological Rea l i tyOne way that a purpose can be specified is by stipulating that relations model 'cognitive'constructs--that is, constructs which people actually use when they create and interprettext.
On this conception, a description of the relations in a text becomes part of a theoryof how the text originated, and why it is the way it is.
This stipulation gives relations realexplanatory power in a theory of discourse coherence: we could argue that it is because a48given set of relations is involved in text processing that we are able to use them to describetext.Claiming psychological reality for relations makes them amenable to empirical investiga-tion.
Sanders, Spooren and Noordman \[3\] make the claim explicitly, and seek evidence fortheir proposed set of relations in psychological experiments on readers and writers.
But theseexperiments are not without their own problems--it is questionable whether empirical exper-iment is a sharp enough tool to reveal fine-grained istinctions between relations.
(Automatictext generation is one area where such fine-grained istinctions might well be necessary.
)Cue PhrasesCue phrases (sentence connectives such as because and nevertheless) have been another in-fluence on the choice of a set of relations.
Even in RST, where relations are defined with-out reference to surface linguistic phenomena, many correlations exist between relations andparticular cue phrases.
Hovy \[1\] makes more explicit use of cue phrases, taking them as'nonconclusive' evidence for a taxonomy of relations.However, while it is clear that a fine-grained classification of relations could indeed beconstructed using cue phrases, the question of why relations should be linked to cue phraseshas not been addressed in detail.
Hovy's rationale concerns the practicalities of designing textplanning systems; such a pragmatic approach has its advantages, but it would nonethelessbe useful to think of a theoretical reason for linking relations to cue phrases.
Without one,relations lack the kind of explanatory power they receive when thought of as psychologicalconstructs.2 Cue  Phrases  as Ev idence  for Cogn i t ive  Const ructsI have suggested (Knott and Dale \[2\]) that it is possible to think of cue phrases as evidencefor relations precisely if they are conceived as psychological constructs.
The argument isbasically that we can expect language to contain ways of making explicit any relations whichare actually used by people when they process texts.
If identifying relations is a componentof text understanding, then it makes sense for there to be ways of signalling relations directlyin text: it facihtates the tasks of both the reader and the writer.Of course it is often possible for a reader to identify a relation without the need for textualsignals.
But it seems unlikely that any relation exists that never needs to be textually marked.Unmarked relations can only be recognised if the reader has a certain amount of backgroundknowledge about a text; and this knowledge can hardly be guaranteed in advance for all textsin which the relation can appear.
If relations do play a part in human text comprehension, itis reasonable to suggest hat there exists a particular linguistic formula cr expression whichcan be used to distinguish each relation from all others.This claim, if accepted, would allow a taxonomy of relations to be built which has both49fine-grained etail and explanatory power.
The explanatory power comes from the conceptionof relations as psychological entities: this conception in turn legitimises the use of cue phrasesas evidence for relations, allowing a detailed taxonomy to be constructed.3 A. Methodo logy  fo r  Dec id ing  on  a Set  o f  Re la t ionsOn the basis of the above argument, a new methodology for determining a set of relationscan be proposed: in essence, a relation is included in the set if a cue phrase can be foundwhich picks it out.
The starting point for this methodology is the assembly of a corpus of cuephrases.A study beginning from this point is reported in Knott and Dale \[2\].
We began by devisingan informal test for identifying cue phrases in naturally-occurring discourse.
Using the test,120 pages of academic articles and books were analysed, yielding a corpus of over 100 cuephrases.
Following an idea by Hovy \[1\], this corpus was arranged into a taxonomy of synonymsand hyponyms: a portion of this taxonomy is shown in Figure 1.KEYI III 1Phrases in ~aug~ter categoryCan always be substitutedfor phrases in mother category/ \IExclusive categories: phrases inone category will never bes.abstitutable forphrases in the other/ \Phrases in one category may besubstitutable for l~c~'ases in the otherin certain contexts, but not alwaysPOSITION IN SEQUENCE I n~ nthly (n = l, 2, 3._) \[START OF SEQUENCE NEXT STEP IN SEQUENCEto start with, andrust of all nextto begin with than~o~ NEXT~ I !
STARTO~ NEXT ~ '~ I \TEMPORAL TEMPORAL SEQUENCE I / PRF.,SENATATIONAL PRESHqTATIONALSEQUENCESEQUENCE ~ I I  sEQuENcE mo~o,erinitially later I \[ for one thing furthermorein the beginning after (r~ntantlal dverb) \[ \[ In ~e first place what is moreat the outset after that I I for a ~art in additionat Fast subsequently \[ I furthermole X, more Xly?
iLAST STEP IN LAST STEP INTEMPORAL SEQUENCE PRESI~rrATIONAL SEQUENCEin the end I above allI most X, evenmaUymost XlyFigure 1: A Portion of the Taxonomy of Cue PhrasesTo illustrate the working of this taxonomy, consider the following patterns of substitutabil-ity.
Initially and in the .first place can both be substituted by first of all; but they cannotbe substituted for each other: in the first place is specific to 'presentational' sequences asinitially is to 'temporal' sequences.50The labels in the boxes of the taxonomy are still just informal specifications: we arecurrently using the taxonomy to work out an isomorphic lassification of relations, completewith more formal definitions.
It is productive to think of relations as feature-based constructs,and of the taxonomy as an inher i tance h ierarchy for features, such that daughter nodesinherit the features of their mothers, and are in addition specified for extra features.
Thesubstitutability data could then be seen as informing a decision about which features to usein relation definitions.The new taxonomy of relations is likely to have much in common with other taxonomiesin the literature---although there may be some revealing additions and omissions.
Indeed, thetaxonomy of cue phrases can be seen as an interesting testbed for other theories of relations:can they explain the patterns of cue phrases which it describes?4 Conc lus ionThis paper has presented a new way of justifying a set of relations, by viewing them asmodelling psychological constructs and using cue phrases as evidence for these constructs.A corpus of cue phrases has been gathered and worked into a taxonomy, from which allisomorphic taxonomy of relations can be derived.The benefits of this methodology are considerable.
To begin with, it sets out a systematicway to decide on a set of relations: any disagreement can be traced to a particular stage inthe process, such as the decision that a word is a cue phrase, or the decision that two phrasesare synonymous.
Furthermore, the assumption of psychological reality gives the relationsin the taxonomy a clear explanatory role in a theory of discourse coherence: they are notjust 'purely descriptive' constructs.
Finally, the methodology being proposed is incremental.Many important decisions about relation definitions--whether parameters hould be used,whether intentions need to be specified separately--can be deferred until after the taxonomyof cue phrases has been constructed: at this point, the taxonomy serves as a useful source ofevidence for such decisions.References\[1\] E H Hovy.
Parsimonious and profligate approaches to the question of discourse struc-ture relations.
In Proceedings off the 5th International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Pittsburgh, 1990.\[2\] A Knott and R Dale.
Using linguistic phenomena to motivate a set of coherence relations.To appear in Discourse Processes.
Also available as Technical Report RP-39, HumanCommunication Research Centre, University of Edinburgh, 1992.\[3\] T J M Sanders, W P M Spooren, and L G M Noordman.
Towards a taxonomy of coherencerelations.
Discourse Processes, 15:1-35, 1992.51
