Summarising as a leverfor studying large-scale discourse structureKa.ren Sparck JonesComputer  Labora.tory, Univers i ty  of Cambr idg( 'New Museums Site, Pembroke  Street, Cambr idge  CB2 3Q(I, I lKsparckjones(~uk.a.c.cam.clJune  1993We are using summarising as a way of studying large-scale discours?~ struc-ture.
Much computationally-orieuted work on disconrse structure ha.s been con-cerned with dialogue, rather than with 'single-source' t xt..
Some prop()sals haw.been made for singh~-soul'ce t xt e.g.
l~hetorical Structure Theory (Mann ;rodTholnpsoll 1987), I)nt al'~' open to criticism (e.g.
Moore and I)olla(:k 1.q92); andsingle- source work has been primarily concerned with generation ((,.g.
McK~,-own 1985, Maybury 1991).
We believc that large-scale discourse stru('tm'\[~ ha.sa crucial part to play in SUlnmarising and therefore needs to be captured in thesource text representation, for use in snmmarising, regardless of its contril)utionto source interpretation itself.We have been engaged in a systematic examination of Mternative types oflarge-scale text structure, designed to throw light on the kinds of inlbrma.tionthey make available for the text above the level of individual sentence rel)r~'-sentations, and how these call be used in sumlnarising.
Thus source, text in-terpretation will provide a source representation capturing discourse structur("over sentences, to be exploited in a condensing transformation through whichthe summary representation is formed, in turn leading to the output smmnarytext.This is a deliberately analytical investigation, taking a broa.d view with-out preconceptions.
We distinguish three types of discourse information withstructural implications: linguistic, dolnain, and Colmnunicativ(~, and a.r(' s,~eingwhat large-scale text.
structures these respectively give.
Thus we at'(' inv(~stigat-ing representation types categorised as dealing with informatioll either aboutthe linguistic properties of the source text (e.g.
parallelisln), or about its do-main content (e.g.
class lnelnbership), or abont its COlmnunicative fimction(e.g.
counterclaim).
We are fill'ther, for any of these types, corlsidering twoalternative forms of structnl'e that we have labelled 'bottom-up' and 'top-down'respectively.
Bottom-up structures are individually created using g(,n('ra.I ruh's125(e.g.
by inference from domain facts); top-down structures are obtained by ill-stantiat ing prior proformas (e.g.
using domain frames).
This is not a processingdistinction, and the same formal structure (e.g.
hierarchical) may result ill ei-ther case; there may also be intermediate possibilities of the 'grammar '  type.These distinctions of information type and representation form are broad onesthat we are using as heuristics to explore discourse structure.
Our aim is a com-paratiw~ one, to see what each kind of approach leads to both for representationand for summarising.
We can then consider how the structures relate to oneanother, whether as dependent, complementary, or reinforcing ones.We are as far as possible using 'exemplar'  approaches taken from previousresearch in the field, pr imari ly in order to ground our work in what has beendone so far: we are obliged in the current state of the art to work prirnarilythrough simulation, but we are trying to constrain the resea.rch by folk)wingapproaches already proposed in the l iterature and preferably computat ioual lyinvestigated.
Thus as an experimental strategy we are taking logical t'oH,lswith resolved anaphors as a baseline representation for sentences, a.nd th(.napplying exemplar strategies of each type to these to obtain \['ull rel)resentati(,nsof the source text..
These full representations capture further relations ~('rossthe sentences, embodying the large scale source text structure.We have obtained alternative discourse structures and summaries for a set.of short test texts.
Some of the source structures are very simple, others morecomplex, import ing significant addit ional information.
So far, we have used thesource representations in natural ways to obtain summaries: thus a linguistic-type source representation leads to a l inguistically-motivated summary repre-sentation, in a way appropriate to the kind of the linguistic representation.As linguistic structures we have so far provided analyses and derived sum-maries from the most simple approach, exploiting focus history to pick out keydiscourse ntities, to more elaborate ones provided by Rs ' r  (taking rhetoricalrelations as linguistic).
These are bottom-up forms: rhetorical schemata mightsuggest a complementary top-down approach, but we could not readily anal-yse our texts as instantiations of these, and we therefore tried an intermediate'story (or text) grammar '  approach (cf Rumelhart  1975) To obtain domain-based structures we have used an extremely simple bottom-u I) al)proach usingpredication participation to identify discourse ntities which figure largely in thesource: we" would like, to try more sophisticated strategies where the bas('lin~'representation is enriched using general inference rules.
We have applied scripts(and frames) as a top-down representation form (cf DeJong 1979; Tait 1983).Finally, for communicative structure we have used Grosz and Sidner (1986)'sapproach to get intentional representations for our test texts.
This constitutesa bottom-up approach: we have not yet identified an exemplar top-down one.The results we haaze obtained have provided stinmlat.ing insights into theproperties and roles of different types of text structure, and into the respect.iv(,contributions they may make to summarising.
For summarisiug, all the large-scale structures provide good leverage and help to identify source material  which126is intuitively important for use in the condensed summary, through selectionor generalisation, though the alternative results for the same text may differnoticeably and individual results may be only senti-satisfactory.
The resultsalso illustrate the genuine role, but incomplete contribution, of each type ofinformation.Our deliherate separation of information types with their application strate-gies is thus allowing us to examine each type; to see how large-scale structureof any one kind is related to local structure, for instance through focus; andto formulate a view of a discourse model as a whole which subsumes distinctcontributing models with their own necessary functions.
Thus for example forone text, 'Biographies', there is a linguistic structure showing heavy presenta-tional parallelism, a simple sequence of persuasive communicatiw-" intentions,and a separate domain object categorisation.
There are complex rela.tions Iw-tween these, with reinforcing effects on the indication of key cont~'nt.
Ourcomparative analyses are thus providing the base (Grosz and Sparck Jones, inpreparation), for the development of an account of discourse structure, or a dis-course model, as a higher-level structure over subsidiary structures each withtheir own character and role.P.
Gladwin, S. Pulman and K. Sparck Jones 'Shallow processing and aut-matic summarising: a first study', TR 223, Computer Laboratory, Uniw~rsity ofCambridge, 1991.K.
Sparck Jones 'Discourse modelling for automatic sunamarising', '1'1:~ 290,Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, 1993, and ill press.K.
Sparck Jones 'What might be in a smmnary?
',  Proceedings of the" (;erma.nhfformation Retrieval Conference, 1993, in press.127
