Towards stratification of R,STTanya Korelsky~a.lM Richard Kittredge:~tCoGenTex,  Inc., Ithaca, NY 14850e-mail: tanya@cogentex.com{llniversit6 de Montr6al, Montrda.1, QC, Canada H3C 337e-mail: kit tredg(i)iro.umont rea.l.ca1 In t roduct ionMoore and Pollack have recently given an analysis of R.ST relations in tel'mS of intentional ver-sus informational levels of discourse \[5\].
Accol'ding to their (convincing) analysis, presentationalRST relations correspond to the intentional level of discourse and subject matter relations to theinlbrmational level.
For each text there shouhl exist two RST analyses: one containing only pre-sentational relations and the other containing only subject matter relaLtions.
Mann and Thoinpsonhad discussed multiple analyses in RST (Ill, l)P. 2(i-30), stating that a presentational nalysisis the only analysis when l)oth presentational nd sul)ject-matter relation definitions are satisfiedbetween a given pair of text spans.
In their view, the l)resentational nalysis is chosen as correctsince it describes the changes in the bearer's ystem of belie?s, i.e.
provides deeper insights intodiscourse goals.
Moore and Pollack, however, argue that these two a.nalyses hould not compete;instead, "a complete model of discourse structure lnust maintain both levels of relation".In this paper we take this argument one sma.ll step further and suggest a way these two levelsmight be organized into a stratified structure.
Our discussion here ha.s a very narrow focus anti doesnot attempt o answer such iml)ortaut (luestions a.s whether the RST collection of presentationalrelations is exhaustive and adequate \[br describing a.ll possible lilt(rational structures.2 Ana logy  w i th  "Meaning"  vs. "Means" in MTTIn Meaning-Text heory (MTT), when there are two (o1' more) alternative analyses of text which(according to intution) belong to distinct levels of representation, one should ask whether one oftlmm can be seen as a means of expressing the other.
Moore and Pollack argue for co-existence ofintentional (presentational) and infornlatiolLa\] (subject matter) allalys(,s, but they do not attempt odescribe the relationship between them.
They show that there is no one-to-one mapping betweenpresentational nd subject matter relations, and moreover, that the presentational nd subjectmatter analyses may have different structures (e.g., the i)resentational nd subject matter elationsmay have opposite directionality, \[5\], pp.
542- 543).
Their conclusion is that there is no easy wayto relate these two levels.Froln the viewpoint of MTT, however, the intentional vs. inibrma.tiona.l dichotomy observed byMoore and Pollack appears quite natural.
An a.nalogy ca.n be seen with the relationshil~ betweenthe semantic and deep syntactic levels in MTT: semantic relations are in a many-to-many corre-Sl)ondence with (leep syntactic relations.
Moreover, there is no isomorl~hism or even preservation52of structure between a semantic graph and a deep syntactic tree which expresses it.
For exaxnple,on the semantic level, an adverb such as oftcn is typically analyzed a.s a predicate whose argument(i.e., dependent) is the remaining sentence graph.
On the (deep) syntactic level, the same adverbis a dependent of the main verb.
Thus the direction of dependency can easily change as one passesfrom semantics to syntax.Following this analogy, we propose to consider the informational level of discourse as a means ofexpressing the intentional level.
Intuitively, this seems quite l)lausil)le because inlbrming the hearerabout informational relations 1)etween discourse lements can hardly be considered a self-sufficientgoal.
Moore and Pollack stress that the intentional level is the primary one since it describes thespeaker's strategy to achieve her intentional goal.In keeping with MTT methodology, to give substance to a claim of separate strata, one mustproduce a system of rules that map the relations of the "meaning" level to the relations of the"means" level.
Each "meaning" relation can map to many "means" relations (or comi)inations ofsuch relations) and vice versa, one and the same "means" relation can al~pe~.r in more than onemapping rule.
Ea.ch rule describes the contextual conditions tbr its a.pl)lic;l.tion in enough detail tojustify the distinction between various "means", if such exist.At the moment, we can give only a few examl)les of such real)ping rules, olle of which we \[)resentbelow.
Nevertheless, we present his very preliminary ana.lysis ti)," l),H'l)()ses of discussion, in thebelief that work in discourse rel)resentation is crucial for text generation the?
)ry and apl)lications.A stratificational view has significant iml)licatioHs.
()lie of these is to eliminate lineal" orderfrom the description of intentional RST relations.
Note th~l.t in RST a givel, intentional relati~mmay hold between two text segments a.l)pearing in either order provided th~l.t apl~tol)riate discourseconnectives are used.
In our view, linear order and, correspondingly, discourse connectives shouldappear only on the informational level.
A1)stract intentional relations express only the dependellciesbetween propositions, not the lexical or "syntactic" artifacts associated with the means of theirexpression.3 Example of One-to-Many MappingThe following example, taken fi'om Moore and Pollack, shows a. one-to-many ma.pl~ing from anintentional relation to various inibrmational relations.
(la) George Bush supports big 1)usiness.
(lb) He's sure to veto House Bill 1711.IlL Moore and Pollack's analysis, (la) and (tl,) are connected I)y the illtetltional relatit,ll Evi-dence.
In particular, satellite (la), is given as Evidence, to increase th(, heater's belief ill nucleus(lb).
The hearer is assumed to believe (la) or tind it credil)le.Moore and Pollack show that the same example a.
(hnits a.n analysis on the infi)rnlational level interms of the Vol it ional Cause relation.
In our terms, this wouhl mean that the intentional relationEv idence can 1)e realized 1)y the informatiollal relation Vol it ional Cause under certain conditions.If there are other informationa.l relations that are cal)al)le of realizing the same intentional relati()n,these conditions hould clearly i(lentity the apl)lication context br each it~fc)rmational relation.Another informationa.l relation capal)le of realizing Ev idence is Non-Vol i t ional  Cause,  asshown in text (2a-21)):(2a) Winters in Montreal are so cold.
(2b) (Therefore,) I need a fltr coat (faux, of course).53To increase the hearer's belief in nucleus (2b), the speaker uses satellite (2a) as Ev idence .
Onthe informational level these two propositions are connected l)y a Non-Vo l i t iona l  Cause  relation.Another example of an informational rela.tion realizing Ev idence  comes fi'om Mann and Thomp-soil, who admit that some texts can l)e given analyses in terms of both Ev idence  and E laborat ion\[1\].
Consider a Inodification of ( la- lb)  above:(3a) George Bush definitely supports big business.
(31)) (Look,) He just vetoed House Bill 1711.Here, (3a) is nucleus and (3l)) is satellite, given as Ev idence  to increase the hea.rer's belief in(3a).
On the informational level these two propositions can I)e seen as connected \])y E laborat ion ,where (3l)) is a concrete instance of a more general 1)roposition (3a).
In contrast, in I)oth examples1 and 2 the satellite ( la,2a) was a general proposition.We offer the following sketch of an Intentional-to-informational m .I)ping rule:If the intentional relation Evidence holds between two propositionsPI and P2, where P1 is a nucleus and P2 is a satellite,then,if P1 is a general proposition (i.e.
the equivalent of a corrlrnoi, set,se"law" is given as Evidence),thenif there is a conscious agent such that I)oth P1 and P2 ret~r to her acticJns,then the Volitional Cause informational r~la.tiozJ can 1)~ chos~ll;else (if there is no agent in PI and P2 as (lescril)e(l above),then the Noll-Volitiolml Cause iJktbrmational relationcan be chosen;if P2 is a general proposition,then the E laborat ion information relation can 1)e chosen.4 Example of Many-to-One MappingMoore and Pollack also give an exa.nll)l(:' of 1.
(~xt Sl~l.lls whi(:h at(' il, the Cond i t ion  relation onthe informational level and, del)ending oil the reading, eithel" ilk the Enab lement  or Mot ivat ionrelation oil the intentional level.
(5a) Come home 1)y 5:00.
(5b) Then we can go to the hardware store before it closes.First reading (Cond i t ion /Enab lement ) :  the speaker is ilLter(,sted ill increasing tile hearer'sability to perform the action described in (5h).
Second reading: the speaker is just interested inmotivating the hearer to do (Sa) (because, say, a surl)rise party is l)lanned).Viewing this examl)le fi'om our 1)erspective, both intentional relatioHs, Enab lement  a,n(l Mot i -vat ion ,  can 1)e realized on the informational level I)y Cond i t ion .
This is quite analogous to the wayin which an aml)iguons entence may be the common syntactic realization ot" two distinct semanticstructures.
Also, there is no linear order (or t.he'n colDnective) on the intelltiona\] level.
But thereis a direction of del)en(lency of satellite Oll m~cleus.
Tim directiollality of the (lel)en(lency relationis preserved in the Enab lement /Cond i t ion  pair, and is revers~d ill the Mot ivat ion /Cond i t ionpair.
As noted above, (lel~en(lency reversal is not surl)rising wh(,ll ()lke maps between distinct levelsof description.54References\[1\] Mann, W. and S. Thompson (1987) Rhetorical Struct'ar?
: Theory: A Theory of ?~xt 07yani-zation, Technical Report No.
ISI/RS-87-190, University of Southern (~a.lilbrnia, hfformationSciences Institute.\[2\] Mel'~:uk, I.
(1981) "Meaning-Text Models", Annual Review off Anthropology, vol.10, 1)p.27-62.\[3\] Mel'~:uk, I.
(1988) Dependency Syntax: Theory and P~uetice, State University of New YorkPress.\[4\] Moore, J. and C. Paris (1989) "Planning Text for Advisory Dialogue.~", Proc.
of the 27thAnnual Meeting of the Association for CTmqmtational Linguistics, Va.l|COllver, 1)1).203-211.\[5\] Moore, J. and M. Pollack (1992) "A Problenl for RST: Tile Need for Multi-Level DiscourseAnalysis", Computational Linguistics, vol.18, no.4, 1)p.537-544.55
