Intentions iI1 Bilingual Dialogue ProcessingSusann LuperFoyThe  MITRE Corpora,t ionsusann@st arbase, mitre, org1 am currently leading a small research project on discourse-level processing for a Japanese-Englishinterpreting telephone systern.
The interpreting telephone (IT) would allow monolingual speakersof different languages to carry on a spoken conversation.
The dialogue management task faced bythe IT's discourse component defines mfique constraints on t.he overall IT software system.The dialogue manager must model five distinct dialogue interactions that arise during operation ofthe larger IT system.
(1) the huma.u-hmnan (bilingual) dialogue that coitstitutes the primary data for tile system,(2),(3) two human-maclfine (monolingual) dialogues, each of which alternates input speech of onespeaker with tile translated output of tile other speaker's input, and(4),(5) two human-nmchine dialogues that occur whenever the interpreting telephone system itself(or a component of it., such as the dialogue manager) engages either of the humans in a recta-dialogueto address any disruption for the flow of the primary (hunaan-human) dialogue.The role of intentions in the IT system varies with the role of the dialogue manager.
In processingdialogues of Types 4 and 5, the IT is acting as an agent in a private dialogue with one of the users.It must discern the user's plan and (dynamically) construct and execute its own plan for repairingthe dialogue error condition in collaboration with the user.
The IT system can influence the user'sbehavior and intentions through its own behavior.In contrast, in dialogues of Types 2 and 3 the IT dialogue manager acts ms a third-party observerof l.he hmnan-hunmn bilingual dialogue.
The dialogue manager's task is to recognize the evolvingplans of the two users in order to analyze source-language utterances adequately for carrying outtranslation, and in order to make decisions during generation of target-language utterances tlmtreflect the source-language speaker's intentions.The two users may have shared experience that extends beyond the current conversation.
They may,therefore, have intentions that are mutually accessible but not available to the dialogue manager.For instance, these two users may have spoken on the previous day and may now make context-dependent, reference to the extended context begun in an earlier dialogue, "Lets go back to thesecond suggestion we discussed yesterday."
This requires a local definition of intentions at the levelof l, lle immediate dialogue segment that the dialogue manager has access to.68Tile ultimate success of the IT system is measured by its ability to create the experience, for eachof the two users, of a monolingual dialogue ill their own language.
Intentions ill translation couldbe viewed as an automatic side-effect of a good translation, l propose instead that, for tile purposesof bilingual telephone dialogues, intentions are what get preserved under translation.
Using twointention recognizers, one for Japanese and one for English, the dialogue manager will examinea set of alternative translations and filter those that appear not to realize the intentions of thesource-language speaker.These five dialogue types can be represented using an adaptation of the three-tiered iscourse reprc-sentation (defined iu my dissertation) that distinguishes three types of information accessed by thediscourse interpreter during dialogue processing: linguistic, discourse, and belief information.
Theframework models the five IT dialogues in parallel, but minimizes redundancy and computationaleffort through the use of shared structures.
A prototype dialogue manager module is currently undcrdevelopment in our group.
The sample dialogues for the immediate system development involve ahighly restricted domain (conl~rence registration) which defines a very small library of tasks andgoals from which to choose.
My primary interest in this workshop is in tim evidence for intentionsfor inachine translation and a classification of intention types for the various IT dialogues.69
