On Discourse relations, rhetorical relations and rhetoricCandace L. SidnerDEC-Cambridge Research LabOne Kendall Sq.
Building 700Cambridge, MA 02139email: sidner@crl.dec.comDiscourses are the collaborative activities of(human) agents who have purposes for commu-nicating.
Discourse structure includes the pur-poses of those agents, which I take, following\[GroszSid86\], to be formally expressible as inten-tions and beliefs.While the theory of discourse structures has in-fluenced how many computational linguists thinkabout discourse processing, it does not precludecareful consideration of rhetorical function in dis-courses.
Nor does it settle the question of howintentions are conveyed by particular utterancesin particular genres of discourse.In recent research I have been studying dis-courses that occur when people communicateabout their collaboative activities.
These peopleare collaborating not only to make the discoursehappen, but to get something done together in theworld.
Following on the model of SharedPlans in\[GroszSid90, GroszKra93\], I have asked, how isit that agents use language to come to hold thebeliefs and intentions pecified by the SharedPlanmodel as necessary for successful collaboration?Using naturally occurring conversations of humanagents collaborating, I have observed that theirdiscourses cycle through a series of proposals, re-jections, assents, counters, modifications and re-tractions.To clarify this observation, I have devised anartificial anguage of negotiation \[Sidner92\] whosesentences are messages containing proposals ofpropositions, rejections of propositions, etc.
Thesemantics of these messages i specified in termsof beliefs, especially mutual belief, and intentionsthat the discourse participants come to hold aboutthe propositional content of the message.
Alongwith the language is an "environment" for inter-pretation that keeps track of accepted, open andrejected proposals.
Using this language I have cre-ated artificial conversations in which the beliefsand intentions of the participants are fully evi-dent.
Such conversations have some of the rich-ness of naturally occurring ones, though they lacksuch attentional devices of human discourse as cuephrases.
They also contain more redundancy thanhuman discourse; in the artificial language indi-vidual utterances can not serve several functionsat once, as is very common in natural human dis-course.I maintain as a working hypothesis that thenegotiation language can model naturally occur-ing discourses as cycles of negotiations.
Underthis hypothesis, the recognition that an utteranceserves as a proposal as opposed to a counterpro-posal, for example, is determined not by the re-lation of the utterance to previous utterances.
Itis determined by recognition of beliefs and inten-tions conveyed by the utterance and by the cur-rent discourse state with respect to beliefs andintentions (e.g.
which beliefs are not yet mutuallybelieved, which are, and which cannot be becauseone discourse participants holds that the belief isfalse); these together indicate how the beliefs andintentions of the current utterance operate as pro-posals, counterproposals, rejections and the like.As a model of human discourse, the negotiationlanguage provides a fine-grained model of the be-liefs and intentions and relations among them thatis conveyed in individual utterances.
It does noteliminate the need for recognizing what role theparticular beliefs and intentions conveyed play inthe agents' plans, especially in their SharedPlans,and hence plan recognition is still critical.
Re-cent work by Lochbaum \[Lochbaum93\] providesan outlook on plan recognition for collaborativeactivity.The negotiation language might appear to besimilar to relations in RST and other theories be-cause terms such as proposing, counterproposingand rejection seem similar to, for example, Mann122and Thomson's evidence, antithesis and conces-sion relations.
The distinctions may be clari-fied by first noting that the general term "dis-course structure relations" is ambiguous.
Re-lations might be between utterances or utter-ances and segments (i.e.
elements of the linguis-tic structure), between constructs of attentionaistate or between those of the intentional struc-ture \[GroszSid86\].
lIST, Hobbs' theory and theMcKeown schemas \[Manntho87, Hobbs79, McKe-own85\] are all relations among parts of linguisticstructure.
The dominance and satisfaction prece-dence of the Grosz and Sidner theory are rela-tions among constructs of intentional structure.In \[Moorepar89\] work, PaST is used to organizeand enact the intentions of the speaker, as well asto maintain a model of how portions of the textare related to each other.
Because the negotiationlanguage concerns relations among belief and in-tentions, it is an example of relations among inten-tional structure.
Both this language and the useof R.ST in Moore and Paris' work suggest hat cer-tain aspects of rhetorical relations are captured inthe beliefs and intentions conveyed in utterancesin combination with the state of the discourse.The negotiation language viewpoint howeverdoes not critically address the issue of rhetori-cal function in part because it is not clear whataspects of discourse behavior one wants to claimmust be addressed by rhetorical function.
What isthe role of rhetorical function or rhetorical knowl-edge in discourse?
What aspects of discourse mustbe accounted for by rhetorical function?
Whilerhetorical relations like those of RST have beenuseful in the generation systems of McKeown andthe ISI systems, no one has claimed that the recog-nition of these relations is essential for the inter-pretation of discourse; many researchers do acceptthe view, originally propounded by Austin, Searleand Grice, that intentions and beliefs conveyed inutterances are intended to be recognized.Do rhetorical relations or other textual relationsconcern rhetorical knowledge?
Or are they mis-named, so that the term linguistic structure rela-tions is more apt?
Rhetorical function concerns adifferent aspect of communication than the recog-nition of intention, namely the affective one.
Bythis I mean the role of an utterance in evoking inthe hearer or reader some change of state (includ-ing an emotional one) that the hearer or readerdoes not necessarily recognize; often affect is lessthan successful if the hearer is aware of it.
Inclassical tradition, which extends back to Aris-totle's view of rhetoric, rhetorical function con-cerns the art of persuasion; in more recent times,rhetoric is the art of social control and motivationthrough communication.
Hovy's Ph.D. \[Hovy89\]work can be seen as an experiment in rhetoricalfunction.
His PAULINE system can present anevent from several different points of view, de-pending on, among other things, the goals for in-fluencing hearer's opinions; Hovy's system is notconcerned with the hearer ecognizing what is go-ing on.
Research by Cahn \[Cahng0\], addressesingthe automatic synthesis of utterances with affec-tive mood (e.g.
utterances that sound happy orsad or angry), demonstrates that affect may becarried at the most fine grained level of communi-cation.Both rhetorical theory and intentional theoriesdeal with a discourse participant coming to holda belief on the basis of utterances from anotherparticipant.
Modern rhetoric (especially in adver-tising) concerns itself with causing the participantto do something (such as buy a certain product),a concern not entirely unakin to intending thatanother perform an action \[GroszKra93\].
It isonly rhetorical theories that address the meansof achieving these ends by affect on the hearer,either with or without the hearer recognizing it.It is unclear to me whether Hobbs, McKeown orMann and Thompson intended their relations tooperate rhetorically in the sense described above.If the relations were not so intended, then theymay continue to provide the kind of organizingframework they have played in generation sys-tems without having a parallel role in interpreta-tion systems.
And if they were not, then rhetori-cal function is a matter computational linguisticsmight still need to address.
Because rhetoricalfunction is one of affect on the hearer, it may bevaluable to generation systems, which must planfor the affect of utterances on discourse partici-pants, the force of utterances in persuasive activ-ity, and perhaps ocial aspects of discourse partic-ipants.
Rhetorical function may also be useful tothe interpretation of discourse.
One might wantto consider how to build systems that are sen-sitive to the affect of utterances (or perhaps not,since it might be easier to have computational con-versational partners that do not respond to suchmatters).
Rhetorical function does not yet seemcritical to many researchers in computational lin-guistics, but a better understanding of its role indiscourse may clarify issues of this workshop.\[Cahn90\] J.E.
Cahn.
Generating Expresion by123Synthesized Speech.
M.S.
Thesis.
MIT.
Cam-bridge, MA, 1990.\[GroszSid86\] B.J.
Grosz and C.L.
Sidner.
At-tention, intentions, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3), 1986.\[GroszSidg0\] B.J.
Grosz and C.L.
Sidner.
Plansfor discourse.
In P.I~.
Cohen, J.L.
Morgan, andM.E.
Pollack (eds.)
Intentions in Communication.MIT Press, 1990.\[GroszKra93\] B.J.
Grosz and S. Kraus.
Collab-orative Plans for Group Activities.
submitted toIJCAI93.\[Hobbs79\] J. Hobbs.
Coherence and Co-reference.
Cognitive Science.
1:67-82, 1979.\[Hovy89\] E.H. Hovy.
Pragmatics and NaturalLanguage Generation.
Artificial Intelligence.
Fall1989.\[Lochbaum93\] K.E.
Lochbaum.
A Collabora-tive Planning Approach to understanding Subdi-alogues in Conversation.
Submitted to IJCAI-93.\[Manntho87\] W.C. Mann and S.A. Thompson.Rhetorical Structure Theory: A Theory of TextOrganization.
in L. Polanyi (ed.)
The Structureof Discourse.
Ablex Pub.
Corp, 1987.\[McKeown85\] K. 1~.
McKeown.
Text Genera-tion.
Cambridge Univ.
Press, 1985.\[Moorepar89\] J.D.
Moore and C.L.
Paris.
Plan-ning Text for Advisory Dialogues.
Proceedings ofthe 27th Annual ACL meeting, 1989, pp.
211.\[Sidner92\] C.L.
Sidner.
Using Discourse to Ne-gotiate in Collaborative Activity: An ArtificialLanguage.
AAAI Workshop on HeterogeneousAgents, 1992.124
