Towards a cross-linguistic tagsetDrs .
Jan  C loerenTOSCA Research  Group fo r  Corpus  L ingu is t i csDept .
o f  Language ~ Speech ,  Un ivers i ty  o f  N i jmegenNL-6525 HT  N i jmegen,  The  Nether landse -malh  c loeren@let t .kun .n lApr i l  29,  1993Abst rac tWith the spread of large quantities of corpusdata, the need has arisen to develop some stan-dard not only for the format of'interchange oftext (an issue which has already been takenup by the Text Encoding Inititiave), but alsofor any information added in some subsequentstage of (linguistic) enrichment.
The researchcommunity has much to gain by such stan-dardization since it will enable researchers toe~ectively access and therefore make optimaluse of the results of previous work on a corpus.This paper provides ome direction of thoughtas to the development ofa standardized tagset.We focus on a minimal tagset, i.e.
a tagset con-raining information about wordclasses.
We in-vestigate what criteria should be met by sucha tagset.
On the basis of an investigation andcomparison of ten different tagse~s that havebeen used over the years for the (wordclass)tagging of corpora, we arrive at a proposal fora cross-linguistic minima\] tagset for Germaniclanguages I .Part  IIn t roduct ionThe last few years there has been an increasinginterest in the use of corpus data, especially bythose working in the field of natural anguageprocessing (NLP).
This development can inpart be ascribed to the fact that the scale onwhich such data are becoming available hasincreased: as publishing houses, industry, etc.switched to an electronic format for the in-1.
In this paper the focus is on British English.
Amer-lean English, Dutc21 and German.terchange of texts this meant a dramatic in-crease in the amount of text that was readilyavailable to anyone interested, while develop-ments in hardware and in software have madeit possible to manipulate large quantities ofdata (more) effectively.Earlier corpus-based approaches proved tobe laborious undertakings.
Before the 'real'work could begin one would have to go throughthe painstaking process of designing a cor-pus, gaining permission from publishers to use(part(s) of) texts and somehow making thetexts computer-readable.
The size of the cor-pora was very much determined by such fac-tors as cost (in terms of time and money tobe invested) and availability of data.
Corporagenerally were compiled for particular esearchpurposes, such as the investigation of a partic-ular variety of the language.
Typical exampleshere are the Brown Corpus and the Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen (LOB) Corpus which were bothcompiled with the intention of representing across-section of the language (American En-glish and British English respectively).
Com-pilers of corpora would each adopt his/herown conventions for representing the textualdata.
In a similar fashion the further process-ing of the data, the enrichment of (basically)raw text with some kind of linguistic informa-tion (wordclass information, syntactic, seman-tic and/or even pragmatic information) wouldlargely depend on the time and money avail-able, and also on the particular interests of theresearchers involved.Recently, with the increase in the amountof data that are becoming available, the at-tention of corpus compilers has been drawn tothe need for a common interchange format fortexts in order to make these data more readily30accessible for third parties.
The Text EncodingInititiative (TEI) has undertaken to develop astandard for the marking up of texts that isbased on the Standard Generalized MarkupLanguage (SGML).
So far we have not yetreached the point where any serious attemptsare being made to standardize the linguisticinformation that is being added in successivestages of linguistic enrichment.
Instead, re-searchers from different backgrounds and withdifferent beliefs are working their own turf ex-ploring a variety of methods for the enrich-ment of corpora, ranging from purely stochas-tic to strictly rule-based approaches, whichseem to be in competition with each other.
Inview of the current state of the art in corpusanalysis, the amount of work that has alreadybeen done in the area of tagging corpora forwordclass information and the experience thathas been gained in the process, it would appearthat by now the time has come to start think-ing about developing some sort of standard forthe encoding of wordclass information.In the remainder of this paper we focuson the design of a minimal tagset, i.e.
atagset containing information about word-classes, that will provide a common basis forthe wordclass tagging of texts written in Ger-manic languages.We first compare a number of tagsets thathave been or are being used for the tagging ofwordclass information in prominent corpora.On the basis of this comparison we arrive at anumber of criteria that a standardised (mini-real) tagset should meet.
Finally put forward aproposal for a basic tagset hat may be appliedcross-linguistically.Part IITagsets: a comparisonIn order to give the reader some idea ofthe kind of (wordclass) information coveredin various tagsets, a comparison is made ofthe tagsets employed in ten corpora 2 theBrown Corpus (Ku~era nd Francis, 1967), theLancaster-Oslo/Bergen Corpus (3ohansson etal., 1978), the SUSANNE Corpus (Sampson,2.
Information regarding a detailed characterizationof the corpora including size, design, research contextand method of processing can be found in the corre-sponding literatureforthcoming), the Penn Treebank (Santorini,1991), the IBM-Lancaster Corpus (Black etal., 1993), the British National Corpus (Leech,1993), the ICE Corpus (Greenbaum, 1991),the Tosca Corpus (Oostdijk, 1991), the DutchEindhoven Corpus (uit den Boogaart, 1975),and the German IDS-Mannheim Corpus (Neu-mann, 1987).As a first step in making a comparison ofthe ten tagsets employed in the wordclsss tag-ging of the above corpora we start by distin-guishing the wordclass categories that thesetagsets have in common.
There are nine cate-gories that are (in one fashion or another) in-cluded in each of the tagsets: noun, pronoun,article/determiner, adjective, adverb, preposi-tion, conjunction, verbal form, and interjec-tion.
Apart from these nine categories we dis-tinguish one other category, which by defini-tion is open-ended since it is intended to coverall tags that do not fit into any of the othercategories.
We shall refer to this category asVopen category".
Next, we make an inventoryof the different tags employed by each of thetagsets.
As a result we obtain lists 3 of tagsfor each of the wordclass categories we distin-guished.
For example, Table 1 lists the varioustags as they occur in the ten tagsets underconsideration for the tagging of conjunctions(incl.
connectives).There appears to be a great deal of overlap:while actual tags may differ (cf.
CO, CI, 70 forconjunctions in general, in the ICE, Brown andEindhoven tagsets respectively), there seemsto be some consensus as to the kind of infor-marion one wants to encode or tag.
Before go-ing into this, however, we take a closer look atboth the format and the nature of the tags.Starting with the oldest tagset included inour comparison, the Brown tagset, we see thatthis is in a sense a very 'fiat' coding scheme.
Itwas developed with the intention of encodinggenera\] wordclass information.
The tags con-sist of character sequences which encode thewordclass category of a word and occasionallyextended information such as form, aspect orcase.
Thus for example we find JJ for adjectiveand CC for coordinating conjunction, but alsoVB for base form of verb, VBD for past tenseof verb, VBG for present participle, etc.The LOB tagset, but also the tagsets3.
These lists are rather sizeable and have thereforenot been included.
They are available, however, fromthe author (via e-mail).31ConjunctionsCode Interpretation CorpusCOCI70CON3COAPCOCOC3CCCCCnnCCBCFABXDTXLELEnnCONCON72COSUC3SCSCSnnBCS717374C3TCSTCSACSNCSWconjunctionconjunctionconjunctionconjunctappositive conjunctioncoordinative conjunctioncoordinating conjunctioncoordinating conjunctionpart of CCcoordinating conjunction "but"semi-coordinating conjunction "yet"double conjunction (both ...and)double conjunction (either ... or)leading co-ordinator( both, both_and)part of LEconnectiveconnectivecomparative connectivessubordinating conjunctionsubordinating conjunctionsubordinating conjunctionpart of CSbefore subord.conjuction(even(if))subordinating conjunctionsubord, conj.
matrix sent.
wordorderintroductory part of conjunctive groupsconjunction nthat"conjunction "that"conjunction "as"conjunction "than"conjunction "whether"ICEBrownEindhovenToscaTOSC&TOSCaBNCBrown, LOB, PENN,SUSIBMLSUSIBMLIBMLBrown, LOBBrown, LOBSUS, IBMLSUSToscaICEEindhovenToscaBNCBrown, LOB, SUS,IBMLSUSIBMLEindhovenEindhovenEindhovenBNCIBMLIBMLIBMLIBMLTable 1: conjunctionsof Penn Treebank, IBM-Lancaster and theBritish National Corpus very much followthe Brown tagset.
Of these tagsets, the LOBtagset is of course closest to the Brown tagset,since the corpus was compiled with the inten-tion of comparing American and British En-glish from the same year (1961).The Penn Treebank tagset appears to bea reduced version of the Brown/LOB tagset.The reduction becomes manifest in that sometags are less detailed.
For example, whereBrown/LOB distinguish between possessivepronoun, persona\] pronoun, and reflexive pro-noun and with each of these has a furthersubclassification (e.g.
PPIA for personal pro-noun, first person singular nominative; PP1ASfor persona\] pronoun, first person plural nom-inative; PPIO for persona\] pronoun, first per-son singular accusative; etc.
), Penn Treebankonly has one tag, PP, to cover all persona\],possessive, and reflexive pronouns.
All in allthe derivation of the Penn Treebank from theBrown/LOB tagset is fairly straightforward.
Aminor deviation occurs in the tagging of gen-itive markers in the case of nouns.
Here ac-cording to the Penn Treebank tagging schemegenitive markers are assigned their own tag,which is not the case with the Brown/LOBtagging scheme.The various tagging schemes that haveemerged from the cooperation between IBMand the Lancaster-based Unit for Computer32Research on the English Language 4 all canbe placed within what might be referred toas the Brown/LOB tradition in tagging.
Forour discussion we single out one particulartagging scheme, called CLAWS2a.
This tag-ging scheme was developed to encode the in-formation needed at wordclass level in order tobe able to parse computer manuals.
Althoughthis tagging scheme clearly shows some re-semblance to the Brown/LOB tagging scheme,it stands out in that with certain categories(such as verb and noun) there is a lot of extradetail that we do not find elsewhere.
For ex-ample, tags such as noun o\[sty\]e and noun o?organization are unique for this tagset.
Whenwe look at the format of the tags we find thatthere may be up to five characters per tag,while the leftmost characters relate the moregeneral wordclass information and the charac-ters that occur towards the right specify fur-ther detail.
Compound lexical items can be en-coded by means of tags that extend over morethan one word.
For example, while II wouldbe the tag for simple preposition, the complexpreposition in spite of is tagged I131 I132 I133.The tagset that has been developed withinthe framework of the British National Corpus(BNC) contains only some 60 different tags sThe reason for this must be sought in thefact that the BNC intends to incorporate avery large amount of text (approx.
100 mil-lion words).
The grammatical (i.e.
wordclass)tagging of the corpus is to be carried out au-tomaticaily.
For reasons of efflclency and alsoto increase the success rate of the tagging itwas decided to have a rather small tagset.
Acomparison of the BNC tagging scheme to theone used in the IBM-Lancaster Corpus showsthat the two tagging schemes are closely re-late& Both can be characterized as 'fiat' tag-ging schemes.
The major difference betweenthe two, apart from their sizes, appears to bethat the BNC uses more mnemonic abbrevia-tions for otherwise similar tags 6 ; for examplegeneral adjectives get the label AJO instead ofJJ.4.
Black et al (1993).~.
The British National Corpus is a joint undertakingby Oxford University Press, Longman, and V~'.& R.Chambers, the universities of Lancaster and Oxford,and the British Library.6.
This was probably done in the hope to improve thereadlbi lhy of the various tags.
For example, the tag J Jfor adjective is replaced by the tag AJO for general~ljective.So far we have been looking at the taggingschemes employed by five English languagecorpora.
Turning away from those for a mo-ment and shifting our attention to the Germanand the Dutch corpora, we see that the taggingschemes employed in these corpora do not dif-fer all that much from what we have alreadyseen with the English corpora.
Again 'fiat' tag-ging schemes are found, while the wordclasscategories that are distinguished largely coin-cide with the English wordclasses.
As with thetagging schemes for the English language cor-pora, the tagging schemes for the German andDutch corpora each have their own degree ofdetail.The 12-million-word Mannheim Corpus wastagged automatically for both wordclass infor-mation and syntactic information by means ofthe SATAN parser ~.
Neither level of analysisincludes much detail.
The wordclass taggingis rather rudimentary and includes only themost basic wordclass information needed forthe syntactic analysis.
Only occasionally in-formation is added about prepositions that oc-cur as collocates of other words and about thecase that prepositions require for their com-plements.The tagging of the relatively small Eind-hoven Corpus is rather detailed.
The tags con-sist of three digit codes, where the first digit in-dicates the wordclass, the second digit suppliesinformation on the subclass, and the thirddigit carries additional information of variouskinds, such as verb aspect, person, number,etc.Returning now to the tagging schemes era-ployed for the tagging of English language cor-pora, we find that in the case of the threeremaining tagging schemes under considera-tion - the SUSANNE tagging scheme, theICE tagset, and the Tosca tagset - they haveopted for more hierarchically structured tag-ging schemes.
Each of these tagging schemesencodes highly detailed wordclass informationin a systematic fashion by introducing somesort of 'additional feature(s)' slots in theirtags.
The SUSANNE tagging scheme distin-guishes as many as 352 distinct tags.
Closerexamination of these tags however learns us7.
The Mannheim Corpus has been compiled by theIrmtitut f/h" Deutsche Sprache (ID5), the German na-tional inst itute for research on the German language.The SATAN parser was developed at the University of5aarbr,~cken for the purpose of machine translation.33that at the basis of these 352 items there aresome 70 major wordclasses, while the additionof more featurelike information such as num-ber, person, case, etc.
leads to a total of 352tags.
Something similar appears to be the casewhen we consider the Tosca tagset and its lessdetailed derivative, the ICE tagset.
Again tagsfor major wordclass categories have been ex-tended so as to include additional feature in=formation.In summary, having compared the differenttagging schemes that have been or are beingemployed in the tagging of wordclass informa-tion in ten different corpora, we find that?
there appears to be some consensus asto what to tag as far as wordclass infor-mation is concerned;?
even the format of the tags in differenttagging schemes does not differ all thatmuch;?
the kind of information does not vary toomuch from one language to another, inother words it appears feasible to havea tagset that could be applied cross-linguistically.As to the last point, we must observe that theidea of having a tagset that can be appliedcross-linguistically is not at all new.
For exam-ple, the tagset employed in the multi-lingua/ESPRIT-860 project \[Kesselheim, 1986\] wasintended to comprise all the tags that wouldbe required for the tagging of wordclass infor-marion in each of the EC languages.
Since thismeant that not only Germanic languages wereincluded (Dutch, English, German), but alsoRomance languages (French, Italian, Spanish)and Greek, the tagset could be expected to betruly cross-linguistic.
Unfortunately, however,examination of the tagset shows that it is moreof a collection of various tags that any of thelanguages might at some stage require, ratherthan a thoroughly designed minimal interlin-gual (or cross-linguistic) tagset.
It is thereforeall the more surprising to find that certainwordclasses in German, Dutch and English arenot accounted for s.8.
For example, there appears to be no wordclnss tagfor interjections for German and Dutch, nor is there atag for particl~ in English or in Dutch.Part IIICriteria for a minimaltagsetHaving compared the tagsets of ten prominentcorpora we now arrive at a point where weshould reflect a little on the criteria that willhave to apply to a tagset to make it cross-linguistic and generally applicable.
If  we takea closer look at the results of our study de-scribed above we can conclude that there aremainly three types of criteria in relation to thedevelopment of a tagset; criteria of a linguis-tic nature, criteria for the data format of thelabels and terminological criteria for the labelnames.
Therefore the following points deservespecial attention:?
coverage of major word classes?
addition of relevant feature information?
format of the tags.
representation of the labelsLet us begin with the linguistic criteria.
Themajor word classes should minimally be cov-ered by the tagset.
During our projection ofthe different tagsets we came to the conclu-sion that there are 12 main word classes 9 thatcan be distinguished.
As we said earlier, it be-came obvious that across the different agsetsvariation as far as the main classes are con-cerned was not very large.
The same was trueeven for the two non-English tagsets.The specification of feature information, how-ever, turned out to be more problematic thanthe determination of word classes, because thetagsets differed strongly in their degree of de-tail and/or  their research context.
From a lin-guistic point of view, there is a great varietyof feature information.
First of all, there aresubclassiflcations of the major word classes,such as the distinction between common andproper nouns or the different types of pro-noun.
Furthermore, in relation to verbs, wecan think of addit ional feature informationabout the degree of subcategorisation (tran-sitivity).
Although this appeared not to be avery common feature in the tagsets examined,it can be of great importance to grammar-based syntactic orpus analysis 1?.
Another tel-evant linguistic criterion is to facilitate the in-clusion of morphological information, at least9.
see following section10.
see Oostdljk (1991)34for verbs, nouns and adjectives.
Features con-taining this information are for example: num-ber (singular, plural), person (first, second,third), gender (masculine, feminine, neuter),degree of comparison (positive, comparative,superlative) and, especially for the analysis ofGerman texts, case information (nominative,genitive, dative, accustive).
From the tagsetsunder survey it appeared that morphologicalinformation is desirable, but there seems tobe no agreement on what sort of informationshould be added.
This leads us to a followingcriterion that is important for the developmentof our tagset: the format of the tags.From our study it has become clear thatthere is some degree of agreement on majorword class information and to some extent alsoon their subclassification.
However, with re-spect to additional feature information we cansee a sort of growing disagreement as the de-tail of specification increases.
This has to dowith the various purposes people may have inrelation to the enrichment of corpora.
On theother hand language-specific items play a rolein this context too, for example prepositionsin postposition in Dutch n .
So the format ofthe tags has to account for two major aspects:?
hierarchical structuring of information?
flexibility in relation to the encoding ofspecial features and/or language specificitemsHierarchical structuring implies the orderingof information within a specific label.
From leftto right the degree of detail wiLl increase, sothat at the beginning we will find the majorword class label, followed by a subclassiflca-tion, and then several additional features.With ttexibi\]it?
we mean that the label formatshould be open so that no researcher is lim-ited by our tagset in adding special featuresthat, according to his opinion and/or researchaims, are useful or even essential.
On the otherhand researchers who want to make use of ba-sic word classes only, need only concern them-selves with parts of the tags and can ignorethe other parts.In our attempt to develop a cross-linguistictagset we make use of a hierarchical data-fieldoriented coding scheme.
The hierarchy in thelabels is represented as follows: the level of de-tail increases from left to right and the dif-ferent entries are separated by one or more11.
Hij loopt her boa in.
(engl.
: He runs into the forest.
)unique dehmiters.
This way of coding alsoenables researchers to convert the format ofthe labels in a relatively easy way for theirindividual needs.
For example in the ICE.-project, where the tags form the input of atwo-level grammar, labels with the format de-scribed above can be automatically convertedinto two-level tags.
So this way of coding seemsto be attractive linguisticalJy (levels of descrip-tion) as well as formally (interchangeability).Finally we have to determine how the la-bels should be represented.
Generally we candistinguish between two ways of coding - ei-ther a completely numeric label or a mnemonicletter-digit sequence.
Although for reasons ofreadability mnemonic labels are preferable,numeric labels can be used as well, since it isnot too difficult to transform one weLl-definedform into another.
The advantage of numericlabels is that they are relatively compact andtherefore can be stored more efficiently.Focussing on the mnemonic way of coding,the question is: what terminology can best beused for the labels.
From the tagsets exam-ined we can conclude that there is a commonlyaccepted linguistic terminology with respectto word-class information, also from a cross-linguistic point of view.
In order to providecodes as mnemonic as possible we are of theopinion that this terminology should also beincluded in our tagset.In the following section we present a firststep towards a cross-linguistic tagset as a re-sult of our comparative study and illustratethe different major word classes, their possi-ble subclassification, additional feature infor-mation as well as the way in which this infor-mation can be coded.Part IVA basic tagset forGermanic languagesIn this section we present a basic cross-linguistic tagset for Germanic languages.Those familiar with the coding schemeadopted in the ESPRIT-S60 project will find anumber of similarities with this scheme.
Thus,as we mentioned above, we have adopted theidea of a hierarchical data-field oriented codingscheme.
Moreover the scheme allows for over-35Word Class Categoriesnounpronounarticleadjectivenumeralverbadverbprepositionconjunctionparticleinterjectionformulate xpressionTable 2: word classesas well as underspecification 1~.
Unlike the ES-PR IT  tagging scheme, however, it is strictlydatafield oriented in order to allow automaticformat and addition of extra feature informa-tion.
The different datafields are always sepa-rated by a # symbol, which functions as a de-limiter.
The hierarchical structure of the tagsbecomes clear when one looks at the exampleswe give in order to illustrate the tagging of thedifferent wordclasses.
In addition to what hasbeen described above, the tagset alo includesso-caUed ditto-tags which make it possible toaccount for lexical items that consist of morethan one word, such as compound nouns orcomplex prepositions.
Ditto-tags take the formof two numbers separated by a slash, wherethe first number indicates the current part ofa compound item, while the second number in-dicates the total number of words that makeup the compound.
For example, the three wordcomplex preposition in spite ofis tagged as fol-lows:in PRP#...#I/3, spite PRP#...#2/3, ofPRP#.. .
:~3/3.Our basic tagset for the encoding of word classinformation in corpora comprises twelve ma-jor word class categories and an additionalcategory which is intended to accommodatelanguage-specific items.
The twelve major cat-egories that are distinguished are listed in Ta-ble 2.The additional category we shall refer to asopen.
Each of the word class categories is dis-cussed below.Perhaps the categories particle, interjectionand ?ormulaic expression are not so familiar tosome readers.
For this reason we give a moredetailed description when presenting them.12.
see Kesselheim (1986)I.
1~ounWordclass NSubclass corn (common)prop (proper)Additional info:number sg (singular)plu (plural)gender masc (masculine)fem (feminine)neut (neuter)case nora (nominative)gen (genitive)dat (dative)ace (accusative)compound 1/2, 2/2, etc.Two examples:N#com#plu#refers to a single plural common noun,for example house.N#com~plu~acc~femrefers to the same word class as abovebut contains extra case (accusative) andgender (feminine) information, for ex-ample German Hguser x32.
PronounWordclass PNSubclass per (personal)pos (possessive)ref (reflexive)dem (demonstrative)int (interrogative)tel (relative)ind (indefinite)rec (reciprocal)Additional info:number sg (singular)plu (plural)person 1 (first)2 (second)3 (third)gender masc (masculine)fern (feminine)neut (neuter)case nora (nominative)gen (genitive)dat (dative)acc (accusative)13. engl.
houses36compound i/2, 2/2, etc.For example:PN#per#sg#1#nomrefers to a first person singular nomina-tive personal pronoun (/).PN#rec:#l /2#refers to the first part of a reciprocal pro-noun, for example ach other.3.
ArticleWordclass ARTSubclass def (definite)ind (indefinite)In addition, features such as number,case and gender can be added.For example:ART#def#sg#acc#masc#refers to a definite singular accusativemasculine article, e.g.
german den.4.
AdjectiveWordclass ADJDegree pos (positive)corn (comparative)sup (superlative)Subclassifieation of adjectives eems tobe a complicated matter since manyof the subdivisions we found are deter-mined by the research context.
For ex-ample, we found attributive adjectives(main, chief), nominal adjectives andeven semantically superlative adjectives.So at this stage we are not able to pro-vide some consistent subclassification.Again, additional features uch as num-ber, case, gender, ditto (as describedabove) and form (for example English:-ed, -ing) can be added, for example:ADJ #gen#pos#acc#masc#refers to a definite genera/ positive ac-cusative masculine adjective, for exam-ple German ~ntelligenten5.
NumeralWordclass NUMSubclass ord (ordinal)crd (cardinal)frac (fractional)6.7.8.Features like number and case can beadded.For example:NUM#ord#refers to an ordinal numeral, for exampleVerbWordclass VSubclass 1 (lexical)a (auxiliary)Form inf (infinitive)part (participleTense pres (present)past (past)Mood ind (indicative)subj (subjunctive)Subcat different forms of transitivitysuch as intransitive, copular,transitive, etc.Again features as number, person andcompounding can be added.For example:V:#l#3#past:~refers to a lexical verb (third person,past tense), for example went.AdverbWordclass ADVDegree pos (positive)corn (comparative)sup (superlative)Features for compounding can be added.A general subdassification of adverbs isvery hard to establish because of the se-mantle nature of such subdivisions.For example:ADV#pos#refers to a positive adverb, for exampleearJyPrepositionWorddass PRPSubclass conj (conjunctive)adv (adverbial)post (postposition, for Dutch)phra (phrasal)gen (general)Features indicating the case a preposi-tion requires for its complement, as well37as ones for compounding can be added.For example:PRP#phra#dat#refers to a phrasal preposition (requiredby a prepositional verb) that combineswith a complement with dative case.9.
Conjunction (incl.
connectives)Wordclass CONSubclass sub (subordinating)cot (coordinating)con (connective)Also, ditto-tags can be added.For example:CON#sub#refers to a subordinating conjunction,for example because10.
Particle, Interjection, FormulaWordclass PRT  (particle)INT (interjection)FOR (formulaic expression).Interjections are normally referred to aswords that do not enter into syntacticrelations and that do not have a clearmorphological structure.
Very often theyare of a onomatopoeic nature.
Examplesof interjections are: aha, .hm, wow, past,oops.Formu/a/c Expressions are fixed expres-sions used as formulalc reactions in a cer-taln dialogue contexts.
Examples are: a\]/the best; excuse me; dank u weI; Danke,gut.Particles are morpholog-ically fixed words that do not belong toany of the word classes described aboveand that can function in many ways ina sentence, for example as introducingelement of the subject of an infinitivalclause (for example: I am waiting for themeeting to begin), or they function asfixed answers to questions (for example:yes, no, j a  14Ditto-tags can be applied to the d.ifl~er-ent elements of the tagged item.For example: Good FOR#1/2# Morn-ins  FOR#2/2#14.
for more detailed information ?bout particles, eeEngel (1988)11.
OpenWordclass : O (open)The subclasses to be distinguishedwithin this wordclass category may vary,depending on the specific language thetagset is used for.
For English the geni-tive marker belongs in this category; thesame goes for the German verb particle.For example:O#GM#refers to a genitive marker.Part VConclusionIn this paper we have sketched the way inwhich linguistic enrichment of corpora couldbe standardized.
We have reported on our ef-forts to standardize the word class tags.
In ad-dition, we compared the tag sets of a numberof prominent corpora.
The differences betweenthese sets encouraged us to proceed towards astandardized cross-linguistic tagset.
This setcould contribute to improved access and ex-change of analyzed corpora.
In addition to astandardized tagset it might be interesting todetermine if and how a standard annotationof linguistic information on higher levels of de-scription (syntax, semantics, pragmatics) canbe established.We are working on these issues and we hopeto encourage other (academic and industrial)researchers in the field of corpus linguistics toparticipate in the discussion about commonguidelines for the linguistic annotation of cor-pora in the future.Part  V IReferences?
Aarts, J. and Th.
van den Heuvel (1985):Computational tools for the syntacticanalysis of  corpora, in: Linguistics 23:303-35.?
Black, E., 1t.
Car-side and G. Leech (1987): Statistically-Driven Computer Grammars o?
English:The IBM-Lancaater Approach.
Internalreport.38?
Boogaart, P.C.
uit den (1975): Woord-Requenties.
Utrecht: Oosthoek, Schel-terns & Holkema.?
Engel, U.
(1988): Deutsche Grammatik.Heidelberg: Julius Groos Verlag.?
Greenbaum, S. (1991): The developmentof the International Corpus of English.in: A~jmer~ K. and B. Altenberg (1991):English Corpus Linguistics: 83-91.
Lon-don: Longman.?
Greenbaum, S. (1992): The ICE TagsetManual.
London: University CollegeLondon.?
3ohansson, S. et al (1978): Manual olin-formation to Accompany the Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen Corpus o\[ British English ,t'or Use with digital Computers.
Oslo:Dept.
of English, University of Oslo.?
Kesselheim (1986): Coding for word-classes, in: ESPB.IT-860 Final report\[BU-WKL-0576\].?
Ku~era, H. and W.N.
Francis (1987):Computational Analysis of Present-DayAmerican English.
Providence, RhodeIsland: Brown University Press.?
Leech, G. (1993): 100 million words ofEnglish, in: English Today 33: 9-15.?
Marcus, M.P.
and B. Santorini (1991):Building Very Large Natural LanguageCorpora: The Penn Trecbank.
CIS-report: University of Pennsylvania.?
Neumann, R. (1987): Die grammatis-che Erschliessung der Mannheimer Kor-pora.
Mannheim: Institut fuer DeutscheSprache.
Internal report.?
Oostdijk, N. (1991): Corpus Linguisticsand the Automatic Analysis o/' English.Amsterdam: B.odopi.?
Sampson, G. (1992): The Susanne Cor-pus.
E-mail report.?
Sampson, G. (forthcoming): English t'orthe Computer.
Oxford: Oxford Univer-sity Press.?
Santorini, B.
(1991): Part-of-SpeedTagging Guidelines for the Penn Tree-bank Project.
Internal report.?
TE I  (1991): List of Comon Morphologi-cal Features.
TEI document AIIW2.39
