HOW COULD RHETORICAL RELATIONS BEUSED IN MACHINE TRANSLATION?
(AND AT LEAST TWO OPEN QUESTIONS)Ruslan MitkovMachine Translation UnitUniversity of Science Malaysia11800 Penang, MalaysiaFax (60-4) 873335,Email ruslan@cs.usm.myMy position paper addresses more or less Workshop question No.
5: "How arerhetorical relations used in discourse understanding?
How are linguistic lues andword knowledge brought o bear?
"The paper shows how rhetorical relations could be used in Machine Translation(MT).
It introduces in brief, a discourse-oriented approach for MT which usesschemata of rhetorical predicates for describing the structure of a paragraph.
At thesame time, it poses at least two questions (in my opinion practically unsolvedproblems):1) How can rhetorical predicates be computationally recognized?2) Are the so far defined predicates sufficient and precise enough to describe thereal world?INTRODUCTION: DISCOURSE-ORIENTED MACHINE TRANSLATIONThe discourse-oriented MT should be regarded as a very important research topic,since it is expected to make the translation more natural in MT systems.Unfortunately, not much attention has been given to this problem yet and theavailability of a discourse component in a MT system has been reported very brieflyin \[7\] only.Most of the MT systems perform sentence-by-sentence translation.
Only a few try totranslate paragraph-by-paragraph and in these cases, the discourse structure of theoutput language is identical with that of the input language.
However, I have shownthat the discourse structures across the different sublanguages are not always thesame for any pair of natural languages \[5\].Paragraph-by-paragraph machine translation seems to be for now, an unjustifiablycomplicated task for practical needs.
It involves the complete understanding of theparagraph, the determination of discourse topic(s), goals, intentions, so that theoutput can be produced in accordance with the respective discourse rules andpurposes.
However, recognizing topic, goal, intention by a computer program seemsto be a very tough problem.
Moreover, analyzing aparagraph is itself a complicatedtask which does not always yield satisfactory esults.86On the other hand, translating sentence-by-sentence with the sequence of theoriginal sentences preserved is a general approach, which guarantees in most of thecases an understandable output.
However, in order for a translated message to soundas natural as possible, it should be conveyed in accordance with the discourseorganization rules of the target language.
If we examine more closely the work of aprofessional translator, we shall inevitably note that he/she does not always followthe order of sentences in the source text.Taking into account the complexity of paragraph understanding and the necessity ofobserving the specific target sublanguage rules, I have been working on a practicaldiscourse-oriented MT approach (within an English to Malay MT system) whichanalyzes a source paragraph as a schema of rhetorical predicates and generates thetarget ext possibly as another schema of rhetorical predicates.
Towards this end, Ihave developed a Text Organization Framework Grammar which maps sourceparagraph structures of rhetorical predicates into the specific target paragraphstructures of rhetorical predicates \[6\].SELECTION OF TEXT ORGANIZATION APPROACHI have been studying different approaches which have been so far used to describethe organization of a given text (paragraph).
From a practical point of view, I arguethat the most appropriate approach would be the "schemata-based approach"introduced by K. McKeown \[3\] and used by other esearchers.Though some researchers point out the relatively missing flexibility of thisapproach, I found this approach more suitable for the needs of MT.
The plan-basedapproach \[4\] seems to be too complicated and unrealistic to be implemented in anMT system because its rhetorical relations are dependent on an expected effect onthe hearer achieved by their combination.
In a MT system, as already mentioned, itis very hard, if practically not possible, to recognize automatically in a paragraph thegoals and intentions of the speaker.SUBLANGUAGES AND SCHEMATAIn the sublanguages I tudied, however, I found out that the schemata of rhetoricalpredicates could not be always uniquely defined.
There are sublanguages wheremore than one typical schema should be defined and consequently used.
I examinednumerous texts on which basis I defined "stable schemata".
The schemata S 1, $2 ....SN can be considered "stable" if 1) SI/N~5, VI and 2) ESI/N'~y where N is thenumber of all examined texts, 5, '1' are numbers in the interval (0,1) which we call"individual contribution minimum" and "global contribution minimum"respectively.
The idea behind these mathematics is that schemata can be consideredas "stable" if they as a whole represent a significant portion of all examined textsand yet every "stable" schema should be itself representative.For translation from English into Malay, if more than one stable schema is availablein the respective sublanguage, the stable schema, which is closest o the input ofEnglish text is chosen.
For determining closeness, special metrics has beendeveloped which takes into account not only the number of displaced predicates,but also the size of the displacement and the maximal length of matched substfingsfrom the input and output schemata of rhetorical predicates.We have studied the discourse structure of a few sublanguages (for both English andMalay), potential candidates for translation domains in our MT system: the87sublanguages of job vacancies, residential properties for sale, cars for sale andeducation advertisements from different newspapers in English and Malay.From our investigations on these sublanguages we have drawn three mainconclusions:1) The stable schemata for English and Malay are not always identical and do notoccur equally frequent2) For some sublanguages there are more than one stable schema3) For some sublanguages there xists no stable schemaThese conclusions are important for MT because in the third case there is no needfor discourse transition rules and the translation should be undertaken sentence-by-sentence.THE BIG PROBLEM: IDENTIFICATION OF RHETORICAL PREDICATESDuring the analysis, rhetorical predicates hould be recognized.
In certainsublanguages this can be done by means of key words and other clues \[5\].
However,in general this seems to be a very complicated problem and extensive worldknowledge and inferencing mechanisms are needed.
How could a programrecognize a sentence (proposition) as amplification, attributive, etc.
rhetoricalpredicate?
For our sublanguage-based MT needs, I am considering two approachesfor the identification ofrhetorical predicates.One approach would be to define "verb frameworks" characteristic of a verb withinthe sublanguage.
Each verb should be associated with possible rhetorical predicatesand the predicate should be identified on the basis of the logical structure of theanalysis.
However, this approach may not be powerful enough in certain cases.Consider the sample text from \[2\] describing Kyushu Daigaku (Kyushu University):"A national, coeducational university inthe city of Fukuoka.
Founded in 1910 as KyushuImperial University.
It maintains faculties of letters, education, law, economics, science,medicine, dentistry, pharmacology, engineering, and agriculture.
Research institutes includethe following: the Research Institute ofBalneothempeutics, the Research Institute of AppliedMechanics, the Research Institute of Industry and labor, and the Research Institute ofIndustrial Science.
Enrollment was 9,425 in 1980".It will be quite difficult, however, using only verb framework, to recognize the first,the third, fourth and the last sentence as rhetorical predicates.
An useful approach inthis case would be to use a domain knowledge which would enable the recognitionof the rhetorical predicate after a semantic analysis.
For instance a propositiondescribing entities which are in 'sub-part' relation should be classified as aconstituency predicate.
This 'sub-part' relation could be easily recognized, providedit has been already described in the domain knowledge base.
Consider again thesample text under the assumption that such a knowledge base exists.
In this case,from the 'is-a' relation ("Kyushu Daigaku"- "University"), from the respective 'sub-part relations' ("university"-"faculty", "research centre") and the 'has' relation("university" -"enrollment of students"), the program could assign to the abovesentences identification (1. sentence), constituency (3., 4. sentences) and attributive(last sentence) predicates, respectively.Consider, however, the second sentence.
Is it "amplification"?
If yes, how is theprogram supposed to conclude that this sentence is an elaboration of the first one?How feasible is in general the computational recognition of the rhetorical88predicates?
And here comes an important question: how much domain and worldknowledge, as well as AI inferencing techniques, are needed?And if yes, does not it seem that "amplification" is not fine and precise enough (Ican give many examples of propositions to which the rhetorical predicate"amplification" is to be assigned, because they simply do not fit the def'mition of therest of the predicates)?
Should not one introduce an additional predicate called e.g.
"initiation" which would be associated with the act of founding, setting up, opening,organizing etc.
something?
This gives a rise to a second important question.
Is theset of rhetorical predicates given in \[1\], \[3\], \[8\] or \[9\] sufficient and precise noughto describe the real word?
But if we propose additional predicates, how far shouldwe go?REFERENCES\[1\] Grimes J.
- The thread of discourse.
Mouton, The Hague, 1975\[2\] Kodansha Encyclopedia of Japan, Vol.4, Kodansha Ltd., Tokyo, 1983\[3\] McKeown K. - Text generation: using discourse strategies and focus constraintsto generate natural language text.
Cambridge University Press, 1985\[4\] Mann W., Thompson S. - Rhetorical structure theory: description andconstruction of text structures.
In Kempen G.
(Ed.
): "Natural languagegeneration: ew results in artificial intelligence, psychology and linguistics",Dodrecht, Boston, 1987\[5\] Mitkov R. - Multilingual generation of public weather forecasts, Proceedings ofthe SPICIS'92 (Singapore International Conference on Intelligent Systems)Conference, 28 September-1 October 1992, Singapore\[6\] Mitkov R. - Discourse-based approach in machine translation From Proceedingsof the International Symposium on Natural Language Understanding andArtificial Intelligence, Fukuoka, Japan, 13-15 July, 1992\[7\] Nirenburg S. - A distributed generation system for Machine Translation:Background, Design, Architecture and Knowledge Structures, CMU-CMT-87-102, Pittsburg, 1987\[8\] Shepherd H. - The fine art of writing.
Macmillan Co., New York, 1926\[9\] Williams W. - Composition and rhetoric.
D.C. Heath and Co., Boston, 198389
