INTENTIONALITY IN A TOPICAL APPROACH OFDISCOURSE STRUCTURE 1Jan van KuppeveltUniversity of  Nijmegen - Department of  Philosophy(e-mail: JVKUPPEV@ KUNRC1.URC.KUN.NL )Position paperThe alternative to be outlined provides a proposal to solve a central problem in research ondiscourse structure and discourse coherence, namely, as pointed out by many authors, that of therelationship between linguistic and intentional structure, or, in other words, between subject matterand presentational relations (Mann and Thompson 1988) or informational nd intentional relations(Moore and Pollack 1992).
As is argued for in Van Kuppevelt (1993), this alternative not onlyimplies uniformity on the structural levels involved, i.e.
the linguistic and intentional level, but alsoon the level of attentional states (Grosz and Sidner 1986).
2 The latter is ruled by the dynamics oftopic constitution and topic termination, determining which discourse units are in focus of attentionduring the development of the discourse.
3 We will see that both linguistic relations and intentionsare defined in a uniform way by topic-forming questions in discourse, thereby automaticallysatisfying the need for a multi-level analysis as is argued for in Moore and Paris (1992), and as issignalled by Dale (this volume), avoiding differences in discourse segmentation between RSTanalyses and intentional pproaches.The central hypothesis underlying this alternative is that the structural coherence in discourse isgoverned by the discourse-internal process of questioning, consisting of the contextual induction ofexplicit and/or implicit opic-forming questions.
This process gives rise to the phenomenon that theorganization of discourse segments (as well as the associated isomorphic structure of intentions)agrees with the internal topic-comment structure, and that in the following specific way: (i) everydiscourse unit u(D)Tp has associated with it a topic Tp (or, a discourse topic DTp) which isprovided by the (set of) topic-forming question(s) Qp that UTp has answered, and (ii), the relationbetween discourse units u(D) Ti is determined by the relation between the topic-forming questionsQi answered by these discourse units u(D)Ti.
4Topics are thus context-dependently characterized in terms of questions arising from thepreceding discourse.
As is elaborated upon in Van Kuppevelt (1991/92) every contextually inducedexplicit .
.
.
.
or implicit (sub)question Qp that .
.
.
.
.
.
is answered in discourse constitutes a (sub)topic Tp.
Tpts that which ts questioned; an undetermined set of (possibly non-existent) discourse ntitles (or aset of ordered n-tuples of such entities in the case of an n-fold question) which needs further1 The research for this position paper has been made possible by a fellowship from the Royal NetherlandsAcademy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW).2 See especially Sidner (this volume), nodng that ile general term discourse structure relations is ambiguousbetween i tentional, ttenfional and linguistic relations.3 We will left out here a discussion about he essential function of topic ("focus") in th?
production ofcoherentdiscourse.4 So the uniform approach in terms of topic-forming questions differs from, e.g., Hovy (1990) and Lascafides,Asher and Oberlander (1992), where topic ("focus") information is considered to be supplementary to discourserdadons.136specification.
Comment Ca is provided by the answer Ap.
It specifies the entities asked for.
If thecomment-value (that may-not be specific enough, whibh might be the case when specifying aproperty of the topic entities instead of enumerating them) is satisfactory for the addressee, Tp.iSclosed off and loses its actuality in the discourse.
Example (1) gives a brief illustration of this topic-comment characterization.
(1)Q1A1A: Yesterday some notorious people have been arrested.B: Who have been arrested?A: Some members of the mob have been arrested.Topic TI defined by question Q1 is the (still) undetermined set of persons that have been arrested atthe given time/place.
Comment C1 to this topic is provided by answer A1.
Actually, the comment-value it provides does not enumerate he persons asked for but specifies a property which restrictsthe set of possible answers to Q1.The process of questioning which is responsible for the assumed structural relations indiscourse involves three main functional parameters: feeders, topic-constituting questions andsubtopic-constituting subquestions.
A feeder FI is a linguistic or non-linguistic event whosefunction is to initiate the process of questioning in discourse or to re-initiate this process if no morequestions are induced as the result of the preceding context and the discourse participants want tocontinue the conversation.
An example of a feeder is the opening sentence in (1).By definition, every explicit or implicit question Qp which is directly asked as the result of afeeder functions as a topic-constituting question.
An example is the explicit question Q1 in (1).Apart from the fact that such a question introduces a main, leading topic in the discourse, a so-called program is associated with it implying that the development of the discourse is controlled orrestricted by the question.
This program consists of the specific task, to be carried out by thespeaker (writer), to provide an answer to the question which is satisfactory for the addressee.
In acoherent discourse which answers one leading question such a program stretches over the wholediscourse which means that the answering process comprises everal stages.
It will be arguedfurther on that it are precisely these programs which fulfil a crucial function on the intentional level.In all those cases where the answer to a question is not realized at once, the implied answeringprocess is necessarily mediated by subquestioning: if a topic-constituting question is answeredunsatisfactorily this gives, in a recursive way, rise to the contextual induction of subquestions untilthe original question has been answered satisfactorily.
In other words, subquestions aresubservient to the program associated with a preceding topic-constituting question in which thcyfulfil a completion function.
5 Examples of subquestions are the implicit subquestions <Q2> and<Q3> in the following example, answered by speaker A (angled brackets indicate the implicitcharacter of a question).
(2) F1 A:QI B:A1 A:<Q2>A2<Q3>A3The opposition has a plan to end the State budget shortage.What does this plan mean?The plan's centrepiece is legislation ordering the Governor to cutdrastically in most areas of state government.How much will be cut?As much as 18 percent will be cut.Which areas will be excluded?Welfare for single mothers and children, and for the aged, blind anddisabled will be excluded.Apart from topics and subtopics a topic of a higher order must be assumed as well in order toaccount for coherence on all structural levels.
It is defined in terms of the topics constituted by main5 The notion of subquesfioning outlined here captures both task-oriented subdialogues and clarification andcorrection subdialogues (see Litman and Allen 1990 on this point), this in a uniform way.137questions and is called a discourse topic.
The assumption of discourse topics accounts for the factthat the overall structure of discourse may be discontinuous, due to radical shifts in main subjects.By definition, a discourse topic DTt is the set of all topics Tp (usually hierarchically comprisinglower-order subtopics) that are constituted as the result of one and the same feeder Fi (DTi = {TplTp arisen from Fi}).
Topic and discourse topic coincide if as the result of a feeder only one topic isconstituted ({Tp}:=Tp).
For the discourse in (2) this means that DT1 = T1.As for discourse gtructure, itobtains that it can be divided into coherent units in agreement withthe topic hierarchy just outlined.
The segmentation structure of (2) according to this topic hierarchyis thus as follows:(2)' uDTi\[F1 uTi\[QI A1 uT2\[<Q2 > A2\] uT3\[<Q2 > A3\]\]\]O DT1 represents he discourse unit for which discourse topic DT1 is defined.
The flat structureshows that this discourse unit consists of feeder F1 and the discourse unit uT1 for which topic T1is defined.
The latter encompasses two direct subunits, UT2 and U T3, for each of which a subtopicis defined.Fundamental to the approach outlined is that relations on the linguistic level, differentlyrepresented and accounted for as what is called coherence relations (Hobbs 1979), schemata(McKeown 1985) and RST relations (Mann and Thompson 1988), are constituted by explicit orimplicit (sub)topic-forming questions relating every new sentence (or discourse unit larger than asingle sentence) to the preceding discourse and providing it a (subordinate) topic.
The approachpresupposes a notion of implicit questions implying that the questions answered by a speaker oftenremain implicit, especially in monologues but also very frequently in dialogues.
Apart from thedifferent language specific devices that help to identify these questions (word order, intonation,particles, surface structures like pseudo-cleft s ructures, etc.
), they have the great advantage that thediscourse relations they constitute can be identified in a direct way, e.g.
with the help of the givenaccent distribution.
Implicit questions are characterized asquestions which the speaker anticipatesto have arisen with the addressee on interpreting preceding utterances or a non-linguistic eventoccurring in the communicative context.
As such, they imply discourse production to be addressee-oriented, involving, among other things, speaker's beliefs about the addressee's knowledge ofbackground and situation.As for the relation with intentionality, the communicative goals associated with linguisticallyrelated iscourse units are expressed by programs ("tasks") associated with main, topic-constitutingquestions.
In a coherent discourse that forms an answer to a topic-constituting question such anintention is expressed by the program imposed on the development of the whole discourse.
Wealready indicated that subquestions fulfil a specific ompletion function in the factual realization ofsuch programs.
Actually, the intention is the result of a program if carried out adequately, namelythe desired effects which a satisfactory answer to the question brings about on the hearer'sknowledge state implying a change in the mutual belief of speaker and hearer.
Let's considerexample (3) for a brief illustration.
(3) FI A: Tomorrow I will visit Harry.QI Where does he live?A1 B: He lives in Amsterdam ....The communicative goal, expressed by the program associated with question QI, is to achieve aspecification of the place where Harry lives.
Obviously, it must specify this place to an extentcompatible with the context hat gave rise to Q1, namely in such a way that speaker A is able toidentify the place in question.The presented uniform account of relations and intentions i  in agreement with the assumedfunctional differences between them.
As argued for by Hovy (this volume) intentions governcontent ("what is to be said") and relations the expression of a content ("how the material is to be138expressed in the language itself").
This agrees with our account in the following way.
The programassociated with a main question determines what has to be said such that the discourse comes to asatisfactory end, while the question itself governs how this content is expressed.
For instance, thesame content can be expressed differently depending on the question that is answered.
However, asmay be clear from the foregoing, we disagree with Hovy that intentions and relations differ in theirrange of specifying discourse structure.
Both relations and intentions define coherence on the localand global evel, this in agreement with the topic-comment structure of discourse.Apart from the above mentioned, our approach accounts, in a systematic way, for the problemof appropriate r sponses to "follow-up questions", as signalled by Moore and Paris (1992) andMoore and Pollack (1992).
The problem is that, among other things, the spewer (system), in orderto answer effectively to these questions, needs a record of the intentions underlying precedingutterances that gave rise to these questions.
In our system these questions are analyzed assubquestions which must be interpreted in the context of the intention associated with the mainquestion answered by the preceding utterances.
A necessary condition for an answer to be anappropriate r sponse to a follow-up question is that it must be complementary with respect to theincomplete answer given to the main question, thereby satisfying the intention associated with thatquestion.
However, contrary to what the authors uggest, we do not need a record of the intentionsof all preceding utterances but only of those that are still actual in discourse.
This process iscaptured by a principle implying that a question and the associated intention iscontinued as long assubquestions of that question, indicating that the original question has not yet been answeredsatisfactorily, occur in the discourse.ReferencesDale, R.
(1993).
"Rhetoric and Intentions in Discourse."
This volume.Grosz, B.J.
and Sidner, C.L.
(1986).
"Attention, Intentions and the Structure of Discourse.
"Computational Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Hobbs, J.R. (1979).
"Coherence and Coreference."
Cognitive Science, 3, 67-90.Hovy, E. (1990).
"Unresolved Issues in Paragraph Planning."
In Current Research in NaturalLanguage Generation, edited by R. Dale, C. Mellish, and M. Zock.
Academic Press.Hovy, E. (1993).
"On the Relationship between I tentions and Structural Relations in Discourse.
"This volume.Lascafides, A., Asher, N. and Oberlander, J.
(1992).
"Inferring Discourse Relations in Context.
"In Proceedings of the 29th Annual Meeting of the ACL, 55-63.Litman, D.J.
and Allen, J.F.
(1990).
"Discourse Processing and Commonsense Plans."
InIntentions in Communication, edited by P.R.
Cohen, J. Morgan and M. Pollack, 365-388.MIT Press.Mann, W.C. and Thompson, S.A. (1988).
"Rhetorical Structure Theory: Toward a FunctionalTheory of Text Organization."
Text, 8, 243-281.McKeown, K.R.
(1985).
Text Generation: Using Discourse Strategies and Focus Constraints loGenerate Natural Language Text.
Cambridge University Press.Moore, J.D.
and Paris, C.L.
(1992).
"Planning Text for Advisory Dialogues: Capturing Intentionaland Rhetorical Information."
Technical Report 92-22, University of Pittsburgh, Department ofComputer Science, Pittsburgh, PA.Sidner, C.L.
(1993).
"On Discourse Relations, Rhetorical Relations and Rhetoric."
This volume.Van Kuppevelt, J.
(1991).
Topic en Comment: Expliciete n Impliciete Vraagstelling inDiscourse.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Nijmegen.Van Kuppevelt, J.
(1992).
"Discourse Structure, Topicality and Questioning."
Submitted.Van Kuppevelt, J.
(1993).
"About a Uniform Notion of S- and D-topics."
To appear inProceedings of the Conference on Functional Description of Language, Charles University,Prague, November 1992.139
