Structuring Two-Medium Dialogfor Learning Language and Other ThingsHenry HamburgerGeorge Mason University; Fairfax, VA, USADan TuftsResearch Institute for Informatics; Bucharest, RomaniaRaza HashimBridgewater College; Bridgewater, VA, USAOVERVIEW: Naturalistic two-medium communication with a computational system, using bothlanguage and interactive graphics (Cohen, 1991; Maier, 1993; McKeown, 1993), is an importantpractical complement to studies that involve only language, only graphics and/or only people.Integrative two-medium work should build on insights and findings in the one-medium disciplinesof graphical manipulative interfaces (e.g., Hutchins et al, 1986; Sullivan and Tyler, 1991) andnatural language discourse (e.g., Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Litman and Allen, 1987; Hovy, 1988;Lambert and Carberry, 1991; Paris, 1991).In addition to its general use with a variety of systems, two-medium communication provides anessential foundation for a pedagogically important form of foreign language l arning experience(Hamburger and Hashim, 1992).
Specifically, it permits a supportive dialog practice system fornaturalistic acquisition of various language aspects, by combining discourse constraints withindependently comprehensible situational contexts.
By factoring out and gaining control of thetypes of dialog interactions, the various ituational nd object viewpoints, the choice of domain andthe intradomain events, we are attempting toprovide the tools for a workable tutorial strategy, onethat will resolve the competing requirements of conversational continuity and appropriate languagechallenge (Hamburger and Maney, 1991).
Finally, to indicate the potentially broader applicabilityof this approach, we sketch the implementation f two-medium communication for learningenvironments with non-language subject matter (Hashim and Hamburger, 1993).Our second-generation c versational foreign language tutor, FLUENT-2, takes a generative(recombinative) approach to dialog management.
We thereby dramatically enhance the linguisticrange of the tutor over the earlier, less flexible FLUENT- 1, yet continue to impose conversationalcontinuity on the tightly integrated linguistic and spatial communication between student and tutor.The keys to this approach are dialog schemas built from interaction types and situation viewpointsthat relate to the objects, states, actions and plan structures of the microworlds that underlie theconversation.
The NLP (Felshin, 1993), graphics, microworlds and tutorial reasoning are all inMCL2 Common Lisp with CLOS on a Mac-Ilfx with 20M main memory.
Dialog structuring workdone in Prolog (Hashim and Hamburger, 1992) is being adapted by recoding and use of a Prolog-in-Lisp interpreter (Norvig, 1992).INTERACTION TYPES FOR DIALOG SCHEMAS: The simplest interaction typesconsist of one linguistic or spatial move by the student or tutor and then one by the other of them.We have identified nine pedagogically useful types for language learning, listed below, eachinvolving language use in one or both of its two moves.
The names, initially a convenientshorthand for the tutor's role, evoke motivationally useful tutor personality raits (Murray, 1987;1992); in each specification, S = student and T = tutor:271.
Tourguide2.
Commander3.
Narrator4.
Celebrity5.
Quizmaster6.
Movecaster7.
Oracle8.
Servant9.
InterpreterT acts and comments; S acknowledgesT makes acommand; S executes itT says something; S enacts itT acts; S tells about itT asks a question; S answers itS acts; T describes itS asks a question; T answers itS makes acommand; T executes itS says something; T enacts itMore complex types are needed for language rrors and communication repair.
The dialogschemas composed from these interaction types will differ depending on whether the student is tolearn language or the subject matter of the microworld.
Examples for the language case appear inHashim and Hamburger (1992).Interaction types work jointly with domain-level p ans in the determination f the student'sintentions.
The plans place expectations onthe sequence ofactions and their esulting states, whilethe interaction types determine which agent is in control of the visual channel.
Recognition ofintentions leads in turn to the possibility of detecting the student's misunderstandings ormisconceptions and repainng them.
Spatial actions are implicitly associated with intentionalstructures, which the tutor may check for congruency with the currently active plan.
For example,picking up an object ypically induces in the observer the belief that the picker intends to use it.When the recognized intentions depart from the expectations, the system planner chooses aperspective (aview, see below) from which to deal with the misfit.
In such a case, the realizationof the tutor's turn may imply rhetorical cts such as drawing attention, arguing, suggesting.The following dialog (typical of FLUENT-1 and of what we are working on generatively inFLUENT-2) uses this effect o detect and correct a misconception:TUTOR:STUDENT:TUTOR:Wash your face.<Picks up a box of detergent>That's the toothpaste.
You can't wash yourface with toothpaste.
Pick up the soap instead.The same rhetorical structunng of the tutor's reply might result from violations of microworldconstraints (Murray, 1987):TUTOR: That's a glass table.
You can't put the box on it.The box is too heavy and the glass would break.From this point of view, this approach presents some similarities with the one taken by Maybury(1993).The presence of the extra, visual medium in a communication system has significant effects on theuse of the language medium, notably in the handling of the discourse phenomenon f referenceidentification, where it may be unnecessary and even infelicitous to include certain information thatis visually available.
Consider this sequence:TUTOR:STUDENT:TUTOR:Pick up the red book.<Picks it up>The table is clear now.Here "the table" identifies the table that the red book was previously on, and which is visible.Suppose that another physically identical table is present, and consider the awkwardness of28unnecessarily distinguishing them with a relative clause, thereby replacing the tutor's last commentwith:TUTOR: The table from which you picked up the red book isclear now.These comments hinge on the visual availability of the relationship between the book and the table,which allows the two tables to be visually distinguished.
If this exchange were to take place bytelephone the conclusions would be different.SITUATION VIEWPOINTS: The situation viewpoints referred to above involve theimportant aspects of the various microworlds: plans, actions and the state of objects.
Plans permitnon-arbitrary choice of action when initiative falls to the tutor, as it does in types 1-5.
Our planexecutor can call for language generation attop level, at the intermediate level of subplans, or at thefine-grained level of individual actions.
Reference to actions can treat hem as independent eventsor in relation to the (sub)plans containing them.
In Movecaster, the student's unconstrained movecan be described as an action or in terms of a resulting state or state change.
The NPs in thesedescriptions can be made sensitive to various aspects of focus and specificity, thanks to the NLPsoftware of the Athena Language Learning Project (Felshin, 1993).We have developed a list of approximately 40 views in eight categories that relate to actions, states,plans, temporality, thematic roles, correction, and, at the level of the noun phrase, referencespecification for individuals and for collectivities.
Various state views of an action, for example,include (i) the new state of the object acted upon, (ii) the fact that (some property of) its precedingstate no longer holds, (iii) an indirect change in a related object (such as a shelf being empty as aresult of an object being picked up), (iv) an unchanged attribute of the object acted on.
The earlierdiscussion of intentions i to be implemented in terms of such correction views.
Two such viewsare (i) action disallowed because of unsatisfied precondition and (ii) some preconditions ok, butconsequence is unwanted.NON-LANGUAGE DOMAIN: We have extended our approach by implementing, in Prolog,a natural interface for a tutoring system in a domain outside of natural language (Hashim andHamburger, 1993).
By a natural interface, we mean one that provides readily grasped conventionsfor interactive graphics along with plan-based natural language xplanations.
We transport theFLUENT techniques toCoinland, atutoring and learning environment for constrained xplorationof problems in arithmetic.
Coinland has a single microworld, one which is somewhat moreabstract than those of FLUENT, both visually and conceptually.
Like the FLUENT microworlds,Coinland represents an everyday situation, one in which coins can be moved around andexchanged for equal value (Hamburger and Lodgher, 1989).
Here, instead of language, thestudent is to learn the domain, but there is still two-medium redundancy tosupport learning.
Weshow how the system tutor can talk about the subtraction problem using a view processingmechanism and some of the views listed above.
In Coinland, as in FLUENT, the familiarity of theobjects and physical actions represented in the microworld, the clarity of the interface, and the useof redundancy ombine to make it possible for the student to pick up new knowledge in an activeand natural way.ACKNOWLEDGEMENT: This work is supported by grant number IRI-9020711 from theNational Science Foundation.29REFERENCESCohen, P. R. (1991) The role of natural language in a multimodal interface.
Technical Note 514.
Menlo Park, CA:SRI International.Feishin (1993) A Guide to the Athena Language Learning Project Natural Language Processing System.
Copyright,Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Grosz, B.J.
and Sidner, C.L.
(1986) Attention, intentions and the structure of discourse.
Computational Linguistics,12, 3, 175-204.Hamburger, H. and Crain, S. (1987) Plans and semantics in human language processing.
Cognitive Science, 11, I,101-136.Hamburger, H. and Hashim, R. (1992) Foreign language tutoring and learning environment.
In Swartz, M. andYazdani, M.
(Eds.)
Intelligent Tutoring Systems for Foreign Language Learning.
New York: Springer-Verlag.Hamburger, H. and Lodgher, L. (1989) Semantically constrained exploration and heuristic guidance.
Machine-Mediated Learning, 3, 81-105.Hamburger, H. and Maney, T. (1991) Twofold continuity in language learning.
Computer-Assisted LanguageLearning, 4, 2, 81-92.Hashim, R. and Hamburger, H. (1992) Discourse style and situation viewpoint for a conversational l nguage tutor.Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer-Assisted Learning.
New York and Berlin: Springer-Verlag.Hashim, R. and Hamburger, H. (1993) Natural interfaces for ITS systems.
Unpubl., George Mason University.Hovy, E.H. (1988) Generating Natural Language under Pragmatic Constraints.
Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Assoc.Hutchins, E.L., Hollan, J.D.
and Norman, D.A.
(1986) Direct manipulation i terfaces.
In D.A.
Norman and S.W.Draper (Eds.)
User-Centered System Design.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Assoc.Lambert, L. and Carberry, S. (1991) A tripartite plan-based model of dialogue.
Proceedings of the 29th AnnualMceting of the Assn for Computational Linguistics, 47-54.Litman, D.J.
and Allen, J.F.
(1987) A plan recognition model for subdialogucs in conversations.
CognitiveScience, 11, 2, 163-200.Maney, T. and Hamburger, H. (1993) Pedagogical and cognitive foundations for an immersive foreign languageenvironment.
Submitted to the 1993 Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.Maier, E.A.
(1993) The representation f interdependencies b tween communicative goals and rhetorical relations inthe framework of multimedia document generation.
In this volume.Maybury, M (1993) On structure and intention.
In this volume.McKeown, K.R.
(1993) Language Generation for Multimedia Explanations.
Vancouver, BC, Canada: Pacific Assn.Computational Linguistics Conference.Murray, J.H.
(1987) Humanists in an institute of technology: How foreign languages are reshaping workstationcomputing at MIT.
Academic Computing.Murray, J.H (1992) Creating scenarios for FLUENT.
MIT.
Consultant report o the FLUENT project.Norvig, P. (1992) Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence Programming: Case Studies in Common Lisp.
San Mateo,CA: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.Paris, C.L.
(1991) The role of the user's domain knowledge in generation.
Computational Intelligence, 7, 2, 71-93.Sullivan, J.W.
and Tyler, S.W.
(1991) Intelligent User Interfaces.
New York: Addison-Wesley.30
