Observat ions  and D i rec t ions  in Text  S t ructureJohn A. Hughes and Kathleen F. McC'oy,University of DelawareNewark, DE 19716hughes@cis.udel.edu, mccoy@cis.udel.edu1 In t roduct ionEarly work in text, structuring, such as \[McK85\] and \[MTSS\] showed tha,t texts of all types andgenres seem to be COml)osed of a small mHnl)er of simple, intuitive units, wl.riously referred to asrhetorical relations and rhetorical predicates.
These two bodies of work dii\[hred in whether theseunits were best viewed as the bricks or the mortar of text structure, hut in either case a small setof primitives eemed to suffice for all texts.McKeown showed how a text generation system can make use of these sorts of primitivesto produce coherent, informative texts.
However, not: long after that, it became obvious thatMcKeown's chematized 1)lock-sta.cking apl~roach to generation compiled out too much informationabout a speaker's intentional goals in choosing the blocks s/he did, and that more of this informationshould he recorded in the process of text structuring to a.llow for such niceties as flexibility in?
auswering follow up questions or requests for elaboration.
Following this l'ea.sonillg, \[MS91\] insteadutilized the more "mortar-centered" al)I)roach of RST for text gener:L, tion.2 Text  S t ructure  Pr imi t ives :  A Tool  or Side-Effect?However, there is even more to the information-hiding nature of McKeown's schemas thanjust intentional stl'll(:tHl'e, which primitive-lmsod text StL'uCttlL'illg a.l~l~roat:lms se.enl to suflk~r front ingeneral.
They all seem to hide certain "l~sychologicld" yuaniics which ull(hJubtedly underlie ahnostall human linguistic interaction.
For example, it is l)ossible that McKeown's schema for definingan object might be derivahle from more general principles of intbl'mation processing: Definitionstend to hegin with an identification to give tile hearer a default set: of attributes in one fell swoop,then follow that with a shorter list of specific attributes to override those inherited.
But eventhis al)proach might not be best schematized, as the following text seems to serve quite well as adefinition:Q: "What's a kumquat?
"A: "It's like a teeny little orange, but really sour.
"This represents yet another technique, not relying upon inherita.nce but on the hearer's worhlknowledge, to convey a great amount of attributive inibrmation with very few resources.
As McK-eown's schelnas were only arrived a,t through a. process of text.
a.lialysis, we know nothing aboutexactly what lnight make a 1)articular schema.l.ize(I l~resent~l.t.iou of ill\['ortHation effective at anygiven tilne, or how to choose between schema.tic texts if more t.ha.n oite is possil)le.
No doubtcertain hearers might prefer many examples, or perhaps a pa.rticula.r concept lends itself" very wellto analogy, but at present we have no (leep understa.llding a.sto wha.t would iadicate that examplesor analogies are usefid.Further, a reasonable analysis of an existing text can confiate, confuse or obscure the actualprocesses that went: into composing it with other f;tctors only secondary to the cohesiveness of thetext.
As Moore & Pollack point out in \[MP92\], there can be non-isomorphic relations between textspans on different dimensions; we add that it is therefore unclear which of these relations contrihutemost to the coherence of tile text.
It is possible that some relations are really si(le-effects of others.In Moore & Pollack's example,40"Come home by 5:00.
Then we can go to the hardware store bel'~)re i1 close~.
'|'hal w:~.we can finish the bookshelves l.cnfight.
'"there is a right-branching tree of Motivation relations, as well as a left- bra.uchiHg tree of ComlitiolLrelations both structuring this text.
However, the Motivation relations seem to be suflici(~nt tostructure this text, for probably the most likely way to motivate someone to do an act is to showhow some desirable state of affairs is conditional on that act (and in fa.ct, this is exactly one type ofplan operator Moore & Swartout's genera,tion system would use).
In this ca.se, the "informa.tional"relations eem directly del)endent on the intuitively more ceJltra.1 "ln'(~seld.a, tional" ones.
This seemsto suggest hat the mere th.ct that relations al)l)ea.r in text after text in the ;~ua.lysis tage does notimply that those relations are the most useful tools to plan with.In fact, this last point seems to I)e an essential one to explore.
Both McKeown and Ma,nn &Thompson found regularities in the texts they analyzed, and used these regularities to characterizecoherent exts.
But his characterization can only serve as a first a.1)l)roxinta.tion.
Perhal)s they'veshown that coherent texts have RST trees or fit certain schemas, but it's clearly not the casethat schematized texts or ones with R,ST trees are necessarily well-tormed, even if they obey someadditional constraints (e.g., focusing).8 Choos ing  Appropr ia te  Instant iat ionsIn tim same way that no theory we know of can guide a search among possil)le rhetoricalstrategies (Analogy, Identification, etc) as to their effects on the hearer and apl)ropriateness, thecontent of individual relations and 1)redicates are underspecified to such a.u extent that given arich enough knowledge base, a single well-formed rhetorical skeletoll could be incarnated with anyamount of suboptimal or inapl)ropriate intbrmation making for an ineffective or incoherent text.To illustrate, imagine that one's task is to generate an explanation of the important socialfactors leading up to and resulting from the American C, ivil Wa.r.
\]n describing the circumstancesof the start of the war, there are many attitudes, events, a.nd characteristics of the mid-1800'swe could choose from to achieve setting up the circumsta.nces.
Among thell l ,  we know aboutthe tensions between the industrialized North and the agricultural South, institutionalized racism,perhaps something M)out the attitudes of the people at the time towa.rds their country and theirfifestyles, and many others.
But a. rich knowledge base also contains a lot of il~formation less usefulgiven our task; the opening up of the Orient to trade with the West, in stitu tionalized (liscrinfinationagainst women, a.nd perhal)s something al)out style of (h'ess or what a typical day was like on ;i.South Carolina plantation.
All of these serve as providing circumstalltia,l information, and givena perfect text fi'om a history book which makes use of some circumstantial intbrmation along thelines of the first set above, it's quite likely one could find information equally circumstantial longthe lines of the second set, focussing on the very sa.me notions (econonfics, prejudicial attitudes, orsome aspect of human interest), 1)ut whose use would have iml)aired the logical flow of the text.Similarly, in giving Background information about Abrahant Lincoht, s(mm information such a,shis attitudes towards state's rights an(l secession, and perhal)s his legendary morality and honesty,nmst be sifted out of a rich knowletlg(~ base at the expense of other ill\[(1)l'lll;i.1;ioll a.I)out his mol(~, hisbeard, his childhood, or his clinical del)ressions, though a.ll are construed as Attributive relationswhich focus on Lincoln and in some sense give the rea.der Backgrouu(I iulbrma.tion about Lincoln.Such a problem seems to involve ca.lcula.ting relewl.nce, which h~.s not r(~ceived much attentionas it relates to formal text structure d(wices like schemas or RST tree co\]istru(:tion.
An interestingquestion, however, is how clearly releva.nce selection can be divorced fl'om formal structuring.
Thereis no inherent irrelevance in any information contained in a knowledge I)ase.
(riven dif\[k~rent grossorganizations and aims of the text, like a tale of the (',ivil War as gothic rom;i.zlce, boo l) skirts andoppression of women might be mentioua.ble within the sa,me text as desc.ril)t,i(nis of Southern political41rage, and in writing a humanistic 1)sychological treatise one caai expound at length on Lincoln'smelancholy and similar attributes where very (litl~rent attributes were menti(med in the sociologicaltext.
It seems that all these difl'erent ypes of texts share the property that the skeleton of rhetoricalrelations are fleshed out with information which is in some way linked to a. I)a.sic I)a,ckl)one or kernelof iuformation which organizes the text - the "gist" of the text.
If the gist of the text is to givea sequential historica.l account of a War, tiffs backl)one might consist of sequential Causes andEil~cts, with events and l)layers introduced as they figure in events mentioned, and elaboratedwith information which is related not simply in one way to tile inmledia.te context, forming a tree,but l)erhal)S to several t)arts of tile l~ackl)one, forming a gra.l~h.
Thus ill a. text which aims at aspecifically sociological account of the war, hoo l) skirts and Lincohl's mole, though associated inthe knowledge base to aspects of the Civil War, (Io not relate i~k any iHterestilhg way to other piecesof information in the gist of the tale and doil't warra.llt melLtioll, while his ~l.ttitudes as a, l~oliticiannot only characterize him as personal a.ttril)utes but also might serve ;is I~oinll,('rs to why he behaw~das he did or wily events untblded as they did.4 Where  To Go From HereThe rhetorical relations and predicates l)roposed in the literature, then, are l)robal)ly bestviewed as approximations to i)e analyzed at a (leeper level.
It seems that the recurring patternsof relations and l)redicates that text ana.lysis revea.ls are best viewed a.s common linguistic, goa.1-satisfaction techniques -.
techniques for enha.ncing understanding, l)romisillg directions for flltureresearch in that field would then be a.long several ines: Discerning the uHderlyillg principles thatmake rhetoric~d techniques no usefifl, (liscerning the dynamic, situa.tiollal phenomena which licensethe use of these techniques, and discerning what sorts of iJlti)rmatioJ~ best ca.rries out the work ofthe techniques in any given text.For the first tack, we would need to consi(ler the effectiveness and efficiency of the varioustechniques.
While the systems of Moore & Swartout \[Moo89, Msgl\] aa~d Maybury \[May92\] tryto incorporate rhetorical techniques into an intentional, goal-orieHted framework, they \]lave notshown how one technique should be chosen above the other when 1)(~th axe l~ossil)le.
Maybury doesnot address tlle issue at all.
Moore ~% Swa,rtout list: selection;i,l heuristi('s which preti:r operatorsthat lnake the least demands on the hea,rer ,  but this very tr;i,IlSi);i,l'(,llt ilSe O\[" the user ll|odel ixnot sufficient to make tile most effective ('hoices.
For exa.ml)\]e, in (h,scrihinlg a. missing person1,o a police officer, the literature suggests uch varied options a.s ('(}liq}are/conti'ast, a.ttributivedescriptions, analogic~d escriptions, description 1)y 1)arts and SUbl}arts, and so on.
The mosteffective options in that situation are probal)ly the attril)utive ("lie's 5'1 l", 1901bs, brown hair,gray eyes, pale") and compare/contrast (lescriptions ("He's abotlt your build but a. little shorter"),but to decide this requires ome understanding of the priucil)les (l~erha.I)S l)sychological or cognitive)which underlie the identity of each of the techniques.
Efficiez~cy coltsitlera.tions a.lso come into play.In the current scenario, given a choice between the two most efl'ective techniques, we might prefera compare/contrast description technique if a good candida.te for COml}arison is available.
Therationale might be that comparison to an entity tra.nsmits ahnost all of that entity's attributeswith a single invocation, and the contrast allows quick overriding of a few salient attril)utes.The second tack, discerning the dynamics of communication which license the use of thesepredicates and relations, is intimately related to the first, for the communic~l,tiorl situation providesthe impetus for sea,rching for a technique in the first place.
The "missing person" scenario abovecreates several interacting needs and desires on the parts of the l)a.rticil)altts.
The relation ofrhetorical techniques to these goals needs to I)e more ffillly ibcusse(l on.
Similarly, the situationestM)lishes a perspective on what is to 1)e sa.id; since the police will wa.nt to look for the missingperson, his physical attributes are highlightetl by the situa.tiolL, givi~Jg the impulse and facility for42creating an attributive description or a comparative descriptioa highlighti.g physical ba.tures.
Inan another example, fl'om Ma.nn & Tlmmpsoll,"What if you're having to clean flOl)l)y drive heads too often?
Ask lbr Sylkcom diskettes,with burnished Ectype coating a.nd dust-absorbing jacket liners..."the overall relation seems to be one of Solutionhood.
However, this relation in and of itself does notreflect the persuasive nature of the text.
It does however eflect more general princil)les of what areader desires fl'om a product (a solution), how to attract he interest of a. rea.tler (pose a questions/he will want an answer to), and so Oil.
A cursory glance through magazine :l.dvertisements showsan unusually large numher of ads structured this wa.y, and with very good rea.son.And in following the third tack, determining appropriate context, it's useful to consider a,wider range of texts than seems to have been considered beibre.
We chose here to think abouthistoricM narratives to illustrate how a very rich knowledge base might conibu nd selection of relevantinformation, but at the same time suggest a richer model of cohereHce I)a.sed on more than justrecursive, nested constituents.
Typical domains in which text structure is studied axe task-orientedin nature or are based on knowledge hases rich in isa-links but litth, else.
To get at a morefundamental understantling of what fa.ctors influence text structure, olw shonl(l look a.cmss m;ulydifferent ext types and seek points of similarity.
For exa.mple, is there a conJwction between theway a well-drawn comparison 1)rovides an etficient classiiica.tion of a.n item in the hearer's COml~lexknowledge base anti the way a well-chosen sel, of ha.ckground inibrlua.tion lm)vi(les support andexplanation for the complex information to come?
.In the end, the inventory of techniques a genera, tion systenl dra.ws Up(:)ll will need to he indexal)leby these interpersonal dynamics.
They will also need to I)e chara.cterizalfle in ternls which facil-itate constructing effective, efficient ext.
These COl~sidera.titms seem to (h,m;i.nd a,n examina.tionof rhetorical structures in terms of the mental states of the conversa.tion pa.rtners, their perspec-tives and wants, and also perhal~s in terms of the mental structures of the conversa, tion pa.rtners,exploiting how they process analogies, sinfiles, and classilications.
In sum, we need to disassemblethe information compiled into rhetorical relations a.nd predicates.References\[May92\] Mark Mayhury.
Colmnunit:ative a.cts for exl)lana.tion gelmr:l.titm.of Mau-Machiuc Studio.G, 37, 1992.\[McK85\]\[Moo89\]IMP92\]\[MS91\]\[MTSS\]hdcruational .\]ourn.alK.R.
McKeown.
l)iscoursc stra.tegies for genera.ting natural-la.llgmtge t xt.
ArtiJici,lIntelligence, 27( 1 ):1-41, 19X5.Johanna D. Moore.
A Reactive: Approach to Exldanation.
l)hl ) thesis, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, 1989.Johanna Moore and Martha Polla.ck.
A l)roblem tbl' rst: The n(,(,(I \[or multi-level discourseanalysis.
(Computational Liuguistic.s .- Squib, 18(4), Deceml)er l!)!
)2.Johanna D. Moore and William R.. Swartout.
A reactive a.l~lmmch to exl)la.nation: Ta.k-ing the user's feedback into accomlt.
In (~ecile Paris, William Swartout, and WilliamMann, editors, Natural Laug'uagc Gcncraliou iu Artificial lutt:llig,'uc~' and ComlnttatioualLinguistics.
Kluwer Academic Puhlishers, llkJst(:m, 1991.W.
(',.
Mann and S. A. Thcn.l)SOn.
Rhvt~)ric;d structuw the,.y: 'l~)wa, rd a, l'unctiona,\]theory of text organization.
7~:xt, ~, 198S.43
