CATEGORIZ ING AND STANDARDIZ ING PROPER NOUNSFOR EFFICIENT INFORMATION RETRIEVALWoojin Paik 1, Elizabeth D. Liddy 1, Edmund Yu 2, Mary McKenna 1!
School of Inf(rmation StudiesSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY 13244{ wjpaik,fiddy,memckenn } @mailbex.syr.edu2 College of Engineering and Computer ScienceSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY 13244esyu@mailbox.syr.eduAbstractIn this paper, we describe the most recentimplementation and evaluation of the proper nouncategorization and standardization module of the DR-LINK document detection system being developed atSyracuse University, under the auspices of ARPA'sTIPSTER program.
We also discuss the expansion ofgroup common nouns and group proper nouns toenhance retrieval recall.
Successful proper nounboundary identification within the part of speech taggeris essential for successful categorization.
The propernoun classification module is designed to assign acategory code to each proper noun entity, using 30categories generated from corpus analysis.Standardization f variant proper nouns occurs at threelevels of processing.
Expansion of group proper nounsand group common nouns is performed on queries.Standardization and categorization is performed onqueries and documents.
DR-LINK's overall precisionfor proper noun categorization was 93%, based on 589proper nouns occurring in the evaluation set.1.
IntroductionIn information retrieval, proper nouns, group propernouns, and group common nouns present uniqueproblems.
Proper nouns are recognized as an imp(xlantsource of information for detecting relevant documentsin information retrieval and extracting contents from atext (Ran, 1991).
Yet most of the unknown words intexts which degrade the performance ofnatural languageprocessing information retrieval systems are propernouns.
Group proper nouns (e.g., Middle East) andgroup common ouns (e.g., third world) will not matchon their constituents unless the group entity ismentioned in the document.
The proper noun processorherein described is a module in the DR-LINK system(Liddy et at, in press) for document detection beingdeveloped under the auspices of ARPA's TIPSTERprogram.Our approach to solving the group common oun andthe group proper noun problem has been to expand theappropriate rms in a query, such as 'third world,' to allpossible names and variants of third world entities.
Forall proper nouns, our system assigns categories from aproper noun classification scheme to every proper nounin both documents and queries to permit proper nounmatching at the category level.
Category matching ismore efficient than keyword matching if the queryrequires entities of a particular type.
Standardizationprovides a means of efficiently categorizing andretrieving documents containing variant forms of aproper noun.2.
Proper Noun BoundaryI dent i f i ca t ionIn our most recent implementation, which has improvedfrom our initial attempt (Paik et at, in press),documents are first processed using a probabilistic partof speech tagger (Meeter et al 1991).
Then a propernoun boundary identifier utilizes proper noun part ofspeech tags from the previous tage to bracket adjacentproper nouns.
Additionally, heuristics developedthrough corpus analysis are applied to bracket propernoun phrases with embedded conjunctions andprepositions as one unit.
For example, a list of proper154nouns will be bracketed with non-adjacent proper nouns,if 'of is an embedded preposition.
Some examples ofpreceding proper nouns include Council, Ministry,Secretary, University, etc.The success of ratio of our proper noun boundaryidentification module is approximately 96% incomparison to our initial system's 95% (Paik et ai, inpress).
This improvement was achieved by the re-ordering of the data flow.
A general-purpose phrasebracketter, which was applied before the proper nounboundary identification heuristics for non-adjacentproper nouns, is now applied to texts after all the propernoun categorization a d standardization steps.
Thus, wehave eliminated one major source of error, which is theconflict between the general-purpose noun phrasebracketter and the proper noun boundary identificationheuristics.
For example, embedded prepositions in aproper noun phrase are sometimes recognized as thebeginnings of prepositional phrases by the general-purpose phrase bracketter.
The remaining 3% of error isdue mainly to incorrect proper noun tags assigned to theuncommon first word of a sentence by the part ofspeech tagger.3.
Proper Noun Classification SchemeOur proper noun classification Scheme, which wasdeveloped through corpus analysis of newspaper texts,is organized as a hierarchy which consists of 9branching nodes and 30 terminal nodes.
Currently, weuse only the terminal nodes to assign categories toproper nouns in texts.
Based on an analysis of 588proper nouns from a set of randomly selected ocumentsfrom Wall Street Journal, we found that our 29meaningful categories correctly accounted for 89% of allproper nouns in texts.
We reserve the last category as amiscellaneous category.
Figure 1 shows a hierarchicalview of our proper noun categorization scheme.The system categorizes all identified proper nouns usingseveral methods.
The first approach is to compare theproper noun with a list of all identified prefixes, infixesand suffixes for possible categorization based on theselexicai clues.
If the system cannot identify a categoryin this stage, the proper noun is passed to an aliasdatabase to determine if the proper noun has an alternatename form.
If this is the case, the proper noun isstandardized and categ~ized atthis point.
If there is nomatch in the alias database, the proper noun moves tothe knowledge-base look up.
These databases have beenconstructed using online lexical resources including theGazetteer, the World Factbase, and the Executive DeskReference.
If the knowledge-base look up is notsuccessful, the proper noun is run through a contexthueristics application developed from corpus analysis,which suggests certain categories of proper nouns.
Forexample, if a proper noun is followed by a comma ndanother proper noun, which has been identified as astate, we will label the proper noun as a city name,e.g., Time, Illinois.
Finally, if the proper noun hasstill not been categorized, it is compared against a listof first names generated from the corpus for a finalpersonal name categorization check.
If the proper nounhas not been categorized atthis stage, it will be labeledwith the 'miscellaneous' category code.For the categorization system to work efficiently,variant erms must be standardized.
This procedure isperformed at three levels, with the prefixes, infixes andsuffixes standardized first.
Next, the proper nouns inalias forms are standardized into the official form whereavailable.
These standardization techniques improve theretrieval performance.
Finally, if a proper noun wasmentioned at least twice in a document, for instance,Analog Devices, Inc. and later as Analog Devices, apartial string match of a proper noun is co-indexed forreference resolution.
This technique allows for a fullrepresentation of a proper noun entity.
Figure 2illustrates the flow of the proper noun categorizationsystem within the t-h-St stages of DR-LINK processing.When standardization a d categorization have beencompleted, a new field is added to both the query and thedocument containing the proper noun and thecorresponding category codes.
These fields are then usedfor efficient matching and representation.4.
Use o f  P roper  Nouns  in Match ingBoth the lexical entry for the proper noun or thecategory code may be used for matching documents oqueries.
For example, if a query is about a boarderincursion, we can limit the potentially relevantdocuments o those documents which contain at leasttwo different country names, flagged by the two countrycategory codes in the proper noun field.
Using thestandardized fern of a proper noun reduces the numberof possible variants which the system would otherwiseneed to search for.While the category matching strategy is useful in manycases, an expansion of a group proper noun such as'European Community', which occurs in a query, tomember country names is also beneficial.
Relevantdocuments for a query about sanctions against Japan byEuropean Community countries are likely to mentionactions against Japan by member countries by name155Geographic Affiliation Organization Human Document Equipment Scientific Temporal Misc.City Religion Company Person Document Software Disease Date Misc.Port Nationality Company Type Title Hardware Drugs TimeAirport Government Machines ChemicalsIsland U.S. Gov.County OrganizationProvinceCountryContinentRegionWaterGeo.
Misc.Figure 1: Proper Noun Categorization Schemerather than the term in the query, EuropeanCommunity.
We are currently using a proper nounexpansion database with 168 expandable nlries forquery processing.
In addition, certain ccmunon ouns ornoun phrases in queries uch as 'socialist countries' needto be expanded to the names of the countries whichsatisfy the definition of the term to improveperformance in detecting relevant documents.
Thesystem consults a list of common nouns and nounphrases which can be expanded into proper nouns andactively searches for these terms during the queryprocessing stage.
Currently, the common nounexpansion database has 37 entries.The creation and use of proper noun information is firstutilized in the DR-LINK system as an addition to thesubject-content based filtering module which uses ascheme of 122 subject field codes (SFCs) from amachine readable dictionary rather than keywords torepresent documents.
Although SFC representation a dmatching provides a very good first level of documentfiltering, not all proper nouns reveal subjectinformation, so the proper noun concepts in texts arenot actually represented in the SFC vectors.In our new implementation, categorized and standardizedproper nouns are combined with Text Structure (Liddyet al in press-b) information for matching queriesagainst documents.
Text Structure is a recognition of adiscernible, predictable schema of texts of a particulartype.
The Text Structurer module in the DR-LINKsystem delineates the discourse-level organization ofdocument content so that processing at later stages canfocus on those components identified by the TextStructurer as being the most likely location in thedocument where the information requested in a query isto be found.All proper nouns in a document collection are indexedin an inverted file with the document accession umber,the Text Structure component in which the proper nounwas located, and the category code.
For processing thequeries for their proper noun requirements, we havedeveloped a Boolean criteria script which determineswhich proper nouns or combinations of proper nounsare needed from certain Text Structure components ineach query.
These requirements are then run against hepropel noun inverted file to rank documents according tothe extent to which they match these requirements.Also, the categorization information of proper nouns iscurrently used in a later module of the system, whichextracts concepts and relations from text to produce amore refined representation.
For example, proper nounsmay reveal the location of a company or the nationalityof an individual.We do not have information retrieval evaluation resultsbased on the new implementation using the proper nouninformation in conjunction with the Text Structureinformation.
However, in previous testing of ourinitial system which did not utilize Text Structureinformation (Paik et al in press), reranking ofdocuments received from the SFC module, based on thedegree of proper noun requirements matching a set ofqueries against a document collection, resulted inplacing all the relevant documents within the top 28%1568157of the document collection.
It should also be noted thatthe precision figures on the output of the SFC moduleplus the proper noun matching module produced veryreasonable precision results (.22 for the ll-pointprecision average), even though the combination ofthese two modules was never intended to function as astand-alone r trieval system.Finally, the proper noun extraction and categorizationmodule, although developed as part of the DR-LINKsystem, could be used to provide improved ocumentrepresentation for any information retrieval system.The standardization a d categorization features permitqueries and documents to be matched with greaterprecision, while the expansion functions of groupproper nouns and group common ouns improve recall.5.
Per fo rmance  Eva luat ionWhile we are currently processing more than onegigabyte of text using the new version of the propernoun categorizer for the TIPSTER 24 month testing,the evaluation of the proper noun categorizer hereinreported is based on 25 randomly selected Wall SlreetJournal documents, which were compared to the propernoun categorzafion done by a human.
This documentset was also used in evaluating our initial version of thecategorizer (Paik et al in press).
Table 1 demonstratesthe performance of the categorizex on 589 proper nounsoccurring in the test set.
In addition to 589 propernouns, 14 common words were incorrectly identified asproper nouns due to errors by the part of speech taggerand typos in the original text; and the boundaries of 11proper nouns were incorrectly recognized due to unusualproper noun phrases such as, 'Virginia Group toAlleviate Smoking in Public', which the proper nounboundary identification heuristics has failed to bracket.64 proper nouns were correctly categorized asmiscellaneous a they did not belong to any of our 29meaningful categories.
This may be considered acoverage problem in our proper noun categorizationscheme, not an error in our categorizer.
Some examplesof the proper nouns belonging to the miscellaneouscategory are: 'Promised Land', 'Mickey Mouse', and'IUD'.
The last row of Table 1 shows the overallprecision of our categorizer based on the proper nounswhich belong to the 29 meaningful categ~ies.In our initial implementation (Palk et al in press),errors in categorizing person and city names accountedfor 68% of the total errors.
To improve performance, weadded a list of common f'LrSt names, which was semi-Total : Total PrecisionCorrect i Incorrect *City 44 0 1.000.83 Port 10 2Province 24 0 1.00Country 67 0 1.00Cont inent  l 0 1.00Region l 7 0.13Geo.
Misc.
0 3 0.00iReligion 2 0 1.00Nationality 33 1 0.97Company 88 12 0.88Government 5 l 0.83U.S.
Gov.
23 5 0.92Organization 13 0 1.00Person 96 9 0.90Title 44 2 0.96Document 3 l 0.75Machine 0 l 0.00Date 27 0 1.00Misc.
64 0 1.00"IUq'AL 545 44 0.93TOTAL-Misc.
481 44 0.92'* Precision =Total # CorrectTotal # Correct + Total # IncorrectTable 1: DR-LINK Proper Noun Categorizer Performanceautomatically extracted from Associated Press and WallStreet Journal corpora, as a special exicon to consultwhen there is no match using all categorizationprocedures.
This addition improved our precision ofcategorizing person names from the initial system's46% to 90%.The errors in categorizing city names, in our initialcategorizer, were mainly due to two problems.
They are:1) The locational source of the news, when mentionedat the beginning of the document, is usually capitalizedin Wall Street Journal.
This special convention of158newspaper texts caused miscategorizing the locationalproper nouns (usually city names) as a miscellaneous;and2) City names which were not in our proper nounknowledge baseThe first problem was handled in our new proper nouncategorizer by moving the locatioual information of thenews story to a new field, '<DATELINE>', andnormalizing capitalization (from all upper case texts tomixed ~se) atthe document preprocessing stage beforethe part of speech tagging.
For example, if a story isabout a company in Dallas then the text will be asbelow:<DOC>DALLAS: American Medical Insurance Inc. said that .... .
.</DOC>After the new preprocessing module is applied, the textwill be as below:<DATELINE> Dallas </DATELINE><DOC>American Medical Insurance Inc. said that .... .
.</DOC>For the second: problem, we incorporated a context rulefor identifying city names to our categorizer.
The rule isthat city names are followed by a country name or aprovince name from the United States and Canadaunless the name is very well known.
For example, 'VanNuys', can now be categorized as a city name as it ispreceded by a valid United States province name.... Van Nuys, Calif....By adding the above new procedures to ourcategorization system as well as some well known citynames wh ich  are not province capitals or heavilypopulated places based on IDA's Gazetteer to our propernoun knowledge base, the precision of categorizing citynames has improved from initial system's 25% to100%.The overall precision of  our new proper nouncategorizer has improved to 93% from 77% based onour initial attempt (Paik et al in press) including propernouns which are correctly categorized as miscellaneous.This significant advancement was achieved by adding afew sensible context heuristics and modification of theknowledge base.
These additions or modifications werebased on the analysis of randomly selected ocuments.We feel the limitations of not manually updating ourproper noun knowledge base for uncommon propernouns when confronted with proper nouns such as'Place de la Reunion' and 'Pacific Northwest'.
Thus, weare currently developing a strategy based on contextclues using locational prepositions as well asappositional phrases to improve categorization ofuncommon proper nouns.Table 2 shows the overall recall figure of our categorizexwhich is affected by the proper noun phrase boundaryidentification errors caused by the general-purposephrase tracketter.WithMiscellaneousCategoryWithoutMiscellaneousCategoryTotal Total Total RecallCorrect \[ncorrec!
Missing *545 44 1!
I o.91481 44 I I  0.90Total # Correct* Recall =Total# ActualTotal # Actual =Total # Correct + Total # Incorrect + Total # MissingTable 2: DR-LINK Categorizer Overall Recall8.
Conc lus ionTo compare our proper noun categorization results tothe evaluation of a system with similar goals in thefiterature, we chose Coates-Stephcns' (1992) result onacquiring enus information of proper nouns to compareour overall precision.
While his approach is to acquireinformation about unknown proper nouns' detailedgenus and differentia description, we consider ourapproach of assigning a category from a classificationscheme of 30 classes to an  unknown proper noungenerally similar in purpose to his acquisition of genusinformation.
However, it should be noted that ourmethod for assigning categories to proper nouns isdifferent from Coates-Stephens' method, as we relymore on built-in knowledge bases while his approachrelies more on context.Based on 100 unseen documents which had 535159unknown proper nouns, FUNES (Coates-Stephens,1992) successfully acquired genus information for 340proper nouns.
Of the 195 proper nouns not acquired, 92were due to the system's parse failure.
Thus, the successratio based on only the proper nouns which wereanalyzed by the system, was 77%.
DR-LINK's propernoun categorizer's overall precision, which is computedwith the same formula, was 93%, including propernouns which were correctly categorized asmiscellaneous.Katoh's (1991) evaluation of his machinetranslationsystem, which was based on translating the 1,000 mostfrequent names in the AP news corpus, successfullyanalyzed 94% of the 1,000 names.
Our precision figureof categorizing person ames was 90%.Finally, the evaluation result from Rau's (1991)company name extractor is compared to the precisionfigure of our company name categorization.
Bothsystems relied heavily on company name suffixes.Rau's result showed 97.5% success ratio of theprogram's extraction of company names that hadcompany name suffixes.
Our system's precision figurewas 88%.
However, it should be noted that our result isbased on all company names, including those which didnot have any clear company name suffixes or prefixes.ReferencesCoates-Stephens, S .
(1992).
The Analysis andAcouisition of Proner Names for Robust TextL~lglTdall~Uilg.
Unpublished octoral dissertation, CityUniversity, London.Katoh, N., Uratani, N., & Aizawa, T. (1991).Processing Proper Nouns in Machine Translation forEnglish News.
Proceedings of the Conference on'Current Issues in Computational Linguistics', Penang,Malaysia.Liddy, E.D., Paik, W., Yu, E.S., & McVearry, K. (Inpress-a).
An overview of DR-LINK and its approach todocument filtering.
Proceedings ofthe Hmnan LangtlageTechnology Workshon.
Princeton, NJ: March 1993.Liddy, E.D., McVearry, K., Paik, W., Yu, E.S., &McKenna, M. (In press-b).
Development,Implementation & Testing of a Discourse Model forNewspaper Texts.
Proceedings ofthe Haman LanguageTechnology Workshoo.
Princeton, NJ: March 1993.Meteer, M., Schwartz, R. & Weischedel, R. (1991).POST: Using probabilities in language processing.Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference onArtificial Intelligence.
Sydney, Australia.Paik, W., Liddy, E.D., Yu, E.S., & McKenna, M. (Inpress).
Interpreting Proper Nouns for InformationRetrieval.
Proceedirlg~ of the Human LanguagfTechnolotw Workshop.
Princeton, NJ: March 1993.Rau L. (1991).
Extracting Company Names from Text.Proceedings of the Seventh Conference on ArtificialIntelfigence Appficafions.
Miami Beach, Florida.160
