Textual Constraints, Rhetorical Relations andCommunicative Intentions in PLANDoc NarrativesKathleen McKeownDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027Karen KukichSoftware Methods Research GroupBellcoreMorristown, NJ 0796()-64381.
I n t roduct ionWhile communicative intention certainly plays a role in language generation, we have fimnd that there is aneed for textual and rhetorical relations as well in our document generation system, PLANDoc.
PLAN-Doc will produce multi-page narratives describing the activities of telephone network planning engineers.These narratives will be read by managers and auditors as well as other planning engineers.Since the reports contain summaries, ometimes deterlnining what infi~rlnation to include and how toorganize it is based solely on textual constraints.
Summaries must be concise and intbrmation can bepacked in using constructions such as ellipsis, conjunction and modificalion.
Thus, textual constraints hatrely on syntactic structure, lexical inlormation, and parallels in thc semantic types of the underlying infor-mation must play a role in organizing a summary.Since the intended audience of the narratives i broad, we often need to determine what information toinclude in the narrative based on general presentational f ctors that aim to improve the clarity of the text.Rhetorical relations are useful for modelling this sort of constraint.There are also cases where it is necessary to comnmnicate he planning engineer's intent in taking aspecific action.
However, we cannot model this computationally since we have no access to intbrmationabout intention.
While we cannot automatically generate information based on intent, we do allow theengineer to enter statements hat describe her reasons fi~r an action.
These user-authored statements canbe interspersed with machine-generated text.In the following sections, we first give some background on the PLANDoc system and the narratives thatwe are aiming to generate.
We Ibllow this with examples that illustrate why different types of constraintsare needed in determining the content and organization of a PLANDoc narrative.
All examples are takenfrom a set of narratives written by an experienced planning engineer tbr actual runs of the underlyingplanning system that PLANDoc is based on.2.
PLANDoc BackgroundCurrently, planning engineers use a powerful software tool, the PLAN system, that helps them derive20-year elief plans optimizing the timing, placement and cost of new fiicilities in a route in the telephonenetwork.
Documentation f relief plans is needed to justify their implied expenditures to managers,auditors, and regulators as well as to provide a record of the engineer's reasoning for future networkstudies.
PLANDoc will generate documentation using a trace of an engineer's interaction with PLAN.Given a model of the current configuration of a route along with lbrecasts of future service demands, theplanning engineer first calls upon PLAN to generate a Base relief plan Ibr the route.
Although the Baseplan is the most economical long-term solution, it generally needs to be refined to account or practicaland intangible factors known to the engineer but unknown to the computer.
For example, the engineermay need to postpone the placement of equipment in a certain CSA (Carrier Serving Area) due to a fixedcap on near-term expenditures, or she may decide to activate DLC (Digital Loop Carrier) equipment inanother CSA because small manholes in that area make the placement of additional copper cables imprac-tical.
For this reason PLAN includes a powerful Interactive Refinement Module that allows the engineerto do 'what-if modeling to explore the effects of various refinements Io the Base plan.
The engineerdraws upon her expertise to determine what refinements otry, olten including some that she lhlly expects78to be sub-optimal, if only for the purpose of proving the point to managers, auditors and regulators.
In theend, some subset of refinements is selected as the final Proposed Relief Plan.3.
PLANDoc  NarrativesWe employed an experienced planning engineer to write sample PLANDoc narratives based on actualPLAN runs.
These manually-written narratives serve as models for our system development.
The open-ing and closing paragraphs ofPLANDoc narratives are summaries of the Base Plan and the final ProposedRelief Plan.
The main body of PLANDoc narratives i a sequence of one-paragraph descriptions of eachrefinement scenario the engineer chooses to include.
In addition to the machine-generated r finementparagraphs, the engineer is given the opportunity to enter a manually-written E gineer's Note for eachrefinement.
The purpose the Engineer's Note is to provide motivation or to describe the reasoning behindthe refinement.
Thus, the main body of the narrative consists of alternating refinement paragraphs andengineering notes.The Engineer's Notes are clearly meant o communicate intentions.
In contrast, we have observed thatsome of our model refinement paragraphs (to be generated automatically): 1) appear to be organized bytextual relations that govern their discourse structure; 2) include sentences that seem to be motivated byrhetorical relations; and 3) include sentences that require access to communicative goals in order to begenerated.
We provide xamples of each.3.1.
Evidence of Textual Constraints in PLANDoc ParagraphsIn the following refinement paragraph, 8 messages have been grouped together based on textual con-stralnts.
Because of the similarity of each individual message and resulting sentence, the messages can becombined using conjunction to produce avery concise sentence.1) This refinement demanded the following changes: denied DLC activations to CSA 2119, 2653, 2755,and 2757; used a cutover strategy of "ALL" for CSA 2605 and 2713; changed the "ALL" DLC system to"idlc96" for CSA 2605; and demanded DLC activation for CSA 2651 in 1994Q 1.In a second summary example shown below, the sentence in italics appears to have been placed in thisposition based on its relation to the previous entences.
In the body of the narrative, the date is usuallyincluded with each separate activation.
To generate a summary like this, PLANDoc would have to notethat it could group a series of activations initially and delay mentioning the date since it can refer back tothem using a phrase such as "All these new activations."
Such a decision can only be opportunisticallybased on similarities between data that can be grouped together and the available of an appropriate meansfor referring back to them.2) The BASE plan for this route called for activating new DLC sites with fiber T-1 support in CSA 2117,CSA 2651, CSA 2105, CSA 2113, CSA 2115, CSA 2703, CSA 2755 and CSA 2757.
DLC activalionswith copper conditioned pairs for T-1 support included CSA 2119, CSA 2653, CSA 2713, CSA 2523 andCSA 2451.
Fiber was activated to CSA 2605.
All these new activations are in tile first 10 years of thestudy.The use of constraints such as these for organizing content, which are opportunistically based on thesurrounding text, seem only remotely related to rhetorical relations and communicative intentions, at least.relative to the following examples.
Such constraints are more textual in nature.3.2.
Evidence of Rhetorical Structure Relations in PLANDoc ParagraphsUnlike the previous examples, ome PLANDoc narrative paragraphs include sentences that appear to bemotivated by rhetorical structure relations.
Examples include the following:3) This refinement demanded that fiber be activated to CSA 2907 in 1996.
This CSA was actiwttedforDLC in 1994Q4 in RUNID 'dlc_2907'.4) This refinement denied activation of CSA 2119 and CSA 2120 (tile 2 DLC sites activated in the BASEplan).795) This refinement demands DLC activation of CSA 2551 in 1996 with 40 pairs cutover from copper toDLC at that time.
CSA 2551 was activated in 1997 in the BASE plan with no cutover.6) Tiffs refinement denied the new DLC activation in the BASEplan of CSA 4704.These paragraphs require intelligent content planning because the italicized sentences refer not to actionsin the current refinement scenario but to actions in some previous cenarios, in the Base plan or input data.Their underlying propositions are not among those passed to the text generator tbr the current refinementparagraph.
Hence, a content planner capable of exploiting factors uch as rhetorical relations is needed inorder to seek out those propositions for inclusion.
We take the rhetorical structure relation underlying allof the above examples to be that of CONTRAST since in each case the italicized sentence xplicitlycontrasts old information with new information.One might surmise that the author had the communicative goal of calling the reader's attention to thecontrast between the actions in the current refinement and previous intbrmation.
However, tbr implemen-tation purposes it seems sufficient ot the content planning module to operate based on the interredrhetorical relation of CONTRAST.3.3.
Evidence of  Communicat ive  Intentions in PLANDoc ParagraphsAlthough intentional relations are evident in the previous examples, it can be characterized as a generalintention that might be attributed to any author.
There is notlfing specific to the individual planning situa-tion that causes the information to be added as in every report he difference between ew refinements andthe base plan must be clear.
Thus, existing rhetorical relations are sufficient o make computational im-plementation possible.
In contrast, the ti~llowing examples embody some intentional relations that arebeyond our capacity to implement.7) This refinement activates CSA 4111 tbr DLC in 1994Q4.
CSA 4111 was activated in 1997 in the BASEphm and 24 gauge cable was placed in section 4109 in 1994Q.ENGR NOTE: This is an attempt to defer/eliminate the coarse gauge cable.
It doesn't.8) This refinement demands the activation of fiber to CSA 2168b in 1996 and to CSA 2115 in 1994Q4.These fiber activations eliminate manhole rebuilds in sections 2111, 2112 and 2115.
Ducts and coarsegauge cable in sections 2165 and 2117 are also eliminated or dt(/erred.
Plus, they get fiber turned up inbusiness areas at a lower cost than serving the DLC on copper.The first example includes both the refinement paragraph and the its accompanying engineering note.
Inboth examples, neither the italicized nor the bold sentences refer to actions in the current refinementscenario, so all would require the eflbrt of an intelligent content planner in order to be included.Note that the italicized sentences in these examples are similar to the ones in the previous examples in thatan intelligent content planner could exploit he rhetorical relation CONTRAST as a basis for their inclu-sion.
The bold sentences are far more problematic n that their only basis Ibr inclusion appears to be acommunicative intention that can only be revealed in an engineering note.
Note also that the communica-tive intention is related to a domain-specific telephone engineering principle.
This principle is specific tothe current planning problem and not to all planning problems.
Unless we can discover and explicitlyrepresent a finite set of such principles, it will not be possible to include such sentences in our machine-generated refinement paragraphs.4.
Conc lus ionIn written reports such as the ones PLANDoc will generate, communicative intent is not sufficient fordetermining the content and organization of the report.
Since the audience is broad and planning scenariosare numerous, we cannot reason about the individual intentions and knowledge of writer and reader indetermining what should go into the report.
Often knowledge about he general kind of information that isneeded is sufficient for determining what to include.
This can be implemented using rhetorical relations.The opportunistic use of constraints based on the surrounding text, possible syntactic structures that can be80used, and available phrasings to determine content is distinct from current echniques Ibr organizing con-tent.
However, this capability seems crucial when summaries are required.ReferencesElhadad, M., FUF: The Universal Unifier - User Manual, Version 5.0, CUCS-038-91, Columbia Univer-sity, 1991.Kukich, K., K. McKeown, J. Lim, J. Phillips and N. Morgan, "User needs analysis and design methodol-ogy for an automated documentation generator", Bellcore Technical Memo submitted to the 2nd AnnualBellcore User-Centered Design Symposium, Bellcore, Piscataway NJ, 1993.Mann, W., and S. Thompson, "Rhetorical Structure Theory: A theory of text organization", TechnicalReport Number ISI/RS-87-190, Intbrmalion Sciences Institute, 1987.McKeown, K. R., Text Generation: Using Discourse Strategies and Focus Constraints to Generate NaturalLanguage Text, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England, 1985.81
