On the Cognitive and Text-Analytic Status of CoherenceRelationsTed SsndersUn ivers i ty  of Ut rechtCenter  for Language and Communicat ionTrans  103512 JK  Ut rechtThe  Nether landsTed .
Sanders?let .
ruu .
n l1.
Coherence  re lat ionsA discourse is more than a random set of sentences, because it is coherent (e.g.
Hobbs, 1990)Discourse coheres -among other things- because coherence relations hold between the segments, orrather between the representation people make of the segments.
A coherence relation is an aspect oftile meaning of two or more discourse segments that cannot be described in terms of tile meaning oftile segments ill isolation.
In other words: it is because of this coherence relation that tile meaningof two discourse segments i more than the sum of tile parts.2.
Two centra l  issues: descr ipt ive  adequacy  and psychological  p lausib i l i tyCoherem:e relations (or similar concepts like discourse structure relations, rhetorical relations, rhetor-ical predicates etc.)
play a key role in interdisciplinary research on discourse.
For example, in textanalysis {Mann & Thompson, 1988) and psychological research on text understanding (e.g.
Meyer,1985; Van Dijk &: Kintsch, 1983) coherence relations occur as descriptive tools to analyze naturaltexts and as important components of text structure that affect text understanding.
Coherencerelations also figure in computational linguistic research, where they are used as a tool to constructor interpret coherent discourse (see e.g.
llovy, 1988, 1990).Ilowevcr, in all three fields there is much discussion about both the exact status of the relations andabout the amount of relations needed.
For example, Mann and Thoml~son present a set.
of 23 or sorelations, without any further ordering.
From a computational point-of-view this has appeared tobe unattractive (llovy, 1990).In my opinion, two issues central to the discussion should be distinguished: 1) the cognitive statusand 2) the text-analytic status of the relations.
The first concerns the psychological plausibility ofcoherence relations: what is their role in the construction of a cognitive representation by writersand readers?
The second concerns descriptive adequacy: their role as a useful tool to describe text114structure.
Both issues are addressed in this paper.3.
Toward a pars imonious theory  of coherence relat ionsFirst, I want to explore the status of coherence relations as cognitive ntities.
Coherence relationsseem a suitable starting point for a theory of discourse structure that aims at describing tile linkbetween the structure of a discourse as a linguistic object and its mental representation.
Sucha theory should at least generate plausible hypotheses on tile role of discourse structure ill tileconstruction of the cognitive representation.
The problem with existing analytic proposals is thatthey do not allow for such hypotheses.
For example, it might be assumed that readers understanda discourse in which clauses are linked by a Claim-Argument relation because notions like Claimand Argument are cognitive primitives.
This is problematic because the lists of relations presentedin the literature are often unorganized and may well be infinite.
Consequently, it is not clear howmany primitives must be assumed - if there is a limit to this number at all.By contrast, l aim at a parsimonious theory of coherence relations.
To that end, we have developeda taxonomy that organizes the set of relations (Sanders, Spooren & Noordman, 1992, 1993).
Arelation like Claim-Argument is taken to be composite: It can be analyzed in terms of a limitedset of cognitive primitives, like causality.
These primitives are taken to be cognitively basic amlapply also to other coherence relations.
It is hypothe- sized that readers use their knowledge ofthese basic concepts to infer the coherence relations.
Therefore, the set of relations is classified interms of four primitives that apply to all relations: Basic Operation (causal or additive), Source ofCoherence (semantic or pragmatic), Polarity (positive or negative), Basic order (basic or non-basic)(see Sanders et.
al.
1992, 1993).In order to test this classification, four experiments were carried out in which sentence pairs con-nected by coherence relations were presented to subjects.
The experimental items were prototypicalexamples of tile relations in the taxonomy.
In two experiments, ubjects categorized experimentalitelns on the basis of the relation connecting the sentence pairs, in a third they labelled the relationsand in a fourth they were asked to connect segments by means of a connective.
In general, the resultsindicate that the 12 classes distinguished in the taxonomy are intuitively plausible and applicableand that the primitives uuderlyiug the taxonomy are psychologically salient.4.
The cognit ive status of coherence relations: their role in text processingDoes any experimental evidence xist for the claim that coherence relations are cognitive ntities?It can be concluded from a review of experimental literature on the relation between text structureand text processing that two findings are relevant: l) different ext structures lead to differences intext understanding and 2) linguistic marking of text structure influences text processing.In an attempt o overcome some of the difficulties found in the overview, a reading experimentwas conducted, in which two aspects of the structure of expository texts were manipulated: Thetype of coherence relation between two segments (Problem-Solution versus List,) and tile linguisticmarking of these relations (implicit w:,rsus explicit) (Sanders, 1992, chapter 4).
R,eading times persetltence were collected, subjects verified statements with regard to the text and they were giw;n afree recall task.
Both factors a.l~peared to influence text processing.
Problem-Solution relations leadto faster processing, better verification and more reproduced information.
Explicit marking of therelations resulted in faster processing, but did not affect verification, nor the amount of reproduced115informatiou.These results show that the processing of a text segment depends on the relation it has with apreceding segment.
Although the results should still be interpreted with some care, they suggestthat the role of the relational marker is restricted to text processing; contrary to the coherencerelation, which is an indissoluble part.
of the representation, the linguistic marking does not affecttile recall of tile information.5.
T im text -ana ly t i c  s tatus  of  coherence re lat ionsllow about the text-analytic status of the relations?
The taxonomy sketched above does not pretendto be a complete descriptive tool for the analysis of discourse structure.
The categorizing principlesconcerned the relation between the segments, and not the meaning of tile segments themselves.However, the classes of relations generated by the taxonomy can be further specified with sevensegment-specific criteria to arrive at a descriptively adequate set such as Mann & Thompson's (1988)(Sanders, 1992, chapter 6).
Examples of these criteria are Volitiouality, Specificity and TemporalOrder.Clearly, not all analytical problems are solved with such a descriptively adequate set.
One crucialissue for further research is the hierarchical structure of discourse (Sanders 1992, chapter 5; Sanders& Van Wijk, in prep.).6.
Coherence  re lat ions and intent ionsIn recent years, accounts of discourse structure have been developed in which the notion of discourseI~urpose or intention is pivotal.
A good example is the work of Grosz & Sidner (1986), who presenttheir account as antagonistic to the coherence relation approach as advocated in tiffs paper.
Inmy view, it is fat' more attractive to view such a discourse intention approach as compatil~le witha.
coherence relation approach.
Such a synthesis would account for several major weaknesses ofthe discourse intention approach: 1) it does not lead to a descriptively adequate analysis, 2) it ispsychologically inlplausible and 3) it has hardly any explanatory power.The integration of discourse purpose and coherence relations ill one theory of discourse representationwould contribute to the solution of these problems.
One interesting starting point would be thecorrelation between classes of coherence relations and different discourse types / purposes.
Forinstance, the difference between semantic and pragmatic relations correlates with expository andargumentative discourse, of which the purposes can be formulated as to inform and to persuaderespectively (Brewer, 1980).
Van de Vijfeyke (1992) shows that expository discourse is characterizedby a relatively high number and a more dominant position of semantic vs. pragmatic relations,whereas pragmatic relations occur more and in more dominant places in advertisements.This type of concrete analytic and empirical work is needed for an augmented theory of discoursestructure and coherence.
The viability of such a synthesis is underscored by recent developmentsin the area of Natural Language Generation, in which Discourse purposes ('goal hierarchies') arecombined with (an organized set of) coherence relations ('discourse structure relations') in order toarrive at a text planner (ltovy, Lavid, Maier, Mittal & Paris, 1992).ReferencesBrewer, W.F.
(1980).
Literary theory, rhetoric, and stylistics: Implications for psychology.
In R.J.116Spiro, B.C.
Bruce, & W.F.
Brewer (eds.).
Theoretical issues ill reading comprehension.
(221-239).Hilisdale, N J: Erlbaum.Dijk, T.A.
van, & Kintsch, W. (1983).
Strategies of discourse comprehension.
New York: AcademicPress.Grosz, B.J., & Sidner, C.L.
(1986).
Atteution, intentions and tile structure of discourse.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Hobbs, J.R. (1990).
Literature and cognition.
Menlo Park, CA: CSLI.Hovy, E.It.
(1988).
Planning coherent multisentential text.
Proceedings of 26th ACL Conference.
(170-176).Hovy, E.H. (1990).
Parsimonious and profligate approaches to the question of discourse structurerelations.
Proceedings of the 5th international workshop on Natural Language Generation.llovy, E.II., Lavid, J., Maier, E., Mittal, V., & Paris, C. (1992).
Employing knowledge resourcesin a new text planner architecture.
In R. Dale, E. llovy, D. Rosner, & O.
Stock (eds.).
Aspects ofautomated Natural Language Generation.
(56-72).
Berlin: Springer.Mann, W.C., & Thompson, S.A. (1988).
Rhetorical Structure Theory: Toward a fimctional theoryof text organization.
Text, 8, 243-281.Meyer, B.J.F.
(1985).
Prose analysis: purposes, procedures and problems.
In B.K.
Britton & J.B.Black (eds.
), Understanding expository text.
A theoretical and practical Imndbook for analyzingexplanatory text.
Hillsdale, N J: Erlbaunl, 11-62.Redeker, G. (forthcoming).
Components of discourse structure.Sanders, T.J.M.
(1992).
Discourse structure and coherence.
Aspects of a cognitive theory of dis-course representation.
Unl)ublished Doctoral dissertation, Tilburg University.Sanders, T.J.M., SI)ooren, W.P.M., & Noordlnan, L.G.M.
(1992).
Toward a taxonomy of coherencerelations.
Discourse Processes, 15, 1-35.Sanders, T.J.M., Spooreu, W.t).M., & Noordmaa, I .G.M.
(1993).
Coherence relat.ioas in a cognitivetheory of discourse representation.
C.ognitive Linguistics.Sanders, T. & Wijk, C. van (in prep.)
A procedure for the structural analysis of explanatory texts.Vijfeyke, P. van de (1992).
Ontbrekende schakels.
Een onderzoek naar de samenhang tussencoherentie-relaties en teksttypen.
\[Missing links.
An investigation of the relationship between co-herence relations and text types.\].
Unpublished Master's thesis, Tilburg University.117
