Rhetorical Relations in Instructional Text GenerationKeith Vander LindenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of ColoradoBoulder, CO 80309-0430emaih l inden@cs.colorado.eduMay 31, 1993The IMAGENE project has studied the expression of actions in the context of instructionaltext generation.
The approach employs a rather traditional interpretation f Rhetorical StructureTheory (RST) (Mann and Thompson, 1989), using it both as a descriptive tool and as a constructivetool (Mann and Thompson, 1987).
No explicit representation f and reasoning about intentionswas employed.
In this light, the project can serve as a data point in the broader discussion of theuse of rhetorical relations and of their interaction with intentions.This contribution will begin with a brief overview of the IMAGENE project 1, focusing on thenature of the use of RST in the project and, in particular, on the procedural basis of the inventoryof rhetorical relations employed.
It will conclude with a discussion of the precise characteristicsof the project hat appear to have warranted the lack of specific oncern with Intentions.The  Use  o f  Re la t ionsIn the IMACENE project, instructional text is taken to refer exclusively to written, procedural direc-tions prescribing the performance some sequence of actions to the reader.
This type of text canbe seen as the expression of a set of actions bearing procedural relationships with one another.
Inthis light, two tasks that an instructional text generator must perform are, first, to choose, for eachaction expression, the rhetorical relation it will hold with the other actions that best conveys theirprocedural relationships, and, secondly, to choose the precise grammatical form that will signalthis rhetorical relation.It is tempting to address these two tasks at an intuitive level, identifying both the rhetoricalstatus and the grammatical form that appear to most effectively express various types of actionsand their relations.
The problem with this approach isthat it is unclear how accurate our intuitionsin this matter are.
As an alternative, the IMACENE project was based on a detailed function toform study of a corpus of instructional texts, currently made up of approximately 1000 clausesof instructional text (6000 words) taken from manuals and instructions concerning a variety ofdevices and processes, taken from 17 different sources 2.This corpus is represented in a relationaldatabase representing the rhetorical and grammatical spects of the text.The corpus was analyzed and RST structures were built for all of the text.
This analysis ofrhetorical status made use of three nucleus-satellite relations: Purpose, Precondition, Result, andI More  detail can be found elsewhere (Vander Linden, 1993a; Vander Linden, 1993b).2This is in interesting contrast to the form to function study performed by Knott and Dale (1992).140(1) Instruct~ ~ $e uence  (2) Remove ~ q(3) Grasp.
(4) Pull(5) Return (6) PlaceFigure 1: The RST Analysis for the Example.Instruct-Action Remove-Action Place-ActionAction-Tylx~ Instruct Action-Tyix~ Remove Action-Type: Place-CaUActor.
Phone Actor.
Hearer Actor: HearerActee: Hearer Actee: Phone Actee: CallmGrasp-Action Pull-ActionAction-Type: Grasp Action-Type: PullActor.
Hearer Actor.
HearerActee: Handset Actee: HandsetReturn-ActionAction-Type: ReturnActor.
HearerDestination: SeatFigure 2: The Procedural Relations for the Example.two joint schemas: Sequence and Concurrent.
The Purpose relation and the Sequence schemaare taken directly from the RST specification.
The Precondition and Result relations are simpleamalgams of Circumstance and Condition, and Volitional and Non-Volitional Result respectively.The Concurrent schema is a simple extension of the Sequence schema.As an example, consider the following passage from a telephone instruction manual:\[1\] When instructed (approx.
10 sec.)
\[2\] remove phone \[3\] by firmly grasping top ofhandset \[4\] and pulling out.
\[5\] Return to seat \[6\] to place calls.The RST analysis for this text is shown in Figure 1.
The procedural relationships that lie behindthe expressions in this passage are shown in Figure 2.This set of relations and schemas, which has proven effective in analyzing instructional text,is based on the notions of hierarchical nd non-linear plans and the use of preconditions andpostconditions in automated planners 3.During descriptive analysis, Purpose is identified with theexpression of what is called the generation relationship (Goldman, 1970).
Precondition and Result3See Mellish and Evans (1988) for a discussion of the these issues are they relate to text generation.141are identified with the expression of actions as pre or post-conditions for other actions.
Sequenceschemas are identified with the expression of sequential ctions and, similarly, Concurrent schemaswith the expression of concurrency.Given this coding of the rhetorical status of action expressions, coupled with the coding ofthe grammatical form of the expressions, a functional analysis was performed which identifiedsystematic co-variation between functions and forms in the corpus.
It turned out that a set ofapproximately 70 features of the communicative environment--  in terms of Systemic-FunctionalLinguistics, elements of the ideational, textual, and interpersonal metafunctions (Halliday, 1985)were sufficient to produce abroad analytical coverage of the rhetorical status and grammaticalforms used in the corpus.
These features were then coded in a single system network whichformed the basis of the constructive use of RST within the IMACENE instructional text generationsystem.Where Intentions Fit InGiven that Moore and Pollack's (1992) examples of the need for simultaneous representation frelations and intentions are so compelling, there must some explanation of why the IMAGENEproject was successful within the orthodox RST tradition.
This concluding section will suggesttwo characteristics of the IMACENE study that appear to have been instrumental in this regard anddiscuss their implications for the appropriate roles of relations and intentions.The first characteristic of the IMACENE project was its focus on local rhetorical relations inwritten instructional text in English.
There are a number of sub-issues related to this focus ofconcern, all of which tend to lend themselves toa traditional RST approach:Written rather than interactive discourse D A number of studies in the context of interactivediscourse have emphasized the need for separate representation f intentions (Fox, 1988;Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Moore and Paris, 1989).
This mechanism allows the system to dealwith, for example, conversational repair, an issue which is not prevalent in written text.Instructional text rather than other genres - -  Instructional text does not tend to make use of thedeep and multi-faceted intentions that are common in argumentative and persuasive text(such as was the case in the "Come home by 5:00" example cited by Moore and Pollack).Instructional texts tend to be more straight forward expressions ofactions and the proceduralrelations among them.
In fact, the definition of the instructional genre itself makes referenceto the single fundamental intention of expressing a procedure in an effective way (termedthe "deep" intention by Delin et al (1993)), an intention which has manifested itself in anumber of standardized, omain-specific forms of expression commonly used by technicalwriters (termed Domain Communication K owledge by Kittredge t al.
(1991)).Local rather than global relations - -  Not only did the IMACENE project specifically address in-structional text, but it has exclusively addressed the use of local rhetorical relations.
Quiteoften the difficulty observed with RST analyses has been at higher levels.The second, and perhaps most significant characteristic of the IMAGENE project is its focus onthe problems of rhetorical status election and grammatical form selection.
No attempt was madeto address the issue of content selection, indeed the corpus-based methodology employed wouldnot provide a completely satisfying basis on which to address this issue.
IMAGENE takes as inputa process tructure, such as the one shown in Figure 2, and does very little reasoning concerning142what to say (aside from pruning the process tree structure in some cases).
This issue of contentselection appears to be a crucial contribution of intentions.ReferencesDelin, J., Scott, D., and Hartle~ T. (1993).
Knowledge, intention, rhetoric: Levels of variation inmultilingual instructions.
In this volume.Fox, B.
A.
(1988).
Robust learning environments: The issue of canned text.
Technical Report 88-5,Institute of Cognitive Science, The University of Colorado.Goldman, A. I.
(1970).
A Theory of Human Action.
Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.Grosz, B. J. and Sidner, C. L. (1986).
Attention, intentions, and the structure of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 12(3).Halliday, M. A. K. (1985).
An Introduction to Functional Grammar.
Edward Arnold, London.Kittredge, R., Korelsky, T., and Rambow, O.
(1991).
On the need for domain communicationknowledge.
Computational Intelligence, 7(4):305--314.Knott, A. and Dale, R. (1992).
Using linguistic phenomena to motivate a set of rhetorical rela-tions.
Technical Report HCRC/RP-39, Human Communication Research Centre, Universityof Edinburgh.Mann, W. C. and Thompson, S. A.
(1987).
Rhetorical structure theory: Description and constructionof text structures.
In Kempen, G., editor, Natural Language Generation: New Results in ArtificialIntelligence, Psychology, and Linguistics.
NATO Scientific Affairs Division, Martinus Nijhoff.Mann, W. C. and Thompson, S. A.
(1989).
Rhetorical structure theory: A theory of text organization.In Polanyi, L., editor, The Structure of Discourse.
Ablex, Norwood, NJ.
To appear, currentlyavailable as ISI tech.
report ISI/RS-87-190.MeUish, C. (1988).
Natural anguage generation from plans.
In Zock, M. and Sabah, G., editors,Advances in Natural Language Generation An Interdisciplinary Prespective, volume 1, chapter 7.Ablex.
Selected readings from the 1st European NLG Workshop, the Abbaye de Rouaumont,1987.Moore, J. D. and Paris, C. L. (1989).
Planning text for advisory dialogues.
In Proceedings ofthe 27thAnnual Meeting of Association for Computational Linguistics, 26-29 June, vancouver, B.C.
Alsoavailable as ISI tech.
report ISI/RR-89-236.Moore, J. D. and Pollack, M. E. (1992).
A problem for RST: The need for multi-level discourseanalysis.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537-544.
Squibs and Discussions.Vander Linden, K. (1993a).
Generating effective instructions.
In Proceedings ofthe Fifteenth AnnualConference ofthe Cognitive Science Society, June 18-21, Boulder, CO. To appear.Vander Linden, K. (1993b).
Speaking of Actions: Choosing Rhetorical Status and Grammatical Form inInstructional Text Generation.
PhD thesis, University of Colorado.143
