Rhetoric as KnowledgeOwen Rambow*University of Pennsylvania and CoGenTex, Inc.A proper assessment of the relation between discourse structure and speaker's communicative inten-tions requires a better understanding of communicative intentions.
This contribution proposes thatthere is a crucial difference between intending the hearer to entertain a certain belief (or desire, orintention), and intending to affect the strength with which the hearer entertains the belief (or desire,or intention).
Rhetoric, if defined as a body of knowledge about how discourse structure affects thestrength with which a discourse participant entertains beliefs, desires, and intentions, can be seento play a precise and crucial role in the planning of discourse.1 Communicat ive  In tent ionsIt is commonly assumed that in engaging in communication, tile speaker 1 (S) has a specific com-municative intention.
Communicative intentions relate to that domain that the use of language canaffect, namely the mental state of the hearer (H), i.e., H's beliefs, desires, and intentions.
Of course,S may have other intentions that relate to tile world at large (such as to get H to open a window),but these are not properly speaking eonnnunicative intentions: they can only be achieved by use oflanguage if language first produces ome appropriate change in H's mental states.In discussing the ways in which S's use of language can affect H's mental states, it is importantto make a distinction between the fact that H is entertaining a belief, desire, or intention, and thedegree or strength with which it is entertained.
This distinction has not always been made in thetext generation literature; presumably, this is because for the types of texts whose generation hasbeen studied, namely reports, documentation, and manuals of various kinds, this distinction is notrelevant.
This is because these texts (weather eports, military reports, instruction manuals, and soon) are "authoritative text.s": if the text makes H entertain a certain belief or intention, then H willdo so with a sufficient strength to satisfy S's communicative goals.I claim that the interesting aspects of rhetorical relations (or "rhetoric" for short), and the interstingrole that rhetoric can play in discourse generation, have not been studied because the types of textanalyzed and generated have been one-sided in significant respects.
For the sake of concreteness, letus assume the following definition:*Department of CIS, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PA 19104. ramb0u@unagi.cis.upenn.edu.
Thiswork was partially supported by the following grants: ARO DAAL 03-89-C-0031; DARPA N00014-90-J-1863; NSFll~I 90-16592; and Ben Franklin 91S.3078C-I.!
I use the terminology fi'om spoken language; these remarks apply equally well to written language.102Rhetor ic  is S's knowledge of how text structure manipulates tile strength of beliefs,desires, and intentions already entertained by H.In order to argue that this definition makes ense, I will discuss three questions: is rhetoric necessary,is it trivial, and is it useful?2 Is Rhetoric Necessary?More precisely, I will discuss whether S must necessarily have access to rhetoric in order to com-nmnicate ffectively.
S can only affect H's mental state through the use of a text (the sequence ofutterances which constitute an act of communication), which means that it is in the act of decodingthe text that H is affected.
Thus S's goal is that H be affected by the text.
In order to achieve thisgoal, S nmst know about the process of decoding that I1 will use, otherwise S carmot purposefully uselanguage.
Does text structure contribute to affecting H?
Consider the following discourses (utteredin a context where S knows that H does not like paying taxes under any circumstance).
(1) Vote for Bush.
Clinton will raise taxes.
Bush will not raise taxes.
(2) Clinton will raise taxes.
Vote for Bush.
Bush will not raise taxes.
(2) is arguably less convincing than (1) since tile the two sentences about tim candidates' attitudetowards taxation are not juxtaposed, thus depriving them of their contra.stive force.
Since textstructure participates in affecting H, then S must have knowledge about tile mechanism; i.e., S musthave access to rhetoric.3 Is Rhetoric Trivial?It has often been observed that many of tile definitions of rhetorical relations are tautologous.Consider, for example, RST's definition of EVIDENCE \[Mann and TholnpSOlL 1987, p.10\].
'Nuc'refers to the nucleus, that for which evidence is being contributed, and 'Sat' refers to the satellite,tile evidence.
Nuc and Sat, are assumed to be juxtaposed.relation name:constraints on N:constraints on S:constraints on theN+S combination:the effect:EVIDENCEH might not believe Nuc to a degree satisfactory to SThe reader believes Sat or will find Sat credible.H's eonlprehending Sat increases H's belief of NucII's belief of Nuc is increasedTile effect is a mere restatement, of the constraint on tile combination of Nuc and Sat - the definitionof the relation does not seem to be very informative.
But consider a possible discourse relationCOUNTER-EVIDENCE:103relation name:constraints on N:constraints on S:constraints on theNTS combination:the effect:COUNTER-EVIDENCEH might believe Nuc more strongly than S intends H toThe reader believes Sat or will find Sat credible.It's COlnprehending Sat decreases H's belief of NucIt's belief of Nuc is decreasedThe definition of COUNTER-EVIDENCE is entirely similar to (and as tautologous as) that of EV-IDENCE, but it does not yield a coherent discourse.
Consider the following, uttered in the samecontext as (1) and (2) above:(3) Clinton will lower taxes.
No democratic president has ever lowered taxes.There is no coherent reading for (3) under which S wants to decrease H's belief in the first sentence.In order to achieve this effect, S needs to explicitly negate the first clause, which results in anEVIDENCE relation.
(4) Clinton will not lower taxes.
No democratic president has ever lowered taxes.Thus, the contribution of rhetoric lies in detailing what sort of effects (on It's beliefs, desire, andintentions) mere juxtaposition can achieve.
The fact that not all possible effects can be achievedwithout explicit lexical and syntactic means is what makes rhetoric an important body of knowledgein discourse processing.4 Is Rhetor i c  Usefu l?More specifically, can rhetoric be used in discourse planning?
From what has been said, it wouldfollow that rhetoric is essential in discourse planning, since without rhetoric, S would have noknowledge of the effects of the discourse structure on H. But can rhetoric, as defined here, in factbe used for discourse planning?
Text planning architectures using knowledge about the relationshipbetween communicative intentions and the juxtaposition of discourse segments have been developedat ISI \[Hovy, 1988\].
1 conjecture that tiffs type of architecture is well suited for planning texts (orthose aspects of texts) that manipulate the strength with which H entertains beliefs, desires, andintentions.
Such a plalmer would require a more sophisticated representation f mental states:1.
A logic of desire and a logic of intentions are required.
Tile logic of desire would most likelyhe a modal logic; the logic of intentions wouhl, presmnably, require a representation f action.2.
For beliefs, desires, and intentious, the strength with which they are entertained must also berepresented.
Strength can be represented by discrete indications of quality, as has been doneby \[Walker, 1993\] in conversational models.Ideal applications of such a planner would include texts whose primary goal is to increase H's desireto perform a certain action, such as advertising texts of tile types given above.
Furthermore, dialog104planning is more likely to yield interesting instances of the use of rhetoric, since in monologic genresthe modeling of the strength of H's beliefs, desires, and intentions must remain conjectural, while indialogic genres, H's feedback can contribute to S's assessment of H's mental state.Rhetoric is not useful for texts whose goal is mainly or exclusively to convey information, and forwhich H is assumed to stroTtgly believe any proposition the text makes H entertain.
This is typicallythe case for reports, including those generated by the original ISI planner.
The use of a rhetoric-based top-down planner for planning such texts cannot be successful \[Kittredge et al, 1991\], sincehere the decomposition f the communicative goal nmst refer to the domain structure, and thereforeis too unconstrained to be handled by a domain-independent body of knowledge.5 Types of Intentions, Types of Relations, Types of TextsThe distinction that has been made throughout this paper, between making H entertain a be-lief, desire, or intention, and increasing the strength with which it is entertained, corresponds tothe one between intentional/presentational and informational/subject matter relations made by\[Mann and Thompson, 1987\], and recently discussed by \[Moore and Pollack, 1992\].
Rhetoric relatesto the intentional level - note that the effect of RST's presentational relations are all formulatedin terms of increasing the strength of some aspect of H's mental state, while the subject matterrelations all have the effect of making H entertain ("recognize") new beliefs.
Texts that do not havea meaningful intentional level, such as reports, cannot be planned using a rhetoric-based planner.Texts that only have an intentional level of structure, such as (1) above, are ideally suited for suchplanners.
However, as Moore and Pollack argue, many texts simultaneously have both types ofstructure.
For such texts, new planning architectures must be found.
They will require a betterunderstanding of comlnunicative goals along the lines argued for in this paper.References\[Hovy, 1988\] ltovy, E. H. (1988).
Planning coherent multisentential text.
Ill 261.h Meeting of lheAssocialiou for Compulalional Liuguislics (ACL '88), pages 163-169, Buffalo.
ACL.\[Kittredge et al, 1991\] Kittredge, R., Korelsky, T., and Rainbow, O.
(1991).
On the need for domaincommunication k owledge.
Compulational Intelligence, 7(4).\[Maim and Thompson, 1987\] Mmm, W. C. and ThonH~son, S. A.
(1987).
Rhetorical Structure The-ory: A theory of text organization.
Technical Report ISI/RS-87-190, ISI.\[Moore and Pollack, 1992\] Moore, J. D. and Pollack, M. E. (1992).
A problem for RST: The needfor multi-level discourse analysis.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4).\[Walker, 1993\] Walker, M. (1993).
lnfornaation and deliberation i  discourse.
In this volume.105
