Towards an Account of Causation ina Multilingual Text GenerationSystemLiesbeth Degand*Catholic University of LouvamPSP/EXCOVoie du Roman Pays, 201348 Louvain-la-Neuve, B lgiume-mail: degand@exco.ucl.ac.beAbstract: Causation is a very pervasivephenomenom in natural language which can beexpressed by numerous linguistic alternatives.Any language user or natural languagegeneration system is thus confronted with the.problem of choosing one alternative overanother.
In this paper, I analyze the semanticconstraints determining the selection of analyticcausatives in Dutch and how this can beaccounted for in a systemic functionalgeneration system.Keywords: Multilingual Text Generation,Systexiaic Functional Linguistics, Analyticcausatives, Dutch.1.
IntroductionCausation 1 has been a topic of linguisticinvestigation for many years.
I believe two mainreasons underly this interest of linguists in thephenomenon: (i) causative constructions build a goodproving ground for many questions of theoreticalinterest (Herschensohn 1981), and (ii) causation canbe expressed in natural language by numerouslinguistic alternatives.
Altenberg (1984) has in factidentified nearly one hundred possible explicit linksfor encoding a causal relation between twopropositions.
Any language user is thus confrontedwith the problem of choosing one alternative overanother.
But, how is this choice constrained?
Whydoes a language user choose one link over another?This same question arises in natural language* Research assistant at the National Fund forScientific Research, Belgium.1 In this paper, we will distinguish thelinguistic term "causation" from the scientific notionof "causality" in the physical world.
"For the latter,the totality of phenomena constitutes a causalcontinuum of which any conceptually delimitedportion, an "event", is understood as relating causallyoutside itself and containing causal relations within"(Talmy 1976:47).
In contrast, causation designates arelation that is interpreted by the speaker as being arelation between a cause and an effect, cf.
definitionbelow.108generation, where it is crucial that the rules to select aspecific linguistic structure be made explicit.
Textgeneration is a process in which meaning -represented as non-linguistic knowledge at a higherlevel of abstraction than wordings - is organised andre-expressed over a number of steps so that it can bepresented as worded units.
So, in 9rder to use andgenerate the different possible causative constructionsproperly, we have to know what their underlyingmeaning is.In accordance with the 'one meaning, oneform' principle advocated by linguists working in asemiotic approach (e.g.
Bolinger 1968; Wierzbicka1988; Halliday 1978), I assume that all these differentcausative constructions have their specific meaningsand functions - different semantics being encoded indifferent lexicogrammatical structures.
This view onlanguage pervades in the Systemic Functionalapproach where it is posited that the relation betweensemantics and lexicogranunar is a 'natural', non-arbitrary one (cf.
Halliday 1985:xiii-xxxv), in otherwords, semantics and lexicogrammar e dependenton one another.
Language is interpreted as a resourcefor making meanings, which is organisedfunctionally, textually, and communicatively.
Thismakes it also suitable as a theoretical foundation for(monolingual nd multilingual) text generation (seealso, Matthiessen and Bateman 1991; BatemamMatthiessen and Zeng in prep.
).In this paper, I will discuss some aspects ofthe generation of Dutch analytic causativeconstructions in a systemic multilingual grammar forgeneration (Bateman, Matthiessen, Zeng inpreperation), currently under development a SydneyUniversity and in the project KOMET at GMD/IPSI,Darmstadt.
It is based on Nigel (Mann 1985), asystemic computational grammar of English forgeneration developed in the Penman Project atISI/USC.
Languages worked on currently includeEnglish (Matthiessen 1990), German (Teich 1992),Dutch (Degand 1993a), Chinese, Japanese, andFrench.
The multilingual grammar follows theassumption of Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL)that commonality across languages i  functional in thefirst instance, not structural or realizational:functionality has to be preserved across languages, butstructural realizations may very well differ (Bateman,Matthiessen, Nanri, Zeng 1991).
This means thatwithin a functional framework different languages canbe treated in a similar way.
The common functionalityis realized stratum by stratum in the linguistic system(composed of the three strata: semantics,lexicogrammar, and phonology).
Within a particularstratum, it is expressed by the paradigmatic, systemicorganization ofthat strattun in the first instance, andonly secondarily by the syntagmatic organization(structural realization).
With this kind o forganization of (multilingual) inguistic resources, itis ensured that the multilingual system is more thana loosely coordinated set of separate generation7th Intemationai Generation Workshopsystems and that new language components can beadded to the system without revising the overallorganization (see also, Degand 1993b).After a brief sketch of the lexicogrammaficalpotential for expressing causation in Dutch, I willconcentrate on the so-called analytic (or periphrastic)causative construction and show how this particulartype of causative construction can be realized in asystemic mulfilingual grammar for generation, takinginto account he theoretical elaborations developed inDegand (to appear).
The importance of thistheoretical basis for the computational account will beamply illustrated.2.
The lexi?ogrammatical potential forexpressing causationThe expression of causation is ubiquitous inall forms of communication and in natural anguagein particular.
The examples given below illustratethis multitude of different types of causal expressionsin Dutch.
Note that these examples have beengrouped according to their structural realization, sinceit was my aim to illustrate the wide lexicogrammaficalvariation in this area.
This does not mean that thesubexamples can .always be used as alternatives foreach other, neither does it mean that the Englishtranslations could be used in a same context (seeSection 3.
I.)..
i. Hij blijft thuis, want hij is ziek.He stays at home, fo r  he is ill.ii.
Ik ben te laat, omdat ik mijn trein gemistheb.I am too late, because I missed my train.. i. Ze heefl een ongeluk veroorzaakt.She has caused an accident.ii.
Hij bewoog zijn hand open neer.He moved his hand up and down.iii.Piet l iet Marie een auto kopen.Piet had Marie buy a car.. Jij bent de oorzaak van al onzeproblemen.You are the cause of all our problems.4.
i. Doorde gladde wegen is bijna niemandop tijd kunnen zijn.Because o f  the slippery roads hardlyanybody could make it on time.ii.
Ten gevolge van bet ongeluk ontstondeen lange file.As a result of the accident there was atraffic j am.In traditional descriptive grammars, thesedifferent constructions are classified according to thegrammatical category of the causal element, i.e.
thelinguistic element which endows the clause with a109* Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994causal meaning.
Thus, in example (1) the causalelement is realized by a coordinating or subordinatingconjunction; example (2) displays different ypes ofverbs with a causal meaning: causative verbs,intransitive verbs that are used transitively, causalauxiliaries.
In example (3), the causal element isexpressed in a nominal phrase and in example (4) in aprepositional phrase.
All of these structures have acommon underlying meaning (at least partially)which needs to be captured, namely causation, butwhich is not accounted for in these types ofgrammars, ince semantics i described independentlyof the grammar.3.
The semantics of causationThe semantics underlying the differentalternative constructions for expressing causation (beit in one language or cross-linguistically) have usuallybeen described in general terms such as 'direct vs.indirect causation', 'strong coercion vs. weakcoercion', 'facfitive vs. permissive causation','manipulative vs. directive causation' etc.
(see e.g.Cornrie 1974, 1985; Giv6n 1975; Talmy 1976;Skibatani 1976).
In a perspective of mulfilingualgeneration, it is difficult to rely on these different"ready-made" labels to distinguish the differentcausative alternatives, because, as pointed out byWierzbicka (1988), they do in fact not apply cross-linguistically to individual languages.
What is called'direct causation' or 'strongly coercive' in onelanguage is very often different from what is called'direct causation' or 'strongly coercive' in another.This does not mean that there are no similaritiesacross languages in the area of causation.
Wierzbickashows that causative constructions can be described asunique combinations ofsemantic omponents and thatit is therefore necessary to decompose the meaning ofcausative constructions into its semantic omponents.Not only is this necessary in order to distinguish themeaning of different causative constructions withinone language, such as for example the following pairof English examples (Wierzbicka 1988:240):5. i. Hilary made Robin type the letter.ii.
Hilary had Robin type the letter.But it is also necessary in order to predict, forexampl e , the difference in use of the English 'indirect'make causative and the French 'indirect' fairecausative, as is shown in example (6) (Wierzbicka1988:244):.
i.
Le colonel a fait fondre (*a fondu) troissucres dans son caf6.The colonel made dissolve (*dissolved)three lumps of sugar in his coffee.The colonel dissolved three lumps ofsugar in his coffee.renre~entations should be theoretically motlvatea, along ut~ uu~ w,,t~^tu,, w,,,v, , , , , - , - ,  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
?
.
.
.
.
.
.
.7th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994ii.
Le m&allurgiste a fait fondre/a fondu lem6tal.The metallurgist made dissolve/meltedthe metal.The metallurgist melted the metal.This example illustrates that the analytic and lexicalcausative constructions do in fact not apply in thesame context in English and French.
Thus in order touse and generate these constructions correctly, i.e.
toselect he correct construction for a given context, "wehave to identify the unique meaning of eachconstruction, rather than try to rely on language-independent global labels such as 'direct' and'indirect'".
(Wierzbicka 1988:244-245).
In Section 4, Iwill try to provide such a fine description for theanalytic ausative constructions both in Dutch and inFrench.
This detailed escription should enable us torepresent these constructions with enough delicacy inthe system networks on the lexicogrammatical level ofthe grammar such as to account for the functional andstructural convergences and divergences between bothlanguages.
But before elaborating on that point, wefirst have to determine to what extent all theseconstructions have a common underlying meaning.3.1.
The causative situationIn Section 2, we have seen that thephenomenon of causation can be expressed in naturallanguage by a wide variety of linguistic oustructions.Following the non-arbitrary relation betweensemantics and lexicogrammar, I assume that each ofthese constructions has its own specific linguisticmeaning, and that their use in language is determinedby this meaning.
But this does not mean that all theseexpressions are totally unrelated - on the contrary,they all express different aspects of a same (extra-linguistic) situation: the causative situation.Talmy (1976:52) defines a "basic causativesituation" which "consists of a simple event (that is,one that would otherwise be considered autonomous),that which immediately causes the event, and thecausal relation between the two."
Shibatani (1976)also considers the causative situation to be a relationbetween two events: the causing event and the causedevent.
In addition, he characterizes this relation interms of the speaker's belief that the caused eventwould not have taken place (at that particular time) ffthe causing event had not taken place.
This referenceto the speaker's belief is, I think, very important, sinceit emphasizes that in talking about causation we arenot referring to some notion of causality in thephysical world, but rather to the humanconceptualization f causation as it is, for instance,expressed in natural anguage (see also, Talmy 1976;Wierzbicka 1980; Kemmer and Verhagen,forthcoming).
Building on these descriptions, I cannow characterize a causative situation as a relationbetween two events that are viewed by the speaker ascausally dependent on each other.
This basiccausative situation underlies all linguistic expressionsof the phenomenon.In systemic terms, this basic causative situation is partof the (non-linguistic) context of situation, i.e.
thegeneral background composed of those features whichare relevant to the speech that is taking place.Traditionally, SFL identifies three different aspects ofcontext: field, tenor, and mode.
Together they build"a conceptual framework for representing the socialcontext as the semiotic environment in which peopleexchange meanings" (Halliday 1978:110).
Thesethree different aspects of context are interpretedlinguistically on the semantic level and realized in anon-arbitrary way by the three metafunctions of thelexicogrammar: the ideational, interpersonal, andtextual metafunctious (Halliday 1978:142-143;Matthiessen and Bateman 1991:68.-69).
HaUiday setsthe following correspondences between context andlanguage: field tends to determine ideationalmeanings, tenor interpersonal ones, and mode textualones.
There is thus functional differentiation both incontext and in the linguistic system.In the following we will see how theseresources come into play in the linguistic realizationof the causative situation, how this linguistic encodinghas been accounted for in the Nigel grammar forgeneration so far, and how this treatment could beextended for multilingual generation.4.
Realizing the causative situationGiven our characterization of a causativesituation as a causal relation (established by thespeaker) between two (otherwise autonomous) events,it can be considered as belonging to the f ieMcomponent of the context.
According to Halliday'sproportionalities set out above, the most "congruent"(Halliday 1985:xix) or "solidary" (Martin 1991:116)linguistic encoding of this situation would thus lie inthe ideational metafunction for the realization of bothevents with the resources for transitivity (process +participants + circumstances), and in the textualmetafuncfion for the realization of the causal relationas a conjunction.
These resources are for instance atplay in: ,She didn't come because she was too tired.This is indeed how causation has been treated so farin the Nigel grammar.
On clause complex levelwithin the ideational metafunction, the grammarrelies on the Upper Model 2 concept CALISAL-RELATIONindicating that the two events expressed in the clausecomplex are to be encoded as causally dependent oneach other, which is than expressed in the2 The Upper Model (Bateman, Kasper,Moore, Whitney 1990) is a general conceptualinheritance hierarchy developed within the PENMANtext generation project for organizing domainknowledge appropriately for linguistic realization.1107th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994reasonNONPHORIO-~  behaffpurp?seCAUSE concess~nFigure 1: The causal con\]unction systemon clause-complex ranklexicogrammar bymeans of a series of conjunctions inparadigmatic relation (see Figure 1).On clause rank, more specifically in theregion transitivity, the Nigel Grammar also describesboth the transitive and ergative pattern of processes,which account for the causative element in thestructure of the English clause (Halliday, 1985:263).In Nigel, however, the link with causation is notmade, neither are analytic ausatives, or prepositionalcausative realizations covered.
There is thus a gap inthe grammar that needs to be filled along theparadigmatic (functional relation between thedifferent realization alternatives) as well as along thesyntagmatic (different structural realizations) axis.
Inthe following sections, I will try to describe how thisgap could be filled along both axes for the analyticcausative construction i  Dutch.
From a theoreticalpoint of view this involves that this particularrealization alternative of the causative situation beinvestigated in detail so as to determine the semanticelements that constrain the lexicogrammadcalencoding.
Thus, we have to establish what it meansfor a speaker to use this alternative over another:From a computational point of view, we should firstbe able to represent this structure on thelexicograrnmafical level and make sure that theresources for generating this construction areavailable in the system.
And second, if we want thegeneration process to be under semantic ontrol, wealso have to establish how the semantic featurestriggering the different lexicogrammatical realizationscan be represented.
In addition, all theserepresentations should be theoretically motivated.4.1.
Analytic causatives: A case of grammaticalmetaphorThe basic causative situation wascharacterized in Section 3 as a relation established bythe speaker between two events in which one event,called the caused event, is causally dependent on theother event, called the causing event, l.f not all ofthese aspects need to be expressed, the most congruentlexicogrammatical realization, i.e.
a clause complexin which causing event and caused event are bothrealized by a simple clause and linked by one of the111possible causal conjunctions (note that paradigmaticvariation in the choice of the conjunction is stillpossible here), does not make sense.
Thelexicogrammar offers then other possibilities toexpress this underlying situation.
In SystemicFunctional Grammar (SFG), this expansion of the"meaning making potential of content form" (Martin1991:116) is accounted for in the theory ofgrammatical metaphor, which states that "for anygiven semantic onfiguration there is (at least) onecongruent realization in the lexicogrammar.
Theremay then be others that are in some respecttransferred, or METAPHORICAL".
(t-Ialliday 1985:321).In my view, one of these metaphoricalexpressions of causation is the analytic causativeconstruction i  which the two underlying events arecondensed into one simple clause.
An analyticcausative can indeed be described as "a two-verbstructure that expresses a predicate of causation and apredicate of effect" (Kemmer and Verhagenforthcoming), the causal predicate being termed inmany languages 'auxiliary' or 'particle', indicating thatit has no full verbal status.
Thus, English expressionslike I made him leave; ,ST~e had him type the letter;,She let him eat some brownies.
This construction isused when a speaker views the underlying causingevent as causally dependent on some action of theagent of the causing event, no matter what this actionis.
The causing event itself is thus not overtlyspecified, all that remains is the pure notion of causeexpressed by a causal predicate (realized in mostlanguages by a causal auxiliary or a causalmorpheme).
In the following, I will treat the analyticcausative construction as an interpersonalinterpretation of the causative situation that shouldthus be accounted for in the interpersonalmetafunction f the lexicogrmmmar (see Section 4.2.
).The implementation of the notion ofgrammatical metaphor presupposes that we be able torepresent the (ext.-linguistic) context of situation,the (intra-linguistic) lexicogramrnatical potential of agiven language (composed of the three metafunctionsand the different structural ranks), and the (intra-linguistic) semantic interface between these twocomponents.
The context of situation can be viewedas a cluster of situation types that are categorizedalong the three contextual components of field, tenor,and mode.
The influence that context may have onlexicogrammar nd semantics is a topic of ongoingresearch (situation-specific semantics, see e.g.
Cross1992, Caffarel 1992).
The lexicogrammaticalpotential of a language comprises the threemetafunctions and the different structural ranks.
Sofar, the main linguistic resources are covered forEnglish (Matthiessen 1990), German (Teich 1992),and Dutch (Degand 1993a) (Dutch being developedcontrastively with English within the multilingualgrammar (Degand 1993b)).
The semantic interfacebetween context and lexicogrammar p ovides us withthe semantic onstraints on the lexicogrammaticalencoding.
Following Matthiessen and Baternan(1991), I will assume that this semantic level is also(recta)functionally differentiated being composed ofthe ideation base, interaction base, and text base.Together they build the environment of the generationsystem.
They represent a view on the context ofsituation from the lexicogrammar (see Matthiessenand Bateman 1991:200-230 for a more detailedaccount).
In the following sections, I will try todetermine what are the constraints set by thisenvironment on the realization of analytic ausativesin Dutch and how this can be represented in amultilingual system.4.2.
Analytic causatives: an interpersonalinterpretationDifferent authors have studied the semanticsof analytic causatives in languages as diverse asEnglish, Japanese, Korean, Bantu, Hungarian,Telugu, and many others (cf., e.g., Giv6n 1975, 1976;Shibatani 1976; Hetzron 1976; Rat and Bashir 1985;Wierzbicka 1988).
From all of these analyses itappears that the agent of the underlying causingevent, which we will label Causer (see below), isgiven a special status in the overall causativesituation: that of (a certain degree of) control of thesituation, and especially over the agent of theunderlying caused event, labeled the Causee (seebelow).
In other words, a speaker will use this type ofconstruction only ff he/she believes that the Causee isunder control of the Causer.
If he/she does notbelieve this is so, a construction that is neutral to thisrespect (in the given language) will be selected.
InSFG, the (social) status of the participants involved ina situation is traditionally accounted for in theinterpersonal metafunction.
This status eems to playa role in the selection of the analytic ausative.
Thisconstitutes a first reason why I have chosen torepresent this type of construction as an interpersonalmetaphorical expression of the causative situation.A second reason concerns the conceptuallydependent status of the causal predicate whichaccounts for the fact that it is conceptually empty, i.e.it is not (ideationally) classifiable as expressing one ofthe process types, and it has thus no properparticipants.
Or as Kemmer and Verhagen(forthcoming) state it: "In They made me leave,MAKE does not have any highly specific semanticcontent hat could determine semantic roles (...) inrelation to itself.
In contrast, in the causing event intwo-clause structures like They insulted me, so I left,the verb has its usual constellation of specificsemantic roles (...), which occur independently of itsuse in an expression of cause-and-effect."
However,tiffs does not mean that there are no participantsinvolved in the causative event itself, i.e.
theexpression of the causative situation.
In accordancewith the terms used in the linguistic literature, I willlabel these core participants: Causer, Causee, and (if7th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994present) Affectee.
The Causer is the participantviewed as bringing about he entire event; the Causeeis the participant carrying out the activity designatedby the effected predicate; and the Affectee, whenexpressed, is the participant "that is the endpoint ofthe energy (literal or metaphorical) expended in theentire causative event" (Kemmer and Verhagen,forthcoming).The causal predicate has thus no full Processstatus and it is not realized as that either.
In Dutch,French, and English it is realized as an auxiliary thatexpands the meaning of the Process it occurs with,like the modal auxiliary expands the Process it occurswith too.
Since the type of auxiliary selected is againhighly dependent on interpersonal matters (seebelow), I believe this choice belongs to theinterpersonal metafunction too.
In other languages,e.g.
Japanese, Hindi, Turkish, the causal predicate inthese types of constructions is realized by a morphemeand not by an auxiliary.
If the selection is in thosecases also interpersonally relevant, the interpersonalmetafunction would again be most appropriate toaccount for this realization.
Diverging syntagmaticstructures are then treated similarly from a functionalpoint of view.But let us now look at the Dutch analyticcausative constructions and see whether theirmeaning can be characterized along tile same lines.4.3.
Analytic causatives in DutchIn Dutch the analytic causative constructioncan occur with two possible causal auxiliaries doen(cognate with 'to do') and laten (cognate with 'to let'),both taking an infinitival complement.
According toour definition of analytic causatives given above thecausal auxiliary corresponds to tile causal predicateand the infinitival complement o the effectedpredicate.
This is illustrated in examples 8 and 9.. De wind doer de was drogen.The wind does the laundry dry.The wind dries the laundry.. Marie laat de was drogen.Mary lets the laundry dry.Mary lets the laundry dry.In these clauses the notion of causation liesexclusively in the causal predicate xpressed by thecausal auxiliaries doen and latch.
The caused event iseach time entirely expressed by the effected predicate(process + participants), while the causing event hasbeen reduced to its sole Agent, realized as the Subjectof the overall clause.
The basic structure of the clauseis that of simple clauses, and not of reduced (orderived) complex clauses (see Kernmer and Verhagen,forthcoming for cognitive vidence and Dik 1980 forgrammatical evidence on this point).
From asemantic point of view, the caused event is seen as112SITUATION7th ia t~mat lu .a l  u~.~L=t~u.
V/u~k~hue - ?
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
r .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
- .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.CAUSATION - causation+ cause  REALIZATIONcongruent-I causationmetaphorical-causation+ causer+ causeeMETAPHORICAL-CAUSATION-TYPE_ ideational-causationprese lec t  ..._ interpersonal-causationprese lec t  CAUSE causat iv i za t iontextua l -causat ionprese lec t  ...Figure 2: Partial causation networkDIATHESISCAUSATION-causaffvizafion "~+ causal-aux DIRECTNESScause/causal-auxdirect- recipient-I causation \[-" causeelexi~ causal-aux marked- CAUSEE~._ I le~dfy causeemarker aandoen 7 causee f I -/ BOLE / indirect- CAUSEE- I+  causeemarKer L_ instrument-I causeemarker ^causee causee causation MARKINGlexify L. unmarkedcausal-aux laten causee le~dfy causeemarker doorcausee / directobjectFigure 3: Grammatical systems of interpersonal causation(causally) dependent on some action of the Subject ofthe clause (which always represents he Agent of theunderlying causing event).
Since two causalauxiliaries appear to be possible in this type ofconstruction, the question to ask is "why would aspeaker use one construction rather than the other, i.e.what is the difference in meaning?".
The semanticdistinction between both causal auxiliaries has beeninvestigated from a cognitive point of view byVerhagen and Kemmer (1992).
The core of theirproposal is that "doen categorizes an event asinvolving direct causation, while laten categorizes thecausal relation as indirect, i.e.
as complex in the sensethat  some other force than the agent's is moreimmediately involved in bringing the effect about".
(Verhagen and Kemmer 1992:1).
There is thus asystematic difference between both causal auxiliariesand they are not interchangeable as is sometimessuggested in Dutch grammars.
I will not elaborate onthe theoretical spects here, but I will suffice with theconclusions that can be drawn from this proposal andhow they can be exploited for text generation (for anelaboration of these aspects ee, Degand to appear).5.
Generating analytic causatives in DutchBuilding on the theoreticcal points givenll 3above, we can now represent these elements in systemnetworks (Figures 2 and 3).
The  traversal of thesesystems, i.e.
the selection of features, is guided byinformation from the environment obtained throughthe choosers and inquiries interface (see e.g.Mattthiessen 1988).
The three bases each contribute tothe elaboration of local plans for realizing complexclauses, simplex clauses, nominal groups, etc.Applying this to the realization of the causativesituation, a local plan for a clause complex wouldresult in the selection of the feature congruent-realization in the causation etwork (Figure 2), whilemetaphorical-causation corresponds to a local planfor a simplex clause.
For analytic causatives the(simplex) clause plan would among other things alsocontain the following information.
The ideation baseprovides us with information about participants(Causer and Causee), process, and circumstances: theinteraction base specifies that there is a kind of'power' relation (a relation of control) between theparticipants involved in the situation; and the textbase indicates that there is a causal relation betweentwo events (causing event and caused event) of whichonly the caused event is informatively important.Given this information from theenvironment, he feature interpersonal-causation nthe system METAPHOR.ICAL-CAUSATION-TYPE (Figure3), is selected, and the feature causativization fromthe DIATHESIS network is preselected.
Diathesis refers7th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994to the way a language ncodes the same situation indifferent perspectives (Figure 4 ).
Structurally, there iscoilflation of the Agent of the underlying causingevent with the function Causer (which in a clausewith active voice will be conflated on its turn with theFunction Subject), while the Agent of the underlyingcaused event is conflated with the function Causee(very often realized as a Direct Object in activeclauses).
The network traversal proceeds then withthe choice between direct-causation and indirect-causation.
'Indirect' causation means here that theaction of the Causer is indeed viewed as the cause ofthe event expressed in the effected predicate, but thatit is nevertheless a complex, i.e.
indirect relation inthe sense that another force is viewed as being moredirectly involved in the accomplishment of the effectthan the action of the Causer himself.
It is thisindirect character of the causation that motivates theuse of the causal auxiliary "laten" (cf.
realizationstatement lexify causal-aux laten).
The precise natureof this other force need not be specified.
In example(9) Mary relies on some other force, the wind or theheat of a laundry drier, to have the laundry dried.
Allcases of (verbal) interaction between people are forthe same reasons typically realized with laten.
'Direct'causation means in this context that the Causer isviewed as the immediate cause of the described effect.In other words, there is no intermediary force ofwhich the presence or absence could prevent theoccuring of the caused event.
"Given the action of theagent, the result is inevitable, necessary.
The causalrelation is simple and direct."
(Verhagen andKemmer 1992:6).
This is encoded in the grammarwith the causal auxiliary "doen" (cf.
realizationstatement lexify causal-aux doen).
This directcausation is in the first place motivated in purephysical causal relations, as in example (8) givenabove.When indirect-causation has been selectedfrom the system CAUSATION-DIRECTNESS and ff theProcess of the caused event is effective, i.e.
transitive,a further, in systemic terms more delicate, system isentered: CAUSEE-MARKING.
In this system the casemarking of the Causee is decided.
In Dutch, there arethree possible realizations as illustrated in examples10-12.10.
Hij liet de briefaan iedereen lezen.He let the letter to everybody readHe let/had everybody read the letter.11.
Hij liet de brief door iemand lezen.He let the letter by somebody readHe had the letter ead by somebody.12.
Hij liet haar de brief lezen.He let her the letter eadHe let/had/made h r read the letter.With aan (example (10)) the Causee is categorized as114a Recipient who is fairly autonomous and is involvedin the causative vent because he wants to.
Thereading is rather permissive: 'He allowed everybody(who wanted it) to read the letter (for its content)'.With door (example (11)) the Causee is viewed as asort of instrument; he reading is more causative: 'Heasked somebody to read the letter not for its content(the Cansee is not the recipient of the message) bute.g.
to check the spelling, or to read it loud for anaudience.'
In example (12) the Causee appears as abare nominal phrase without any case marking.
Herethe Causee is viewed as an object of the action of theCauser with few autonomy: (12) could for instancemean: 'The reader was not inclined to read the letter(for its conten0 and the Causer had to insist or evenhad to force her a little bit'.
In causative constructionswith doen the Cansee is never marked with aprepositional case.
This can be explainedstraightforwardly in the sense that direct causationdoes not leave any autonomous role on behalf of theCausee in realizing the causative vent.All these different features can now berepresented in the interpersonal system network of thelexicogrammar where they function as grammaticaloutput features of the selection systems.
This ispartially depicted in Figure 4.6.
ConclusionsThe starting point of my investigation hasbeen the observation that all natural anguages offer amultitude of alternatives to express causation.
Anylanguage user or natural anguage generation systemis thus confronted with a crucial problem of choice.In this article I have adopted a semiotic approach tocausation assuming that all the possible causativeconstructions have their specific meaning and that theselection of one alternative over another is thus notarbitrary.
More specifically, I have concentrated onthe semantics and the functional (paradigmatic)treatment of analytic causatives in Dutch.
It wasshown that a specific semantic feature of analyticcausatives seems to be in many languages the notionof interaction (manipulation, control) between theCauser and the Causee.
This aspect can be accountedfor in systemic functional grammar in theinterpersonal metafunction where these constructionsare then handled as metaphoric realizations of thebasic causative situation.Future work in this area includes theinvestigation of the specific meanings of all otherDutch linguistic expressions of causation in order toestablish explicitly in how far these differentlinguistic realizations of a common causative situationdiffer semantically from each other, and how thesesemantic features can constrain the selection of the "most appropriate xpression in the given context".This orients us towards a more situation-basedapproach of generation.7th International Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine * June 21-24, 1994ReferencesAltenberg, B.
1984.
Causal linking in spoken andwritten English.
S2udia Linguistica 38 (1).
20-69.Bateman, John A., Robert T. Kasper, Johanna D.Moore and Richard A. Whitney.
1990.
Ageneral organization of knowledge for naturallanguage processing: the PENMAN uppermodel.
Technical Report, USC/InformationSciences Institute, Marina del Rey, California.Bateman, John A., Christian M.I.M.
Matthiessen andLicheng Zeng.
In preperation.
A generalarchitecture for multilinguality in naturallanguage processing.
Teclmical report,GMD/IPSI, Darmstadt and University ofSydney.Bateman, John A., Christian M.I.M.
Matthiessen,Keizo Nanri and Licheng Zeng.
1991.
The re-use of linguistic resources across languages inmultilingual generation components.Proceedings of the 1991 International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Sydney,Australia:Morgan Kaufinann Publishers.Bolinger, D. 1968.
Aspects of language.
NewYork:Harcourt Brace & World.Caffarel, Mice.
1992.
Interacting between ageneralized tense semantics and register-specific semantic tense systems: a bi-stratalexploration of the semantics of French tense.Language ,Sciences 14, 4, pp.
385-418.Comrie, Bernard.
1974.
Causatives in UniversalGrammar.
Philological ,Society, Transactions.1-32.Comrie, Bernard.
1985.
Causative verb formation andother verb-deriving morphology.
Languagetypology and syntactic description ed.
byTimothy Shopen.
3:309-348.Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Cross, Marilyn.
1992.
Choice in Text: a systemicapproach to computer modelling of varianttext production.
PhD-Thesis.
School ofEnglish and Linguistics, Macquarie University,Sydney.GrammarProjectDegand, Liesbeth.
1993a.
DutchDescription.
Technical Report,KOMET, GMD/IPSI, Germany.Degand, Liesbeth.
1993b.
Towards a systemicfunctional grammar of Dutch for multilingualtext generation.
Technical report, GMD/IPSI,Darmstadt, Germany (Available in abbreviatedform in the Proceedings of the FourthEuropean Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Pisa, Italy, 28-30 April 1993, pp.143-147).Degand, Liesbeth.
to appear.
Causation in Dutch andFrench.
Interpersonal aspects.
To appear inFunctional Descriptions: Linguistic Form andLinguistic Theory ed.
by R. Hasan, D. Butt andC.
Cloran.
John Benjamins PublishingCompany.Dik, Simon C. 1980.
S~udies in Functional Grammar.London, New York:Academic Press.Giv6n, Talmy.
1975.
Cause and Control: on thesemantics of interpersonal manipulation.Syntax and Semantics 4 ed.
by John P.Kimball.
59-89.
New York:Academic Press.Giv6n, Talmy.
1976.
Some Constraints on BantuCausativizafion.
,Syntax and ,Semantics, TheGrammar of Causative Constructions ed.
byMasayoshi Shibatani, 325-351.
New York, SanFransisco, London:Academic Press.Halliday, M.A.K.
1978.
Language as social semiotic,The social interpretation of language andmeaning.
London:Edward Arnold.Halliday, M.A.K.
1985.
An introduction to functionalgrammar.
London:Edward Arnold.Herschensolm, Julia.
1981.
French Causatives:Restructuring, Opacity, Filters and Construal.Linguistic Analysis 8 (3).
217-280.Hetzron, Robert.
1976.
On the Hungarian CausativeVerb and Its Syntax.
Syntax and Semantics,The Grammar of Causative Constructions ed.by Masayoshi Shibatani, 371-398.
New York,San Fransisco, London:Academic Press.Kemmer, Suzanne and Arie Verhagen.
Forthcoming.The Grammar of Causatives and theConceptual Structure of Events.
To appear inCognitive Linguistics.Mann, William C. 1985.
An introduction to the Nigeltext generation Grammar.
,SystemicPerspectives on Discourse: ,Selectedtheoretical Papers ./Sore the 9th InternationalSystemic Workshop ed.
by J.D.
Benson andW.S.
Greaves.
New Jersey:Ablex Publ.
Corp.Matthiessen, Christian M.I.M.
1988.
Semantics for asystemic gralmnar: the chooser and inquiryframework.
In J.D.
Benson, M. Cummings,and W.S.
Greaves (eds) Linguistics in aS~vstemic Perspective.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Matthiessen, Christian M.I.M.
1992.Lexicogrammatical cartography: Englishsystems.
Technical report, University ofSydney, Linguistics Department (ongoingexpanding draft).Matthiessen, Christian M.I.M.and John A. Bateman.1157th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 19941991.
Text generation and systemic functionallinguistics: experiences J~om English andJapanese.
London:Pinter.Martin, J.R. 1991.
Intrinsic functionality:implications for contextual theory.
Socialsemiotics 1(1).
99-162.Rao, Malathi and Elena Bashir.
1985.
On thesemantics and pragmatics of Telugucausatives.
Papers ./Join the parasession onCausatives and Agentivity, Chicago LinguisticSociety 21, Chicago.
228-240.Shibatani, Masayoshi.
1976.
The Grammar ofCausative Constructions: A Conspectus.
,S~vntaxand ,Semantics, The Grammar of CausativeConstructions ed.
by Masayoshi Shibatani, 1-39.
New York, San Fransisco,London:Academic Press.Talmy, Leonard.
1976.
Semantic Causative Types.,Syntax and Semantics, The Grammar ofCausative Constructions ed.
by MasayoshiShibatani, 43-116.
New York, San Fransisco,London:Academic Press.Teich, Elke.
1992.
Komet: Grammar Documentation.Technical Report, GMD/IPSI, Germany.Verhagen, Arie and Suzanne Kemmer.
1992.Interactie en Oorzakelijkheid.
Gramma/TTZtijdschrift voor taalkunde, 1, 1.
1-20.Wierzbicka, Anna.
1980.
Lingua Mentalis, The,Semantics of Natural Language.
Sydney, NewYork:Academic Press.Wierzbicka, Anna.
1988.
The Semantics of Grammar.Amsterdam, Philadelphia:John BenjaminsPublishers.116
