ON MOVING ON ON ONTOLOGIES:MASS, COUNT AND LONG THIN THINGSRobin P. FawcettComputational Linguistics Unit, University of Wales, Cardiff CF1 3EU, UKe-mall: fawcett @cardiff.ac.ukAbstract: This paper discusses the principles that should govern the construction of two components of a system for naturallanguage generation (NLG): (1) the ontology - or, rather, as the paper argues, the 'ontological' aspects of a belief system -and (2)the semantic representation f noun senses.
It is an interesting fact that many ontologies bear a striking resemblance to a systemnetwork, as used in systemic functional grammar (SFG).
Furthermore, two major current research efforts in the field of ontology-building are designed to run with a SFG generator: Pangloss, where the generator is Penman, and COMMUNAL, where the generatoris GENESYS.
It is therefore important o establish a principled approach to the 'division of labour' between the ontology and theequivalent aspects of the model of language - here a system network for the 'meaning potential' of English nouns.
(However, thegeneral principles hould be relevant o ANY model of language.)
The paper summafises (a)the purposes and (b)the structure of (1)a system network for noun senses and (2) the equivalent ontology (based on what we in the COMMUNAL Project judge is required inthe next generation of belief systems for NLG).
Examples are given of current work on the relevant system network and, morebriefly, of the equivalent ontological aspects of the belief system.
In particular, reasons are given why it would be inappropriate ogive a primary place to the 'mass' vs. 'count' distinction in an 'interlingua' ontology - and even, surprising though it may seem, in alanguage-specific semantics for English.
Finally, it turns out that, in the new perspective presented here, there is no 'component' ofthe belief system that is 'the ontology', and the reasons for this apparently anomalous position are given.Keywords: ontology, system network, belief system, knowledge base, semantics, noun senses, natural anguage generation1 Some current issues in modelling 'ontologies''Or" I One of the =lvens of Computational Linguistics (CL) -which is taken here in a sense that includes MachineTranslation (MT) - is that any such system needs anontology, l But what, precisely, is an ontology?
It seemsto be one of  those concepts which everyone who workswith it instinctively feels tfiey understand, so that the basicassumptions are seldom made explicit.
In practical terms,there is a fairly general assumption that an ontology isclosely related to, and perhaps isomorphic with, the'meanings' of  the nouns of  a language - or of  a set oflanguages, the maximal set being all human languages.
Butin buildin,q a theoretically satisfactory overall model onediscovers tI~at there are serious problems with this position,as will be shown in this paper.There is a long history of work on ontolo,~ies for CL,including/he important work at Carnegie-Meffbn Univers-ity over many years, that of Dahlgren and her collea,~ues(e.g.
Dahlgren 1988) and the current Pangloss ProjecT, asdescribed in Hovy and Nirenburg 1992, Hovy and Knight1993 and Knight 1993.
We in the COMMUNAL Projecthave been considering alternative approaches to this aspectof what we term the belief system, and I would like topresent here, for discussion by the wider NLG community,the principles that we have established, often after years ofexperimentation, as they relate to these matters.
We arecurrently implementing a system based on these principles.In many respects, of  course, our assumptions aresimilar to those of others working in this area.
But ourview is that the next generation of  systems in ArtificialIntelligence (AI) - and possibly also in MT - will require, ascentral components,  bel ief systems that representknowledge (or, more accurately, be l ie fs )  of more typesand in a more complex manner than in some currentsystems.
As we shall see by the end of this paper, thephenomena that are often handled in terms of an ontolo~ovlook somewhat different in this new perspective.
In relati~iato some of the issues to be discussed here, then, we areconstructing a different overall model from that whichappears to underlie much other current work.
The purposeof this paper is to set out these ideas, to compare them withthose of other researchers on whose work we are seeking tobuild, and to give some explanation of  why we arefollowing the direction that we are.
We hope that this willopen up further discussion about the next generation ofbelief systems.
.
.The first step is to be clear about what the issues are.They are (1) issues of levels (which we shall here assume tomean levels of language), (2) issues of componentsof the overall system, and (3) issues of the structure andcontents of  part of the largest component of  the overallsystem, namely the belief system.
We shall focuspartic-ularly on the types of relations that need to be recogmsed asholding between the 'concepts' in an ontology or rather,between the gene,ric, ob jec ts  (in contrast with specificobjects), such as dog, realized as dogs, as in I like dogs.22 Why the discussion remains openHovy and Nirenburg (1992), in clearing the ground fortheir discussion of the principles that should guide theconstruction of an ontology, suggest hatmost ontologies and domain models to date have beenassembled based primarily on introspection, and oftenreflect he idiosyncrasies of the builders more than therequirements of the application (such as MT).
Lackingwell-founded guided principles, the ontology builder isworking in the dark.This judgement seems a little hyperbolic, in view of thefact that a number o f  recent ontology-builders haveexplained their principles as fully as Hovy and Nirenburgdo.
Thus, while there are aspects of  Dahlgren s frameworI((1988:46f.)
that are open to criticism, she in fact gives asdetailed an account of  her principles as do Hovy andNirenburg.
Bateman (1990, Bate, man et al19,90) similarlyexplains the ideas underlyin,q the uover model in Penman.In fact, as Hovy and KnigSht (19~)  state, the 'ontologybase' in Pangloss is in part based on Penman (being amerger of this, the semantic ategories from the LongmanDictionary of Contemporary English (LDOCE), which isintended as a taxonomy for the nouns of  English), andULTRA (Nirenburg and Defrise 1992)- which itself drawson the LDOCE categories).
Nonetheless the main thrust of717th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Hovy and Nirenberg's comment is surely right, in that thediscussion of the principles governing the buildingonto!ogies is far from over.
Indeed, it may be that thereqmrements of MT and AI (where NL is used tocommunicate with a problem solving system) are different(at least at this stage of the development of MT).Most - and perhaps all - ontology-builders accept hatthey are in fact working on the basis of natural anguage-and, typically, that thelanguage is English.
In Bateman'swords (1990:56) 'the Upper Model represents he speaker's,e, xpenence in terms of ,generalized lingu!sfically-motivatedontological" categories.
He states that it is essential thatconstraints should be found for what an upper model shouldcontain and how it should be organised \[his italics\], and hethen goes on to suggest hat it is the aspects of meaningfound in the experiential meta-function in a systemicfunctional grammar that should guide the construction ofthe ontology.
This application o f  SFG concepts provides ahelpful framework in which to approach the problem.
(Wemight note that distinctions that depend on register, e.g.
ontenor (formality), such as that between cigarette and fag areirrelevant to the ontology.)
The reason for depending onNL, then, seems to be that, without it, we would have noguidelines as to how to structure the ontology.Let us assume for the moment hat this position isjustified (though I shall suggest some problems with it insections 5 and 6).
This brings us to an important questionfor those who use the Upper Model or any derived ontologysuch as Pangloss.
This is: if there, is to be this strongconnection to the linguistic system (Bateman 1990:57),what part of it should that connection be to?And here we come to an apparentproblem for this lineof argument.
This is that the Nigel- model of languagearound which Penman is constructed lacks a specificnetwork for noun senses.
So what are the principles onwhich these aspects of the Upper Model are constructed?
Weshall return to this matter after the next section.3 Two extraneous factors that may lead todiffering research assumptionsFirst, however, let us be explicit about two of thefactors that differentiate various research projects in thisarea, and so, perhaps, the assumptions underlying variousconceptual frameworks that have been adopted.
The first isthe disciplinary coverage of ,researchers on a project -including the 'home discipline, as it were, of the leadingresearcher.
Those such as myself whose starting point waslinguistics are sometimes shocked at the cavalier way (notethe loaded language to express the viewpoint!)
in which non-linguists simply adopt he 'senses' of the nouns of Englishas the starting point for an ontology.
AI-minded computerscientists may be equally shocked at the pussyfooting wayin which many linguists refuse to recognise the need tomove outside the semiotic system of language, even thoughthis is patently necessary in order to budd adequate modelsof how language is used.
Often neither eally addresses theissue of where the semiotic system of a natural languageends (i.e.
the semantics of the language) and where the',concepts,' (or whatever is assumed as the category forthinking ) begins.
In this paper I shall set out a clear and, Ibelieve, defensible position on these issues.A second factor which undoubtedly affects theconceptual framework used in any given research project isthe time scale set by the sponsors of one's research.Practically all sponsors of CL research expect products thatare at least potentially 'applicable' (though often in a sensethat is not well defined).
For some researchers the timescale may be such that they must work with existing databases, such as the machine readable version of the LongmanDictionary of Contemporary English (LDOCE) (LongmanGroup 1978) or 'Wordnet' (Miller 1990).
This seems to bethe case with the Pangloss project (Hovy and Nirenburg1992, Hovy and Knight 1993, Knight 1993), whoseexplicit goal is to combine the best features of thesesources.
This is an ambitious goal and I wish theresearchers well.
However the wen-known fact must bepointed out that, in the last decade and a half, many otherresearchers have put in a lot of work in trying to makeLDOCE usable in a number of ways - and yet so far as I amaware no one yet has found a way to use these data as partof a belief system without an enormous amount of hand-editing.
There are important questions that need to be askedabout the relationship of these data to ontology building.The answers hould relate to an integrated framework thatprovictes appropriately for at least the two linguistic levelsof meaning and form, and, outside language, the categoriesof a belief system ('concepts').Researchers who are workingto a less constrained time-table are perhaps more able to ask such questions.
There arearguments for and against each approach, and it is not thepurpose of this paper to criticize the work of those whoseek directly to exploit existing data bases.
Indeed, it maybe that such work will in time produce solutions to theproblems to be discussed here, by developing EVOLUTION-ARILY into more advanced models.
Alternatively, it maybe that a significantly different framework is required inorder to achieve optimal representations of belief systems;both lines of inquiry should be pursued.In the COMMUNAL Project our task is to thinkspeculatively about the next generation of belief systems,and about the components, relations and procedures that willbe required in it.
It is in the nature of research that we shallalmost certainly have overlooked some aspects that willstrike future researchers a  important, but the enterprise isnonetheless worth attempting.
Here, however, we shall nottU/to provide a complete overview, even very briefly, of allot the components that we believe to be necessary in abelief system (for which see Fawcett 1993), but just thoseaspects that pertain to the concept of the 'ontology'.4 The intertwined concepts of 'ontology' and'system network': a brief history4.1 Halliday's proposal as a starting pointSince ontologies display many of the characteristics of as,~stem network, let us begin with Halliday's seminal paperCategories of the theory of grammar (1961).
In it heproposed the concept of lexis 'as most delicate grammar'.He envisaged a model of language in which the earlierchoices in a system network would be realisedgrammatically, i.e.
in the s t ructures  of clause and groupsyntax and in grammatical i tems - and where theseearlier choices would lead on to more 'delicate' choices thatwould be realised as iexical items.In the following decades Halliday and others did a greatdeal of work to develop the grammatical aspects o f  themodel - including the important step of integratingintonat!on with grammar; But what of integrating lexis~.While grammatical items such as modal verbs and varioustypes o~ determiner were modelled in system networks, theconcept of system networks for lexical items lexis remainedlargely unexplored until the mid-70s to the mid-80s.
In thatpenoa there were several small studies by systemic linguists(though not by Halliday himself) which implemented theconcept of lexis in networks (Berry 1977, Fawcett 1980,Hasan 1987), but they were simply illustrative and therewas no attempt to explore the implications of acomprehensive treatment of the original concept.
(These'implementations' were linguistic descriptions, notcomputer implementations.
)Meanwhde, Halliday had added the important notion of, - O i  i .
meanm~ to that of choice at the heart o f  what now cameto be called systemic functional grammar (SFG), sothat the networks of Berry, Fawcett and Hasan were727th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994explicitly proposed as networks of features intended tocapture the meaning potent ia l  of a language.
It hasalways seemed clear to me that, since the networks pecifymeaning potential, the features in them can be appropriatelyregardedas semantic features (Fawcett 1973/81, 1980,etc).
Halliday himself sometimes seems to agree with thisposition and sometimes to claim that the networks are atthe level of form.
(See the discussions of his variableposition in Butler 1985 and, for example, Fawcett, Tuckerand Lin 1993.)
For the fullest and best account of thedevelopments in SFG in modelling lexis, we must awaitTucke?s PhD thesis, currently in preparation.4.2 Leech's logical semanticsTo the best of my belief, the first example of theintertwining of the two concepts ot an ontology and asystem network occurred in the mid 1960s.
It was at aboutthis time that the system networks of SFG were beginningto be semanticized as the meaning potential of a language.Linguists working in the Chomskyan tradition had recentlyintroduced the concept of selectional restrictions - whicheffectively presuppose semantic features.
At this juncture aBritish hnguist, Geoffrey Leech, who was at UniversityCollege London at the same time as Halliday was develop-ing SFG there in the 1970s, made the interesting experi-ment of combining the two concepts of system networksand semantic features in his Towards a Semantic Descript-ion of English, published in 1969 (and later incorporated inhis standard text book Semantics (Leech 1974/81).
This,then, was an early attempt o provide an ontology-basedlogic for reasoning, and it was done at a level that Leechassumed to be the level of semantics, i.e., presumably, alevel within language.
(In the view taken in this paper andto be expanded later, reasoning is i'n fact better modelled astaking place at a level outside and above' language - whilebeing heavily influenced by languag,e.)
Leecn's modelincluded a taxonomy of 'types of object, and it had most ofthe characteristics of current ontologies (which we shallsummarise in Section 6).
This work was, in effect, Leech'sattempt to combine the relevant parts of a system networkwith the demands of a reasoning system.
It was related to afairly standard logic, so that the taxonomy could be used forsimple reasoning tasks, in some of the ways that currentontologies,are expected to.3 The crucial point, however, isthat Leech s network was not in fact a system network, asthe term is used in SFG, but an ontology.One striking v, isual icon of, this difference is the contrastbetween Halliday s and Leech s notations.
They both usethe usual systemi,c ,notation of a right-opening squarebracket o ,indicate or and a curly right-opening bracket omean and.
But in Halliday's diagrams there is always anarrow pointing right, i.e.
from the term (or terms) thatis/are the entry condi,tion to the system towards the systemitself.
And in Leech s diagrams the arrows point from thesystem to the entry condition.
In other words, the twoapparently similar structures are to be used in differentways.
As we shall see in Section 6, an ontology istypically (but not necessarily exclusively) traversed fromright to left, which explains the direction of Leech's arrows.But a system network is intended to be traversed from left to,right, 1"., e. from the less 'delicate' choices to the moredelicate ; see further below.
(Some later systemic linguists,including myself, have followed Winograd (1972) indispensing with the arrow.
4)4.3 Dahlgren's ontologyAnother ontology with interesting similarities to asystem network is found in the important work of Dahl~ren(1988).
Her description of her 'category cuts' caff beexpressed irectly as a system network, with 'entity as theentry condition that leads immediately to two simultaneousStems; 'individual' vs. 'collective' and 'abstract' vs. 'real'.rther del:~ndent systems, some of which are entered simul-tane, ously (i.e.
as 'cross-classifications'), introduce a total of37 category cuts' which, when all possible combinationsare counted, generate 4272 potential ~combinations'.
(Thisassumes that 'collective' leads on to 'mass' vs. 'set' vs.'structure', as implied at one point; at another it does not.
)Interestingly, Dahlgren advises at one point that 'caremust be taken when adding cross-classificatmns at a hi,ghernode ..... to avoid proliferating empty terminal nodes .....\[because this\] is a sur, e sign that the proposed cross-classification is spurious.
If this were indeed to be acceptedas a major critenon, one would unfortunately have to giveher ontology rather low marks.
This is because, of her4272 'terminal nodes', most are unused (all but 57 on onecount).5 In fact, as we shall see in Section 5, Dahlgren'sadvice is fully appropriate for a systemic linguist who isusing the network as a generator - but it is certainly muchless relevant to an ontology.
Why should this be so.
-9The answer is that Dahlgren's taxonomy is not intendedas a system network, and so it should not be thought of asoperating by being traversed from left to right (e.g.
as if togenerate noun senses).
An ontology is in fact typically useddeductively, i.e.
working from right to left TO REASONABOUT OBJECTS (as Leech's arrows remind us).
So thesupposed 'overgeneration' f Dahlgren's ontology has nopractical consequence - unless one wishes to use theontology inductively.
(In other words, many systemsregularI~, use reasoning of the nature of 'If X is a rose thenX is a flower, while there seems to be less demand forinductive reasoning.
We shall return to the topic ofreasoning in Section 6.I cite this case in order to show the need for clearprinciples in the construction of both (1) system networksat the level of semantics, i.e.
within language, and (2)ontological relations in a belief system.We turn now to natural anguage generation systemsthat are based on SFG.
There have been many of these, andmany others that have incorporated significant aspects of theSFG approach to language (see Matthiessen and Bateman1991 and Fawcett, Tucker and Lin 1993 for overviews ofthe use of SFGs in NLG).
Here we shall consider just thetwo major SFG natural anguage generators: Penman,which is to be used as the generator for the current Panglossproject, and GENESYS, which is the generator in theCOMMUNAL Project.
Given the significant place of SFGgenerators in NLG, it is important o be clear about thetheoretical framework for what such enterprises areattempting.
In particular, it is important to understand therelation between the system network-and the ontology.4.4 The Penman Upper ModelThe Penman Project was the first lar,~e SFG-basedgenerator, and the mare work that establishes the structureand nature of what Halliday has called the lexieogrammarwas done in the very early eighties (based fairly closely onHalliday's work of the seventms).
In that period there wasmuch more emphasis in linguistics as a whole on syntaxand much less on lexis than there is now, and Halhday'sprogrammatic use of the term 'lexicogrammar' was a far-sighted pointer to where work would be needed in the future.But Halliday himself has always approached language fromthe grammatical rather than the lexmal end and, under hisguidance, Mann and Matthiessen aturally worked first onthe grammatical structures and items.
Unfortunately, whenthe time came to extend the model to lexis, the sponsors ofthe project (working within the traditional framework of the'grammar-vocabulary' distinction) required the Penman team,NOT to imple,ment Halliday's concept of an integratedlexicogrammar, but to build instead a traditional lexiconwhich could be shared with the parser that was beingcontributed by another esearch team (working at Bolt,737th Intemational Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Beranek and Newman).
There were some very interestingconsequences of this decision.First, recall that the choices in the system networkswere at this time being increasingly seen as the 'meaningpotential, and thus as semantic hoices.
In much of thedetailed escription i  Halliday 1985, for example, the termsemantic abounds.
And the concept of 'realization' itself-the process through which the choices in the systemnetwork are realized as st~ctures 7 is ~ne t, hat explicitlyinvokes the two levels of meaning and form.
Thus if onedoes not represent the lexicon in system network form - asof course Penman does not - there is a major gap in theoverall system network of the language at just tile placewhere one would wish to locate a system network of nounsenses  (to complement the list of noun forms).
For/hesame reason thePenman etwork lacks the meanings of allthe other major word classes.
This has made it harder thanit is in the COMMUNAL framework (see below) to followthe increasingly strong trend in linguistics to give a morecentral place to lexis than it had in the 60s and 70s.
(Fawcett Tucker and Lin 1993 show how lexis is handled inCOMMUNAL, and important current modifications areexploiting yet further the value of having integratedlexicogrammatically realized networks of mean'ings - e.g.
inverb complementation, and the many other cases wheresyntactic realizations depend upon lexical choice.
)The Penman response to the position in which theyfound themselves was a sensible compromise.
Thedevelopment work that might have gone into the meaningpotential of lexical forms went partly into the separatelexicon (building into it the relevant features from thegrammar), and partly into the Upper Model (UM).
The main,function of the UMis  to serve as an abstraction hierarchy(Bateman 1990:57), and so to provide the usual functions ofan ontology for property inheritance, tc.
But at the sametime,each concept in it is 'known to Penman', in the sensethat it is possible to state for each concept in the UM thefragments of gran~matical or lexical realization that will beused to realize it (Bateman et al 1990:5).However, the section of the UM corresponding to nounsenses seems surprisingly small for this task - at least, asdescribed in Bateman et al1990.
It con, tains just over 30categories (half being specialised within spatial-temporal').The idea is that these are 'common core' concepts and thatusers of the UM will add to these as required.6 (It isinteresting to compare these with the early semanticCOMMUNAL categories, ummarized in Section 5.
)In Penman, then, the ontological categories mapdirectly to (1)grammatically realizedoptions in the systemnetwork, and (2) the standard lexicon.
The job does getdone.
But the great advantage of a SFG - namely that itcan equally easily capture generalisations across large andsmall classes (including one-member classes) - is not ex-ploited.
Thus Penman fails to utilize the many advantagesof a fully integrated semantic network that provides fordirect andintegrated realizations in grammar and lexis (andindeed also in intonation or punctuataon).At the time when it was developed, in the very early80s, Penman was a pioneering breakthrough.
Its influencehas changed the face of NLG.
But the fact remains that itdoes not contain a lexicogrammar, in the SFG sense - just agrammar.
The historic significance of Penman must notdistract us from recognising that it has not yet explored Hal-liday s original proposal to integrate grammar and lexis inone great net-work.
Yet this, as we in COMMUNAL havefound, is a concept which - with the important modificationthat we do not restrict lexical meanings to the 'mostdelicate' parts of the network - brings enormous advantagesof power and flexibility to the modelling of language.4.5 Alternative research strategiesIf one's goals are (1) to build a SFG generator and (2) torelate it out to a representation of those ontologicalrelation, s required for reasoning, the following questionarises: Is it (a) necessary and (b) desirable to have twoseparate layers of network, representing (1) the semanticstratum within language and (2) the ontological relations inthe belief system?
'There are two research routes that may lead to a soundanswer.
The first is to try having just one layer of network,and then to move on to two it it turns out to be desirable ornecessary.
The second route to an answer is to start withtwo networks, one for each level, and then, if there turnsout to be inadequate motivation for maintaining two, toabandon one or conflate/he two of/hem.
In effect, Penmanhad the first strategy forced upon them, while we inCOMMUNAl_, have followed the second.
As we consideredthe purposes - and so the desirable structural characteristics -of the two potential components, it became increasinglyclear that there are advantages in including them both.The next two sections therefore set out the purposes andconsequent s ructural organisation of (1) the system networkfor noun senses currently being implemented on a very largescale in COMMUNAL, and (2) the ontological aspects ofthe matchingpart of the belief system.
While the discuss-ion is naturally exemplified from the COMMUNAL Pro-ject, the principles are of general relevance to any researcherworking m/his,area.
H, ere we shall restrict ourselves to thecore area of objects, including abstract and event-likeobjects, i.e.
that part of the belief system that correspondsto the senses of nouns.5 Thepurposes  and  s t ructure  of  a sys tem net-work  fo r  noun  senses5.1 The purposes of a system network for noun sensesMy work in linguistics and NLP over the last couple ofdecades has taught me that one of the most importantlessons to learn, when trying to model language, is:DO NOT TRY TO DO TOO MUCH WORK AT ANY ONE LEVEL.Thus the key to modelling language successfully is to havea sufficiently holistic theory and, to be able to recognize theappropriate l vel - or component - at which each particulartype of work should be done.Once one commits oneself to having a separatecomponent o handle reasoning (includingproperty inherit-ance, etc) that is OUTSIDE LANGUAGE(even though, asI have always insisted, its internal structures are stronglyINFLUENCED by language), then it becomes immediatelyclear that the system networks inside the language systemare NOT in fact well-suited for use in reasoning.
The reasonfor this is very simple: the design features that are requiredin the structure of-the relevant parts of the network aredifferent from the design features required for ontologies.So what are the purposes of /h is  part of the systemnetwork?
Its primarypurpose is very simple.
Just as thewell known systems for transitivity, mood, and theme, etcgenerate clauses, so it is the purpose of this network togenerate the nouns which will expound the heads ofnominal groups.7 There is an important subsidiary purposefor those, noun senses to which participant roles (argumentstructure to some) are attached-, i.e.
as with verb senses;compare the roles attached to die and death, to ascend andascent, etc, but we cannot discuss these here.
The othersubsidiary purposes will be introduced in considering whythe structure should have the form proposed below.5.2 The structure of a system network for noun sensesWhat, then, should the internal structure of a systemnetwork for generatino_ nouns be like?
The answers givenhere are derived from t~e experience of developing very full747th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994sub-networks for large areas of the network for the 'culturalclassification' of Ythings' in English - i.e.
for theclassification of objects provided by the noun senses ofEnglish.
As an indication of the co, verage, ,consider thefairly well-developed sub-network for artefacts that are forhuman consumption' (i.e.
food and drink): it has 137systems and it generates 330 noun senses.
Another quitewell-developed area is that of plants, where there are 130systems that generate 246 noun senses.
(This reflects alayman's taxonomy of different trees and flowers; aspecialist could well have three to s!x times as many.)
Anarea currently under development, use of land, includes'built up area', 'countryside, 'for_trav~lin-g', 'for_recrea-tion',-'w~teland' and 'for_dividing_land, and it has so far135 sub-systems, generating 370 noun senses.
Many otherareas are of similar size?We can give some idea of the overall taxonomicstructure,by say!ng that 'use_of l,and' is one of fourteentypes of artefact.
The substantial (see below) features inthe first few systems ,are as follows (where a system isrepresented as x -> y/z ): thing -> physical_thing / abstractthing / event thing; physical thing -> living thing / nonliving_thing;-living_thlng -~7 plant / creatu~; creature->human_cr / non_human_cr; human_cr -> individual_hum /group hum; non living thing -> thing_as object/general_physTcal_phenoTnenon7 thing_as_substanCe; thing_as ob-ject -> artefact / natural object; general physical phen-omenon r> energy / weatffer / colour; eve~_thing -5 event_as_process / complex_event.
The network is already verylarge, and it is growing all the time.What, then, are the pri,nciples on which it is construct-ed?
The simplest 'network for the noun senses of Englishwould consist of just one large system, containing one longlist of the noun senses, each realized by a noun form - i.e.
asingle, massive system.
Why not do this?
The mainlinguistic evidence is the existence of hyponymic andcontrastive relations between words - or more strictly,between word senses.
Thus the word-form cat  is ahyponym of mammal ,  because the ,meaning, 'cat' issystemically dependent on the meaning mammal'.
And asystem network is equally appropriate for giving formalexpression to another major type of relationship betweenwords, e.g.
as specified in stand~d works on semantics suchas Lyons 1977: that of 'contrast; the sense of dog is incontrast with that of cat The evidence that such hypon~/micand contrastive relations are anc,hored ,firmly withinlanguage - and not simply in some higher component ofthe behef system, is the existence at the level oi ~ form ofnouns such as thing, object, animal, mammal, person, etc;see the note on the as such type of feature in 5.5.The overall structure is therefore taxonomic.
Within?
t c r  ?
?
i ?
?
this framework, we turn now to a ~mdehne cntermn thatderives directly from the practical experience of buildingontologies.Our experience in COMMUNAL suggests that it isadvisable to avoid s, imultaneous entry conditions, i.e.
right-opening curly 'and brackets.
Here Dahlgren's point aboutovergeneration (4.3 above) DOES apply.
(We shall meet heformalism when we consider ontological relations inSection 6, because in that type of network they do have arole to play.)
Theproblem in generation is that suchparallel systems lead to parallel pathways through thenetwork, and so, almost inevitably, to permitting more co-selections than are in f,act possible.
For example, thedistinction between 'male and'female' is realized lexicallyin the case of only some animals.
In COMMUNAL wesimply allow the repetition of such systems, or gather therelevant features together into a disjunctive ntry condition(as in Figure 2), whichever is easier in practical terms forthe maintenance of the network as it is expanded.
The keypoint is that, if a network designed to generate nouns allowsone to go downpathways - and so to choose a set offeatures - FOR WHICH THERE IS NO REALIZATION, itis a bad system network.9 (But note that, while simultan-eity tends to lead to problems in networks for lexis, it has avaluable role in modelling (ammatically-realized meanings -and, as we shall see in Section 6, ontological relations.
)The large network for noun senses in COMMUNALtherefore has essentially the structure illustra,ted, in Figure 1.Neutrally, this structure can be described as: If a' then 'b' or'c'., ,M. ore typically, in a SFG framework, we express it as:'If a is chosen (by a speaker or a computer generator) theneither 'b' or 'c' must be chosen.'
Each feature may becomethe entry condition to a subsequent system, thus buildingup a ,s~,stem,network, so it might cog, tl,nue: 'If 'b' is chosen,then d' or 'e must be chosen, and if c is chosen then f or'g' or 'h' must be chosen .... ' and so on.Ii f I:Figure 1" A simple system networkHowever, there is one type of complex entry conditionwhich we have found to be occasionally useful in thenetwork for noun senses: the disjunctive ntry condition.This has the form shown in Figure 2:dc \[:IiFigure 2: A disjunctive ntry conditionHere is a (simplified) example of this phenomen,,on,,from thecurrent network (where "/" signals or' and -> signals'entry to a system'):tomato_plant_c / pepper plant_c / cucumber plant c /strawberry_plant_c ->95% plantness_explicit (66.325)5% plantness_implicit.This representation of a system network ( in theCOMMUNAL format) is to be read as follows:'If you select either 'tomato plant', etc (whic,h come fromthe ve etable sectmn of the ~,round crops network)or, d~ v ?
- -  o ?
v strawberry_plant (which comes from the fruit sub-net,work), then there is a choice between having the conceptof plantness' made specific and leaving it implicit.'
So, ifthe choice is to make it explicit, forms such as tomato-plant will be generated, an, d, if implicit, forms such astomato - but in the gardeners sense of 'tomato plant, as inl've watered the tomatoes this morning.Another valuable characteristic of the COMMUNALsystem networks is the use of probabilities.
As ,you cansee, the weighting is 95% to 5% towards explicit (unlessthis is overruled by the discourse planner).
The reason forthis strong weighting is that there is another type of object757th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994that is commonly referred to by the same word-form,namely the fruit of the tomato plant.
(The choice of'plantness explicit' triggers Realisation Rule 66.325, whichadds to the head of the nominal group the item plant.
)A third criterion used in constructing the network relatesto its value in specifying what in Chomskyan linguisticsare termed 'selectiona\] restrictions'.
Some might wish toargue that these really belong in the belief system ratherthan in language itself.
However, it turns out that it isquite simple, i f  one constructs the network on appropriatecriteria, to enable very many of the types of restriction thatit was hoped to capture in transformational models of the1960s and 1970s to be captured in a system functionalgrammar.
Moreover, since we use probabilities in thegrammar in any case (for purposes that we cannot go intohere), we can ,capture selection restrictions as relativelystrong or weak preferences'.
Thus there seems to be no reas-on why we should not c.apture such phenomena in both thesys tem network within language and in the be l ie fsys tem.
If we can do this, it brings the advantage, whenTESTING the system, that the lanzua~e comoonents can beun independently of the behef system.
They can be set togenerate sentences randomly as we test the lexicogrammar,and still generate sentences that sound fairly plausible.10The way this works is, in outline form, as follows.Suppose we have just generated a clause, with an Agent asSubject and ask as the main verb.
We want to restrict hechoices when the network is re-entered, so that, if a nominalgAroup with a noun at its head is to be genemt~ to fill thegent, it will have one that is plausible as an asker.
Wedo this by specifying that, on re-entry to the network, thefollowing features are chosen: \[thing, concrete, living,creature, 99.9% human / 0.1% non_human, whole_hum,99% individual_hum / 1% group_hum\].
,At two points,you will notice, there is not an absolute preselection' ofjust one of the features in the system, but a preference forone over another.
Thus the feature \[human\] Is shown to bea thousand times more probable than \[non_human\] - thusallowing for talking computers and talking animals, such asthe white rabbit in Alice in Wonderland.
Rather similarly,individual humans are shown as being a thousand timesmore likely to be the Agents in a process of 'asking' thanare groups of humans - though groups, such as acommittee, may well ask questions on occasions.We turn now to an important issue that arises as aresult of taking this position, and we shall illustrate it firstfrom English.5.3 Problem case 1: the 'count' versus 'mass' contrastOne important effect of deciding to organize the networkaround meanings (rather than around grammatical correlates,of wor, d forms) is to put in perspective the contrast between?
count and 'mass' noun senses that is so dominant inEnglish (and many other European languages).
If, forexample, we are stating preferences for the Affected entity ina process of 'eating', it is not important whether what iseaten is mass or count.
The COMMUNAL network for foodclassifies types of food on semantic riteria - so that, forexample, vegetables that typically occur with ,a meat courseare placed together, with the mass noun sense cabbage' nextto the count noun senses of 'potato' or 'pea'.
Moreover, thenetwork also includes a way of showing that, while potato'occurs regularly as either singular or plural, it is ratherunusual, to talk of a single pea.
The result is that thesystem, knows that it is a tho, usand times more likely that"peas will be generated than pea'.
(Note that the systemnetworks in COMMUNAL not only have probabilities, butthe grammar can chan,~e these when required.
For a moredetailed account of t~is, together with a full workedexample, see Fawcett, Tucker and Lin 1993.
)raowever, there is not in fact a neat 'count' versus 'mass'distinction in English at all.
It is one of those useful gener-alisations which hold for 95% of the time, but which, ifone commits oneself to it, leads to considerable troublewhen the idea is extended to the whole of langua,~e.
It iscertainly not a category that can be extended, on thgbasis ofa system network for English, even to a close European!anguag,e such as French.
The illogicality - in physicalnumber terms - of items such as furniture and cutlery isjust the well-known visible tip of quite a large iceberg.First, note the 'plural-only' nouns, such as police, staff andcontents.
Theft there are the 'plural-prefern'ng' items,--withvarying strengths of preference, as for example betwee,n peaana sprout, and pebble and leaf.
There are also the pair-only' nouns such as trousers, scissors, and binoculars - and,even though the word denotes two garments, of which onlythe bottom half conforms to the pattern, there is pyjamas.As an example of the dissonance within one relativel3; smal!semantic field between the grammatical criterion of 'numberand the semantic lassification of noun senses, consider thefield of clothing.
Suppose the problem is that of stating thepreferences for the entity that is to complete a clause suchas He went home and put on .....
It could be a nominalgroup with, at its head, (1) a mass noun such as some warmclothing, or (2) a plural-only noun as in some warmclothes, or (3) a singular noun such as a warm jersey, or (4)a pair-only noun such as some warm trousers.The COMMUNAL solution to this problem is asfollows.
Every feature in the syste, m, network fo, r whichthere is a realization is given a suffix c (for 'count thinzs)or ~_m' (for 'mass' things,) or '_pl' (fo~ plural only' thinks)or _pair' (for pair only' things).
Those labelled' c' leadinto the system for NUMBER, where there is achoicebetween \[singular\] and \[plural\], while for the others there isno choice: they are either \[mass\] or \[plural\].
Those forwhich a RELATIVE preference for \[plural\] has been statedwill enter a version oT the NUMBER system for which theprobabilities have been re-set according to the strength ofthe preference associated with than noun sense, i.e.
thelexicogrammar ,'knows' that for 'pea' the probabilities ofchoosing 'plural are very much greater than for 'cabbaze'.Consider too the question of where to place th~ twosenses - realized as count and mass nouns - of cloud.
In thiscase the differences between the two appear to derive mainlyfrom the fact that one is an individual entity and the other isa non-discrete mass of 'stuff; they are not differentiated byfunction.
So the system network shows them to bedistinguished as follows:cloud-> cloud as individual/cloud as mass.Notice that this is a rather different matter from 'oak' as'individual' and as 'mass'; in the first case the referent is atree (with oak-tree as a possible variant, if 'treeness explicit'is selected), and it is located with the rest of the tr-eegas auP e of plant, while in its other sense it is a material whose nction is to be used for making things, and it is locatedwith other types of wood, fairly cose to 'iron', etc.In the COMMUNAL system it is even possible tobuild in the preference for meanings realized in expressionssuch as a pair, followed by of, as in a pair o f  trousers.
Thisis because trousers rather thanpair  is treated as the head ofthe nominal group.
The words a pair are generated as aspecial nominal group expressing 'quantity' that fills thequantifying determiner.
It is because the noun sense of thenominal .qroup is generated on the first pass through thenetwork ~or the object i.n question - I.e.
because thelexically realized meaning is integrated with thegrammatically realized meaning in C ONIMUNAL- that partof the realization of the choice of trousers' can be toexpress a preference for the way in which the auantifvin,~determiner is filled - here by the embedded nominal grou'p o-fa parr.Thus the COMMUNAL way of handlinz these variousaspects of 'number' in English can reflect-accurately the767th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994true, complex nature of 'number' and 'quantity' in English,while at the same time maintaining the semantic relation-ships of hyl~onymy and contrast in the network, and somaking possible the expression of preferences.5.4 Problem case 2: long thin things and other such gram-matically realized categoriesThe issue is in fact much wider than that of whether'count' vs. 'mass' should be a primary distinction in Englishand related !anguages.
How strong a candidate it is for ageneralized interlingua' ontology that is to accommodate allthe languages of the world?
Consider Chinese, with itswell-known classifier system, in which the mass-countdistinction plays no part.
Then think about Swahili, withits ki- vi- class of non-living things, its m- wa- class forhumans, its u- class for abstract things, etc.
Japanese, as ithappens, has a special set of cardinal determiners, whoseform depends on the semantic class of the noun: i.e.whether the object is human or a small thing or even, itwould seem, a long thin thing.
Thus, "if the thingconcerned is a flower (hana), a tree (ki), a pen (pen), apencil (enpitsu) or a,rive, r (kawa) - all longthin things - thedeterminer meaning one will be ippon.
But if the thing isa human it is hitori, and if a non-human creature it is ipipi -and so on, for many more classes of thing and for manymore cardinal determiners.
The semantic generalisation thatunites those things that require ippon appears to be simplythat they are all "long thin things'.
If this seems trange tothe investigator f om a European background, consider howodd it must seem to the investigator of English fromoutside Europe who finds that, in English and relatedlanguages, there exists a basic distinction which affectsmany aspects of the semantics and syntax of the nominalgroup, between things that are and  things that are not'countable'.However, it must be emphasised again that, importantas the distinction is at many points, it is not the basicorganising p.rinciple of the semantics of English nounsenses.
While there is, of course, a distinction between'substances' and 'objects' in the taxonomy implied in theCOMMUNAL network, and while all substances are 'mass',it is not the case that all 'objects' are 'count' - as we saw insection 5.3.In COMMUNAL, then, our semantic system networkgives no weight to grammatically realized contrasts uch ascount' versus 'mass', and we use instead the semanticcriteria such as those that help us to state the preferencesassociated with a given participant role such as agent.Is there a price to be paid for all of the advantagesoutlined in the, preceding sections?
The answer seems to bethat there isn t. I f  the mechanism for handling NUMBERin a way that is dependent on noun senses (in 5.3) requiredone to work from a visual representation f the wiring, itwould be tedious in the extreme But in the computer it ~s asimple matter - and this has in turn suggested a simplerepresentation for the written version.5.5 'Special features' in the system networkIn a full system network for nou, n senses, the relationsbetween features are not all of the subcategorization typethat the systemic notation typically signifies.
Theextensive work that has been done in COMMUNAL overthe ,last few years has produced asmall set of supplementary(or special ),features whose function is to express relationsbetween the substantial' features that represent noun senses.In principle, all of those shown in Figure 3 can occurbetween any two substantive f atures.
Here, then, 'x' standsfor a feature such as 'human', and 'a', 'b' and 'c' are the next'substantive' features.
Possible realizations of the selectionof the feature (in some cases in features dependent onsubstantive f atures) are given in Figure 3.X~F x_as_such- whole x-- 1- t_ x_specified I-part_of xgroup_of_xE!(e.g.
person)(e.g.
adult)(e.g.
adolescent)(e.g.
child)(e.g.
hand)(e.g.
committee)Figure 3: Some types of features that are not related by 'be-type'relations'Substantive' features are those that translate types ofobject in the belief system.
In most cases none, or onlyone, of the special features are needed bet w, een substantivefeatures.
Note in particular the 'xas-such feature.
Thisprovides for the generation of those nouns that are used forIexical substituUon such as thing, stuff and, more delic-ately, plant and animal.
It is the existence of such formsthat provides the evidence that such less delicate meaningsexist in natural languages, and that the intra-linguistic levelof semantics does indeed require a network for it to beadequately represented.There are possible variations of the feature \[xspecified\]which it is important o note.
The type of specificationmay be spelled out more fully, with a feature correspondingto each type that leads to its own dependent network.
Thusin some cases (such as \[human\]) we may find Ix_as_such\]vs. Ix_specified_by_form\] vs. Ix_specified by_role\].The somewhat dense description given above is intendedto give the flavour of the criteria that are guiding theconstruction of the very large system network for nounsenses in COMMUNAL.There is one last benefit hat this approach brings.
It isa practical rather than a theoretical one.
This is that theprocess of constructing the network, and so of decidingwhich types of 'special feature' are needed, goes some wayin preparing the ground for constructing the equivalentontological aspects of the belief system.
And it is this towhich we now turn.6 The purposes and structure of the ontologicalaspects of a belief system6.1 The purposes of an ontologyWhat are ontologies for?
They are as they are, ofcourse, because of the functions that they are required toperform.
In the case of an ontology, the purpose is NOT torepresent the meanings of the nouns of a language, but tofacilitate reasoning.
Thus lexically prominent registerdistinctions uch as that between fag and cigarette would bemodelled as de,noting t,he same generic object, and soshare the same concept.
This is because the same eventsOr 'propositions') are attached to it, whatever degree ofrmality is selected in the TENOR system.
It is the latterthat requires recognition in the belief system, and not adifference of concept.Ontologies are used in two principal ways, the secondbeinz deoendent on the first.
The first is for the type ofreaso-nin~known as enta i lment  (see, for example, Leech1969 and 1974/81).
Through entailment a reasoner caninfer from the belief (or proposition) that Object 79 is amember of the set, of objects denoted by the form dog (andby the sense 'dog) that it is also a member of the set ofobjects to which the sense 'mammal' pertains.
In layman'slan_oua2e, A dog is a mammal.
The crucial point Is that,typl~caffy, the directionality of the reasoning is fromthe more delicate category to the less delicate.
For examp!e,in terms of Figure 4 below, if an object is 'd' it is also b'777th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
Jmae 21-24, 1994and 'a'.
This directionality is of course different from thetypical use of a system network in generation.The second main use of ontologies is an extension ofthis.
It is for the inher i tance of what are commonlycalled 'properties'.
(However, as we shall see, the term'oroperty' is potentially misleading).
Thus, if such'iarop'erti'es' are attached to a category at one node of theontology, they can then be assumed to hold for any givenobject to which a logically dependent category applies., So,if we build into a belief system the proposition that landmammals typically have four limbs', then we can infer that,because a dog is a land mammal, it too typically has fourlimbs - and so on.
(More strictly, as we shall shortly see,the relationship is between the generic thing that corres-ponds to that node; in the COMMUNAL model of logicdogs is a referring expression as much as is this dog.
)These types of entailment-based reasoning areimportant.
But it is equally important o recognize thatthey are only one of a variety of types of reasoning that areregularly used in real life situations.
Moreover, the conceptthat all such beliefs about categories of object are handledby inheritance is not a matter that is entirely beyonddlspute; It is arguable, for example, that the category ofhuman is so prominent in our perception of the world thatwe build sets of beliefs around it - andthat we do not use anontolo,qical structure in order to inherit, every time that werefer tGa human, all of the many propositions that relate tothe many other, ever more general, categories that aresuperordmate to 'human' - such as 'mammal', creature','living' and 'concrete'.
And, once one allows for thispossil~ility, -there is no clear way of knowing where to stop.There may be many such nodes that laave attached to themlarge sets of beliefs (or 'propositions ) that are held by thesystem, and which may indeed involve the redundantrepetition of beliefs that are attached to less delicateconcepts.
Who can say whether it is more economical (ormore ele_~ant more efficient, or whatever) to store a large(but not l~fir~ite) set of propositions many times over at tilevarious nodes where they are most often needed - the basictypes', in the terms of Rosch (1978) - or to store each ofthem just once but to have to perform a multiple act ofentailment reasoning, involving multiple searches backdown the tree, every time one u,ses the belief that a dogneeds air to breath, or is a 'creature, or is a 'concrete' object?A particular dog-lover, for example, may have his/her set ofprimary beliefs about spaniels attached to 'spaniel', ratherthan to 'dog', and so on (cp.
Reiter and Dale 1992).
In otherwords, while we are undoubtedly capable of performing thequite complex type of reasoning involved in inheritance, itmay be that it is not the backbone of all reasoning that ithas sometimes been assumed to be.The ar_oument is not that inheritance has no place in ourreasoning,'but (1) that it may have a much less central placethan has generally been supposed, and (2) that other types ofreasoning are probably equally or mo, re important.
Abeliefsystem of the type assumed here is object-oriented in thesense that it consists of a vast number of spec i f i cobjects and generic objects (with each of the formerlinked by a 'be-an-instance-of relationship to one or more ofthe latter) such that one of the many things that the systembelieves about any generic object is what other genericobject - or objects - that generic object is itself a type of.In the above discussion, we have been assuming that weare considerin,~ generic objects, e.g.
cats in general.
Iassume that t~ere would be general agreement that therelationship between 'mammal' and 'cat' is what we mightterm a 'be-a-type-of relationship, while that between aspecific instance of a cat, such as our family cat Timmy, isa 'be-an-instance-of relationship.
Specific objects are relat-ed to concepts via the belief that 'Timmy is an instance of acat'.
In other words, we need to distinguish between (1)'Timmy is a cat' and (2) 'Cats are mammals.I suggested earlier that the use of the term 'properties' torefer to the 'propositions' attached to categones can be mis-leading.
Consider the simplest mod, el of ,what 'properties'shouldbe attached to categories (the frame approach).
Allthere is space to say here is that there are clearly limitationsas to what can be expressed in such limited structures, and,like others, we in COMMUNAL are exploring richeralternatives.
In our case we are experimenting with aspecially developed logical form for the representation fboth (I) complex beliefs about, say, the mating habits ofdogs, and (2) the belief that dogs are mammals - and indeedthe belief that dogs are typically pets ('multipleinheritance').The purpose of ontological relations, then, is to facil-itate reasoning.
But our prediction is that in future therewill be less emphasis on inheritance and more on otherlogical relationships.
Given these purposes, we turn nowto the question of the structure of ontologies.6.2 The structure of ontologiesThere seems to be a general agreement that an ontologyhas the general form of a taxonomy' or 'hierarchy' (in onesense of that overused term) or 'tree (which is equal!.y over-used).
The type of 'tree' required here is thus a paradigmatictree (rather as is a system network) where, in the simplestmodel, a pathway that consists of a list of features chosenas one traverses the network corresponds to any one (as p,ectof) an object.
In t h,e simplest ype of taxonomy, then, a issubcategofized as b or 'c ~, 'b' as' d' or 'e', 'c' as 'f, 'g' or 'h',and so on; see Figure 4.da ~  b ~ e f.hFigure 4 : Relations in the simplest ype of ontologySuch a network show, s that, if an object satisfies the con-ditions for being an h ,it follows that it is also a 'c', and soalso an a'.
So far, this structure is similar to the simplesttype of system network, as ,shown in Figure 1.This simplest structure for an ontology is in practiceau,~mented in various ways in all of the ontologies that Ikn~w of.
The essential addition is as in Figure 5:h jkde 1f mFigure 5: Simultaneity in ontological relationshipsThis is to be read as, 'a' is subcategorized as 'b', 'c' or'd', and also as 'e' or 'f; 'b' is s, ubcategonzed as 'g' or 'h', and'd' as T, 'j' or 'k', and also as i or m.Here the right-opening curly brackets do NOT signifythat you must follow all the designated paths, as they wouldin a system network - because this type of network isdesig.ned to be used from right to left, for the types ofentadment and inheritance outlined above.Dahlgren (1988:46f.)
discusses the mathematical787th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24; 1994properties of ontologies, and she quite rightly points outthat, while binary ontologies 'have simplifying math-ematical properties, they are not likely to be .psycho-logically reap (e.g.
suggesting that we operate with 'fish'vs.
'bird' vs. 'mammal', etc).
She also points out the needfor cross-classification, i  that we classify animals, let ussay, both in terms of their 'types' (a concept hat itself needsto be unpacked, at least for some purposes), but a!so interms of their 'role' in humankind s scheme of things ( tame'vs.
'wild' animals, probably with other such subcategoriesas well)?
Thus Dahlgren and others operate with theformalism shown in Figure 5.In the cases of other ontologies there is even more free-dom, in that any feature can be linked by a line thatrepresents a 'be-type' relationship to any feature to its left.And in some ontolbgies, of course, other relationships suchas 'be-a-part-of' are used.However, there is an important sense in which theabove diagrams are misleading - at least in relation to thecurrent COMMUNAL framework.
This is because weconsider that the relations do not hold, in fact, between the'concepts' in the ontolo~ies, but between generic obiects.The relationship that we"have shown in Figures 4 and5 bya line can also be expressed by the following:e (el 11, \[ca:o222, pr:bejype, at:o333\]).o(o222, \[cc:dog, qt:all\]).0(0333, \[cc: mammal\])?This, states that event no.
111 has a carrier (a 'participantrole), which is object no.
222, a predicate, which is'be_type', and an attribute (another participant role), which!s objectno.
333?
Object 222 is then defined as the class ofO" " " " ' ' all do=s, while object no.
333 is defined as mammals.There are several aspects of the meaning of thisrepresentation f a belief which are assigned by default -,most importantly, that the time position of the event ispast, present and future', that the' 'confidence l vel' is sohigh as to be interpretable as 100% confident'.
Takentogether, they state, m a natural anguage translation: Alldogs are mammals.This event-based representation is used in order toenable the system to carry out reasoning on inputs to andoutputs from the system that have the sorts of annoyinglymessy complexity associated with natural language -representations of time position, usuality and quantification,for example?
In the belief systems of the future it will nolonger be possible, in our view, to depend on simple datastructures uch as frames.
The need to incorporate moresophisticated representations of time, of modality and ofother such phenomena related to events demands thatinfor,mation be stored in the form of some type of 'predicatelogic, e.g.
as in the (simplified) example above?The key point is that the representation, like theminimal operational syntactic unit otthe clause, is based onthe concept of an EVENT (our equivalent term to 'propos-ition' and 'eventuality' in other frameworks).
It uses categ-ories that reflect idealised aspects of systemic functionalgrammar, so it is a 'systemic functional logical form'(SFLF).Note, finally, that the relationship that it expresses iNOT one that holds between two concepts, but between tworeferring expressions, each with its SFLF structure, andeach of which refers to a generic object?To adopt this position leads to a reappraisal of thestatus of dmgrams representing ontological relationshipssuch as those in Figures 4 and 5.
Those relations are, mthe approach advocated here, simply one event type amongmany within the mass of belief, s that the system holdsabout dogs?
In other words, the fact' (i.e.
the confidentlyheld belief) that dogs are mammals is just one of manythings that the system assumes that it 'knows' about thegeneric object of 'dogs.7 Summary and conclusionsThe COMMUNAL Project (Fawcett, Tucker and Lin1993) has demonstrated the immense advantages that followfrom having a unified system network for all meanings,whether reafized grammatically or lexically.
Thus Hallida~'soriginal 1961 insight was well-founded, the only majormodification eeded being that lexically realized meaningsare not necessarily most delicate', in the sense of 'at or nearthe terminal eaves of the system network.
(Meaningsrealized in intonation should similarly be integrated into theoverall network, and the way in which thls is done inCOMMUNAL is described in Fawcett 1980.)
In otherapproaches ome equivalent intralinguistic level of'linguistic meaning' would surely be of similar value,It would be interesting to compare the COMMUNAL'division of labour in modelling lexical meaning with othercurrent proposals, such as those of Reiter and Pustejovsky,but that is beyond the scope of this paper.
What is clear isthat information about the purposes oil entities, how theycome into being, etc is all handled through events attachedto the equivalent genetic object in the belief system?The two types of network - the system network of nounsenses and the ontological relations in the belief system -serve different purposes.
One is to generate nouns (and tocontrol relateOstructures such as those associated withparticipant roles) and the other is to facilitate reasoning.
Inthe first it isprefer,able toavoid right-opening brackets - butin the second such cross-classifications' (or their equivalents?
I ' 0 "  " " m an event-based lo=lcal form) are wtal to certain types ofreasoning?
Since the two structures serve differentfunctions, both have their place in a holistic model oflanguage.
(I say 'structures, because it is probably unhelp-ful, in the new framework, to think of the e, quivalen, ts ofontological relations in the belief system as a network .
)In the previous section we have seen how theCOMMUNAL Project has begun to develop a new way ofrepresenting - and so thinking about - the relations found instandard ontologies.
Since these are now seen as a part ofthe belief system, the suggestion !s that we no longer needto think in terms of 'an ontology, in the sense of a taxo-nomy of 'concepts' - but rather in terms of relations betweengenetic objects.
We think that these fit more naturally intothe more complex, event-based reasoning that we judge willbe needed for the systems of the future?
So perhaps there isno such thing as an ontology, but instead a set otmutuallyreferrin,2 beliefs, each represented asan event?If tKis approach is on the right lines, or even if it isonly partly on the ri,2ht lines, it is time to be moving on tothe exploration of t~e next generation of belief systems.These will make different assumptions about the nature ofthe relationship of word forms to word senses, and wordsenses to the related aspects of the belie, f system - andperhaps too about he nature of 'ontological relations.Notes!
The research reported here was supported by grants fromDRA Malvem (under contract no.
ER1/9/4/2181/23), from theUniversity Research Council of International Computers Ltd,and from Longman, and by the University of Wales, Cardiff.
Iam grateful to my colleagues Gordon Tucker, Yuen Lin andUlrich Gysel for the many useful discussions which havecontributed to the emergence of the view presented here.
Themain debt is to Gordon Tucker; together we have hammered outthe sense in which we now interpret Halliday's originalchallenging concept of 'lexis as most delicate grammar'?
I amalso grateful to the three anonymous reviewers of this paper;the remaining infelicities being, as always, the author's.2 The term 'typic' has been used in preference to 'generic' i nsome of our earlier writings because we could give to this newterm a has a clear definition - leaving 'generic' for 'generic (=797th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994genre) structure'.
Here 'genetic' will serve equally well.3 The fact that Leech could not propose a workable way tomap the structures of language onto those that he inherited fromstandard logic is significant, but he can hardly be censured forfailing to solve a problem that has also defeated all others whohave attempted it.4 There are occasions in natural anguage processing when itmay be desirable and/or necessary to use system networks byworking from right to left, e.g.
as proposed (1) by Patten(1988) for some aspects of generation and (2) by O'Donoghue(1994) for the higher stages of parsing.
But these areadaptations of the central concept for specific purposes, andthey do not affect the main point that system networks aredesigned to be used in generation, working from left to right.5 While Dahlgren has only 57 'category cuts', some of herterminal nodes such as 'animal' bring together a number ofthese and then lead off into further subsystems - and soeffectively to further 'terminal nodes', such as 'vertebrate' vs,non-vertebrate', and then 'mammal' vs. 'bird' vs.'fish'.
Thusthere are in practice a few more than 57 'terminal nodes'.
Butthis does not affect the more general point being made here.6 Our experience in COMMUNAL- working at both thesemantic and the belief system levels - suggests that thedevelopment of even quite delicate areas of the network raisesproblems requiring a high level of expertise and experience fora satisfactory solution, and we believe that this experience ismirrored elsewhere.
One can foresee that clients might be wiseto subcontract the work of ontology-building back to thePenman team.7 Contrary to what is still a quite widespread assumption,there is no.need for a separate network from that for thenominal group to deal with the rank of the word; the nouns atthe head of a nominal group are simply the realization of onepart of its meaning (see Fawcett, Tucker and Lin 1993).8 These have ontological equivalents in the COMMUNALbelief system, so that interested persons may wish to comparethis slicing of the universe of objects with those assumed forother ontologies.
It would be an interesting exercise to get thecreators of alternative taxonomies to explain their reasons forforegrounding their primary distinctions.9 A pseudo-remedy that some systemicists use is to addcomplex wiring that prevents the realization of all but thosecombinations of features for which there is a realization (e.g.
'dog' plus 'female' but not 'hare' plus 'female').
But this to try tocorrect poor systemic modelling at too late a stage; it is thetask of a system network to constrain possible co-selections.l0  The random generation of sentences is frowned upon bysome NLG researchers, but it serves a valuable role indeveloping large generators, because it tests the availability ofthe lexicogrammatical resources, and so has a role in solvingthe 'expressibility' problem (Meteer 1992).ReferencesBateman, J.A., 1990.
'Upper modelling: organizing languagefor natural language processing'.
In Procs of 5thInternational Workshop on Natural Language Generation,Pittsburgh, pp.
54-61.Bateman, J.A., Kaspar, R.T., Moore, J.D., and Whitney, R.A..1990.
A General Organization of Knowledge for NaturalLanguage Processing:the Penman Upper Model.
TechnicalReport, USC/ISI Information Sciences Institute, Marina delRey, California.Berry, M., 1977.
Introduction to Systemic Linguistics, Vol 2:Levels and Links.
London: Batsford.Butler, C.S., 1985.
Systemic Linguistics: Theory and Applic-ation.
London: Batsford.Dahlgren, K, 1988.
Naive Semantics for Natural Language.Boston: Kluwer.Fawcett, R.P., 1973/81.
'Generating a sentence in systemicfunctional Grammar'.
University College London (mimeo).Reprinted in Halliday, M.A.K., and Martin, J.R., (eds.
)1981 , Readings in Systemic Linguistics.
Batsford, pp.146-83.Fawcett, R.P., 1980.
Cognitive Linguistics and SocialInteraction: Towards an Integrated Model of a SystemicFunctional Grammar and the Other Components of anInteracting Mind.
Heidelberg: Julius Groos.Fawcett, R.P., 1990.
'The computer generation of speech withsemantically and discoursally motivated intonation'.
InProcs of 5th International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Pittsburgh, pp.
164-73a.Fawcett, R.P., 1993.
'Language as program: a reassessment ofthe nature of descriptive linguistics'.
In Language Sciences14.4: pp.
623-57.Fawcett, R.P., 1994.
'A generationist approach to grammarreversibil ity in natural language processing'.
InStrzalkowski, T., (ed.
), Reversible Grammar in NaturalLanguage Generation., Dordrecht: Kluwer, pp.
365-413.Fawcett, R.P., Tucker, G.H., .and Lin, Y.Q., 1993.
'How asystemic functional grammar works: the role of realizationin realization'.
In Horacek, H., and Zock, M., (eds.
), 1993,New Concepts in Natural Language Generation, London:Pinter, pp.
114-86.Halliday, M.A.K., 1961.
'Categories of the theory of grammar'.In Word 17, pp.
241-92.Hasan, R., 1987.
'The grammarian's dream: lexis as mostdelicate grammar'.
In Halliday, M.A.K., and Fawcett, R.P.(eds.)
1987, New Developments in Systemic Linguistics,Vol 1: Theory and Description, London: Frances Pinter,pp.
184-211.Hovy, E.H., and Knight, K., 1993.
'Motivating sharedknowledge resources: an example from the PANGLOSScollaboration'.
In Proceedings of the IJCAI Workshop onShared Knowledge, Chambery, France.Hovy, E.H., and Nirenburg, S., 1992.
'Approximating aninterlingua in a principled way'.
In Proceedings of theDARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop,Hawthorne, NY.Knight, K., 1993.
'Building a large ontology for machinetranslation'.
In Proceedings of DARPA Human LanguageConference, March 1993.Leech, G.N., 1969.
Towards a Semantic Description ofEnglish.
London: Longman.Leech, G.N., 1974/81.
Semantics.
Harmondsworth: Penguin.Longman Group, 1978.
Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish.
London: Longman.Lyons, J., 1977.
Semantics (Vols 1 & 2).
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Matthiessen, C.M.I.M., and Bateman, J.A., 1991.
Text Genera-tion and Systemic Functional Linguistics.
London: Pinter.Meteer, M., 1992.
Expressibility and the Problem of EfficientText Planning.
London: Pinter.Miller, G., 1990.
'Wordnet: an on-line lexical database'.
InInternational Journal of Lexicography 3(4) (Special Issue).Nirenburg, S., and Defrise, C., 1992.
'Application-orientedcomputational semantics'.
In Johnson, R., and Johnson,M., (eds.)
Computational Linguistics and FormalSemantics.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.O'Donoghue, T.F., 1994.
'Semantic interpretation in asystemic grammar'.
In Strzalkowski, T., (ed.
), ReversibleGrammar in Natural Language Generation., Dordrecht:Kluwer, pp.
415-447.Patten, T., 1988.
Systemic Text Generation as ProblemSolving.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Reiter, E., and Dale, R., 1992.
'A fast algorithm for thegeneration of referring expressions'.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-92: 14th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (Nantes).
1992.
MorristownNJ: Bell Communications Research.Rosch, E., 1978.
'Principles of classification'.
In Rosch, E.,and Lloyd, B.B., (eds.).
Cognition and Categorization.New Jersey: Erlbaum.Winograd, T., 1972.
Understanding Natural Language.Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.80
