Towards the application of text generationin an integrated publication system*E lke  Te ich  and John  A.  BatemanInst i tute  for Integrated Publ icat ion and Informat ion Systems (GMD/ IPS I )German Nat ional  Research Centre for Informat ion Technology (GMD)Dolivostrat3e 15D-64293 Darmstadt ,  FRGe-mail:{ reich ,bateman} ~daxTastadt.
grad.
deAbst rac tWe describe the application of multilingual textgeneration i a system for assisting the processof publication.
This system is an editor's work-bench for preparation of the publication of anart history encyclopedia (the Macmillan Dic-tionary of Art), which is itself part of an in-tegrated pub!ication environment being devel-oped at GMD-IPSI.
We show how an editor'stasks can be facilitated by the use of NLP (nat-ural language processing) systems and suggestthe important role of text generation i futureelectronic publications as products.
In bothcases, we focus on text generation as providingan essential new mode of information presen-tation.
Text generation provides a quality gainin which the flexibility of the electronic productis augmented; in particular, views on knowl-edge expressed as text, possibly in different lan-guages are incorporated.
The major prerequi-site for making this possible is an explicit andsystematic representation f genres or text typescombined with a general interfacing method forspecific domain knowledge.1 Overv iew o f  the  paperThe function of this paper is two fold.
First, we presentan example of a new application area for text genera-tion: support ools for electronic publishing.
Second, weprovide a brief overview of a new generation architec-ture based closely on the 'stratified context' systemic-functional linguistic model of \[Martin, 1992\].
The aimof the latter introduction is primarily to promote discus-sion of this kind of architecture, since the details thatcan be presented in the space of this paper are neces-sarily limited.
The architecture is also highly experi-mental at this time.
The simultaneous presentation ofan application emphasizes the systemic-functional lin-*The research described in this paper was supported inpart by the European ESPRIT Basic Research Action DAN:DELION (EP6665) and by the US National Science Founda-tion Grant IRI-9003087.
John Bateman is also on indefiniteleave from the Penman Project, USC/ISI, Marina det Rey,Californiaguistic commitment to the inseparability of theory andpractise.The background context of the work reported hereis an electronic publishing support tool consisting of aworkbench for assisting the tasks of an editor involvedin the construction of a large encyclopedia of art his-tory, the Macmillan Dictionary of Art.
This editor'sworkbench \[MShr and Rostek, 1993, Rostek et at., 1994\]is part of an integrated publication environment, whichhas been used as a framework for the design of an elec-tronic newspaper \[Haake t al., 1993\].
We are currentlyinvolved in adding natural anguage processing capabil-ities to this system--including most relevantly for thispaper, multilingual text generation.
This is being usedboth to further the theoretical specification and practi-cal implementation f the text generation system and toenable us to concretely propose the application of textgeneration both in the electronically-assisted construc-tion of encyclopedic works and in the electronic versionof the electronic publication as product.In this paper, we concentrate particularly on the useof the text generation system in order to bring a newfunctionality to the editor's workbench.
The text gen-eration component supports a range of flexible presen-tation styles tailored to the editor's requirements.
Theapplicability of the text generation system is supportedby two crucial capabilities:* the knowledge of genres or text types, which aretaken to be the ultimate constraining factor for therealization of views on domain knowledge as text,* a methodology for building a generic interface todomain knowledge.We suggest how both these aspects have been stronglysupported by a version of the systemic-functional lin-guistic model employing a stratified view of context.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 presentsour view of the role of natural anguage processing inelectronic publication and introduces our applicationscenario.
We outline here the editor's workbench anddescribe the necessary application of NLP components,focussing on text generation.
We further show howthe specific linguistic paradigm we are working with,systemic-functional linguistics, supports the integratedpublication scenario.
Section 3.1 presents the text gen-eration component in more detail.
We argue that the1537th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994newly gained flexibility (views on domain knowledge x-pressed as text) can only be made possible in practiceif the genre of the text to be produced is explicitly rep-resented.
Section 4 gives an example of generation.
Weconclude the paper with a summary of the new oppor-tunities offered for electronic publishing and electronicand print publications when automatic text generationis made available in the way proposed (Section 5).2 Electronic publication and NLPElectronic publishing is an application domain in whichthe acquisition, representation and presentation ofknowledge are major tasks which are to be fulfilled byan editor.
State-of-the-art electronic publishing tech-nology offers a number of possibilities both to facilitatethese tasks and to improve on the quality of print andof electronic publications.
In publishing in general, thedocument or text plays a central role in that it is bothsource and product of the publication process.
Many ofthe tasks of an editor in this process are of a highly recur-sive character and are subject o a number of publisher-specific standards an editor must use.
For example, theheader of a biography text usually adheres to some spec-ified standard of what information must be included andat which place.
Typically, the header first gives the nameor pseudonym of the artist, then his/her place and dateof birth (an-d death), and possibly his/her main activity(painter, sculptor, architect etc).
Such highly standard-ized information is currently automatically classified intoa net of domain knowledge by applying pattern match-ing methods (see \[Rostek et at., 1994\] for examples andthe methods employed).The construction of a taxonomic inheritance hierar-chy that this allows already offers new opportunities foraccessing the information included and can be used toassist some of the above mentioned tasks of an editor.If, however, one would like to be able to apply thesemethods improving information access and assisting theeditor's tasks to other kinds of information that are lessstandardized, the question arises of how to acquire theseand integrate them in an object net.. For example, in abiography article, the typical information i cluded is theartist's education, influences on his/her work by otherartists and art styles, his/her major works etc.
This isinformation that can appear in any place in the text--or even in several texts--and can be realized linguisti-cally in various ways.
Extracting such information fromsource texts requires more sophisticated methods andrepresentations that reflect the facts contained in thesource text.
The most adequate way to acquire thisknowledge is automatic NL text analysis.For an example of how this enriches the informationrepresented in the object net see Figure 1, taking the ex-ample of the main activities and creations of the archi-tect Peter Behrens3 This is mostly a network obtainedby the KONTEXT analysis ystem for German \[Haenelt,1Domain-independent 'meaning model' (see below) upperstructure types are given in light grey ellipses; named, uniqueobjects and domain-specific objects are given in dark greyellipses; instances are given in boxes.:.~.~::~:'...
?-;~_~ , ,~r,~-..,.
:-~:-~:,~ .
.
.~ ~ j !
-~z~ _ ~- -~Figure h Knowledge acquired by NL text analysis1994\], although some nodes and arcs have been left outor duplicated here for presentation purposes.We assume that information of this kind and de-gree of complexity will become increasingly common inknowledge-based systems.
We also assume that sys-tems that previously worked with full-texts will increas-ingly become knowledge-based systems.
However, hav-ing made available such a rich variety of potentially rel-evant information i this way, the complementary prob-lem of presenting that information again to the user be-comes the limiting factor.
In our present case, the edi-tor's workbench already offers a number of presentationstyles for the information contained, such as the net orparts of the net (as shown in Figure 1, internal defini-tions associated with a node, article text associated witha node and cross-references toother objects, etc.
Repre-sentation of complex information i  the net style, how-ever, quickly becomes too complex to be generally appro-priate (as the rather simple example of Figure 1 probablyalready demonstrates).
With a net augmented both intypes of information and in quantity, other presentationstyles as views on the information contained are essentialfor enabling an editor to deal with such complex infor-mation.
One such presentation style that can flexiblyexpress retrieved information is automatically generatedtext.
Information including that displayed in Figure 1(and other information ot shown) is better expressedas the following text.Sample Text 1Behrens' principal activities wereindustrial design and architecture.
Hedesigned prototype flasks and electricalappliances.
As an architect, he built theturbine factory and the high tension plantfor AEG (.1908-10).
For the workers of AEGhe built a housing area in Henningsdorf.Behrens created a number of monumentalbuildings, such as the Mannesmannadministration building in Dfisseldorf andthe German embassy in St. Petersburg.For further examples and motivations for using textgeneration i this kind of electronic publishing scenario,1547th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994see \[Teich and Bateman, 1994\].3 The  text  generat ion  arch i tec ture3.1 OriginsFor the kind of functionality set out in the previous ec-tion to be both achievable in theory and worthwhile inpractise, we consider two features of a text generationcomponent to be decisive.
First, the text generation sys-tem must achieve a high degree of domain-independencein order to maximally re-use its resources.
Such re-sources are too expensive to develop to allow redesign fordifferent applications.
And second, it must make provi-sion for the systematic representation f genres and texttypes that it will be called to generate.
The representa-tion of genre not only offers a major constraint on thetext generation process, including its access to domainknowledge, but also allows highly restricted fine-tuningof a system's generation capabilities.The generation system being used in our applicationscenario is one under development in two continuing di-rections.
First, it is multilingualin the extreme sense de-fined by \[Bateman et al, 1991a, Bateman et al, 1991b\].The system thus supports extensive linguistic resourcesharing on a functional basis.
Second, it is intended toincorporate sensitivity to register as targetted by \[Bate-man and Paris, !989, Bateman and Paris, 1991\].
Thesystem processes are based on the PENMAN generationsystem \[Mann and Matthiessen, 1985\] as extended formultilinguality by \[Zeng, 1992\], and includes work onmultilinguality and text planning undertaken within theKOMET project \[Bateman et al, 1993\].
The resultingsystem therefore has the working title KPML (KOMEW-Penman multilingual).The primary difference between the KOMET-PENMANsystem and PENMAN is that KPML attempts to applysystemic-functional linguistic results at all levels of oper-ation, following through some of the proposals for inter-action between systemic linguistics and computationalmodels made in \[Bateman, 1988\].
It therefore includeslinguistic resources at various strata such as:?
the systemic functional grammar NIGEL for En-glish \[Matthiessen, 1992\] and the KOMET grammarsfor German \[Teich, 1992\] and for Dutch \[Degand,19931,?
a merged upper model \[Henschel, 1993\] appropriatefor generation with all three grammars,?
systemic-functional networks for register, basedon \[Martin, 1992\],?
system-functional networks for genre, also basedon \[Martin, 1992\].Work on discourse semantics, in the sense definedin \[Martin, 1992\], is also in progress 2 Realization is cap-tured in terms of relational constraints holding acrossfeatures and structures defined by the networks of ad-jacent strata.
These are still partially implemented in2Particularly in the context of the DANDELION basic re-search project.terms of Penman-style 'preselection', althoush nondirec-tional relations uch as those suggested in \[Bateman etal., 1992\] are both necessary and under investigation.3.2 Genre  and  Register :  the  global- leveltextua l  resourceAccording to systemic-functional theory (SFL), the ul-timate constraints on all linguistic expression are theextra-linguistic contexts of culture and situation.
Espe-cially in a multilingual application this must be takeninto account since it is only in these extra-linguistic con-texts that commonalities and differences between lan-guages can ultimately be rooted.
In early work on textin context such as \[Hasan, 1978\], the cultural contextis reflected in language in terms of text as the linguis-tic category of genre.
Genre is a culture-specific cate-gory textually encoding a situation as it can typicallyoccur in a culture or linguistic community.
Thus, it isat the interface between what is linguistic and what isnon-linguistic knowledge.
The particular view on genreand context hat we instantiate in the KOMET-PENMANarchitecture 3 is that proposed in \[Martin, 1992\].
Herecontext is divided into two strata, register and genre.Both are fully represented in our model.Genre is represented in SFL by generic structure po-tential (GSP), specifying the potential typically occur-ring stages according to which a text belonging to a par-ticular genre develops \[Hasan, 1978\].
As a brief exampleof a GSP and its application, a typical field (one of theparameters of register; cf.
below) in the domain of artsis information about an artist's life.
A typical situationin terms of field involves all kinds of activities and eventsa particular artist is or was involved in in his/her careerand the circumstances under which these events take ortook place.
It is not possible from this information aloneto construct any particular text.
Only when a particulartext type has been selected is it possible to determinewhat information from the field is relevant and how it isto be presented.
One genre that usefully expresses ucha typical situation is the biography.
A typical GSP fora biography text then has the following stages, of whichnot all are obligatory:GSP stagesNames, birth and deathEducation, development of careerMajor activities, major worksInfluences, analogies to other artistsImpactUncovering such generic structures is a large empiricaltask that needs to be addressed in text generation: a sys-tem such as KPML can then be seen as one candidate wayof noting the results of such studies in an immediatelyusable fashion.Following \[Martin, 1992\], we provide a systemic ac-count of genre using the same representational means asfor grammatical descriptions (system networks).
Thispermits generic structures to be constructed accordingto the selection of genre features in exactly the same3For further detailed motivations for this selection,see \[Bateman and Paris, in preparation\].1557th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994biography( instant tat eParticular (v / Mea-Person))(stage Name)( inst ant tat eName (v / Mea-Namedactee Particular) )(stage Birth)(instantiat eBirth (v / Mea-Birth-Eventactor Particular) )( int er-pr e s elect -featureBirth reconstruction)(int er-Pres elect-f eatureBirth activity)(stage Education)Figure 2: Realization statements for the genre \[biogra-phy\]way that grammatical structures are constructed in ourgrammars--i.e., by means of the selection of grammat-ical features in system networks.
The GSPs that resultthen condition the further realization of register selec-tions in the linguistic system proper.
Thus situationtypes are related to the linguistic system in particularways by the selection of particular genres.
The systemi-cization of genre specifications also ensures that therecan be maximal re-use of existing genre specificationswhen new genres, slightly differing from already treatedones, are considered.Furthermore, as noted by \[Matthiessen, 1988\], genericstructures are in many ways similar to \[McKeown,1985\]'s rhetorical schemas.
They can also be used, there-fore, in order to pre-structure the information to be ex-pressed in a text.
Particular kinds of information gotogether with particular stages of the GSP.
The specifi-cation of this information--in our case as constraints inthe genre network concerning appropriate selections offield features and structures-7-provides the content forinformation retrieval inquiries that are passed on to theeditor's workbench for instantiation.
An example of sucha specification is shown in the instantiate realizations forthe genre-feature \[biography\] given in Figure 2.
The re-alization constraints stage introduce generic stages in aGSP; the constraints inter-preselect-feature constrain agiven generic stage to be realized by a particular registerfeature selection.The use of GSPs for knowledge selection is further en-hanced by our requirement that domain information isalready classified according to a general conceptual hier-archy for organizing domain information that is specifiedby KOMET-PENMAN internally.
This guarantees that theretrieved information is in a form which can be read-ily interpreted by the other resources of the linguisticsystem maintained internally to KOMET-PENMAN.
Thisprovides the definitions for the semantic types used inthe SPL-like second parameter to the 'instantiate' con-straints hown in Figure 2.
At present, information isretrieved from the editor's workbench which matches thethese second parameters.
Work in progress is exploringmore sophisticated information retrieval operations.The representation f genre therefore offers a majorconstraint on the text generation process, including itsaccess to domain knowledge.
As mentioned before, notall of the stages of a GsP are obligatory.
This gives rise toa number of subtypes of the biography genre.
For exam-ple, a short biographical entry, as it typically occurs in anencyclopedia realizes all stages and tends to be activity-focussed and timeline organized.
Our sample text 1, onthe other hand, did not realize all stages; it presentsmore the roles Behrens took on as an artist (designer,architect) and his major works in one of these roles (thetext therefore focuses on activities of creation and theresults of these creative processes and is not explicitlytimeline organized).
Both kinds of texts are, however,useful for an editor (and for an information seeker) inparticular contexts and so both should be available pre-sentation styles.
Unless the text generation componentallows the ready definition of such genres and their lin-guistic realizations with maximal re-usablity of existingresources, uch flexibility will be compromised.The next strata in the system, register, is further de-scribed in terms of the three parameters of field, tenorand mode.
Field describes the states and events and par-ticipants occurring in a particular situation.
Tenor refersto the roles and statuses of the participants in a partic-ular situation.
Mode refers to the symbolic organizationof the situation as text, including the channel of com-munication and the rhetoric goals \[Halliday and Hasan,1989, p12\].
Specific sets of values that realize field, tenorand mode bring about situation types or registers.
Par-ticular situation types accordingly constrain the kind oflanguage that may occur in those situations.Certain aspects of register are constrained by the sit-uation that the text generator is to understand itselfas being in--thus, whether the text is to be writtenor spoken, whether the relationship between the hearerand the speaker/writer is distant or close, etc.
must beselected externally.
The provision of such features inthe register specification automatically provides a highdegree of parameterization.
Moreover, the field infor-mation provides a natural home for many aspects thatwould traditionally be included under 'domain knowl-edge'.
This information is quite removed from its ex-pression in natural language.
In order to interface withsuch information, however, we provide a general sub-sumption hierarchy analogous to previous usages of theupper model within PENMAN (cf.
\[Bateman, 1990\]).
Fur-ther details of the motivation and development of thishierarchy are given in \[Bateman et al, 1994\].
This(domain-independent) 'upper structure' of the domainknowledge is motivated by the semantics defined byour NLP components (e.g.
\[Kunze and Firzlaff, 1993,Bateman et al, 1990, Henschel, 1993\]).
We see exam-ples of the use of the hierarchy in Figure 1 in the netobjects prefixed by Mea-.The hierarchy can in general be considered to bea system network with realization constraints (furtherconditionalized by the contributions of feature selec-tions from the mode and tenor hierarchies) effecting1567th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994the possible semantic and grammatical realizations thatmay be adopted.
However, the interfacing with domainknowledge is further supported by allowing the mixingof KOMET-PENMAN internally specified system networksand externally specified resource organizations, uch as,e.g., that for domain knowledge.
Most of the upperstructure for the domain knowledge is therefore repre-sented externally in SFK (the 'Smalltalk FFrameKit' \[Fis-cher and Rostek, 1993\]), which is the implementationlanguage for the editor's workbench.
This is linked backto a KOMET-PENMAN internal portion of the hierarchywhich directly attaches to the top-most field featuresand positions the combined field hierarchy with respectto tenor and mode.
When an external field feature hasconsequences for linguistic realization, it is ' imported'into the KOMET-PENMAN internal systemic network bymeans of external-system definitions.
These function en-tirely analogously to internal systems as far as the con-nectivity of the network is concerned, but the selectionof features in such systems is linked directly to the stateof the corresponding external representation.
In practicethis permits modUles of external 'system networks' to beincorporated in the text generation process.The constraints of the genre specification as GSP andregister on local-level discourse organization of the textare manifold.
For example, with a GSP for a biographytext as sketched above, the thematic development is typi-cally taking'the person the text is about as macro-theme.Also, very often biography texts are organized along atime line - -  circumstantials of time such as dates, yearsor time adverbials are therefore often thematic or partof theme.
We are currently extending the set of suchconstraints based on further analysis of text types thatare useful in our application context.Finally, as already noted, there can also be subtypesof the biography genre that do not have all of the stageslisted above, but focus on one or two of them, leav-ing out others (see again sample text 2).
They there-fore realize only parts of the information available inthe field of context (i.e.
the domain knowledge).
Thiscontributes to the formation of distinct views on theinformation maintained in the editor's workbench andelectronic publications: The organization of the possi-ble genres in terms of a systemic lassification hierarchythen guarantees that we are able to capture similaritiesbetween related genres and to represent the constraintsthey share in an efficient fashion.4 Example  of generat ionIn this section we present a very brief example of gen-eration in the context of the editor's workbench.
Thesystem is configured according to the overall architec-ture shown in Figure 3.
The requirement that text begenerated is embedded in the editor's interaction withthe editor's workbench.
A range of possible types ofpresentation are offered: currently these are restricted4Other contributions are the currently focussed portionof the information et that the editor has established uringhis/her interaction with the system and possible user-profilesof interest.a OrCnio  : tri  a'Jr~l(r~ :~ ~f ~tiv~Ofniont~a~Ca~: s '  t~t m~Obj~t) =~ifF~: \[~ d0:\[:d Trar~pt ~ '*';cu t0m~tTex~r~k Tmscript~Ig~lgmx ~DoA~ dlir~.~g~Figure 4: SFK  retrieval patternto several subtypes of biographies.
The text generationprocess is then started with the constraint that some setof genre features hold; in addition, some set of regis-ter features are also selected in order to characterize thecommunicative situation.
The text generation compo-nent then constructs a full GSP specification for the texttype.
This sets up staged sets of constraints on knowl-edge to be selected from the domain.
That informationis retrieved and classified according to the complete reg-ister classification etwork.
This establishes* a set of constraints for the semantics and grammar,?
a set of pools of contextual information that are tobe realized linguistically.The latter are then organized rhetorically, thematically,ideationally, etc.
according to the constrained semantics,which results in sets of rhetorically organized seman-tic specifications that can be passed to the constrainedgrammar for final realization.More specifically, the text generation component car-ries out the following operations.
First, the edi-tor's workbench provides a focus for the textual sum-mary that is to be constructed for the internal in-formation represented and triggers generation.
Aspecific genre must also be selected at this point:for example, one classified by the set of genrefeatures: {activity-focused partial-biographythird-person-recount particularizedfac tua l -genre) .
These features give rise to the con-crete GSP:(DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES)Each of these stages has particular information eeds,which are then instantiated with respect to the knowl-edge base.
For example, for the stage ACTIVITIES, theinformation eeded consists of events and activities theartist dealt with is involved in as actor or causer.
Thisis specified in an SFK retrieval pattern with the artist(Behrens) as starting point and providing the slot pathalong which the retrieval takes place; this is shown inFigure 4.An example of the result of this information requestis as follows:(SFK-337 / MEACREATIONACTOR(SFK-338 / (BEHRENS MEAOBJECT1577th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Figure 3: Generation architecture specting enreMEANAMEDMEAMALE))TARGET(SFK-339 / (MEAOBJECT DECOMPHOUSINGAREA))SPATIALLOCATION(SFK-340 / (MEA-THREEDIMENSIONALOBJECTHENNINGSDORF))BENEFICIARY(SFK-341 / (MEAPERSON PERWORKERMEAPARTOF)PARTOF(SFK-342 / (AEGMEAOBJECTMEANAbIED))))Here a number of domain instances (SFK-337, etc.
)with particular types (e.g.,MEACREATION, MEAOBJECT, etc.)
are returned.
Thesetypes are as defined in the field conceptual hierarchy.
In-stances with particular types also have associated roles(e.g., ACTOR, TARGET, PARTOF).
The instance specifi-cation as a whole represents a partial register-stratumstructure.
This partial structure is then filled out to amaximal description by traversing the register-stratumclassification etworks.
This traversal is partially con-strained by the GSP, by the instantial domain structure,and the specified context of generation.
The result ofthis traversal is a full set of register features, and a set ofcorresponding constraints on the semantic and discourserealization of the generic stage.
An extract from a reg-ister 'profile' resulting from such a traversal is shown inFigure 5.These constraints are then applied during the fur-ther lexicogrammatical expression of the information re-trieved from the knowledge base in order to constructan appropriate text.
This is mediated by the local-discourse semantics that groups the information of thegeneric stage into rhetorically organized semantic speci-fications.
These specifications consist of a statement ofthe propositional content, plus discourse constraints.
Anexample is shown in Figure 6.The final (English) text then generated is, in this case,as follows."
-- Behrens's  pr incipal  act iv i t ies  werearchitecture and industr ial  design.
-- He madee lectr ica l  appl iances and prototype f lasks.
-- Hebui l t  the h igh tens ion plaxLt aa~d the turbinefactory for AEG in 1908 - 1910.
-- He bui l t  ahous ing area for the workers of AEG inHenningsdorf .
-- He created a number  of monumenta lbui ld ings,  such as the administrat ion bui ld ing ofMannesmann in Duesseldorf  and the German embassy inSt.
Petersburg.
"The text could clearly be improved in a number ofways, many of which form active areas of research.
Sim-ilar texts are created for German and Dutch.5 Conc lus ionsIn this paper we have presented the experimental inter-facing of a multilingual text generation system, KOMET-PENMAN, to domain knowledge about arts and art his-tory in an editor's workbench assisting the publicationof an art encyclopedia.
The major improvement that theapplication of text generation offers is a gain in flexibilitywith regard to the presentation of views on the domainknowledge.
The text generation system itself organizesthe access to the domain knowledge in a linguistically-motivated way: The representation f genre constrainsinformation access, thus predefining, as it were, the tex-tual views that are possible to be taken on the informa-tion contained in biographical entries in the encyclope-dia.
The method proposed for the editor's workbench1587th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994REGISTERIAL PROFILE FOR GENERIC STAGE: (ACTIVITIES)Following general constraints hold on realizations of this stage:((MACRO-THEME .
INST-484)(LEXICOGPAMMAR :EVENT-q OBJECT))Semantic image created for this stage includes:concept:WORKER is a subconcept of concept:PERSONconcept:HOUSINGAKEA is a subconcept of concept:DECOMPOSABLE-OBJECTconcept:AEG is a subconcept of concept:NAMED-OBJECTconcept:HENNINGSDORF is a subconcept of concept:THREE-D-LOCATIONconcept:BEHRENS is a subconcept of concept:PERSONconcept:BUILD is a subconcept of concept:CREATIVE-MATERIAL-ACTIONFollowing registerial instances selected:Unit wi th:syntagmat ic  s t ruc ture :(ACTOR TARGET FIELD-ACTIVITY)with reg is ter  features  se lec ted :(SPATIALLY-LOCATED TEMPORALLY-UNLOCATED HUMANITIES EXPLORATIONWRITTEN-TRANSMISSION CENTRAL-PARTICIPANTMEACREATION-REALiZATION DOA-ACTIVITIES ACTIVITY-EXPECTANCYTIMES-PAST ACTIViTY-SEQUENCE FIELD UNMARKED-AFFECT ONE-OFFUNINVOLVED-CONTACT UNEQUAL-STATUS TENOR NONPSEUDO-UNPROJECTEDUNPROJECTEDGENRE-STRUCTURED SOLIDIFIED VISUALLY-0BJECTIFIED INFORMINGDOCUMENTATION PUBLIC-GENERAL PUBLIC AURAL-NONE VISUAL-NONE MODEREGISTER MEACP4~ATION START)With substructure:Figure 5: Ext ract  from register profile1597th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994o o ,Setting local context according to constraints:((CONSTRAINTS ((:EVENT-q OBJECT))) (MACR0-THEMES (BEHKENS))(DISC-INDIVIDUALS(HENNINGSDORF AEGDARMSTADTBEHRENS)))Semantic input to lexicogrammar:((V-626 / (BUILD PROCESS):SPATIAL-LOCATING(V-620 / (HENNINGSDORF THREE-D-LOCATION NAMED-OBJECT OBJECT):NAME HENNINGSDORF):BENEFICIARY(V-623 / (WORKER OBJECT):PART-OF(V-622 / (AEG GROUP NAMED-OBJECT OBJECT):NAME AEG):SINGULARITY-Q NONSINGULAR:MULTIPLICITY-QMULTIPLE):ACTEE(V-624:ACTOR(V-625/ (HOUSINGARFEA OBJECT):SINGULARITY-Q SINGULAR:MULTIPLICITY-Q UNITARY)/ (BEHRENS NAMED-OBJECT MALE OBJECT):NAME BEHRENS):TENSE PAST))Discourse Semantics: an individual is being referred to:(BEHRENS NAMED-OBJECTMALE OBJECT)Already mentioned locally; dynamically changing reference strategy.Discourse Semantics: an individual is being referred to:(AEG GROUP NAMED-OBJECT OBJECT)Discourse Semantics: an individual is being referred to:(HENNINGSDORFTHKEE-D-LOCATION NAMED-OBJECT OBJECT)"He built a housing area for the workers of AEG in Hezmingsdorf.
"Figure 6: Extract from discours~sensitive sentence realization1607th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994can be taken further to apply to the overall publicationscenario and to a possible electronic publication, offeringthe newly added functionality to the reader also.Future work within the scenario described here willnow include:?
expansion of the genres available,?
expansion of the discourse semantics to improve tex-tuality,?
an investigation of the use of a genre representationfor also structuring a (restricted) NL query inter-face,?
an investigation of the user of the generalized typesof the domain knowledge upper structure for facili-tating information retrieval,?
a coordination of the textual realization of viewson domain knowledge with a graphical presentationmode-- thus other presentation styles to be auto-matically generated should include graphics, tables,figures etc.
; some early steps towards this in the ed-itor's workbench context are presented in \[Kamps,1993\].AcknowledgementsWe gratefully acknowledge the help of Lothar Rostekof the PAVE/PUBLISH group in the work preparatoryfor this paper.References\[Bateman and Paris, 1989\] John A. Bateman and C6cfle L.Paris.
Phrasing a text in terms the user can understand.
InProceedings of the Eleventh International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, Detroit, Michigan, 1989.
IJCAI-89.\[Bateman and Paris, 1991\] John A. Bateman and C6cile L.Paris.
Constraining the development of lexicogrammaticalresources during text generation: towards acomputationalinstantiation of register theory.
In Eija Ventola, editor,Recent Systemic and Other Views on Language.
Mouton,Amsterdam, 1991.\[Bateman and Paris, in preparation\] John A. Bateman andC6cile L. Paris.
Register theory: the generic basis for con-textualized natural anguage generation.
Technical report,USC/ISI, in preparation.\[Bateman et al, 1990\] John A. Bateman, Robert T. Kasper,Johanna D. Moore, and Richard A. Whitney.
A gen-eral organization of knowledge for natural anguage pro-cessing: the PENMAN upper model.
Technical report,USC/Information Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey, Cal-ifornia, 1990.\[Bateman et al, 1991a\] John A. Bateman, Christian M.I.M.Matthiessen, Keizo Nanri, and Licheng Zeng.
The re-useof linguistic resources across languages in multilingual gen-eration components.
In Proceedings off the 1991 Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Sydney,Australia, volume 2, pages 966 - 971.
Morgan KaufmannPublishers, 1991.\[Bateman et al, 1991b\] John A. Bateman, Christian M.I.M.Matthiessen, Keizo Nanri, and Licheng Zeng.
Multilingualtext generation: an architecture based on functional ty-pology.
In International Conference on Current Issues inComputational Linguistics, Penang, Malaysia, 1991.
Alsoavailable as technical report of the department of Linguis-tics, University of Sydney.\[Bateman et al, 1992\] John A. Bateman, Martin Emele, andStefan Momma.
The nondirectional representation f Sys-temic Functional Grammars and Semantics as Typed Fea-ture Structures.
In Proceedings of COLING-92, volumeIII, pages 916 - 920, 1992.\[Bateman et al, 1993\] John A. Bateman, Liesbeth Degand,and Elke Teich.
Multilingual textuality: Some experiencesfrom multilingual text generation.
In Proceedings of theFourth European Workshop on Natural Language Gener-ation, Pisa, Italy, 28-30 April 1993, pages 5 - 17, 1993.Also available as technical report from GMD/Institut ffirIntegrierte Publikations- und Informationssysteme, Darm-?
stadt, Germany.\[Bateman et al, 1994\] John A. Bateman, Elks Teich, andBeate Firzlaff.
A linguistically oriented methodology fordomain model construction in knowledge-based systems.Technical report, GMD/IPSI, 1994.\[Bateman, 1988\] John A. Bateman.
From Systemic-Functional Grammar to Systemic-Functional Text Gen-eration: escalating the exchange.
In Eduard H. Hovy,David D. McDonald, Sheryl R. Young, and Douglas E.Appelt, editors, Proceedings of the 1988 American Asso-ciation for Artificial Intelligence Workshop on Text Plan-ning and Realization, pages 123-132, St. Paul, Minnesota,1988.
Also available as ISI Reprint Series report RR-89-220, USC/Information Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey,California, April 1990.\[Bateman, 1990\] John A. Bateman.
Upper modefing: or-ganizing knowledge for natural language processing.
In5th.
International Workshop on Natural Language Gen-eration, 3-6 June 1990, Pittsburgh, PA., 1990.
Organizedby Kathleen R. McKeown (Columbia University), JohannaD.
Moore (University of Pittsburgh) and Sergei Nirenburg(Carnegie Mellon University).\[Degand, 1993\] Liesbeth Degand.
Towards a systemic func-tional grammar of dutch for multilingual text genera-tion.
Technical report, GMD/Institut ffir IntegriertePublikations- und Informationssysteme, Darmstadt, Ger-many, 1993.
(Available in abbreviated form in the Proceed-ings of the Fourth European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation, Pisa, Italy, 28-30 April 1993, pp143-147).\[Fischer and Rostek, 1993\] Dietrich Fischer and Lothar Ros-tek.
SFK: A Smalltalk Frame Kit.
Technical report,GMD/Institut ffir Integrierte Publikations- und Informa-tionssysteme, 1993.\[Haake t al., 1993\] Anja Haake, Christoph Hfiser, andKlans Reichenberger.
The Individualized Electronic News-paper: An example of an Active Publication.
Technicalreport, Arbeitspapiere der GMD No.
799, Institut ffir In-tegrierte Publikations- und Informationssysteme, 1993.\[Haenelt, 1994\] Karin Haenelt.
Das Textanalysesystem KON-TEXT.
Sprache und Datenverarbeitung, 1994.\[Halliday and Hasan, 1989\] Michael A.K.
Hallidayand Ruqalya Hasan.
Language, Context and Text: a so-cial semiotic perspective.
Oxford University Press, London,1989.\[Hasan, 1978\] Ruqaiya Hasan.
Text in the Systemic-Functional Model.
In Wolfgang Dressier, editor, CurrentTrends in Text Linguistics, pages 228-246. de Gruyter,Berlin, 1978.1617th International Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994\[Henschel, 1993\] Renate Henschel.
Merging the Englishand the German Upper Model.
Technical report,GMD/Institut ffir Integrierte Publikations- und Informa-tionssysteme, Darmstadt, Germany, 1993.\[Kamps, 1993\] Thomas Kamps.
Automatic visualiza-tion for Hypermedia Publications.
Technical report,GMD/Institut ffr Integrierte Pubhkations- und Informa-tionssysteme, 1993.\[Kunze and Firzlaff, 1993\] Jfirgen Kunze and Beate Firzlaff.Sememstrukturen u d Feldstrukturen, volume XXXVI ofStudia Grammatica.
Akademie Verlag, Berlin, 1993.\[Mann and Matthiessen, 1985\] William C. Mann and Chris-tian M.I.M.
Matthiessen.
Demonstration of the Nigel textgeneration computer program.
In James D. Benson andWilliam S. Greaves, editors, Systemic Perspectives on Dis-course, Volume 1.
Ablex, Norwood, New Jersey, 1985.\[Martin, 1992\] James R. Martin.
English text: systems andstructure.
Benjamins, Amsterdam, 1992.\[Matthiessen, 1988\] Christian Matthiessen.
OrganizingText: Rhetorical Schemas and GSP.
Technical report,USC/ Information Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey,1988.\[Matthiessen, 1992\] Christian M.I.M.
Matthiessen.
Lexi-cogrammatical cartography: English systems.
Techni-cal report, University of Sydney, Linguistics Department,1992.
Ongoing expanding draft.\[McKeown, 1985\] Kathleen R. McKeown.
Text Generation:Using Discourse Strategies and Focus Constraints to Gen-erate Natural Language Text.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England, 1985.\[MShr and Rostek, 1993\] Wiebke MShr and Lothar Rostek.TEDI: An Object-Oriented Terminology Editor.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third International Congress on Terminol-ogy and Knowledge Engineering, 1993.\[Rostek et al, 1994\] Lothar Rostek, Wiebke MShr, and Diet-rich H. Fischer.
Weaving a web: The structure and creationof an object network representing an electronic referencenetwork.
In Proceedings of Electronic Publishing (EP) '9~,1994.\[Teich and Bateman, 1994\] Elke Teich and John A. Bate-man.
Selective information presentation i an integratedpublication system: an application of genre-driven textgeneration.
Technical report, GMD/IPSI, 1994.\[Teich, 1992\] Elke Teich.
Komet: grammar documenta-tion.
Technical report, GMD/Institut ffir IntegriertePublikations- und Informationssysteme, Darmstadt, WestGermany, 1992.\[Zeng, 1992\] Licheng Zeng.
Ml-penman: implementationnotes.
Technical report, GMD/IPSI and University of Syd-ney, 1992.162
