On the Creative Use of Language: the Form ofLexical ResourcesDavid D. McDonald Fedefica Busa14 Brantwood Road Computer Science DepartmentArlington, MA 02174, USA Brandeis University 02254, USAmcdonald @cs.brandeis.edu fedefica @ cs.brandeis.eduAbstractWe introduce the problem of referential creativity: how it is that a person can give a word or phrase a newdenotation even though she has never heard or used in that way before.
Using real examples that we have collected,we focus on the case of semantic type coercion, where a phrase of a given type is used in a textual context hatrequires acompletely different type yet the intended message isperfectly well understood.We frame our account as the problem of what form the linguistic resources available to a speaker must have suchthat she can appreciate the opportunity for creative phrasings.
What systematic relationships exist in the speaker'slexicon that enable a phrase to convey something quite different than it normally would, and why tshould his everoccur during the generation process?
We draw on a new theory of how information is associated with a wor6--Pustejovsky's Generative Lexicon--and we embed our account in a theory of generation as an incremental processthat makes use of a rich model of the situation in which the utterance occurs.Keywords: creativity, lexical choice, content determination, i cremental generation1.
The problemPeople are always saying new things.
Usually thereason is obviohs: we continually find ourselves in newsituations, and the differences in these situations--ourgoals, the participants, the activities, the props, thelocations, the recent history, etc.--naturally lead todifferences in what we say.
Other cases are not so easilyexplained.
Differences in the situation will not account forthose occasions when our choice of phrasing is inconsistentwith the selectional restrictions of its context; when wemake a reference that on its face should not be able tocommunicate our intended meaning yet in the situation inwhich it is uttered is both natural and completelyunderstood.Consider texts 1 and 2, which were uttered by theauthors and transcribed immediately afterwards.
Both werecompletely understood by their hearers.
(1) "I wouM really like to have you guys over for dinner,so let me know whether for you it is better before orafier Florida.
"(2) "Just give me a few bites"In (1), a geographical location, Florida, providesinformation about a time interval.
In (2), "a few bites (offood)" denotes a quantity, yet it is readily interpreted as aduration.
1 If hearers made their interpretations strictlycompositionally, these would be nonsense to them.
Ifspeakers trictly respected selectional restrictions, theywould never generate such sentences.
What is it thatThe normal way to express the message in (2) would be"just give me a little while longer", meaning that thespeaker wants to wait longer and, in this case, to eat alittle bit more before doing something his interlocutorhas requested.
Example (I) involves an event hat takesplace in Florida.
It is discussed below.explains this ability?
What do people know about theirlanguage and its relationship to situations that promptsthem to produce these apparently type-inconsistentutterances and while still being understood?We will argue in this paper that this ability followsfrom the use of a generative lexicon, one based on thedynamic operation of general rules that define whatrealizations are possible through interactions between thelexical semantics of our linguistic resources and thesituation, rather than through the customary fixedenumeration of cases and decision cntera.
Coupled with atheory of content selection as an incremental walk througha highly structured mental model of the speaker's 'relevantportion of the situation', and with an architecture forgeneration with multiple levels of (progressively morelinguistic) representation that actively constrains whatrealizations are possible, this view of the lexicon canexplain how speakers are led to these unusual 'creative'constructions and why they are understood by their hearers.1.1 Related phenomenaThere is every reason to believe that these twoutterances and the others we will present later are new andunique.
They were semantic patterns of expression that wehad never uttered before nor ever heard anyone else say.Nevertheless, they are similar in kind to other turns ofphrase that have become quite commonplace:(3) "Do you take Visa?
"(4) "With encouragement from Moscow, Bosnian Serbsappear to be compling with the UN ultimation toremove their heavy weapons from Sarjevo.
"(4) is an example of a now conventional meronymicconstruction where a part of an object, here the capital cityMoscow, is able to stand in for the whole.
This is a naturalmove that is probably prompted by the salience of the 'part'in the speaker's mind: Moscow is, after all, the actual site817th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994of the governmental decision making even though we takethe act as being done by the Russian Republic as a whole.Meronomy and other kinds of metonymic substitutionshave been extensively studied (e.g.
Cruise 1986, Leher &Kittay 1992 and their references) our contribution will be tocouch some aspects of these phenomena in a computationalcontext.Example (3) comes closer to the problems of lexicalsemantics that concern us in this paper.
Here thereconstruction that the hearer must make is not part-wholebut based on the object's purpose--what has been called its'telic' role.
It also reflects the 'polymorphism' that typifiesmost lexical knowledge, whereby one word, the name of thecredit card, is able to convey both the physical aspect of thecard as a piece of plastic and its role as a means ofcommercial exchange.
Different situations will involvedifferent aspects of the credit card, yet they all can beconveyed by the very same word.Similarly, the American speaker's proclivity to 'verb'nouns is well-known: 2(5) "You can Mastercard your pledge.
"(6) "I'll sprig the grapes.
"What these and other creative uses of words have incommon is that they are only uttered in what we call 'highsalience' situations--situations where the activity underdiscussion is completely clear to all the interlocutors andthe interlocutors are only attending a few, mutually known,entities.
But this class of utterances as well, however,follows patterns that we all appreciate as completelyconventional, though at one time they too were new.
(7) "Roy irons his own shirts"(8) "Bob vacuumed the floor without being asked"Here the verbs are the same word as the nouns thatname the instruments that are prototypically used toperform the actions: 'iron', 'vacuum (cleaner)'.
As withcredit cards, these words are taking on a role that relies,polymorphically, on their telic uses as instruments forcertain prototypical cts.The capability these examples illustrate is a newproblem for research in natural language generation.
Itpoints to a productive capacity that people have that enablesus to exploit our knowledge of the language to constructnew uses for established terms, in the process providingshorter, more cohesive realizations for content hat couldotherwise be quite awkward to express.
It is an importantproblem because it is part of the scientific problem ofunderstanding what language is and how people employ it,and also because having an account it should aid us in theengineering problem of designing machine speakers byExample (5) was spoken by a public radio announcerduring an on-air fund drive.
(6) was spoken by one of theauthors and referred to the operation of taking a largebunch of grapes and cutting it into small, hand-sizedportions ('sprigs') as part of getting ready for a dinnerparty.providing insights into representations and procedures thatwill make them more natural and fluent.2.
Referential CreativityEvery new phenomenon needs a name, and our choiceis "referential creativity".
We call it creative because thespeaker has never before heard or used that precise pattern ofsemantic elements and grammatical relations.
Theprinciples and representational structures involved are surelyan established part of our knowledge of language, but theiruse is the application of productive principles in the face ofa new situation, and not the instantiation of a well-trodtemplate or mapping.Creativity is taken by many to be a central property ofthe human use of language.
Chomsky (1966) introduced itinto modern linguistics, and took the notion back to ideasimplicit in the works of von Humbolt in the early 1800s.He used it to revolutionize the machinery of syntax.
Weapply it here to the process of generation, building on itsapplication to lexical semantics by Pustejovsky (1991).We call this phenomenon referential creativity becausein it a speaker uses a new, ostensibly type-inconsistentreferent in a linguistic ontext that would normally be filledwith a referent of a quite different type.
In (1) a geographicalentity was used instead of the end-points of an event; in (2)a measurement was used instead of a duration.The referent that is used and the one that it invokes inthe mind of the hearer are always logically related.
We cansee this in (7), which is one of the less abbreviated ways torealize the content expressed in (1).
(7) "... before you leave for your vacation in Florida orafter you get back"Here the reference to Florida appears as a component unitwithin the larger events of leaving for (and returning from)a vacation there.
The two transitional events, the end pointsof the event of taking a vacation, fit the selectionalrestrictions imposed by "before" ("after"), and so constitutea normal, uncreative, realization.Referentially creative texts are not compositional.
TheNew Englander's world knowledge that one takes wintervacations in Florida notwithstanding, a hearer cannotreconstruct the intended referent of "Florida" in (1) inisolation from the immediately prior linguistic ontext.
Themeaning of the whole involves the interaction of themeaning of the parts and not just their sum, a phenomenoncalled co-compositionality, (Pustejovsky (1994).We see co-compositionality as part of the speaker'sprocessing as well.
At any given moment we believe therewill typically be several units of content vying forexpression which, while distinct, are interconnected andeven redundant.
At the point of the referentially creativechoice in (I) these will include at least the event (thevacation) and its location.
The choice between the two isnot made in isolation based solely on the information theycontain, but isstrongly influenced by the choice made just827th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994before, namely to use the semi-fixed phrase "... before orafter".
The speaker's commitment tothat phrasing imposesa contraint on what follows that interacts with the potentialcontent and influences what happens.As the speaker looks for the next unit of content oselect, her goal is simply to communicate the twomoments, not to deploy any particular unit to which shewas committed long before reaching that point in theutterance.
Any unit that will convey the informationdirectly or indirectly can be used.
Such a lack of priorcommitment is the whole point of an incremental model ofgeneration, which we are now exploring at the level ofcontent selection rather than just the customary level ofrealization and surface form (see Kempen & .Hoenkamp1987, DeSmedt 1990, McDonald 1980).Part of the speaker's knowledge, given the particularcircumstances in which this actually attested utterance wasmade, is that just saying "Florida" will communicate heevent of the vacation and through it the two time points,thereby achieving her communicative goal.
We hold thatthis knowledge is mediated by the lexical entry for Florida,whose content and form follow a theory of lexicalsemantics known as the Generative Lexicon ("GL"), thesubject of Section Five.
Before going into that, however,we have to establish the context in which this lexicalknowledge is deployed.3.
Situational CohesionBecause a referentially creative xpression seems toviolate the selectional restrictions of its context, its userequires the hearer to apply a generative l xical operationcalled 'type coercion' in GL theory (see ?5).
The hearermust first apply knowledge of the lexical entry for theapparently inappropriate r ferent plus an appreciation of thelinguistic context and the situation in order to decode theexpression and 'coerce' the semantic type of the givenexpression to the type that the context requires, and thenuse that new type information to reconstruct the intendedreferent.This effort by the hearer is surely not without somecost, which prompts us to ask the question of why aspeaker should make the listener go to the extra work thatthe 'decoding' of type coercion implies.
Any cost that thespeaker imposes on the hearer must presumably be offsetby some corresponding benefit or else people would stopdoing it.While we do not yet have an understanding of whatthis benefit might be, we can at this point narrow itscharacter by identifying it with another set of phenomena,which, while also having no real explanation as yet interms of their utility (but see Granville 1990 or Valduvf1992), seem to us to be phenomena of the same kind.These are the textual resources of the language known as'cohesion', as that term is used by Halliday and Hasan(1976).Cohesion, to Halliday and Hasan, is the definingproperty of a text qua text--what i is that makes a text asemantic unit rather than a jumble of unconnected phrases.Sophistication i the use of cohesive linguistic devices iswhat distinguishes a fluent computer speaker from anawkward one, e.g.
the ability to correctly use pronouns,ellipsis, substitutions of generals for specifics, elision ofinformation because it is redundant in content, etc.
All ofthese linguistic resources are typified by an omission orsubstitution that a listener can only resolve by consultingearlier parts of the text.
What we are proposing here as thebenefit of referential creativity is that it involves anomission that is only resolved by consulting the situationin which the utterance occurred, hence our name for thephenomenon: "situational cohesion".Selecting a unit of content that is referentiallycreative--one that cannot be interpreted in its textualcontext directly but requires the listener to make aconnection from it to some larger event or relationship thatshe knows to be salient in both her own and the speaker'smodel of the situation---creates a tie from the text to theunspoken but mutually appreciated situation in which theutterance is taking place.
In just the same way that anormal cohesive device creates a link to an earlier part ofthe text and thereby reinforces the fact that the two pointsare part of the same semantic unit and not disconnectedideas, we can see referential creativity--a device that createssituational cohesion--as knitting the act of making theutterance that much closer to the situation in which itoccurs and thereby reinforcing the link between theinterlocutors by explicitly tieing them to the same situationas a precondition for the speaker being understood.The phenomenon of situational cohesion is one morepiece of evidence of the central place of the situation in thespeaker's processes, and with that the need on the part ofthe generation research community to pay increasedattention to it and how it may be formally characterized.
3As a possible step in that direction, we will lay out our, so-far only partially implemented, conception of howgeneration is {situated} in the speaker's situation, and fromthat move on to describing elements of our generativelexicon and its use in a rational reconstuction f an attestedreferentially creative utterance.Which is by no means to say that the situation has beenignored in past work, as the efforts in functional theoriesof linguistics and some lines of work in philosophy oflanguage will attest; see, e.g., Halliday 1978, Bateman1985; or Barwise & Perry 1983, Devlin 1991., but onlythat it needs a strong computational treatment that wehave yet to see evidence of.837th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 19944.
The processing frameworkAll actions by a human agent ake place in the contextof the agent's mental model of the situation.
We assume byhypothesis that this model is highly structured,compositional, and organized according to a vast number ofreified 'situation types' (Barwise & Perry 1983, Halliday1978 pg.
29) that provide the prototypical ssumptions andcategorizations by which a person makes sense of thesituation she perceives.In McDonald, Meteer & Pustejovsky 1987, weproposed a general model of the generation process as asequence of incremental mappings to successive,progressively more linguistic and more concreterepresentations of the utterance.
These begin with theidentification by the speaker of what we call "the RelevantPortion of the Situation", or "RPS".
4 This is a subset ofthe total situation, that picks out just those elements towhich the speaker is attending iven her intentions as shecommences tospeak.Much of the organization of the RPS--the roles andrelative salience assigned to the entities in the externalcontext and to the speaker's mental entities--derives fromthe situation-type(s) governing the speaker's actions.
It isthe situation ty.pe, as an orchestrator of the speaker'sintentions and attitudes, that we see as ultimately in controlof the generation process.
The situation type may be verysimple, as when answering the phone or saying hello to acolleague, or very complex, as when being interviewed for ajob or going out on a third date.We see the RPS as comprised of a structured heap ofindependent units of information of various sizes whoseepistemological character follows the lines common totoday's KR systems.
The amount of information in a unit,particularly for the minimal units from which complexones are composed, is a matter of conjecture.
The way weapproach this question is to work backwards from thephrasings and variations that we observe in language and todesign hypothetical units with enough articulation toproduce those texts while trying to work out an aesthetic bywhich to evaluate alternative design decisions.We further hypothesize that the RPS, being languageoriented, is restricted in what it can contain.
5 Specifically, aThe idea of giving special status to a 'relevant' portionof the situation, often under the construal of a particularsituation type, is also present in the work of Hallidayand no doubt others.
We see our contribution as tryingto give it computational consequences by tieing it to ameans of ensuring expressibility.There are plainly things one can percive, categorize, andthink about hat one cannot alk about in language.Imagine trying to communicate what a headache reallyfeels like or a sunset really looks like.
One can getanother person to think along similar lines or can, withsome deliberate ffort, work out a nearly privatemental unit is only allowed in the RPS if it is expressiblein the sense of Meteer 1992.
We identify this property withwhether or not the unit has a lexical entry.
The lexical entrydictates the possiblities for the unit's realization, andgoverns its mappings.We view the generation process as fundamentally oneof traversing of the units in the RPS under the control of alinguistic schema associated with the situation type.
Thenetwork of interconnections among the units defines thepaths available to the generator and the basis of judgmentsabout the content hat should be used.
As a unit is reachedand selected it is mapped to the first linguistic level ofrepresentation, Text Structure (Meteer 1990, 1992).The mapping to Text Structure involves threesimultaneous and inter-constrained actions: the choice of thespecific unit (possibly a sub-unit of the unit reached by thetraversal), the choice or delimitation of its linguisticrealization, and the choice of the position where it is toappear in the Text Structure.
This simultaneous constraintplays an important role in our framework as we will see in?8, as it is the locus of the operations that lead toreferential creativity.Text Structure is the level where the selected contentis first rendered into an abstract linguistic form that dictatesits approximate sequential order and hierarchical structure.Working off  the Text Structure, later processesincrementally construct a linguistic specification that is?
then mapped to the surface structure level of representationwhere the grammatical form of the utterance is established.The surface structure in turn is incrementally mapped to astream of words for presentation as written text.
These laterprocedures have been thoroughly described in earlier papers(Meteer 1992, Meteer et al 1987).5.
The Generative LexiconOur account of referential creativity builds onobservations made within the framework of GenerativeLexicon theory ("GL").
This framework defines a method oflexical decomposition where the semantic information inthe lexical representation is highly structured.
The meaningof a lexical item is taken as a relation (or a set of relations)between all its components, with the importantconsequence that the lexical entry will include all theparameters that give rise to what appear to be distin& (butrelated) senses of the same lexical item when projected tosurface structure:(8) a. John tripped and broke the bottle.
(container ofliquid)b.
Let's drink this bottle, it should be good.
(liquid incontainer)Besides the advantage of reducing the size of thelexicon, a generative theory of lexical semantics capturesthe underlying relatedness among different surfacesublanguage toprovide lexicalizations for perceptions,as when at a wine tasting, but there are always limits.847th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994realizations by means of generative mechanisms operatingover the lexical structures.
One such mechanism is typecoercion which we take to be crucial to model our notionof referential creativity.
Informally, type coercion is amechanism that allows the expression of a lexical item of adifferent ype than the one expected in a particular context,only if that lexical item has available in its representationa denotation of the expected type:(9) a.
Bob enjoys reading detective novels.b.
Bob enjoys detective novels.The generalization provided in Pustejovsky (1991) isthat those predicates that like "enjoy" have multiplesubcategorization frames on the surface select for only onedeep semantic type, thus in (9a) the 'deep' type selected bythe verb is an event, as is that in (9b) where thecomplement does not directly denote an event.The theory of type coercion, without making anycommittment to what actual event will result from thecoercion, states that the object in complement position hasto have an event denotation in its lexical representation inorder for the sentence to be acceptable.
Thus the defaultinterpretation f (9b) is that of 'reading detective novels'.6This view reduces the semantic load of the predicateby distributing _it across the surrounding lexical itemswhose type specifications reduce the set of possibleinterpretationsma phenomenon known in GL theory as co-composition.The decomposition of the lexical meaning is given interms of the qualia structure which organizes the distinctfacets of the meaning of a lexical item based on the fourAristotelian 'modes of explanation': the AGENTIVE rolepicks out that which event brings about the lexical item;the CONSTITUTIVE role defines the relation between it andits parts; the FORMAL role distinguishes it in some largerdomain; and the TELIC role gives its purpose and function.These relationships not only account for regularitiesin a word's behavior, but they reflect the way in which wesort out what we know about he meaning of a word, suchthat the way we will use it in context will make directreference to the distinct but tightly related aspects of suchknowledge.A system that, like GL, captures the expressiveness oflanguage without resorting to multiple listings of the samelexical entry has the capacity to account for phenomenathat, like referential creativity, can be best treatedgeneratively.
In particular, while keeping the number ofsenses fairly constant, generative mechanisms over highlyorganized lexical structures allow for an unbounded space ofpossible interpretations which reflect the unbounded set ofsituation types and their compositional properties.6 This is what is taken to be the default reading.
Considerinstead the same sentence where Bob is a writer ofdetective novels, where the interpretation "writing"because of the sortal specification of the subject indetermining the type of the object.6.
A Rational Reconst ruct ionConsider example 10 below, which was spoken byone of the authors while shoveling the snow off hissidewalk.
(11) "'When we get it down like that it will stay clean fora couple of inches.
"The motivation behind (10) was to admonish thespeaker's snow-shoveling partner to continue to clean thesidewalk thoroughly.
There had been a problem with iceforming under footprints when there was a lot of snow, andthis utterance reflects the observation that if nearly all thesnow was removed ("when we get it down like that "), thatwhen the next snowstorm came at least two inches of snowwould have to accumulate before the icing problem wouldarise again ("it \[the sidewalk\]will stay clean").
7What is referentially creative about (10) is that is usesa measurement of depth--the amount of snow that wouldhave to accumulate in the course of the next stormmin aphrasal context whose selectionai restrictions require a timeadverbial, i.e.
a measurement of time: the duration duringwhich the sidewalk will remain in the state of 'stayingclean'.A 'normal' realization, one where the type of theadverbial fits the type expected by the predicate, might be:(11) "... it will stay clean for two hours.
"though it would not be communicating the sameinformation since the crucial datum is the depth ofaccumulated snow, not the amount of time it will take forthat snow to fall.Since the accumulation is a function of the rate atwhich the snow falls and the duration of the storm, themeasurement of snow depth does in fact implicitly denotean amount of time, namely the length of time in which ittakes that amount of snow to fall, and in so doing it makesthat time information available through a process of typecoercion.As the listener hears (10) incrementally from left tofight, she will have set up an expectation at the point whenshe hears "stay clean for" that she is about to encounter atime phrase and that they should construct an interpretationof it as a duration, s Instead, she encounters a measurementphrase.
She must now coerce that phrase into a duration,which is possible by considering the information availablevia the lexical semantics of the phrase--information in itsThis utterance is obviously muddled and obscure when itcomes to the fit between what the speaker was trying tocommunicate and what he actually said, but this doesnot have any impact on its value as an example ofreferential creativity.
Such are the complications ofdealing with real data.That listeners can construct an interpretation that quicklyis shown from the performance of 'close shadowers' inexperiments down by Marslen-Wilson and Tylor (1980).857th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994lexical entry--and an appreciation of the elements in thesituation that holds at that time.
We expect that this isprecisely the same information, though used in a differentmanner, as the speaker employed to sanction the use thephrase in that position.
Let us look at what these elementsprobably were.First the RPS.
The overarching situation type is thatof 'shoveling out after a snowstorm', something that hadbecome all too common during the winter that this paper isbeing written.
Within this, we have the speaker-internalsituation of having made an observation that a certainbenefit will acrue if some activity is continued.
This givesus the following likely elements for the relevant portion ofthe speaker's situation:?
the two interlocutors cure snow-shovelers,?
the activity of shoveling snow,?
the likely next snow storm (a few hours away),?
the sidewalk,?
the ongoing problem of ice forming under people'sfootprints ('stay clear'), and?
the thoroughness with which the fellow snow-shoveler was cleaning the sidewalk ('get it downthat far'),?
the observation that, given that thoroughness, asurprisingly large amount of snow would have toaccumulate before ice was likely to become aproblem again ('about wo inches').Next come rhetorical issues.
How are the units ofcontent in an utterance to be organized--what is their order,linguistic roles, prosodic tune--such that the intendedmessage will be communicated.
One basic rule, particularlyfor a topic-initial utterance like this one, is progressionfrom 'given' to 'new': The utterance must start with anelement hat is mutually known given the situation, andshould then progress to new elements that the hearer isprobably unaware of.
That rule provides a selection criterionto pick out one of the schemas available for communicatingcause and effect (here 'achievement' and 'benefit') by fixingthe order in which the two elements must occur.This gives us a "When X, Y" schema, which we taketo be an active player, setting up the ordering for how theRPS is to be traversed.
With this process set in motion,units begin to be mapped to Text Structure and from thereto surface structure (where their grammatical properties aremanifest) and the first words of the utterance are spoken.We see no reason why all of the different stages of thispipeline wouldn't be active simultaneously, and we furtherassume that all mappings are indelible: once made theycannot be retracted--all operations build monotonically onwhat has gone before.7.
Linguistic reasoning during contentselectionWe now pick up this process at the point where nearlyall of the second clause has been introduced into textstructure.
We are at the moment when the complement ofits adjunct 'for' phrase is to be added, i.e."...
it will stay clear for .__Z'The eventuality denoted by this clause (the unit that is theclause's source) is situated at the time of the next snowstorm.
We assume that that time was the direct source ofthe "will".Semantically the matrix is a persistent state and theadjunct is describing when it will cease to hold.
They bothderived from a complex unit in the RPS, which would havebeen queued up as a whole and its parts then traversedincrementally.
For this unit the rhetorical considerations areprobably overshadowed by the grammatical constraints onthe order of the subunits.
However, since it is the largedepth of the to-be-accumulated snow that is what issignificant (indeed, it is probably what prompted the wholeutterance), there is a strong reason to make sure that theunit representing the depth of snow is positioned at the endof the utterance where it can receive tonic stress in thedefault prosodic tune.The choice of '3eor" as the preposition reflects theparticular way that the state has been conceptualized.Alternative conceptualization would have yielded differentprepositions: 'state persists while state/process', 'statepersist(s) until event'.
Here it is viewed as lastingthroughout ('~or") some interval of time.
We take it thatthis conceputalization was not a generation 'choice', per se,but just reflected the type of the source unit within theRPS.
It is something that the generator must accomodate oin what follows, not something it was free to phrase in adifferent way.We think that at the level of content selection thegeneration process is so incremental nd the pipeline belowit so fast (the 'planning units' so small) that the speakerwill have committed to a formulation in terms of thematrix +for adjunct before reaching the next unit in itspath, the snow.
This means that the realization of this nextunit must be accomodated to a site in Text Structure that isconstrained to take only an interval of time.On its face this is not possible, and the unit wouldipso facto be 'inexpressible' and its realization blocked.However given a generative l xicon, the generator has at itsdisposal the linguistic resource of type coercion, and thismakes new options available by in effect expanding onwhat consitutes the type of a unit.The information carried by the 'a couple of inches ofsnow' unit goes considerably beyond what appeared at thesurface.
In words it is something like867th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994,the depth (about wo inches) to which the snow fromthe next storm will have to accumulate before ice will form...'Obviously there is no simple lexical entry for a unitlike this.
The unit is a complex, highly interrelated objectthat makes reference to several other units (the impendingstorm, the sidewalk, etc.)
that are all necessaryconcomitants of each other--the one will not exist withoutthe others.
Consequently its lexical entry must have anequally elaborated type with equally interrelated elements.This, however, is actually common for words in a naturallanguage.To have a handle on it, we think of this entry as thelexical entry for "snow", but that is only because that wordappears o often in the realizations that pick out its variousaspects, and because it has a more specific content hen theother linked words such as '~fall" or "'accumulate".
Considerthese excerpts from news articles:(12) a.
The snow further snarled the plans of travelers.(process)b.
Boston has received 24.7 inches of snow thismonth.
(state, result)Following the symbolic presentation of Pustejovskyand Busa 1993, the relevant part of the entry for snow is thefollowing.
A full lexical entry also gives the temporal andaspectual relationships of the events, the linguisticproperties of the words coordinated by this entry such as"depth", and other qualia roles; here we just showed therules that pick out units in the current RPS.snow(eP,eS,x,y)FORMAL: depth (eS,x,location)CONSTITUTIVE: flakes (x, y)AGENTIVE: snow storm (eP,y,location)According to this entry, snow is polymorphic.
It isbrought about (the 'agentive') by a process, eP,  namely asnow storm at some location 'y'.
It is also the state,, of anaccumulation of some depth of snow, 'x', at y.As seen by the constraint mechanisms operating atText Structure, the 0nly relevant aspect of a unit in theRPS is its expressive semantic types, something we haveidentified with the unit's lexical entry.
Here the entry makesreference relations of three types: a 'depth' (which is howone conceptualizes anamount of snow on the ground beforeit starts to melt), a mass (the snowflakes), and a process(the storm).
There is also reference to the types of theparameters in those relations.
Of crucial interest here is ofcourse the standard time parameter in the agentive, theduration of the storm.
The Text Structure is imposing thecontraint that the unit convey information of type duration;this parameter p ovides it.9.
SummaryWe have made a rational reconstruction f an actuallyattested utterance that exhibited what appears to us to havebeen a completely new pattern of semantic types, making itan instance of what we have called referential creativity.
Wehave used this reconstruction to illustrate our design for anincremental content selection process.
This process electsconceptual entities or 'units of information' from a regionof the speaker's situation that is established at the momentshe decides to say something, what we call the RelevantPortion of the Situation.
Simultaneous with a unit'sselection is its assignment to a location in the text plan asit exists up to that point and the determination of thelinguistic resource to which it is to be mapped.
The textplan is Meteer's Text Structure level of representation--thelevel at which units must be shown to be expressiblemandconsequently there is a constraint on the selection processthat the mapping chosen must be consistent with thesyntactico-semantic constraints of the target location.Since judging the consequences of a choice ofrealization could involve a great deal of linguistic reasoningif the vocabulary in which the choice was deliberated weretoo detailed or too dependent on facts about surface syntax,we base the decisions on abstract representations of the factsin a unit's lexical entry, the Lexical-Conceptual Paradigmsof Generative Lexicon theory, instead of on the entriesthemselves.
In addition, we draw on GL's qualia structurerepresentation of a word's meaning to indicate when aphrase will communicate more information than it appearsto do looking just at its surface content.
This permits theselection of units that would otherwise be inconsistent withthe Text Structure location to which they are assigned,resulting in the need for the listener to do what GL calls'type coercion' to recover the meaning that the phrase isintended to indicate.
We noted that in cases like this, theomission of explicit information creates a cohesive link tothe situation in which the utterance occurs, thus reinforcingthe integrity of the text as a semantic unit.Our work suffers from the lack of a real, implementedmachine speaker that could be in real situations, have realintentions that lead to the identification of an RPS, andthereby provide a real check on whether the kinds oflinkages of units that we have posited are coherent in asystem that has more to do than just produce texts.
Wehave accepted this limitation because it is the only way thatwe could look at language as it is really used by people, andwith that be able to investigate a process whosecomplexity, we believe, is commensurate with what ishappening in people's minds.Indeed, the only realistic reason to propose anincremental processing architecture like this one is toformulate hypotheses about the nature of languageprocessing by people, not machines.
If the goal weresimply to have computers produce the best possible texts tofit the content, then we would surely use multi-pass,877th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994revision-driven architectures such as the one developed byGabriel (1981, 1988), which, after all, passed the ultimatetest of a machine generation system by writing threeparagraphs that were folded into the exposition in thejournal article about the system and were completelyundetectable as machine-text.As a hypothesis about people, an architecture shouldoffer some explanation for phenomena that we can observe,and should make predictions about aspects that we had notthought o look for before.
We have seen the first signs ofsuch explanations when we looked closely at the contextsthat led to referential creativity.
For example, had theutterance about the amount of snow been based on adifferent phrasing for the temporal adjunct, then a normalrealization would have been possible:(13) "'...it will stay clean until there are a couple inchesof snow on it.
"Similarly, if example 1 had not involved the fixed phrase"before or after" then a normal realization of the wholeevent would have been available as discussed earlier.We expect hat in part it is the difficulties that suchphrasal choices create for the expressibility of the normalfollowing content that contribute to the recourse toreferentially creative utterances, where the difficulties nodoubt combine ~vith the centrality and salience of the type-inappropriate unit to make the unit more available in theRPS than it might otherwise be.This suggests that referential creativity is an escaperoute from a context in Text Structure that would otherwiseblock any content from being selected.
As a hypothesisabout human processing, this may be testable through aclose examination of a class of speech errors, a known to befruitful source of insight into human processing (Levelt1989, Garrett 1980).
This class is the pattern of 'block andrestart' errors that are so common, even ubiquitous, incasual unpracticed speech that we accept hem just part ofthe process of talking and don't even think of them as"errors".
Here, for example, is such a block and restarttranscribed off the radio during an interview.
The person isspeaking about he flooding in Mississippi and how peopleare dealing with it:(14) "Some of these mergency workers have not had a//have not been to bed for three days.
"If we allow ourselves to speculate about what thisperson might have said had he continued at the point of the"//" rather than restarting, a likely possibility is that hewould have said that the workers had not had "a nap", or "achance to sleep".
This possible content is high frequencylocution, just like the phrase "before or after", but itprobably does not fit the facts of the situation.
That is, wespeculate that the intended completion was "have not had anap in three days".We expect hat it may be very often be the case that ablock and restart occurs because the content unit just beforethe block, the last one said or partially said (given that theprocess overall is a pipeline and the speaker can be expectedto appreciate a failure of expressibility at an early stage), ahigh frequency standard phrasing, creates acontext in whichthe next unit to be said cannot be expressed.
Then, if thereis no high salience, situationally cohesive unit available inthe RPS that might implicitly convey the information andallow the the speaker to make a referentially creative choice,then the speaker will have no alternative other than abortingtheir plan and starting anew.
If such an account for blockand restart errors proves fruitful it will provide empiricalsupport for the design of the content selection process thatwe have described in this paper.10.
ReferencesBateman, John (1985) Utterances in Context, Ph.D.Dissertation, Univ.
of Edinburgh.Barwise, Jon & John Perry (1983) Situations and Attitudes,MIT Press.Busa, Federica & James Pustejovsky (1993)"Unaccusativity and Event Composition", proc.
CortonaTense and Aspect meeting, Oct. 1993.Chomsky, Noarn (1966) Cartesian Linguistics, Harper &Row.Cruse, D.A.
(1986) Lexical Semantics, Cambridge Univ.PressDevlin, Keith (1991) Logic and information, CambridgeUniv.
Press.Gabriel, Richard P. (1981) An Organization for Programsin Fluid Domains, Ph.D. Dissertation, StandfordUniversity.Gabriel, Richard P. (1988) "Deliberate Writing", inMcDonald & Bole (eds.)
Natural Language GenerationSystems, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Garrett, Merrill F. (1980) "Levels of processing insentence production", in Butterword (ed.)
Languageproduction: Vol.
1.
Speech and Talk, Academic Press,London.Granville, Robert A.
(1990) "The Role of UnderlyingStructure in Text Generation", in the proceedings of theFith International Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, June 3-6, 1990, pp.105-111.Halliday, M.A.K.
(1978) Language as cocial semiotic,Arnold.Halliday, M.A.K.
& Ruqaiya Hasan (1976) Cohesion inEnglish Longman, London.Kempen, Gerard & Eduard Hoenkamp (1987) "Anincremental procedural grammar for sentenceformulation", Cognitive Science 11, pp.201-258.Lehrer & Kittay (eds.)
(1992) Frames, Fields, andContrasts, Lawrence Erlbaum.Levelt, Willem J.M.
(1989) Speaking, MIT Press.Marslen-Wilson, W.D.
& L.K.
Tyler (1980) "Thetemporal structure of spoken language understanding",Cognition 8: pp.
1-71.McDonald, David D. (1980) "A Linear-time Model ofLanguage Production: some psychological implications",887th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994in the proceedings of the 18th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Lingustics, June 19-22,Philadelphia, pp.55-56McDonald, David D., Marie Meteer, & James Pustejovsky(i987) "Factors contributing to efficiency in naturallanguage generation", in Kempen (ed.)
Natural LanguageGeneration, Nijhoff, Dordrecht, The Netherlands, pp.159-182.Meteer, Marie W. (1990) "Abstract Linguistic Resourcesfor Text Planning", in the proceedings ofthe FithInternational Workshop on Natural Language Generation,June 3-6, 1990, pp.62-69.Meteer, Marie W. (1992) Expressibility and the Problemof Efficient Text Planning, Pinter, London.Meteer, Marie W., David McDonald, Scott Anderson, DavidForster, Linda Gay, Alison Huettner & PenelopeSibun, (1987) Mumble-86: Design andImplementation, TR #87-87 Dept.
Computer &Information Science, UMass., 174 pgs.Pustejovsky, James P. (1991) "The Generative Lexicon",Computational Linguistics 17, pp.409-441.Pustejovsky, James P. (1994) The Generative Lexicon: ATheory of Computational Lexical Semantics, MITPress, to appear.Reiter, Ehud (1990) "A New Model for Lexical Choice forOpen-Class Words", in the proceedings of the FithInternational Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, June 3-6, 1990, pp.23-30.De Smedt, Koenraad J.M.J.
(1990) Incremental SentenceGeneration: a computer model of grammaticalencoding, TR# 90-01, Nijmegen Institute forCognition Research and Information Technology,Nijmegen, The Netherlands.Vallduvf, Enric (1992) The Informational Component,Garland, New York.897th Intemational Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 199490
