Qualitative and Quantitative Dynamics of .VowelsThomas  C. BourgeoisInst i tute for Neurogenic Communicat ion DisordersUnivers i ty of ArizonaTucson, Arizona 85721bourg@cnet, shs.
arizona, eduRichard  T. Oehr leDepartment  of Linguist icsUniversity of ArizonaTucson, Arizona 85721oehrle@convxl, ccit.
arizona, eduIntroductionA pervasive and fundamental property ofspoken language is the nesting of quasi-periodicstructures, ranging ti'om the vibration of the vocalcords to the iteration of syllables, accents, andhigher-order prosodic objects.
The long-rangegoal of the research reported here is to bring tobear on the study of this phenomenon the methodsand insights of the study of dynamical systems,in the hope that  this will increase ourunderstanding of the computation of spokenlanguage.
In this paper, we describe this point ofview and illustrate the results we have obtained todate in a study of English vowels, within andacross individual speakers.Two perspeeU'ves on speechSpeech is a physical event: it is produced by themechanical actions of the human articulatorsand propagates itself through physical media.
Atthe same time, speech is the carrier of richly-structured linguistic information.
From thislatter point of view, speech events constitutetokens of a symbolic system.
The fundamentalquestion prompting the research reported here is:what makes this duality possible?
* This research was funded in part by Researchand Training Center Grant P60 DC-01409 fromthe National Instutute on Deafness and otherCommunication Disorders.
The present state ofthis research as benefitted from comments madeby the participants of NWAVE 22 and the Forumon Information-Based Linguistics held at theUniversity of Arizona during the spring of 1993.The authors wish to acknowledge the support ofFred Richards, who first brought the phase portraitto our attention and who wrote the reconstructionand Poincar6 section code, and John Coleman,Kerry Green, and two anonymous reviewers fortheir helpful suggeslSons.Pretheoretically, an adequate answer to thisquestion should address the interaction in spokenlanguage of variation and stability.
Speech issymbolically stable across an impressive rangeof variation of the  physical signal, variationobservable within a given speaker, acrossspeakers with a common language, and acrossthe range of dialects and languages.
In spite of thescope and pervasiveness of this variation, speechis not entirely arbitrary.
For example, thephonological daptation of speech is not arbitrary:vowel spaces do not cross-cut each other inrandom fashion.
This suggests that the symbolicproperties of speech are not the result of a purelyconventionalist association between the space ofspeech sounds and the i r  phonologicalinterpretation.
A deeper analysis can be found inthe work of Stevens (1972) and Liljencrants &Lindblom (1972).
Stevens notes that the vocal tractis constructed in such a way that there are regionsof articulatory variation which produce relativelylittle acoustic variation.
Working from theperspective of human action theory, Tuller &Kelso (1991) interpreted Stevens' notion asimplying the existence of regions of dynamicalstability in the speech production mechanism,and not as implying the existence of invariantacoustic propert ies wi th in  the signal.Liljencrants & Lindblom explore the hypothesisthat phonological systems are solutions to theproblems presented by ease of articulation, on theone hand, and ease of perception, on the other.Our approach to the problem focuses on how theintrinsic physical properties of speech areadaptable to the demands of symbolicphonological representation.
To explore thisquestion, we base our research on the concepts andmethods of dynamical systems (Abraham &Shaw, 1992).
Our work invest igates thetrajectories of vowels in a so-called 'phase spacerepresentation' of the associated acoustic wave-71tbrm regarded as a function A mapping time t toamplitude A(t).
This reconstruction transforms apoint A(t O) in the wave form to an ordered triple inthe phase space of the form <A(t0) , A'(t0) , A"(t0)>where the y- and z-coordinates correspond to thefirst and second time derivative; temporallysuccessive values of the function A(t)  becomesuccessive points in the phase space.
Thus time is'parameterized' in the sense that it is not directlyrepresented in the space, although it can always berecovered by considering only the behavior of thex-axis, which mirrors the original function A(t).The resulting trajectory is a closed (or nearlyclosed) curve in three dimensions which repeats(or nearly repeats) itself with each glottal cycle.Pitch is also indirectly represented, encodedwithin the representation as the distance along thetrajectory between successive samples of thespeech wave (at fixed temporal intervals): higherpitches correspond to more distant successivemeasurements.
In other words, the phase-spacereconstruction i cludes all the information foundin spectrographic representations of speech, butnormalizes across fundamenta l  frequencyvariation.
An example follows.
Consider below afragment of the waveform produced during onemale talker's production of the vowel \[u\] in thecontext of the word who'd.The wave form can be characterized qualitativelyas having two large peaks, one smaller than theother, which repeat with each period.
The phaseportrait reconstructed from this wave formappears below in the form of a stereogram (jointhe two center dots by crossing your eyes to see thethree-dimensionality of the resulting image):.
f '~: {, ??
i ".
.),...
::'..... ~ ...-.'2.:.:.:.:......
,~ ,~?
.
.
, . "
"?
: 't~:'2,2.:.:.:,.
..,.
:.ii:::_ : .
.If.In the reconstruction, the largest peak of the waveform constitutes the largest loop, and the smallerpeak corresponds to the smaller loop.
Thetrajectory winds twice around the center in the xyplane and twice around the the center in the xzplane.
We provide an interpretation of thesewindings below.What makes this point of view attractive is,first of all, its physical realism: speech events infact constitute a dynamical system, and as such,the dynamics of the art iculators and theacoustical dynamics they produce in the ambientmedia around them are directly characterizableas dynamic systems.
Equally attractive is that thestudy of dynamical systems brings together, in asingle integrated framework, quantitative andqualitative methods, a feature which has beenexploited in the study of physical systems incethe pioneering insights of Poincar~.
That is, wecan study the dynamic aspects of speech to anydesired degree of quantitative detail, in the samespace that accommodates a non-quantitative,qual i tat ive invest igat ion of behavior.
Inparticular, then, one may identify the phoneticproperties of a speech event with the quantitativeaspects of its behavior, and ask whether or to whatextent the qualitative aspects of this dynamicsystem support phonological analysis.
If thesequalitative physical aspects of speech do in factsupport phonological analys is ,  then thesimultaneous co-existence of 'phonetic' and'phonological' properties in the same spaceprovides an interesting alternative to the viewthat phonological properties are modeled in adiscrete space of 'distinctive features'  andphonetic realization corresponds to a map fromthis discrete space to a corresponding space ofcontinuous phonetic parameters.
Thinking ofphonological properties as the natural qualitativedistinctions that exist in the continuous phasespaces of particular speech events makes it'f2possible to reconcile the apparent abstractness ofphonological properties with their intrinsicdependence on such physical parameters asduration, amplitude, and frequency.Phase space reconstruetiorm of vowelsAs we have said, the phase-spacereconstruction makes it possible to studyquantitative and qualitative aspects of vowels (inparticular, and the full range of speech sounds, ingeneral) in the same space.
The qualitativeaspects of dynamic behavior correspond tofundamental properties of attractors within thephase-space.
The presence of such attractors isrevealed by stability in the phase-space trajectory.A continuous phase space can support discretely-structured forms of stable behavior.
Thus, oneand the same trajectory may be studied from thepoint of view of the continuous pace or from thepoint of view of the discrete parameters whichcontrol the shape of that trajectory.
It is this basicduality which we seek to exploit.An attractor epresents a natural limit of aphase-portrait.
For example, consider thebehavior of a damped pendulum which swingsthrough a series of decreasing arcs until  iteventual ly comes to rest.
A phase-spacereconstruction f its behavior consists of the set ofpoints (x, y) in the Plane, where the x-coordinaterepresents the displacement---posit ive ornegative---of the pendulum at any given point intime, and the y-coordinate represents its velocity.Since the pendulum swings with decreasingdisplacement and correspondingly decreasingvelocity, its phase-portrait consists of an arcspiraling through the phase space and ending inthe origin---a point attractor.
~ ~xlc3tOther kinds of attractors are possible.
Theattractor for a bowed string, for example, isperiodic: a closed curve in the planar phase space.A fundamental question in investigating speechas a dynamic system is the character of theattractors in the phase space.The double-Helmholz resonator model ofthe vocal tract provides a convenient andstraightforward means to introduce the geometryof the vowel trajectory in phase space, the torus.The torus is the product S 1 ?
S 1 of two circles.Thus, the two dimensions model the oscillatoryproperties of the two chambers, while the trajectoryin the product of the dimensions models theircoupling for a given value of their controllingparameters (that is, by hypothesis, for the phoneticvalue of a particular vowel) 1.
Consider the doubleresonant cavity schematized below:Here, the two chambers A and B are coupled toeach other by a connecting tube.
For the moment,let us imagine that there is no coupling betweenthe two chambers.
Let chamber A have a singleresonant frequency ?o and chamber B have adifferent resonant frequency Q.
We can thenreconstruct the phase space trajectory as a circlein a plane whose points are determined by theordered triple1 Because the trajectory is derived from the actualacoustic waveform, our interpretation of such atrajectory is not in ~ principle restricted bylimitations due to the simplicity of the double-resonator model.
By changing the parameters ofreconstruction we can easily embed the resultingtrajectories in a state space of arbitrarily higherdimension.
That is, we can relate the trajectorynot to a line on the surface of a torus but rather to arope on that surface, or we can think of this rope asinhabiting the space enclosed by the toms, ratherthan constraining it to occupy the surface of thattorus.
Such extensions are straightforward;whether they would be required in a moreadequate model remains an open question at thistime.73<sin z, cos z, -s in T>; z = cot.
Similarly, we canreconstruct the phase-space trajectory for B as acircle in a plane whose points are determined by<sin T, cos T, -sin T>; T = ~2t.
Because theresonant frequencies co and f~ are disparate, wecan consider the two planar phase spaces to beorthogonal to each other, as below:AIf we now t rans late  the two phase spacetrajectories and adjust the scale appropriately, itis easy to visualize that the space traced out by apoint simultaneously constrained to move alongthe curve described by A and the curve describedby B will be the surface of a torus.An example of such a trajectory is shown below.~.~- - .
- -====-~=, .
.
.
.imThe fundamental hypothesis of this paperis that  while the vowel space is acousticallycontinuous, the shape of the trajectories within thephase space representat ion corresponding tovowels of different quality are topologicallydist inguishable,  and that  the tra jector iescorresponding to vowels of the same qualityacross talkers are homeomorphic- - - that  is,topologica l ly  ind is t ingu ishab le .
We areparticularly interested in trajectories which areperiodic with respect o both dimensions of thetorus and their coupling.
Topologically, thesetrajectories are torus knots of type (re,n), where Illand n are relatively prime and m represents theperiod of the trajectory with regard to one of thecircular dimensions of the torus and n representsthe period of the trajectory with regard to the othercircular dimension (see Crowell & Fox, 1993).These two parameters  may be coupled indistinguishable ways as well.
Even with m and nquite small, this space of possibilities gives rise tocomplex varieties of behavior which can bedist inguished on simple, discrete grounds.Considering speech within the phase spacerepresentation, then, might provide insight intothe continuous/symbolic duality which exists inboth the production and perception of naturallanguage.DataWe have collected the vowels \[i I E ae ^  u U o alwithin the context h id  from four adult males, fouradult females, and two children (a boy, 11, and agirl, 9) during separate recording sessions, andstored the productions on a digital audio tapesampling at 44 kHz with 16 bits quantization.
Wethen resampled these tokens onto a PC using aseparate AID converter at 22kHz with 8 bitsquantization.
In order to study the dynamics ofthese vowels both within the glottal cycle as wellas within the syllable, we extracted pitch-periods(one iteration of the closed curve in the phasespace) from three regions of the syllable: the firstquarter, the middle, and the third quarter.
Each ofthe resulting arrays was transformed into thephase space using the method escribed in Gibsonet al (1992).
At the time of writing, we presentresults obtained from analyzing one adult male(D.B.)
and two adult female talkers.For reference to other kinds of speechanalys is ,  the table below compiles thefundamenta l  f requency  and fo rmantmeasurements for the three speakers we haveiiilialyzed ,'is li l i inction or vowel quality, averagl;dliCl'llss l,hc three positions in tilt; syllabic.\ [ Insert  table 1 here.\]These measurements'  are in general accord withthose presented in Peterson & Barney (1952), andsuggest that  the voWels within our corpus arer phonetical ly unremarkable.The phase space trajectories of nine vowelsfrom the male talker (D.B.)
are given below:Insert  f igure 1 here.As our topology suggests, we discuss twoqualitative parameters which serve to distinguishthe phase por t ra i t s  from each other:  thesmoothness of the trajectory, which we can take tolie |'elated to the wind4ng number around the 'tube'of the torus, and the number  of tr ips eachtrajectory makes about the origin, the 'circle' ofthe torus.
Descending in height  across theinventory,  the t ra jector ies  of those vowelsproduced with central or posterior articulation \[uU o ^ a\] orbit the origin in a characterist ical lysmooth fash ion re la t ive  to the i r  anter io rcounterparts \[iI E ae whose portraits how a greatdeal more local activity.
We can interpret  thislocal activity as an increase in the number  ofloops around the smaller diameter of the torus.
Inother words, the winding number m is large forf ront  vowels, and smal l  for back vowels.Comparing now across the trajectories of vowels,the number  of ro tat ions  around the originincreases as tongue height is lowered.
That  is,high vowels such as \[i I u U\] show fewer tripsaround the origin than low vowels \[ae a\].
In termsof the state space, we can say that  the windingnumber for the large d iameter  of the torus nincreases as vowel height decreases.Consider  now the fol lowing phase spacereconstructions of the vowel /u/ spoken by twoJbmale talkers (upper two phase portraits) and twonmle talkers (lower two phase portraits):\ [ I -nsertf igure 2 here.
IWith regard to the two qualitative parameters wed iscussed above,  cer ta in  s imi la r i t ies  arepreserved within the vowel trajector ies acrosstalkers.
The winding number  of the small r ing(i.e.
around tim 'tube') is small, as is the windingnil lnbl;r o1" the large r ing (i.e.
llrOillid the 'circh;').These qual i tat ive s imi lar i t ies  of the wind ingnumber can be made quant i tat ive by countingthem, using a technique developed by Poincar6(we will consider only the winding number of the'circle' here).The Poincar6 section provides a means ofsimplifying the dynamics of a phase portrait  byconsidering not the whole path within the space, aswe have done above, but ra ther  a plane whichintersects the phase space such that  all of thetra jector ies pass through it.
Cons istent  withcommon practice, we choose the plane associatedwith the phase-zero point of the (large) oscillatorand, for a given glottal cycle, count how manytimes the trajectory passes through the plane in asingle direction.
By this method, we obtain for thecontinuous trajectory a discrete observation of itswinding number.
For the example below, thePoincar6 section contains a single point, so thewinding number would be 1.?:!
i I :: :?The following table summarizes the resultswe have obtained for Poincar6 sections of phasespace reconstruct ions of pitch periods exerptedfrom 1/4, 1/2, and 3/4 of the way through the vowelportion of the syllable, (T.i I E ae u U o ^ a?d4 D.B.
1 2 3 4 2 3 3 4 5S.O.
1 2 3 4 1 2 3 5 5L .W.
1 2 3 3 1 2 3 3 5(~/2 D.B.
2 2 3 3 2 3 3 4 6S.O.
2 3 3 4 1 3 3 3 4L .W.
1 2 3 4 2 2 2 4 43~d4 D.B.
2 3 4 5 2 3 3 4 6S.O.
2 3 3 4 2 2 2 3 6L .W.
1 3 4 4 2 3 2 4 4As the data i l lustrate,  the winding numberincreases  wi th  a decrease in vowel height ,consistent with our qual itat ive observations for asingle speaker.
Because the winding number  is ameasure of tr ips around the torus and therefore anin teger ,  i t  p rov ides  us w i th  a means  ofdiscretizing the vowel space in a way which is notcomplete ly  a rb i t ra ry ,  but  ra ther  ref lects theinternal  s t ructure of the trajectories through thes ta te  space itself .
Wi th in  th is  space,  thetrajectories can be grouped together as members  ofan equivalence class which itself  is a function ofthe contro l l ing  parameter  of vowel height .Specifically, high vowels \[i I u U\] can be thought ofas being associated with trajector ies of windingnumber  n ~ 2, mid vowels are associated withtrajectories of winding number  3 ~ n ~ 4, and lowvowels are associated with trajectories of windingnumber  n ~ 5.
Much of our data conform to thisgeneral izat ion with only a few out l ie rs .
As forthose data which do fall outside of this grouping, itis important  o remember  that  the data given arebased on a single Poincar~ section for a singlepitch per iod of the re levant  vowel.
A morethorough ana lys is  would undoubted ly  includeboth P-sections for the phase angles (0, ~/2, ~, 3~/2)as a means  of dist inguishing local behavior nearthe phase plane from the global properties of thetrajectory, and for addit ional pitch-periods in thes igna l .We predict then, that  a change in the windingnumber  n for a vowel reconstructed as a phasespace trajectory will correspond to a change in theperce ived phonet ic  category  of the  vowel;success ive ly  la rger  va lues  of the w ind ingnumber  n correspond to succesively lower vowelheight categories.
In the feature system of SPE, achange from n = 2 to n = 3 corresponds to a changefrom \[+high\] to \[-high\], a change from n = 4 to n = 5corresponds to a change from \[-low\] to \[+low\].A reviewer has correctly pointed out to us thatthe winding number  around the large diameter  ofthe torus appears to be correlated with the numberof harmonics between the fundamenta l  frequencyand the f irst vowel formant  (although it remainsto be confirmed, by extension it is most likely thecase that  the winding number  around the 'tube' ofthe torus  is cor re la ted  wi th  the number  ofharmonics  between the  fundamenta l  f requencyand the second vowel formant).
Because we havedescribed this number  as a means for evaluat ingthe perceived art iculatory height of the vowel, itseems appropr iate  to determine whether  or notthere  is a precedent  in the l i te rature  for aninteract ion between the fundamenta l  frequencyand the first formant either in vowel production orvowel perception.
The following bricf  chronologyfeatures the highl ights of our invest igat ion intothis question.The interact ion between F 0 and F !Since the ear ly  1950's researchers  haveobserved an interact ion between fhndamenta lf requency and vowel percept ion.
Pot ter  andSte inberg (1950), who measured  the vowels ofmale, female, and child speakers,  found that  anincrease  in fundamenta l  f requency  acrossta lkers  was correlated with an increase in theabsolute frequency values of the formants  withina part icular vowel category.
While they suggestedthat  fundamenta l  f requency var ia t ion  mightof fer  a means  for normal i z ing  fo rmantfrequency values, they decided it was "a dubiouspossibil ity" since, among other things, formantsare a product of the physical aspects of the vocalt ract  and have little dependence on fundamenta lfrequency.
However, they also found an effect of achange in fundamenta l  f requency  on thepercept ion of synthet ic  vowels whose fo rmants t ructure  remained  constant:  as fundamenta lfrequency was increased, the perceived frequencyof the f irst formant  decreased.
That  is, a vowelwhose formant  structure corresponded to a male\[a\] was perceived as an \[a\] when synthesized withthe fundamenta l  frequency of a male, but  as a(ch i ld 's)  \[O\] when synthes ized  w i th  thefundamenta l  f requency of a child.
S imi lar ly,  avowel whose formant  structure corresponded to ama le  \[ae\] was perce ived as an \[ae\] whensynthesized with the fundamenta l  frequency of amale, but as a (child's) vowel somewhere between\[ae\] and  \[El when synthes ized  wi th  thefundamenta l  f requency of a child.
They reportfu r ther  evidence, a lbeit  anecdotal ,  that  whenhel ium was used as a propagat ion  medium foradult  male vowels or an art i f ic ial  larynx wasused to excite the vowel formants  of a child (thusrais ing or lowing, respectively, the fundamenta lfrequency of the subject while leaving the vocalt rac t  constant) ,  that  a speaker  will "makead justments  in his formant  frequencies in orderto ma inta in  a g iven vowel sound."
S imi la rf indings are also to be found in Peterson (1961),who reports,  again anecdotal ly,  that  "if a manra i ses  his fundamenta l  voice f requency  tocorrespond to that of n child (falsetto), and thehigher tbrmants are removed by filtering, theacoustical result corresponds very closely to the\[Ol of a child with low-pass filtering and.
may beso interpreted by a listener."
More systematicstudies of the effects of F 0 on perception of vowelswere conducted by Miller (1953), Fujisaki &Kawashima (1968), and  Carlson et al (1975).Each of these studies reported a similar shift inthe perceptual boundary between vowel categoriesas fundamental  frequency was changed: anincrease in fundamental frequency leads to adecrease in the perceived value of the first\[brmant, and thus an increase in the perceivedarticulation height of the vowel.
In sum, severalstudies have indlicated that  a person'sIhndamental fi'equency interacts with both vowelproduction and vowel perception, and that theproduct of this interaction appears to be under thecontrol ot' the speaker to some degree.The observations reported in Scott (1976)provide some insight into predicting the impact onw)wel perception of the interaction between F0 andF 1.
Scott explored the perceptual consequences ofmanipulat ing the temporal  f ine-structure ofw~wel waveforms, and found that the perceptualboundary dividing a synthesized continuumwhose endpoints were /i/ and /I/ was correlatedwith a change in the number of positive-goingslopes in the wavef0rm: those stimuli with twopositive-going slopes were categorized as/ i /whi lethose with three positive-going slopes werec~ltcgorizcd as /l/.
In a fi)llow-up experiment, F 0and F 1 were manipulated in three syntheticcontinua to produce a series with a waveformchange from three cycles of F 1 per fundamentalperiod to four cycles Of F 1 per fundamental periodat d i f ferent points along the seven-stepcoutinuum.
For those continua whose waveformchanges occurred near the category boundary (theregion where the tokens became ambiguous), theposition of the boundary shifted to the stimuluswhere the waveform change occurred.
Thisresearch suggests that, at least for ambiguousvowels (i.e., those :near the boundary of twod is t inct  phonet ic  categor ies) ,  categorymembership can be decided on the basis of thetemporal fine-structure of the wave form.The Scott study bears close similarity with thedynamic approach discussed here.
The temporalline-structure that Scott manipulated has a directcorrelation to the winding number of the phasespace trajectory.
Specifically, those tokens whichcontain an extra cycle of F 1 per fundamentalperiod are also those whose winding number nincreases by 1.
As Scott observed, such a changewas detectable perceptually, and its detectioncorresponds to a change in the mapping of theacoustic stimulus from one phonetic category toanother.
Relating this to the table of values fromthe Poincar6 analysis, one can see that in naturalspeech, the change between/ i /and/ I / fo r  a givenspeaker is consistent with an integral increase inthe winding number.
Hence, Scott's predictionthat temporal fine structure is correlated with theperceptual phonetic ategory of a synthetic vowelis borne out in our natural speech data as well.Put in phonological terms, the perceptualdistinction between /i/ and /I/ which Scottinvestigated is typically characterized not as achange in vowel height, but rather as a change inthe value of the \[tense\] or \[ATR\] feature.
Becausewe have limited our analysis to distinctions ofvowel height and net other dimensions whichdel imit the vowel space, there are cleardifferences between that study and the predictionswe make here; we cannot comment on the extentof those differences at this stage in our research.More work will certainly be required to verify theconnect ion  between the  parametersdistinguishing the vowel space and those aspectsof vowel (production) dynamics representedwithin the wave form.
However, the connectionbetween our approach and Scott's results (and thelegacy of research which precedes it) iscompel l ing.
It suggests  the otherwiseunanticipated result that the oscillator drivingvowel production (the glottal source whichproduces F 0) and the resonant cavity whichdetermines vowel quality are entrained (coupled)in frequency.ConclusionIn this discussion we have provided only avery cursory analysis of a small set of talkers, butit nevertheless i l lustrates the potential powerwhich this theoretical perspective can have as atool for resolving the continuous/discrete dualitywe mentioned above.
It is important also to notethat this technique of phase space reconstructionand subsequent P-section analysis can beobtained without any specialized hardwarebeyond that needed to discretize the wave form77itself and does not rely on the Fourier transform.As an analysis toolkit, then, this approach offersan augmentation to current spectral analysistechniques by reducing some of the cross-talkervariation that such techniques cannot abstractaway from via a 'vocal-tract internal' means ofnormalizing across differences in talkers andsituations.As a final consideration along these lines, wepoint out two additional curiosities about speechthat may also succumb to analysis under thedynamical perspective.
First, as early as 1947French and Steinberg showed that speech could beeither low-pass filtered or high-pass filtered at 1.9kHz while reta in ing around 68% of itsintelligibility.
This suggests that the globalstructure of the vowel's dynamics may in fact beretained in spite of the filtering process at this'magic' frequency.
If this proves to be true, thenour approach offers a unique perspective fromwhich a s t ra ight forward account of thisphenomenon can be obtained.
Second, Lickliderand Pollack (1948) showed that speech subjected todifferentiation followed by infinite peak clipping(which preserves only the zero crossings of thewave form) was also highly intelligible--in fact,about 90% intelligible.
Although we have notexplored this fully, such a transformation seemsintuit ively related to the Poincar~ sectionanalysis which we have provided above.ReferencesAbraham, R., & C. Shaw.
(1992).
Dynamics: TheGeometry of Behavior.
Redwood City:Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.Carlson, R. Fant, G., & B. Granstrom.
(1975).Two formant models, pitch and vowelperception.
Auditory Analysis  andPerception of Speech, G. Fant and M. A.A. Tatham, eds, London: AcademicPress.Crowell, Richard H., & Ralph H. Fox.
(1963).Introduction to Knot Theory.
New York:Ginn and Company.French, N. R. & J. C. Steinberg.
(1947).
Factorsgoverning the intelligibility of speechsounds, JASA, 19, 90-119.Fujisaki, H. & T. Kawashima.
(1968).
The rolesof pitch and higher formants in theperception of vowels, IEEE Transactionsof Audio Electroacoustics, AU-16, 78-80.Gibson, John F., J. Doyne Farmer, MartinCasdagli, & Stephen Eubank.
(1992).
Ananalytic approach to practical state spacereconstruction, Physica D, 57, 1-30.Licklider, J. C. R, & Irwin Pollack.
Effects ofdifferentiation, integration, and infinitepeak clipping on the intelligibility ofspeech.
JASA, 20, 42-51.L i l jencrants,  J.
& B. Lindblom.
(1972).Numerical simulation of vowel qualitysystems: the role of perceptual contrast.Language, 48, 839-62.Miller, R. L. (1953).
Auditory tests with syntheticvowels.
JASA, 25, 114-21.Peterson, Gordon E. (1961).
Parameters of w)welquality.
Journal of Speech and HearingResearch, 4, 10-29.Peterson, Gordon E., & Harold L. Barney.
(1952).Control methods used in a study of thevowels.
JASA, 24, 175-84.Potter, R. K. & J. C. Steinberg.
(1950).
Toward thespecification of speech.
JASA, 22, 807-20.Scott, Brian L. (1976).
Temporal factors in w)welperception.
JASA, 60, 1354-65.Stevens, Kenneth.
(1972).
The quantai nature ofspeech: evidence from art iculatory-acoustic data.
Human Communication: AUnified View, E. E. David Jr. & P. B.Denes, eds., New York: McGraw-Hill.Tuller, Betty, & J.A.S.
Kelso.
(1991).
Theproduction and perception of syllablestructure.
Journal of Speech and HearingResearch, 34, 501-8.Table 1.Ta lker  i I E ae u U o A aF 0 D.B.
131.7 140,9 134.1 125.2 127.1 140.7 121.7 133.5 119.2S.O.
165.4 175~3 172.6 166.1 184.7 179.6 168.3 173.5 161.6L .W.
216.1 198:5 190 177.7 187.9 192.8 178.7 179.2 175.3F 1 D.B.
268.9 412J2 537.8 779.1 281.5 442.3 419.7 600.6 801.7S.O.
321.7 48715 826.8 975.1 366.9 583.1 525.2 811.7 1083I , .W.
444.8 535!3 784.1 904.7 409.6 573 608.2 737.6 841.9I" 2 D.B.
2460 2113 2571 2091 836.9 1252 922.3 10,56 1191S.O.
3003 2480 2312 2184 990.1 1412 11061 1817 1621I,.
W. 3023 225!
J  2129 2056 1088 16,51 999 1081 1130i,' 3 l).
B.
3496 2993 4792 2898 2220 2262 2224 2307 2131S.O.
4008 3224 3189 2998 1907 2915 2051 3031 2880L .W.
4006 3071 3013 2817 2514 2915 * 1686 *79Figure 1.I Uo~0i ' m I ~.0 .Figure 2.?
?l4.e8182
