Generating Cooperative System Responsesin Information Retrieval DialoguesMarkus FischerInformation Technolpgy ResearchInstitute, University of Brighton (ITRI)markus.fischer~itrl.bt on.ac.ukEl isabeth MaierGerman Research Center for ArtificialIntelligence GmbH (DFKI)maier@dfki.uni-sb.deAdelheit  SteinIntegrated Publication and InformationSystems Institute (GMD-IPSI)st ein~darrastadt .grad.deAbstractThis paper describes the Corinna system which integratesa theoretical approach to dialogue modeling with textgeneration techniques to conduct cooperative dialoguesin natural anguage.
It is shown how the dialogue modelCOR can be augmented by adding discourse relations asan additional evel of description which is particularlyvaluable for the generation of dialogue acts.1 Introduct ionText planning aid generation become more and more im-portant as components of intelligent multimodal user in-terfaces.
It has been pi:oposed (see, e.g., Stein and Thiel,1993) to model interaction with an intelligent informa-tion system as a conversation between two participants.The conversation metaphor applies to natural languageas well as to graphical and multimodal user interfaces, ifan appropriate model is provided.
Employing features ofhuman-human communication i to interface design (evenif only to a small exterit), the system can respond to theuser in a more natural way.
Natural communication doesnot necessarily imply natural anguage, but undoubtedly,language plays an imp, ortant role in conversation.
The-ories and tools developed in the areas of Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) and Natural Language Genera-tion (NLG) can help making models for conversations (ordialogues, as we will call it for the rest of the paper) moreadequate and richer in Itheir descriptive power.The speech-act oriented dialogue model COR (COnver-sational Roles) has been developed at GMD-IPSI (Sit-ter and Stein, 1992).
I t  covers the genre of informa-tion seeking human-computer interactions as opposed tohuman-human conversations and other (less restricted)genres uch as spontaneous conversations, narratives, ar-guments, etc.
Due to its strong focus on the pragmaticsof a dialogue, leaving semantics aside, COlt is a domainindependent conversation model.
It is general in that itcovers the basic illocutionary aspects and role expecta-tions of cooperative information-seeking exchanges.In the search for ways to enhance the COR model fur-ther, we found the Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)to be a very good candidate.
This theory - initially de-veloped for monologues only - has been formalized andintegrated into many text generation and text planningsystems, one of which has been developed at IPSI (of.Bateman et al, 1991).
iSome empirical studies were car-ried out to find out possible points of integration (Fischer,1993).
The results were very promising and hence usedto specify a dialogue manager of a prototypical informa-tion system, called Corinna.
This dialogue system usesautomatically generated natural anguage as its major in-teraction modality.
The incorporation of RST within theCOR dialogue model served as an important parameterwithin the text generation process.The remainder of the paper is divided into two mainparts: the theoretical part concludes with the descrip-tion of our own approach of integrating COR and RST(section 2.2), which is then elaborated and exemplified inthe second part of the paper (section 3) presenting thebasic features of the Corinna system.2 Theoret ical  Framework2.1 Re la ted  WorkResearch activities in several areas, such as NLG, dialoguemodeling, information retrieval and multimedia interfacesplayed an important role in motivating our work.
Twostreams of research were particularly interesting in ourcontext: on one hand the incorporation of dialogue mod-els in natural language systems, on the other hand theextension of RST and its application for (not exclusivelynatural-language-based) dialogue systems.
The followinggives some examples of work done in these two areas.As part of the Communal project (cf.
Fawcett e~ al.,1988), which includes generation as well as understand-ing of natural language, a dialogue model called SFM(Systemic Flowchart Model) was developed.
It uses adiscrimination etwork to describe situations and actionsthat can occur in a dialogue.
Due to the fact that manydifferent speech acts (based on Searle, 1969) and speechact sequences were to be considered, the network is quitecomplex.
Attempts were also made to integrate thismodel with RST(cf.
Fawcett and Davies (1992) and sec-tion 2.1.2).A system which is capable of performing dialogues with auser on the basis of speech, was proposed by Smith, Hippand Biermann (1992).
Its domain is the maintenance ofelectrical appliances, and the emphasis in this approachlies on (nested) communicative goals, and concepts uchas intentional, attentional nd linguistic structures (Groszand Sidner, 1986).Another system for the treatment of spoken dialogues isreported in Bilange (1991).
The approach, which hasbeen developed in the framework of the SUNDIAL project,2077th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994is based on the assumption that dialogues can best be de-scribed by means of a multi-level approach.
The authordistinguishes four levels: a domain-specific transactionlevel, an exchange level, an intervention level modelinginitiative, reaction and evaluation, and finally a level con-sisting of dialogue acts.
The system has been developedfor the domain of flight reservations.Plan-oriented approaches for dialogue modeling are de-scribed in Litman and Allen (1987) and Lambert andCarberry (1992).
Both approaches distinguish domainor task, problem-solving and discourse levels.
Knowledgefrom the various levels is employed to solve the task ofplan recognition in dialogues.
Connections do not onlyexist between the various levels but also between elementswithin one level.
These links are modeled either as dis-course plans which follow the course of the interaction(e.g.
CONTINUATION, CLARIFICATION and TOPIC-SHIFT,see Litman and Allen(1987)) or as discourse actions thatlink an utterance with" the context.
A similar distinctionof various levels of representation is made in O'Donnellh1990), except that the links between various elements ofis discourse or exchange model are not made explicit.The EES project (Explainable Expert Systems) is the ba-sis for the theoretical and practical work of Moore andParis (1989), Moore and Swartout (1990), and Careniniand Moore (1993).
A central goal in EES was the cre-ation of a fiexibl~ explanation module for expert systemscommunicating in natural language, allowing the user toask questions about explanations given by the systemand generating appropriate system responses.
Strate-gies incorporating parameters such as context and focuswere used to disambiguate the user's utterances.
To ad-dress the intentions behind utterances and communica-tive goals, concepts of RST  (cf.
Mann and Thompson,1987) and Speech Act Theory were exploited.
The fo-cus, however, is on flexible explanation dialogues and,unlike COR-RST,  not on modeling information-seekingdialogues as complex "negotiations" with flexible ways towithdraw and reject dialogue contributions.The Intelligent Documentation Advisory System (IDAS),developed by Reiter, Mellish and Levine (1992) repre-sents an attempt to use dynamically generated naturallanguage in the framework of an information retrieval sys-tem using hypertext techniques.
To obtain information,the user clicks on the object under consideration and thenchooses one out of a list of request options displayed bythe system.
However, there is no dialogue model at all,the system only allows simple query - answer cycles.The concepts of speech acts in combination with RST  areused in several multimedia presentation systems.
Amongthe first systems following this approach were the WIPsystem developed at DFK I  (see Andrd and Rist (1993))and the system developed by Maybury (1991).
However,neither the WIP  project nor Maybury's system use high-level dialogue structures.
As pointed out in Arens etal.
(1993) global structures are necessary for establish-ing overall coherence in the context of multimedia inter-faces.
COR-RST takes this into account.
It focuses onNatural Language Generation, yet alows the extensionto multimodal dialogue acts.In the following two sections the two theoretical ap-proaches (COR and RST) that were most influential forour work will be presented.
Especially the COR modelwill be described in detail, because it is essential for un-derstanding our approach.2.1.1 The Conversat ional  Roles Model  (COR)In the field of information retrieval (IR) the interactiveand communicative aspects of IR have only recently beenemphasized (cf.
for example, Belkin and Vickery, 1985;Belkin et al, 1993).
There exist approaches to distin-guish various types of information retrieval strategies andtactics (cf.
Bates, 1979), task hierarchies and globalphases of the interaction.
Itowever, no elaborate inter-action models are provided in this field (except simplisticiterative question-answer models).
In the area of conver-sational analysis and discourse theory, on the other hand,we find various discourse and dialogue models which ad-dress local dialogue structures (e.g., Fawcett et al, 1988;Grosz and Sidner, 1986, 1990; Reichman, 1985).To be able to design a flexible dialogue system which canengage in cooperative information-seeking dialogues we" (?
_ 4 use the Conversational P~oles" model COR) developedby Sitter and Stein (1992).
It has been used to designthe interface of a multimedia information system, calledMERIT (cf.
Stein et al, 1992).
The COR model was orig-inally influenced by the "Conversation for Action" (CfA)model (Winograd and Flores, 1986) which was applied todesign computer-aided human-human i teractions.By adopting basic concepts of speech act theory and ex-isting discourse models, and extending the CfA model forthe situation of information-seeking human-computer in-teractions, the COR model shows the following features:?
it depicts the interaction as a cooperative two-party"negotiation" where commitments (to supply infor-mation or meta-information) can be made, retractedor rejected;?
it permits mixed-initiative dialogues and is flexibleenough to describe all possible - even extremely com-plex - interaction patterns (this includes the tempo-rary role changes of information seeker/informationprovider, which frequently occur in highly vague tasksettings uch as information-seeking);?
it provides the means for an explicit representationof the dialogue history in an abstract form, i.e., dis-regarding the interaction mode (graphical, inguistic,mixed).According to COR the two participants (A and B) havedialogue goals and pursue specific conversational tacticsto achieve these goals.
The speaker's and addressee'smutual expectations about possible responses and aboutthe subsequent course of the dialogue are essential.
Themodel can be represented as a recursive state-transitionnetwork (see figure 1).
The network defines the fullpotential of all possible interactions where successfullycompleted ialogue contributions/acts end in specializedstates (circles).
Transitions (arcs) represent the varioustypes of dialogue acts: e.g., REQUEST, OFFER, and IN-FORM can exactly be mapped onto Searle's basic "illo-cutionary types": directives, commissives, and assertives(cf.
Searle, 1979); the other generic acts belong to thesame categories, but they are less significant bec.au.se theyare merely responsive, .g., PROMISE is a commlss~ve act,but it adopts the conditions of action expressed by thepreceding REQUEST (cf.
Sitter and Stein, 1992).
The2087th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine * June 21-24, 1994Dialogue (A,B) \ [ '~est (B,A)\ \  ~ ~'au~araw oner t~,~) / \\ be discontented\ \  offer (B,Ap',,,.,~__ / ac.~,t (A,B) \ \ (A,B)~.~.~thdr'a~ w'ithdra., ~re jeet  offer withdraw ~ withdraw.d i r e e ~ A , B )  directive ~ ~eornmissive(A,B) (13,A) N16 I171 L~J I._~.ll~9.JFigure 1: The DIALOGUE net of the COR modeltraversal of the graph stops in states which are marked bysquares.
State < 5 >, for instance, is reached when the in-formation seeker (A) h'as expressed contentment with thegiven information and quits the dialogue.
States < 6 > to< 11 > are also terminal states, but here the informationneed could not be satisfied.
Note that a dialogue whichends in one of these states can be well-formed, coopera-tive and complete (e.g,, B rejects a request of A, becausethe requested information could not be retrieved).The bold arcs leading from state < 1 > to state < 5 > de-note two "idealized" courses of the interaction which fol-low the basic role-expectations or role assignments.
Thetwo initiative acts (REQUEST, OFFER) typically establishnew.conditions ofaction, whereas the subsequent acts arereactive and do not introduce new conditions (PROMISE,ACCEPT, INFORM, and BE-CONTENTED are all "expected"in that they are positive responses to the preceding acts).Really encountered information-seeking dialogues, how-ever, often do not follow such a simple, linear conversa-tional development.
Directive acts (REQUEST, ACCEPT)can be rejected by the addressee, commissives (OFFER,PROMISE) are often withdrawn.
Both rejections and with-drawals (called "alternative" acts or responses) can eitherlead back to state < 1 >, where the dialogue is enteredagain (begin of a new: dialogue cycle), or to a terminalstate (definite REJECT, WITHDRAW).Another way of departing from the linear course of in-teraction is even mor e important.
So far we have onlyconsidered "atomic" dialogue acts which are not furtherdecomposed.
But consider the following situations whichoften occur in information-seeking interactions: if themeaning of an utterance (atomic act) has not been under-stood by the addressee, or, if she needs additional infor-mation to be able to proceed, an embedded clarificationdialogue might be necessary.
In order to resolve this prob-lem, the transitions in.
figure 1 must not be interpretedas atomic acts but as Structured ialogue contributions.The extended COR model, therefore, defines basicallytwo types of subnetworks: figure 2 displays the net ofan INFORM contribution; figure 3 shows a representativenet for all other types of contributions (here: REQUESTas an example).
Thus, recursion is taken into account.In the figures 2 and 3 "A: request" and "A: inform"denote atomic acts, whereas a suffix notation indicatesstructured contributions, for example: ASSERT(A,B) orDIALOGUE(B,A, solicit context information).
The traver-sal of the INFORM net is quite simple: A's INFORM actcan be followed by a subdialogue initiated by B (e.g., bya REQUEST such as a clarifying question), or, if B doesnot need additional information, state < c > is reachedimmediately (jump).
Thus, A's ("nuclear") INFORM actmight be sufficient, whereas the ("satellitic") subdialogueis optional and depends on B's decision.Inform/Assert (A,B) jumpdialogue (B,A, solicitcontext information)Figure 2: The INFORM netRequest (A,B) dialogue (B,A, solicitcontext in formation)jump dialogue (B,A, identify request)Figure 3: The REQUEST netThe transition et given in figure 3 is more complex but2097th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994follows the same principles.
The subdialogues are alsooptional; A has two possibilities to start in state < a >:?
A may start with a nuclear act (here, a REQUEST forinformation, such as a query to the database)and hasthen the opportunity to supply additional contextinformation (e.g., an assertion to explain, specify orillustrate the request).
If A does not give this contextinformation voluntarily, B may enter a subdialogueto solicit the required context information.
Thus, theASSERT transition and the DIALOGUE leading fromstate < b > to < c > have a similar function, bothbeing optional, i.e., satellitic.?
A may start with an ASSERT (entering the subnettype displayed in figure 2) to give context informa-tion concerning her request; she may add the explicitREQUEST immediately afterwards, or may skip theexplicit utterance (jump), in case she believes thatB is able to infer the intended request from the con-text.
If B is not able to identify the request, B hasthe option to initiate a clarification DIALOGUE.The COR model focuses on the illocutionary aspects ofthe conversation and abstracts away from the specificpropositional content of dialogue contributions.
However,it has been recognized that COR in its first version wasonly a partial model which had to be further enhanced byaddressing rhetorical and semantic aspects (cf.
Maier andSitter, 1992; Stein and Maier, 1993).
This was recentlyverified by Fischer (1993) who used the COR model toanalyze a corpus of real dialogues between humans (infor-mation seekers communicating with information brokersto prepare a database search).2.1.2 Rhetor ical  S t ructure  Theory  (I:tST)Among the theories for modeling discourse, the RST -Rhetorical Structure Theory (cf.
Mann and Thompson,1987) is the theory most exploited for natural anguageprocessing, particularly for natural anguage generation.RST is a theory which describes the structure of writtenmonologues.
One of the most basic assumptions of RSTis that coherence can be modeled by means of namedrelations which hold between adjacent ext units.
Suchrelations can be used to structure texts by iteratively ap-plying relations thereby composing complex text unitsout of smaller ones.Another assumption of RST is that, in general, a rela-tion imposes an asymmetric structure on the connectedtext units.
For a given pair of related text units, theso-called nucleus corresponds to the unit which containshighly relevant information, while the satellile carries lesssignificant information; the satellite can be either substi-tuted or left out without significantly changing the overallmeaning of the discourse.Since RST relations have been specified in a semi-formalway, this theory was a good candidate for a computationalspecification ofcoherence and later for an implementationof text planning and text generation systems.Recent attempts have been made to use this theoryalso for modeling dialogues, in particular for modelingboth the connections within and between various dialoguecontributions which is in contrast o approaches whichonly use RST to model links within a dialogue contri-bution like, e.g., Moore and Paris (1993).
Nearly all ap-proaches (see, for example, Fawcett and Davies, 1992, andDaradoumis, 1993) are in the area of human-computerinteraction, where a generation component is responsiblefor the automatic production of system utterances.
An-other approach, which was developed for the domain ofinformation-seeking dialogues, is reported in Maier andSitter (1992).
The authors howed that in such dialoguesa specific subset of relations, the so-called interpersonalrelations (see Maier and Hovy (1991)), are used.
Thisclassification of relations is based on three types of mean-ing as distinguished in Halliday (1985): ideational, in-terpersonal nd textual meaning.
Ideational meaning isthe representation f experience of the world.
Interper-sonal meaning refers to what the speaker or writer doesin order to address the goals of the recipient.
Textualmeaning, finally, relates pieces of discourse to the contextand indicates how the discourse structure has to be inter-preted.
Interpersonal relations, therefore, share the be-havior that they mainly address features of the discourseparticipants.
Among these relations we find, for instance,JUSTIFICATION, where the satellite provides reasons whythe speaker or the listener should carry out actions pec-ified in the nucleus, or EVALUATION, where the satellitepresents a subjective account of the information given inthe nucleus.2.2 In tegrat ion  o f  COR and  RST2.2.1 Corpus AnalysisTo find out how COR and RST can be integrated formodeling information-seeking dialogues, a corpus of dia-logue transcripts - obtained from Prof. Saracevic, Rut-gets University, New Jersey - was carefully analyzed.
Thetranscribed ialogues were conversations between a per-son seeking information and an information broker spe-cialized in database search.The transcripts contained oral communication with fre-quent syntactical mistakes, incomplete and halfway refor-mulated sentences.
Our approach was not to try to modelthese attributes of dialogues.
Instead, the utterances wereadapted to match written, error-free text.First, a COR analysis was carried out, resulting in a seg-mentation of the transcribed ialogues into acts, contri-butions and whole dialogue cycles.
Then these dialogueelements were assigned an illocutionary point and a nu-cleus or satellite status.Taking these results, an RST analysis was performed.The existing segmentation i to acts, contributions anddialogue cycles was used to create the text spans thatmake up the constituents - nuclei and satellites - of theRST analysis.
In our analyses no major problems wereencountered by applying RST to dialogues, even thoughRST was developed for monologues only.2.2.2 Relat ions in the basic COR modelThere is a relatively small number of typical lIST re-lations that connect pairs of dialogue acts of the basicCOR model which does not incorporate the recursivestructure for subdialogues.
The most important ones areSOLUTIONHOOD, EVALUATION, EVALUATION* and BACK-GROUND.
Note that EVALUATION* is a newly defined re-lation that inherits aspects of EVALUATION; it will be de-scribed later in this section.2107th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994How these relations apply to illocutionary acts as definedin the COlt model is shown in a sample dialogue and itsRST analysis (figures 4 and 5).
As can be seen there, inthe first phase of the dialogue an act of type REQUEST (forinformation) gets acknowledged positively by a PROMISE(to search for information and to present what has beenfound).
The nucleus of the EVALUATION relation holdingbetween the two acts is the REQUEST.UserSystemSystemUser(REQUEST) How many EC-funded projects dealingwith Recombination are there?
(PROMISE) Let's see.
(INFORM) There axe 15 projects.
(BE-CONTENTED) Okay.Figure 4: A sample dialogueevalua~on ~i:i evaluation informal *valua~on inform" \[\[ request promise ~ request promise ~!
rcqu~t promiseFigure 5: Development of a dialogue as a RST diagramIn the second stage, the requested information is given.REQUEST and PROMISE become satellite of a new relationwhich has an INFORM act as its nucleus.
The suitablerelation here is SOLUTIONHOOD, since the INFORM carriesthe answer to the REQUEST.
Finally, the appropriate-ness of the provided data is confirmed by an act of typeBE-CONTENTED.
The recursively determined nucleus ofthe whole dialogue turn is the INFORM act.
This is inline with what can be expected for information retrievaldialogues: the presentation of information to be lookedfor is the most central part of the whole dialogue.
Ini-tiative acts (REQUEST, OFFER) are also important, butthey merely open the Structure span which is completedwhen the INFORM act i S given, or when it is REJECTed orWITHDRAWn.Several dialogue cycles which appear within one level ofdialogue are usually connected by the BACKGROUND re-lation (not shown here, see Fischer (1993) for examples).2.2.3 Expectat ion  and  Nuc lear i tyIn the COR model, roles - or rather expectations of spe-cific role behavior - are essential.
Some acts are expected,while others are not; the latter ones are called alternative.The following describes \]how the expectation of certain di-alogue acts influence their status as a constituent withinan RST relation, i.e., whether they are considered thenucleus or the satellite of the relation.On the dialogue level (see figure 1), the acts REQUEST,OFFER, and INFORM are most important.
They actuallycontribute to the progression of the dialogue insofar asthey actively model the negotiation of information.
Otheracts are merely evaluations of these three acts, they caneither be positive or negative.
The positive ones includeACCEPT, PROMISE, an d BE-CONTENTED.
The negativeones are WITHDRAW, REJECT ' and BE-DISCONTENTED.The acts ACCEPT, PROMISE, and BE-CONTENTED are allexpected ones.
In our corpus, between any of these actsand their respective preceding acts the (positive) EVAL-UATION relation holds.
Since the EVALUATION relationdefines the constituent that contains the evaluating ex-pression as the satellite of the relation and the evaluatedexpression as the nucleus, this behavior matches featuresof the COR model: The evaluated ialogue acts are RE-QUEST, OFFER, Or INFORM which make significant propo-sitional contributions to the dialogue.
For example, in theREQUEST-PROMISE pair of dialogue acts, REQUEST is thenucleus and PROMISE the satellite - the latter one beingthe expected positive acknowledgement.Evaluations that are not expected are WITHDRAW, RE-JECT, and BE-DISCONTENTED.
They give the dialoguean alternative turn.
This means that the evaluation isof high relevance and overrides the importance of previ-ous acts.
In order to model this fact by means of RST,an alternative valuation relation has to be introduced,which defines the evaluating expression to be the nucleusof the relation, in contrast o its definition as given above.We called this relation EVALUATION* because it resem-bles EVALUATION, except that it swaps the roles of theinvolved constituents.2.2.4 Context  re la t ions  for  the  extended COIl,mode lThe extended COR model contains complex dialogue con-tributions with a recursive structure (see figures 2 and 3).These complex acts have two constituents.
One of theseconstituents expresses the illocutionary point of the wholecontribution.
Therefore, it takes on the role of the nu-cleus.
Examples are: A: INFORM, A: REQUEST, A: OF-FER.
The other constituent is either an ASSERT contribu-tion (atomic or complex) or a DIALOGUE to negotiate thecontextual information (see also section 2.1.1).The fact that ASSERT and DIALOGUE serve the same pur-pose in COlt - namely to provide context information- also had to be modeled adequately in terms of ltST.This was achieved by simply assigning the INFORM actto be the nucleus of the whole DIALOGUE.
Both ASSERTand INFORM may contain the same proposition (contex-tual information).
The only difference is the way to getto this state: either A gives the information voluntarilyASSERT) or B initiates a sub-dialogue to ask for the in-rmation (DIALOGUE).Concerning the question about the types of relations typ-ically holding between the nuclear act - carrying the illo-cutionary point of the compound contribution (REQUEST,for example) - and the accompanying satellitic (assertive)act, our analyses resulted in finding two distinct types:(1) The first type is for additional information that isneeded in order to answer a question or to understanda certain statement.
In our genre of dialogues, this in-formation is obtained by applying Information RetrievalTactics.
(2) The second type is for supplementary infor-mation that explains the underlying reasoning behind anact made by a dialogue participant.
We call this infor-mation type meta-information, The two relation typesoutlined above are now described in more detail.Context  re la t ion  type  1: I n fo rmat ion  Ret r ieva lTact ics In information-seeking dialogues, it is very un-common that questions can be answered immediately.
Inmost cases additional information is necessary.
One way2117th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994to do this is to use Information Retrieval Tactics.
Theirpurpose is the procurement ofdata that is needed to suc-cessfully answer a request.
In the transcribed ialogues,the tactics were employed by the information broker.
Anintelligent information retrieval system should also beable to handle at least some of these tactics.
Tactics in-elude replacement or addition of search terms, pursuingor neglecting search paths; for a detailed collection seeBates (1979).The short dialogue shown in figure 6 exemplifies the use ofthe tactic SUPERTERM, which is used to replace a specificterm by a more general one.
The system cannot give anappropriate answer to the original request for all knownEC-funded projects involving "NL Generation" becausethat search item is not contained in the database.
Inor-der to get some relevant entities, it tries to extend thesearch, by replacing the original search term by a supert-erm.
Therefore, it initiates a subdialogue asking the userto provide another term, and the user chooses "NaturalLanguage".User (REQUEST) Show me all EC-funded projects dealingwith NL Generation.Subdialogue to solicit contextual information, toSystem (REQUEST) Cart you tell me a more generalterm than NL  Generation?Subdialogue to solicit contextual informationUser - (REQUEST) Why?System (INFORM) I ask you because NLGeneration is unknown.User (BE-CONTENTED) I see.User (INFORM) How about Natural Language.System (BE-CONTENTED) OK.System (INFORM) Here is what I found.
(System presents table o\] results.
)System (OFFER) Would you like to see projects of aparticular company?User (ACCEPT) Yes .
.
.
.Figure 6: A dialogue xampleInformation retrieval tactics can be integrated into RSTwithout significant problems.
They are subsumed byexisting RST relations, such as GENERAL-SPECIFIC andABSTRACT-INSTANCE.
We have observed that most com-mon tactics used in Information Retrieval are in factforms of (the very broad) ELABORATION relation.
A moreexhaustive analysis regarding the mapping of tactics toRST relations is required for a complete picture.Context  re lat ion type 2: Meta- In format ionApart from the contextual information concerned withthe contents of the database, there is a second type ofcontext which deals with underlying reasoning behind ut-terances.
Making these explicit means to make this un-derlying reasoning transparent to the dialogue partner.An information retrieval system can enhance confidenceof the information seeker by giving this meta-information.There are several RST relations available for connectingassertive acts with meta-information to the nuclear act.Examples are CAUSE, PURPOSE and INSTRUMENT.The RST analysis of the sample dialogue given above isshown in figure 7.
It shows examples for tactics (SU-PERTERM) and meta-information (CAUSE).
Note thatthe context relations are connecting dialogue acts (RE-QUESTs in this example) with complete (sub-) dialogues,to be precise: the respective INFORM act within these sub-dialogues.
Indeed, this consequently means that at somestage of the dialogue, no real relation holds between twoadjacent dialogue acts, e.g., two consecutive REQUESTs.For the text generation processes, however, this does notinvolve a drawback.
The COR model itself transposes theRST structure given for the whole sub-dialogues tosingledialogue acts.3 The Corinna SystemIn order to create an information system based on theintegrated model of COR and RST, several aspects hadto be considered which go beyond the previously outlinedtheoretical framework.The models COR and RST are of descriptive nature; theyare not sufficient to actually construct a dialogue betweenuser and system.
To do this, a dialogue manager alsoneeds further semantic information which constitutes thepropositional content of the dialogue act to be generated.This semantic knowledge depends on and is provided bythe genre (information seeking), the application area (in-formation retrieval) and the actual domain.As domain we chose the content of the CORDISdatabases, which represent information about EC-fundedresearch projects, participating organizations and strate-gic funding programs.
The databases are offered onlineby ECHO, a database host of the Commission of the Eu-ropean Community.
They have been transformed to andintegrated into a relational database system which is pub-licly available.
For the implementation f Corinna a wayof incorporating this domain knowledge into the dialoguemanagement and the generation of the dialogue acts hadto be found.Natural language was decided to be the main mode ofinteraction i  the Corinna system, because it achieves ahigh level of expressive power.
The user is presented amenu of possible dialogue acts (according to the currentdialogue state) among which she may choose the mostappropriate one.
The PENMAN generation system wasused to produce both the system's and the user's dia-logue contributions.
An additional modality of deicticgestures was introduced to allow convenient interactionwith the system when the type of user contribution can-not be generated, for example when the basic search termand method is selected from a visual presentation.3.1 D iscourse  and  Knowledge  St ructures3.1.1 Concepts and relat ionsCOR focuses on the dialogue pragmatics and omits se-mantic aspects in order to be domain-independent.
Asdescribed above, RST can be used to introduce an ad-ditional evel of coherence description between dialoguecontributions.
Additionally, some of the RST relationscan be specialized in such a way that they represent rela-tions between concepts that constitute the propositionalcontent of dialogue acts.The propositional level was modeled and implemented ina completely object-oriented way.
Concepts of all lev-els of knowledge (dependent as well as independent fromthe domain) were classified as classes, instances and at-tributes.
The object-oriented approach makes use of the2127th International Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine * June 21-24, 1994backgroundfsolu~onhoodS: Here S: Would you like U: Yes,.,is what to see projects of aI found, particular comF.ny?offer accept U: Show me allEC-fundcd proj-ects dealing withNL Generation.requestI rS: Can you roll me arnom genera!
termthan NL Gmcration?requestsupertermevaluation informsolutionhood ~ 1  S: OK.~'~l  be contentedcause U: How about~ - ~  Natural Languageinform Lr ..U: I see.~ 1  becontentedU: Why?
S: Because NL Gee-eration is unknown.request informFigure 7: RST analysisnotion of "relations".
In the Corinna system we focusedon the representation f relations on the meta-lev'el of theobject-oriented paradigm.
Examples include SUBCLkSS,CLASS-INSTANCE, and!INSTANCE-ATTRIBUTE.The ideational branch of Maier and Hovy's (1991) meta-functionally motivated taxonomy of RST  relations madeit particularly easy to augment the hierarchy, achievinga powerful model that uses relations as a unified way tostructure knowledge.3.1.2 Developing the dialogueWithin the process of information seeking, the situationsof the search - specifically failure or partial success - directthe dialogue in certain:ways.
Three main decision criteriahave been incorporate~d in the Corinna system: 1) therequested ata must be available in the database, 2) thedata must be presentable in such a way that it is of usefor the information seeker, and 3) the data has to berelevant with respect o the expressed information eed.Depending on these factors, a follow-up dialogue act canbe selected.
For example, an OFFER is only possible whenavailability and presentability of the data can be granted.If the data is relevant, a follow-up ACCEPT is possible.
If,on the other hand, the information eed is not matchedby the offered information, the OFFER will have to beanswered (i.e., evaluated) by a REJECT-OFFER.Currently, the system is mainly able to judge availabilityand presentability of data.
It is able to reason aboutthe user's information eed only in a very limited way.However, this does not lead to a significant drawback,since the user is always given the choice between severalalternatives, as for example between an ACCEPT and aREJECT-OFFER.Taking into account what has been said above about theintegration of COR and RST,  the process for the gen-eration of new dialogue contributions also includes theof the sample dialoguetreatment ofRST relations.
Given the propositional con-tent of a dialogue act, the determination f a follow-upact is influenced by the RST relation which holds be-tween the two acts.
For example, if a relation of thetype rneta-inforrna~ion (see section 2.2.4) has been cho-sen where contextual information has to be supplied, anappropriate proposition expressing the state or directionof the database search has to be composed.
By this waysequences of coherent propositions for dialogue acts areproduced.3.1.3 Access to the databaseTypically, an information retrieval system has its mainchallenge in the treatment of very large amounts of data.The CORDIS databases contain information about some14,000 projects and 10,000 organizations, persons andother entities.The object-oriented structure of Corinna enabled usto implement retrieval methods for several types ofdata storage - internally stored discourse knowledge anddatabase contents represented externally - still having thebenefit of a uniform programming interface.
Thus, thedialogue manager is transparently accessing two distincttypes of data, simplifying the design and implementationof the system significantly.3.2 Realizing Dialogue ActsSo far the focus was on the underlying models of a dia-logue.
This is motivated by the fact that the describedmechanisms for performing a dialogue based on COR andRST apply to any modality, not necessarily natural an-guage.
For the Corinna prototype we chose the linguisticform as interaction mode because it incorporates a highlevel of expressive power needed for Information Retrievaltasks.
Also, it has significant advantages over other in-teraction modes, as far as the clarification of misunder-213' 7th International Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994standing and dialogue failure are concerned.
Informationtypes required in such dialogue states cannot be presentedraphically - language is the preferable interaction modef.
also Dilley et al, 1992).The realization of dialogue contributions i  divided intotwo major steps.
First, the internal representation f a di-alogue act is transferred into a high-level logical form thatis capable of dealing with language-oriented attributes ofan utterance, out of which English text is then automat-ically generated in the second step.
For this task weused the PENMAN generator (PENMAN (1989))withthe Sentence Plan Language SPL (Kasper and Whitney(1989)) as intermediate r presentation.3.2.1 Sources of  Data for Real iz ing ActsWe want to focus here on three main parameters influ-encing the process of realizing a dialogue act: illocntion,proposition and RST relation.It has been pointed out earlier that the propositional con-tent and illocutionary point of dialogue acts are managedindependently.
During the design of Corinna, it becameevident hat also the realization process can take placequite independently, as far as the creation of the SPL planis concerned.
The flexibility needed for natural languageutterances i achieved by combining various intermedi-ate logical repreaentations of realizations for propositionsand illocutions.
Several typical linguistic attributes forthe illocutionary acts in the COlt model can be assumedin order to allow management in the context of a lim-ited computer program.
For example, many forms of rtE-QUEST incorporate the use of imperative forms like "tellme", "show me", etc.In cases where contextual information is to be given for anassertive dialogue act the ltST relation can make signif-icant contributions towards a coherent realization of thetwo utterances involved.
For example, relations like PUrr-POSE or INSTRUMENT can be signaled by markers uch as"in order to", "for", etc.Taking together 1) the fragmentary ealization plan of theproposition on a purely assertive level, 2) the generatedfragments for an illocutionary act of COlt, and 3) theRST relation that connects this act to the previous act, asuitable SPL statement for PENMAN can be composed.The final result is an English sentence, which is passed tothe user interface.3.2.2 An  exampleThe following simplified example illustrates the varioussteps !n the planning of a contribution.
We assume thescenario as given in figure 6 where the system has justasked for a SUPERTERM of "NL Generation".
In this ex-ample the user wants to know the reason of the requestand the system gives the corresponding answer.
The SPLstatement for this utterance is given in figure 8.
Threedistinct ypes of information were used to compute thissentence plan: (1) The RST relation CAUSE was selected,since the user asked the question "Why?
.
(2) The do-main of this relation is the verbal action that was per-formed by the system previously in the dialogue: TheREQUEST for the more general term.
(3) The motivationfor making the utterance is the situation in the database- the search term is unknown.
This fact is representedby a propositional item describing the state of the search.Note that the system's response is a dialogue act of typeINFORM.
As it has been stated earlier, the acts of typeINFORM become the nucleus of the whole dialogue, whichmeans that the (sub)dialogue takes on the role of an as-sertion after its completion.
In case of a subdialogue, thisassertion then carries the accompanying contextual infor-mation for another act one dialogue level up - in our casethis is the REQUEST of the system, asking for a replace-ment term, and the contextual information is the CAUSEof that question.
The RST relation plays then an impor-tant role in creating the coherence between the originalquestion of the system and the contextual information,which is the reason, why it asked this question.
(connect ing - re la t ion  / r s t -vo l i t i ona l -cause:domain ;; The system has asked fo r  a; ;  superterm of "NL Generation"(act  / addressee-or iented-verba l -p rocess: lex  ask:sayer speaker:addressee hearer):range ;; The system informs the user;; about the reason why it asked.
(proposition / property-ascription:tense present:domain (concept / object:name NL-Generation):range (q / quality: lex unknoen)))Figure 8: Sentence plan for "I ask you, because NL Gen-eration is unknown"3.3 In teract ion  w i th  the  sys temIt has been pointed out previously that we aimed at hav-ing a mainly language-driven interface.
Additionally tothe generation of the system's utterances we decided toalso generate the dialogue contributions ofthe user.
Thatis, there is no Natural Language Understanding modulein Corinna; instead, in each dialogue situation where it isthe turn of the user, Corinna generates several suggestedutterances, from which the user can then choose the onethat suits her best in the context of the current dialoguesituation.
We believe that this does not pose a severelimitation, the dialogue model based on COlt-RST, aswell as the semantic knowledge about the search in thedatabase allow predictions about how the dialogue mightbe continued.Figure 9 shows a sample interaction.
The screen is di-vided into two halves.
In the upper one, the instantiateddialogue history is displayed and updated after each con-tribution.
The lower half of the interface is reserved forpresentation f the database queries and their results.
Inthe dialogue state as represented by the snapshot, he sys-tem has just provided the table of results.
The user thenhas the choice to select one out of three possible acts: BE-CONTENTED ( "OK") ,  CONTINUE ( "Th is  is not sufficient")and BE-DISCONTENTED ("Let's stop this dialogue").Note that, depending on the situation of the dialogue, aparticipant - system or user - may utter two acts in arow, as opposed to simple system-user alternations.
Forexample, after the user is contented with the answer ofthe system about why it asked for a term replacement,2147th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994CORINI#A - Cooperative Retrieval interface for Natural Language ActsUserSystemUserSystemUserUserSystemSystemShow me all projects with a title like NL GENERATION.Can you tell me a term that is more general than NL GENERATION?Why7I am asking you, because NL GENERATION Is unknown.OkayNATURAL LANGUAGENATURAL LANGUAGE Is okay.The table contains all relevant entities.
t User's choiceOKThis Is not sufficient.I do not llke ihat.
Let's stop this dialogue.ACRONYM PROGRAM- ACRONY M REFERENCEACQUILEX ESPRIT 2 30308TART-DATE END-DATEJun 1 1989 Mar 91 1992212:00:00:000AM 1 2:00:00:O00AMTITLEACQUISITION OFLEXI CALKNOWLEDGE FORNATURAL LANGUAGEPROCESSI NGSYSTEMSACORD ESPRIT 1 393 CONSTRUCTION Jan 1 198,5 Dec ~1 1989AND 12:00:O0:000AM 12:00:00:O00AMINTER~OGATION OFKNOWLEDGE BASESUSING NATURALLANGUAGE TEXTAND GRAPHI C~DANDELION ESPRIT 3 DANDELION DISCOURSE Sep 1 1992 Aug 31 1995FUNCTIONS AND 12:00:00:000AM 12:00:00:O00AMDI SCOURSEREPRESENTATION:, Alkt CL~n"DUDI?
'~'AI I ~/91~e,.1.oque Driver iIVed 9 Feb 6:14:43J F~.SC,I~Ler CL PE.~Y, hN: User Zn\]~.~.tFigure 9: A sample interaction with Corinna("Okay"), she then makes a contribution to the dialogueone level up - levels are represented by indentation ofcon-tributions - which was a term the system had asked for("Natural Language").
A similar phenomenon can be ob-served in the last two utterances ofthe system.
To decidewhether the user is allbwed to utter two acts in a row, thesystem applies a set of (relatively simple) heuristics; theyare giving the user preference in guiding the dialogue.4 SummaryThe Corinna system iis the result of an integration oftwo models: The CQR model and RST.
Compared tothe single theories the integrated model has a numberof significant advantages: (1) The scope of RST couldbe extended from monologues to (information seeking)dialogues - without changing major assumptions of theoriginal theory; (2) RST adds an additional level of coher-ence to the existing COR model.
While COP,.
focuses onillocutions, dialogue acts and their sequential order, PaSTprovides means to describe the semantics of the links be-tween the single acts; (3) The description of dialogues interms of COR-RST gives rise to a systematic approach todynamically generate dialogue contributions for either ofthe participants.
Corinna, as a prototypical implementa-tion of the combined theories, uses PENMAN to generatenatural language utterances.
It accesses a database typi-cal for the information retrieval task (CORDIS).Of course there are many possibilities for improvement.First, the flexibility and power of the generated utter-ances can be further increased.
The plans for the dia-logue contributions could be further parameterized, alsothe knowledge base covering the current situation of thesearch in the database needs additional concepts.
On theside of Information Retrieval, more tactics could be im-plemented making the search more efficient.We think that the outlined theoretical framework is pow-erful enough to go beyond the state of the system as itis implemented sofar, and we will continue this researchespecially in the context of concrete application areas.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Stefan Sitter for support and in-spiring discussions.
We also gratefully acknowledge thecomments ofthree anonymous reviewers who made manyhelpful suggestions.
Part of the work of the second au-thor was funded by the German Ministry for Researchand Technology (BMFT) under contract 01 IV 101 k/1(V RBMOBI0.2157th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994References\[Andr~ and PAst, 1993\] Elisabeth Andr~ and Thomas PAst.
Thedesign of illustrated documentation as a plvaming pask.
In MarkT.
Maybury (ed.
), Intelligent Multimedia Interfaces.
pages 94-116, AAAI Press/MIT Press, Menlo Park, California, 1993\[Areus et al, 1993\] Yigal Areas, F_xluard Hovy and Susanne vanMulken A tree traversing prototype that allocates presentationmedia.
ISI, University of Southern California, 1993\[Bateman et aL, 1991\] John Bateman, Elisabeth Maler, Elke Teichand Leo Wanner.
Towards an architecture for situated text gen-eration.
In Proc.
of the International Conference on CurrentIssues in Computational Linguistics, Penang, Malaysia, 1991\[Bates, 1979\] Marcia Bates.
Information search tactics.
Journal ofthe American Society of Information Science, 30:205-214, 1979\[Belkin et al, 1993\] Nicholas Belkin, Colleen Cool, Adell'teit Stein,?
and Ulrich Thiel.
Scripts for information-seeking strategies.
InCase-Based Reasoning and Information Retrieval.
Papers fromthe AAAI Spring Symposium Series.
AAAI Technical ReportSS-93-07, pages 8-17, 1993\[Belkin and Vickery, 1985\] Nicholas Belkln, and A. Vickery.
Inter-action in information systems.
The British Library, London,1985\[Bilange, 1991\] Eric Bilange.
A task independent oral dialoguemodel.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Conference of the Euro-pean Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics(EA CL-91).
pages 83-88, Berlin, Germany, April 1991\[Carenini and Moore, 1993\] Giuseppe Carenini and JoharmaMoore.
Generating explanations in context.
In Proc.
of the 1993International Workshop on Intelligent User Interfaces.
pages175-192, ACM Press, New York, 1993\[Daradoumis, 1993~ Thanasis Daraxtoumis.
Building a dynamicRST-based grammar of coherent interactive dialogues.
InMichael Zock, Giovanni Adorni, and Giacomo Ferrari, editors,Proceedings of the Fourth European Workshop on Natural Lan.guage Generation.
pages 91-101, Pisa, Italy, April 1993\[Dilley et al, 1992\] Stephan Dilley, John Bateman, Ulrich Thiel,Anne Titian Integrating natural anguage components intographical discourse.
In Proc.
of the 3rd Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing.
pages 72-79, ACL, Trento, Italy,1992\[Fawcett et al, 1988\] Robin P. Fawcett, Anita van der Mije, andCarla van Wissen.
Towards a systemic flowchart model for dis-course structure.
In Robin P. Fawcett and David J. Young,editors, New Developments in Systemic Linguistics; Volume 2:Theory and Application.
pages 116-143.
Pinter Publishers, Lon-don, 1988\[Fawcett and Davies, 1992\] Robin P. Fawcett and Bethan Davies.Monologue as a Turn in Interactive Discourse: Towards an Inte-gration of Exchange Structure and Rhetorical Structure Theory.In Proceedings of the 61h International Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation.
Berllng, Springer, 1992\[Fischer, 1993\] Markus A. Fischer.
Weiterentwicklung und Ira.plementierung eines Dialogsystems filr kooperative Information-ssysteme.
GMD-Studien , No 228, Sankt Augustin: GMD, 1994(in German)\[Grosz and Sidner, 1986\] Barbara J. Grosz and Conduce L. Sidner.Attention, intentions and the structure of discourse.
Journal ofComputational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204, 1986\[Grosz and Sidner, 1990\] Barbara J. Grosz and Conduce L. Sidner.Plans for discourse.
In Philip R. Cohen, Jerry Morgan, andMartha E. Pollack, editors, Intentions in Communication.
pages417-444.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1990\[Halliday, 1985\] M.A.K.
Halliday.
An introduction to functionalgrammar.
Edward Arnold, 1985\[Kasper and Whitney, 1989\] Robert Kasper and Richard Whitney.SPL: A sentence plan language for text generation.
Technicalreport, USC/ISI, 1989\[Lambert and Carberry, 1992\] Lynn Lambert and Sandra Car-berry.
Using linguistic, world, and contextual knowledge in aplan recognition model of dialogue.
In Proceedings of COLING-9~, Nantes, France.
pages 310-316, 1992\[Litman and Allen, 1987\] Diane J. Litman and James F. Allen.
Aplan recognition model for subdialogues in conversations.
Cog-nitive Science, 11:163-200, 1987\[Mater and Hovy, 1991\] Elisabeth Mater and Eduard Hovy.
Ametaftmctionally motivated taxonomy for discourse structure re-lations.
In Proc.
of the 3rd European Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation.
Judenstein, Austria, March 1991\[Mater and Sitter, 1992\] Elisaheth A. Mulet and Stefan Sitter.
Anextension ofrhetorical structure theory for the treatment of re-trieval dialogues.
In Proc.
of the l~th Annual Conference ofThe Cognitive Science Society.
pages 968-973, Lawrence Erl-baum Associates, Hilisdale, N J, 1992\[Mann and Thompson, 1987\] William C. Mann and Semdra A.Thompson.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: A theory of text orga-nization.
In Livia Polanyi, editor, The Structure of Discourse.pages 85-96.
Ablex Publishing Company, Norwood, N J, 1987\[Maybury, 1991\] Mark T. Maybury.
Planning Multimedia Expla-nations Using Communicative Acts.
In Proc.
of the 9th NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAr93).
pages 61-66,AAAI Press/MIT Press, Anaheim, California, 1991\[Moore and Paris, 1989\] Johanna Moore and C6cile Paris.
Plan-ning text for advisory dialogues.
In Proc.
of the ~Tth AnnualMeeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics.
pages26--29, Vancouver, B.C., Canada, June 26-29, 1989\[Moore and Paris, 1993\] Johanna Moore and C~eile Paris.
Plan-ning text for advisory dialogues.
Capturing intentional andrhetoricalinformation.
In Computational Linguistics, 19(4):651-694, 1993\[Moore and Swartout, 1990\] Johanna Mooreand William Swartout.
Pointing: A way towards explanationdialogue.
In Proc.
of the 8th International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence (AAAr90), Vol.
1. pages 457-464, AAAIPress/MIT Press, Menlo Park, California, 1990\[O'Donnell, 1990\] Michael O'Donnell.
A dynamic model of ex-change.
Word, 41(3), December 1990\[PENMAN, 1989\] The PENMAN User Guide.
Information Sci-ences Institute, Marina del Ray, California, 1989\[Reichman, 1985\] Rachel Reichman.
Getting computers to talk likeyou and me.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1985\[Ratter, Mellish and Levine, 1992\] Ehud Ratter, Chris Mellish andJ.
Levine.
Automatic generation f on-line documentation n theIDAS project.
In Proc.
of the 3rd Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing.
Trento, Italy, 1992\[Searle, 1969\] John R. Scoria.
Speech acts.
Cambridge UniversityPress, UK, 1969\[Searle, 1979\] John R. Seaxle.
A taxonomy of illocutionewy acts.
InExpression and Meaning.
Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, GB, 1979\[Sitter and Stein, 1992\] Stefan Sitter and Adelheit Stein.
Modelingthe illocutionary aspects of in.formation-seeking dialogues.
Infor-mation Processing and Management, 28(2):165-180, 1992\[Smith, Hipp and Biermann, 1992\] R.W.
Smith, D.R.
Hipp, andA.W.
Biermann.
A dialogue control algorithm and its perfor-mance.
In Proc.
of the 3rd Conference on Applied Natural Lan-guage Processing Trento, Italy, 1992\[Stein and Maier, 1993\] Adelheit Stein, and Elisabeth Mater.
Mod-eling and guiding cooperative multimodal dialogues.
InHuman-Computer Collaboration; Reconciling Theory, Synthe-sizing Practice.
Papers from the AAAI Fall Symposium Series.AAAI Technical Report FS-93-05, pages 107-112, 1993\[Stein and Thiel, 1993\] Adelheit Stein and Ulrich Thiel.
A conver-sational model of multimodal interaction i information systems.In Proceedings of the llth National Conference on Artificial In-telligence (AAAI'93).
pages 283-288.
AAAI Press/MIT Press,Menlo Park, CA, 1993\[Stein et al, 1992\] Adelheit Stein, Ulrich Thiel, and Anne Tiflen.Knowledge based control of visual dialogues.
In Proceedings ofthe Ist International Workshop on Advanced Visual Interfaces(AVI-9$).
pages 138-155.
World Scientific Press, Singapore, 1992\[Winograd and Flores, 1986\] Terry Winograd and Fernando Flo-res.
Understanding computers and cognition.
Ablex PublishingCompany, Norwood, N J, 1986216
