PIETER A.M. SEUREN, HENK P. SCHOTEL: SEMANTIC SYNTAX AT WORKNijmegen University, Dept.
of General LinguisticsMAINE, JUNE '94SEMANTIC SYNTAX (SeSyn) is a direct continuation of work done in the '60s and '70s under the name of GENERATIVESEMANTICS.
The main component of SeSyn is a rule system (the syntax) which transforms the Semantic Analysis(SA) of any given sentence into a Surface Structure (SS) of that sentence.
The SAs represent meanings ina higher orderPredicate Calculus, according to a small set of context-free Formation Rules and a Lexicon.
SA-trees have simplebranchings and deep S-embeddings.
They are input o the Transformation Rules, which deliver a corresponding SS.
TheTransformation Rules fall into two classes, the rules of the Cycle, and those of the Postcycle.
The cyclic rules startwith the most deeply embedded S and end with the top-S.
They are mostly lexicon-driven: predicates are lexicallymarked for the cyclic rules they induce.
The largely structure-driven postcyclic rules apply in linear order as defined bythe grammar.
The output is near-surface: it is meant to link up with a morphology module, to be complemented with aphonology module.
Schotel has implemented the rule system for English in Prolog.
The following diagram shows theplace of SeSyn in the wider context of a cognitive ("text-level") discourse-semantics:K ~  Parsero n N Incrementationw ~ rules --I r I '~ed DD geb/ Discourse Semantic Analysis Grammar Surface Structure aeS / DomainThe generation ofEnglish sentences will be demonstrated, with emphasis on the auxiliary system, (includingtense, adverb placement, negation, the modals) and the complementation system.
It is claimed that he theory of SeSynmakes for a subtler and more precise coverage of the facts of the languages treated than any other grammar system oneither the theoretical orthe computer linguistics market.
It moreover appears that language-specific differences amountlargely to different postcyclic rule orderings, to different parameter settings in otherwise identical rules, to differentlexical inductions of cyclic rules, or to different positions in the formation rules.
When more grammars of different?
languages are available apartial parametrization f the general theory should be feasible: the phenomena, in particularthose relating to the Posteycle, do not offer a realistic hope for complete parametrization.SeSyn rule systems exist for English, French, German, Dutch.
In these languages they deal principally withthe auxiliary system (including tense, adverb placement, negation, the modals) and sentential complementation.
Hardlyany attention has been paid so far to the internal structure of NPs.
The SeSyn grammar for French also contains, aprecise treatment ofthe clitic clusters.
The Dutch grammar contains rules for verbal end clusters.
Extensions are in anadvanced stage of preparation for quantification phenomena, conjunction reduction.
Application to Turkish is envisagedwithin a year.240
