Expressing Procedural Relationships inMultilingual Instructions*Judy DelinDep~rtment ofEnglish StudiesUniversity of StirlingStifling FK9 4LA, UKemail: J.L.Delin'~stirling.ac.ukAnthony Hartley C4cile Paris Donia Scott Keith Vander Linden ;Information Technology Research InstituteUniversity of BrightonLewes RoadBrighton BN2 4AT, UKemail: { Tony.Hartley, Cecile.Paris,Donim Scott,I~eith.Vander-Linden } @it ri.bton.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we discuss a study of the expression ofprocedural relations in multilingual user instructions~ inparticular the relations of Gene,ution and Enablement.These procedural relations are defined in terms of a planrepresentation model, and applied in a corpus study ofEnglish, French, and Portuguese instructions.
The re-sults of our analysis indicate specific guidelines for thetactical realisation of expressions of these relations inmultilingual instructional text.IntroductionIn user instructions, it is common to find expressionslike:(1) Pull down and remove the white plastic tray thatholds the video cable and unpack the cable.
(Apple)Here we have what appears to be a simple expressionof sequential actions.
The reader is expected to pulldown the white plastic tray, remove that tray: and thenunpack the cable.
Current studies of instructional text(e.g.. RSsner and Stede, 1992; Vander Linden, 1993) typ-ically represent the relationship found here in a simplemulti-dependent structure such as that provided by theSequence schenla in Mann and Thompson:s RhetoricalStructure Theory (RST) (1988) (see figure 1A).
Thisrhetorical structure, which represents three sequentialactidns, directly matches the grammatical forms used inthe actual text.
Indeed: this sequential execution is pre-cisely what the instruction writer desires the reader to"This work is supported by the Commission of the Euro-pean Union Grant LRE-62009, the Engineering and PhysicalSciences Research Council Grant 319221, and the BC/DAADARC Project 293.tAuthors are presented in alphabetical or(ler.do in this context.
The complication comes when onefinds, sometimes even in the same instruction mamlal,an alternate form of expression for the very same useraction; such as the one shown in the following:(2) Pull down and remove to unpack the video cable.
(Apple)R ST analysts would most likely represent his with apurpose relation, as in figure lB.
Clearly, the represen-tation formalism fails to capture the common semanticsof these two examples.This problem may be only rarely encountered in amonolingual context, but is exceedingly common in amultilingual enviromnent (Delin et al, 1993).
Considerthe following example, taken from a trilingual, trans-lated instruction lanual for a step-aerobics machine:(3) The stepping load can be altered by loosening thelocking lever and changing the position of the cylinderfoot.
(Liftmaster)(4) Pour modifier la charge d;appui, desserrerTo modifyles leviers puisthe levers thenv~rins.
(Liftmaster)cylinder foot(5) Nach LockernAfter looseningthe load stepping loosend6placer le pied deschange the foot of theder Klemmhebel kannof the levers candurch Verschieben des ZylinderfuBes dieby pvzhing of the cylinder foot theTretbelastung ver~ndert werden.
(Liftmaster)load changed be.Here we find the same information being conveyedthrough expressions that exhibit rather different RST617th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994A.
Example 1Pull-Down Remove UnpackB.
Example 2Seque~ UnpackPull-Down RemoveFigure 1: Contrasting Discourse Structures Representationsstructures (see Figure 2).
The English version is per-haps best characterised as a Means relation, whereasthe French is a Purpose relation and the German a Cir-cumstance.The problem examples uch as these raise for genera-tion is twofold: (a) how do we endow our systems withthe necessary flexibility to generate alternative xpres-sions of the same basic information and (b) given thisflexibility., how do we determine which of the availableexpressions are appropriate?
The root of these problemsis that, to date, research in the generation of instructionshas failed to take account of the precise procedural re-lations that underlie the texts.
In this paper, we makean excursion into the philosophical literature on ActionTheory and the AI l iterature on plan recognition to findsolidly defined procedural relations which can capturethe underlying semantics of actions and their relation-ships in a way that will prove useful for our generationtask: building multilingual instructional text generationsystems.
We present he results of part of an ongoinginvestigation of the utility of the Gene~ution and En-ablement relations in contributing to our stated goal.P rocedura l  Re la t ionsThe philosopher Alvin Goldman identified two basicprocedural relations; Generation and Enablement~ thatapply between actions in a task (GoMman: 1970).
Thesehave been formalised within the Planning communityand shown to be useful constructs for plan recognition(Pollack, 1986; Balkanski: 1993).
In this section we re-view the definitions of Genelution and Enablement anddescribe how we have applied them in our analysis ofa corpus of instructional texts in English, French andPortuguese.The  Generat ion  Re la t ionA simple test of Generation holding between action pairsis whether it can be said that by performing one of theactions (a); the other (/3) will automatically occur (Pol-lack: 1986); if this is the case then it can be said that(a) gene~utes (/3).
According to Goldman, Generationis a relation applying between two aet-token.~ in certainwell-defined situations.
For purposes of producing in-structions, however, we find it necessary to view Gener-ation as hohting between act-types: since we are dealingwith actions that have not yet taken place; we are ableto do this without distorting the general theory thatGoldman presents (cf.
Pollack.
1986).
Here are somecanonical examples of this relation taken from Goldman:(6~a) John flips the switch.
(cQ(b) John turns on the light.
(/~)where flipping the switdl generates turning on the lightand(7~a) John moves his queen to king-knight-seven.
(cr)(b) John checkmates his opponent.
(/3)where moving the queen to king-knight-seven generatescheckmating the opponent.Following Goldman, Generation holds in cases where:?
the actions concerned are performed by the sameagent (e.g., John).
For reasons that will becomedearer later on, we have found it necessary to qual-if)' and extend this part of the definition to actionsperformed or perceived to be pelJolTned by the samehuman agent.?
the relation is asymmetric: if the agent does /3 bydoing a' then he does not do a' by doing/3 (e.g., theswitch cannot be flipped by turning on the light).?
neither action is subsequent to the other (e.g.
; thelight does not come on after the switch is flipped, or~rice versa) l .
A useful linguistic test for this is theinvalidity of the expression '% and then i3".?
the actions are not co-temporal.
Simply stated, ifa and 3 are co-temporal, then one could validly say"c~" while also /3" and vice versa: for example, "Johnstrummed the guitar while also wriggling his toes".These actions are co-temporal, but not related byGeneration.
One could not validly say that Johnflipped on the switch while also turning on the light,or moved his queen to king-knight-seven while alsocheckmating his opponent.?
if the agent had not done a, then he would not havedone/3;?
there is a (set of) condition(s) "i (say, George makingsure that the light bulb was screwed in) such thatAccording to Goldman, this holds even if the light doesnot come on for a few seconds at'ter the switch was flipped.627th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine * June 21-24, 1994A.
Example 3 (English)Al ter  ~quenceLoosen ChangeB.
Example 4 (French)Loosen Change(Desserrer) (Deplaeer)C. Example 5 (German)Loosen \[(Lockern)Clmnge Alter(Versclueben) (Verandert)Figure 2: Contrasting Multilingual Discourse Structures Representations- the conjunction of a and 7 entails/3;- if 3" had not obtained: the performance of a' wouldnot have led to/3.A GeneTution relation between action pairs can re-ceive a variety of linguistic realisations.
Consider thefollowing semantically equivalent instructions:(8) Checkmate your opponent by moving your queen toking-knight seven.
(9) Move your queen to king-knight seven to check, rateyour opponezkt.
(10) I~ you want to checkmate your opponent, move yourqueen to king-knight seven.Two points are worthy of note here.
The first is thatalthough causation plays a key r61e in GeneTution, /3 isnot in a strict sense caused by a'; rather,/3 is the actionof (to use Goldman:s term) 'bringing about' the statethat is the direct result of performing cr under specificconditions (7)- Referring back to example 6: John's flip-ping of the switch causes the event of the light comingon; John's 'bringing about' of this event can be capturedby the expression 'turning on the light:.The second point to be noted is that in the domain ofinstructions for mechanical and electronic objects thereis also a hidden agent the machine itself, as an agentacting on behalf of the user.
This leads to the possibilityof equivalence of expressions such as ':I deleted the file"and ':My coml)uterdeleted the file".
'We consider theseto be equally valid expressions of the generated part of aGeneration relation.
For example, we also count instruc-tions such as the following (for using a cooking utensil)(11) Imprimez un mouvement de rotation "~Impart a movement of ~vtation tola garniture: elle se d~.nlonte.
(Darty)the plate, it itself removes.as instances of Generation.
Expressions of generatedactions with non-human agents are relatively uncommonin English instructions but (as will be discussed later)this is not true of all languages.The  Enab lement  Re la t ionInstructions also inchtde expressions such as the folh)w-ing:(12) You must restart your Macintosh to use your newsoftware.
(Mierosoft)(13) Before using your data cartridge: allow it to acch:-mate to your operating environment for eight hoursor fo7" the amount of time it has been exposed to dis-similar conditions whichever is less.
(3M)(14) 2 Double-click tl~e Installer icon with the mousebutton.The installer displays an introductory screen.3 Click the OK button.
(Microsoft)(15) In order to operate remote control: you m,u, st firsthave noted or" memorised your code.
(BeU)These are clearly not instances of Generation, sincethe execution of any member of the action pair doesnot 'automatically ~ result in the execution of the other.In each case: some intermediating action(s) is required.Following Goldman (1970), this type of relation betweenaction pairs is most commonly referred to as Enablement(Pollack, 1986; Balkanski: 1993; Di Eugenio, 1992).Goldman does not provide a formal definition of thisrelation, but Pollack gives a useful general definition: "... when a enables/3, then the agent needs to do some-thing more than o to guarantee that/3 will be done.
"(Pollack, 1986: page 40).
A more detailed definition isprovided by Balkansld: ': .
.
.
Action Ai enables actionA3 if and only if there is a set of conditions: C, such thatone of the conditions in C: Ci: holds as a result of theperformance ofAi: and either there is a third action A~such that A2 conditionally generates A3 under C; or Cis the executability condition of A3."
(Balkansld: 1993,page 41).Enablement applies to all four examples above becausein them: one action brings about conditions that are nec-essary: but not necessarily sufficient for the subsequentperformance of the other.
In eexample 12: the readermust restart the Macintosh in order to be in a positionto be able to use the new software.
There are in factother actions necessary for the use of the software, butthey are not mentioned.
Acclimating the cartridge inexample 13 is not sufficient o make it in use.
Similarl)~in example 14, clicking on the Installer icon only bringsabout a set of conditions (in this case, the appropriatemenu), for the user to click the OK button.
In example637th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 199415: the reader nmst know the code in order to be able tooperate the remote control: although knowing the codeis not enough.Note that in some cases of Enablern.ent (e.g.
: in 12 and13)~ the intermediate action can in fact be performed inthe absence of the enabling condition; the result willsimply be that the enabled action will not occur.
Inothers however (e.g.
: examples 14 and 15), the interme-diate action is impossible to perform when the enablingcondition does not hold.An important property of Enablement which distin-guishes it from Generation is that the enabled and en-abling actions can be carried out by different humanagents.
Goldman alludes to this in his discussion of ex-ample 6: where he introduces a necessary condition forthe Generation of John turning on the light: George'sscrewing the bulb into the socket.As in the case of some of the Generation exampleswe saw before, actions in Enablement relations can beexpressed as an activity carried out by a human agent orby.
say: a machine or in terms of the associated state ofthe agent.
For example, example 15 could equally havebeen expressed as the following:(16) In order teJ operate remote control: you must knowyour code.
(17) For the remote control to operate, you must firsthave noted or memorised your code.A Formal i sa t ionFrom our discussion so far, it is clear that the rela-tions of Gene,ution and Enablement should be identi-fiable aspects of plans for perfornfing procedures.
Weemploy a plan formalism that is a simple extensionof STRIPS-sty led operators developed by Fikes (1971)and expanded in the NOAH system (Sacerdoti: 1977).In our representation, plans comprise:goal(s):  an action (or set of actions) which motivate(s)the use of the plan;constra ints :  states which nmst hoht before a plan canbe employed.
Constraints cannot be achieved throughplanning;s ide-effects:  states which arise as unplanned effects ofcarrying out a plan;a body:  an action or action complex which executesthe plan; if these are not l/rimitive: they can them-selves be achieved through another plan;p recond i t ions :  an action or action complex which,when carried out, leads to conditions necessary for thesuccessful execution of the plan; i.e: the body will beexecutable but its execution will not generate the goal(even if the constraints hold) unless the preconditionis realisable.
Preconditions can be planned for}-"This type of preconditions relates to Pollack's (1986)g~neration-enablin.q ~:ondition.Plans must minimally have a body and goal.
Actions:in turn, comprise:constra ints :  these have the same properties as the con-straints on plans;side-effects: these also have the same properties as theside-effects on plans;effects: states which arise from the bringing-about ofthe action;precondi t ions:  like the preconditions of plans; theseare either an action or an action complex and can beplanned for.
Unlike the preconditions of plans, how-ever, their effects must hold before the action can takeplace (i.e., the action cannot result if the preconditiondoes not hold).
3Actions must minimally have an effect.
Finally: statescan have evidences.
These are phenomena which signifythat the state holds.As in all STRIPS-based planning formalisms, plansin our representation can have associated sub-plans.
Inour case: sub-plans arise through the body of a plan: thepreconditions of a plan: or through the preconditions ofan action.Having set out this scheme, we can now proceed toidentify instances of Generation and Enablement withinour representation for instructions:a generates ~ iff a' is the body of a plan e whosegoal is B.a enables/) if a is a precondition of a plan e andis the goal of plan e: or if/3 is the body of e and a'is a precondition of/3.Figure 3 shows graphically the relationship betweenthe notion of a plan and the Generation and Enablementrelations.Generat ion  and  Enab lement  inIns t ruct ions\'Ve have shown through examples that Generation andEnablement can be expressed in a variety of ways.
In in-struction generation, it is clearly important o signal thecorrect relationship between actions, since failure to doso could lead to situations where the user diligently car-ries out the action without achieving the desired effect.For example, if the following Enablement relation(18) To clean the case: disconnect the powerplug.
(Microsoft)is misperceived as Generation (as it might be were itto be expressed as "Clean the case by disconnecting thepower plug"): the user would believe that by disconnect-ing the plug she would be guaranteed to achieve her goalof cleaning the case; this would only result in frustra-tion, bewilderment and a still dirty case.
We are thus:~This Lotion is closely related to Balkanski's (1993) deft-nition of ezecutabiIity condition.647th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994, -  I," / \ I!
.
.
.
.
- - - - I  ,,1,,o L .
.
.
.
.
: ,, , ;Relations:Generation1111111111011111111Enab lement/" Precondition| /Go-To(Switch) \]Entities: 1 Actions \] IStatesPlans ~Figure 3: Generation and Enablement in the Plan for Turning on the Lightconcerned to generate only the appropriate xpressionsfor Generation and Enablement.Our approach to this problem is to look to the data:we are analysing a corpus of commercially-produced in-structions for manual tasks to extract the mappings be-tween Generation and En.ablement and linguistic form.The results of our study inform our design of a systemfor generating draft instructions in multiple languagesfront a common; language-independent: representation.~'Ve describe some of our results in this section, based onour analyses of English: French and Portuguese instruc-tions.The data we report are from original texts written inthe particular language being addressed; they are notthe product of translation.
Our method of analysis is toidentify instances of Gene~utiou and Enablement fromthe corpus and to register its grammatical form.
Wereport here only on data for which we all agree on thechosen procedural relationship.In analysing the data, our main concern has been todetermine:1.
What are the commonly used mappings front Gener-ation and Enablement onto language?2.
Which forms are ambiguous between Generation andEnablement and how can we exploit this informationfor generation?3.
What are the factors that influence the 'appropriate-ness: of a selected form?The English ResultsThe English corpus is made up of 451 clauses (approx-imately 3500 words) taken from 9 instruction manualsintended for non-expert readers.
A detailed accountingof the grammatical forms used to express Generationrelations is shown in table 1.
Similar statistics for En-ablement relations are shown in table 2.The general results of these mappings are showngraphically in figure 4, and as can be seen: there aregrammatical forms which tend to be exclusively used foreither Genelution or Enablement ( imperat ive  + by, sequence, and before  conditions) and other forms thatare common to both relations (to in f in i t i ves  and :forphrases) .The most common forms shown in tables 1 and '2 ap-pear to be clear patterns of use which can be exploitedin text generation, rather than just random selectionsor artifacts of this particular corpus.Express ing  Generat ion  in Eng l i sh  In our corpus:GeneTution relations tend to be expressed with either theimperat ive  + by: the imperative + to  in f in i t i ve ,or one of a set of :for phrases .
These forms, which to-gether constitute 80% of the Gene~zttion relations iden-tiffed, are exemplified here in examples from manualsfor a Macintosh colour monitor and for a Bell telephoneanswering machine:(19) If your computer system does cause interference toradio or television reception: try to correct the inter-ference by using one or more of the following men-657th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994FunctionsFormsFigure 4: The English flmction to form mapping of Generation and Enablemeat RelationsGrammatical Form Count PercentageTo Infinitive 30 46.1%For Phrases 14 21.5%Imperative + by 8.
12.3%Clause Sequences 3 4.6(~,7 other forms 10 15.4%Total: 65Table 1: The frequency of English grammatical formsfor Generation RelationsGrammatical Form Count PercentageSentence.
Sequence 22 47.8%To Infinitive 10 21.7(/oFor Phrases 5 10.9(/0Before Conditions 4 8.7%Imperative + by 1 2.2(/t,4 other forms 4 8.7(/(,Total: 46Table 2: The frequency of English grammatical formsfor Enablement Relationssures:(Apple)(20) To interrupt playback: rotate the VOLUME knobtowards the rear, past the 'click:.
(Bell)(21) See your authorized Apple dealer for informationon screen save programs.
(Apple)In example 19, the action of using "one or more of thefollowing measures" generates the action of correctingthe interference.
They are performed by the same hu-man agent, asymmetric, one does not occur before theother, and there exist the specified conditions -f; thesame pattern is repeated in examples 20 and 21.The first question is what to make of the gaps?
Whyare Gene,ution relationships so infrequently expressedusing sequences of clauses, and never expressed usingbefore clauses?
This clearly follows from the definitionof Generation that neither action can be subsequent tothe other, a relationship that is strongly implied by se-quences.
There are cases where sentence sequencesare used to express Generation, but these are infrequentand occur in very specific syntactic situations (VanderLinden, 1993).
In general; grammatical forms whichtypically function as expressions of sequence should beavoided when expressing Generation relationships be-cause they tend to mislead the reader by suggesting theperformance of two distinct actions.Concerning the question of identifying the contexts inwhich the imperative + by, the to infinitive, andthe for  phrase arise, it has been observed that syntac-tic constraints and lexical availability appear to moti-vate the use of the imperative + by form and the forphrasal forms (Vander Linden, 1993).Expressing Enablement in English Enablementrelations tend, in 89% of the cases, toward before con-ditions: one of a set of sequence forms; imperative + toin f in i t i ve  and other for  phrasal types.
Examples ofthese forms are given here:(22) Quit all applications before beginning the followingprocedure.
(Microsoft)(23) Switch offat the mains, disconnect the power adap-tor and remove the cassette.
Wipe the tape heads andpinch roller gently with a cotton-wool bud dipped intape head cleaning fluid or methylated spirits.
(Bell)(24) Return to seat to place calls.
(Airfbue)(25) PLEASE SAVE THESE INSTRUCTIONS FORFUTURE USE.
(Playschool)In example 22, quitting all applications i  an action in-tended to bring about a set of conditions compatiblewith "beginning the foUowing procedure": as are the ac-tions of removing the cassette, returning to the seat, andsaving these instructions in examples 23, 24, and 25 re-spectively.
None of them are sufficient o achieve theirintended goal.The gap in the expressions ofEuablement is that theyare seldom expressed using the imperative + by form.As can be seen in tables 1 and 2; there is only one En-ablement expressed as an imperative + by as opposedto eight Gene~ution relations expressed that way.
Itseems inappropriate, for instance, to express the actionsin example 24 as "Place calls by returning to your seat"because it tends to imply that returning to your seat isall you have to do to achieve the goal.
We, thus, wouldrestrict he use of the imperative + by to the expressionof Genelution relations only.The  F rench  Resu l tsThe French corpus comprises 14 sets of instructions667th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Func~onFormsFigure 5: The French function to form mapping of Generation and Enablement RelationsGrammatical Form Count PercentageEn-present-participle 12 33.3%Pour-infinitive 8 22.2%Apposed clause 5 13.9%Pour-noun 4 11.1%Afin-de-infinitive 4 11.1%3 other forms 3 8.3%Total: 36Table 3: The frequency of French grammatical forms forGeneration RelationsGrammatical FFoTw~ Count PercentageEt-sequence 13 40.6%Pour-Infinitive 6 18.8%Avant-conditions 6 18.8%Apr~s-conditions 4 12.5%2 other forms 3 9.4%Total: 32Table 4: The frequency of FrenchEnablement Relationsgrammatical forms forh,r French-produced domestic appliances and for homeimprovement.
Thus, the texts are intended for non-specialists.
Most have a word-count of between 200 and400 words.
We set a target of collecting some 30 ex-amples of each relation, expressed in single sentencesrather than across sentence boundaries.
The exampleswere vetted by a native speaker.The statistical analysis of surface forms is given intables 3 and 4.
The graphical representation of thesedata: shown in figure 5, indicates only one form to becommon to both relations.Express ing  Generat ion  in F rench French has a re-alisation of this relation that is distinct from English, aswe showed in example 11: and can see again here in aninstruction from a Philips telephone manuah(26) Appuyer 2 fois sur la touche MEMO:PTvss 2 time.~ on the key Mt~MO,le nun~ro se conxpose  alorsthe nv.mber itself dials thenau tomatiquement.
(Philips)automatically.Here the information is expressed through clauses whichare in apposition.
The same information could havebeen expressed as:(27) Appuyer ... sur la touche pourPress .. .
on the key forcomposer .
.
.to dial .
.
.It is examples uch as these that led us to modifyGoldman's definition of GeneTution.
In French it is com-mon to achieve agent deletion by using a reflexive verbwhose syntactic subject is the semantic theme of the cor-responding fifll transitive verb.
Although there is no ex-plicit agent of the action, agency is readily inferred andthe spirit of Goldman;s definition is preserved.
More-over: the word "automatically" is in a sense redundant,serving to emphasize the fact that the result is achievedwith no filrther action on the part of the agent.Agent deletion may also be achieved by de-verbalnominalization: as in the following examples from man-uals for a cooking utensil and for do-it-yourself homeimprovement:(28) La pouss6e du ressort interne d6gageThe push of the spring inteTnal releasesle poussoir.
(Darty)the push button.The most frequent realization is by the en presentpar t i c?p le  form, for example in:(29) Soulever manuellement le ttotteur auRai.se manually the .float to themaxinmm en tirant sur lemaximum by pulling on thebras.
(Castorama 50.11)aTT/LAlthough it is tempting to view this form as the directequivalent of ':by + ing',  it is also available for relatingdistinct co-temporal actions: with no implication thatone is achieved by execution of the other: as in the fol-lowing instruction for a jar opener:677th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994(30) Serrer la poign~e de blocage d:uneTighten the blocking-handle with onemain en maintenant le bocal dehand while holding the jar withl'autre main.
(Tefal)the other" hand.The next example illustrates a further common real-ization using "pour" which reinforces the observa-tion that generated actions and evidences appearing inthe same sentence are expressed ifferently:(31) S~lectionner une touche du clavier (deSelect a key of the pad (f~vm1 ~t 9) pour rendre la ligne (la tonallt~1 to 9) to return the line (the tonerevient).
(Philips)returns).It is worth noting that, although "pour" and "afin de"are generally considered interchangeable in this syntac-tic construction, the latter is: in our corpus; used exclu-sively to express Generution while "pour" realizes bothprocedural relations.Express ing Enab lement  in French It is in the ex-pression pour in : f i r t i t ive that Generation and Enable-ment overlap.
However, the construction so strongly sig-nals Generution for French readers that they may havedifficulty construing an Enablement relation:(32) D6.visser le flotteur de son bras pourUnscrew the float f lvm its alw~ forle remplacer.
(Castorama 50.11)it to renew.
(33) Tracer deux parall~.les h l'axeDruw two parallel-lines to the axi.~vertical pour tapisser l:int~rieur duvertical for to paper the inside of/thecadre.
(Castorama 70.04)fT'a~t e.While the intermediate steps between action and goalare obvious in example 32, it is far front self-evidentin example 33 that the action enables the placing ofthe moulding that will frame the wall-paper when it iseventually hung.Interestingly.
in half of its occurrences in Enablementexpressions: "pour" precedes "l)OUvoir" (':to be able"),making the goal explicitly an enabling state and denyingother expectations:(34) Diluer la peinture pour pouvoir laDilute the paint for to be able itpulv~fiser.
(Castorama 20.11)to spray.The unacceptability of the following example supportsthis analysis:(35) ".r.~ Flip the switch to be able to turn on the light.The most frequent reahsation within the sentence iswith the conjunction "et" ("and"), which coincides withthe English findings:(36) D6monter la buse et la nettoyerDis-assemble the nozzle and it cleanavec un petit pinceau.
(Castorama20.11)with a brush small.Temporal markers of sequence account for the remain-ing 41(Yo of the examples.
By definition, they cannotexpress Generation.
In contrast o the English results,we noted a number of instances of "apr~s" (':after"), aswell as "avant" (':before"):(37) D6monter le r6servoir apr~.sDismantle the tank afterd~viss~ les deuxunfastened the twovis de fixation.
(Castorama 20.11)fixing screws.avoirhavingThe ordering of the action descriptions in the textis the reverse of that required in the world.
The sameis often true.
of course, of expressions using "avant'.However, the latter appear calculated to preempt ratherthan provoke a rash action on the part of the reader.The Portuguese ResultsThe Portuguese corpus discussed here comes from 8sets of instruction manuals written in Brazilian Por-tuguese.
The mamlals are taken from consumer prod-ucts; they are aimed at a non-specialist audience andthey vary from between 2 to 7 pages in length.
As withour analysis of the French data, we set ourselves thetask of examining the relationships between the Gener-ation and Enablement relations and syntactic forms inapproximately 30 examples of each relation.
In whatfollows, we present he result of our analysis of the 33Generation and 32 Enablement relations taken.
A de-tailed accounting of the grammatical forms used to ex-press Generution relations is shown in table 5.
Similarstatistics for Enablement relations are shown in table 6.The results of these mappings, displayed graphicallyin figure 6: show a pattern of ahnost exclusive use ofgrammatical realizations for the two underlying rela-tions; we will argue that in fact there is no overlap inour data between expressions of the two relations.
Ingeneral, the pattern of results for Portuguese is rathercloser to our findings for French than for English.Express ing Generat ion  in Por tuguese  In our Por-tuguese data; expressions of Generation most often in-volve the "para" connective, primarily followed by aninfinitive (Para + Inf?n?t ive)  and on rarer occasionsby a nominal phrase (Para Noun).
Consider.
for ex-ample; the following instructions from mammls for anelectric saw and a mini vacuum cleaner:687th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994F nction  .
.
.
.
.Figure 6: The Portuguese function to form mapping of Generation and Enablement RelationsGrammatical Form Count .PercentagePara+Infinitive 23 70%Se+Subjunctive 3 9%Para+Phrases 2 6%Sequence 1 3%2 other forms 4 12%Total: 33Table 5: The frequency of Portuguese grammaticalforms for Generation RelationsGrammatical Form Count PercentageSequence: 25 78%Depots Conditions 4 12%Antes Conditions 3 9%Total: 32Table 6: The frequency of Portuguese grammaticalforms for Enablement Relations(38) Para colocar a serra na posi~$o deTo put the saw in the position ofcorte obl~quo: solte a porca borboleta ecut obl.ique flee the scTvw butterfly andincline a sapata para o ~mguloincline the shoe to the angledesejado.(Bla&&Decker)desired.
(39) Para a montagem: encaixe osFor" the mounting, fit theimplementos conforme demonstra aimplements consistent with what sho'ws thefigura 07.
(Dustbuster)figure 07.Of the remaining forms: two are a direct consequenceof the preference fur using para forms: combined withthe tendency in the language towards long sentences.
Agood example of this is shown in the following: takenfrom a manual for a garden tractor:(40) A CADA 100 HORAS:EveT'y 100 hour.%drene o resto de combust~vel quandodrain the rest of the fuel wheno n~vel estiver no mmmlothe level is at the minimumpara retirar a ~igua e impurezasto get rid of the water and impuritiescontidas no tanquecontained in the tankpara n$o sobrecarregar o filtroto not overload the filtere dar nlelhor durabilidade na bombaand give better endurance in the pumpinjetora e bico injetor,injector and jet,resultando em consequ~ncia: em melhor~esulting in consequence, in betterfuncionamento do motor.
(Tobatta)performance of the motor.Sentences such as these: with long chains of Genera-tion relations; are not unique in Brazilian Portuguese 4.As noted; the preferred signal of the Generation rela-tion is "para".
For stylistic reasons (i.e.
: to avoid usingthe same connective to link the four instances of Gen-eration within this sentence): the author has chosen tointroduce some elegant variation.
The third connective"e" (':and") appears as a Sequence: but what is in facthappening here is that the author has elided the "para"from the expression % para" ('Sand to").
Sequence is infact reserved for Enablement~ but here the "e" (a typicalexample of a Sequence marker) is not misleading: sincethe reader has been primed by the 'rhythm: of the pre-ceding sequence of "para's to interpret it as yet anotherone.
Similarly: the choice of the expression resultandoem conseq~ncia seems to be motivated by the desire toavoid using yet another para.
This expression of Gen-eration on its own would be extremely awkward:(41) ??
N~o sobrecarregue o filtroDo not overload the filter"resultando em conseqii6ncia em melhorresulting "in consequence in betterfuncionamento do motor.pe~forw~ance of the motor.4This example demonstrates the trazasitivity feature ofGeneration, discussed by Goldman (19701}.697th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Ex~pressing Enab lement  in Por tuguese  The 8Portuguese manuals we report on here contained manyfewer instances of Enablement than Generation.
Inter-estingly, although para  is normaUy also the default ex-pression of Enablement, we found no instances of it inour data: presumably because this form is such a strongmarker of Generation.
Instead, we find Enablement tobe expressed through signals of the temporal orderingof the actions involved.
This we refer to as Sequence:a string of imperatives, either in consecutive sentences,or within a sentence and linked by the conjunction "e"("and").
(42) Recoloque o filtro de p6 e monteRe-put the filter of dust and mountnovamente o aparelho.
(Dustbnster)once again the appliance.or Antes/Depois Condit ions,  sequential steps signaledby the use of "antes de" (':before") or "depois de" (':af-ter") or their equivalents (e.g.
"diante" ("before") or"ap6s" ("after")):(43) Antes de us~-lo leia atentamente asBefore using it read carefully theins t ruq.Ses.
(Dustbuster)mstruct.i.or~ :(44) Ap6s colocar o plugue na tomada,After to put the plug in the outlet,pressione para baLxo a tecla dopress downwaTds on the key of theinterruptor.
(Caf6 Quatro coffee machine)inte,~'uptor.As in the French examples: the use of expressions suchas antes de tend to arise in cases where the writer ap-pears to be attempting to preempt rather than provokea rash action, as in the following:Desligue a serra da tomada: antes deUnplug the saul from the outlet, heloT,fazer qualquer ajuste.
(Black~Decker)to make whatever adjustment.DiscussionOur study so far provides some important guidelinesfor representing and expressing Generation and Enable-ment: which we are soon to begin implementing in oursystem for generating multilingual drafts of instructionsfor software use and for carrying out administrative pro-cedures.
The Generation and Enablement relations haveproved here to be a valuable means for capturing, in alanguage-independent form: some of the deep semanticrelationships underlying procedures.
The data analysiswe report on has suggested the range of appropriate syn-tactic expression of Generation and Enablement in En-glish: French and Portuguese, and regions of potentialamlfiguity.
For example, the imtications are that Pourin : f in i t i ve  expressions in French shcmhl be avoidedwhere possil)le (except where fldlowed by "pourvoir");as should be expressions in English which use the Toin f in i t i ve  despite the fact that they are I.)
3, far themost frequent form of Generation in our English corpus.Clearly, the results we present here are only indicative;as we increase the size of our corpus we expect o gain aclearer picture of the relationships between the procedu-ral relations and their linguistic expressions.
So far wehave not examined the influence of the wider context inwhich the instances of Generation and Enablement oc-cur in the corpus, and although we are informed on theallowable and preferable mappings from Generation andEnablement to language, we are not yet in a position toidentify the influences affecting the selection of the mostappropriate xpression for a given instance of Genera-tion or Enablement in a particular context.
In addition,the rSle of RST in our final architecture is still not clear;we suspect hat if a rSle exists, it will be to inform thechoice of expression from within the allowable set.Acknowledgments\Ve are grateflfl to Lucia 1Rino for her comments on thePortuguese material and to our three annonymous re-viewers.ReferencesBalkanski, C. T. (1993).
Actions~ Beliefs and Intention.
* inMulti-Action Utterances.
PhD thesis, Harvard Univer-sity.Delia, J., Scott, D., and Hartley, T. (1993).
Knowledge,intention, rhetoric: Levels of variation in multilingualinstructions.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Inten-tionality and Structure in Discourse Relations, Jtme 21,Columbus, OH, pages 7-10.Di Eugenio, B.
(1992).
Understanding natural anguage in-structions: The case of purpose clauses.
In Proceedingsof the Annual Meeting of Association \]br ComputationalLinguistics, Newark,'DE, pages 120-127.Fikes, R. E. and Nilsson, N. (1971).
STRIPS: a new approachto the application of theorem proving to problem solv-ing.
Artificial Intelligence, 2:189-208.Goldman, A. I.
(1970).
A Theory of Human Action.
PrenticeHall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.Mann, W. C. and Thompson, S. A.
(1988).
Rhetorical struc-ture theory: Toward a functional theory of text organi-zation.
Text: An Interdisciplinary Journal\[or the Studyof Text, 8(2).Pollack, M. E. (1986).
Inferring Domain Plans in Question-Answering.
PhD thesis, University of Pennsylvania.
SRITechnical Report SRIN-403.RSsner, D. and Stede, M. (1992).
Customizing RST for theautomatic production of teclmical manuals.
In Dale,R., Hovy, E., RSesner, D., and Stock, O., editors, A,-peers of Automated Natural Language Generation, Lec-ture Notes in Artificial Intelligence 587, pages 199-214.Springer Verlag, Berlin.Sacerdoti, E. D. (1977).
A Structure \]br Plan,* and Behavior.Elsevier, New York.Vander Linden, K. (1993:).
Speaking of Actions: Choo,~ingRhetorical Status and Grammatical Form in Instruc-tional Text Generation.
PhD thesis, University of Col-orado.
Available as Technical Report CU-CS-654-93.70
