Stylistic Variation in Multilingual InstructionsC6cile Paris* and Donia ScottInformation Technology Research InstituteUniversity of BrightonLewes RoadBrighton BN2 4AT, UKemail: { Cecile.Paris,Donia.Scott} @itri.bton.ac.ukAbstractInstructional tex-ts have been the object of many studies re-cently, motivated by the increased need to produce manuals(especially multilingual manuals) coupled with the cost oftranslators and technical writers.
Because these studies con-centrate on aspects other than the linguistic realismion ofinstructions - for example, the integration of text and graph-i cs -  they all generate a sequence of steps required to achievea task, using imperatives.
Our research so flu- shows, how-ever, that manuals can iu fact have different styles, i.e., notall instructions are stated using a sequence of imperatives,and that, furthermore, different parts of manuals often usedifferent styles.
In this paper, we present our preliminaryresults from an analysis of over 30 user guides/manuals forconsumer appliances and discuss ome of the implications.IntroductionInstructional texts have been the object of many studies re-cently, with an emphasis on methods for integrating raphicsand text, as in wIP (Wahlster et al, 1993) and COMET (Feinerand McKeown, 1990), for tailoring to the user (Peter andR~sner, 1994), for generating purpose xpressions inEnglish(Vander Linden, 1993), t~r producing multilingual instruc-tions, (e.g., ROsner and Stede, 1991), and tot planning theappropriate r ferring expressions, (e.g., Dale, 1992).
Most ofThis work is partially supported by the Commission of the Eu-ropean Union Grant LRE-62009,the Engineering and Physical Sci-ences Research Council (EPSRC) Grant J19221, and by BC/DAADARC Project 293.
Dr. Paris also gratefully acknowledges the sup-port of the National Science Foundation Grant IRI-9003087.
Wewould like to thank John Bateman, Richard Power and the anony-mous reviewers for their useful comlnenLs.
* Dr. Paris is on leave from USC/Infonnation Sciences Institute,4676 A&niralty Way, Marina del Rey, CA 90292 and the ComputerScience Department ofthe University of Southern California.these systems produce only a sequence of steps necessary toaccomplish a t,'tsk (e.g., change the engine oil, replace aradiobattery, cook butter bean soup).One of the motivations for generating instructions automat-ically is the increased need to produce manuals, especiallymultilingual manuals, coupled with the cost of translatorsand technical writers.
This is important not only for Euro-pean manufacturers, who are required to produce manuals inall the languages of the European Union, but also for multi-national companies, whose international sales are reported toconstitute over half of their total sales.
Given this motivation,then, producing the sequence of steps required to achieve atask is only part of the job: most user guides and manualscontain more than a simple sequence of steps to achieve atask.
In our work, we are attempting to generate a morecomplete user guide, in several languages.The emphasis of previous research on instructions has ledto the almost exclusive use o f  one type of discourse struc-ture (a sequence, reflecting the sequence of steps needed fora t,'tsk), and one type of realisation (the imperative).
Wehave found, however, that manuals can have different styles:not all instructions are stated in a sequence, using the im-perative form.
This would indeed lead to rather monotonoustexts, texts with potentially the wrong interpersonal force (toomany imperatives can be too forceful!
), and instructions inwhich the relative importance of various steps might be lost.Furthermore, different parts of manuals often use differentdiscourse structures and forms of realisation.
In our work,6?S~ 1 ,* we are investigating the range of ,'tyros in instructionalmanuals in different languages, and the relationship betweenstylistic variants and the global structure of the manual bothwithin and between languages.The work reported here is part of the DRAFTER and file GISTprojects at the University of Brighton (Scott, 1993), whichaim to generate instructional manuals in several anguages45: 7th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994and in different domains.
We have analysed user guides invarious languages, attempting to avoid translated manuals.This paper presents our preliminary results concerning thedifferent styles and global structures that frequently occurwithin English and French manuals for consumer appliances.Although our analysis o far does not provide conclusiveresults with respect to the relationships between stylistic vari-ants, the global structures, and different languages, they sug-gest that it is important for a system to provide a range ofstyles of instructions.
Our results also indicate directions forfurther analysis.Var ia t ion  in ins t ruct ionsInstructions are aimed at conveying directions to perform a(set of) task(s).
For example, we can have instructions forfilling out a form, or for operating and repairing adevice.
Weinclude in our definition of instructions activities related tothe actions to be performed, such as installation (preparatorysteps), maintenance and trouble-shooting, as well as warn-ings concerning the safe execution of the actions.
Confininginstructions solely to central actions to be performed is toorestrictive as the above-mentioned aspects are also integralparts of carrying out a task safely and efficiently.The most straightforward way to get a reader to pertorma k'Lsk is, of course, through the use of a sequence of im-peratives.
However, our analysis of a corpus of over 30user manuals for consumer appliances reveals a variety ofrealisations for such directions, from imperatives to simplestatements.
Statements may, by some, be considered to beoutside the scope of instructions.
We do not hold m this: wehave found numerous examples to support the view that state-ments are often implicit instructions.
Consider, for example,the following instructions from English and French tbr usinga insulated flask, taken from EMSA Thermos.Filter coffee: Simply place the filter on your EMSA vac-uum jug to prevent escape of aroma and temperatureFiltrage du caf6: Le cal'6 peut-&re filtr6 directement dansle pichet.
Le porte-filtres 'adapte p~trfaitement surl'ouverture du pichet, 6vitant ainsi la perte et la dis-persion de l'ar6me du caf6.Loose English Translation: Filtering of Coffee: Theco2~.e can be filtered directly into the jug.
Filter holders.lit perfectly on the opening of the jug, thus preventingloosing the aroma of the coffeeHere we see that the English instructions to filter coffee isgiven as an imperative, whereas, in the French version, theuser is provided with a description of the utensil, from whichthe directions can be derived.The issue of style is of course not a new one: indeed, thereare whole subfields of theoretical nd computational linguis-tics devoted to it.
Sometimes it is referred to as stylistics (e.g.,Crystal and Davy, 1969; Ager, 1970; DiMarco, 1992), speciallanguages (e.g., Sager et aL, 1980), sublanguages (e.g., Kit-tredge and Lehrberger, 1982), conative function (e.g., Jakob-s~na, 1960), registers (e.g., Halliday, 1973; Ghadessy, 1988;Bateman and Paris, 1989; Martin, 1992), or pragmatic eftects(e.g., Hovy, 1988).
It is thus not surprising that his linguisticfeature also applies to instructions, although it has not beenexplicitly addressed so far.The different styles in instructional manuals appear to beclosely allied to the stance the writer takes towards the reader.For example, different stances are usually taken when provid-ing a description and a warning.
Although, in general, suchstances can be a decision on the part of the writer (or speaker),in which case it can be referred to as a conative intention(Sager et al, 1980), in the case of instructional manuals, itis usually an institutional decision on the part of the productmanufacturer o  the technical writing company (this is oftenreferred to as "house style").
Stances can indeed be exploitedin manuals to project aspecific ompany image (for example,your friendly local nuclear power pianO.
These stances arefactors that professional technical authors and translators aretaught o pay particular attention to when writing or translat-ing instructions, ince failure to do so will lead to instructionswhich, although technically and grammatically correct, havean unintended pragmatic force.
Following Systemic Linguis-tic Theory (Halliday, 1978), we wiU refer to these stances assemantic meanings to be expressed, atthe interpersonal level.Semantic meanings lead to the inclusion of different typesof information, different organisations ofa text, and differentexpressions of the actions to be performed.
For instance,with indirect commands "the addressee is treated as if theyhave the fight to demur"; a choice of a direct command, onthe other hand, "grants the addressee little or no discretion"(Hasan, 1988, p 24).
They can even result in different typo-graphical devices.
This is why not all instructions are writtenas a sequence of steps in the imperative mode.
Dependingon the semantic meanings to be conveyed, the text can bequite different at both the discourse and realisation levels.From our text analysis, we have began to identify differentmeanings that can be conveyed in user manuals and theirpreferred realisations.
We have noted that these meaningsare not constant throughout an entire manual, but vary acrosssections.
It is thus necessary to identify the different partsthat make up manuals, the semantic meanings that can beexpressed in the different sections, and the linguistic meansavailable to express them.
Furthermore, given our multi-lingual framework, we are also investigating whether thepreferred linguistic means of realising these meanings differacross languages, and whether the preferred stance is likelyto change across various languages, as suggested by Herveyand Higgins (1992), and for different target audiences.
Thework on DRAFTER and GIST is directly related to these issues.Semant ic  Mean ingsWe have so t~ analysed over 30 manuals given to users whenthey buy consumer-ofiented goods, such ms coffee machinesand camping stoves, in both French and English when avail-able.
These manuals are at least one page long and can beup to 10 to 20 pages.
In conducting our analysis, we triedto identify the different attitudes expressed in the texts, theirpotential realisations, and the global structure of the texts.We have identified four different stances that a manual canadopt and give examples of them in Figure 1:467th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994(1) Information Provision - from Dietrich self-cleaning enamel oven:L'~mail auto-nettoyant est de couleur brun fonc6 mouchet~ de blanc pour certaines pitces.Loose English Translation: The self-cleaning enamel is dark brown, speckled with white on some parts.
(2) Information Provis ion-  from HP Laser Jet 4 Printer Installation Guide:The optional 500-sheet paper tray assembly comes equipped with a tray housing and either a legal, letter, A4, and executivemulti-size paper tray or a letter, A4, and executive multi-size paper tray.
You may purchase replacement trays from yourauthorized HP dealer.
The part number of the letter, A4 and executive multi-size paper tray is C2084B...(3) Eulogy - from Sennheisser Headphones:To wish to convince you of the superior quality of the dynamic open air headphone HI) 40 would be something of a paradox asyou are by now akeady in possession of this product.
However, the arguments for the HD 40 are in fact very convincing:Hw ?
"oh quahty reproduction.?
Exa'emely corafortable thanks to very low weight.?
Problem-free connection by means of universal connector.?
Very flat storage space thanks to turntable driver elements.
(4) Directive - from Krupp Expresso Coffee Machine:Do not use or put down the appliance on any hot surlhce (such as a stove hot-plate) or in the vicinity of an open gas t ime.
(5) Directive - from Camping Stove: Camping Gaz International:Utilisez toujours votre rtchaud ans un endroit suffisamment a~r~, sans l'envelopper dans un objet quelconque et pas trop prrtsde mati~res inflammables.Loose English Translation: Always use ),our stove in a well ventilated place, without wrapping it in any object and not tooclose to flanululble substances.
(6) Explanation - from Dietrich Oven:To avoid heavy spitfings on the sole plate, it is advisable to cover it with an aluminium foil.
(7) Explanation - from EMSA ThermosAttention: Pour ~viter d'abimer le recipient en verre, ne remuez pas les boissons avec des cuill~res mEtalliques.Loose English Translation: Warning: To avoM damage to the glass jug, do not stir drinks with metallic spoons.Figure 1: Stances amanual can adopt477th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994?
information provision: the text concentrates on the fac-tual knowledge to be conveyed.
This can be seen as aug-menting the reader's knowledge about the artifact and/orthe task.?
eulogy: the text emphasises the positive aspects of theproduct or "congratulates" the readers on their good choiceof purchase.?
directive on how to perform a task: the reader is toachieve a task exactly as prescribed.
Here, the rationalebehind the prescriptions i  not considered necessary?
explanation on the preferred means of achieving thetask: the reader is given advice as to how to achieve atask, and an explanation as to why it should be done in theprescribed way.
This provides opportunities for the readerto construct a mental model of the task or of the artifact.We note that the choice of stance seems to be influenced byseveral factors, including safety, requirements for memora-bility (for example, there is no point going to great length tohave the reader build up a mental model of the task if it isto be accomplished only occasionally and there are no dam-at, me,,,"  consequences involved), and the expected expertise ofthe readership.I n fo rmat ion  prov is ion and eulogyOn taking these two stances, writers show a strong preferencefor the use of simple acdve declaratives.
However, whiletheir expressions tend to coincide in many aspects, there arealso clear differences in linguistic expression of these twoattitudes.
(The similarities may well arise because it is use-ful to the manufacturer for eulogies about the product o beinterpreted as factual information.
)When a eulogy is given, many attributes (qualifiers) tendto be included.
They are realised as very positive adjectivesand as superlatives.
For further emphasis, consequences of aspecific attribute are often provided, or examples are given.The type of language used to express this semantic meaningis similar to that used in advertising (Toolan, 1988).Examples of texts in these categories are shown in (1, 2, 3)of Figure 1.
The texts in (1) and (2) are purely informative:the first provides information about he colour of the enamelinside the stove, the second about he printer paper tray.
(3)is more of a eulogy, explicitly employing very tavoumblequalifiers, to convey the superior attributes of the product:high-quality reproduction, extreme comfort, etc.Direct iveThe core function of instructions is to get users to perform(or avoid) specific actions.
The most straightforward way ofconveying this meaning is to provide directives: the reader istold to (or not to) do some action(s).
The concern is not thatthe reader knows necessarily why this action should or shouldnot be performed, but simply to have him or her follow thedirective.
The text asserts the authority of the writer (or thecompany) over the reader and leaves no choice to the readerto demur.
,Strongly dilective .speech acts (Sager et al, 1980)such as o rder  or  proh ib i t  are used.
An explanation ofthe order (or prohibition) is rarely given (in that the reader hasno way of knowing the rationale behind the need to performor avoid the prescribed action).
This is illustrated in (4, 5) ofFigure 1.
In these instructions, the reason for performing (oravoiding) the action is not provided: i.e., no reason is givenfor why the appliance should not be put on a hot surface, orwhy the stove should be used in a well ventilated area.
Thereader is expected simply to follow the "directive.
A settingor a condition for the action (e.g., when X happens, do Y), isprovided as well if necessary.These strong directive speech acts can be realised in anumber of ways, depending on the distance to be put betweenthe reader and the writer (or the company) - this might alsobe seen as a matter of how personal/impersonal theauthorwishes to be:?
little d istance-  the writer directly addresses the reader:use of imperatives (or infinitives, in French), as in (1) inFigure 2.?
some distance - the writer addresses the reader butthere is no strong involvement: use of the modal "must"("devoir", possibly accompanied with an adverb, capi-talised or embolded to carry extra force.
This is illustratedin (2) of Figure 2.?
great distance,- the order is given without addressingthe reader: use of the passive (the device must not.. .
), oremploying verbs which require the object to become thesyntactic subject, together with an adverb for emphasis.Examples are given in (3) of Figure 2.In all cases, stronger emphasis on the directive can be given byincluding terms such as "never" or "under no circumstance",as part of the sentence or even as a separate sentence, as illus-trated in (4) of Figure 2.
Although these forms are availablein both languages, our data so far show a predominance of?
the first category (the straight imperative) for English, and amuch more equal distribution among the categories inFrench.Exp lanat ionInstructions ometimes have a tutorial aspect: it is then notenough simply to get the user to perform an action; there isalso an attempt to get the user to understand why the actionshould be performed in the prescribed way, and why a specificaction contributes to an overall goal.
In this case, the rationalebehind the directive is provided, explaining why the action isnecessary or relating it to goals the reader is expected to have.More information related to the step to be performed/avoidedis included, as shown in (6, 7) of Figure 1.
Like the directivemeaning, the text asserts the authority of the writer (or thecompany) over the reader.
This time, however, the text nowleaves some choice to the reader as to whether to proceedand/or provides ajustification to the reader of why the actionis requested, so that it is not interpreted as an order.
Thismeaning is often expressed through the use ofweaklydirectivespeech acts (Sager et al, 1980), such as recommend ori ns t ruc t .As with the strong directives peech acts, a variety ofsyntactic forms can occur here in both French and Englishthrough the use of (1) an imperative accompanied with the487th International Generation Workshop * Kennebunkport, Maine * June 21-24, 1994(1) Little distance is put between writer and reader:.
.
.
grind the expresso coffee beans in a coffee mill set to grind "fine".
(From Krupp Expresso Coffee Machine)Lire tr~s attentivement le mode d'emploi.
(From DUROTHERM PLUS)Loose English Translation: Read very carefully the numual.
(2) Some distance is put between writer and reader:Pour une bonne s6curit~, vous devez irnp~mtivement brancher votre appareil sur une prise de courant avec terre correspondantaux normes ~lectriques.
(From: Four Moulinex)Loose English Translation: For safety, you must absolutely plug your device in an earthed socket.After recording your OGM, you must leave the cassette tape in place.
(From Dialatron Answering Machine).To this end, the brewing sieve MUST first be unscrewed from the brewing head.
(From Krupp Expresso Coffee Machine)(3) Great distance is put between writer and reader :The gas flame must heat only the bottom of the pan.
(From DUROTHERM PLUS)La flamme ne doit pas pas 16cher les bords de l'ustensil.
(From DUROTHERM PLUS):Loose English Translation: The flame must not lick the sides of the device.
(4) Employing an adverb for stronger emphasis:Never dip the appliance into water.
(From Krupp Expresso Coffee Machine).Utilisez une brosse ,~ poils souples pour ~liminer les miettes carbonis6es.
JAMAIS UN CHIFFON HUMIDE.
(From: FourMoulinex)Loose English Translation: Use a soft brush to get rid of burnt crumbs.
NEVER A WET CLOTH.Figure 2: Expressing strong directivesreason for the directive, or prefaced by some factual infor-mation which explaius the directive; (2) an impersonal direc-tive, such as "it is (not) advisable to..." (il est dd/conseilldde ...  "), with the justification for the action, and sometimeswith an emphatic adverb (e.g., "strongly"); (3) formulae suchas "it is appropriate to" (il convient de, il y a lieu de), "itis recommended that" (il est recommendd), "act is/will berecommended" or the passive voice mid the modal "should"(devoir).
This choice once again depends on how strong,polite and indirect he writer wishes to be with respect to thereader.
We give examples of the two extremes inFigure 3.SummaryWe have just outlined the difl~rent semantic meauings thatseem to be conveyed inFrench and English instructional texts.The categorisation given above is still crude and requires fur-ther distinctions to account tbr the apparent overlap betweensome of the categories.
For example, the tollowing text isright now categofised as both an intbrmation provision and aeulogy:Le four ~t 6mail auto-nettoyant se diff6rencie du four h&nail normal par le thit que pendant la cuisson, les pro-jections de corps gras sont d6truites dis qu'elles arriventau contact des patois chaudes.
Le nettoyage du tbur estainsi supprim6 dans la plupart des cas.
(From Dietrichself-cleaning enamel oven)Loose English Translation: The self-cleaning enameloven is different from normal enamel ovens, because fatsplashes during cooking are eliminated on contact withthe hot walls.
Cleaning the oven is thus unnecessary inmost cases.Finer distinctions have already been made for other genres(e.g., Hasan, 1988; Martin, 1992).
We are currently inves-tigating the appropriate mappings between their results andour data in order to derive the necessary efinement.Having identified the different meanings that can be ex-pressed in instructional texts, we now turn to the text as awhole, identifying its global structure and the relationshipbetween parts of the global structure of the manual and theirpreferred skqnce.A Globa l  S t ructureGiven our desire to generate user manuals automatically, weanalysed the texts to see if they followed some global dis-course structure as to what information was presented totheuser, and what stance was taken at each point.
We have foundthat the manuals were organised around several main parts:?
general information about file product497th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994Direct:To prevent unnecessary damage to the container avoid using abr&,dve materials or sharp utensils when cleaning.
(From StewartFood Storage Containers)Lisez attentivement cette notice: elle vous permettra d'en obtenir le meilleur service pour votre plus grande satisfaction.
(FromCamping Stove: Camping Gaz International)Loose English Translation: Carefully read this notice: it will allow you to obtain the best results to your greatest satisfaction.Indirect:The milk should be well chilled.
(From Krupp Expresso Coffee Machine),.
.
.
on ne devrait ajouter les 6pices qu'ap~s le processus de cuisson ~ l'~touff~.e.
(From DUROTHERM PLUS)Loose English Translation: .
.
.
one should add the spices only after the dish is cookedFigure 3: Expressing weak directives?
general safety advice, warnings concerning specific ac-tions?
installation of the device, or preparatory steps?
use?
maintenance, directions for care?
trouble-shooting and potential problemsSome manuals-contain all these parts, each clearly indi-cated.
This is not always the case, however, and the in-formation corresponding to these parts might be interleaved,especially when space is a problem and the writers do notwant to explicitly have a section for each information-type.For example, potential problems and warnings related to aspecific step in a procedure might occur immediately afterthe step is given.
1The writer can potentially take a dil~rent stance towardsthe reader in each part of the manual.
For lack of space, wewill present only our results for parts pertaining to generalinformation and safety.
We will summarise the results forthe other sections.
We will not provide further exampleshere.
Instead, we will refer to examples already given whenpossible.General In format ionThis part of the manual tends to contain the lbllowing type ofinformation:?
thanks for buying the product;?
description of the product, its advantages, and list ofparts (often with accompanying diagrams).?
conditions for the warranty (or lack or)Here, a general description of the artifact is given, oftenafter a short paragraph thanking the buyer.
Two stancesappear to be appropriate for this description: informationprovision and eulogy.
When information provision is chosen,the text either presents mainly attributes or is structured alongthe lines of one of the schemas defined in McKeown (1985).It can also contain a list of parts accompanied with diagrams.INote, however, that information from these major parts of amanual cannot be mixed randomly.
This will not be discussed here.When eulogy is chosen, although the text appears to bemainly informative, with the use of declarative sentenceswhich describe the object, a large number of attributes (qual-ifiers) - especially attributes judged to be important to thereader - and superlatives are employed, and the product isdescribed as being unique.
While a description might be pro-vided, it is equally common to find a list of the product's majorattributes/advantages, one at a time, sometimes together withthe consequence of a specific attribute (in terms of a user'sgoal) or with explicit examples.In English manuals, this part is mostly for informationprovision.
In French manuals, however, both forms appearfrequently.Information about safetyThis part includes warnings, general safety advice, and crucialsteps to be performed (either to accomplish the ~sk or toobtain better esults).
It sometimes also contains aparagraphabout reading the instructions.
Our data show that the stancetaken in this part can be a dkective, as illustrated in (4) ofFigure 1, or an explanation, as in (6) of Figure 1.Taking the explanation stance here appears more prevalentin French than in English.
Furthermore, in French, it isalso possible to write this part of the manual as informationprovision (from which the reader can infer what must bedone).
For example, a specification of the conditions underwhich a product will be operational re given, and the readeris expected to make sure these conditions are achieved.Explicit headings, explicit examples, lay-out (e.g., aframed box) and typography can be employed to signal furtherthe importance ofan advice or a warning.
When warnings arenot stated in an explicit section, but appear instead after therelevant action/step, they are most often inlroduced with theheader Important, Warning, or Note, or are given in boldface.Summary of results for the remaining sectionsPreparatory step or installation: Information on how toinstall the device, or about various steps which have to beperformed before the first use is provided.507th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994CLEANING INSTRUCTIONS FOR YOUR STEAKMAKER "LA COTTA"The main value of the Steakmakers "La Cotta", whatever the type and size, is to absorb all the noxious fats of meats, which inthis way, becomes tasty, healthy, easily digestible.The Stealanakers have a highly absorbing power, since they are made of a special volcanic refractory material, and after a lotof times you have cooked with them they will fill up with fats and acids (it goes without saying that the saturation time dependsalso on meat, which may be more or less fat).At this point fat starts seeping outside, drawn and eliminated by the heat of the stove, allowing this natural filter to keep onabsorbing and filtering.Figure 4: Wrong choice of conative force - Steakmaker "La Cotta"Use: The steps (actions) that must be performed for the readerto use the artifact and achieve various tasks are given.
De-pending on the object under consideration, it is organisedaround the task to be achieved, or around specific elementsof the object (which can be used to achieve a specific task).Clean, Care and Maintenance: This is where the authortells the reader how to clean and care for the artifact.In the three parts above, dkective and explanation are appro-priate.
In our corpus, English manuals tend to be written morewith the directive stance, while in French manuals, these twostances are almost equally likely.
Finally, as in the case ofthe section about safety, the information provision stance issometimes found in these sections of French manuals:Trouble shooting: The point of this part is to help the readeridentify the source of a problem and provide informationabout what might go wrong ff a step is not properly per-formed.
Actions to be performed are provided, together withthe conditions under which they are appropriate, and solu-tions to problems.
The stance is usually directive (actionsallowing the reader to identify the source of the problems aregiven).
In French, the stance can also be an explanation orinformation provision; this is however rare in English.DiscussionIn our work on generating multilingual instructions, we havefound that there are often multiple ways to provide instruc-tions, each taking a different stance towards the reader.
Al-ways adopting one realisation form leads to monotonous text.Clearly, computational systems should be able to generate thevariations found in texts.It has been suggested in sociolinguistics that there is astrong correlation between language and behaviour.
Oneaspect of this is the relationship between "ways of talkingand ways of learning" (Hasan, 1988).
This is relevant oinstructions, where the aim is to get the reader to learn how toperform a task.
Learning and memory are not disconnectedcognitive processes, and we suspect that memorability has aff~le to play in the chosen stance for a specific part of a manual.For example, the instructions for installation are likely to befollowed only once whereas those for general use could beexecuted dally.
The former need not be remembered, whereasthe latter must be learnt.
This may well be a motivating factorin the choice of stance l~r the various parts of the manual.If this is the case, then, the need to produce the range ofinstructions found in text is no longer a matter of stylisticsonly, but becomes critical to avoid generating instructions inwhich the relative importance of various steps might be lostbecause all steps are expressed in the same way.Clearly, instructions generated with the wrong stance canlead readers to misinterpret the importance of the steps pre-sented in various parts of the text.
Consider for example thetext shown in Figure 4, translated from Italian.
Because u-logies cannot be used for giving directives, on reading this,most readers (or at least ourselves!)
are likely to understandthat the pan does not need any cleaning, thanks to its prop-erties.
Lo and behold, in the text that follows - which islaid out in a way that suggests that its content is secondaryto that which precedes it - we learn that cleaning the panis critical for avoiding toxification, and steps to achieve this?
are given.
Because of the eulogy stance taken here, we arenot expecting to be told that the pan actually needs cleaning(even though the header provides a strong clue).
As a re-suit, the instructions for cleaning the pan may be overlooked.We will be investigating issues pertaining to usability in aseparate phase of our projects, related to the development ofevaluation criteria for instructions.Our data further suggest hat the mappings from stanceto realisation is not language independent.
This observationreinforces our belief that multilingual generation will lead tobetter texts thafi machine translation will, because a straight-lbrward translation from one language to another might re-suit in text that is awkward or which has the wrong pragmaticforce.
In addition, the choice of stance itself could also be cul-turally motivated.
If this is indeed the case, then only throughmultilingual generation can a text with the appropriate skancebe produced automatically.In this paper, we raise the issue of the importance of stylis-tic variation in instructions, and pose a number of questionsthat must be addressed.
Our analysis has provided guidelinesfor proceeding with a comprehensive study of this featureof naturally-occuring instructions.
Our first step is to refineour analysis to provide further distinctions in the semanticmeanings and to identify more clearly their associated re-alisation.
This analysis will apply to instructions uch asthe ones discussed here as well as to those for other domains(e.g., software documentation, i structions for administrativeprocedures).We will be using our results in a text generation system to517th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994guide text planning and realisation in several languages.
Weintend to make use of these semantic meanings both by addingfurther constraints on the discourse strategies employed ur-ing text planning, and by constraining the deployment ofthe available linguistic resources during generation, usingnotions uch as register-controlled generation (Bateman andParis, 1991).ReferencesAger, D. (1970).
Styles and registers in contemporary French.University of London Press, London.Bateman, J.
A. and Paris, C. L. (1989).
Phrasing a Textin Terms the User Can Understand.
In Proceedings ofthe Eleventh International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, pages 1511-1517, Detroit, Michigan.Bateman, J.
A. and Paris, C. L. (1991).
Constraining thedeployment of lexicogrammatical resources dunng textgeneration: towards a computational instantiation ofregister theory.
In Ventola, E., editor, Functional andSystemic Linguistics: Approaches and Uses, chapter 5,pages 81-106.
Mouton de Gruyter.Crystal, D. and Davy, D. (1969).
Investigating English Style.Longmans, London.Dale, R. (1992).- Generating Referring Explessions: Con-structing Descriptions in a Domain of Objects and Pro-cesses.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.DiMarco, C. and Hirst, G. (1993).
A Computational The-ory of Goal-Directed Style in Syntax.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(3):451-499.Feiner, S. K. and McKeown, K. R. (1990).
Coordinating textand graphics in explanation generation.
In Proceedingsof the National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,pages 442 A.A.9, Boston, MA.Ghadessy, M., editor (1988).
Registers of Written English:situational factors and linguistic features.
Frances Pin-ter, London.HaUiday, M. A. K. (1973).
Explorations in the Functions ofLanguage.
Edward Arnold, London.Halliday, M. A. K. (1978).
Language as social semiotic.Edward Arnold, London.Hasan, R. (1988).
Meaning ifi Sociolinguistic Theory.
Pre-sented at the First Hong Kong Conlerence on Languageand Society.Hervey, S. and Higgins, I.
(1992).
Thinking Translation.Routledge, London, UK.Hovy, E. H. (1988).
Generating Natural Language UnderPragmatic Constraints.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale,New Jersey.Jakobson, R. (1960).
Linguistics and poetics.
In Sebeok,T.
A., editor, Style in Language, pages 350--377.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Kittredge, R. and Lehrberger, J., editors (1982).
Sublan-guage: Studies of language in restricted semantic do-nutins, de Gruyter, Berlin and New York.Martin, J. R. (1992).
English text: systems and structure.Benjamins, Amsterdam.McKeown, K. R. (1985).
Text Generation: Using Dis-course Strategies and Focus Constraints to GenerateNatural Language Text.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Peter, G. and ROsner, D. (1994).
User-Model-Driven Gener-ation of Instructions.
User Modeling and User AdaptedInteraction.Rtsner, D. and Stede, M. (1991).
Towards the Automatic Pro-duction of Multilingual Technical Documents.
TechnicalReport FAW-R-91022, Research Institute for AppliedKnowledge Processing (FAW), Ulm, Germany.Sager, J. C., Dungworth, D., and McDonald, P. F. (1980).English SpecialLanguages.
Brandstetter Verlag, Wies-baden, Germany.Scott, D. R. (1993).
Generating Multilingual Instructions.Contribution to the panel on "Instructions: Languageand Behavior".
In Proceedings of the International JointConference on ArtificiaI nteUigence (IJCAI-93), Cham-bery, France.Toolan, M. (1988).
The Language of Press Advertising.
InGhadessy, M., editor, Registers of Written English: sit-uational factors and linguistic features, pages 52--64.Frances Pinter, London.Vander Linden, K. (1993).
Speaking of Actions: ChoosingRhetorical Status and Grammatical Form in Instruc-tional Text Generation.
PhD thesis, University of Col-orado.
Available as Technical Report CU-CS-654-93.Wahlster, W., Andrt, E., Finkler, W., Profitlich, H.-J., andRist, T. (1993).
Plan-Based Integration of Natural Lan-guage and Graphics Generation.
Artificial IntelligenceJournal, (63):387-427.
Also a DFKI Research ReportRR-93-02.52
