Semant ic  Lexicons:  the Corners tone  for Lex ica l  Cho icein Natura l  Language Generat ionEvelyne Viegast Pierrette Bouillon?viegas~cs.brandeis.edu pb~divsun.unige.chtComputer Science Department, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02254 USA?ISSCO, University of Geneva, 54 route des Acacias, CH-1227 Geneva, SwitzerlandAbstractIn this paper, we address the issue of integrating seman-tic lexicons into NLG systems and argue that the problemof lexical choice in generation can be approached only bysuch an integration.
We take the approach of GenerativeLexicon Theory (GLT) (Pnstejovsky, 1991, 1994c) whichprovides a system involving four levels of representationconnected by a set of generative devices accounting for acompositional interpretation of words in context.
We areinterested in showing that we can reduce the set of col-locations listed in the lexicon by introducing the notionof "semantic ollofations" which can be predicted withinGLT framework.
We argue that the lack of semantic well-defined calculi in previous approaches, whether linguisticor conceptual, renders them unable to account for seman-tic collocations.1 In t roduct ionWhether we talk of monolingual or multilingual gen-eration, it is not surprising that there has been verylittle focus on the area of lexical choice.
Lexical choicehas often been side-stepped, not because it is a daunt-ing issue, but rather because the interest in naturallanguage generation (NLG) first focused on syntactic,morphological nd discourse aspects of language.
Se-mantic accuracy has been therefore sacrificed in theproduction of fluent grammaticalsentences.
In section2, we highlight the issue of lexical choice, by arguingthat generation systems must integrate lexical seman-tics and focusing on the treatment of Adjective-noun(Adj-Noun) collocations.
We introduce the notion of"semantic ollocations", which allows us to reduce theset of collocations which are usually listed in lexicons.In section 3, we present relevant aspects of the Genera-tive Lexicon Theory (GLT), which, we argue, providesa better representation and interpretation of lexicalinformation, enabling us to generate the set of possi-ble semantic ollocations in a predictive way withoutlisting them in lexical entries.
GLT is still under de-velopment from a theoretical point of view and up tonow no generation system (as far as the authors areWe would llke to thank Susan Armstrong, Paul Buitelaar,Federica Busa, Dominique Estival, James Pustejovsky, GrahamRussell and Scott Waterman for their helpful comments.aware) has tried to integrate or implement its ideas.We propose to do so, and are currently studying itstheoretical adequacy for generation with special ref-erence to the issue of lexical choice.
In section 4, weshow that it is possible to calculate Adj-Noun seman-tic collocations ( a long book; an easy novel; a fast car)as opposed to the type of collocations where idiosyn-crasy seems to be involved (a large coke vs. a big coke).Finally, in section 5, we emphazise the adequacy of aframework such as GLT to generate the possible setof semantic ollocations.2 The  Issue of  Lex ica l  Cho iceThere is a debate in NLG concerning the place of lex-ical choice in the generation process.
Should lexicalchoice take place at the level of the "planning com-ponent" or the "realization component"?
Even forgenerators which do not have a "traditional" two-component architecture, actions are still sequentialand lexical choice takes place after some "planning".Lexical choice relates to lexicalization in the senseof not only needing to pick up the right words or ex-pressions but also of needing to "realize" them or lex-icalize them.
We would argue on one hand that lexi-calization does not constitute an autonomous modulewithin the process of generation, and on the otherhand that lexical choice is not the sole prerogativeof either the "planning" or the "realization" compo-nent.
The reason is that a concept cannot be seenin isolation (the choice of a particular concept willtrigger some other related concepts) and when lexi-calized, the syntactico-semantics of the lexical itemwill impose some constraints on the further possiblechoice of concepts to be lexicalized (thus constrainingthe set of concepts triggered by the previous one).
Inother words in the process of production a lexicalchoice can in f luence a conceptua l  cho ice  andvice versa.Thus in terms of NLG this means that lexical choicehas some influence at the level of "planning" and "re-917th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994alization".
Moreover, if we want to generate in anincremental way, it follows that a strict distinction be-tween these two components can no longer hold, andthat we must attempt either to bridge gaps betweenthem (Meteer 1992) or to generate in a partly parallelfashion.In this paper, we take the view of integrating lex-ical semantics in the design of the lexicon to beused in an NLG system, in order to perform theright lexicalizations.
We define lexicalization as acomplex dynamic process, by which we find the ap-propriate lexicalized items for utterances, in orderto fulfill communicative goals.
In fact, we thinkthat we use a backward  and  fo rward  processbetween concepts and lexical items and we believethat it is through incrementa l  ( re) lex iea l i zat ions-( re )conceptua l l za t ions  that we perform well-formed linguistic realizations (Viegas, 1993).In the following, after a brief overview of the issueof lexical choice, we focus on the treatment of colloca-tions, which poses the problem of complex lexicaliza-tions, and motivates the need of taking into account,in the process of lexicalizing, both several conceptsand several exical items.2 .1  D i f fe rent  ApproachesRoughly speaking, the issue of lexical choice hasbeen investigated mainly along two different lines: aconceptual-based approach (mainly in the AI tradi-tion) and a linguistic-based approach.
1Despite these efforts, lexical choice remains a burn-ing issue.
We agree with McKeown and Swartout(1988) when they say that: "... a truly satisfactorytheoretical approach for lexical choice has yet to bedeveloped."
However, like some leading researchersin generation, we argue that it is of paramount im-portance to f irst know the kind of information thatshould be coded in the lexicon, which means to paymore attention to "the nature of words" (McDonald,1988) and to have a "real knowledge of \[the\] lexicalsemantics", as was pointed out by Marcus (1987):"In some important sense, \[the\] systems haveno real knowledge of lexical semantics .
.
.
.They use fragments of linguistic structurewhich eventually have words as their fron-tiers, but have little or no explicit knowledgeof what these words mean.
"In this article, we will not give a review of the issueof the lexical choice; it is enough to say that the lexicalsemantic omponent for lexical representation is still1Robin's report (1990) presents a good survey on "LexicalChoice in NLG".
See also (Reiter, 1991) and (Nogier and Zock,1992) for a comprehensive study of the evolution made in thefield.basically unused and that there is a need to tacklethat issue if we want to give some new and promisingimpetus to the study on lexical choice.2 .2  The  Treatment  o f  Co l locat ionsThere is much divergence of opinion on just what thedefining criteria for collocations are.
One can min-imally define a collocation as the distribution of anobject or element in relation to other objects or ele-ments, as dictionaries do; needless to say, apart fromremaining vague, at best this does not provide anyclue for finding them operationally.There are three main approaches to the study ofcollocations, namely, lexicographic, statistical and lin-guistic: in each of these, the term collocation is useddifferently.The traditional approach to collocations has beenlex lcographic .
Here dictionaries provide informa-tion about what is unpredictable or idiosyncratic.Benson (1989) synthesizes Hausmann's studies on col-locations (Hausmann, 1979), calling expressions suchas commit murder, compile a dictionary, inflict awound, etc.
"fixed combinations, recurrent combina-tions" or "collocations".
In Hausmann's terms a collo-cation is composed of two elements, a base ("Basis")and a collocate ("Kollokator"); the base is semanti-cally autonomous whereas the collocate cannot be se-mantically interpreted in isolation.
In other wordsthe set of lexical collocates which can combine witha given base is not predictable and collocations musttherefore be listed in dictionaries.In recent years, there has been a resurgence ofs tat is t ica l  approaches applied to the study of nat-ural languages.
Sinclair (1991) states that "a wordwhich occurs in close proximity to a word under in-vestigation is called a collocate of it .
.
.
Collocation isthe occurrence of two or more words within a shortspace of each other in a text".
The problem is thatwith such a definition of collocations, even when im-proved, one identifies not only collocations but free-combining pairs frequently appearing together suchas lawyer-client; doctor-hospital, as pointed out bySmadja (1993).There has been no real focus on collocations from al inguist ic  perspective.
The lexicon has been broadlysacrificed by both English-speaking schools and con-tinental European schools.
The scientific agenda ofthe former has been largely dominated by syntacticissues until recently whereas the latter was more con-cerned with pragmatic aspects of natural languages.The focus has been largely on grammatical collo-cations such as adapt to, aim at, look for.
Lakoff(1970) distinguishes a class of expressions which can-not undergo certain operations, such as nominaliza-tion, causativization: the problem is hard; *the hard-927th International Generation'Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994ness of the problem; *the problem hardened.
Restric-tions on the application of certain syntactic operationscan help define collocations such as hard problem, forexample.
One specific proposal for how to treat collo-cations in a linguistic model is developed in Mel'~uk'swork on lexical functions (Mel'~uk, 1988).In this theory, lexicM knowledge is encoded in anentry of the Exp lanatory  Combinator ia l  Dictlo-nary,  each entry being divided into three zones: thesemantic zone (a semantic network representing themeaning of the entry in terms of more primitivewords), the syntactic zone (the grammatical proper-ties of the entry) and the lexical combinatorics zone(containing the values of the Lexical  Funct ions(LFs)) ~.
LFs are central to the study of collocationsand can be defined as the following : a lexicalfunctionF is a correspondence which associates a lexical itemL, called the key word of F, with a set of lexical itemsF(L) - the value of F (Mel'~uk, 1988).The LF Magn,  for example, applies to differentcategories to deliver collocational values, expressingan intensity:Magn(smoker) = heavy \[smoker\]Magn(opposed)-= strongly/vehemently \[opposed\]Magn(large) = excessively \[large\]The Mel'~ukian approach is very interesting as itprovides a model of production well suited for gener-ation with its different strata and also a lot of lexical-semantic information.
It suffers nevertheless fromthree main problems (Heylen et al, 1993).
First, allthe collocational information must be listed in a staticway, because the theory does not provide any pre-dictable calculus of the possible xpressions which cancollocate with each other semantically.
Second, it issometimes difficult o assign the right lexical functionsfor newly analyzed lexical items; if we take the exam-ple of assigning an LF to an Adj-Noun structure, it in-volves knowing something about the semantic relationwhich exists between adjective and noun.
(Bloksmaet al, 1993) state that "It is precisely this informa-tion which in many cases proves extremely difficult toestablish, simply because it is just not entirely clearwhat semantic processes are involved in the union ofadjective and noun".Finally, sometimes LFs are too general to be useful,as shown in the following examples:Magn t'mp (experience) = lengthyMagn quant (experience) = considerableMagn,on,,q~nc,, (illness) = seriousIn these cases, superscripts and subscripts areneeded to restrict the scope of the LF: they enhancethe precision of the LFs, making them sensitive to2See (Iordanskaja, et al, 1991) and (Ramos et al, 1994),concerning the use of MTT and LFs in NLG respectively.meaning aspects of the lexical items on which theyoperate, thus constraining overgeneration f multiplevalues; yet this also shows that the set of LFs de-scribed is not sufficient.By contrast, our general thesis is that there is nosingle definition for what a collocation is, but rather,co l locat ional  behav ior  emerges  f rom a theoryof  what  the  range  of  connect ions  and  re lat ionsbetween lexical i tems can be.
We claim that muchof the allegedly idiosyncratic and language-specificcollocation in language is in fact predictable from asufficiently rich theory of lexical organization.
Thisis not to say that there is no need for specific lex-ical encoding of some idioms and phrases, but thatthere is seldom any attempt made to bridge the gapbetween conventional semantic selection and the pe-ripheral phenomena of collocations and fixed expres-sions.We will make the distinction between the followingkinds of combinations:F ree -Combin ing  Words:  ( a big stick; a wonderfulman; there is an old man at the door)Semant ic  Col locat ions:  (a fast car; a long book; tostart a car)Id iosyncrat ic  Lexical  Co-occurrences:  (a heavysmoker vs. un grand fumeur (French); ungrand/gros mangeur (French) vs. un gran/~gordocomelon (Spanish))Id ioms: (to kick the bucket; take advantage o\]).Formally, this takes us from purely compositionalconstructions of "free-combining words" to the non-compositional structures in idioms.
The vast spacebetween these two extremes can still be explained interms of compositional principles with mechanismsfrom GLT such as type coercion and subselection(Pustejovsky, 1991, 1993), as we shall see below.
Id-iosyncrasies, of course, should be listed in the lexicon,yet we believe that we can reduce the set of whatare conventionally considered idiosyncrasies by differ-entiating "true" idiosyncrasies (which cannot be de-rived or generated) from expressions which, since theyare compositional in nature, behave predictably, andwhich we call semantic ollocations.3 Generat ive Lex icon  TheoryThe Generative Lexicon Theory (GLT) (Pustejovsky,1991, 1994c) can be said to take advantage ofboth lin-guistic and conceptual approaches, providing a frame-work which arose from the integration of linguisticstudies and of techniques found in AI.
GLT can bebriefly characterized as a system which involves four937th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994levels of representation which are connected by a setof generative devices accounting for a compositionalinterpretation of words in context, namely: the argu-ment  s t ructure  which specifies the predicate argu-ment structure for a word and the conditions underwhich the variables map to syntactic expressions; theevent  s t ructure  giving the particular event typessuch as S (state), P (process) or T (transition); thequal ia  s t ruc ture  distributed among four roles FORM(formal), CONST (constitutive), TELIC and AGENT(Agentive); and the inheritance structure whichinvolves two different kinds of mechanisms:?
the fixed inheritance mechanism, which is basi-cally a fixed network of the traditional isa rela-tionship found in AI, enriched with the differentroles of the qualia structure;?
the projective inheritance mechanism, which canbe intuitively characterized as a way of trigger-ing semantically related concepts which define foreach role the projective conclusion space (PCS).For instance in the PCS of the telic and agen-tive roles of book we will find at least the follow-ing predicates: read, reissue, annotate, ... andwrite, print, bind, .
.
.
(respectively) 3.The most important of the generative devices con-necting these four levels is a semantic operationcalled type coercion which "captures the semantic re-latedness between syntactically distinct expressions"(Pustejovsky, 1994a).
Another notion introduced isthat of lexical conceptual paradigms (LCPs), as for-malized in (Pustejovsky, 1994b).
We will say that theaim of an LCP is to capture the conceptual regularitiesacross languages in terms of cognitive invariants, like"physical-object", "aperture", "natural kind" and al-ternations uch as "container/containee", etc.
More-over, the possible syntactic projections are associatedwith LCPs.
For instance, one can say "I left a leafletin / ins ide  the book at the page I want you to read' asbook is an information-phys_obj-container whereas forinstance one cannot say "I put the book in the top ofthe table" as "the top of the table" is a surface andnot a container 4.In the following, we will focus on two basic mecha-nisms of GLT, which allow us to bridge the word usagegap, that is, on a scale of lexical specificity, from free-combining words to idioms.
These are:(1) Reference to the qualia structure: By giving ev-ery category the ability to make reference to spe-3Thls issue is still unsettled in GLT.
Our point however,being to show how to predict Adj-Noun semantic ollocations,our discussion will not suffer from that lack.4We follow Dubois and Pereita (1993) in their analysis ofcategorization in relation with cognition.cific semantic functions, we are encoding the "se-mantic basis" of word usage information with alexical item.
This gives rise to semantic olloca-tions.
(2) Cospecification: This is the basic means of encod-ing specific usage information in the form of ei-ther coherent argument subtypes, or already lex-icalized phrases, giving rise to idiosyncrasies andidioms, respectively.4 Adject ival  Semant icCol locat ions w i th in  GLT4.1 The Semant ics  of Nomina lsWe illustrate these theoretical notions with some ex-amples for nominals 5, paying particular attention to"covert-relational nominals ''6, that is, those exhibit-ing a logical polysemy.
We only present partial en-tries, which however exhibit semantic information dis-tributed among the qualia, thus allowing the predic-tion of semantic ollocations as will be shown in 4.2.We give some realizations for beer  and wr i te r  anddiscuss their representationsZ:South African Breweries Ltd., or SAB, the country'slargest producer of beer, was hit by a strike at seven ofits 11 breweries around the country.
"I am a beer-drinker with a running problem," one hashlapel button re~tds.beerARGSTR = \[ ARGI  = X: beverage  \]\[ l iquid-LCP \]IFORM = beer-liquid(x) |QUALIA = |.TELIC = drink(P,v : individual ,x) |\ [AGENT= produce(T,w:brewer,x) JMs.
Rifkind is a writer and editor living in New York.Mr.
Ferguson is an editorial writer for Scripps HowardNews Service in Washington, D.C.writerARGSTR = \[ ARGI  = x:author'\[| human-LCP  \]J= |FORM = htman(x)  L QUALIAL TELIC = wr i te (T ,x ,v : text )5For a broader account of the semantic interpretation ofnominals, including nominalizations, see Pustejovsky and Anick(1988).sWe use "covert" to differentiate traditional relational nom-inals (such as/ f iend,  father, cousin), from the class of nouns .which exhibit a polysemous behaviour (such as book, door,record}.7We mainly use the approach to typed feature structuresas described in Carpenter (1992).
We cannot develop here theway the information is inherited in the partial lexical entriespresented.947th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994The argument structure of nouns encodes argu-ments which are to be taken as logical parameters pro-viding type information for lexical items as discussedin (Pustejovsky, 1994a).
The predicates "drink","produce", and "write", are the defaults we find in thequalia of beer  and wr i te r  respectively.
It is still pos-sible to create the semantic space which these pred-icates belong to, through the projective inheritancemechanism.In the cases of covert-relational nominals, exhibit-ing semantic polysemy, we argue that they have actu-ally well-defined calculi.
If we look at examples (1):(1) a.
This book is heavy to carry around.
(physical object)b. I read an angry book.
(text)c. This book is great!
(text and/or physical object)(la) and (lb) illustrate the polysemy between thephysical object and the notion of text, whereas (lc)can either efer to one or both aspects within the samesentence.Traditional approaches, from transformationalgrammars to classical Montague grammars, accountfor this lexical ambiguity by postulating differententries per lexical item.
These fail to capturethe core semantics of the lexical items, leaving thecomplemenlary s senses unrelated.
Following Puste-jovsky (1994b) we suggest that covert relational nomi-nals should have a relational structure, thus capturingpolysemy within the lexical structure.For the purpose of clarity We only give a partial rep-resentation of book below:"bookARGSTR =QUALIA =ARG1 = x:text \]ARG2 y:paperj" ln format \ ]on-phys_ob j -conta \ ]ner -LCP"FORM = book.hold(y,x)TELIC = read(T,w:individual,x),publ ish(T,v:publisher,y)AGENT = write(T,u:writer,x),print(T,z:printer,y)Briefly, this states that book inherits from the rela-tional information-physical_object-container-Lcp, al-though imposing additional constraints of its own,represented here as the arguments, namely ARG 1 andAR62.
Moreover, we have specified two defaults forthe telic and agentive roles, each refering to one as-pect of book, either text  or physical_object .
The8Weinreieh (1964) makes the distinction between contrastlvcand complementary ambiguity.
A noun such as record exhibitsthe former type between the readings written statement o\]\]actsand gramophone record or disc, and the latter between thecomplementary interpretation of physical object and musicalcontent.sorts publisher, writer, printer are organized hierar-chically with individual as a common super-type.This nominal representation e ables us to captureall the complementary nominal "polysemous" sensesas expressed in the sentences: The writer began histhird book (writing), my sister began "The Bostoni-ans" (reading); the binder finished the books for CUP(binding), etc.
The values of these qualia are typedand are accessible to semantic operations in composi-tion with other phrases.
One aspect of nominal rep-resentation to be captured with this formalism is theparadigmatic behavior of a lexical item in the syntax,and help understanding the processes involved in lexi-cal selection tasks.
In the next section, we address theissue of selection within the NP, and show the utilityof having qualia structure associated with nouns andadjectives for compositional purposes, focusing on se-mantic collocations.4.2 Ad j -Noun In terpreta t ionWithin the approach taken here, adjectives, depend-ing on their types, will be able to modify not onlythe arguments of the argument structure of the nouns(ARGSTR), but also the arguments inside the agen-tive and the telic roles.
As the information in thequalia is specific to the noun and as the same adjectivecan modify different roles, it is possible to deal withthe polysemous behavior of adjectives and to providea generative xplanation of semantic ollocations.Very briefly, an adjective selects for a particulartype, an event or an object.
When it modifies an ob-ject, it selects for a particular semantic type (person,vehicle, information, etc.).
When it takes an event,it can be restricted to a special type (process, event,transition) or role (agentive or telic).
If the noun doesnot have in its argument structure the type requiredby the adjective, generative mechanisms can exploitthe richness of typing of the qualia and generate therequired type (Pustejovsky, 1994a), if it is availablein the qualia and if common sense knowledge is re-spected.
In this case, the adjective will only modifyone part of the qualia (i.e.
of the denotation) of thenoun.Consider, for example, the French adjectives intelli-gent (clever) and lriste (sad) in (2).
We give, for eachexample, the English literal translations (lit.
tr.
):(2) a. un homme intelligent/triste; (lit.
tr.
aclever/sad man)b. des yeuz intelligents/tristes; (lit.
tr.
clever/sadeyes) ~ which show the cleverness/sadness of theperson in questionc.
un livre intelligent/triste; (lit.
tr.
clever/sadbook) ~ book which shows the clever-ness/sadness of the person who writes the book957th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994d.
un livre intelligent/triste ~ book which causesthe *cleverness/sadness of the person who readsite.
un sapin triste; (lit.
tr.
a sad fir-tree)---~ *fir-tree that causes the sadness of the personwho .
.
.f.
nne voiture triste; (lit.
tr.
a sad car) ~ *carthat causes the sadness of the person who con-structs itg.
une robe triste; (lit.
tr.
a sad dress) ---~ *thatcauses the sadness of the person who wears itThese adjectives elect for an object of type person(as shown in (2a)):tr isteARCl - \[\] person\[ change.state-LeP 1QUALIA \[ FORM = ,,i.,~C~ s. \[\] ) JIn (2bcd), despite the apparent violation of types,the modification is possible, because the qualia of thenoun makes explicit different relations between thetype person selected by the adjective (Type-Adj) andthe noun (N), as:?
(N) is a constitutive element of (Type-Adj) (ex-ample (2b))?
the telic stipulates that (Type-Adj) uses (N) (ex-ample (2d))?
the agentive stipulates that (N) is produced by(Type-gdj)  (example (2c))It must be clear that this kind of modification isonly possible if the relations are defined in the qualia.The sentence (2e), for example, is semantically diffi-cult, as the word sapin, as a natural kind, has no telicor agentive roles (independently of particular con-texts).
The modication must also respect very generalcommon sense knowledge: in (2e) and (2g), the read-ings ?
a book that causes the cleverness of the personwho reads it (2e) and *a dress that causes the sadnessof the person who wears it (2g) is blocked by commonsense principles, like:?
cleverness cannot be communicated, unlike sad-ness?
there must be a direct causal link between theevent expressed in the telic/agentive role and thesadness of the individual.
This link does not re-late in our societies adness and wearing a par-ticular dress or building a car.Take now the case of long.
This adjective, in one ofits senses, modifies an event transition, whose it indi-cates the temporal duration, as shown in the examples(3):(3) a. le long voyage (the long trip)b. nn long livre (a long book) ---~ whose read-ing/writing is longIt will therefore receive the following entry:I longQUALIA I dimensi?n-LCP \]\[FORM = , .
.
, (~)  J(3b) is therefore possible because vents are definedin the qualia of the noun livre.
Again, un long sapinhas no event reading, because there is no event avail-able in the qualia of the noun sapin.The adjectives ancient and former are also eventsubmodifiers, distinguished by the role they modify.Ancient is a relative adjective that submodifies theagentive role of the modified noun:ancientoRM= , ,  .
.
.
.
.
.In this view, ancient stories (in example (3)) arestories which were narrated in the past, so:distant_past (er )  A narrate(e T , z, stories)By contrast, the English adjective former is a prop-erty modifier and can only modify the telic role of thenoun:formerQUALIA \[change..stat e-LOP \[FORM = p..,(~)A former architect is a person who performed hisjob in the past 9, so:.past(e P) A perform_the_job_of_architect (e P, z)In French, two adjectives with the same mean-ing past can modify these two roles: ancien andvieuz, which will receive the following feature struc-ture (which does not deal with the absolute sense):vleuxQUALIA \[change_st ate-LCP \]LFORM = p-.,(\[~) J9Let P be any predicate, from the qualla of the noun, and< ei >, a set of ordered events; the semantics associated to pastis then the following:past (e l )  AP(e l ,x ,y )  A -~P(e2 ,x ,y )  Anow(e2)  Ae  I < e2.967th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994That is not to say that these two adjectives willbe ambiguous in context.
We show elsewhere (Bouil-lon and Viegas, 1994) that the interpretation of theadjective can be influenced by the context or morpho-logical and syntactical constraints as the place of theFrench adjective, the type of the determiner or thetypography (hyphen or quotes).Within this approach, semantic ollocations can betherefore computed in the same way as other Adj-Noun constructions and do not need to be listed inthe dictionary.5 Perspect ives for NLGWith GLT, we can generate dynamically the set ofpossible semantic ollocations.
This can be done in-crementally, as we make available the set of possiblechoices at run-time, a set which will be constrainedby the situational and/or contextual environment.Suppose that we are generating Adj-Noun construc-tions from logical forms.
From a structure like thefollowing:By, z, e T livre(y) A lire(e T, x, y) A long(e T)we can generate two sentences: the non-collocationalone un livre long h life (lit.
tr.
a book long to read)and the collocational one un long livre (a long book),because the entries of the noun and the adjective inGL specify that this combination is possible.In contrast, we will not be able to generate from thelogical form below une robe triste (a Sad dress) withthe meaning of a dress which makes me sad becausethis NP is blocked by the common sense principlesevocated in the previous ection.3y, x, e T, e s robe(y) A porter(e T, x, y) Acauser(e T , e S) A triste(e s, x)That is not to say that we can predict generativelyall collocations.
Take the examples of Adj-Noun collo-cations involving grand and gros with nouns denotingactivities:(4) a. un grand/gros mangeur (a big eater)b. un grand/gros fraudeur (a big smuggler)c. un *grand/gros client (a big client)d. un grand/*gros fumeur (a heavy smoker)e. un grand/*gros professeur (a great professor)Here, grand and gros are intensifiers of the predicatein the telic.
Un grandfumeur, for example, will receivethe following interpretation :Az\[f  umeur( x) .
.
.
\[Telic( z ) =AvAeP\[furner(e P, x, v: tabac) A grand(e P) \]\]\]We can predict that gros is intensifier of the quan-titative aspect of the predicate while grand will mod-ify both qualitative (4e) and quantitative aspects(4abcd), depending on the salience of these aspectsin the predicate (we can assume that a professor isgenerally judged by the quality of his courses, whilea smoker by the quantity of the smoking).
What wecannot do is to predict which adjective will be usedwith preference for the quantitative aspects.To deal with this set of idiosyncratic lexical co-occurrences and idioms, we must take the concept ofcollocational information a step further, with a theoryof cospecification.
This takes advantage of linguistic,statistical and lexicographic approaches ( ee 2.2), butalso adds the dimension of semantic typing, focusingon collocations as they relate to sortal selection.For instance, the cospecifications associated withthe predicates we find in the telic of book, namely read,has encoded sortal pairs, providing the privileged en-vironment (or associations) for that word:" readCOSPECS = cosPEci \[ARol : i?d.idu  \]1ARG2 = in fo rmat ionIn the cases of grand fumeur versus gros mangeur,we know that the telic offumeur and mangeur (ruinerand manger) are predicates, denoting activities oftype process, on which we can apply a scale (tr~spen .... beaucoup .. .
dnormdment .
.
. )
.
The adjectivewhich will express a point on the scale with a specificnoun will be specified in the cospecifications (as be-low).
In fact, both grand and gros can generally beunderstood, with sometimes a clear preference for oneof these, depending of the term being modified.
Thispreference is modelled as a partial ordering () over atype hierarchy < Cospec, E> , encoded in the cospec-ifications.
*mangeurCOSPECS =COSPEC1 = SCALE = gros(e P) \]/ COsPEC2 = SCALE= grand(eP)\]k RESTRICT = cospec, C cospecj, i < j6 ConclusionBy working within the framework of GLT (Puste-jovsky, 1994c) we can go beyond the "quarrel" be-tween traditional and non-traditional rchitecture sys-tems and still generate in an incremental way.
This isdue to the richness of the Generative Lexicon whichallows for mechanisms to create dynamically on onehand the triggered concepts (by means of the inheri-tance structures) and on the other hand to make thesyntactico-semantic information available in the lin-977th International Generation Workshop ?
Kennebunkport, Maine ?
June 21-24, 1994guistic environment of words (by means of the argu-ment, event, qualia structures; and the LCPs).
Inthis sense we have shown that GLT can be seen asa promising cornerstone for generating the most ade-quate lexical items.ReferencesBenson, M. (1989) The Structure of the CollocationalDictionary.
In International Journal of Lexicogra-phy.Bloksma, L., Heylen, D., Maxwell, K.G.
(1993) Analy-sis of Lexical Functions.
In D. Heylen (ed.)
(1993).Bouillon, P., Viegas, E. (1994) A Semi-polymorphicApproach to the Interpretation of Adjectival Con-structions: A Cross-linguistic Perspective.
In Eu-ralex 1994.Church, K.W., Hanks, P. (1989) Word AssociationNorms, Mutual Information and Lexicography.
InA CL 1989, Vancouver.Carpenter, B.
(1992) The Logic of Typed FeatureStructures.
Cambridge: CUP.Dubois, D., Pereita, H. (1993) Ontology for Conceptsand Categories: is there any difference?
A Few Em-pirical Data and Questions for an Ontology of Cat-egorial Knowledge.
In Formal Ontology, Padova,March 17-19.I-Iausmann, F.J. (1979) Un dictionnaire des colloca-tions est-il possible ?
In Travaux de Linguistique tde Littdratnre XVII, 1.Heid, U., Raab, S. (1989) Collocations in MultilingualGeneration.
In EACL 1989, Manchester.Heylen, D.
(Ed.)
(1993) Collocations and the Lex-icalisation of Semantic Information.
In Colloca-tions, technical report ET-10/75, Taaltechnologie,Utrecht.Iordanskaja, L., Kittredge, R., Polgu~re, A.
(1991)Lexical Selection and Paraphrase in a Meaning-textGeneration Model.
In C. L. Paris, W. Swartout andW.
Mann (eds), NLG in A1 and Computational Lin-guistics.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Lakoff, G. (1970) Irregularities in Syntax.
New York:Holt, Rinehart and Winston, Inc.Marcus, M. (1987) Generation Systems hould Choosetheir Words.
In Third TINLAP.McDonald, D.D.
(1988) On the Place of Words in theGeneration Process.
In Proceedings of the 4th In-ternational Workshop on NLG.McKeown, K.R., Swartout, W.R. (1988) LanguageGeneration and Explanation.
In Lock, M. andSabah, G. (Ed) Advances in NLG.
NJ: Ablex.Mel'~uk, I.
(1988) Paraphrase t lexique dans lath~orie Sens-Texte.
In G. Bus, C. Fuchs (ed.)
Lex-ique 6.Mel'~uk, I., Arbatchewsky-Jumarie, L., Elnitsky, L.,Lessard, A.
(1991) Dictionnaire ezplicatif et corn-binatoire du franfais contemporain.
Montr6al :Presses de l'universit6 de MontrEal.Meteer, M. (1992) Expressibility and the Problem ofEfficient Text Planning.
Great Britain: Pinter Pub-lishers Ltd.Nogier, J.-F., Lock, M. (1992) Lexical Choice byPattern-matching.
In Knowledge Based Systems,5 (3).Pustejovsky, J., Anick, P. (1988) On the SemanticInterpretation of Nominals.
In Coling 1988, vol.2:518-523.Pustejovsky, J.
(1991) The Generative Lexicon.
InComputational Linguistics, 17(4).Pustejovsky, J.
(1993) Type Coercion and Lexical Se-lection.
In J. Pustejovsky (ed.)
Semantics and theLexicon.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Press.Pustejovsky, J.
(1994a) Linguistic Constraints onType Coercion.
In P. St-Dizier and E. Viegas(Eds) Computational Lexical Semantics.
Cam-bridge: CUP.Pustejovsky, J.
(1994b) Semantic Typing and Degreesof Polymorphism.
In C. Martin-Vide (Ed) CurrentIssues in Mathematical Linguistics.
Elsevier NorthHolland Inc.Pustejovsky, J.
(1994c) The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress.Ramos, M., Tutin, A., Lapalme, G. (1994) LexicalFunctions of Explanatory Combinatorial Dictionaryfor Lexicalization in Text Generation.
In P. St-Dizier and E. Viegas (Ed) Computational LexicalSemantics.
Cambridge, NY: CUP.Reiter, E. (1991) A New Model for Lexical Choice forNouns.
In Computational Intelligence, 7(~): Spe-cial Issue on NLG.Robin, J.
(1990) Lexical Choice in NLG.
TechnicalReport CUCS-040-90, Columbia University, NewYork.Sinclair, J.
(1991) Corpus, Concordance, Collocations.Oxford: Oxford University Press.Smadja, F., McKeown, K. (1991) Using Collocationsfor Language Generation.
In Computational Intel-ligence, 7(4): Special ssue on NLG.Smadja, F. (1993) Retrieving Collocations from Texts:Xtract.
In Computational Linguistics, 19(1).Viegas, E. (1993) La lexicalisation clans sa relationavec la conceptualisation: probl~mes thgoriques.Doctorat Nouveau R~gime, Universit~ Toulouse leMirail.Wanner, L., Bateman, J.
(1990) Lexical CooccurenceRelations in Text Generation.
In Proceedings of the12th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, Cambridge, MA.Weinreich, U.
(1964) Webster's Third: A Critique ofits Semantics.
In International Journal of Ameri-can Linguistics 30: 405-409.98
