Lexical Heads, Phrase Structure and the Induction of GrammarCarl de MarckenMIT Artificial Intelligence LaboratoryNE43-804545 Technology SquareCambridge, MA, 02139, USAcgdemarc@ai .mi t .eduSummaryAcquiring linguistically plausible phrase-structure grammars from ordinary text hasproven difficult for standard induction techniques, and researchers have turned to su-pervised training from bracketed corpora.
We examine why previous approaches havefailed to acquire desired grammars, concentrating our analysis on the inside-outsidealgorithm (Baker, 1979), and propose that with a representation f phrase structurecentered on head relations uch supervision may not be necessary.1.
INTRODUCTIONResearchers investigating the acquisition of phrase-structure grammars from raw text have hadonly mixed success.
In particular, unsupervised learning techniques, uch as the inside-outside al-gorithm (Baker, 1979) for estimating the parameters of stochastic ontext-free grammars (SCFGs),tend to produce grammars that structure text in ways contrary to our linguistic intuitions.
Oneeffective way around this problem is to use hand-structured text like the Penn Treebank (Marcus,1991) to train the learner: (Pereira and Schabes, 1992) demonstrate hat the inside-outside algo-rithm can learn grammars effectively given such constraint; from a bracketed corpus (Brill, 1993)successfully learns rules that iteratively transform a default phrase-structure into a better one fora particular sentence.The necessity of bracketed corpora for training is grating to our sensibilities, for several reasons.First, bracketed corpora are not easy to come by.
Second, there is a sense that in learning fromthem, little of interest is going on.
In the case of the acquisition of stochastic ontext-free grammars,the parameters can be read off of a fully-bracketed corpus by simply counting.
Finally, the inabilityof current models to learn (without supervision) the parameters we desire suggests that our modelsare mismatched to the problem.This paper examines why some previous approaches have failed to acquire desired grammarswithout supervision, and proposes that with a different conception of phrase-structure supervisionmight not be necessary.
In particular, we examine some reasons why SCFGs are poor models touse for learning human language, especially when combined with the inside-outside algorithm.
Weargue that head-driven grammatical formalisms like dependency grammars (Mel~uk, 1988) or linkgrammars (Sleator and Temperley, 1991) are better suited to the task.142.
L INGUIST IC  AND STAT IST ICAL  BAS IS  OF  PHRASE STRUCTURELet us look at a particular example.
In English, the word sequence "walking on ice" is generallyassumed to have an internal structure similar to (A).
1VP VP PP NP(A) V PP (B) V NP (C) V PP (D) V NPA A A AP N P N P N P NVP PP NP NP(E) VP N (F) PP N (G) VP N (H) PP NV P V P V P V PWhy (A) and not one of (B-H)?
An introductory linguistics book might suggest he followinganswers:on ice can move and delete as one unit, whereas walking on can not.
Thus, "it is on ice thatI walked" and "it is walking that I did on ice" and "it is ice that I walked on" are sentencesbut there in no equivalent form for relocating walking on.
Similarly, "they walked and jumpedon ice" is grammatical but "they walked on and jumped on ice" is awkward.
Therefore,if movement and conjunction is of single constituents, phrase-structures (A-D) explain thisevidence but (E-H) do not.In languages like German where case is overtly manifested in affix and determiner choice, thenoun ice clearly receives case from the preposition rather than the verb.
It seems to make fora simpler theory of language if case is assigned through the government relation, which holdsbetween the preposition and noun in (A-D) but not in (E-H).The phrase walking on ice acts like a verb: it can conjoin with a verb ( "John walked on iceand sang"), and takes verbal modifiers ( "John walked on ice slowly").
So it makes little senseto call it a prepositional phrase or noun phrase, as in (C) or (D).
on ice does not behave asa noun, so (A) is a better description than (B).These deductive steps leading to (A) require some assumptions about language: that constituentstructure and category labels introduce specific constraints on sentence buildi~ng operations, andthat the range of hypothetical grammars is small (our enumeration A-H was over grammars ofbinary rules where the category of a phrase is tied to the category of one of its constituents, itshead).aWe will be defiberately vague about what such dominance and precedence r lations represent; obviously differentresearchers have very different conceptions about he relevence and implications of heirarchical phrase-structure.
Thespecific use of the representations is somewhat irrelevent to our immediate discussion, though various interpretaionswill be discussed throughout the paper.15Statistical phrase-structure models of language 2, such as SCFGs, are motivated by differentassumptions about language, principally that a phrase grouping several words is a constraint onco-occurrence that makes it possible to better predict one of those words given another.
In terms oflanguage acquisition and parsing, if we assume that a sequence of words has been generated froma phrase-structure grammar, it suggests that we can recover internal structure by grouping sub-sequences of words with high mutual information.
This is the approach taken by (Magerman andMarcus, 1990) for parsing sentences, who use mutual information rather than a grammar to recon-struct phrase-structure.
The hope is that by searching for a phrase-structure or phrase-structuregrammar that maximizes the likelihood of an observed sequence, we will find the generating struc-ture or grammar itself.Unfortunately, there is anecdotal and quantitative vidence that simple techniques for esti-mating phrase-structure grammars by minimizing entropy do not lead to the desired grammars(grammars that agree with structure (A), for instance).
(Pereira and Schabes, 1992) explore thistopic, demonstrating that a stochastic ontext free grammar trained on part-of-speech sequencesfrom English text can have an entropy as low or lower than another but bracket the text muchmore poorly (tested on hand-annotations).
And (Magerman and Marcus, 1990) provide evidencethat grouping sub-sequences of events with high mutual information is not always a good heuristic;they must include in their parsing algorithm a list of event sequences (such as noun-preposition)that should not be grouped together in a single phrase, in order to prevent their method frommis-bracketing.
To understand why, we can look at an example from a slightly different domain.
(Ofivier, 1968) seeks to acquire a lexicon from unsegmented (spaceless) character sequences bytreating each word as a stochastic ontext free rule mapping a common onterminal (call it W) to asequence of letters; a sentence is a sequence of any number of words and the probabifity of a sentenceis the product over each word of the probabifity of W expanding to that word.
Learning a lexiconconsists of finding a grammar that reduces the entropy of a training character sequence.
Olivier'slearning algorithm soon creates rules such as W ~ THE and W ~ TOBE.
But it also hypothesizeswords like edby.
edby is a common English character sequence that occurs in passive constructionsfike "She was passed by the runner".
Here -ed and by occur together not because they are partof a common word, but because Engfish syntax and semantics places these two morphemes side-by-side.
At a syntactic level, this is exactly why the algorithm of (Magerman and Marcus, 1990)has problems: English places prepositions after nouns not because they are in the same phrase,but because prepositional phrases often adjoin to noun phrases.
Any greedy algorithm (such as(Magerman and Marcus, 1990) and the context-free grammar induction method of (Stolcke, 1994))that builds phrases by grouping events with high mutual information will consequently fail to derivelinguistically-plausible phrase structure in many situations.3.
INCORPORATING HEADEDNESS INTO LANGUAGE MODELSThe conclusion of the above section might lead us to is that basing phrase-structure grammarinduction on minimization of entropy is a poor idea.
However, in this paper we will not discusswhether statistical induction is the proper way to view language acquisition: our current goal isonly to better understand why current statistical methods produce the "wrong" answer and to2While this paper concentrates on the acquisition of syntax, similar or identical statistical models to those discussedhere have been used to acquiring words and morphemes from sequences of characters (Olivier, 1968; Wolff, 1982; Brent,1993; Cartwright and Brent, 1994) and syllables from phonemes (Ellison, 1992), among other language appfications.16explore ways of fixing them.Let us look again at (A), reproduced below, and center discussion on an extended stochasticcontext-free grammar model in which a binary context-free rule Z ~ A B with terminal parts-of-speech on the right hand side first generates a word a chosen from a distribution pA(a), thengenerates a word b from a distribution p~(b).
3 If we call these two random variables A and B, thenthe entropy of the sequence AB is H(A) ?
H(B\[A) = H(A) + H(B) - I(A, B) (where H(X) isthe entropy of a random variable X and I(X, Y) is the mutual information between two randomvariables X and Y).
The point here is that using such a context free rule to model a sequence of twowords reduces the entropy of the language from a model that treats the two words as independent,by precisely the mutual information between the two words.VP(A) V PPP NIn English, verbs and prepositions in configuration (A) are closely coupled semantically, prob-ably more closely than prepositions and nouns, and we would expect hat the mutual informationbetween the verb and preposition would be greater than between the preposition and noun, andgreater still than between the verb and the noun.I(V, P) > I(P, N) > I(V, N)Under our hypothesized model, structure (A) has entropy H(V) + H(P) + H(NIP) = H(V) ?H(P) ?
H(N) - I(P, N), which is higher than the entropy of structures (E-H), H(V) + H(P) +H(N) - I(V, P), and we wouldn't expect a learning mechanism based on such a model to settle on(A).However, this simple class of models only uses phrases to capture relations between adjacentwords.
In (A), it completely ignores the relation between the verb and the prepositional phrase,save to predict that a prepositional phrase (any prepositional phrase) will follow the verb.
Wemodify our language model, assuming that nonterminals exhibit the distributional properties oftheir heads.
We will write a phrase Z that is headed by a word z as (Z, z).
Each grammar rule willlook like either (Z', z) ~ (Z, z)(Y, y) or (Z', z) ~ (Y, y)(Z, z) (abbreviated Z' ~ Z Y and Z' ~ YZ) and the probability model isZ Y) == (1)3Our notation here is that pA(a) is the probabifity of word a being generated by a terminal part-of-speech A, andp~ (b) is the probability of the terminal part-of-speech B generating the word b given that previous word generatedin the same phrase is a.\ ]7p((Y, y>(Z,z>l<Z' , z >,Z' ~ Y Z) === (2)Of course, this class of models is strongly equivalent to ordinary context free grammars.
We couldsubstitute, for every rule Z' :::v Z Y, a large number of word-specific rules(Z', z~) ~ (Z, zi)(Y, yj)with probabilities p(Z' ~ Z Y) z, ?
py  (y j ) .Using our new formalism, the head properties of (A) look like(VP, v)(V,v) (ep,p)(P,p) (N,n)and the entropy isH(V) + H(P\]V) + H(N\]P) = H(V) + H(P) + H(N) - I(V, P) - \[(P, N).The grammar derived from (A) is optimal under this model of language, though (C), (F), and(H) are equally good.
They could be distinguished from (A) in longer sentences because they passdifferent head information out of the phrase.
In fact, the grammar model derived from (A) is asgood as any possible model that does not condition N on V. Under this class of models there is nobenefit o grouping two words with high mutual information together in the same minimal phrase;it is sufficient for both to be the heads of phrases that are adjacent at some level.There is of course no reason why the best head-driven statistical model of a given languagemust coincide with a grammar derived by a linguist.
The above class of models makes no mentionof deletion or movement of phrases, and only information about the head of a phrase is beingpassed beyond that phrase's borders.
The government-binding framework usually supposes that aninflection phrase is formed of inflection and the verb phrase.
But the verb is likely to have a highermutual information with the subject than inflection does.
So it seems unlikely that this structurewould be learned using our scheme.
The effectiveness of the class of models can only be verified byempirical tests.4.
SOME EXPERIMENTSWe have built a stochastic, feature-based Earley parser (de Marcken, 1995) that can be trainedusing the inside-outside algorithm.
Here we describe some tests that explore the interaction of thehead-driven tanguage models described above with this parser and training method.\]8For all the tests described here, we learn a grammar by starting with an exhaustive set ofstochastic ontext-free rules of a certain form, and estimate probabilities for these rules from atest corpus.
This is the same general procedure as used by (Lari and Young, 1990; Briscoe andWaegner, 1992; Pereira and Schabes, 1992) and others.
For parts-of-speech Y and Z, the rules weinclude in our base grammar areS:=~ZP ZP:=~ZPYP ZP:=~YP ZPZP~ ZYP ZP ~YPZ ZP~Zwhere S is the root nonterminal.
As is ususal with stochastic ontext-free grammars, every rulehas an associated probability, and the probabilities of all the rules that expand a single nonteminalmust sum to one.
Furthermore, ach word and phrase has an associated head word (represented asa feature value that is propagated from the Z or ZP on the right hand side of the above rules tothe left hand side).
The parser is given the part of speech of each word.For binary rules, as per equations (1) and (2), the distribution of the non-head word is condi-tioned on the head (a bigram).
Initially, all word bigrams are initialized to uniform distributions,and context-free rule probabilities are initialized to a small random perturbation of a uniformdistribution.4.1.
A Very  S imple  SentenceWe created a test corpus of 1000 sentences, each 3 words long with a constant part-of-speechpattern ABC.
Using 8 equally probable words per part-of-speech, we chose a word distribution overthe sentences with the following characteristics:I(A,B) = 1 bit.
I(B,C) = 0.188 bits.
I(A,C) = 0 bits.In other words, given knowledge of the first word in the sentence, predicting the second word isas difficult as guessing between four equally-likely words, and knowing the second word makespredicting the third as difficult as guessing between seven words.
Knowing the first gives noinformation about the third.
This is qualitatively similar to the distribution we assumed for verbs,nouns, and prepositions in configuration (A), and has entropy rate 3+(3-1)+(3- - .188)  : 2.604 bits 3per word.
Across 20 runs, the training algorithm converged to three different grammars: 4Grammar:Count:Cross-Entropy Rate:S S SI I ICP CP APAP C BP C A BPA BP AP B B CPI J iB A C12 2 62.648 bits/word 2.570 bits/word 2.570 bits/word4Le., after the cross-entropy had ceased to decrease on a given run, the parser settled on one of these strtlcturesas the Viterbi parse of each sentences in the corpus.
The cross-entropy rate of the two best grammars is lower thanthe source entropy rate because the corpus is finite and randomly generated, and has been be overfitted.19One fact is immediately striking: even with such simple sentences and rule sets, more often thannot the inside-outside algorithm converges to a suboptimal grammar.
To understand why, let usignore recursive rules (ZP :=*- ZP YP) for the moment.
Then there are four possible parses of ABC(cross-entropy rate with source given below- lower is better model):S S S SI I r IAP AP CP CP(I) A BP (J) A CP (K) AP C (L) BP CB CP BP C A BP AP BI I I IC B B A= 2.604 H = 2.937 H = 2.667 H = 2.604During the first pass of the inside-outside algorithm, assuming near-uniform initial rule prob-abilities, each of these parses will have equal posterior probabilities.
They are equally probablebecause they use the same number of expansions 5 and because word bigrams are uniform at thestart of the parsing process.
Thus, the estimated probability of a rule after the first pass is directlyproportional to how many of these parse trees the rule features in.
The rules that occur more thanone time are:AP ~ A BP (parses I,K)CP ~ BP C (parses J,L)BP ~ B (parses J,K)Therefore, on the second iteration, these three rules will have higher probabilities than the othersand will cause parses J and K to be favored over I and L (with K favored over J because I(A, B) +I(A, C) > I(B, C) +I(A, C)).
It is to be expected then, that the inside-outside algorithm favors thesuboptimal parse K: at its start the inside-outside algorithm is guided by tree counting arguments,not mutual information between words.
This suggests that the inside-outside algorithm is likelyto be highly sensitive to the form of grammar and how many different analyses it permits of asentence.Why, later, does the algorithm not move towards a global optimum?
The answer is that theinside-outside algorithm is supremely unsuited to learning with this representation.
To understandthis, notice that to move from the initially favored parse (K) to one of the optimal ones (I and L),three nonterminals must have their most probable rules switched:(K) (L)AP : : , -ABP  , AP  ~ABP  ~B ~ BP: :v -APBCP~APC - - - ,  CP~BPCSThis is why we can safely ignore recursive rules in this discussion.
Any parse that involves one will have a biggertree and be significantly less probable.20To simplify the present analysis, let us assume the probability of S ~ CP is held constant at 1,and that the rules not listed above have probability 0.
In this case, we can write the probabilitiesof the left three rule as pA, pS and pC and the probabihties of the right rhree rules as 1 -pA,  1 --pBand 1 - pC.
Now, for a given sentence abc there are only two parses with non-zero probabilities, Kand L. The probability of abc under parse K is pApBpCp(c)p(alc)p(bla), and the probabihty underparse L is (1 - pA)(1 -- pS)(1 -- pC)p(c)p(blc)p(alb).
Thus, the posterior probabihty of parse K is 6p(Klabc)pApB pC p( c )p( a\[c )p( b\[a )pApSpCp(c)p(alc)p(b\]a) + (1 -- pA)(1 -- pS)(1 -- pC)p(c)p(b\[c)p(a\[b)11 + (1--PA)(1--PS)(1--pC)P(bIc)p(atb) pApBpCp( alc)p( bla )1(1--pA)(1-PS)(1-pC)p(clb ) 1 + pApBpCp(cla)Since the inside-outside algorithm reestimates pA, pB and pC directly from the sums of the posteriorprobabilities of K and L over the corpus, the probability update rule from one iteration to the nextispA,pS,pC~1 + (1--pA)(1--pB)(1--pC)pA pB p C OLwhere a is the mean value of p(clb)/p(cla), ~ in the above test.
Figure 4.1 graphically depictsthe evolution of this dynamical system.
What is striking in this figure is that the inside-outsidealgorithm is so attracted to grammars whose terminals concentrate probability on small numbers ofrules that it is incapable of performing real search.
Instead, it zeros in on the nearest such grammar,only biased shghtly by its relative merits.
We now have an explanation for why the inside-outsidealgorithm converges to the suboptimal parse K so often: the first ignorant iteration of the algorithmbiases the parameters towards K, and subsequently there is an overwhelming tendency to move tothe nearest deterministic grammar.
This is a strong indication that the algorithm is a poor choicefor estimating rammars that have competing rule hypotheses.4.2.
Mu l t ip le  Expans ions  o f  a Nontermina lFor this test, the sentences were four words long (ABCD), and we chose a word distributionwith the following characteristics:I (A,B)= l b i t .
I (A,D)= l b i t .
I (C,D)= O bits.I (A,C)= l b i t .
I (B,C)= 0bits.
I (B,D)= 0bits.It might seem that a minimal-entropy grammar for this corpus would beSin the following derivation, understand that for word bigrams p(a\]b) p(bla ) because p(a)  = p(b)  = 121I i0 .
9 ~ ~  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.0 .8_ I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
~ ~  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.0 1 7 ~ ~  .
.
.
.
.
.
, , ' T t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ , ' ' '0.6  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ * .
.
.
.
.0.3  ~ ~ ~ ~ ?
~ ~ ~ - -  ~ ~ ~ \ \o.20.1 ~ \i i i io., ols o)p(AP -> A BP)Figure 4.1: The dynamical properties of the inside-outside algorithm.
The x-axis is pA and the y-axis is pB.= 2 and The vectors represent the motion of the parameters from one iteration to the next when a = p(cl~)pC = .5.
Notice that the upper right corner (grammar K) and the lower left (grammar L) are stationarypoints (local maxima), and that the region of attraction for the global optimum L is bigger than for K, butthat there is still a very substantial set of starting points from which the algorithm will converge to thesuboptimal grammar, o~ = 2 is plotted instead of o~ = -~ because this better depicts the asymmetry mutualinformation between words introduces; with c~ = { the two regions of attraction would be of almost equalarea .S~ DP DP~APD AP ~APCPAP ~ABP CP ~C BP ~Bsince this grammar makes the head A available to predict B, C, and D. Without multiple expansionsrules for AP, it is impossible to get this.
But the gain of one bit in word prediction is offset bya loss of at least two bits from uncertainty in the expansion of AP.
Even if p(AP ~ A BP) =p(AP ~ AP CP) = 1/2, the probability of the structure ABCD under the above grammar is one-quarter that assigned by a grammar with no expansion ambiguity.
So, the grammarS=~DP DP~CPD CP::v-APCAP~ABP BP~ Bassigns higher probabilities to the corpus, even though it fails to model the dependency betweenA and D. This is a general problem with SCFGs: there is no way to optimally model multipleordered adjunction without increasing the number of nonterminals.
Not surprisingly, the learningalgorithm never converges to the recursive grammar during test runs on this corpus.What broader implication does this deficiency of SCFGs have for context-free grammar based22language acquisition?
It suggests if we were to estimate a grammar from English text, that thesequence Det Adj Noun PP is far more likely to get the interpretationDet-P Noun-PDet Adj-P Det Noun-PthanAdj Noun-P Adj Noun-PNoun PP Noun PPand therefore that, for many subject and object noun phrases, the noun will never enter into abigram relationship with the verb.
Obviously sufficient mutual information between nouns andverbs, adjectives, and determiners would force the global optimum to include multiple expansionsof the Noun-P category, but it seems likely (given the characteristics of the inside-outside algorithm)that before such mutual information could be inferred from text, the inside-outside algorithm wouldenter a local optimum that does not pass the noun feature out.4.3.
Tes t ing  on the  Penn TreebankTo test whether head-driven language models do indeed converge to linguistically-motivatedgrammars better than SCFGs, we replicated the experiment of (Pereira and Schabes, 1992) on theATIS section of the Penn Treebank.
The 48 parts-of-speech in the Treebank were collapsed to 25,resulting in 2550 grammar ules.Word head features were created by assigning numbers a common feature; other words found inany case variation in the CELEX English-language database were given a feature particular to theirlemma (thus mapping car  and cars  to the same feature); and all other (case-sensitve) words receivedtheir own unique feature.
Treebank part-of-speech specifications were not used to constrain parses.Bigrams were estimated using a backoff to a unigram (see (de Marcken, 1995)), and unigramsbacking off to a uniform distribution over all the words in the ATIS corpus.
The backoff parameterwas not optimized.
Sentences 25 words or longer were skipped.We ran four experiments, training a grammar with and without bracketing and with and withoutuse of features.
Without features, we are essentially replicating the two experiments run by (Pereiraand Schabes, 1992), except hat they use a different set of initial rules (all 4095 CNF grammar rulesover 15 nonterminals and the 48 Treebank terminal categories).
Every tenth sentence of the 1129sentences in the ATIS portion of the Treebank was set aside for testing.
Training was over 1060sentences (1017 of which 57 were skipped because of length), 5895 words, testing over 98 sentences(112, 14 skipped), 911 words.After training, all but the 500 most probable rules were removed from the grammar, andprobabilities renormalized.
The statistics for these smaller grammars are given below.23Training GrammarBracketed No FeaturesBracketed No FeaturesUnbracketed No FeaturesUnbracketed No FeaturesBracketed FeaturesBracketed FeaturesUnbracketed FeatuiesUnbracketed FeaturesCorpus Perplexity BracketingTrain 55.68 90.1%Test 95.15 88.5%Train 56.34 72.4%Test 92.91 72.7%Train 19.95 92.0%Test 68.88 90.7%Train 19.31 73.3%Test 72.12 74.8%?
There are several notable qualities to these numbers.
The first is that, in contrast to the resultsof (Pereira and Schabes, 1992), unbracketed training does improve bracketing performance (froma baseline of about 50% to 72.7% without features and 74.8% with features).
Unfortunately, thisperformance is achieved by settling on an uninteresting right-branching rule set (save for sentence-final punctuation).
Note that our figures for bracketed training match very closely to the 90.36%bracketing accuracy reported in their paper.Of greater interest is that although use of head features improves bracketing performance, itdoes so only by an insignificant amount (though obviously it greatly reduces perplexity).
There aremany possible explanations for this result, but the two we prefer are that either the inside-outsidealgorithm, as might be expected given our arguments, failed to find a grammar that propagatedhead features optimally, or that there was insufficient mutual information in the small corpus forour enhancement to traditional SCFGs to have much impact.We have replicated the above experiments on the first 2000 sentences of the Wall Street Journalsection of the Treebank, which has a substantially different character than the ATIS text.
However,the vocabulary is so much larger that is is not possible to gather useful statistics over such a smallsample.
The reason we have not tested extensively on much larger corpora is that, using headfeatures but no bracketing constraint, statistics must be recorded for every word pair in everysentence.
The number of such statistics grows quadratically with sentence l ngth, and is prohibitiveover large corpora using our current echniques.
More recent experiments, however, indicate thatexpanding the corpus size by an order of magnitude has little affect on our results.5.
CONCLUSIONSWe have argued that there is little reason to believe SCFGs of the sort commonly used forgrammar induction will ever converge to linguistically plausible grammars, and we have suggesteda modification (namely, incorporating mutual information between phrase heads) that should helpfix the problem.
We have also argued that the standard context-free grammar estimation proce-dure, the inside-outside algorithm, is essentially incapable of finding an optimal grammar withoutbracketing help.We now suggest that a representation that explicitly represents relations between phrase heads,such as link grammars (Sleator and Temperley, 1991), is far more amenable to language acquisitionproblems.
Let us look one final time at the sequence V P N. There are only three words here,and therefore three heads.
Assuming a head-driven bigram model as before, there are only threepossibile anlayses of this sequence, which we write by listing the pairs of words that enter intopredictive relationships:24Head RelationsV-P, V-NV-P, P-NV-N, P-NEquivalent Phrase StructuresE,GA,C,F,HB,DTo map back into traditional phrase structure grammars, linking two heads X-Y is the same asspecifying that there is some phrase XP headed by X which is a sibling to some phrase YP headedby Y.
Of course, using this representation all of the optimal phrase structure grammars (A,C,Fand H) are identical.
Thus we have a representation which has factored out many details of phrasestructure that are unimportant as far as minimizing entropy is concerned.Simplifying the search space reaps additional benefits.
A greedy approach to grammar acqui-sition that iteratively hypothesizes relations between the words with highest mutual informationwill first link V to P, then P to N, producing exactly the desired result for this example.
And thedistance in parse or grammar space between competing proposals is at most one relation (switchingV-P to V-N, for instance), whereas three different rule probabilities may need to be changed in theSCFG representation.
This suggests that learning algorithms based on this representation are farless likely to encounter local maximums.
Finally, since what would have been multiple parse hy-potheses are now one, a Viterbi learning scheme is more likely to estimate accurate counts.
This isimportant, given the computational complexity of estimating long-distance word-pair probabilitiesfrom unbracketed corpora.We have implemented a statistical parser and training mechanism based on the above notions,but results are too preliminary to include here.
Stochastic link-grammar based models have beendiscussed (Lafferty et al, 1992) but the only test results we have seen (Della-Pietra et ai., 1994)assume a very restricted subset of the model and do not explore the "phrase structures" that resultfrom training on English text.REFERENCESJames K. Baker.
1979.
Trainable grammars for speech recognition.
In Proceedings of the 97th Meeting ofthe Acoustical Society of America, pages 547-550.Michael Brent.
1993.
Minimal generative explanations: A middle ground between eurons and triggers.
InProc.
of the 15th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, pages 28-36.Eric Brill.
1993.
Automatic grammar induction and parsing free text: A transformation based approach.
InProceedings of the DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop.Ted Briscoe and Nick Waegner.
1992.
Robust stochastic parsing using the inside-outside algorithm.
In Proc.of ~he AAAI Workshop on Probabilistic-Based Natural Language Processing Techniques, pages 39-52.Timothy Andrew Cartwright and Michael R. Brent.
1994.
Segmenting speech without a lexicon: Evidencefor a bootstrapping model of lexical acquisition.
In Proc.
of the 16th Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society, Hillsdale, New Jersey.Carl de Marcken.
1995.
Parsing with stochastic, feature-based RTNs.
Memo A.I.
Memo, MIT ArtificialIntelligence Lab., Cambridge, Massachusetts.S.
Della-Pietra, V. Della-Pietra, J. Gillett, J. Lafferty, H. Printz, and L. Ure?.
1994.
Inference and estimationof a long-range trigram model.
In International Colloquium on Grammatical Inference, pages 78-92,Alicante, Spain.25T.
Mark Ellison.
1992.
The Machine Learning of Phonological Structure.
Ph.D. thesis, University of WesternAustralia.John Lafferty, Daniel Sleator, and Davy Temperley.
1992.
Grammatical trigrams: A probabalistic model oflink grammar.
Technical Report CMU-CS-92-181, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.K.
Lari and S. J.
Young.
1990.
The estimation of stochastic ontext-free grammars using the inside-outsidealgorithm.
Computer Speech and Language, 4:35-56.David M. Magerman and Mitchell P. Marcus.
1990.
Parsing a natural anguage using mutual informationstatistics.
In Proc.
of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence, pages 984-989.Mitchell Marcus.
1991.
Very large annotated atabse of American English.
In Proceedings of the DARPASpeech and Natural Language Workshop.I.
A. MelEuk.
1988.
Dependency Syntax: Theory and Practice.
State University of New York Press.Donald Cort Olivier.
1968.
Stochastic Grammars and Language Acquisition Mechanisms.
Ph.D. thesis,Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Fernando Pereira and Yves Sehabes.
1992.
Inside-outside r estimation from partially bracketed corpora.
InProc.
29th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 128-135, Berkeley,California.Daniel D. K. Sleator and Davy Temperley.
1991.
Parsing english with a link grammar.
Technical ReportCMU-CS-91-196, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.Andreas Stolcke.
1994.
Bayesian Learning of Probabalistic Language Models.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofCalifornia at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA.J.
Gerald Wolff.
1982.
Language acquisition, data compression and generalization.
Language and Commu-nication, 2(1):57-89.26
