How Language St ructures  Concepts  - an  Out l ineLeonard TalmyDepartment of LinguisticsCenter for Cognitive ScienceState University of New York at BuffaloThe  Context  of  this StudyFor the past three decades, the mainstream of linguistics has focused its research agenda on theformal aspects of language, primarily syntax.
By contrast, the more recent tradition of cognitivelinguistics centers its research directly within the semantic stratum of language in order to observehow languages organize meaning and structure conception, and it examines the more formal stra-tum of language for its role in supporting these semantic functions.The Contents of this StudyThe main goal of this study is to outline the fundamental conceptual structuring system oflanguage.
Language has a formally distinct component - that of closed-class forms - whose specificrole is to serve a Structuring function: for example, schematizing the spatial relations between en-tities and the temporal relations between events.
In this regard, language is perhaps unique withinthe range of cognitive systems uch as perception, reasoning, and affect, so that mapping out theconceptual structuring system of language may serve as a model for comparable undertakings inthe other cognitive systems.Open-Class vs. Closed-Class.This work is based on a central feature of all known languages: that they have two distinctsystems of elements.
One system is the open-class or lexical system, comprised of elements thatare great in number and readily augmented.
The basic open-class forms are the stems of nouns,verbs, and adjectives.
On the other side is the closed-class or grammatical system, comprised ofelements that are relatively few in number and difficult to augment.
These forms include not onlyinflections, but also particle forms such as prepositions and conjunctions, as well as grammaticalrelations, lexical categories, and syntactic structures.The concepts expressed by closed-class forms are critical to this study: they constitute the corestructuring system of language.
This structuring function occurs in two domains: in discourse andin the conceptual inventory of language.Content vs.
Structure in Discourse.Semantically, open- and closed-class forms have complementary functions.
Their meanings con-stitute, respectively, the content  and the s t ruc ture  of a conceptual complex.
This functionaldivision of labor can be seen in the conceptual complex expressed by any portion of discourse, suchas a single sentence.To illustrate with a vernacular example, the sentence A rustler lassoed the steers contains threeopen-class elements, rustle, lasso, and steer.
These determine the basic contents of the depictedscene - e.g., here, a Western landscape in which a cowboy whirls a loop of rope and flings it overthe heads of male bovines neutered and bred for human consumption, in order to stem them fromtheir owner.While the sentence has only three open-class forms, each packed with a great deal of referen-tial content, the closed-class forms, on the other hand, are much more numerous, with each formexpressing a limited structural concept.
They include such forms and meanings as -ed 'occurringbefore the time of speaking'; -s 'plurality of number'; the 'readily identifiable by the hearer'; a 'notreadily identifiable by the hearer'; -er 'performer of an action'; the noun status of steer 'prototyp-ically a physical object'; the verb status of to lasso 'prototypically an action'; the subject statusof rustler 'functioning as an intentional agent executing the action'; and the object status of steers'functioning as a patient affected by the action'.
Together, these closed-class forms determine themain structural delineations of the depicted scene and of the speech context in which it is uttered:that there is one agent acting upon two or more objects, that this action takes place at a timebefore my telling you about it, and that I assume that you already know of the affected objects Iam referring to, but that the agent is here newly introduced.The different functions performed by these two classes of elements can be shown in relief bychanging one class while keeping the other constant.
Thus, changing only the closed-class formsof the example sentence could yield a new sentence like: "Will the lassoers rustle a steer?"
Here,all the structural characteristics of the earlier referent have been altered - e.g., the interrogativeinstead of the declarative, future tense instead of past, and different assignments of number anddefiniteness.
Yet, the substantive content is wholly comparable: still a Western cowboy landscapewith theft of livestock by use of rope.
If, however, the open-class forms are changed, as in thesentence "A machine stamped the envelopes", the structural delineations of the referent scene andof the speech context are the same as before, but the new content situates us in, say, an officebuilding with office equipment, postal routines, and stationery.In our theoretical framework, this function of closed-class forms to structure discourse is in-cluded under the notion of "scene partitioning".
There are principles by which closed-class formsdivide a referent scene and its speech context into entities on the one hand and on the other handthe processes that the entities execute and relations that they bear to each other.
Alternativesets of closed-class forms within a stretch of discourse can impose different partitionings onto whatwould otherwise be the same scene.
Typologically different languages regularly exhibit differentforms of such partitioning.Content vs.
Structure in the Conceptual Inventory of Language.The second domain in which closed-class forms perform a structuring function is in the concep-tual inventory of language in general or of any single language in particular.
To demonstrate his,a certain critical observation must be made.Open-class forms are free to express virtually any conceptual content.
But closed-class formsare severely restricted as to the concepts they can refer to.
For example, although many languagesinflect nouns to indicate the number  of the object referred to by the noun, no known languageinflects the noun to indicate the color of its referent.
Further, even within acceptable categories,such as that of number, not all member notions can be specified.
Thus, while noun inflectionsin various languages mark such number distinctions as 'singular', 'dual', 'plural', and 'paucal', noiknown inflections indicate such notions as 'even', 'odd', 'dozen', or 'countable'.
On the other hand,such notions can be referred to by open-class forms - a fact demonstrated by the words just used.Thus, there are two levels at which closed-class forms across all languages are severely constrainedas to the conceptual material they can refer to: the level of conceptual categories, and the level ofthe member notions within any conceptual category.The fact that the closed-class component is limited to only a select set of concepts and con-ceptual categories accords it a specific and critical functional role in language.
The closed-classcomponent utilizes its relatively small conceptual inventory to structure the remainder of concep-tual content, such as that which can be expressed by the open-class forms.
That is, the closed-classcomponent functions as the fundamental conceptual structuring system of language.As a whole, the total inventory of structural concepts that can be expressed by closed-classforms exhibits the following property: it is hierarchically graduated.
Thus, some of its conceptsor conceptual categories have closed-class representation in all languages - e.g., the grammaticaldistinction between ouns and verbs, with their prototype reference to objects and processes.
Someappear in many languages but not in all - e.g., the category of number.
Some occur in only a fewlanguages - e.g., the category of 'rate' with inflectional indication of 'fast' and 'slow'.
And, ofcourse, some conceptual categories, such as 'color', are outside the inventory entirely.
While thisinventory is universally available, each language has closed-class forms that represent only a subsetof all the structuring concepts, and this subset is different in each language.In the course of historical linguistic change, each language gradually shifts its subset of structur-ing concepts.
Current theories of semantic hange that include such processes as grammaticizationand semantic bleaching have been good at accounting for the starting points of such change.
Butthese theories have been inadequate in accounting for the semantic end point of a change - in fact,they have scarcely recognized the need for such an account.
But the present heory of closed-classsemantics recognizes the existence of a specific inventory of closed-class concepts in which any pro-cess of grammaticization must terminate.To illustrate, :in present-day Enghsh, the verbs keep and hate - as in I keep skiing and I hateskiing - are both regular open-class forms.
Now, if either of these verbs were to grammaticize soas to become a closed-class form (such as an auxiliary), while retaining its current core meaning,it is clear that hate would not undergo this process but that keep might well do so, much as theauxiliary form used to has already done.
The present heory, though, supplies the reason for thisdifference in likelihood.
The category of 'temporal structure', and the member notion of 'continu-ity' - as expressed by keep - are high in the graduated inventory of closed-class concepts.
But thecategory of 'affect' is found to be quite low in the inventory, and the specific notion of 'hate' seemsto be absent.
Accordingly, no process of grammaticization will terminate with a closed-class formexpressing the concept of 'hate'.Principles Determining which Concepts have a Structuring Function.Further findings have uncovered certain principles that govern the kinds of concepts that canbe expressed by closed-class forms and the kinds that are excluded.
These principles are thus moregeneral than the first-order identification of the structuring concepts found to be present in theuniversal inventory, and they are in part explanatory of those entries in the inventory.
That is, theprinciples in large measure characterize what is treated as structural in language.3To illustrate, one organizing principle of this sort pertains to "cognitive topology".
The princi-ple is that closed-class forms that express patial or temporal relations are largely topologica l  incharacter, and exclude Euclidean specifics of magnitude and shape.
The references of such closed-class forms are thus largely magnitude-neutral and shape-neutral.For example, the closed-class preposition across prototypically designates a spatial schema con-sisting of two parallel lines and a perpendicular path from one to the other.
But it is magnitude-neutral, as shown by the fact that it appears equally well in sentences whose referent scenes differentgreatly in magnitude: The ant crawled across my palm and The bus drove across the country.
Com-parably, the preposition through is shape-neutral.
It can refer to motion along a line that lies withina medium, but it is neutral to the shape of this line, as shown by the fact that it can occur equallywell in sentences referring to paths of greatly different contours: I zig-zagged through the woods andI circled through the woods.To map out conceptual structure in language accurately, care must be taken to distinguish theactual properties of the qualitative geometry that structures closed-class reference in language fromthe forms of topology current in mathematics.
Some differences can be illustrated with the Englishpreposition in.
This closed-class form refers schematically to location at points of a volume of spacethat is defined by a curved plane.
Linguistic topology here resembles mathematical topology inthat the preposition in is magnitude-neutral - it occurs equally well, e.g., in in the thimble and inthe volcano.
There is also a resemblance in that the form is shape-neutral, as seen in: in the welland in the trench.On the other hand, the preposition is more geometrically abstract han standard mathematicaltopology in that it is also "closure-neutral" - it applies equally well to a completely or a partlyclosed surrounding, as in in the ball and in the bowl.
Comparably, it is "discontinuity-neutral", asseen in in the bell-jar and in the birdcage.
The objects in each of these pairs are treated as geomet-rically alike in language, whereas they are wholly different objects in mathematical topology.In the other direction, a closed-class reference in certain respects is geometrically ess abstractthan in mathematical topology.
Thus, the across schema, as in I swam across the lake, applies ifmy path extends between opposite points of the shore of a round lake, thus roughly bisecting thelake.
But it does not apply if my path extends between two points rather close along the shore,thus dividing the lake into two portions of very different size.
The linguistic principle that hereappears to constrain the geometry of a closed-class schema is that - while the schema s a wholeis magnitude-neutral - its parts must be of comparable magnitude.Further study is needed for the problem of whether there is a "principle of principles" thatprovides a unified explanation for why conceptual structuring in language is accomplished by theparticular set of factors found in the universal inventory and not by some other set.
One mayattempt a functional explanation - that all and only the structuring principles found in languageserve requirements made necessary by other factors, such as the nature of communication or ofperception.
Basing his proposal on my previous research, Slobin (forthcoming) advances uch aproposal.
However, the present study so far can fault a number of the assumptions in this proposalas it stands.Major Categories of Structuring Concepts.JIt is not only the constraining principles just described that bring organization and order to theuniversal inventory of structuring concepts.
In addition, these concepts fall into a relatively fewlarge major categories, each of which structures a conceptualization with respect o some majorfactor.
That is, the concepts and smaller conceptual categories that are expressible by closed-classforms in language cluster together in extensive imaging sys tems (as I have termed these majorcategories), each of which orchestrates one major aspect of structuring.Four such imaging systems have to date been mapped out in some detail.
In brief, the firstthree of these - which work together in a complementary fashion - are: conf igurat iona l  struc-ture,  the schematic delineations that partition the spatial and temporal dimensions of a referentscene; perspect ive  point ,  the conceptual location from which one regards a referent scene; andd is t r ibut ion  of  a t tent ion ,  the pattern in which some elements of a referent scene are placed inthe foreground of attention and others in the background.
In addition, there is the imaging systemof force dynamics  - the different patterns of force relationships in which one object can act onanother.To give a single illustration, the two imaging systems of perspective point and distribution ofattention can both be exemplified together with a contrasting pair of sentences.
Both of thesesentences can refer to the same situation - a set of houses located with respect o a valley.
But dueto their difference in closed-class forms, the two sentences evoke alternative conceptualizations ofthe situation - conceptualizations that differ with respect o choice of perspective point and distri-bution of attention.
Thus, with the sentence There are some houses inn the valley, the closed-classforms direct a hearer to conceptualize the referent scene in the "synoptic mode" - i.e., with a sta-tionary long-range perspective point and with a global scope of attention.
But the new closed-classforms in There is a house every now and then through the valley direct one to conceptualize thesame scene in the "sequential mode" - i.e., with a moving close-up perspective point and with asuccession of local scopes of attention.Broader Cognitive Science Connections: The "Overlapping Systems" Model.Determining the conceptual structure of language leads directly to its comparison with thatpresent in other cognitive systems, such as perception, reasoning, affect, attention, memory, andcultural structure.
The preliminary finding is that each cognitive system has some structural prop-erties that may be uniquely its own; some further structural properties that it shares with only oneor a few other cognitive systems; and some fundamental structural properties that it has in commonwith all cognitive systems.
I term this the "overlapping systems model" of cognitive organization.This model can be illustrated first with a pair-wise comparison of the structural properties inthe cognitive system of language and that of visual perception.
As for overlap, I have to dateidentified eight structural characteristics apparently shared by these two cognitive systems.
Oneof these is their representation f configurational structure.
Linguistic closed-class forms such asprepositions schematize spatial relations between objects, and vision appears to involve the per-ception of comparable schematic relations among objects.
The remaining structural commonalitiesare: integrative structure: the formation of an overall schematic Gestalt for a represente d scene overspace and through time; the multiple hierarchical embedding of structure; sensed interior struc-turing within bulk; the topological character of such structuring; the occurrence of two interactingsubsystems: the contentful/Euclidean d the structural/topological; the distribution of attentionover a represented scene; and the deployment of a perspective point over a represented scene.On the other hand, some factors with a significant structural role in visual perception are atbest minimally represented in the closed-class forms of languages.
Thus, the structuring of a visualscene appears to rely greatly on the perception of bilateral symmetry, of rotation, and of dilation(expansion/contraction).
But closed-class representation f these categories in language yields onlya few forms.
Thus, in English, bilateral symmetry may be represented solely by each other (Theykissed each other); rotation only by around and over (The pole spun around / toppled over); anddilation only by in and out ( The gel spread out / shrank in).Conversely, linguistic closed-class forms express tructural categories that appear to have littlepart in visual perception.
For example, the linguistic category of 'reality status' can involve inflec-tions that represent a proposition as factual, conditional, potential, or counterfactual.
But thereis little evidence that the visual perception of a scene involves a structuring or classifying of itscontents in terms of such ascriptions of reality status.Research inroads have been made into the structural comparison of language with each ofseveral further cognitive systems besides that of visual perception - specifically, with the reason-ing/inferencing system, the kinesthetic/somatosensory ystem, the affect system, and the cognitivesystem for cultural structure.
In addition, a significant number of observations have been made asto structural properties that appear to run in common through all the cognitive systems.ReferencesSlobin, Dan I.
Forthcoming.
Why are grammaticizable notions special?
- a reanalysis and achallenge to learning theory.
In M. Bowerman and S. C. Levinson (Eds.
), Language acquisitionand conceptual development (Cambridge University Press).Talmy, Leonard.
1978.
Figure and ground in complex sentences.
Universals of Human Lan-guage, vol.
4: Syntax, ed.
by Joseph H. Greenberg, 625-49.
Stanford: Stanford University Press.1983.
How language structures pace.
Spatial orientation: theory, research, and applica-tion, ed.
by Herbert L. Pick, Jr. and Linda P. Acredolo, 225-82.
New York: Plenum Press.1985.
Lexicalization patterns: semantic structure in lexical forms.
Language typology andsyntactic description, vol.
3: Grammatical categories and the lexicon, ed.
by Timothy Shopen,57-149.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.- - .
1988.
Force dynamics in language and cognition.
Cognitive Science 12.49-100.- - .
1988.
The relation of grammar to cognition.
Topics in cognitive linguistics, ed.
by BrygidaRudzka-Ostyn, 165-205.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.1991.
Path to realization: a typology of event conflation.
Berkeley Linguistics Society17.480-520.- - .
1995.
The Cognitive Culture System.
The Monist, vol.
78, number 1, January 1995 (pp.80-116).- - .
1995.
Narrative structure in a cognitive framework.
Deixis in narrative: a cognitive scienceperspective, d. by Gail Bruder, Judy Duchan & Lynne Hewitt.
Hillsboro, N J: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, Inc.In press.
The windowing of attention in language.
Grammatical Constructions: TheirForm and Meaning, ed.
by Masayoshi Shibatani and Sandra Thompson, 235-287.
Oxford: OxfordUniversity Press.In press.
Fictive motion in language and "ception".
Language and space, ed.
by PaulBloom, Mary Peterson, Lynn Nadel ~ Merrill Garrett, 307-384.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
