iTHE LEXICAL SEMANTICS OF ENGLISH COUNT AND MASS NOUNSBRENDAN S. GILLONDepartment of Linguistics, McGill UniversityMontreal H3A 1G5 Canadagillon@langs.lan.mcgill.caThe systematic connection between English mass and count nouns has long been known.
Those workingwithin lexical semantics have frequently cited such systematic connections as instances which are susceptibleof treatment by so-called lexical rules (Leech 1981), lexical inference rules (Ostler and Atkins 1991), orsubtype coercion (Pustejovsky 1995).
This paper has three aims: to present he principal morphological ndsemantic properties of the mass count distinction; to formulate, in terms of lexical (inference) rules, theempirical generalizations pertinent o systematic onnection between English mass and count nouns; and toshow how such rules fit with a syntactic and semantic theory of English common noun phrases.1 The Mass Count Dist inct ion in Engl ishIn English, the distinction between mass nouns and count nouns has clear morpho-syntactic criteria.
Firstand foremost, English count nouns admit a morphological contrast between singular and plural; mass nounsdo not, being almost always singular.
For example, advice is a mass noun (*advices), whereas sugges-lion is a count noun (suggestions).
Correlated with this are several other criteria: cardinal numerals andquasi-cardinal numerals (e.g., several) modify count nouns, never mass nouns.
For example, two drinks isacceptable, since drink is a count noun; but two milks is not, since milk is a mass noun.
Moreover, littleand much modify mass nouns, never count nouns; whereas few and many modify count nouns, never massnouns.
Mass nouns do not tolerate the indefinite article (*an advice), whereas ingular count nouns do (asuggestion).
The pronoun one may serve as the antecedent of count nouns, not of mass nouns.
(1.1) Mary gave Jill advice and John gave her some/*one too.
(1.2) Mary gave Jill a suggestion and John gave her one too.MORPttO-SYNTACTIC CRITERIA: MASS NOUN COUNT NOUNmodified by cardinal numerals - +modified by quasi-cardinal numerals - +modified by indefinite article - ?modified by many and few - +modified by much and less + -SG/PL contrast - +one antecedent - +While the generalizations underpinning the morpho-syntactic criteria just given have never been ques-tioned, nonetheless they have been ignored by semanticists interested in the semantics of mass nouns: forexample, Bunt (1985), Eschenbach (1992), Jackendoff (1991), Link (1983), L?nning (1987), ter Meulen(1981), Ojeda (1993), Roeper (1983), to mention only a few.
Instead, semanticists have tried to distinguishEnglish mass and count nouns on the basis of what they denote.
Two criteria have been invoked - namely,cumulativity of reference and divisivity of reference - in spite of the fact that these criteria have long beenrecognized as utterly inadequate.
Quine (1960: p. 91) observed that, if a mass term such as water is true ofeach of two items, then it is true of the two items taken together; and he dubbed this semantical propertyof mass terms 'cumulative reference'.
This characterization, while apt, does not, however, distinguish mass51nouns from count nouns; for, cumulativity of reference also holds of plural count nouns.
Just as it is thecase that "if the animals in this camp are horses and the animals in that camp are horses, then the animalsin the two camps are horses"; so it is the case that "if a is water and b is water then a and b together arewater (Link 1991)".
(Also, see Bunt 1985: p.
19.
)The second criterion, that of the divisivity of reference, suggested by Cheng (1973: pp.
286-287), statesthat any part of something denoted by a mass noun is denoted by the same mass noun.
However, thiscriterion is belied by two classes of words.
On the one hand, there is a large class of words which patternmorpho-syntactically with mass nouns, yet their denotations have parts which do not fall within the samenoun's denotation.
On the other hand, there is a large class of words which pattern morpho-syntacticallywith count nouns, yet their denotations have parts which also fall within the same noun's denotation.The first set of facts had been pointed out by Quine, even before the criterion itself had been firstsuggested, let alne come into vogue. "
.
.
.
there are parts of water, sugar, and furniture too small to countas water, sugar, furniture.
Moreover, what is too small to count as furniture is not too small to count aswater or sugar; so the limitation needed cannot be worked into any general adaptation of 'is' or 'is a part of',but must be left rather as the separate reference-dividing business of the several mass terms (Quine 1960:p. 99)".
Indeed, minimal pairs such as the following make it abundantly clear that divisity of referenceincorrect:COUNT NOUNS MASS NOUNSsuitcases luggageshoes footwearvehicles trafficguests companylaughs laughterleaves foliageanimals wildlifecannons artilleryThe second class of words include the following: stone, rock, ash, string, cord, rope, and tile.
These nounsbehave both as mass nouns and as count nouns.
But even in their guise as count nouns, they satisfy thecriterion of the divisity of reference.
Suppose, for example, one has an eight foot rope.
Cutting it in half,one can be said to obtain two rolSes of four feet each.
And cutting each of these ropes in half again, onethereby obtains four ropes of two feet each.The mistake of semanticists i  to have confounded what it is for the denotation of a noun to be spec i f iedas having no minimal parts and what it is for the denotation of a noun to be unspec i f ied  for whether ornot it has minimal parts.
Semanticists have uniformly opted for specification, whereas the facts call fornon-specification.The view advocated here is that of non-specification.
In the next section, I shall set out the widelyrecognized morphological nd syntactic facts pertaining to common nouns and the noun phrases comprisingthem and set out an account of the morphology and syntax which honors a treatment of mass nouns in termsof non-specification.2 The  Phrasal  Syntax  and Semant ics  of  the  Mass -Count  Dis-t inct ionIt is useful, to begin with, to recognize that English nouns fall into four Classes: pronouns, proper names,mass nouns, and count nouns.
Thes four classes are easily distinguished on the basis of two criteria: first,whether or not the noun in question occurs equally freely in the singular and in the plural; and second,whether or not the noun in question tolerates the full range of determiner.
On the one hand, proper namesand pronouns do not tolerate determiners , though admittedly the definite article occurs in some proper52names; while mass nouns and count nouns do.
On the other hand, pronouns and count nouns evince thealternation between singular and plural, even if the alternation is sometimes not morphologically realized,as is the case with many nouns for wildlife (e.g., sheep, deer), whereas proper names and mass nouns do notevince such an alternation.occurs with admits the contrast ofa determiner singular and pluralproper name -pronoun - +mass noun + --count noun + +Common nouns, that is, mass nouns and count nouns, are distinguished by the lexical features =kCT,which are assigned to common nouns in their lexical entries.
These features serve to constrain the freeassignment of the morpho-syntactic features of ~PL.
To begin with, any noun with the feature +CT mustbe assigned exactly one of the features, ?PL; and any noun with the feature -CT  must be assigned thefeature -PL .
The assignment of the features ~PL conforms to certain restrictions.
One restriction is lexical.Some nouns have their grammatical number specified lexically.
Thus, for example, police, which is a countnoun, has the feature +PL specified in its lexical entry.
1 Plural mass nouns ~ all have the feature +PLspecified in their lexical entries.The other restrictions are syntactic.
The first is the well-known fact that there is agreement betweenthe grammatical number of determiners and the grammatical number of the nouns they modify.
Thus, thisdesk, that oil, and those odds are acceptable, whereas these desk, that oils, and thai odds are not.
Anotherrestriction is that inflected verbs agree in grammatical number with their subjects.
(2.1) This student is usually meticulous.
(2.2) *This student are usually meticulous.
(3.1) This oil is viscous.
(3.2) *This oil are viscous.
(4.1) *Those earnings is insignificant.
(4.2) Those earnings are insignificant.Standard treatments of feature can accommodate hese two restrictions: the features of a count noun areassigned to its first dominating noun phrase node (i.e., its maximal projection) and the features assigned toa determiner must be consistent with the features of its first dominating noun phrase node.It is also true that a conjoined noun phrase is plural, even if its conjuncts are singular.
(5.1) John and Mary are leaving.
(5.2) *John and Mary is leaving.
(6.1) The wiring and the piping are in the storeroom.
(6.2) *The wiring and the piping is in the storeroom.This can be handled by a simple rule: the feature of a conjoined noun phrase is the sum of the features ofthe conjuncts, where the sum of xPLi is -PL  if i = 1 and +PL otherwise (where x ranges over + and -and i enumerates the i th conjunct in the conjunction).
3a This specification is to be distinguished from phonological specifications pertaining to the phonological reafization of thefeatures ?PL.
For example, 'mouse' in the plural is realized as 'mice'; 'deer' in the plural is still realized as 'deer'; and 'means'in the singular is still realized as 'means'; etc.2Here, I have in mind such words as earnings, dregs, groceries, remains, and odds.3 Usages appearing to resist hese restrictions are well known, being thoroughly documented in the more complete descriptivegrammars of Englis h such as Jespersen 1909 v. 2, ch.
3 and Quirk et al1985 Ch.
10.34 ft. For a discussion of these usages incomaection with the stated restrictions, ee Gillon 1992.53The pairs of features ~CT and ?PL impose semantic onditions.
To make clear what these conditionsare, I shall turn to the introduction of a few mereological nd set theoretic oncepts.
Let an object formedfrom one or more members of a given background set be an aggregate.
For example, let the background sethave exactly three distinct elements: a, b, and c. Then, exactly seven aggregates can be formed from itselements: a ,  b,  c ,  ab , ac , bc , and abc .If a, b, and c are concrete particulars, then so are ab, ac, bc, and abc.
In addition, each concrete particularcan be seen as a minimal aggregate.
In other words, the concrete individual a can be seen as an aggregatea, the smallest aggregate which can be formed from a.
Not all aggregates have atomic constituents.
Thosewhich do are also known as pluralities.
The set of desks in a room can form an aggregate whose atomicconstituents are precisely the desks in the room: the aggregate in question here is a scattered object (ep.,Indonesia is a scattered object.)
The entire volume of space in a room forms an aggregate, but it has noatomic parts.A plurality is not the same as a collective, or a group: a plurality is nothing more than the sum of itsatomic constitutents, whereas a collective is more than the sum of its atomic consitutents.
The constituencyof a collective can change without the collective changing.
As is well known, not only can the members ofa collective come and go with the collective remaining intact, but the very same people may make up twodistinct collectives.
What is crucial to collectives is that they are subject to constituting conditions whichdetermine how the members of the collective constitute the collective of which they are members; whereaspluralities do not have such constituting conditions.
Indeed, as Simons (1987: ch.
4.4) has pointed out,a plurality can be seen as the limiting case of a collective: a plurality is a collective without conditionsgoverning its constitution.The set of aggregates accruing to the formation of aggregates from elements of a background set has thealgebraic structure of a complete join semi-lattice with a unit and without a zero.
The relation of being asub-aggregate is a partial ordering on the set of all aggregates formed from the background set.
The elementsof the background set are the minimal aggregates in the set of all aggregates; while the aggregate formedfrom all of the background set's elements is the unique maximal aggregate, that is, the greatest aggregateor unit aggregate.In addition, an aggregation is defined to be a set of aggregates with the requirements hat their join yieldthe greatest aggregate (that is, the unit aggregate) and that it be minimal, in the sense that, no aggregatein the set is a proper sub-aggregate of any other aggregate in the set.When a noun has the feature +CT,  its denotation is the set whose members are all and only thoseminimal aggregates of which the noun is true.
In other words, it is the largest subset of the domain ofdiscourse such that the noun is true of each element in the set.
The noun 'desk' is a count noun, hence ithas the feature +CT.
Its denotation is the set of all desks in the universe of discourse.
When a noun hasthe feature -CT ,  its denotation is the set whose sole member is the greatest aggregate of which the noun istrue.
The noun 'machinery' is a mass noun, hence it has the feature -CT ,  so its denotation is the set whosesole element is the greatest aggregate of machinery formed from the universe of discourse.It is well-known that demonstrative noun phrases, quantified noun phrases, and interrogative noun phrasesin English exhibit different patterns: interrogative noun phrases form overtly discontinuous structures (i.e.,move at S-structure), while demonstrative and quantified noun phrases do not; quantified noun phrasesexhibit different scope-like interpretations, while demonstrative noun phrases do not 4.
It is not surprising,then, that these different kinds of noun phrases are sensitive to the features =t:PL in different ways.The denotation of a demonstrative noun phrase is the denotation of its ~r, modulo any further restrictionimposed on it by its determiner.
Now every noun phrase has grammatical  number.
The semantic importfor a demonstrative noun phrase of singular grammatical number is that its denotation be one, while thatof plural grammatical number is that its denotation may be be one or greater.It might be asked why the cardinality of a plural demonstrative noun phrases might be allowed to beone.
Are there cases where the grammatical number is plural but the denotation is one?
Yes, plural mass4More precisely, singular quantified noun phrases exhibit different scope-like interpretations, while singular demonstrativenoun phrases do not.
There are cases where plural demonstrative noun phrases and interrogative noun phrases exhibit scope-likeinterpretations.54nouns have a denotation of one, but have the grammatical number of plural.
Second, if the cardinality of aplural noun phrase were required to be greater than one, then the following sentences would not be true.
(7.1) These men (Mark Twain and Samuel Clemens) are the same man.
(7.2) The numbers 22 and v f~ are identical.I now turn from the semantics of demonstrative noun phrases to how they are evaluated with respect othe predicates Of which they are arguments.
A predicate is evaluated, not with respect to the denotationof a demonstrative noun phrase which is its argument, hut with respect o the elements in an aggregationconstructed from the demonstrative noun phrase's denotation, where the choice of aggregation is determinedby one's knowledge of the world and one's context.
Such flexibility accounts for why it is that, when differentpiles of leaves are touching different bundles of wires, the following sentences (due to Lauri Carlson) are true.
(8.1) These leaves are touching those wires.
(8.2) This foliage is touching that wiring.In the first case, there is a way of assembling the individual leaves into aggregates of leaves and the individualwires into aggregates ofwires such that each aggregate of leaves, that is, each pile of leaves, is touching someaggregate of wires, that is some bundle of wires, and each aggregate of wires is being touched by some pile ofleaves.
In the second case, there is a way of breaking up the largest aggregate of foliage into sub-aggregatesof foliage and the largest aggregate of wiring into sub-aggregates of wiring such that each sub-aggregate offoliage, that is, each pile of foliage, is touching some sub-aggregate of wiring, that is, some bundle of wiring,and each sub-aggregate of wiring is being touched by some sub-aggregate of foliage.Having stated and illustrated the principles governing plural demonstrative noun phrases, I turn to thosegoverning plural quantified noun phrases.
As always, a denotation is associated with a count noun, namely,the largest subset of the domain of discourse of each of whose members the noun is true.
But the quantifier isrestricted, not to the count noun's denotation, but to an aggregation built from that denotation.
The choiceof aggregation is partially constrained by the features :t:PL.
If the feature assigned to the noun phrase nodeof the quantified noun phrase is ?PL,  then the choice of the aggregation is unconstrained; but if it is -PL ,then the choice is constrained to the least aggregation, that is, the set of all the minimal aggregates of thecount noun's denotation - which is, of course, just the count noun's denotation.
Notice that this is analogousto the constraint imposed by these features on the denotation of demonstrative noun phrases.
Next, if thequantifier is universal, then the predicate must be true of each aggregate in the aggregation to which thequantifier is restricted; and, if it is existential, then the predicate must be true of at least one aggregate inthe aggregation to which the quantifier is restricted.To see how the principles work, consider this sentence with plural quantified noun phrases.
(9) All men in the room endorsed some women.Suppose the denotation of 'men' is ml ,  m2, m3, m4, ms, m6, and nit  the denotation of 'women' is Wl, w2,w3, w4, and ws.
Suppose further that the men form committees of various sizes (including committees ofone), say, roT, mlra2ma, mlm2m4, and m4msm6, and that the women too form committees, ay, wlw~, w4ws,and wl w3.
Finally, suppose that there is an endorsement of the female committees by the male committees,as depicted below.55m7ml  m2 m3ml  m2 m4m4 m5 m6JJ J JWl W2W4 W5Wl W3The situation certainly renders the sentence in (3) true and that it is so can be derived by any rule whichassigns clausal scope to quantified noun phrases.
Thus, the quantified noun phrases in the sentence in (9)can be assigned the scopal configuration shown in (10).
(10) \[NP All men \]~ \[NP some women \]y Is \[NP Z \] \[YP endorsed \[NP Y \]\]\]Next, the following two sets are aggregations formed from the denotation of 'men' and 'women' respectively.
(11.1) {m~, mlm2m3, mlm2m4, m4msrn6}(11.2) {wlw2, w4ws, wlw3}Finally, each aggregate in (11.1) bears the relation of endorsing to some aggregate in (11.2).Quantified count noun phrases range over elements in the aggregation formed from elements in thedenotation of the noun phrase's count noun.
Quantified mass noun phrases also range over elements in theaggregation formed from the denotation of the noun phrase's mass noun, which is the greatest aggregate inthe domain of discourse of which the mass noun is true.
In many cases, the choice of aggregation is virtuallyarbitrary.
(12.1) All water is wet.
(12.2) All information is valuable.In other cases, the choice is constrained by common knowledge.
(13.1) Some footwear in this store sells for under thirty dollars.
(13.2) All ammunition found by the police was fifty caliber.
(13.3) No livestock in this pasture weighs more than one hundred kilograms.3 The Empirical GeneralizationsFor sometime, lexical semanticists have been aware of words which satisfy both the mass criteria and thecount criteria.
Adhering to standard linguistic usage, I shall refer to this correlation as conversion, leavingopen whether or not this phenomenon is to be further analyzed as so-called zero derivation.
Moreover, Iaccept the suggestion of the term that the correlation has a directionality to it, though I am aware of thefact, pointed out by Leech (1981: pp.
224-225), that what the directionality should be is not always clear.To my knowledge, no systematic investigation of mass count alternation in English has been carried out,though remarks of individual instances abound and observations of some sub-regularities have been made(for example, Ostler and Atkins 1991).
My purpose here is to pull together the observations which havebeen made and expand the empirical base so as to arrive at a preliminary formulation of the regularity orregularities involved.I divide this discussion into two parts, as suggested by the term conversion.
I look first at conversion ofmass nouns to count nouns and then at the conversion of count nouns to mass.563.1  Convers ion  f rom Mass  Noun to  Count  NounAs remarked above, a mass noun is unspecified as to whether or not its denotation has minimal parts.
Itsconversion to a count noun requires that its denotation must be such that it has minimal parts, or atoms.
Inthe case of a mass noun for concrete things or stuff, its count noun version has as its denotation either unitsof what the mass noun denotes, or kinds of what it denotes.
Here are some well-known examples: coffee,tea, beer, hamburger, cheese, and wheat.The conversion of these nouns to count nouns can fall under any of several types.
The most commonlyrecognized one is that of kinds.
This conversion appears with such nouns as breads, cheeses, clays, coffees,salts, minerals, oils, teas, and wheats.
Another common conversion is to that of units.
Thus, chocolates,beers, and hamburgers may denote servings of the denotation of the underlying mass noun.
(14.1) Only two coffees are sold in this store: Ethiopian and Costa Rican.
(14.2) Would you care for a coffee?But servings are not the only kind of unit.
Surely a unit, different from that of a serving, is invoked inthe case of weight.
Particularly revealing here are the mass nouns of pizza and cake where two units arepossible, one corresponding to a serving and the other corresponding to a unit of fabrication.
The formerrequires the useof  a partitive expression, a slice of pizza and a piece of cake, whereas the latter accrues tothe count noun conversions of pizza and cake.
(15.1) Did you order pizza?
(15.2) I ordered a pizza, not a slice of pizza.It would be a mistake to think that units, or servings, and kinds are the only atoms available to mass nounsundergoing conversion to count nouns.
Let us begin with mass nouns denoting emotions.
Indeed, emotionis a mass noun which converts to a count noun with the correlated shift in meaning of kinds of emotion.Not all words for emotions have a count noun counterpart.
For example, anger, disgust, grief, astonishment,and esteem do not.
But many do: for example, joy, embarrassment, delight, sorrow, disappointment, anxiety,dislike, love, like, and care.
(16.1) Carol feels intense anxiety before every dinner party she gives.
(16.2) Carol has two anxieties: her job and her children.The conversions here all denote THAT WHICH GIVES RISE TO THE EMOTION.
Indeed, this conversion istrue of many mass nouns denoting mental states in general, such as, surprise, wonder, admiration, pleasure,worry, aspiralion, ambition, and desire.
(17.1) Bill dots not have much desire to continue working.
(17.2) Bill has but one desire: to continue working.One interesting case is fear, which, as a count noun, denotes both kinds of fear and objects of fear.Another sort Of conversion is illustrated by mass nouns denoting virtues.
Of course virtues denotes kindsof virtue.
And of course many virtues are one of a kind: honesty, bravery, courage, chastity, sincerity,gratitude, and fidelity.
Still, some mass nouns for virtues are susceptible of conversion, namely, loyalty andallegiance.
As count nouns, they denote those things to which one is loyal and those things to which oneowes allegiance.
(18.1) How much loyalty does Dan have to his friends?
(18.2) How many loyalties does Dan have?Still another sort of conversion is one which was alluded to above in connection with fear.
Mass nouns,through conversion, can give rise to count nouns denoting instances of the denotation of the mass noun:complexity, detail, discrepancy, error, effort (instances of the exercise of work), action, activity, exposure,thought, and shortage.
(19.1) Elizabeth made many efforts to contact her lawyer.
(19.2) How much effort is required to lift this weight?Summarizing, then, we conclude that mass nouns, under conversion, give rise to count nouns with alimited variety of shifts in denotation.
They include, but may not be confined to, the following: TO BE A57KIND OF, TO BE AN INSTANCE OF, TO BE A UNIT OF, and TO BE A SOURCE OF.
This can be formalized asfollows1.
ICc(Nm)\[ = {x:2.
ICc(Nm)l = {x:3.
ICc(N,~)l : {x:4.
ICc(Nm)l : {x:is a kind of I(Nm\]}is an instance of \[(Nml}is a unit of \[(Nml}is a source of I(gml}(where 'Nm' denotes a mass noun, 'Co' denotes the morphological operation of conversion from a mass nounto a count noun, and '\] \]' denotes the interpretation function).Moreover, there is evidence that the choice of interpretation is relativized to context.
Consider the firstsentence:(20.0) I sold you two coffees.
(20.1) I sold you two kinds of coffee.
(20.2) I sold you two cups of coffee.The sense of the sentence in (20.0) as found in the paraphrase in (20.1) would be appropriate to the situationin which a sales clerk at a store which sells only coffee beans is explaining to a customer why a sales receiptshows two different prices.
The second sense, as found in the paraphrase in (20.2), would be salient in thesituation in which a waiter at a restaurant is explaining to a customer why the price of a cup of coffee isfound twice on a bill.3 .2  Convers ion  f rom Count  Nouns  to  Mass  NounsThe semantic requirement imposed on a count noun in its conversion to a mass noun means that its denotationbe the largest aggregate, or mereological sum, of the parts of each atom of the denotation of the count noun,where what constitutes a relevant part may, and typically does, vary from count noun to count noun.Ostler and Atkins (1991) point out two sub-regularities exemplifying this shift.
Common nouns foranimals which humans eat can be used to denote the largest aggregate of those parts considered suitable forhuman consumption.
They include nouns such as duck, chicken, turkey, and lamb - to mention just a few.(Cp.
Ostler and Atkins 1991: p.
89.
)Common nouns for plants which humans eat can be used to denote the largest aggregate of those partsconsidered suitable for human consumption.
Among these are such words as potato, turnip, carrot, andrutabaga.
(Cp.
Ostler and Atkins 1991: p.
91.
)Other sub-regularities include the case where common nouns for trees can be used to denote the largestaggregate of those parts considered useful for human use in construction), namely the wood, obtained fromthem.
Examples include oak, maple, birch, cedar- and many, many, others.Leech (1981: p. 216) mentions two examples which do not fall in any of the sub-regularities mentionedso far: an area of table and an inch of cigarette.
Indeed, these two examples are instances of still anothersub-regularity, namely, common count nouns for products can be used to denote parts which contribute tothe enlargement or enhancement of the product.
This is exhibited in such expressions as the following:(21.1) Bill got a lot of house for $100,000.
(21.2) How much floor did you lay today?Finally, there are many cases where the shift in meaning is almost imperceptible.
These are words whichwere mentioned earlier: stone, rock, ash, string, cord, rope, and tile.
What is it that differentiates their massfrom their count uses?
It is nothing more than whether or not one the denotation must be atomic.
5Summarizing, then, we conclude that count nouns, under conversion, give rise to mass nouns with thefollowing shift of sense: the denotation of the mass noun is the largest aggregate of the parts of the elements5However, see Wierzbicka 1988 ch.
10 for interesting subtleties.58Icomprising the denotation of the count noun, where what constitutes a part is relative to the kind of objectdenoted by the count noun.
Thus, in the case of animals and plants, the parts are the edible portions; in thecase of trees, the parts are the portions of wood; and in the case of stones, rocks, ropes, wires, and so forth,the parts are pieces.
This can be formalized as follows (where 'No' denotes a count noun, 'Cm' denotes themorphological operation of conversion from a count noun to a mass noun, '~r' is a function which associateswith an object its parts 6 and '1 I' denotes the interpretation function).ICm(Nc)l = for some y E I(Ncl}4 Conclus ionAbove, I presented a semantic, syntactic, and morphological account of the mass count distinction and Ihave shown how that account can be extended to accommodate he fact that mass nouns can be convertedinto count nounS and count nouns into mass nouns, with concomitant shifts in the meanings of the nouns.The account presented postulates the pair of morphological features ~CT, which are assumed to be assigneduniquely to the lexical entries for English common nouns.
At the same time, however, I have postulatedlexical rules whereby mass nouns are converted to count nouns and count nouns are converted to mass nouns.The question arises: are lexical rules for the conversion of mass nouns to count nouns and count nouns tomass nouns, on the one hand, and the assignment of the features =t=CT, on the other, redundant with respectto one another?
The answer, I believe, is no.
And the reason for this answer can be seen by considering theneed for this redundancy in the case of conversion of proper names to common nouns.It is well-known that proper names can undergo lexical conversion to become common nouns.
Forexample, proper names for companies become common nouns denoting their products.
(22.1) Reed bought every Compaq in the store.
(22.2) Some BMW was involved in the traffic accident.Family names become common nouns denoting those in the family of that name.
(23.1) Each Jenner at the wedding had a sarcastic remark to make.
(23.2) No Romanow ever turns down a free ticket.Personal names Can be converted into common nouns with the concomitant shift in meaning to denote theset of people who have the proper names in question as a proper name.
Thus, Tom, as a common noun,denotes the set of people who have Tom as a proper name.
(24.1) The Fred I am speaking of is different from the Fred you were speaking of.
(24.2) How many Mary's are there in this room?And finally, complete personal names of people well-known to the speakers become common nouns denotingthose people sharing contextually salient properties with the person denoted by the personal name (Clarkand Gerrig 1983).
(25.1) Eric is a veritable Napoleon.
(25.2) George did a Willie Nelson.Proper names are constantly being added to English; and once added, they are subject to such conversions.These conversions are clearly productive, a fact borne out for the last type given by the experiments of Clarkand Gerrig (1983).
At the same time, it is equally clear that productive conversions of this sort can give riseto lexicalizations (Bauer 1983: ch.
3.2.3).
Here, I have in mind such common nouns as kleenex, band-aid,hoover, and xerox, which clearly derive from proper names.
Such lexicalizations require lexical entries of theirown.
Thus, it is clear that, to accommodate he nonce usage of proper names as common nouns, conversionrules, with concomitant semantics, are required, and that to accommodate he fact that some proper namesbecome lexicalized as common nouns, requires that they be given special lexical entries.sit must be stressed here that the notion of part here is not the mereological notion of part, which is a transitive, asymmetricrelation, but the natltral language notion of part, which is not, in general, transitive.
See Cruse (1986: eh.
7.1) for discussion.59The situation is not dissimilar for the division within common ouns between mass nouns and countnouns: on the one hand, nonce formations which give rise to the conversion from mass to count or count tomass requires that these conversion rules have a concomitant semantics; on the other hand, the very notionof conversion does not stand without an initial specification of membership n one lexical class or the other.REFERENCES:Bauer, Laurie 1983 English Word-formation.
Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press (CambridgeTextbooks in Linguistics).Bunt, Cornelius 1985 Mass Terms and Model Theoretic Semantics.
Cambridge University Press.Carlson, Lauri 1980 Plural Quantification.
MIT: unpublished ms.Cheng, C. Y.
1973 'Response to Moravscik'.
In Hintikka et al(eds) 1973 pp.
286-288.Clark, Herbert and R. J. Gerrig 1983 'Understanding Old Words with New Meanings'.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior: v. 22 (1983), pp.
591-608.Cruse, D. A.
1986 Lexical Semantics.
Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press (CambridgeTextbooks in Linguistics).Eschenbaeh, Carolta 1992 'Semantics of Number'.
Journal of Semantics: v. 10, pp.
1-31.Gillon, Brendan S. 1992 'A Common Semantics for English Count and Mass Nouns'.
Linguistics andPhilosophy: v. 15, n. 6, pp.
597-639.Hintikka, Jaakko, Julius Moravscik, and Patrick Suppes (eds) 1973 Approaches to Natural Language.
Dor-drecht, The Netherlands: D. Reidel Publishing Co.Jackendoff, Ray 1991 'Parts and Boundaries'.
Cognition: v. 41, pp.
9-45.Jesperson, Otto 1909 A Modern English Grammar on Historical Principles.
7 vols.
l~ondon, England: Allenand Unwin.Leech, Geoffrey N. 1981 Semantics.
Harmondsworth, England: Penguin Books, Inc.Link, Godehard 1983 'The Logical Analysis of Plurals and Mass Terms'.
In: Bauerle, Rainer, ChristophSchwarze, and Arnim von Stechow (eds) 1983, pp.
302-323.Link, Godehard 1991 Plural.
In: von Stechow and Wunderlich (eds) 1991.Lcnning, Tore 1987 'Mass Terms and Quantification'.
Linguistics and Philosophy: v. 10, n. 1, pp.
1-52.ter Meulen, A.
1981 'Intensional Logic for Mass Terms'.
Philosophical Studies: v. 40, pp.
105-125.Ojeda, Almerindo 1992 Linguistic Individuals.
Stanford, California: Center for the Study of Language andInformation.Ostler, Nichlas and B. T. S. Atkins 1991 'Predictable Meaning Shift: Some Linguistic Properties of LexicalImplication Rules'.
In: Pustejovsky and Bergler (eds) 1991.Pelletier, F. J.
1974 'Proposals for Semantics of Mass Terms'.
Journal of Philosophical Logic: v. 3, pp.87-108.Pustejovsky, James 1995 The Generative Lexicon.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press.Pustejovsky, James and Suzanne Bergler (eds) 1991 Lexical Semantics and Knowledge Representation.Berlin: Springer-Verlag (Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence).Quine, Willard van Ormine 1960 Word and Object.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press.Quirk, Randolph; Sidney Greenbaum; Geoffrey Leech; Jan Svartik 1985 A Comprehensive Grammar of theEnglish Language.
London, England: Longman Group Limited.Roeper, Peter 1983 'Semantics for Mass Terms with Quantifiers'.
No~s: v. 22, pp.
251-265.60iSimons, Peter 1987 ParLs: A Study in Ontology.
Oxford, England: Oxford University Press.von Stechow, Arnim and Dieter Wunderlich (eds) 1991 Semantics.
An International Handbook of Contem-porary Research.
Berlin: De Gruyter.Wierzbicka, Anna 1988 The Semantics of Grammar.
Amsterdam, The Netherlands: John BenjaminsPublishing Co.61
