iBreadth and Depth of Semantic LexiconsI n t roduct ion  - Notes  on the  WorkshopEvelyne ViegasComput ing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM 88003viegas@crl.nmsu.eduIn t roduct ionBuilding semantic lexicons is a very time consuming task.
Efficient large-scale acquisition andrepresentation f lexical knowledge will be greatly aided by capturing regularities in the lexicon.Two main issues present hemselves:a) treatment of lexical ambiguity andb) lexical rules as a conceptual tool for controlled proliferation of entries.Whereas the former has been regarded as a topical issue for quite some time, the latter is onlynow receiving its due attention.
This workshop will concentrate on lexical rules as a regulator ofbreadth and depth of the lexicons.
Lexical rules are known under a variety of names, e.g., Leech's(1981) "semantic transfer ules," "lexical implication rules" of Ostler and Atkins (1991) and others.They are also addressed in the framework of such theories as the generative l xicon of Pustejovsky(1995).
Such linguistic frameworks as LFG and HPSG have also used the concept, albeit in adifferent sense and for a different purpose.
At the same time, theoretical accounts of the use oflexical rules (such as, for instance, preemption or blocking) are rather too general and underspec-ified to support actual processing.
The workshop will stress issues connected with the practicalapplication of lexical rules: when to apply the rules, how the rules influence system design, howto reexamine and adjust the theoretically posited rules in view of practical needs and evidence.Another central issue for the workshop will be large-scale acquisition of computational-semanticlexicons for practical applications.
We are mainly interested in examining the following trade-offs:the coverage vs.the depth of existing semantic lexicons vs. the effort involved in building them.The workshop is intended for researchers in computational linguistics, artificial intelligence,psycholinguistics or other fields who have been working in lexical semantics and large-scale lexicalknowledge acquisition.Notes  on  the  WorkshopThe workshop was organized around three main themes reflecting the topic addressed in the paperswe received:a large scale acquisition of semantic lexicons using a corpus-based approachb development of micro-theories addressing various topics and phenomena such as, word sensedisambiguation - nominal compounds - deverbal adjectives - inflectional morphologyc position papers discussing the status of lexical rules or focusing on the dynamic aspect ofknowledge sources and of cognitive processesSome (though not necessarily all) specific questions uggested for discussion include:What are the different ypes of lexical rules which should be considered in the building ofcomputational lexicons (inflectional and derivational morphology, verbal diatheses, regularword-sense shifts, other)2 When should the rules be applied (run-time, load-time, acquisition, other)How to evaluate the cost-efficiency of the acquisition effort against he utility of the resultinglexicons.
How could we characterize an NLP system along the dimensions of size, corpuscoverage, and depth.4 Analyses of appropriate types of inheritance for different lexical rules.5 The use of lexical underspecification (and contextual word-use grounding) as a partial alter-native to lexical rules.In order to facilitate interaction between participants, a pre-workshop mailing list was estab-lished.
Papers were also available to all participants a month prior to the event in Santa Cruzat h t tp : / / c r l .nmsu.edu/ lex - ru le .
This web site will remain available after the workshop forfurther discussions.ReferencesGeoffrey Leech (1991) Semantics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Nicholas Ostler and B. T. S. Atkins (1992) Predictable meaning shift: Some linguistic properties oflexical implication rules.
In J. Pustejovsky and S. Bergler (eds), Lexical Semantics and KnowledgeRepresentation.
Berlin: Springer.James Pustejovsky (1995) The Generative Lexicon.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge the support of the Association For Computational Linguistics and theSpecial Interest Group on the Lexicon in the organisation of this workshop.
The papers were pri-marily reviewed by the following programme committee in addition to some other reviewers.Evelyne Viegas (Programme Chair), New Mexico State University, CRL, USASergei Nirenburg, New Mexico State University, CRL, USABoyan Onyshkevych, Carnegie Mellon University, USANicholas Ostler, Linguacubun Ltd, UKVictor Raskin, Purdue University, USAAntonio Sanfilippo, Sharp Laboratories of Europe, UKAdditionM Reviewers:Philip Resnik, Sun Microsystems Laboratories; USAFrederique Segond, Rank Xerox Research Centre; FranceEvelyne Tzoukermann, ATT Bell Laboratories; USA.
?i
