Input Specification i  the WAG Sentence Generation SystemMichael O'DonnellDepartment of AI, University of Edinburgh,80 South Bridge, Edinburgh.
EH1 1HN, UK.emaih micko@aisb.ed.ac.ukAbst ractThis paper describes the input specification lan-guage of the WAG Sentence Generation system.The input is described in terms of Halliday's (1978)three meaning components, ideational meaning(the propositional content o be expressed), inter-actional meaning (what the speaker intends thelistener to do in making the utterance), and tex-tual meaning (how the content is structured as amessage, in terms of theme, reference, tc.
).1 In t roduct ionThis paper describes the input specificationlanguage of the WAG Sentence Generationsystem.
The input is described in terms ofHalliday's (1978) three meaning components,ideational meaning (the propositional contentto be expressed), interactional meaning (whatthe speaker intends the listener to do in makingthe utterance), and textual meaning (how theideational content is structured as a message,in terms of theme, reference, tc.
).One motivation for this paper is the lackof descriptions of input-specifications for sen-tence generators.
I have been asked at varioustimes to fill this gap.
Perhaps a better motiv-ation is the need to argue for a more abstractlevel of input.
Many of the available sentencegenerators equire specification ofsyntactic in-formation within the input specification.
Thismeans that any text-planner which uses thissystem as its realisation module needs to con-cern itself with these fiddling details.
One ofthe aims in the WAG system has been to liftthe abstractness of sentence specification to asemantic level.
This paper discusses this rep-resentation.The WAG Sentence Generation System isone component of the Workbench for Analysisand Generation (WAG), a system which of-fers various tools for developing Systemic re-sources (grammars, emantics, lexicons, etc.
),maintaining these resources (lexical acquisitiontools, network graphers, hypertext browsers,etc.
), and processing (sentence analysis -O'Donnell 1993, 1994; sentence generationO'Donnell 1995b; knowledge representation -O'Donnell 1994; corpus tagging and explora-t ion-  O'Donnell 1995a).The Sentence Generation component of thissystem generates single sentences from a se-mantic input.
This semantic input could besupplied by a human user.
Alternatively, thesemantic input can be generated as the out-put of a multi-sentential text generation sys-tem, allowing such a system to use the WAGsystem as its realisation component.
The sen-tence generator can thus be treated a black-box unit.
Taking this approach, the designer ofthe multi-sentential generation system can fo-cus on multi-sentential concerns without wor-rying about sentential issues.WAG improves on earlier sentence generat-ors in various ways.
Firstly, it provides a moreabstract level of input than many other sys-tems (Mumble: McDonald 1980; Meteer et al1987; FUF: Elhadad 1991), as will be demon-strated throughout this paper.
The abstract-ness improves even over the nearest compar-able system, Penman (Mann 1983; Mann 8zMatthiessen 1985), in its treatment of tex-tual information (see below).
Other sentencegenerators, while working from abstract se-mantic specifications, do not represent a gener-alised realiser, but are somewhat domain spe-cific in implementation, e.g., Proteus (Davey1974/1978); Slang (Patten 1988).
Other sys-tems do not allow generation i dependent fromuser interaction, for instance, Genesys (Faw-41cett & Tucker 1990) requires the user to makedecisions throughout the generation process.Against WAG, it does not yet have thegrammatical and semantic coverage of Pen-man, FUF or Mumble, although its coverageis reasonable, and growing quickly.1.1 Semant ic  Meta funct ionsThe input to the WAG Sentence generationsystem is a specification of an utterance on thesemantic stratum.
We thus need to explorefurther the nature of Systemic semantic repres-entation.
Halliday (1978) divides semantic re-sources into three areas, called metafunctions:1.
In teract iona l  Meta funct ion :  viewinglanguage as interaction, i.e., an activityinvolving speakers and listeners, speech-acts, etc.
Interactional meaning includesthe attitudes, social roles, illocutionarygoals, etc of interactants.2.
Ideat iona l  Meta funct ion :  concernedwith the propositional content of the text,structured in terms of processes (mental,verbal, material, etc.
), the participantsin the process (Actor, Actee, etc.
), andthe circumstances surrounding the process(Location, Manner, Cause, etc.).3.
Textua l  Meta funct ion :  how the textis constructed as a message conveying in-formation.
This concerns, for instance,the thematic structuring of the ideationpresented in the text, its presentation asrecoverable or not, the semantic relevanceof information, etc.Although these metafunctions apply to boththe semantics of sentence-size and multi-sentential texts, this paper will focus on sen-tential semantics, ince we are dealing with theinput to a sentence generator.
Below we ex-plore the nature of this semantic specificationin more detail.2 Interactional SpecificationInteractional representation views the text aspart of the interaction between participants.Sentences themselves serve an important partin interaction, they form the basic units - themoves - of which interactions are composed.Moves are also called speech-acts.
Note thatWAG serves in monologic as well as dialogicinteractions.The input to the WAG generator is basicallya speech-act specification, although this spe-cification includes ideational and textual spe-cification.
Figure 1 shows a sample speech-actspecification, from which the generator wouldproduce: I'd like information on some bodyrepairers.
The distinct contributions of thethree meta-functions are separated by the greyboxes.
Say is the name of the lisp functionwhich evaluates the speech-act specification,calling the generator, dialog-5 is the name ofthis particular speech-act (each speech-act isgiven a unique identifier, its unit-id).In specifying the speech-act, here are sev-eral important hings which need to be spe-cified:?
Speech-Funct ion :  what does thespeaker requires the hearer to do inregard to the encoded proposition?
1 Thisis called in Systemics the speech-function.Is the hearer supposed to accept thecontent as a fact?
Or are they supposedto complete the proposition in some way?Or perform some action in response tothe utterance?Par t i c ipants :  who is uttering the speech-act (the Speaker), and who is it addressedto (the Hearer).Content :  what proposition is being ne-gotiated between the speaker and hearer?The participant roles do not need to be in-cluded in every sentence-specification, but maybe in some, for the following reasons:?
P ronomina l i sa t ion :  If the filler of theSpeaker or Hearer role happens to playsome role in the ideational specification,then an appropriate pronoun will be usedin the generated string (e.g., T,  'you').?
Voice Select ion:  If the spoken outputmode is used, WAG will select a voice ofthe same gender as the speaker entity.1For ease of writing, I use the terms 'speaker' and'hearer' to apply to the participants in both spoken andwritten language.42(say d'ialog-5racuonall: p r  opo  s i t i on  ~h:'i:~Z:~',~'~~Specl~gat~on!~',~l.
.
.
.  '
~ i  :'~ ~ i.ication~l " ~ ;~.~ '=)Figure h Typical Speech-Act Representation?
User  Model l ing:  In theory, the Speakerand Hearer fields are available for user-modelling purposes (cf.
Paris 1993):lexico-grammatical choices can be con-strained by reference to attributes spe-cified in the Speaker and Hearer roles.
2This has not, however, been done atpresent: while the implementation is setup to handle this tailoring, the resourceshave not yet been appropriately con-strained.WAG's semantic input improves over that ofPenman in regards to the relationship betweenthe speech-act and the proposition.
In Pen-man, the ideational specification is central: asemantic specification is basically an ideationalspecification, with the speech-act added as anadditional (and optional) field.
This approachis taken because Penman was designed withmonologic text in mind, so the need for variedspeech-acts i not well integrated.
32Since the fillers of the Speaker and Hearer roles areideational units, they can be extensively specified foruser-modelling purposes, including the place of origin,social class, social roles, etc of the participant.
Re-lations between the participants can also be specified,for instance, parent/child, or doctor/patient relations.Lexico-grammatical decisions can be made by refer-ence to this information: tailoring the language to thespeaker's and hearer's descriptions.a~VAG also allows the representation of non-verbalmoves (e.g., the representation of system or user phys-ical actions), which allows WAG to model interactionin a wider sense.WAG however takes the speech-act as cent-ral, the semantic specification is a specificationof a speech-act.
The ideational specification isprovided as a role of the speech-act (the :pro-position role).
WAG thus integrates with moreease into a system intended for dialogic interac-tion, such as a tutoring system.
In particular,it simplifies the representation of speech-actswith no ideational content, such as greetings,thank-yous, etc.2.1 Types  o f  Speech-ActsFigure 2 shows the systems of the speech-actnetwork used in WAG (based on O'Donnell1990, drawing upon Berry 1981; Martin 1992).The main systems in this network are as fol-lows:In i t iat ion:  The grammatical form usedto realise a particular utterance dependson whether the speaker/writer is initiat-ing a new exchange, or responding to anexisting exchange (e.g., an answer to aquestion).
Responding moves reflect afar higher degree of ellipsis than initiatingmoves.
In particular, a move respondingto a wh- question usually only needs toprovide the wh- element in their reply.Negot ia tory  vs. Sa lutory:  negoti-atory speech-acts contribute towards theconstruction of an ideational proposi-tion.
while salutory moves do not, rather43speech-act <.~-  elicit-polarity"elicit "-elicit-content-proposet" initiate (.
,  SPEECH-support INITIATION f ~ FUNCTIONrespond J "deny-knowledge- contradictnegotiatory ~ "request-repeat/ OBJECT OF F action-negotiatingSPEECHACT I NEGOTIATION|~-~ TYPE ~ t. information-negotiatinggreetsalutory -I :rean:elIFigure 2: The Speech-Act Networkserving a phatic function, for instance,greetings, farewells, and thank-yous.?
Speech Function: The speech-functionis the speaker's indication of what theywant the hearer to do with the utterance.An elicit move indicates that the speakerrequires ome contentfull response, whilea propose move may require changes ofstate of belief in the hearer, supportmoves indicate the speaker's acceptanceof the prior speaker's proposition.
Otherspeech-functions cater to various altern-ative responses in dialogue, for instance:deny-knowledge - the speaker indicatesthat they are unable to answer a questiondue to lack of knowledge; contradict: thespeaker indicates that they disagree withthe prior speaker's proposition; request-repeat: the speaker indicates that they didnot fully hear the prior speaker's move.?
Object  of Negotiat ion:  Speech-actscan negotiate information (questions,statements, etc.
), or action (commands,permission, etc.).
A move with features(:and elicit negotiate-action) would berealised as a request for action (e.g., Willyou go now?
), while a move with features(:and propose negotiate-action) would berealised as a command (e.g., Go now.
O.In writing a speech-act specification, the :isfield is used to specify the the speech-act type(the same key is used to specify ideationaltypes in propositional units).
The speech-actof figure 1 is specified to be (:and initiate pro-pose).
Feature-specifications canbe arbitrarilycomplex, consisting of either a single feature,or a logical combination of features (using anycombination of :and, :or or :not).
One does notneed to specify features which are systemicallyimplied, e.g., specifying propose is equivalentto specifying (:and move speech-act negotiat-ory propose).Hovy (1993) points out that as the inputspecification language gets more powerful, theamount of information required in the specific-ation gets larger, and more complex.
WAGthus allows elements of the semantic specific-ation to take a default value if not specified.For instance, the example in figure 1 does notspecify a choice between egotiate-informationor negotiate-action (the first is the default).Other aspects are also defaulted, for instance,the relation between the speaking time and thetime the event takes place (realised as tense).443 Ideational SpecificationOnce we have specified what the speech-act isdoing, and who the participants are, we needto specify the ideational content of the speech-act.3.1 Ideat iona l  Representat ionWhen talking about ideational specification,we need to distinguish ideational potential -the specification of what possible ideationalstructures we can have; and ideational instan-rials - actual ideational structures.
The firstis sometimes termed terminological knowledge- knowledge about terms and their relations,the second, assertional knowledge - knowledgeabout actual entities and their relations.Ideat iona l  Potent ia l :  Ideational potentialis represented in terms of an ontology of se-mantic types, a version of Penman's UpperModel (UM) (Bateman 1990; Bateman et al1990).
4 The root of this ontology is shown infigure 3.
Many of the types in this ontology willhave associated role constraints, for instance,a mental-process requires a Sensor role, whichmust be filled by a conscious entity.
The UMthus constrains the possible ideational struc-tures which can be produced.The UM provides a generalised classificationsystem of conceptual entities.
For representingconcepts which are domain-specific (e.g., body-repairer), users provide domain-models, wheredomain-specific concepts are subsumed to con-cepts in the UM.Ideat iona l  S t ructure :  An ideational spe-cification is a structure of entities (pro-cesses, t-hings and qualities), and the relationsbetween these entities.
Such a structure is spe-cified by providing two sets of information foreach entity (as in the propositional slot of fig-ure 1):?
Type  In format ion :  a specification ofthe semantic types of the entity, de-rived from the UM, or associated omain-model.4WAG's Upper Model has been re-represented interms of system networks, rather than the moreloosely defined type-lattice language used in Penman.WAG thus uses the same formalism for represent-ing ideational, inteLctional and lexico-grammatical in-formation.ideational-unit -I "c?nsci?us q- human...- thing 1 t. nonhuman...nonconscious...\[- material...F mental...- process m verbal...F relational...'- existential...\[- modal quality...q-material-quality.
.. quality I -p?lar'quality''"t-process-quality...Figure 3: The Upper Model?
Ro le  In fo rmat ion :  a specification of theroles of the entity, and of the entitieswhich fill these roles.3.2 Express ing  the  KB:  S tand-a lonevs.
In tegrated  approachesTypically, a text-planner has a knowledge-base (KB) to express, and produces a set ofsentence-specifications to express it.
The formof the sentence-specifications differs dependingon the degree of integration between the text-planner and the sentence-realiser.In most systems, the sentence-realiser hasno access to the KB of the text-planner.
Thisis desirable so that the sentence-realiser is in-dependent of the text-planner - it can act asan independent module, making no assump-tions as to the internal representations of thetext-planner.
The sentence-realiser can thus beused in connection with many different text-planners.The sole communication between the twosystems is through a sentence-specification- the text-planner produces a sentence-specification, which the sentence-realiser takesas input.
The text-planner thus needs tore-express the contents of its KB into theideational notation used by the sentence-realiser.
This approach as been followed withsystems uch as Penman, FUF, and Mumble.Each of these has been the platform supporting45various text-planners (often experimental).WAG also has been designed to support hisplanner-realiser separation, if need be.
WAGcan thus act as a stand-alone sentence realiser.The sentence specifihation of figure 1 reflectsthis mode of generation.However, WAG supports a second mode ofgeneration, allowing a higher degree of integ-ration between the text-planner and the sen-tence realiser.
In this approach, both processeshave access to the KB.
Ideational material thusdoes not need to be included within the in-put specification.
Rather, the input specifica-tion provides only a pointer into the attachedKB.
Since the information to be expressed isalready present in the KB, why does it need tobe re-expressed in the semantic specification?Taking this approach, the role of the semanticspecification is to describe how the informationin the KB is to be expressed, including both in-teractional and textual shaping.This integration allows economies of genera-tion not possible where content used for text-planning and content used for sentence gener-ation are represented distinctly.
One benefitinvolves economy of code - many of the pro-cesses which need to be coded to deal withideation for a text as a whole can also beused to deal with ideation for single sentences.Another involves the possibility of integratingthe two processes - since the sentence real-iser has access to the same knowledge as themulti-sentential planner, it can make decisionswithout requiring explicit informing from theplanner.Another economy arises because translationbetween representations is avoided.
In thestand-alone approach, the sentence-plannerneeds knowledge of how ideational specifica-tions are formulated in the sentence specifica-tion language.
It needs to map from the lan-guage of its KB to the language of the sentencespecification.
This is not necessary in an integ-rated approach.To demonstrate this integrated approach tosentence generation, we show below the gen-eration of some sentences in two stages -firstly, assertion of knowledge into the KB, andsecondly, the evaluation of a series of speech-acts, which selectively express components ofthis knowledge.
; Participants(tell John :is male :name "John")(tell Mary :is female :name "Mary")(tell Party :is spatial);Processes(tell arrival:is motion-termination:Actor John:Destination Party)(tell leaving:is motion-initiation:Actor Mary:Origin Party);Relations(tell causation:is causal-relation:head arrival:dependent leaving)Figure 4: Building a Knowledge-Base3.2.1 Asser t ion  of  Knowledge into KBFigure 4 shows the forms which assert someknowledge about John and Mary into the KB.The information basically tells that Mary lefta party because John arrived at the party, tellis a lisp macro form used to assert knowledgeinto the KB.3.2.2 Selective Expression of KBNow we are ready to express this knowledge.The following sentence-specification indicatesthat the speaker is proposing in/ormation, andthat the leaving process is to be the semantichead of the expression.
It also indicates whichof the roles of each entity are relevant for ex-pression (and are thus expressed if possible),-and which entities are identifiable in context(and can thus be referred to by name).
Thegeneration process, using this specification,produces the sentence shown after the form.
(say example- 1: i s  propose: proposition leaving:relevant-roles ( (leaving Actor)(causation HeadDependent)(arrival Actor) ): identifiable-entities (John Mary))=> Mary left because John arrived.46As stated above, this approach does not re-quire the sentence-specification t  include anyideational-specification, except for a pointerinto the KB.
The realiser operates directlyon the KB, using the information within thesentence-specification t  tailor the expression.Alternative sentence-specificati0ns re ult indifferent expressions of the same information,for instance, including more or less detail,changing the speech-act, or changing the tex-tual status of various entities.
The expressioncan also be altered by selecting a ~different en-tity as the head of the utterance.
For instance,the following sentence-specification is identicalto the previous, except the cause relation isnow taken as the head, producing a substan-tially different sentence:(say example-2:is propOse:proposition causation:relevant-roles ((causation HeadDependent)( leav ing  AcSor)(arrival Actor)):identifiable-entities (John lMary))=> John's arrival caused Mary ~to leave.We will now turn to the textual componentof the input specification, which iS responsiblefor tailoring the expression of the ideationalcontent.4 Textual SpecificationTextual semantics concerns the role of the textand its components as a message, While cre-ating a text (whether a single utterance or awhole book), we have a certain amount of con-tent we wish to encode.
But there are variousways to encode this information, to present ourmessage.
The textual semantics represents thevarious strategies for structuring the message.4.1 Re levant -Ro lesOne of the main steps in the text generationprocess involves content selection - the selec-tion of information from the speaker's know-ledge base for presentation.
Such a processmust decide what information is relevant ateach point of the unfolding discourse.In some systems, content selection is driventhrough the construction of the rhetoricalstructure of the text (e.g., Moore & Paris 199).As we build a rhetorical structure tree, theideation which is necessary for each rhetor-ical relation is selected.
For instance, if weadd an evidence relation to an existing RSTtree, the ideation which functions as evidenceis selected for expression.
The rhetorical struc-ture thus organises the ideational content tobe expressed, selecting out those parts of theideation-base which are relevant o the achieve-ment of the discourse goals at each point ofthe text.
I use the term rhetorical relevance torefer to this sort of relevance.
5Rhetorical relevance is dynamic - it changesas the text progresses.
It represents a shiftingfocus on the ideation base (Halliday ~ Mat-thiessen, 1995, pp373-380).
What is relevantchanges as the text unfolds, as the rhetoricalstructure is realised.
Relevance forms whatGrosz (1977/86) calls a focus space.
6 Halliday& Matthiessen (1995) extend Grosz's notionof focus space to include other types of textualspaces: thematic spaces, identifiability spaces,new spaces, etc.
(p376).
Each of these spacescan be though of as a pattern stated over theideation base.According to Grosz, focus is "that part ofthe knowledge base relevant at a given pointof a dialog."
(p353).
However, Grosz's notionof relevance is based on the needs of a textunderstanding system - which objects in theknowledge-base can be used to interpret he ut-terance.
My sense of relevance is derived fromrelevance in generation - what information hasbeen selected as relevant o the speaker's un-folding discourse goals.
She is dealing with aset of objects which may potentially appearin the text at this point, while I am dealingwith the set of objects which most probablydo appear in the text.To represent the relevance space in asentence specification, I initially provideda :relevant-entities field, which listed thoseideational entities which were relevant for ex-pression.
However, problems soon arose with5See Pattabhiraman & Cercone (1990) for a goodcomputational treatment of relevance, and its relationto salience.6Various earlier linguists and computational lin-guists have also used the notion of 'spaces' to repres-ent textual status, see for instance, Reichman (1978);Grimes (1982).47this approach.
Take for instance a situationwhere Mark owns both a dog and a house,and the dog destroyed the house.
Now, wemight wish to express a sentence to the effectthat A dog destroyed Mark's house, which ig-nores Mark's ownership of the dog.
In a sys-tem where relevance is represented as a list ofentities, we could not produce this sentence.What we need is a representation of the rel-evant relations in the KB.
To this end, WAG'sinput specification allows a field :relevant-roles,which records the roles of each entity which arecurrently relevant for expression, e.g., as wasused in the examples of section 3.2.2.
7While constructing a sentence, the sentencegenerator efers to this list at various points,to see if a particular semantic role is relevant,and on the basis of this, chooses one syntacticstructure over another.
At present, the order-ing of roles in the list is not significant, butit could be made so, to constrain grammaticalsalience, etc.4.2 ThemeThe :theme field of the speech-act specifies theunit-id of the ideational entity which is them-atic in the sentence.
If a participant in a pro-cess, it will typically be made Subject of thesentence.
If the Theme plays a circumstantialrole in the proposition, it is usually realised asa sentence-initial djunct.
WAG's treatmentof Theme needs to be extended to handle thefull range of thematic phenomena.
Theme spe-cification in WAG is identical to that used inPenman.4.3 In fo rmat ion  S ta tusThe participants in an interaction each possessa certain amount of information, some of whichis shared, and some unshared.
I use the terminformation status to refer to the status ofinformation as either shared or unshared.The information status of ideational entitiesaffects the way in which those items can bereferred to.
Below we discuss two dimensionsof information status:TIf the explicit ideational specification is included inthe say form (as in figure 1), then the relevance spaceneed not be stated, it is assumed that all the entitiesincluded within the specification axe relevant, and noothers..
Shared  Ent i t ies :  entities which thespeaker believes are known to the hearercan be referred to using identifiable refer-ence, e.g., definite deixis, e.g., the Presid-ent; and naming, e.g., Ronald Reagan.
En-tities which are not believed to be sharedrequire some form of indefinite deixis, e.g.,a boy called John; Eggs; Some eggs, etc.A speaker uses indefinite deixis to indicatethat he believes the entity unknown to thehearer.
It is thus a strategy used to intro-duce unshared entities into the discourse.Once the entity is introduced, some formof definite reference is appropriate.2.
Recoverab le  Ent i t ies :  Entities whichare part of the immediate discourse con-text can be referred to using pronomin-alisation (e.g., she, them, it, this, etc.
);substitution (e.g., I saw one;); or ellipsis(the non-mention of an entity, e.g., Goingto the shop?).
The immediate discoursecontext includes entities introduced earlierin the discourse; and also entities withinthe immediate physical context of thediscourse, e.g., the discourse participants(speaker, hearer, or speaker+hearer) andthose entities which the participants canpoint at, for instance, a nearby table, orsome person.Two fields in the semantic specification allowthe user to specify the information status ofideational entities - and thus how they can bereferred to in discourse s (these lists will typic-ally be maintained by the text-planner as partof its model of discourse context):?
The Shared-Entities Field: a list ofthe ideational entities which the speakerwishes to indicate as known by the hearer,e.g., by using definite reference.?
The Recoverable-entities Field: a list oftthe ideational entities which are recover-able from context, whether from the priortext, or from the immediate interactionalcontext.SInformation status only partially constrains thechoice of referential form - the choice between the re-maining possibilities can be made by the sentence plan-ner, by specifying directly grammatical preferences.48/5 Conc lus ionsThe input specification for the WAG sentencegenerator is a' speech-act, which includes anindication of which relations in the KB are rel-evant for expression at this point.
Other in-formation in the input specification helps tailorthe expression of the content, such as an indic-ator of which KB element o use as the headof the generated form, which is theme, whichelements are recoverable and identifiable.In taking this approach, WAG attempts toextend the degree to which surface forms canbe constrained by semantic specification.
Inmany sentence generation systems, direct spe-cifications of grammatical choices or forms isoften needed, or, in the case Of Penman, theuser needs to include arcane i nqu i ry  preselec-t ions  - interventions in the interstratal map-ping component, perhaps more arcane thangrammar-level intervention.By providing a more abstract form of rep-resentation, text-planners using WAG needless knowledge of grammatical forms, and canspend more of their efforts dealing with issuesof text-planning.
I say 'less' here because, al-though WAG has extended the level at whichsurface forms can be specified semantically,there are still gaps.
To allow for this, WAG al-lows input specifications to directly constrainthe surface generation, either by directly spe-cifying the grammatical feature(s) a given unitmust have, or alternatively, specifying ram-matical defaults: grammatical features whichwill be preferred if there is a choice.The advantages of WAG's input specifica-tion language are summarised below:1.
In teract iona l  Specification: By pla-cing the proposition as a role of thespeech-act, rather than visa-versa, WAGallows cleaner integration i to systems in-tended for dialogic interaction.
WAG's in-put specification also allows a wider rangeof specification of the speech-act ypethan used in Penman and other sentence-generation systems.2.
Ideat ional  Specification: WAG allowstwo modes of expressing the KB - inone mode, each sentence specification isa self-contained specification, containingall the ideational information eeded (the'black-box' mode).
In the other, a sen-tence specification contains only a pointerinto the KB, allowing finer integrationbetween text-planner and sentence real-iser.
The availability of both alternativesmeans that WAG can fit a wider range ofgeneration environments.. Textual  Specification: WAG intro-duces a high level means of representingthe textual status of information to be ex-pressed.
Following Grosz (1977/86), andHalliday & Matthiessen (1995), I use thenotion of textual spaces, partitionings ofthe ideation base, each of which shifts dy-namically as the discourse unfolds.
I haveoutlined:?
a re levance space: the informationwhich is rhetorically relevant at thepresent point of the discourse;?
a shared-ent i ty  space: the informa-tion which is part of the shared know-ledge of the speaker and hearer.?
a recoverabi l i ty  space: the informa-tion which has entered the discoursecontext, including the entities whichhave been mentioned up to this pointin the discourse.
Information inthe recoverability space can be pre-sumed, or pronominalised.While the WAG generator has only been un-der development for a few years, and by asingle author, in many aspects it meets, andin some ways surpasses, the functionality andpower of the Penman system, as discussedabove.
It is also easier to use, having been de-signed to be part of a Linguist's Workbench -a tool aimed at linguists without programmingskills.The main advantage of the Penman systemover the WAG system is the extensive linguisticresources available.
Penman comes with alarge grammar and semantics of English (andother languages).
WAG comes with a medium-sized grammar of English.
9 Penman also sup-ports a wider range of multi-lingual processing.9While the WAG system can work with the grammarand lexicons of the Nigel resources, the resources whichmap grammar  and semantics in Nigel are in a formincompatib le with WAG).496 BibliographyBateman, John .1990 "Upper Modeling: organizingknowledge for natural language processing", Pro-ceedings of the Fifth International Workshop onNatural Language Generation, June 1990, Pitts-burgh.Bateman, John, Robert Kasper, Johanna Moore &Richard Whitney 1990 "A General Organisation ofKnowledge for Natural Language Processing: thePenman Upper Model", USC/Information SciencesInstitute Technical Report.Berry, Margaret 1981 "Systemic linguistics and dis-course analysis: a multi-layered approach to ex-change structure" in Coulthard M. & MontgomeryM.
(eds.)
Studies in Discourse Analysis, London:Boston-Henly: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 120-145.Davey, Anthony 1974/1978 Discourse Production:a computer model of some aspects o\] a speaker, Ed-inburgh University Press, Edinburgh, 1978.
Pub-lished version of Ph.D. dissertation, University ofEdinburgh, 1974.Elhadad, Michael 1991 "FUF: The Universal Uni-fier User Manual Version 5.0", Technical ReportCUCS-038-91, Columbia University, New York,1991.Fawcett, Robin P. - Gordon H. Tucker (1990)"Demonstration of GENESYS: a very large se-mantically based Systemic Functional Grammar".In Proceedings of the 13th Int.
Con\].
on Computa-tional Linguistics (COLING '90).Grimes, J. E. 1982 "Reference Spaces in Text", inProceedings of the 51st Nobel Symposium, Stock-holm.Grosz, B.
1977/86 "The Representation and Useof Focus in Dialog Understanding", Technical Re-port 151, Artificial Intelligence Centre, SRI Inter-national, California.
Reprinted in B.J.
Grosz, K.Sparck-Jones, & B.L.
Webber (eds.
), Readings inNatural Language Processing, Morgan KaufmannPublishers, Los Altos, CA, 1986.Halliday, M.A.K.
1978 Language as social semiotic.The social interpretation of language and meaning.London: Edward Arnold.Halliday, M.A.K.
& C.I.M.
Matthiessen 1995 Con-struing experience through meaning: a language-based approach to cognition.
Pinter: London.Hovy, Eduard 1993 "On the Generator Input ofthe Future", in Helmut Horacek & Michael Zock(eds.
), New Concepts in Natural Language Genera-tion: Planning, Realisation and Systems, London:Pinter, p283-287.Mann, William C. 1983 "An Overview of the Pen-man Text Generation System ", USC/ISI TechnicalReport RR-84-127.Mann, W. C. & C. I. M. M:~tthiessen 1985 "Demon-stration of the Nigel Text Generation ComputerProgram", In Benson and Greaves (eds.
), SystemicPerspectives on Discourse, Volume 1.
Norwood:Ablex.Martin, James R. 1992English Text: system andstructure.
Amsterdam: Benjamins.McDonald, D. 1980 Language Production as a Pro-cess of Decision-making under Constraints, MITPh.D.
Dissertation, 1980.
MIT Report.Meteer, M., D. McDonald, S. Anderson, D. Forster,L.
Gay, A. Huettner, & P. Sibun.
1987 "Mumble-86: Design and Implementation", COINS TechnicalReport 87-87, University of Massachusetts at Am-herst, Computer and Information Science.Moore, Johanna & CEcile Paris 1993 "PlanningText for Advisory Dialogues: Capturing Inten-tional and Rhetorical Information."
ComputationalLinguistics Vol 19, No 4, pp651-694, 1993.O'Donnell, Michael 1990 "A Dynamic Model of Ex-change" in Word, vol.
41, no.
3 Dec. 1990O'Donnell, Michael 1993 "Reducing Complexity ina Systemic Parser ", in Proceedings of the ThirdInternational Workshop on Parsing Technologies,Tilburg, the Netherlands, August 10-13, 1993.O'Donnell, Michael 1994 Sentence Analysis andGeneration - A Systemic Perspective.
Ph.D., De-partment of Linguistics, University of Sydney.O'Donnell, Michael 1995a "From Corpus to Cod-ings: Semi-Automating the Acquisition of Lin-guistic Features", in Proceedings of the AAAISpring Symposium on Empirical Methods in Dis-course Interpretation and Generation, StanfordUniversity, California, March 27 - 29.O'Donnell, Michael 1995b "Sentence GenerationUsing the Systemic WorkBench", in Proceedings ofthe Fifth European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, 20-22 May, Leiden, The Netherlands,pp 235-238.Paris,C~cile 1993 User Modelling in Text Genera-tion, London & New York: Pinter.Pattabhiraman, T. & Nick Cercone 1990 "Se-lection: Salience, Relevance and the Couplingbetween Domain-Level Tasks and Text Planning",in Proceedings of the 5th International Workshopon Natural Language Generation, 3-6 June, 1990,Dawson, Pennsylvania.Patten, Terry 1988 Systemic text generation asproblem solving, Cambridge: Cambridge UniversityPress.Reichman, R. 1978 "Conversational Coherency",Cognitive Science 2, pp283-327.50
