The Computation of the Informational Status of Discourse EntitiesSoenke ZiescheUniversity of Hamburg, Department of Computer Science,Knowledge and Language Processing Group and Doctoral Program in Cognitive Science 1Vogt-Koelln-Str.
30, D-22527 Hamburg, GermanyEmail: ziesche@informatik.uni-hamburg.deSummaryDuring language production, processes ofinformation structuring constitute a relevant part.These processes are regarded as a mapping froma conceptual structure to a perspective semanticstructure.
I will focus on one aspect ofin format ion structur ing,  namely  theverbal izat ion of  the current  mentalrepresentation f entities.
For this verbalization,the informational status of the entities is used.This property is expressed by different means indifferent languages.
My approach constitutes acognitively oriented and highly context-dependent model  for comput ing theinformational status embedded in a concept-to-speech model of language production.
Theprocesses are illustrated by examples taken fromthe implementation.1.
IntroductionVallduvi (1990) postulated that not only apropositional content is transferred by anutterance, but also an instruction for the hearerto extract this propositional content.
By theprocess of information structuring, the speakerintends to create the conditions for realizing thisutterance within the set of possible utteranceswhich presumably offers the hearer the mostefficient way for grasping the underlyingproposition.
Information structuring is highlycontext-dependent a dcan be divided into manysubprocesses.
One important aspect is thecurrent mental representation f entities markedby the informational status.The informational status refers to an absoluteproperty which depends only on contextualcriteria of salience, like knowledge andconsciousness.
Hence, discourse entitiespermanently have a certain informational status,even if they are not verbalized within the currentutterance.The computations on information structuringconstitute an adjustment of parametersdetermining the realization of a felicitousutterance in the following processes.
Concerningthe informational status, this means that allverbalized entities within an utterance have to bemarked in a way that the hearer can easilyidentify these entities.The putative informational status on the part ofthe hearer is manifested in various ways indifferent languages: accentuation, pronominal orlexical coding, or definite or indefinite marking.Lambrecht (1994) mentioned the problem thatthe attitudes marking the current mentalrepresentation are in principle a matter of degreewhereas the l inguistic possibil ities ofmanifestation are partly discrete, e.g.
determiner.Hence, for modeUing the mapping from aninformational status to a linguistic manifestation,it seems useful to employ discrete taxonomiesstructuring the informational status.
The mostimportant axonomies are provided by Prince(1981) and by Lambrecht (1994), based onChafe (1987).In section 2 the computation of the informationalstatus based on these taxonomies i described.This is followed by an example in section 3.2.
The computation of the informationalstatusThe computation of the informational status ismodelled within the framework of theSYNPHONICS system 2 which is particularlysuitable for this task due to its very detailedrepresentation of context.
This concept-to-speech approach on modelling languageproduction is cognitive, combining results fromresearch on psycholinguistics, on theoreticallinguistics as well as on computationallinguistics.Due to psycholinguistic evidence, the propertiesmodular, incremental, parallel, monotonous androbust are assumed for the model.
It consists ofthe three centra l  process ing unitsConceptualizer, Formulator, and Articulator (cf.Levelt (1989)).
Recent findings in theoreticallinguistics are taken into account by encodingsemantic, syntactic, and phonological informa-tion declaratively in a special variant of HPSG53for German.
In addition, it is a computationallinguistic approach using methods uitable forimplementat ion:  l inguistic objects arerepresented as typed feature structures and areprocessed by unification.The SYNPHONICS-system operates on a contextstructure 3 which contains four ola?~es:?
The discourse knowledge comprises therelevant parts of the previous discourse.?
The perceived knowledge consists of theinformation the interlocutors perceive duringthe utterance situation besides speechcomprehension, e.g.
visual, tactile or furtherauditory perceptions.?
The hearer knowledge contains theknowledge relevant for the current utterancewhich the speaker assumes the heareralready to have beforehand.?
The inferrable knowledge consists of therelevant knowledge potentially inferrablefrom the remaining context-classes bymeans of common sense and sufficientknowledge of the currently spoken language.This means that knowledge is consideredwhich is not made directly available by thediscourse or by sense-organs, but indirectlyby means of reasoning.The main data structure on the conceptual level,where the computation of the informationalstatus takes place, are so-called "referentialobjects" ("refo") based on Habel (1986).
A refois modelled by a typed feature structureconsisting, among other, of the features"predications" which comprise a set ofconceptual, i.e.
preverbal, predications and"pointer" which establishes an address used forreference.The Conceptualizer c eates a bipartite outputstream which consists of an incrementalconceptual structure CS comprising thepropositional content of the intended utteranceand a contextual structure CT with the currentlyrelevant parts of the contextual environment.Both CS and CT are composed of refos.Afterwards, for every refo-increment of the CS-stream the informational status is computed.The general principle of the computation of theinformational status is the following, based onthe current CT.Principle of informational status: A refo isassigned to a certain informational statusdepending on which - if any - contextual c assescontain this refo.Constel-lationDiscourseknowledgePerceivedknowledgeHearerknowledgeInferrableknowledgePrince ( 1981 ) Chafe ( 1987)/Lambrecht (1994)I brand_new, new unidentifiableII + inferrable accessibleIII + - unused, new inactiveIV + + inferrable accessibleV + i - sitevoked, evoked activeVI - \[+ + # #lVII - + + sit_evoked, evoked activeVIII - + + + # #IX i + text_evoked, evoked activeIX l+ + # #XI + + - text_evoked, evoked activeXII + - + + # #XIII + + - - evoked activeXIV + + + # #XV + + + - evoked active+ + + XVI + #Table (1): Possible distributions of the refos within the contextual classes.54The computation of the informational status isimplemented based on the ALE-formalism(Attribute Logic Engine, cf.
Carpenter (1992)).For four contextual c asses, 16 constellations arepossible, as illustrated in table (1).
Ten of theseconstellations are realistic; they are assigned tothe informational status according to thetaxonomy of Prince (1981) in the sixth columnand according to the taxonomy of Lambrecht(1994) based on Chafe (1987) in the seventhcolumn, respectively.
Compared to that, theconstellations VI), VIII), X), XII), XIV), andXVI) are nonsensical because it is not necessaryto infer knowledge which is available in anexplicit way in discourse or perceivedknowledge.
Hence, refos contained in thediscourse or perceived knowledge can not besimultaneously elements of the inferrableknowledge.Afterwards, besides the descriptive informationof the refo which should be verbalized, thecomputed informational status is handed asreferential information to the lemma-selector, asubmodule of the SYNPHONICS-formulator.
Thelemma-selector chooses with this informationsuitable lemmata of the lexicon's lemma-partition which guarantee besides descriptiveadequacy referential adequacy of the linguisticincrement.
In German for instance, articles orpronouns are used for that.
These structures arethen mapped onto the content value of thecorresponding HPSG sign.3.
Examples and refinementIn this section I will provide a concrete xamplefor illustration followed by a refinement of therules.
The example concerns the informationalstatus "textually evoked" (see (1)):(1) A book lay on the table.
Mary saw it.A refo is assigned to the informational status"textually evoked" if the discourse knowledgecontains this refo, but neither the perceivedknowledge nor the inferrable knowledge do so,whereas the hearer knowledge does not have tobe taken into account (cf.
table (1): constellationIX) and XI)).
Concerning the refo representingthe book in the second sentence in (1), theProlog clause in figure (1) is applied because thecomparison of the pointer-values confirms theseconstellations.I will close with the analysis of a specialphenomenon pointed out by Lambrecht(1994:80).
(2) Mary is looking for a book.
(2) can be uttered to refer to a specific book aswell as to a non-specific book.
The difference isrevealed by continuing either by (3a) or by (3b):(3) a) She found it.b) She found one.While the anaphoric expression i  (3a) is easy toexplain because it is referred exactly to the sameentity as in the preceding utterance in (2), thecase in (3b) is more difficult.
The anaphoricexpression "one" refers to a concrete entitywhich is new, therefore only identifiable for thespeaker but not for the hearer.
The questionarises why this anaphoric expression isnevertheless felicitous.
It seems that the entity isactivated ue to the activation of the category itbelongs to.
In this non-specific case, thecategory "book" is activated in (2) and thereforeobviously any instances of this category areactivated, too.
This means that the informationalstatus "textually evoked" has to be divided intotwo cases "textually evoked/specific" and"textually evoked/non-specific".My approach is able to handle this phenomenonby the following clause in figure (2) whereas theclause in figure (1) strictly speaking determinesthe in fo rmat iona l  status " textua l lyevoked/specific".
A refo is assigned to theinformational status "textually evoked/non-informational_status(object_refo, c ntext, info_status).informational_status(pointer:A, (discourse_knowledge:B, perceived_knowledge:C,inferrable_knowledge:D), text_evoked) ifelement(pomter:A,B),not element(pointer:A,C),not element(pointer:A,D).Fig.
(1): prolog clause concerning the informational status "textually evoked"55informational_status(object_refo, context, info_status).informational_status(predications: A, (discourse_knowledge:C, perceived_knowledge:D,inferrable_knowledge:E), text_evoked/non-specific)element((predications: A, pointer: var),C),not element((predications: A, pointer: var),D),not element((predications: A, pointer: var),E).Fig.
(2): prolog clause concerning the informational status "textually evoked/non-specific"specific" if it is an instance of a category whichis only given by the discourse knowledge, so far.By the clause in figure (2), it is checked whetheronly the discourse knowledge contains a refowhich has the same predication set as the refowhich should be verbal ized but anunderspecif ied pointer Cvar").
This reforepresents the category with this predication set(e.g.
"book"), but no special instance.4.
ConclusionI have introduced a cognitively orientedapproach for modelling a phenomenon withinthe processes of information structuring, namelythe informational status of discourse entities.Information structuring creates conditions forproducing the most felicitous utterance withinthe set of all possible utterances.
One importantparameter of information structuring is theinformational status.
This value is expressed bydifferent means in different languages formarking verbalized entities in a felicitous way,i.e.
so that the hearer gets the intended reference.Hence, a precise computation of theinformational status is a crucial subprocesswithin the whole process of utteranceproduction.
Accordingly, I have described andillustrated an implemented algorithm based on adetailed representation f context.5.
ReferencesAbb, B.; Gfinther, C.; Herweg, M; Lebeth,K.
; Maienborn, C.; Schopp, A.
(1995).Incremental syntactic and phonological encoding- an outline of the SYNPHONICS-Formulator.In: G. Adorni & M. Zock (eds.
): Trends innatural language generation: an artificialintelligence perspektive.
Berlin: Springer.Carpenter, B.
(1992).
The logic of typed featurestructures.
Cambridge, Cambridge UniversityPress.Chafe, W.L.
(1987).
Cognitive constraints oninformation flow.
In: R.S.
Tomlin (ed.
):Coherence and grounding in discourse.Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins, 21-51.Giinther, C., A. Schopp, S. Ziesche (1995).Incremental computation of informationstructure and its empirical foundation.
In:Proceedings of Fifth European Workshop onNatural Language Generation, Leiden, 181-205.Habel, C. (1986).
Prinzipien der Referential#i#.Berlin: Springer.Lambrecht, K. (1994).
Information structureand sentence form.
Cambridge: CUP.Levelt, W.J.
(1989).
Speaking: from intention toarticulation.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press.Prince, E.F. (1981).
Toward a taxonomy ofgiven/new information.
In P. Cole (ed.
): RadicalPragmatics.
New York: Academic Press, 223-255.Val lduvi ,  E. (1990).
The informationalcomponent.
PhD Thesis, University ofPennsylvania.Ziesche, S. (1995).
Formalization of contextwithin SYNPHONICS and computations basedon it.
In: Proceedings of the IJCAl-95-Workshop"Context in Natural Language Processing",Montrral, 171-179.1 This work was funded by the German ScienceFoundation (DFG).2 Synphonics tands as an acronym for: .sy_n_tactic andphonological realization of incrementally generatedc_onceptual _structures.
For a detailed description ofthe Synphonics ystem see Abb et al (1995) orGtinther et al (1995).3 It is important o emphasize that this contextstructure is not created especially for computing theinformational status, but it also serves to model otherphenomena of information structure.
For a detaileddescription see Gtinther et al (1995) and Ziesche(1995).56
