Strategies for Comparison in Encyclopaedia DescriptionsMaria Milosavljevic and Robert  DaleMicrosoft Research Inst i tuteMacquarie UniversityNorth Ryde NSW 2109 Austral ia{mariam, rdale}@mpce, mq.
edu.
auAbst ractComparisons are typically employed to distin-guish similar entities, or to illustrate a prop-erty of an entity by referring to another com-?
monly known entity which shares that prop-erty.
Based on an analysis of a corpus ofencyclopaedia texts, we define three types ofcomparisons and outline some strategies forapplying these in the generation of entity de-scriptions.
We describe how these compar-ison strategies are used within the PEBA-IIhypertext generation system to generate de-scriptions of animals.1 In t roduct ion  and  A imsIn this paper, we outline some strategiesfor comparison which we use in PEBA-II,a hypertext generation system which pro-duces encyclopaedia descriptions of entities asWorld Wide Web (www) documents, basedon an underlying taxonomic knowledge base.PEBA-II is part of a larger research pro-gramme built around the idea of an intelli-gent on-line encyclopaedia, where the descrip-tions produced by the system vary for differ-ent users and at different times.
Our workis grounded in the domain of animal descrip-tions, although similar issues arise in manyother domains.Comparisons are widespread within exist-ing encyclopaedia descriptions.
In particular,when describing a new concept to a user, acomparison may be made with reference toother known concepts or ideas, enabling thehearer to more easily process and understandthe new material (see \[Milosavljevic 1996\]).So, for example, in the context of animal de-scriptions, if the user knows about the porcu-pine and requests a description of the echidna,then we might describe the echidna by high-lighting both its similarities to and differencesfrom the porcupine.Clearly this requires us to make use of somenotion of a user model, and in a way that isdistinct from previous work in user-modellingin text generation.
Our aim is to producetexts which introduce new concepts by ref-erence to existing knowledge the user is as-sumed to have, thus employing the user modelto greater advantage; past research (see, inparticular, \[Paris 1987\]) has concentrated onavoiding the production of texts which repeatwhat  the user already knows.By  mak ing  use of a discourse model, wecan also generate comparisons that take ac-count of entities that have been mentionedin the previous discourse.
This is particu-larly important in the context of the dynamicconstruction of hypertext documents  froman underlying representation: by employingtext generation techniques, we can producecontext-dependent descriptions which varydepending on the information which has al-ready been presented to the user, thus over-coming some of the limitations of hypertextdocuments  which have been constructed sim-ply by breaking an existing linear text into161pieces.
As has been noted by others (see,for example, \[Reiter et al1992\] and \[Moore1989\]), the dynamic generation of hypertextalso permits the user to effectively drive thetext generation system, alleviating from thesystem some of the responsibility of reason-ing about what to present o the user.In Section 2, we provide an overview of thePEBA-II system; in Section 3, we provide a def-inition of comparison and identify three typesof comparison on the basis of a corpus anal-ysis; and in Section 4 we describe how thecorresponding discourse strategies are imple-mented in PEBA-I I .
Section 5 ends the paperby pointing to some future research directions.2 An  Overv iew of  PEBA-IIThe architecture of the PEBA-II system isshown in Figure 1; the components are as fol-lows.The knowledge base that currently under-lies the system has been hand-constructedfrom an analysis of encyclopaedia descriptionsof animals and constitutes a taxonomy of theLinnaean animal classes with their associatedproperties.
Particular properties may also belabeled as distinguishing for a specific class.The plan library consists of discourse planswhich are used by the text planning compo-nent.
Currently, the system makes use of twohigh level discourse plans, which we nameidentify and compare-and-contrast.
The iden-tify discourse plan is used to describe an entityand the compare-and-contrast di course plan isused to compare two entities.
These discourseplans are similar in spirit but rather differ-ent in content o the similarly-named schemasused by McKeown \[1985\], with a number ofthe differences arising from the fact that weare generating hypertext pages.A new discourse goal is generated by theuser clicking on a hypertext link in the cur-rent document being viewed.
Given this newgoal, the text planning component selects anyrelevant information from the knowledge baseCommunicative ( Animal Facts"~Discourse Goals ~Knowledge Base)I Text Planning com :n  tDiscoursePlan1,Surface Realisation ~Component I ~Lexicon)HTMLTextHTML ~ World Wide WebCommand ~\ ]  ViewerFigure 1: The architecture of the PEBA-I I  sys-temand organises the information according tothe current discourse plan.
The leaves of theinstantiated iscourse plan are then realisedvia a simple template mechanism.
1The output from the PEBA-II system is adocument marked up using a subset of HTMLcommands.
This document may be displayedusing any www document renderer such asMosaic or Netscape.
The user poses newdiscourse goals to the system by clicking onany of the hypertext tags, and the cyclecontinues.
2The combination of text generation and hy-pertext has been explored by others, most no-tably in Moore's \[1989, 1995\] PEA and in Re-1Although we have experimented with using El-hadad's \[1992\] FUF realisation engine, for the textswe currently generate a template-based mechanism isfaster and seems quite adequate.
Speed is importantin the context of Web-based generation: see Tullochand Dale \[1995\] for some ideas on addressing the prob-lems here.2A version of PEBA-II is available on the Web atURL: http : / /~ .
mpce.
mq.
edu.
au/msi/peba, html.162iter et als \[1992, 1995\] IDAS.
PEBA-II is clos-est in concept o the IDAS system; a more de-tailed description of PEBA-II can be found in\[Milosavljevic, Tulloch and Dale 1996\].
Knottet al\[1996\] discuss some further issues in-volved in combining hypertext with naturallanguage generation.3 Defining Comparisons3.1 Data  ana lys i sA corpus analysis has been conducted toidentify how comparisons are used in ency-clopeedia articles, so that these techniquesmay be built into the PEBA- I I  system.
Inthe first instance, we have concentrated onthe domain of animal descriptions; we in-tend to widen the scope of this analysis toother domains in order to provide a moredomain-independent theory of comparativeforms.
The two encyclopmdias analysedwere Microsoft Encarta \[Microsoft 1995\] andGroliers Multimedia Encyclopmdia \[Groliers1992\]; each encyclopaedia yielded around 1200animal entries, and from these we collateda subcorpus of sentences involving compari-son.
This subcorpus contains 1722 sentencesfrom the Encarta corpus, and 1557 from theGroliers corpus.The aim of the corpus analysis was toreverse-engineer the comparisons found in an-imal descriptions in order to answer the fol-lowing questions:What entities are compared in descrip-tive texts and how do they relate to eachother?
What properties of these entitiesare used in comparisons?Why are particular entities compared?Why are some entities better compara-tors than others?What techniques do we need to build intoa text generation system to be able toproduce similar comparisons?3.2 Some Def in i t ions3.2.1 Compar i sonWe will adopt the following definitions:A comparative proposition is aproposition whose purpose is todraw the hearer's attention to a dif-ference or a similarity that two en-tities have for the value of a sharedattribute.
3A comparison is the linguistic re-alisation of a set of one or morecomparative propositions, where thepurpose of the set of propositions isto draw the hearer's attention to oneor more differences or similarities be-tween two entities.We have identified three different types ofcomparative forms that appear in descrip-tive texts, which we refer to here as DI-RECT COMPARISONS, CLARIFICATORY COM-PARISONS, and ILLUSTRATIVE COMPARISONS.Of these three types, only the first has beenexplored to any great degree in the contextof natural language generation: both McKe-own \[1985\] and Maybury \[19951 have lookedat various aspects of direct comparisons.3.2.2 Direct Compar isonsA DIRECT COMPARISON is a comparisonwhose purpose is to compare two entitieswhere neither entity is more central to thediscourse than the other.
In the context ofa language generation system like PEBA-II,direct comparisons arise when the user en-ters a request such as: What is the differencebetween the Echidna and the African Porcu-pine?
PEBA-II generates the text shown inFigure 2 in response to such a query.This text is essentially 'bi-focal': theechidna and the porcupine are equally impor-aIn the terminology we adopt here, a PROPERTY isa tuple consisting of an ATTRIBUTE and a VALUE; \[orexample, (colour, red/.163:"?ile ~,.dit ~iew ~o ~ookmarks .O.ptlons D.irectoly ~indow ~elp I 1 1 112\] I !,  The Echidna and the African Porcupine iThe Echidna, also known as the spiny Anteater, is a type of Monotreme.
The Monotreme is a type of Mammalthat lays eggs with leathery shells similar to reptiles.
The African Porcupine is a type of Flacental Mammal.The Placental Mammal is a type of Mammal that carries its developing young inside the mothers womb.Some Comparisons:?
Like the African Porcupine, the Echidna has a browny black coat and paler-coloured spines.?
The Echidna is found in Australia whereas the African Porcupine is found in Africa.?
The Echidna is a carruvore and eats ants, termites and earthworms whereas the African Porcupine is aherbivore and eats leaves, roots and fruit.?
The Echidna is active at dawn and dusk whereas the African Porcupine is nocturnal.?
The Echidna lives by itself whereas the African Porcupine ither lives by itself or in groups.?
The Echidna has a lifespan of 50 years in captivity whereas the African Porcupine has a lifespan of up to17 years.Peba-E Text Generation System~.,~iL..~l\] iDocument: Done IFigure 2: A direct comparison as generated by PEBA-IIrant, and the purpose of the text is to deter-mine their similarities and differences basedon both their relationship within a taxon-omy of animals (their lowest common ances-tor) and their attributes.
This is, of course,the same notion of comparison that is used inMcKeown's \[1985\] TEXT system.The key point here is that direct compar-isons are generally user-initiated.
More inter-esting from the point of view of text genera-tion are clarificatory and illustrative compar-isons: here, the entity being described by thesystem is described in relation to some otherentity chosen by the system.3.2.3 Clar i f i catory  Compar i sonsA CLARIFICATORY COMPARISON is a compar-ison whose purpose is to describe an entityby distinguishing it clearly from another en-tity with which it might be confused or withwhich it shares a number of salient properties.In such cases we will refer to the first entityas the FOCUSED ENTITY, and to the secondentity as the POTENTIAL CONFUSOR.The main difference between a clarificatorycomparison and a direct comparison is thata clarificatory comparison is made within atext whose purpose is to describe one entityand not purely to provide a comparison be-tween two entities.
A clarificatory compari-son serves to describe the focused entity; thus,it corresponds to the user entering a requestsuch as What is the echidna?
In such a case,instead of describing the echidna in isolation,the system may choose to describe it using aclarificatory comparison with the porcupine.164There  are two reasons why  a clarificatorycompar ison  might  be used:?
The focused entity might be extremelysimilar to another entity, and thereforeoften confused with that entity.
In thiscase, it is important hat, when describ-ing the focused entity, it is sufficientlydistinguished from the potential confu-sor .?
Alternatively, an entity sharing a numberof salient features with the focused en-tity might already be known to the user;in such a case, a clarificatory comparisonbetween these entities may aid the user'sunderstanding of the focused entity.For example,  consider the following text ex-tracted f rom the animal  corpus:Sheep, are hollow-horned ruminantsbelonging to the genus Ovis, subor-der Ruminata, family Bovidae.
Sim-ilar to goats, sheep differ in theirstockier bodies, the presence of scentglands in face and hind feet, andthe absence of beards in the males.Domesticated sheep are also moretimid and prefer to flock and followa leader.
\[Groliers 1992\].In this text, the focused entity (the sheep) isvery similar and might often be confused withthe comparator entity (the goat); this is par-ticularly true of some wild sheep.
A readerwho is familiar with the comparator entitywill also more easily form a mental pictureof what the focused entity is like.There are a number of interesting researchissues here:?
How is a comparator entity selected?
Forexample, a very appropriate comparatorfor the echidna is the porcupine, but thetwo entities are not closely related withinthe Linnaean taxonomy of animal classes.The reason for the choice of compara-tor entity here lies in the fact that bothanimals possess harp spines--this is theonly salient property the animals share.?
How do we make clarificatory compar-isons which do not cause the user to makeincorrect inferences?
For example, if auser who is not familiar with sheep re-quests a description of the sheep and thesystem describes the sheep by informingthe user of its similarities with the goatand not their differences, then the usercould be led to believe that the two an-imals are more similar than they are inreality.
The text shown above very care-fully describes both similarities and dif-ferences for only the most salient featureswhich clearly distinguish the animals.A user model is advantageous here since theimportance of different attribute types willvary from person to person.
For example, ifexternal appearance is the most important at-tribute, then we would want to compare theechidna to the porcupine.
If, on the otherhand, reproduction is considered a more im-portant feature, then we might compare theechidna to the platypus.
The geographical lo-cation of the user can also play an importantrole: for example, in the texts that we have ex-amined, squirrels are often used as compara-tors; but Australians are not necessarily fa-miliar with the features of squirrels, and someNor th  Amer icans  might  only know of the ex-istence of black squirrels.3.2.4 Illustrative ComparisonsAn ILLUSTRATIVE COMPARISON is a compari-son whose purpose is to describe one or moreattributes ofan entity by referring to the sameattribute(s) of another entity with which theuser is familiar.
The difference between an il-lustrative comparison and a clarificatory com-parison is that in an illustrative comparison,the comparator entity, although usually of asimilar type (in this case, an animal), mayonly share one attribute with the focused en-tity, and is not necessarily similar in any other165way to the focused entity.Here are some illustrative comparisons fromour corpus:?
Powerful and aggressive animals aboutthe size of a large dog, baboons havestrong, elongated jaws, large cheekpouches in which they store food, andeyes close together.
\[Microsoft 1995\]?
\[Aye-aye\] are about the size of a largecat and have long, bushy tails, a shaggybrown coat, and large ears.
\[Microsoft1995\]?
About the size of a small fox, \[the Aye-aye\] has a long, bushy tail, moderatelylarge eyes, thick fur, and a pair of en-larged front teeth resembling those of ro-dents.
\[Groliers 1992\]?
This echolocation system, similar to thatof the bat, enables the dolphin to navigateamong its companions and larger objectsand to detect fish, squid, and even smallshrimp.
\[Microsoft 1995\]Slightly larger than chinchillas, themountain viscachas have long, rab-bitlike ears and a long squirrel-liketail.
\[Microsoft 1995\]In each of these sentences, an illustrative com-parison is made so that the reader can moreeasily grasp the concept being described.
In-stead of describing the size and proportion ofthe viscacha's ears in absolute terms, a refer-ence to the rabbit's ears makes it easier forthe reader to understand what the ears reallylook like.There is a great deal of scope for tailoringdescriptions to a user's knowledge here: forexample, illustrating the size of the aye-ayewith the fox might be appropriate for a userwho is familiar with the fox; however this il-lustration might not be appropriate for some-one located in Australia, since the fox is notfound in Australia.
The features of a particu-lar animal (the sheep, for example) might alsovary geographically.4 Implementing ComparisonStrategiesAbove, we identified three particular types ofcomparisons that are present in our corpus.In PEBA-II, each corresponds to a particulardiscourse strategy for generating a hypertextpage.
In this section, we describe how thesestrategies are implemented within PEBA-I I .4.1 Choosing Amongst the Strate-giesWe are faced with two interdependent ques-tions: when do we decide to describe an entityby comparing it to another entity, and how dowe decide which type of comparison to use?Recall from earlier that PEBA- I I  can addresstwo different discourse goals: requests to de-scribe some specified entity, and requests tocompare two specified entities.
The latterdiscourse goal corresponds, of course, to thecategory of direct comparisons we identifiedabove.
As we noted earlier, direct compar-isons are thus user-initiated.
We are more in-terested here in how PEBA-II decides when it isappropriate to use either a clarificatory com-parison or an illustrative comparison.
Eachbecomes an option when PEBA-I!
has beenasked to describe some specified entity.
Aclarificatory comparison is generated when-ever the entity to be described is known tohave a POTENTIAL CONFUSOR: our implemen-tation of this strategy is currently very sim-ple, and is described in Section 4.3.
Illustra-tive comparisons are the focus of the currentwork, and we describe our approach to thesein Section 4.4.4.2 D i rec t  ComparisonsAs mentioned earlier, the PEBA-II system al-lows the user to request one of two actions:to describe a single entity or to comparetwo entities.
A direct comparison is gener-ated by PEBA-II whenever the user requestsa comparison between two entities.
Using a166corpus-derived property classification system,the discourse plan used here pairs up those at-tributes which are of a similar type (for exam-ple, measurements such as height and length)and compares their values.
An example wwwpage generated using this strategy is shown inFigure 2.4.3 C la r i f i ca tory  Compar i sonsThe purpose of a clarificatory comparison isto ensure that the reader does not confuse theentity being described with some other entity.Such confusions are possible when the entitybeing described is similar in relevant respectsto some other entity.We could try to generate such clarifica-tory comparisons from first principles: whenwe have to describe some entity e, we couldsearch the knowledge base for entities whichshare properties with e, and then use somemechanism to determine whether there is anychance that the two entities might be con-fused.
We could then phrase our descriptionof e to make sure that we distinguish e fromsuch potential confusors.
For example, in de-scribing the rabbit, it may be important todistinguish it from the very similar hare in or-der to avoid confusion.
4 There are problemswith such an approach: searching the knowl-edge base in this way would be a very costlyprocess: it assumes a rather more completeknowledge base than we may be able to relyon; and, most important of all, it assumes thatwe can determine likelihood of confusabilityon the basis of some metr ic- -but it is not atall clear what such a metric might be.Our current solution to these problems isto sidestep them entirely: for each entity thathas a potential confusor--for example, sheepand goats--we specify this explicitly in the4There are clearly ideas we might use here in Mc-Coy's \[1988\] work on correcting a user's misconcep-tions; however, the real issue here lies in determin-ing whether such a misconception might arise from agenerated comparison (see Zukerman and McConachy\[1993, 1995\] for some work in this area).knowledge base by means of a clause of thefollowing form:(hasprop sheep(potential-confusor goat))Then, whenever we have to describe thesheep, we know immediately that it has a po-tential confusor in the goat, and invoke a dis-course strategy that makes an explicit com-parison between the two entities.
The result-ing text includes a comparison with the goatbut is aimed at describing the sheep and hencegoes further than a direct comparison betweenthe sheep and goat.Hard-coding potential confusors might beconsidered an 'easy way out', although it isour view that this is one of many places inNLG where there is benefit in adopting so-lutions that make use of precomputed infor-mation in preference to working things outfrom first principles.
For example, singlingout potential comparator entities in this wayis no different in principle to explicitly mark-ing in the knowledge base those propertieswhich are distinguishing characteristics, a tac-tic that both McKeown \[1985\] and we our-selves use.
5 We have adopted this philoso-phy for various design decisions made in thedevelopment of PEBA-II, so that, for exam-ple, we also make use of a phrasal lexicon asa repository of precomputed mappings fromsemantic units to multi-word lexico-syntacticresources (see \[Becker 1979\] for an early jus-tification for this approach).
Again, a similarphilosophy underpins the use of precomputedlists of preferred attributes in the work on thegeneration of referring expressions reported in\[Reiter and Dale, 1992\].
Our position is thatsuch methods can be a virtue rather than avice, since they allow broad coverage systemsto be built more quickly.5Note that Maybury \[1995\], on the other hand, out-lines an algorithm for determining the distinguishingcharacteristics for an entity from first principles.1674.4 I l lus t ra t ive  Compar i sonsCurrently, most of our attention is focused onthe third category of comparisons, those wehave termed illustrative comparisons.
Theseare cases where one or more attributes of anentity being described are compared to thoseof a common object with which the reader isassumed to be familiar.
For the present dis-cussion, we will concentrate on the attributesof size and weight, and the mechanisms usedto produce illustrative comparisons that in-dicate these attributes of the entity being de-scribed.
These are probably two of the easiestproperties to deal with; it remains to be seento what extent the mechanisms we proposewill generalise to other attributes.For illustrative comparisons, there are twoquestions to be answered:?
How do we decide whether an illustrativecomparator should be introduced??
How do we decide which comparator tochoose when there are multiple candi-dates?We could perform these comparisons using asimilar approach to that which we adoptedfor clarificatory comparisons: for each entity-attribute pair we could specify some entitythat can be used as a comparator.
Thus, wemight have clauses in the knowledge base thatlook like the following:(hasprop baboon(illustrative-comparator size dog))However, this would be unwieldy: part of thejustification for taking this approach in thecase of clarificatory comparisons is that wewould expect a relatively small subset of theentities in the knowledge base to have poten-tial confusors, and so the cost of explicitlyencoding a representation of these potentialconfusors is not too great.
However, virtuallyany entity-attr ibute pair might be describedusing an illustrative comparison, and so weneed some way of generalising the processinghere.We do this by making use of the notion ofa COMMON COMPARATOR SET.
This is a setof entity types that can be compared againstfor illustrative purposes.
For the moment, acommon comparator set is defined for each at-tribute we might wish to describe; there maybe some scope for interesting eneralisationslater.
We focus here on the size and weight at-tributes: for both of these, our common com-parator set is the set(human, dog, cat)Note that the common comparator set for anygiven attr ibute isdomain specific: different comparatorsets for size and weight will be appropri-ate in different domains;user specific: it is likely that differentcomparator sets will be appropriate fordifferent users; andin principle extensible, both directly andindirectly: we can imagine the user ex-plicitly being allowed to specify a set ofcomparator objects, or we could dynam-ically extend the set used on the basis ofthe ongoing discourse history.There  may be ways  of building or precom-piling a common comparator  set automati-cally using the knowledge  base and  informa-tion f rom a user model ,  but for the momentwe assume that it has been preconstructed.G iven an entity e we  want  to describe andsome attribute a of the entity we  want  to com-municate, we  use the algorithm in Figure 3.The  procedure used here for finding thebest match  is one that in our current exper-iments looks acceptable, a l though it is likelyto be applicable only for a relatively nar rowrange of attributes.
There  are a number  ofobvious deficiencies, all of wh ich  we are cur-rently exploring:?
Properties are not independent: for ex-ample, we have found that, when deal-168To describe attribute a of entity e (the focusedentity):?
Identify comparator set Sa for attribute a?
Val = median value of a for e?
For each ei E Sa, identify location of Val onthe range of values that e~ has for a?
Choose best match:- choose ei whose median value for a isclosest o Val- i f  this doesn't select uniquely fromamongst the comparator set thenchoose ei whose range for a is closestto ValFigure 3: Choosing a comparator objecting with size, we also need to take ac-count of similarity of body-form in deter-mining which entity makes the best com-parator, and so our current mechanismdistinguishes three different size mea-surements: height, length and shoulder-height.
* Similarity and difference are not com-pletely distinct: the similarity of two val-ues for a particular attribute should beviewed as a scale of similarity rather thanas a binary distinction.?
The user's degree of familiarity with thepotential comparators can help in mak-ing a choice.?
The degree of relatedness between thetwo entities can also play a role in choos-ing the best comparator.So far, however, the results of the simplemethod we have outlined seem promising.
Forexample, PEBA-II currently generates the fol-lowing sentences:?
The platypus is about the same length asa domestic at.?
The baboon has about the same shoulderheight as a domestic dog.Note that the use of a common compara-tor set in conjunction with the algorithmspecified here means that we can separatethe domain-specific aspects of the computa-tion from the domain-independent aspects; inprinciple, the aim is that the comparator setspecifies domain-specific information, but thealgorithm itself is domain independent.As always, our methodology is to pur-sue solutions that first assume a consider-able amount of precompiled knowledge andthen introduce generalisability and flexibilitythrough subsequent parameterisation, ratherthan beginning with a very limited coveragesolution that works from first principles.
Itis our view that this methodology is the onlyone that is likely to be successful for broadcoverage, practical NLG systems.5 Conc lus ions  and  FutureWorkIn this paper, we have:described the PEBA-II system, as an ex-ample of a system which integrates nat-ural language generation and hypertextin the provision of user-tailored informa-tion;?
defined some notions relevant to thestudy of comparison; andlooked at the concept of illustrative com-parison in detail, with the aim of defininga mechanism for generating such compar-isons that embodies a clear distinctionbetween domain-dependent and domain-independent information.For future work, we intend to elaborate uponand extend further the techniques describedhere.
In particular, we intend to make useof these notions in the generation of compar-isons which take account of the discourse his-tory; some examples of this phenomenon arediscussed in \[Dale and Milosavljevic 1996\].169AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Mike Johnson of Mac-quarie University and the members of theLanguage Technology Group at Microsoft Re-search Institute for many discussions relatedto this work.ReferencesJ.
D. Becker \[1979\] The Phrasal Lexicon.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Theoretical Is-sues in Natural Language Processing, Cam-bridge, MA, pp.
70-77.Robert Dale and Maria Milosavljevic \[1996\] Au-thoring on Demand: Natural Language Gen-eration in Hypertext Documents.
In Proceed-ings of the First Australian Document Com-puting Conference, Melbourne, Australia.Michael Elhadad \[1992\] Using Argumentation toControl Lexical Choice: A Functional Uni-fication Implementation.
PhD Thesis,Columbia University.Groliers \[1992\] The New Grolier Multimedia En-cyclopaedia.
Copyright Grolier Incorporated,(c) 1987-1992 Online Computer Systems, Inc.Alistair Knott, Chris Mellish, Jon Oberlanderand Mick O'Donnell \[1996\] Sources of Flexi-bility in Dynamic Hypertext Generation.
Inthis volume.Kathleen McCoy \[1988\] Reasoning on a High-lighted User Model to Respond to Misconcep-tions.
Computational Linguistics, 14(3):52-63.Kathleen McKeown \[1985\] Text Generation - Us-ing Discourse Strategies and Focus Con-straints to Generate Natural Language Text.Cambridge University Press.Mark T Maybury \[1995\] Using Similarity Metricsto Determine Content for Explanation Gen-eration.
Expert Systems with Applications,8(4):513-525.Microsoft \[1995\] Microsoft (R) Encarta'95 Ency-clopaedia.
Copyright (c) 1994 Microsoft Cor-poration.
Copyright (c) 1994 Funk and Wag-nail's Corporation.Maria Milosavljevic \[1996\] Introducing New Con-cepts Via Comparison: A New Look at UserModeling in Text Generation.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth International Conference on UserModelling, Doctoral Consortium, pp.
228-230.Maria Milosavljevic, Adrian Tulloch and RobertDale \[1996\] Text Generation in a DynamicHypertext Environment.
In Proceedings ofthe Nineteenth Australasian Computer Sci-ence Conference.Johanna Moore \[1989\] A Reactive Approach toExplanation in Expert and Advice-GivingSystems.
PhD Thesis.
UCLA.Johanna Moore \[1995\] Participating in Explana-tory Dialogues.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Cecile Paris \[1993\] User Modelling in Text Gen-eration.
Pinter Publishers.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale \[1992\] A Fast Al-gorithm for the Generation of ReferringExpressions.
In Proceedings of Coling-92,Nantes, France, August 1992.Ehud Reiter, Chris Mellish and John Levine\[1992\] Automatic Generation of On-line Doc-umentation in the IDAS Project.
In Pro-ceedings of the Third Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing, Trento, Italy,March-April 1992.Ehud Reiter, Chris Mellish and John Levine\[1995\] Automatic Generation of TechnicalDocumentation.
Applied Artificial Intelli-gence, 9(2):259-287.Adrian Tulloch and Robert Dale \[1995\] Speedingup Linguistic Realisation by Caching Previ-ous Results.
In Poster Proceedings of theEighth Australian Joint Artificial IntelligenceConference, Canberra, November 1995.Ingrid Zukerman and Richard McConachy \[1993\]Generating Concise Discourse that Addressesa User's Inferences.
In Proceedings of theThirteenth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence (IJCAI'93), pp.
1202-1207.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.Ingrid Zukerman and Richard McConachy \[1995\]WISHFUL: A Discourse Planning Systemthat Considers a User's Inferences.
Techni-cal Report, Department of Computer Science,Monash University, Australia.170
