Sources of Flexibility in Dynamic Hypertext GenerationAlistair Knott  t Chris Mellish $ Jon Ober lander  t Mick O'Donnell  $t Human Communicat ion Research Centre, 2 Buccleuch Place$ Department  of Artificial Intelligence, 80 South BridgeUniversity of Edinburgh, Scotland{h.Knott \] C.Mellish I J.Oberlander J M.ODonnell}@ed.ac.ukFax: (+44) 131 650 4587Abst rac t'Dynamic hypertext' is hypertext which is au-tomatically generated at the point of need.
Anumber of NLG systems have now been devel-oped to operate within a hypertext environ-ment; and now that these systems are becom-ing widely available on the World Wide Web,it is useful to take stock of how well-equippedNLG technology is to work in this new do-main.
A generation system in a hypertext en-vironment faces a specific set of requirements;here, we discuss those requirements, and theresources that can be provided to help meetthem.
Examples are drawn from a number ofsystems, including our own prototype, ILEX-0.
We conclude by indicating that the majorbenefit of such systems could be in the waythat they combine flexibility with the illusionof user control.Keywords :  content selection, text plan-ning, applications, hypertext1 NLG in a hyper text  envi-ronment1.1 S tat i c  vs Dynamic  Hyper textWithin the last ten years there has been aupsurge of interest in hypertext as a mediumfor on-line access to written documents.
As acentral objective of Natural Language Genera-tion (NLG) is on-line creation of written docu-ment~, it is hardly surprising that a number ofgeneration systems have been developed whichuse hypertext as their interface.Conventional hypertext is stat ic,  in thesense that- -even though each reader may151sample different parts of it--once a hyper-document has been constructed by its authors,its content and form do not change.
However,applying NLG to hypertext allows the possibil-ity of dynamic  hyper text ,  where the docu-ment is created as demanded by the user.
Thisapproach allows the hypertext pages seen bythe user to be customised in relation to thebrowsing context.In some cases, customisation is only in re-lation to content--the page brings togetherinformation from various on-line sources, butpresents it in a single standard way.
Other sys-tems, using more advanced NLG techniques,allow the text to be customised in terms ofboth content and presentation form, being sen-sitive to such factors as the user mode l  (char-acteristics of the user), the d iscourse h i s tory(a record of information presented so far), andthe sys tem's  goals (what the system meansto achieve).Amongst the latter systems, the degree offlexibility supported by the text generationcomponent varies considerably.
In some sys-tems (such as StrathTutor \[Kibby and Mayes1988\]) and Trellis \[Stotts and Furuta 1989\]),the hypertext pages are hand-crafted in ad-vance, but the way they are linked togethervaries from session to session depending on theinterests of the user.
In other systems, the hy-pertext pages themselves are generated at run-time, as well as the links between them.
Inmany current systems, a mixture of these twomethods is employed.Clearly, there are many different ways of in-troducing flexibility into a hypertext system.Our concern in this paper is to outline the mostimportant of these, indicating which have al-ready been explored, and which others deserve 2 A sample domain: Museumcloser attention within the NLG community, guided tours1.2 Ex is t ing  Dynamic  Hyper textSys temsA number of hypertext systems incorporatingNLG technology have already been developed.In this paper, we will make reference to the fivesystems listed below.ALFRESCO \[Carenini et al 1993\]: pro-vides an interface to a videodisc of Italianfrescoes and monuments.
It supportsnatural language input and output, andgenerated text contains hypertext linksinto an existing static hypertext.IDAS \[Reiter at al.
1995, Reiter et al 1992\]:delivers simple technical documentationonline via a hypertext interface.M IGRAINE \[Buchanan et al 1995\]: gener-ates information and reactive explana-tions for a patient, based on their medicalrecord.PEBA- I I  \[Dale and Milosavljevic 1996,Milosavljevic et al 1996\]: interfaces witha zoological database.
Delivers eithera description of a single user-selectedanimal, or a comparison between twouser-selected animals.P IGL IT  \[Binsted et al 1995\]: allows a pa-tient to interface to their medical records,and receive personalised explanation.In addition to these systems, we will intro-duce our own prototype system ILEX-0, whichis being developed specifically to examine is-sues arising in the domain of dynamic hy-pertext.
The system is designed to simulatethe interaction of a museum tour guide and abrowsing visitor; this interaction is describedin more detail in Section 2.
In Section 3, thebrowsing task provides the context for a gen-eral discussion of the factors which influencethe ability of a hypertext system to functiondynamically, and in the light of this discussion,some observations about existing dynamic hy-pertext systems.
Section 4 then --traws someconclusions concerning the real potential of dy-namic hypertext.A central attraction of the hypertext interfaceis its suitability for the task of informationbrowsing.
By following hyperlinks, the in-formation seeker (i.e.
the user) can easily nav-igate to new areas of interest.
At the sametime, for the reasons already mentioned, thereare advantages in being able to provide the in-formation requested by the user in a dynamicfashion.
If we look for an analogy in the realworld to the kind of interface we are aimingfor, an interesting candidate is the dialoguebetween a museum tour guide and a browsingvisitor.
The ILEX (Intelligent Labelling Ex-plorer) project has been set up to study thisdomain, and to reproduce some of its distinc-tive features in a hypertext system.
To achievethis goal, our system must:Suppor t  mixed  in i t ia t ive  d ia logue Thereis a degree of 'dialogic' interaction be-tween the tour-guide and the visitor.While there are quite restricted irectionsthat the conversation can take, eachparty can take the initiative in pursuinga direction.Be i n teres t ing  The visitor is free to askabout whichever objects take his fancy; ifan object does not hold his interest, hewill move on to another, or finish.Be i n fo rmat ive  The system has all the infor-mation, and has the goal of getting acrosssome basic messages about the content ofthe gallery.Clearly, the system needs to alter its descrip-tions in the light of the objects the visitor hasalready heard about, and to have some ideaabout what the visitor might find interesting.This is an increase in functionality comparedto existing static museum hypertexts, for in-stance as created in the UK by the HunterianMuseum and the National Gallery.Our peint of departure has been to gathertranscripts of real guided tours, in collabora-tion with the National Museums of Scotland.We ran two 'Curator-of-Oz' interviews, wherea curator of the modern jewellery gallery was152V: Can we look at Case number 7 now, object number 10, this one here...C: Yes: you've made a link with the first piece that we looked at, which is the ideaof a piece of jewellery which is also a work of art and a sculpture... [describesjewellery].l/: Can you say more about that object'?C: Yea.
This one was made by Roger Morris.
[Describes jeweller].V: So is there any other object which is particularly relevant o this one'?C: Yes... [points out and describes two other brooches].
It was work like thiswhich directly inspired work like the Roger Morris brooch we looked at earlier.Figure 1: Part of the 'Curator-of-Oz' transcriptsFigure 2: A Sample Hyper-TourSystem Representation Linguistic Discourse User Goals Many ManyGranularity Sophistication History Model Texts OptionsALFRESCOIDASPEBA-IIPIGLITMIGRAINEILEX-0KR+Canned Full+Canned Initially Yes User Initially NoKR+Intermed.
Full+Template Locally Yes User Yes NoKR+Canned Template No Yes User Yes YesKR+Canned Template No?
Yes System No NoKR Template Yes Yes Mixed Yes YesKR+Annot Template Some Yes Mixed No YesFigure 3: Dimensions of Flexibility in Existing Systems - Representation Granularity and Lin-guistic Sophistication (Section 3.1), Sensitivity to Discourse History (Section 3.2), User Mod-elling (Section 3.3), Location of Goals (Section 3.5), Many Texts and Many Options (Section3.4)153asked to talk about a series of objects in re-sponse to simple prompts from a visitor.
Fig-ure 1 shows an extract from one such interview.V is the visitor, and C is the curator.
Basedon the information extracted from these tours,and additional database material, a prototypesystem ILEX-0 generates hypertext pages; fora sample page, see Figure 2.ILEX-0 is still far from generating discourseof the sophistication shown by a real museumcurator.
But it should be clear that any hy-pertext system designed to simulate such dis-course must make use of a dynamic generationcomponent of some sort.
In the following sec-tion, we consider the kinds of flexibility whichthis component should ideally provide.3 Parameters of flexibility inhypertext generationWe indicated in Section 1.1 that an NLG sys-tem can exploit a number of techniques to gen-erate hypertext.
In this section we will attemptto isolate a number of parameters which affectthe flexibility of the resulting dynamic hyper-text.
Although obviously such a short tablecannot do justice to the detailed contributionsof these systems, Figure 3 summarises our un-derstanding of how the above six systems varyin terms of the parameters, which are discussedin the following sections.
In each case, we as-sume that the parameter influences the qualityof the text, and we ask whether NLG needs toinvestigate the parameter in greater detail inorder to produce good hypertext applications.3.1 Granu lar i ty  o f  in fo rmat ion  rep-resentat ionA fundamental factor influencing generatorflexibility is the form of representation f theinformation to be expressed.
At one extreme,the information can actually be stored as text,in which case there is no scope at all for flexibil-ity of expression; this is essentially the scenariofor 'canned' text.
Scope for contextual vari-ability is introduced by establishing an inde-pendent format for information storage, and aflexible mapping algorithm from this to surfacetext.
The linguistic sophistication required ofthe system obviously depends on the level ofrepresentation chosen.In fact, the 'degree of cannedness' of a sys-tem's output is on a sliding scale.
A statichypertext is made up entirely of canned text.In a slightly more flexible system, individualsentences or paragraphs may be canned, whiletheir organisation and inclusion is constrainedby some theory of discourse.
(For instance,a system could store canned sentences organ-ised in terms of an RST tree; the generatorcould then use the RST information to selectand linearly organise the canned segments.
)More flexible still, a system could use cannedtext only at the phrasal evel, for example in atemplate-based sentence generation system, orin a phrasal lexicon.
Finally, a system coulddispense with canned text altogether, and usefull NLG technology.
ALFRESCO uses gen-eral generation methods for the first screenproduced, but canned representations for theother nodes accessible by hyperlinks.
Most ofthe systems discussed in this paper use cannedtext in some places though also being able togenerate variable text.
IDAS uses a number ofintermediate forms that mix canned text withstandard knowledge representations.Concern with the appropriate degree ofcannedness for NLG systems is of course notlimited to hypertext generation.
It is currentlythe focus for much debate in all areas of NLG,especially where the development of practicalapplications is an issue (see e.g.
\[Reiter et al1995\]).
But as the dimensions of flexibility weare interested in depend on this issue, it is im-portant to discuss it.ILEX-0 represents information at two dis-tinct levels on the cannedness scale.
For fine-grained detail, the system uses a databasemade available by the museum, containingentries for the 120 or so jewellery items inthe Modern Jewellery exhibit.
These entrieshave been parsed in and represented in a KB-accessible form, as shown in Figure 4.
Thegeneration of sentences based on this informa-tion is currently effected via a simple template-based mechanism.Secondly, the transcriptions of the cura-tor tours have been hand-processed to ex-tract canned stor ies  about individual jew-ellery items, the designers of the items, and154(def-jewel: case  '7-10:isn 342040:code 'a.1987.284:short-title "a brooch on pyramid mount":date "1976":class 'brooch:class-text "brooch with mount":materials '(acrylic yellow-materialwhite-metal):designer 'morrisOl:dimensions "5.20\" L":properties '(mounted):place "ENGLAND: London")Figure 4: A Sample Database Entry(def-story:id 'PAPER-i:trigger 'PAPER:type :PROPERTY:message 'MANY-KINDS-OF-JEWELLERY:singular-label "item made of paper":plural-label "items made of paper":text "Jewellery need not be made ofmetal.
This item, quite unusually,is made from paper.
This showsthat a wide range of materialscan be used and still be called'jewellery'.
")Figure 5: A Sample Story using only CannedTextcan be conditionalised, indicating that thetext is to appear only if the condition ismet, e.g.
"They used the very best designersto design jewels for them.<cond Designer=KINGOl> Jessie Kingwas one of their best designers.</cond>"This allows canned text to include com-ments about particular entities if they arerelevant at that point in the discourse.Reference:  Entities which are defined inthe knowledge-base can be replaced withan annotation, which allows the generatorto choose a referential expression appro-priate for the context of generation, e.g,"#(:ref KINGOi) was one of theirbest designers"Further types of annotation will be added asthe ILEX system develops.
We plan to explorewhether, for some applications, the medium of'annotated text' can be a useful compromisebetween canned text and full NLG.3.2 Sens i t iv i ty  to  D iscourse  H is torymore often, classes of jewellery (e.g.
jewellerymade in a particular style).
Figure 5 shows oneexample.However, given the limitations of currentNLG systems, if it is feasible canning offers themost reliable way of ensuring high-quality textoutput.
And, since it is much easier to enterinformation in the form of text than using acomplicated knowledge representation formal-ism, canning also facilitates the authoring task.But of course, canning fails to support gen-uine flexibility.
In the ILEX-0 system, we havesought to allay this problem by including inthe canned text various types of annotat ionwhich allow a certain amount of local customi-sation.
Below are two possible annotations,only the first of which is presently included inILEX-0:?
Cond i t iona l i sa t ion :  Parts of the textAt any point in the dialogue, a dynamic hy-pertext system should be able to take into ac-count the discourse which has already takenplace.
This can be exploited in several places;we here discuss two.3.2.1 Refer r ing  Express ionsThe readability of a text is partially deter-mined by the appropriate use of referring ex-pressions.The continual use of an entity's fullname produces bad text, just as does the useof a pronoun without any preceding referent.Since dynamic hypertext is being producedchunk-by-chunk, the system needs to keeptrack of prior reference forms for an entity, andchoose a form for the current mention which isappropriate.
For instance, if we have recentlymentioned an entity of type T, and we nowneed to introduce an object of the same type,then we could refer to it as another T. There155are already several NLG systems which incor-porate sophisticated algorithms for the gener-ation of referring expressions such as these; seefor instance \[Dale 1992\] and \[Horacek 1995\].PEBA-I I  and PIGLIT have no discourse mod-elling, whereas ALFRESCO uses it within thefirst generated node only.
IDAS tracks the dis-course history, but only within the current hy-pertext node being generated.
We need a sys-tem which can keep track of reference acrossnodes.In particular domains, we might expectother kinds of sensitivity to preceding context.For instance, if the hypertext session is in-tended to simulate a spatio-temporal domain,then it makes sense to talk about 'returning to'locations which have already been visited.
Butif the tour is of a more conceptual space, thisis not necessarily what is needed.
One of thedomains in IDAS is bicycle mechanics; it mightoften be inappropriate to talk about returningto the wheel rim of a bicycle.3.2.2 Content  Se lect ionIt is also desirable that the content of the textproduced is sensitive to what has been saidin the preceding discourse.
We assume thatthe system aims to tell the seeker somethinginteresting--but what is interesting dependspartly on what has already been said.
Somethings become interesting only because of priorcontext.
For instance, the system might havea very informative comparison to make be-tween two classes of objects in the domain be-ing browsed; but if the seeker has not alreadycome across instances of each class of objects,the comparison might not be interesting oreven intelligible.
The system's decision aboutwhether to include the comparison might thusbe strongly influenced by prior context}On the other hand, some things cease to beinteresting if they have already been discussed,due to repetitivity.
This problem, called here~An alternative approach to the generation of com-parisons is provided in PEBA-II.
In ILEX, comparisonsare to be produced spontaneously where the systemjudges they are appropriate; while in PEBA-II, theymust be asked for by the user.
The two systems differin terms of which participant is in control of decisionsabout the information provided; for more discussion onthis subject see Sections 3.4 and 3.5.156the redundancy  problem, affects static hy-pertext systems: since a series of hypertextpages can be browsed in a variety of sequences,a static system cannot know at any point whatthe user has already been told.
Informationessential to the interpretation of the presenttext may need to be repeated at each pointit is needed.
As a result, the reader may be-come bewildered by the mass of informationpresented, unable quickly to determine whatis new and what is a restatement of what hehas already read.
A dynamic system howevercan keep track of what has been told to theuser, and not repeat such information (except,naturally, for rhetorical reasons).Of course, when we decide not to re-express old information, we can still providea backward-pointing link.
If a story has al-ready been given (an earlier piece of jewelleryhad the same property or designer), then re-peating it verbatim can have a serious effect ofthe user's perception of text quality.
Becauseof this, the second time a story is triggered inILEX-0, the story is not presented, but rather,a pointer is given back to the prior piece wherethe description occurred.
For instance:Like the earlier piece of jewellery(240384), this piece is also a piecemade for Liberty & Co. 2A third content-suppressing mechanism im-plemented in ILEX-0 is for handling termi-nology definition.
The system keeps a list ofterms defined for the current user, and avoidsre-defining these terms.The question arises as to whether hyper-text applications demand more work on thediscourse history parameter--support ing refer-ring expressions and content selection--thanhas hitherto arisen in NLG.
It might, for in-stance, be necessary to model the importanceof what is physically visible on the screen orthe fact that a text may not have been com-pletely read before a new one is selected.
Thetentative answer--arising particularly from theneed dynamically to suppress content-- is thatthis is an area where further work is required.2Here, some content is successfully replaced with abackward pointer; however, repetition is still rampantbecause of the primitive templates (see Section 3.1).3.3 The  User  Mode lA useful kind o f  flexibility in any NLG sys-tem involves keeping a model of the reader ofthe text.
Texts produced for an expert willbe very different from those produced for anovice, even if they are on the same subject.Likewise, texts for an adult audience will differfrom those intended for children.
In the do-main of guided tours, user models will clearlybe important; in fact, the National Museums ofScotland have a ramified visitor classificationscheme, with four categories of visit (includ-ing tourist, formal educational), fifteen types ofvisitor (including 9-year-old, tourist with Scot-tish connections), and four levels of visitor in-terest (including baby browser and specialist).Many NLG systems have taken such dimen-sions of variation into account: see for instance\[Paris 1993\].An important dimension of variability in hy-pertext generation relates to control over theuser model.
Changes to the user model canbe under the control of the system or theuser.
We might envisage a form-based pref-e rences  page where the user can configurehis own user model, either before brows-ing begins, or at any point within browsing.The ILEX-0 prototype allows the user to spec-ify the degree of interest he has in a set ofthemes.
These preferences are then used todrive content-selection.
We also plan to exper-iment with user-changeable parameters, suchas 'longer/shorter texts', 'more/fewer compar-isons' etc.
These choices are roughly analogousto meta-comments in ordinary discourse.Alternatively, updates to the user model canbe system-initiated, and driven by observa-tions about the options chosen by the user dur-ing browsing.
If the user often selects the tellme more about this button, then the quantityof text given at each point can be increased.A user who often asks for terms to be definedcan be offered more definitions within the text.A user model is thus built up by behaviouralobservation.
This approach can also capturechanges in the user's interest as they occur.ALFRESCO maintains an interest model forits user whicl, can affect what is generated inthe first textual response.
However, a systemof this kind which sets up a network of hy-157perlinks in its entirety in response to a singlequerv from the user, will not be able to takefull advantage of a dynamic user-model.
Theideal may be a system where pages and linksare created one by one, and the user has theopportunity for input at every stage.The theory of user modelling in NLG isstill at a relatively early stage of development.However, state-of-the-art techniques \[?\] shouldbe sophisticated enough to deal with many ofthe requirements of dynamic hypertext men-tioned above.3.4 User  F reedomIn a hypertext system, the user's requests forfollow-up information are main ly  in the formof 'mouse clicks' to new hyperlinks.
F rom theuser's point of view, there is a degree of flex-ibility in the system even if the hypertext isfully generated in advance, because he has achoice about  what  to look at next.
User free-dom in conventional hypertext is somewhat  ofa double-edged sword: giving users the choiceabout  where  to navigate is helpful, but it canalso leave them uncertain about  whether  theyhave picked up all the important  informationon offer.
However ,  in a dynamic  hypertext,user f reedom is not just to do with the rangeof follow-up hyperlinks.
A second, less visible,kind of f reedom results f rom a system's abilityto decide at any point between a large rangeof candidate texts for generation.In some systems, all the possible texts havebeen anticipated explicitly in advance, eventhough the detailed contents may be dynami -cally generated.
An  example  might  be a sys-tem that offers weather  forecasts for a fixed setof regions but where  the individual forecastsmay change to reflect up-to-the-minute infor-mation.
The  P IGL IT  system is rather like this,a l though in the medical  domain.
More  flexibil-ity is offered if the text p roduced depends  ona set of independent  dimensions.
In IDAS,  forinstance, there were over 5000 potentially dif-ferent texts that could be generated (ignoringsome dimensions of variation).
PEBA- I I  hassimilar flexibility, in that its compar i son  textsdepend on two  animals that are chosen by theuser independently.
I LEX-0  is nearer to theP IGL IT  model ,  because its p r imary  mode ofaccess imulates the actual layout of a museumgallery, where the user has the simple choice ofwhich of a se to f  objects to look at next.
Ofcourse, as soon as user modelling, sensitivityto discourse history, etc., are reflected in thetexts, then the number of possible texts growsquickly (indeed, the above IDAS figure takesinto account some user modelling dimensions).This potential freedom may not be obvious oravailable to the user, however.Just as a speaker must allow a hearer oppor-tunity to respond, it is important for the sys-tem to generate a fair selection of new links toexplore, to ensure that the reader finds some-thing to his liking.
In ILEX-0, the user is ableto pick any object in the gallery to look atnext, which is intended to allow the same kindof random movement hat a user might makein a real museum gallery.
On the other hand,it might also be important not to generate toomany links to follow up, as this might makenavigation confusing.
In IDAS, for instance,an explicit decision was made to limit users tofollowing certain 'hyperschemas', rather thangiving them the full choice.
Where the set ofpossible texts has not been anticipated in ad-vance, a more complex (perhaps menu-based)query system to allow the user to choose a textmay be provided (as in PEBA-II).Thus, the ability to specify a restrictedsubset of potentially very large set of userfollow-up actions is a particular feature of dy-namic hypertext.
It follows that the wholeissue of 'user freedom', and ways of antici-pating user actions will require further workin NLG.
Users' freedom--or their perceptionof freedom--is intimately bound up with theways in which systems realise their own goals,and it is to this that we now turn.3.5 The  System's  Goa lsFor a hypertext system to be successful, itneeds not only to succeed from the user's pointof view (to be interesting), but also to succeedfrom the provider's point of view (to be infor-mative).In general, the provider has her own agendain creating the hypertext, for instance to per-suade the user to buy something, or to edu-cate him in a particular way (this cannot be158seen obviously in query systems like PEBA-II, IDAS or ALFRESCO, but is apparent ina system with more of a tutorial role, as inMIGRAINE and PIGLIT).
In a browsing situ-ation, however, the provider cannot plan aheadtowards a complete text which satisfies hergoals, since the reader's actions cannot be pre-dicted in advance.
Goals must thus be pursuedoppor tun is t i ca l ly - - the  system achieves as-pects of its goals as the dynamic environmentpermits.
If the primary goal is educational,for instance, then the important points to bemade must be incorporated into descriptions ofthe objects in which the browser is interested.The texts produced by the system are thus in-fluenced by an interaction of the user's and thesystem's goals.As the system is able to respond to the user'sinitiatives, it can be accurately termed reac-tive; however, it provides a rather differentkind of reactivity than is normally discussedin the context of text planning systems.
Themost commonly discussed type of reactivity(see e.g.
\[Moore and Paris 1993\]) is where asystem allows the user the option to ask follow-up questions, to help clarify portions of thetext which have not been fully understood.In such a case, the user has control over theway the system executes its goals, but not, ul-timately, over the goals themselves.
In thepresent system the situation is just the reverse:the user is able to determine the high-levelgoals about which objects are described, butthe system is in control of the execution ofthese goals so as to include (if possible) infor-mation on its own agenda.In the ILEX system, system goals are rep-resented as a set of messages  it desires tocommunicate.
In the case of the Jewellery do-main, these messages are seen as the educa-tional goals of the display curator.
Some mes-sages from this domain are:1.
Jewellery need not be made of valuablematerials.2.
Contemporary jewellers make innovativeuse of modern synthetic materials.3.
Jewellers frequently borrow technlquesfrom other crafts such as pottery andweaving.4.
The distinction between 'art' and 'jew-ellery' is often blurred.Attached to individual pieces of jewellery orclasses of jewellery are canned stories that canbe told if those items are chosen by the user.Each story in the story-database is tagged bythe message or messages it works towards.
Inthe future, stories will be ranked in relevanceon the basis of the messages they serve, andwill be expressed or not on the basis of thisrelevance.If a number of stories have been given sup-porting a particular message, an explicit de-scription of that message may be triggered;e.g., Here again, we see that jewellery need notbe made of Valuable materials.The model of opportunism we are currentlyworking with is very simple, but existing top-down NLG planning architectures do not seemto allow even this to be captured naturally.Support for opportunistic satisfaction of sys-tem goals is therefore an area in which furtherNLG research is required.
We are currentlylooking to see what models of opportunisticplanning (e.g.
\[Pryor and Collins 1994\]) haveto offer in this respect.4 Conc lus ionThis paper has discussed several of the param-eters of variation in dynamic hypertext sys-t, ems.
All of these parameters are associatedwith kinds of flexibility which seem to be desir-able in the exploitation of the dynamic hyper-text concept, but they are not necessarily in-dependent or all useful together.
Indeed, flexi-bility is not without cost; for instance, cannedtext can offer fluency which the most advancedNLG systems today have yet to reach.Some of the parameters are relatively well-understood, and the state-of-the-art in NLG issufficient o allow us to manipulate them effec-tively in dynamic hypertext systems.
However,other parameters--particularly those involvinguser freedom and system goals--require fur-ther investigation.The domain we have been investigatingraises the particular challenge of mixed initia-tive dialogue: the visitor is in control of macro-level content selection, but the system selects159lower-level content, with the twin goals of sat-isfying the visitor's curiosity, and of conveyingkey information.
In a sense, meeting the chal-lenge subverts the very idea of hypertext as weknow it.In conventional hypertext, he author selectscontent and connectivity, and then retires; theuser is free to sample the hyper-document how-ever they wish.
Because of the author's dis-appearance, the effectiveness of the samplingis crucial: authors strive to place links andimportant content in all the right places, butsome users still feel that they have to sam-ple exhaustively every node of the hypertext.Nonetheless, hypertext is attractive becauseusers value their freedom to sample as theychoose.In a system which opportunistically bothsatisfies user curiosity and its own informa-tional goals, we can provide an ersatz author.However the user samples, they will always endup with the important content.
In a sense, theusers' freedom is an illusion: they cannot fail.When fishing on an ordinary river, an anglercasts their line, and occasionally, if they do itwell enough, and wait long enough, they catcha fish.
We are proposing a new kind of river,in which an angler can cast their line haphaz-ardly, and still pull out a perfect fish, time aftertime.References\[Binsted et al 1995\] Kim Binsted, AlisonCawsey and Ray Jones.
"GeneratingPersonalised Patient Information Usingthe Medical Record", Proceedings of AIin Medicine Europe, 1995.\[Buchanan et al 1995\] Bruce Buchanan, Jo-hanna Moore, Diana Forsythe, GiuseppeCarenini, Stellan Ohlsson and GordonBanks, "An Intelligent Interactive Sys-tem for Delivering Individualised Informa-tion to Patients", Artificial Intelligence inMedicine Vol 7, pp117-154, 1995.\[Carenini et al 1993\] Giuseppe Carenini,Fabio Pianesi, Marco Ponzi, and OlivieroStock.
"Natural language generationand hypertext access."
Applied ArtificialIntelligence, 7:135-164, 1993.\[Dale 1992\] Robert Dale.
Generating Refer-ring Expressions.
MIT Press, 1992.\[Dale and Milosavljevic 1996\] Robert Daleand Maria Milosavljevic.
"Authoring onDemand: Natural Language Generationin Hypertext Documents.
"In Proceedingsof the First Australian Document Com-puting Conference, Melbourne, Australia,March 1996.\[Horacek 1995\] Helmut Horacek.
"More onGenerating Referring Expressions."
InProceedings of the Fifth European Work-shop on Natural Language Generation.pages 43-58, Leiden, The Netherlands,1995.Project."
In Proceedings of the 3rd Con-ference on Applied Natural Language Pro-cessing, Trento, Italy, April 1992.\[Reiter at al.
1995\] Ehud Reiter, Chris Mellishand John Levine.
"Automatic Generationof Technical Documentation".
To appearin Applied Artificial Intelligence, 1995.\[Stotts and Furuta 1989\] D. Stotts and R. Fu-ruta, "Petri-net based Hypertext: Doc-ument Structure with Browsing Seman-tics", A CM Transactions on InformationSystems Vol 7, pp3-29, 1989.\[Kibby and Mayes 1988\] M. R. Kibby and J.T.
Mayes, "Towards Intelligent Hyper-text".
In McAleese, R., Ed., Hypertext,Theory into Practice, Intellect Books,1988.\[Milosavljevic et al 1996\] Maria Milosavlje-vic, Adrian Tulloch and Robert Dale.
"Text Generation in a Dynamic Hyper-text Environment."
In Proceedings ofthe Nineteenth Australasian ComputerScience Conference, Melbourne, January1996.\[Moore and Paris 1993\] Johanna Moore andC6cile Paris.
"Planning Text for Advi-sory Dialogues: Capturing Intentionaland .Rhetorical Information."
Computa-tional Linguistics Vol 19, No 4, pp651-694,1993.\[Paris 1993\] Cecile L. Paris.
User Modelling inText Generation.
Pinter Publishers, 1993.\[Pryor and Collins 1994\] Louise Pryor andGregg Collins, "Opportunities: A Unify-ing Framework for Planning and Execu-tion", Procs of the Second InternationalConference on Artificial IntelligencePlanning Systems, pp329-334, Chicago,IL, 1994.\[Reiter et al 1992\] Ehud Reiter, Chris Ivlellishand John Levine.
"Automatic Generationof On-Line Documentation i the IDAS160
