Event Coreference for Information Extract ionKev in  Humphreys  and Rober t  Ga izauskas  and Sa l iha  AzzamDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceThe University of SheffieldRegent Court,  211 Portobe l lo  StreetSheffield S1 4DP UK{K. Humphreys, R. Gaizauskas, S. Azzam}@dcs.
shef.
ac.
ukAbst ractWe propose a general approach for per-forming event coreference and for con-structing complex event representations,such as those required for information ex-traction tasks.
Our approach is based ona representation which allows a tight coup-ling between world or conceptual model-ling and discourse modelling.
The rep-resentation and the coreference mechanismare fully implemented within the LaSIEinformation extraction system where themechanism is used for both object (nounphrase) and event coreference r solution.Indirect evaluation of the approach showssmall, but significant benefit, for informa-tion extraction tasks.1 In t roduct ionMuch recent work on anaphora has concen-trated on coreference between objects referredto by noun phrases or pronouns (see, e.g.,Botley and McEnery (1997)).
But coreference in-volving events, expressed via verbs or nominalisedverb forms, is also common, and can play an import-ant role in practical applications of natural languageprocessing (NLP) systems.One application area of increasing interest isinformation extraction (IE) (see, e.g., Cowie andLehnert (1996)).
Information extraction systemsattempt o fill predefined template structures withinformation extracted from short natural anguagetexts, such as newswire articles.
The prototypicalIE tasks are those specified in the Message Under-standing Conference (MUC) evaluations (DARPA,1995; Grishman and Sundheim, 1996).
In these ex-ercises the main template filling task centres arounda 'scenario' which is defined in terms of a key eventtype and various roles pertaining to it.
Examplesof scenarios used in previous MUCs include jointventure announcements, microprocessor product an-nouncements, errorist attacks, labour negotiations,and management succession events.
In order not tospuriously overgenerate event instances and to prop-erly acquire all available role information, it is cru-cial that multiple references to the same event becorrectly identified and merged.
While these con-cerns are of central importance to IE systems, theyare clearly of significance for any NLP system, andmore broadly for any computational model of nat-ural language.A few concrete xamples will make the issuesclearer 1.
A management succession event (as usedin MUC-6) may involve the two separate vents of acorporate position being vacated by one person andthen filled by another.
For an event o be consideredreportable for the IE task, the post, the companyand at least one person (either incoming or outgo-ing) must all be identifiable in the text.The first thing to note here is that while manage-ment succession events are sometimes reported assingle, simple events, as in(1) Mr. Jones succeeds M. James Bird, 50, as pres-ident off Wholistic Therapy.more frequently multiple aspects or sub-events ofa single succession event are identified in separ-ate clauses by separate verb phrases or nominalisedforms:(2) Daniel Wood was named president and chief ex-ecutive officer off EFC Records Group, a unit offLondon's Spear EFC PLC.
He succeeds CharlesPaulson, who was recently made chairman andchief executive officer off EFC Records GroupNorth America.1All examples in this paper are taken from the MUC-6 Wall Street Journal corpus with names of individualsand companies changed.75(3) The sell-o# followed the resignation lateMonday o\] Freddie Heller, the president o/Renard Broadcasting Co.
Yesterday, Renardnamed Susan B. Kempham, chairman o/Renard Inc. 's television production arm, to suc-ceed him.Both of these pairs of sentences refer to a singlemanagement succession event (though the secondsentence in 2 also identifies a further one).
Suchevent/sub-event relations are similar to the famil-iar part-whole or related-object anaphora exempli-fied in sentences such as The airplane crashed a~terthe wings/ell off or When John entered the kitchenthe stove was on (Allen, 1987).The second thing to note is the variety of surfaceforms used to refer to events.
Events are referred toby verb phrases in main clauses (1 above), and in re-lative clauses (second sentence in 2) or subordinateclauses.
They may be referred to through nominal-ised forms (resignation i  3 above) or through infin-itival forms in control sentences (second sentence in3).
When there are multiple references to the sameevent, antecedent and anaphor appear to be able toadopt all combinations of these forms 2.This paper discusses an approach to hand-ling event coreference as implemented in theLaSIE information extraction system (Gaiza-uskas et al, 1995; Gaizauskas and Humphreys,1997b).
Within this system, event coreferenceis handled as a natural extension to object core-ference, outlined here and described in detail inGaizauskas and Humphreys (1997a).
Both mechan-isms are handled within a general approach to dis-course and world modelling.In the next section we give a brief overview of theLaSIE system.
Section 3 describes in more detail theapproach to world and discourse modelling withinLaSIE and Section 4 details our coreference proced-ure.
In Section 5 we discuss a particular examplein detail and show how our approach enables us tocorrectly corefer multiple event references.
Section6 presents results of an approach to evaluating thethe approach and Section 7 concludes the paper withsome general discussion.2 LaS IE  Overv iewThe Large Scale Information Extraction system(LaSIE) has been designed as a general purpose IEresearch system, initially geared towards, but not2While no extended study has been carried out, itappears that in newswire texts nominalised forms areless likely to appear in the first reference to an event,and more likely to appear in subsequent references.solely restricted to, carrying out the tasks specifiedin MUC-6: named entity recognition, coreferenceresolution, template element filling, and scenariotemplate filling tasks (see DARPA (1995) for furtherdetails of the task descriptions).
In addition, thesystem can generate a brief natural language sum-mary of any scenario it has detected in a text.
Allthese tasks are carried out by building a single richdiscourse model of the text from which the variousresults are read off.
The system is a pipelined archi-tecture which processes a text one sentence at a timeand consists of three principal processing stages: lex-ical preprocessing, parsing plus semantic interpreta-tion, and discourse interpretation.
The overall con-tributions of these stages may be briefly describedas follows (see Gaizauskas et al (1995) for furtherdetails):lexical  p reprocess ing  reads and tokenises the rawinput text, tags the tokens with parts-of-speech, performs morphological analysis, per-forms phrasal matching against lists of propernames;pars ing  and  semant ic  in terpretat ionbuilds lexical and phrasal chart edges in afeature-based formalism then does two passchart parsing, pass one with a special named en-tity grammar, pass two with a general grammar,and, after selecting a 'best parse', constructs apredicate-argument representation of the cur-rent sentence;d iscourse  in terpretat ion  adds the informationfrom the predicate-argument representation toa hierarchically structured semantic net whichencodes the system's world model, adds addi-tional information presupposed by the input,performs coreference resolution between newand existing instances in the world model, andadds any information consequent upon the newinput.2.1 MUC-6  Core ference  Per fo rmanceMUC-6 included a quantitatively evaluated corefer-ence task, which required participating systems topropose coreference annotations for a set of texts.These annotations were then automatically scoredagainst manually produced annotations for the sametexts.
The performance of the LaSIE system in thiscoreference task was 51% recall and 71% precision.This compares favourably with the highest scoringMUC-6 systems: the highest recall system scored63% recall and 63% precision; the highest precisionsystem scored 59% recall and 72% precision.
Recall76here is a measure of how many correct (i.e.
manuallyannotated) coreferences the system actually found,and precision is a measure of how many coreferencesthe system proposed were actually correct.
For ex-ample, suppose there are 100 real coreference rela-tions in a corpus and a system proposes 75, of which50 are correct.
Then its recall is 50/100 or 50% andits precision is 50/75 or 66.7%.The MUC-6 definition of the coreference task in-cluded several forms of NP coreference, not only pro-nominal relations.
However, it did not include eventcoreference, which can be measured only indirectlyvia the information extraction task results, a topicto which we return in Section 6.3 Discourse InterpretationThe LaSIE system's 'world' or domain of interest ismodelled by an inheritance-based semantic graph,using the XI knowledge representation language(Gaizauskas, 1995).
In the graph classes of objects,events, and attributes appear as nodes; each nodemay have associated with it an attribute-value struc-ture and these structures are inherited down thegraph.
The higher levels of the graph, or ontology,for the management succession task have the struc-ture shown in Figure 1.
Two simple attribute-valuestructures are also shown in the graph, connectedby dashed lines to the nodes with which they areassociated.Attribute-value structures are just sets ofa t t r ibute :va lue  pairs where the value for anattr ibute may either be static, as in the pairan imate :yes ,  which is associated with the personnode, or dynamic, where the value is dependent onvarious conditions, the evaluation of which makesreference to other information in the model.
Cer-tain special attribute types, p resuppos i t ion  andconsequence, may also return values which are usedat specific points to modify the current state of themodel.As a discourse is processed, discourse ntities (ob-jects and events introduced by the text) are added asnew nodes in the graph beneath their parent classand have associated with them an attribute-valuestructure containing both inherited and discourse-supplied attributes.
This process may involve hypo-thesising new implicit entities if they are not avail-able explicitly in the text, or have not been dis-covered by the parser, but are required role play-ers for a given event type.
Knowledge about re-quired roles is represented via attributes in theworld model.
For example, in Figure 1 we see thata re t i re  event requires a logical subject of typeperson and an entity of this type will be hypothes-ised if it is not available from the text.4 Coreference Resolut ionAfter each sentence in a text is added to the'world model', gradually forming a discourse-specificmodel, a coreference procedure is applied to attemptto resolve, or merge, each of the newly added in-stances with instances currently in the discoursemodel.
Coreference resolution is performed by com-paring instances from several candidate sets, each ofwhich is a set of pairs of instances where one elementis an instance from the current input sentence andthe other an instance occurring earlier in the text,which may be coreferential.
The algorithm proceedsas follows for each instance pair being considered:1.
Ensure semantic type consistencyTo determine semantic onsistency requires es-tablishing a path in the semantic graph betweenthe semantic types of the two instances.
If apath can be found a semantic similarity scoreis calculated using the inverse of the length ofthe path (measured in nodes) between the twotypes.For event instances, a path is valid if both eventtypes are dominated by a task-specific top node,i.e.
both types must be potential sub-events ofan event required by the current IE template.For example, 'hire' and 'retire' are both sub-events of the 'succession' event in the ontologysketched above.For instances of the object class, a path is validif the two types stand in a dominance relation,i.e.
the types are ordered in the ontology.
Forexample, 'company' is a sub-class of 'organisa-tion' so these type are ordered (and have a se-mantic similarity score of 0.5).If no valid path can be found the attempt oresolve the two instances is abandoned..
Ensure attribute consistencyCertain attributes, e.g.
an imate and time, arespecified in the ontology as taking a single fixedvalue for any particular instance.
If two in-stances being compared have a common attrib-ute of this type, the values must be identical orthe attempted resolution is abandoned.Type specific coreference constraints are thenexamined by attempting to inherit a d i s t inc tattribute.
If this attr ibute can be derived fromany of the instances' uperclasses the attemptedresolution of the current pair is abandoned.77personentityobject eventorganisation date succession single-valued/ \ / \  / \company government incoming outgoing animate count/ \retire resignanimate: yes IIattributemulti-valued/ \name nearlsubj_type: personFigure 1: Upper ontology for the management succession taskConstraints on the various event types are de-tailed in the following section..
Calculate a similarity scoreThe semantic similarity score is summed withan attr ibute similarity score to give an overallscore for the current pair of instances.
The at-tribute similarity score is established by findingthe ratio of the number of shared multi-valuedattributes with compatible values, against thetotal number of the instances' attributes.After each pair m a candidate set has either beenassigned a similarity score or has been rejected ongrounds of inconsistency, the highest scoring pair (ifany score at all) are merged in the discourse model.If several pairs have equal similarity scores then thepair with the closest realisations in the text will bemerged.
The merging of instances involves the re-moval of the least specific instance (i.e.
the highestin the ontology) and the addition of all its attributesto the other instance.4.1 Event  Core ferenceThe constraints on events as used in Step 2 of thegeneral coreference algorithm above can be associ-ated with any event node in the ontology, and willthen be inherited by all instances of all sub-eventtypes.
The constraints currently used can be cat-egorised in the following way:1.
General task-independent constraints are as-sociated with the top-level event  node.
Forexample two event instances are defined asdistinct (i.e.
not coreferential) if they haveincompatible times.
At present this simplymeans that two events with different enses can-not be resolved, but clearly a more detailedmodel of event times is required, particularly asCrowe (1996) shows how temporal  phrases areconsistently useful in distinguishing and recog-nising events 3.2.
General task-specific onstraints are, for themanagement succession task, associated withthe success ion_event  ode.
For example, theconstraint that two instances must be distinct ifthey involve different organisations or differentmanagement positions.3.
More specific constraints are represented atlower and possibly verb-specific nodes.
For ex-ample, an incoming_event (e.g.
hire, promote)is distinct from a changeover_event  (e.g.
re-place, succeed) if the former's logical object isdistinct from the latter's logical subject.The determination of distinct or compatible ventroles requires the application of the coreferencemechanism to instances of the object class (the roleplayers in the event).
The same algorithm is usedbut the inherited constraints will be those associ-ated with the object nodes in the ontology.
For ex-3It is possible to represent a time scale within thecurrent XI formalism and then associate ach input eventwith a point on the scale.
Each point can be treated as apotential interval and be expanded to include the timesof sub-events.
The representation a d use of this moredetailed model is currently under investigation.78ample, indefinite noun phrases cannot be anaphors,pronouns should be resolved within the current para-graph, definite noun phrases within the last twoparagraphs, etc.
Full details and an evaluation ofthe coreference constraints on object instances canbe found in Gaizauskas and Humphreys (1997a).The constraints above are similar to those used inthe FASTUS IE system (Appelt et al, 1995) and bySown (1984), where the merging takes place betweentemplate structures, considering special conditionsfor the unification of variables in template slots.However, the general approach ere has more incommon with Whittemore and Macpherson (1991)or Zarri (1992), where event merging is carried outwithin the underlying knowledge representation.5 A Worked  ExampleThis section describes the operation of the generalcoreference mechanism for the example (3) presen-ted in the introduction, concentrating on the effectof the various constraints on event instances.
Wereproduce the two sentences in (3) here:(3a) The sell-off followed the resignation lateMonday of Freddie Heller, the president ofRenard Broadcasting Co.(3b) Yesterday, Renard named Susan B. Kempham,chairman of Renard Inc. % television productionarm, to succeed him to succeed him.The full semantic representation f these sentencesas produced by the parser/semantic interpreter forinput to the discourse interpreter is:Sentence 3ase l l -o f f (e2) ,  number(e2,sing), det (e2 , the) ,fo l low(e l ) ,  t ime(e l ,pas t ) ,l sub j (e l ,e2) ,  l ob j (e l ,e3) ,res ignat ion(e3) ,  number(e3,sing),det (e3 , the) ,date(e5),  name(e5,'Monday'),person(eT), name(eT,'Freddie He l le r ' ) ,t i t l e (eS ,pres ident ) ,company(el0),name(el0,'Renard Broadcasting Co.')Sentence 3byesterday(e l l ) ,  number(el l ,s ing),name(e13,'Renard'),name(el2), t ime(e l2 ,past ) ,lsubj(e12,e13),person(el5),  name(el5, 'SusanB.
Kempham'),apposed(el5,el6),title(elG,chairman),arm(el8), number(el8,sing),qual (el8, el9) ,production(el9), number(el9, sing),qual(el9,e20), of(el9,e21),television (e20) , (~,company(e21), name(e21,'Renard Inc.'),succeed(el4) , time(el4,present),isubj(el4,el5), lobj(e14,e22),pronoun (e22 ,him)The nominalisation f the verb resign in (3a) leadsto the presupposition f an outgoing_even% whichin turn leads to hypothesised objects for a relatedperson, post and organisation (these presuppositionsare stored as attributes of the outgoing_event inthe world model).
The coreference mechanism willthen be applied to these objects and, in this case,will be able to resolve all three within the same sen-tence.
The resign event herefore forms a completesuccession event for the management succession IEtask.Both verbs in (3b), the incoming_event nameand the changeover_event succeed, will cause theintroduction of succession event instances into thediscourse model, each of which will cause the hy-pothesis of a related person, post and organisation.Attributes of the name vent will add additional con-straints to its hypothesised objects, including thespecification that the organisation should be a po-tential subject of the verb, the person a potentiallogical object, and the post a potential complement.Objects with the required features will be found bythe coreference mechanism for the organisation andperson, but not the post.
The succeed event willalso cause the hypothesis of an additional person,with the constraints that one must be incoming,and a potential logical subject of the verb, and theother outgoing, and a potential logical object.
Thesucceed event's hypothesised organisation and postwill be resolved with the same objects as the resignevent from the previous entence.The general constraints on coreferential successionevents are therefore satisfied for the succeed andresign events, and the restrictions on the more spe-cific subclasses must then be considered.
The rel-evant restriction here is that a changeover_eventmust share its logical object with the logical subjectof an outgoing_event.
This will require the applic-ation of the coreference mechanism for objects toresolve the pronoun him.
A correct resolution withFreddie Heller will then allow the two events to beresolved.The succeed and name events will also beresolved similarly, using the restriction that achangeover_event must share its logical subject79Succession Events OverallRecall Precision Recall , Precision I CombinedNo Event Corer 66% 72% 42% 59% 48.88%With Events Coref 65% 77% 42% ~ 60% \] 49.40%Table 1: Upper Ontology.for the management succession taskwith the logical object of an incoming_event.
Inthis case the infinitive form of the succeed verb willhave no explicit logical subject, but one will be hypo-thesised and resolved with the best antecedent of therequired type (person), here Susan B. Kempham.The two events can therefore be merged, to result inthe representation f a single succession event withFreddie Heller outgoing and Susan B. Kempham in-coming.6 Eva luat ionWe have not been able to carry out direct evaluationof our approach to event coreference.
To do so wouldrequire manually annotating coreferential events ina corpus of significant size, and we have not had theresources to do so.
However, we have attempted togain some indirect measure of the successfulness ofthe approach by toggling event coreference on andoff and observing the effect on the ability of the sys-tem to fill MUC-6 management succession templatescorrectly.
The hypothesis here is that effective ventcoreference will lead to higher scores in the templatefilling task for at least two reasons.
First, role play-ers in events (which become slot fillers in the scoredtemplates, e.g.
persons and organisations) shouldbecome available due to event coreference.
Second,spurious uccession events hould be eliminated ueto proper event coreference.The MUC-6 management succession scenariotask involved filling an object-oriented templateconsisting of five objects, each with associatedslots (twenty slots in total).
The top level ob-ject was a template  object and contained oneor more success ion_event  objects which in turncontained an organ izat ion  object and one ormore in_and_out objects, themselves containingorgan izat ion  and person objects (a precise defin-ition of the template and the task can be found inDARPA (1995)).Table 1 shows the gross results of running the sys-tem against the 100 articles in the MUC-6 scenariotask test corpus.
Our system is easily reconfiguredto run with or without attempting event corefer-ence.
The two rows in the table show the effectswithout and with event coreference.
The 'Overall'column show the effects on the overall scenario tem-plate filling task, i.e., on recall and precision scoresfor all objects and slots in the templates.
The 'Suc-cession Events' column shows the effect just for thesuccess ion_event  objects in the templates, and istherefore a more direct measure of template fillingperformance where we might expect event corefer-ence to have an effect.As can be seen from the table, the effect over-all is not particularly significant.
However, the ef-fect on succession events alone is more substan-tial, with precision going up five percentage pointsand recall dropping only one, when event corefer-ence is switched on.
Closer examination revealedthat the event coreference mechanism successfullyavoided the proposal of 11 spurious uccession eventsin the evaluation corpus, which included 196 possibleevents.We stress that this is a crude measure of ourevent coreference algorithm - really just an indica-tion of its utility in the information extraction task.However, even as such, it shows that the algorithmis performing correctly, on balance, and that eventcoreference is worth addressing in an IE system.7 Conc lus ionEvent coreference is more complex than object core-ference because of the requirement that objectsfilling particular event roles in two possibly corefer-ential events must themselves be coreferential.
Core-ferring events is therefore logically secondary to core-ferring objects 4.The approach we describe here provides avery general and powerful mechanism for per-forming event coreference and for constructingcomplex event representations, uch as those re-quired for information extraction tasks.
Withininformation extraction the problem has typic-ally been addressed by attempting to merge, orunify, extracted templates (e.g.
Sown (1984) orAppelt et al (1995)), but a more generally useful4Of course in some events, roles may be filled by otherevents, but this complication does not affect the basicpoint that object coreference is primary and event core-ference dependent upon it.80mechanism will operate within a more general rep-resentation.
Our approach can be compared to thatof Whittemore and Macpherson (1991) who discussincremental building of event representations withina modified form of DRT (Kamp, 1981).
However,the representation used here is preferred because itallows a tighter coupling between world or concep-tual modelling and discourse modelling.The representation and the coreference mechan-ism are fully implemented within the LaSIE in-formation extraction system and are currently be-ing extended to make use of a richer model of eventtimes, the importance of which is demonstrated inCrowe (1996).
The mechanism described here isused in the LaSIE system for both object and eventcoreference, treating the different ypes simply as in-stances ubject to differing constraints, where con-straints can be easily represented atany level of gen-erality.
Our evaluation, while far from exhaustive,shows that addressing event coreference can clearlyresult in real benefits for IE systems.8 AcknowledgementsWe thank the UK EPSRC (Grant: GR/K25267) andthe European Commission Telematics Programme(ECRAN and AVENTINUS projects) for fundingwhich has made the development ofVIE/LaSIE andGATE possible.Re ferencesAllen, J.
1987.
Natural Language Understanding.Benjamin/Cummings, Menlo Park, CA, 1st edi-tion.Appelt, D., J. Hobbs, J.
Bear, D. Israel,M.
Kameyama, A. Kehler, D. Martin, K. Myers,and M. Tyson.
1995.
SRI International FAS-TUS system: MUC-6 Test Results and Analysis.In Proceedings of the Sixth Message Understand-ing Conference (MUC-6), pages 237-248.
MorganKaufmann.Botley, S. and T. McEnery, editors.
1997.
Dis-course Anaphora and Anaphor Resolution.
Uni-versity College London Press, London.
In press.Cowie, J. and W. Lehnert.
1996.
Information Ex-traction.
Communications o/the ACM, 39(1):80-91.Crowe, J.
1996.
Constraint Based Event Recog-nition for Information Extraction.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Edinburgh.DARPA.
1995.
Proceedings o/ the Sixth Mes-sage Understanding Conference (MUC-6).
Mor-gan Kaufmann.Gaizauskas, R. 1995.
XI: A Knowledge Representa-tion Language Based on Cross-Classification a dInheritance.
Technical Report CS-95-24, Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of Sheffield.Gaizauskas, R. and K. Humphreys.
1997a.
Quant-ative Evaluation of Coreference Algorithms in anInformation Extraction System.
In S. Botley andT.
McEnery, editors, Discourse Anaphora andAnaphor Resolution.
University College LondonPress.
In press.Gaizauskas, R. and K. Humphreys.
1997b.
Us-ing a Semantic Network for Information Extrac-tion.
Journal of Natural Language Engineering.In press.Gaizauskas, R., T. Wakao, K Humphreys, H. Cun-ningham, and Y. Wilks.
1995.
Description of theLaSIE System as Used for MUC-6.
In Proceedingsof the Sixth Message Understanding Conference(MUC-6).
Morgan Kaufmann.Grishman, R. and B. Sundheim.
1996.
MessageUnderstanding Conference - 6: A Brief History.
InProceedings of the 16th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen, June.Kamp, H. 1981.
A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation.
In Formal Methods in The Studyo/ Language.
J. Groenendijk, Jannsen, T, andStokhof, M.Sowa, J.F.
1984.
Conceptual Structures : Inform-ation Processing in Mind and Machine.
Reading(MA): Addison-Wesley.Whittemore, S and M. Macpherson.
1991.
Event-building through Role-Filling and Anaphora Res-olution.
In Proceedings of the 29th meeting ofthe Asssociation for Computational Linguistics,Berkeley, CA.Zarri, G.P.
1992.
Semantic Modeling of the Contentof (Normative) Natural Language Documents.
InProceedings of the specialized conference on Nat-ural Language Processing and its applications,Avignon.81
