A Complexity Measure for Diachronic Chinese PhonologyAnand RamanComputer ScienceMassey UniversityPalmerston NorthNew ZealandA.
Raman@massey .
ac .
nzJohn NewmanLinguistics and SLTMassey UniversityPalmerston NorthNew ZealandJ.
Newman@massey.
ac.
nzJon Patr ickInformation SystemsMassey UniversityPalmerston NorthNew ZealandJ .
D. Pat r i ck@mas sey .
ac .
nzAbst ractThis paper addresses the problem of de-riving distance measures between parentand daughter languages with specific rele-vance to historical Chinese phonology.
Thediachronic relationship between the lan-guages is modelled as a Probabilistic Fi-nite State Automaton.
The Minimum Mes-sage Length principle is then employed tofind the complexity of this structure.
Theidea is that this measure is representativeof the amount of dissimilarity between thetwo languages.1 In t roduct ionWhen drawing up genetic trees of languages, it issometimes useful to quantify the degree of relation-ship between them.
Mathematical approaches alongthese lines have been pursued for some time now - -Embleton (1991') is an excellent review of some im-portant techniques.
Cheng (1982), in fact, attemptsto address the issue central to this paper - -  thatof obtaining distance measures between related Chi-nese dialects.
However, he does this at a lexical levelby using Karl Pearson's tetrachoric orrelation coef-ficient on 905 words from a lexical dictionary (Cihui,1964).
This paper takes a novel approach to thisproblem by pioneering the use of phonological datato find dissimilarity measures, as opposed to lexical(which has bee n used most frequently up till now),semantic or syntactic data.
11Indeed, semantic similarity, which is usually neces-sary for the ident;ification of cognates in Indo-Europeanlanguages, is not even relevant in the case of the Chineselanguages we are concerned with in this paper becausecognates can be visually identified in Chinese languagesdue to a common ideographic writing system stretchingback over 3 millenia (Streeter, 1977, p.103).An argument can also be made that phoneticor phonological dissimilarity measures, being theleast abstract of all, could give the most realis-tic results.
Unfortunately, studies in this directionhave been relatively rare.
Two such works whichshould be mentioned are Grimes and Agard (1959)and Hsieh (1973), both of which are, however, con-strained by the use of lexicostatistical methodology.In fairness to existing methods, it must be noted thatmany other existing methods for obtaining dissimi-larity measures are in fact applicable to non-lexicaldata for deriving non-lexical measures.
In practice,though, they have been constrained by a preoccupa-tion with the lexicon as well as by the unavailabilityof phonological data.
2 Hopefully, the phonologicaldata developed in this project should provide freshinput to those methods and revive their applicationto the problem area in future research.2 DataThe data we use to illustrate our ideas are twophonological histories taken from the field of Chi-nese linguistics.
One is an account of the ModernBeijing (MB) dialect from an earlier stage of Chi-nese, referred to as Middle Chinese, and publishedas Chen (1976); the other is an account of the Mod-ern Cantonese (MC) dialect also from Middle Chi-nese, published as Chen and Newman (1984a, 1984band 1985).
These should be consulted for further ex-planation of the diachronic rules and their relativechronology as well as for an explanation of the rulelabels used in this paper.
For brevity, we will referto the former as Chen76 and the latter as CN84 insubsequent sections.
We would now like to draw at-tention now to five features of these accounts whichmake them ideal for the purpose at hand:2This was also pointed out by Professor Sheila Em-bleton, York University, Toronto in a personal communi-cation: Comment on using a phonological dissimilaritymeasure.
In email correspondence dt.
9 Oct 1994.t1.
The accounts are relatively explicit in their ex-positions.
Each account assumes Middle Chi-nese reconstructions which are phonetically ex-plicit, states each rule in a formal style, and de-fines the ordering relationships which hold be-tween the rules.
This degree of comprehensive-ness and explicitness in writing the history of alanguage is relatively rare.
It is even rarer tohave accounts of two related dialects describedin a similarly explicit way.
Obviously, whenit comes to translating historical accounts intophonological derivations, the more explicit theoriginal account, the more readily one can ar-rive at the derivations.2.
The two accounts assume identical reconstruc-tions for the Middle Chinese forms, which ofcourse is crucial in any meaningful comparisonof the two dialects.
Not surprisingly, given theexistence of Sinology as an established field andone with a history going back well over a hun-dred years, there are many conflicting propos-als about Middle Chinese and its pronunciation.Decisions about the forms of Middle Chinese gohand in hand, necessarily, with correspondingdecisions about the historical rules which leadfrom those forms to modern-day reflexes.
Onecan not easily compare competing historical ac-counts if they assume different reconstructedforms as their starting points.
See Chen76 for afull description and justification of the MiddleChinese reconstructions u ed in these accounts.3.
The two accounts are couched in terms of onephonological framework.
This, too, is a highlydesirable feature when it comes to making com-parisons between the sets of rules involved ineach account.
The framework could be de-scribed as a somehwat "relaxed" version of SPE(Chomsky and Halle, 1968).
For example, theaccounts make use of orthodox SPE featuresalongside others where it was thought appro-priate (e.g.
\ [+/- labial \ ] ,  \ [+/-  acute\]).
Phono-tactic conditions are utilized as a way of trig-gering certain phonological changes, alongsidemore conventional rule statements.4.
The accounts purport to describe the phono-logical histories of a single database of Chinesecharacters and their readings in modern dialects(Zihui, 1962).
This is a substantial databasecontaining about 2,700 Chinese characters andit is the readings of these characters in twoof the dialects - -  Modern Beijing and ModernCantonese dialects which are the outputs of therule derivations in the two accounts.5.
The accounts themselves are published in aneasily available journal, The Journal o\] ChineseLinguistics, which allows readers to scrutinizethe original discussion and rule statements.The features alluded to in points 1-5 make thesetwo accounts uniquely suited to testing out formalhypotheses relating to historical phonology.
Thehistorical account of Modern Beij ing/Modern Can-tonese is construed as a set of derivations.
The in-put to a derivation is a reconstructed Middle Chineseform; the input is subjected to a battery of (ordered)phonological rules; and the output of the derivationis the reflex in the modern dialect.3 Mode l l ing  Phono log ica lComplex i tyThe mechanistic model we have used to representdiachronic phonological derivations is that of Prob-abilistic Finite State Automata (PFSA).
These arestate determined machines which have stochastictransition functions.
The derivation of each wordin MB or MC from Middle Chinese consists of asequence of diachronic rules.
These rule sequencesfor each of the approximately 2700 words are usedto construct our PFSA.
Node 0 of the PFSA cor-responds to the reconstructed form of the word inMiddle Chinese.
Arcs leading out of states in thePFSA represent particular ules that were appliedto a form at that state, transforming it into a newintermediate form.
A transition on a delimiter sym-bol, which always returns to state 0, signifies the endof a derivation process whereby the final form in thedaughter language has been arrived at.
The weight-ings on the arcs represent the number of times thatparticular arc was traversed in processing the entirecorpus of words.
The complete PFSA then repre-sents the phonological complexity of the derivationprocess from Middle Chinese into one of the moderndialects.If this is the case, then the length of the min-imal description of the PFSA would be indicativeof the distance between the parent and daughterlanguages.
There are two levels at which the di-achronic complexity can be measured.
The firstis of the canonical PFSA, which is a trie encod-ing of the rules.
This is the length of the di-achronic phonological hypothesis accounting for thegiven dataset.
The second is of a minimised ver-sion of the canonical machine.
Our minimisationis performed initially using the sk-strings methodof Raman and Patrick (1997b) and then reducing:Zthe resultant automaton further with a beam searchheuristic (1997a).
The sk-strings method constructsa non-deterministic finite state automaton from itscanonical version by successively merging states thatare indistinguishable for the top s% of their mostprobable output strings limited to a length of k sym-bols.
Both s and k are variable parameters that canbe set when starting program execution.
In this pa-per, the reduced automata re the best ones thatcould be inferred using any value of string size (k)from 1 to 10 and any value of the agreement per-centage (s) from 1 to 100.
The beam search methodreduces the PFSA by searching recursively throughthe best m descendants of the current PFSA where adescendant is defined to be the result of merging anytwo nodes in the parent PFSA.
The variable param-eter m is called the beam size and determines the ex-haustiveness of the search.
In this paper, m was setto 200, which was the maximum the Sun Sparcserver1000 with 256 MB of main memory could tolerate.The final resultant PFSA, minimised thus is,strictly speaking , a generalisation of the proposedphonology.
Its size is not really indicative of thecomplexity of the original hypothesis, but it servesto bring to light important patterns which repeatthemselves in the data.
The minimisation, in effect,forms additional diachronic rules and highlights reg-ular patterns to a linguist.
The size of this structureis also given in our results to show the effect of fur-ther generalisation to the linguistic hypothesis.A final point needs to be made regarding the mo-tivation for the; additional sophistication embodiedin this method as compared to, say, a more sim-plistic phonological approach like a distance mea-sure based on a: simple summation of the number ofproposed rules.
Our method not only gives a mea-sure dependent on the number of rules, but also onthe inter-relationship between them, or the regular-ity present in the whole phonology.
A lower valueindicates the p~esence of greater egularity in thederivation process.
As a case in point, we may lookat two closely related dialects, which have the samenumber of rules in their phonology from a commonparent.
It may be the case that one has divergedmore by losing more of its original structure.
As inthe method of internal reconstruction, if we assumethat the complexity of a language increases withtime due to the presence of residual forms (Crow-ley, 1987, p.150-453), the PFSA derived for the moredistant language will have a greater complexity thanthe other.4 P rocedura l  Dec is ionsThe derivations that were used in constructing thePFSA were traced out individually for each of the2714 forms and entered into a spreadsheet for fur-ther processing.
The Relative Chronologies (RC) ofthe diachronic rules given in Chen76 and CN84 pro-pose rule orderings based on bleeding and feedingrelationships between rules.
3 We have tried to be asconsistent as possible to the RC proposed in Chen76and CN84.
For the most part, we view violations tothe RC as exceptions to their hypothesis.
Consis-tency with the RC proposed in Chen76 and CN84has been maintained as far as possible.
For the mostpart, violations to them are viewed as serious excep-tions.
Thus if Rule A is ordered before Rule B inthe RC, but is required to apply after Rule B ina specific instance under consideration, it is madean exceptional application of Rule A, denoted by"\[A\]".
Such exceptional rules are considered istinctfrom their normal forms.
The sequence of rules de-riving Beijing tou from Middle Chinese *to ("all"),for example, is given as "tl-split:ralse-u:diphthong-u:chameh".
However, "diphthong-u" is ordered be-fore "ralse-u" in the RC.
The earlier rule in theRC is thus made an exceptional application andthe rule sequence is given instead as "tl-split:raise-u:\[diphthong-u\]:chamel:".There are also some exceptional phonologicalchanges not accounted for by CN84 or Chen76.
Inthese cases, we form a new rule representing thechange that took place, denote it in square brack-ets to show its exceptional status.
Related ex-ceptions are grouped together as a single excep-tional rule.
For example, Tone-4 in Middle Chi-nese only changes to Tone-la or Tone-2 in Beijingwhen the form has a voiceless initial.
However, forthe Middle Chinese form *niat ("pinch with fin-gers") in Tone-4, the corresponding Beijing form ishie in Tone-la.
Since the n-initial is voiced, the t4-tripart rule is considered to apply exceptionally.
Thecomplete rule sequence is thus denoted by "raise-i:apocope:chamel:\[t4\]:" where the "It4\]" exceptionalrule covers cases when Tone-4 in SMC unexpectedlychanged into Tone-la or Tone-2 in Beijing in theabsence of a voiceless initial.It also needs to be mentioned that there are a fewcases where an environment for the application of arule might exist, but the rule itself may not apply al-though it is required to by the linguistic hypothesis.3If rule A precludes rule B from applying by virtueof applying before it, then A is said to bleed B.
If ruleA causes rule B to apply by applying before it, it is saidto feed rule B.3This would constitute an exception again.
The de-tails of how to handle this situation more accuratelyare left as a topic for future work, but we try to ac-count for it here by applying a special rule \[!A\] wherethe '!'
is meant to indicate that the rule A didn'tapply when it ought to have.
As an example, wemay consider the derivation of Modern Cantonesehap(Tone 4a) from Middle Chinese *khap(Tone 4)("exactly").
The sequence of rules deriving the MCform is "t4-split:spirant:x-weak:".
However, sincethe environment is appropriate (voiceless initial) forthe application of a further rule, AC-split, after t4-split had applied, the non-application of this addi-tional rule is specified as an exception.
Thus, "t4-split:spirant:x-weak:\[!AC-split\]:" s the actual rulesequence used.In general, the following conventions in represent-ing and treating exceptions have been followed as faras possible: Exceptional rules are always denoted insquare brackets.
They are considered excluded fromthe l:tC and thus are consistently ordered at the endof the rest of the derivation process wherever possi-ble.A final detail concerns the status of allophonicchanges in the phonology.
The derivation processis actually two-stage, comprising a diachronic phaseduring which phonological changes take place anda synchronic phase during which allophonic hangesare automatically applied.
Changes caused by Can-tonese or Beijing Phonotactic Constraints (PCs) aretreated as allophonic rules and fall into the syn-chronic category, whereas PCs applying to earlierforms are treated in line with the regular diachronicrules which Chen76 calls P-rules.A minor problem presents itself when it comes tomaking a clear-cut separation between the historicalrules proper and the synchronic allophonic rules.
InChen76 and CN84, they are not really consideredpart of the historical derivation process.
Yet it wasfound that the environment for the application of adiachronic rule is sometimes produced by an allo-phonic rule.
Such feeding relationships between al-lophonic and diachronic rules make the classificationof those allophonic rules difficult.The only rule considered allophonic in Beijingis the *CHAMEL PC, this being a rule which de-termines the exact qualities of MB vowels.
ForCantonese, CN84 has included two allophonic ruleswithin its RC under bleeding and feeding relation-ships with P-rules.
These are the BREAK-C andY-FUSE rules, both of which concern vocalic detail.In these cases, every instance of their applicationwithin the diachronic phonology has been treated asan exception, effectively elevating these exceptionsto the status of diachronic rules.
In other cases, aswith other allophonic rules, they are always orderedafter all the diachronic rules.
Since the problem re-garding the status of allophonic rules in general isproperly in the domain of historical inguists, it isbeyond the scope of this work.
It was thus decidedto provide two complexity measures - -  one includ-ing allophonic detail and one excluding all allophonicdetail not required for the derivation process.5 M in imum Message  LengthThe Minimum Message Length (MML) principle ofGeorgeff and Wallace (1984) is used to compute thecomplexity of the PFSA.
For brevity, we will hence-forth call the Minimum Message Length of PFSA asthe MML of PFSA or where the context serves todisambiguate, simply MML.In the context of data transmission, the MML of aset of symbols is the minimum number of bits neededto transmit a static model together with the datasymbols given this model a priori.
In the context ofPFSA, the MML is a sum of:?
the length of encoding a description of the pro-posed machine?
the length of encoding the dataset assuming itwas emitted by the proposed machineThe following formula is used for the purpose of com-puting the MML:N - 1)!
{mj + log +j=l (mj - 1)!
I-I (nij - 1)!i= lmj logY + m~- logN} - log(N - 1)!where N is the number of states in the PFSA, tj isthe number of times the j th state is visited, V is thecardinality of the alphabet including the delimitersymbol, nij the frequency of the ith arc from thej th state, mj is the number of different arcs fromthe j th state and m} is the number of different arcson non-delimiter symbols from the j th state.
Thelogs are to the base 2 and the MML is in bits.The MML formula given above assumes a non-uniform prior on the distribution of outgoing arcsfrom a given state.
This contrasts with the MDLcriterion due to Rissanen (1978) which recommendsthe usage of uniform priors.
The specific prior usedin the specification of my is 2 -mj,  i.e.
the prob-ability that a state has n outgoing arcs is 2 -n.Thus mj is directly specified in the formula usingjust mj bits and the rest of the structure specifi-cation assumes this.
It is also assumed that tar-gets of transitions on delimiter symbols return to4"the start state (State 0 for example) and thus don'thave to be specified.
The formula is a modifi-cation for non-deterministic automata of the for-mula in Patrick and Chong (1987) where it is statedwith two typographical errors (the factorials in thenumerators are absent).
It is itself a correction(through personal communication) of the formula inWallace and Georgeff (1984) which follows on fromwork in numerical taxonomy (Wallace and Boulton,1968) that apljlied the MML principle to derive in-formation me~ures for classification.6 Resu l t sThe results of our analysis are given in Tables 1 (forcanonical PFSA) and 2 (for reduced PFSA).
Row 1represents PFSA which have only diachronic detailin them and Row 2 represents PFSA which do notdistinguish between diachronic and allophonic de-tail.
Column 1 represents he MML of the PFSA de-rived for Modern Cantonese and and column 2 rep-resents the MML of PFSA for Modern Beijing.
Asmentioned in Section 3, smaller values of the MMLreflect a greater egularity in the structure.Cantonese BeijingDiachronic 35243.58 bits 36790.93 bitsonly (1168 states, (1212 states,1167 arcs) 1211 arcs)Diachronic + 37782.43 bits 39535.43 bitsAllophonic (1321 states, (1468 states,1320 arcs) 1467 arcs)Table 1: MMLs forChinese to Modernrespectivelythe canonical PFSA for MiddleCantonese and Modern BeijingDiachroniconlyDiachronic +AllophonicCantonese Beijing30379.01 bits(174 states,640 arcs)32711.49 bits(195 states,707 arcs)30366.55 bits(142 states,595 arcs)31585.79 bits(153 states,634 arcs)Table 2: MMLs for the reduced PFSA for MiddleChinese to Modern Cantonese and Modern BeijingrespectivelyThe canonical PFSA are too large and complex tobe printed on ~4 paper using viewable type.
How-ever, it is possible to trim off some of the low fre-quency arcs froria the reduced PFSA to alleviate theproblem of presenting them graphically.
Thus thereduced PFSA for Modern Beijing and Modern Can-tonese are presented in Figures 1 and 2 at the endof this paper, but arcs with a frequency less than10 have been pruned from them.
Since several arcshave been pruned, the PFSA may not make com-plete sense as some nodes may have outgoing tran-sitions without incoming ones and vice-versa.
Thereis further a small amount of overprinting.
They aresolely for the purposes of visualisation of the end-results and not meant o serve any other useful pur-pose.
The arc frequencies are indicated in super-script font above the symbol, except when there ismore than one symbol on an arc, in which case thefrequencies are denoted by the superscript marker..... Exclamation marks ("!")
indicate arcs on de-limiter symbols to state 0 from the state they super-script.
Their superscripts represent the frequency.Superficially, the PFSA may seem to resemble thegraphical representation f the Relative Chronolo-gies in Chen76 and CN84, but in fact they are moresignificant.
They represent the actual sequences ofrules used in deriving the forms rather than just theordering relation among them.
The frequencies onthe arcs also give an idea of how many times a par-ticular rule was applied to a word at a certain stageof its derivation process.
Certain rules that rarelyapply may not show up in the diagram, but that isbecause arcs representing them have been pruned.The MML computation process, however, accountedfor those as well.The complete data corpus, an explanation of thevarious exceptions to rules and the programs for con-structing and reducing PFSA are available from theauthors.7 D iscuss ionThe results obtained from the MMLs of canonicalmachines how that there is a greater complexityin the diachronic phonology of Modern Beijing thanthere is in Modern Cantonese.
These complexitymeasures may be construed as measures of distancesbetween the languages and their ancestor.
Never-theless we exercise caution in interpreting the re-sults as such.
The measures were obtained using justone of many reconstructions of Middle Chinese andone of many proposed iachronic phonologies.
It is,of course, hypothetically possible that a simplisticreconstruction a d an overly generalised phonologycould give smaller complexity measures by result-ing in less complex PFSA.
One might argue thatthis wrongly indicates that the method of obtain-ing distances as described here points to the simplis-tic reconstruction as the better one.
This problem5arises partly because of the fact that the methodol-ogy outlined here assumes all linguistic hypothesesto be equally likely a-priori.
We note, however, thatsimplicity and descriptive conomy are not the onlygrounds for preferring one linguistic hypothesis toanother (Bynon, 1983, p.47).
Many other factors areusually taken into consideration to ensure whethera reconstruction is linguistically viable.
Plausibil-ity and elegance (Harms, 1990, p.314), knowledge ofwhat kinds of linguistic changes are likely and whatare unlikely (Crowley, 1987, p.90), and in the case ofChinese, insights of the "Chinese philological tradi-tion" (Newman, 1987) are all used when deciding theviability of a linguistic reconstruction.
Thus, a finalconclusion about the linguistic problem of subgroup-ing is still properly within the domain of historicallinguists.
This paper just provides a valuable tool tohelp quantify one of the important parameters thatis used in their decision procedure.We make a further observation about the resultsthat the complexity measures for the phonologies ofModern Beijing and Modern Cantonese are not im-mensely different from each other.
Interestingly also,while the MML of the canonical PFSA for ModernBeijing is greater than that for Modern Cantonese,the MML of the reduced PFSA for Modern Bei-jing is less than that for Modern Cantonese.
Whilethe differences might be within the margin of errorin constructing the derivations and the PFSA, it ispossible to speculate that the generalisation processhas been able to discern more structure in the di-achronic phonology of Modern Beijing than in Mod-ern Cantonese.
From a computational point of view,one could say that the scope for further generalisa-tion of the diachronic rules is greater for ModernCantonese than for Modern Beijing or that there isgreater structure in the evolution of Modern Beijingfrom Middle Chinese than in the evolution of Can-tonese.
One could perhaps claim that this is due tothe extra liberty taken historically by current Mod-ern Cantonese speakers to introduce changes intotheir language as compared to their Mandarin speak-ing neighbours.
But it would be nffive to  concludeso here.
The study of the actual socio-cultural fac-tors which would have resulted in this situation isbeyond the scope of this paper.It is also no surprise that the MMLs obtained forthe two languages are not very different from eachother although the difference is large enough to bestatistically significant.
4 Indeed, this is to be ex-4\?e are grateful to an anonymous reviewer for rais-ing the question of what the smallest difference in MMLwould be before having significance.
At least one of thepresent authors claims the difference in MML for a singlepected as they are both contemporary and have de-scended from a common ancestor.
We can expectmore interesting results when deriving complexitymeasures for the phonologies of languages that aremore widely separated in time and space.
It is herethat the method described in this paper can providean effective tool for subgrouping.8 Conc lus ion  and  Future  WorkIn this paper, we have provided an objective frame-work which will enable us to obtain distance mea-sures between related languages.
The method hasbeen illustrated and the first step towards actuallyapplying it for historical Chinese linguistics has alsobeen taken.
It has been pointed out to us, though,that the methodology described in this paper couldin fact be put to better use than in just deriv-ing distance measures.
The suggestion was that itshould be possible, in principle, to use the methodto choose between competing reconstructions of pro-tolanguages as this tends to be a relatively more con-tentious area than subgrouping.It is indeed possible to use the method to do this- -  we could retain the basic procedure, but shift thefocus from studying two descendants of a commonparent to studying two proposed parents of a com-mon set of descendants.
A protolanguage is usuallypostulated in conjunction with a set of diachronicrules that derive forms in the descendant languages.We could thus use the methodology described in thispaper to derive a large number of forms in the de-scendant languages from each of the two competingprotolanguages.
Since descriptive conomy is one ofthe deciding factors in selecting historical inguistichypotheses, the size of each body of derivations, uit-ably encoded in the form of automata, in conjunc-tion with other linguistic considerations will thengive the plausibility of that reconstruction.
Furtherstudy of this line of approach is, however, left as atopic for future research.Re ferencesBynon, T. 1983.
Historical linguistics.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Chen, Matthew Y.
1976.
From Middle Chinese toset of data to be approximately an odds ratio.
Thus, adifference of n bits (however small n is) would point to anodds ratio of 1:2 n that the larger PFSA is more complexthan the smaller one.
The explanation is not directlyapplicable in this case as we are comparing two differ-ent data sets and so further theoretical developments arenecessary.Modern Peking.
Journal off Chinese Linguistics,4(2/3):113-277.Chen, Matthew Y. and John Newman.
1984a.
FromMiddle Chinese to Modern Cantonese: Part I.Journal of Chinese Linguistics, 12(1):148-194.Chen, Matthew Y. and John Newman.
1984b.
FromMiddle Chinese to Modern Cantonese: Part II.Journal of Chinese Linguistics, 12(2):334-388.Chen, Matthew Y. and John Newman.
1985.
FromMiddle Chinese to Modern Cantonese: Part III.Journal of Chinese Linguistics, 13(1):122-170.Cheng, Chin-Chuan.
1982.
A quantification of Chi-nese dialect affinity.
Studies in the Linguistic Sci-ences, 12(1):29-47.Chomsky, Noam and Morris Halle.
1968.
The soundpattern of English.
Harper and Rowe, New York.Cihui.
1964.
Hanyu Fangyan Cihui, (A lexicon ofHan Dialects).
Wenzi Gaige Chubanshe, Beijing.Compilation .by Beijing University.Crowley, T. 1987.
An introduction to historical lin-guistics.
University of Papua New Guinea Press.Embleton, S. M. 1991.
Mathematical methodsof genetic classification.
In S. L. Lamb andE.
D. Mitchell, editors, Sprung from some com-mon source.
Stanford University Press, Stanford,California, pages 365-388.Georgeff, M. P. and C. S. Wallace.
1984.
A generalselection criterion for inductive inference.
In TimO'Shea, editor, ECAI-84: Advances in artificialintelligence.
Elsevier, North Holland, Dordrecht,pages 473-481.Grimes, J. E. and F. B. Agard.
1959.
Linguisticdivergence in Romance.
Language, 35:598-604.Harms, R. T. 1990.
Synchronic rules and diachronic"laws": The Saussurean dichotomy reaffirmed.In E. C. Polom~, editor, Trends in linguistics:Studies and monographs: 48.
Mouton de Gruyter,Berlin, pages 313-322.Hsieh, Hsin-I.
1973.
A new method of dialectsubgrouping.
Journal of Chinese Linguistics,1(1):63-92. iReprinted in William S-Y Wang(Ed.
), The lexicon in phonological change, pp.159-196.
The Hague: Mouton, 1977.Newman, John.
1987.
The evolution of a Can-tonese phonotactic constraint.
Australian Journalof Linguistics; 7:43-72.Patrick, Jon D.~ and K. E. Chong.
1987.
Real-time inductive inference for analysing human be-haviour.
In Proceedings of the Australian joint AIconference, pages 305-322, Sydney.Raman, Anand V. and Jon D. Patrick.
1997a.Beam search and simba search for PFSA infer-ence.
Tech Report 2/97, Massey University Infor-mation Systems Department, Palmerston North,New Zealand.Raman, Anand V. and Jon D. Patrick.
1997b.
Thesk-strings method for inferring PFSA.
In Pro-ceedings of the workshop on automata induction,grammatical inference and language acquisitionat the 14th international conference on machinelearning --  ICML'97, page (in press), Nashville,Tennessee.Rissanen, J.
1978.
Modeling by shortest data de-scription.
Automatica, 14:465-471.Streeter, Mary L. 1977.
Doc, 1971: A Chinesedialect dictionary on computer.
In William S-YWang, editor, The lexicon in phonological change.Mouton, The Hague, pages 101-119.Wallace, C. S. and D. M. Boulton.
1968.
An in-formation measure for classification.
ComputerJournal, 11:185-194.Wallace, C. S. and M. P. Georgeff.
1984.
A gen-eral objective for inductive inference.
Tech ReportTR-84/44, Monash University, Computer ScienceDepartment, Clayton, Victoria.Zihui.
1962.
Hanyu Fangyin Zihui, (A Pronounc-ing Dictionary of Han Dialects).
Wenzi GaigeChubanshe, Beijing.
Compilation by Beijing Uni-versity.7esrime"""<~:9!
"10\ !^31ralSe.U ~?~)-!^29Figure 1: Reduced PFSA for the diachronic phonology from Middle Chinese to Modern Beijing (Allophonicdetail excluded)S f/??
~ -wC"Figure 2: Reduced PFSA for the diachronic phonology from Middle Chinese to Modern Cantonese (Allo-phonic detail excluded)9
