Automat ic  Identif ication of Zero Pronouns andtheir Antecedents within Al igned Sentence PairsHiromi NakaiwaNTT Communication Science Laboratories1-1 Hikarinooka, Yokos~l~-shi,Kauagawz~-ken, 239 JAPANnakaiwa@cslab, kecl.
nit.
co. j pAbstractThis paper proposes a method to identify zero pronouns within a ~\]apansse entence andtheir antecedent equivalents within the corresponding English sentence from aligned sentencepairs.
The method focuses on the characteristics of Japanese and English, in two languagesfrom cHfBerent f~rngles and in which distribution of zero pronouns i  very d.uTerent.
In thismethod, the Japanese sentence and English translation within the Japanese and English alignedsentence pairs are analyzed.
Then, the pairs of Japanese word/phrase and their English equiv-alent word/phrase are identified from each aligned sentence pair.
Next, zero pronouns within aJapanese sentence are identified by using the syntactic and semantic structure of the Japanesesentence and their antecedents within the English sentence are identified by using the character-istics of anaphoric and deictic expressions in English.
This method was implemented using theJapanese-to-English machine translation system, ALT-3/E for the analysis of Japanese sentencesand Brill's tagger for the analysis of the English sentences.
According to my evaluation, for 554zero p~onouns in a sentence set for the evaluation of 3apanese-to-Engllsh machine translationsystems, 91.5% of the pairs of zero pronouns in the Japanese sentences and their antecedents inthe English translations were automatically identified correctly.1 !n/ ; roduct ion1.1 Mot ivat ionIn natural anguages, elements that can be easily deduced by the reader are frequently omittedfrom expressions in texts (Kuno, 1978).
This phenomenon causes considerable problems in naturallanguage processing systems.
For example, in a machine translation system, the system needs torecognize those elements which are not present in the source language, but may become manda-tory elements in the target language.
In particular, the subject and object are often omitted inJapanese; whereas they are normally obligatory in English.
Thus, in Japanese-to-Engiish ma~netranslation systems, it is necessary to identify case elements omitted from the original Japanese("zero pronouns") for their translation i to Engiish expressions.Several algorithms have been proposed with regard to this problem (Kameyama, 1986; Walkeret al, 1990; ?oshimoto, 1988; Dousa~a, 1994).
V/hen considering the application of these methodsto a practical machine translation system for which the translation target area can not be 1/mired, itis not possible to apply them directly, both because their precision of resohtion is low as they onlyuse limited information, and because the volume of knowledge that must be prepared beforehandis so large.127To overcome these kinds of problems, several methods to resolve zero pronouns which considerappl/cations for a practical machine translation system with an n~\]imJted translation target area,have been proposed (Nakaiwa nd Ikehara, 1992; Nakaiwa and Ikehara, 1995; Nakalwa nd Ikehara,1996).
These methods use categorized semantic and pragznatic constraints such as verbal semanticattributes (Nakaiwa et al, 1994) and types of modal expressions and conjunctions as a conditionfor anaphora resolution of zero pronouns.But, with these methods it is necessary to make resolution rules for zero pronouns by hand.To make robust rules, with wide coverage, takes a lot of time and labor.
Analysts who makethese resolution rules must be f~rnl\]iar with the NLP system itself.
Furthermore, the types of zeropronouns change depending on the types of documents which must be analyzed.
So, resolution rulesmust be made depencling on the target domain of the documents.
But, it is very difficult to makerules for every domain because of the time cons-rni~g labor and the need for expertise.
Becauseof these problems, a method to make resolution rules of zero pronouns effectively and efficiently isaeeded.In order to acquire resolution rules for a NLP system effectively and efficiently, various methodshave been proposed.
One typical method for this purpose is to use a corpus for extracting resolutionrules by analyzing each sentence hi the corpus.
With regard to the automatic extraction of resolutionrules for zero pronouns, several methods have been proposed (Murata and Nagao, 1997; Nasukawa,1996).
But t\]zese methods use monolingual corpora and they find it difficult to extract resolutionrules of zero pronouns whose referents are normally unexpressed in Japanese.
Furthermore, rulescan only be made when slrnilar expressions to those containing the zero pronouns are found in thecorpus.It seems that a bilingual corpus consisting of sentence pairs, with an original in one languageand a translation, is better than a monolingual corpus for the purpose of acquiring resolutionrules of zero pronouns.
This is particularly so with a bilingual corpus of Japanese and Engl/shwhose language farn~lles are so different and in which the distribution of zero pronouns is also verydifferent.
This combination is more useful than the bilingual corpora of similar languages.The technique for acquiring various kinds of rules such as translation rules, grammar rules, dic-tionary entries and so on from bilingual corpora needs to include several kinds of sub-techniques;identification of aligned sentence pairs which consist of pairs of one language sentence and trans-lation equivalents of the sentence (sentence alignment); identification of equivalent words/phrasespairs from aligned sentence pairs (word alignment); and extraction of rules such as translation rules,grammar rules, dictionary entries and so on from identified aligned sentence pairs and equivalentword/phrase pairs.Several methods have been proposed with regard to aligning sentences (Brown et al, 1991; Galeand Church, 1991; Haruno and Yamazaki, 1996; Kay and l~osche/sen, 1993), alJs~nlng words (Church,1993; Kupiec, 1993; Matsumoto et al, 1993; Wu, 1995; Yamada et al, 1996) and acquiring rules frombilingual corpora (Dagan et al, 1991; Dagan and Church, 1994; Fung and Church, 1994; Tana~,1994; Yamada et al, 1995).
From the point of view of the extraction of resolution rules of zeropronouns, a technique to identify zero pronouns in a sentence in one language and their antecedentsin a translation from aligned sentence pairs is needed.
But there is currently no method to identifyzero pronouns and their antecedents automatically within bilingual corpora.128 I1.2 A Method for Ext ract ion  of Reso lu t ion  Rules for Japanese  Zero PronounsThis section describes the overall design of a method for automatically extracting resolution rulesfor Japanese zero pronouns from Japanese and English aligned sentence pairs.
1 Figure 1 showsan overview of the system.
As shown in this figure, the aligned sentence pairs, consisting of aJapanese sentence and its English translation, are analyzed individually by Japanese and Englishsyntactic and semantic parsers.
Next, the system identifies the pairs of Japanese word/phrase andtheir English equivalent word/phrase, by comparing these two structures, based on the Japanesestructure and the English structure which are created by the Japanese and English parsers.
Then,Japanese zero pronouns in the Japanese sentence and translation equivalents of their antecedentsin the English sentence are identified.
By using these results, based on the Japanese structure,the resolution rules for Japanese zero pronouns within Japanese sentences are created.
In the nextstep, the resolution rules are used for the semantic and pragmatic analysis of the Japanese sentenceby the Japanese parser within the whole rule extlra~tion system.
The same Japanese and Englishaligned sentence pairs are inputted to the system and resolution rules of Japanese zero pronounsare again extracted.
These processes are repeated until the system c~.~ot extract any more rulesfor Japanese zero pronouns resolution from the aligned sentence pairs.In this paper, I describe the core method to identify zero pronouns within a Japanese sentenceand translation equivalents oftheir antecedents within a corresponding English sentence, shown bythe shaded area in Figure 1.I 2 Appearance of Zero Pronouns and Their Antecedents withinJapanese and English Aligned Sentence PairsIn order to understand the distribution of zero pronouns with antecedents within Japanese andEnglish aligned sentence pairs, this section examines which zero pronouns in Japanese must beexplicitly translated into English and where their antecedents appear in EngJJsh, using a test setdesigned to evaluate the performance of Japanese-to-English machine translation systems (Ikeharaet al, 1994).
The test set (3718 sentences) has many examples of zero pronouns with intrasententialand deictic references.
2 The sentence set was created to test the coverage of expressions that canbe translated by Japanese-to-English MT systems based on the varieties of Japanese xpressionsand the differences between Japanese and English.
The sentence set has approximately 500 kindsof test items.
Each sentence has a manual translation, and almost all of the sentences can betranslated without contextual information (3704 sentences out of 3718 sentences).
A MT systemcan be evaluated by comparing its output to the equivalent manual translation.
Each sentenceis expressed in natural Japanese and the sentence set covers many different expressions.
Theaverage l ngth of Japanese sentence is 16.39 Japanese characters and the average l ngth of Englishtranslation is 9.22 words.This is an example of a zero pronoun in Japanese whose referent is expressed in the Englishequivalent.
(1) (~ga) hon-wo ztomi-taibook-oBs read-WANT-TOI want to read a book.IFor details of this step, please refer to Nakaiwa (1997).2'intrasentential' means that the antecedent of Japanese zero pronoun is explicitly expressed within the sameJapanese sentence.
'deictic' means that the antecedent of Japanese zero pronouns is not explicitly expressed withinthe Japanese t xt.129I Aligned Sentence PairsI Japanescicn~nce I ~:Englishlcntence I J ,~~.
;g~.
.~ , -~:.:-:,:~!;";,:.
:, :.~::J::I.iI:~":.~::-/.~!H: ~: I "~Z?2 k.. 4~.~-~~I".
#-~I.,.-=.
!
: .
:~ ;, ~: ,.~;-:.~:~::li.~.~.~--.~" -'..'!i !,...:....:. "
".'"
"::'J.:l..:..,'.
:."..."::~,.:.'::".':-..;.:.~../::.1i..
":: :..
.
: ;"...: ~..i .
}.,-~--: ~ :.
~::..:i-:; i ~: :iil"i:L :.
::?!i:..
:::~:::i.iiii :..--.-..!..1.
: ~.
:~ :~,~-~ ~ ~, ,~~.
::  ;~ \]~i;~:~ ' i:.-,i~: .:.
:{" ' : : !
l :  .of~ap.~ese Zero ' l~ 'ono~'  ."'.
l" ~" : : : " " "  ': " :  "" ......
I .
.
~,":.
:-, ~' ': .
'-:: ~:.
;: : :.~.
::~t ~:, ~ :.!!.
::.
:.\[ Creation f Resolution Rules I of Japanese Z ro PronounsFigure 1: System of Automatic Extraction f Resolution Rules for Japanese Z ro Pronouns130.
IIIIII|._In this expression, the Japanese sentence contains the modal expression ~ i  which indicates~oPE.
This modal expression causes the default referent of the subject zero pronoun to be the"writer" or "speaker" which is translated as "IF' in English.The results of the examination of zero pronouns and their referential elements in the test setare shown in Table 1.
There were a total of 554 zero pronouns in 437 sentences.
The location of thereferential elements can be divided into 2 kinds: those expressed in the same Japanese sentence,and those not expressed in the same Japanese sentence.
The latter were further classified into 7kinds.?
The zero pronoun is not translated because the passive voice is used.?
The referent is the wr/ter or speaker, uI'; or a group, "we".?
The referent is the reader or hearer, ~you'.?
The referent is human but it is not known who the human is.?
The zero pronoun should be translated as "it ".?
The zero pronoun should be translated as "this".?
The referent is another specific element.According to this study of the functional test sentence set, in 150 out of 554 instances (27%)the antecedents were expressed within the Japanese sentence and in 404 out of 554 instances (73%)the referent was not expressed in the Japanese sentence.
Zero pronouns could be left unexpressedby converting the translation to the passive voice in 157 instances (28~).
The other zero pronouns,247 instances (45~), referred to referents that did not appear in the Japanese sentence but didappear in the English translation.
This result shows that aligned sentence pairs win be effectivefor identifying zero pronouns and their antecedents automatically by determining zero pronouns inJapanese and their antecedents in English.According to a further examination of the English equivalents of Japanese zero pronouns in thesentence set in Table 1, depending on the types of referential elements, the style of the Englishequivalents are different.
These characteristics an be summarized in the following:..Deictic referents in English (247 instances)These elements are often translated as personal pronouns uch as uF' or "you" or indefinite"one  ~ .Anaphoric antecedents in English (150 instances; intrasentential)These elements are often translated as personal pronouns, demonstratives, such as uthis',definite noun phrases, such as noun phrases with detnite art/des (e.g.
~the company") oranaphoric "one".English expressions of these two types are preferred candidates for translation equivalents ofJapanese zero pronouns.131Table 1: Distribution of zero pronouns and their referential elementsLoc?ofzezopron.Loc.
of 'referential elements'Intrssentential DeicticI!~,I!1 I !~ i l  I i * !
I I~ l l  i l ,m I I !~  m E l  I I  I i ' i l  i l *m E l  I I  gen i i  I !~\ ]~ n4 im i i , m l i , i a , i i , i  ~ i O  ~ l i i ~l *n  EBJ i  e iBE~i  i s i i l~n iE i  iE~E R im H H EE~iTo-txiL i l ~ i U i , l i , m  i ,m Iin i  i l l a i i m m i i  m, i  U l i ~~ \ [ ~  ~ I i I i n : l l  I b?a  !
: \ ] : !
I~!
I~  iml l  l i O I  ~~ i l n R m 4 i i i a , i i , a o m m , i m , i m n m ~ m i l O l  ~~ i l n n E l l ~ , ~ i , !
m i l o i ~ l i k lm,r, n l iom~Jmmi i ,mis J  U U U l U. , "3 A Method for Identification of Zero Pronouns and their An-tecedents within Japanese and English Aligned Sentence PairsThis section describes a method for automatically identifying zero pronouns within Japanese sen-tences, and translation equivalents oftheir antecedents within English translation equivalents.
Theshaded part of Figure 1 shows an overview of the system.
The system consists of the followingthree parts; the analysis of the Japanese sentence; the analysis of the Engtish sentence; and theidentification of Japanese zero pronouns in Japanese sentences and their antecedents in Englishequivalent sentences.
The next three subsections describe the details of these three process.3.1 Analys is  of Japanese  SentencesThe Japanese sentences are analyzed using the morphological, syntactic and semantic analyzers ofJapanese in ALT-J/E (Ikehara et al, 1991).
The analysis of the Japanese sentences consists of thefollowing steps.1) Morphological analysis of Japanese sentencesIn this step, Japanese sentence is segmented into words and each word is tagged with i ts  partof speech.2) Syntact ic and semantic analysis of Japanese sentencesIn this step, using each word within the Japanese sentence and the tagged information for eachword, the syntactic and semantic structure of the Japanese sentence is created.
Because theJapanese syntactic and semantic structure is used for the automatic translation to Englishin ALT-J/E, the Japanese structure contains information about the syntactic position ofJapanese zero pronouns which must be translated into English and also contains the semanticconstraints for the Japanese zero pronouns forced by the meaning of the verb within theJapanese sentence.
For the semantic onstraints, we used our original semantic attributesystem(Ogura etal., 1993).
The semantic attribute system has a semantic oncept hierarchywhich represents "is-a" relationships and ~has-a" relationships, with some 2,800 attributes(12-level tree structure) for common ouns, and some 200 attributes (9-level tree structure)for proper nouns.For example ~om the Japanese sentence in the aligned sentence pair (1), the following syntacticand semantic structure is created.132(2) Syntactic and Semantic Structure of Japanese Sentence (1)S : u-sent-1tense : PRESENT,  PERFECTIVE AS I~CTmodal : ta / (HOPB)VSA : SUBJECT'S HUMAN ACTION, S~/B/ECT'S THINKING ACTION\[- PRED : pred-II main verb : gomu (~.,~u)\[- CASE : case-1\[ case xel&tion : OB3BCTIVB CaSEJ particle : woI- NP : nl>-II I- N:  no.
(,~oox)\[- CASE : case-2case relation : r~SJECT\[- NP : ~1 (Semantic Constraints: HUMAN)3.2 Ana lys i s  o f  Eng l i sh  SentencesThe English sentences are analyzed using Brill's English ta~er  (Bri\]l, 1992) and partially parsedusing the tamed information for each English word.
The analysis of English sentences consists ofthe following steps.1) Tagging for each word in the  Engl ish sentenceUsing Brill's English taker ,  each English word in the English sentence is tamed with theappropriate part of speech.2) Par t ia l  syntact ic  analysis of  the  Engl ish sentenceIn this step, first of all, noun phrases and the predicate pat  within the English sentenceare identified, using the tagged information for each English word by step 1.
The predicatepart means the consecutive words which consist of verb and modal, tense and aspect.
Eachpredicate part is distinguished by its voice.
Next, the subject of the predicate part and thedirect object of the predicate part are determined from noun phrases within the Englishsentence.
The subject is simply taken to be the preceding adjacent noun phrase of thepredicate part and the direct object the next adjacent noun phrase, s3) Complet ion  o f  elfipsis with in the  Engl ish sentenceEllipses within the English sentence are identified and are completed by using the syntacticstructure.
At present, only ellipsed coordinated subjects are treated.
In practice, the followingrules are used for the identification of ellipsis and completed elements.Determinat ion  of  Ellipsls When a predicate part in the English sentence is inthe active voice and the adjacent preceding element is not a noun phrase but acoordinating conjunction, the subject of the predicate part is determined to beelllpsed.Determinat ion  of  Oml t ted  E lement  When the subject of a predicate part isdetermiued to be ellipsed and the subject of the preceding predicate part for the8In this step, it is possible to use an English parser as the syntactic analyzer.
But, normally, English parsersmake many possible syntactic structures which are often incorzect.
So, when an English parser is used for the Englishsyntactic analysis for this step, the system ust select the best structure from the candidates.
Furthermore, asshownin the following step, the partial syntactic structures are all that is needed for the identh~cation of antecedents ofJapanese zero pronouns within the Eng~sh translation.
So, to keep the robustness, I only use Brill's Eng~sh ta~erand partial syntactic parser.133ellipsis exists or is ellipsed and their omitted element has already been determined,the subject noun phrase is determined as the omitted ement for the ellipsis.4) Anaphora  resolut ion of  anaphoric expressions wi th in  the  English sentenceThe anaphora resolution of anaphoric expression such as pronouns and definite noun phrases,is conducted using the partial syntactic structure of the English sentence.
According tothis step, even if the antecedents of zero pronouns in Japanese are anaphoric expressionssuch as pronouns and definite noun phrases, the anaphora resolution process determinesthe antecedents of anaphoric expressions in English and the overall system can determinethe intersentential nd intrssentential resolution rules of Japanese zero pronouns by usingidentified pairs of the antecedents of anaphoric expressions in English and their Japaneseequivalents.
4For example from the English sentence in aligned sentence pair (1), the following partial syntactic?
structure is created.
(3) Pzrtial syntactic structure of an English Sentence (1)S : u-sent-  I\[- PRED : pred-1\] =want ~ : VERB, NON-3RD PS.
SING.
PRESENT.I " to  ~ :To\[ ~eacl ~ : V~.B,  ~SAS~ FORM\[- CASE : case-1I case relation : SUBJECT\[ I- NP : rip-1I I- ~ : \]~RSONAL PRONO1LTNI -  CASE : case-2case relation : DIRECT OB3~CTNP : np-2\[- ~a" : VZTSaMn~um'rbook= : NOUN, SINGULAR OR MASS3.3 Ident i f i ca t ion  of  Japanese  Zero P ronouns  and  The i r  AntecedentsThe method to identify Japanese zero pronouns and their English equivalents consists of the follow-ing steps.
The input of this process is the pair of the syntactic and semantic structure of Japanesesentence and the partial syntactic structure of English translation equivalents.1) Ident i f icat ion of  the  pairs of  Japanese word /phrase  and their  Engl ish equivalentword /phrase .I align the Japanese and English elements as described in Y~.raada et al (1996) using thefollowing information:?
bilingual dictionary for Japanese to English MT system, ALT-J/EThis dictionary is used for the determination of pairs of equivalent word phrases ofJapanese and English.?
English dictionary for English generation i ALT-J/EThis dictionary is used when the SUiFLX differs: for example the derivative, 'ing', betweenthe English word in the bilingual dictionary entry and the English word in the Englishsentence within the aligned sentence pair.6This step has not  been implemented because anaphora  resolution of  Engl ish sentences needs deta i led syntact icand semantic structure to achieve high accuracy.
So, for now, I do not realize the anaphorz esolution process in thewhole system for the primary examination.134We remove function words such as prepositions, determiners and others from the targetEnglish sentence to find Japanese quivalent words/phrases in Japanese.
This is becausefunction words often must be changed epending on the types of head such as verb forpreposition and noun for determ/ner in English.As a result of this step, the alignment information of aligned words/phrases pairs are taggedfor the Japanese and English structure.
Furthermore, semantic nformation which was taggedin a Japanese word/phrase are also ta~ed for the English word/phrase which is aligned withthe Japanese word/phrase.2) Identif ication of  the candidates for antecedents  of Japanese zero pronouns  withinthe  Engl ish sentence:In this step, the following English words/phrases are identified within the English sentenceas possible translation equivalents:?
personal pronouns uch as "I" or "you"?
Uone".?
demonstratives such as x/t" or "that"?
definite noun phrases uch as a noun phrase with a definite article (e.g.
"the company")3) A l ignment  of zero pronouns in Japanese sentences and translat ion equivalents oftheir  referents in English sentences:The pairs of Japanese words/phrases and English equi~alent words/phrases and the pairsof zero pronouns in the Japanese sentence and their antecedents in the English sentenceare determ/ned from: the candidates for the pairs of Japanese word/phrases and their En-glish equivalent word/phrases which were identi~ed at step 1; and the candidates for theantecedents of Japanese zero pronouns within the English sentence which were identified atstep 2.
This determination is conducted based on how stron~y related the candidates areand how many pairs can be identified from them.
The rules for the determination f the pairsof zero pronouns in the Japanese sentence and their antecedents in the English sentence aresummarized as follows.
The rules are extracted by hand based on the exarnlnation of the testset in Section 2. sWhen applying the following rules for each zero pronoun, even if the rule is matched andthe poss/ble antecedent of the zero pronoun is determined, if the candidate does not satisfythe semantic onstraints for the zero pronoun, the rule is not applied and the candidate isnot determined as the antecedent of the zero pronoun.
The rules are applied hi the followingorder.
If one rule is satisfied for each zero pronoun, the process of the following other rulesapplication stops, except for rule 9.For each sentence:Ru le  1 If a Japanese verb and an English verb are alignedand if the subject equivalent s of the Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand if the subject of the English verb does not have a Japanese quivalent,SAt the extraction process, I tried to make rules which can be identified fully automatically by using relativelysimple Japanese and English syntactical information.
I also take into account the coverage of each rules which canbe covered as wide as possible.e'the subject equivalent' means ga case (subject) or the case which will be translated as a subject in English bythe MT system.135: .
?--* the subject of the English verb is determined to be the translation equivalent of theantecedent of the Japanese zero pronoun.Ru le  2 If a Japanese verb and an English verb are allgnedand if the subject equivalent of the Japanese verb is a zero pronounand if the zero pronoun and the subject of the English verb are alignedand if the object equivalent ~ of the Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand if the direct object of the English verb is identified as a antecedent candidateand if the direct object of the English verb does not have a Japanese quivalent,--, the direct object is determined as the translation equivalent of the antecedent of theJapanese zero pronoun.Ru le  S If a Japanese verb and an English noun, derived from a verb, which is modified by apossessive pronoun, are alignedand if a case of the Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand if the Japanese quivalent of the possessive pronoun can not be determined,the possessive pronoun is determined as the translation equivalent of the antecedentof the Japanese zero pronoun.Ru le  4 If the subject equivalent of a :Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand if the object equivalent of the Japanese verb is aligned with a case in the Englishsentence at subject positionand if the predicate part of the subject in the English sentence is in the passive voice,--.
there is no antecedent of the zero pronoun in the subject equivalent position withinthe English sentence because the passive voice expression is used and the zero pronounis marked as unalignable.Ru le  5 If the subject equivalent of a Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand the object equivalent of the Japanese verb is an unaligned zero pronounand if an English verb is in the passive voiceand if the subject of the English verb is identified as a candidate antecedent,--~ there is no antecedent of the zero pronoun in the subject equivalent position withinthe English sentence and the zero pronoun is marked as unaUgnableand the antecedent of the zero pronoun in the object equivalent position is determinedas the direct object of the English verb because the passive voice expression is used.Rule  6 If the subject equivalent of a Japanese unit sentence in the Japanese sentence is an un-aligned zero pronounand if the object equivalent of the Japanese unit sentence is an unaligned zero pronounand if the Japanese quivalents of a subject and a direct object within an English unitsentence in the English sentence can not be determined in the Japanese sentence or theJapanese unit sentence,the translation equivalent of the antecedent of the zero pronoun in the subject equiv-alent position is determined as the subject of the English unit sentenceand the translation equivalent of antecedent of the zero pronoun in the object equivalentposition is determined as the direct object of the English unit sentence.Ru le  7 If there is only one unaligned zero pronoun in the Japanese sentenceand if there is only one unaligned candidate antecedent in the English sentence,T'the object equivalent' means the wo case  (crlzect object) oz the case which will be tl~nslated as a direct objectin English by the MT system.136--* the translation equivalent of the antecedent ofthe zero pronoun is determined as thecandidate antecedent.Or if there are more than one unaligned possible antecedents,--.
the translation equivalent of the antecedent of the zero pronoun is determined basedon the following priority.personal pronouns > Uone" > demonstratives > de~uite noun phrasesRule  8 If there is an unaligned zero pnonoun and all antecedent candidates have been alignedthen, if there are one or more candidates which are aligned with Japanese lements in adifferent unit sentence to the unaligned zero pronoun,--* the translation equivalent of the antecedent of the zero pronoun is determined fromthose candidates based on the priority in rule 7.Rule 9 If the translation equivalent of an antecedent of a zero pronoun which is determined byrules 1 - 8, also has another Japanese quivalent within the Japanese sentence,the zero pronoun is deterrnlued to be a zero pronoun with an intrasentential n-tecedent.Rule 10 If there are any remaining unaligned zero pronouns,--.
these zero pronouns are ones whose antecedents are not explicitly translated in theEnglish sentence and are marked as unalignable.For example from the zero pronoun in the ga case (subject) in Japanese sentence in aligned sentencepair (1), rule 1 is applied and its antecedent is determined as the subject in the English sentence,uI="4 Eva luat ion4.1 Eva luat ion  MethodThe method to identify zero pronouns and their antecedents within Japanese and English alignedsentence pairs which was discussed in Section 3 was evaluated by automatically identifying zeropronouns and their antecedents from the functional test sentence set which is already alignedsentence by sentence.
The conditions for the evaluation were as follows:4.1.1 Eva luat ion of  Target  Sentence Pa i rsThe evaluation used Japanese and English aligned sentence pairs which contain zero pronouns (554instances; 437 sentences) in a test set designed to evaluate the performance of Japanese-to-Englishmachine translation systems (Ikehara et al, 1994) (3718 sentence pairs).4.1.2 Analysis of  Japanese and Engl ish sentenceFor the sentence pairs which contain zero pronouns, the syntactic and semantic structure of eachJapanese sentence was created using the Japanese-to-English MT system, ALT-J/E as the Japaneseanalyzer, described in section 3.1, and the partial syntactic structure of each English sentence wascreated using Brill's tagger as the English analyzer, described in section 3.2.
To avoid any effectscaused by problems at the analysis step on the evaluation of the rules to identify antecedentsof zero pronouns, described in section 3.3, any incorrect structures in the Japanese and Englishsentences were modified by hand for the evaluation.
Furthermore, to take into account he effect137of the anaphora resolution of anaphoric expression in English sentences on the accuracy of theidentification of the antecedents of zero pronouns, the antecedents of anaphoric expression i  theEnglish sentences were determined by hand and the accuracy with and without anaphora resolutionwas compared.4.1.3 AntecedentsFor the sentence pairs which contain zero pronouns, antecedents of each zero pronoun within thetext set were automatically identified (Section 3).4.1.4 Evaluat ion ParametersTo ex~m~e the effectiveness of automatically identifying antecedents of Japanese zero pronounswithin English translations, the accuracy of the identified antecedents of each zero pronoun of thefollowing three types were examined.?
Zero pronouns with intrasentential antecedents (150 instances)?
Zero pronouns with deictic referents which are not expressed in English translation by usingpassive voice expressions (157 instances)?
Zero pronouns with delctic referents which are expressed inEnglish translation (247 instances)4.1.5 Successful ly Identif ied Antecedents  of  Zero PronounsWhen rules in Section 3.3 correctly identify the accurate antecedent of a Japanese zero pronoun,with intrasentential antecedents or with deictic referent, which are expressed in the English trans-lation, or when rules in Section 3.3 correctly identify a Japanese zero pronoun as unalignable, thatis there is no deictic referents expressed in the English translation, the antecedents of zero pronounare judged to be identified successfully.4.2 Ident i f i ca t ion  AccuracyThe accuracy of identified antecedents of zero pronouns is shown in Table 2.
As shown in thistable, the accuracy of identified antecedents for three types of zero pronouns using rules describedin Section 3.3 is as high as 91.5% in the test using an English analyzer with anaphora resolutionand 87.2% even in the test using an English analyzer without anaphora resolution.
In particular,the identification of unatignable for zero pronouns with deictic referents which are not expressedin English translation is 100~ accurate in both tests.
Furthermore, according to these results, theanaphora resolution in English only affects the accuracy of antecedent identification for the zero pro-nouns with intrasentential antecedents (89.3% with anaphora resolution, 73.3% without anaphoraresolution).
This result shows that even without using anaphora resolution at English analysis, thismethod achieves relatively high accuracy for zero pronouns with intrasententiai antecedents.The result of the detailed exam~ration of the zero pronouns whose antecedents can not beidentified correctly using this method (47 instances) are summarized in Table 3.
The most commoncause of error is that the Japanese sentence was translated freely and there is no correspondingantecedent within the English translation (42 out of 47 instances).
For these sentence pairs, theantecedents of the zero pronouns are not explicitly expressed in the human translation, but theJapanese analyzer still needs the resolution of the zero pronouns because the machine translationsystem which contains the Japanese analyzer can not translate freely like the human translator.138Table 2: Identification accuracy of antecedents for types of zero pronounscondition at Intrasentential DeicticEnglish analysis .. passive explicitwith anaphora 89.3% 100.0% 87.4%resolution (134/150) (157/157) (216/247)without anaphora 100.0% 73.3%0101150) resolution 0571157)tal91.5%87.4% 87.2%(2!6/247) (483/554)So, this problem is caused by the methodological limitation of proposed method.
The remaining5 instances are caused by zero pronouns with intrasentential antecedents.
In 4 out of 5 cases theantecedents of the zero pronouns were not explicitly translated in English by using the passivevoice but humans can easily understand that the antecedents of the zero pronouns are in the sameSentence.
This problem is also caused by the limitations of proposed method.
The remaining caseis caused by the fact that the verb of the zero pronoun and the verb of their antecedents couldnot be aligned.
This is not a \]imitation of proposed method but a \]imitation of the alignmentalgorithm.
These results shows that, for the test set, 508 out of 554 zero pronouns can have theirantecedents identified using proposed method methodologically, and ~\]most all of the antecedentsof zero pronouns which can be identified from the Japanese and English alig)aed sentence pairs arecorrectly identified by using proposed method (99.8% ; 507 out of 508 instances).Table 3: The Cause of the Error in Automatic Identification of antecedentsthe cause of the ~or  "" U Intrasenten~al Deictic(explic/t) Totalfree translation 11 31 42pass/ve voice 4 0 4pre.dicate can not be aligned 1 " 0 iAccording to these results, the proposed method is effective for the automatic identification ofJapanese zero pronouns and their antecedents from Japanese and English aligned sentence pairs andby using a large amount of aligned sentence pairs it is possible to identify antecedents of Japanesezero pronouns for almost all types of Japanese zero pronouns.5 Conc lus ionThis paper proposes a powerful method for the automatic identification of Japanese zero pro-nouns and their antecedents from Japanese and English aligned sentence pairs.
In this paper, onlyJapanese and EngLish language pairs have been discussed.
But this method can be applied to var-ious kinds of language pairs such as Italian and English, and the effectiveness of the identificationdepends on how different the two languages are.
In the future, the effectiveness of proposed methodfor aligned sentence pairs with zero pronouns with intersentential antecedents and for very largecorpora of aligned sentence pairs will be ex~mlned.
The effectiveness of the use of English parsersfor the English analysis will also be considered.
Methods for extracting the most effective rules forresolving Japanese zero pronouns from aligned sentence pairs will also be studied.
Furthermore, Iwould like to link more powerful and more robust word alignment techniques, which can align forunknown words in noisy texts, to the proposed method and also would like to link the proposedmethod with sentence alignment techniques.139AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank ~fun'ichi Tsnjii for helpful discussion of many of the ideas and proposalspresented here during my stay at UMIST  from September 1995 to September 1996.
I am alsograteful to Francis Bond and several anonymous reviewers of WVLC-5  for helpful comments onearlier drafts of the paper.ReferencesEric BriU.
1992.
A simple rule-based part of speech tagger.
In Proc.
of ANLPgP, pages 152-155,ACL.Peter F. Brown, Jennifer C. Lai and Robert L. Mercer.
1991.
Aligning sentences in parallel corpora.In Proc.
of 29th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 169-176, ACL.Kenneth W. Church.
1993.
Char-align: A program for aligning parallel texts at the character level.In Proc.
of 31st Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 1-8, ACL.Ido Dagan, Alon Itai and Ulrike Schwall.
1991.
Two languages are more informative than one.
InProc.
of 29th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 130-137, ACL.Ido Dagan and Kenneth W Church.
1994.
Termight: Identifying and translating technical termi-nology.
In Proc.
of ANLPg4, pages 34-40, ACL.Kouji Dousaka.
1994.
Identifying the Referents if Japanese Zero-Pronouns based on PragmaticCondition Interpretation.
I  Trans.
of IPS Japan, 35(10):768-778.
In Japanese.Pascale Fung and Kenneth W. Church.
1994.
K-vec: A new approach for aligning parallel texts.In Proc.
of COLINGg4, pages 1096-1102.W'flliam A. Gale and Kenneth W. Church.
1991.
A program for aligning sentence in bilingualcorpora.
In Proc.
of 29th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 177-184, ACL.Satoru Ikehara, Shirai Satoshi and Kentaro Ogura.
1994.
Criteria for Evaluating the LinguisticQuality of Japanese-to-English Machine Translation.
In Journal of JSAI, 9(5):569-579.Satoru Ikehara, Shirai Satoshi, Akio Yokoo and Kiromi Nakaiwa.
1991.
Toward MT system withoutPre-Editing -Effects of New Methods in ALT-J/E-.
In Proc.
of MT Summit HI, pages 101-106.Masaldko Haruno and Takef~mi Yamazaki.
1996.
High-Performance Bilingual Text Alignmentusing Statistical and Dictionary Information In Proe.
of 34th Annual Meeting of A CL, pages131-138.Megumi Kameyama.
1986.
A property-sharing constraint in centering.
In Proc.
of 2~th AnnualMe~ting of A CL, pages 200-206.Martin Kay and Martin Roscheisen.
1993.
Text-translation aligument.
In Computational Linguis-tics, Vol.
19, No.
1, pages 121-142.Susumu Kuno.
1978.
Danwa no Bunpoo.
Talsh111~n Publ.
Co., Tokyo.
In Japanese.I!I140Julian Kupiec.
1993.
An algorithm for finding noun phrase correspondences in bilingual corpora.In Prac.
of 3ist Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 17-22, ACL.Yuji Matsumoto, Hiroyuki Istdmoto and Taketdto Utsuro.
1993.
Structural matching of paralleltexts.
In Proc.
of 31st Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 23--30, ACL.Mas~lci Murata and Makoto Nagao.
1997.
An Estimation of Referents of Pronouns in JapaneseSentence using Examples and Surface Expressions.
In Journal of.Natural Language Processing,4(1):87-109, Association of Natural Language Processing.
In Japanese.Hiromi Nakaiwa.
1997.
Automatic Extraction of Rules for Anaphora Resolution of Japanese ZeroPronouns from Aligned Sentence Pairs.
In Proc.
of A CL-g7/EA CL-g7 Workshop on OperationalFactors in Practical, Robust, Anaphora Resolution.for Unrestricted Tezts To appear.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoru Ikehar& 1992.
Zero Pronoun Resolution in a Japanese-to-EnglishMachine Translation System by using Verbal Semantic Attributes.
In Froc.
of ANLFg~, pages201-208, ACL.Hiromi Nakaiwa, Akio Yokoo and Satoru Ikehara.
1994.
A System of Verbal Semantic AttributesFocused on the Syntactic Correspondence b tween Japanese and Eng\]ish.
In Proc.
of COL-INGg~, pages 672-678.Hiromi Nakaiwa nd Satoru Ikehara~ 1995.
Intrssentential Resolution of Japanese Zero Pronouns ina Machine Translation system using Semantic and Pragmatic Constraints.
In Proc.
of TMIgS,pages 96-105.Hiromi Na~.aiwa and Satoru Ikehara.
1996.
Anaphora Resolution of Japanese Zero Pronouns withDeictic Reference.
In Proc.
of COLINGg6, pages 812-817.Tetsuya Nasukawa.
1996.
Full-text processing: improving a practical NLP  system based on surfaceinformation within the context.
In Proc.
of COLI.NG96, pages 824-829.Kentaro Ogura, A.kio Yokoo, Satoshi Shirai and Satoru Ikehara.
1993.
Japanese to English ma-chine translation and dictionaries.
In Proc.
of 44th Congress of the International AstronautioslFederation, paper No.
IAA.5.1-93-720.Hideki Tanaka~ 1994.
Verbal case frame acquisition from a bilingual corpus: Gradual knowledgeacquisition.
In Proc.
of COLINGgJ, pages 727-731.Dekai Wu.
1995.
An algorithm for simultaneously bracketing parallel texts.
In Proc.
of 33rdAnnual Meeting of ACL, pages 244-251, ACL.Mari\]yn Walker, Masayo Iida and Sharon Cote.
1990.
Centering in Japanese discourse.
In Proc.of COLINGgO.Setsuo Yamada, Hiromi Nakaiws, Kentaro Ogura and Satoru Ikehara.
1995.
A method of auto-rustically adapting a MT system to different domains.
In Proc.
of TMI95, pages 303-310.Setsuo Yamada, Hiromi Naksiwa and Satoru Ikehara.
1996.
A new method of automaticallyaligning expressions within aligned sentence pairs.
In Proc.
of NeMLaP~, pages 56-65.Kei Yoshimoto.
1988.
Identifying zero pronouns in Japanese dialogue.
In Proc.
of COLING88,pages 779-784.141
