Hypertext and DeixisDan LoehrGeorgetown Universityloehrd @gusun.georgetown.eduAbstractHypertext linking is akin to deixisin that each points out of the dis-course to the context in which thediscourse occurs.
The context of ahypertext document such as aWorld Wide Web page is theWorld Wide Web itself.
This studyinvestigates ome linguistic aspectsof hypertext, using as data Webpages from college students andcommercial enterprises.
I first lookat the syntactic forms of hypertextanchors, finding them mostly nounphrases.
Next, noting the intuitivesimilarities between hypertext andplace deictics, I attempt to find aquantitative relationship betweenthe two.
I show that certain placedeictics do occur more frequentlyinside of hypertext anchors than inthe ordinary text of Web pages, butthis is due to the popularity of thedeictic here, as in click here.
Ob-serving that hypertext style guidesprescribe against he usage of clickhere, I hypothesize that more expe-neaced hypertext authors will dis-prefer this usage.
Using the as-sumption that college students areless experienced than commercialWeb authors, I am unable to con-firm this hypothesis statistically.Finally, I examine the various typesofdeixis Web authors use in hyper-text anch ors, finding the majority tobe person deictics.
I close by not-ing that the variety and creativity ofdeixis within hypertext anchorssuggests that the relatively newmedium of hypertext is a fully pro-ductive genre of natural language.1.
IntroductionDeixis is, in Lyons' \[1979\] simple phrase,"identification by pointing".
Specifically, deicticterms point out of the current discourse to facts con-cerning the context of the utterance.
Deictics in-clude words such as I, here, and now.
Sentenceswith these terms can not be understood fully unlessone knows the people, place, and time involved inthe utterance of the sentence.
As an example, imag-ine finding a bottle in the ocean with the note,"Meet me here at noon tomorrow" (from Fillmore\[1975\]).
Unless we know when, where, and by whomthe note was written, we are at a loss to interpret hesentence.With the evolution of hypertext, we find another typeof deixis.
Hypertext, such as is found in World WideWeb pages, is electronic text which "points" to otherlocations in the same or different electronic doc u-ments.
When hypertext is selected by means of amouse or keyboard, the document "pointed to" isretrieved and displayed on the screen.
An exampleof hypertext might be: I am a student at GeoreetownUniversity.
(The hypertext is underlined, a conve n-tion I will follow in this paper).
If a reader of thatsentence clicked on the words Georgetown Univer-sity, an electronic document pointed to by the hyper-text would be displayed: presumably (but not nece s-sarily) relating to Georgetown University.This, then, is also deictic.
Just as ordinary deicficscan not be fully evaluated without leaving the utter-ance and looking to the outside world, neither canhypertext be fully evaluated without leaving the textand looking at its context (the World Wide Webitself) to see what is being pointed at.
We mightcall this hypertext deixis hyperdeixis (term creditedto Dr. Cathy Ball), referring to the fact that hypertext"points", just as natural language expressions uchas I, here, and now point.
It is interesting to notethat hypertext links are often referred to as"pointers", while the word deixis itself is from theGreek word for pointing.It is important to make a distinction here.
The dei c-tic aspects of hypertext need not have anything to dowith the words used as the anchor of the hypertext(i.e., the words which, when selected, activate thelink).
The deictic aspect has solely to do with thefact that the hypertext link points elsewhere.
Thewords in the anchor do not have to relate to wherethe link takes you - in fact, they do not have to bewords at all.
The anchor can be a picture, or simplya blank spot on a page.
No linguistic analysis of theanchor is needed to follow the hypertext link.Little is known about the linguistic properties of hy-pertext.
Although many questions present them-30 D. Loehrselves, this paper will look at four:(1) Given that hypertext - text which"jumps somewhere" - is a relativelynew phenomenon, just what formsdo authors use for hypertext an-chors?
(2) Given the intuitive "pointing" simi-larity between place deictics(expressions which point to a place)and hypertext, is there any relatio n-ship between the two?
Specifi-cally, do authors of the new me-dium of hypertext tend to use placedeictics more frequently inside ofhypertext anchors, since hypertext"reminds" them of place deictics?Or, for the same reason, do authorstend to avoid using place deicticsinside .of hypertext anchors?
(3) If any relationship is found in (2)above, do writers' preferences forusing place deictics in hypertextchange as they become more expe-rienced with this new genre?
(4) Again noting the similarity betweenplace deictics and hypertext, areplace deictics the most commonform of deixis found within hyper-text anchors?
Or are other types,such as person deictics or timedeictics, more prevalent?This paper, then, represents an exploratory foray intothe little-known world of hypertext and deixis.
It willundoubtedly generate more questions than answers.2.
BackgroundThe earliest major work on deictics (also called in-dexicals) is by Btihler.
He begins with an elegantimage:The arm and the finger gesture ofman, to which the index finger owesits name, recurs when the signpostimitates the outstretched"arm"...and the question \[is\] posedas to whether spoken language con-tains signs that function as sign-posts.
The answer is yes, deicticwords such as here and there havea similar function.
\[1934\]Biihler did not originate the idea of deixis.
He notesthat classical Greek grammarians were aware of theconcept.
In the modern era, he credits turn-of-the-century linguists such as Brugmann and Wegener,who, while reconstructing Proto-Indo-European, de-scribed four types of deixis: I, you, this, and that.Biihler notes that land you are referred to as person-alia (Latin persona), which is from the Greek formask or role.
The meaning is that I and you, likeactors, switch roles.
BiJhler then advances a two-field theory: a deictic field, in which de ictics point tothe actual entity in the world, and a symbolic field,in which all other terms refer symbolically to entitiesin the world.Fillmore \[1975\] gives a very thorough taxonomy ofdeixis.
He enumerates five types: person, place,time, discourse, and social.Person deixis refers to the speaker, addressee, andaudience of the utterance.
Examples are pronounsand possessives such as I, we, yours, my, etc.Place deixis, including the locative adverbs here andthere and the demonstratives this and that, are di-vided into two types.
Gestural place deixis requiresthe addressee to physically monitor the utterance foran accompanying esture: "Put the flower pot here".Symbolic place deixis requires only knowledge of theconditions of the utterance, without physical monitor-ing.
My friend from London may write, "It's raininghere again."
Though I did not see her write the let-ter, I know where she was when she wrote it, andthus I know where here is.
As an interesting side-light, Fillmore notes that there is only one word inEnglish which requires gestural deixis for its use:yea, as in "She is yea tall".Time deixis, including the adverbs now, last night,and tomorrow, involves three different times.
Theencoding time is the time at which the utterance ismade.
The decoding time is the time at which theutterance is received (which will be delayed in writ-ten text).
Finally, the reference time is any timereferred to in the topic of the sentence.
A typicalvoice-mail message might illustrate all three types.
"This is Dan calling at 9 AM (encoding time).
Giveme a call back when you get this message (decodingtime).
I'd like to set up a meeting for Tuesday the14th (reference time).
"Discourse deixis, according to Fillmore, "has to dowith the choice of lexical or grammatical elementswhich ... refer to some portion ... of the ongoing dis-course -- something like, for example, 'the former'.
"Discourse deixis (also called textual deixis by Lyons\[1979\]) can be both written ?'
This sentence is writ-ten in English") and spoken ("She spoke about thisloud").
Fillmore notes that discourse deixis is de-Hypertext  and Deix is  31scribed temporally, as "any point in discourse can bethought of as a point in time".
For this reason, wecan say "in the preceding paragraph", or "the follow-ing announcement is a paid advertisement".
In a:kl i-tion, written discourse has unique terms due to pagesbeing read top-to-bottom: thus, we say, "as men-tioned above", or "see below".Finally, social deixis encodes, in Fillmore's words,"the social relationships on the part of the partic i-pants in the conversation that determine, for exa m-ple, the choice of honorific or polite or intimate orinsulting speech levels".
In addition to honorifics,examples include nicknames, informal names, andtitles of respect.Fillmore also notes that certain verbs, such as comeand go, are also deictic, as they imply a here and athere.Considerable work in the field has also been by Ly-ons.
He makes note of the deictic center- the "zero-point of deictic context", which is always egocentricfor the speaker \[1968, 1977\].
This zero-point is inrelation to person, time, and space, with the centerrepresenting I, here, and now.
Deictic terms are ex-pressed in relation to this deictic center.
Here andthis are closer than there and that, and now is closerthan tomorrow.
It is illustrative that the first, sec-ond, and third person radiate outward from the dei c-tic center.
Lyons reminds us that deictic terms mayalso have non-deictic uses \[1973\].
"This idea is notnew" refers anaphorically to some previously ex-pressed idea, while "This book is dedicated to myhusband" refers deictically to the book containingthe dedication.
Finally, Lyons discusses tensedverbs as time deictics \[1977\].
Note that we need toknow the time of utterance to work out any truthconditions of a tensed sentence.I have thus far summarized work on deixis.
As fordeixis in relation to hypertext, no previous work ex-ists that I am aware of.
I hope that this study (adeictic!)
will shed some light on this new phenome-non.3.
Forms of Hypertext AnchorsBefore addressing my first question the formsauthors use for hypertext anchors - I will briefly dis-cuss my general methodology.
Methodology specificto each of the other three questions will be coveredin that question's ection, in turn.The data used for all four questions consists of pagesfrom the World Wide Web collected in April 1996.There are of course many types of Web pages(Roberts \[1997\] discusses the different genres found).For this study, I collected pages from two types: the"home pages" of college students, and the "homepages" of commercial enterprises.
A home page isthe initial, top-level page at a "web site", with aweb site typically consisting of multiple relatedpages.
For consistency, I used home pages only.For college student data, 126 different Web pages(containing roughly 1000 anchors) were collectedrandomly from three institutions: Cornell University,the University of Texas at Austin, and the Universityof Oregon.
For commercial data, 31 Web pages(containing roughly 500 anchors) were collected.The commercial businesses included well-knownfirms in varying fields: examples are Apple Com-puter, Prudential Insurance, Pepsi-Cola, Sony,Whirlpool, Disney, and the American Stock Ex-change.After each page was downloaded, an automaticscript stripped out the words used as anchors.
(Fortunately, Web pages are written in HyperTextMarkup Language (HTML), which has specific tagssurrounding the anchors).
The anchors were saved toa separate file, as was the original Web page, forreference.
Graphical anchors were ignored, unlessthey had "alternate" text associated with them, forthe use of non-graphical Web browsers.To answer question (1), I then went through the listof anchors, and manually c~ed them per the follow-ing categories:Noun PhraseVerb PhraseAdjective PhraseAdverb PhrasePrepositional PhraseRelative ClauseFull SentenceImperativeQuestionDeclarativeOtherThe results are shown in Table 1, which lists inroughly decreasing order the forms authors used forhypertext anchors, by number and percentage.
Thetable is further broken down by source (college stu-dent and commercial), for comparison.
Note that the"Full Sentence" category has been subdivided into"Imperative", "Question", and "Declarative".32 D. LoehrCollegeStudentHome PagesCommercialHome PagesFormNPFull SentenceImperativeQuestionDeclarativeVPAdvPAdjPPPOtherRelative Clause# -~ # -~893 88.9 364 72.448 4.8 69 13.732 3.2 41 8.19 0.9 15 3.07 0.7 13 2.619 1.9 26 5.218 1.8 4 0.810 1.0 7 1.48 0.8 12 2.47 0.7 4 0.32 0.2 17 3.4Totals 1005 =100 503!
--100ExamplesCornell University Home PageWhat's New?General Motors Announces I~ Electric Vehicleclick hereclick hereNew at NationalAbout MeIf Ooeratin~ Systems Were Beers,..TWho We AreTable 1.
Forms of hypertext anchors, number and approximate percentage, by source(Percentages donot exactly total 100.0, due to rounding)We can now answer our first question, as to theforms hypertext anchors take.
The overwhelmingmajority are noun phrases, with full sentences takinga distant second.
Note however, that commercialWeb authors tend to use fewer noun phrases andmore full sentences than college students (the diffe r-ence is significant, per a chi-squared test, with p <=0.01).
Perhaps this is because commercial sites tryto present a more polished image.Our first answer regarding hypertext immediatelyraises another questio n: Why are the overwhelmingmajority of anchors noun phrases?
An intuitive replyis that authors are viewing hypertext anchors as re-ferring expressions.
Since referring expressions inmore familiar non-hypertext are almost always nounphrases, authors choose noun phrases for their an-chors.
Continuing this theory, to the extent thatauthors are not using noun phrases as anchors, to justthis extent are they "branching out" in the new phe-nomenon of hypertext, and discovering linguisticforms other than noun phrases for encoding hypertextlinks.
Confirmation of these speculations, however,must await fu~er  research.4.
Relationship Between Place Deictics andHypertextLet us now turn to our second question, reprintedhere:(2) Given the intuitive "pointing" simi-larity between place deicfics andhypertext, is there any relationshipbetween the two?
Specifically, doauthors of the new medium of hy-pertext tend to use place deicticsmore frequently inside of hypertextanchors, since hypertext "reminds"them of place deictics?
Or, for thesame reason, do such authors tendto avoid using place deictics insideof hypertext anchors?To determine this, we need to determine the fre-quency, or "density", of place deicfics inside of hy-pertext anchors versus that outside of hypertext an-chors (i.e.
in the regular text of the Web page).A digression is needed to motivate my methodologyfor determining these frequencies.
At first blush, thetask seems relatively easy.
One need simply gothrough the Web pages and code for each occurrenceof a place deictic.
Although time-consuming, thiscan be aided by heuristics such as searching for themost common place deictics: here, there, this, andthat.
Next, a simple programming script can splitapart the Web pages into two files: one file contai n-ing all the words inside of hypertext anchors, and theother containing all the words outside of the hyper-text anchors.
Finally, one can calculate the relativeHypertext  and Deix is  33frequency of the place deicfics in each file, by divid-ing the number of place deicfics by the number ofwords in the file.There is a problem, however, in determining the fre-quency of something by dividing by the number ofwords in a text.
As Ball explains:In a word-based frequency analysis,to say that a phenomenon occurswith equal relative frequency in twosamples is to say that equalamounts of text, measured in words,will yield the same number of to-kens.
But relative frequency shouldbe a measure of the number oftimes something occurs within thenumber of opportunities for it to oc-cur (emphasis mine) \[1994\].To give an example: If we are comparing the fre-quency of, say, interrogative sentences in the writingstyles of Hemingway and Dostoevski, it would bemeaningless to divide the number of interrogativesby the number of words in each author's text.
Theresults of this would be skewed by the length of sen-tences which each writer produces.
Hemingway maypen fully twice the number of sentences in the samenumber of words as his Russian counterpart.
Thus, ifboth authors had the same absolute number of inter-rogatives, we would be wrong to conclude that theyboth favored this form equally.
Rather, Hemingway,who produced twice as many sentences, used theinterrogative only half as frequently as Dostoevski.The key, then, is to measure a phenomenon againstthe number of opportunities for the phenomenon tooccur, not against raw word count.
In this example,the opportunity for an interrogative to occur is a sen-tence - hence, we must count the number of sen-tences as well.We may now return to our problem of measuring thefrequency of place deictics.
We must decide whatan appropriate opportunity for occurrence for a placedeicfic would be.
As Ball advises, selecting thiscategory is "crucial and requires considerablethought \[1994\]", or else our results will be invalid.With this in mind, let us look first at the place dei c-tics here and there.
Although technically these maybe thought of as adverbs ("Come here"), I will arguethat they pattern with prepositional phrases ("Cometo this place").
As further evidence, consider "Putthe book here".
Replacing here with an adverb isungrammatical (* "Put the book slowly"), while aprepositional phrase is acceptable ("Put the book onthe table").
Thus, when an author chooses to usehere or there, the author is choosing to use thesewords instead of using a prepositional phrase.Hence, I will consider an opportunity for occurrenceof here and there to be a prepositional phrase.Although searching for prepositional phrases is time-consuming, it is certainly doable - and in fact, I didjust that for this study.
As a heuristic, I started bysearching for a list of 50 common prepositions, whichI estimate covered at least 90% of all raw occur-rences of prepositional phrases (the first six aloneaccounting for 70%, according to Mindt and Weber"\[1989\], reported in Crystal \[1995\]).
I then visuallyscanned the text for any remaining prepositions.
(Amore efficient method would be to scan for the 81prepositions found in both the Brown and LOB cor-pora, said by Mindt and Weber to account for 99.9%of all raw occurrences).We must also consider the other types of place dei c-tics.
While sometimes acting as determiners, theplace deictics this and that can also be (and patternwith) both pronouns ("Look at that") and adjectives(" This morning").
Unfortunately, this means that anopportunity for an author to use this or that would bea noun phrase or an adjective phrase.
While searc h-ing for prepositions i difficult, it is feasible becauseprepositions are a finite class.
Yet searching for theopen classes of nouns and adjectives I judged to beundoably time-consuming for this research.
Equallydifficult would be considering place deictics occu r-ring as motion verbs (i.e.
come), as that requiressearching for all verbs to find opportunities for occu r-rence.
I have therefore chosen to restrict my study ofplace deicfics to only here and there.
Hence, myresearch will have nothing to say about other placedeictics.
A strategy for resolving this dilemma wouldbe to use an automatic parser, which could identifymost nouns, adjective, and verbs.
I leave that task tofuture work.Having covered the necessary background for com-paring the frequency of place deictics inside of andoutside of hypertext anchors, I may now present theresults in Table 2:33 D. LoehrInside ofHypertext AnchorsOutside ofHypertext AnchorsTotalsNumber of Occurrences of Here 42 66 108and There577 2433 3010619Number of PPs (Opportunities forOccurrence of Here and There)2.72499Frequency (in Percentage)Totals7.33118Table 2.
Frequency of the place deictics here and thereinside of and outside of hypertext anchorsIn percentages, the place deictics here and thereoccur at a frequency of 7.3% inside of hypertextanchors, versus 2.7% outside hypertext anchors (thedifference is significant, per chi-squared with p <=0.001).
For simplicity, I have grouped the edue a-tional and commercial pages together in this table -broken apart, there is no statistically significant dif-ference between them in this regard.Thus, based on the place deicfics I've looked at, wecan answer our second question: place deicfics dooccur more frequently inside of hypertext anchorsthan in the regular Web page text.However, the conclusion that this is so because ofthe place-deictic quality of hypertext is not so easilyreached.
It turns out that of the 42 place deicticsfound in anchors, 41 of them were the word here.This abundance is due to the popularity of the hyper-text expression click here.
This usage may be asimple Graphical User Interface (GUI) issue, inwhich authors are merely instructing their audienceto click a certain button.
Furthermore, if authorswant their readers to go to some other place there, itis counterintuitive to place deixis to use the wordhere.
Thus, the usage of here in hypertext is proba-bly not due to place deixis, but rather a GUI artifact.5.
Changes in Hypertext Authors' Style as aFunction of ExperienceIn answering question (2), we could not prove a rela-tionship between hypertext anchors and place deic-tics.
We did, however, see a relationship betweenthe word here and hypertext anchors.
Going withthis, let us modify our third question to be:(3) Do writers' preferences for using theword here in hypertext change as afunction of experience in this newgenre?This question is not unfounded.
Many hypertext styleguides preach against what has been labeled the"click-here syndrome".
The argument is that theword here has nothing to do with the target of thelink, and should be avoided in favor of a more de-scriptive term.
To quote one HTML manual:STYLE TIP: Try to create linksthat don't muck up the flow of thetext ....
Your text should stand on itsown.
You might want to avoidwords like "click your mouse onthis sentence to read about the his-tory of skyscrapers."
Every Webuser knows how to click .
.
.
.
Instead,say something like, "There's an ex-cellent article on the history of sky-scrapers by T.O.
Tall" - and makethe word "skyscraper" your link.
(Fox and Downing \[1995\])If this is what is prescribed, it is reasonable to hy-pothesize that professional writers will try to avoidthe click-here syndrome.
To test this, we can look atthe frequency of the word here within the hypertextanchors of novice writers versus that of professionalwriters.
To this end, I make the following assump-t ion-  that college students are less experienced atwriting Web pages than those who author comme r-cial pages.
This is of course a generalization, butgiven the fact that commercial outfits are concernedabout the image they present, and that their Webpage authors are most probably paid for their work(and hence professionals), it seems reasonable thatthey will hire experienced authors.
No experience,however, is required for college students' authorship.Table 3 presents the frequency of here in the hyper-text anchors of college student home pages versuscommercial home pages.Hypertext and Deixis 35CollegeHome PagesStudent TotalsNumber of Occur~nces of Here 34 7 41512 64 5766.6Number of PPs (Opportunities forOccurrence of Here)Frequency (in Percentage)CommercialHome Pages10.9546 71 617 TotalsTable 3.
Frequency of the term here inside of hype rtext anchorsfor college student home pages versus commercial home pagesAt first glance, the opposite of our hypothesis eemsto be true - that the more experienced commercialauthors use here more frequently.
However, the dif-ference is not significant (per chi-squared at p <=0.05), so any discussion is moot.
Hence, I cannotconfirm or reject the hypothesis bas~ on this data~Greater quantifies of data may be necessary to de-termine any real patterns.
In addition, future workmight also employ a more verifiable method of ide n-tifying novice and experienced Web authors thansimply generalizing about college students andcommercial webmasters.6.
Types of Deictics Found in HypertextFinally, let us turn to our fourth question:(4) Again noting the similarity betweenplace deiedc s and hypertext, areplace deicfics the most commonform of deixis found within hyper-text anchors?
Or are other types,such as person deictics or timedeictics, more prevalent?To answer this, I looked at each anchor in the data tosee if it contained any deicfics.
These deictics werethen categorized as one of:PersonSpeakerAudienceBothPlaceTimeDiscourseSocialMore than one of the aboveSome discussion is necessary regarding my coding.First of all, the common Click here.
as noted, wasclassified as a place deictic, as it refers to a physicallocation in the universe (a spot on a computer screenwhich may be clicked on).
Yet as a sidelight, onecould also consider it a discourse deictic, as it refersto the word here itself, which is part of the discourse.This interesting case would be the purest discoursedeixis imaginable.
Most discourse deixis refers tothe text in which the deictic word occurs (this book,the paragraph below).
We even have cases wheresentences refer to themselves (This sentence is inEnglish).
But the deicfic here in click here would bea word which points to itself.
Verbally, it is difficultto find an equivalent.
One possibility would be,"The word I say now has three letters and rhymeswith cow".
Though certainly possible before hyper-text was developed, it is the advent of hypertextwhich has made this "ultimate discourse deixis"commonplace in language.
(Note, however, that person deixis has always hadthis reflective deixis, at least verbally, in the firstperson.
The speaker who says 'T '  is referring to her-self.
Thus, the word here (in a manner somehowreminiscent of Lewis Carroll) is personified, by cal l-ing attention to itself..)There were cases where here was not used in theclick here sense.
One example was an anchor la-beled The weather here, referring to the weather atCornell University, the author's home.
Another wasthe following: Here I am in Roslyn, WA, (whereNorthern Exposure was filmed).
The hyperlinkbrought up a picture of the author in Roslyn, WA.This here is not referring to the word here.
Nor is itreferring to the location in which the author wrote thesentence (at Cornell University, in Ithaca, NY).Rather, we have a case in which the author hasshifted his deictic center mentally, much as Thomas\[1996\] reports that speakers do when giving direc-tions.In terms of person deixis, I collapsed the addressee36 D. Loehrand audience types under the latter category.Though typically audience refers to others who hearthe utterance (in addition to the intended addressee),Web pages are intended for everyone to read, not aspecific addressee.
Thus, there are no "bystanders"or, more accurately, the bystanders are the addres s-ees.
Thus, for the Web, addressee and audience arethe same thing.
I have chosen the latter category asmore accurately reflecting how the Web works.Lyons' notion of deictic and non-deictic uses ofwords was needed in several cases.
For instance,this in Why is this oaee black?
is clearly deictic.
Butin another anchor, Come to Think of  It.
Who Is Thi?Phil Guy?.
the same word is not.
Rather, it is ana-phoric, since Phil has introduced himself at the be-ginning of the Web page.Send an Electronic Postcard.
Imperatives imply thesecond person, as in (You} Send an Electronic Post-card.
The second form of implied deicfic was theimplied first person possessive, as in Favorite WebSites.
It is probable that the author meant My Favor-ite Web Sites.
However, though both of these typesimplied a person deictic, the actual deictic lexicalitem was missing.
There were other cases where adeictic word (my) was just outside the anchor, as inMy father.
In all these instances, since there was nodeictic word in the anchor, I did not classify it ascontaining an ordinary deictic.Now, to answer our fourth question.
Table 4 lists thedistribution of deictics (by number and percentage)found in hypertext anchors.Finally, when coding, I resisted the temptation tocollect implied deictics.
These occurred in twoforms.
The first was the imperative: an example wasTypePerson OnlySpeakerAudienceBothPlace OnlyDiscourse OnlyMultiple TypesTime OnlySocial OnlyTotalsNumber6960Approx.Percent-age54.847.6ExamplesMall Me4 3.1 Your feedback5 4.0 Tell Us Your Storv38 30.2 Return to Jane Austen's info DaMe10 8.0 Whv is this oaee black?7 5.6 alt=Make vour visit count, load this imaee2 1.6 I'm in the lab0 0.0126 =100Table 4.
Types of deictics found in hypertext a nchors(Percentages do not exactly total 100.0, due to rounding)For simplicity, I have again grouped the educationaland commercial pages together in this table - brokenapart, there is no statistically significant differencebetween them on this question.We can now answer our fourth question.
Of thosedeictics used in hypertext anchors, the majority arenot place deictics, but person deictics.
And of these,the majority refer to the speaker.
Of course, the datafor this effort was home pages, and the preponde r-ante of self-referenc es may reflect the fact thathome page authors use their home page as a vehicleto tell the world about themselves.
As research intothe various genres of Web pages progresses, it willbe interesting to see which is the most common typeof home page.
This data suggests that personal nar-ratives may be the most common.Though we have answered our fourth question quant i-tatively, there remain some interesting qualitativeexamples to discuss.First of all, following Fillmore's sense of come andgo as deictic verbs, the common anchor return isalso deictic, as in Return to Jane Austen's info oaee.To return implies a starting point - a here - to returnfrom.
Though the place we are "going" is specified(Jane Austen's info page), the place we areHypertext  and Deix is  37"leaving" (here) is not.
We can only know wherewe are returning from by deixis - by knowing theplace of utterance.
Note that this is another c~asewhere the deictic center is mentally shifted.
Thereader never actually moves anywhere - she is still inher chair before her computer.
But mentally, she istraveling to wherever her Web documents are re-trieved from.
Such is the magic of the World WideWeb.Another interesting area has to do with time deictics.There were only three of these found in anchors (twoon their own, and one in combination with otherdeictics).
The first rather novel example had a blink-ing anchor, in the sentence "Click n0w!"
Perhapsthe author meant for the reader to click at the mo-ment the blinking anchor was lit up.
In the secondexample, the author writes, I may be in the computerlab, in fact, you can check if I'm in the lab right now.When this anchor is selected, a snapshot comes upwhich is taken from a live video camera in theauthor's laboratory (the author was not in when thisdata was collected).
Even though the word now isnot within this anchor, we can still find time deixisin the tensed verb am.
The present ense implies justthat -now-  and the sentence cannot be evaluatedunless one knows the time it is read.
Note that bothof these examples use decoding time (the time thesentence is read).The third, very clever, example is:I'd like to send a special hello toSteDhen Crawford.
Why don't you,too?
And watch here for a link tohis future home page.
Then you,too, can meet the greatest rombon-ist in the worldStill watching?His home page isn't future anymore,it's here !With his final here, this author has scored a deicfictriple play.
First, he invokes here as a place deixis,meaning Stephen Crawford's home page is now avail-able from this place here.
(Note the sentence above -Watch here for a link - this can be taken to meanWatch this place on the Web).
Second, he uses thefamiliar click-here phrase - which, as mentioned,could be thought of as discourse deixis.
Finally, theauthor uses a sense of here which means now, as inIt's December 25, and Christmas is here.
This invokesthe third deixis (time).
Note that this example usesencoding time (the time the sentence was written).Another interesting point regards gestural placedeixis.
One may think that gestures (actual pointing)are not possible in a textual medium.
Yet Webpages are more than text - they support animation,and many modern pages contain "moving arrows"acting as anchors.
Even non-graphical, text-basedpages can cream arrows such as these: --> <--.However, I concentrated only on textual anchors(avoiding the difficult problem of classifying im-ages), and found no gestural deixis in my data.
Yettemptingly close was the sentence Here I am (whichbrought up a picture of the author).
This might bethought of as a presentative, much like the Frenchword voila, which requires a gesture for its use.
Thewords Here I am, by convention, almost seem to im-ply a gesture -the one of an actor stepping from be-hind a curtain, sweeping his hands before him andbowing his head in presentation to the audience.Note that no occurrences of social deixis were found.7.
ConclusionsHypertext links behave much like ordinary deictics.Both require the context of the utterance for full in-terpretation.
For hypertext, the "utterance" is theWeb page, and the context of this Web page is theWorld Wide Web itself.
Just as ordinary deicticslike me make us look to the context to see who mereally represents, so does hypertext make us look tothe context of the Web to see what the hypertext linkreally represents.This study investigated several questions regardinghypertext and deixis, using as data Web pages col-lected from the Internet.
In terms of form, hypertextanchors tend to be noun phrases, with a lesser con-centration of complete sentences.
Although onemight intuit a relationship between place deicficsand hypertext, none could be substantiated.
Hyper-text anchors do contain a greater concentration of acertain place deicfic (here) than the rest of the Webpage, but this is due to the popularity of the phraseclick here.
This popularity, in turn, may be due tothe unique environment of hypertext, which makesthe text itself a computer input "button".Because style guides prescribe the avoidance of the"click-here syndrome", it is reasonable to hypothe-size that more experienced hypertext authors willdisprefer this in contrast with less experiencedauthors.
Assuming that college students are less ex-perienced than professionals who author commercialWeb pages, I was unable to confirm this statistically.As to the types of deixis found inside of hypertextanchors, the majority were person deictics referringto the speaker, probably due to the fact that thepages studied were home pages, in which authors38 D. Loehrpresent hemselves to their audience.The only statistically valid difference between thetwo sets of authors is that professional authors tendedto use more full sentences and less noun phrases thancollege students.
This may have nothing to do withdeixis.
It may instead be due to the polished imagewhich commercial sites hope to project to their cus-tomers.Fillmore, Charles.
Santa Cruz Lectures on Deixis.Indiana University Linguistics Club, 1975.Fox, D. and Downing, T. HTML Web Publisher'sConstruction Kit.
Waite Group Press, 1995.Lyons, John.
Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics.Carnbndge University Press, 1968.Further work in this area might include the following.Our first question revealed that the majority of hyper-text anchors were noun phrases.
This might be inves-tigated with an eye to the use of anchors as referringexpressions, which are typically noun phrases.
Thesecond question dealt with determining the relativefrequency of a variety of place deictics, noting thedifficulty of calculating their opportunities for occu r-rence (which manifest as a variety of parts ofspeech).
A robust parser might be used to identifythese parts of speech.
The third question - whetherexperienced authors disprefer the "click-here syn-drome"-  remained unanswered.
More data, and amore verifiable means of identifying experienced andnovice authors, might prove fruitful.
The final dis-covery - that  the preferred deictics used in homepage anchors were person deicfics - might shed lighton the classification of home page genres.
My find-ings suggest hat home pages are of a narrative form,utilizing first person.Aside from any relationships between hypertext anddeixis, we have seen that hypertext provides aunique environment for creative uses of deixis.
Ges-tural deixis, time deixis, and even three-deixes-in-one-word were found.
These examples, coupled withthe fact that nearly all types of linguistic deixis ~xefound in hypertext, lend evidence that the relativelynew medium of hypertext is a fully productive genreof natural anguage.AcknowledgementsI gratefully acknowledge Hughes Electronics Corpo-ration, for providing a fellowship under which thisresearch was carried out.
I am also indebted to Dr.Cathenne Ball for the original idea of investigatinghypertext and deixis.Lyons, John.
Deixis as the Source of Reference.
Lin-guistic Agency University Taler, 1973.Lyons, John.
Semantics, Vol.
2.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, 1977.Lyons, John.
Deixis and Anaphora.
In T. Myers (ed.
)The Development of Conversation and Discourse.Edinburgh University Press, 1979.Mindt, D and Weber, C. Prepositions in Americanand British English.
World Englishes 8, 1989.Quoted in Crystal, D. The Cambridge Encyclopediaof the English Language.
Cambridge UniversityPress, 1995.Roberts, Greg.
Manuscript.
1997Thomas, Katie.
Manuscript.
1996ReferencesBall, Catherine.
Automated Text Analysis: Caution-ary Tales.
Literary and Linguistic Computing, Vol.9, No.
4, 1994.Btihler, Karl.
Theory of Language (Sprachtheorie).Translation of 1934 original by D. Goodwin.
JohnBenjamin Publishing, 1990.
