IWord Prediction forNestor Garay-VitoriaInformatika FakultateaEuskal Herriko Unibertsitatea649 PostakutxaE-20080 Donostia (Basque Country)E-mail: nestor@si, ehu.
esPhone: +34 43 21 80 00Fax: +34 43 21 93 06Inflected Languages.
Application to BasqueLanguageJul io G. AbascalInformatika FakultateaEuskal Herriko Unibertsitatea649 PostakutxaE-20080 Donostia (Basque Country)E-mail: julio?si, ehu.
esPhone: +34 43 21 80 00Fax: +34 43 21 93 06AbstractSeveral word prediction methods to helpthe communication f people with disabil-ities can be found in the recent litera-ture.
Most Of them have been developed forEnglish or other non-inflected languages.While most of these methods can be modi-fied to be used in other languages with sim-ilar structures, they may not be directlyadapted to inflected languages.
In this pa-per some word prediction techniques are re-viewed and the difficulties to apply them toinflected languages are studied.
Possibili-ties for word prediction methods that copewith the enormous number of different in-flexions of each word are proposed, usingBasque as the target language.
Finally,conclusions about word prediction for in-flected languages are extracted from the ex-perience with the Basque language.1 Int roduct ionSo far, word prediction methods have been devel-oped in order to increase message composition ratefor people with severe motor and speech disabilities.These methods try to guess what is going to be thecurrent or even the next word the user is trying totype.
Their results are normally measured in termsof keystroke savings (Ks) 1 .To our knowledge, the design of word predic-tion methods i  mainly focused on non-inflected lan-guages, like English.
Words in these types of lan-guages have a small amount of variation, like theones due to number (singular or plural) for instance,1Nchar - Nkeystrok Ks  --Ncharhouse/houses, py~spies.
Some other languages ad-mit differences in gender, for example in French:voisin/voisine.
When the number of different formsof a word is small, it is possible to include all of themin the dictionary used in word prediction.
Nonethe-less, inflected languages can have a huge number ofaffixes that determine the syntactic function of eachword and therefore it is not possible to include ev-ery variation of a word in the dictionary.
So, othermethods have to be tried for languages that use ex-tensively prefixes, infixes or suffixes.As a starting point, let us show what the declen-sion of a word in Basque may be, by means of an ex-ample.
The declension of the dictionary entry mendi(which means "mountain") can be seen in Table 1.This table is valid only for words referring to ob-jects, but there are different tables for declensions ofwords referring to living beings.
Whether the lastletter of the lemma is a vowel or a consonant, dif-ferent ables of declensions are also used.
As shown,there are sixty-two possible word-forms for a singledictionary entry.
In addition, most of the cases ad-mit the recursive concatenation f suffixes.
So, thenumber of possible cases grows.
It has been esti-mated that nouns may mathematically have even458,683 inflected forms in Basque language, takinginto account wo levels .of recursion, (Agirre et al,1992).There also are other suffixes which are not shownin Table 1, as those applied to a verb for subordinatesentences.Even if prefixes and infixes are possible the Basquelanguage is declensed mainly by suffixes.
There aresome prefixes that can be used in some specific ases(for example, a prefix for verbs may indicate theabsolutive case in the sentence), but in general theirfrequency of apparition is not very relevant.
Thesame thing happens with the infixes: there are fewof them in Basque and their frequency is not veryrelevant.
Their prediction makes ense mainly if the29AbsolutiveErgativeDativePossessiveGenitiveComitativeBenefactiveMotivativeInstrumentalInessiveIndefinitemendimendikmendirimendirenmendirekinmendirentzatmendirengatikmendizmenditanDefiniteSingularmendiamendiakmendiarimendiarenmendiarekinmendiarentzatmendia(ren)gatikmendiazmendianDefiniteFar PluralmendiakmendiekmendieimendienmendiekinmendientzatmendiengatikmendiezmendietanDefiniteNear PluralmendiokmendiokmendioimendionmendiokinmendiontzatmendiongatikmendiozmendiotanAblativeAllativeAllativeof Destinationmenditatikmenditaramenditarainomenditikmendiramendirainomendietatik/rikmendietaramendietarainomendiotatik/rikmendiotaramendiotarainoAllative menditarantz mendirantz mendietarantz mendiotarantzof Directionmenditako mendiko mendietako mendiotako LocalGenit iveDestinative menditarako mendirakoPartitive mendirikmendietarako mendiotarakoProlative menditzatTable 1: Declension of mendi (Kintana et al, 1988).word is an auxiliary or a declined verb.
For therest of the cases, it seems better to treat the affix incombination with the lemma s a new lemma, if thiscombination is usual.
Doing this, the complexity ofoperations decrease because there is only the needto treat lemmas and suffixes.Thus, in this paper, the problem of suffixes willmainly be mentioned, because our target languageis the Basque language.2 Word  Pred ic t ion  Methods  forNon- In f lec ted  LanguagesIn this section some of the methods that have beenused in word prediction for non-inflected languagesare summarised.
This small review will serve as abasis for coming sections in order to identify the keyaspects that are involved in prediction.
These meth-ods are going to be presented by increasing complex-ity, from the simplest o the most complex.2.1 Probabil ist ic Methods2.1.1 Word Prediction Using FrequenciesThe simplest word prediction method is to builta dictionary containing words and their relative fre-quencies of apparition.
When the user starts typinga string of characters a the predictor offers the nmost frequent words beginning by this string in thesame way they are stored in the system.
Then, theuser can choose the word in the list he or she wantedto enter or continue typing if it is not in the list.There are several studies about word frequencies indifferent languages, for instance (Beukelman et al,1984) gives information about he frequency of wordoccurrence in English used by some disabled people.If the dictionary does not contain inflected words(that is, if there are just the lemmas), it may needsome correction by the user (or by the system) inorder to adjust its concordance with other relatedwords.
For instance, it may need to adjust he gen-der: "C'est une voiture fantastique" or the number"A lot of cars".
The dictionary uses to be an alpha-betically ordered list of words and their frequencies,but other possible dictionary structures can be foundin (Swiflin et al, 1987a).
This prediction system canbe adapted to the user by updating the frequencyof the word in the dictionary each time this wordis used.
Words seldom employed can be replacedby others which are not in the dictionary.
The in-clusion of new words is not difficult because all theinformation that is required is their frequency.
Fur-ther information about his type of prediction can beseen in (Colby et al, 1982), (Garay et al, 1994a),(Heckathorne etal., 1983), (Hunnicutt, 1987), (Swif-30Ifin et al, 1987a), (Venkatagiri, 1993).To enhance the results of this method, an indica-tion about he "recency" of use of each word may beadded.
In this way, the prediction system is able tooffer the most recently used Words among the mostprobable ones beginning by a.
Each entry in thedictionary is composed by a word, its frequency andits recency of use.
Adaptation of the dictionary tothe user's vocabulary is possible by updating the fre-quency and recency of the each word used.
(Swiffinet al, 1987a) observes that this method producessmall better savings in the number of keystrokesneeded than in the previous approach, but more in-formation must be stored in the dictionary and thecomplexity is also increased.2.1.2 Word Prediction Using ProbabilityTablesAnother possibility is to use the relative probabil-ity of appearance of a word depending on the pre-vious one.
To implement this system a two-entriestable is needed to store the conditional probabilityof apparition of each word Wj after each Wi.
If thedictionary contains N words the dimension of thetable will be of N*N. That is, it will have N 2 en-tries, but most of the values in the table will be zeroor close to zero.In some cases it could be possible for the systemto give proposals before entering the beginning of aword.
The recency of use may also be included inthis approach.
This method is hardly adaptable toinclude the user preferred words because the dimen-sions of the table cannot be changed.
This difficultyleads to the design of modified versions, like the onethat uses only the most probable pair of words, re-ported as in (Hunnicutt, 1987).2.2 Syntactic Word Prediction2.2.1 Syntactic Word Prediction UsingProbability TablesThis approach takes into account the syntactic in-formation inherent to the languages.
To this end twol~inds of statistical data are used: the frequency ofapparition of each word and the conditioned proba-bility of each syntactic ategory to follow every othersyntactic ategory.
In this way, the set of words thatare candidates tobe proposed by the predictor is re-stricted to the ones that match the most probablesyntactic role in the current position of the sentence,thus increasing the hint rates.
This syntactic table issmaller than the one used in the previous approach,and the proportion of probabilities which are closeto zero is also smaller.
Each entry in the dictionarywill associate a word with its syntactic ategory, andits frequency of apparition.
Words can be sorted bysyntactic ategories to facilitate the selection pro-cess.
When a word is syntactically ambiguous, thatis, when more than one category is possible for agiven word, one entry for each possible category maybe created.
The table of conditional probabilities ofsyntactic ategories has a fixed size and it is builtbefore the use of the predictor.
Adaptation to theuser's lexicon is possible because there is no needto increase the size of the table.
New words are in-cluded in the dictionary with a provisional syntacticcategory deducted from its use.
Later on, the systemmay require some help from the user to verify if thecategorisation was correct.
It could be also possibleto add some morphological information i the dictio-nary to propose the words with the most appropri-ate morphological characteristics (gender, number).This could increase the hint rate of the predictor.Some systems that use this approach are describedin (Garay et al, 1994a) and (Swiffin et al, 1987b).2.2.2 Syntactic Word Prediction by UsingGrammarsIn these approaches, the current sentence is beingparsed using a grammar to get the most probablecategories.
Parsing methods for word prediction canbe either "top-down" (Van Dyke, 1991) or "bottom-up" (Garay et al, 1994b), (Garay et al, 1997).
So,there is a need to define the syntactic rules (typ-ically LEFT <- \[RIGHT\]+, usually being LEFTand RIGHT some syntactic categories defined in thesystem) that are used in a language.
Within a rule,it could be possible to define concordance amongstthe components of the right part (either in genderand/or in number).
Then, the proposals may be of-fered with the most appropriate morphological char-acteristics.
It is necessary to leave open to the userthe possibility of changing the word's ending.
For ex-ample, if there is a mismatch in the rule used by thesystem, it may be necessary to modify the end of anaccepted proposal.
The dictionary is similar to theone used in the previous approach with the additionof morphological information to allow concordance.The complexity of this system is also larger becausein this case, all the words of the sentence that ap-pear before the current word are taken into account,while in the previous approaches only one previousword was used.
The adaptation of the system forthe new words is made increasing the word frequen-cies and the weights of the rules.
The inclusion ofnew words is similar to the one in the previous ap-proach.
The use of grammars for word prediction isalso shown in (Hunnicutt, 1989), (Le P~v~dic et al,1996), (Morris et al, 1991) and (Wood et al, 1993).312.3 Semantic Word Predict ionThese methods are not very used, because their re-sults are similar to those of the syntactic approaches,but the increase in complex!ty is great.
Maybe thesimplest method that can be used is the semanticword prediction by using parsing methods.
In thisapproach each word has some associated semanticcategories, while in the previous one categories werepurely syntactic.
The rest of the features (the proce-dure, complexity, structure of the dictionary, adapt-ability...) are similar to the previous one.
Never-theless, the problem of giving semantic ategoriesto the words is very complex and it results difficultto be programmed.
Some authors propose semanticcategorisation made "by hand" (Hunnicutt, 1989).There may be other methods to treat the seman-tic information, but their complexity is going to bevery great for a real-time system as the word pre-dictors are intended to be, even the time require-ments (maybe a few seconds between two consecu-tive keystrokes of an impaired person) are not verystrong for the computational capacities of today's?
equipment.3 Appl icat ion of Ment ioned WordPredict ion Methods to InflectedLanguagesIn this section the use of previously reviewed wordprediction methods for non-inflected languages isstudied and their suitability for inflected languagesis discussed.
So, the key question is: Are the wordprediction methods that we have previously shownuseful for inflected languages?As we mentioned in the introduction, in non-inflected languages it is feasible to include in thedictionary all the forms derived from each lemma,taking into account hat the number of variations iquite small.
For instance, in English friends is theonly variation (without creating composed words)of friend, and the verbs have a few variations too.?
In Spanish, the word amigo (with the same mean-ing than friend) may vary in gender and number,giving the words: amiga, amigos and amigas.
Butthe variations that the word adiskide (same mean-ing as friend or amigo) may have in Basque makeit impossible to store them in the dictionary of thesystem.
This is one of the changes to be taken intoaccount for the design of a predictor for this typeof languages.
In inflected languages, the complexityin making the changes is very high, because of thenumber of possibilities.
One possibility is to groupthe suffixes depending on their syntactic function tomake it possible to have an easy automatisation.
Iaddition, we shouldn't forget that suffixes may berecursively concatenated.In the previously presented prediction methods,the ones using probabilistic nformation mainly workwith the words as isolated entities.
That is, theywork seeing each word in the dictionary as a whole tobe guessed, without aking into account the morpho-syntactical information inherent o the languages.So, a word that is not at the lexicon can not beguessed.
The impossibility to store all the combina-tions of a word, make these methods not very suit-able for inflected languages 2.Therefore, it would be very interesting to treat heentire sentence.
Then, the first syntactic approachis not very useful, because it only takes into accountthe previous word.
And the second one is very hardto implement, because of the number of variations aword may have.
Maybe a great number of rules haveto be defined to cope with all the variations, but inthis way the probabilities to guess the rule which isbeing used are very small, because of their variety.The same thing happens with the semantic ap-proach, which has, as it has been said before, thesame procedural characteristics a the second syn-tactic one.So, the complexity needed to create a correctword, including all the suffixes it needs, in inflectedlanguages may make it necessary to search for otherprediction methods, apart from all that were shownin the previous ection.2To know what the suitability for the next shown ap-proaches can he, let us show a special case for Basque:verbs, mainly auxiliary verbs.
They depend not onlyon the subject (which normally appears as absolutive orergative cases) but also on the direct complement (if thesentence is transitive this complement has the absolutivecase while the subject has the ergative case) and on theindirect complement (the dative case).
For instance, theauxiliary dizut is related to the subject of the first per-son singular, the object complement in the singular andthe indirect complement of the second person singular.But if the subject is in the third person plural, the indi-rect complement in the first person plural and the directcomplement is in the plural, the needed auxiliary has tobe dizkigute.
Both cases are in the present of the indica-tive.
If the tense of the verb changes, the verb itself alsochanges (for example, the past of the indicative of dizutis nizun and the past of dizkigute is zizkiguten).
Therealso are some cases in which the verb depends on thegender of the absolutive, ergative or dative cases.32!4 Word Pred ic t ion  in  an  I n f lec tedLanguage.
App l i ca t ion  to  BasqueLanguage4.1 First Approach to Solving thePrediction Problem in an InflectedLanguageAs we have seen in the previous ection, it is verydifficult to predict complete words in inflected lan-guages because of the variations a word may have.As there is a huge variety of inflected languages, letus concentrate on the particular characteristics ofthe Basque language, customising to this case theoperational way.For this first approach, due to the above men-tioned primacy of suffies (over other affixes) in theBasque language, and to simplify the problem, pre-diction in Basque is divided in two parts: predictionof lemmas and prediction of suffixes.
Thus, two dic-tionaries (one for lemmas and other for suffixes) areused.
The first one includes the lemmas of the lan-guage alphabetically ordered with their frequenciesand some morphologic nformation i order to knowwhich possible declensions are possible for a word.The second one includes uffixes and their frequen-cies ordered by frequencies.To start the prediction, the system tries to an-ticipate the lemma of the next word.
Most of themethods een in previous ections can be used forthis purpose.
When the lemma is accepted (or typedentirely if the predictor fails), the system offers thesuffixes that are correct for this lemma ordered byfrequencies.
As the acceptable suffixes for a nouncan be about 62 (as we have seen in the Table 1)only the most probable n suffixes are offered 3.
Ascan be seen, the operational way is very similar toword prediction using tables of probabilities, butthere is some added complexity because the system(and also the user) has to distinguish between lem-mas and suffixes.
In addition, more than one tableof probabilities may be necessary to properly makepredictions.
Apart from the increase of the com-plexity, a decrease of the keystroke savings may beexpected, because of the need of accepting at leasttwo proposals for completing a word (while at leastonly one proposal is required with predictors for non-inflected languages).Even if some promising results have been ob-tained, there are still some problems to solve in thisapproach.?
First of all, due to the possibility of recursivelycomposed suffixes (concatenating the existingaWith n depending on the interaction methodones) the system has to again propose a list ofsuffixes until the user explicitly marks the endof the current word (maybe inserting a spacecharacter).?
The recursive behaviour is one of the reasonsto create more than one table of probabilitieswhich stores the probability of apparition of asuff i  immediately after the previous one.?
The system may be adapted to the user updat-ing the frequencies in the lexicons and the prob-abilities of the tables.
To include a new lemmain the dictionary, it is necessary to obtain itsmorphological characteristics.?
Finally, due to the special characteristics of theverbs (that include any kind of affixes in concor-dance with other words in the entire sentence)their prediction requires a special treatment.Therefore, it seems interesting to do a syntax ap-proach for these types of languages, because other-wise, the problems of this approach are very dimcultto solve.4.2 Second Approach to Solving thePrediction Problem in an InflectedLanguageThis approach will try to alleviate the above men-tioned problems.
The lemmas and the suffies arestill treated separately, but syntactical informationis included in the system.
This can be done byadding syntactic information to the entries of thedictionary of lemmas, and some weighted grammat-ical rules on the system.
The main idea is to parsethe sentence while it is being composed and to pro-pose the most appropriate l mmas and suffixes.
Inprinciple, the parsing allows storing/extracting theinformation that has influenced in forming the verb.There exist systems that verify the morphologic andsyntactical correctness ofa Basque sentence, but thecomplexity of the Basque verb avoids its anticipa-tion.
To face this problem, the most frequent verbforms are included in the dictionary, and a morpho-logical generator permits their modification or theaddition of suffixes when it is necessary.As there are no probability tables, there is noproblem related to their extension.
The adaptationof the system is made by updating the frequenciesof the lemmas and suffies and the weights of thedefined rules.
The inclusion of a new lemma in thelexicon might cause some lack of syntactic informa-tion.
To solve this problem, there are some possi-bilities.
First, the predictor tries to guess the cat-egory, depending on the most highly weighted rule33at that point of the sentence.
Second, the predictorasks the user directly about the information.
Thefirst approach can produce false assumptions, whilethe second one slows the message composition rateand demands a great knowledge of the syntax bythe user.
There is another possibility: the predictormarks the lemma and the user is asked to completethe needed information after ending the session.Finally, recursion may be included into the de-fined rules.
Most of the grammars may have an im-plicit recursion which may be shown by rules.
Forinstance, let us consider these rules:NP <- Noun PPPP  <- Prep NP,where NP means Noun Phrase, PP, PrepositionalPhrase, Noun is a noun and Prep, a preposition.
Ascan be seen, these rules can be expanded to:NP <- Noun Prep NP.So, the NP is on the left and on the right of thesame rule, and a recursion happens.
This recursionmay be used as a way to indicate the recursion ofthe concatenation f the suffixes, because they canexpress the syntactic role of a word in a sentence, asit was noted in the introduction.The operational way and the order of complex-ity are similar to the word prediction using gram-mars.
Nevertheless higher complexity may be ex-pected mainly due to the existence of lemmas andsuffixes.
So, poorer keystroke savings are expected.To enhance this approach, it seems interesting totry to guess the entire word, that is, a lemma nd itsassociated suffix.
This system will be easier to use(there is no need to force users to know what thelemma and what the suffix of a word are) and mayhave better esults, measured in terms of keystrokesavings.4.3 Third Approach to Solving thePredict ion Problem in an InflectedLanguageTaking into account the previous experience, a thirdapproach could be tried.
Built as a combination ofthe previous ones, the main idea is to guess the entirecurrent word.
It treats the beginning of the sentencelike the first approach, using statistical information.While advancing in the composition of the sentence,the system parses it and uses this information to of-fer the most probable words, including both lemmaand suffix, like the second approach does.
The firstword of the sentence is treated using the first ap-proach seen.
But to minimise the problems relatedto that approach, tee rest of the sentence is treatedusing the second approach.In this way, only three tables would be needed:one with the probabilities of the syntactic ategoriesof the lemmas to appear at the starting of a sen-tence, another with the probabilities of the basicsuffixes to appear after those words and the thirdwith the probabilities of the basic suffixes to appearafter another basic suffix (and to make possible therecursion).
All of these tables would have fixed sizeseven when new lemmas are added to the system.The adaptation of the system would be made up-dating the first table and, while the suffixes wouldbe added to the word, the other two tables would bealso updated.
With relation to the new lemmas thatdo not have the information completed, they mightupdate, or not, the first of the tables if a entry forthe unknown cases is included; otherwise they wouldremain unchanged.
Finally, the problem of verb for-mation in Basque is not solved and the most frequentverb forms are included in the dictionary in the sameway as in the second approach.5 ConclusionsOur experience with the Basque language in wordprediction applied to Alternative and AugmentativeCommunication for people with disabilities, showsthat prediction methods uccessful for non-inflectedlanguages are hardly applicable to inflected ones.The high number of in flexions for each word makestheir inclusion in the lexicon impossible.
Differentapproaches have been studied to overcome this prob-lem.
To be able to predict whole words it is neces-sary to determine the syntactic role of the next wordin the sentence.
That can be done by means of a syn-tactic analysis "on the fly".
Nevertheless the resultsof the evaluation of these methods with the Basquelanguage are not as good as the ones obtained withnon-inflected languages.6 AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to acknowledge the work ofthe rest of the members of the Laboratory of Human-Computer Interaction of the Computer Science Fac-ulty of the University of the Basque Country.
Theyalso would like to acknowledge the aid given by JoseMarl Arriola, Kepa Sarasola nd Ruben Urizar, whowork in the IXA Taldea of the Computer ScienceFaculty above mentioned.ReferencesEneko Agirre, Ifiaki Alegria, Xabier Arregi, Xa-bier Artola, Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, MontseMaritxalar, Kepa Sarasola, and Miriam Urkia.1992.
XUXEN: A Spelling Checker/Corrector f34Basque Based on Two-Level Morphology.
In Pro-ceedinys of the 3rd Conference on Applied Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 119-125, Trento,Italy, March-April.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.David R. Beukelman, Kathryn M. Yorkston, MiguelPoblete and Carlos Naranjo.
1984.
Frequencyof Word Occurrence in Communication SamplesProduced by Adult Communication Aid.
Journalof Speech and hearing Disorders, Vol.
49: 360-367.Kenneth M. Colby, Daniel U. Christinaz, Roger C.Parkison, Mark Tiedemann.
1982.
PredictingWord-Expressions to Increase Output Rates ofSpeech Prosthesis Used in Communication Disor-ders.
In IEEEProc.
ICASSP-8~, pages 751-754.Nestor Garay and Julio Gonz~lez Abascal.
1994.Using Statistical and Syntactic Information inWord Prediction for Input Speed Enhancement.In Information Systems Design and Hyperme-dia edited by Claude Chrisment, pages 223-230.C~padu~s-l~ditions.
Toulouse (France).Nestor Garay-Vitoria nd Julio Gonz~ilez Abascal.1994.
Application of Artificial Intelligence Meth-ods in a Word-Prediction Aid.
In Computers forHandicapped Persons edited by W. L. Zagler, G.Busby and R.R.
Wagner, pages 363-370.
Springer-Verlag.
Berlin.Nestor Garay-Vitoria nd Julio Gonz~ilez Abascal.1997.
Intelligent Word-Prediction to EnhanceText Input Rate.
In Proceedings of the Intelli-gent User Interfaces 97 International Conference,pages 241-244,: Orlando (Florida), January.
ACMPress, New York.Craig W. Heckathorne, Dudley S. Childress.
1983.Applying Anticipatory Text Selection in a Writ-ing Aid for People with Severe Motor Impairment.IEEE MICRO, June, pages 17-23.Sheri Hunnicutt.
1987.
Input and Output Alterna-tives in Word Prediction.
STL/QPSR 2-3/1987,pages 17-29.
Dept.
of Speech Comm.
and MusicAcoustics.
Royal Institute of Tech.
Stockholm.Sheri Hunnicutt.
1989.
Using Syntactic and Se-mantic Information i  a Word Prediction Aid.
InProceedings ofthe European Conference on SpeechCommunication a d Technology "Eurospeech 89",Vol.
1: 191-193.
Paris, September.Xabier Kintana, Jon Aurre, Ricardo Badiola, SabinEgileor, Juan Luis Goikoetxea, Juanjo Zearreta,Koldo Zuazo, Ekiten taldeko irakasleak.
1988.Hiztegia Bi Mila: Euskara-Espainiera/Espainiera-Euskara.
ELKAR, Donostia, Basque Country.Brigitte Le P~v~dic and Denis Maurel.
1996.Un Logiciel d'Aide a la Communication pourdes Personnes Handicape~s.
In Proceedings ofthe NLP+IA '96 (TAL?AI '96), pages 211-216.Moncton, N. B., Canada.Corinne Morris, Alan Newell, Lynda Booth andJohn Arnott.
1991.
SYNTAX PAL-A System toImprove the Syntax of Those with Language Dys-function.
In Proceedings ofRESNA 14th AnnualConference, pages 105-106, Kansas City.Andrew L. Swiffin, John L. Arnott, J. Adrian Pick-ering and Alan F. Newell.
1987.
Adaptive andPredictive Techniques in a Communication Pros-thesis.
Augmentative and Alternative Communi-cation, pages 181-191.Andrew L. Swiffin, John L. Arnott and Alan F.Newell.
1987.
The Use of Syntax in a Predic-tive Communication Aid for the Physically Hand-icapped.
In Proceedings ofRESNA lOth AnnualConference, pages 124-126, San Jose, Ca.Julie A.
Van Dyke.
1991.
Word Prediction for Dis-abled Users: Applying Natural Language Process-ing to Enhance Communication.
Thesis submit-ted for the degree of Honors Bachelor of Arts inCognitive Studies.
University of Delaware, June.Horaball S. Venkatagiri.
1993.
Efficiency of Lexi-cal Prediction as a Communication AccelerationTechnique.
AAC, Vol.
9: 161-167.Matthew E. J.
Wood, Eric Lewis.
1993.
Gram-matical Recognition in Computer Aided Conver-sation.
In Proceedings of the European SpeechCommunication Association (ESCA) Workshopon Speech and Language Technology for DisabledPeople, pages 115-118.
Stockholm, Sweden, May-June.3536
