LAutomat ic  Message Indexing and Full Text Retr ieval  for aCommunicat ion AidStefan LangerApplied ComputingUniversity of DundeeDundee, Scotlandslanger@mic, dundee, ac.
ukMarianne HickeyApplied ComputingUniversity of DundeeDundee, Scotlandmhickey@mic, dundee, ac.
ukAbstractThe aim of the WordKeys project is toenhance a communication aid with tech-niques based on research in text retrieval,in order to reduce the cognitive load nor-mally associated with retrieving pre-storedmessages in augmentative and alternativecommunication (AAC) systems.
In thispaper, the differences between traditionalinformation retrieval and the requirementsfor text retrieval in a communication aidare highlighted.
We then present he over-all design of the retrieval based communi-cation aid, and describe the morphologicalanalysis module used for indexing and theranking algorithm in more detail.
The sys-tem relies on a large lexicon for the auto-matic indexing of messages and for seman-tic query expansion.
The lexicon is derivedfrom the WordNet database and addition-ally includes frequency information.
Cur-rently, user trials are being carried out todetermine the suitability of the approachfor AAC.1 Message  re t r ieva l  fo r  an  AACsys temCurrently, there exist different ypes of communica-tion aids for non-speaking people.
Among the sys-tems using natural anguage, we distinguish two dif-ferent approaches.
The communication strategy canbe based on enhanced message composition, or theuser can rely on a set of pre-stored messages, to-gether with a selection procedure.
It is the lattertype of communication aid that will be discussedfurther here.A principal deficiency of the current generation ofcommunication aids is the low rate of communica-tion which can be achieved by users.
Rates of be-tween 2 and 25 words per minute are typical, whichcompares poorly to natural speech rates of 150 to 175words per minute (Foulds, 1980); (Darragh and Wit-ten, 1992).
The low communication rate does not en-courage ither the user of an aid to create messagesor a communication partner to maintain attention(Aim et al 1993).
For message selection systems,the low communication rate is partially caused bythe fact that many systems rely on retrieval meth-ods that put a high cognitive load on the user.
Inmost systems, the user must remember an accessroute, or in some cases a code, in order to speak amessage.
The load placed on the user means that heor she is only able to select from a small number ofdifferent hings to say.The reduction of the necessary user input to pro-duce an utterance and the minimization of the cogni-tive the load on the user in a message-based commu-nication aid can be achieved through efficient mes-sage access.
A novel approach to reach this is the useof full text retrieval to access a message database.Contrary to most existing message based system, inan AAC system based on text retrieval, in order toselect a message, the users do not have to rememberany message numbers or another code.
They canselect a conversational item from the database byentering one or several key words.
Appropriate mes-sages will be those containing these words or wordsrelated to the key words (Hickey and Page, 1993);(Hickey, 1995).At a first glance, the implementation f a text re-trieval system for AAC users might seem straightfor-ward, as retrieval techniques have been investigatedfor decades.
However, most algorithms uggested inthe literature are designed for collections of largerdocuments, containing several hundreds of words.Little research as been dedicated to the investiga-tion of full text retrieval of short messages such asthose used in communication aids.
Thus techniquesfrom information retrieval have to be modified con-siderably to be applicable to the messages commu-nicated by AAC users, which typically contain notmore than 20 words.
In addition to the difference inlength of the messages to be accessed, there is an-other constraint that affects communication aids to amuch higher degree than standard text retrieval sys-tems - -  the minimal input requirement.
In standardtext retrieval, queries of 5-10 words are regarded asshort queries (Hearst, 1996)..This is different for acommunication aid.
Users of these devices typicallyhave a very low typing rate, and it is desirable thatany message from the message database can be re-trieved by only one key word, without he need forquery refinement.The state of the art and the named special re-quirement for a retrieval module in an AAC devicesuggest he use of enhanced full text retrieval us-ing semantic expansion of queries.
A system basedon a query expansion technique has the capabilityof finding messages that contain words that are se-mantically related to the query words in additionto the messages that contain the query words them-selves.
Semantic query expansion isespecially suitedfor communication aids, where minimal input andhigh recall are the key factors.
Research in text re-trieval has shown that it looks promising to furtherinvestigate the use of electronic semantic lexiconsboth for query expansion and in order to overcomeproblems of word sense ambiguity (Richardson andSmeaton, 1995).
Especially relating to short text,research on image caption retrieval has shown thatthe recall rate can be considerably higher, if suitablemethods of calculating semantic distances betweenquery words and message words are used (Smeatonand Quigley, 1996); (Guglielmo and Rowe, 1996).The measurement of semantic distance can be basedon semantic relationship between words.
The rela-tionship encoded in many dictionaries and thesauriis synonymy, and often some hypernyms are alsoincluded.
Both kind of links are relevant for mes-sage retrieval.
It has been shown that apart from?
synonyms, which have been used for query expan-sions for decades, hyponymic links should be con-sidered for text retrieval purposes (Richardson andSmeaton, 1995).
The usefulness of hyponymic linkshas also been evaluated for WordKeys (Langer andHickey, in preparation).
The usefulness of otherlinks, such as meronymy, has yet to be confirmed.For semantic query expansion through semanti-cally related words, a comprehensive electronic dic-tionary containing extensive semantic informationis needed.
Research in electronic lexicography hasbeen very intense during the last years, and manylarge dictionaries are being built for different lan-guages.
Few of those dictionaries, however, are pub-licly available; and few of those available are suit-able for retrieval of unrestricted text.
The semanticdatabase WordNet (Miller et al 1990) has alreadybeen successfully used for information retrieval pur-poses (Richardson and Smeaton, 1995); (Smeatonand Quigley, 1996), and has also been a source forthe design of another lexical database for AAC sys-tems, which, like the lexicon used for WordKeys, in-cluded additional frequency information (Zickus etal, 1995).
The size and coverage of WordNet led tothe decision to base the indexing module and thesemantic expansion i  the WordKeys ystem on thislexical database.2 The  WordKeys  sys temWordKeys is a system based on full text retrievalof pre-stored messages.
It is typically used in twodifferent settings:?
When the user wants to prepare a communica-tion, new messages are typed in.
These mes-sages are automatically indexed and integratedin the system's database.?
In communication mode, WordKeys displaysthe search field, where the user can type insearch words, the list of predicted input words,the list of messages found and the field contain-ing the selected message.Figure 1 demonstrates the overall architecture ofthe WordKeys ystem.WordKeys is implemented in C++.
There isstrong emphasis of re-usability of the software, espe-cially the lexicon modules, for other AAC-systems.We have also taken care to provide the possibility ofporting the system to languages other than English.The different lexicons are text files and correspondto a simple and clearly specified format.
They canbe exchanged for lexicons in other languages.3 Index ing ,  morpho log ica l  ana lys i sand message  rank ing3.1 IndexingThe WordKeys system offers the possibility of im-porting any text file to add it to the messagedatabase.
Additionally, at any stage of a conver-sation, the user can add a message to the databaseor modify an existing message.
When a message isadded to the database, the following actions are per-formed:?
Tokenization;10supervisorpreferencesinput of neyj~ ~" messag e~,~ inputqUe ry.
\[ morpho-message I ;,.,4or \] ~ mmn ~ I logicaldatabase ~ ~-  lexicon - J  moduleinputofnew~ ~ Z  ~ % messages indexing\[ message text file \[ \[ stoplist \[ \[ suffixes \[ :eX;tions\[Figure 1: Overall organisation of the WordKeys system?
Morphological analysis: word forms are anal-ysed to find lemmas and roots and to determinetheir syntactic ategory;?
The resulting words are looked up in the seman-tic lexicon to find frequent hypernyms which areadded to the list of index words;?
The message with the list of index words isadded to the database and its index.3.2 Morphological analysisMorphological analysers are available in the publicdomain.
However, we decided to use a custom pro-grammed morphological module, because the outputof the available analysers did not correspond to ourneeds, and, at least for English, a simple analysisis relatively easy to implement.
The data used foranalysis is partially based on the WordNet morpho-logical information.
The morphological module usesan affix list in combination with an exception listand the information about syntactic ategories fromWordNet.
The analysis of a word form is carried outin two steps:?
lemmatization;?
determination f the derivational root (only forsemantically transparent derivation affixes).Lemmatization is lexicon-based.
After the affixremoval, the unaffxed form is looked up in the lex-icon, considering the possible syntactic ategory re-turned by the affix removal process.
Only if theform is found there, it is accepted as a lemma andadded to the message index.
Word forms leading11to several possible lemmas are currently not disam-biguated.
Apart from the lack of disambiguation, weachieved an error-free lemmatisation of all occurringword forms for a trial message database of about1200 words.After the lemmatization procedure, a derivationalanalysis is carried out on the lemmatized wordforms.
We separate the two steps in order to be ableto give the link between a word form and the lemmaa higher weight in message access than links betweenmorphologically complex words and their roots.
Theprocedure of distinguishing between the results of in-flectional and derivational nalysis is consistent withthe findings reported in Hull (1996).
He concludesthat complex stemming algorithms can be slightlymore effective than simple ones, and that the re-moval of derivational affixes is not always desirable.This is especially true for a system such as Word-Keys, which uses semantic relationship for retrievaland performs message ranking, which can increasethe impact of inaccuracies in the morphological nal-ysis.
Semantic relations between a lemma and someword form on the one hand differs considerably fromthe semantic relations between derived words andtheir root.To be able to determine semantically relatedwords without loss of precision, information from themorphological nalysis is also used to determine themorpho-syntactic categories of word forms and lem-mas.
The category can be clearly determined in thefollowing cases:?
a word has one single entry in the main lexicon,which means the word is already a lemma;?
a word form has an inflectional or derivationalaffix which only occurs with bases of one singlemorpho-syntactic category.Removing ambiguities concerning syntactic ate-gories has a certain impact on the performance ofthe semantic expansion module.
The less words?
with inappropriate syntactic ategories are includedin the index, the higher precision will be achievedby the system, because less expansions will be gen-erated.
For many word forms in the messages, how-ever, the category remains ambiguous.
Currently,we are investigating the use stochastic taggers andlocal grammars for determining syntactic informa-tion in these cases.3.3 Message rankingWhen the user has typed in one or several key wordsand decides to start the search the following tasksare carried out:?
Tokenization: the content of the input field onthe interface is parsed into word forms.?
Lemmatization: word forms are analysed to beable to look them up in the lexicon.?
The word forms and lemmas are looked up inthe message index.
If they are found, the cor-responding message numbers are added to thelist of retrieved messages.?
The lemmas are looked up in the semantic lex-icon to retrieve related words.
The relationsused for query expansion are dependent on thesemantic paths defined in the settings.
The re-lated words are re-applied for another query tothe index of the message database.The messages which have been found are displayedon the screen, the order corresponds to their score.Trials with a number of different settings for themessage retrieval algorithm have been carried out toimprove message ranking.
The ranking algorithm as-sures that messages which are retrieved, but are notconsidered very relevant for a query, are put lowerin the list or excluded from the display.
Conformingto the results of the trials, messages retrieved fromthe database are ranked according to the criterionof semantic distance between key word and indexword.
Semantic distance is zero in the beginning ofthe following list and increases:?
same word form;?
different word form from the key word form(cars - -  car);?
other derivation of the root of the key word (in-ves t igat ion -  investigate);?
synonyms of key word (car - -  automobile);?
other related words: the semantic paths andtheir weighting are defined in the settings file.A path is the concatenation of semantic linksthat are used to get from the input key word tothe index word.Table 1 gives the figures for the message rankingcriteria applied in the case of one single key word.For several key words, a combination of the semanticdistances for different key words is used for ranking.When several key words are typed in, the messageretrieval algorithms is working with an OR- link be-tween search words.
However, any message beingretrieved by more than one of the key words willbe given an increased score; the more key words amessage is related to, the better its score.12Description Weight decrease CommentWord in message is same word form as 0 exact match, best ratinginput wordWord in message is lemmatized in index 1 lemmatization leads to less semanticand matches input word distance than derivational nalysisWord in message is reduced to root in 2 derivational nalysisindex to match input wordSemantically related word is looked up > 5 depends on semantic relationin lexiconTable 1: Value determination for message rankingWe will illustrate the message ranking with an ex-ample.
The messages retrieved from an experimen-tal database for the item swim are (in that order):(1) Would you like to go \]or a swim?
(2) Normally I don't like swimming, but this Sundayit was so hot that I spent the whole day on thebeach and in the water.
(3) I 'm not a very good swimmer.
(4) Shall we go for a dip ?The first message contains the key word itself;message (2) contains another word form of the samelemma.
The third message in the list contains aderivation of the key word.
Finally, message (4)is an example of retrieval through semantic queryexpansion.
It contains a synonym (dip) of the keyword.3.4 The lexicon for query expansionOne purpose of the main lexicon in WordKeys is toserve as a lexical database for the indexing modulewhen performing morphological nalysis.
The mainfunction of this lexicon, however, is to serve as abasis for the semantic query expansion.
To choosethe right lexicon, we had to bear in mind that Word-Keys is a retrieval system for unrestricted text.
Thisimplies that the system is able to retrieve messagescontaining any word of the English language apartfrom extremely domain specific vocabulary.We decided to use the semantic database WordNetfor the following reasons:?
it is very comprehensive;?
it contains most relevant semantic links;?
the information contained in WordNet is storedin text files, and can be easily converted to anyother format.In order to use the information in WordNet forour text retrieval algorithm, some preparation wasneeded.?
WordNet was converted to a format suitablefor the WordKeys oftware.
We chose a formatwhich was easily portable: a text file containinglemmas together with their syntactic ategoryand related words corresponding to the differ-ent senses;?
The semantic paths that the WordKeys soft-ware uses for query expansion were defined.
Asemantic path is a series of semantic relationswhich can be used to reach a lemmatised mes-sage word from a lemmatised input key word.This also involved efining weights for the linksin order to rank retrieved messages.
For exam-ple, messages containing synonyms of key wordsreceive a high rating, those containing hyper-nyms are assigned a lower rating.Additionally we included statistics over word fre-quencies in the main lexicon, in order to be able toretrieve hypernyms ofwords that are useful as indexwords - these are not necessarily the closest superor-dinated words in the WordNet hierarchy, but ofte.nwords occurring several levels higher.Consequently, in each lexicon entry the followinginformation is stored:Syntactic ategory of word, which is used formorphological nalysis and semantic links.Frequency (0 if the word is not included in thefrequency list).
The frequency stored is re-trieved from a large database of mainly writ-ten text, the British National Corpus (BNC).The list contains the most frequent 8000 wordsin this corpus; evaluation of a comparison be-tween a frequency counting lexicon and a lex-icon without word frequencies are summarizedin the next section.13Links to other words in the lexicon, and speci-fication of the type of link (synonym, hyponymetc.
).4 EvaluationFormal evaluation of the performance of the se-mantic retrieval modules is reported in Langer andHickey (in preparation).
The purpose of the evalu-ation was to look at the benefits of semantic expan-sion in terms of retrieval success.
These trials haveshown, that the semantic expansion enhances re-call rate considerably without having a major effecton precision.
A further improvement was achievedby including frequency information in the lexicon.The evaluation results for the frequency countinglexicon were considerably better than those for thefirst lexicon derived from WordNet without includ-ing frequencies.
The frequency counts can be usedto determine frequent hyponyms and hyperonymsof index terms, even if they are rather distant inthe hyponymic hierarchy, because the method al-lows the elimination of intermediate level terms thatare not interesting for query expansion.
Taking intoaccount his information resulted in a higher recallrate, without a major detoriation i  precision.
Fora small, experimental database, 80% of the targetmessages were correctly retrieved (compared withabout 70% with the first lexicon and 50% withoutquery expansion).Currently we have started the second evaluationphase.
A non-speaking person who has alreadyhad experience with message based systems for sev-eral years, and who uses a relatively large pool ofpre-stored messages, i  evaluating WordKeys in realcommunication settings.
The main purpose of thisstudy is to investigate he following points:?
How high is the recall rate in real communica-tion settings??
How useful is the semantic expansion module,i.e.
how often does it play a crucial role forsuccessful retrieval?Apart from these more technical points, the inter-face and ease of use will also be a evaluated.5 ConclusionsWe have detailed the reasons which lead to the de-sign of a communication aid for non-speakers basedon ideas from text retrieval with semantic expan-sion, and we demonstrated the overall design of theprototype.
The main differences between standardinformation retrieval and text retrieval for an AACsystem were presented, namely the size and type oftexts retrieved by the system and the necessity tominimize the cognitive load, which leads to the min-imal input requirement.
In the detailed system de-scription, we have shown that a precise morpholog-ical analysis can be achieved - -  at least for English- -  with relatively low effort, ff we use data from pub-licly available resources.
The morphological moduleis indispensable to be able to enhance the systemwith a query expansion algorithm, which is neededto satisfy the minimal input requirement for com-munication aids.Several ideas for improving the text retrieval al-gorithms and WordKeys and their inclusion in othercommunication aids are still waiting to be realised.One idea is to use a semantic lexicon that is able tolearn from the input.
This would mean that success-ful semantic links will get a higher weight han otherones.
New links could be added based on knowledgeof the user's message selections.
Interactions whereinitial search words do not retrieve relevant messagescould be recorded.A further aim is the integration of the retrievalmodule with other AAC systems.
WordKeys is notdesigned to assist all kinds of communication.
In-tegration with other AAC software should be inves-tigated, such as software designed for unique textentry (word prediction systems) and for the rapiduse of quick conversational fil ers.AcknowledgementsThe current phase of the WordKeys project is fundedthrough a European HCM/TMR fellowship for 20months (January 1996 - September 1997).
Evalua-tion equipment has been purchased with a donationfrom the Anonymous Charitable Trust.ReferencesAim N., Murray I.R., Arnott J. and Newell A.F.1993.
Pragmatics and affect in a communicationsystem for non-speakers.
Journal of the Ameri-can Voice I /0  Society.
Special Issue: People withdisabilities, March 1993, pp.
1-15.Darragh J. and Witten I.
1992.
The Reactive Key-board.
Cambridge.
Cambridge University Press.Foulds R. 1980.
Communication rates for non-speech expression as a function of manual tasksand linguistic constraints.
In Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Rehabilitation Engi-neering, Toronto, RESNA, pp.
83-87.Guglielmo E.J.
and Rowe N.C. 1996.
Natural-language retrieval of images based on descriptive14captions.
A CM Transactions on Information Sys-tems, 14, 3 (July 1996), pp.
237-267.Hearst M. 1996.
Improving Full-Text Preci-sion on Short Queries using Simple Constraints.In Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Symposiumon Document Analysis and Information Retrieval(SDAIR), Las Vegas, April 1996.Hickey M. 1995.
Communication enhancement inan aid for severely disabled people.
PhD Thesis.Coventry University.Hickey M. and Page C. J.
1993.
Polyvox: Flexiblemessage selection in a communication prosthesisfor non-speakers.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Euro-pean Conference on the Advancement ofRehabili-tation Technology, May 26 - 28, 1993, Stockholm,Sweden, Section 11.3, pp.
89 - 91.Hull D. 1996.
Stemming Algorithms: A Case Studyfor Detailed Evaluation.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science, vol 47, Number1 (January), pp 70-84:Langer S. and Hickey M. in preparation.
Using Se-mantic Lexicons for Intelligent Message Retrievalin a Communication Aid.
Submitted to Journalof Natural Language Engineering, special issue onNatural Language Processing for CommunicationAids.Miller G. A. et al 1990.
Wordnet: An on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography,3(4).Richardson R. and Smeaton A.
1995.
Using Word-Net in a Knowledge-Based Approach to Informa-tion Retrieval.
Working paper CA-0395, School ofComputer Applications, Trinity College Dublin.Smeaton A. and Quigley I.
1996.
Experiments onUsing Semantic Distances between Words in Im-age Caption Retrieval.
In Proceedings of the 19thInternational Conference on Research and Devel-opment in Information Retrieval, Zfirich, pp.
174-180.Zickus, W. M., K. F. McCoy, P. W. Demasco andPennington C.A.
1995.
A lexical database forintelligent AAC systems.
In Proceedings of theRESNA '95 Annual Conference, pages 124-126,Arlington, VA. RESNA Press.1516
