Corpus-Based Information Presentation fora Spoken Public Transport Information System*M.M.M.
Rats  and R .
J .
van  Vark  and J .P .M.
de  VreughtKnowledge Based SystemsTechnical  Computer  ScienceDelft  Univers i ty of Technologya lparon@kgs.twi .
tudel f t .n lAbst rac tThe Alparon project aims to improve Vxos,Openbaar Vervoer Reisinformatie's (OVa)automated speech processing system forpublic transport information, by using acorpus-based approach.
The shortcomingsof the current system have been investi-gated, and a study is made of how dialoguesin the OVR domain usually occur betweena human operator and a client.
While cen-tering our attention on the presentation finformation by the Automated Speech Pro-cessing (ASP) system, we describe the im-plications of this corpus-based approach onthe implementation f our prototype.1 In t roduct ionThe Alparon research group in Delft aims to im-prove Automated Speech Processing (ASP) systemsfor information retrieval and information storing di-alogues.
The current focus is on dialogue manage-ment for a research project of Openbaar VervoerReisinformatie (OVR) (Vark et al, 1996).
OVRprovides information about Dutch public transportsystems, ranging from local bus services to long dis-tance trains.
They are developing an ASP system,called VIos, to automate part of its dialogues heldat its call centres.Although the second version of VIos is imple-mented, it is far from perfect.
After conductinguser-appreciation studies it was clear that the nextversion of VIos should act more human like.This is the reason why we will take the humanoperator as the source of inspiration for improve-ment.
The proposals that we will put foreward inthis paper will be based on a study of about 100human-human OVa-dialogues selected from a cor-pus of 5205 telephone conversations recorded at theThis work is funded by OVP~ and Senter.call centers of OVa.
The pilot corpus consists of di-alogues that concern the exchange of train informa-tion only.OVR dialogues proceed in a specific way: firstgreetings are exchanged, then the client formulateshis query, next the operator gives the desired infor-mation, and finally both parties ay goodbye to eachother.
In this paper, we will concentrate on the im-proving the presentation of the travel scheme.We can roughly distinguish three different situa-tions: the standard situation where everything runssmoothly, the situation where there is a repair op-eration by either the client or the operator, and thesituation where a topic shift occurs.
In our proto-type, the dialogue manager and the text generatorwill collaborate to handle these situations.
Since thedialogue manager has knowledge concerning knownand new information, it can instruct he text gener-ator to present he text in a natural way.In the next section, we will discuss related work.Then, we will describe in detail how information ispresented in VIos and in the OVa corpus.
Next,we will present the strategies an ASP system has tofollow if such a system is to present information i  asensible manner.
In the last section, we will describefuture research.2 Re la ted  WorkVIos is a Dutch version of the train timetable in-formation system developed by Philips Aachen forthe Deutsche Bundesbahn (Aust and Oerder, 1995;Aust et al, 1995).
It was developed within the Eu-ropean LE-MLAP project MAIS (Strik et al, 1996),the aim of which was to make a Dutch and Frenchversion of the Philips system.A related European research project was the LE-MLAP project RAILTEL (Bennacef et al, 1996)which strived to develop prototype telephone ser-vices for access to train travel information.
Pro-totype systems are being developed for France106Figure 1: A VIOS presentation of a train connectionV: I have found the following connection.Departure f rom Del f t  at twenty hours forty-two, arrival atRotterdam CS at twenty hours fifty-six, there change toUtrecht CS, departure at twenty-one hours seven, arrival inUtrecht CS at  twenty-one hours fo r ty - th ree .Do you want  me to repeat the connection again?V:  Ik  heb de volgende verbinding gevonden.Vertrek vanuit Delft om twintig uur twee~nveertig,aankomst in Rotterdam CS om twintig uur zesenvijftig,daar overstappen aar Utrecht  CS,  ver t rek  om eenentwintiguur zeven, aankomst in Utrecht CS om eenentwintig uurdrie~nveertig.Wi l t  u dat  ik de verbinding nog eens herhaal?
(LIMSI), Italy (CSELT), and the U.K. (CCIR).The successor of these projects is the Europeanproject ARISE, which aims to improve the previousversions of the different systems.
OVR is a partnerin both MAIS and ARISE.Besides Alparon several other universities andcompanies in the Netherlands are working to im-prove VIos.
Most of them are working in the Ovlsproject (Bores et al, 1995), which aims to developthe next version of VIOS for the Dutch context.
Inthe Alparon project, we are allowed to try and testout new ideas beyond this next version.Our work is also inspired by other elated researchprojects.
One of them is the TRAINS project (Allenet al, 1995), that tries to build an interactive plan-ning assistant hat helps a user to construct andmonitor plans concerning a railroad freight system.Another related project is described in (Careniniet al, 1994).
They have developed a system thatuses text planning and user modelling techniques togenerate natural anguage descriptions of migraine,its symptoms, triggering factors and prescriptions.The system is capable of handling follow-up ques-tions requesting further information, and generatingresponses in context of previously supplied informa-tion.
In (Cawsey, 1993) the EDGE system is de-scribed, which is able to plan explanations whichallow interactions with the user.For text generation, we found useful ideas in (Pre-vost, 1996), where an architecture is described forthe generation of spoken text with contextually ap-propriate intonation.
The schema pproach (McK-eown, 1985), and the systems DYD (Deemter andOdijk, 1995), and GoalGetter (Klabbers et al, 1997)were inspiring too.3 In fo rmat ion  presentat ion  in  V IosIn VIos, the travel plan is presented using templatesfilled with specific stations and times.
The stationnames and times have a disambiguated form, alwaysresulting in a full and uniquely identifying descrip-tion.
The templates and the words for stations andtimes are prerecorded and their accoustic represen-tations are concatenated to form complete sentences.107Together these sentences form a monologue.
No in-terruptions by the caller are possible (see figure 1).The architecture of VIOS is such that the dia-logue management component and the text gener-ating component work in sequential order.
Whenthe travel scheme has been determined, the dialoguemanager sends the entire scheme to the text genera-tor.
This component communicates the plan to thecaller.
During the presentation process, the systemstops listening.
So, no feedback from the user to thesystem is possible.Appreciation studies have shown that the VIospresentation of information is far from ideal for thefollowing reasons (Blasband, 1997; Manintveld andRothkrantz, 1997; Peters and Kock, 1997):All information is given at once.
It wouldbe more convenient for the caller if the sys-tem would provide the information in smallerchunks.?
The caller is not able to interrupt when he doesnot comprehend the given information.The use of full names for stations is very unnat-ural and confusing, especially when the callerhas used other descriptions to introduce them.The system makes the caller feel hunted in pro-cessing and copying down the information sinceit speaks too fast.The information is spoken in an unnatural way.The concatenated phrases exhibit differences inspeech tempo and loudness.
Since they miss anatural intonation pattern, they are awkwardto understand.In this paper, we will only work towards a so-lution for the first two problems.
The next threeitems will be left for further esearch.
We will takethe human-human dialogues as an example.
Thischoice is dictated by our comprehensive appreciationstudy, where 500 respondents were asked to call dif-ferent Wizard of Oz simulation systems, VIOS, and aFigure 2: An information phase of an OVR dialogueC: ik wi lde graag  wetenals ik morgen ore: morgenochtend om negen uur  \[u:h\] op deLe ly laan in Amsterdam moet  zijnhoe laat moet  ik vanuit Hi lversum vertrekken dan?h dat  wordt \ [u:h\ ]  acht  uur  negent ien vert rekken uit  H i lversumC: acht uur jaI: en dan overstappen AmsterdamC: \[u:h\] jah vert rek Amsterdam acht  vi j fenvi j ft igC: acht  v i j fenvi j f t igh komt  u negen nul dr ie aan  Amsterdam Le ly laanC: ok6dus acht  uur  negent len ver t rekkenok6har ts t ikke  bedanktC: I would like to knowif I have to be tomorrow at: tomorrow morn ing  at  nineo'c lock \[u:h\] at  the Le ly laan in Amsterdam~t what  t ime do I have to leave f rom Hi lversum?h that  will be\[u:h\] depar t  f rom Hi lversum at  e ight  hoursnineteenC: eight hours  yesh and  then change AmsterdamC: \[u:h\] yesI: depar ture  Amsterdam eight fifty-fiveC: eight fifty-fiveh will arr ive at  Amsterdam Le ly laan at  nine o threeC: okayso depar t  at  eight hours  nineteenokaythank you very muchhuman operator.
One of its most important conclu-sions was that callers appreciate the human operatorover all kinds of automated systems.4 In fo rmat ion  presentat ion  inhuman-human OVR d ia loguesA study of a sample of 100 information dialoguesout of a corpus of over 5000 dialogues hows thatthe presentation of a travel plan in a human-humandialogue involves more than just a monologue thatpresents the entire plan at once.
The informationpresentation has a more interactive form.
A humaninformation service presents the travel plan in a step-wise way, generally giving at least one piece of newinformation with each turn.
This presentation fol-lows the temporal order of the different stages in thetravel plan.
After each step in the information pre-sentation, the caller shows that he has processed thestep by an acknowledgement.
The dialogue fragmentdisplayed in figure 2 shows an example of an infor-mation presentation i  an OVR dialogue.
We seethat each step in the plan is acknowledged, beforethe next one is given.This stepwise presentation and acceptance of thetravel plan is one of the most important character-istics of the information phase of a naturally occur-ring OVR dialogue.
In this way, the operator is ableto communicate the information as clear as possi-ble and the caller can relate the new information toinformation already known.Table 1 shows the quantitative facts that underlyour description.
It shows the amount of utterancesthe information service applies in one turn.
We seethat 87% of the turns contain only one utteranceand 10% contain two utterances.
The maximum ofutterances per turn is 5, which is in only 0.4% of108the cases.
Only in this case with five utterances, awhole travel plan is given at once.
This confirmsour view that in human-human OVR dialogues, thetravel plan is given in steps.Table 1: The amount of utterances in each turn ofthe information serviceAmount of utterances percentage1 87%2 10%>3 3%A closer look at the exact information transfer inan OVR dialogue reveals even more about the exactinformation structure of the individual utterances ofthe information service.
The information transfer inan OVR dialogue consists of three phases:1. a query phase,2.
a search phase, and3.
an information phase.During the query phase the caller poses his query,and the information service tries to understand thisquery as clear as possible.
In the search phase (oftenindicated by a silence since the operator is search-ing), the information service applies the databasequery, and chooses the right travel plan.
In the in-formation phase, the information service communi-cates the travel plan to the caller and the caller triesto get the plan as straight as possible.In each of these phases, different information ele-ments play a crucial role.
During the query phase,these elements are the departure place, the arrivalplace, a global indication of the departure or ar-rival time, the day of travel, and if the caller wantsa direct connection.
The information service needsthese information elements to compose an appropri-ate database query and to choose the most suitabletravel plan.
For the presentation of the travel plan,other information elements become important: thedeparture time, the arrival time, the places where tochange, the directions of trains, the departure andarrival times at the places of change.
The callerneeds to know these information elements to carryout this plan.In the information phase, the information serviceuses these information elements to compose her pre-sentation.
In general, she will use the elements thatare already known from the query phase or from pre-vious utterances within the information phase, as apoint of attachment for presenting the unknown el-ements.
The order of the steps in the travel planare the guiding principle behind the order in whichthe elements are presented.
The dialogue fragmentin figure 2 illustrates this.
In the query phase ofthis dialogue, the speakers have established the day,a global arrival time, the arrival place, and the de-parture place.
The information service has founda proper travel plan and starts her presentation.In consecutive turns, she gives the departure time(new) at the departure place (given), then the placewhere to change (new), then the departure time(new) at the place of change (given in the previ-ous utterance), then the arrival time (new) at thearrival place (given).Tables 2, 3, and 4 show the quantitative facts thatunderly our description.
Table 2 shows the amountof information elements for each utterance of the in-formation service.
We see that 69% of the utterancescontain 2 information elements, that 18% containsonly one element, and 12% contains 3 elements.
Thisconfirms our view that mainly two information ele-ments per utterance are given.Table 2: The amount of information elements in eachutterance of the information serviceInformationelementsPercentageof utterances18%69%12%1%Table 3 shows the given-new divisions in utterances109with one, two, three, and four information elementsrespectively.
We see that utterances with one ele-ment contain in most of the cases (68%) a new ele-ment.
In the other cases (32%), they either refer toa crucial step in the information exchange, or give aalternative description of a previously introduced el-ement.
We see that most utterances with more thanone information element contain at least one newelement.
The given-new distinctions in the table re-flect the order in which the elements occur.
One canobserve that in utterances with two elements, thespeakers prefer to mention the new element first,?
while in case of three elements, speakers prefer tomention a given element first.Table 3: The given-new division in utterances withone, two, three, and four information elementsrespectively.InformationelementsGiven-new divisionnewgivengiven-newgiven-givennew-givennew-newnew-given-givennew-new-givengiven-new-givengiven-new-newnew-given-newnew-new-new-newPercentage68%32%28%4%46%22%12%4%15%54%15%100%The table confirms our view that speakers tend topresent at least one piece of new information per ut-terance.
Usually, they will relate this new informa-tion with an entity introduced in the preceding con-text.
This communicative rule was found in othercorpora of spoken discourse as well (Chafe, 1987;Rats, 1996).Table 4 shows which specific information elementsgenerally serve as given and which serve as new in-formation.
We see that most departure and arrivaltimes (97% in both cases) are new for the caller,while all departure and arrival places (100% in bothcases) are known from the previous context.
Forthe places of change and the directions, the result isroughly fifty-fifty.The table confirms our observation that departureand arrival places are generally introduced uringthe query phase and serve as given information dur-ing the information phase.
On the contrary, places ofchange and the directions of train are mostly intro-duced in the information phase, and become giveninformation after introduction.
The departure andTable 4:elementsInformation elementDeparture timeArrival timeDeparture placeArrival placePlace of changeDirectionThe information status of the informationin the information phase.Given3%3%100%100%54%42%New97%97%46%58%arrival times commonly serve as new information.After the presentation and acceptance of a wholetravel plan, a caller may ask for new travel plans.This happens in 26% of the dialogues.
Most of theseplans (84%) concern earlier or later connections.
In16% of the cases, the callers ask for another travelplan, for instance, for a connection from the stationwhere the previous trip ended or another connectionfrom the same departure place.5 Repair in the presentation phaseFigure 2 shows an information phase where the callerhas no problems in processing the presentation ofthe travel plan.
Nevertheless, during communica-tion problems may arise.
In such cases, the callerwill interrupt he presentation by starting a repairsequence to solve the problem:?
The caller will start a reconfirmation sequence,if he is not sure that he has heard the opera-tor's utterances well and he wants the informa-tion service to repeat, to complete, or to.confirmpreviously given information.
A reconfirmationsequence consists of a reconfirm by the callerand an appropriate answer by the informationservice.?
The caller will apply a clarification sequence, ifhe wants extra information about the currentplan.
A clarification sequence consists of a wh-question of the caller and an appropriate answerby the information service.?
The caller will apply a checking sequence, if hewants to check extra information about the cur-rent plan that he suspects to be true.
A check-ing sequence consists of a check by the callerand an appropriate answer by the informationservice.?
The caller will start a correcting sequence, if henotices that the information service gives inap-propriate information.
A correcting sequenceconsists of a correction and possibly a negative110acknowledgement by the caller and an appro-priate answer by the information service.In case the caller does not notice problems himself,the information service may infer from the caller'sresponses that the caller did not process her utter-ances as intended.
She can infer this from his ac-knowledgements, but also from his reconfirmations,checks, and wh-questions.
In such cases, she will in-terrupt he information presentation by a correctingsequence.Table 5 shows the frequency of the caller's repairsequences compalred with the presence of positiveacknowledgements.
We see that repair sequencesdo not occur as frequently as positive acknowledge-ments.
Most of the caller's reactions (63%) arepositive acknowledgements.
Considerably less ofthe caller's reactions are wh-questions (4%), checks(10%), or reconfirmations (17%), and very few re-actions are corrections.
In 6% of the cases, the re-actions concern questions for other or related travelplans.Table 5: Dialogue acts expressed by the caller in theinformation phase of an OVR dialogueDialogue acts FrequencyPositive acknowledgements 63%wh-questions 4%Checks 10%Reconfirmations 17%Corrections 0.3%Other (travel plans) 6%Repair sequences appear at different places in theinformation exchange.
They may appear directlyafter the utterance to which they react.
However,they may also occur after the acknowledgement ofthe utterance to which they react, and at the endof the complete presentation and acceptance of thetravel plan.
Table 6 shows the frequencies of thesethree possibilities for each repair act.We see that wh-questions, checks, and questionsfor an extra travel plan mainly occur after the com-plete presentation ofthe travel plan.
By contrast, re-confirmations and corrections mainly occur directlyafter the problematic utterance.
This difference isof course understandable.
Reconfirmations and cor-rections directly concern problems in processing theprevious utterance, while wh-questions and checksmainly ask or check extra information about thetravel plan.
It is more polite to keep these last kindof questions until the information service is readywith her presentation.Table 6: The place of the repair sequences in theDialogue actwh-questionCheckReconfirmationCorrectionOther(travel p an)after theproblematicutterance10%90%100%after acknowl-edgement ofthe problem-atic utterance18%3%presentationafter thecompletepresentation82%86%10%100%Nevertheless, the table shows that speakers mayviolate these habits, since they may utter re-confirmations after the whole presentation (10%)--although it seemed that they had understood andaccepted i t - -  and wh-questions and checks directlyafter an informing utterance or the acknowledge-ment of that utterance.6 Towards  a new s t ra tegy  o fin fo rmat ion  presentationAnalysis of information presentation i  VIOS andOVR dialogues shows an important difference instrategy.
The VIos system presents complete travelplans as a whole, while human operators give the in-formation in several chunks.
Future releases of VIOSwill have to follow this latter strategy as much aspossible, because it highly influences the apprecia-tion of clients.As a result, the travel plan will have to be dividedin manageable chunks of information which followthe temporal order of the travel schedule.
Each pieceof information corresponds to a turn in the dialogue.Such a turn will introduce xactly one new informa-tion element as happens in most of the OVR dia-logues.
This new information element will often beaccompanied by an already given element.We have taken a first step in this direction, byextracting presentation scenarios for different di-alogues situations from our sample corpus.
Thechoice for a certain scenario will depend on two typesof information:1. the information elements that the system hasgathered uring the query phase, and2.
the information that the system has receivedfrom the database query.The information acquired from the database will in-fluence the choice for a certain scenario most, since atravel scheme with two changes will result in anotherpresentation than a direct connection.
Nevertheless,the scenario must also contain the right given-new111combinations for the individual utterances.
The in-formation elements that the system has gatheredduring the query phase will have to serve as the giveninformation, while the new information that the sys-tem has received from the database query will haveto function as the new information.Table 7 gives an example of such a scenario.
Itshows which scenario should be used, given cer-tain information elements gathered uring the queryphase and the information elements brought up bythe database query.
Each line in this scenario refersto a separate chunk of information.
It also showsthe order in which the elements hould be uttered.The table also gives a possible linguistic form of theseparate lines in the scenario.
After each line, an ac-knowledgement or a short repair sequence may fol-low.The dialogue manager will incorporate the linesinto separate statements and will send them one byone the text generator, awaiting the user's reactionbefore to decide to go on.
The dialogue managerwill proceed with the next chunk if the user has ac-knowledged the presented information.
In this case,a relatively long period of silence can also be taken asa positive acknowledgement.
If the user reacts by awh-question, a check, or a reconfirmation, the appro-priate response will be given before it will continuethe presentation.
If a misinterpretation is detectedthe system will first start a correction sequence.When the complete presentation is finished andthus acknowledged by the caller, he may either finishthe conversation or pose a new query.
In the lastcase, the whole dialogue management process will bestarted again: the representation f the query will beupdated, a new database query will be posed, and anappropriate scenario will be chosen.
The same willhappen when the user corrects the system becauseit does not give the plan he wants.To improve information presentation further, di-alogue management and text generation will haveto collaborate intensively.
The text generator willhave to choose the right linguistic form, followingTable 7: An example of a scenarioInformation given bythe query phase:Information given bythe database query:Scenario:Possible linguisticform:Departure place, arrival place, and a global indication of the departureor arrival timeOne train connection with one change, exact departure times, exactarrival times, place of change which is the same as the direction of thetrain, the direction of the second train is the same as the arrival placeDeparture_Time(new)-Departure_Place(given),Arrival_Time(new)-Place_of_Change(new),Place_oLChange(given)-Departure_Time(new)-Arrival_Place(given),Arrival_Place (given)-Arrival_Time (new).Ik heb een trein om \[DeT\] uit \[DeP\].Die komt om \[ART\] aan in \[Poe\].Daar vertrekt om \[DeT\] de trein naar \[ArP\]en dan bent u daar om \[ART\]( I have a train at \[DeT\] from \[DeP\].It will arrive at \[ART\] in \[PoC\].There will leave at \[DeT\] the train to \[ArP\]and then you will be there at \[ART\].
)the prescribed ialogue act and given-new division.The corpus work described in Rats and Bunt (Ratsand Bunt, 1997) on information packaging in Dutchinformation dialogues may be used for this.
The di-alogue manager will probably have to incorporateextra contextual information into its instructions, incase several repair sequences will appear betweentwo information chunks.
Since in such a case, thesystem may have to use extra linguistic devices toshow the user that he is going to continue the pre-sentation of the travel plan.7 Future  WorkWe axe currently working on a precursor for thenext version of VIos in which our ideas on au-tomated speech processing are incorporated (Vaxket al, 1997).
Dialogue management will have a pre-dominant role in this precursor as our study hasshown dialogue management to be the significantdifference between current ASP systems and human-human dialogues.
The strategies described in theprevious section will serve as an important systemguideline to present information.
We hope the nextversion will increase user's acceptancy of automatedspeech processing systems.ReferencesJ.
Allen, L. Schubert, G. Ferguson, P. Heeman,C.
Hee Hwang, T. Kato, M. Light, N. Martin,112B.
Miller, M. Poesio, and D. Traum (1995), TheTRAINS Project: A Case Study in Building aConversational Planning Agent, Journal o/Ex-perimental and Theoretical AI, 7:7-48.H.
Aust and M. Oerder (1995), Dialogue Controlin Automatic Inquiry Systems, in Proceedings ofthe ESCA Workshop on Spoken Dialogue Systems,pp.
121-124.H.
Aust, M. Oerder, F. Seide, and V. Steinbiss(1995), The Philips Automatic Train TimetableInformation System, Speech Communication,17:249-262.S.
Bennacef, L. Devillers, S. Rosset, and L. Lamel(1996), Dialog in the RailTel Telephone-BasedSystem, in International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing, pp.
550-553, Philadelphia.M.
Blasband (1997), Initial Evaluation of the DutchEnvironment, Technical report, ARISE Deliver-able D 3.10.L.
Boves, J. Landsbergen, R. Scha, and G.-J .
vanNoord (1995), Language and Speech Technology,Technical report, NWO Priority Programme.G.
Carenini, O. Mittal, and J. Moore (1994), Gen-erating Patient-Specific Interactive Natural Lan-guage Explanations, in Proceedings of the eigh-teenth Annual Meeting on Computer Applicationsin Medical Care, McGraw-Hill Inc.A.
Cawsey (1993), Planning Interactive Expla-nations, International Journal of Man-MachineStudies, 38:169-199.W.
Chafe (1987), Cognitive Constraints on Infor-mation Flow, in R. Toulmin, editor, Coherenceand Grounding in Discourse, pp.
21-51, John Ben-jamins Publishing Company.K.
van Deemter and J. Odijk (1995), Context Mod-eling and the Generation of Spoken Discourse,Technical report, IPO manuscript 1125, To ap-pear in Speech Communication 21(1/2).E.
Klabbers, J. Odijk, J.R. de Pijper, and M. The-une (1997), From data to speech: a generic ap-proach, Technical report, IPO manuscript 1202.W.A.Th.
Manintveld and L.J.M.
Rothkrantz (1997),The OVR-WOz experiment: Setup and Analysis,Technical Report 97-04, Alparon, Delft Universityof Technology.K.
McKeown (1985), Text generation.
Using dis-course strategies and focus constraints to generatenatural language text, Studies in Natural Lan-guage Processing, Cambridge University Press.A.
Peters and J, Kock (1997), The digital phoneoperator, User appreciation and evaluation of theVIOS speech recognition system, Technical Re-port 97-05, Alparon, Delft University of Technol-ogy.S.
Prevost (1996), An Information Structural Ap-proach to Spoken Language Generation, in Pro-ceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the ACL.M.M.M.
Rats (1996), Topic Management in Infor-mation Dialogues, Ph.D. thesis, Tilburg Univer-sity.M.M.M.
Rats and H.J.
Bunt (1997), InformationPackaging in Dutch Information Dialogues, Toappear in the Proceedings of the HCM-workshopDiscourse and Spoken Dialogue.H.
Strik, A. Russel, H. van den Heuvel, C. Cuc-chiarini, and L. Boves (1996), A Spoken Dia-logue System for Public Transport Information,in Proceedings of the Department of Language andSpeech, University of Nijmegen.R.J.
van Vark, J.P.M.
de Vreught, and L.J.M.Rothkrantz (1996), Classification of Public Trans-port Information Dialogues using an InformationBased Coding Scheme, in Workshop DialogueProcessing in Spoken Language Systems, Euro-pean Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.
92-99.113R.J.
van Vark, J.P.M.
de Vreught, and L.J.M.Rothkrantz (1997), An Automated Speech Pro-cessing System for Public Transport InformationServices, in Third International Congress on In-formation Engineering, pp.
212-221.
