Multilingual design of EuroWordNetPiek Vossen, University of AmsterdamPedro Diez-Orzas, University of Madrid Alfonso X E!
SabioWim Peters, University of SheffieldAbstractThis paper discusses the design of theEuroWordNet database, in which semantic data-bases like WordNetl.5 for several languages arecombined via a so-called inter-lingual-index.
Inthis database, language-independent data isshared and language-specific properties aremaintained as well.
A special interface has beendeveloped to compare the semantic onfigura-tions across languages and to track down differ-ences.
The pragmatic design of the databasemakes it possible to gather empirical evidencefor a common cross-linguistic ontology.1 In t roduct ionEuroWordNet is an EC-funded project (LE2-4003) thataims at building a multilingual database consisting ofwordnets in several European languages (English,Dutch, Italian, and Spanish).
Each language specificwordnet is structured along the same lines as WordNet(Miller90), i.e.
synonyms are grouped in synsets, whichin their turn are related by means of basic semantic rela-tions.The EuroWordNet database will as much as possiblebe built from available xisting resources and databaseswith semantic information developed in various projects.This will not only be more cost-effective but will alsomake it possible to combine information from independ-ently created resources, making the final database moreconsistent and reliable, while keeping the richness anddiversity of the vocabularies of the different languages.For that purpose the language-specific wordnets will bestored as independent language-internal systems in acentral lexical database while the equivalent wordmeanings across the languages will be linked to eachother.The multilingual nature of this conceptual databaseraises methodological issues for its design and develop-ment.
First there is the question of which architecture toadopt.
We have considered four possible designs:a) Linking by pairs of languages.b) Linking through an structured artificial anguagec) Linking through one of the languagesd) Linking through an non-structured indexThe first option (a) is to pair-wise link the languagesinvolved.
This makes it possible to precisely establishthe specific equivalence relation across pairs of lan-guages, but it also multiplies the work by the number oflanguages to be linked.
Furthermore, the addition of anew language will ask for the addition of new equiva-lence relations to all the other languages, with all thepossible consequences.
The second option (b) is to linkthe languages through an structured language-neutralinter-lingua.
A language-independent co ceptual systemor structure may be represented in an efficient and accu-rate way but the challenge and difficulty is to achievesuch a meta-lexicon, capable of supplying a satisfactoryconceptual backbone to all the languages.
A drawbackfrom a methodological point of view is that new wordsthat are added in one of the languages might call for arevision of a part of the language-independent n twork.As a third possibility the linking can be establishedthrough one of the languages.
This resolves the incon-veniences and difficulties of the former two options, butforces an excessive dependency on the lexical and con-ceptual structure of one of the languages involved.
Thelast possibility (d) is to link through a non-structured listof concepts, which forms the superset of all conceptsencountered in the different languages involved.
This listdoes not satisfy any cognitive theory, because it is anunstructured index with unique identifiers for conceptsthat do not have any internal or language-independentstructure.
This has the advantage that it is not necessaryto maintain a complex semantic structure that incorpo-rates the complexity of all languages involved.
Further-more, the addition of a new language will minimallyaffect any of the existing wordnets or their equivalencerelations to this index.For pragmatic reasons we have chosen design (d).
Anunstructured index as a linking device is most beneficialwith respect o the effort needed for the development,maintenance, future expansion and reusability of themultilingual database.
Of course the adopted architectureis not without its difficulties.
These are especially cru-cial in the process of handling the index and creatingtools for the developers to obtain a satisfactory result.Tasks such as identifying the right inter-hngual corre-spondence when a new synset is added in one language,or how to control the balance between the languages aregood examples of issues that need to be resolved whenthis approach is taken.In this paper we will further explain the design of thedatabase incorporating the unstructured multilingualindex.
The structure of this paper is then as follows: firstwe will describe the general architecture of the databasewith the different modules.
In section 3 we will discusshow language-specific relations and complex-equivalence relations are stored.
Finally, section 4 dealswith the specific options to compare the wordnets andderive information on the equivalence relations and thedifferences in wordnet structure.2.
High-level Design of the EuroWord-Net DatabaseAll language specific wordnets will be stored in a centrallexical database system.
Each wordnet represents a lan-guage-internal system of synsets with semantic relationssuch as hyponymy, meronymy, cause, roles (e.g.
agent,patient, instrument, location).
Equivalence relationsbetween the synsets in different languages and Word-Netl.5 will be made explicit in the so-called Inter-Lingual-Index (ILI).
Each synset in the monolingualwordnets will have at least one equivalence r lanon witha record in this ILI.
Language-specific synsets linked tothe same ILI-record should thus be equivalent across thelanguages.
The ILI starts off as an unstructured list ofWordNetl.5 synsets, and will grow when new conceptswill be added which are not present in WordNetl.5 (notethat the actual internal organization of the synsets bymeans of semantic relations can still be recovered fromthe WordNet database which is linked to the index asany of the other wordnets).
The only organization thatwill be provided to the ILI is via two separate ontologieswhich are linked to ILl records:?
the top-concept ontology: which is a hierarchy oflanguage-independent concepts, reflecting explicitopposition relations (e.g.
Object and Substance).?
a hierarchy of domains labels which relate conceptson the basis of scripts or topics, e.g.
"sports", "watersports", "winter sports", "military", "hospital".Top-OntologyFigure 1.Both the top-concepts and the domain labels can betransferred via the equivalence relations of the hiLl-records to the language-specific meanings and, next, viathe language-internal re ations to any other meaning inthe wordnets, as is illustrated in Figure 1 for the top-concepts Object and Substance.
The ILl-record object islinked to the Top-Concept Object.
Since the Dutch syn-set voorwerp has an equivalence-relation t  the ILl-record the Top-Concept Object also applies to the Dutchsynset.
Furthermore, it can be applied to all Dutch syn-sets related via the language-internal re ations to theDutch voorwerp.Both hierarchies will enable a user to customize thedatabase with semantic features without having to accessthe language-internal relations of each wordnet.
Fur-thermore, the domain-labels can directly be used in in-formation retrieval (also in language-learning tools anddictionary publishing) to group concepts in a differentway, based on scripts rather than classification.
Domainscan also be used to separate the generic from the do-main-specific vocabularies.
This is important to controlthe ambiguity problem in Natural Language Processing.Finally, we save space by storing the language-independent information only once.The overall modular structure of the EuroWordNetdatabase can then be summed up as follows: first, thereare the language modules containing the conceptuallexicons of each language involved.
Secondly, there isthe Language Independent Module which comprises theILl, the Domain Ontology and the Top-Concept Ontol-ogy.Language internal Relationships Language Module A Language Module AInterlingual relationships Language Module A ILl ModuleLanguage Independent Domain Internal Mod- Domain Module Domain ModuleRelationships ule RelationshipsTop-Concept Internal Top-Concept Module Top-Concept ModuleModule RelationshipsExternal Module Rela- Domain Module ILl Moduletionships Top-Concept ModuleTable 1: Main categories of relationshipsThree different ypes of relationships are necessary inthis architecture, summarized in the table 1.
The rela-tionships operate upon five different ypes of data enti-ties: Word-Meanings, Instances, ILl records, Domainsand Top-Concepts.
The Word-Meanings are senses withdenotational meanings (man) while the Instances aresenses with referential meanings (John Smith).Figure 2 gives a simplified overview of how the dif-ferent modules are interconnected.
In the middle the ILlis given in the form of a list of ILl-records: "animal","mammal", ... "mane", "Bob", with relations to the lan-guage-modules, the domains, and the top-concepts.
Twoexamples of inter-linked omains (D) and top-concepts(TC) are given above the ILl-records.
The boxes withlanguage-names (Spanish, English, Dutch, Italian andWNI.5) represent the Language Modules and are cen-tered around the ILI.
For space limitations, we onlyshow a more detailed box for the Spanish module.
In thisbox we see examples of hyponymy and meronymy rela-tions between Spanish word-meanings and some of theequivalence-relations with the ILl-records.
The full listof relations distinguished, its characteristics and assign-ment tests, as well as the structures of the different rec-ords can be found in the EuroWordNet deliverablesD005, D006, D007 (available at:http://www.let.uva.nl/~ewn).EWN: Architecture OverviewLanguage dependent objectLanguage independent objectLanguage Independent.
.
.
.
.
.
.  '
Relationships- - -~  Interlingual RelationshipsLanguage InternalRelationshipsSpanish \[ILIMeaning~3 InstanceILI I ILI recordTC I Top-ConceptD I DomainI I .
D iThe language dependent objects are connected with strings that are words.|The language independent objects are connected with strings that are labels.
\[Figure 2Next to the language-internal relations there are alsosix different ypes of inter-lingual relations.
The moststraight-forward relation is EQ_SYNONYM whichapplies to meanings which are directly equivalent tosome ILl-record.
In addition there are relations forcomplex-equivalent relations, among which the mostimportant are:?
EQ NEAR SYNONYM when a meaning matchesmultiple ILl-records imultaneously,?
HAS_EQ_HYPERONYM when a meaning ismore specific than any available ILl-record: e.g.Dutch hoofd only refers to human head and koponly refers to an imal  head ,  while English hashead for both.?
HAS_EQ_HYPONYM when a meaning can onlybe linked to more specific ILl-records: e.g.
Span-ish dedo which can beused to refer to bothfingerand toe.The complex-equivalence relations are needed to helpthe relation assignment during the development proc-ess when there is a lexical gap in one language orwhen meanings do not exactly fit.As mentioned above, the ILl should be the super-setof all concepts occurring in the separate wordnets.
Themain reasons for this are:?
it should be possible to link equivalent non-English meanings (e.g.
Italian-Spanish) to thesame ILl-record even when there is no English orWordNet equivalent.?
it should be possible to store domain-labels fornon-English meanings, e.g: all Spanish bull-fightmg terms should be linked to ILl-records withthe domain-label bull-fighting.Initially, the ILl will only contain all WordNetl.5synsets but eventually it will be updated with lan-guage-specific concepts using a specific update policy:* a site that cannot find a proper equivalent amongthe available ILI-concepts will link the meaning toanother ILl-record using a so-called complex-equivalence relation and will generate a potentialnew ILl-record (see table 2).?
after a building-phase all potentially-new ILl-records are collected and verified for overlap byone site.?
a proposal for updating the ILI is distributed to allsites and has to be verified.?
the ILI is updated and all sites have to reconsiderthe equivalence r lations for all meanings that canpotentially be linked to the new ILl-records.3.
Mismatches and language-specificsemantic configurationsWithin the EuroWordNet database, the wordnets canbe compared with respect to the language-internalrelations (their lexical semantic onfiguration) and interms of their equivalence relations.
The followinggeneral situations can then occur (Vossen 1996).1. a set of word-meanings across languages have asimple-equivalence relation and they have parallellanguage-internal semantic relations.2.
a set of word-meanings across languages have asimple-equivalence relation but they have diverg-ing language-internal semantic relations.3.
a set of word-meanings across languages havecomplex-equivalence relations but they have par-allel language-internal semantic relations.4.
a set of word-meanings across languages havecomplex-equivalence relation and they have di-verging language-internal semantic relations.\[ Dutch hoofd human head\[ Dutch kop animal headI Spanish dedo finger or toeI Spanish dedo finger or toei i i, .
, a 3 r~, l - .
J  , , ., .HAS_EQ_HYPERONYMHAS_EQ_HYPERONYMHAS_EQ_HYPONYMHAS EQ,,HYPONYMTable 2: Complex-equivalence relations for mismatching meanings.headheadfingertoeSpares, A ILl ~ Enghsh(WNl5) \]\[_dedo-I ~qr"~._  ,ll( Fmger-a ~ ~.
i  I\[Extremlty-aJ ~Abodllyappendage I \[ Head-a l~artofbody I(Digit-C, dactyl-hi ~finger-like part of i Head-b \] ~art of a humanortehrato  I \[ } ) arto,,'nd !
Hoad-o I II Toe-a } \]Part offoot I \[ Hyponym | .
.
.
.\[Body part I I I equivalent | ) \[HyperonymequivalentSynonymequivalentFigure 3.Figure 31 gives some examples of the different mis-matches.
Here we see that head-1 represents an inter-mediate level between human-head-1 and external-body part-1 in WordNetl.5 which is missing betweentheir Dutch equivalent lichaamsdeel-1 and hoofd-1.While the equivalence r lations match, the hyponymy-structure does not (situation 2 above).
Furthermore,kop-1 does not match any synset in WordNet1.5.
In theSpanish-English example we see on the other handthat ap6ndice-4 and dedo-1 have complex equivalencerelations which are not incompatible with the structureof the language-internal re ations in the Spanish word-net and in WordNetl.5 (situation 4 above).In general we can state that situation (1) is the idealcase.
In the case of (4), it may still be that the word-nets exhibit language-specific differences which havelead to similar differences in the equivalence r lations.Situation (2) may indicate a mistake or it may indicatethat equivalent meanings have been encoded in analternative way in terms of the language-internal re a-tions.
Situation (3) may also indicate a mistake or itmay be the case that the meanings are non-equivalentand therefore show different language-internal con-figurations.1 Obviously, the correspondence between WordNet and theILl is very high, because it is bruit from it.
Only m laterstages of development, ew ILl records occur4.
Comparing the wordnets via themulti l ingual indexThe EuroWordNet database is developed in tandemwith the Novell ConceptNet toolkit (Dlez-Orzas et al1995).
This toolkit makes it possible to directly editand add relations in the wordnets.
It is also possible toformulate complex queries in which any piece of in-formation is combined.
Furthermore, the ConceptNettoolkit makes it possible to visualize the semanticrelations as a tree-structure which can directly be ed-ited.
These trees can be expanded and shrunk byclicking on word-meanings and by specifying so-called filters indicating the kind and depth of relationsthat need to be shown.However, to get to grips with the multi-linguality ofthe database we have developed a specific interface todeal with the different matching problems.
The multi-lingual interface has the following objectives:?
it should offer new or better equivalence relationsfor a set of word-meanings?
it should offer better or alternative language-internal configurations for a set of word-meanings?
it should highlight ill-formed configurations?
it should highlight ill-formed equivalence rela-tions,~.
*ab.~ ?1e:h  o?
n.u:tm~tl~ (xneludxnc\ [ \ ]?~:,  has  h l ,  lpezc~y~.\ [ \ ]~  'vzece=.
Z voeaxng 2ee~waaz  1 voedse  1 1~.?
::,  ha~ :aezo  :~adeo?~ v lee J  I~ ce lwee?se 1 1 weegse 1gE~ersw~zex~ 1i eve=s=x ~a~ I en  1Figure 4.For visualising these aspects we designed an interfacein which two wordnets can be aligned (see Cuypersand Adriaens 1997 for further details).
In the screen-dump of the interface (figure 4) we see a fragment ofthe Dutch wordnet in the left box and a fragment ofthe Spanish wordnet in the right box.
2 The darksquares represent he meanings (WMs) m the lan-guages which are interconnected by lines labeled withthe relation type that holds: has_hyperonym,has mero_madeof.
Each meaning is followed by thesynset ( as a list of variants with a sense-number) andon the next lines by the ILI-records to which it islinked (if any).
These ILI-records are represented bytheir gloss (here all taken from WordNetl.5) and thekind of equivalence relation is indicated by a preced-ing icon, = for EQ_SYNONYM and ~ forEQ NEAR SYNONYM.
By displaying the wordnetsadjacently and by specifying the ILl-records sepa-rately for each synset in each tree the matching of theILI-records can be indicated by drawing lines betweenthe same ILI-records.
When comparing wordnets onespecific language can be taken as a starting point.
Thislanguage will be the Source Language (SL).
The SL iscompared with one or more other languages which willbe called the Reference Languages (RLs).There are then two general ways in which thealigned wordnets can be accessed:?
given a (set of) WM(s) in a source wordnet withtheir corresponding ILIR(s), generate the same2 Only part of the available reformation is shown in thisscreen-dump.\ [ ~  laa5 hTpe:~ 'FA_-- tha  ?ood end d:xnk tl:,.~ ~:_-- a souzce o~ no,.~=z=h=0a~ "\ [ \ ]Q\[\]1:!\[\]1:!ILIRs in the adjacent wordnet box with the corre-sponding WMs in the reference wordnet.given two comparable wordnet structures visualisethe matching of the ILIRs: i.e.
draw the lines be-tween the ILl-records that are the same.In the first option, a WM is first 'translated' into thesecond wordnet box, yielding a parallel twin-structureof ILI-records.
Next the language-specific configura-tion of the Reference-wordnet can be generated(bottom-up).
This gives you the semantic structuringof a particular set of WMs according to another word-net as compared to the Source-wordnet.In the second option the structures of both the Ref-erence and the Source wordnet are compatible and theinter-lingual relations are compared relative to thisstructure.
Each set of ILI-records represents he mostdirect matching of a fragment of a wordnet from theavailable fund of ILI-records, regardless of thematching of the other wordnet.
The equivalence rela-tions of these compatible fragments can then directlybe compared.
Loose-ends at either site of the ILl-records can be used to detect possible ILIR-recordsthat have not been considered as translations in onewordnet but have been used in another wordnet.
Dif-ferences in the kind of equivalence r lations of WMswith compatible structure are suspect.
Obviously, acomparison in this way only makes sense if the se-mantic-scope of the language internal relations is moreor less the same.Both these options are illustrated in the abovescreen-dump.
For example, the Dutch vleeswaren:l(meat-products) has an EQ_SYNONYM relation withmeat.2 (= the flesh of animals ...), where the sensenumbers do not necessarily correspond with Word-Netl.5 numbers, and a HAS_HYPERONYM relationto the synset voedsel:l. The latter is in its turn linkedto the ILI-synset food:l(=any substance that can bemetabolized...).
We then copied the ILl-record meat 2into the Spanish wordnet yielding carne 1 as the syn-set linked to it.
By expanding the hyperonymy-relations for carne'l we see that the Spanish wordnetgives three hyperonyms: tejido'3 (tissue: 1 = a part ofan organism ..), comlda.
'l (fare:l = the food and drinkthat are regularly consumed), and sustento 1(nourishment: 1 = a source of nourishment), all linkedto ILl-records different from the Dutch case.
Whengenerating back the matching Dutch synsets for thesehyperonyms it becomes clear that they are all presentin this fragment, except for comida'l (fare:l) whichdoes not yield a corresponding Dutch synset.
First ofall this comparison gives us new hyperonyms that canbe considered and, secondly, it gives us a new poten-tial ILl-record fare:l for the Dutch wordnet.
Furtherexpanding the Dutch wordnet alo shows that there is aclosely-related concept vlees:l (the stuff where meat-products consist of) which matches both meat.2 andflesh:l(= the soft tissue of the body...).
This conceptthus partially matches the Spanish carne: 1.
Since thereis no matching Spanish concept related to flesh 1 theDutch wordnet hus in its turn suggests a new potentialILI-record for the Spanish wordnet.
In this way thealigned wordnets can be used to help each other andderive a more compatible and consistent structure.Given the fact that we allow for a large number oflanguage-internal relations and six types of equiva-lence relations, it may be clear that the different com-binations of mismatches i exponential.
Therefore weare differentiating the degree of compatibility of thedifferent mismatches: ome mismatches are more seri-ous than others.
First of all, some relations inEuroWordNet have deliberately been defined to givesomewhat more flexibility in assigning relations.
Inaddition to the strict synonymy-relation which holdsbetween synset-variants there is also the possibility toencode a NEAR SYNONYM relation between synsetswhich are close in meaning but cannot be substitutedas easily as synset-members: e.g.
machine, apparatus,tool.
Despite the tests for each relation there are al-ways border-cases where intuitions will vary.
There-fore it makes sense to allow for mismatches acrosswordnets where the same type of equivalence relationholds between a single synset in one language andseveral synsets with a NEARSYNONYM relation inanother language.As we have seen above, a single WM may be linkedto multiple ILI-records and a single ILl-record may belinked to multiple WMs.
This allows for some con-strained flexibility.
The former case is only allowedwhen another more-global relationEQ_NEAR_SYNONYM has been used (see above).
Inthe reverse case, the same ILl-record is either linked tosynsets which have a NEAR_SYNONYM relationamong them (in which case they can be linked asEQ_SYNONYM or as EQ_NEAR_SYNONYM of thesame ILl-record) or any other complex equivalencerelation which parallels the relation between the WMs.Thus, two WMs which have a hyponymy-relationamong them and which are linked to the same ILl-record should have equivalence-relations that parallelthe hyponymy-relation: EQ_HAS_HYPERONYM andEQ_SYNONYM.
A final type of flexibility is built inby distinguishing subtypes of relations.
In addition tomore specific meronymy-relations such as member-group, portion-substance there is an a-specificmeronymy relation which is compatible with all thespecific subtypes.In addition to more global or flexible relations, wealso try explicitly define compatibility of configura-tions.
First of all, differences in levels of generalityare acceptable, although deeper hierarchies are pre-ferred.
So if one wordnet links dog to ammal and an-other wordnet links it to mammal and only via thelatter to animal first these structures are not consideredas serious mismatches.
Furthermore, since we allowfor multiple hyperonyms it is possible that differenthyperonyms may still both be valid.
To make thecompatibility of hyperonyms more explicit, the mostfrequent hyperonyms can be defined as allowable ornon-allowable combinations.
For example, a frequentcombination such as act or result can be seen as in-compatible (and therefore have to be split into differ-ent synsets), whereas object or arnfact are very com-mon combinations.Finally, we have experienced that some relationstend to overlap for unclear cases.
For example, intui-tions appear to vary on causation or hyponymy as therelation between Dutch pairs such as dzchttrekken(close by pulling) and dichtgaan (become closed).
Inthese cases it is not clear whether we are dealing withdifferent events in which one causes the other or onemakes up the other.
The events are fully co-extensivein time: there is no time point where one event takesplace and the other event does not.
This makes themless typical examples of cause-relations.
By docu-menting such border-line cases we hope to achieveconsensus about the ways in which they should betreated and the severity of the incompatibility.5.
Conc lus ionThe multilingual EuroWordNet database thus consistsof separate language-internal modules, separate lan-guage-external modules and an inter-lingual modulewhich has the following advantages:?
it will be possible to use the database for multilin-gual retrieval.?
the different wordnets can be compared andchecked cross-linguistically which will make themmore compatible.?
language-dependent differences can be maintainedin the individual wordnets.?
language-independent i formation such as thedomain-knowledge, the analytic top-concepts andinformation on instances can be stored only onceand can be made available to all the language-specific modules via the inter-lingual relations.the database can be tailored to a user's needs bymodifying the top-concepts, the domain labels orinstances, (e.g.
by adding semantic features) with-out having to know the separate languages or toaccess the language-specific wordnets.At the same time, the fact that the Inter-Lingual-Indexor ILI is unstructured has the following major advan-tages:?
complex multilingual relations only have to beconsidered site by site and there will be no need tocommunicate about concepts and relations from amany to many perspective.?
future extensions of the database can take placewithout re-discussing the ILI structure.
The ILlcan then be seen as a fund of concepts which canbe used in any way to establish a relation to theother wordnets.The structure of the database and the strategies for itsimplementation have been chosen out of pragmaticconsiderations.
The architecture will allow maximumefficiency for simultaneous multilingual implementa-tion in more than one site, and will offer an empiricalview on the problems related to the creation of aninter-lingua by aligning the wordnets, thus revealingmismatches between 'equivalent' semantic onfigura-tions.
These mismatches may be due to:?
a mistake in the eqmvalence-relations (inter-lingual inks)?
a mistake in the Language Internal Relations?
a language-specific d fference in lexicalizationBy using the cross language comparison and the toolsdescribed in section 4 a particular series of mismatchescan provide criteria for selecting that part of the se-mantic network which needs inspection, and may giveclues on how to unify diverging semantic onfigura-tions.
This will constitute the first step towards gener-ating an interlingua on the basis of a set of alignedlanguage-specific semantic networks.1996 Definition of the links and subsets for nouns ofthe EuroWordNet projec, EuroWordNet ProjectLE4003, Deliverable D005.
University of Amster-dam, Amsterdam.
Http://www.let.uva.nl/-ewn.Cuypers, I.
And G. Adriaens1997 Periscope: the EWN Viewer, EuroWordNetProject LE4003, Deliverable D008d012.
Universityof Amsterdam, Amsterdam.
Http://www.let.uva.nl/~ewn.Diez-Orzas P. and I. Cuypers,1995 The Novell ConceptNet, Internal Report, NovellBelgium NV.Diez Orzas, P., Louw M. and Forrest, Ph1996 High level design of the EuroWordNet Data-base.
EuroWordNet Project LE2-4003, DeliverableD007.Miller G.A, R. Beckwidth, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross, andK.J.
Miller1990 "Introduction to WordNet: An On-line LexicalDatabase, in: International Journal of Lexicogra-phy, Vol 3, No.4 (winter 1990), 235-244.Vossen, P.1996 "Right or wrong: combining lexical resourcesin the EuroWordNet project", in M. Gellerstam, J.Jarborg, S. Malmgren, K. Noren, L. Rogstrom, C.R.Papmehl, Proceedings of Euralex-96, Goetheborg,1996, 715-728, \[also available as EuroWordNet-working paper at Http://www.let.uva.nl/-ewn\].Vossen, P.1997 EuroWordNet: a multilingual database for in-formation retrieval, in: Proceedings of the Delosworkshop on Cross-language Information Retrieval,March 5-7, 1997, Zurich, \[also available asEuroWordNet-working paper at Http://www.let.uva.nl/~ewn\].ReferencesAlonge, Atonietta 1996Definition of the links andsubsets for verbs, EuroWordNet Project LE4003,Deliverable D006.
University of Amsterdam, Am-sterdam.
Http://www.let.uva.nl/-ewn.Bloksma, L., P. Diez-Orzas, and P. Vossen,1996 The User-Requirements and Functional Speci-fication of the EuroWordNet-project, EuroWordNetdeliverable D001, LE2-4003, University of Amster-dam, Amsterdam.
Http://www.let.uva.nl/-ewn.Climent, Salvador, Horatio Rodriguez, Julio Gonzalo
