Spoken Language Trans la t ion  w i th  the  ITSVox  SystemEr ic  Wehr l iLATL - University of Genevawehrli@latl, unige.ch1 In t roduct ionThis paper describes the ITSVox speech-to-speechtranslation prototype currently under developmentat LATL in collaboration with IDIAP.
The ITSVoxproject aims at a general, interactive, multimodaltranslation system with the following characterics :(i) it is not restricted to a particular subdomain, (ii)it can be used either as a fully automatic systemor as an interactive system, (iii I it can translate i-ther written or spoken inputs into either written orspoken outputs, and (iv) it is speaker independent.ITSVox is currently restricted to (some subsets of)French , English in the speech-to-speech mode,French , , English in the written mode with speechoutput.
We will first give a quick description of thesystem and then discuss in more details the speechmodules and their interfaces with other componentsof the system.2 Arch i tec ture  o f  ITSVoxThe ITSVox system consists (i) of a signal processingmodule based on the standard N-best approach (cf.Jimenez et al, 1995 I, (ii I a robust GB-based parser,(iii I a transfer-based translation module, and (iv) aspeech synthesis module.To sketch the translation process and the interac-tion of the four components, consider the followingexample.
(1) Je voudrais une chambre avec douche et avecrue sur le jardin.
'I would like a room with shower and withview on the garden'The spoken input is first processed by the HMM-based signal processing component, which producesa word lattice, which is then mapped into rankedstrings of phonetic words.For simplicity, let us consider only the highest can-didate in the list, which might (ideally) be somethinglike (2), where / stands for voiceless fricatives and 0for schwas.
(2) j vudr  iin /gbr av k du/ av k vii sir lOjardiThose word hypotheses constitute the input forthe linguistic component.
A lexical lookup usingthe phonetic trie representation described in the nextsection will produce a lexical chart.
Applying linguis-tic constraints, the parser will try to disambiguatethese words to produce a set of ranked GB-style en-riched surface structures as illustrated in (3).
(3) \[TI" \[Or' je\] voudrais \[DP une chambre\[ConiV \[el" avec douche\] et \[Pv avec vue \[Pvsur le jardin\]\]\]\]\]The best analysis in the automatic mode - -  or theanalysis chosen by the user in the interactive mode96Jean-Luc CochardIDIAP, MartignyJ can- Luch.Cochard@idiap.ch- -  undergoes lexical transfer and then a generationprocess (involving transformations and morphology)which produces target language GB-style enrichedsurface structures, as displayed in (41 .
These struc-tures serve as input either to the orthographic dis-play component or to the speech synthesis compo-nent.
In the case of English output, most of thespeech synthesis work relies on the DeeTalk system,although linguistic structures help to disambiguatenon-homophonous homographs (read, lead, record,wind, etc.).
The French speech output uses the M-BROLA synthesizer developed by T. Dutoit, at theUniversity of Mons.
(4) \['r~" \[DP I\] would like It>,, a room \[con iP \[vpwith shower\] and \[vl, with view \[pp on thegarden\]\]\]\]\]Several of the components used by ITSVox havebeen described elsewhere.
For instance, the transla-tion engine is based on the ITS-2 interactive mod-el (cf.
Wehrli, 1996).
The GB-parser (French andEnglish) have been discussed in cf.
Laenzlinger &Wehrli, 1991, Wehrli, 1992.
As for the French speechsynthesis system, it is described in Gaudinat andWehrli (1997).2.1 The  phonet ic  t r ieThe phonetic lexicon is organized as a t r ie  struc-ture (Knuth, 19731, that is a tree structure in whichnodes correspond to phonemes and subtrees to pos-sible continuations.
Each terminal node specifies oneor more lexical entries in the lexical database.
For in-stance, the phonetic sequence \[sa\] leads to a terminalnode in the trie connected to the lexical entries cor-responding (iI to the feminine possessive determinersa (her), and (ii) to the demonstrative pronoun ~a(that).With such a structure, words are recognized onephoneme at a time.
Each time the system reaches aterminal node, it has recognized a lexical unit, whichis inserted into a chart (oriented graph), which servesas data structure for the syntactic parsing.2.2 In teract ionITSVox is interactive in the sense that it can requeston-line information from the user.
Typically, inter-action takes the form of clarification dialogues.
Fur-thermore, all interactions are conducted in sourcelanguage only, which means that target knowledgeis not a prerequisite for users of ITSVox.
User con-sultation can occur at several levels of the translationprocess.
First, at the lexicographie l vel, if an inputsentence contains unknown words.
In such cases, thesystem opens an editing window with the input sen-tence and asks the user to correct or modify the sen-tence.At the syntactic level, interaction occurs when theparser faces difficult ambiguities, for instance whenthe resolution of an ambiguity depends on contex-tual or extra-linguistic knowledge, as in the case ofsome prepositional phrase attachments or coordina-tion structures.
By far, the most frequent cases ofinteraction occur during transfer, to a large exten-t due to the fact that lexical correspondences areall too often of the many-to-many variety, even atthe abstract level of lexemes.
It is also at this levelthat our decision to restrict dialogues to the sourcelanguage is the most chaLlenging.
While some casesof polysemy can be disambiguated relatively easilyfor instance on the basis of a gender distinction inthe source sentence, as in (5), other cases such asthe (much simplified) one in (6) are obviously muchharder to handle, unless additional information is in-cluded in the bilingual dictionary.(5)a.
Jean regarde les voiles.
'Jean is looking at the sails/veils'b.
masculin (le voile)fdminin (la voile)(6)a. Jean n'aime pass les avocats.
'Jean doesn't like lawyers/advocadoes'b.
avocats:homme de loi (la~lter)fruit (.b.uit)Another common case of interaction that occursduring transfer concerns the interpretation of pro-nouns, or rather the determination of their an-tecedent.
In an sentence such as (7), the possessiveson could refer either to Jean, to Marie or (less like-ly) to some other person, depending on contexts.
(7) Jean dlt g Marie que son livre se vend bien.
'Jean told Marie that his/her book is sellingwell'In such a case, a dialogue box specifying all pos-sible (SL) antecedents i  presented to the user, whocan select the most appropriate one(s).2.8 Speech  outputGood quality speech synthesis ystems need a sig-nificant amount of linguistic knowledge in order (i)to disambiguate homographs which are not homo-phones (words with the same spelling but differentpronunciations such as to lead/tile lead, to wind/tt~ewind, he read/to read, he records/the records, etc.,(ii) to derive the syntactic structure which is usedto segment sentences into phrases, to set accent lev-els, etc., and finally to determine an appropriateprosodic pattern.
In a language like French, thetype of attachment is crucial to determine whethera liaison between a word ending with a (laten-t) consonant and a word starting with a vowel isobligatory/possible/impossible 1 .1 For instance, liaison is obligatory between aprenom-inal adjective and a noun (e.g.
petit animal), or betweenSuch information is available during the transla-tion process.
It turns out that in a linguistically-sound machine translation system, the surface struc-ture representations specify all the lexical, morpho-logical and syntactic information that a speech syn-thesis system needs.3 Concluding remarkAlthough a small prototype has been completed, theITSVox system described in this paper needs furtherimprovements.
The speech processing system un-der development at IDIAP is speaker-independent,HMM-based and contains models of phonetic units.A lexicon of word forms and a N-gram languagemodel constitute the linguistic knowledge of thiscomponent.
With respect to the linguistic compo-nents, current efforts focus on such tasks as retriev-ing ponctuation and use of stochastic information torank parses.
Those developments, however, will notaffect the basic guideline of this project, which isthat speech-to-speech translation systems and texttranslation systems must be minimally different.4 BibfiographyGaudinat, A. et E. Wehrli, 1997.
"Analyse syn-taxique et synth6se de la parole : le projetFipsVox", TAL, 1997.Jimenes, V.M., A. Marsal & J. Monnd, 1995.
"Ap-pfication of the A" Algorithm and the Recur-sire Enumeration Algorithm for Finding the N-best Sentence Hypotheses in Speech Recogni-tion, Technical Report DSIC-II/22/95, Dept.
deSistemas Informaticos y Computacion, Univer-sidad Politecuica de Valencia.Knuth, D. 1973.
The Art of Computer Program-ming, Addison-Wesley.Laenslinger, C. and E. Wehrli, 1991.
"FIPS : Unanalyseur interactif pour le fran cais", TA Infor-mations, 32:2, 35-49.WehrIi, E. 1994.
"1~aduction i teractive : probl6meset solutions (?)
' ,  in A. Clas et P. Bouillon (ed.
),TA-TAO : Recherches de pointe et applicationsimmddiates, Montreal, Aupelf-Uref, 333-342.Wehrli, E. 1996.
"ITSVox".
In Ezpanding MT Hori-zons, Proceedings of the Second Conference ofthe Association for Machine Translation in theAmericas, 1996, pp.
247-251, Montreal, Cana-da.a determiner and a noun (e.g.
lea amis), or between apronominal subject and a verb (e.g.
ils art/vent).
It isoptional between an an~lla.ry verb and a main verb (e.g.il eat arrivd) and impossible between a non-pronominalsubject and a verb (e.g.
le~ anirnauz ont soif).97
