Look ing  for the  presence  of  l inguist ic  concepts  in the  prosody  ofspoken ut terancesGerit P. Sonntag, Thomas PorteleInstitut fiir Kommunikationsforschung d Phonetik (IKP), Universit?t Bonnsonntag@ikp ,  un i -bonn,  de / por te leO ikp ,  un i -bonn,  deAbstractThis paper describes an experimentalmethod for detecting prosodic functions.We assume that the first step towards con-tent driven synthetic prosody generation(Concept-to-speech) is invariably to de-termine the perceptually relevant prosodicfeatures.
The proposed method has beenapplied to the detection of syntactic struc-ture: dialogue acts and given/new distinc-tion.
First results are being discussed.1 MotivationWithin the framework of Concept-to-speeclh our aimis to integrate additonal information such as struc-turing, focus: dialogue act: speaker attitude into theprosodic modelling of synthesized utterances.
Thefirst step into this direction is to find out which addi-tional information is reflected in the prosodic struc-ture.
An investigation as to what information aboutthe content of an utterance is actually encoded inthe prosody and how this coding is realized by thenatural speaker is inherently necessary \[Lib74\].
Theaim for more natural prosody generation can onlybe determined by an adequate description of humanprosody and its interaction with content informa-tion.
In this paper we propose a method determin-ing which linguistic concepts have a functional in-fluence on prosody.
Prosody is known to be of avery complex nature, yet we cannot per se suggestthat every communicative function is relevantly en-coded it, in.
At least we have to distinguish betweenfunctions that necessarily pertain to the prosodicstructure: and those that are not identifiably locatedwithin prosody.
Once the relevant concepts havebeen found: their influence on the acoustic parame-ters related to prosody can be investigated.2 Methodological description2.1 IdeaProsodic function has been discussed frequently, e.g.\[Bar81,Leo70,Koh87\].
One major problem is theseparation of prosodic and segmental influences.
Inapplications with no control over spectral qualities:such as time-domain concatenative synthesis sys-tems, only prosodic parameters can be modified toconvey linguistic concepts.
To qualify and quantifythe information contained in the prosody~ we usespecially designed perception tests.
The segmen-tal information in the stimuli is removed: in orderto make sure that all information is carried by theprosody alone.2.2 Choice  of  st imul iMany previous experiments on prosody have beenforced to employ ambiguous test sentences or wordswhich is clearly suboptimal.
With our method thesemantic ontent of the stimuli becomes irrelevant tothe test results and the optimal stimuli for a giventask can be used.
Also, the stinmli can be extractedfrom a read text or from a natural dialogue situation:as long as the quality of the recording is not toodegraded.2.3 Stimuli manipulationA stimulus is constructed on the basis of the pointsof glottal excitation (pitchmarks) of the original sig-nal while preserving the energy.
The manipulatedstinmli contain only prosodic information: F0 con-tour, temporal structure and energy distribution.Thus, they reflect exactly the parameters that canbe varied using PSOLA \[Mou90\].
Different stimulusmanipulation methods have been compared in thevalidation test series (3).2.4 Test  p rocedureDepending on the aim of the investigation: the ma-nipulated stimuli are presented either with or with-57out the original sentence in writing.` and either withor without visual representation.
The proposedmethod is not tied to a specific test setting.
Variousexamples of successful test procedures are reportedin this paper, and more settings can easily be de-veloped.
The questions the subject has to answercan be very simple, aimed directly at the linguisticfunction in question.
There is no need to instructthe subject to listen only to the prosody.` as he/shewill hear nothing else.2.5 Resu l tsThe reliability of the test results does not dependon the listener's ability to concentrate solely on theprosody as is the case when evaluating original utter-antes; nonsense sentences or utterances consisting ofnonsense words.
The results can be based on a largenumber of stimuli rather than be restricted to theparticularities of only a few, because there are nosemantical l imitations to generating more stimuli.3 Va l idat ion  tes t  ser iesSeveral methods for speech delexicalisation can befound in the l iterature \[Kre82.`Pas93.`Leh79,Mer96,Oha79:Pij94;Sch84\].
The aim of all these manipula-tions is to render the lexical content of an utteranceunintelligibl% while leaving the speech melody andtemporal structure intact.
We think that the idealstimulus manipulation for prosodic perception testsshould meet three main requirements:?
it should clearly convey the primary prosodicfunctions (i.e.
accentuation, phrasing and sen-tence modality~?
the detection of these phenomena should notrequire too much listening effort from the testsubject?
the manipulation procedure should be simpleand quickWe compared six methods of delexicalisation ac-cording to these criteria.
Subjects had to completefour different asks.
They were questioned after eachtask which of the six different stimulus versions theyfound easiest for the task, most difficult for the task.most pleasant and least pleasant.
Learning effectsare negligible because the presentation order waschanged for each subject.3.1 St imul i  man ipu la t ionAll the stimuli referred to in this paper were digitallyrecorded in an anechoic chamber with 16kHz and16bit.
The following sex manipulation methods werecompared:CCITTFO tiltinvlfmsawsinThe extracted pitchmarks of the original signalwere filled with an excitation signal proposed bythe CC ITT  \[CIT89\], and also low-pass filtered.The original signal was low-pass filtered using atime variant filter with a cut-off frequency justabove F0.
At unvoiced segments within the sig-nal the cut-off frequency was automatically setto zero.A combination of spectral inversion and filteringproposed by \[Kre82\].
After high-pass filteringat 600Hz, the signal is spectrally inverted.` thenlow-pass filtered at 4000Hz and then added tothe residual of the original signal low-pass fil-tered at 200Hz.
The resulting signal preservesthe voiced / unvoiced distinction and is themost intelligible of the versions compared.The extracted pitchmarks of the original sig-nal were filled with the Liljencrants-Fant model\[Fan85\] of glottal flow.A simple sawtooth signal was inserted into theextracted pitchlnarks.The pitchmarks were filled with a sinus with afirst harmonic of 1/4 of the amplitude and asecond harmonic of 1/16 of the amplitude.Other ways of rendering an utterance unintelligi-ble, such as \[Pij94,Pag96\], were not included as wetried to keep the effort for stimuli manipulation aslow as possible.3.2 Count ing  of  sy l lablesIn the first test session 18 subjects were asked tocount the number of syllables of 12 short sentencesaurally presented in the different manipulated ver-sions.
The stinmli were chosen out of five differentsentences (5-8 syllables of length) spoken by a fealalespeaker and manipulated with the six different pro-cedures described above.
Out of these stimuli twosentences per version were used for syllable countingwhile the rest was used for the accent assigmnenttask.
As this was an open response task, there is noreferential chance level as in the other tests.
The re-suits show that the syllable number of nearly 60% ofall stimuli can be determined exactly with the pro-posed method, at least at sentence level (Pig.
1).In 86% of all cases, the correct number of syllablesplus/minus one were detected.3.3 Phrase  accent  ass ignmentThe same subjects then listened to the other 18 sen-tences (six versions in three different sentences) to58lOO\] :!
4,?~ 70, ._=40u 20'~ 10' ?0CCITT FO'filt inv ffm saw ~n~wrong~co~e~Figure 1: Results of the syllable counting task for thedittbrently manipula.ted stimuli.assign a phrase accent to a syllable.
Again presen-tation order differed from subject to subject.
Now~they could see a cursor moving along an oscillogramof the current phrase; where each syllable bound-ary was marked.
This combination of aural and vi-sual presentation was chosen to make sure that thesubjects: ability to count syllables was not testedagain.
To avoid any influences of the visual am-plitude differences between the syllables on the sub-ject:s choice: the stinmli had been adjusted to have amore or less equal energy distribution over the wholephrase.
We thus reduced the intonational informa-tion by the energy factor.
The results appear to con-firm that this is the least important factor \[Fry58\]within prosodic perception.
In 73.4% of all cases thephrase accent was correctly assigned (Fig.
2).
Someof the subjects reported that the possibility of relat-ing the perceived accent to a visual cursor positionhelped a lot.
Others, who seemed to have no prob-lems with the syllable counting task; said that theywere rather confused by the visualization.100'-- 23 -- 3090'o~ 80'"~ TO'"~ .40'E 3o,cCCITT FO tilt inv ffm sawwrong~correctsinFigure 2: Results of the accent a.ssignment task for thediftbrently manipulated stimu/L3.4 Recogn i t ion  of  phrase  moda l i ty16 subjects were presented with three phrasesrecorded from a male speaker and pronounced inthree different modalities: terminal, progredient (i.e.continuation rise) and interrogative \[Son96a\].
Eachsubject hstened to 32 stimuli chosen randomly fromthese nine phrases manipulated by the six proce-dures and decided on one of the given modalities.The result was highly significant: 84% of the stimuliwere correctly recognized (Fig.
3).100'90'80'770'~ 50'Y= 40'~ 30'~ 20'~ 10' OE 0.CCITT FO'fllt Inv fin1 saw sinEwrong~COrTectFigure 3: Results of the modality recognition ta.sk forthe dittbrently manipulated stimuli.
The line indicatescchance l vel.3.5 Phrase  boundary  detect ion12 subjects were asked to place two phrase bound-aries in 20 manipulated stimuh with the additionalhelp of visual presentation.
Four different sentences(12-20 syllables) had been read by a female speaker;all containing two syntactically motivated prosodicboundaries.
The visual signal contained markers ateach visible syllable boundary which served as possi-ble phrase boundary location.
As there were 15 pos-sible boundaries per sentence in the mean, chancelevel can be calculated as being around 6.6%.
Allstimuli were checked whether they contained a visu-ally obvious pause at the boundaries.
These pauseswere manually eliminated.
Even though this meantthat the most important clue for boundary detec-tion \[Leh79\] was eliminated the subjects managed asignificantly correct detection in 66.6% of all stimuli(Fig.
4).
One of the two boundaries was correctlyplaced in 90% of the cases.3.6 Choice of  s t imulus  man ipu la t ionAll four tasks yielded correct results.
It was sur-prising that the error rate for the differently ma-nipulated stimuli did not significantly differ, nei-ther within a task nor over all.
So the decisionwhich manipulation procedure to prefer can only be5910oTO'.~ 50'~ 40'.~ 30'.9.
0'..~:..::':'~:~:::':" ~ :':':':'!
:':':':'~!iCCITT FO flit inv Ifm saw sinWwrongE~correctFigure 4: Results of the prosodic pha'a.se botmdal)" lo-cation task for the ditt~rently manipulated stimuli.
Theline indicates chance level.100'90'80'70'60'50'40'30'20'10'0,easiest most pleasantmost difficultIkind of signal\[::\]sinEsawE~f0f~L I  l i c i tleast pleasantFigure 6: Subjects' answers to the four questions: whichof the signal did you find a) easiest?
b) most ditficult?c) most plea.saalt?
d)/east pleasmat?based upon the subjective valuation of the pleasant-ness.
As the differences between the tasks are smallenough, we compare the subjects' opininions overall tasks (Fig.
5).
The least "easy" version was theone filtered at the fundamental frequency.
The sinu-soidal signal and the signal after the Liljencrants-Fant model were "not difficult".
"Most comfort-able" was the CCITT excitation signal, the signalfiltered at F0 and the sinoidal signal.
The spec-trally inverted signal and the sawtooth excitationsignal were judged "least comfortable".
All thesedifferences were significant (p<0.05).
All in all weconclude that the sinoidal signal is the most appro-priate one (Fig.
6).
Our findings confirmed the re-suits about the pleasantness of manipulated signalsin \[Kla97\].AFigure 5: Compa~'ison of aaz originaJ utterance (on top)aazd t3\]e naaJ~ipulated sinusoidM signM (below).4 Examples of tests carried out todetect prosodic conceptsThe first two tests described here (emotions and syn-tactic structure) took place before the comparisonof stimulus manipulation methods.
Therefore theyhave been carried out using the sawtooth excitationsignal.
In the latter two tests (dialogue acts andgiven/new), the sinusoidal signal manipulation de-scribed in 2.3 was used.4.1 Emot ionsIn a test aimed at identifying the emotional con-tent (e.g.
fear, joy, anger, disgust, sadness) from theprosodic properties only, speech signals that wereresynthesized with a concatenative system yieldedthe same poor results as the delexicalized stimuli\[Heu96\].
Both stimuli gave results that were atchance level.
It is obvious that in this case, where thenaturalness of an utterance depends on features thatare not readily controllable by time-domain synthe-sis system (e.g.
aspiration, creaky voice etc.)
atest procedure with resynthesized speech will notimprove the results that have been obtained withthe delexicalized stimuli, because all the parametersthat are used for the resynthesis are present in thedelexicalized stimuli.4.2 Syntact i c  s t ruc tureTo show that prosody transports information aboutthe syntactic structure of a sentence, subjects wereasked to assign one of several given syntactic struc-tures to the presented elexicalized stimuli \[Son96b\].The possible syntactic structures were representedby written sentences, one of which had the samesyntactic structure as the stimulus.
These sentencesdiffered from the utterances that served as the sourcefor the test stimuli (see Fig.
7).
Asked to pick60Figure 7: Exanaple of a, presented stimulus and the pos-sible ~nswers.example of a test item:stimuhs presented as excitation signal:"A~i:f der alten Theke steht der Eintopf.
";answering sheet:Die kleine Katze lie.qt in der Truhe.In der Truhe lie.qt die kleine Katze.Die Katze lie.qt in der kleinen Truhe.In der kleinen Truhe liegt die Katze.out the sentence they were hearing, the subjects be-lieved that what they heard was the written sen-tence, which shows that their decision was basedsolely on prosody.
Stimuli of one male speaker werecorrectly classified in 80~ of all cases.
A profes-sional male speaker with very elaborate speakingstyle yielded 67~) of correct answers.4.3 Dia logue  actsThe motivation for this test was to decide whetherdifferent dialogue act types have a perceivable in-fluence on the prosodic structure of an utterance.Within the VERBMOBIL  project, dialogue acttypes from the domain of appointment scheduling di-alogues are used \[Rei95\].
If these dialogue act typeshave specific prosodic forms, then the synthesis mod-ule should generate them accordingly.For a first approach we chose to evaluate the fourdialogue act types:?
affirmation?
negation?
suggestion?
requestFor each dialogue act type: eight sentence's wereread by a male and a female speaker.
For affir-mation and negation~ only statements were chosen(length: 1-10 syllables), and four questions and fouranswers for suggestion and request (length: 6-14 syl-lables).
The resulting 64 sentences were manipu-lated and randomly presented to ten subjects whohad to assign one of the four dialogue act types toeach sentence.
Although each subject remarked thatthis was a pretty difficult task, their answers weresignificantly (p<0.001) above chance level (Fig.
8).What  seemed more difficult than relating the utter-ance to an abstract internal reference was the factthat the two speakers' utterances were presented inrandom order.
They differed remarkably not only asto their fundamental frequency but also to their ex-pressive strategies.
Whereas the male speaker wasmore often thought to sound negating, the femalespeaker was mostly recognized as being requestive.Also, dialogue acts spoken by the female speakerwere recognized significantly better as those spokenby the male.
This indicates the degree to whichthe interpretation of a linguistic concept depends onthe speaker's personality and should be taken intoaccount whenever speaker adaptation of the syn-thetic output is desired.
Perception tests shouldalways take into account the subjects' commentson the completed task.
This can yield very usefulbut often neglected extra information.
The subject(no.
10 in Fig.
9) who scored better than the oth-ers explained his strategy.
To distinguish betweenaffirmation/negation the one hand and sugges-tion/request on the other, he assumed that in theformer, the focused part of the utterance lies at thevery beginning of the utterance, whereas in the lat-ter, the second half of the utterance should bearmore focus.
Whether this assumption can be gener-alized or not has to be investigated in further per-ception tests.100af/in~a~on negation suggestion requestdialogue act presentedspeakerE3~ltemale~maleFigure 8: Results of the dialogue act recognition taskfor each prssented act.
The line indicates chance level.4.4 Given/newAs an extension of the phrase accent assignment testwe tested the accuracy with which subjects perceivedifferently focussed parts within a delexicalized ut-terance.
The stimuli consisted of eight sentencesof a new/given structure and eight sentences of agiven/new structure of different length.
They wereread by a female and a male speaker as possible an-swers to a question, then manipulated and presentedin random order.
The 'given' part was always arephrasing of a part of the question.
Ten subjectswere given a short explanatory text with an exampleand then asked to decide in which order the different615310080706050403020'10'01 2 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 10subjectsFigure 9: Results of the dialogue act recognition taskfor each subject.
The line indicates chance levelparts appeared witlfin the utterance and where theboundary between the two parts was located.
Thetask was supported by an oscillogram of the stimu-lus containing four marks as possible boundary lo-cations.
As in Section 3.3.` the energy distributionover the whole sentence was smoothed.
Some sub-jects claimed that the location task was easier thanthe order recognition task.
The order recognitiontask was correctly completed in 78%, the boundarywas correctly located in 62% (Fig.
10).
Both taskswere significantly (p<0.001) completed over chancelevel, yet some inter-subject differences were also sig-nificant.
The subjects located the 'new I part sig-nificantly (p<0.002) more often at the beginning ofthe sentence, which can be explained by intonationaldownstep.1'30'SO'80'7060'5C40'30'20100il  !iNorder recognilJonNm Iii ii iNborder detectiontask (given/new)speaker~female~maleFigure 10: Results of the order recognition task (chancelevd=50%) a~d the boundary location task (chancelevel=25%) for each speaker.5 Conc lus ionWe have shown that the proposed nlethod standsup to the three requirements.
It significantly con-veys prosodic functions and no segmental informa-tion.` a reasonably pleasant signal manipulation wasfound and the manipulation is easy, so that mostpreparatory effort can go into the choice of stimuliand the test design.
The test design is variable andcan be adequately set for the phenomenon under in-vestigation.
The problem of localizing a certain partof an utterance has been tackled by visual presen-tation.
The visual presentation should still be im-proved so that it does not show pauses or energydistribution.
The mixture of different voices withinone test seems to degrade the results.
It is desirableto check the findings with more different voices.
Aseparate test run for each voice should faciliate thetask as it enables the subject to get used to the in-dividual speaker properties.Some of the subjects.` side comments have allowedan interesting insight into their listening strategies.We think that the proposed method is an efficientlink between linguistic theory and practical appli-cation.
On the one hand theoretical assumptionswithin Concept-to-speech have to be validated in anactual application.
On the other hand perceptiontests of the kind we have described them can lead tonew theoretical findings.The method is being applied to detect prosodic on-tent information in dialogue situations of the do-mains appointment scheduling; hotel reservation andtourist information within the German VERBMO-BIL project.
Once more reliable information aboutwhat can be perceived from the prosody has beencollectedl the interplay of the correlating acousticparameters will be investigated.
Finally the findingswill be implemented and evaluated again.This work has partly been funded by the GermanFederal Ministry of Education, Science, Researchand Technology in the scope of the VEI:tBMOBILproject under grant 01 IV 101 G.ReferencesBarS1\] Barry, WJ .
(1981): "Prosodic functions re-visited again!"
in: Phonetica 381 pp.320-340CIT89\] CCITT, Blue Book.` Vol.V, Telephone Trans-mission Quality; Series P Recommendations, IX.Plenary Assembly.` Geneva 1989.
Recommenda-tion P.501 pp.87-98FanSS\] Fant.`G.
; Liljencrants,J.
; Lin,Q.
(1985): "Afour-parameter model of glottal flow."
STL-QPSR4/851pp.1-13Fry58\] ~'y,D.B.
(1958): "Experiments in the per-ception of stress."
in: Language and Speech 11pp.126-15262Heu96\] Heuft,B.
; Portele,T.
; Rauth,M.
(1996):"Emotions in time-domain synthesis."
Proc.
IC-SLP'96, Philadelphia, pp.1974-1977Kla97\] Klasmeyer,G (1997): "The perceptualimpor-tance of selected voice quality parameters."
Proc.ICASSP'97, Munich, vol.3: pp.1615ffKoh87\] Kphler, K.J.
(1987): "The linguistic func-tions of F0-peaks."
in: Proc.
ICPhS 11, Tullin,vol.3, pp.149-152Kre82\] Kreimann,J.
(1982): "Perception of sentenceand paragraph boundaries in natural conversa-tion."
in: Journal of Phonetics 10, pp.163-175Leh76\] Lehiste~I.
; Wang,W.S-Y.
(1976): "Perceptionof sentence boundaries with and Mthout semanticinformation."
in: Dressler,W.
; Pfeiffer,O.
(eds.
),Phonologica 19: Innsbruck, pp.277-283Leh79\] Lehiste,I.
(1979): "Perception of sentenceand paragraph boundaries."
in: Lindblom~B.;Ohman,S.(eds.)
~'ontiers of speech communica-tion research: Academic Press, NY, pp.191-201Leo70\] L6on,P.R.
(1970): "Syst6matique des fonc-tions expressives de l'intonation."
in: L6on (eds.
)Prosodic feature analysis, pp.57-74Lib74\] Liberman,M.
; Sag,I.
(1974): "Prosodic formand discourse function."
in: Papers from theTenth Regional Meeting, Chicago Linguistic So-ciety, pp.416-427Mer96\] Mersdorf, J.
(1996): "Eia HSrversuch zurperzeptiven Unterscheidbarkeit yon Sprechernbei ausschlietllich intonatorischer Information.
"in: Portschritte der Akustik - DAGA'96, Bonn,pp.482-483Mou90\] Moulines,E.
; Charpentier,F.
(1990): "Pitch-synchronous waveform processing techniques fortext-to-speech synthesis using diphones."
in:Speech Comnmnication 9, pp.453-467Oha79\] Ohala,J.J.
; GilbertJ.B.
(1979): "Listeners'ability to identify languages by their prosody."
in:L6on,P./Rossi,M.
(eds.
), Probl~ines de Prosodie,Studia Phonetica 18, pp.
1'23-131Pag96\] Pagel:V.; Carbonell,N.
; Laprie,Y.
(1996): "ANew Method for Speech Delexicalization, and itsApplication to the Perception of French Prosody.
"in: Proc.
ICSLP'96, PhiladelphiaPas93\] Pascale~N.
; Rom6as,P.
(1993): "Evaluationof prosody in {:he French version of a multilingualtext-to-speech synthesis: neutralising segmentalinformation in preliminary test."
in: Proc.
Eu-rospeech'93.
Berlin, pp.211-214Pij94\] de Pijper,J.R.
; Sandermann A.
(1994): "Onthe perceptual strength of prosodic boundariesand its relation to suprasegmental cues."
in: Jour-nal of the Acoustical Society of America 96 (4),pp.2037-2047Rei95\] Reithinger,N.
; Maier,E.
(1995): "UtilizingStatistical Speech Act Processing in VERBMO-BIL."
in: Proc.
ACL 33: Cambridge, MASch84\] Schaffer,D.
(1984): "The role of intonation asa cue to topic management in conversation."
in:Journal of Phonetics 12; pp.327-344Son96a\] Sonntag,G.P.
(1996): "Untersuchungzur perzeptiven Unterscheidung prosodischerPhrasen."
in: ITG Fachtagung Sprachkommu-nikation, 17./18.9.96, Frankfurt am Main, pp.121-124Son96b\] Sonntag,G.P.
(1996): "Klassifikation syn-taktischer Strukturen aufgrund rein prosodis-cher Information."
Fortschritte der Akustik -DAGA'96, Bonn, pp.480-48163
