Constraints on the Use of Language, Gesture and Speech forMultimodal DialoguesBertrand GaiffeCRIN-CNRS & INRIA Loraine,B~timent Loria, B.P.
23954506 Vandceuvre L~s Nancygaiffe@loria, frLaurent RomaryCRIN-CNRS & INRIA Loraine,B~timent Loria, B.P.
23954506 Vandceuvre L~s Nancyromary@loria, fr1.
IntroductionIn the domain of natural languageunderstanding and more precisely man-machine dialogue design, there are usuallytwo trends of research which seem to berather differentiated.
On the one hand, manystudies have tackled the problem ofinterpreting spatial references expressed inverbal utterances, focusing in particular on thedifferent geometric or functionnal constraintswhich are bound to the existance of a "source"(or site) element in relation to which a'target" is being situated.
Such studies areusually based upon fine grained linguisticdescriptions for different languages(Vandeloise, 1986).
On the other hand, theproblem raised by the integration of agestural mode within classical NL interfaceshas yielded some specific research about theassociation of demonstrative or deictic Npstogether with designations, as initited byBolt some two decades ago (cf.
Thorisson etalii, 1992; Bellalem and Romary, 1995).
Ouraim in this paper is to show that thedifferent phenomena described in the contextof spatial reference or multimodal interactionshould not necessarily be considered as twoindependant issues, but should rather beanalysed in a unified way to account for thefact that they are both based on linguistic andperceptual data.As a matter of fact, if we consider a situationof man-machine dialogue where the user ispresented with a graphical representation ofhis task, it is clear that, given a certaininformational content he wants to convey, h ewill essentially choose a referring modewhich seems most relevant in the currentcommunicative situation.
For example, if weconsider a graphical situation such as thatdescribed in figure 1.1, he may either use theblack triangle, this triangle (+ pointinggesture), the leftmost triangle to refer to theleft most object, and it would be quite annoyingto consider these different expressions ascorresponding to uncomparable referringmodes 1.?Figure 1.1In this context, we will try to show howlanguage, gesture and perception can be seen ina uniform way from the perspective ofreferential analysis, even if doing so we wi l lhave to look at the specific constraints whichunderly the speaker's choice of a givenexpression.
To this end, we will first quicklysituate the relative importance of speech andgesture in man-machine communication.
Then,we will concentrate upc~ the specific effectsresulting from the combination of verbal,gestural and perceptual information, showingthat on the one hand the three providestructural constraints to the objects which arebeing referred to and on the other hand thatany referring operation, whatever its origin,has to be interpreted within a localizedframe, with some consequences upon dialoguemanagement.2.
Several means to make a referringactWhen designating a given object within avisual environment, it seem at first sightthat Natural Language providesuncomparable means to do so as opposed togesture.
Beyond the different determinerswhich are present in most natural languageseither explicitely or implicitely (indefinite,definite or demonstrative), nominalcategories allows one to set the proper level ofgranularity corresponding to the intendedobject.
Indeed, in a situation where a gesturewould be ambiguous and point to the overallscene (a set of geometrical shapes), a specifici In particular, gricean maxims as well as relevancetheory (Sperber and Wilson, 1986) would tendtowards an analysis which compare the differentreferring expressions interms of cognitive cost.Constraints on the Use of Language, Gesture and Speech for Multimodal Dialogues 95object (a triangle) or any of its part (asegment, a point etc.
), the sole phrase thetriangle may directly designate what is beingintended.Another important aspect is that pointinggestures 2, when used in the general frameworkof an oral dialogue, can seldom appear inisolation, wheras a definite description suchas the blue triangle can clearly be expressedindependantly of any gesture.
The reason forthis is, as we said, that the intrisic ambiguityof gesture implies that it should becomplemented with a categorizing expression,but also because a gesture cannot express veryeasily an action to be performed upon theby means of formulae (at step b) such as:* triangle(R) & (card(R) >= 2) & R includedR' & R at the left as compared to (R'- R)in what concerns 2.1.a ande triangleR) & (card(R) >= 2) & (madesallient (by gesture) R) in what concerns2.2.a.Although these two referential expressions, ifever used, are unambiguous, we wouldcertainly prefer such examples as:Figure 2.1.b: the leflmost trianglesand?
designated _,object and has thus to be alsocomplemented by a predicative utterance.
In?
this latter case, it is hard to imagine that anycombination will be possible betweenlinguistic chunks and gestural acts.
Inparticular, gesture can hardly fill a rolewhich is mandatory for a given predicate,since it would lead to odd utterances uch as?give me the color of \[pointing\].3.
Reference and contrastThe schematic algorithm used in mostdialogue systems in order to deal withreferential NPs (in the case they get theirreference within a context which is visual lypresented) can be expressed as:a) get al the indices from the expression;b) deduce from these indices some constraintswhich must be true in the visualrepresentation;c) filter the referent(s) thanks to theseconstraints.In such a framework, what would be expectedas the system's perceptuel abilities boilsdown to an ability to build the set of objectsappearing on the screen.
Such an approachwould compute the "correct" referents in suchexamples as:Figure 2.1.a: the leflmost trianglesorFigure 2.2.a: these triangles2 We do not consider here other types of gestures,either ergative, epistemic or mimetic as described in(Cadoz, 1992).Figure 2.2.b: these trianglesWhat seems to lack in examples 2.1.a and2.2.a is a visual contrast hat pre-exists to therefering expression.
The refering expressionitself is not sufficient to establish such acontrast.
If the user intends to refer to the firsttwo triangles of figure 2.1.a, he wouldprobably prefer an expression such as the twoleftmost triangles or these triangles togetherwith a "peripheral" designation as we wil ldescribe it latter.
Our claim about thenecessity of a perceivable discriminationseems in accordance with what Robert Dale(Reiter and Dale 1992, Dale 1995) observesabout referential expression generation.
Just aswe do, he argues that the relevance of arefering expression does not only rely on itsability to filter a unique referent but also cnits ability to establish a contrast in acontextual set of objects.Examples 2.1.b and 2.2.b rely on an alreadyaccessible discrimination based upon spatialcohesion.
In such a case, the definite referringexpression (the leftmo~t triangle) directlymaps the spatial discrimination.
Suchexamples as:Figure 2.3.a: the leftmost rianglesandFigure 2.3.b: these triangles96 B. Gaiffe and L. Romaryshow that any percepually baseddiscrimination (we could as well have acontrast in size, texture or whatsoever) issufficient to justify the leftmost triangles(these triangles + gesture respectively) 3.If a dialogue system has to understand suchexpressions as those we mentioned so far, h etherefore should perceive its environment on amore "user compatible" basis.
We suggest atleast that perceptual contrasts should betaken into account in order to structure the setof visible objects.When no contrast pre-exists which woulddirectly support an intended reference, wementioned the possibility to build a group onthe basis of individuals by such an explicitexpression as "the two leftmost riangles".
Acorresponding solution in terms ofdemonstrative use would be something l ikethis triangle and this one (or these twotriangles) together with two pointinggestures.
Another solution consists in buildingthe contrast by means of a "peripheraldesignation" which justifies our claim aboutconsidering perception and designation on aunified constrastive basis.
In order to arguethat claim, we will now re-consider gesturesalmost independantly from the referentialexpressions they accompany.4.
Gesture and contrastOur analysis of demonstrative and definiteNPs (when referring within a perceptualenvironment) relies on perceptually foundedcontrasts.
The required precision of adesignation gesture therefore depends uponthese perceptive constrasts.
In such anexample as:relies on the same kind of horizontaldiscrimination:the only difference with the preceedingexample is that we refer to a cohesive group.The horizontal discrimination identifies heretwo groups from which gesture only has toselect one.
However, such situations as:do not provide any perceptual grouping ofsomething which would correspond to "theupper and the righmost riangles in the leftgroup of three".
If the user intends to refer tothese two triangles, he has to build adiscrimination into the group.
A possiblegesture to do that is depicted bellow:Such "peripheral" designations take up forthe absence of a shared perceptual feature(such colour), as it both gather up the twoobjects and put them into focus.
The analysisof the whole intervention (the gesture plusthe NP "these triangles") is then of the samekind as its equivalent in 2.3.b.
As such, weclearly see here that gesture, instead of justbeing another mtxte of communication, \ [ \ ]pertains to the same domain as perceptualinformation.
\ [ \ ]Our analysis o far can thus be summarized as "the gesture only has to separate the twotriangles along the horizontal, since theperceptive contrast relies upon a separation ofthe objec~ on that direction.
No strictinclusion of the pointing into the left triangleis required.
The situation depicted below3 In some cases, the speaker has the possibility toelicit the contrasfive feature.
E.g.
The l~lack triangles(fig.2.3.b)follows:?
a contrast based on the category has tomatch a perceptive contrast in the case ofsimple definite Nps, thus meaning thatperceivable triangles hould be consideredwhen analyzing the triangle(s)?
a contrast based on saliance has to match aperceptive contrast in the case ofdemonstrative Nps.
As we only consideredin this paper demonstrative plus gestures,Constraints on the Use of Language, Gesture and Speech .for Multiraodal Dialogues 97the required saliance is yielded by gestureitself?
a spatial contrast has to match aperceptive contrast (not necesserallyspatial) in the case of spatial definiteNPs.The remaining problem is now to limit thecontext in which we consider these contrasts.There are expressions in dialogue corpora thatcannot be properly understood if we do nottake into account focusing phenomena as wellas attentional contexts and visualcapabilities.
Moreover, as we will justify, insuch reduced contexts, functionalityassociated to the objects considered mayintroduce specific orientations.5.
Loca l i z ing  spatial referencesHaving shown that any spatial - - in  thebroad sense we want to advocate - -  referenceis based upon a structural organisation of a setof elements, we will now see how this very setplays a real role of contextualizing thereferring process, with some consequences upondialogue management.
Indeed, all ourexamples o far were simple enough to implythat there was only one context in which tofind the intended referent.
On the contrary, i fwe consider a more complex situation takenfrom a Wizard of Oz simulation in the domainof interior furnishing (Dauchy et ali, 1993;Mignot et ali 1993), we will see that ouranalysis should actually be drawn a stepfurther.
Figure 4.1 examplifies a typicalsituation that was presented to the userduring the experiment, with an emptydrawing room to be furnished using thepresented elements.speaker and the hearer for a spatial referenceto be understood, we can quickly see that thisstructure can only be inferred within alocalized context which first limits itsextension, but also subsumes its generalcharacteristics uch as the categories ofobjects, their perceptual or functionalproperties etc.
Paradoxically, we could saythat it is difficult to contrast objects havinglittle or nothing in common as there would beno reason for a speaker to compare them in anyway.
Besides, such contexts eem to have acertain amount of stability during a dialogue,as can be seen in the following exampleassociated with figure 4.2:U1 : turn the sofa roundU2 : move up a bit the armchair on the rightI1.
, f 'Figure 4.2: Referential contextualisation.Figure 4.1 : Initial scene for the interiorfurnishing scenario.Following the observation that there shouldbe a prior structure shared by both theHere, it appears that the spatial reference inthe second utterance is not computed globallyon the visualized scene but upon a sub-spaceresulting from the interpretation of the firstutterance and thus centered on the sofa.
Such asub-space is characterized by its spatialinclusion within that of the drawing room, hutalso by the different characteristics(especially functionnal ones) of the objects i tcontains.At this stage we can thus caracterize aspatial referring operation as a double systemof vertical and horizontal relationshipswithin a context which encompasses the objectwhich is being referred to, but also the set ofalternatives which being stated eitherexplicitaly or implicitaly during the current98 B. Gaiffe and L. Romaryreferring act or the rest of the dialogue.
Figure4.3 summarizes these different constraints fora reference to object O1 within a context C, thealternatives being reduced here to a singleobject 02.I C Ir /I TM I ,~ ) 1 02'IRFigure 4.3: localizing linksIn this schema, f is the functionnal link (FL)which unites the different objects to theircurrent contexP, and.which has to be sharedby the whole set of alternatives.
R is thecontrasting relation which allows theinterpreter to isolate the referent of theexpression from the other members of the setof alternatives.
The very existance of both Cand f are supposed to be implied by the natureof the referring expression.
Similarly, therelation R is constrained by the type of theexpression and can be further specified asfollows:?
definite description (the triangle):Cat(O1) ~ Cat(O2) (intercategorialcontrast)?
demonstrative NP (this triangle): Cat(O1)= Cat(O2) (intra-categorial contrast)?
spatial definite description: Pos(O1) nPos(O2) = O (localization contrast)In this last case, the referential expression isusually explicit (e.g.
the leftmost armchair)about the actual contrasting relation and thusmakes the presence of alternatives all themore obvious.
For the two other cases, it isusually through the following utterancesthat, as we have seen, we can justify thepresence of the set of alternatives.
As amatter of fact, one consequence of constraininga referential operation to a localized frame isthat these have a certain amount of stabi l i tyfrom utterance to utterance.6.
Conc lus ionsIn this paper, we argue on the one hand for aunified account of gesture and perception, andon the other hand for a matching betweencontrastive conditions required by referential4 There can be of course many different contextsprojected upon a ~iven object, as this depends uponthe intention that he speaker wants to convey aboutit.expressions and a pre-existing perceptualcontrast.
We show that such a contrast has tobe localized and to exhibit traces of thesecontexts through dialogue structures as well asspecific orientation properties related to suchperceptual contexts.7.
ReferencesAlien James F. and Raymond C. Perrault 1980,Analyzing intention in utterances,Artificial Intelligence, 15, p. 143-178.Bellalem Nadia and Laurent Romary 1995,Reference interpretation in a multimodalenvironment combining speech and gesture,Actes First IMMI Workshop, Edinburgh.Cadoz Claude 1992, Le geste canal decommunication hormne/machine - 1 acommunication i strumentale, Technique  tScience Informatique, 13, 1, p. 31-61.Dale Robert and Ahud Reiter 1992,Computational Interpretations of GriceanMaxims in the Generation of ReferringExpressions, Actes Coling-92.Dale Robert 1995, Generating One-AnaphoricExpressions: Where Does the DecisionLie?, Actes Working Papers of PACLING-II, Brisbane, Australia, p. 49-58.Dauchy P., C. Mignot and C. Valot 1993, Jointspeech and gesture analysis : someexperimental results, Actes Eurospeech 93,p.
1315-1318.Mignot C., C. Valot et N. Carbonell 1993, AnExperimental Study of Future "'Natural"Multimodal Human-Computer Interaction,Actes INTERCHI'93 1993 Conference onHuman Factors in Computing ScienceINTERACT'93 and CHI'93, Amsterdam(The Netherlands).Schang D. et L. Romary 1994, Framing theworld, towards a locahsed spat ialreasoning, Acres 3rd InternationalConference on the Cognitive Science ofNatural Language Processing (CSNLP-94),Dublin.Sperber Dan et Deidre Wilson 1986,Relevance, communication and cognition,Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Thorisson K., D. Koons et R. Bolt 1992, Multi-modal natural dialogue, Acres CHF92,USA, p. 653-654.
(Annelies).Vandeloise Claude 1986, L'espace nfran~ais,Editions du Seuil, Paris.
