Measuring Dialect Distance Phonet ica l lyJ ohn  Nerbonne and Wi lber t  Heer ingaA l fa - in format ica ,  BCNP .O.Box  716, R i jksunivers i te i t  Gron ingenNL-9700 AS Groningen,  The  Nether landsnerbonne~let, rug .
nlAbst rac tWe describe ongoing work in the experi-mental evaluation of a range of methodsfor measuring the phonetic distance be-tween the dialectal variants of pronuncia-tions.
Alllare variants of Levenshtein dis-tance, both simple (based on atomic char-acters) and complex (based on feature vec-tors).
The measurements using feature vec-tors varied according to whether city-blockdistance, Euclidean distance or (a measureusing) Pearson's correlation coefficient wastaken as basic.
Variants of these using fea-ture weighting by entropy reduction weresystematically compared, as was the rep-resentation of diphthongs (as one symbolor two).
The results were compared towell-established scholarship in dialectology,yielding a Calibration of the method.
Theseresults indicate that feature representa-tions are more sensitive, that city-block dis-tance is a good measure of phonetic over-lap of feature vectors, that weighting is notuseful, and that two-phone representationsof diphthongs provide a more satisfactorybase for this sort of comparison.Keywords:  dialectology, phonetic (dis)similarity1 Mot ivat ionDialectologists frequently speak of the range of di-alects they describe as a "continuum", 1 which sug-gests a need t0 supersede the inherently discretemethod of isogl0sses.
Dialectologists have long rec-ognized the need for alternative notions of dialectalrelationships (Durand (1889),p.49).1For example,.Tait ol/Inuit: ';a fairly unbroken chainof dialects \[...\] the furthest extremes of the continuumbeing unintelligib!e to one another" (Tait (1994), p.3)It is furthermore the case that a sensitive measureof dialectal distance could have broad application toquestions in sociolinguistics and historical inguis-tics, e.g.
the significance of political boundaries, theeffect of the media, etc.Levenshtein distance is a measure of string dis-tance that has been applied to problems in speechrecognition, bird song ethology, and genetics.
It ispresented in (Kruskal, 1983), and may be under-stood as the cost of (the least costly set of) oper-ations mapping from one string to another.Kessler (1995) applied Levenshtein distance toIrish Gaelic dialects with remarkable success,and Nerbonne t al.
(1996) extended the applica-tion of his techniques to Dutch dialects, simi-larly with respectable results.
Although Kesslerand Nerbonne t al.
(1996) experimented with moresensitive measures, their best results were based oncalculations of phonetic distance in which phoneticoverlap was binary: nonidentical phones contributeto phonetic distance, identical ones do not.
Thusthe pair \[a,t\] count as different o the same degreeas2 BackgroundIn the interest of space we omit an introduction toLevenshtein distance, referring to (Kruskal, 1983).It may be understood as the cost of (the least costlyset of) operations mapping from one string to an-other.
The basic costs are those of (single-phone)insertions and deletions, each of which costs half thatof substitutions.
Nerbonne t al.
(1996)explains itsuse in the present application at some length.
Thevarious modifications below all tinker with the costof substituting one phone for another.Kessler (1995) experimented with making themeasure more sensitive, but found little progress inusing features, for example.
The present paper ex-periments ystematically with several variations onthe basic Levenshtein theme.ilThe overall scheme is as follows: a definition ofphonetic difference is applied to 101 pairs of wordsfrom forty different Dutch dialect areas.
All of thepronunciations are taken from the standard dialectatlas ((Blacquart et al 19251982)--hence: REND,Reeks Nederlandse Dialectatlassen).
After some nor-malization, this results in an AVER.AGE PHONETICdifference for those dialects--a 40 x 40 matrix of dif-ferences in total (of which one half is redundant dueto the symmetry of distance: dist(a, b) = dist(b, a)).This distance matrix is compared to existing ac-counts of the dialects in question, especially the mostrecent systematic account, (Daan and Blok, 1969).A visualization tool normally identifies very deviantresults, see Fig.
1.
Finally the distance matrix issubjected to a heuristic clustering algorithm as afurther indication of quality.
23 Ref inements for DialectologyThe dialects are compared on the basis of the wordsof 101 items.
So the total distance of two dialectsis equal to the sum of 101 Levenshtein-distances.If  we simply use the Levenshtein-distance, it wouldtend to bias measurements so that changes in longerwords would tend to contribute more toward the av-erage phonetic distance (since they tend to involvemore changes).
This may be legitimate, but sincewords are a crucial linguistic unit we chose to stickto average word distance.
This involves the com-putation of 'relative distance', which we get by di-viding the absolute distance by the length of thelarger word.
We have also considered using the av-erage length of the two words being compared, whichmakes little difference where both words are present.Missing words pose a problem as does lexical re-placement.
We wished to handle these consistently(to obtain a consistent measure of distance), evenrecognizing the danger of conflating phonetic andlexical effects.
Throughout his paper we do con-flate the two, reasoning that this is the lesser of twoevi ls--the other of which is deciding when massivephonetic modification amounts to lexical difference.Naturally no difference is recorded where a wordis missing in both dialects.
If only one dialect ismissing the word, the difference at that point isjust length ?
insertion-cost, but normalization di-vides this by the length again, yielding just the costof insertion.
This is a point at which the decision2The choice of clustering technique is important, butis not the focus of the present paper.
The methodshere were compared using Ward's method, a variant ofhierarchical agglommerative clustering which minimizessquared error.
See (Jain and Dubes, 1988) for clusteringtechniques.noted above-to obtain relative distance via Leven-shtein distance divided by longer length-is impor-tant.
Recall the alternative mentioned there, that ofrelativizing to the average length.
This would dou-ble the distance measured in cases where words aremissing, biasing the overall distance toward dialectswith less lexical overlap.
This seemed excessive.Similarly, for some items there are two wordspossible.
If dialect 1 has wordla and wordlb,and dialect 2 has word2, we calculate the dis-tance by averaging dislance(wordla,word2) and dis-tance(wordlb,word2).
If both dialect 1 and dialect2 have multiple variants, we average all pairs of dis-tances.Although we experimented with variable costsfor substitutions, depending on whether their basesegments or diacritics differ, we could not settleon a natural weighting, and further reasoned thata feature-based cost-differential should systematizewhat the transcription-based differential intended.This is resumed below.Dutch has a rich system of diphthongs, which,moreover have been argued to be phonologically di-segmental (Moulton, 1962).
We therefore experi-mented both with single-phone and two-phone diph-thongal representations.
It turned out the represen-tations with two phones were superior (for the pur-poses of showing dialectal relatedness).
33.1 Feature  VectorsIf we compare dialects on the basis of phonetic sym-bols, it is not possible to take into account he affin-ity between sounds that are not equal, but are stillrelated.
Methods based on phonetic symbols do notshow that 'pater'  and 'vader' are more kindred then'pater'  and 'maler'.
This problem can be solved byreplacing each phonetic symbol by a vector of fea-tures.
Each feature can be regarded as a phoneticproperty which can be used for classifying of sounds.A feature vector contains for each feature a valuewhich indicates to what extent the property is in-stantiated.
Since diacritics influence feature values,they likewise figure in the mapping from transcrip-tions to feature vectors, and thus automatically fig-ure in calculations of phonetic distance.In our experiment, we have used the fea-ture vectors which are developed by (Vieregge,A.C.M.Rietveld, and Jansen, 1984) (we earlier usedthe SPE features as these were modified for dialec-3It would be rash to argue from this to any phono-logical conclusion about the diphthongs.
The two-phonerepresentation makes it easier to measure related pro-nunciation, and this is probably why it suits present pur-poses better.I:ztology use by (Hoppenbrouwers and Hoppenbrouw-ers, 1988), but obtained distinctly poorer results inspite of the larger number of features).
Viereggeet al make use of 14 features \[longer discussion ofVieregge's ystem as well as the translation tran-scriptions in the RND in full version of paper\].We compare three methods for measuring pho-netic distance/ The first is MANHATTAN DISTANCE(also called "taxicab distance" or "city block" dis-tance).
This is simply the sum of all feature valuedifferences for each of the 14 features in the vector.Y) = -Second, we tried EUCLIDEAN DISTANCE.
Asusual, this is the square root of the sum ofsquared differences in feature values.
6(X,Y)  =v/Ei l (xi  -Third, we examined the Pearson correlation coef-ficient, r. To ixiterpret this as distance we used 1 - r,where r is the usual ~ ~ ('-TU)(~-~ y_.A,~ ).In the Levenshtein algorithm based on symbols,three operations were used: 'substitution', inser-tion' and 'deletion'.
A substitution was regardedas a combination of an insertion and a deletion, sosubstitutions counted two, and "indels" one.
Whenwe compare vectors instead Of phonetic symbols, thevalue for a substitution is no longer a fixed value, butvaries between '.two extremes.
However, for indels wehave to choose'a fixed value as well.
This value wasestimated by calculating the average of the values ofall substitutiofis which take place in the comparisonproces, and dividing this average by 2.3.2 In fo rmat ion-Ga in  Weight ingNot all features are equally important in classify-ing the sounds lused in the dialects.
For example, itturned out that no positive value for the feature \[flap=t:\] occurred in any of the words in the dialects exam-ined.
We therefore xperimented with weighing eachfeature by information gain, a number expressing theaverage ntropy reduction a feature represents whenknown (Quinlan, 1993; Daelemans et al, 1996).To calculate this we need a base figure fordatabase ntropy:H(D) = -- E pilog2piiIf we have n: different vectors for all the dialects,then 1 < i < n. Pi is the probability of vector i,estimated by its frequency divided by ID\[, which isthe total number of vectors in all dialects.Second we calculate the average ntropy for eachfeature:ID\[/H(D\[y\]) = E H(Du='~'\])v,~v IDI\[Dll=~d\[ is the number of vectors that have valuevi for feature f .
V is the set of possible values forfeature f. H(Du=vd) is the remaining entropy of allvectors in the database that have value vi for featuref.
It is calculated using the first formula, where thei's are now only the vectors that have value vi forfeature f.Finally we can calculate the information gain as-sociated with a feature:G(f)  = H(D) - H(Dll\])If we then compare two vectors using Manhattandistance, the weighted difference between two vec-tors X and Y is now:T~A(x,  y)  = a ( / , ) l x ,  -i= lAnd similarly for Euclidean distance and "inversecorrelation".We have recently become aware of the work ofBroe (1996), which criticizes the simple applicationof entropy measures to feature systems in whichsome features are only partially defined.
Suchphonological features clearly exist: e.g., \[lateral\]and \ [s t r ident \ ]  apply only to consonants and not tovowels.
Broe furthermore develops a generalizationof entropy sensitive to these cases.
This is an areaof current interest.4 ExperimentsThe dialect varieties were chosen to contain "easy"cases as well as difficult ones.
Frisian is acceptedas rather more distinct from other areas, and eightFrisian varieties are represented in the wish to seequickly that that distance metrics could distinguishthese.
The full list of variants may be seen in Fig.
1.5 ResultsWe compared a total of 14 methods, shown in Ta-ble 1.
While none of these performed very poorly,several tendencies emerge.Two-phone representations of diphthongs out-perform single-phone representationsUnweighted representations outperform repre-sentations to which weightings were added.This is surprising.Manhattan distance narrowly outperforms"correlation" which narrowly outperforms Eu-clidean distance.130.
Oe rdsberg/Kumtich.
.
.
.
.
.
.erkradeFigure 1: The distances calculated between the 40 pairs of Dutch dialects.
Darker lines correspond tophonetically proximate language variants, lighter lines to more distant variants.
Phonetically very distantrelations result in lines too faint to be seen (in the interest of overall contrast).
The Frisian dialects (in theNorthwest) are clearly recognized as relatively close, as are the Saxon dialects (Northeast).
The situation inthe South is less simple.Itphone/feature-based weighted feature-comparison diphthong1 phones one phone2 phones two phones3 features no Manhattan two phones4 features no Manhattan one phone5 features no Euclidean two phones6 features no Euclidean one phone7 features no correlation two phones8 features no correlation one phone9 features yes Manhattan two phones10 features yes Manhattan one phone11 features yes Euclidean two phones12 features yes Euclidean one phone13 features yes correlation two phones14 features yes correlation one phoneTable 1: Fourteen variants of Levenshtein distance which were compared in the task of distinguishing Dutchdialect distances.
Top performer (3) used features in place of discrete segments, no information-gain weight-ing, Manhattan (city-block) distance, and a two-segment representation f diphthongs.Thus, method (:3) was best.The superiority is seen in the degree to which thedistance matrices and resulting dendrograms matchthose of expert dialectologists, in particular, (Daanand Blok, 1969).
4We did not apply a measure to the degree of co-incidence between the experts' division into dialectgroups and the grouping induced by the Levenshteindistance metric, Instead, we compared the dendro-gram to the dialect map and checked for congruence.Some of the results accord better with expert opin-ion.For example, dialectologists generally locate Delftas closer to Haarlem and Schagen (than to Oost-erhout, Dussen and Gemert).
The better distancemeasures do this as well, but not several of theweighted measures.
The weighted measures andthe unweighted correlation-based measures similarlyfailed to recogniz:e the coastal (western) Flemish sub-group (Weslflaams or Zeeuwsvlaams), represented inour data set by Alveringem, Damme, Lamswaarde,and Renesse.Daan's work is accompanied by a map that alsoappears in the Atlas of the Netherlands, as Plate4It should be noted that Daan and Blok (1969) incor-porate native speakers' ubjective judgements of dialectdistance in their assessment ( heir "arrow method").But their final partition of dialects into differenct groupsis well-accepted.X-2.
5 It divides the Dutch area into 28 areas ofroughly comparable dialect regions.
Furthermore,it uses colortones to denote relative distance fromstandard Dutch.
This information can be used tofurther calibrate the methods here.
First, the rela-tive distance from standard Dutch (given in color-tones) can be translated to predictions about relativephonetic distance.
For example, Twents is shadeddark green (and is represented in our data set bythe the dialect spoken in Almelo), while Veluws isshaded light green (and is represented by Soest andPutten).
There is an intermediate dialect, Gelders-Overijssels haded an intermediate green and rep-resented by Ommen, Wijhe and Spankeren.
Theserelative distances (to ABN, represented in our dataset by Haarlem and Delft) should be reflected in Lev-enshtein distance, and we can test the prediction byhow accurate the relfection is.
This method of test-ing has the large advantage that it tests only Leven-shtein distance without involving the added level ofclustering.A second method of using the dialect map to cal-ibrate the Levenshtein metric is to use the 28 var-ious dialect regions as predictions of "minimal dis-tance".
Here we can compare the map most simplyto the dendrogram.
In the present work, it maybe noted that the Frisian dialects and the dialectof Groningen-North Drenth are indeed identified as5Printed by the Topografische Dienst, Delft, 1968.15groups (by the Levenshtein method combined mini-mal error clustering).
It is more difficult to use thedialect map in this way without using the dendro-gram as well.
In particular, it is not clear how theborders on the dialect map are to be interpreted.Keeping in mind the "continuum" metaphor notedin Sec.
1, the borders cannot be interpreted to bemarking partitions of minimal distance.
That is, itwill not be the case that each pair of elements ina given cluster are closer to each other than to anyelements outside.An interesting fact is that while no very closecorrelation is expected between dialectal distanceand geographical distance, still the better techniquesgenerally correlated higher with geographic distancethan did the poorer techniques (at approx, r =0.72).We conclude that the present methods performwell, and we discuss opportunities for more defini-tive testing and further development in the followingsection.6 Future  D i rec t ionsWe should like to extend this work in several direc-tions.?
We should like to find a way to measure thesuccess of a given distance metric.
This shouldreflect the degree to which it coincides with ex-pert opinion (which is necessarily rougher).
SeeSec.
5.?
An examination of grouping methods is desir-able.?
The present method averages 101 word dis-tances to arrive at a notion of dialect difference.It would he interesting to experiment directlywith the 101-dimensional vector, standardizedto reflect the distance to standard Dutch (alge-meen beschaafd Nederlands, ABN) and using,e.g., the cos(~,y~ as a distance measure (onvectors whose individual cells represent Leven-shtein distances from ABN pronunciations).?
For more definitive results, the method shouldbe tested on material for which it has NOT beencalibrated, ideally a large database of dialectalmaterial.?
Finally, it would be interesting to apply thetechnique to problems involving the influenceof external factors on language variation, suchas migration, change in political boundaries, orcultural innovation.7 AcknowledgernentsWe thank Peter Kleiweg for his graphic programs(seen in all of the figures here), and thanks also toan anonymous reviewer for comments.Re ferencesBlacquart et al E.dialectatlassen.1925/1982.
Reeks nederlandseBroe, Michael.
1996.
A generalized information-theoretic measure for systems of phonologicalclassification and recognition.
In ComputationalPhonology in Speech Technology: Proceedings ofthe Second Meeting of the ACL Special InterestGroup in Computational Phonology, pages 17-24,Santa Cruz.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Daan, Jo and D. P. Blok.
1969.
Van Randstadtot Landrand; toelichting bij de kaart: Dialectenen Naamkunde.
Amsterdam: Noord-HollandscheUitgevers.Daelemans, Walter, Jakub Zavrel, Peter Berck, andSteven Gillis.
1996.
Memory-based part of speechtagging.
In Gert Durieux, Walter Daelemans, andSteven Gillis, editors, Proc.
of CLIN '95.
Antwer-pen, pages 185-202.Durand, Jean-Paul.
1889.
Notes de philologie rouer-gate, 18.
Revues des Langues Romanes, 33:47-84.cited by Kessler.Hoppenbrouwers, Cot and Geer Hoppenbrouwers.1988.
De featurefrequentiemethode en de classifi-catie van nederlandse dialecten.
TABU: Bulletinvoor Taalwetenschap, 18(2):51-92.Jain, K. and R. C. Dubes.
1988.
Algorithms forclustering Data.
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:Prentice Hall.Kessler, Brett.
1995.
Computational dialectology inIrish Gaelic.
In Proc.
of the European ACL, pages60-67, Dublin.Kruskal, Joseph.
1983.
An overview of se-quence comparison.
In David Sankoff and JosephKruskal, editors, Time Warps, String Edits andMacromolecules: The Theory and Practice ofSequence Comparison.
Addison-Wesley, Reading,Mass., pages 1-44.Moulton, William.
1962.
The vowels of dutch: Pho-netic and distributional classes.
Lingua, 11:294-312.AaltenSpankerenPuttenAlmeloOrnmenWijheSteenwijkAssenGroningenRoswinkelRodeschoolIWinschotenAlveringemDammeLamswaardeRenesseGeelKumtichMechelenGeraardsbergenLebbekeBornVenrayKerkradeDelftHaarlemSchagenDussen, OosterhoutGemertPolsbroekSoestBergumGrouwFerwerdHolwerdMakkumKollumLeeuwarden - -Nes0:0 200.0 ' ' 600.0 400.0Figure 2: A dendrogram derived fi'om the distance matrix based on (unweighted) Manhattan distancebetween feature representations.
Note that Frisian and Dutch variants are distinguished most significantly,while within Dutch there major distinctions are Lower Saxon dialects (top), Flemish, and Franeonian (lowestof the three most significant branches within Dutch).
This accords well with dialectal scholarship.
Thedendrogram was obtained using a Ward's method of hierarchical agglommerative clustering, a minimizedsquare-error method.
Alternative clustering methods have also been compared in this project, but that topicis beyond the bounds of this paper.1'7f LeeNes~um~KerkradeFigure 3: The four most significant dialect groups isolated bu this method correspond to Frisian (northwest,dark), Lower Saxon (northeast,light), Franconian (central, light-intermediate) and Flemish (south, dark-intermediate).Nerbonne, John, Wilbert Heeringa, Erik van denHout,Peter van der Kooi, Simone Otten, and Willemvan de Vis.
1996.
Phonetic distance betweendutch dialects.
In Gert Durieux, Walter Daele-mans, and Steven Gillis, editors, Proc.
of CLIN'95.
Antwerpen, pages 185-202.
Also available ashttp ://grid.
let.
rug.
nl/'nerbonne/papers/dialects.ps.Quinlan, J. Ross.
1993.
C~.5: Programs for Ma-chine Learning.
San Mateo: Morgan Kaufmann.Tait, Mary.
1994.
North America.
In Christo-pher Moseley and R.E.
Asher, editors, Atlas of theWorld's Languages.
Routledge, London and NewYork, pages 3-30.Vieregge, Wilhelm H., A.C.M.Rietveld, and CarelJansen.
1984.
A distinctive feature based systemfor the evaluation of segmental transcription indutch.
In Proc.
of the lOth htternational Congressof Phonetic Sciences, pages 654-659, Dordrecht.I'g
