Scene Direct ion Based Reference In Drama ScenesHi rosh i  NakagawaYokohama Nat iona l  Un ivers i ty79-5 Tok iwada i ,  HodogayaYokohama,  240, Japannakagawa?nak lab ,  dn j .
ynu .
ac .
j pYoshitomo Yaginuma Masao Sakauch iIns t i tu te  of Indust r ia l  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of TokyoRoppong i ,  M inato ,  Tokyo ,  106, Japan{ yaginuma, sakauchi }@sak.
iis.
u-tokyo, ac.
j pAbstractOur research target is reference relationsbetween descriptions of script and an ac-tor/actress who actually plays in the dramascene that correspond to the scene direc-tion which is a part of the script.
Inthis paper, first we analyze sentences usedas the scene directions, and classify them.Then we propose the rules to extract sub-jects and predicates from those sentences.With the extracted subjects and predi-cates, we build the existence/action mapthat explains the situations happening oneach scene.
The existence/action map webuild describes cenes very correctly as forwhether each player appears in each sceneor not.
Our experiment shows that the re-call is around 80% and the precision is over90%.
This means that our system of infer-ring reference relations works well for scenedirections.
Then we develop the scene re-trieval system in which this map is usedto retrieve scenes from the drama videodatabase according to the input query.
Wealso show some experimental results of ourretrieval system.1 In t roduct ionIn conventional multimedia retrieval systems, imagedata are indexed manually because image process-ing technologies have not yet provided us with imageunderstanding methods that are powerful enough toautomatically extract useful indices from image datathemselves.
Then, in order to enhance multimediaretrieval systems, we have to employ other types ofinformation source.
That is why we focus here ondrama scripts that are apparently natural anguagemedia.
However it is obvious that only using scriptsdoes not guarantee ffective retrieval.
The essen-tial point is, of course, the combination of informa-tion from language resource and image data.
Thiscombination can drastically improve the quality andefficiency of multimedia retrieval.
From this pointof view, reference relations between a description ofscript and an actor/actress who actually plays inthe drama scenes that correspond to the script arethe most useful pieces of information for scene re-trieval, and consequently they become our researchtargets.
If we successfully identify this kind of ref-erence, it is a great help for multimedia informationretrieval, especially scene retrieval from data base ofdrama videos.
However the whole script of drama isso complicated that we cannot deal with by today'snatural language processing technologies.
Then weconcentrate our focus here on scene d i rect ions  thatexplain the situation of each scene in the drama, forinstance, actors/actresses' position, movement, andSO on .In section 2 we describe the pieces of informationwhich describe a scene.
In section 3 we explain ournatural anguage processing system that extracts in-formation describing each scene.
There we also showthe experimental results of our natural anguage pro-cessing system.
In section 4, we show some results ofscene retrieval system.
Section 5 is the conclusion.2 Scene Descr ip t ionsEach scene of a drama is characterized by the fol-lowing five types of information.1.
Location of the scene.2.
Time of the scene.3.
Players on the scene.
Actually role name of eachplayer is described in the scene direction.4.
Physical or psychological states of each playerin the scene.5.
Actions of each player in the scene.These types of information are described in thescene direction for individual scene.
States and ac-tions of a player are described basically for each ut-terance or action in the scene direction.
Henceforthwe call a time unit corresponding to an utterance oran action as sub-scene.
As we will show later, a sub-scene is a unit of retrieval.
Then we use the followingclassification i  order to describe ach player's tatusScene Direction Based Reference in Drama Scenes 53on each sub-scene: 1) being absent (ABS), 2) exist-ing(EXI), 3) conversing(CON), and 4)acting(ACT).Acting is further described by the verb used in thescene direction sentence.
Using this classification,we can express the contents of scene such as shownin the table 1 which we call existence~action mapof scene.
The left most column expresses a sequencenumber of sub-scene in the scene.
The second, third,fourth and fifth columns correspond to the status ofeach player whose name is shown in the fourth raw.The sixth column describes the detail of action bythe corresponding verb.Table 1: An example of existence/action mapscene 1Location: Police officeTime: eveningsub Alice Betty John Bill actionscene0 ABS ABS EXI EXIi ACT ACT EXI EXI coming back2 EXI CON EXI EXI conversing3 EXI EXI i CON EXI conversing4 EXI EXI ACT EXI going out5 EXI EXI ABS EXIThis example of existence/action map is inter-preted as follows.
At sub-scene, 0 John and Billexist there.
At sub-scene 1, Alice and Betty comeinto this scene.
Then at sub-scene 2 and 3, all fourpersons are there, and Betty and John speak oneafter another.
At sub-scene 4, John goes out fromthe scene.
Therefore at sub-scene 5 he is no more inthe scene.
This kind of map is used in retrieving theimage data of sub-scene as later described.3 Scene Directions Analysis3.1 Sentence  Pat terns  of  Scene D i rect ionsIn this section, we describe how to extract informa-tion from scene directions in order to build an ex-istence/action map of the scene.
For this purpose,we first characterize the scene directions that areactually restricted Japanese sentences.
Simple sen-tences used as a scene direction are classified intothe following six patterns.
We also show an exam-ple sentences of each pattern:1. sub jec t  , verb  phrase(:) Taroo to Hanako gaand NOMkaette -kuru.come back -kuru'Taroo and Hanako come back.
'In this type of sentence, "ga"(subject marker),"wa"(topic marker) or "mo"(topic marker +'too') are used as a nominative particle.
More-over "ga" and "wa" are sometimes replaced witha comma ",".2. verb  phrase  , sub jec tSoto o miru(2) outside ACC see'Taroo who sees outside.'3.
verb  phraseTaroo.Odorite iru.
(3) surprised being'?
is surprised.'4.
sub jec t ,  noun  phrase(4) Taroo ga hitori.NOM alone'Only Taroo is there.'5.
noun  phrase ,  copu laDenwa dearu.
(5) phone call COPULA'A phone call arrives.'6.
noun  phraseSibaraku-no tinmoku.
(6) for a while silence'No one speaks for a while.
'We employ a very simple pattern matching basedinformation extraction system described later basedon two reasons: 1) The structures of simple sentenceused as a scene direction are limited within thesesix patterns.
2) What we would like to extract fromscene directions in order to build an existence/actionmap is only the following two references.
Namelywho is the subject, and what action or state thereferent of the subject does or is in.
Therefore it isenough to extract the subject and the verb (or 'theverb + the auxiliary verb').3.2 Sub ject  Ext rac t ionSubjects are extracted by matching the patterns Sgenerated by the following rules.ru le 1 P is a proper name or a common noun.ru le  2 P <-- P ","Pru le  3 P +- P "to "P ,  where "to" means 'and' inEnglish.ru le  4 S <-- P ","1 P "ga"l P "wa"l P "me"Here a subject corresponds to P. This rule isfor pattern 1 and 4.ru le 5 S +- P ""This rule is for pattern 2.ru le  6 S +-- P "dearu" I P "da", where "dearu"and "da" are copulas in Japanese.This rule is for pattern 5.54 H. Nakagawa, Y. Yaginuma nd M. SakauchiIt is not necessary to extract a subject from thesentence of pattern 6.
A sentence of this patternusually describes the atmosphere of the scene.
As forpattern 3, we have to infer the referent of omittedsubject, namely zero subject.
We have a plenty oftheories for this purpose including centering theories(Brennan et.
al ,  1987; Kameyama, 1988; Walker et.al , 1994).
Here, however, we employ a very simplerule as follows.ru le  7 The referent of zero subject is the same asthe referent of subject of the previous entence.This rule is a small subset of centering theory, but asyou will see later, it works well to extract a subjectfrom a sentence of scene direction.
We also applythis rule for a complex sentence in which a subjectof main clause is omitted.
Namely the omitted sub-ject is deemed to corefer with the explicit subject ofsubordinate clause.
The reason of this is that 1) ina scene direction, a sequence of actions is described,and 2) in a complex sentence of scene direction, asubordinate clause describes an action or state thathappens prior to the action or state described bythe main clause.
In other words, a subordinate anda main clause of the complex sentence can be re-garded as two consecutive simple sentences.3.3 P red icate  Ext rac t ionAs for pattern 1, 2 and 3, we can extract a predicatejust by extracting a verb or a verb + an auxiliaryverb from the sentence.
In pattern 4, we cannotidentify the exact action or state from the sentence.But at least, we know that there exists a person thesubject refers to.
Therefore a predicate extractedfrom a sentence of pattern 4 is regarded as "exist" bydefault.
We couldn't find any reasonable predicatefor sentences of pattern 5 and 6.
Then we also use"exist" in these patterns as we do in pattern 4.
Insum, we use the following rule to extract a predicatefrom a scene direction.ru le  8 A predicate of the sentence is either a verb (+ an auxiliary verb) used in a sentence of pat-tern 1, 2, or 3, or "exist' in a sentence of pattern4, 5or  6.3.4 Building An Existence/Action MapIn this system, the purpose of semantic interpreta-tion is limited to build an existence/action map fromthe extracted subjects and predicates by the way de-scribed in section 3.2 and 3.3.
For this purpose, thekey element of predicate is the so called directionalauxiliary verb(Kuno, 1978).
There are several di-rectional auxiliary verbs in Japanese.
Among them,the most essential ones for our purpose are "-tekuru"and "-teiku".
The directions indicated by these aux-iliary verbs are defined relative to the position ofcamera.
If "-tekuru" is a part of the predicate ofsentence, a referent of the subject of the sentencecomes into the camera angle and/or is approachingthe camera.
If "-teiku" is a part of the predicateof sentence, a referent of the subject of the sentencegoes away from the camera and probably is out ofthe camera ngle.
The situation is depicted as shownin figure 1.Figure 1: Movement of "tekuru" and "teiku"scenecamera0 ' kuru 'q' iku', ~_In addition, basic verbs, "kuru('come')" and"iku('go')", also express the same type of sense ofdirection as "-tekuru" and "-teiku" do respectively.By these considerations, we drive the following twodefault rules to infer existence or absence of the ref-erent of the subject in the scene.ru le  9 If the predicate of sentence includes an auxil-iary verb "-tekuru" or a verb "kuru", a referentof the subject of the sentence had not been inthe scene beforehand, and just has come intothe scene.ru le  10 If the predicate of sentence includes an aux-iliary verb "-teiku" or a verb "iku", a referentof the subject of the sentence will not exist inthe scene afterward.Of course, these two rules are default rules, andthere are exceptional cases.
For instance, if a sen-tence explicitly describes that Taroo has existed inthe scene beforehand, even though we encounter thesentence thattikayot -tekuru.
(7) Taroo SUB approach'Taroo approaches to here.
', we infer that Taroo has already been in the scene.Or in "-teiku" case, if the sentence:(s)Taroo, ttanako -ni tikayot -teiku.SUB -DAT approach'Taroo approaches to Hanako.
'is followed by the sentence:Taroo Hanako -ni(9) SUB -DATnagur -areru.hit -PASSIVE'Taroo is hit by Hanako.
', then we infer that Taroo is still in the scene afterthe action described by (9).Scene Direction Based Reference in Drama Scenes 55Another exceptional case is that a verb is eitherstative or state change without action.
For instance,the sentence:(10)kaoiro-ga-warukunat -teiku.Taroo SUB become pale'Taroo turns pale.
'indicates that Taroo is still in the scene when helooks pale.
We can identify these kind of verbs, sta-tive and state change without action, with a dic-tionary like IPAL-Basic Verb Dictionary For Com-puter(IPA, 1990).Although the rules and the treatment of excep-tional cases are very important, generally if a sen-tence of scene direction describes that the referentof subject does an action or is in a certain state, thereferent surely exists in the scene.
Another groupof expressions that are frequently used and are im-portant to build an existence/action map are a sta-tive verb "iru('exist')" and its negation "inai('notexist')."
They explicitly show the existence or non-existence of a referent of subject in the scene.
Thenwe have the following two rules.ru le 11 If a sentence describes an action or state,the referent of the subject is in the scene.ru le  12 If "iru" is used as a predicate, the referentof the subject is in the scene.If "inai" is used as a predicate, the referent ofthe subject is not in the scene.These two rules can override the results we inferby rule 9 or rule 10, because rule 9 and 10 are defaultrules and rule 11 and 12 explicitly describe the scene.One question we have here is that if we encounter anegative predicate like "inai", how should we infer.However, in reality, we don't find negative predicatesexcept for "inai" in scene directions, because scenedirections describe what players should do in thescene, and they almost never describe what playersshouldn't do in the scene.
Things not to be done ina scene are usually directed by the human directorof the drama.Now we show an example of existence/action mapbuilt from the following scene directions.
(11) Taroo to Jiro gaand SUBkaet -tekuru.come back'Taroo and Jiro come back.
'Taroo " tadaima "(12) SUB " I 'm home "'Taroo says " I 'm home.
"'(13) Hanako ~ "gokurousan"UB " you did well. "'
I Ianako says " You did well"'(14) to nagusameru.and comfort'and comforts two of them.
'Saburoo tokei -o (15) SUB clock -ACC'Saburoo looks at the clock.
'Saburoo de -teiku.
(16) SUB go out'Saburoo goes out.
'The existence/action map derivedthrough (16) is as follows.sub-scene Taroo Jiro Hanakoactionbefore 11111213141516after 16miru.look atfrom (11)SaburooABS ABS EXI \] EXIACT ABS EXI EXIcome backCON EXI EXI EXIspeakEXI EXI CON EXIspeakEXI EXI ACT \[ EXIcomfortEXI EXI EXI I ACTlook at a clockEXI EXI EXI ACTgo outEXI EXI EXI I ABSWe build an existence/action map by the followingprocedure.s tep  0 Step 1 through step 3 are applied sequen-tially for scene directions in a sentence by sen-tence manner.s tep  1 A sentence of scene directions is analyzedwith the Japanese morphological analyzer JU-MAN(Matsumoto et.
al , 1992) to segment asentence into a sequence of word accompaniedby part of speech tags.s tep  2 The subject and predicate of sentence areextracted using rule 1 through 8.s tep  3 For each player the value of sub-scene,namely, ABS, EXI, CON or ACT, is inferredwith rule 9 through 12.We did build existence/action maps for scene di-rections of five Japanese dramas.
These include asuspense drama, a home drama, a love story, a schoollife drama, and a comedy drama.
Each drama lastsone hour ( including CM time).
The number of thesentence we analyze is 1272.
The first results whichare shown in the table 2 are the rates that step 1/56 H. Nakagawa, Y. Yaginuma and M. Sakauchiand 2 correctly extract subjects and predicates.
Weuse not a parser which is based on phrase structurerules but a simple pattern matching based on rule 1through 8.
Nevertheless these results indicate thatour rules for extracting subjects and predicates workquite well.that even though our natural anguage analysis sys-tem employs a shallow understanding mechanismwhich is easily implemented with today's NLP tech-nologies, it works very well for scene directions.
Thisis a very limited area but useful for scene retrievalsystem, which is a promising application of multi-media information retrieval.Table 2: Rate of correctly extracted subjects andpredicatesdrama 1drama 2drama 3drama 4drama 5correct subjects94.9%82.4%85.8%75.7%83.1%correct predicates98.7%93.1%94.8%94.9%97.2%The main reason of failing to extract a subject isthe failure of inferring the referent of zero subject.The almost all reasons of failing predicate xtractionis the failure of morphological nalyzer.The next results we show are the accuracy of ourexistence/action map.
The key factor for scene re-trieval is whether a specific player appears on thescene or not.
Therefore we focus on how accuratelyexistences and absences, namely EXIs and ABSs, areinferred.
We estimate this with recall and precisionrates defined as follows.#CIrecall - #C~CIprecision -- #iwhere ~CI,  #I ,  and #I  means "number of cor-rectly inferred cases in the map by our rules", "num-ber of cases to be correctly inferred" , and "numberof all cases inferred by our rules" , respectively.
Theresults are shown in table 3, and they are extremelyencouraging ones.Table 3:mapsRecall and precision of existence/actionRecall Precisiondrama 1 86.7% 97.8%drama 2 73.2% 96.8%drama 3 91.7% 91.7%drama 4 87.9% 93.5%drama 5 77.2% 94.4%Our rules derived based on semantics of "-tekuru"and "-teiku" are proven to work correctly in almostall cases.
The remarkable point in these results is4 Scene Retrieval SystemWe develop the scene retrieval system for dramascenes based on an existence/action map.
A sub-scene is a unit of retrieval because players on thescene change in a sub-scene by sub-scene manner asyou see in an existence/action map.
Therefore wehave to find the correspondence b tween a sub-sceneand a set of real image frames.
The multimedia datawe have consist of 1) a sequence of image frames, 2)audio track data, and 3) script of drama includingscene directions.
The temporal correspondence, orin other words synchronization, of these three typesof media data is calculated with DP matching tech-nique we have already developed(Yaginuma, 1993).Owing to these correspondences, we identify each setof frames that corresponds to the each part of dialog.Then we regard a set of sequential frames betweentwo adjacent lines of dialog as the sub-scene corre-sponding to the scene direction.Based on these structures holding among imageframes and sub-scene, we can retrieve an imageframe that corresponds to a query, by the followingprocedure.1.
Input a query that consists of the time, location,player's name and her/his action.2.
Search the sub-scene that matches the condi-tion stated in the input query using the exis-tence/action map.3.
Extract a set of frame which correspond to thesearched sub-scene, and display them on the im-age screen of user's GUI.Our system uses Netscape Navigator as a GUI.The retrieval system is implemented as JAVA ap-plets which work as a CGI.
The following figures arescreen images of GUI of our scene retrieval system.Figure 2 is an introductory screen of GUI of ourscene retrieval system.
In it, introductory scenes ofdrama videos are displayed in every track.Figure 3 is a screen in which several input formsare shown.
Dousanushi('agent' in English) in-put form indicates a list of the players' name,from which we select one of the names.
Thenscenes in which the player of the selected nameexists is searched.
Basho(meaning 'location') and3ikoku(meaning 'time') input forms indicate thelist of locations and the list of times, from whichwe select one value for each as query terms.Dousa(meaning 'action') input form indicates thelist of verbs.
If we select one of them, it comes to be aScene Direction Based Reference in Drama Scenes 57Figure 2: Introductory screen of GUIFigure 3: Forms for query inputterm of the whole query, and specifys a verb appear-ing in the existence/action map.
In Keywordl andKeyword2 input forms we can write other keywordsof retrieval condition.
All these inputs are combinedtogether to be used as one query.
Then the retrievalsystem seeks scenes that meet al these conditions inthe query by consulting the existence/action map.Figure 4 is the result of retrieval.
In the upperarea, the contents of the query are shown.
In themiddle area, retrieved scenes are displayed.
In thebottom area, track number that corresponds to theretrived rama scenes is shown.
In this example, thequery is as follows: player's name is "Yasuura", theaction is "kuru('come')", the location and time arenot specified, and no keywords are given.
Then theplayer whose role name is Yasuura appears in all theretrieved scenes, and he is surely approaching to thecamera in all of the retrieved scenes.
Namely thesystem successfully retrieves the scenes that meetthe query.Figure 4: The retrieved scenes by the query input ofFigure 35 Conc lud ing  RemarksIn this paper, we analyze sentences used as the scenedirection, and classify them.
Then we propose therules to extract subjects and predicates from them.With the extracted subjects and predicates, we buildthe existence/action map that shows the situationshappening on each scene.
The existence/action mapwe build describes scenes very correctly, namely therecall is around 80% and the precision is over 90%.This means that our system of inferring referencerelations works well for scene directions.
Then wedevelop the scene retrieval system in which this mapis used to retrieve scenes from the input query.
Wealso show some experimental results of retrieval.Our system is based on very simple linguisticrules.
Therefore we expect hat it is possible to im-prove the quality of retrieval by hiring more rules.However more sophisticated linguistic rules and pro-cessing mechanism are the open problem.6 AcknowledgementsThis work is supported in part by the Grant-in-Aidfor Creative Basic Research: Multi Media MediationMechanism, of the Ministry of Education, Science,Sports and Culture, Japan.ReferencesSusan Brennan, Marilyn Walker Friedman and CarlPollard.
1987.
A Centering Approach to Pro-nouns.
In Proceedings of25th Annual Meeting ofACL.
pages 155-162.IPA.
1992.
Dictionary for Computer of BasicJapanese Verbs(IPAL).
Japan Information Pro-motion Association, Tokyo.58 H. Nakagawa, Y. Yaginuma nd M. SakauchiMegumi Kameyama.
1988.
Zero Pronominal Bind-ing: Where Syntax and Discourse Meet.
InW.
Poser, editors,Japanese Syntax, pages 47-73,CSLI, Stanford, CA.Susumu Kuno.
1978.
Danwa no Punpoo (Syntax ofDiscourse).
Taishuukan, Tokyo.Y.
Matsumoto and S. Kurohashi and T. Utsuro andH.
Taeki and M. Nagao.
1992.
User's Manual ofJapanese Morphological Analyzer: JUMAN ver-sion 2.0.
Kyoto University, Kyoto.Marilyn Walker and Masayo Iida and Sharon Cote.1994.
Japanese Discourse and the Process of Cen-tering.
Computational Linguistics, 20-2, pages193-232.Yoshitomo Yaginuma and Masao Sakauchi.
1993.Moving TV Image Analysis Based on MultimediaFusion Focusing on Extracted Common Concepts.The proceedings of IEEE International Conferenceon Industrial Electronics'93, IEEE.
