Tailored Patient Information: Some Issues and QuestionsEhud ReiterDept of Computing ScienceUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen AB24 2TNBRITAINereiter@csd.abdn.ac.ukLiesl OsmanDept of Medicine and TherapeuticsUniversity of AberdeenAberdeen AB9 2ZDBRITAINl.osman@abdn.ac.ukAbstractTailored patient information (TPI) systemsare computer programs which producepersoualised heath-information material forpatients.
TPI systems are of growing interestto the natural-language generation (NLG)community; many TPI systems have alsobeen developed in the medical community,usually with mail-merge technology.
Nomatter what technology is used, experienceshows that it is not easy to field a TPIsystem, even ff it is shown to be effective inclinical trials.
In this paper we discuss omeof the difficulties in fielding TPI systems.This is based on our experiences with 2 TPIsystems, one for generating asthma-information booklets and one for generatingsmoking-cessation letters.1 IntroductionTailored patient information systems are computerprograms which generate personalised medicalinformation or advice.
There are a growing numberof natural-language generation (NLG) projectswhich fall into this category, such as (Buchanan etal., 1995; Cawsey et al, 1995).
There have alsobeen several projects in the medical communitywhich used mail-merge technology to producepersonalised medical information, such as (Veliceret al, 1993; Campbell et al, 1994).
We are alsoaware of one mail-merge TPI system that is usedcommercially (seehttp:Hwww.commitedquitters.com), although it isunclear whether this system is genuinely effective ormerely a marketing immick.In this paper, we discuss some of the practicalissues and trade-offs involved in building tailored-patient information systems (henceforth referred toas TPI).
This discussion is partially based on ourexperiences in two projects: GRASSIC, a TPIsystem for asthma booklets which was provenclinically effective but nevertheless never deployed;and a newer project to generate personalisedsmoking-cessation letters.
We believe that thepoints we raise apply to other TPI systems as well,and perhaps also to other NLG applications.The rest of this section gives some generalbackground on TPI systems.
Section 2 introducesthe two specific systems mentioned above.
Section3 discusses some specific issues which affectdeployment, and is the heart of the paper.
Section 4gives some concluding comments.1.1 Tailored patient informationTPI systems generate personalised letters, booklets,hypertext, or other text-based documents forpatients (or other health-care consumers).
Tailoringis based on information about he patient, some ofwhich may be extracted from a standard PatientRecord System (PRS) database.
TPI systems can bebased on NLG or on simpler mail-mergetechnology; this is an engineering decision (Reiter,1995), based on what functionality is desired.TPI systems are usually intended to change itherthe behaviour or mental state of a patient.
Forexample, TPI systems can be used to help peoplestop smoking (Velieer et al, 1993); to increasecompliance with a treatment regime (Osman et al,1994); or to reduce anxiety in patients (Cawsey andGrasso, 1996).
Usually these goals are stated inclinical terms, and the effectiveness of the TPIsystem is evaluated in a controlled clinical trial.292 Our Projects2.1 GRASSICThe GRASSIC system (Osman et al, 1994) usedmail-merge techniques to generate personalisedasthma-information booklets.
Personalisationmainly consisted of making local changes in thedocument; style and overall document structurewere not affected.
For example, whenever thebooklets discussed medication, they only mentionedthe medication prescribed for the target patient;whenever they discussed side-effects, they onlymentioned side-effects associated with theprescribed medication; and so forth.
An attemptwas also made to avoid terminology and namesunfamiliar to patients; for example, commercialnames were used for medication, instead ofscientific names.
Although mail-merge t chnologywas used, care was taken to avoid the usual "fill-in-the-blank" form-letter look.Despite its simple technology, a clinicalevaluation showed that GRASSIC was successful inreducing hospital admissions among severe asthmapatients.
Indeed, severe asthma patients whoreceived the GRASSIC material had half of thenumber of hospital admission as control patientswho received non-personalised material.
Thus,GRASSIC improved the health and quality of life ofits patients; it also saved the health serviceapproximately ?500/patient/year by reducinghospital admissions.
These figures imply that ifGRASSIC was deployed throughout Scotland, itcould save the health service perhaps ?5,000,000per year; deployment throughout the UK might savean order of magnitude more money.Even though it was clinically effective, however,GRASSIC was never fielded.
Instead, when thestudy was finished the non-personalised booldetswere rewritten based on a better understanding ofpatient needs that was one result of GRASSIC.Also, a single page was added at the front of thebooklet where a health professional could(manually) write in the details of a personalmanagement plan for this patient; this required afew minutes at most, and was typically done duringa Consultation with the patient.Why was GRASSIC not fielded?
Partly this wasdue to classic technology-transfer issues.
Forinstance, the team which developed GRASSIC wasa research group, and did not have the skills andresources necessary to turn the prototype into afieldable system; this would have requireddeveloping better user interfaces, making the codemore robust, writing manuals and other supportingdocumentation, helping users install the system, andso forth.
Furthermore, there was no existingdevelopment team whose remit covered GRASSIC'sfunctionality, and hence which GRASSIC couldnaturally be transitioned to.Another problem was that the developers wereconcerned that doctors would be reluctant to useGRASSIC, because it was a new technology and didnot deliver dramatic and visible benefits toindividual medical professionals.
That is, whilefielding GRASSIC might provide significant benefitto the health service as a whole, from theperspective of an individual doctor, who dealt withmany kinds of patients in addition to peoplesuffering from severe asthma, the effect of usingGRASSIC was a relatively small reduction in thetotal number of his or her patients admitted tohospital.
Given the natural reluctance of manypeople to adopt new technology, the developerswere worried that doctors would in practice bereluctant to learn about and use GRASSIC, even ffits use Was recommended by the health service.Because of these problems, the development teamdecided to go for the alternative approach ofimproved non-personalised material, plus a limitedamount of manual personalisation.
No clinicalevaluation was done of the alternative approach, butstudies elsewhere (such as (Lahdensuo et al, 1996))have demonstrated the effectiveness of manually-written personal management plans.
The manualapproach was probably less effective at reducinghospital admissions than the tailored-materialproduced by GRASSIC, but it could be implementedwith the skills and resources available to thedevelopment team, and furthermore fit much morenaturally into the.
current working practices ofScottish medical professionals..It may seem odd, incidentally, to discuss a mail-merge system in a workshop devoted to NLP, but webelieve that the fielding/deployment issues thatarose with GRASSIC are likely to affect any TPIsystem, regardless of which technology it is basedon.2.2 Smoking-cessation lettersMore recently, we have begun working on a TPIsystem which generates personalised smoking-cessation letters, and which uses some NLGtechnology (Reiter et al, 1997).
Personalisafion isbased on an "Attitudes Towards Smoking"questionnaire which patients fill out.
This project is30still at an early stage, but we want to be sure that itcan be deployed if it proves effective in clinicaltrials.
Hence we have been trying to develop abetter understanding of deployment issues of TPIsystems, in the hope that this will help us design thesystem in an appropriate fashion.3 Deployment IssuesIn the course of thinking about why GRASSIC wasnot fielded, and how to build the smoking-letterssystem so that it can be fielded, we have identified anumber of specific issues.
We believe these apply insome manner to all TPI systems, and perhaps toother types of NLG systems as well.3.1 Cost-EffectivenessPerhaps the most obvious real-world considerationfor TPI systems is cost-effectiveness.
No one isgoing to use a TPI system unless it is cheaper thanhaving "a person manually write letters, explainpatient records, etc, In the medical setting, moneywill not be spent on TPI unless it is seen as beingeffective in improving clinical outcomes forpatients, and/or saving money for the health service.We will examine both GRASSIC and oursmoking--cessation letters system by this criteria.Incidentally, a general rule of thumb in AI andother advanced computing applications i that suchsystems need to have a pay-back period of 2-3 yearsat most, with I year being preferable.If we look at GRASSIC first, there are threecomparisons that can be made:?
GRASSIC vs. non-personalised booklets: Aspointed out above, GRASSIC has the potentialto save the Scottish health service severalmillion pounds per year (assuming that doctorsare willing to use the system), which means thatits development, fielding, and deployment costswould probably be paid back within a year.?
Manually-tailored vs. non-personalised booklets:We have no data on the effectiveness of themanually-tailored booklets, but our best guess isthat they capture most but not all of the benefitsof GRASSIC.
Since fielding and deploymentcosts for these booklets are minimal, the pay-back period for using the manually-tailoredbooklets is very short.?
GRASSIC vs. manually-tailored booklets: Withthe above assumptions, the pay-back period forGRASSIC compared to the manually-tailoredbooklets could be more than 3 years.In short, when compared to the alternative of themanually-tailored letters, GRASSIC may not meetthe "pay back within 2-3 years" criteria for cost-effectiveness.
A big caveat here, though, is that thisassumes that the manually personalised letters areeffective at reducing hospital admission rates forsevere asthmatics; if this is not the case, thanGRASSIC does meet he cost-effectiveness rule.For the smoking-letters system, it is hard toestimate the monetary value of helping someonequit smoking, but since smoking a pack a day cancut life expectancy by 5 years (Austoker et al,1994), we would hope that society places a benefitof at least ?10,000 on a successful cessation.
We donot yet know if our smoking-cessation letters areeffective, but if they are successful in convincing2% of smokers to quit, that will mean a benefit oScottish society of several hundred million pounds,which exceeds likely deployment costs by almost 2orders of magnitude.
The 2% goal, incidentally, isbased on the observation that 5% of smokers willquit following a brief consultation with their GPs onsmoking-cessation (Austoker et al, 1994).
Hence,if our system can convince ven a small number ofsmokers to quit, it should easily meet cost-effectiveness goals.3.2 Acceptability o Medical ProfessionalsMost TPI systems are formally evaluated in terms oftheir impact on patients.
However, no TPI systemis going to be used in the real-world unless it is alsoacceptable to doctors and other health-carepractitioners.In particular, one issue that comes up in both ofour systems is whether individual doctors (or othermedical practitioners) perceive nough benefit fromthe systems to make it worth their while to gothrough the effort of installing and learning how touse the system.
An issue here is that although manyyounger doctors in Scotland enjoy using computersand are quite keen to try new computer tools, someolder doctors are less enthusiastic about usingcomputer-based systems, unless they provide veryclear and tangible benefits.
Of course, thepercentage of "computer-friendly" doctors shouldincrease over time, as the older generation of pre-computer doctors retire.As mentioned in Section 2.1, this was a majorconcern with GRASSIC; since using GRASSICwould only result in a small reduction in thenumber of patients each doctor sent to hospital,there were real doubts as to whether doctors wouldbe willing to make the personal investment required31of their time and energy to use the system.Furthermore, using GRASSIC required a significantchange in the way doctors interacted with severeasthma patients.
The alternative approach ofmanually customising (improved) booklets, incontrast, did not require doctors to learn newcomputer skills, and fit much more naturally intothe existing procedures for managing asthmapatients.The attitude of doctors as again an issue insmoking-cessation.
For instance, as mentionedabove, research shows that brief consultations withGPs will help 5% of smokers quit; but yet few GPsregularly make such consultations.
This is largelybocausc from a GP's perspective, it is hard toremain excited and motivated about a technique thathas a 95% failure rate.
This is one of the reasonswhy we believe it is sensible to try to automate thisadvice-giving in a computer letter-generator;computers, unlike people, do not get discouraged ifthey fail in 95% or cvcn 99.99% of cases.Of court ,  there is a real possibility that doctorswill be reluctant to make the effort to install ourletter-generation system.
After all, even if it issuccessful in achieving a 2% cessation rate, fromthe point of view of an individual medicalpractitioner, this translates into a very smallreduction in the number of his or her patients whosmoke.
Partially for this reason, wc arc exploring anumber of alternative fielding possibilities for oursystem, including through GP offices, via healthpromotion services (such as telephone hclplincs),inside hospital clinics, and as a service provided byemployers.
Again it is very early days in ourproject, but we hope that by exploring severalfielding possibilities, we can find one where there ismaximal willingness to use our system.Finally, a fairly obvious point is that individualswill be most willing to use a TPI system if thebenefits of the system accrue to them as well as tothe health service as a whole.
For example, GPswill probably be more willing to use our smoking-letters ystem if the health service rewards them forlowenng smoking rates, or gives them smoking.~cessation targets.
From this perspective,incidentally, it may well be that most acceptablemedical application of NLG is not TPI, but rathersystems which help doctors author routinedocuments (discharge summaries, for example); insuch cases the benefits to the individual using thesystem are much clearer.3.3 Amount of lnformation NeededAnother important issue for TPI systems is theamount of information they need about patients inorder to successfully tailor the documents, andwhether this information can be extracted fromexisting data sources, such as Patient RecordSystem (PRS) databases, or whether it needs to beentered just for the TPI system.
A TPI systemwhich requires no extra data will probably be moreacceptable to users, since they do not have to spendany time entering information in order to use thesystem.
Similar observations have been made inother NLG projects, e.g., (Reiter et al, 1995).The GRASSIC system obtained all its patientinformation from a PRS system; it did not nccd toacquire additional information for tailoringparposes.
However, the PRS system used in theclinic where GRASSIC was developed wasrelatively advanced.
It is not clear whether PRSsystems in other Scottish clinics would also containsufficient information to support GRASSIC'stailoring.
Also, the fact that different sites usedifferent PRS systems increases the complexity ofinstalling GRASSIC in a site.The smoking-letters system, in contrast, requiresextensive information to be entered for tailoring;patients must fill out a 4-page questionnaire abouttheir attitudes towards smoking before the systemcan be used.
We are trying to develop ways to makequestionnaire entry as easy (and as error-proof) aspossible, but the need to enter this information is asignificant cost to using the system.
On the otherhand, because the smoking-letters system makesminimal use of PRS data, it does not need to becustomised to the specifics of each site's PRSsystem, and hence will have a lower installationcost.The amount of patient-information available toTPI systems should increase over time, as PRSsystems become both more comprehensive and morestandardised.3.4 Risk and Impact of MistakesIt is probably inevitable that documents produced bya real-world TPI system will sometimes containmistakes.
This may be a consequence of problemsin the tailoring data (for example, incorrect PRSentries or patient questionnaires); it may also be aconsequence of bugs in the software.In some cases mistakes may not be important.For example, ff mistakes slightly roduce theeffectiveness (via inappropriate ailoring) of a letterencouraging smoking cessation, this is acceptable as 32long as the TPI system still has sufficient overalleffectiveness.
If mistakes can lead to medicallyharmful advice, however, this is a serious problem.There are a number of solutions to this problem,none of them ideal.
These include?
Documents can be reviewed by doctor or nursebefore being sent to patients; this was theprocedure used in GRASSIC.
This maysignificantly decrease the attractiveness of thesystem, if the amount of doctor-time required isnon-trivial.
Human review may not be possiblefor interactive hypertext systems, such asMigraine (Buchanan et al, 1995) or Piglet(Cawsey et al, 1995), which generate texts "ondemand" when requested by patients.?
The TPI system can include disclaimers andwarnings in its texts.
For instance, tailorednutritional advice which includes recipes(Campbell et al, 1994) could also includewarnings uch as do not use this recipe if youare allergic to dairy products.
Such disclaimerswill significantly reduce the "personalised"aspect of the generated texts, however, which isthe whole purpose of TPI systems.?
The TPI system may be designed so thatdocuments do not contain specific advice orinstructions.
For example, the smoking-letterssystem could stress facts (e.g., have you realisedthat you are spending ?100 per month onsmoking) or motivational stories (e.g., Manyother single mothers have managed to quit.
Forexample Jane Doe...) instead of advice (e.g.,Start jogging to lose weight).
Of course, if theTPI system is communicating a treatmentregime (medication, diet change, etc.
), then thisapproach will not be possible.We have not yet decided which of the aboveapproaches touse in our smoking-cessation system.Another possibility is to simply accept thatmistakes will occur.
Doctors, after all, occasionallymake mistakes, and perhaps the right goal forcomputer systems is not "be perfect" but rather"make mistakes less often than doctors".
However,in current medical contexts, computer systems areheld to a much higher standard than doctors.
If adoctor gives bad advice that causes a patient obecome sick, this is regrettable but hardly news.However, if a computer system does the same, evenon just one patient out of thousands, it may causethe system to be withdrawn from service.4 ConclusionsTPI systems are likely to be of increasing interest ohealth care providers.
They clearly work to somedegree, and they should become more effective asthey start using more advanced technology, such asNLG.
However, it is not sufficient for a TPI systemto be clinically effective in order to be fieldable; italso needs to be cost-effective, acceptable toindividual users (patients as well as medicalpractitioners), have low data-entry costs, andincorporate a satisfactory solution to the mistakesissue.
This is a daunting set of requirements, andmay explain why although many TPI systems havebeen developed in the lab, few have been fielded.We hope that a better understanding of theseissues will help TPI developers (includingourselves) produce systems that are more likely tobe deployed and used in the real world.
We believethat TPI technology has the potential to make a realimpact on health, especially given the increasingimportance of life-style and compliance issues; goodhealth is mostly a function of actions and decisionstaken by patients, not by health-care professionals.But this potential will only be realised if we canbuild systems that are not only technologicallyingenious and clinically effective, but also are easyto deploy and use.We would like to conclude by saying that webelieve that these fielding problems will decrease inthe future.
In particular, cost-effectiveness shouldincrease as technology improves; acceptance amonghealth-care professionals should become easier asmore such people become computer literate andfriendly; data-entry should become less of a problemas PRS systems become richer and morestandardised; and people may become more tolerantof computer mistakes if they adopt the "makemistakes less often than a doctor" criteria.
So, inten years time it should be much easier to deploy aTPI system; all the more reason for researchers towork today on developing appropriate technologyand identifying good applications.ReferencesJ.
Austoker, D. Sanders, and G. Fowler.
1994.Smoking and cancer: smoking cessation.
BritishMedical Journal 308:1478-1482.B.
Buchanan, J. Moore, D. Forsythe, G. Carenini,G.
Banks and S. Ohlsson.
1995.
An intelligentinteractive system for delivering individualizedinformation to patients.
Artificial Intelligence inMedicine 7:117-154.33M.
Campbell, B. DeVellis, V. Strecher, A.Ammerman, R. DeVellis, and R. Sandier.
1994.Improving dietary behavior: the effectiveness oftailored messages in primary care settings.American Journal of Public Health 84:783-787.A.
Cawsey, K. Binsted and R. Jones.
1995.Personalised explanations for patient education.In Proceeding of the 5th European Workshop onNatural Language Generation, pages 59-74,Leiden, The Netherlands.A.
Cawsey and F. Grasso.
1996.
Goals and attitudechange in generation: a case study in healtheducation.
In Proceedings of the ECAI 96Workshop "Gaps and bridges: new directions inplanning and natural language generation, pages19-24, Budapest, Hungary.A.
Lahdensuo, T. Haahtela, J. Herrala, T. Kava, K.Kiviranta, P. Kuusisto, E. Per~k i ,  T. Poussa,S.
Saarelainen, and T. Svahn.
1996.
Randomisedcomparison of guided self management andtraditional treatment of asthma over one year.British Medical Journal 312:748-752.L.
Osman, M. Abdalla, J. Beattie, S. Ross, I.Russell, J.
Friend, J. Legge, and J. Douglas.1994.
Reducing hospital admissions throughcomputer supported education for asthmapatients.
British Medical Journal 308:568-571.E.
Reiter.
1995.
NLG vs. templates.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 95--105, Leiden,The Netherlands,.E.
Reiter, C. Mellish, and J. Levine.
1995.Automatic generation of technicaldocumentation.
Applied Artificial Intelligence9:259-287.E.
Reiter, A. Cawsey, L. Osman, and Y. Roff.
1997.Knowledge acquisition for content selection.
InProceedings of the 1997 European Workshop onNatural-Language Generation, pages 117-126,Duisberg, Germany.W.
Velicer, J. Prochaska, J. Bellis, C. DiClemente,J.
Rossi, J. Fava, and J. Steiger.
1993.
An expertsystem intervention for smoking cessation.Addictive Behaviors 18:269-290.34
