IA software for language education and rehabil itationof autistic-like childrenE l i sabeth  Godber t ,  Pasca l  Mouret ,  Rober t  Pasero ,  Mon ique  Ro lber tLaborato i re  d ' In format ique de Marseil leCNRS and Universit~ de la M~diterran~e163 Avenue de Luminy, Case 90113288 Marseil le Cedex 9, France{godber t ,  mouret ,  pasero ,  ro lber t  }@1 im.
un iv -mrs ,  f rAbst rac tWe present the EREL system, a thera-peutic software for the education and therehabilitation of children suffering fromlanguage disorders, especially devoted to"autistic-like" children.
This system isbased on the generic ILLICO software, anatural anguage system for analysing andsynthesising sentences, and guiding if nec-essary their composition.
ILLICO com-bines two principles: modularity in the rep-resentation of knowledge defined at the dif-ferent levels of language processing, andsentence composition using partial synthe-sis and guided composition.
We first de-scribe the ILLICO system, and show howits two characteristics are relevant for thedevelopment of communication aids.
Thenwe describe the functionality of the ERELsystem.
Finally, we go into the details ofan activity proposed by the software, anddescribe some specific elements of NLP re-quired for its development.1 In t roduct ionWe describe here the EREL system, a therapeu-tic software devoted to the Education, Rehabilita-tion and Evaluation of Language devoted to childrensuffering from language (and then communication)disorders, and especially devoted to "autistic-like"children.
In addition to their difficulties to expressthemselves verbally, many of these children sufferalso from cognitive and/or motor disorders whichmake graphic or written expression difficult, and of-ten make these persons keep socially apart (Ornitz,1974) (Manrer and Damasio, 1982).
But, given amotivating context, an individualised surroundingenvironment and materials, some of these childrenmay be able to exteriorise capacities which had hith-erto remained mute.For more than ten years, a large amount of re-search has been carried out in the field of communi-cation rehabilitation for handicapped persons, andtechnical aids known as "communication aids" havenow been developed with some success.
They canuse "communication bords containing words (whosequantity, i.e.
vocabulary, depends on the capacitiesof the user), graphic representations (pictures andphotos, hierarchies of pictures, e.g.
TEACCH pro-gram widely used in USA), written communication,synthetic voices.
They aim to compensate he loss ofcommunication for people without he use of speech.The use of computers as an intermediary has beenseen as a natural extension of the use of classicalcommunication aids; it may enable to bypass thedifferent handicaps temporarily at least, and to com-pensate for the problems with language and motric-ity (Garoux et al , 1989) (Howlin, 1989).The EREL system, described here, is an applica-tion of research in the domain of natural languageprocessing and especially of the development ofnat-ural language interfaces, and has been designed ina collaboration with medical staffs (doctors, psy-chologists, etc.)
specialised in the treatment of chil-dren suffering from developmental disorders (such astypical and atypical autism, or childhood psychosis)(Godbert, 1996).
The system provides a set of edu-cational play activities illustrated through multime-dia technology and designed to stimulate and helpusers to employ common language to express them-selves within a specific context.The development of EREL is based on the FrenchILLICO system, a generator for various natural an-guage processing systems which provides aset of lan-guage processing tools using computational linguis-tic techniques making it possible to produce text in a"guided mode" (Pasero and Sabatier, 1994) (Pasero59and Sabatier, 1997).
We will show that this modeis of great relevance to communication aids for thedisabled.In part 2, we describe the ILLICO system.
In part3, we mention the state of the art in the domainof communication aids for autistic hildren, and weshow why ILLICO is relevant to the development ofsoftware devoted to the rehabilitation fpersons uf-fering from language disorders.
The functionality ofEREL is described in part 4.
Part 5 goes into all thedetails of an activity proposed by the software, anddescribes some specific elements of NLP required forits development.2 The  I LL ICO sys temThe ILLICO system is a generic system for natu-ral language processing (NLP).
It provides a set ofNLP  tools making it possible to develop various ap-plications, such as intelligent natural language in-terfaces for databases, communication aid systems,computer assisted teaching or learning systems, etc.ILLICO has been designed from the following twoprinciples:1.
Modularity in the representation f knowledgedefined at the different levels of language pro-cessing (lexical, syntactic, semantic, concep-tual, contextual levels);2.
Sentence composition using partial synthesisand guided composition.Modularity in knowledge representationThe different types of linguistic knowledge are inde-pendently encoded in separate modules; this ensurestheir portability, and makes easier their updates andinteractions:- a lexicon contains expected words and expres-sions;- a grammar specifies the expected sentence struc-tures and the grammatical greement;- a set of semantic omposition rules produce se-mantic representations from the syntactic rules ofthe grammar;- a conceptual model specifies, in terms of rela-tions, the world of the application;- a contextual model specifies the objects intro-duced in the preceding sentences.Guided composit ion of sentencesThe kernel of the ILLICO system carries out an in-teractive processing of natural anguage, based onpartial synthesis, which checks the well-formednessof the produced sentences as the user goes on com-posing the sentences.
This checking is simultane-ously done at all the levels of well-formedness: theconstraints defined at the different levels are corouotined (i.e.
taken into account in a "parallel-like"way), in an algorithm which runs either in parsingor in synthesis.Sentence composition using partial synthesis enablesthe system to offer the possibility to generate sen-tences in a "guided mode".
In this mode, the useris guided while he produces text: at each step ofthe composition of a sentence, the system synthe-sises and displays the words and expressions thatcan be used to continue the sentence and that willlead to a well-formed sentence.
The guided composi-tion mode enables the development of user-friendlyinterfaces in which errors on the domain of the appli-cation never occur, and in which non-expected (i.e.incorrect) expressions are never used (Pasero andSabatier, 1997) (Pasero and Sabatier, 1994) (Mil-haud, 1994) (Godbert et al, 1993).3 Us ing  I LL ICO for a rehabilitationsys temWhat is the state of  the art in the domain ofAAC for autistic persons ?We have carried out a survey in the field of cur-rently available communication aids for autistic per-sons, to try to determine the qualities and short-comings of these systems.
In fact, the interna-tional state of the art in this domain is ratherpoor.
We can mention "Speaking Dynamically","Boardmaker" (Mayer-Johnson, USA) as well as"Talk:About" (Don Johnston, USA).
These systemsuse boards and picture communication symbols tocompose picture sentences, ome of them use a setof predefined sentences.
We must also mention the"Facilitated Communication" method, which almsto help the user to use a keyboard of a computer toexpress himself by words and sentences.
But Facili-tated Communication is devoted to persons who arephysically unable to communicate, but do not have adifficulty with communication at the cognitive level.We must also note that ordinary computer assistedlanguage learning systems can seldom be used byautistic persons for they require intuitive cognitiveknowledge which is often lacking in autistic persons.Why is ILL ICO relevant o the developmentof a language rehabil itation software ?First of all, we think that the two characteristics ofILLICO described in part 2 are big assets for thedevelopment of a language rehabilitation software:60I?
In the guided mode, the user is led step by stepduring the construction of each sentence.
This al-lows him to compose rapidly, with minimal cog-nitive load, sentences which are always correct ateach level; this ensures also that the system neverjams, i.e always "understand" what the user says.So the user doesn't become discouraged by fruitlessattemps.
The guided mode allows to begin rehabil-itation as soon as possible, even for very young orseriously disabled children.?
The modularity of ILLICO is also a great asset,because it makes:it easy to define various exercisesabout language with different levels of difficulty: byusing linguistic modules (lexicon and grammar) withbroad or restricted coverage, by allowing or not theguided mode, we Obtain a lot of different exercises,among which one; can choose the one which is suit-able for each user's capacities.?
Moreover, the ILLICO system, through the mod-ularity of its knowledge bases (defined at every levelof well-formednesS), makes it possible to propose dif-ferent steps in the language acquisition or rehabili-tation process:- a lex ica l  step which proposes exercises that allowacquisition of words and expressions of language inagreement with the subjects proposed;- a syntact i ca l  step which allows the acquisition ofgrammar rules by controlling the syntactic orrect-ness of sentences;- a conceptua l  step which allows the user to acquirecommon sense rules by controlling the semantic or-rectness of sentences;- a contextua l  step which makes it possible for theuser to learn how to link sentences with the "real"world; at this step, the system verifies that the sen-tences make reference to objects actually presentin the world; this arises in particular when usingpronominal references or definite descriptions.From the survey we have made of the existing soft-ware in AAC, we are convinced that the sound tech-niques from artifiCial intelligence and computationallinguistics provided by the ILLICO system are veryinteresting and innovative in the field of communi-cation aids for autistic persons: in the elaborationof our language rehabilitation software described be-low, our method has consisted in adapting existingtechnical solutions (graphic interfaces, etc.)
to theneeds of autistic users, by integrating ILLICO's tech-nology.
We believe that the language systematic n-teractions (between lexicon, syntax and semantics)carried out by ILLICO are crucial for the treatmentof language and cognitive disorders, i.e.
can helpusers to improve their language and cognitive skills.In what follows, we first describe the functionality ofour EREL system, then we detail one of the activ-ities proposed, and describe some specific elementsof NLP required for its development.4 Functional description of ERELThe El:tEL system provides a set of user-friendly ed-ucational play activities (logic games or scenarios),designed from communication a d language trainingand learning exercises, and designed to stimulate,encourage, and help users to employ common lan-guage to build up an everyday language dialogue ininteraction with the system, within a modular andmultimedia context.
Generally speaking, users willbe able to express themselves on the subject pro-posed by the activity, with the assistance ofthe sys-tem (guided composition O f sentences) or freely (freecomposition).
The software has been designed as amulti-level and multi-user system: a system flexi-ble enough to be adapted and to respond to specificneeds according to the user's kills, which depend onhis level of language and cognitive development, andhis degree of autonomy.The set of activities proposed by ERELThe activities to be chosen are dialogues on scenar-ios or on logic games:?
In the first case, a scenario is illustrated by a pic-ture or a photograph; the user comments on withsentences describing what he sees on the screen.
Pic-tures are a medium for language, and allow a child toenter a world by playing.
The objective of this kindof activity is to incite the user to build simple sen-tences on a theme, and to develop the child's abilityfor naming, categorising or generalising an idea.?
The second activity concerns dialogues on logicgames based on pictures or puzzle pieces.
Users playby means of sentences: on one hand, they may com-pose orders to achieve a goal (for example to movea piece of a puzzle), or they may comment on theprogress of the game.
The aim of this activity is theverbalisation of the action.
The idea is to encouragethe children to use language for doing tasks compos-ing a logical sequence of actions.These various activities are especially designed tohelp medical staffs in the evaluation and the reha-bilitation of the users' abilities to:61- Associate a word with a picture, generalise aconcept, an idea,- Work on space locating and logical constructions,illustrated by pictures and by the movement of puz-zle pieces on the screen according to the actions ex-pressed by the users.All this work is carried through a common languagedialogue.Various working modesThe El:tEL system has a modular architecture,which allows to select the linguistic complexity ofthe activity, for a gradual work: each activity uses,among a set of available grammars and lexicons ofgradual complexity, those from which the sentencesWill be constructed.
It is therefore possible to usethe system for the education of children with dif-ferent levels of development, attention or readingskills.
Besides, for each activity, the system pro-poses a set of functionalities responding to differentrequirements and competence l vels, in accordancewith the work that is expected to be done by theuser.
The working modes can be:- Discover linguistic components (the lexicon, theconceptual model, etc.
), to enable users to famil-iarise themselves with words and concepts.- Produce text related to the scenario or gamecomponents.- Study the logical representation f the sentences'semantics: for some of the proposed activities, thesystem provides a graphic representation f the se-mantics of the resulting sentences (i.e.
their under-lying meaning), using a simple and logical graphicformalism.
In the opinion of the doctors we haveconsulted about this project, this access to a seman-tic representation f the sentences i extremely in-teresting with regard to the treatment of cognitivedisorders.The operating modes and interfacesThe input/output devices are defined to respond tothe users' needs to the best, and to optimise their in-teractions with the system.
In the guided mode, thesoftware is operated by means of a series of graph-ics selections on the screen.
The system can be usedwith or without an assistant, depending on the user'sautonomy.
Besides, the software is a real multime-dia system, each activity being illustrated throughseveral coordinated methods: writing sentences onthe screen and synthesising them orally, graphic rep-resentation on the screen.
This multimedia natureof the software means that the different media arecoordinated and organised in a coherent way, andthis seems to be a crucial point for persons with lan-guage, cognitive and motor disorders.5 Example: an exercise proposed byERELPresentationOne of the exercises proposed by the software con-sists in putting and moving objects on a board.
Achild has a stock of objects that he can put on achecker board, permute, move or stow away.
Hegives orders to the system using natural anguagesentences and he can see immediately on the boardthe effects the sentences have.
In addition to the lin-guistic learning, this type of exercise makes it alsopossible for the child to develop his capacity to lo-cate himself in the space.
The interface looks likethis:Son AcUvlte Nlvoou ?onlrolntosSuites possibles :I $ 4 S&!
?AII~sorlllleI s ton II Continued"E-change le  cargo no l r  avec le  fond  ...Figure 1: Example of a logic game in ERELHere, in the French version, the user has begun asentence Echange le carrd noir avec le fond... (Per-mute the black square with the circle...) and the sys-tem, according to the contextual situation, proposesthe possible words to be selected: blanc, gris, noir(white, grey, black).Here are some examples of sentences correspondingto different levels of difficulty:- Permute the grey circle with the black triangle.- Put the white circle in the square A5.- Put the white triangle under the pawn which isin the square B4.- Put the grey triangle at the left of the pawn whichis situated under the pawn which is ...The different levels that we have defined correspondto levels of difficulty lying in the linguistic forms pro-posed (broader and broader coverage and finer andfiner sentences decomposition i  the guided mode)and, in parallel, to an extension of the cognitive pos-sibilities (in particular, in space locating).62Concerning linguistic forms, the system proposes,for example, graduated ways to designate objects:- At the simplest level, an object is necessarily des-ignated by its shape and its color (the black circle)and plurals are not allowed.- At higher levels of difficulty, the use of relativeclauses is allowed and an object can be designatedby its position (the circle which is in the square A3);plurals (the circles) and the generic word pawn arealso allowed.- Finally, the Use of pronouns (in particular, cliticpronouns like in put them in the square A3) makesit possible to designate objects referentially.Concerning space locating, several evels are alsopossible to point out a square or a position.- A first level proposes to point out a square sim-ply by clicking on it; then, the system completes thesentence of the ttser with a noun phrase correspond-ing to the expression of the position designated thatway.- At higher levels, a square can be identified by itsposition on the checker board or by its content (thesquare which contains the black round).
At first, thepositions are absolute (the square A4), then relative(at the left of the square A4, above ...).Concerning composition within the guided mode, wehave defined two levels: a first one, where the wholesyntagms are not decomposed and are consideredas final expressions of the grammar, and a secondone where the decomposition is made at the level ofthe words.
In the first case, the child has to choosefirst of all a verb (put), then, if necessary, a wholenoun phrase (the black triangle), and then, if neces-sary, another whole noun phrase (in the stock).
Thismode is only possible in the case where the linguisticcoverage is reduced (no relative, for example) and itis very useful for the child to discover the abilities ofthe system.Some techn ica l  po in tsThe linguistic levels proposed in this exercise do notcreate any problem as for the linguistic surface formswhich are very simple.A grammar has been developed which describes thehighest level of difficulty.
In order to compute lowerlevels of grammars, ome rules of this grammar canbe dynamically switched off according to the valueof a global variable coding the level chosen by theuser.
A lexicon and a set of semantic ompositionrules have been developed and are used in the sameway.The conceptual model describes the world of the ap-plication in terms of domains of objects and possi-ble relations between them.
In order to take intoaccount spatial expressions like above the square B4or at the left of the pawn which..., we have speci-fied which objects can be categorised as a place andwhich ones cannot.
Following (LePesant, 1996),we think that not all the words which can appearin spatial expressions are places, but only some ofthem like square, stock.
This allows us to distin-guish between the correct spatial expression in thestock and the incorrect (according to our applica-tion) one *in the triangle.
In order to describe theconceptual features of correct expressions like abovethe triangle, we consider this sort of prepositions asfunctions which, applied to an object which is nota place, give a place as result: thus, the expressionabove the triangle can be used with a verb like putwhich requires a place as a complement (put the greycircle above the triangle).Some forms need a more elaborated semantic pro-cessing and, in particular, definite descriptions likethe black circle, the pawn which is at the left of thesquare which contains the black triangle.
Following(Russel, 1905) and (Strawson, 1950), we considerthat a definite description refers to one and only oneobject in the context.
In the type of applications de-scribed here, the object so designated must be iden-tified by the system in order to act on it and theconsequences of the action upon the object must betaken into account in the representation f this ob-ject in the context.
All these operations are madeby the contextual module.
Moreover, as we exposedin (Mouret and Rolbert, 1996), the treatment ofdefinite descriptions when used in the guided mode,introduces particular constraints: because the sys-tem must propose correct sentences only (and be-ginning of correct sentences only), it has to know asearly as possible (and actually in advance) which def-inite descriptions are correct according to a partic-ular context.
These constraints require the systemto apply specific processes to the context in order toknow which objects can be designated by a definitedescription and which cannot: if there is no such ob-jects in the context, then no definite description canbe produced.
If such objects exist in the context,the system can produce definite descriptions whichmust agree with the description of these objects.Finally, the actions underlying the sentences have tobe computed; their treatment introduces the generalproblem of the "semantics of actions".636 ConclusionIn this paper, we have presented EREL, a languageeducation and rehabilitation system for autistic chil-dren, developed from the generic ILLICO system.This software fully uses the natural language pro-cessing techniques provided by ILLICO, and in par-ticular the principles of modularity and guided com-position.
We have shown why guided composition isespecially relevant o the development of communi-cation aids, and how the use of ILLICO makes it pos-sible to develop software which can help users to im-prove their language and cognitive skills.
More par-ticularly, we have detailed through an example howthe modularity of ILLICO allows us to define severallanguage rehabilitation exercises which have differ-ent levels of difficulty from a linguistic and cognitivepoint of view.
The development phase of EREL hasshown that the particularities underlying this typeof applications can easily be incorporated inside IL-LICO.The system is intented to be evaluated through theclinical and cognitive volution of the children, firstby medical personnel who will use standard evalu-ation methods, and also by the families, who willbe able to daily test the appropriateness of the sys-tem for their children.
Until now, it has not beenpossible to carry out a several months evaluation ofthe expected therapeutic effects on the population:presently, a medical team just begins to use a proto-type of the system with autistic-like and psychoticchildren.
'7 AcknowledgmentsThe ILLICO project has been partially funded bythe French Ministate de la Recherche, and ConseilRdgional Provence-Alpes-CSte d'Azur.
The ERELproject is partially funded by the Conseil Gdndraldes Bouches-du-RhSne.caion du traitement automatique du langage na-turel.
Technical report LIM, Marseille, France.P.
Howlin.
1989.
Changing approaches to communi-cation training with autistic children Br.
Disord.Commun., 24.D.
Le Pesant.
1996.
Un dictionnaire des noms com-muns de lieux.
Technical report LLI and Univer-sitd d'Evry, France.R.G.
Maurer, and A.R.
Damasio 1982.
Childhoodautism from the point of view of behavioral neu-rology.
Journal of autism and developmental dis-orders, 12, 2.G.
Milhaud 1994.
Un environnement pour la com-position de phrases assistde.
Thse de doctorat,Laboratoire d'Informatique de Marseille, Univ.Aix-Marseille II.P.
Mouret, and M. Rolbert 1996.
Referring to theContext in a Guided Composition System Pro-ceedings of the Discourse Anaphora and AnaphorResolution Colloquium (DAARC96), pages 507-518, Lancaster University, England.E.M.
Ornitz 1974.
The modulation of sensory inputand motor output in Autistic children.
Journal ofautism and childhood schizophrenia, 4,3.R.
Pasero, P. Sabatier 1994.
ILLICO for NaturalLanguage Interface Language Engineering Con-vention, (LEC).R.
Pasero, and P. Sabatier 1997.
ConcurrentProcessing for Sentences Analysis, Synthesis andGuided Composition.
to appear in Lecture Notesin Computer Sciences, Springer.B.
Russel.
1905.
On denoting Mind, pages 479-493,14.P.F.
Strawson.
1950.
On referring, Mind, pages320-344, 59.Re ferencesR.
Garroux, M. Bonvarlet, and Chalsemartin.
1989.L'ordinateur l'dcole et l'hpital de jour.
Revuel~ranaise de Psychiatrie, 2, February.E.
Godbert, R. Pasero, and P. Sabatier.
1993.Natural Language Interfaces: Using ConceptualConstraints.
in G. Salvendy and M.J.
Smith(eds.).
Fifth International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (HCI'93) , Orlando, Else-vier, August.E.
Godbert.
1996.
Rddducation du langage t de lacognition chez des enfants handicapds : une appli-64
