Profet, A New Generation of Word Prediction:An Evaluation StudyAlice CarlbergerJohan CarlbergerTina MagnusonM.
Sharon HunnicuttSpeech, Music and Hearing, KTH100 44 Stockholm, SwedenSira E. Palazuelos-CagigasSantiago Aguilera NavarroIngenieria ElectronicaUniv.
Politecnica de MadridCiudad Universitaria s/n28040 Madrid, Spain{a l i ce , johanc , t ina ,sher i}@speech .k th .se  {s i ra ,agu i le ra}@die .upm.seAbst ractProfet, a word prediction program, hasbeen in use for the last ten years as awriting aid, and was designed to acceler-ate the writing process and minimize thewriting effort for persons with motor dys-function.
It has also proved to be bene-ficial in spelling and text construction forpersons with reading and writing difficul-ties due to linguistic impairments.
Withhigher linguistic demands on support forindividuals with severe reading and writingdifficulties, including dyslexia, the need foran improved version of Profet has arisen.In this paper, the new functionality willbe presented, and the possible implicationsfor support at different linguistic levels willbe discussed.
Results from an evaluationstudy with individuals with motoric dys-function and/or dyslexia will be presentedat the workshop in Madrid.1 Funct iona l i ty  o f  the  Cur rentVers ion  o f  P ro fe tWord prediction systems h&ve existed since the early1980s and were originally intended for the motori-tally disabled but later also' for persons with linguis-tic impairments.
Several different word predictionmethods exist: Prediction can either be based ontext statistics or linguistic rules.
Some predictionprograms also adapt to the user's language by us-ing subject lexicons or learning modules.
Amongthe first to develop word prediction programs forthe PC were KTH with Predict (later Profet) (Hun-nicutt, 1986) and ACSD with PAL (Swiffin et al1987) (Arnott et al 1993).
Programs for the Macin-tosh include Co:Writer, which is distributed by DonJohnston, Inc.Profet is a statistically based adaptive word pre-diction program and is used as an aid in writingby individuals with motoric and/or linguistic dis-abilities, e.g., mild aphasia and dyslexia (Hunni-cutt, 1986), (Hunnicutt, 1989a).
The program hasundergone several stages of development at KTHsince 1982 and runs on PC  and Macintosh with In-fovox and Monologue speech synthesis.
It is usedin Sweden (Profet) and Great Britain (Prophet)but is also being localized into Danish, Bokm~(Norwegian), Dutch, Spanish, French, Russian, andFinnish.
Upon typing at least one letter at the be-ginning of a word, the user is presented with a listof up to nine suggestions of likely word candidates.A word is chosen with the function key indicatedto its right.
However, if the intended word is notamong the choices, the user can type the next let-ter of the target word, at which point he or she ispresented with a new list of suggestions in the pre-diction window.
Each time another letter is typed, anew list will be displayed, provided there is a matchin the lexicon.
A list of word suggestions is also pre-sented after completion of a word, if that word isthe first word in a pair in the bigram lexicon.
How-ever, when the user starts to type a new word, thepredictor, being restricted to one information sourceat a time, solicits only the main lexicon, thus ignor-ing any previously typed word.
The negative effectof this restriction is counterbalanced to a certain de-gree by the recency function, which, after each spaceand punctuation, records the word just completed.In this manner, a recently used word is promotedin the prediction list the next time the first letter(s)is/are typed.By selecting words in the prediction window, themotorically disabled user can economize keystrokesand physical energy.
Similarly, the user who has dif-ficulties spelling but is able to recognize the intendedword in a list, is relieved of having to spell the wholeword.
However, the user who has problems with de-23coding can elect to have the prediction list spokenby the speech synthesizer, which can also speak let-ters, words, sentences or paragraphs written by theuser.The present version of Profet is strictly frequency-based and solicits three information sources, one ata time, namely, the main lexicon with some 10,000word unigrams; the word bigram lexicon containingapproximately 3000 reference words with up to ninefrequency-ordered successors each; and the user lex-icon, which adapts the main lexicon with the user'sown words and words that have a rank exceeding1000.
Moreover, the user can create his own subjectlexicons for classification ofvocabulary according totopic, e.g., music, computers, and stamp collecting.2 Tes t ing  the  Cur rent  Vers ion  o fP ro fe tFirst of all, a study conducted by a speech pathol-ogist with a number of subjects will be presented.Then follow two quantitative studies without sub-jects.Profet, previously called Predict, has been eval-uated for several years, initially together with indi-viduals with slow and laborious writing stemmingfrom a motoric dysfunction.
As slow writing speedis often believed to be a very important issue forindividuals with motoric impairments, its main pur-pose was to accelerate the writing process.
In aneffort to systematically investigate he aid providedby this program, a study was conducted in whichtime-saving and effort-saving were chosen as param-eters.
Time-saving was measured as the number ofoutput characters produced uring a given time, andefficiency as a decrease in the number of keystrokesfor a given text.
Eight persons with motor disabili-ties participated in the study, six with cerebral palsyand one with a muscular disease, two of them alsoevidencing writing difficulties of a linguistic nature.A "single-case design" was used.
Prior to intro-duction of word prediction to the writer, a baselinewas established during repeated sessions with textswritten without any writing support.
This made itpossible to compare texts written with vs withoutProfet.
The baseline test consisted of two tasks: a)to copy from a given text and b) to write about atopic that was chosen freely before the test began.Tests of the same type were then administered atthree separate sessions with two months of trainingbetween each test.The degree of improvement relating to speed andefficiency was found to vary considerably among sub-jects depending on their underlying writing abili-ties and which strategies they employed.
With sub-jects A and B, the number of characters in text perminute increased and the total number of keystrokesdecreased, as expected.
Subject C, however, wastoo fast a typist to benefit from the program.
Sub-ject D, who was not extremely slow, felt that theprogram helped her because it forced her to use amore efficient yping strategy.
For subject E, whowas extremely slow and very easily exhausted, theprogram had only begun to have an effect but wasexpected to continue to improve performance evenafter the study had ended.
However, contrary toour expectations, subject F, who had a severe mo-tor disability, showed no improvement.
For subjectG, the only difference was decreased writing speed.Lastly, although the improvements exhibited in sub-ject H were small, they motivated him to increasehis writing significantly.In summary, the results of this first study indi-cate that a) there was most often a reduction ofkeystrokes, which meant less effort; b) a reduction inthe number of keystrokes did not necessarily meana savings in time; c) the writing strategy had tobe changed ue to a higher cognitive load on thewriting process, i.e., the time-saving gained by fewerkeystrokes was consumed by longer time looking forthe right alternative, which involved shifting one'sgaze from the keyboard to the screen and back tothe keyboard, then having to make a decision andhit the right key; d) speed was not the most im-portant aspect o the user, but the effort-saving (astyping is often very laborious for a person with amotor impairment; one comment was: "I get lessexhausted when I write with Profet"), and the pos-sibility of producing more correct exts; e) the writ-ten texts were often better spelled and, on the whole,had a better linguistic structure, which was an un-expected, positive finding; f) a typical Profet errorthat occurred was when the subject chose an incor-rect prediction (This type of error, where the wordis spelled correctly but completely unrelated to thecontext, gives the text a bizarre look, and the textactually ends up being more unintelligible than if theword had merely been misspelled.
However, the im-provement in spelling outweighs this problem); andg) the possibility of adding speech synthesis to theother functions of Profet was an important and help-ful feature to severely dyslectic individuals.
The im-plication of these findings is that the effect and effi-ciency of a writing aid of this type to a great extentis dependent upon the underlying writing strategyand skills of the user.Two subjects that participated in the speed en-hancement evaluation study turned out to have se-24Ivere writing difficulties at different linguistic levels:the character level (spelling errors), morphologicallevel (agreement and occasional inflection errors),and syntactic level (incorrect word order, poor gram-matical variability and incorrect handling of func-tion words).Of the two subjects who had difficulties withspelling and text construction, one showed substan-tial improvement and the other showed moderateimprovement but reported a significant difference inease of writing.
These results indicated the power ofprediction techniques as linguistic support for writ-ing and stimulated the interest for the present focuson use of word prediction for persons with readingand writing difficulties and/or dyslexia.
In a follow-up study, the potential to use the program as a sup-port for spelling and sentence construction was alsoinvestigated by comparing spelling and word choiceas well as qualitative aspects uch as intelligibilityand general style.
Subsequent s udies have includedindividuals with writing difficulties due to linguisticand/or dyslectic difficulties as well.
In these lin-guistically oriented studies, the focus has been onspelling and morphosyntactic improvement or strat-egy changes.
Qualitative aspects of the texts, such asintelligibility and stylistics, were judged by readersuninitiated as to the purpose of the study.
To sum-marize the findings from this follow-up study: theuse of Profet resulted in considerably better spelling,not much morphological improvement, inclusion ofthe usually non-existent function words, and morecorrect word order as well as positive subjective x-periences uch as "Profet helps me write more inde-pendently.
"Recently, two strictly quantitative comparativestudies without subjects were also performed.
In thefirst one, which was a preliminary test conducted atour laboratory, the Swedish, British English, Dan-ish, and Norwegian versions of Profet were run au-tomatically with a statistical evaluation programon text excerpts approximately 6000 characters inlength.
The results are presented in Table 1, wherePreds is the number of suggestions presented in theprediction window, Chars the number of charactersin the text, Keys the number of keystrokes requiredwith word prediction, and Saved the keystroke sav-ings expressed as a percentage of the number ofkeystrokes that would have been required, had wordprediction ot been used.
As can be seen, keystrokesavings range roughly from 33% to 38% for 5 predic-tions, and from 35% to 42% for 9 predictions.
Thecross-language variations in the results could stemfrom several factors, one undoubtedly being an un-fortunate non-reversible character conversion errorfor "?
", which, for Danish, resulted in predictionswith the letter "o" and, for Norwegian, no predic-tions, for words with this character.
A more lin-guistically valid factor would be differences in mor-phosyntactic language typology.
For instance, thelower keystroke savings in Swedish compared to En-glish might be explained in part by the fact thatcompounding (the formation of a new word, i.e.,string, through the concatenation of two or morewords) is a highly productive word creation strat-egy in Swedish, but not in English.
Another fac-tor might be the difference in test text style, theSwedish consisting of adolescent literature with asizable amount of dialogue, the English of news-paper text from the electronic version of the DailyTelegraph, and the Danish and Norwegian of arti-cles on language teaching.
Likewise, the style of thetexts from which the lexica were built must be takeninto consideration.
The Swedish lexicon was cre-ated from a 4 million-running-word balanced corpusaugmented with a 10,000 word-frequency list and a6,500 high-school word-list.
The English lexicon wasalso built from a balanced corpus of some 4 millionwords, while the Danish was derived from a conglom-erate of some 132,000 running words of newspapertext, prose, research reports, and legal and IT texts.The Norwegian lexicon was created from a 4 million-word corpus with a similar composition.The second study, conducted at the UniversidadPolitecnica de Madrid within the VAESS project,analyzed, on the one hand, keystroke savings ob-tained with different prediction systems that hadbeen tested at various research sites, and, on theother hand, factors affecting keystroke savings (Seealso Boekestein, 1996).
The lack of standardizationof test conditions prevented any cross-linguistic orcross-product omparison of keystroke savings.The predictors included in the study were theDutch (Boekestein, 1996) and Spanish (VAESS ver-sion) versions of Profet, and JAL-1 and JAL-2 forSpanish.
Results from a test by Higginbotham (Hig-ginbotham, 1992) of five word prediction systemswere included as well; the systems were EZ Keys(Words, Inc.), Write 100, Predictive Linguistic Pro-gram (Adaptive Peripherals), Word Strategy (Pren-tke Romich Company & Semantic Corporation), andGET, all of which seem to have been tested on Amer-ican or British English.
Keystroke savings for thesesystems are presented below.Factors affecting keystroke savings are test textsize, test text subject (lexicon coverage), predic-tion method, maximum number of prediction sug-gestions, method for selecting prediction sugges-tions, amount of time needed to write the test text,25Legend:LanguageSwedishSwedishBritish EnglishBritish EnglishBritish EnglishBritish EnglishPreds Chars Keys Saved6068 4057 33.1%6068 3934 35.2%5 41079 41075 26409 2640Dan~h 5 4853Danish 9 4853Danish 5 3315Danish 9 3315NorwegianNorwegian5 41125 2619Norwegian 9 6731Preds = maximum number of prediction suggestionsChars = number of characters in test textKeys = number of keystrokes required with word prediction2577 37.3%2429 40.9%1682 36.3%1610 39.0%3254 32.9%3112 35.9%2060 37.9%1909 42.4%2648 35.6%1720 34.3%4117 38.8%Saved = keystroke savings in percent of keystrokes required to write test text without word predictionTable 1: Keystroke Savings with the Swedish, British English, Danish, and Norwegian Versions of Profetand type of interface.
An example is the differ-ence between an interface with automatic row-and-column scanning, which requires two keystrokes toselect a letter, and an interface with linear scan-ning and keystrokes on a keyboard, which requiresonly one keystroke per letter.
Differences in mor-phosyntactic typology should logically also influ-ence keystroke savings.
Relevant examples are in-flectional paradigm size and word order flexibility.Spanish, for instance, has both a significantly argerverb inflection paradigm and a freer word order thanEnglish.Keystroke savings are here presented for the vari-ous prediction systems.
First of all, with the Dutchversion of Profet, they varied between 35% and 45%,depending on the setting of the test parameters.
In?
the testing of the Spanish VAESS version of Profet,savings were 50.34% - 51.3% for texts with lengths of2300 - 3100 characters and the number of predictionsuggestions set to 5.
With the number of sugges-tions set to 10, the savings were 53.71% - 55.14%.
Itshould be noted that the test texts belonged to thesame corpus from which the lexicon had been built,thus assuring good lexicon coverage.
For perfectadaptation of lexicon to test text, maximum savingsof around 70% were obtained.
The input methodused was linear scanning.
Testing JAL-1, JAL-2for Spanish with frequency-based prediction yieldedsavings of 56.55% and 60.61%, with the number ofpredictions set to 5 and 10, respectively.
Testing thesame system with syntactic prediction with automa-ton yielded savings of 57.83% and 61.63 % with 5 and10 predictions, respectively.
With syntactic predic-tion based on the char parsing method, the savingswere 58.47% with 5 predictions and 61.84% with 10.Information on test text size was unavailable for thissystem.
For the following five predictors, no infor-mation on test conditions was available: EZ Keys45%, Write 100 45%, Predictive Linguistic System41%, Word Strategy 36%, and GET 31%.3 Why a New Vers ion  o f  P ro fe t?The current project started in July 1995 and origi-nated through the search for new applications, thedesire for more accurate prediction and enhancementof the pedagogical spects of the user interface.
Thegoal of our research is a grammatically more accu-rate prediction, psychological user support, and in-tegration with spellchecking developed by HADARin MaimS, Sweden, into a writing support ool fordyslexics.
The project is funded by the NationalLabour Market Board (AMS), The Swedish Handi-cap Institute (HI), and the National Social InsuranceBoard (RFV).4 Hypothes isOur hypothesis i  that certain aspects of the disabledindividual's writing will improve with the appropri-26Iate use of, and training with, the new version of Pro-let with its augmented functionality.
The purposeof this study is to find out a) if the user's spellingcan be improved further by integrating Profet witha spellchecker, b) if the user's use of morphology (in-cluding the presence of required endings, the choiceof endings and degree of agreement) improves withextension of scope and addition of grammatical tags,and c) if the subjects will approve of the predictionsto a higher extent after incorporation of semantictags.Test results of a first version of the new Profetshow an increase in keystroke savings compared withthe current version.
(See Testing the New Ver-sion of Profet  below).
However, as previously men-tioned, there is also a qualitative, non-quantifiableaspect o writing that has to be evaluated.5 Description of the New Version ofProfetTo date, the modifications of the prediction systeminclude extension of scope, addition of grammati-cal and semantic information as well as automaticgrammatical tagging of user words.
To accommo-date the weighting of multiple information sources,the strictly frequency-based program has been re-placed by one based on probabilities.
Furthermore,an efficient lexicon development algorithm has beendeveloped, facilitating the creation of new lexica,from either untagged or grammatically tagged text.The word lexicons (unigrams and bigrams) werecreated with the new lexicon creation algorithm froma union corpus of the 300,000-word subset of theStockholm-Ume~ Corpus (SUC) 1, while awaiting theforthcoming 1 million-word final version, and a 150million-word conglomerate of electronic texts 2, in-cluding running text from newspapers, legal docu-ments, novels, adolescent literature, and cookbooks.For comparison with the present version of Profet,the size of the new lexicons was set to 7000 wordsand 14,000 bigrams, respectively.Grammatical  and/or semantic knowledge hasbeen used in advanced systems worldwide since theearly 1990s (Tyvand and Demasco, 1993) (Guenth-net et al 1993) (Guenthner et al 1993a) (Booth,Morris, Ricketts and Newell, 1992) and has provenable to increase communication rate (Arnott et al1993) (Tyvand and Demasco, 1993) (Le Pdvddic andICurrently available on CD-ROM through the Euro-pean Corpus Initiative (ECI).2Sources: Spr~kdata 24 million words, SRF Tal& Punkt 37 million words, GSteborgsposten 5 millionwords, and Pressens Bild 100 million words.Maurel, 1996).
The grammatical information thatwas added to our system consisted of a set of 146grammatical tags based on that of SUC.
The tagstatistics for the database were derived from theSUC subset.
Tag unigram (146), bigram (5163), andtrigram (43,862) lexicons were created with the samelexicon-creating algorithm as the word lexicons.
Theinclusion of trigrams involved an extension of scopecompared with the current version of Profet.
An-other new feature is the automatic grammatical c as-sification of user words, which is based on n-gramstatistics.Thirdly, a tentative ffort was made to incorporatesemantic information about he noun phrase into theprediction algorithm.
Four semantic ategories wereestablished for nouns and adjectives: inanimate, an-imate, human, and inanimate behaving as human,an example of the latter being "company" as in "Thecompany laid off 20% of its employees."
The unigramword lexicon was then hand-tagged and predictiontests run, with vs without semantic information.
Asstated earlier, the addition of semantic informationwas not motivated by a desire for further keystrokesavings (Hunnicutt, 1989b).
Rather, the goal wasto promote coherent thinking in the writing processby demoting semantically incongruous word choices.As expected, fewer of these words appeared in thelist of suggestions, and no keystroke savings weregained.
In fact, the results exhibited a 1% decreasein savings, which seems to have two explanations.First of all, the addition of semantic tags increasedthe total number of tags from 146 to 338, resultingin sparser training data.
Secondly, the semantic tag-ging was done statically, i.e., each word received oneand only one semantic tag, independent of context.A large percentage of the words belonged to all fourcategories.
It would therefore be useful to expandthe semantic lassification system.6 Testing the New Version of Profet"Preliminary quantitative tests of the new predictionsystem were run with an evaluation program devel-oped at the laboratory.
This was done without vswith an increasing number of grammatical tag types:(1) unigrams, (2)unigrams and bigrams, and (3) un-igrams, bigrams, and trigrams.
The test texts con-sisted of two types: a 10,000-word section of a novelof which the rest was used in the development ofthe lexicon of the predictor, and a 7500-word collec-tion of essays written by students at the StockholmInstitute of Education and not used in the lexicondevelopment.
Each of the text types was dividedinto a 1000-word section and a 5000- word section,each of which was contained within the larger.
The27test results seem to indicate that the most signifi-cant keystroke savings are furnished by the gram-matical bigrams: at least 7.4% over the grammat-ical unigrams, whose minimum savings amount toa mere 3.1% compared to prediction without anygrammatical information.
The most substantial sav-ings are scored by the grammatical bigrams in thefour largest exts: 27.3% - 33.6% in the essay texts(non-lexicon-corpus) and 16% in each of the noveltexts (lexicon corpus).
Unexpectedly, grammaticaltrigrams do not appear to add more than 1% in sav-ings, at the most, over bigrams.
However, furthertesting is needed.
They are expected to at least beof a qualitative value to the user.In our present study, the aim of which is the com-parison between the current and new versions of Pro-fet, a test design similar to the one described in thetwo evaluation studies above will be used.
A base-line based on their current method of writing will beestablished prior to the introduction of the new Pro-let version.
Test tasks will include dictation and freewriting.
The subjects must be linguistically compe-tent enough to benefit from the different features ofthe new version of Profet, i.e., able to make a choice.When the inflections of a specific word are presentedvisually or aurally, the subject must be able to dis-tinguish between the forms and make the correct se-lection.
Two subjects with motoric dysfunction andreading and writing difficulties and five persons withdyslexia will participate in the evaluation of the newversion.
The two subjects with motoric dysfunctionhave participated in the earlier studies and are wellacquainted with computers and writing support.
Abaseline based on the current version of Profet hasalready been established.
Our goal, then, is to com-pare texts written by these two individuals with thecurrent vs new version, respectively, of Profet.
Thefive subjects with dyslexia have reading and writingdifficulties as their main problem.
Therefore, speedand efficiency will not be studied.
Tentative resultsfrom the Profet evaluation will be presented at the?
workshop in Madrid in July 1997.Re ferencesArnott, J., Hannan, J.M., and Woodburn, R.J.1993.
Linguistic Prediction for Disabled Usersof Computer-Mediated Communication.
In TheSwedish Handicap Insitute, editor, Proceedings ofthe ECART2 Conference, section 11.1.
Kommen-tus, Stockholm, Sweden.Boekestein, M. 1996.
Word Prediction.
M.A.
thesis, Department of Language and Speech,Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen, the Nether-lands, August 1996.Booth, L., Morris, C., Ricketts, I.W., and Newell,A.F.
1992.
Using a syntactic word predictor withlanguage impaired young people In H.J.
Murphy,editor, Proceedings of the California State Uni-versity, Northridge (CSUN), 7th Annual Confer-ence on Technology and Persons with Disabilities,Los Angeles, California, USA, pp.
57-61, Office ofDisabled Student Services, California State Uni-versity, Northridge, California, USA, 18-21 March1992.
\[ CP RC /Ref.JLA /MAAO0068.004\]Guenthner, F., Krfiger-Thielmann, K., Pasero, R .
,Sabatier, P. 1993.
Communication Aids for Hand-icapped Persons In The Swedish Handicap Insti-tute, editors, Proceedings of the ECART2 Confer-ence, Stockholm, 1993, sect.
1.4.Guenthner, F., Langer, S., Krfiger-Thielmann, K.,Pasero, R., Sabatier, P. 1993.
KOMBE.
Commu-nication Aids for the Handicapped.
CIS Report92-55, Munich, Germany.Higginbotham, D. J.
1992.
Evaluation of keystrokesavings across five assistive communication tech-nologies.
In Augmentative and Alternative Com-munication, 8, pages 258-272.
At the web site ofthe National Center to Improve Practice (NCIP),http://www.edc.org/FSC/NCIPHunnicutt, S. 1986.
Lexical Prediction for a Text-to-Speech System.
In E. Hjelmquist and L.-G.Nilsson, editors, Communication and Handicap:Aspects of Psychological Compensation and Tech-nical Aids.
Elsevier Science Publishers, Amster-dam, Netherlands.Hunnicutt, S. 1989.
ACCESS: A Lexical AccessProgram.
In 12th Annual Conference of RESNA,pages 284-285, New Orleans, Louisiana, June 25-30.
RESNA Press, Washington, D.C.Hunnicutt, S. 1989.
Using Syntactic and SemanticInformation in a Word Prediction Aid.
In Eu-rospeech 89, Vol.
1, pages 191-193, Paris, France.Le P~vddic, B. and Maurel, D. 1996.
La prddictiond'une catdgorie grammaticale dans un syst~med'aide h la saisie pour handicap~s.
Actes TALN,Marseille, France.Swiflln, A.L., Arnott, J.L., and Newell, A.F.
1987.The use of syntax in a predictive communicationaid for the physically impaired.
In Steele/Garrey,editors, Proceedings of the Tenth Annual Confer-ence on Rehabilitation Technology, pages 124 -126.
RESNA Press, Washington, D.C.Tyvand, S. and Demasco, P. 1993.
Syntax statis-tics in word prediction.
In The Swedish Handi-cap Insitute, editor, Proceedings of the ECART2Conference, section 11.1.
Kommentus, Stockholm,Sweden.28
