Pragmatics and AAC approaches to conversational goalsJohn TodmanDepartment of PsychologyUniversity of DundeeDundee, DD1 4HNScotland, UKj.
t odman@dundee,  ac.
ukNorman AimApplied Computing DivisionUniversity of DundeeDundee, DD1 4HNScotland, UKnalm@mic,  dundee, ac.
ukAbstractThe modelling of pragmatic features ofnatural conversation to help AAC usersachieve a range of social conversationalgoals is considered in relation to the devel-opment of an AAC system based on textpre-storage and retrieval.
Problems facingdesigners of AAC systems are highlightedin the hope that insights from NLP maycontribute to solutions.1 Conversational goalsPeople have a variety of implicit and explicit goalswhen engaging in conversation, among which abroad distinction between social goals and goals con-cerned with "getting things done" can be discerned.For example, Cheepen's (Cheepen, 1988) distinctionbetween transactional goals and interactional goalshas considerable overlap with Hobbs and Evans'(Hobbs and Evans, 1980) ideational and interper-sonal categories.On one hand, transactional and ideational goalsare broadly applicable to contexts in which some-thing external to the conversation is "being done"(e.g.
evolving plans, engaging in a task) and, onthe other hand, interpersonal and interactional goalstend to predominate when the focus is on social as-pects of the conversation itself.
We will use thelabels "transactional" and "social" to refer to thisbroad distinction.Goals concerned with getting things done in theworld, the transactional goals, may range from get-ting a snack prepared to your liking, through plan-ning an outing, to gaining a qualification.
In gen-eral, the successful achievement of such goals willrely heavily on the accurate transmission of infor-mation during the reievant communication episodes.For these "message oriented" goals, as Brown andYule (Brown and Yule, 1983) describe them, preci-sion of meaning in the content of the conversation islikely to be crucial.For social goals, on the other hand, described byBrown and Yule as "listener oriented", precision ofconversational content may sometimes be less impor-tant than aspects of delivery, especially timing.
Aswith transactional goals, social goals may range fromthe immediate, such as enjoyment of a social inter-action or making a favourable impression, to longerterm goals such as the development of relationshipsor self esteem.Short and long-term goals may, of course, both beactive with respect o the same conversation, withshort-term goals contributing to longer-term goals,which, in turn, contribute to very long-term goalssuch as "quality of life" and "self-fulfilment".
Sim-ilarly, conversations are not necessarily exclusivelyconcerned with either social goals or transactionalgoals.
For example, a casual chat may contain trans-actional components such as arranging future jointactivities.
Conversely, a basically transactional con-versation with a shop assistant may include somesocial chat.
Nonetheless, the broad distinction be-tween conversations motivated primarily by socialgoals and those motivated primarily by transactionalgoals can be sustained.2 AAC design approachesFor people who are unable to speak, most high-tech.AAC systems aim to help them to communicate us-ing synthesized speech.
This can be approached ei-ther by means of pre-storing complete phrases readyfor retrieval and output in a subsequent interactionor by constructing phrases at the time they are re-quired during an interaction.
Most current AACsystems have been designed using a predominantlyphrase-construction approach in order to maximizethe flexibility of speech output.
In these phrase-construction systems it is common for some sort ofprediction to be incorporated to ease and speed thetask of entering content and for provision to be madefor storage of a few frequently used messages.It is implicit in this approach that the precision ofexpression attainable with flexible phrase construc-tion at the time a thought occurs is the paramountconsideration.
Pre-storage ofphrases i , in this view,seen as suitable only for passing simple, frequentlyused messages, for very routine exchanges such asgreetings and good-byes and for delivery of non-interactional monologue, as in giving an address.Pre-stored phrases are not generally considered suit-able for the conduct of free-flowing social conver-sation, where it is assumed that subtle nuances ofmeaning need to be constructed as the conversationproceeds in directions that could not have been fore-seen.This view of social conversation may, however,be misleading in its disregard of the range of goalsthat motivate such interactions.
If the main pointof a conversation is simply to enjoy the social in-teraction, it has to be asked whether the conversa-tion will be more enjoyable with long pauses whileeach "ideal" utterance is constructed orwith roughly"appropriate" utterances that are delivered withoutlong pauses preceding them.
Similarly, it may beasked which of these scenarios is more likely to re-sult in an attribution of, say, competence or, in thelonger term, to have a positive effect on an AACuser's elf-esteem, status or independence.Certainly, users of high tech.
AAC systems com-plain more about the slowness of their speech out-put than about any restrictions limiting the preci-sion with which their thoughts can be expressed.This is not just because most users are workingwith phrase-construction systems, which do not im-pose restrictions on precision (except hose due totime constraints).
In a recent study, Todman andLewins (Todman and Lewins, 1996) trained a non-speaking person to use a text storage and retrievalAAC device to engage in free-flowing conversation at?
a rate of output (counting search times) almost 10times faster than her output using her usual phrase-construction system.
The critical finding was thatthe faster her speech output in a particular conver-sation, the more pleasurable that conversation wasrated by both the user and her conversational part-ners.
This is consistent with what is known of thedisruption caused by long pauses in natural conver-sation (McLaughlin and Cody, 1982).Another feature of natural conversation that hasan important bearing on which general approach tothe design of AAC systems (i.e.
phrase-constructionor phrase-storage) is more likely to help users toachieve their conversational goals is the imprecisionof much conversational content.
Wyer and Gruen-feld (Wyer and Gruenfeld, 1995) argue, for example,that "if-then" production rules suffice to produce ac-ceptable routine responses to many of the things aconversational partner may say, and Langer (Langer,1978) provides evidence that carefully considered,precise responses are the exception rather than therule.
Responses need to be "appropriate" but theydo not need to be "ideal" or precise to meet partic-ipants' goals in much social conversation.People who are unable to speak tend to be so-cially isolated.
Social goals are therefore likely tobe particularly salient for them.
Therefore, the de-velopment of AAC devices capable of supporting areasonable approximation to natural social conver-sation should be a high priority for AAC design-ers.
However, casual social conversation, with it'sfree-ranging content and its dependence on speedof responding, presents a considerable challenge.
Itseems reasonably clear that AAC systems based onphrase-construction areunable to meet some of thesocial goals that users are likely to have.
Althoughthere are substantial difficulties to be overcome inthe development of phrase-storage systems, their po-tential for outputting responses relatively quicklysuggests that they may be capable of meeting atleast some of the more immediate social goals ofAAC users.
When the aim is to develop an aid forsocial conversation, there seem to be good reasonsfor adopting a basically phrase-storage approach.A predominantly phrase-storage system will needfeatures that deal with the impossibility of antici-pating precisely what phrases will be needed in asubsequent conversation and with the added diffi-culty of locating stored phrases for output (Lightet al , 1990).
Furthermore, to produce an effec-tive AAC system, even for just social conversation,phrase-construction features will need to be incorpo-rated within the basically phrase-storage system.
Areasonable way of approaching the design issues is toconsider what pragmatic features of natural conver-sation seem to support various goals that the par-ticipants may have, with a view to modelling suchfeatures in the AAC system.3 P ragmat ic  features  o f  natura lconversat ionThe need for responses generally to be appropriateand fast rather than ideal and slow has already beendiscussed.
Sometimes, however, it will be necessaryto generate a unique response.
Recycled, impreciseresponses will not do when specific information is2requested.
Again, participants have to be able tocope with the unexpected.
Generating a unique re-sponse may be one way of doing this but it is by nomeans the only strategy that is effective in naturalconversation.
People frequently respond in a rathergeneral way, make "hedging" comments o gain timeor explicitly defer discussion of the topic to a lateroccasion.The general requirement for speed of outputbears on some other features of natural conversa-tion that are speed-dependent to varying degrees.Co-operative efforts are required to maintain flow,with the orderly development of topic being man-aged by means of topic shifts that are small enoughto maintain continuity, with occasional larger shiftsto establish new directions.
Another way in whichco-operation is evident in natural social conversationis in the sharing of control of topic direction.
Indeed,Cheepen (Cheepen, 1988) has argued that this is adefining feature of interactional (i.e.
social) conver-sation.
Participants in natural social conversationfurther demonstrate heir co-operative involvementwith frequent positive feedback while a partner ismaking an extended contribution to the conversa-tion and by means of repair strategies when thingsgo wrong, threatening breakdown of the conversa-tion.These pragmatic aspects of natural conversationcontribute in different degrees to the various shortand long-term social goals of participants.
It isimportant to incorporate features within an AACdesign which, by modelling such aspects of natu-ral conversation, will help users to pursue their so-cial goals more effectively than has been possible sofar.
The first requirement is to develop a basicallyphrase-storage system that emphasizes speed of out-put and models other speed-dependent features ofnatural conversation (i.e.
maintenance of flow, sharein control, feedback, repair).
This will be particu-larly important for meeting immediate social goals,such as enjoyment of the interaction and creation ofa favourable impression, which is essential if the useris to remain motivated to use the aid to have socialconversation.The next requirement is for design features thatmodel those aspects of natural conversation that areparticularly content-dependent (i.e.uniqueness, ap-propriateness, coping with the unexpected).
Thesecontent-dependent features are needed, togetherwith the speed-dependent features, to meet longer-term goals such as those concerned with the de-velopment of relationships, participation i  activi-ties, status, self-esteem and independence.
Althoughcontent-dependent features of conversation can bemodelled to some extent within a phrase-storageapproach, this will have to be supplemented by aphrase-construction c mponent.The proposed relationships between AAC designapproaches, pragmatic aspects of natural conversa-tion and short and long-term conversational goalsare illustrated in Figure 1.
As an example of howthe design of an AAC system can be guided by thejoint consideration of these variables, the develop-ment of a conversation aid known as "TALK" (Tod-man, Alm, and Elder, 1994) will be described.4 The  TALK sys temThe TALK system was developed in order to ex-periment with a number of ways of achieving con-versational goals more easily using an AAC system.From the development ofa number of previous pro-totype systems, some important lessons had beenlearned.
Ways of providing an AAC user with rapidand effective speech acts for opening and closing aconversation have been devised (Alm, Newell, andArnott, 1987).
The importance of backchannellingin communication has been recognised and a wayof providing quick-fire comments has also been de-veloped (Alto, Arnott, and Newell, 1992a).
Severaldifferent approaches had been taken to assisting anAAC user to handle the central part of a conversa-tion.
A text database of conversational material hasshown the effectiveness of labelling stored items withtheir pragmatic as well as their semantic aspects,but proved difficult o use in practice without ime-consuming construction of retrieval requests (Alm,Arnott, and Newell, 1989).
Attempts to provide adegree of prediction of conversational material haveincluded using narrative sequences (Alm, Arnott,and Newell, 1992b); (Waller, 1992), taking the par-ticipants' personal characteristics and interests intoaccount (Broumley et al, 1990), and using fuzzyinformation retrieval techniques (Alm, Nicol, anctNewell, 1993).From all this work, together with the body of re-search into discourse and conversation, it was ap-parent hat a simple, though partial, model of con-versational interaction could be constructed.
Giventhe incomplete nature of knowledge about conver-sational structure, such a model would of course beat best a good guess, but it could help clarify ourthinking about how to build more effective systemsfor helping AAC users to accomplish conversationalgoals.
The suggested model we have arrived at isshown in Figure 2.The opening and closing of a conversation can bedone according to a fairly well set out routine.
Inthe central part of the conversation, the conversa-AAC approachesphraseconstructionmostcompatiblephrasestoragemost compatiblepragmaticfeatures of conversationuniquenessI.,ro,r--.
}~_ coping withunexpected ~,,pairstaying in touch }short-termGOALS{.h'r.o.ontro} I'mpre--'onJ\[ mSio~t~:~vnc e \] ~ .
{ enjoyment }r projectingr speed 1 L pers?nalitYJmedium-term long-termyr{ relationships \]{ .
.
, .
.
, .
.m }.,.,u.
}?
I r participati?n L in activities 1{independence} I quality 1 of life?
fulfilmentFigure 1: A model inking AAC design approaches, pragmatic features of conversation and user goalstionalist is either speaking or listening.
This is ofcourse an oversimplification, since overlapping talkis in fact the norm.
More accurately, we could saythat the conversationalist  either leading the di-rection of the conversation or is following the otherperson's lead.
When another is speaking, the conver-sationalist needs a quickly available supply of feed-back remarks to express their reactions.
When theconversational lead is being taken, they will need away of speaking on a topic, and changing topics.The TALK system incorporated features from anearlier prototype to handle opening and closing aconversation and giving quick feedback easily (Alm,Arnott, and Newell, 1992a).
With the TALK pro-totype two important new features were introduced:a method of dealing with topic shift, and the inclu-sion of another important category of speech act:context-sensitive comments.The easy handling of topic shift is a major prob-lem for users of an AAC system.
Given the slownessof operation, and the potential complexity of a sys-tem which could handle large amounts of text, somesort of predictive or assistive mechanism will be nec-essary to make topic shifting a realistic possibility.Such a capability would be important for achievingappropriate speed and maintenance of flow.
Also,topic shift is a key method of sharing in the controlof the conversational direction.The TALK system handled topic shift by provid-ing users with three sets of conversational perspec-tives.
The user could shift these perspectives withone activation of an on-screen button.
The perspec-tives were:Person: Me, YouTime: Past, Present, FutureOrientation: Where, What, How, When, Who, Why.By altering one of these perspectives the usercalled up a new set of candidate texts for speak-ing reflecting that perspective.
For example, toshift from a screen displaying content related to howthings had occured in the user's past (me/how/past)to a screen containing content related to how thingsIo -Ivariety of aspects of topic discussion ' /speak ona topicI  ive feedb,ok| to another |~,.
speaker ))Iclosers IFigure 2: A simple and incomplete model of conversational interactionoccurred in the partner's past (you/how/past), the"You" button would be activated.
Making a seriesof these selections took the conversation through thestep-like progression from one topic to another whichcoherent conversations require (Button and Casey,1984).The TALK user had available a set of on-screenbuttons with which to produce quick-fire responsesto what another person was saying.
These assistedin maintaining speed, giving appropriate feedbackto another speaker and being able to effect repairs.The responses available were:AcknowledgeSay yes, Say no, Say don't knowAgree, DisagreeEvaluate good, Evaluate badInterrupt, Say thanks, Ask for expansionSay wait a minute (stall for time)Say a mistake was made in speaking.In order to maximise the speed of response, thesephrases were spoken when the button was activated,without recourse to a menu of possible choices.
Arandom variation was built in to avoid too muchrepetition of exactly the same words.
For example,a set of alternative "acknowledge" responses mightbe "Uh-huh", "Yeah", "I see", "Yeah, yeah", "Yeah,uh huh".
This was in keeping withthe principle thatin this case speed of response was the key issue, andif the phrase was not exactly what was required, anapproximation to the wording needed would in anycase be sufficient.From early trials of the TALK system, the needfor another category of speech act emerged.
Oftenit is important o provide a comment which doesneed to be selected from a menu of possibilities, be-cause its use is dependent on the context.
Also thereare reusable phrases which serve to move the con-versation forward and which, although suitable asresponses to many different hings a partner mightsay, need to be selected specifically.
These phraseswe called "context-sensitive comments" (Todman,Aim, and Elder, 1994).
We experimented with anumber of different ypes of comment and, thoughthe set that finally went into TALK was by no meansa definitive one, the list of comment categories given.below, with an example of each, was found to beuseful (Todman and Morrison, 1995) and added tothe flexibility of the system:Aphorism (e.g.
"That's how life goes sometimes")Expression of sympathy (e.g.
"Sorry to hear that")Hedge (e.g.
"I don't really remember")Apology (e.g.
"Sorry, I didn't think of that")Question ("How about you?
")Specific feedback ("That's really interesting")These context-sensitive comments, like the quick-fire phrases, helped with speed, maintenance offlow,and having a share of the control of the conversa-tion.
They also provided a better way of respond-ing appropriately to the unexpected than the moregeneral-purpose quick-fire remarks.Some initial testing of TALK was performed inwhich only pre-stored text was used, in order to ex-amine the limits of speaking entirely with pre-storedmaterial.
A facility for adding unique text for speak-ing during a conversation was then added.
The useof this feature, of course, involves the user in a sig-nificant time penalty.In trials, the TALK system has shown that incor-porating the modelling of pragmatic features of con-versation can produce improved results in computer-aided communication.
Significant increases in speedare possible.
One physically disabled non-speakingperson using TALK achieved a speaking rate ofabout 67 words per minute (Todman et al , 1995).This represents a considerable increase on the 2-10words per minute which is the current norm (Beukel-man and Mirenda, 1992).In a study analysing the quality of the contentof TALK-aided conversations compared with con-versations on the same topic carried out by naturalspeakers, the content of the computer-aided conver-sations was rated significantly higher than that ofthe unaided samples (p < .001) (Todman, Elder,and Alm, 1995).
This was an encouraging findingindicating that using pre-stored material could actu-ally enhance the perceived quality of conversationalcontent.Currently two AAC users are taking part in along-term evaluation of the usefulness of the TALKprototype in their daily conversations, and a thirdAAC user is evaluating a version of TALK whichhas been adapted for people with limited literacyskills.
From these informal evaluations, the usersreport that using the prototype has given them con-versational opportunities they would not otherwisehave had.
Two of the users have given a number ofpublic lectures, using the TALK system to deliverthe lecture and deal with the following question andanswer sessions (Grant, 1995); (McGregor, 1995);(Todman and Grant, 1996).
Such applications ofthe system have a clear relationship to the commu-nicational goals of mutual enjoyment and enhance-ment of the perceived status of the speaker.
Theselongitudinal long-term studies continue.A number of improvements suggest hemselvesto further enhance the usability of systems uch asTALK.
The prototype models several aspects of thepragmatics of conversation, but no doubt there areother aspects which could be helpfully incorporated.As can be seen in Figure 3, the interface is quitecomplex at present.
Introducing predictive featurescould help to simplify the control task for the user.It may be that work currently underway in the fieldof natural anguage processing can be of assistancein suggesting ways to accomplish this task.ReferencesNorman Aim, Alan Newell, John L. Arnott.
1987.
Acommunication aid which models conversationalpatterns.
In Proceedings of the lOth Annual Con-ference of the Rehabilitation Engineers Society ofNorth America, pages 127-129.Norman Aim, John L. Arnott, Alan Newell.
1989.Database design for storing and accessing per-sonal conversational material.
In Proceedings ofthe 12th Annual Conference of the RehabilitationEngineers Society of North America, pages 147-148.Norman Alm, John L. Arnott, Alan Newell.
1992a.Prediction and conversational momentum in anaugmentative communication system.
Communi-cations of the ACM, 35:46-57.Norman Aim, John L. Arnott, Alan Newell.
1992b.Evaluation of a text-based communication sys-tem for increasing conversational participationand control.
In Proceedings of the 15th Rehabili-tation Engineers Society of North America Inter-national Conference, pages 366-368.Norman Aim, M. Nicol, Alan Newell.
1993.
The ap-plication of fuzzy set theory to the storage and re-trieval of conversational texts in an augmentativecommunication system.
Proceedings of RESNA'93, pages 127-129.David Beukelman and Pat Mirenda.
1992.
Augmen-tative and Alternative Communication: Manage-ment of Severe Communication Disorders in Chil-dren and Adults.
Paul Brookes Publishing Com-pany, Baltimore, Maryland.Liz Broumley, John L. Arnott, Alaistair Y Cairns.,and Alan F. Newell.
1990.
TalksBack: An ap-plication of artificial intelligence techniques to acommunication prosthesis for non-speaking peo-ple.
In Proceedings of the European Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, pages 117- 119.G.
Brown and G. Yule.
1983.
Teaching the Spo-ken Language.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge.G.
Button and N. Casey.
1984.
Generating topic:the use of topic-initial elicitors.
In J. Atkins andJ.
Heritage, editors, Structures of Social Action-Studies in Conversation Analysis.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, London.C.
Cheepen.
1988.
The Predictability of InformalConversation.
Pinter Publishers, London.Sylvia Grant.
1995.
Using TALK.
CommunicationMatters, 9:22-25.J.
R. Hobbs and D. A. Evans.
1980.
Conversation asplanned behavior.
Cognitive Science, 4:349-377.E J. Langer.
1978.
Rethinking the role of thoughtin social interaction.
In J. Harvey, W. Ickes, andR.
Kidd, editors, New directions in AttributionResearch, 2:35-58, Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale,New Jersey.J.
Light, P. Lindsey, L. Siegel, L. and P. Parnes.1990.
The effects of message encoding tech-niques on recall by literate adults using AAC sys-tems.
Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion, 6:184-201.Alan McGregor.
1995.
A voice for the fu-ture.
In Proceedings of the European Conferenceon the Advancement of Rehabilitation Technology(ECART '95), pages 127-129, Lisbon, Portugal,October.M.
L. McLaughlin and M. J. Cody.
1982.
Awk-ward silences: Behavioral antecedents and conse-quences of the conversational l pse.
Human Com-munication Research, 8:299-316.John Todman, Norman Alto, and Leona Elder.1994.
Computer-aided conversation: a prototypesystem for non-speaking people with physical dis-abilities.
Applied Psycholinguistics, 15:45-73.John Todman, Leona Elder, and Norman Aim.1995.
An evaluation of the content of computer-aided conversations.
Augmentative and Alterna-tive Communication, 11:229-234.John Todman and Sylvia Grant.
1996.
Conversa-tion using an AAC system based on pre-storedtext.
In Proceedings of the 8th Biennial Confer-ence of the International Society for Augmentativeand Alternative Communication, pages 169-170,Vancouver, Canada, August.John Todman and Elizabeth Lewins.
1996.
Use ofan AAC system for casual conversation by a non-vocal person with cerebral palsy.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th Biennial Conference of the InternationalSociety for Augmentative and Alternative Com-munication, pages 167-168, Vancouver, Canada.August.John Todman, Elizabeth Lewins, Norman Aim, andLeona Elder.
1995.
Use of a communication aid(TALK) by a non-speaking person with cerebralpalsy.
Communication Matters, 9:18-21.John Todman and Zara Morrison.
1995.
The useof non-specific comments in a conversation aid fornon-speaking people.
International Journal of Re-habilitation Research, 18:68-69.Annalu Waller.
1992 Providing Narratives in anAugmentative Communication System.
Ph.D.Thesis.
University of Dundee, Scotland.R.S.
Wyer and D.H. Gruenfeld 1995.
Informationprocessing in interpersonal communication.
InD.E.
Hewes, editor, The Cognitive Bases of Inter-personal Communication, pages 19-47, LawrenceErlbanm, HiUsdale, N.J.7Figure 3: The TALK interface
