Practical Considerations in Building a Multi-Lingual Authoring System forBusiness LettersJohn Tait, Huw SandersonSchool of Computing +Information SystemsUniversity of SunderlandSunderland SR6 ODD, U.K.{John.
Tait, Huw.
Sanderson}@sunderland.
ac.
ukPeter HellwigUniversi~t HeidelbergLehr~uhl fur ComputerlinguistikD69117 Heidelberg, Germanyhel lwig@novelll, gs.uni-heidelberg, deJeremy EllmanMARI Computer Systems Ltd.Wansbeck Business ParkNorthurnberland NE63 8QZ, U.K.Jeremy.
E i lman@mar i. co. ukPeriklis TsahageasSENA S.A.Byzanfiou 2,GR-142 32 N. Ionia, GreeceP.
Tsahageas@ senanet ,  eomAna Maria Martinez San Jos6Sistemas y Tratamiento de Informacion S.A.Avenida del Tomillar, 1328250 Torrelodones Madrid, Spainsysnet @bitmai ler.
netAbstractThe paper describes the experiences of amulti-national consortium in an on-goingproject o construct a multilingual uthoringtool for business letters.
The consortiumconsists of two universities (both withsignificant experience in languageengineering), three software companies, andvarious potential commercial users with theorganisations being located in a total of fourcountries.
The paper covers the history ofthe development of the project from anacademic idea but focuses on theimplications of the user-requirementsorientated outlook of the commercialdevelopers and the implications of this viewfor the system architecture, userrequirements, delivery platforms and so on.Particularly interesting consequences of theuser requirements are the database centredarchitecture, and the constraints andopportunities this presents for developmentof grammatical components at both the textand sentence l vel.I.
IntroductionThis paper describes our experience in working onthe European Union (EU) Framework IV LanguageEngineering project, MABLe (Multi-lingualAuthoring of Business letters).
One of the aims ofthe Language Engineering sector of the programmeis to develop applications which help improveinformation access and interchange acrosslanguages (Telematics, 1996), within the broaderobjective of assisting Small and Medium sizedEnterprises (SMEs).Framework IV projects are expected to form thebasis of systems put into practical use in themedium term, and the focus of the paper is thepractical and technical problems faced by theconsortium in moving the fruits of academicresearch towards a widely used practical product.35The MABLe project is being undertaken by aconsortium consisting of:MARI Computer Systems Ltd. (UK)Industrial DeveloperSENA S.A. (Greece)- Industrial DeveloperSTI S.A. (Spain)- Industrial DeveloperPan Hellenic Exporters Assoc.
(Greece)- Industrial User AssociationCentro de Sondi E Imagen S.L.
(Spain)- Lead Industrial UserUniversity of Sunderland (UK)- Academic ResearchUniversity of Heidelberg (Germany)- Academic ResearchThe project targets SMEs who conductinternational trade as the main potential users of thesystem.
Its goal is to build a system which will helppeople who wish to write a good quality businessletter in a language with which they are not fluent;via an interaction with the computer conducted intheir native language.
The current project will builda prototype allowing Greek and Spanish users toproduce letters in English.
However, the system hasbeen designed to allow relatively straightforwardextension to other languages, both by making theuser interface localizable, and (lessstraightforwardly) by storing knowledge of theoutput language in a language independentgrarnnmtieal database.An initial, limited, prototype of the system is nowavailable and work has started on a secondprototype with more extensive functionality.
This isdue for delivery for user evaluation i  mid 1997.The academic partners initially sawthe project asan opportunity to move their existing knowledgeand, more particularly, linguistic resources intopractical use, the major challenges being incomputational inguistics.
In practice thecommercial partners have identified many problemsof a less intellectual nature which must beovercome if the system produced is both to beaccepted by users and to operate within theirenvironment.
This paper will concentrate on thesepractical issues and hopefully provide a usefulbasis for those undertaking applications orientatedresearch which they hope to move into practieal usein the medium term.The remainder of the paper is structured as follows:Section 2 reviews the development of the projectfrom its conception following a series ofconversations between academics.
Section 3 moveson to describe the way the initial project wasreformulated to become user-requirementsorientated rather than technology driven, once webegan to work with our industrial partners.
Section4 describes the architecture of the system as we arenow constructing it and Section 5 covers some ofthe User Interface issues the MABLe project and itsarchitecture have thrown up.
Section 6 covers theissue of delivery platform which was of greatimportance to the commercial partners and, onceselected, drove us towards the architecturedescribed in Section 4, while Section 7 brieflyreviews ome of the consequences of this approachfor the development and representation of thegrammatical formalisms.
Section 8 moves on tocover the issues of facilitating the ultimateexploitation of the software.
Section 9 draws someconclusions from our work to date.2.
H is toryThe MABLe project arose from a series ofconversations between John Tait of the Universityof Sunderland and Peter Hellwig and Heinz-Detlev36Koch of the University of Heidelberg during 1994and 1995.
At that time the concept was very muchan interaetively controlled natural languagegenerator utilising Heidelberg's DependencyUnification Grammar resources (Hellwig, 1986,1993) combined with a newly developed textgrammar for business letters.
During 1995interested commercial partners and potential userswere identified, leading to the successfulsubmission of an EU Framework IV LanguageEngineering proposal.The aim, from the academic's point of view, wasalways to try to constrain the problem so thatexisting, well-developed, even old-fashioned,computational linguistic technology would suffice.Our intention was to explore the limits, in apractical setting, of what the technology could do.Our main concerns were issues like whether a userinterface could be built which was not excessivelycumbersome, and whether sufficient coverage couldbe produced within a reasonable amount of timeand effort, given available human and linguisticresources.Once the project was started, in late 1995, itbecome clear that there were a number of otherissues of great concern to our users and commercialpartners which we had not considered previously.Foremost amongst these was the need to integrateMABLe with the users' existing and likely futureworking environment, a requirement which createdseveral low and high level technical problems.3.
User motivationThe MABLe project as it is currently formulatedhas as its core the belief that language technologynow exists which can satisfy real user needs andrequirements.
Writing letters in a foreign languageis one of the most common problems faced byorganisations engaging in international trade.
Thisis especially true for SMEs who are unlikely tohave specialist translation teams or expensivemultilingual staff.
Before the project started inearnest, he MABLe partners carried out a surveyto identify the problems potential users encounteredwhen writing letters in foreign languages.
Thissurvey was continued uring the early stages of theproject in order to create a set of user recquirementsto serve as a basis for the MABLe systemspecification and design.
The results of the surveyshowed the need for an application which provided:?
Compatibility with all commonly used word-processors?
Friendly and self-contained user interface?
Access to user databases (with client data,product data etc.)?
A set of common 'template' letters?
A good thesaurus of phrases?
Textual cohesion and good linkage betweenphrases.?
Search by expressions and keywords?
A good electronic dictionaryThe application should run under MS-Windowsand have an affordable price, not higher than 200ECU.MABLe is being developed with all these userrequirements in mind, and in order to make user-requirements elicitation a dynamic process, usergroups have been created in Spain and Greece toreview MABLe progress and provide developmentfeedback.
The Spanish group is composed oforganisations from different market sectors inwhich foreign business letters writing is animportant task.
This group will, consequently, alsoplay an important role in the market analysis tasksto be carried out within the project, providinginformation on market expectations, target users'willingness, barriers to market entry, and potentialcompetitors.
The Greek user group is composed ofimport & export organisations.37Figure 1 MABLe architecture.
k__Z__2 .X ~jIm iJMSMABLEIIiII!III_16)7)a user interface through which the text isgenerateda help systemCommunication between these components isoutlined in Figure 1.
(The view of the architectureprovided by Figure 1 is somewhat simplified,omitting for example, morphological processing)Perhaps one of the most noteworthy features of ourarchitecture is the central role accorded to thedatabase.
Our reasons for adopting thisarchitecture are discussed in Section 6.We are considering a number of changes andextensions to this model: for example thesubstitution of MS Word output by other formats,but these matters of detail are not really the concernof this paper.4.
MABLe ArchitectureFollowing our initial analysis of user requirementswe arrived at a system architecture consisting ofseven main components:l)2)3)4)5)a text grammar of English for businesslettersa multilingual phrasal lexicona fragmentary grammar of Engli.sh forvariable portions within phrasesa database in which both static data(multilingual phrasal lexicons, grammarsetc.)
and intermediate r sults of processingare storeda tree walk and generate programme whichwalks over the tree represented bythegrammar, making decisions in consultationwith the user about which path to followthrough the grammar5.
MABLe  User InterfaceUser Interface design, in language engineeringespecially, is often thought to be about thesuperficial ergonomic aspects of button andwindow layout on the users screen.
Of course,getting this right is essential to a users basic abilityto read and interpret the screen correctly.
However,sophisticated products need to consider the natureof the user interaction required, and how this maybe provided to the user in a controlled andcontrollable manner.MABLe presents ome unique opportunities in thisarea, since it is understood that the program isdesigned for users who know that their knowledgeof a foreign language is less than perfect.
They donot need reminding of this constantly, rather, theyneed guidance and support whilst being made tofeel it is they that are in control of the program, andnot vice versa.38At the same time, MABLe needs to fit tidily into theuser's work routine, or it will not be accepted.These requirements have lead us to design severaluser interfaces with different philosophies.The first interface is based on the well known"Wizard" interaction style found on PCs.
Here auser is guided through an interaction, and theprogram selects the best options based on userinput.
For MABLe this implies following a rigidtree walk of the letter grammar to producegrammatical output.
Although the user may trackboth his input and the target language output, thereis a rigid feel to the program, with the user feelingout of control.
Thus, even though this interface isintegrated with Microsoft Word it has not foundinstant popularity with the users in the secondphase of our user requirements work.Our second interface is based on representing thegrammar as a clickable tree in a standaloneapplication.
This has the advantage of the fullscreen area being exploited with users choosingphrases as they like.
Output is subsequentlyexported to a Word Processor.Here one may choose phrases at will, and notnecessarily following a coherent form.
However,one could say from work in text, planning andRhetorical Structure Theory (de Beaugrande andDressier, 1981, Appelt, 1985, Mann andThompson, 1987) that discourse coherence isenforced by the user, and is language independent,so that in practice this matters little.Clearly we are currently looking at merging bothapproaches.
That is, we need to advise the user ofgrammatical or foreign language conventions thatwe may derive from our letter grammar, whilstleaving him free to make errors if he wishes.As we have seen, MABLe's letter grammar givesusers the possibility of creating coherent businessletters.
It is the task of the User Interface designerto ensure that the user takes advantage of thesepossibilities.6.
Delivery VehiclesAs noted earlier, the initial targets of MABLe arethose Small-to-Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs)undertaking international trade.
Our initial usersurvey work indicated that for delivery andevaluation on Spanish and Greek user sites withinthe time frame of the project (i.e.
for a December1998 completion) earlier versions of the MABLesystem would need to integrate with MicrosoftWord 6.0 running under Windows 3.1.
Thiscombination was still likely to be the predominantoperating environment a  user sites and user PCswith more than 8 or 12 Mbytes of RAM would beunusual.
In fact when the user survey wasundertaken the majority of Greek sites were stilloperating with DOS and WordPerfect and the like,though they expected to change shortly.
AlthoughMicrosoft would lead developers to expectpredominance of Windows '95 and Word 7.0 (oreven Windows NT) at much earlier dates, to rely onthis occuring in our target market seemed toproduce significant additional commercial andtechnical risks for the project.From the NLE point of view this decision hasprofound implications.
Most researchcomputational linguistic systems are built to run onUNIX workstations with very large virtual addressspaces, supported by 64Mbytes or more of realRAM.
Windows 3.1 is a 16 bit operating system,implying a much smaller address space, andalthough 32 bit programming is possible it is by nomeans completely reliable and satisfactory.Typically the products of computational linguisticresearch require large amounts of RAM, tending tooperate with their grammars and even theirdictionaries as in-store data structures.
Taking intoaccount the restrictions on address pace and RAM,39along with the need to build a well engineeredsystem which could be easily modernised, we choseto store our grammar, lexicon (mainly phrasal) andintermediate r sults in a relational database on disc.Having adopted a database-central architecturewith comparatively modest demands on virtualmemory and real RAM, we can easily move thesystem on to more modem systems with fewerrestrictions.
Specifically, systems with flail 32-bitaddressing support (like Windows 95 or WindowsNT).Early technical feasibility work has led us to adoptthe MS Access database, because of its wideadoption in the commercial marketplace and thecomparative ease with which it may be integratedwith other Microsoft products.
However, MABLecould easily be adapted to work with most commonalternative r lational database systems.incremental search of the type offered in standard'help' systems i  made available to the userThe hierarchy and internal structure of the businessletters is represented by a grammar with a contextfree phrase structure skeleton.
However, in orderto enforce consistency of registzr, lcxical cohosionand subject matter, a set of attributes of varyingcomplexity can be associated with relevantconstituents.The formalism is described as an SGML DocumentType Definition (DTD) both to facilitate eventualre-use of linguistic resources and to define andconstrain the power of the grammar precisely.UNIX tools have been created to allow automaticconversion from the SGML format to an agreedAccess database format accessible to the TreeWalking algorithm that creates the final letter inconjunction with the user.7.
Grammatical RepresentationIt is important that the user be able to find the letteror letter fragment they require, and this 'navigationissue" has implications for the design of thegrammar.
There are many ways to sort types ofletter: by general subject, e.g.
'complaints', or bytransaction grouping, e.g.
all those letters involvedin the process of buying goods.The overlapping of such sets of letters calls forinternal representation as a directed graph ratherthan a tree, a design which is also appropriate forthe internal structure of letters, allowing re-use ofcommonly recurring sub-structures such asformulaic openings etc.Similarly, a 'direct-search' approach to reaching adesired letter/letter-fragment imposes a need forsystematic naming of non-terminals, especially ifAdditionally, a database browsing program hasbeen written to allow convenient construction of thegrammar via Access.
For the linguist constructing alarge grammar, this browser allows tree structure tobe easily viewed and modified.
Furthermore, it isenvisaged that end users may wish to make simpleadditions and changes to the letter grammar, and amethod more portable and user friendly thanSGML editing was required.
Envisagedcustomisation f the grammar includes the additionof new slot-fillers (products, companies, etc.)
andthe addition of simple letter templates.
Databaseintegrity is vital, so in order to ensure grammarextensions introduced with the browser follow thegiven formalism, a set of database queries areemployed to regulate the Access tables.It is hoped the approach adopted will support herequired level of textual cohesion, but it would bepremature toconclude that it does at this stage.8.
Exploitability40Commercial exploitation is the main aim of theMABLe consortium.
In addition to the creation ofthe MABLe user groups, which complement thework of the user partners in ensuring that productdevelopment follows the evolution of user needsand expectations, MABLe is undertaking a series ofdissemination activities to ensure that the project isinternationally promoted.
These include productionof leaflets, organisation of conferences, andpublications.Commercial success hinges on the elaboration of agood exploitation plan.
This entails tarting with asuitable product definition, continuously monitoringcompetition and analysing the benefits and risksinherent to the potential market.
MABLe has aclearly defined target market: writers of foreignbusiness letters with some knowledge of the targetlanguage, but who are not sufficiently fluent toproduce output of the necessary quality.The essential requirements of these writers appearto be clear and the consortium is progressing withthe development to satisfy these under theunderstanding that MABLe will be an attractiveproduct which will:?
help organisations (in particular SMEs) toovercome language problems?
enable the creation of high quality unambiguousbusiness letters?
provide consistent letter authoring standards?
provide stylistic suitability of content'With these characteristics it is thought that MABLewill help to improve productivity, reduce overheadsby eliminating unnecessary waste of time andresources, and, consequently, bea useful tool whichorganisations will be prepared to buy.The consortium is aware of the risks inherent tosuch a development: the need to match developmenttime and market maturity, choose the righttechnologies and platforms, and to control costs andobtain scale economies.
With the ability to controlthese risks, the development driven by the userrequirements to ensure position as highperformance, high value, and long lead timeproduct, and the appropriate market'mg andpromotion activities, the consortium is confident ofreaching the target market in a short time after theproject concludes.9.
ConclusionsEven at this comparatively early stage in the projectthere are two initial conclusions which may bedrawn.First it is has been difficult to re-use existinglinguistic resources.
The demand for differentdelivery platforms, the constraints of a new taskand so on have driven us to primarily re-use ourlanguage ngineering knowledge, rather than re-useexisting resources and software, although it ishoped that indirect re-use of existing resources inradically re-processed forms may be possible inlater parts of the project.The second conclusion is that issues like real userrequirements, in terms of interfaces, deliveryplatforms and so on are perhaps too littleconsidered on many Language Engineeringprojects.AcknowledgementsThe authors acknowledge the financial support forthis work provided by the European Union underthe Telematics Applications of Common InterestProgramme, through Language Engineering ProjectLEl-1203.41ReferencesD.E.
Appelt.
1985.
Planning NaturalLanguage Utterances.
CUP, Cambridge.R de Beaugrandeand and W. Dressier.
1981.Introduction to Text Linguistics.
Longman,London.Peter Hellwig.
1986.
Dependency UnificationGrammar.
In Proceedings of the 11thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics COLING 86, pages 195-198.Peter Hellwig.
1993.
Extended DependencyUnification Grammar.
In Eva Hajicova, editor,Functional Description of Language, pages67-84.
Faculty of Mathematics and Physics,Charles University, Prague.W.C.
Mann and S.A. Thompson.
1987.Rhetorical Structure Theory: A Theory of TextOrganisation.
ISI Reprint Series IS1/RS-8 7-190.
Marina del Ray (CA): InformationSciences Institute.Telematics.
1996.
WWW URL:http://www2.echo.lu/telematics/off-docs/brochure.html inspected on 4 March1997.42
