Analysis of a Hand-Tagging TaskChr i s t iane  Fe l lbaum*t ,  Joach im Grabowsk i~,  Shar i  Landes**Cognitive Science LaboratoryPr inceton UniversitytR ider  University:~Department of PsychologyUniversity of Mannheim, GermanyAbst rac tWe analyze the results of a semantic an-notation task performed by novice taggersas part of the WordNet SemCor project(Landes et al, in press).
Each polysemouscontent word in a text was matched to asense from WordNet.
Comparing the per-formance of the novice taggers with thatof experienced lexicographers, we find thatthe degree of polysemy, part of speech, andthe position within the WordNet entry ofthe target words played a role in the tag-gers' choices.
The taggers agreed on a sensechoice more often than they agreed withtwo lexicographers, suggesting an effect ofexperience on sense distinction.
Evidenceindicates that taggers selecting senses froma list ordered by frequency of occurrence,where salient, core senses are found at thebeginning of the entry, use a different strat-egy than taggers working with a randomlyordered list of senses.1 In t roduct ionOur present understanding of how the meanings ofpolysemous words are represented in speakers' mindsand accessed uring language use is poor.
Onemodel of the mental lexicon, implicit in much ofcomputational linguistics, likens it to a dictionary,with a discrete entry for each word form and eachsense of a polysemous word form.
Language produc-tion and comprehension then would simply require"looking up" the appropriate entry and selecting theintended meaning.
If this model of the mental exi-con, with its discrete and non-overlapping sense rep-resentations, were correct, both the creation and theuse of dictionaries would be straightforward.Lexicographers collect large numbers of occur-rences of words from a corpus.
Interpreting the dif-34ferent meanings of polysemous words from the cor-pus presents no dit~culty, since lexicographers sim-ply do what they do as competent speakers of thelanguage.
The step that is particular to lexicogra-phy is transforming the corpus occurrences ofa givenword form into a number of discrete senses in theformat of dictionary entries.
Cross-dictionary com-parisons how that carving up the different meaningsof a polysemous word into discrete dictionary sensesis difficult.
The number of senses for a polysemousword often differs, reflecting "lumping" versus "split-ting" strategies; some senses are absent from onebut not another dictionary.
Yet postulating differentmental exicons eems unwarranted, given our rapidand successful communication.
Rather, the mappingprocess from occurrence to dictionary entry may giverise to difficulties and discrepancies across dictionar-ies because speakers' meaning representations maynot resemble those of dictionaries with their fiat anddiscrete senses, thus making lexicography an artifi-cial and therefore challenging task.Semantic tagging is the inverse of lexicography, inthat taggers identify and interpret dictionary entrieswith respect o words occurring in a text.
Taggers,like lexicographers, first interpret the target word inthe text, and then match the meaning they haveidentified for a given occurrence of a polysemousword with one of several dictionary senses.
Our goalwas to examine the difficulties associated with se-mantic tagging.
Because taggers are faced with thesame task as lexicographers-although the the for-mer select, rather than create, dictionary senses tomatch word occurrences in text-we expected to seediscrepancies among the results of the semantic an-notation task across taggers.
Moreover, we guessedthat those polysemous words that receive very dif-ferent treatments across dictionaries would also betagged differently by the annotators.mnmmmmmmmmm2 Sources of  diff icult ies in asemantic annotation taskWe predicted that three properties of the words thatwere to be matched with specific WordNet senseswould result in differences among the individual tag-gers' annotations and between those of the taggersand the more experienced lexicographers.
Thesevariables are: the degree of polysemy, the part ofspeech, and the position within the dictionary entryof the words.3 PolysemyArguably, the degree of polysemy of a word is relatedto the degree of difficulty of the tagging process.
Thefact that dictionaries differ frequently with respectto the number of senses for polysemous words pointsto the difficulty of representing different meanings ofa word as discrete and non-overlapping sense distinc-tions.
In some cases (homonymy), the division be-tween different senses seems fairly clear and agreedupon among different lexicographers, while for oth-ers, it is not at all obvious how many senses shouldbe distinguished.4 Number  of senses in WordNetThe dictionary that the taggers had available for tag-ging task is WordNet (Miller, 1990; Miller and Fell-baum, 1991).
WordNet makes fairly fine-grained dis-tinctions, roughly comparable to a collegiate dictio-nary.
We reasoned that the greater the sense numberin WordNet was, the harder the taggers' task of eval-uating the different sense distinctions in terms of thetarget word became.
We predicted that a greater de-gree of polysemy would lead to greater discrepanciesbetween the taggers' matches and those of the exper-hnenters, as well as among the taggers themselves.
I5 Part of speechThe semantic make-up of some words makes themmore difScult to interpret, and hence harder tomatch to dictionary senses, than others.
Some con-cepts are less well-defined or definable, and more ab-stract than others (Schwanenfluegel, 1991).
Wordsreferring to concrete and imagible ntities uch asobjects and persons may generally be easier to in-terpret.
If such words are polysemous, the differentmeanings should be relatively easy to distinguish on"Polysemy" in WordNet subsumes homonymy aswell as polysemy; however, the latter is far more com-mon: in most cases, the different senses of a word aresemantically related.
No clearly discernible homonymsoccurred in the data we analyzed for this report.35the grounds that each meaning has a fairly clear rep-resentation.
By this reasoning, we expected nounsto present fewer difficulties to taggers.
(Of course,many nouns have abstract referents, but as a class,we predicted nouns to be easier to annotate thanverbs or modifiers.
The nouns in the text we chosefor our analysis had mostly concrete, imagible refer-ents.
)Modifiers like adjectives and adverbs often de-rive much of their meanings in particular contextsfrom the words they modify ((Katz, 1964; Puste-jovsky, 1995)).
During sequential tagging, each con-tent word in a running text is tagged, so the mean-ings of highly polysemous adjectives often becomeclear as the tagger looks to the head noun.
How-ever, adjectives in WordNet are highly polysemousand show a good deal of overlap, so that the contextdoes not always uniquely pick out one sense.
Thekinds of polysemy and overlap found among the ad-jectives are carried over to the many derived adverbsin WordNet.Whereas the meanings of nouns tend to be stablein the presence of different verbs, verbs can showsubtle meaning variations depending on the kinds ofnoun arguments with which they co-occur.
More-over, the boundary between literal and metaphoriclanguage seems particularly elusive in the case ofverbs.
(Gentner and France, 1988) demonstrated the"high mutability" of verbs, showing people's willing-ness to assign very flexible meanings to verbs whilenoun meanings were held constant.
They argue thatverb meanings are more easily altered because theyare less cohesive than those of nouns.
We expectedthe semantic flexibility of verbs to create additionaldifBculties for tagging.
Discrete dictionary sensescould be particularly iU-suited to usages where coresenses have been extended beyond what the dictio-nary definitions cover, and where taggers must ab-stract from a creative usage to a more general, inclu-sive sense.
In other cases, a usage can be assignedto several senses that have been accorded polysemestatus on the basis of previously encountered usages,but may overlap with respect o other usages.
Wetherefore xpected less overall agreement for verbstags than for nouns.Polysemy and syntactic lass membership nter-act: Verbs and adjectives have on average moresenses than nouns in both conventional dictionar-ies and in WordNet.
Both the number of senses andthe syntactic lass membership of verbs and modi-tiers may conspire to make these words more difficultto tag.6 Sense  order ing  in Vv~rdNetThe order in which WordNet list.,~ the different sensesof a word corresponds to the frequency with whichthat sense has been tagged to words in the BrownCorpus (Landes et al, in press).
Statistically, onewould therefore xpect he first sense to be the onethat is chosen as the most appropriate one in mostcases.
(Gale et al, 1992) estimate that automaticsense disambignation would be a'~, least 75% correct ifa system ignored context and assigned the most fre-quently occurring sense.
(Miller et al, 1994) foundthat automatic assignment of polysemous words inthe Brown Corpus to senses in WordNet was correct58% of the time with a guessing heuristic that as-sumed the most frequently occurring sense to be thecorrect one.The taggers whose work is analyzed here were notaware of the frequency ordering of the senses.
How-ever, other reasons led us to predict a preference forthe first sense.
The most frequently tagged sensealso usually represents he most "central" or "core"meening of the word in question.
When it coversthe largest semantic "territory," the first sense mayseem like the safest choice.Taggers may often be reluctant to ex~mlne a largenumber of senses when one appears quite appropri-ate.
While reading each new WordNet entry for agiven word, taggers must modify the correspondingentry in their mental lexicons.
When encounteringa sense that appears to match the usage, taggers donot know whether another sense, which they havenot yet read, will present a still more subtle mean-ing difference.
Since the first sense usually repre-sents the most inclusive meaning of the word, tag-gers daunted by the task of examining a large num-ber of closely related senses or unsure about cer-tain sense distinctions may simply chose the firstsense rather than continue searching for further sub-differentiations.
We therefore predicted a tendencyon the part of the taggers to select he first senseeven when it was not the one chosen by us.7 The  exper imentWe analyzed the data from the paid training ses-sion that all taggers underwent before they were as-signed to work on the semantic oncordance (citelandesinpress).
The taggers were 17 undergraduateand graduate students (6 male, 11 female).
In allcases, the taggers' ense selections were compared tothose made by two of the authors, who have yearsof experience in lexicography.
While these "expert"sense selections constituted the standard for evaluat-ing the taggers' performance, they should not be re-36garded as the "right" choice, implying that all otherchoices are "wrong."
Rather, the matches betweentaggers' and experts' choices reflect the extent owhich the ability to match mental representationsof meanings with dictionary entries overlap betweenuntrained annotators and lexicographers practicedin drawing subtle sense distinctions and familiarwith the limitations of dictionary representations.In addition to evaluating the taggers' annotationsagainst those of the "experts," we examined the de-gree of inter-tagger agreement, which would shedsome light on the representation f meanings in thelexicons of novice taggers unpracticed at drawing alarge number of fine-grained sense distinctions, andtheir ability to deal with potentially overlapping andredundant entries in WordNet.
A high inter-taggeragreement rate would be indicative of the stabil-ity of naive inter-subject meaning discrimination.We expected less agreement for words that we pre-dicted to be more difficult.
Significant disagreementfor highly polysemous words would be compatiblewith (Jorgenson, 1990), whose subjects discriminateonly about hree senses of highly polysemous nouns.Moreover, we expected less inter-tagger agreementfor verbs and modifiers than for nouns.The material was a 660-word section taken from afiction passage in the Brown Corpus.
We eliminatedthe 336 function words and proper nouns, and the 70monosemons content words.
Of the remaining 254polysemous words, 88 were nouns, 100 were verbs, 39were adjectives, and 27 were adverbs, adistributionsimilar to that found in standard prose texts.
Thetask of the taggers was to select appropriate sensesfrom WordNet for these 254 words.
2The number of alternative WordNet senses perword ranged from two to forty-one (the mean acrossall POS was 6.62).
The mean number of WordNetsenses for the verbs in the text was 8.63; for adjec-tives 7.95; for nouns 4.74; for adverbs 3.37.Taggers received a specially created booklet withthe typed text and a box in which they marked theirsense choices.
3Taggers further eceived a dictionary booklet con-taining the senses for the words to be tagged as theyare represented in WordNet.
Word senses were pro-vided as synonym sets along with defining losses.For nouns and verbs, the corresponding superordi-nate synonym sets were presented; adjectives were2We had made a few minor alterations to the text;for example, we omitted short phrases containing wordsenses that had previously occurred in the text.3In addition, the taggers participants indicated thedegree of confidence with which they made their choice;these ratings are reported in (Fellbaum et al, in press).given with their antonyms.
Two versions of the dic-tionary booklet were prepared, one for each trainingcondition.In the first condition ("frequency" condition), 8taggers were given a dictionary booklet listing theWordNet senses in the order of frequency with whichthey appear in the already tagged Brown Corpus.
If,in the frequency condition, there was a significanttendency to chose the first sense, which was usuallyalso the most inclusive, general one, it would indi-cate that the taggers adopted a "safe" strategy inpicking the core sense rather than to continue search-ing for more subtle distinctions.
While the taggerswere not told anything about the sense ordering inthe dictionary booklet, we expected those taggersworking in the frequency condition to realize fairlyquickly in the course of their annotations that thesense listed at the top was often most inclusive orsalient one.In the second condition ("random order condi-tion"), the remaining 9 taggers were given a dic-tionary booklet with the same WordNet senses ar-ranged in random order generated by means of arandom number generator.
Here, the first sense wasno longer necessarily the most inclusive, general one.A strong tendency towards picking the first sense inthe random order would point to a reluctance to ex-amine and evaluate all available senses, independentof whether this sense represented the most salient orcore sense.Not surprisingly, the expert choice was at the topof the list in the frequency condition for most words.The mean position of the expert choice for all partsof speech in the frequency order was 2.29; in therandom condition, the mean position of the expertchoice was 3.55.The taggers, who worked independently from eachother, were not aware of having been assigned to oneof two groups of participants.
They finished the taskwithin 4-6 hours.8 Resul tsWe first report the percentage of overlap betweentaggers' and experts' choices in terms of the threemain variables: POS, degree of polysemy, and theorder of senses in WordNet.
We give the results inpercentages here; however, calculation of the signif-icant effects is based on analyses of variance carriedout on the raw data.In the frequency condition, taggers overall chosethe same sense as the experts 75.2% of the time;in the random condition, the overall agreement was72.8%.
In both conditions, performance was signifi-cantly (p < 0.01) higher for nouns than for the other37parts of speech.
For all four parts of speech, wefound more tagger-expert matches in the frequencycondition than in the random condition.
The dif-ference, however, was significant (p < 0.05) only fornouns.The target words were classified into four groupsdepending on their polysemy count.
Group 1 con-talned words with 2 senses; Group 2 words with 3-4senses; the words in Group 3 had 5-7, and in Group4, 8 or more senses.
The groups were created so thateach contained approximately 25% of the words fromeach part of speech, i.e., the groups were similar insize for each syntactic ategory.Tagger-expert matches decreased significantlywith increasing number of senses (p<0.01) in bothconditions.
This effect was found for all parts ofspeech, but it was especially strong for adverbs,where performance dropped from a mean 83.3%tagger-expert agreement for adverbs with two sensesto 32.5% for adverbs with 5-7 senses, and to only29.4% for the most polysemous adverbs.
Except forwords with two senses, we found more tagger-expertmatches in the frequency condition than in the ran-dom condition.In both conditions, significantly more tagger-expert matches occurred for all parts of speech whenthe expert choice was in first position than when itoccurred in a subsequent position (80.2% vs. 70.5%,p<0.01 for the frequency condition; 79% vs. 70%,p<0.05 for the random condition).
This effect wasalso found with the same level of significance forverbs alone, in both conditions.
In the frequencycondition, we found the effect of the expert choicebeing at the top of the list of senses to be particularlystrong for the most polysemons words (p<0.05); theoverall effect of the expert choice being the firstchoice for all polysemy classes was significant at thep<0.01 level.
(For words with only two senses inWordNet, the position had no significant effect onthe rate of agreement between taggers and experts.
)We now turn to the sense choices that were madeby most taggers.
We asked, what percentage oftag-gers selected the most frequently chosen sense, anddid the syntactic lass membership of the words,their degree of polysemy, or the order of the sensesin WordNet have an effect on the rate of agreement?Taggers agreed among themselves significantlymore often than they did with the experts (82.5%in the frequency condition, and 82% in the ran-dom condition).
Inter-tagger agreement followed thesame pattern as tagger-expert matches: agreementdecreased with increasing polysemy; agreement rateswere highest for nouns and lowest for verbs and ad-jectives in both conditions.Inter-tagger agreement decreased significantly(p<~0.01) with increasing polysemy for all parts ofspeech in both conditions.
This supports our expec-tation that more choices render the matching taskmore dii~cult, making agreement less likely.
Thedecrease in inter-tagger agreement with increasingpolysemy was especially strong in the case of ad-verbs.In the frequency order condition, the overall agree-ment was significantly (p<~0.01) higher (87%) whenthe agreed-upon sense was the first choice ratherthan a subsequent one (78%) on the list of alter-native senses in the dictionary.
This effect was alsofound separately for all POS except nouns.
Simi-larly, we found that in the random order condition,inter-tagger agreement was higher for all POS whenthe agreed-upon sense was the first in the dictio-nary (85.5% vs. 79.6%).
For the different polysemygroups, the choice most often made was in first posi-tion for low and medium high polysemy words, butfor high polysemy words (5 or more senses), the mostfrequently selected sense was less often in the firstposition.9 D iscuss ionThe rather high tagger-expert agreement indicatedthat the novice taggers found the annotation taskfeasible.
We found the predicted main effects fordegree of polysemy, POS, and the order in whichthe senses were presented in the dictionary booklet.Increasing polysemy of the target words producedless tagger-expert and inter-tagger agreement.
Be-sides having to weigh and compare more options,the taggers needed to adjust their own ideas of thepolysemous words' meanings to the particular waythese are split up and represented in WordNet.
Themore alternative senses there were, the less likeli-hood there was that the taggers' mental represen-tations of the senses overlapped significantly withthose in WordNet.In both conditions, nouns were tagged signifi-cantly more often in agreement with the experts'choice than verbs and adjectives.
For nouns, wefound no significant increase in the number ofagreed-upon choices when they were at the top of thelist of alternative senses, indicating that the taggerswere fairly sure of their choices independent of theorder in which the different noun senses were listedin the dictionary.
This effect could be attributedat best only partly to the relatively low polysemyof nouns.
Nouns may be "easier" because they com-monly denote concrete, imagible referents.
Verb andadjective meanings, on the other hand, are morecontext-dependent, particularly on the meanings of38the nouns with which they co-occur.
People's men-tal representations of noun concepts may be morefixed and stable and less vague than those of verbsand adjectives.
In fact, the larger number of dic-tionary sense numbers for verbs in particular maybe due less to actual meaning distinctions than tothe lexicographer's attempt to account for the greatsemantic flexibility of many verbs.Overall, taggers chose the expert selection less fre-quently than they agreed on a sense among them-selves.
While it is possible that the expert choice didnot always reflect the best match, we suspect hatnovice taggers annotate differently from lexicogra-phers.
The latter are necessarily highly sensitiveto sense distinctions and have developed a facilityto retrieve and distinguish the multiple meanings ofa word more easily than naive languge users, whomay have a less rich representation f word mean-ings at their fingertips.
This possibility is supportedby (Jorgenson, 1990), whose naive subjects consis-tently distinguished fewer senses of a word than dic-tionaries do, even when they were given dictionariesto consult in the course of the sense discriminationtask.
Jorgenson's subjects agreed substantically ondiscriminating the three most central, salient sensesof polysemous nouns but did not distinguish sub-senses.
Dictionaries likewise often agree among eachother on the most central, core, senses of words butdiffer in the number and kinds of subtle distinctions.But whereas lexicographers are trained in drawingfine distinctions, naive language users appear to beaware of large-grained sense differences only.
Our re-suits indicate, in the case of finer sense distinctions, alack of shared mental representations among the tag-gers, and a decrease in agreement.
This explanationis also consistent with the decrease in tagger-expertmatches along with increasing polysemy.The salience and the shared mental representa-tion of certain word senses might further accountfor our third main effect.
Taggers agreed with theexperts and with each other significantly more oftenwhen the WordNet senses were presented in the or-der of frequency of occurrence.
This was generallytrue for words from all polysemy groups and POS.We suggest that taggers recognized the most appro-priate sense more easily in this condition becausethey did not use the same strategy as in the ran-dom order condition.
In the frequency condition, themost salient, "core," senses usually occurred first,or at least fairly high, on the list of senses.
Thesesenses also had a high chance of being the appro-priam ones in the text, since we had selected a fic-tion passage with non-technlcal, everyday language.Taggers working in the frequency condition proba-bly realized that the sense ordering resembled that ofmost standard dictionaries and chose the first sensethat seemed at all to be a good match rather thanexamining all senses carefully, as they would have todo in the random order condition.When the first sense was also the one the lexi-cographers had chosen as the most appropriate one,the taggers' task was relatively easy.
Given thatthey recognized that the first sense was appropriate,selecting it meant that they did not have to exam-ine and compare the remaining senses in search ofan even better choice.
Weighing all available sensesagainst each other and against the given usage canbe a difficult task especially for novice taggers, andwe expected a general tendency to gravitate towardsthe first choice for this reason.
Stopping to read af-ter one has encountered the first sense that seemsappropriate resembles the dictionary look-up strat-egy where one stops reading the entry when one hasfound a sense that seems to match the given usage(Kflgarriif, 1993).The first senses in the frequency condition, whichgenerally express the most salient and central mean-ings, might be most clearly representend in bothnaive and expert speakers' mental lexicons andmight show the greatest overlap across speakers.These senses were presumably easily understood bythe taggers and increased any reluctance to examinethe remaining options.The difference between the tagger-expert matchesfor words in the first position and words in subse-quent positions was particularly strong for verbs and(in the frequency order condition) for words witheight or more senses.
These were the cases that weregenerally more difficult for the taggers, as reflectedin lower tagger-expert agreement.
The results there-fore indicate that the expert choice being the firstmade the decision process for the taggers much eas-ier by eliminating the need for a difficult comparisonof all the available senses, and, in the frequency con-dition, by the fact that the first sense was generallythe most salient one.The preference for the first among the availablesenses was even more pronounced in the inter-taggeragreement.
There was a highly significant differencefor the agreed-upon choice between the first and sub-sequent positions in the case of verbs and adjectivesand words with eight or more senses in the frequencyorder condition (p<0.01).
Again, the taggers prob-ably understood the first, most frequent and oftenmost salient sense easily and were reluctant to con-sider more fine-grained sense differentiations.In the random order condition, no bias towardsthe first sense xisted, so the strategy of choosing the39first sense or an appropriate s nse near the top of thelist was not available.
The taggers had to examineand consider each sense in the entry, which madethe task more difficult.
This is reflected in lowerinter-tagger and tagger-expert agreement rates.
Yetthe high percentages of matches in this conditionshow that the taggers worked well.
When the expertsense was the first on the list, taggers working in therandom order condition selected the expert sense lessfrequently than the taggers working in the frequencyorder condition.
This result further indicates thattaggers here were not biased towards the first sense,but considered all senses equally.In sum, we found that matching word usages toword senses in a dictionary is a hard task, whosedit~culty depends on the part of speech of the targetword and increases with the number of senses givenin the dictionary.
Among the available choices, thefirst sense of each polysemous word was a significantattractor.Our findings uggest that randomly ordered senseswould weaken taggers' strategy of relying on thefirst sense being the best match and encourage morescrupulous examination of the available choices.
4Confidence ratings reflected the degree of difficultyof the items in that they paralleled the taggers' per-formance as measured by tagger-expert and inter-tagger agreement.
Highly polysemous words weretagged with less confidence, and taggers were moreconfident when tagging nouns rather than verbs andmodifiers.
Confidence was slightly higher for inter-tagger than expert-tagger matches, upporting thereality of a "naive" lexicon as opposed to represen-tation of polysemous words in the mental lexicon ofpracticed lexicographers or linguists.
In the randomorder condition, taggers made their decision withmore confidence than in the frequency order condi-tion, although was less agreement with the experts.We believe that this result further supports the claimthat taggers in the two conditions proceeded differ-ently: Taggers working with a randomly ordered listof senses did not rely on the first sense being thecorrect one.
They worked more scrupulously, whichis reflected in the higher confidence ratings.ReferencesC.
Fellbaum, J. Grabowski, and S. Landes.
in press.Confidence and performance.
In C. Fellbaum, ed-itor, Word\]Vet: An Electronic Lexical Database.MIT Press.4(Fellbaum et al, in press) report he confidence rat-ings of the taggers for their choices.W.
Gale, K. Church, and D. Yarowsky.
1992.
Es-timating upper and lower bounds on the perfor-mance of word-sense disambiguation program~.
InProceedings of 30th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 249-256.D.
Gentner and I. Prance.
1988.
The verb mutabilityeffect: Studies of the combinatorial semantics ofnouns and verbs.
In S. Small, G. Cottrell, andTanenhaus, editors, Lexical .Ambiguity Resolution.Morgan Kaufm_~nn.3.
Jorgenson.
1990.
The psycholinguistic realityof word senses.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Re-search, 19:167-190.J.
J. Katz.
1964.
Semantic theory and the meaningof "good".
Journal of Philosophy, 61:739-766.A.
Kilgarriff.
1993.
Dictionary word sense distinc-tions: An enquiry into their nature.
Computersand the Humanities, 26:365-387.S.
Landes, C. Leacock, and R. Tengi.
in press.Building semantic oncordances.
In C. Fellbaum,editor, WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database.G.
A. Miller and C. Fellbaum.
1991.
Semantic net-works of english.
Cognition, 41.G.
A. Miller, M. Chodorow, S. Landes, C. Leacock,and R. Thomas.
1994.
Using a semantic concor-dance for sense identification.
In Proceedings ofthe Human Language Technology Workshop, ages240-243.
Morgan Ka~frn~-n.G.
A. Miller.
1990.
Wordnet: An on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography,3(4).J.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress.P.
Schwanenfluegel.
1991.
Why are abstract con-cepts hard to understand?
In P. Schwanenfluegel,editor, The Psychology of Word Meaning.
Erl-baum.40
