Simple NLP Techniques for Expanding Telegraphic SentencesKathleen F. McCoyCIS DepartmentUniversity of DelawareNewark, DE 19716mccoy@cis, udel.
eduAbst ractSome people have disabilities which makeit difficult for them to speak in an un-derstandable fashion.
The field of Aug-mentative and Alternative Communication(AAC) is concerned with developing meth-ods to augment he communicative abil-ity of such people.
Over the past 9years, the Applied Science and Engineer-ing Laboratories (ASEL) at the Universityof Delaware and the duPont Hospital forChildren, has been involved with applyingnatural language processing (NLP) tech-nologies to the field of AAC.
One of themajor projects at ASEL (The COMPAN-SION project) has been concerned with theapplication of primarily lexical semanticsand sentence generation technology to ex-pand telegraphic input into full sentences.While this project has shown some verypromising results, its direct application toa communication device is somewhat ques-tionable (primarily because of the compu-tational power necessary to make the tech-nique fast).
This paper describes ome ofthe problems with bringing Compansion toa standard communication device and in-troduces ome work being done in conjunc-tion with the Prentke Romich Company(PRC) (a well known communication de-vice manufacturer) on developing a pared-down version of Compansion for peoplewith cognitive impairments.1 In t roduct ionSome people have disabilities which make it difficultfor them to speak in an understandable fashion.
Thefield of Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion (AAC) is concerned with developing methodsto augment he communicative ability of such peo-ple.
In addition to problems that make "speaking"difficult, AAC users often have difficulties in coor-dinating extremities (so typing on a standard key-board may be impossible and access to large keys isoften very slow).
Cognitive difficulties may also bepresent.
The field of AAC is concerned with develop-ing methods that provide access to communicativematerial under reasonable time and cognitive con-straints.Over the past 9 years, the Applied Science and En-gineering Laboratories (ASEL) at the University ofDelaware and the duPont Hospital for Children, hasbeen involved with applying natural language pro-cessing (NLP) technologies to the field of AAC.
Oneof the major projects at ASEL (The COMPANSIONproject) has been concerned with the application ofprimarily lexical semantics and sentence generationtechnology to expand telegraphic input into full sen-tences (McCoy et al, 1989), (Demasco and McCoy,1992), (McCoy et al, 1994).The project can best be thought of as a rate en-hancement technique used in the context of a writ-ing tool.
Assuming the user is selecting full wordsat a time (so time of word selection is basically con-stant and is independent of the number of letters irithe word), the technique shows the most gain whenused by a linguistically sophisticated user who de-sires well-formed English constructions.
The systemspeeds rate by allowing the user to select basic con-tent and having the system provide expansions intowell-formed sentences.
The user may then selectamong the generated expansions with 1 additionalkeystroke (for example).Consider the following input:Mary think 3 watch give John Andrew.expanded as:Mary thinks that the 3 watches were givento John by Andrew.17Notice that assuming a root word can be selectedin a single keystroke and endings added with ad-ditional keystrokes, the initial input would take 7keystrokes, while the expanded version would haverequired 16.The Compansion prototype contains three pro-cessing modules and requires a great deal of lexicalknowledge:Word Order Parser - encodes a loose grammarof telegraphic sentences and determines and at-taches modifiers (e.g., 3 is an adjective whichis modifying watch), determines part of speechinformation (e.g., think is a verb, watch is anoun), and passes entence sized chunks to thenext phase of processing (e.g., first 3 watchgive John Andrew would be passed on to thenext phase, and then Mary thinks with the re-sult of the previous processing).Semantic Parser - uses semantic information as-sociated with words to create a semantic rep-resentation (Fillmore, 1968), (Fillmore, 1977),(Allen, 1995), (Palmer, 1984), (Hirst, 1987) foreach sentence.
E.g., verb frame information isassociated with each verb.
This information i -dicates which cases the verb is likely to have andthe semantic type of words that are likely to fillthose cases.
Individual nouns have associatedsemantic types.Sentence Generator  - creates an actual Englishsentence from the semantic representation (E1-hadad, 1991).
In this phase the system at-tempts to keep the word order that was orig-inally input.While the Compansion prototype is viewed asa promising and successful application of NLP toAAC, it raises some questions when viewed as apractical AAC system.?
Unlimited Vocabulary - Compansion relies onhaving a large amount of semantic informationassociated with each word for the processingwithin the semantic parser.
We have been in-vestigating athering as much of this informa-tion as possible through online lexical resources(Zickus, 1995), (Zickus et al, 1995), but muchof this information must still be hand encoded.This is particularly true of verbs which are thecornerstone of the semantic reasoning.
Whilesome information on noun semantic ategoriza-tion can be gleaned from online lexical resourcessuch as WordNet (Miller, 1990; Miller, 1995), itis well beyond the state of the art to glean thekind of verb semantics necessary from online re-sources.Sophisticated Grammatical Input - Sophisti-cated writers are apt to want to use compli-cated grammatical constructions which may lieoutside the processing ability supplied by theCompansion technique.
In some instances thefault may be that the system has not yet beenprogrammed to deal with certain constructions(e.g., certain kinds of verb compliments).
Suchdeficiencies can be remedied.
Much more se-rious is the possibility of some grammaticalconstructions ot being understandable in tele-graphic form even to a human reader.
For ex-ample, relative clauses in telegraphic nput maybe impossible for a human to interpret correctly(at least, unless a great deal of world knowledgeinformation is applied).
Thus, there is a limit tothe sophistication f grammatical constructionsthat are possible to disambiguate in telegraphicinput.Sophisticated Grammatical Output - The sen-tence generator used by Compansion relies ona grammar which necessarily encodes ome lim-ited set of grammatical constructions.These problems, coupled with the relatively lowprocessing power and space on devices used for AAC,led us to question whether or not NLP is possible inviable AAC devices.
Notice that the rate enhance-ment power of Compansion is heightened when so-phisticated linguistic onstructions are used.
On theother hand, it is exactly the situations where suchconstructions are most used that the other problemareas of the system are most prevalent.The question is: Are there uses for techniquessuch as Compansion that avoid some of the abovementioned problems?
Is it feasible and beneficial toprovide some kind of "pared-down" version of Com-pansion on an AAC device?In conjunction with the Prentke Romich Company(PRC) (a well known communication device man-ufacturer) we have been working on developing apared-down version of Compansion for people withcognitive impairments (McCoy et al, 1997).
In thenext section we motivate the focus on this popu-lation.
We indicate that not only might the tech-nique prove very useful for this population, but byfocusing on this population some of the problemswith Compansion can be eliminated.
We describeour processing (a simplification of the processing inCompansion) and note some challenges that still re-main.182 The  Need:  Target  PopulationDescriptionOne population of AAC users that might greatlybenefit from expanded telegraphic input are thosewho are young in age but who suffer from somecognitive impairments which affect their expressivelanguage production.
According to (Kumin, 1994)and (Roth and Casset-James, 1989), language pro-duction from a population that has such cognitiveimpairments includes: (1) short telegraphic utter-ances; (2) sentences consisting of concrete vocab-ulary (particularly nouns); (3) morphological ndsyntactical difficulties uch as inappropriate use ofverb tenses, plurals, and pronouns; (4) word addi-tions, omissions, or substitutions; and (5) incorrectword order.
While people exhibiting these kinds ofproduction problems may be understandable, theywill often be perceived negatively in both social andeducational situations.
Therapy is often geared to-ward developing strategies that overcome or com-pensate for these production problems.
Childrenwho use AAC and have these kinds of difficultiesface additional problems over speaking children withthe same impairments both because they have addi-tional obstacles in accessing language lements (i.e.,language lements must be accessed through a de-vice) and because language and literacy acquisitionare not well understood in children who use AAC.Because of this, it is not clear what kind of interven-tions will be effective with these children.Our aim is to provide an AAC device which willbe useful to this population both by allowing theiroutput o be more standard, and as a potential lan-guage intervention (therapy) tool.3 Cha l lenges  w i th  Th is  Popu la t ionBefore any intelligent device can be developed forthis population, the problem of lexical access mustbe solved.
That is, we must find a method that en-ables the user to select he lexical items that theywish to communicate.
The speech output commu-nication aids that PRC designs for commercial useincorporate an encoding technique called semanticcompaction, commercially known as Minspeak R (acontraction of the phrase "minimum effort speech")(Baker, 1982), (Baker, 1984).
Minspeak R is ulti-mately an abbreviation expansion system, but it isdesigned to eliminate much of the cognitive load as-sociated with abbreviation expansion.
In using ab-breviation expansion, users are required to memo-rize a set of abbreviations that, if typed, will beexpanded into full words.
For example, the usermight type " t  " for CCthe " and ~Csch " for' 'school ' '.
Of course, there is a tremendousamount of cognitive load associated with memoriz-ing abbreviations (and with developing memorableabbreviations for a large number of words).
Sufficeit to say that regular abbreviation expansion is nota viable option for the population being consideredhere.Minspeak x deals with the cognitive load associ-ated with standard abbreviation systems by form-ing abbreviations u ing multi-meaning icons ratherthan letters.
Because the icons are rich in mean-ing and associations, a small number of icons (keys)can be used to represent a large vocabulary whereeach item can be selected using a memorable se-quence of 2-3 icons.
The success of the generalMinspeak R paradigm of vocabulary access led PRCto start designing tailored prestored vocabulary pro-grams known as Minspeak Application Programs(MAPs TM) for specific populations of users.
Theseprograms are concerned with providing both an ap-propriate vocabulary and a set of icons appropriatelyplaced on the keyboard so as to allow communica-tion in an "automatic" fashion.One of these MAPsTM(the Communic-EaseMAP TM) was developed for users chronologically10 or more years of age with a language age of 5-6 years.
This MAP provides access to a basic vo-cabulary and has proven to be an effective inter-face for users in our target population.
It providesaccess to approximately 580 single words dividedinto 38 general categories.
Most of these words arecoded as 2-icon sequences.
The first icon in the se-quence (the category icon) establishes the word cat-egory.
For example, the <SKULL> icon indicates abody part word, the <MASKS> icon indicates a feel-ing word, and the <APPLE> icon indicates a foodword.
The second icon denotes the specific word.For example, <MASK> followed by <SUN> producesthe word "happy"; <APPLE> followed by <APPLE>.produces the word "eat".
The learning and useof icon sequences i  facilitated by the incorporationof "icon prediction".
In icon prediction the user is"prompted" for valid icon sequences using lights onkeys.
For example, once the first icon is hit (e.g.,<MASK>) lights will appear on icons that lead toa word (e.g., all icons that complete a valid feelingword will be lit).In addition to the words which are accessedvia the icon sequences, Communic-EaseTMcontainssome morphology and allows the addition of end-ings to regular tense verbs and regular noun plurals.However, note that to accomplish this, additionalkeystrokes are required.
Also, it is possible to spellwords that are not included in the core vocabulary.19In practice, however, users with either slow accessmethods or poor language ability tend to producetelegraphic messages consisting of sequences of corevocabulary items without embellishing morphology.Our project builds a processing method on top ofthe Communic-Ease MApTMwhich will expand thetelegraphic/mis-ordered input on the part of the userinto well formed sentences.
Notice that developing a~ystem for this particular population will overcomesome of the difficulties faced with the general Com-pansion system built as a writing tool for people withsophisticated linguistic ability.
First, this popula-tion will rely on a limited vocabulary.
As was notedabove, the users of this particular vocabulary accesssystem generally use only the vocabulary items pro-grammed into the Communic-Ease MAP TM.
Whilethe method allows them to spell any word, in actu-ality spelling is rather limited and the spelled vocab-ulary items may be easier to anticipate.
Second, theoutput structures of the sentences will not require so-phisticated syntactic onstructions.
This populationrequires limited output structures comprised primar-ily of fairly simple sentence structures.
Finally, thesystem will not face the same sorts of input problemsdescribed in conjunction with the Compansion sys-tem.
Again, this primarily follows from the languagesophistication of the chosen population.On the other hand, this population of users doesbring with it other difficulties.
For example, it islikely that users may produce unusual sentence in-put.
While we do not expect o see the same sorts ofcomplications with the input described above withrespect o Compansion, it is likely that the inputwill display unusual characteristics.
For example,with linguistically sophisticated users we expect heinput word order to mirror the desired surface form.This assumption does not hold for users with cogni-tive impairments.
Thus we must carefully study thispopulation to determine exactly what kind of inputto expect.Other problems faced by this system have to dowith the ability of the user to handle the decisionsthat are required of them.
For instance, it may bethe case that selecting from a set of expanded sen-tences may prove very difficult for this populationwho may become confused or may be unable to re-tain their desired sentence when given a list of sen-tences to choose from.
Thus it becomes extremelyimportant that the system present appropriate x-pansions and that these xpansions be ordered usinga heuristic that accurately predicts the most likelyexpansion.Because of the cognitive impairments, it is alsolikely that the user will have a great deal of diffi-culty if the system acts in unexpected ways.
Thus,the system must be extremely robust and capable ofhandling any input given to it.Finally, the system's interface must be carefullydesigned so as to make it easy for users to learnand use.
In addition, the system must be fast andrunnable on relatively inexpensive and portable PCplatforms o as to make it cost effective.4 Simple TechniquesIn this project we have decided to collapse the threelevels of processing found in Compansion into onelevel.
The system is implemented in C++ for econ-omy of memory and for speed and compatibility con-siderations.The major processing in the system takes place inan augmented transition etwork type of grammar.The network itself encodes a grammar of the tele-graphic input expected from this population.
Thetests in the grammar may be made on the basis ofsyntactic or semantic features tored in the lexiconon each word.
Some of the actions in the gram-mar are responsible for manipulating a particularregister which encodes the "generated string" or ex-pansion associated with each state in the network.Thus these actions are responsible for adding deter-miners etc.
Sets of registers axe also maintained forrecording semantic aspects of the partial sentence(e.g., information such as what word is the agent).This information is primarily used to reconstruct anappropriate expansion if later input indicates inap-propriate decisions were made in earlier states of theparse.The augmented transition etwork formalism waschosen for this work mainly because it allowed par-allel traversal of all possible parses and therefore theability to predict next input words.
This allowed usto extend the icon prediction mechanism describedin the Communic-Ease MApTMto the word level.For instance, in a situation where the user has typedan adjective, only icons that begin valid next words(e.g., adjective, noun) will be highlighted thus fa-cilitating learning.
One can imagine this particularaspect of the system being expanded for therapy ses-sions.
For example, it might be used to teach a userto use standard agent-verb-object sentences by high-lighting only words that fit into that pattern.5 Methodo log ica l  IssuesOur system functionality has been determinedby a collection of transcripts from Communic-EaseTMusers.
We have collected both raw keystrokedata (so that we can establish the range of input20we expect from the population) and keystroke datafrom videotaped sessions where interpretations ofthe keystroke data are provided by a communicationpartner.
This data allows us to ensure the outputfrom the system is in fact appropriate.
In additionit has been used to validate xpected sentence struc-tures, validate the expectation that the core vocab-ulary will comprise most of the input, allow us tobetter anticipate the spelled vocabulary, and vali-date input expectations.Our methodology in using the data has been topartition it into several sets.
First, some portion ofeach of the two kinds of data has been set aside fortesting purposes.
Thus it is not seen for purposesof system development.
Because the videotaped ses-sions contain both input and its expansion, theseare being used primarily as a means for tuning theexpansion rules used in the grammar and the appro-priateness heuristics that order the expansions pro-duced by the system.
We will attempt for the systemto mimic the partner on the videotaped sessions.The raw keystroke data is being used in two ways.Most obviously it is being used to tune the gram-mar to the range of input.
Secondly, some of theraw data is being associated with multiple interpre-tations deemed reasonable by one of the team mem-bers.
These interpretations will be used to furthertune the grammar expansions.Several evaluations of the completed prototypesystem are planned and made possible by the set-aside collected ata.
Ffi:st, the robustness of thegrammar can be tested by determining the num-ber of completed input utterances found in the col-lected data that can be handled by the grammar.Second, the appropriateness of the grammar can betested by determining how often the grammar's out-put matches the interpretation provided by the com-munication partner (in the video sessions containinginterpretations bythe partner) or by a human facedwith the same sequence of words (for the raw datato which interpretations have been added).In addition to the theoretical grammar testing de-scribed above, we also plan an informal evaluationof the usability of the system.
We plan to iterativelyrefine the interface by doing usability studies of ourprototype with current users of the Communic-EaseMAP TM.
We anticipate beginning this testing dur-ing the summer and fall of 1997.6 Conc lus ionsWe have motivated and described a system that isunder development via a joint venture between theApplied Science and Engineering Laboratories oftheUniversity of Delaware and the duPont Hospital forChildren and the Prentke Romich Company.
Impor-tant features of the effort include a multidisciplinaryteam with technical expertise in various areas in-cluding NLP and clinical expertise with the targetpopulation.
This effort focuses on a particular userpopulation which enables us to constrain the systemprocessing sufficiently to make the NLP applicationfeasible.
Our effort involves designing the systemaround the specific needs and abilities of the partic-ular population.Characteristics of the language used by the par-ticular population being studied has permitted us toapply some simple NLP techniques which are prov-ing to be sufficiently robust for this task.
We an-ticipate the addition of some statistical reasoningparticularly as a heuristic for ordering possible ex-pansions that the system deems appropriate.The system is in its prototype stage and currentlyconsists of a PRC Liberator (a standard piece ofhardware which provides access to vocabulary itemsthrough the Communic-EaseTMMAP) attached to aPentium-based desktop PC running the user inter-face with Windows NT and a software-based text-to-speech synthesizer.
When the final details of theuser interface and the other software components areworked out, the completed prototype will be imple-mented on a tablet-based PC and will be field testedwith current users of the Communic-EaseTMMAP.7 AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by a Small BusinessResearch Program Phase I Grant from the Depart-ment of Health and Human Services Public HealthService, and a Rehabilitation Engineering ResearchCenter Grant from the National Institute on Dis-ability and Rehabilitation Research of the U.S. De-partment of Education (#H133E30010).
Additionalsupport has been provided by the Nemours Founda~tion.The author would like to thank Arlene Badman,Patrick Demasco, David Hershberger, Clifford Kush-ler, and Christopher Pennington for their collab-oration on the design and implementation f thisproject.
In addition we thank John Gray for his dis-cussions and implementation f many of the C++aspects of the system, and Marjeta Cedilnik for herwork on the grammar (and transformation rules).ReferencesAllen, James.
1995.
Natural Language Understand-ing, Second Edition.
Benjamin/Cummings, CA.21Baker, B.
1982.
Minspeak.
Byte, page 186ff,September.Baker, B.
1984.
Semantic ompaction for sub-sentence vocabulary units compared to other en-coding and prediction systems.
In Proceedings ofthe l Oth Conference on Rehabilitation Technology,pages 118-120, San Jose CA.
RESNA.Demasco, Patrick W. and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1992.Generating text from compressed input: An in-telligent interface for people with severe mo-tor impairments.
Communications of the ACM,35(5):68-78, May.Elhadad, Michael.
1991.
FUF: The universal uni-fier user manual version 5.0.
Technical report,Columbia University, Computer Science Depart-ment.Fillmore, C. J.
1968.
The case for case.
In E. Bachand R. Harms, editors, Universals in LinguisticTheory, pages 1-90, New York.
Holt, Rinehart,and Winston.Fillmore, C. J.
1977.
The case for case reopened.
InP.
Cole and J. M. Sadock, editors, Syntax and Se-mantics VIII: Grammatical Relations, pages 59--81, New York.
Academic Press.Hirst, Graeme.
1987.
Semantic interpretation andthe resolution of ambiguity.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Kumin, L. 1994.
Communication skills in childrenwith Down Syndrome: A guide for parents.
Wood-bine House, Rockville, MD.McCoy, K., P. Demasco, Y. Gong, C. Pennington,and C. Rowe.
1989.
Toward a communicationdevice which generates sentences.
In Proceed-ings of the 12th Annual Conference, New Orleans,Louisiana, June.
RESNA.McCoy, Kathleen F., Patrick W. Demasco, Mark A.Jones, Christopher A. Pennington, Peter B. Van-derheyden, and Wendy M. Zickus.
1994.
A com-munication tool for people with disabilities: Lex-ical semantics for filling in the pieces.
In Proceed-ings of the First Annual ACM Conference on As-sistive Technologies (ASSETS94), pages 107-114,Marina del Ray, CA:.McCoy, Kathleen F., Patrick W. Demasco, Christo-pher A. Pennington, and Arlene Luberoff Bad-man.
1997.
Some interface issues in developingintelligent communication aids for people with dis-abilities.
In Proceedings of the 1997 InternationalConference on Intelligent User Interfaces, IUI97,Orlando, Florida.Miller, G. A.
1990.
WordNet: An on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography,3(4).Miller, G. A.
1995.
A lexical database for En-glish.
Communications of the ACM, pages 39--41,November.Palmer, Martha S. 1984.
Driving Semantics fora Limited Domain.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofEdinburgh.
Chapter 2: Previous ComputationalApproaches to Semantic Analysis.Roth, F. P. and E. Casset-James.
1989.
Thelanguage assessment process: Clinical implica-tions for individuals with severe speech impair-ments.
Augmentative and Alternative Communi-cation, 5:165-172.Zickus, Wendy M. 1995.
A software ngineeringapproach to developing an object-oriented lexicalaccess database and semantic reasoning module.Technical report 95-13, Department of Computerand Information Sciences, University of Delaware,Newark, DE.Zickus, Wendy M., Kathleen F. McCoy, Patrick W.Demasco, and Christopher A. Pennington.
1995.A lexical database for intelligent AAC systems.In Anthony Langton, editor, Proceedings of theRESNA '95 Annual Conference, pages 124-126,Arlington, VA. RESNA Press.22
