Lexical Discrimination with the Italian Version of WORDNETAlessandro  Ar ta le ,  Bernardo  Magn in i  and  Car lo  S t rapparavaIRST, 1-38050 Povo TN, Italye-mail: {artalelmagninilstrappa}@irst.
itc.
itAbst rac tWe present aprototype of the Italian version ofWORDNET, a general computational lexical re-source.
Some relevant extensions are discussedto make it usable for parsing: in particular weadd verbal selectional restrictions to make lexi-cal discrimination effective.
Italian WORDNEThas been coupled with a parser and a number ofexperiments have been performed to individu-ate the methodology with the best trade-off be-tween disambiguation rate and precision.
Re-sults confirm intuitive hypothesis on the role ofselectional restrictions and show evidences fora WORDNET-Iike organization oflexical senses.1 In t roduct ionWORDNET is a thesaurus for the English language basedon psycholinguistics principles and developed at thePrinceton University by George Miller \[Miller, 1990\].It has been conceived as a computational resource, soimproving some of the drawbacks of traditional dictio-naries, such as the circularity of the definitions and theambiguity of sense references.
Lemmas (about 130,000for version 1.5) are organized in synonyms classes (about100,000 synsets).The more evident problem with WORDNET is thatit is a lexical knowledge base for English, and so itis not usable for other languages.
Here we presentthe efforts made in the development of the Italian ver-sion of WoRDNET \[Magnini and Strapparava, 1994;Magnini et al, 1994\], a project started at IltSW aboutone year ago in the context of ILEX \[Delmonte t al.,1996\] amore general project aiming at the realization ofa computational dictionary for Italian 1.A second problem with WORDNET is that it needssome important extensions to make it usable for effectiveparsing.
In particular, parsing requires apowerful mech-anism for lexical discrimination, in order to select theappropriate l xical readings for each word in the inputsentence.
In this paper we also explore the integrationof "selectwnal res~mctwng', a traditional technique used1The ILEX consortium includes the Computer ScienceDepartment of the University of Torino, the University ofVenezia, and the brench of the University of Torino atVercelli.for lexical discrimination, with Italian WOttDNET.
Se-lectional restrictions provide explicit semantic informa-tion that the verb supplies about its arguments \[Jackend-off, 1990\], and should be fully integrated into the verb'sargument s ructure.Although selectional restrictions are different in dif-ferent domains \[Basili et al, 1996\] we are interested infinding common invariants across ublanguages.
It is ourintention to build a very general instrument that can beafterwards tuned to particular domains by identifyingmore specific uses.
The main motivation is to have botha robust and a computational efficient natural languagesystem.
On one hand, robustness i emphasized becausesentences that are syntactically correct, but which arenot successfully analyzed in the specific application do-main, can have a valid linguistic meaning.
On the otherhand, we are able to filter the sentence meanings on alinguistic basis.
This phase discards the unplausible c-tures pruning the search space by looking for compatibil-ity semantic relations.
This kind of discrimination canbe realized with computationally effective algorithms byexploiting the lexical taxonomy of WORDNET, postpon-ing more complex and expensive computations to thedomanin specific analysis.The paper is structured as follow.
Section 2 de-scribes the Italian prototype of WORDNET; while sec-tion 3 shows how selectional restrictions has been addedto verb senses.
Section 4 shows how Italian WOttDNEThas been coupled with the parser, both for describinglexical senses and as a repository for selectional restric-tions.
Section 5 reports a number of experiments hathas been performed to individuate the methodology de-sign with the best trade-off between disambiguation rateand precision.
Finally section 6 provides ome conclusiveremarks.2 The  I ta l ian  WORDNET Proto typeThe Italian version of WORDNET is based on the as-sumption that a large part of the conceptual relationsdefined for English (about 72,000 ISA relations and5,600 PART-OF relations) can be shared with Italian.WORDNET can be described as a lexical matrix withtwo dimensions: the lexical relations, which hold amongwords and so are language specific, and the conceptualrelations, which hold among senses and that, at leastin part, we consider independent from a particular lan-32Wo~sPMeaningsHASPAR'r \Lonymy;ynsS)PohsemyFigure h Multilingual lexical matrixguage.
The Italian version of WORDNET aims at therealization of a multilingual lexical matrix through theaddition of a third dimension relative to the language.Figure 1 shows the three dimensions of the matrix: (a)words in a language, indicated by YY~ ; (b) meanings, in-dicated by .A4~; (c) languages, indicated by ?k.
Froman abstract point of view, to develop the multilingualmatrix it is necessary to re-map the Italian lexical formswith corresponding meanings (.A4,), building the set ofsynsets for Italian (making explicit the values for theI intersections ?~).
The result will be a complete redefi-nition of the lexical relations, while for the semantic re-lations, those originally defined for English will be usedas much as possible.An implementation of the Multilingual lexical matrixhas been realized which allows a complete integrationwith the English version and the availability of all thetranslations for the Italian lemmas.
The architecture iseasily extendable to other languages.
The integrationwith the computational lexicon ILEX is under develop-ment: it will make the access to other levels of lexical in-formation, such as morphological classes, syntactic cate-gories and sub-categorization frames available.
The Ital-ian version of WORDNET, in December 1996, includedabout 10,000 lemmas (7,000 nouns, 700 verbs, 1,500adjectives, 600 adverbs).Till now, data acquisition has been mostly manual,with the help of a graphical interface; however a basicgoal of the project is the experimentation f techniquesfor the (semi)automatic acquisition of data.
Algorithmsfor the resolution of the ambiguities in the coupling withthe English WORDNET have been developed.
Versionsautomatically created are then tested against manuallyacquired data, with the aim of incrementally improve theprecision level.
A final manual check is performed for allthe data automatically acquired.
It is also foreseen theuse of corpora to extract contextual information to beused during the disambiguation process.3 Add ing  Se lec t iona l  Rest r i c t ions  toVerbsA number of steps have been followed to add selectionalrestrictions to Italian WORDNET.
First, Italian verbsenses were extracted from a paper version of an Italiandictionary and checked against acorpus of genereric Ital-ian texts.
Each verb sense has been then coupled withone or more English WORDNET synsets 2.
This phasehas been performed manually with the help of a graph-ical interface (see figure 2) that includes four integratedworking tools: (i) a bilingual dictionary with more than30,000 lemmas; (ii) a graph that allows the visualiza-tion of the coupling with the English WORDNET; (iii)the bilingual WoRDNET, that behaves exactly like theEnglish version with the additional possibility to browsethe Italian semantic network; (iv) finally, the workingcards allow the insertion, modification and check of thedata for a synset.
The result of this phase is the ex-tension of the English WordNet with the Italian synsets.Figure 3 shows the correspondence between English andItalian synsets for the verb Scrivere (Write).The next step is the definition of the sense subgate-gorization frame.
This includes both syntactic informa-tion (i.e., argumental positions, prepositions on indirectobjects, category type) and semantic information, suchas thematic roles and selectional restrictions.
Syntacticinformation are associated to single verbs, while seman-tic information are associated to the whole synset, i.e.,semantic participants are shared among all the verbs be-longing to the synset.We built selectional restrictions using the synsets ofthe noun hyerarchy.
Two different possibilities for defin-ing selectional restrictions are considered:1.
Selectional restrictions obtained from the framescurrently provided by WoRDNET.~As for figurative uses, they can also be coupled withWoRDNET provided that an appropriate synset do exist.33! en$$ Z in?1are msrld~e $cnveM spedlre~eeilse 3 8c~vsre pubbl~csr8Se.se 4Se"le 5 Sc~Wm ~dlge~ compormFigure 2: The Italian WORDNET interface.2.
Selectional restrictions obtained from the wholeWORDNET noun hierarchy.As far as the first hypothesis concerned, WoRDNETdescribes all the English verbs resorting to a set of 35different syntactic frames, which in turn include onlytwo restrictions, that is Something and Somebody.
Forexample, the frames provided for the verb Write in thesynset {Publish, Write} are:Somebody... sSomebody... s SomethingThe problem arising in using these two restrictionsis that they are completely uncorrelated to the nounsynsets, then, they have to be matched with the propersynsets in the noun hierarchy.
The concept Somebody in-cludes not only the synset Person but also all the synsetsdenoting roup of people that could hold the agent he-matic role.
We defined Somebody using the followingboolean combination ofsynsets:SomebodyPerson V People V People-Multitude V(Social-Group A ~(Society V Subculture VPolitical-System V Moiety V Clan))Something is defined as ~he complement of Somebody.In the second hypothesis electional restrictions aretaken from the whole noun hierarchy.
As an example, fig-ure 4 illustrates the senses for the Italian verb Scrivere(Write) found in Italian WORDNET.
For each sense wereport a conventional name - which unambiguously iden-tifies the synset - and the argumental positions admit-ted for that sense, with the indication of the selectionalrestrictions.
The appropriate combination ofsynsets foran argumental position has to be both enough general topreserve all the human readings, and enough restrictedfor discriminating among different senses of both verband noun.Founding the appropriate selectional restrictions re-vealed itself difficult and time consuming.
The processrequired a deep search into the WOI~DNET noun hier-archy.
In order to achieve a good trade-off between dis-crimination power and precision level we adopted an em-pirical process with successive steps of refinement.
Westarted with general selectional restrictions and then wevalidate them against experimental results.
This itera-tire process ended with complex selectional restritionsfor verbs, as the figure 4 shows.The WORDNET verb taxonomy is based on the ~ro-ponymy relation, which is defined as the co-occurrenceof both lexical implication and temporal co-extension be-tween two verbs.
We would note that, every time a tro-ponymy relation between two verbs holds, an ISA rela-34Synset Label Italian Synset English SynsetWriteWrite-MusicWrits-CommunicateWrite-PublishWrite-Send{scrivere redigere comporre}{scrivere comporre}{scrivere comunlcare_per..iscritto}{scrivere pubblicare }{inviare mandare scrivere spedire}{write compose pen indite}{compose write write_music}{write communicate_by.writing express.by_writing}{publish write}{mail write post send}Figure 3: Correspondences between Italian and English synsets for the verb 'scrsrere' (write).WoRDNET Synset \[ Subject Object Indlrect-ObjectWrite Somebody ---- Written-MateriaiVSymbolic-Repres V SayingVCorrespondence V SentencerMessage V Message-ContentVCode V Symbol VDaterLan~..mge--Unit V PropertyVAddress-SpeechV Print-MediaWrite-Music Person Music - -Write-Communicate Somebody Somebody (Written-4{aterialA ~Section)VSymbolic-Repres V SayingVSentence V NameVMessage V Message-ContentVCode V Date V PropertyWrite-Publish Somebody Written-MateriaiV Print..-MediaV Publishing-House(Print-MediaA ~Section)Write-Send Somebody CorrespondenceV MessageV SomebodyLetter-MissiveFigure 4: Lexical entries for Scriveze (Writs).tion between the correspondent selectional restrictionsholds, too.4 Coupl ing WORDNET and a TFS ParserIn this section we describe the architecture we used forchecking WORDNET usability in parsing.
Italian WORD-NET has been used in two different phases of the linguis-tic analysis.
On a first phase, we use Italian WORD-NET as a lexicon repository to carry on lexical analysis.During the semantic analysis Italian WORDNET is usedas a kind of Knowledge Base (KB) exploiting the struc-tural relationships among synsets.
In particular, we usedthe supertype/subtype-like hierarchy of synsets duringthe parsing process in order to discard unplausible con-stituents on a semantic base.The parser used is a CYK chart parser embedded inthe GEPPETTO environment \[Ciravegna ?t al., 1996\], andcoupled with a proper unification algorithm.
GEPPETTOis based on a Typed Feature Logic \[-Carpenter, 1992\] forthe specification of linguistic data.
The GEPPETTO envi-ronment allows to edit and debug grammars and lexica,linking linguistic data to a parser and/or a generator, in-tegrating various form of KBs, and using specialized pro-cessors (e.g., morphological nalyzers).
In particular, weintegrated the hierarchical structure of WORDNET as anexternal KB, while an ISA function uses the WORDNEThierarchy in order to check subsumption relationshipsbetween WoRDNET synsets.The grammar is written adopting a HPSG-like style,and each rule is regarded as Typed Feature Structure(TFS).
For the current experiment the grammar cover-age is limited to very simple verbal sentences formed bya subject, a main verb together with its internal argu-ments and, possibly, an adjunct phrase.
Observe that,the syntactic analysis does not take into account he pp-attachment case.
We excluded the possibility to capturethese complex nominal phrases.
Indeed, the object of theexperiment is to disambiguate among WORDNET sensesof both verbs and nouns on the basis of the lexical se-mantic restrictions for the arguments ofthe verb and thelexical semantic associated to the noun.A condition for using WORDNET coupled with theGEPPETTO environment is to bring it in a format ef-fectively usable.
The exploited idea was to rebuild theWORDNET hierarchy in CLOS, the object-oriented partof COMMON LISP.
The advantages of this approach is35WordRegina (Queen)Art~colo (Article)Lettera (Letter)Libro (Book)WoBDNET SynsetLabe~queen-Insect,Queen-Regnant,Queen-Wi~e,Queen-Card, Queen-ChessArticle-Artefact,Article-Clause,Article-Grawmar, Article-DocumentLetter-Missive, Letter-AlphabetBook-Publication, Book-Section,Book-ObjectFigure 5: Lexical entries for nouns.the possibdity to implement a fast and flexible accessto the synsets hierarchy and, in particular, an efficientISA functionality as required for the semantic heckingduring the parsing.
The arguments to ISA function maybe a complex boolean combination of synsets (e.g., seeselectional restrictions in figure 4).The parser controls the overall processing.
Wheneverit tries to build a (partially recognized) constituent itincrementally verifies the admissibility of the semanticpart of such a constituent, using the WORDNET hierar-chy.
In particular, whenever a noun is associated witha verbal argument the ISA function is triggered to checkwhether the synset of the noun is subsumed by the selec-tional restriction of the corresponding verbal argument.Due to the large number of analyses, it is useful to dis-card unplausible constituents as soon as possible to cutthe search space.
This has been obtained interliving thesyntactic and semantic processes: as soon as the seman-tic test fails the constituent is rejected.5 Experiments and ResultsIn this section we describe the empirical results obtainedby coupling a WoRDNET based lexicon with a parser Inour intention, the experiment would bring evidence forthe following aspects:.
Plausibility of WoRDNBT senses for describing alexical entries;e Usability of WoRDNET for carrying out lexical dis-crimination.The experiment has been carried out on 60 sentenceswith 1201 different lectures, and formed by using sevenverbs (wr~te, eat, smell, corrode, buy, receive, assocza~e)coupled with fifty common ouns and two proper nouns.In the general experimental setting a sentence is given tothe parser in a situation characterized by multiple lexi-cal entries for each single word (one for each WoRDNETsense).
The analyses produced by the parser are com-pared with the set of interpretations given by a human.As far as nouns are concerned, a lexlcal entry includesall the senses found in Italian WORDNET.
Some of thenouns used in the experiment are shown in figure 5.
Asfor verbs, we started from the Italian WoRDNET sensesand then we faced to the problem of mdividuatmg theproper selectional restrictions for each argumental posi-tion of the verb subcategorization frame as seen before.So we build a small number of lexical entries, by meansof which we composed the sentences of the experiment.We experiment the two hypotheses on selectional restric-tions presented in section 3, i.e., the one with generalWoRDNET frames and the other with more refined se-lectional restrictions.As an example, figure 6 shows the output of the parserfor the sentence "La regzna scrtsse ~ma leltera a Gzo-vanng' ("The queen wrote a letter to John").
As a con-venction, we decided to describe internal arguments withthe symbol ' / ' ,  while a ' / / '  denotes a verbal adjunct.This sentence was selected because it produces an highnumber of lectures (40) among the test suite sentences.This is due to both the verb sense ambiguity (write hasfive senses) and to the noun ambiguitms (queen has fivesenses, and le t te r  two).
Note that the parser excludesthe sense Write-Publ ish since the indirect object mustbe introduced by the Italian prepositions "su" or "per ~'(in English "on" or "fort'), while in this example we havethe preposition "a" ("to").Let us first consider the results obtained in the secondexperimental setting, which best approximate he humanjudgment.
Out of the eight interpretations accepted,two are implausible for a human reader.
This caused bythe contemporary presence of the sense Letter-Miss iveand of the proper noun John as, respectively, patient andbeneficiary of the write verb sense.
Note that, each ofthese senses are, per se, valid arguments since they sat-isfy the selectional restrictions.In the first experimental setting, the presence ofweaker selectional restrictions (just ~omebody, Some-thzng) ymlds more spurious readings.
As a matter offact, the more evzdent problem is that many times ar-gumental positions are not properly filled.
For ex-ample, that "a queen-Regnant could ~/rlte-Music anLetter-Miss ive" (i.e., a kind of correspondence) is oneof the allowed readings.Figure 7 reports the quantitative results of the ex-periment.
They are preliminary since they have beenobtained on a limited number of sentences (60).
Thefigure shows, for each experimental setting, the num-ber of total readings produced by the parser, the dis-crlmination rate (i.e., the rate of the lectures rejected:(1201- z)/1201), and the precision (i.e., the rate of cor-rect lectures: 122/z).
These results have to be inter-preted considering that the focus of the experiment ison selectional restrictions, which of course is just oneamong the various kinds of information occurring dur-ing lexical discrimination.
It is worth mentioning here,among the others, some crucial information sources: (i)36SentenceRestrictionsNumber of lecturesRestrictionsNumber of lecturesRestrictionsNumber of lecturesLecturesHuman JudgmentNumber of lecturesLecturesLa regina scrisse una lettera a Giovanni(THE QUEEN WROTE A LETTER TO JOHN)No semantic discrimination40Discrimination with WoRDNET Frames (I exp.
setting)16Discrimination with WORDNET Full Hierarchy (II exp.
setting)8(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)Queen-Wife/Write/Letter-Alphabet//JohnQueen-Regnant/Write/Letter-Alphabet//John(~)(8)6Queen, Regnant/Wfite-Comunicate/Letter-Missive/John (1)Queen-Wife/Write-Comunicate/Letter- Missive/John (2)Queen-Regnant/Writ e-Send/Letter-Missive/John (3)Queen-Wife/Wnte-Send/Letter-Missive/John (4)Queen-Regnant /Write /Let ter- Missive/ / John (5)Queen-Wife/Write/Letter- Missive//John (6)Figure 6: An example of sentenceExperimental Setting ~ of lectures \[ Discrimination Rate PrecisionWithout discrimination 1201 0% 10%Discrimination with WoRDNET Frames 688 43% 18%Discrimination with the WoRDNET Full Hierarchy 164 86% 74%Human Judgment 122 90% 100%Figure 7: Quantitative results obtained on 60 sentencesworld knowledge: e.g., it is very strange to Write anArticle-Clause on a Newspaper-Periodic; (ii) aspec-tual properties of the verb: e.g., it is very difficult tointerpret La regina sta scmvendo un artscolo sul gzonale(The queen ss wmtmg an article on the newspaper) withthe Write-Publ ish sense, because publishing is a cul-minative process.6 Conc lus ionsthey are more detailed.Some general suggestions can be drawn in order toindividuate a trade-of between the effort necessary fordescribing selectional restrictions and the lexical disam-biguation obtained.
Although the definition of detailedselectional restrictions was highly time comsuming, ourexperience shown that this approach obtains good resultsboth in the discrimination rate and in the precision.In this paper we presented the approach underlying theItalian WoRDNET, a general computational lexical re-source.
A prototype has been realized which implementsa multilingual lexical matrix.
Data acquisition has beenmostly manual with the help of a graphical interface.In light of the concrete use of the Italian WORDNET wepropose the integration of selectional restrictions into theverbal taxonomy.
An empirical verification has been per-formed which confirms the intuitive hypothesis that se-lectional restrictions crucially affect lexical disambigua-tion and that the discrimination rate improves as far asThe experiment also brings evidence for a WORDNETlike sense organization.
In fact, different selectional re-strictions apply to different senses allowing to discrimi-nate among different readings.
However, an importantdrawback in WoRDNET is the lack of relations amongrelated senses of the same word.
This is particularlycrucial for the logzcal pohsemy cases \[Pustejovsky, 1995\],when a sense can be generated from another in a pre-dictable way, and, in general, to treat the so called "verbmutability effect" as discussed in \[Gentner and France,1988\].37References\[Basili et al, 1996\] It.
Basili, M.T.
Pazienza, and P. Ve-lardi.
Integrating eneral-purpose and corpus-basedverb classification.
Computational Linguislies, 22(4),1996.\[Carpenter, 1992\] B. Carpenter.
The logic of typed fea-ture Structures.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, 1992.\[Ciravegna e~ al., 1996\] F. Ciravegna, A. Lavelli, D. Pe-trelli, and F. Pianesi.
The GEPPETTO environment,Version 2.0.b.
User Manual.
Technical report, IRST,1996.\[Delmonte et al, 1996\] R. Delmonte, G. Ferrari, A. Goy,L.
Lesmo, B. Magnini, E. Pianta, O.
Stock, andC.
Strapparava.
ILEX - un dizionario computazionaledell'italiano.
In Proc.
of 5 ~h Convegno Nazionaledella Associazione Italiana per l'Intelligenza Artifi-eiale, Napoli, September 1996.\[Gentner and France, 1988\] D. Gentner and I.M.
Fran-ce.
The verb mutability effect: Studies of the combi-natorial semantics of nouns and verbs.
In S. Small,G.W.
Cottrell, and M.K.
Tanenhaus, editors, LezicaiAmbiguity Resolution.
Morgan Kaufman, San Mateo,California, 1988.\[Jackendoff, 1990\] Ray Jackendoff.
Semantic Structures.Current Studies in Linguistics.
The MIT Press, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts/London, E gland, 1990.\[Magnini and Strapparava, 1994\] B. Magnini andC.
Strapparava.
Costruzione di una base di conoscenzalessicale per l'italiano basata su WordNet.
In Proc.
ofthe 28 ~h International Congress of the Sociel~i Lin-guistica Italiana; Palermo, Italy, Ottobre 1994.\[Magnini el al., 1994\] B. Magnini, C. Strapparava,F.
Ciravegna, and E. Pianta.
Multilingual lexicalknowledge bases: Applied WordNet prospects.
In TheFuture of Dictionary - Workshop sponsored by RankXerox European Research Centre and ESPRIT ProjectAcquilex II, Grenoble, France, October 1994.\[Miller, 1990\] G. A. Miller.
WordNet: "An on-line lexi-cal database", International Journal of Lexicography(special issue), 3(4):235-312, 1990.\[Pustejovsky, 1995\] J. Pustejovsky.
The Generative Lex-icon.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts,1995.38
