A Polish-to-English Text-to-text Translation System Based on an ElectronicDictionaryKrzysztof JassemDept.
of Computational Linguistics and Artificial IntelligenceFaculty of Mathematics and Computer ScienceAdam Mickiewicz UniversityMat ejki 48-49, 60-769 Poznan, Polandjassem @ math.amu.edu.plPOLENG is a Polish-to-English text-to-text ranslationsystem based on an electronic dictionary.
The dictionarysoftware enables the storing of lexical data in a finiteautomaton.
The translation software uses the Arity Prologinterpreter in order to obtain a phrasal structure of anoutput expression.1 The dictionaryThe process of creating a Polish-to-English electronicdictionary destined to be used in computerised text trans-lation was performed out in the following steps:I.
The preparatory phase.
In this phase classification filesof the inflection of Polish words as well as the coding ofPolish and English inflection paradigms were prepared.2.
The phase of creating the dictionary of canonicalforms.
This phase was carried out by lexicographers aimedby an interactive computer application.
Each entry in thedictionary is supplied with inflection codes of its Polishand English parts as well as other syntactic-semanticinformation.
The inflection code of the Polish part of anentry is a reference to a set of inflection endings tored inone of classification files prepared in phase 1.
The formatof the inflection code of the English part is "self-constructive", i.e.
it enables the generation of appropriateinflected forms from a canonical form without he neces-sity of a time-consuming look up of any classification file.
(Designing a "self-constructive" code for a highly flexionallanguage like Polish would have been a complex task).3.
The phase of generating the SGML.type dictionary ofinflected forms.
This phase is executed automatically.
Theinflected forms are generated on the basis of Polish in-flection codes attached to all entries in the dictionary ofcanonical forms.
Only inflected forms of Polish words(phrases) are created in this phase.
Each form inherits thesyntactic-semantic information from its canonical form.English equivalents of Polish inflected forms are notderived.
The derivation of an appropriate English form isleft to the morphological synthesis in the translation proc-ess.
Storing the dictionary as an SGML-type documentaims at comfortable browsing of its contents as well asfacilitating its use in an application other than thePOLENG translation algorithm.4.
Converting the dictionary into two modified finite-stateautomata.
This phase is executed automatically in order tooptimise the access time.
The first automaton stores singlewords.
Its alphabet coincides with the Polish orthographicalphabet.
Reaching a terminal state of the automaton isequivalent to finding a Polish inflected form in the dic-tionary.
Whenever a finite state is reached, references tothe table of morphological features and the table of ca-nonical forms are obtained.
Due to the references, allmorphological nd syntactic-semantic information as wellas the canonical forms of the English equivalents of thefound word are achieved.
The second automaton stores thelexical phrases.
The alphabet of the automaton is the set ofidentifiers of the words stored in the dictionary of singlewords.
This means that the process of searching a phraseis executed "word by word" (in contrast to the "letter byletter" search in the automaton of single words).2 The translation algorithmThe translation algorithm is non-modular: its only resultsare the phrasal structure and the surface form of the Eng-lish expression corresponding to the Polish input.
Theprocesses of syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, transferand morphological generation are not separated.
Thegrammar assumed in parsing Polish expressions consistsmostly of DGC rules.
A specific algorithm is used forparsing verbal phrases.
The algorithm deals with a charac-teristic feature of Polish syntax: an almost arbitrary orderof verb modifiers.
Types and admissible orders of modifi-ers of a given verb are listed in the dictionary.
A fewEnglish verbs may correspond to one Polish verb depend-ing on the type and the order of its modifiers.
For eachtype of a modifier of a Polish verb, the type of the corre-sponding modifier of the English equivalent is given in thedictionary.
The translation algorithm searches for theconstituent verb of a clause, consults the informationextracted from the dictionary and first checks for theconstructions admissible for the verb.
This approach en-ables the analysis of the Polish input expression, thechoice of the appropriate English verb equivalent and thesynthesis of the correct English output.
If verb modifiers inthe clause fulfil none of the types given in the dictionaryfor the predicate, then default values for the English verbequivalent and the English modifier types are taken.The algorithm makes it possible to transfer special ver-bal constructions called (-T) constructions and (T-shifted)94constructions, where T denotes a type of a modifier.
(-T)constructions are used in analysing object questions andrelative object clauses in which a modifier of the type Tdoes not explicitly occur, although the type T-modifier isrequired for the verb according to the dictionary informa-tion (e.g.
in the sentence "He is a man I was talking to"the object of the clause "I was talking to" appears"outside" the clause).
The (T-shifted) constructions areused in analysing sentences in which an object of thePolish expression should be transferred into the subject ofthe English expression (e.g.
the Polish.sentence: "Niepowiedziano mi (object) o tyro"; the English translation:I (subject) have not been told about hat").in a Polish sentence verbs are characterised both by pre-and post-modifiers.
However, the sequence of wordsbetween the subject and the predicate in a sentence issubject o a number of constraints and is therefore ame-nable to deterministic parsing.
This deterministic part ofthe algorithm has a notable impact on the effectiveness ofthe translation process.A few heuristic methods have been developed in orderto limit the search space and thus achieve better effi-ciency.
The "method of filters" consists in checking"negative rules" first.
The success of a negative rule isequivalent to a failure of the hypothesis.
The method"replace by alternative" consists in replacing two ruleswith the same left-hand symbol and the same beginning oftheir right sides by one rule - e.g.
two rules A---~BC,A---~BD are replaced by one rule A---~B(C or D).
Thisimproves effectiveness because of a single (rather thandouble) attempt to expand the same non-terminal symbolto the given string of terminals.
The method "from longestto shortest" says that if a symbol A occurs as a non-lastright-hand symbol of a rule - e.g.
in the rule D--cAE - andthe grammar includes more rules than one to replace thesymbol A - e.g.
rules: A--~BC, A--~B, then it is moreeffective to make the algorithm check the "longer" ruleA---~BC before checking the "shorter" rule A---~B.
Thismakes it possible to block backtracking in the ruleD-+A!E.
The method "replace symbol by parameter" maybe used when right-hand sides of productions for differentsymbols tart with the same (sequence of) symbol(s).
Forexample, two rules A--~BC, D--~BE may be replaced byone rule: F(P)---~ B((C and P is P1) or (D and P is P2)).3 Status of the systemCurrently the POLENG dictionary consists of about 2000lexemes which corresponds to about 30000 inflectedforms, mainly from the domain of computer science.
Theresearch plans for near future include consulting a largecorpus of computer texts in order to create a bilingualdictionary which will enable the translation of a widerange of Polish computational texts into English.The starting point for the translation algorithm was aparser of Polish sentences described in (Szpakowicz,1986).
Most of the expressions parsed by that system aretransferable in the system POLENG.
There are still a lotof grammatical, syntactic and semantic problems to besolved.
The problem of assigning a correct tense of theEnglish output (there are only 3 tenses in Polish) is cur-rently solved on the basis of the surface structure of thePolish input expression (the solution is far from perfect).The problem of determiners is not solved at all (all noungroups are assumed efinite).
The solutions of these twoproblems will be sought in the near future.ReferencesSzpakowicz S.1986.
Formalny opis skladniowy zdan pol-skich.
Wydawnictwa Uniwersytetu Warszawskiego.
War-szawa.Courtois B.
1990 : Un syst~me de dictionnaires 61ec-troniques pour les mots simples du franqais.
In Languefranfaise.
Larousse.
Paris.Roche E. 1992.
Experiments in dictionary compression.Paris.Jassem K. 1997.
Classification of Polish nouns for theelectronic flexional dictionary.
In Sprache und Datenver:arbeitung.
International Journal for Language DataProcessing.
To appear.95
