mmA Frame-Semantic Approach to Semantic AnnotationJ ohn  B.  Lowe jb lowe~garnet .berke ley .eduCoIHn F. Baker  co11?nb@icsi.berkeley, eduChar les  J .
F i l lmore  f i l lmore@cogsc i .berke ley ,  eduDepartment  of LinguisticsUniversity of CaliforniaBerkeley, CA 94720AbstractThe number and arrangement of seman-tic tags must be constrained, lest the sizeand complexity of the tagging sets (tagsets)used for semantic annotation become un-wieldy both for humans and computers.The description of lexical predicates withinthe framework of frame semantics providesa natural method for selecting and struc-turing appropriate tagsets.1 Mot ivat ionThe research present here is to be conducted underthe FrameNet research product at the University ofCalifornia.
1 On this project our primary aim is toproduce frame-semantic descriptions oflexical items;our concern with semantically tagged corpora is atboth ends of our research.
That is, we expect o usepartially semantically tagged corpora in the inves-tigation stage--perhaps nothing more than havingWordNet hypernyms associated with nouns--but wewill produce semantically tagged corpus lines as aby-product of our work.Most major grammatical theories now accept hegeneral principle that some set of semantic roles("case roles", "thematic roles", or "theta roles") isnecessary for characterizing the semantic relationsthat a predicate can have to its arguments.
Thiswould seem to be one obvious starting-point forchoosing a tag set for semantically annotating cor-pora, but there is no agreement as to the size ofthe minimal necessary set of "universal" roles.
Also,when we examine particular semantic fields, it is ob-vious that each field brings to mind a new set ofmore specific roles.
In fact, the more closely we lookat individual predicates, the more specific the argu-ment roles become, creating the specter of trying todefine an unlimited number of very fine-grained tagsand attributes.
An adequate account of the syntaxand semantics of a language will inevitably involvea fairly detailed set of semantic tags, but how canwe find the right level of 9ranularity of tags for eachsemantic area?Consider the sentence:(1) The waters of the spa cure arthritis.A semantic annotation of the constituents mustidentify at least?
the action or state associated with the verb,possibly expressed in terms of primitives orsome kind of metalanguage;?
the participants (normally expressed as argu-ments); and?
the roles of the participants in the action orstate.A basic parse will identify the sentence's syntacticconstituents; from the point of view of the head verbcure, then, a semantic annotation should reveal themapping between the syntactic constituents and theframe-semantic elements they instantiate.
In sen-tence (1) above, for example, the grammatical sub-ject "the waters of the spa" corresponds to the the-matic ca~er of the curing effect on the entity ex-pressed as "arthritis", the verb's yntactic direct ob-ject and its thematic patient.
2However, there is something incomplete aboutsuch an analysis: it fails to anchor the arguments of2Here we use the word patient (in italics) as the nameof a case role; we will also use the word in the medicalsense later in this paper.
Caveat lector/1The work is housed in the International ComputerScience Institute in Berkeley and funded by the NationalScience Foundation under NSF grant IRI 96-18838.
Theofficial name of the project is "Tools for lexicon build-ing"; the PI is Charles J. Fillmore.
Starting date March1, 1997.18cure within a "generic medical event" where it wouldbe understood that the disease (arthritis) must beborne by some sufferer, and that a sufferer under-going a treatment is participating as a patient insuch an event.
We identify such "generic events" asframes, and express our understanding of the struc-ture of such events and the relationship of linguisticmaterial to them in terms of the theory of framesemantics.2 Frame Semantics.In frame semantics we take the view that word mean-ings are best understood in reference to the concep-tual structures which support and motivate them.We believe, therefore, that any description of wordmeanings must begin by identifying such underlyingconceptual structures.
3Frames have many properties of stereotyped sce-narios - -  situations in which speakers expect certainevents to occur and states to obtain.
4In general, frames encode a certain amount of"real-world knowledge" in schematized form.
Con-sider the common scenario which exemplifies thecommercial transaction .frame: the elements of suchframes are the individuals and the props that par-ticipate in such transactions (which we call FRAMEELEMENTS): the individuals in this case are the twoprotagonists in the transaction; the props are thetwo objects that undergo changes of ownership, oneof them being money.Some frames encode patterns of opposition thathuman beings are aware of through everyday expe-rience, such as our awareness of the direction of grav-itational forces; still others reflect knowledge of thestructures and functions of objects, such as knowl-edge of the parts and functions of the human body.The study of the frames which enter into human cog-nition is itself a huge field of research - we do notclaim to know in advance how much frame knowl-edge must be specifically encoded in frame descrip-tions to make them useful for either linguistic orNLP purposes.
We expect o be able to draw ten-tative conclusions about this based on what we findin corpora.3For a discussion of these ideas, see (Fillmore, 1968);(Fillmore, 1977b); (Fillmore, 1977a); (Fillmore, 1982);(Fillmore and Atkin.~, 1992); (Fillmore and Atkin.%1994).4The word frame has been much used in AI and NLPresearch.
We wish to give the word a formal interpreta-tion only to the extent hat it helps us in our researchand provides acontainer for the features and entities wedescribe.
We do not, in this context, depend on anycialm.q about the cognitive status of frames.19We will say that individual words or phrases evokeparticular frames or instantiate particular elementsof such frames.
So, for example, if we are examiningthe "commercial transaction" frame, we will needto identify such frame elements as BUYER, SELLER,PAYMENT, GOODS, etc., and we can speak of suchwords as buy, sell, pay, charge, customer, merchant,clerk, etc., as capable of evoking this frame.
Inparticular sentences, we might find such words orphrases as John, the customer, etc.
instantiating theBUYER, or a chicken, a new car, etc., instantiatingthe GOODS.3 Inheritance in Frame SemanticsOf course, speakers of a language know somethingabout the differences and similarities among vari-ons types of commercial transactions, e.g.
that buy-ing a small item in a store often involves makingchange, etc.
Strictly speaking, this is "world knowl-edge" rather than "linguistic knowledge", but thislevel of detail is required even to parse sentencescorrectly, e.g.
to recognize the different functions ofthe PPs in "buy a candy bar with a red wrapper"and "buy a candy bar with a $20 bill" and thus toattach them appropriately.frame (CommercialTransaction)frame-elements{BUYER, SELLER, PAYMENT, GOODS}scenes (BUYER gets GOODS,SELLER gets PAYMENT)frame (Rea~stateTransaction)inherits (Corn mercialTransaction)link(BORROWER = BUYER, LOAN = PAYMENT)frame-elements{BORROWER, LOAN, LENDER}scenes (LOAN (from LENDER) creates PAYMENT,BUYER gets LOAN)Figure h A subframe can inherit elements and se-mantics from its parent.More complicated cases require more elaboratedframes.
Thus, "buy a house with a 30-year mort-gage" involves a different frame from buying a candybar, and entails a slightly different interpretationof the PAYMENT element.
The relationship be-tween frames is frequently hierarchical; for example,the frame elements BUYER, SELLER, PAYMENT, andGOODS will be common to all commercial transac-tions; the purchase of real estate contains all of themand (typically) adds a LOAN and a bank (typically)as LENDER.
In Our database, these two frames mightbe represented as shown in Figure i. sCorpus tagging for a sentence like sentence (2):(2) Susan took out a huge mortgage to buythat new house.would have to recognize Susan as playing slightlydifferent roles in the two associated frames.A similar problem in using labels from frame se-mantic descriptions in the tagging of corpus lines isdue to the fact that separate parts of any single sen-tence can evoke different semantic frames.
Considerthe following sentence:(3) George's cousin bought a new Mercedeswith her portion of the inheritance.In seeing this sentence merely as an expression evok-ing the commercial transaction frame, we could be-gin by tagging the subject of the sentence, "George'scousin", as the BUYER, and the object, "a new Met-cedes" as the GOODS, and the oblique object, "herportion of the inheritance", marked by the preposi-tion "with", as the PAYMENT.
This could be donein a fairly natural and transparent way, as long asthe tags were clearly seen as the names of frame ele-ments specifically related to the head verb "bought"in that sentence.
But since the words "cousin" and"inheritance" evoke frames of their own, the samesentence could easily come up in our exploration ofthe semantics of those words as well.
In the caseof "inheritance", for example, the information thatit gets used for buying something will make clearthat this is an instance of estate-inheritance ratherthan genetic inheritance (or frame inheritance!
), andthe phrasing "her portion" fits frame understand-ings about the distribution of an inheritance amongmultiple heirs.
In other words, if we find ourselvestagging the frame elements of Inheritance in thatsame sentence, the phrase "George's cousin" wouldbe tagged as an HEIR in that frame.4 App l ied  f rame semant ics :  asample  f rame descr ip t ion .Tagsets for semantic annotation would be derivablefrom a database of frame descriptions like the onesin Figure 1 above.
We can move to another frameto illustrate how frame-based annotation would beaccomplished by considering a few words from the5We leave out of this account he inheritance ofa higher-level EXCHANGE frame in the COMMERCIAL-TRANSACTION fralne, and the means for showing thata completed instance of the REALESTATETRANSACTIONscene is a prerequisite to the enactment of the associatedCOMMERCIALTRANSACTION scene.20label meaningHEALER individual who tries to bringabout an improvement in thePATIENTPATIENT individual whose physical well-being is lowDISEASE sickness or health condition thatneeds to be removed or relievedWOUND tissue damage in the body of thePATIENTBODYPART limb, organ, etc.
affected by theDISEASE or WOUNDSYMPTOM evidence indicating the presenceof the DISEASETREATMENT process aimed at bringing aboutrecoveryMEDICINE substance applied or ingested inorder to bring about recoveryTable 1: Part of Frame-semantic "Tagset" for theHealth Framelanguage of health and sickness and showing how theelements and structure of this frame would be iden-tiffed and described.
First, appealing to common,unformalized knowledge of health and the body, theframe semanticist identifies the typical elements ineveryday health care situations and scenarios, a pro-cess involving the interaction of linguistic intuitionand the careful examination ofcorpus evidence.The first product of this analysis is a preliminarylist of frame elements (FEN) from this domain, suchas, for instance, those shown in Table 1.We have found it necessary to include all of theseelements for our purposes, even though some of themare so closely related that they are unlikely to begiven separate instantiation i the same clause.
Ourjustification for distinguishing them is based on theresults of corpus research and on comparison of theelements of this frame with those of other relatedframes.
Corpus examples in which WOUND and DIS-EASE are both instantiated are of course rare, andgiven this complementary distribution we might betempted to identify these as variants of a singleframe element (which we might call AFFLICTION).But this would prevent us from being able to expresscertain syntactic and semantic generalizations, suchas the fact that while we speak of curing diseases,we do not speak of curing wounds, and we speak ofwounds but not diseases as heMing, seThere might be alternative ways of considering suchdata.
It is conceivable that a description with, say, AF-FLICTION as a single role element could be maintainedIn the specific case of the contrast between WOUNDand DISEASE we find in metaphor further supportfor our decision to keep them separate.
Metaphoricuses of "cure" and "heal" tend to take direct ob-jects which are target-domain analogues of DISEASEand WOUND respectively.
One of the most com-mon instantiations of the DISEASE complement inmetaphorical uses of cure is the word ills, a wordwhich in fact appears to be used only in suchmetaphorical contexts (in talk about "curing soci-ety's ills", for example); and the direct objects ofmetaphorical heal tend to be based on the notion ofa tear or cut or separation, the words wound andscar first of all, but also such words as r/ft, schism,and breach.For each semantic frame, the process of elucida-tion involves a series of steps:1.
Identification of the most frequent lexical itemswhich can serve as predicates in this frame,2.
Formulation of a preliminary list of frameelements (encoded we expect as a TELcompliant SGML document using feature struc-tures (Sperberg-McQueen a d Burnard, 1994),3.
Annotation of examples from a corpus by tag-ging the predicate with the name of the frameand its arguments with the names of the FE'sdesignating their roles relative to the predicate(also using SGML markup introduced with soft-ware developed for this purpose),4.
Revision of the frame description - -  specifica-tion of the co-occurrence constraints and pos-sible syntactic realizations in the light of thecorpus data, and,5.
Retagging of the corpus examples to fit the re-vised frames.7The last two steps will be repeated as needed torefine the frame description.by describing certain distinctions between "cure" and"heal" as involving selectionai restrictions.
Our inclina-tion, however, is to maximize the separation of frameelements at the beginning, and to postpone the task ofproducing a parsimonious and redundancy-free d scrip-tion until after we have completed our analysis.ZIn the context of the FrameNet project, the questionof how much text will be tagged is a practical one.
Ourdirect purpose is not to create tagged corpora, but totag enough corpus lines to allow us to make reliable gen-eralizations on the meanings and on the semantic andsyntactic valence of the lexical entries we have set outto describe.
Whether we choose to tag more than whatwe need for our analysis will depend on the extent owhich the process becomes automated and the resourcesavailable.21Identifying the semantic flame associated with aword and the FEs with which it constellates doesnot, of course, constitute a complete representationof the word's meaning, and our semantic descrip-tions will not be limited to just this.
However, webelieve that such an analysis is a prerequisite to atheoretically sound semantic formalization, s Whileany given frame description could be made more pre-cise for other NLP /A I  purposes (such as inference-generation), the development of such a formalism isnot a central part of our current work.For our present purposes, the adequacy of lists offrame elements such as what we present in Table 1for the vocabulary domain of health care can be es-tablished only if precisely these elements are the onesthat are needed for distinguishing the semantic andcombinatorial properties of the major lexical itemsthat belong to that domain.
An initial formulationof the combinatorial requirements and privileges ofa frame's lexical members - -  here we concentrate onverbs - -  can be presented as a list of the groups ofFEs that may be syntactically expressed or perhapsmerely implied in the phrases that accompany theword.A Frame Element Group (FEG) is a list of theFEs from a given frame which occur in a phrase orsentence headed by a given word.
Table 2 gives ex-amples of such FEGs  (including FEGs with only onemember) paired with sentences whose constituentsinstantiate them.
For purposes of this discussion,the frame elements are identified here using singleletter abbreviations, and the structure of an FEG isshown as being merely a bracketed list.
We recog-nize such a naming scheme is inadequate for a largeannotation project, and certainly the representationof FEG structures will have to be more powerful.These, however, are minor problems with technicalsolutions.
We focus below on other major issueswe are confronting in interpreting the structure offrames as expressed by FEGs.At the lexicographic level of description we couldsimply list the full set of FEGs  for a given lexicalunit.
However, in many cases the FEG potentialof a verb can be expressed in one or more simpli-fying formulas, by, for example, recognizing someFEs as optional.
Thus, since we find both (H, B}("The doctor cured my foot") and {H, B, T} ("Thedoctor cured my foot with a new treatment"), bothsentences are using the verb cure in the same sense,we can represent both patterns in a single formulathat treats the T element as an optional adjunctSThere are numerous suggestions, not reviewed here,on how to give full semantic representations (Jackendoff,1994); (Sowa, 1984); (Schank, 1975), etc.FEG Frame Ele- Example(abbr.)
ment Group{H,B,T} HEALER, The doctor treatedBODYPART, my knee with heat.TREATMENT(H,D} HEALER, The doctor curedDISORDER my disease.
{P} PATIENT The baby recovered.
{M,B} MEDICINE, The ointment curedBODYPART my foot.
{B} BODYPART HIS foot healed.
{W} WOUND The cut rapidlyhealed.Table 2: Examples of Frame Element Groups(FEGs)(expressed perhaps as {H, B, (T)}).It will not be quite that automatic, however; fur-ther distinctions are needed.
For example, while wecan agree that the TREATMENT element in the previ-ous examples was merely unmentioned, the omissionof the DISEASE element in a sentence like "The doc-tor cured me" has a somewhat different status: thereis clearly some DISEASE that the speaker has in mind,and its omission is licensed by the assumption thatits nature is given in the context.
That is, a possible"of" phrase was omitted from that sentence becauseits content had been previously mentioned or couldotherwise be assumed to be known to both conver-sation participants.
In the tagging of corpus lines,then, we will also indicate the status of "missing"elements to the extent hat we can tell what thatis.
Such information will be presented in the repre-sentation of the FEG associated with the predicate.9In contrast o cases where frame elements are"missing" (implied but unmentioned, optional, etc.
),some examples require that we explicitly recognize(i.e.
encode) multiple frame elements for a singleconstituent.
Thus, the disorder may be identified inthe description of the patient (e.g.
leper, diabetic);we wish to annotate this constituent as Pd, whichwill be taken as indicating that the constituent sat-isfies the P role in the frame, but that it also secon-darily instantiates a D role, since these nouns des-ignate people who suffer specific diseases (leprosy,?Where feasible, because of our interest in sortal fea-tures of arguments, we will identify the nature of themissing element f~om the context.
A similar issue arisesin cases of anaphora; we may or may not resolve theanaphora's referent in the annotations, depending onpractical considerations of time and effort involved.diabetes).
It is important to recognize these cases,since the lexical semantics of verbs sometimes re-quire that certain frame elements be instantiated orclearly recoverable from the context: corpus researchon the verb cure, for example, shows that the DIS-ORDER is regularly instantiated.
Without explicitcoding of the substructure of the PATIENT the sen-tence He cured the leper ({H,Pd}) would stand as acounter-example to this generalization.There are cases where different but related sensesof a predicate have distinct FEG possibilities.
Forexample, the verb heal has two uses, one of whichparticipates in a Causative/Inchoative valency al-ternation (Levin, 1993) and one which does not.
Inthe use where it refers to the growth of new tissueover a wound, it can be found in both transitive andintransitive clauses: "The cut healed" ({W}) and"The ointment healed the cut" (the ointment facil-itated the natural process of healing --  {M, W}).But there is also a purely transitive use with a mean-ing very close to that of cure, with {H, D} or {M,D}, as in "The shaman healed my influenza" or "Thewaters healed my arthritis", and this use of heal usu-ally implies something extra-medical or supernatu-ral.
In this usage, there is no corresponding intran-sitive "*My influenza/arthritis healed.
"The verb sense distinctions we make may some-times be less detailed than those appearing in mostdictionaries, ince, as many researchers have noted,dictionary sense distinctions are often overpreciseand incorporate pragmatic and world knowledgethat do not properly speaking inhere in the worditself.
An excellent example of this kind of excessivedistinction ~ pointed out in (Ruhl, 1989), p.7: oneof the dictionary definitions of break is "to rupturethe surface of and permit flowing out or effusing" asin He broke an artery.
On the other hand, we wouldexpect o capture by this process all the kinds of al-ternations that (Levin, 1993) has shown to be linkedto semantic distinctions, ome of them quite subtle.The final versions of the lexical entries will encom-pass full semantic/syntactic valence descriptions,where the elements of each FEG associated with averb sense will be linked to a specification of sortal.features, indicating the "selectional" and syntacticproperties of the constituents hat can instantiatethem.5 Conc lus ionWe have suggested a theoretical basis and a workingmethodology for coming up with an appropriate setof semantic tags for the semantic frame elements,and believe that such frames may constitute a sortof "basic level" of lexical semantic description.
As22\[\]m\[\]mmU\[\]mmmsuch they would be an appropriate starting-point forboth a broad-coverage semantic lexicon and for thesemantic tagging of corpora.We have also pointed out the importance ofincor-porating the notions of inheritance and other sub-structuring conventions in tagsets to reduce the sizeand complexity of the descriptions and to capturegeneralizations over natural classes.We recognize several shortcomings with our ap-proach which we hope to be able to address in thefuture.First, it is clear that the size of the descriptionswill increase rapidly as the annotation proceeds andwe will need to find some explicit means of abbrevi-ating representations, of collapsing FEGs in a prin-cipled way, and of relating frames together (bothwithin and across semantic fields).
This is both apractical and theoretical problem.
We have showna few clear examples in which the judicious use ofthe notion of inheritance, along the general inesof the ACQUILEX Project (Briscoe et al, 1993),should permit he concise representation f the lexi-cal knowledge required to give a useful and relativelycomplete description of a word's semantic range.
Ifthe valence description (the FEG together with linksto grammatical functions) associated with individualwords is attached to each valence-bearing lexical to-ken in a corpus, then if the corpus is parsed accord-ing to the same criteria by which the linking hasbeen stated, we can avoid the problem of actuallytagging the phrases that instantiate frame elements(and hence avoid the problem of multiple taggingfor constituents hat figure in more than one framein the same sentence), because the constituents thatplay specific semantic roles in the sentence can becomputed from the parse.
The ability to accomplishsomething like that is desirable, but it is not some-thing to which we are presently committed.We intend first to focus on prototypical or core usesof the words.
However, our preliminary research in-dicates that it would be difficult, and undesirable,to exclude metaphorical uses, if only because themetaphorical uses can often shed light on the struc-ture of the core uses.
However, we are limiting ourattention to a limited number of semantic domains,and metaphorical extensions from the words in ourwordlist hat go far beyond our semantic fields willprobably have to be set aside.Finally, we should make a few remarks on thescope of our intended effort.
We plan to create a"starter lexicon" containing some 5,000 lexical itemsindexed to examples of their use.
With each entrywe shall associate token frequencies with the variousFEGs for each word sense, in order to assist NLP23programs in picking likely interpretations.
Initiallythe frequencies would be generated using our hand-tagged corpus examples; eventually we hope to beable to train on the hand-tagged xamples and ulti-mately automate (at least partially) the tagging ofinstances, at least for preliminary word sense dis-ambiguation, to be reviewed by a researcher.
Theautomatic ategorization of the arguments woulduse such information as WordNet synonyms and hy-pernyms (cf.
(Resnik, 1993)), machine-readable the-sauri, etc.,Re ferencesTed Briscoe, Valeria De Paiva, and Ann Copes-take, editors.
1993.
Inheritance, Defaults andthe Lexicon.
Studies in Natural Language Pro-cessing.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Charles J. Fillmore and B.T.S.
Atkins.
1992.
To-wards a frame-based lexicon: the semantics of riskand its neighbors.
In A. Lehrer and E. F. Kittay,editors, Prames, Fields and Contrasts, pages 75-102.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ.Charles J. Fillmore and B.T.S.
Atkins.
1994.
Start-ing where the dictionaries stop: the challenge forcomputational lexicography.
In B.T.S.
Atkins andA.
Zampolli, editors, Computational Approachesto the Lexicon.
Oxford University Press, NewYork.Charles J. Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.
InUniversals in linguistic theory, pages 1-90.
Holt,Rinehart and Winston, New York.Charles J. Fillmore.
1977a.
The need for a framesemantics within linguistics, statistical Methodsin Linguistics, pages 5-29.Charles J. Fillmore.
1977b.
Scenes-and-frames se-mantics.
In Antonio Zampolli, editor, LinguisticsStructures Processing, volume 59 of FundamentalStudies in Computer Science, pages 55-82.
North-Holland Publishing.Charles J. Fillmore.
1982.
Frame semantics.
InLinguistics in the morning calm, pages 111-137.Hanshin Publishing Co., Seoul, South Korea.Ray S. Jackendoff.
1994.
Patterns in the mind: lan-guage and human nature.
Basic Books, New York.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation.
Universityof Chicago Press, Chicago.Philip Resnik.
1993.
Selection and Information:A Class-Based Approach to Lexical relationships.University of Pennsylvania dissertation.Charles Ruhl.
1989.
On monosemy : a study in lin-gusitic semantics.
Albany, N.Y.: State Universityof New York Press.Roger C. Schank.
1975.
Conceptual informationprocessing.
North-Holland., New York.John F. Sowa.
1984.
Conceptual structures: infor-mation processing in mind and machine.
Addison-Wesley systems programming series.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass.Michael Sperberg-McQueen and Lou Burnard.
(eds.)1994.
Guidefines for electronic text encodingand interchange (TEI P3).
ACH, ACL, ALLC,Chicago.24mmmm\[\]mm\[\]m\[\]\[\]\[\]\[\]\[\]\[\]\[\]m\[\]m\[\]m\[\]mm
