Combining Knowledge Sources for Automatic Semantic TaggingDoug las  Jones  and  Boyan OnyshkevychNatl,ral Langauge Processing Research BranchDepartment of Defense, Attn: R5259800 Savage RoadFt.
Meade, MD 20755-6000 USA?
(daj 3, baonysh}@after l i fe ,  nc s c. mi i1 Goa l  of  the  Sess ionIn this working session, we will discuss methods which could plausibly be used for combining evidence forassigning semantic tags to words in a text.
We will discuss methods that apply at knowledge acquisitiontime to produce a single static knowledge source to be used by a single, complete, semantic tagger, as well asmethods for dynamically combining outputs of a set of independent, possibly incomplete, semantic taggers.A variety of evidence-combination and parallel-hypothesis-selection mechanisms will be considered for thedynamic case, including Dempster-Shafer and Bayesian approaches, best-evidence, and chart managementmethods.
For the static case (at knowledge acquisition time), we will consider the dif~culties of mergingunrelated knowledge sources.2 I ssues  for  the  WorkshopThe main issue for discussion will be the advantages of various methods of combining evidence.Other issues that could be discussed include:?
Do we assume there is always a single correct tag, or do we allow a set of equally correct tags??
Do we rank or assign probabilities for all senses??
Do we tag phrases/collocations/idioms (or just individual tokens)?
If so, this complicates evidencecombination.?
What  preprocessing do we assume as input to the taggers in the dynamic scenario??
DO we approach evidence combination for homograph distictions differently than for polysemy?
Arethere other types of differences among senses that might affect evidence combination??
What  are the implications of a sequential combination of evidence vs. a paralel approach for the dynamicscenario??
How do we map word senses/semantic ags from multiple knowledge sources into a single set in thestatic knowledge acquisition scenario?Possible sources of evidence that could be considered for dynamic combination include: domain tags(e.g., LDOCE box codes), collocational and corpus co-occurrence approaches, frequency (domain-specific ordomain-independent), selectional restrictions, decision trees, part of speech and subcategorization, Lesk etal dictionary approaches, semantic distance approaches over ontologles, spreading activation/marker passingover semantic nets, scripts/MOPs, word experts.Possible sources for static combination include: MRD entries, WordNet, Levin verb classes, corpus statis-tics, and other lexical resources.In order to constrain the discussion, we will make the following assumptions: Senses for each word havebeen pre-enumerated (Compare, for example, Pustejovsky or Nunberg, and the references cited in theseworks which point out difficulties in enumerating senses.)
In the dynamic case, we are combining compatibleknowledge sources, i.e., they share the a semantic tagset.
(Contrast work in combining WordNet and LevinClasses.
)883 Organ izat ion  o f  the  Sess ionAs preparation for the workshop, participants are encouraged to consider what kinds of knowledge may becombined using these methods and also to consider which methods of combination may be preferable.If any of our assumptions are too restrictive, potential participants can send their ideas to either of theworking session leaders.All participants who wish to discuss their position regarding the above-mentioned problems are invited tomake a very short presentation of their work and how it offers answers to those problems (or why it fails todo so); please send the working session leaders a brief discussion of your position if you intend to make apresentation.If we get an indication of suliicient interest from workshop articipants beforehand, we will have sepa-rate periods of discussion for the static and the dynamic scenarios, each starting with these brief positionstatements.Prior to the workshop, participants are encouraged to submit discussions of their preferred approach tothis issue for distribution to all other working session participants.
Participants are also encouraged tosubmit discussions and examples of the types of evidence to be combined.89
