.
.
.
.
.
?
.
.
.
.
.?"
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.WHAT BRINGS A H IGHER-ORDER ENTITY INTO FOCUS OF  ATTENTION.
9S ENTENTIAL  PRONOUNS IN ENGL ISH AND NORWEGIANKaja BorthenNorwegian University ofScience and Technologybort0013@tc.umn.eduThorstein FretheimNorwegian University ofScience and Technologyfretheim@hf.nmu.noJeanette K. GundelUniversity of Minnesotagunde003 @maroon.tc.mnn.eduABSTRACTThis paper investigates the use of sentential pronounsin English and Norwegian.
We argue that resolutionof sentential pronouns is sensitive to the distinctionbetween forms whose referents must be in focus andforms whose referents must only be activated, but notnecessarily in focus.
An investigation of thedistribution and interpretation f sentential pronounsalso reveals that the relative salience of a higher orderdiscourse endty is influenced by syntactic structure aswell as extralinguistic factors.1 INTRODUCTIONWe can refer to an entity with several differentexpressions, and a single expression can be used torefer to many different entities.
Two questions thatnaturally arise given these facts are 1) How do we asaudience manage to understand a speaker's intendedinterpretation of a referring expression?
2) Whatdetermines the speaker's choice of form when referringto an entity?
It has turned out to be very fruitful tosee these two questions as closely connected.
A wholefieldof research on the distribution and interpretationof referring expressions clearly suggests that thespeaker's choice of form helps the audience pick outthe intendedreferent of the expression (cf.
for exampleGarrod & Sandford 1982, Ariel 1988, Gundel,Hedberg and Zacharski 1993).In this paper we will look at the distributionand interpretation f pronouns that are used to refer tohigher -order entities like events, facts, orpropositions, as illustrated in (1).
(1) John won the race.
I know that became Isaw i_t happen.
But it's still hard to believei_t.
(Fraurud 19922)Our main question in this paper is this: whatyields an appropriate use of a given pronominal formwhen it refers to a higher-order ntity in English andNorwegian?
We will propose that in both languagesthe form that is most frequendy used is one whichrequires its referent to be activated, but not necessarilyin focus (in the sense of Gundel, Hedberg andZacharsld 1993).
This is so because processing asentence generally brings into focus the majorpartidpants rather than the event or state of affairsitsdf.2 COGNITIVE STATUSGundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993 (henceforthGHZ) propose that a particular form conventionallysignals that the referent of the expression has a certaincognitive (memory or attention) status for theaddressee.
In English, for example, an unstressedpronoun such as it signals that the addressee'sattention is currendy focused on the intended referent.Since the addressee's attention will normally befocused on only one or two entities at a time, thenumber of possible referent candidates for anunstressed pronoun is very low, and referentresolution is therefore made possible even though thedescriptive content of a pronoun is very limited.GHZ assume that there are six cognitivestatuses relevant for the distribution of referringexpressions: The connection between these statusesand their corresponding forms in English is illustratedin the Givenness Hierarchy in Figure 1 (because ofspace limitations, we list only the 3 highest statuseshere.
)The Givenness Hierarchyit that, this that NFigure 1Figure 1 shows what cognitive status isnecessary for an expression with a given form to beused appropriately.
This does not exclude thepossibility that an entity that has a certain cognitivestatus can be referred to with a form that is to theright of this status in the hierarchy since the higherstatuses (to the left in the table) imply all the lowerones.
For instance, the demonstrative determiner'that' can be used when the referent is familiar, butnot activated.
And it can also be used when the88' i  ireferent is in focus.
An unstressed personal pronoun,such as it, on the other hand, can only be usedappropriately if the speaker's intended referent is inthe addressee's focus of attention.IN FOCUS VS. ACTIVATEDAccording to Figure 1, we would expect sententialit 1 to be used appropriately only when the entityreferred to is in the addressee's focus of attention,while 'that' or 'this' can be used whenever the entity isactivated, regardless of whether or not it is also infocus.
Since higher statuses imply all lower statuses,it should be possible to use the demonstrativepronouns that and this to refer to entities that havethe status In Focus; but analyses of naturally?
occurring discourse show that these forms are usedprimarily when the referent is activated, but not infocus.
In the statistics presented in GHZ's 1993paper, only one out of 33 occurrences ofdemonstrative pronouns in English referred to entitiesthat had the status In Focus.
GHZ explain this as theresult of interaction of the Givenness Hierarchy withthe first part of the Maxim of Quantity "Make yourcontribution as informative as required(for the currentpurpose of the exchange)" (Grice, 1975).
That is,demonstrative pronouns convey a so-called scalarimplieature: a weaker form conversationallyimplicates that a slxonger form does not obtain.Thus, just as "I have two children" implicates that thespeaker does not have more than two children, using ademonstrative form implicates that the referent of theexpression does not have a status higher thanactivated, i.e.
it is not in focus.4 SENTENTIAL PRONOUNS AND THEIMPORTANCE OF SUBSEQUENTMENTIONAccording to GHZ, the entities in focus at a givenpoint in the discourse will be that partially-orderedsubset of activated entities which are likely to becontinued as topics of subsequent u terances.
Thus,endties in focus at the beginning of an utterancegenerally include at least the topic of the precedingutterance, as well as any still-relevant higher-ordertopics.
To the extent that syntactic structure andprosodic form encode topic-comment s ructure and1The terms 'sentential it' or 'sentence pronoun' are usedto refer to a personal pronoun whose antecedent may be asentence, or, more generally: a pronoun that refers to ahigher-order entity like a fact or a proposition.serve to highlight constituents whose referents thespeaker wants to bring into focus, membership n thein-focus et is partially determined by linguistic form.For example, the subject of a matrix sentence ishighly likely to bring an entity into focus, whereasthis is not the case for elements in $ubordinateclauses and prepositional phrases (cf.
the centeringand focusing algorithms of Grosz, Joshi, &Weinstein 1986),Since objects in the world can naturally hereferred to with expressions that function as asyntactic subject or object, they can obtain the InFocus status after being mentioned only once.
Asituation or fact, on the other hand, is typicallyexpressed by a whole sentence the first time it isreferred to.
The first mention of situations or factswill therefore usually not correspond to expressionsthat have prominent syntactic functions in thesentence, and we would expect hem to be activated,but not yet in focus after being mentioned onlyonce.
2 Reference to higher-order entities with ~munstressed pronoun, i.e.
a form that requires itsreferent to be in focus, thus typically requires morethan one previous mention.
Consider the examples in(2) and 0).
(2) There was a snake on my desk.
It scaredme.
(3) There was a snake on my desk.
That scaredme, and it scaredmy office mate too.In (2), the unstressed pronoun it, which requires itsreferent to be in focus, is most naturally interpreted asreferring to the snake, not to the situation of a snakebeing on the desk.
However, in (3), it is morenaturally interpreted as referring to the fact that therewas a snake on the speaker's desk.
Since thissitutation was referred to twice, once in the firstsentence and once in the second, it is now in focusand can be referred to with an unstressed pronoun.The distribution of sentence it vs. that in naturallyoccuring discourse also supports the claim that asentence rarely brings the situation or proposition itrefers to into focus.2 Within Centering Theory, which may be seen asmodelling the process by which an entity is activatedand brought into focus (see Gundel 1997), situations andevents introduced by a whole sentence are ranked loweras preferred centers than entities introduced by major NParguments in the sentence.89PROPOSITIONAL ENRICHMENTIn this section we will report on an experiment whichexamined the influence of some linguistic cues onpronoun resolution in Norwegian.
Some results fromthis experiment have already been reported on inFretheim & Borthen 1997.
We will discuss here onlythe results concerning the interpretation of theNorwegian unaccented da  and accentedda which arethe counterparts of English it and that respectively.What seems to be the case in the texts that wereexaminedis that a sentence pronoun with two highlylikely referents is linked to the closest antecedentwhen it is accented (neT) while it is linked to thefurthest possible antecedent when it is unaccented(det).
At first glance, these results appear to beinconsistent with GHZ's predictions, since it is hardto see why the referent of the more distal antecedentshould be more likely to be in focus than the closestone.The texts were parts of an auditory listeningcomprehension test on anaphor resolution wherereaction time was measured.
(5) is one example of thetexts the subjects judged.
The subjects' task was todecide who was surprised in the last of the threesentences.
There were 30 subjects altogether.
(5) (a) Gro spurte Anne om hun var klar over atSenterpartiets oppslutnlng var synkende.
(b) Hun fikk ikke noe svar.
(c) DET kom sore en overraskelse pli heune.
(a) 'Gro asked Anne if she was aware that theCenter Party's popularity was decreasing'.
(b)' She didn't get any answer.
'(c) 'That came as a surprise to her.
'Average reaction time: 1243ms30: henne 'her '  = Gro and DETfinds itsantecedentin the (b) sentence.0: henne 'her' = Anne and BET finds itsantecedentin the (a) sentence.Even though the interpretation of the sententialpronoun was not directly testedin the experiment, wecan infer the interpretations based on how the subjectinterpreted the feminine personal pronouns.
In aminimal pair of texts only contrasting in whether thesentence pronoun is accented or not we get alostopposite results for the two text fragments.
In (6),which is exactly like (5) except hat det is unaccented,23 subjects chose Anne as the referentof the femininepronoun henne, while only 7 subjects chose Gro.
(6) (a) Gro spurte Anne om hun var klar over atSenterpartiets oppslutning var synkende.
(b) Hun fikk ikke noe svar.
(c) Det kom sore en overraskelse p/t henne.
(a) 'Gro asked Anne if she was aware that theCenter Party's popularity was decreasing'.
(b) 'She didn't get any answer.
'(c)' It came as a surprise to her.
'Average reaction time: 1859ms7: henne 'her'  = Gro and D ET finds itsantecedentin the (b) sentence.23: henne 'her' = Anne andDET finds itsantecedentin the (a) sentence.Since the presence vs. abseuse of accenton det is theonly difference between the two texts, we can inferthat this difference must have to do with whatantecedent the accented sentence pronoun DE'/" (that')takes and what antecedent the unaccented et 0t ' )takes.
We can assume that when the subjects chooseAnne as the referent of the feminine pronoun, theyhave selected the antecedent of the sentence pronoundet as being found in sentence (a), while when theychoose Gro, they have selected the antecedent of thesentence pronoun as sentence (b).
3 This is so for thefollowing reasons.
If it was the fact that the CenterParty's popularity was decreasing that surprised one ofthe women, it should be Anne who was surprised,since Gro would not be surprised by the content ofher own utterance.
If it was the fact that Anne didn'tanswer that was surprising, it should be Gro who wassurprised by this, not Anne.While the distinction between accented andunaccented sentence pronouns almost led to oppositeresults for (5) and (6), there was a small number ofsubjects who chose Gro as the referent of henne in theversion with the unaccented det.
The average reactiontime for (6) is also longer than for (5).
This may bebecame Gro is dearly in focus, since she is explicitlyreferred to in sentence (b).
Note, moreover, thataccording to the Centering algorithm (of.
Grosz, Joshiand Weinstein 1986, Walker and Prince 1996) the factthat Gro was explicitly referred to with a pronoun insentence (b) would necessarily make her the backward3We cannot be certain from the informants' answers if itis the content of the whole sentence (a) or just thecomplement of 'aware' that is chosen as the referent ofthe unaccented det.
but aceourding to our intuitions andreal world knowledge, it is most probable that it is thecontent of the complement of 'aware' that would beinterpreted as the referent of det.90.. .
!?
, .
.
.
, ?looking center, and therefore most likely the referentof henne in sentence (c).
Thus, while most subjectsaccomodated in resolving the referent of henne inorder to get a reading which was consistent with theirinterpretation of the sentence pronoun, a smallminority chose the interpretation that was mostconsistent with refeaence processing principles for thefeminine pronoun.Further support for the role of accented vs.unaccented sentence pronouns in determininginterpretation f the personal pronouns in these textscomes from examples like (7).
(7) (a) Gro spurte Anne om hun var klar over atSenterpartiets oppslutning var synkende.
(b) Hun svarte ikke.
(c) Det kom sore en overraskelse p~i henne.
(a) 'Gro asked Anne if she was aware that theCenter Party's popularity was decreasing.
'(b) 'She didn't answer.
'(c) 'It came as a surprise to her.
'Average Reaction time: 1196ms1: henne 'her' = Gro and det finds itsantecedentin the (b) sentence.29: henne !her' = Anne and det finds itsantecedentin the (a) sentence.In (7), the (b) sentence is changed so that theexpressed proposition is the same as in (5) and (6)(Anne did not answer Gro's question), but thepronoun hun ('she') in (b) must be interpreted asreferring to Anne.
4 In this case, then, there is noconflict between the status of Anne as the backwardlooking center (and therefore ' in focus' entity) in (c)and the expected readingbased on the interpretation ofthe unstressed sentential pronoun.
As predicted, 29out of 30 subjects didin fact interpret the text so thatit was Anne that was surprised.
That this is at leastpartly due to the unaccented form of the sentencepronoun in (7) is indicated by (8), which is identicalto (7) except hat da  is accented.
For (8), 22 out of30 subjects chose an interpretation that violates theCentering principle (andpossibly also the expectationthat the referent of the unstressed feminine pronounwill be an in focus entity) but is in accordance withthe hypothesis that an accented sentence pronoun willbe interpreted as referring to a situation or state ofaffairs that is activated, but not in focus:4We have assumed that the person who does not answeris necessarily interpreted as Anne.
while the person whodoes not get any answer is necessarily Gro.
(a) Gro spurte Anne om hun var klar over atSenterpartiets oppslutning var synkende.
(b) Hun svarte ikke.
(c) DET kom som en overraskelse ph heune.
(a) Gro asked Anne if she was aware that theCenter Party's popularity was decreasing.
(b) She didn't answer.
(c) That came as a surprise to her.Average Reaction time: 1675ms22: henne 'her' = Gro and det finds itsantecedentin the (b) sentence.8: henne 'her' = Anne and det finds itsantecedentin the (a) sentence.For all the fragments in (5)-(8), the result isthat whenever the sentential pronoun is thetmaccented det ('it') the subjects prefer to interprethenne ('her') as being Anne, which means that detfinds its antecedentin the (a) sentence.
And wheneverthe sentential pronoun is the accented DET thesubjects prefer to interpret henne as being Gro, whichmeans that DET finds its antecedent in the (b)sentence.
But why is it that the further antecedentischosen when the sentence pronoun is unaccented andthe closer one is chosen when it is accented?
If thepredictions of the Givenness Hierarchy are correct,why is the content of a further antecedent more likelyto be in focus than that of a closer one?We believe the answer to this question liesin the enriched interpretation f the second sentence.Even though 'answer' is used intransitively here, thereis an implicit object which must be recovered whenthis sentence is processed, namely Gro's questionabout whether Anne was aware that the Center Party'spopularity was decreasing.
Thus, since the fact thatthe Center Party's popularity was decreasing is a partof the second sentence, this fact is in a sense repeatedtwice (and must be processed twice), and is thereforein focus at the beglnnitlg of sentence (c).
If the secondsentence were not connected to the first sentence inthis way, we would not expect he same effect for theinterpretation of an unaccented pronoun.
This issupported by (9).
According to our intuitions it isimpossible for det in the third sentence of (9) toreferto any content connected to the first sentence.
Itis more likely that det has the second sentence as itsantecedent, but then the text is not fully coherent.This indicates that the implicit content of the secondsentence in (5), (6), (7), and (8) is crucial for bringingthe content of some fact presented in the first sentenceof the text into foctgs.91(9) (a) Gro spurte Anne om hun var klar over atSenterpartiets oppslutning var synkende.
(b) Dakom Jan plutselig inn i rommet.
(c) Det kom sore en overraskelse p&heune.
(a) 'Gro askedAnne if she was awarethat theCenter Party's popularity was decreasing.
'(b) 'Then Jan suddenly came into the room.
'(c) 'It came as a surprise to her.
'THE SALIENCE PROMOTING ROLEOF EXTRALINGUISTIC CONTEXTFrom the examples considered so far it appears thatone-time-mention is not enough to bring a situationinto focus.
However, speakers do often accept anunaccented Norwegian da or English it usedimmediately after a higher-order entity has beenintroduced, and has therefore been mentioned onlyonce (see Fretheim 1997).
We will consider heresome of the clearer cases of this type.Imagine an interviewer suddenly placing amicrophone in front of a startledlinguist:(10) A: What do you think of the fact thatlinguists usually eamless thancomputer scientists?B: It's terrible!B': That's terrible!According to the native speakers of English weconsulted, both B and B' are appropriate answers toA's question.
One possible analysis of (10) whilemaintaining the predictions in the GivennessHierarchy, would be to say that we accommodate andthis is why (10A-B) is acceptable.
But if this is ourexplanation, we would not be able to explain why(1 lb) does not sound as good as (10A-B).
(11) (a) I have heardthat linguists earn less thancomputer scientists, and that's terrible.
(b) .9.91have h ardthat linguists earn lessthan computer scientists, and it's terrible.We believe the difference between (10) and (11)resides in the fact that some contexts are moresalience-promoting than others.
A question in aninterviewing-situation can have the effect ofestablishing a discourse topic right away because thetopic chosen by the interviewer is generally timelyand/or the interviewee alreadyknows something aboutit.It might appear that the difference between(10) and (11) is attributable to the fact that thesituation in question is presented as part of an NP in(10) but not in (11); however, note that in Norwegianwe get exactly the same effect even though the fact in(10) is not presentedinside an NP: "Hva synes du omat lingvister sore regel tjener mindre penger enn data-ingeni0rer?"
(lit.
'What do you think of that linguistsusually earn less money than computer scientists,9')Also the next example suggests that thesalience of a higher-order entity can be promotednonlinguistically.
We assume that the difference inacceptability between (12A1-B-A2) and (12A1-B-A2')can be attributed to the fact that the propositionexpressed in (12B)is activated, but not in focus.
(12) AI: Why didn't you come to the rehearsalyesterday?B: I thought I told you.
I hadto help Petermove.A2: Ah, that's true.A2': ?
?Ah, it's true.In (13), in contrast, it is fully appropriate ouse it.
(13) A: Why didn't you come to the rehearsalyesterday?B: I thought I told you.
I hadto help Petermove.
(Pause)It's true!Note that (13A-B)is only coherentff there is a pauseright before B's third utterance.
And B's insistence onthe truth of what he says will be a result of Bbelieving that A does not believe him.
This may be'activated' through a skeptical look from A, forinstance.
With no such pause or exchange of looksB's answer wonldnot sound natural.
(13) thus showsthat cognitive status can be raised by extralinguisticmeans .77 CONCLUSIONSWe have seen how the form of an anaphor referring toa higher-order ntities may influence the interpretationof the anaphor.
On the basis of this and on the basisof a restrietedanalysis of natural speech and intuitivejudgments of invented texts, we conclude that the useof sentential pronouns in English and Norwegian canbe explained by the theory proposed in Gundel,Hedberg and Zacharski (1993), which links differentreferring forms to the assumed cognitive status of thereferent.
According to this theory, a necessarycondition for appropriate use of English it andNorwegian unaccenteddet is hat the referent is in the92i .?
.
.
?
.i .addressee's focus of attention.
Explicit subsequentmention is one way of bringing a higher-order ntityinto focus of attention.
But in addition to that wehave shown that an account of propositionalenrichment (based on linguistic or extralingnisticcontext) is necessary in order to adequately capturethese facts.
It also seems to be the case that somecontexts or situations are more salience-promotingthan others, and that a person's general knowledge andexpectations may affect the degree to whichsomething is easily brought into focus.
It is not clearhow such factors can be taken into account in acomputer-based processing system, but propositionalenrichment is indeed one factor that would lead to amore adequateaceount of pronoun interpretation.REFERENCESAriel, Mira (1988) "Referring and accessibility.
"Journal of Linguistics 24.
67-87.Fmurud, Karl (1992) Processing Noun Phrases inNatural Discourse.
Ph.D. Thesis.
StockholmUniversity, Dept.
of Linguistics.Fretheim, Thorstein (1997) "Accented and UnaccentedSituation Anaphom: do they work the way weexpect them to?"
Paper presented atthe conference onGrammatik  Fokus, Lund, February 6, 1997.Fretheim, Thorstein & Kaja Borthen (1996) "Someunexpected determinants of local refematial(dis)continuity" in S. Bofley et al, eds.
Approachesto Discourse Resolution Colloquium (DAARC96),Lancaster.Fretheim, Thorstein & Kaja Borthen (1997)"Linguistic Constraints on Relevance in ReferenceResolution."
To appear in Proceedings of the 1997Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.Garrod, S. C., andA.
J. Sandford(1982) "The MentalRepresentation f Discourse in a Focussed MemorySystem: Implications for the Interpretation ofAnaphofie Noun Phrases."
Journal of Semantics 1.21-41.Gfice, H. P. (1975) "Logic andConversation."
IP.
Cole andJ.L.
Morgan, eds., Syntax and Semantics3.
Speech Acts.
41-58,Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, & ScottWeinstein (1986) 'Towards a Computational Theoryof Discourse Interpretation."
Unpubfished ms.Gundel, Jeanette K., Nancy Hedberg and RonZacharski (1993) "Cognitive Status and the Form ofReferring Expressions in Discourse."
l~nL, uage 69.274-307.Gundel, Jeanette K. (1997) "Centering Theory and theGivenness Hierarchy: Towards a Synthesis."
In A.Joshi, E. F. Prince and M. Walker, eds.
CenteringTheory in Discourse.
Oxford University Press.Walker, Marilyn A.
& Ellen F. Prince (1996) "ABilateral Approach to Giveuness: A Hearer-StatusAlgorithm and a Centering Algorithm."
In T.Fretheim and J. K. Gundel, eds.
Reference andReferent Accessibility.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.93
