Discourse particles and routine formulasin spoken language translationManf red  Stede and Birte SchmitzTechnische Universit~it BerlinSekr.
FR 5-12Franklinstr.
28/2910587 Berlin, GermanyEmail: {stede \[ birte}@cs, tu-berl in.
deAbstractThe problem of polysemy has receivedmuch attention when dealing with content-words, but it is just as difficult for dis-course particles: In spoken language, theyoften perform various functions for dia-logue management, rather than contribut-ing to propositional content.
Different lan-guages have evolved different conventionson using such particles, which renders thetask for spoken language translation quitedifficult.
We focus here on particles in Ger-man, suggest a framework for represent-ing their roles in utterances, and sketch anapproach for adequately translating theminto English.1 Overv iewDiscourse particles at first sight seem to be inno-cent little words, but they can pose significant prob-lems for automatically processing spoken language.Their abundance (types and tokens alike) varies no-tably from language to language.
In this paper weare concerned with German and English; in the for-mer, a particularly large number of such particlesis in use.
In the next section, we demonstrate thatthese particles can be quite problematic in transla-tion, drawing on extensive corpus analyses we per-formed in the VERBMOBIL project \[Wahlster 1993\];thus our examples are all from the domain of ap-pointment scheduling.
Thereafter, we discuss theconsequences for automatic spoken language trans-lation (SLT) and suggest a framework of discoursefunctions to adequately represent the role of the par-ticles within utterances.
We then point out thatcertain routine formulas can be tackled with the de-scription of discourse functions as well.
Finally, wediscuss how our inventory of discourse functions canbe used to improve translation quality in an SLTsystem such as VERBMOBIL.2 Discourse particles: a rich sourceof ambigu i tyDiscourse particles are words that are not utteredbecause of their propositional content, but becauseof some pragmatic function for the ongoing dis-course.
Imagine, for instance, utterance (1) in themidst of a discussion; the right at the beginningserves mainly to signal turn-taking and initiatingsome kind of break in the conversation.
(1) Right, now let's turn to the next topic.The exact function of a discourse particle is oftendifficult to determine, though, and thus the need fordisambiguation arises: In the German utterance (2),which can be roughly translated as So we're finished,theja can be a mere filler that smoothens the intona-tion contour, or it can mark the overall informationas given, e.g.
in a situation where the participantshave just collectively closed off the final topic.
(2) Dann sind wir ja fertig.The disambiguation problem is aggravated consid-erably by the fact that the vast majority of wordsthat can be used as discourse particles also have a"standard", lexically-determined, reading) In (1),the now can be read as a temporal adverb or as asemantically empty particle.
Similarly, in (2) thedann is most likely just an 'uptake' particle, but ingeneral it is a temporal adverb as well.We will follow the terminology of Hirschberg andLitman \[1993\], who distinguish between the senten-tial usage and the discourse usage of such words.
Illthese terms, the problem is that many particles havea sentential usage, but it may very well be irrelevant,in certain contexts, where only the discourse usageof the particle is relevant - -  and often that.
usage hasno systematic relationship to the sentential usage.1Exceptions are, for instance, the English oh or theGerman ach, which are always discourse particles.3Several studies of English discourse particles havesuggested that utterance-initial position is the cen-tral criterion to distinguish sentential from dis-course reading (e.g., Reichman \[1985\]), and cer-tainly, adopting such a criterion makes it much eas-ier to gather and evaluate the data  (cf.
Byron andHeeman \[1997\]).
The position-criterion, however,holds for a certain class of discourse particles at best.Hirschberg and Litman \[1993\] give some counter-examples to the hypothesis.
Furthermore, it doesnot travel well to the German language, despitetile fact that Ripplinger and Alexandersson \[1996\]also give the utterance-initial criterion for identify-ing German discourse particles, such as denn, also,ja, in the VERBMOBIL corpus.
In fact, these andother particles can occur almost everywhere in theutterance.For this and other reasons, the class of discourseparticles is a heterogeneous one and very difficultto demarcate in syntactic or other formal ways.Schiffrin \[1987, p.31ff\] develops a lengthy defini-tion of units of talk and then treats discourse parti-cles (markers in her terminology) as bracketing suchunits.
For our purposes here, we do not attempt ogive formal criteria for what constitutes a discourseparticle; instead we are content with the functional,dual-usage description.
This results from taking arather broad perspective on the range of functionsof discourse particles, which will be developed in sec-tion 3.For the task of translating utterances containingdiscourse particles, the monolingual ambiguity prob-lem is extended by that of finding an appropriatetranslation - -  and different languages have devel-oped quite different conventions for using particles.German is known to offer an especially wide range ofdiscourse particles, and therefore it is not surprisingthat many of them do not have any straightforwardEnglish translation at all - -  instead, their functionin discourse needs to be signalled by different means.And in many cases a particle is best dropped fromthe translation process altogether, if its existence isdue merely to certain conventions in spoken German,which do not carry over to the target language.
2 Theproblem is, given a particular utterance containinga particle, to tell which case is at hand.~Furthermore, the problem is amplified by the factthat German particles can be combined to form con-glomerates, as in Wir sollten wohl doch noch rnal einenTerrnin ausrnachen.
To what extent these can be an-alyzed and translated compositionally is an open ques-t.ion.
In the present paper, though, we deal only withindividual part.icles.2.1 German examplesThe VERBMOBIL system currently operates with aGerman vocabulary of 2300 words, and among thesewe have identified 49 particles that cause problemsof the kind just described.
(This figure does notinclude modal and other particles that can pose sig-nificant problems for translation but do not have adiscourse usage.)
Although we have not performedlarge-scale frequency tests, some initial counts sug-gest that a typical dialogue from the VERBMOBILcorpus, which consists of about 15 turns, contains 20to 30 occurrences of such particles.
For this paper,we have chosen 7 particles to illustrate the situationfor disambiguation and translation.doch  If Doch.
t is the sole response to an ut-terance, dochl denies what the other participanthas just said and at the same time reaffirms the(opposite) opinion of the speaker.
In English, onewould say something like Yes it is!
(or use the morespecific verb in question).
However, when doch isused within a sentence, it has at least the followingthree functions.
In Das ist doch klar, doch~ signalsthat the proposition is assumed to be shared knowl-edge, or self-evident.
A suitable English renderingis That's clear anyway.
(3) Lassen Sie uns doch einen Terrain ausmachen.But when a sentence like (3) introduces an ex-change, doch3 merely smoothens the utterance andshould not be translated at all, since English doesnot offer a corresponding word.
Thus, a translationis Let us arrange an appointment.
(4) Dann nehmen wir DOCH Dienstag.Finally, in an utterance like (4), where doch4 isprosodically marked, it signals a return to a previ-ous state of the negotiation: Tuesday had been sug-gested earlier but was rejected, and now the rejectionis taken back.
Again, there is no equivalent Englishword; instead, a speaker can signal the reversal ofher position by saying, for instance, All right, so weDO take Tuesday.noch  Another example is noch, which can be asemantically empty smoothening particle, or a focusparticle meaning another.
(5) Wir miissen noch einen Terrain ausmachen.Sentence (5) is ambiguous between We have toarrange an appointment and We have to arrangeanother appointment.
Often, prosody indicates thedistinction \[Bos et al 1995\]; otherwise, analysis ofthe preceding context is necessary: Has a differentappointment been scheduled already, so that anotherone can be dealt with now?also The "literal" meaning (according to dictio-naries) of also1 is therefore or so.
3 In a related usage,also2 can introduce a reformulation or specificationof information:(6) Treffen wir uns am Dienstag, also am drittenJuni.Sentence (6) can be translated as Let us meet onTuesday, hence on the third of June (the more formaltherefore would be misplaced here).
(7) Also, da muss ich real schauen.However, in (7), alsoa does not contribute to sen-tence meaning but merely signals that the speakeris taking her turn.
In English, this is typically per-formed by now, ... or well, ..., etc.b i t te  Sometimes, the dialogue act of the preced-ing utterance can be the decisive piece of informa-tion for disambiguation.
The single-word utterancebitte is ambiguous between you're welcome!
and ex-cuse me?, asking the other participant to repeat heutterance.
Now, in case the dialogue act of the pre-ceding utterance is THANK (which abstracts overthe various linguistic means of expressing ratitude),bitte is translated as you're welcome.
(Prosodic in-formation can also help to distinguish the two formsof bitte, but is not always reliable.
)bez iehungsweise  This is a curious German wordthat can be employed for quite a variety of purposes.
(8) Mir passt es am Dienstag beziehungsweise amFreitag gut.For example, in (8) the speaker lists two alterna-tives, so that beziehungsweisel is best translated asor, thus: For me, Tuesday or Friday is fine.
(9) lch bin am Dienstag und Mittwoch, also amdritten beziehungsweise am vierten, in Hamburg.In an enumeration with specification, such as(9), the English and ... respectively is an ade-quate translation for beziehungsweise2; only in thiscase, a relation between different elements is ver-balized, which is part of the "literal" meaning ofbeziehungsweise.
It requires a certain amount ofreasoning, though, to notice this relation between'Tuesday' and 'third', and between 'Wednesday' and'fourth', so that the translation I am in Hamburgon Tuesday and Wednesday, hence on the third andfourth, respectively is achieved.
(10) Am Montag bin ich in Frankfurt, beziehungs-weise in Eschborn.Often, however, beziehungsweise3 merely starts aself-correction, specification, or reformulation, besttranslated as or rather, as in (10): On Monday I amin Frankfurt, or rather in Eschborn.
(Eschborn is asmaller town neighbouring Frankfurt).3Notice that German also has no relationship to En-glish also - -  they are genuine false friends.viel le icht Dictionaries give the meaning maybefor this adverb, but in spoken language it is oftenproduced merely as a filler word, partly indicatingvagueness, partly buying time for the speaker todo more thinking.
In (11), the vielleicht2 is to betreated as such a filler; the literal translation Thenlet us maybe say Tuesday is unnatural.
(11) Dann sagen wir vielleicht am Dienstag.ja  As a complete utterance, the meaning o f ja  isquite significant ('yes'), but as a little word accom-panying utterances it can be used for many, oftenless significant, purposes.
For instance, it can serveas a simple uptake, similar to alsoa; or it can be aplain filler that should not be translated at all; orit can indicate that the speaker assumes omethingto be presupposed by the hearer as well - -  in a ne-gotiation, someone would say (12) if he had alreadygiven the information On Monday I am in Hamburgearlier.
(12) Montag bin ich ja in Hamburg.2.2 Engl ish examplesIn English, particles are generally less frequent hanin German.
Correspondingly, using particles for dis-course purposes is also less common than in Ger-man.
While we have not done comprehensive cor-pus studies on English data yet, the limited role ofparticles can be inferred from the fact that the re-search literature often deals merely with those occur-ring utterance-initial (e.g., \[Byron, Heeman 1997\]).Especially the structuring particles are well-studied;for instance, by the way and but can signal the be-ginning of a digression, and anyway the return to aprevious topic.Other prominent utterance-initial particles arethose that signal turn-taking (we call them 'up-takes'), as in (13) and (14), taken from the EnglishVERBMOmL data.
In (14), the well is not just aneutral uptake but also indicates reservation.
(13) Alright, why don't you come to my of/ice.
(14) Well, the morning of the eighteenth is bad.Some studies look at particles in other positionsas well.
For instance, Redeker \[1990\] considersutterance-final tags like okay?
or right?, which serveto elicit acknowledgement from the listener, andcomment-clauses, which can be used as 'enquotingdevices' to signal the beginning of quoted speech.Other particles, which we also find in the EnglishVERBMOBIL data, include repair markers uch as theoh in (15) and the no in (16).
Incidentally, (16) isan example for a correction that does not pertain tothe part of the utterance immediately preceding thecorrection marker.
(15) I 'm going to be in Cleveland on the sixth,discourse functionstructuring coherence-marking attitudinalpush pop uptake check repair, positive negative indifferent given surprisesmootheningfillerFigure 1: Taxonomy of discourse functionshow about sometime, oh, actually maybe this weekisn't going to be so good.
(16) I 'm on vacation from the second to thetwelfth, I'm going to see the Grand Canyon, no, ac-tually to the fifteenth.2.3 Consequences  for  automat ic  t rans la t ionSummarizing the examples given above, a particlecan have?
a "literal" lexical translation, where semantics(truth conditions) is relevant (there can still beambiguity between several sentential readings),* a "non-literal" lexical translation, where prag-matic intent is relevant (again, there can be am-biguity between several discourse readings),?
a non-lexical translation, i.e., it is rendered bya syntactic or intonation feature,?
a zero translation.For some particles, only a subset of these cases ispossible, but others can, depending on context, fallinto any of these groups, such as the notorious ja.Moreover, we have seen that a variety of knowl-edge sources is required to find the adequate trans-lation:?
syntactic environment (e.g., for ja),.
semantic types,?
previous utterance (e.g., for doch),?
preceding discourse (e.g., for noch),?
world knowledge and/or inferences (e.g., forbezieh ungsweise) ,?
prosody (e.g., for bitte),?
genre-specific conventions (see example belowin section 4).Given this situation, it is unrealistic to expect hata set of standard transfer ules is sufficient o pro-vide adequate translations of particles on a lexicalbasis.
Instead, a "deeper" analysis is required, whichextracts ufficient contextual information and also,if necessary, can bring world knowledge into play.Similarly, on the side of the target language, thebest realization corresponding to a source languageparticle is not always straightforward to determine.This is another argument against relying solely ontransfer ules, especially if the realization is an into-nation feature or syntactic tag whose position is notimmediately related to that of the source languageparticle.3 Discourse functionsIn VERBMOBIL, the "deep" analysis is undertakenin the Context Evaluation (ConEval) module, whichconstructs a conceptual representation (based on adomain model coded in a description logic language)from the output of the syntactic/semantic analysismodule.
The conceptual representation is used tocompute the dialogue act \[Schmitz, Quantz 1995\]and to perform various disambiguations \[Stede t al.1996\], which can involve inferences.
For example, wereason with date expressions to determine whetherone date is a specification of another, or a separateone (which is sometimes important for disambigua-tion).In our conceptual representation, the discourseparticles (in their "pragmatic reading") are repre-sented by labels signifying their discourse function.Figure 1 shows our current taxonomy of discoursefunctions (an extension of the one given in \[Schmitz,Fischer 1995\]), which has resulted from extensivecorpus analyses of the VERBMOBIL data and fromexamining the relevant research literature.
In thefollowing, we briefly explain the various functions.S t ructur ing  These functions have received themost attention in the research literature.
PUSHand POP mark the beginning of a sub-topic or di-gression, and the return to the previous topic, re-spectively.
(Examples: by the way-anyway / davonabgesehen-wie auch immer).
With an UPTAKE,the speaker signals a turn-taking at the beginning ofa turn and a turn-holding within a turn.
It also canhelp the hearer adapting to the acoustic properties ofthe speaker's utterance without losing information.
(Examples: all right, now/ ja ,  also).
CHECK is aturn yielding signal, prompting the dialogue partnerto respond.
By using a CHECK, the speaker oftenseeks approving feedback from the hearer.
(Exam-ple: isn't it?
/ oder?).
REPAIR indicates problemsin planning and performing the output, signals a newstart, and thereby is also a turn-holding signal.
(Ex-amples: I mean, sorry / ach nein, ?h).Coherence  Mark ing  Some particles can be em-ployed to facilitate the embedding of the utterancewithin the context, and to check the common basisof the participants.
(Example: doch, schon).At t i tud ina l  We borrowed this label from All-wood et al \[1992\].
While English often uses verbsfor these purposes, German also offers a range ofparticles for speakers to convey a POSITIVE (ex-ample: gem), NEGATIVE (example: leider), or IN-DIFFERENT (example: ruhig) attitude towards thepropositional content in their utterance, or towardsthe last utterance of the dialogue partner.
In addi-tion, the propositional content of the speaker's ownutterance can be marked as presupposed, or GIVEN(examples: ja, doch).
And, some particles indicateSURPRISE at an utterance made by the partner(example: oh).Smoothen ing  Also especially in German, parti-cles often help to create an overall appropriate into-nation contour, and at the same time can serve to ex-press cooperativity and politeness (Examples: denn,doch).
Specifically, FILLERS allow the speaker toplan the output, avoid undue pauses, and help tohold the turn.
(Examples: ich wiirde sagen, ?h).4 Routine formulasWe pointed out that the particles investigated herehave at least one reading in which the discourse us-age is central to their usage, and not semantic on-tribution to propositional content.
This differencepoints to the notion of "idiomatic" meaning, and- -  not surprisingly - -  the discourse functions intro-duced above can often also be realized by idiomaticphrases.
Without going into detail here, we merelygive a few examples, again taken from the VERBMO-BIL domain.
In all these cases (and many others),the "literal" compositional meaning is not the pointof using the phrase, and they typically cannot betranslated word-by-word.As fi l lers, we often find phrases like lch wiirdedenken .
.
.
.
or Ich muff sagen, ...
In English, thetranslation I must say, ... is not wrong but not con-ventionally used in this context.
Similarly, the Ger-man Wenn ich da real nachsehe, ... should not betranslated preserving the conditionality, hence If Ilook this up, ... but by the common phrase Let mesee ,  ...The function check can be realized by phraseslike Sehe ich das richtig?
which also should not betranslated literally (Do I see that correctly?)
but bya conventional phrase such as Am I right?repa i r  markers  can also be phrasal, as in X, oderbesser gesagt, Y or in X, nein, ich wollte sagen Y.Again, literal translations should give way to conven-tionalized English formulas, hence X, no, I wantedto say Y is less felicitous than X, no, I meant Y.5 Towards automat ic  translat ionSince the problems associated with discourse parti-cles are largely absent when processing written lan-guage, computational linguistics has for most of itshistory not dealt with these problems.
In SLT, how-ever, they cannot be avoided, especially when work-ing with a language rich in particles, such as Ger-man.
Given the youth of the field, plus the factthat particles at first sight do not exactly seem to bethe most important challenge for translating spokenlanguage, it comes as no surprise that there are nosatisfactory solutions in implemented systems yet.In the VERBMOBIL prototype that was completedlast year, a number of particles are considered am-biguous between scopal/modal/focusing adverb onthe one hand, and "pragmatic adverb" on the other.This class of "pragmatic adverbs" loosely corre-sponds to the "discourse usage" we have investigatedabove.
The translation framework of VERBMOBILis strongly lexeme-based; thus, for any particle inthe German source-utterance, the transfer compo-nent seeks a corresponding English word on the basisof the reading determined.
Typically, the ConEvalmodule is asked to determine the class of a parti-cle, wherupon transfer chooses a target word.
As anexception, in some contexts a pragmatic adverb issuppressed in the translation.This procedure is a start, but it cannot dealwith all the facets of meaning found in discourseparticles, as outlined above.
On the basis of cor-pus studies, both \[Schmitz, Fischer 1995\] and \[Rip-plinger, Alexandersson 1996\] already demonstratedthat many German particles have a whole rangeof English correspondents, of which VER.BMOBIL atpresent manages only very few.To improve the translations, for the second phase7of the VERBMOBIL project we propose to build uponthe framework of discourse functions.
The pur-pose of computing discourse functions in analysisis twofold: it supports disambiguation ( ot only ofthe discourse particles, but also of the surroundingwords) and computation of the dialogue act under-lying the utterance; and it helps in segmentation,i.e., breaking an utterance into portions that serveas complete units for further processing.
In trans-lation, the information on discourse function is im-portant for deciding whether to translate a particleat all, and how to do that: by inserting a corre-sponding target language particle, or by modifyingthe syntactic structure or intonation contour of thetarget utterance.Given the wide variety of information requiredfor determining discourse functions (listed in sec-tion 2.3), the task is best performed in tandem withbuilding up the conceptual representation f the ut-terance, i.e., in the ConEval module.
The decision asto what discourse function to associate with a par-ticle is seldom a strict one (not even for the humananalyst).
Instead, the different clues from syntax,semantics, prosodb;i and world knowledge are typ-ically weak and have to be weighted against eachother in the light of the complete utterance.
There-fore, we tackle the problem with the same mech-anism we use for identifying dialogue acts: a setof weighted default rules, implemented in FLEX\[Quantz et al 1996\] as an extension to the standarddescription logic language.
The rules are matchedagainst the utterance representation, and the accu-mulated weights decide on the most likely discoursefunction.
We are currently in the process of definingthis rule set.The result will be more fine-grained informationon discourse particles than is available now in thesystem.
The transfer and generation modules canuse the discourse function to decide whether a lexi-cal correspondent should be produced in the targetlanguage, and if so, which one, and at what positionof the utterance.
Particles that are mere fillers canbe removed entirely from the translation, and simi-larly those particles that are used to smooth the in-tonation contour in German.
Whether restarts andself-repairs get translated or are merged into a sin-gle coherent utterance, is an open question.
In manycases, it would not be difficult to replace the "cor-rected" portion of an utterance with the portion that"overwrites" it, thereby sparing the hearer from re-working the correction herself.As for routine formulas, they first of all cause thestandard problems of idiomatic phrases: they needto be recognized as a single unit of meaning, so thatthey can be translated en bloc.
This presupposeslexical representations that adequately describe thepossible variants of the expression, e.g., whether ad-ditional modifiers may be inserted into a phrase, etc.When processing written language, this is difficultenough - -  with speech and the additional uncer-tainties of word recognition, the problems are evenharder.
For the time being, a comprehensive treat-ment of routine formulas and other idioms does notseem feasible.Regarding the overall system architecture, thedeep-analysis phase, as we have described it, neednot be necessary for each and every utterance - -  ifthe input allows for a standard transfer-based trans-lation (e.g., because it doesn't contain ambiguousparticles), that will typically be sufficient.
This es-sentially amounts to a mixed-depth analysis in thetranslation process - -  an important question thatwe cannot discuss further here.6 SummaryDiscourse particles and routine formulas in spokenutterances cannot be translated on a simple lexeme-to-lexeme basis.
We have proposed a taxonomy ofdiscourse functions to represent he pragmatic im-pact of such particles and formulas.
There is, still,no 1:1 mapping between particles/formulas nd dis-course functions in analysis, nor between discoursefunctions and their realization in the target lan-guage.
Therefore, we use a "deep" utterance rep-resentation of dialogue act and propositional con-tent, into which discourse functions are integrated.In analysis, the deep representation holds all theinformation required for successful processing; thetransfer and generation components can then decidewhether discourse functions get realized in the targetlanguage, and if so, by what means.
This decisioncan be made in the context of the target-languageutterance.ReferencesW.
Abraham (ed.).
Discourse particles.
Amsterdam:John Benjamins, 1991.J.
Allwood, J. Nivre, E. Ahlsen.
"On the semanticsand pragmatics of linguistic feedback."
In: Jour-nal off Semantics 9:1-26, 1992.J.
Bos, A. Batliner, R. Kompe.
"On the useof Prosody for Semantic Disambiguation inVERBMOBIL".
Verbmobil Memo 82, DFKISaarbrficken, 1995.D.
Byron, P. Heeman.
"Discourse marker use in task-oriented spoken dialog."
In: Proceedings off the yhEuropean Conference on Speech Communicationand Technology (Eurospeech), Rhodes/Greece,1997.J.
Hirschberg, D. Litman.
"Empirical studies on thedisambiguation of cue phrases."
In: Computa-tional Linguistics 19 (3), 501-530, 1993.J.J.
Quantz, G. Dunker, F. Bergmann, I. Kellner.The FLEX System.
KIT Report 124, FB Infor-matik, TU Berlin, 1996.R.
Reichman.
Getting computers to talk like you andme.
MIT Press/Bradford Books, 1985.B.
Ripplinger, J. Alexandersson.
"Disambigua-tion and translation of German particles inVerbmobil."
Verbmobil Memo 70, IAI/DFKISaarbriicken, 1996.D.
Schiffrin.
Discourse markers.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, 1987.B.
Schmitz, K. Fischer.
"Pragmatisches Beschrei-bungsinventar fiir Diskurspartikeln und Rou-tineformeln anhand der Demonstratorwortliste.
"Verbmobil Memo 75, TU Berlin/Universit~itBielefeld, 1995.B.
Schmitz and J.J. Quantz.
"Dialogue-Act TypeRecognition in Automatic Dialogue Interpret-ing."
In: Proceedings of the The Sixth Interna-tional Conference on Theoretical and Methodologi-cal Issues in Machine Translation (TMI), Leuven,1995.M.
Stede, U. Kfissner, J. Quantz, B. Schmitz.
"Dis-ambiguation as part of semantic evaluation inVerbmobil."
In: C. Boitet (ed.
): Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Multimodal Interactive Disam-biguation (MIDDIM-96), Grenoble, 1996.W.
Wahlster.
"Verbmobil: Translation of face-to-face dialogues."
In: Proceedings of the Third Eu-ropean Conference on Speech Communication andTechnology, Berlin, 1993.
