A Tutor for Teaching English as a Second Language for DeafUsers of American Sign LanguageKath leen  F .
McCoy  and  L i sa  N .
MastermanCIS Depar tmentUniversity of DelawareNewark, DE 19716mccoy%cis, udel.
edu and masterma@cis, udel.
eduAbst rac tIn this paper we introduce a computer-assisted writing tool for deaf users of Amer-ican Sign Language (ASL).
The novel as-pect of this system (under development) isthat it views the task faced by these writersas one of second language acquisition.
Weindicate how this affects the system designand the system's correction and explana-tion strategies, and present our methodol-ogy for modeling the second language ac-quisition process.1 In t roduct ionThis paper briefly overviews a project whose long-term goal is the development of a "writing tutor"for deaf people who use American Sign Language(ASL).
We wish to address the particular difficul-ties faced by the deaf writer learning English andto create a system with the capabilities of accept-ing input via an essay written by a user (possiblyseveral paragraphs in length), analyzing that essayfor errors, and then engaging the user in tutorialdialogue aimed toward improving his/her overall it-eracy.
The goal is a system designed to be usedover an extended period of time, with the capacityto model the student's state of language proficiencyand changes in that proficiency.
The tutoring pro-vided by the system would then be hand-tailoredtoward the individual user and his/her level of ac-quisition of written English.Such a system must have several components.First, it must have the ability to analyze the inputtexts and determine what errors have occurred.
Itmust then be able to select which of these errorsto discuss with the learner, and in what order todiscuss them.
Finally, it must be able to generateappropriate corrective tutorial messages concerningthe errors, keeping in mind both the goal of cor-recting this sample text and the larger objective ofimproving the overall iterary of the student.Concurrent with these explicit components, thesystem must be capable of constructing and updat-ing a user model to be consulted in both the selec-tion of errors to be corrected and the generation ofcorrective text.
This user model would take into ac-count a theory of second language acquisition whichregards the process as a systematic revision of aninternalized concept of the language to be acquired.Students would be placed within a model of climb-ing literacy, with language concepts rated as above,below, or within their current realm of acquisition,and the tutorial interaction tailored to this model.In this paper, after motivating our specific appli-cation, we introduce the architecture of our even-tual system and motivate its various components.After describing our current implementation status,we motivate the need for a model of second languageacquisition.
We finish with describing how we pro-pose to model this process.2 L i te racy  I ssues  for  Peop le  Whoare  DeafThe problem of deaf literacy has been well:documented and has far reaching effects on everyaspect of deaf students' education.
Though data onwriting skills is difficult to obtain, we note that thereading comprehension level of deaf students i con-siderably lower than that of their hearing counter-parts, "...with about half of the population of deaf18-year-olds reading at or below a fourth grade leveland only about 10% reading above the eighth gradelevel..." (Strong, 1988)Some Deaf people use American Sign Language(ASL).
1 ASL is a visual-gestural language whosegrammar isdistinct and independent of the grammar1While we recognize that many people who are deafor hard of hearing use other communication systems, our47/of English or any other spoken language (Stokoe,Jr., 1960), (Baker and Padden, 1978), (Baker andCokely, 1980), (Hoffmeister and Shettle, 1983),(Klima and Bellugi, 1979), (Bellman, Poizner, andBellugi, 1983).
The structure of ASL is radically dif-ferent from that of English, being much more similarto that of Chinese or the Native American languageNavaho.
In addition to sign order rules (which aresimilar to word order rules of English), ASL syn-tax includes ystematic modulations to signs as wellas non-manual behavior (e.g., squinting, raising ofeyebrows, body shifts, and shaking, nodding or tilt-ing the head) for morphological and grammaticalpurposes (Baker and Cokely, 1980), (Liddell, 1980),(Padden, 1981), (Klima and Bellugi, 1979), (Kegland Gee, 1983), (Ingrain, 1978), (Baker, 1980).
Themodality of ASL encourages simultaneous communi-cation of information which is not possible with thecompletely sequential nature of written English.In addition to radical differences in the struc-ture of ASL and English, another obstacle to theASL user acquiring English is the unique processingstrategies s/he brings to the task (Anderson, 1993).The cognitive lements used to store signs in short-term memory are distinctively different from thoseused with a spoken/written language.
Also, hear-ers of spoken language buffer the speech in order toprocess it together in words and phrases, but thebuffer for visually observed ata has a much quickerdecay time than that of auditory or visual data,which leads to repetition and redundancy in signedlanguages that does not occur in the same mannerelsewhere.
Moreover, long, involved utterances of amanual anguage are parceled into small parts thatare recursively reinforced, referring back to previousdetails as each new piece of information is added,another characteristic atypical of spoken language.Adding to these difficulties is the fact that ASLhas no accepted written form, eliminating the op-portunity to establish literacy skills in a fluent na-tive language and then transfer those skills to thenew language being learned.
Perhaps the worst dif-ficulty for the deaf learner is that s/he has little tono understandable input in the language s/he is at-tempting to acquire.
Thus, in addition to providingfeedback on the student's writing, a tutoring systemshould be capable of offering sample understandableinput using constructions that the student is cur-rently attempting to master.We anticipate that our system will address theunique needs of the deaf population in other waysas well.
For instance, this system would provide thefocus has been on those people who are (near native)users of American Sign Language.user with feedback on his or her writing without in-volving a human teacher.
Some students might pre-fer this mode of feedback since they would not riskfeeling a "loss of face" as they might with a humantutor.
The hope is that this will get the students towrite more.In explaining the difficulties faced by the deaflearner of English, we do not propose that ASL na-tives are fundamentally different from other learnersof English as a Second Language; rather, we wantto stress the view that English is, for ASL natives,a fundamentally different and challenging language,motivating the need to adopt a Second LanguageAcquisition strategy toward facilitating the learningprocess.
There exist many obstacles to this process,some which are shared with other native languagepopulations and some which are unique, such as theabsence of the opportunity to have English inputtailored to the personal level of acquisition and un-derstanding of the learner.
The system we proposeattempts to address these needs as closely as possiblewithin its own constraints (i.e., without the abilityto converse with the learner in his native language).We should note that while there are "style check-ers" and "grammar checkers" on the market, theseprograms do not satisfy the needs of the deaf.
Ed-ucators of the deaf (and other people working withdeaf individuals) report that such checkers, gearedtoward the errors of hearing writers, frustrate deafstudents.
Tailored toward the writing style of fluent,native English speakers, they do not catch many er-rors that are common in the writing of people whoare deaf, and, at the same time, they flag many con-structions that are not errors.
We ran some of ourwriting samples from deaf subjects through a fewgrammar checkers, and we judged the results to beconsistent with these reports.There have been some attempts to develop "gram-mar checkers" for people who are deaf.
Perhapsthe most notable of these is the system namedMs.
Pluralbelle which was developed and testedwith students at Gallaudet University (Loritz, 1990),(Loritz, Parhizgar, and Zambrano, 1993).
The workdescribed here differs from this earlier work mainlyin its emphasis on correction and on its model of theuser's acquisition process.3 Overview of System DesignFigure 1 contains a block diagram of the system un-der development.
The system, called ICICLE (In-teractive Computer Identification and Correction ofLanguage Errors), is designed to be a general pur-pose language learning tutor.
While our current fo-cus is on users of ASL, and thus some of the modules48I USER MODEL \[Figure 1: ICICLE Overall System Designwill be specific to the errors and difficulties of thislearner population, our eventual goal is to have thelanguage-specific aspects of the system to be excis-able, allowing modules for different native languagesto be inserted, so the system would eventually be us-able for any learner of English as a Second Language.The input/feedback ycle of ICICLE begins whenthe user enters a portion of text into the computer.The user's text is processed by the Error Analy-sis component which is responsible for tagging allerrors.
This component first performs a syntac-tic parse of a sentence using an English grammaraugmented with error-production rules, or mal-rules(Sleeman, 1982), (Weischedel, Voge, and James,1978).
These mal-rules allow sentences containingerrors to be parsed with the grammar, and enablethe system to flag errors when they occur.
The mal-rules themselves are derived from an error taxonomywhich resulted from our writing sample analysis inconjunction with an analysis of how ASL knowledgemight influence written English and other ASL infor-mation (Suri and McCoy, 1993).
The initial taxon-omy was developed from an analysis of forty-eightFreshman and Sophomore writing evaluation sam-ples from Gallaudet University (a liberal arts uni-versity for the deaf), seventeen writing evaluationsamples from the National Technical Institute forthe Deaf (NTID, a deaf school in Delaware), and fiveletters and essays written by ASL natives and col-lected through the Biculturai Center in Washington,DC.
In total, the samples represent about 25,000words.
The errors were hand-counted and catego-rized, leading to the development of the mal-ruleswhich represent them.The possible effects of ASL on the errors identi-fied are captured in the Language Model.
The ef-fects from the acquisition of English as a SecondLanguage are captured in the Acquisition Model (de-scribed later in this paper).
These two models affecta scoring mechanism which is used to identify a sin-gle parse (and set of errors) when multiple possibil-ities exist (McCoy, Pennington, and Suri, 1996).The error identification phase must also look forsemantic errors (e.g., mixing of have and be), andfor discourse level errors (e.g., NP deletions).
Someof these errors will be flagged after syntactic pars-ing using independent error rules.
Finally, the ErrorIdentification module is responsible for updating anydiscourse information tracked by the system (e.g., fo-cus information).
Once this information is recorded,the next sentence will be analyzed.After all analyses are completed, the text, alongwith the error results and annotations from the er-ror rules, will be passe d to the Response Generator.The Generator component processes this informa-tion (along with data from the User Model and pos-sibly the History Module) in order to decide whicherrors to correct in detail and how each should becorrected (including what language level should beused in generating any required instruction).
Thedecision as to which errors to correct in detail willbe most influenced by reasoning on the AcquisitionModel.The second ecision that must be made in the Re-sponse Generator is which kind of correction strat-egy to use in actually generating the response.
Thisdecision is also affected by information stored in theUser Model and History Module.
The content ofthe response itself will be derived from the annota-tions on the errors that were passed from the ErrorAnalysis component; additional content for the re-sponses may be provided by the ASL/English "Ex-pert" (Language Model) and influenced by the Ac-quisition Model.
Finally, the responses will be dis-played to the user who then has an opportunity toenter corrections to the text and have it re-checked.At the same time, information from the ResponseGenerator will be used to update the recent andlong-term "history" of the user.
This knowledge canthen be utilized to assess the user's econd-languageability and other user characteristics, and to eval-uate the success (or failure) of the correction tech-niques employed thus far.4 Imp lementat ionOur implementation to this point has concentratedmost heavily on the analysis phase of process-ing.
The user interacts with the system through49a windows-based interface 2 through which text mayeither be entered irectly or loaded from a file.
Oncethe text is loaded, the user may ask that it be ana-lyzed by the system.The text is analyzed (one sentence at a time) bya bottom-up arser found in (Allen, 1995) using agrammar which has been augmented with mal-rulesto capture rrors uncovered inour analysis of writingsamples.
3 The mal-rules are indexed with the errorsthat they realize.The following is an example of a mal-rule from thegrammar currently in implementation:((s ( inv - )(error-feature +)(wh ?w) )-my01.2>(np (case sub)(wh ?w)(agr p) )(head (vp (vform (?
v pres past))(agr s)(person 3)) ) )The rule shown is a simple sentence rule that statesthat an s is an np followed by a vp (where the vp isthe head).
The left and right hand sides of the ruleare delimited by the rule name (-my01.2> in thiscase), and each constituent has a set of features thatare associated with it.
This rule would recognize anerror at the sentence formation level, in subject-verbagreement - specifically, an error where the subjectis plural but the verb form is third-person singular,such as "We does..." or "They has..." By  taggingthe sentence parse with the feature (error-feature+), it is identified as containing an error, and theparse tree can be examined to discover the real-rule(in this case, my01.2) that was used in the parse.After all of the sentences have been parsed in thisway, the current system displays the text with col-ored highlighting over all error-containing sentences(different colors are used for different classes of er-ror, again as identified from the real-rules whichwere used).
In addition, a color-coded menu ap-pears which names the errors and associates themwith the colors from the highlighted display.
At thispoint the user may investigate the individual errorsfurther.
For example, s/he may click on a particularerror name to get a (currently canned) explanation,or s/he may ask the system to mark the occurrencesof a particular error only.
In addition, the user may2We thank Robert Jeffrey Morriss for his work on theinterface design and implementation.3We thank Xingong Chang and David Schneider fortheir work on the grammar and Linda Suri for the writingsample analysis and development of the error taxonomy.edit particular sentences, which results in an imme-diate new analysis of the text.5 Account ing  for  the  L2  Acqu is i t ionProcessThere are several reasons why a model of secondlanguage acquisition is necessary.5.1 Identifying ErrorsIt is common for our system to find multiple possi-ble parses of an input string, where some parses maycontain mal-rules and others do not, some may con-tain different mal-rules than others, etc.
Decidingbetween these multiple parses corresponds to decid-ing which errors (if any) the student made in thegiven sentence.
One area of our current work con-cerns progress toward making an informed choiceabout which parse tree best represents he student'sinput.Our method is to develop a model of second lan-guage acquisition and use it for this task.
For ex-ample, if we had a model of what the student hadalready acquired, what the student was currently ac-quiring, and what the student was most likely toacquire next, this could be used to select he mostlikely parse of the sentence in a principled fashion.A student is most likely to make errors in construc-tions s/he is currently acquiring (Vygotsky, 1986).Thus, given a set of parses, the one that is mostlikely to best describe the input is the one that con-tains mal-rules corresponding to errors in that realmof constructions (and that does not use constructionswell beyond the student's current acquisition level).5.2 Focusing the CorrectionOnce errors have been detected, the system mustdetermine:?
which errors to focus on in the correction?
what basic content o include in the correctiveresponseOur model of second language acquisition is cru-cial for these tasks as well.
Research in second lan-guage acquisition and education indicates that asa learner is mastering a subject, there is a certainsubset of the material that is currently "within hisgrasp."
This has been called the Zone of ProximalDevelopment (ZPD) by Vygotsky (Vygotsky, 1986).This general idea has been applied to assessmentand writing instruction by (Rueda, 1990), and sec-ond language acquisition by (Krashen, 1981).
Intu-itively the knowledge or concepts within the ZPDare "currently being acquired".50IAccording to the above literature, instruction andcorrective feedback dealing with aspects within theZPD may be beneficial; instruction or correctivefeedback dealing with aspects outside of the ZPDwill likely have little effect and may even be harmfulto the learning process, either boring or confusingthe student with information s/he is unable to com-prehend or apply.
Thus the correction should focuson features at or slightly above the student's level ofacquisition.Once an error has been identified and chosen for acorrective response, the system must also decide onthe content of that response.
Here again, where theuser is in the acquisition process (and thus, why s/hemade the error) is crucial.
Consider the followingexample found in one of our writing samples:"My brother like to go..."This sentence appears to most of us to have aproblem in subject-verb agreement.
Because thesubject is third-person singular, the present enseverb should be "likes."
Notice that there are severalreasons why this error may be generated:1.
The student doesn't know that such agreementexists in the language.
That is, the student maybe unaware that the form of the subject hasanything to do with the form of the verb in suchsentences.2.
The student is mistaken about the syntacticform the agreement takes.
In this case, the stu-dent is aware that s/he needs to mark subject-verb agreement, but does not know how to doso (or believes that s/he has already done so).3.
The student intended the noun to be in pluralform (but mistyped).4.
The student intended the verb to be in singularform (but mistyped).Notice that very different kinds of content wouldbe required to effectively correct he above error de-pending on the actual reason for making it.
In thefirst case, some general tutoring should be given, ex-plaining that agreement exists in the language, thecircumstances in which the agreement eeds to bemarked, and the iform the agreement should take.In case 2, only the form of the agreement eeds tobe explained.
In cases 3 and 4, no tutoring shouldbe given.Knowing where the student is in acquiring the sec-ond language can help a system distinguish amongthe cases above.
If subject-verb agreement is some-thing that the student has not acquired and is notabout o acquire, case 1 is most likely.
The student'splacement in the model of acquisition can further di-rect our decisions regarding actions, because if thisagreement is too far above the student's current levelto be intellectually attainable at this time, we donot want to act on the error at all.
If, on the otherhand, it is currently within the ZPD (i.e., currentlybeing acquired by the user), then case 2 is the mostlikely situation.
Finally, either case 3 or 4 is likelyif subject-verb agreement has already been acquiredby the user.5.3 Model ing the L2 Acquisit ion ProcessWe are currently developing a computational modelthat captures the way that English is acquired (asa second language) and gives us a framework uponwhich to project a student's "location" in that pro-cess.
There is considerable inguistic evidence thatthe acquisition order of English features for second-language learners is relatively consistent and fixedregardless ofthe first language (Ingrain, 1989), (Du-lay and Burt, 1974), (Bailey, Madden, and Krashen,1974).
In addition to studies concentrating on sec-ond language acquisition, research in language as-sessment and educational grade expectations (e.g.,(Berent, 1988), (Lee, 1974), (Crystal, 1982)) alsosuggests that language features are acquired in arelatively fixed order.
This research outlines ets ofsyntactic onstructions (language f atures) that stu-dents are generally expected to master by a certainpoint in their study of the language.
This work canbe interpreted as specifying roups of features thatshould be acquired at roughly the same time.We have attempted to account for the preced-ing results in a language assessment model calledSLALOM ("Steps of Language Acquisition in a Lay-ered Organization Model") 4.
The basic idea ofSLALOM is to divide the English language (the L2in our case) into a set of feature hierarchies (e.g.~morphology, types of noun phrases, and types of rel-ative clauses).
Within any single hierarchy, the fea-tures are ordered according to their "difficulty" ofacquisition, reflecting their relative linguistic com-plexity.
The ordering within feature hierarchies hasbeen the subject of investigation i  work such as (In-gram, 1989), (Dulay and Burt, 1974), and (Bailey,Madden, and Krashen, 1974).Figure 2 contains an illustration of a piece ofSLALOM.
We have depicted parts of four hierar-chies in the figure: morphological syntactic features,noun phrases, verb complements, and various rela-tive clauses.
Within each hierarchy, the intention4The initial work on SLALOM was done by Christo-pher A. Pennington.51ComplexSimpleSLALOM+s verbdctN SVOO ~"~ ~----~-----+s ed plural past ~ ~ _  s po s{ adj N S V 0 iN SV ~ norel+ing progpro~N S or v. iA B C DFeature HierarchyFigure 2: Language Complexity in SLALOMis to capture an ordering on the feature acquisition.So, for example, the model reflects the fact that the+ing progressive form of verbs is generally acquiredbefore the +s plural form of nouns, which is gener-ally acquired before the +s form of possessives, etc.Notice that there are also relationships among thehierarchies.
This is intended to capture sets of fea-tures which are acquired at approximately the sametime.
These connections may be derived from workin language assessment and grade expectations suchas found in (Berent, 1988), (Lee, 1974), and (Crys-tal, 1982).
The figure indicates that while the +splural ending is being acquired, so too are bothproper and regular nouns, and one- and two-wordsentences.
While a learner is acquiring these fea-tures, we do not expect o see any relative clauseswhich are beyond that level of acquisition.We anticipate that SLALOM, when fully devel-oped, will initially outline the typical steps in ac-quiring English as a second language.
This modelwill then be tailored to the needs of individual stu-dents via a series of "filters," one for each user char-acteristic that might alter the initial generic model.For instance, it is possible that the specific featuresof the student's Native Language (L1) will affectthe rate or order of acquisition of the Second Lan-guage (L2).
In particular, one would expect featuresshared in the L1 and L2 to be acquired more quicklythan those which are not (due to positive languagetransfer).
Another possible filter might reflect howvarious formal written-English instruction programsmight alter the model, possibly stressing certain fea-tures normally acquired after others which remainunmastered.We are developing the initial language learningmodel and its filters based on acquisition literature.We expect to further solidify the model using thewriting samples that we have already collected.
Weare currently performing statistical analysis on ourgrowing body of hand-corrected samples to see whaterror classes co-occur with statistical significance.We also expect to seek input from English teachersof deaf students, to see how they rank their students'abilities based on assignments they correct.Once the SLALOM model is complete, we ex-pect to rely on user modeling techniques to "place"the user within this model.
This placement mustbe more sophisticated than simply looking at errorssince some learners will avoid structures they do notknow perfectly well in order to prevent error.
Oth-ers will make heavy use of prefabricated patterns,such as the "tourist phrases" found in a travel book,whose use may precede a complete understandingof meaning or structure.
Thus the placement algo-rithm must take into account both of these writingstrategies.6 Generating the ResponseAside from content, the generated response shouldhave several other characteristics.
In addition toproviding examples of constructions the user is cur-rently acquiring (as discussed earlier) the responseshould be organized so as to tie new knowledge intoold knowledge thus facilitating meaningful learningas discussed by (Brown, 1994).
When each new el-ement is tied into already-learned data, and is pre-sented so that pieces of new knowledge introducedtogether are related conceptually, the learning pro-cess gains a more significant meaning and new ma-terial is assimilate more quickly and entirely.In addition, responses should encourage both de-ductive and inductive learning (where in the former,a standard practice for many foreign language class-rooms, the student is introduced to the rule and isexpected to use it to construct specific examples;in the latter the student is not directly told therule, but is encouraged togeneralize to the rule fromspecific correct examples).
Classrooms benefit fromboth forms, but the deaf learner has limited to no ex-posure to correct forms, so responses that encourageinductive learning may be particularly useful.
Wepostulate that this technique may be best achievedby providing positive examples from the student'sown work.
We have investigated the possibility ofdoing a search on the parse trees of correct sentencesin the writing sample in order to find those thatmost closely fit a desired template, perhaps based ona sentence the learner has written incorrectly else-where.The Response Generator should also take into ac-count that feedback to a language l arner occurs at52two levels, affective and cognitive (Vigil and Oiler,1976).
The cognitive level is that which concernsthe content of the feedback, or the part which ad-dresses the intellect of the learner and either enforcesthe assimilation of the concepts involved, or tellsthe learner to retry his attempt at communication.The affective level is less explicit, expressed throughnonverbal cues and tone of voice, addressing a lessconscious aspect of the learner.
Negative feedbackin this area should be avoided, as it may result inan abortion of his attempts to communicate.
Evenwhen the cognitive content of the response is indi-cating that an error occurred, the affective feedbackshould always encourage the learner.7 ConclusionsIt seems clear to us that the difficulties faced by deaflearners of written English require the developmentof such a tool as the one we envision.
Direct, person-alized interaction in a non-threatening (non-human)package, coupled with constructive input in the formof specific example utterances that address issues thestudent is currently learning, could go a long waytoward bringing satisfactory English literacy withinreach of the deaf population.
Moreover, its general-purpose goals, stretching beyond this particular tar-get audience of users, could make it a very usefultool for any language classroom.8 AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by NSF Grant # IRI-9416916 and by a Rehabilitation Engineering Re-search Center Grant from the National Institute onDisability and Rehabilitation Research of the U.S.Department of Education (#H133E30010).Re ferencesAllen, James.
1995.
Natural Language Understand-ing, Second Edition.
Benjamin/Cummings, CA.Anderson, Jacqueline J.
1993.
Deaf Student Mis-Writing, Teacher Mis-Reading: English Educationand the Deaf College Student.
Linstok Press, Bur-tonsville, MD.Bailey, N., C. Madden, and S. D. Krashen.
1974.Is there a 'natural sequence' in adult second lan-guage learning?
~ Language Learning, 24(2):235-243.Baker, C. 1980.
Sentences in American Sign Lan-guage.
In C. Baker and R. Battison, editors, SignLanguage and the Deaf Community.
National As-sociation of the Deaf, Silver Spring, MD, pages75-86.Baker, C. and D. Cokely.
1980.
American Sign Lan-guage: A Teacher's Resource Text on Grammarand Culture.
TJ Publishers, Silver Spring, MD.Baker, C. and C. Padden.
1978.
Focusing on thenon-manual components of American Sign Lan-gnage.
In P. Siple, editor, Understanding Lan-guage through Sign Language Research.
AP, NewYork, pages 27-58.Bellman, K., H. Poizner, and U. Bellugi.
1983.
In-variant characteristics of some morphological pro-cesses in American Sign Language.
Discourse Pro-cesses, 6:199-223.Berent, Gerald.
1988.
An assessment of syntacticcapabilities.
In Michael Strong, editor, LanguageLearning and Deafness, Cambridge Applied Lin-gnistic Series.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge / New York.Brown, H. Douglas.
1994.
Principles of LanguageLearning and Teaching, Third Edition.
PrenticeHall Regents, Englewook Cliffs, NJ.Crystal, David.
1982.
Profiling Linguistic Disabil-ity.
Edward Arnold, London.Dulay, Heidi C. and Marina K. Burt.
1974.
Natu-ral sequences in child second language acquisition.Language Learning, 24:37-53.Hoffmeister, R. J. and C. Shettle.
1983.
Adap-tations in communication made by deaf signersto different audience types, discourse processes,6:259-274.Ingram, David.
1989.
First Language Acquisition:Method, Description, and Explanation.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge; New York.Ingrain, R. M. 1978.
Theme, rheme, topic and com-ment in the syntax of American Sign Language.Sign Language Studies, 20:193-218, Fall.Kegl, J. and P. Gee.
1983.
Narrative/story struc-ture, pausing and American Sign Language.
Dis-course Processes, 6:243-258.Klima, E. S. and U. Bellugi.
1979.
The Signs ofLanguage.
Harvard University Press, Cambridge,MA.Krashen, Stephen.
1981.
Second Language Acqui-sition and Second Language Learning.
PergamonPress, Oxford.Lee, Laura.
1974.
Developmental Sentence Anal-ysis: A Grammatical Assessment Procedure forSpeech and Language Clinicians.
NorthwesternUniversity Press, Evanston, IL.Liddell, Scott K. 1980.
American Sign LanguageSyntax.
Mouton Publishers.53Loritz, Donald.
1990.
Using artificial intelligenceto teach English to deaf people.
Technical ReportRX2500-950F, Language Research Laboratories,Georgetown University.Loritz, Donald, Afsar Parhizgar, and Robert Zam-brano.
1993.
Diagnostic parsing in call.
CAELLJournal, 1(4):9--12.McCoy, Kathleen F., Christopher Pennington, LindaZ.
Suri.
1996.
English error correction: A syntac-tic user model based on principled mal-rule scor-ing.
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Con-ference on User Modeling, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii,January, 1996.Padden, C. 1981.
Some arguments for syntacticpatterning in American Sign Language.
Sign Lan-guage Studies, 32:239-259, Fall.Rueda, Robert.
1990.
Assisted performance in writ-ing instruction with learning-disabled students.In Luis C. Moll, editor, Vygotsky and Educa-tion: Instructional Implications and Applicationsof Sociohistorical Psychology.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, pages 403-426.Sleeman, D. 1982.
Inferring (real) rules from pupil'sprotocols.
In Proceedings of ECAI-82, pages 160-164, Orsay, France.
ECAI-82.Stokoe, Jr., W. C. 1960.
Sign Language structure.Studies in Linguistics occasional papers, (8).Strong, M. 1988.
A bilingual approach to theeducation of young deaf children: ASL and En-glish.
In M. Strong, editor, Language Learningand deafness.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, pages 113-129.Suri, Linda Z. and McCoy, Kathleen F. 1993.
Amethodology for developing an error taxonomyfor a computer assisted language l arning tool forsecond language learners.
Technical Report 93-16, Department ofComputer and Information Sci-ences, University of Delaware, Newark, DE.Vigil, Neddy A. and John W. Oiler.
1976.
Rule fos-silization: A tentative model.
Language Learning,26:281-295.Vygotsky, Lev Semenovich.
1986.
Thought and Lan-guage.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Weischedel, Ralph M., Wilfried M. Voge, and MarkJames.
1978.
An artificial intelligence approachto language instruction.
Artificial Intelligence,10:225-240.54
