Comput ing  prosod ic  p roper t ies  in  a data - to -speech  sys temM.
Theune* and E. Klabbers* and J. Odijk and J.R. de Pi jperIPO, Center for Research on User-System InteractionP.O.
Box 5135600 MB EindhovenThe Netherlandstheune~ipo, tue.
nlAbst ractWe propose a set of rules for the computationof prosody which are implemented in an exist-ing generic Data-to-Speech system.
The rulesmake crucial use of both sentence-internal andsentence-external semantic and syntactic in-formation provided by the system.
In a Text-to-Speech system, this information would haveto be obtained through text analysis, but inData-to-Speech it is readily available, and itsreliable and detailed character makes it pos-sible to compute the prosodic properties ofgenerated sentences in a sophisticated way.This in turn allows for a close control of pros-odic realization, resulting in natural-soundingintonation.1 IntroductionThe central topic of this paper is the problem of com-puting the prosodic properties of sentences gener-ated ill Data-to-Speech systems (i.e., systems whichpresent data in the form of a spoken monologue -sometimes also called 'Concept-to-Speech' systems).We propose a set of rules for the assignment ofprosodic properties which take an explicit discoursemodel into account.
In contrast o Text-to-Speechsystems (and more generally, systems which re-quire linguistic analysis of the input), explicit dis-course models can be reliably constructed in Data-to-Speech systems (and more generally, in systemswhich generate natural anguage from data), so thata more natural prosody can be achieved.The rules for prosody assignment described in thispaper are used in the language generation compon-*Authors Theune and Klabbers carried out this re-search within the framework of the Priority ProgrammeLanguage and Speech Technology (TST).
The TST-programme is sponsored by NWO (Dutch Organizationfor Scientific Research).eat ofD2S, a generic system for the creation of Data-to-Speech systems.
The method for natural lan-guage generation implemented in D2S is hybrid innature (Reiter, 1995); (Coch, 1996).
It is a particu-lar mixture of (syntactic) template-based techniquesand full natural language generation, described inmore detail in Klabbers et al (1997a).
A varietyof Data-to-Speech systems have been and are be-ing developed on the basis of D2S.
Examples arethe Dial Your Disc (DYD)-system, which presentsinformation in English about Mozart compositions(Deemter et al, 1994); (Collier and Landsbergen,1995), and the GoalGetter system, which presentsspoken monologues in Dutch about the course andthe result of a football game (Klabbers et al, 1997b).In this paper, we illustrate the prosodic rules usedin D2S with examples from GoalGetter.After a brief description and illustration of thegeneral architecture of D2S, we describe in detailhow the prosodic component of D2S computes theprosodic properties of the generated sentences.
Thenwe discuss how the resulting prosodic annotationsare used in the various speech output techniques em-ployed in D2S.
We end with some remarks aboutevaluation of the prosodic rules and a conclusion.2 Arch i tec ture  of D2SThe general architecture of D2S is represented inFigure 1.
It consists of two modules, the LanguageGeneration Module (LGM), and the Speech Genera-tion Module (SGM).The LGM takes data as input and produces en-riched text, i.e., prosodically annotated text.
Forinstance, it contains annotations to indicate accentsand prosodic boundaries.
This is input to the SGM,which turns it into a speech signal.Our example system GoalGetter (Klabbers et al,1997b) takes data on a football match as input.
Theoutput of the system is a correctly pronounced, co-herent monologue in Dutch which conveys the in-39data lLanguageGenerationModuleLenrichedtext 1SpeechGenerationModuleLspeech signalFigure 1: Global architecture of D2Sformation on this match.
An example of the in-put data is given in Figure 2, and one possible out-put text is given in Figure 3.
In the enriched text,pitch accents are indicated by double quotes (") andphrase boundaries of varying strength are indicatedby one to three slashes (/).
The other symbols usedin the text will be clarified in Section 4.team 1: PSVgoals 1: 1team 2: Ajaxgoals 2: 3goal 2: Kluivert (5)goal 2: Kluivert (18)goal 2: Blind (83/pen)goal 1: Nilis (90)referee: Van Dijkspectators: 25.000yellow 1: ValckxFigure 2: Example input of the LGMSince we lack the space for a full description of theLGM, presented schematically in Figure 4, we onlypoint out some important aspects which are relevantfor the prosodic rules given in Section 3.
For a moredetailed escription, see Klabbers et al (1997a).data\[ domain data\] I Knowledge State II 1T T \[\[ J I Oo=o   IenrichedtextFigure 4: The architecture of the Language Gener-ation Module (LGM)The input for the LGM consists of data on spe-cific football matches (see Figure 2) and on the do-main, e.g., background information on the playersand the teams.
The information in the input canbe expressed by means of templates in the form ofa syntactic tree with variable slots.
Choice and or-dering of the templates and the filling of their slotsdepend on conditions on (1) the Knowledge State,which keeps track of which information has been ex-pressed, and (2) the Context State, in which variousaspects of the context are represented (Deemter andOdijk, 1995).A central part of the Context State is the Dis-course Model, which contains information aboutwhich linguistic expressions have been used in thepreceding text.
Rules formulated in terms of thisDiscourse Model make it possible to use various ref-erential expressions (proper names, pronouns, defin-ite descriptions, etc.)
appropriately.
For instance,in the fourth sentence of the example text given inFigure 3, Dertien minuten later liet de aanvaller zijntweede doelpunt aantekenen ('Thirteen minutes laterthe forward had his second goal noted'), it was pos-sible to use a definite description (de aanvaller, 'theforward') to refer to Kluivert, because the DiscourseModel contained an appropriate unique antecedent(namely, the proper name Kluivert that was used inthe third sentence).
When a new sentence has beengenerated, the Discourse Model is updated accord-ingly, and then the sentence with its full parse treeand the updated Discourse Model are input to theProsody module.3 Comput ing  prosodyIn this section we present he rules that are usedin the Prosody module of the LGM, which determ-ines the location of accents and phrase boundaries ina generated sentence on the basis of both syntactic40"De "wedstrijd tussen "PSV en "Ajax / eindigdein "@een/ / -  "@dr ie / / / "  Vijfentwintig duizend"toeschouwers / bezochten het "Philipsstadion/ / /"Ajax ham na "vijf "minuten de "leiding / dooreen "treff~r van "Kluivert / / /"Dert ien minuten"later / tier de aanvaller zijn "tweede doelpuntaantekenen / / /  De 7o "verdediger "Blind / verzil-verde in de "drieentachtigste minuut een "straf-schop voor A jax / / /V lak  voor het "eindsignaal/ bepaalde "Nilis van "PSV de "eindstand / op"@een/ / - "@dr ie / / /% "Scheidsrechter van "Dijk / "leidde het duel/ / / "  Valckx van "PSV kreeg een "gele "kaar t / / /Translation:The match between PSV and Ajax ended in 1-3.
Twenty-five thousand spectators visited thePhilips stadium.After five minutes, Ajax took the lead tlirougha goal by Kluivert.
Thirteen minutes later theforward had his second goal noted.
The defenderBlind kicked a penalty home for Ajax in the 83rdminute.
Just before the end signal, Nilis of PSVbrought he final score to 1-3.Referee Van Dijk led the match.
Valckx of PSVreceived a yellow card.Figure 3: Example output of the LGMand semantic information.
First we will discuss theaccentuation algorithm, which is based on a versionof Focus-Accent Theory proposed in (Dirksen, 1992)and (Dirksen and Quen~, 1993).
In Focus-AccentTheory, binary branching metrical trees are used torepresent the relative prominence of nodes with re-spect to pitch accent.We will use our previous example sentence, Der-tien minuten later liet de aanvaller zijn tweededoelpunt aantekenen, as an illustration.
First, theaccentuation algorithm constructs the sentence'smetrical tree, shown in Figure 5 (simplified).
In ourimplementation, this tree corresponds to the sen-tence's yntactic tree, 1 except that its nodes havefocus markers and are labeled weak or strong.
Thefocus properties of the nodes in the metrical tree aredetermined as follows.Initially, all maximal projections (NP, VP etc.
)are assigned a positive focus value, indicated as \[+F\].The other nodes are not specified for focus.
Theseinitial focus values can be changed by non-syntacticfactors causing the focus value to become negative,indicated as I-F\].
This happens in three cases: (1) anode dominates an unaccentable word; (2) a noderepresents given information?
(3) a node domin-ates only nodes which are marked \[-F\].
Unaccentable1 Unary branching of metrical trees is allowed.2This is based on the observation by Halliday (1967),Chafe (Chafe, 1976), Brown (Brown, 1983) and othersthat phrases expressing 'new' information are normallyaccented, while phrases expressing ~given' or 'old' in-fbrmation are usually deaccented.words, e.g., certain function words, are explicitly lis-ted.
Our example sentence contains only one suchword, the determiner de ('the').
The rules for de-termining ivenness are based on the theory pro-posed by van Deemter (1994), who distinguishes twokinds of givenness: object-givenness and concept-givenness.A phrase is regarded as object-given if it refers toa discourse ntity that has been referred to earlierin its local discourse domain, which in the presentimplementation consists of all preceding sentencesin the same paragraph.
In the example, checkingthe Discourse Model reveals that the phrases deaanvaUer ('the forward') and zijn ('his') are object-given, because their referent (Kluivert) was referredto in the preceding sentence, which belongs to thesame paragraph.
This means that their dominat-ing nodes in the metrical tree must be marked I-F\].This example illustrates that object-givenness doesnot depend on the surface form of the referring ex-pression, but only on its referent.
The expressionsde aanvaller and zijn are object-given even thoughthey were not used earlier in the text.The second kind of givenness, concept-givenness,occurs if the root of a word is synonymous (includ-ing identity) with the root of a preceding word inthe local discourse domain, or if the concept ex-pressed by the second word subsumes the conceptexpressed by the first word.
Our example sentencecontains two instances of the first case: the wordsrainuten and doelpunt are concept-given, and there-fore marked I-F\], due to the presence in the preced-41CP\[+F\] sAP C'\[+F\] w s"dertien C ~minuten"later IPw \[+F\] s40NP VPWliet \[-F\] w \ [+F l sde aanvallerNP V ?\[+F\] s waantekenenDP N'I-F\] w szijnAP N'\[+F l s I-F\] w"tweede \[N OI-F\] wdoelpuntFigure 5: Metrical tree for the fourth sentence.ing sentence of the synonymous words minuten andtreffer espectively.
The second case, subsumption,can be illustrated by the sequence Kluivert is eenheel goede aanvaller; Hij is de beste speler van Ajax('Kluivert is a very good forward; He is the bestplayer of Ajax').
Since the concept speler  ('player')subsumes the concept aanval ler  ('forward'), theword speler in the second sentence will be defocuseddue to concept-givenness.Note that the first case of concept-givenness is theonly kind of givenness distinguished in D2S whichcan also be determined in a relatively easy way in un-restricted Text-to-Speech systems, e.g., NewSpeak(Hirschberg, 1990); (Hirschberg, 1992).
The secondcase of concept:givenness, ubsumption, will be verydifficult to detect in an unrestricted Text-to-Speechsystem because it requires the presence of a concepthierarchy, which is only feasible if the relevant con-cepts are known in advance.
Finally, determiningobject-givenness will also be very difficult in Text-to-Speech, because it makes very high demands ontext analysis.Aider the metrical tree nodes have been assignedfocus markings, their weak/strong labelling can bedetermined.
This labelling depends both on thestructure of the tree and the focus properties of thenodes.
In Dutch, the structural rule is that the leftnode of two sisters is weak and the right node isstrong, unless the right node is a zero projection,like the V ?
node dominating aantekenen i  figure 5.3This structural labelling can be changed under theinfluence of focus.
If the structurally strong nodeis marked I-F\] while the structurally weak node isnot, the so-called Default Accent Rule applies andthe labelling is switched.
In figure 5, this happenedto the AP dominating tweede and the N' dominat-ing doelpunt.
The N' is marked \[-F\] because all thenodes it dominates are marked I-F\].
(See defocusingrule (3) given above.
)After the weak/strong labelling has been determ-ined, accents are assigned according to the followingalgorithm: each node that is marked \[+F\] launchesan accent, which trickles down the tree along a pathof strong nodes until it lands on a terminal node (aword).
In our example, the accents launched by CP,IP and VP all coincide with the accent launched bythe NP node dominating zijn tweede doelpunt, finallylanding on the word tweede.
Note that if the worddoelpunt had not been concept-given, then the N Oand the N' would not have been marked I-F\] and theDefault Accent Rule would not have applied.
Theaccent would then have landed on doelpuntSince the NP node dominating de aanvaller isweak, no accent rickles down to it, and because it ismarked I-F\] it does not launch an accent itself.
TheAP node dominating the phrase dertien minutenlater (its internal structure is not shown due to lackof space) does launch an accent, which trickles downto the word later.
The NP dertien minuten, which iscontained in the AP, also launches an accent; sincethis cannot land on the word minuten (which is de-focused due to concept-givenness) it ends up on theword dertien.Recently, an algorithm for the generation of con-trastive accent has been added to the GoalGettersystem.
This algorithm assigns a pitch accent tophrases which provide contrastive information, over-riding deaccentuation due to givenness.
For more3Evidence for this rule comes from constructions likethe following:(i) Kluivert liep \[vP \[v0 voorbij\] \[Np het doel\]l(ii) Kluivert fiep \[vP \[top het doel\] \[v,, voorbij\]\]Both (i) and (ii) can be translated as 'Kluivert walkedpast the goal'.
Since voorbij is not accented in eithercase, the p0 node should be labeled weak.
The fact thatvoorbij is unaccentable in these positions cannot be ex-plained by claiming the word itself is unaccentable, sincein Kluivert liep er voorbij ('Kluivert walked past it') theword does receive an accent.42details on the algorithm, see Theune (1997).After accentuation, phrase boundaries are as-signed.
Three phrase boundary strengths are dis-tinguished.
4 The sentence-final boundary ( / / / )  isthe strongest one.
Words which are clause final (i.e.,the last word in a CP or IP) or which precede a punc-tuation symbol other than a comma (e.g., ';') are fol-lowed by a mQor boundary (-//).
Minor boundaries(/) are assigned to other words preceding a comma.Additionally, constituents o the left of an I', a C' ora maximal projection are followed by a weak bound-ary, provided that both constituents are accessiblefor accent, and that the left one has sufficient length(more than four syllables).
This is a slightly mod-ified version of a structural condition proposed byDirksen and Quen@ (1993).
In our example onlythe AP dertien minuten later meets this conditionand is therefore followed by a minor phrase bound-ary.
Since the sentence contains no punctuation andconsists of just one clause, the only other phraseboundary is the sentence-final one.4 Speech  Generat ionThe SGM has two output modes, phrase concaten-ation and phonetics-to-speech, each of which makesoptimal use of the prosodic markers generated bythe LGM.
We start with a brief description of thetwo output modes, followed by a discussion of theprosodic realization in either output mode.Phrase  concatenat ion  - Phrase concatenationis a technique which tries to reconcile the high-fidelity quality and inherent naturalness of prerecor-ded speech with the flexibility of synthetic speech.Entire phrases and words are recorded, and playedback in different orders to form complete utterances.In this way a large number of utterances can be pro-nounced on the basis of a limited number of prerecor-(led phrases, saving memory space and increasingflexibility.
This technique is best applied to a carrier-and slot situation where there is a limited numberof types of utterances (carriers) with variable in-formation to be inserted in fixed positions (slots).The systems based on D2S fit this situation well.The carriers correspond to the syntactic templatesand these have slots for variable information such asmatch results, player names, etc.Successful application of the phrase concatenationtechnique is not quite as trivial as it may seem atfirst sight.
If all the phrases are recorded in isola-tion without taking their accentuation or their po-41n longer texts, containing more complicated con-structions, it might be desirable to distinguish morelevels.
Sanderman (1996) proposes a boundary depthof five to achieve more natural phrasing.sition in the sentence into account, the resultingspeech will have discontinuities in duration, loud-ness and intonation.
Our method is more sophistic-ated in that different prosodic variants for otherwiseidentical phrases have been recorded.
To determinehow many and what prosodic realizations should berecorded for each phrase, a thorough analysis of thematerial the system can generate is required.Phonet ics - to -Speech  - Synthetic speech is farmore flexible than any form of prerecorded speech.Since there is complete control over the realizationit is very well suited to test the accentuation andphrasing rules.
In commercial pplications syntheticspeech is not used very often since the naturalnessof the output speech still leaves a great deal to bedesired.Because the LGM provides all relevant informa-tion there is no need for full-fledged text-to-speechsynthesis.
The LGM generates an orthographic rep-resentation which has a unique mapping to a phon-etic representation.
5 This makes it possible to doerrorless grapheme-to-phoneme conversion by look-ing up the words in a lexicon instead of using rules.Our phonetics-to-speech system, SPENGI (SPeechsynthesis ENGIne) uses diphone concatenation ieither LPC or PSOLA format.
The rule formalismfor intonation is an implementation based on the in-tonation theory of 't Hart et al (1990).Real iz ing prosody  in speech generat ion  -The enriched text that the LGM generates containsseveral prosodic markers.
In the phrase concaten-ation component these markers trigger the choiceof the appropriate prosodic variant from the phrasedatabase and the pauses to be inserted at the appro-priate positions.The carrier sentences have been recorded in justone prosodic version.
The variable words that fillthe slots have been recorded in six different pros-odic variants to account for the place in the sentencewhere they occur and the accentuation they receive.A word can be either accented or deaccented.
Wedid not instruct our speaker as to how to realize theaccents in the carrier sentences.
In the variables wejust made sure that accents were realized consist-ently in each category.
When a word occurs beforea minor phrase boundary the word is realized with acontinuation rise.
A major phrase boundary triggersa pause and possibly a lengthening of the word pre-ceding the boundary.
Before a final phrase bound-ary, the word is realized with a final fall.
Insertingthe right words in the right contexts optimizes theprosody of the output speech, thus achieving fluency5It could also generate a phonetic representationdirectly.43_A A_/de "wedstrijd tussen "psv en "ajax / "eindigde in "@een 11 "@drie 1/1Figure 6: Stylized pitch contour of the introductory sentenceand a natural rendering.In Dutch, the score of a match is pronounced ina special way: the major boundary between the twonumbers triggers lengthening of the first number anda pause between the two numbers, but the two ac-cented numbers are realized with a so-called 'flat hat'pattern as if they were part of the same clause (see 'tHart (1990) for a description of pitch movements).This is indicated by a special marker used only inthe phrase concatenation component of GoalGetter(the @_-sign).
There is another special marker (the70-sign) to mark nouns functioning as an adjunct toanother noun.
The special nouns are always accen-ted and shorter in duration than when they occur asa head noun.
Figure 6 shows a stylized pitch contourof the opening sentence of Figure 3, which illustrateshow the score is pronounced.In the phonetics-to-speech component the pros-odic markers are used to trigger the intonation andduration rules.
Intonation is represented as a seriesof pitch movements with restrictions on the possiblecombinations of movements.
The words that areaccented are given a prominence-lending pitch pat-tern (a pointed hat or a flat hat are most commonlyused).
At the boundaries a pause of some lengthcan occur, where the length of the pause depends onthe strength of the boundary.
A boundary can alsotrigger a continuation rise or pre-boundary length-ening, as mentioned above.
To allow for variation inthe intonation, each rule has a number of weightedalternatives from which a random choice is made(taking the weights into account).
This also makesit possible to have some optional rules, for instance,for the melodic highlighting of syntactic boundarieswhich is not obligatory.5 Eva luat ionNachtegaal (1997) reports on a small experimentwhich was carried out to test the accentuation al-gorithm of D2S.
No formal evaluation has takenplace for the algorithm determining the placementof phrase boundaries.hL the experiment by Nachtegaal (1997), Dutchspeakers were asked to read aloud texts generatedby the LGM of GoalGetter.
Recordings of the readtexts were presented to 'expert listeners' who indic-ated on which words they heard an accent.
Compar-isons were then made between the accentuation pat-terns produced by the speakers and those generatedby the system.
The results of the experiment werepositive: the number of words on which the accen-tuation by the speakers deviated from the accentu-ation by GoalGetter was very small (less than 470 ofall accentable words, i.e., excluding 'unaccentables'like function words etc.).
The texts used in the ex-periment contained sentences which were structur-ally similar to those of the example text given inFigure 3.
Not all syntactic onstructions which arecurrently generated by GoalGetter were included inthe test.
The prosody of the current version of Goa lGetter was only evaluated informally, but the resultswere in line with those of Nachtegaal (1997).The prosodic rules described in this paper havealso been succesfully implemented in the DYD-system (I:LEF), which differs from GoalGetter withrespect o language (English versus Dutch) and do-main (Mozart compositions versus football reports).Informal evaluation of the prosody in DYD gaveequally satisfactory results as for GoalGetter.
Thiswas as expected, since the prosodic rules of D2S areessentially domain- and language independent.
6 Allthings considered, the quality of the prosodic rulesof D2S is judged to be good.6 Conc lus ionTo determine the prosodic properties of a sentence ina text, information about both sentence-internal andsentence-external syntax and semantics i needed.
InText-to-Speech t is information has to be obtainedthrough text analysis, whereas in Data-to-Speech re-liable information of this kind is readily available.As a consequence, Data-to-Speech provides a bet-ter basis for using sophisticated prosody assignmentrules than Text-to-Speech.The prosodic rules discussed in this paper areimplemented in a generic Data-to-Speech system6Only the rule governing the weald/strong labellingof the metrical tree nodes has a language-specific para-meter.44called D2S.
They make crucial use of both sentence-internal and sentence-external semantic and syn-tactic information, provided by the system in theform of a Discourse Model and parse trees of thegenerated sentences.
The reliable and detailed char-acter of this information makes it possible to assignprosodic markings which are reliable and detailed aswell.
This in turn allows for a close control of pros--odic realization, resulting in natural-sounding ton-ation.Re i~rencesBrown, G. 1983.
Prosodic structure and thegiven/new distinction.
In D. R. Ladd and A. Cut-ler, editors, Prosody: Models and Measurements.Springer Verlag, Berlin.Chai~, W.L.
1976.
Givenness, contrastiveness, def-initeness, subjects, topics and points of view.
InC. N. Li, editor, Subject and Topic.
AcademicPress, New York.Coch, J.
1996.
Evaluating and comparing threetext-production techniques.
In Proceedings COL-ING 1996, pages 249-254.Collier, R. and J. Landsbergen.
1995.
Language andspeech generation.
Philips Journal of Research,49(4):419-437.Deemter, K. van.
1994.
What's new?
A semanticperspective on sentence accent.
Journal of Se-mantics, 11:1-31.
CSLI report No.
CSLI-93-178.Deemter, I(.
x~n, J. Landsbergen, R. Leermakers,and J. Odijk.
1994.
Generation of spoken mono-logues by means of templates.
In Proceedingsof TWLT 8, pages 87-96, Twente.
Twente Uni-versity.
IPO MS. 1053.Deemter, K. van and J. Odijk.
1995.
Contextmodeling and the generation of spoken discourse.Manuscript 1125, IPO, Eindhoven.
Philips Re-search Manuscript NL-MS 18 728, to appear inSpeech Communication 21 (1/2).Dirksen, A.
1992.
Accenting and deaccenting: Adeclarative approach.
In Proceedings of COLING1992, Nantes, France.
IPO MS. 867.Dirksen, A. and H. Quen6.
1993.
Prosodic ana-lysis: The next generation.
In van Heuven andPols, editors, Analysis and Synthesis of Speech:Strategic Research Towards High-Quality Text-to-Speech Generation.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin -New York.Halliday, M.A.K.
1967.
Notes on transitivity andtheme in English.
Journal of linguistics, 3:199-244.Hirschberg, J.
1990.
Accent and discourse context:assigning pitch accent in synthetic speech.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, Menlo Park, 29 July - 3 August,1990, pages 952-957.
MIT Press.Hirschberg, J.
1992.
Using discourse context oguide pitch accent decisions in synthetic speech.In G. Bailly, C. Beno~t, and T.R.
Sawallis, editors,Talking Machines: Theories, Models and Designs.Elsevier Science Publishers B.V., pages 367-376.Klabbers, E., J. Odijk, J.R. de Pijper, andM.
Theune.
1997a.
From data to speech: A gen-eric approach.
IPO MS 1202.Klabbers, E., J. Odijk, J.R. de Pijper, andM.
Theune.
1997b.
GoalGetter: From Teletextto speech, to appear in IPO Annual Progress Re-port 31, 1996.Nachtegaal, D. 1997.
An evaluation of GoalGetter'saccentuation.
Report 1142, IPO, Eindhoven.Reiter, E. 1995.
NLG vs. templates.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 95-106, Leiden, 20-22 May.
University of Leiden.Sanderman, A.
1996.
Prosodic Phrasing: produc-tion, perception, acceptability and comprehension.Ph.D.
thesis, Eindhoven University, Eindhoven.
't Hart, J., R. Collier, and A. Cohen.
1990.
APerceptual Study of Intonation: an ExperimentalPhonetic Approach to Speech Technology.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge.Theune, M. 1997.
Contrastive accent in a data-to-speech system.
In Proceedings ACL/EACL I997.To appear.45
