Constra ints  and Defaults on Zero Pronouns in JapaneseInstruct ion ManualsTatsunori Mori, Mamoru Matsuo, Hiroshi NakagawaDivision of Electrical and Computer EngineeringYokohama National University79-5 Tokiwadai, Hodogaya-ku, Yokohama 240, JAPAN{ mori,ma moru }@forest.d nj.ynu.ac.jp, na kagawa@na kla b.dnj.ynu.ac.jpAbstractIn this paper, we propose a method foranaphora resolution of zero subjects inJapanese manual sentences based on boththe nature of language xpressions and theontology of ordinary instruction manuals.In instruction manuals written in Japanese,zero subjects often introduce ambiguityinto sentences.
In order to resolve them,we consider the property of several types ofexpressions including some forms of verbalphrases and some conjunctives of clauses,and so on.
As the result, we have a setof constraints and defaults for zero subjectresolution.
We examine the precision of theconstraints and defaults with real manualsentences, and we have the result that theymake a good estimate with precision of over80%.1 IntroductionFrom simple electrical appliances to complex com-puter systems, almost all machines are accompa-nied by instruction manuals.
Since recently thereare many machines whose operating procedures arecomplicated, we have much more trouble in manycases including translating their manuals into otherlanguages, maintaining consistency between the de-scription in manuals and the actual behavior of themachines.
To solve these problems, we have to havea computer assisted system for processing manualsentences.
In processing instruction manuals writtenin Japanese, however, it is problematic that almostall subjects are omitted.
They are called "zero sub-jects."
For example, machine translation systemshave to supply appropriate subjects to translate sen-tences.
Therefore, we have focused on anaphoraresolution of zero subjects in Japanese manual sen-tences.
Mori et al(Mori and Nakagawa, 1996) showthat properties of Japanese conditionals can be usedto resolve them.
In this paper, we propose new con-straints and defaults based on properties of linguis-tic expressions, which are useful to estimate omittedsubjects in addition to the constraints and defaultsproposed by Mori et alA large number of researchers have come to gripwith the method of understanding some types of textincluding instruction manuals(Abe t al., 1988; No-mura, 1992; Eugenio, 1992).
One of the most im-portant matters of concern in these types of sys-tem is how we can resolve ambiguities in seman-tic representations and fill underspecified parts ofthem.
Generally speaking, almost all systems de-scribed above take the following scheme.
Firstly,each sentence in a text is translated into a semanticrepresentation.
In this process, the system uses onlynon-defeasible syntactic and semantic constraints.This way of analysis is known as the NondefeasibilityThesis(Kameyama, 1995).
Secondly, all of undeter-mined parts of the semantic representation are filledor settled by some kind of inferences based on thedomain knowledge.This type of method, which uses a large amount ofdomain knowledge, seems to be dominant from theviewpoint of disambiguation.
Moreover it scarcelydepends on the language in use because the way ofdisambiguation is based on the inference with a cer-tain knowledge base.
On the other hand, in order touse this method, we have to prepare the amount ofknowledge being large enough to cope with varioustypes of described objects.
Unfortunately, so far wehave not had such a commonsense knowledge base.One of the ways to get rid of this situation is toadopt some knowledge which is independent of anyparticular domain.
As such a kind of knowledge, wepay attention to pragmatic onstraints, which havenot been used sufficiently in the former methods.We expect that owing to pragmatic onstraints theambiguity in manual sentences would be resolved tosome extent not in the process of inference but inthe process of the translation of manual sentencesinto semantic representations.We do not commit ourselves to the domain specificknowledge, but use some ontological knowledge ofordinary manuals.
For example, the correspondenceof objects in the manual sentences to the objectsin linguistic constraints, namely linguistic roles likethe speaker, the hearer, and so on.
Note that theontology in this paper does not refer to all of theobjects in the world described by manuals, like acertain part of machine.
Aiming at independencefrom the domain knowledge of objects, we adopt oneof general ontologies which is applicable to almost allmanuals.Now we have to define the term 'SUBJECT' weused in this paper.
Since our final goal is the deter-mination of "the main participant" which is omit-ted, both of the term 'subject'  and the term 'agent'are not suitable for referring to the omitted objects.For example, in a sentence in passive voice, the sub-ject corresponds to not the agent(namely the mainparticipant), but the patient.
Moreover, there areseveral types of sentences whose subjects are mainparticipants even if they are not agents, like the de-scription of states, attributes and so on.
Therefore,we use the term 'SUBJECT' to denote the main par-ticipant of the sentence, namely ether the agent orthe surface subject(in the case where the agent isnot defined).2 Zero  pronouns  in  manua lsentencesLet's consider the following Japanese sentence,which shows a certain instruction.
(1) ?a kono-botan-o osu -to,Ca-NOM this-button-Acc push -TO,?b der -are -mas -u.Cb-NOM go out -can -POL -NONPAST.If ?a push(es) this button, then ?b can go out.Native speakers of Japanese have the following intu-itive interpretation for (1) without any special con-text.
(2) ?~ = ?b = the hearer (= the user)Here, 'TO' is a Japanese conjunctive particle whichrepresents a causal relation, and 'ARE' shows abilityor permission.
The symbol ?
denotes a zero pro-noun.On the other hand, the following sentence, whichdoes not have the suffix 'ARE', has a different inter-pretation.
(3) ?~ kono-botan-o osu -to,?c-NOM this-button-AcC push -TO,?d de -mas -u.Cd-NOM come out -POL -NONPAST.
1If ?c push(es) this button, then ?d will comeout.The zero pronoun ?d refers to not the hearer(theuser) but the machine, even though ??
refers to the1The English translation of 'DERU' in (3) is differentfrom the translation in (1).
It is due to the differenceof the viewpoint between Japanese and English.
Thedifference has no effect on the selection of zero pronoun'sreferent.user as well as (1).
Note that when only the ma-trix clause of (3) is used as shown in (4), ?~ can beinterpreted as either the hearer or the machine 2.
(4) ?e de -mas-u .Ce-NOM go out -POL -NONPAST.
?~ will go out.These examples how that the expressions TO andARE impose some constraints on the referents of StJB-JECIS of the sentences.
As described so far, thereare many cases that linguistic expressions give us keyinformation to resolve some type of ambiguity likethe anaphora of zero pronouns.
In the rest of thispaper, we will show several pragmatic onstraints,which can account for the interpretations of zerosubjects including the cases described above.Dohsaka(Dohsaka, 1994) proposes a similar ap-proach, in which several pragmatic onstraints areused to determine referents of zero pronouns.
For ex-ample, honorific expressions and the speaker's pointof view are used in his approach.
While his approachtreats dialogue, our targets are manual sentences.Nakaiwa et.al.
(Nakaiwa nd Shirai, 1996) alsopropose the method which is based on semantic andpragmatic onstraints.
Although they report thattheir method estimates over 90% of zero subjectscorrectly, there are several difficulties including thefact that the test corpus is identical with the corpusfrom which the pragmatic onstraints are extracted,and the fact that there are so many rules(46 rules toestimate 175 sentences).As for the identifying method available in gen-eral discourses, the centering theory(Brennan et al,1987; Walker et al, 1990) and the property shar-ing theory(Kameyama, 1988) are proposed.
The im-portant feature of these theories is the fact that itis independent of' the type of discourse.
However,according to our experimental result, it seems thatthese kinds of theory do not estimate zero subjects inhigh precision for manual sentences 3.
The linguisticconstraints specific to expressions are more accuratethan theirs if the constraints are applicable.3 Hypothes is  and  genera l  onto logyo f  manua lsKaiho et al(Kaiho et al, 1987) explain the basicfunction of instruction manuals as follows:* A manual is an interface between humans andmachines based on language information.2It seems to be more natural that ??
is interpreted asthe hearer.3The result precision of centering theory is 60% to70% in our experiment.
One reason why the precision isnot so good is that the structure of texts in (Japanese)manuals is slightly different from the ordinary discoursesstructure.?
Since the essential function of manuals is to pro-vide users with information to make the ma-chine operate properly, the existence of usersshould be considered at all times.?
Manuals should appropriately provide informa-tion which is required by users.On the other hand, the following tendency arepointed out in many linguistic literatures.?
The readers have the same point of view as thewriter.?
Generally, the first candidate of the point ofview is the nominative.According to these considerations, we make thefollowing hypothesis:Hypothes is  1 (Manua ls  easy  to unders tand)?
All descriptions are written from the viewpointof users.
Therefore, in general, subjects in man-ual sentences tend to be users.?
Things users know, tend to be omitted for read-ability unless they are needed.
Therefore, thesubject of the sentence whose agent is a usertends to be omitted.?
On the other hand, things which readers donot known, like reactions of operations, promptfrom machines and so on, tend to be specifiedexplicitly.As the parts of ontology, we should consider, atleast, two types of information: the properties ofthe objects in manuals and the discourse situationthat is characterized by linguistic roles like a writerand a reader.Const ra in t  1 (Ob jec ts )User  has intention.Manufacturer  has intention.Mach ine  has no intention.Const ra in t  2 (D iscourse  S i tuat ion)Speaker (Wr i ter )  = ManufacturerHearer(Reader) = UserFrom these constraints of the ontology, we can ob-tain the constraint of persons as follows.Const ra in t  3 (Persons)F i rs t  Person  = ManufacturerSecond Person  = UserTh i rd  Person  = MachineIn the rest of this paper, we will propose severalconstraints and defaults based on the property oflinguistic expression under the hypothesis and theconstraints described above.
Then, we will exam-ine them with test examples from several manualsentences.
Note that the constraints and defaultswe propose here are derived not from some spe-cific manuals but from our linguistic considerationfor each of linguistic expressions.
Therefore, we donot adopt strict validation method like 'cross valida-tions', which is used in machine learning, to examinethem.
However, in order to confirm the validity ofour constraints and defaults, we have checked themout with 24 manuals from various areas.
Althoughwe cannot explain all of our defaults and constraintshere because of shortage of space, we will brieflyshow the table of our all defaults and constraints inSection 6.4 Constra ints  and defaults based onthe type of verbs4.1 Request  fo rmThe speaker uses the sentences in the request formor the solicitation form to prompt hearers to do theaction described by the sentence.
Therefore,Const ra in t  4 (SUBJECT of  sentence  in the  re-quest  fo rm)A SUBJECT of a sentence in either the request formor the solicitation form is the hearer.The combination of this constraint and Constraint3 (Persons) shows that the SUBJECT is the user insuch a case.
In example manuals, there are 123 sen-tences in the request form and all of them satisfyConstraint 4.4.2 Moda l i ty  express ionsManual sentences may have a kind of modality ex-pressing permission, ability, obligation, and so on.Sentences which have the expressions of ability orpermission mean not only that it is possible for theSUBJECT to do the action, but also that the SUB-JECT has his/her own choice of whether to do theaction or not.
Therefore,Const ra in t  5 (SUBJECT of  sentence  w i th  abi l -i ty  express ions)A SUBJECT of a sentence with the expressions ofability or permission must have his/her intention tomake a choice about the action described by the sen-tence.This constraint and Constraint 1 (Objects) showthat a SUBJECT of a sentence with the expressionsof ability or permission is a user, because all of theactions of manufacturer have been finished when theuser is reading the manual.
In example manuals,there are 56 sentences with the ability expressionsand all of them satisfy Constraint 5.4.3 RU fo rmIn Japanese, simple operation procedures are oftendescribed as simple sentences with no subjects whoseverbs are of one of the following types: the RU form,the request form or the solicitation form.
The RUform is the basic form of verbs and it denotes thenon-past tense.
Since the RU form has a neutralmeaning, it does not impose any restriction on theSUBJECT.
However, with Hypothesis 1 we expectthat the zero subject tends to be a user.Defau l t  1 (SUBJECT o f  sentence  w i th  a verb  inthe  RU fo rm)A SUBJECT of a sentence with a verb in the RU formis a user.In example manuals, there are 214 sentences with averb in the RU form and with no subject, and theSUBJECTS of 172 sentences are users.
Therefore, theprecision of the default is about 80.4%.4.4 In t rans i t i vesIn almost all cases of machines which come withinstruction manuals, their actions are initiated bysome activities of users.
The activities are repre-sented not by intransitives but by transitives.
There-fore, we expect that a SUBJECT of a sentence withan intransitive tends to be a machine.Defau l t  2 (SUBJECT of  sentence  w i th  an  in-t rans i t i ve )A SUBJECT of a sentence with an intransitive is amachine.In example manuals, there are 238 sentences withintransitves, and the SUBJECTS of 211 sentences aremachines.
Therefore, the precision of the default isabout 88.7%.4.5 Pass ivesThe passivization is the transfer of the viewpoint ofthe speaker from the nominative to the objective byexchanging their positions.
Namely, the passiviza-tion is used to bring the objective in the active voiceto readers' attention, when SUBJECT is not so im-portant for readers.
Since readers, or users, do nothave to know what SUBJECT is, it is hard for a SUB-JECT of a sentence in passive voice to be a user.Defau l t  3 (SUBJECT o f  pass ives)A SUBJECT of a passive is a machine.In example manuals, there are 48 passives and theSUBJECTS of 46 sentences are machines.
Therefore,the precision of the default rule is about 95.8%.4.6 Causat ivesSince a causative xpresses an event that the SUB-JECT of the causative makes someone(or something)do some action, the SUBJECT should have some in-tention and the initiative in controlling someone'saction.
Since a user has the initiative, we proposethe following default.Defau l t  4 (SUBJECT of  causat ives )A SUBJECT of a causative is a user.In example manuals, there are 38 passives and theSUBJECTS of 36 sentences are machines.
Therefore,the precision of the default rule is about 94.7%.4.7 Express ions  w i th  the  suffix -DESUExpressions with the suffix -DESU are divided intotwo groups:?
noun + the suffix of copula?
Adjective verbEach of them expresses that a SUBJECT has someproperty.
Since it is unusual to describe user's prop-erty in manuals.
Therefore,Defau l t  5 (SUBJECT of  sentence  w i th  the  suff ix-DESU)A SUBJECT of a sentence with the suffix-DESU isa machine.In example manuals, there are 25 sentences with theexpression, and all SUBJECT's of them are machines.5 Const ra in ts  and  Defau l ts  based  ontypes  o f  Connect ives5.1 Cond i t iona lsJapanese has four conditional particles, TO, REBA,TARA and NARA, which are attached to the end ofsubordinate clauses as described in (1).
The sub-ordinate clause and the matrix clause conjoined byone of these particles correspond to the antecedentand the consequence, respectively.
The differenceof constraints of these expressions are shown in thefollowing sentences, which are the variants of thesentence (3).
(5) ?i kono-botan-o use -ba?i-NOM this-button-Acc push -REBA,Cj de -mas -u.Cj-NOM come out -POE -NONPAST.If ?i push(es) this button, then Cj will comeout.
(6) Ck kono-botan-o osi -tara,Ck-NOM this-button-Acc push -TARA,el de -mas -u.?/-NOM come out/go out -POL -NONPAST.If Ck push(es) this button, then Cz will comeout/go out.
(7) Cm kono-botan-o osu -nara,Crn-NOM this-button-Acc push -NARA,Cn de -mas -u.~n-NOM come out/go out -POL -NONPAST.If Cm push(es) this button, then Cn will comeout/go out.As well as the sentence (3), for Japanese nativespeakers, the SUBJECT of the matrix clause of (5)should be a machine.
On the other hand, in thecase of the sentences (6) and (7), the SUBJECTS ofthe matrix clauses can be either users or machines.These phenomena probably due to the nature of eachconditionals(Masuoka, 1993).
Since a causal rela-tion, which is shown by TO or REBA, expresses a gen-eral rule, the consequence cannot include speaker's10attitude, like volition and request.
Therefore, theSUBJECT of the matrix clause should be a machine.In contrast, in the case of assumptions, that is TARAand NARA, there are no such restrictions on the SUB-JECT .Based oil these observation, Mort et al (Mort andNakagawa, 1995; Mort and Nakagawa, 1996) pro-pose the defaults of SUBJECTS of sentences withthese conditionals.
Since it depends on the voli-tionality of the verb whether a sentence shows aspeaker's attitude or not, the constraint and defaultsare described in terms of volitionality of each verb.Note that the electronic dictionary IPAL providesthe information of volitionality for each Japaneseverb entry(IPA Technology center, 1987).
Accord-ing to the classification by IPAL, all of Japaneseverbs are classified into two types, volitional verbs,which usually express intentional actions, and non-volitional verbs, which express non-intentional c-tions.
Although non-volitional verbs only expressnon-volitional actions(non-volitional use), some ofvolitional verbs have not only volitional use but alsonon-volitional use.Defau l t  6 (SUBJECT of sentence  w i th  TO orREBA)The matrix clause does not express user's volitionalaction.
Therefore, the SUBJECT of the matrix clauseis a machine, if the verb of the matrix clause doesnot have the non-volitional use.Defaul t  7 (SUBJECT of  sentence  w i th  TARA orNARA)The matrix clause expresses only user's volitionalaction.
Therefore, the SUBJECT of the matrix clauseis a user.The precision of the default rules of TO,REBA,TARAand NARA is 100%, 95.1%, 89.8% and 100%, respec-tively.5.2 Adverb ia l  con junct ive  fo rmsJapanese verbs have two major adverbial conjunc-tive forms: '-TE form' and 'adverbial form.'
Roughlyspeaking, a clause with a verb in one of these formsis placed in front of another clause and they con-struct a coordinate relation.
The following exampleshows the coordination of-TE form.
(8) ?o botan-o oshi-te,?o-NOM button-Acc push-TE,Cp Cq toridasi -mas -u.Cp-NOM Cq-ACC take-out -POL -NONPAST.
?o pushes the button and Cp takes out Cq.According to Teramura(Teramura, 1991), essentiallythese forms of verbs express the coordination andcooccurrence of two events.
For example, tile mostplausible interpretation of (8) is that ?o and Cp areidentical.
Thus it is expected that two SUBJECTSof two clause in the coordination are identical or ofthe same type.
Especially in manuals, the writerdoes not describe user's actions in the same treat-ment as machine's action, because the writer takesthe viewpoint of users as supposed in Hypothesis 1.Therefore,Defaul t  8 (Two SUBJECTS of  clauses in TEform con junct ion  or  adverb ia l  fo rm conjunc-t ion)Two SUBJECTS of two clauses are identical whenthe two clauses are connected by the TE form con-junction or the adverbial form conjunction.In example manuals, there are 83 sentences with TEform conjunction and 75 sentences meets the de-fault.
Thus the precision of the default for sentenceswith TE form conjunction is about 90.4%.
Similarly,there are 99 sentences with adverbial form conjunc-tion and 98 sentences complies the default.
The pre-cision of the default for adverbial form conjunctionis about 99.0%.
Moreover, in the majority of thecases of TE form conjunctions, SUBJECT is a user(85 cases).
Therefore we revise the default for ad-verbial form conjunction as follows.Defaul t  9 (Two SUBJECTS of clauses in TEfo rm con junct ion)Each SUBJECTS of two clauses is a user when theclauses are connected by the TE form conjunction.6 ResultsThe constraints and defaults we proposed here andtheir precision are summarized as Table 1.Note that this table shows that each default rule isstrong enough for anaphora resolution of zero SUB-JECT if it is applicable.
Therefore, we have to ex-amine the total performance of our method, that is,have to verify what percentage of zero SUBJECTS inmanuals are correctly determined with our defaults.In order for the verification, we examined the esti-mate by our defaults with 9 test example manuals,which contain 740 sentences.
Table 2 shows the re-sult of the verification.
Here, the term 'Restricted'shows that the candidate of SUBJECT is correctlyrestricted by Default 8.As the table shows, our defaults uccessfully deter-mine zero SUBJECTS in manuals with the precisionof over 80%.
It is remarkable that the rate of wrongjudgment is only 2.5%.
Since almost all zero SUB-JECTS which cannot be resolved by our defaults arestill undetermined, it is possible to improve the pre-cision by adding new defaults/constraint, combiningother methods of zero pronoun resolution, and so on.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we proposed a scheme which closelydepends not on domain knowledge of objects de-scribed in manuals but on pragmatic constraintswhich linguistic expressions innately have.
Thismethod uses only the linguistic constraints and thegeneral ontology of the world described by manuals.11ExpressionTable 1: Constraints and Defaults# of occurrences Estimation of SUBJRequest 123 User56385225AbilityTOREBATARA 59NARA 9UserMachine(Matrix)Machine(Matrix)User(Matrix)User(Matrix)Simple 214 UserNon-pastIntransitive 238 MachinePassive 48 MachineCausative 38 User'Want to' 4 UserCopura 25 Machine'Automat-ically' 20 MachineTE-Conn. 99 UserAdverbial-Conn. 83 Identical SO BJsPrecision100%100%100%95.1%89.8%100%80.4%88.7%95.8%94.7%100%100%100%85.9%90.4%Table 2: Examination of our methodJudgment by humanfor zero subjects Correct (Subject is fixed)Judgment by our methodCorrect(Subject is 'restricted')User 692 548 24Machine 262 221 2Manufacturer 2 0 I 080.6% I 2.7%NotWrong applicable6 11418 210 22.5% I 14.2%* Each figure shows the number of sentences.12We have shown that we can determine the referentsof zero pronouns to some extent with our linguisticconstraints and defaults.
However, we do not haveenough knowledge about the following points.
Theyare important portions of our future work.?
Utilization of discourse structure specific tomanuals.?
Analysis for the other types of manual sen-tences, like definitions.Re ferencesNorihiro Abe, Tomohiro Ishikawa, and Tsuji Saburo.1988.
Generating an assembly procedure from as-sembly instruction.
Journal of Japanese Societyfor Artificial Intelligence, 3(5):590-598, Septem-ber.
(in Japanese).Susan E. Brennan, Marilyn Walker Friedman, andCarl J. Pollard.
1987.
A centering approachto pronouns.
In Proceedings of the 25th AnnualMeeting of the American Association of Compu-tational Linguistics (A CL 87), pages 155-162.Kohji Dohsaka.
1994.
Identifying the referents ofJapanese zero pronouns based on pragmatic on-dition interpretation.
Transactions of Informa-tion Processing Society of Japan, 35(5):768-778.
(in Japanese).Barbara Di Eugenio.
1992.
Understanding aturallanguage instructions: The case of purpose clause.In Proceedings of 30th Annual Meeting of ACL,pages 120-127.IPA Technology center, 1987.
The lexiconof the Japanese basic verbs for Computers.Information-technology Promotion Agency(IPA),Japan, March.
(in Japanese).Hiroyuki Kaiho, Takashi Kato, Keizo Hori, and Et-suko Harada.
1987.
User/Yomite-no kokoro-otsukamu manual-no kaki-kata (How to write in-struction manuals).
Kyoritsu Pub., Tokyo.
(inJapanese).Megumi Kameyama.
1988.
Japanese zero pronomi-nal binding: Where syntax and discourse meet.
InW.
Poser, editor, Japanese Syntax, pages 351-369.CSLI,Stanford.Megumi Kameyama.
1995.
The syntax and se-mantics of the Japanese language ngine.
InR.
Mazuka and N. Nagai, editors, Japanese Syn-tactic Processing.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Takashi Masuoka, editor.
1993.
Nihongo-no Joken-Hyogen (Conditional Expressions in Japanese).Kurosio Publishers, Tokyo.
(in Japanese).Tatsunori Mori and Hiroshi Nakagawa.
1995.
Apragmatic approach to zero pronoun resolutionin Japanese manual sentences --  the case ofJapanese conditionals --.
In Proceedings of Nat-ural Language Processing Pacific Rim Symposium'95 (NLPRS'95), pages 296-301, December.Tatsunori Mori and Hiroshi Nakagawa.
1996.
Zeropronouns and conditionals in Japanese instructionmanuals.
In Proceedings of the 16th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COL-ING 96), pages 782-787, August.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoshi Shirai.
1996.Anaphora resolution of Japanese zero pronounswith deictie reference.
In Proceedings of the 16thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics (COLING 96), pages 812-817, August.Hirosato Nomura.
1992.
Linguistic analysis of lawsentences.
In Proceedings of the 6th InternationalSymposium: Legal Knowledge and Legal Reason-ing Systems, pages 10-18.
Legal Expert SystemAssociation, October.Hideo Teramura.
1991.
Nihongo-no sintakusn-toimi III (Syntax and Semantics of Japanese III).Kuroshio shuppan Pub.
(in Japanese).Marilyn Walker, Masayo Iida, and Sharon Cote.1990.
Centering in Japanese discourse.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING 90.13
