Automat ic  Extract ion of Rules  for Anaphora  Reso lut ion  ofJapanese Zero Pronouns from A l igned  Sentence PairsHiromi NakaiwaNTT Communication Science Laboratories1-1 Hikarinooka, Yokosuka-shi,Kanagawa-ken, 239 JAPANnakaiwaecslab, kecl.
ntt.
co. j pAbstractThis paper proposes a method to extractrules for anaphora resolution of Japanesezero pronouns from aligned sentence pairs.The method focuses on the characteristicsof Japanese and English in which both thelanguage families and the distribution ofzero pronouns are very different.
In thismethod, zero pronouns in the Japanesesentence and the English translation equiv-alents of their antecedents are extractedfrom Japanese and English aligned sen-tence pairs.
Then resolution rules forJapanese zero pronouns are automaticallyextracted using the pairs of Japanese zeropronouns and translation equivalents oftheir antecedents in English and equivalentword/phrase pairs which were extractedfrom the aligned sentence pairs, based onthe syntactic and semantic structure of theJapanese sentence.
This method was im-plemented in the Japanese-to-English ma-chine translation system, ALT-J/E.
Theevaluation showed that, for 371 zero pro-nouns with deictic reference in a sen-tence set for the evaluation of Japanese-to-English machine translation systems,the rules which were created automaticallyfrom Japanese and English aligned sen-tence pairs correctly resolved 99.2% of zeropronouns in a window test and 87.6% ofzero pronouns in a blind test.1 MotivationIn all natural language, elements that can be eas-ily deduced by the reader are frequently omittedfrom expressions in texts (Kuno, 1978).
This phe-nomenon causes considerable problems in naturallanguage processing systems.
For example, in a ma-chine translation system, the system needs to rec-ognize that elements which are not present in thesource language, may become mandatory elementsin the target language.
In particular, the subject andobject are often omitted in Japanese whereas theyare often mandatory in English.
Thus, in Japanese-to-English machine translation systems, it is neces-sary to identify case elements omitted from the orig-inal Japanese ("zero pronouns") for their translationinto English expressions.Several methods have been proposed with regardto this problem (Kameyama, 1986; Walker et al,1990; Yoshimoto, 1988; Dousaka, 1994).
When con-sidering the application of these methods to a prac-tical machine translation system for which the trans-lation target area cannot be limited, it is not possibleto apply them directly, both because their precisionof resolution is low as they only use limited infor-mation, and because the volume of knowledge thatmust be prepared beforehand is so large.To overcome these kinds of problems, severalmethods to resolve zero pronouns which considerapplications for a practical machine translationsystem with an unlimited translation target area,have been proposed (Nakaiwa and Ikehara, 1992;Nakaiwa and Ikehara, 1995; Nakaiwa and Ikehara,1996).
These methods use categorized semanticand pragmatic constraints uch as verbal seman-tic attributes (Nakaiwa et al, 1994) and types ofmodal expressions and conjunctions as a conditionfor anaphora resolution of zero pronouns and deter-mine antecedents of zero pronouns depending on thetypical category of three types of semantic and prag-matic constraints.However, with these methods it is necessary tomake resolution rules for zero pronouns by hand.So, to make robust rules with wide coverage takes alot of time and labor and analysts who make theseresolution rules must be familiar with the NLP sys-tem itself.
Furthermore, the types of zero pronounschange depending on the types of documents whichmust be analyzed.
So, resolution rules must be madedepending on the target domain of the documents.But, it is very difficult to make rules for every do-main because of the time consuming labor and theneed for expertise.
Because of these problems, amethod to make resolution rules for zero pronounseffectively and efficiently is greatly needed.22In order to acquire resolution rules for a NLP sys-tem effectively and efficiently, various methods havebeen proposed.
One typical method for this purposeis to use a corpus for extracting resolution rules byanalyzing each sentence in the corpus.
With regardto the automatic extraction of resolution rules forzero pronouns, several methods have been proposed(Murata and Nagao, 1997; Nasukawa, 1996).
Butthese methods only use monolingual corpora andthey find it difficult to extract resolution rules forzero pronouns whose referents are normally unex-pressed in Japanese.
Furthermore, rules can only bemade when similar expressions to those containingthe zero pronouns are found in the corpus.In order to take into account he kinds of prob-lems which are caused by monolingual corpora, itseems that a bilingual corpus consisting of pairs ofa sentence in one language and a translation of thesentence is better than a monolingual corpus for thepurpose of acquiring resolution rules for zero pro-nouns.
This is particularly so with a bilingual cor-pus of Japanese and English whose language familiesare so different and in which the distribution of zeropronouns is also very different.
This combination ismore useful than the bilingual corpora of languagepairs whose language families are similar.Several methods have been proposed with regardto acquiring various kinds of rules such as trans-lation rules, grammar ules, dictionary entries andso on from bilingual corpora (Dagan et al, 1991;Dagan and Church, 1994; Fung and Church, 1994;Tanaka, 1994; Yamada et al, 1995).
From thepoint of view of the extraction of resolution rulesfor zero pronouns, a technique to extract zero pro-nouns in a sentence in one language and translationequivalents of their antecedents in a translation fromaligned sentence pairs is needed.
Such a techniquehas recently been proposed, and a method to ex-tract Japanese zero pronouns in Japanese sentencesand translation equivalents of their antecedents inEnglish sentences from aligned sentence pairs hasbeen developed.
(Nakaiwa and Yamada, 1997).
An-other technique which is needed, is to make rulesautomatically to resolve zero pronouns using pairsof equivalent words/phrases with zero pronouns andtheir antecedents from aligned sentence pairs.
Sev-eral methods to extract rules and dictionary entriesfor machine translation have been proposed such as(Yamada et al, 1995).
But there is currently no pro-posed method for extracting resolution rules for zeropronouns automatically using bilingual corpora.In this paper, I propose a widely applicablemethod to extract resolution rules for Japanese zeropronouns from Japanese and English aligned sen-tence pairs automatically using pairs of equivalentwords/phrases and pairs of zero pronouns and theirantecedents.2 Appearance  o f  Zero  P ronouns  andThe i r  Antecedents  w i th inJapanese  and  Eng l i sh  A l ignedSentence  Pa i rsIn order to understand the distribution of zero pro-nouns with antecedents within Japanese and Englishaligned sentence pairs, in this section, I examinewhich zero pronouns in Japanese must be explicitlytranslated into English and where their translationequivalents in English appear, using a test set de-signed to evaluate the performance of Japanese-to-English machine translation systems (Ikehara et al,1994).
The test set (3718 sentences) has many ex-amples of zero pronouns making intrasentential nddeictic references.
The sentence set was created totest the coverage of expressions that can be trans-lated by Japanese to English MT systems based onthe varieties of Japanese expressions and the differ-ences between Japanese and English.
The sentenceset has approximately 500 kinds of test items.
Eachsentence has a manual translation, and almost all ofthe sentences can be translated without contextualinformation (3704 sentences out of 3718 sentences).A MT system can be evaluated by comparing itsoutput to the equivalent manual translation.
Eachsentence is expressed in natural Japanese and thesentence set covers many different expressions.This is an example of a zero pronoun in Japanesewhose referent is expressed in the English transla-tion.
(1) (?-ga) hon-wo yomi-taibook-oBJ read-WANT-TOI want to read a book.In this expression, the Japanese sentence containsthe modal expression tai which indicates HOPE.
Thismodal expression causes the default referent of thesubject zero pronoun to be "writer" or "speaker"which is translated as 'T' in English.The results of the examination of zero pronounsand their referential elements in the functional testsentence set are shown in Table 1.
There were atotal of 525 zero pronouns in 463 sentences.
Thelocation of the referential elements can be dividedinto 2 kinds: those expressed in the same sentence,and those not expressed in the same sentence.
Thelatter were further classified into 6 kinds.?
The zero pronoun is not translated because thepassive voice is used.?
The referent is the writer or speaker, 'T' or agroup, ':we".?
The referent is the reader or hearer, "you".?
The referent is human but it is not known whothe human is.?
The zero pronoun should be translated as "it".?
The referent is another specific element.23According to this study of the functional test set,in 371 out of 525 instances (71%) the referent wasnot expressed in the sentence.
Of these, the zeropronouns could be left unexpressed by convertingthe translation to the passive voice in 156 instances(30%).
The other zero pronouns, 215 instances(41%), referred to referents that did not appear inthe Japanese sentence but appear in the Englishtranslation.
This result shows that aligned sentencepairs will be effective for extracting zero pronounsand their antecedents automatically by determiningzero pronouns in Japanese and translation equiva-lents of their antecedents in English.According to a further examination of the Englishequivalents of Japanese zero pronouns in the sen-tence set in Table 1, depending on the types of ref-erential elements, the style of the English equivalentsare different.
These characteristics an be summa-rized in the following:1.
Deictic referents in English (215 instances)These elements are often translated as personalpronouns such as 'T' or "you" or indefinite"one".2.
Anaphoric antecedents in English (154 in-stances; intrasentential)These elements are often translated as per-sonal pronouns, demonstratives such as "that",definite noun phrases such as a noun phrasewith definite article (e.g.
"the company") oranaphoric "one".English expressions of these two types can bepreferred candidates for translation equivalents ofJapanese zero pronouns.Furthermore, according to an analysis of thesealigned sentence pairs (Nakaiwa and Ikehara, 1995;Nakaiwa and Ikehara, 1996), zero pronouns in thecorpus can be successfully resolved using three kindsof semantic and syntactic onstraints: verbal seman-tic attributes, the types of modal expressions andconjunctions.
So, for making suitable rules for re-solving Japanese zero pronouns in aligned sentencepairs, the use of these semantic and pragmatic ate-gories which are extracted from the syntactic and se-mantic structure of the Japanese sentence in alignedsentence pairs, will be effective.3 A Method fo r  Ext rac t ion  o fReso lu t ion  Ru les  fo r  JapaneseZero  PronounsThis section describes a method for automaticallyextracting resolution rules for Japanese zero pro-nouns from Japanese and English aligned sentencepairs.
Figure 1 shows an overview of the system.
Asshown in this figure, the Japanese and English sen-tences within the aligned sentence pairs are analyzedseparately by Japanese and English syntactic and se-mantic parsers.
Next, the system extracts the pairsof Japanese word/phrase and their English equiv-alent word/phrase, by comparing these two struc-tures, based on the Japanese syntactic and seman-tic structures and the English syntactic and seman-tic structures which are created by the Japaneseand English parsers.
Then, based on the character-istics of the translation equivalents of antecedentsof Japanese zero pronouns in English, which wasdiscussed in Section 2, Japanese zero pronouns inthe Japanese sentence and the translation equiva-lents of their antecedents in the English sentenceare extracted.
By using these results, based onthe Japanese syntactic and semantic structure, theresolution rules for Japanese zero pronouns withinJapanese sentences are created.
In the next step,the resolution rules are used for the semantic andpragmatic analysis of the Japanese sentence by theJapanese syntactic and semantic parser within thewhole rule extraction system.
The same Japaneseand English aligned sentence pairs are inputted inthe system and resolution rules of Japanese zeropronouns are again extracted.
These processes arerepeated until the system cannot extract any morerules for resolution of Japanese zero pronouns fromthe aligned sentence pairs.I Aligned Sentence Pairs 1II iE~m~on o f ~ Z ~P IDr~uDS and *he.~A ll~ ~'-~ISEXHOrt  of pa~ofwo~Jn ,~pane~ ard Eno1~ I~mc~onof~ Z~ ~IEx1~c~on of the3rA ~,~ ~ \]1Eng~ A na.~,~erlJ,Figure 1: Process for Automatic Extraction of Res-olution Rules for Japanese Zero PronounsThis method has been implemented in theJapanese to English machine translation system.ALT- J /E (Ikehara et al, 1991).
The system, whichis described in Figure 1, can extract English transla-tion equivalents of Japanese zero pronouns from thealigned sentence pairs.
So, these results can be usedfor the extraction of translation rules for Japanese24Loc.
Loc.
of 'referential elements'of \[ \[ \[ \[lntrasentential \]l \] I Deiitic I I zero ha \[ ga \] o \[ n,  \[ misc  Psve I you hu- it mipron .
we  man scha 1 0 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 0 09a 119 12 0 2 8 150 85 24 30 51 0o 4 0 5 1 0 0 0 0 1 7 0ni 1 0 0 0 0 2 3 8 0 0 1no 0 0 1 0 0 0 \] 1 0 0 2 0Total \]\[ 154 II 371To-tal: 74811815I 4II ~25Table h Distribution of zero pronouns and their referential elementszero pronouns to English in a Japanese to Englishmachine translation system.In the next two subsections, I describe the de-tails of the extraction of Japanese zero pronounsin Japanese sentences and translation equivalents oftheir antecedents in English sentences and the con-struction of resolution rules for Japanese zero pro-nouns.3.1 Ext rac t ion  o f  Japanese  Zero P ronounsand  The i r  AntecedentsThe method to extract Japanese zero pronouns andtheir English equivalents consists of the followingsteps 1.1) Analysis of Japanese and English sentencesIn this step, I use morphological, syntactic andsemantic analyzers of Japanese in ALT- J /E  forthe analysis of Japanese sentences and Brill'sEnglish tagger (Brill, 1992) for the analysis ofEnglish sentences ~.2) Extraction of the pairs of Japanese word/phraseand their English equivalent word/phrase.1For the details of the extraction of Japanese zeropronouns in Japanese sentences and translation equiva-lents of their antecedents in English equivalent sentences,refer to Nakaiwa and Yamada (1997).2As shown in Figure 1, if the English analyzer cansupplement ellipses in English ("I sing a song and ?
playa piano.
"), then even if translation equivalents of theantecedents of zero pronouns in Japanese are omitted inEnglish sentences, the overall system can determine theirantecedents from the completed elements.
Furthermore,when the English analyzer contains an anaphora res-olution process such as Lappin and Leass (1994), evenif the antecedents of zero pronouns in Japanese areanaphoric expressions uch as pronouns and definitenoun phrases, the anaphora resolution process deter-mines the antecedents of anaphoric expressions in En-glish and the overall system can determine intersenten-tial and intrasentential resolution rules of Japanese zeropronouns by using extracted pairs of the antecedentsof anaphoric expressions in English and their Japaneseequivalents.
But, for now, I am only using an Englishtagger as the English analyzer for the primary examina-tion because the extraction of pairs, Step 2, only needsthe parts of speech of the English words.In this step, I use the following information: 3.?
bilingual dictionary for Japanese to EnglishMT system, ALT- J /EThis dictionary is used for the determina-tion of pairs of equivalent word phrases ofJapanese and English.?
English dictionary for English generationin ALT- J /EThis dictionary is used when the suffix dif-fers: for example the derivative, ring' be-tween an English word in the bilingual dic-tionary entry and the English word in theEnglish sentence within the aligned sen-tence pair.?
ignore function words such as preposi-tions, determiners and others from the En-glish sentence to find Japanese equivalentwords/phrases in JapaneseThis is because function words must oftenbe changed epending on the types of headsuch as verb for preposition and noun fordeterminer in English.3) Extraction of the candidates for Japanese zeropronouns within the Japanese sentenceIn this step, the system extracts Japanesezero pronouns which are determined by syntac-tic and semantic analysis of Japanese withinthe syntactic and semantic structure of theJapanese sentence.4) Extraction of the candidates for translationequivalents of antecedents of Japanese zero pro-nouns within the English sentenceIn this step, the following Englishwords/phrases are extracted from the Englishsentence as possible translation equivalents4:For details of this step, refer toYamada et al (1996).4In this paper, I only extract these 4 types of En-glish words/phrases for the candidates which appearedin the test set and the examination of other types ofEnglish words/phrases which can be the candidates oftranslation equivalents of antecedents of Japanese zeropronouns, such as "they", "he" and "she", remains asfuture work.25?
personal pronouns uch as 'T' or "you"?
"one".?
demonstratives such as "that"?
definite noun phrases uch as a noun phrasewith definite article (e.g.
"the company")5) Determination of zero pronouns in Japanesesentences and their referents in English sen-tencesThe pairs of Japanese words/phrases and En-glish equivalent words/phrases and the pairs ofzero pronouns in a Japanese sentence and trans-lation equivalents of their antecedents in theEnglish sentence are determined from the can-didates for the pairs of Japanese word/phrasesand their English equivalent word/phraseswhich were extracted at step 2, the candidatesfor Japanese zero pronouns within the Japanesesentence which were extracted at step 3 andthe candidates for translation equivalents of an-tecedents of Japanese zero pronouns within theEnglish sentence which were extracted at step4.
This determination is conducted based onhow strongly related the candidates are and howmany pairs can be extracted from these candi-dates.3.2 Const ruct ion  of  Reso lu t ion  Ru les  forJapanese  Zero  P ronounsUsing the extracted Japanese zero pronouns andtheir antecedents from Japanese and English alignedsentence pairs and the syntactic and semantic struc-tures of Japanese sentences, the system constructsresolution rules for Japanese zero pronouns.
Forthis construction, verbal semantic attributes, thetypes of modal expressions and conjunctions withinJapanese syntactic and semantic structure are usedfor the resolution conditions of Japanese zero pro-nouns.
In the implementation in ALT- J /E ,  the rulesare extracted using the case type of the zero pro-noun, the verbal semantic attributes (VSA; 107 cat-egories) of the verb which governs the zero pro-noun (Nakaiwa et al, 1994) and categorized typesof modal expression (134 categories) in the unit sen-tence which contains the zero pronoun (Kawai, 1987)and categorized types of conjunction (56 categories)which are directly connected to the unit sentence.For example from aligned sentence pair (1), the rule(3) is extracted from the syntactic and semanticstructure (2) in Figure 2.When zero pronouns, whose resolution conditionsare the same but whose antecedents are different,occur within aligned sentence pairs, the resolutionrule selects the referent which appears most often asthe antecedent of the zero pronouns.
For example,when unit sentences with zero pronouns in subjectposition and with category "A" modal expressionoccur eight times within aligned sentence pairs andwhen the extracted antecedents of the zero pronounsare 'T' for 5 zero pronouns and "you" for 3 zeropronouns, the resolution rule with the condition ofmodal expression "A" determines the antecedents ofzero pronouns in subject position as 'T ' .4 Eva luat ion4.1 Eva luat ion  MethodThe method to extract resolution rules for zero pro-nouns from aligned sentence pairs which was dis-cussed in Section 3 was evaluated by automaticallyextracting resolution rules for Japanese zero pro-nouns from the functional test sentence set whichis already aligned, one sentence with one sentence.This evaluation was conducted using the Japaneseto English MT system, ALT- J /E  for the Japaneseanalysis and Brill's tagger for the English analysis.The conditions for the evaluation were as follows.4.1.1 Eva luat ion  o f  Target  Sentence  Pa i rsThe evaluation used Japanese and English alignedsentence pairs which contain zero pronouns with de-ictic references (371 instances) in a test set designedto evaluate the performance of Japanese-to-Englishmachine translation systems (Ikehara et al, 1994)(3718 sentence pairs).4.1.2 Reso lu t ion  Ru lesFor the sentence pairs which contain zero pro-nouns with deictic reference, resolution rules forthese zero pronouns were extracted by examiningverbal semantic attributes, the types of modal ex-pressions and conjunctions within the syntactic andsemantic structure of Japanese sentences (Section3.2).
In this evaluation, the semantic constraintsfor cases by verb were not taken into consideration 5.4.1.3 Eva luat ion  ParametersTo examine the effectiveness of automatically ex-tracting resolution rules for Japanese zero pronouns,I examined the accuracy of resolution rules whichare automatically extracted using three kinds of se-mantic and syntactic constraints: verbal semanticattributes, the types of modal expressions and con-junctions.
As a baseline for comparison, I also exam-ined the accuracy of resolution by using rules whichonly consider the occurrence of antecedents in thesame case elements uch as subject and object asfollows:?
The most frequently occurring antecedent in thesame case element is used for the antecedents ofzero pronouns in the case element.?
Antecedents in the same case element are pro-portionally determined with the weight of the5If the semantic constraints for cases by verb aretaken into consideration, the accuracy of resolution willbe better.
But, the suitability of the semantic on-straints for cases needs to be taken into considerationand this remains as future work.26(2).
.
.
: :  .
(3)Syntact i c  and  Semant ic  S t ructure  of Japanese  Sentence (1) and  zero pronoun equivalentS : u-sent-1tense present  , perfect ive aspectmoda l  ta i  (hope)VSA Sub ject ' s  human action, Sub ject ' s  th ink ing  act ionI- PRED pred-i\[ main  verb : yornu ( read)\ [ -  CASE case- 1\[ case relat ion : object ive case\[ part ic le  : wo\[ 1- NP : np-I\[ \[- N : hon  (book)I-  CASE : case-2case relat ion : subject\ [ -  NP  : ~b-1 ?=?- "I"Ext racted  Resolut ion Rule  for Zero Pronouns  in Japanese  Sentence (1)IfS : u-sent-1moda l  : ( ta i  hope)VSA : Sub ject ' s  human action, Sub ject ' s  th ink ing  act ion\[ -  CASE : case-acase relat ion : subject ive case\[ -  NP  : 4:,-1Then?-1 = "watas i "  (I)Figure 2: An Example of Syntactic and Semantic Structure and Extracted Resolution Ruleoccurrence of the antecedents in the case ele-ment.For example, when the antecedents of zero pronounsin one case element are 'T'  3 times and "you" 2times, the former rule achieves 60% (=3/5) resolu-tion accuracy whilst the latter rule achieves 52% (=3/5 * 3/5 + 2/5 * 2/5) resolution accuracy.The accuracy of resolution is evaluated by the fol-lowing 2 tests:(a) w indow test  All zero pronouns with deicticreferents (371 instances), which were used forextracting resolution rules, were examined fortheir accuracy of resolution.
As detailed in thispaper, I have tried to evaluate the limitationsto the accuracy of the rules which are extractedby the method.
(b) b l ind test  370 zero pronouns out of 371 zeropronouns were used for extracting resolutionrules and these rules were applied to the remain-ing zero pronoun, then the process was repeated371 times.
By calculating the mean of the suc-cessfully resolved zero pronouns, the accuracyof resolution was examined.
As shown in thenext section, I have tried to evaluate the gen-erality of the rules which are extracted by themethod.4.1.4 Successfu l ly  Reso lved  Zero  P ronounsWhen a rule which can determine the antecedentof a zero pronoun is extracted by the method, I judgethat the zero pronoun is resolved successfully 66Because the rules for the evaluation are automati-cally created from aligned sentence pairs by the methodproposed in this paper, it is very difficult to extract only4.2 Reso lu t ion  AccuracyThe resolution accuracy of extracted rules is shownin Table 2.
As shown in this table, the accuracy ofrules using three kinds of conditions (modal expres-sions, verbal semantic attributes and conjunctions)is as high as 99.2% in the window test and 87.6%even in the blind test.
In contrast, resolution ruleswhich only consider the occurrence of antecedentsachieve a low resolution accuracy; 46.4% in the win-dow test and 46.1% in the blind test for resolutionrules using the referent which appears most oftenand 31.8% in the window test and 30.6% in the blindtest for resolution rules using the referent which isproportionally determined with the weight of theocurrence.
For the 3 rule sets which are extractedusing only one condition each, the order of the reso-lution accuracy is as follows: modal expression, ver-bal semantic attributes and conjunctions.
Further-more, if the modal expression and verbal semanticattributes are used together for the creation of res-olution rules, the resolution accuracy is as high as95.2% in the window test and 81.7% in the blind test.This shows that the use of these two conditions forthe automatic extraction of resolution rules is mosteffective for the resolution of Japanese zero pronounswith deictic referents.
These results demonstratethat this method of automatically creating rules us-ing three kinds of conditions from aligned sentencethe rules which are most suitable for the aligned sentencepairs and the most general rules without using machinelearning techniques.
In this paper, I only discuss howresolution rules are automatically created and how manyzero pronouns can be resolved by using these rules.
Themethod to extract the best rule set remains as futurework.27pairs can correctly resolve almost all Japanese zeropronouns with deictie references 7.According to these results, the proposed methodis effective for the automatic extraction of resolutionrules for Japanese zero pronouns from Japanese andEnglish aligned sentence pairs and by using a largeamount of aligned sentence pairs it is possible toextract resolution rules for almost all Japanese zeropronouns.Table 2: Resolution accuracy for conditions of reso-lution in automatically created rulescondition resolution accuracymodal exp.VSAconjunctionmodal exp.
+VSAmodal exp.
"bconjunctionVSA +conjunctionmodal exp.
+VSA -bconjunctionoccurrence(most often)occurrence(proportionallyselected)window test blind test74.9% 64.2%(278) (~38)70.9% 52.6%(263) (195)55.0% 4s.s%(~04) (181)95.2% 81.7%(353) (303)90.3% 79.5%(335) (295)87.9% 68.2%(326) (253)99.2% 87.6%(368) (325)46.4%, 46.1%(172) (171)31.8% 3O.6%(117.9) (113.5)5 Conc lus ionThis paper proposes a powerful method for the ex-traction of resolution rules for Japanese zero pro-nouns from Japanese and English aligned sentencepairs.
In this paper, I have only discussed Japaneseand English language pairs.
But this method canbe applied to various kinds of language pairs suchas Italian and English, and the effectiveness of theextracted rules depends on how different the two lan-guages are.
In the future, I will examine methods forextracting the most effective and most general rulesfor zero pronouns resolution using machine learningtechniques.
Furthermore, I would like to realize anoverall system with an English syntactic and seman-tic parser and evaluate the effect of the anaphoraresolution and omission of ellipsis in English for therThis method does not uses any heuristics whichwere used in other methods of anaphora resolutionsuch as Murata and Nagao (1997) for Japanese nounsand Lappin and Leass (1994) for English pronouns andachieves relatively high accuracy (87.6%) even in theblind test.
So, if I also use heuristics for the resolutionof Japanese zero pronouns, the accuracy will be higher.The examination of the combination of extracted reso-lution rules and heuristics for the resolution of Japanesezero pronouns remains as future work.extraction of resolution rules for zero pronouns withintersentential nd intrasentential ntecedents.6 AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Professor Jun'ichi Tsujii forhelpful discussion of many of the ideas and propos-als presented here during my star at UMIST fromSeptember 1995 to September 1996.
I am also grate-ful to several anonymous reviewers of ACL/EACL-97 workshop on anaphora for helpful comments onearlier drafts of the paper.Re ferencesEric Brill.
1992.
A simple rule-based part of speechtagger.
In Proc.
of ANLP92, pages 152-155, ACL.Ido Dagan, Alon Itai and Ulrike Schwall.
1991.
Twolanguages are more informative than one.
In Proc.of 29th Annual Meeting of ACL, pages 130-137,ACL.Ido Dagan and Kenneth W Church.
1994.
Termight:Identifying and translating technical terminology.In Proc.
of ANLPg4, pages 34-40, ACL.Kouji Dousaka.
1994.
Identifying the Referents ifJapanese Zero-Pronouns based on Pragmatic Con-dition Interpretation.
In Trans.
of IPS Japan,35(10):768-778.
In Japanese.Pascale Fung and Kenneth W. Church.
1994.
K-vec: A new approach for aligning parallel texts.In Proc.
of COLINGg4, pages 1096-1102.Satoru Ikehara, Shirai Satoshi and Kentaro Ogura.1994.
Criteria for Evaluating the Linguistic Qual-ity of Japanese-to-English Machine Translation.In Journal of JSAI, 9(5):569-579.Satoru Ikehara, Shirai Satoshi, Akio Yokoo and Hi-romi Nakalwa.
1991.
Toward MT system withoutPre-Editing-Effects ofNew Methods in ALT-J/FE-?
In Proc.
of MT Summit III, pages 101-106.Megumi Kameyama.
1986.
A property-sharing con-straint in centering.
In 2.
{th Annual Meeting ofA CL, pages 200-206.Atsuo Kawai.
1987.
Modality, Tense and Aspectin Japanese-to-English Translation System ALT-J /E.
In Proc.
of the 34th Annual Convention IPSJapan, pages 1245-1246?
In Japanese.Susumu Kuno.
1978.
Danwa no Bunpoo.
TaishukanPuhl.
Co., Tokyo.
In Japanese.Shalom Lappin and Herbert J. Leass.
1994.
An Al-gorithm for Pronominal Anaphora Resolution.
InComputational Linguistics, 20(4):535-561, ACL.Masaaki Murata and Makoto Nagao.
1997.
An Esti-mation of Referents of Pronouns in Japanese Sen-tence using Examples and Surface Expressions.
In28Journal of Natural Language Processing, 4(1):87-109, Association of Natural Language Processing.In Japanese.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoru Ikehara.
1992.
ZeroPronoun Resolution in a Japanese-to-English Ma-chine Translation System by using Verbal Seman-tic Attributes.
In Proc.
of ANLP92, pages 201-208, ACL.Hiromi Nakaiwa, Akio Yokoo and Satoru Ikehara.1994.
A System of Verbal Semantic AttributesFocused on the Syntactic Correspondence b tweenJapanese and English.
In Proc.
of COLING94,pages 672-678.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoru Ikehara.
1995.
In-trasentential Resolution of Japanese Zero Pro-nouns in a Machine Translation system using Se-mantic and Pragmatic Constraints.
In Proc.
ofTMI95, pages 96-105.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoru Ikehara.
"1996.Anaphora Resolution of Japanese Zero Pronounswith Deictic Reference.
In Proc.
of COLING96,pages 812-817.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Setsuo Yamada.
1997.
Auto-matic Identification of Zero Pronouns and theirAntecedents within Aligned Sentence Pairs.
InProc.
of the 3rd Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Natural Language Processing.
In Japanese.Tetsuya Nasukawa.
1996.
Full-text processing: im-proving a practical NLP system based on surfaceinformation within the context.
In Proc.
of COL-ING96, pages 824-829.Hideki Tanaka.
1994.
Verbal case frame acquisitionfrom a bilingual corpus: Gradual knowledge ac-quisition.
In Proc.
of COLINGg4, pages 727-731.Marilyn Walker, Masayo Iida and Sharon Cote.1990.
Centering in Japanese Discourse.
In Proc.of COLINGgO.Setsuo Yamada, Hiromi Nakaiwa, Kentaro Oguraand Satoru Ikehara.
1995.
A Method of Au-tomatically Adapting a MT System to DifferentDomains.
In Proc.
of TMI95, pages 303-310.Setsuo Yamada, Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoru Ike-hara.
1996.
A New Method of Automati-cally Aligning Expressions within Aligned Sen-tenee Pairs.
In Proc.
of NeMLaP2, pages 56-65.Kei Yoshimoto.
1988.
Identifying Zero Pronouns inJapanese Dialogue.
In Proc.
of COLING88, pages779-784.29
