From Psycholinguistic Modelling of Interlanguage in SecondLanguage Acquisition to a Computational ModelMontse Maritxalar Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza Maite OronozDept.
of Computer Dept.
of Computer Dept.
of ComputerLanguages and Systems.
Languages and Systems.
Languages and Systems.Univ.
of the Basque Country Univ.
of the Basque Country Univ.
of the Basque Country649 postakutxa 20080 649 postakutxa 20080 649 postakutxa 20080Donostia.
Spain Donostia.
Spain Donostia.
Spainj ipmaanm~si, ehu.
es j ipdisaa@si, ehu.
es j iboranm?si, ehu.
esAbst rac tThe present article demostrates the im-plementation of a psycholinguistic modelof second language learners' interlanguagein an Intelligent Computer Assisted Lan-guage Learning (ICALL) system for study-ing second language acquisition.
We havefocused our work on the common interlan-guage structures of students at the samelanguage level.
The Interlanguage LevelModel (ILM) is made up of these struc-tures.In this paper we explain the conceptualmodel of ILMs, we present he experimen-tal method followed for collecting writtenmateriM, we describe the output of themodelling tool, and finally some conclu-sions and future work are outlined.1 In t roduct ionThe main goal of this article is to show the imple-mentation of a psycholinguistic model of second lan-guage learners' interlanguage in an Intelligent Com-puter Assisted Language Learning (ICALL) sys-tem for studying second language acquisition.
TheICALL system, and the computational model forrepresenting interlanguage, have been designed afterprevious work on psycholinguistics, artificial intelli-gence, and computational linguistics.
This articlewill be focused on the computational model of inter-language.
Description of the ICALL system can befound in (Maritxalar et al, 1994).The concepts transitional dialects (Corder, 1971)and approximate systems (Nemser, 1971) are pre-cursors to interlanguage (Selinker, 1972) (Selinker,1992).
Their aim was to define communicative andgrammatical competence in second languages.
Allof them have these common features: a) a student'sdiscourse is independent  f rom the nat ive lan-guage (L1) and the target language (L2) andit is the product of a structured l inguistic sys-tem; b) the linguistic system is var iable during thelearning process and it is very  similar in studentsof the same language level, with the exception ofsome differences, results of a person's learning expe-rience.
In our case, the above mentioned character-istics are the basis for modelling the interlanguage.For example, as the linguistic system is very simi-lar in students of the same level, we can infer thatwe will have an interlanguage model for each level.Therefore, in our ICALL system we find a mod-ule where the different Interlanguage Level Models(ILMs) of each language level are represented.
Rep-resentation of the ILMs will be presented in this ar-ticle.Our work is based on corpus analysis.
At thismoment we have focused on the implementation fthe morphological nd morphosyntactic competenceat word level.
Work at word level is important inour case because Basque is an agglutinative lan-guage with rich morphosyntactic information withinwords.
We have studied texts written by Spanishstudents of Basque.
We are aware of the limits ofthe modelling only taking into account written ma-terial.
Spoken material could also be collected fora better modelling.
However, as the computationaltools we have for studying Basque are only for writ-ing studies, we have discarded the treatment of thespoken output of the learners.In the next section we will explain the concep-tual model of ILMs by means of the KADS DomainDescription Language (DDL) proposed in Schreiber(Schreiber et al, 1993).
Next, we will give an ideaof the experimental method used in order to col-lect written material and the top-down methodologyused in order to model interlanguage in support ofthe selected corpora.
After that, we will describesome of the implemented tools for modelling ILMs.Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza ~ Maite Oronoz 50 Computational Model of InterlanguageMontse Maritxalar, Arantza Dfaz de llarraza and Make Oronoz (1997) From Psycholingulstic Modelling ofInterlanguage in Second Language Acquisition to a Computational Model.
In T.M.
Ellison (ed.)
CoNLL97:Computational Natural Language Learning, ACL pp 50-59.
{~) 1997 Association for Computational LinguisticsThen, we will describe the output of the modellingtool, in order to compare the information given bythe computational tool and the conceptual modelof ILMs proposed before.
Finally, some conclusionsand future work are presented.2 A Conceptual  Model  forInterlanguage Level ModelsIn this section we show the psycholinguistic modelfor Interlanguage Level Models (ILMs).
The ILMscharacterise different grammars of the interlanguagethe ideal learner can have for the second languageat each language level.
It must be noted that, al-though some linguistic structures are particular toeach student, others are common to all students atthe same level.
These common structures are thosewhich will be represented in the ILMs.We represent ILMs by means of two different ypesof sequences of models: consecutive sequences andembodied sequences.
For each level, two differentkinds of knowledge are represented: the variableknowledge, the knowledge the student is supposed tobe learning; and, the fixed knowledge, the knowledgethe learner has already acquired.
The knowledge thelanguage learners have acquired at a concrete levelincludes the knowledge acquired at previous levels.However, the knowledge they are learning at eachlevel follows a different structure: each model fromeach level is independent from other levels, althoughintersections between knowledge at different levelstan occur at times.
The set of different variablelanguage structures at each language level consistsof consecutive sequences of models, while the set offixed ones consists of embodied sequences (see Fig.1).
When we say fixed knowledge or variable knowl-edge we refer to the language structures the learnershave in their interlanguage, without making any dis-tinction between the representation of correct and"incorrect" structures.
When we specify interlan-guage all the language structures, right and "de-viant", are represented in the same way.
It must benoted that while a language structure used by highlevel learners can be considered eviant, the samestructure in the case of beginners could be seen ascorrect at their level.
For example a deviation at10th level like avoiding the word ote 'could' (i.e.
norda?
'who is?'
instead of nor ore da?
'who couldbe?'
) is not considered a deviation in lower levelsof the language.Language structures of the interlanguage arecontext-dependent (Selinker, 1992).
Languagelearners create discourse domains as contexts forinterlanguage development.c L lg?
e ?Fig 1.
~tw~ct ioa  d ~ l  l.n te fla ngmlge ~dd ef X from X* LSuch domains are constructed in connection withlife experiences that have importance for the learner,containing prototypical interlanguage forms associ-ated with the content area by the learner.
Interlan-guage may be developing in one domain while at thesame time it may be stabilised, or possibly fossilised,in another (Selinker, 1992).
So, language structuresof the interlanguage include information about con-text where they appear.
Some structures appear inthe interlanguage in specific contexts, however, oth-ers appear in any context.
That is why we can see,in the representation below that structures can becontext-dependent or context-independent.
A firstapproximation of the representation (using DDL) forthe ILMs is as follows:s t ruc ture  Interlanguage_Level_Models;parts:models:set ( inst ance(Interlanguage._Level_Model));s t ruc ture  Interlanguage_LeveLModel;parts :fixed_knowledge:set ( ins tance( in ter language_xnode l ) ) ;card ina l i ty :rain 0 max HIGHEST_LEVEL;variable_knowledge:set ( instance(interlanguage_model));card ina l i ty :rain 0 max HIGHEST._LEVEL;Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza ~J Maite Oronoz 51 Computational Model of Interlanguages t ruc ture  interlanguage_model;parts:structure_context_indep :set( instance(interlanguage_structure_context_indep));strueture_context_dep :set( instance(interlanguage_structure_context_dep));propert ies:language_level:integer-range(I ,  HIGHEST.LEVEL);structureinterlanguage_structure_context_indep ;subtype-of: interlanguage_structure,s t ructure interlanguage_structure_context_dep;subtype-of: interlanguage_structure,s t ructure  interlanguage_structure;subtypes:interlanguage_strueture_context _i d p,interlanguage_structure_context _dep;parts:phenomena:set ( instance (linguistic_phenomenon));conditions:set ( instance (interlanguage_condition));properties:description: string;eontextualization: boolean;deviation: boolean;stabilization:function(stabilization of the rulesassociated to each phenomenon);ax ioms:If contextualization= Falsethen conditions=<>.The same interlanguage structure can bedeviation=True at the X language l veland deviation=False at the Y language l vel.The value of stabilization is{rarely, sometimes, usually, always}The interlanguage structures we propose are com-posed of linguistic phenomena which occur undersome conditions.
The properties of the interlanguagestructures are: description of the structure; contex-tualization, that is, context dependent orcontext in-dependent; deviation, which marks if the structuremust be considered eviant at the related languagelevel and, finally, stabilization.The stabilization property is a qualitative valueVARIABLEKNOWLEDGE/ \ Stabilization\FIXEDKNOWLEDGEFig 2.
Interlanguage.which represents the acquisition level of the struc-ture for a particular language l vel.
It is by meansof this property that a language structure inside thestudent's interlanguage is considered fixed knowl-edge or variable knowledge.
When the value ofthe stabilization property is always it means thatthe language structure has been assimilated by thelearner and in the future it would be quite difficultmaking some changes.
However, when the value israrely, there is a high variability of the languagestructure, and, therefore, a good teacher (could bean ICALL system) should be able to help the learnerto take away those structures in case they would notdirect the student owards a target language.In the first approximation f the representation forthe ILMs we have represented interlanguage struc-tures as a set of linguistic phenomena depending oninterlanguage conditions.
Now, we will explain thoseconditions, and, we will also describe the definitionof linguistic rules and replacements which define thelinguistic phenomena.st ructure linguistic_phenomenon;parts:rules:set  ( instance (linguistic_rule))I set (tuple(replacement-rule);properties:type:function(type ofthe rules or replacementsassociated to each phenomenon)description: string;global: boolean;lexical_entry: set(instance(morpheme));axioms:If global=False then lexical_entry = < >Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza 8J Maite Oronoz 52 Computational Model off Interlanguages t ructure  interlanguage_condition;parts :linguistic_context:set (instance(linguistic_condition));non_linguistic_context:set (instance(non.linguistic_condition));Which kind of conditions must be considered inthe interlanguage?
We said above that, insidethe interlanguage, language structures are context-dependent or context-independent (Selinker, 1992).Referring to context-dependent structures it is veryimportant to differentiate between two types of con-texts: non-linguistic and linguistic.Non-linguistic onditions are related to a discoursedomain.
Interlanguage varies depending on the do-main.
The linguistic structures that we activatewhen writing a story are different o those we ac-tivate when we write scientific-technical texts (the-matic_conditions).
Activity types, such as fieldingquestions, writing a letter, translating a sentence,conversing in a group etc.
are also non-linguisticconditions.Interlanguage forms can vary from one activitytype to another, even though the discourse domainis the same.
The activity types can be related tothe structure of the whole text (text_conditions);in addition there are also some non-linguistic on-ditions (e.g.
length of the sentence) related toa particular language structure in the text (struc-ture_conditions).
For example, sometimes studentsmark agreement between verb and complements insmall simple sentences, and, at the same time theyforget it in long sentences.
In our case, structureconditions are studied by means of the corpus; textconditions, however, are detected by means of inter-views with the teachers and learners.concept  condition;subtypes :linguistic_condition, on_linguistic_condition;p roper t ies :description: str ing;concept  linguistic_condition;subtype-o f :  condition;p roper t ies :word_level:l lst (part_of_speech, declension_case ... )sentence_level: l ist (use_of_subordinates .. .
)concept  non_linguistic_condition;subtype-o f :  condition;subtypes :textual_condition, thematic_condition;concept  textual_conditionsubtype-o f :  non_linguistic_condition;p roper t ies :text_conditions:l ist (summary, formalJetter,translation .. .
);structure_conditions:list(long_sentence_based, long_word_based,apl_place_lem, apl_place_mor .. .
);concept  thematic_conditionsubtype-o f :  non_linguistic_condition;p roper t ies :type: (general, technical);Linguistic conditions are studied by means of acorpus.
In the corpus composed of texts writtenby high level and upper intermediate languagestudents (350 texts collected between 1991 and1995) we found linguistic influence in some languagestructures of the interlanguage.
For instance, thepresence of plurality of some components in thesentence can cause verbs to agree with such compo-nents, whether or not these must be in agreementwith the verb (the phenomenon of plurality hasalso been observed in second language learners ofFrench (Lessard et al, 1994)).
Finally, we wouldlike to claim that this way of putting linguisticstructures in context could be applied similarlywhen modelling first languages.After defining which kind of conditions must betaken into account when linguistiq phenomena reidentified, we will see which type of linguistic rulescan be found inside the phenomena.It is usual that language learners know only somelinguistic rules corresponding to a particular linguis-tic phenomenon, and not all of them.
In the case oflanguage natives, however, they know, in most cases,all linguistic rules.
That is the reason for represent-ing explicitly in the student's interlanguage the setof linguistic rules related to the linguistic phenom-ena of the language structure.
In other cases, asin natives, it should not be necessary to make theirlinguistic rules explicit as the linguistic phenomenadefine, implicitly, the set of linguistic rules.In the same way, we could say that linguistic rulesidentify the corresponding linguistic phenomenon,Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza ~ Maite Oronoz 53 Computational Model of Interlanguagehowever, it is necessary to make it explicit, as alinguistic phenomenon could be detected in a stu-dent's interlanguage, but the linguistic rules wouldnot be identified until after some interactions withthe student.
The student model is dynamic, so, thelanguage structures are also dynamic.
Therefore, inthe first interactions with the student a linguisticphenomenon can be detected inside the student'sinterlanguage before eliciting the correspondinglinguistic rules.
Next we shall define the structureof the linguistic rules.s t ruc ture  linguistic_rule;subtypes :  morphological_rule, syntactic_rule;parts:implemented_by: set (rule.
identifier);cardinality: rain 1;conditions: set ( ins tance(interlanguage_condition));propert ies :type: {morph, syn};description: str ing;example: str ing;stabilization:{rarely, sometimes, usually, always};In the experiments the teachers have identifiedthree types of language phenomena in the students'interlanguage: first, simple interlanguage structurescomposed of a set of linguistic phenomena and lin-guistic rules; second, avoiding interlanguage struc-tures defined as linguistic rules that the student usu-ally avoids; and, third, replacement language struc-tures where the learner uses a structure too often(or rarely) instead of using other structures (e.g.when a person uses the conjunction and all time andrarely uses structures such as however, nevertheless,thus ... ).
Consequently, we can say that thereare relationships between linguistic rules of the in-terlanguage.
That is why structures which representlinguistic phenomena also have a set of replacementtuples, which represent the replacement relations be-tween linguistic rules.3 Using Corpus Linguistics in orderto Model InterlanguageIn this section we will explain first the experimen-tal method used in order to collect written material,and second the top-down methodology used in or-der to model interlanguage in support of the selectedcorpora.
We model Interlanguage Level Models bymeans of automatic tools which use the collectedmaterial as input.
It must be noted that some in-formation of the interlanguage models, for exampletext conditions (see section 2), are detected semiau-tomatically with the help of the teachers and learn-ers.Before explaining modelling based on corpus anal-ysis, we would like to make some comments aboutthe criteria for defining the corpus: we collectedwritten material from different language schools(IRALE 1, ILAZKI) and grouped this material de-pending on some features of the texts such as, 1)the kind of exercise proposed by the teacher (e.g.abstract, article about a subject, letter .
.
. )
and2) the student who wrote the text.
Those are stu-dents with a regular attendance in classes and withdifferent characteristics and motivations for learningBasque (e.g.
different learning rates, different knowl-edge about other languages, mother tongue .
.. ).We codified the texts of the corpora following aprefixed notation (e.g.
ill0as) showing the languageschool (e.g.
il, ILAZKI), the language level, thelearner's code, and the type of exercise proposed(e.g.
s, summary).
The last feature is what wehave called text condition in section 2.
At the sametime, a database for gathering the relevant informa-tion about the students' learning process was de-veloped.
We retrieved such information from inter-views with the students and the teachers (Anduezaet al, 1996).
The corpus collected from 1990 to 1995is made up of 350 texts.
This corpus has been di-vided in subsets depending on the language level.
Atthe moment we have defined three language levels ofstudy that we call low, intermediate, and high levels.Before designing and implementing the automatictools, three different studies of corpora during 90/91(i.e.
50 texts semiautomatically analysed), 93/94(i.e.
20 texts semiautomatically analysed), and94/95 (i.e.
100 texts semiautomatically analysed)were carried out.
These studies were done, in thefirst case, by teachers who didn't know the students,and in the other two cases by teachers who knew thestudents.
In the first two cases the work lasted twomonths.
In the third case, however, texts were col-lected every week from September until June, andtwo teachers worked five hours per week on study-ing the corpora during the 94/95 academic year.The language learners had five hours of languageclasses per week, and they wrote one compositionevery week or every fortnight.For modelling interlanguage at different languagelevels we use a top-down methodology, that is, westart from the modelling of high levels and con-tinue to lower ones (see Fig 1).
The reasons for11RALE and ILAZKI: schools pecialised in the teach-ing of BasqueMartxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza ~ Maite Oronoz 54 Computational Model off Interlanguagea top-down methodology are that most computa-tional tools for Basque we have (lemmatiser, spellingchecker-corrector, morphological disambiguator.. .
)can be easily adapted for high language levels; be-sides, usually computational tools for analysing writ-ten texts of high language levels are more robustthan those of low levels and, finally, there usuallyis more written material at high levels than at lowones.We have automat ica l ly  analysed subsets of cor-pora in intermediate and high levels.
Choosing atext as a unit of study, groups of sixteen texts havebeen deeply and automatically studied.The steps we followed using the tools we haveadapted in order to build the interlanguage modelfor each N language level were:i.
Design of the lexical database for the Nth lan-guage level.2.
Selection of the corpus (CORPUS-N) and sub-sets of CORPUS-N to be used in the next steps.This selection is based on the criteria, explainedbefore, for collecting material.3.
Definition of the morphology and morphosyntaxbased on a subset of CORPUS-N.4.
Identification of the fixed knowledge and thevariable knowledge, considering the contexts de-fined in section 2.
(a) Evaluation of the reliability of the modelusing other subsets of CORPUS-N.(b) Evaluation of the results by a languageteacher of N level.For example, in studies of high language mod-elling, a teacher evaluated the results at word level,that is, the type of rules detected and the contextswhere they were applied.
The evaluation was suc-cessful, even though in some cases the perception ofthe teacher was not the same as the results inferredfrom the automatic study of the corpora (e.g.
in theopinion of the teacher the students are used to delet-ing the h letter more usually than adding it.
Thisphenomenon has not been detected in the results ofthe corpus).4 ImplementationWe have adapted tools previously developed in ourcomputational linguistic group during the last tenyears.
These tools are: the Lexical Database forBasque (EDBL) (Agirre et al, 1994), the morpho-logical analyser based on the Two-Level Morphology(Agirre et al, 1992), the lemmatiser (Aldezabal etal., 1994) and some parts of the Constraint Gram-mar for Basque (Alegria et al, 1996) (Karlsson ethi., 1995).We have two main reasons for adapting thesetools:.
Some of the deviant linguistic structures usedby second language learners are different tothose native Basque speakers use.
The contextof application, i.e.
structure conditions at wordlevel of some rules, are not the same in bothcases.
Moreover, we need to add some new rulesto have one rule for each linguistic structure,and we also need some of these rules in order todetect deviant linguistic phenomena, e.g.
loanwords from Spanish (see section 4.1)..
In the original tools, the context of applicationof the rules remained ambiguous.
As we ex-plained in section 2, the context of applicationis important o us for modelling the grammat-ical competence of the students, so we disam-biguate such contexts by means of our adaptedtools (see section 4.2).
In the figure below wecan see a scheme of the way in which we haveused these adapted tools (Diaz et al, 1997):ANALYS ISANDCONTEXT DETECT IONLearner saalyselt + P ,~ocessD ISAMBIGUATIONLa~ttet lemrmliser ?Language Lavel Based Disambiguato~ ?Context Based Disambiguator INTERLANGUAGE1HODI~SFig 3.
Modelling Process.LEARNER ANALYSER = The adapted morpho-logical analyser (detection of structural contexts).POSTPROCESS = Context detection tool (detec-tion of structural contexts and linguistic contexts).Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza 8J Maite Oronoz 55 Computational Model of InterlanguageLEARNER LEMMATISER = The adapted lem-matiser.LANGUAGE LEVEL BASED DISAMBIGUA-TOR = Disambiguator for each language level(Based on the number of rules in each interpreta-tion).CONTEXT BASED DISAMBIGUATOR = Dis-ambiguator for each language level.
(Based on subsets of the Constraint Grammar forBasque + disambiguation rules based on the contextof application).INTERLANGUAGE MODELS = In ter lan -guage Level  Mode ls  ( ILMs)4.1 Redesigning the automataAs we said above, the original morphological nal-yser was based on the Two-Level Morphology.
Theimplementation of the morphophonological ruleswere made by the automata.
In the original anal-yser we had 30 automata: 11 of them were usedfor analysing standard words, but their activationwas never detected; the other 19 which representeda deviation were identified but the type of deviationremained unknown.
Moreover, the context of appli-cation remained ambiguous.In the adapted analyser we find 59 automata,which represent 59 different types of phenomena(these are codified as we can see in the table below).We have modified the automata of the morphologicalanalyser in order to detect which rules have been ap-plied and the contexts (structure conditions) wherethey have been activated.
We have also made somechanges in the module of the analyser which recog-nised the automata.
The number of automata hasincreased ue to the addition of new rules for de-tecting new deviations of language learners and tothe division of some original automata in others thatdetect, in a more specific way, some morphologicMphenomena which are very interesting for the studyof second language acquisition.
An example will il-lustrate this fact:Rules in the original analyserh:0 => R:= (+:=)+ _(Rule for standard phenomenon)h :0=> IV :V - - (0 : * )  : \ ] _V :V(Rule for deviant phenomenon)The application of the rule for standard phe-nomenon is not detected, however, the competenceerror represented in the rule for deviant phenomenonis identified even though the context of applicationremains ambiguous\]Rules in the adapted analyserh:0 => R:= (+:=)+ _(LEDEH: Delete the H LEtter at the End ofthe root)h:0 => V:V _ V:Vi(LEDAH: Delete the H LEtter Anywhere inthe word)h:0 => (0:*) : _ V:V(LEDBH: Delete the H LEtter at the Beginningof the root)All three rules of the interlanguage and the con-text of application are detected when they have beenactivated.
We repeat he same automata three timesand mark as negative in each automaton the stateswhich correspond to the activation of the rule.\]4.2 Ru les  in the i r  Linguistic ContextExperiments and interviews with experts lead usto see the need of identifying the linguistic contextwhere a morphological rule (for standard or deviantphenomenon) is applied.
We identify this contextby adding to the adapted morphological analyser(Learner_Analyser) some characteristics such as theplace (lemma/morpheme) where the rule is applied,the length of the word and the type of the last letter(vowel/consonant) of the root (Postprocess).We have two main aims in mind:1.
Disambiguate unlikely interpretations of a word(Context..Based_Disambiguator).There are two ways to do this:* Discarding interpretations in which a mor-phological rule has been applied in a part ofthe word (lemma/morpheme) where it never ap-pear in real life examples.
For example, thedeviant word *analisis has two interpretations(analisi/analisiz): the rule to add an s at theend of the lemma / the replacement of z by sin the morpheme.
The second interpretation isnot possible for high language level students, sowe discard it at such level.
* Discarding interpretations in which a morpho-logical rule is applied within an unusual part ofspeech.
The rule that detects the replacementof t by d is a good example of this.
The rule isnever used in verbs starting with d. After dis-carding all interpretations of the words, wherethe replacement rule has been applied and thepart of speech is a verb, the number of interpre-tations in the analysis of the word is reduced toa half.Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza ~ Maite Oronoz 56 Computational Model of Interlanguage2.
Refine the model of the student's Interlanguage(Language_Level_Based_Disambiguator).A word changes into another one quite differ-ent as a result of the application of an excessivenumber of rules who represent deviant phenom-ena.
From the study of the corpora, we can de-termine the exact number of possible deviationrules for an interpretation that makes ense ateach language level.
At the moment, we havedetermined it for some levels (i.e.
the highest)and we are working on the others.5 The Output of the Modelling ToolIn this section we will show an example of an inter-language structure in order to see the relationshipbetween the output of the modelling tool and thedescription of interlanguage structures explained inthe conceptual model.In this example we will see a detected linguisticphenomenon in the corpus of high level learners.
Thedescription of the phenomenon is: "when learnerswant to construct relative clauses and the last letterof the verb is t, for example dut (auxiliary verb forcomposed verbs), when adding the suffix -.._n for con-structing relative clauses, the t is replaced by d andthe a letter is added.
That is, dut + -n = dudan".e.g.
Ikusi dudan haurra atsegina da.
'The boywho I have seen is nice.
'Ikusi duda_n haurra atsegina da.I have seen who boy the nice is.This example shows that Basque syntactic infor-mation is found inside the word.
That is why inthe modelling of the LC_I linguistic condition (seethe example) the REL feature (relative clause) is atword level, and not at sentence l vel.An example of the output of the modelling tool:(interlanguage_structure IE_i(phenomena (LF_i))(conditions (LC_i TC_3))(description ?
)(contextualization True)(deviation False)(stabilization usually))(linguistic_phenomenon LF_I(rules (LEAIA_i LERATDI_i))(type (morph))(description ?
)(global False)(lexical_entry <>))(linguistic_rule LEAIA_i(implemented_by (9))(conditions (LC_I TC_I TC_3))(type morph)(description"Add the A LEtter Inside the word"(example " dudan ")(stabilization usually))(linguistic_rule LERATDi_I(implemented.by (8))(conditions ( LC_I TC_2 TC_3))(type morph)(description"Replace T by D Anywhere in the word")(example "dudan")(stabilization usually))(textual_condition TC_i(text_conditions <>)(structure_conditions (apl_place_mor))(description"rule applied in the morpheme"))(textual_condition TC_3(text_conditions <>)(structure_conditions (end_word_t))(description "the last letter of the word is t"))(linguistic_condition LC_i(wordAevel (V REL))(sentence_level <>)(description "verb for relative clause"))(textual_condition TC_2(text_conditions <:>)(structure_conditions (apl_placeAem))(description "rule applied in the lemma"))Martxalar, DCaz de Ilarraza ~ Maite Oronoz 57 Computational Model of InterlanguageIn the process of modelling, first, we identify thelinguistic rules, second, we detect groups of linguisticrules which occur in the same context and define thelinguistic phenomenon, and last, the interlanguagestructure is identified.If we compare this output with the conceptualmodel given in section 2, we can see how the in-formation eeded is reached automatically, exceptthe description of the linguistic phenomenon a d theinterlanguage structure (see question marks in theexample).
Such information will be completed bythe psycholinguist who will use the ICALL system.The information given by the psycholinguist will bereused in future modellings.6 Conc lus ions  and  Future  WorkThe presented work proves that the implementationof psycholinguistic models of interlanguage is viablefrom the adaptation of the linguistic-computationaltools we have for the automatic study of Basque.Modelling at word level is important in our case be-cause Basque is an agglutinative language with richmorphosyntactic information within words.The results obtained using the developed tools forlanguage learning studies provide us statistical in-formation about phenomena that teachers and psy-cholinguistics knew by intuition.
Therefore, we cansay that corpus analysis is a good technique for mod-elling ILMs.In the near future we will develop new tools in or-der to model each student's knowledge.
The detec-tion of contexts will be improved in order to identifycontexts related to the characteristics of the particu-lar learners.
Moreover we will work on the detectionof interlanguage structures at sentence l vel .
Fieldstudies have been carried out in this sense (Mar-itxalar et al, 1993) (Andueza et al, 1996).
At themoment, we are studying some aspects of the mor-phosyntax and syntax for L2, taking as a basis theresults obtained in Andueza (Andueza et al, 1996),where in a final test the hypothesis obtained in thestudy carried out in the 94/95 academic year werecontrasted with the students.
In this work, we alsoanalysed the reasons for using some language struc-tures in addition to the detection of their context.We plan in the future to add to the system suchknowledge about he diagnosis of structures.Finally, we would like to remark that togetherwith the experiments explained in the article, twoenvironments are being prepared in the ICALL sys-tem: the Knowledge Acquisition Subsystem and theLearning Process Subsystem.
The Knowledge Ac-quisition Subsystem helps language t achers to makehypotheses about, among others, the reasons tu-dents have for using deviant language structures.The Learning Process Subsystem guides users intheir learning process giving hints according to theirlanguage l vel.7 AcknowledgementsThis work is being developed in the framework ofa research project sponsored by the University ofthe Basque Country and the Government of theProvince of Gipuzkoa.
The authors would like tothank both Institutions.Re ferencesEneko Agirre, Ifiaki Alegria, Xabier Arregi, Xa-bier Artola, Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, MontseMaritxalar, Kepa Sarasola nd Miriam Urkia.1992.
XUXEN: A spelling checker/correctorfor Basque based on Two-Level Morphol-ogy.
In Proceedings off the Third ConferenceANLP(ACL), pages 119-125, Trento, Italy.Eneko Agirre, Xabier Arregi, Jose Mari Arriola, Xa-bier Artola and Jon Mikel Insausti.
1994.
Eu-skararen Datu-Base Lexikala (EDBL) InternalReport.
UPV/EHU/LSI/TR 8-94, ComputerScience Faculty: University of the BasqueCountry.Izaskun Aldezabal, Ifiaki Alegria, Xabier Artola,Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, Nerea Ezeiza, KoldoGojenola, Itziar Aduriz and Miriam Urkia.1994.
EUSLEM: Un lematizador/etiquetadorde textos en euskara.
In Proceedings of the X.Conference SEPLN, C6rdoba, Spain.Ifiaki Alegria, Jose Mari Arriola, Xabier Artola,Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, Koldo Gojenola,Montse Maritxalar and Itziar Aduriz.
1996.
ACorpus-Based Morphological DisambiguationTool for Basque.
In Proceedings of the XII.Conference SEPLN, Sevilla, Spain.A.
Andueza, Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, Montse Mar-itxalar, Josune Martiarena nd Ifiaki Pikabea.1996.
Hizkuntza baten Ikaskuntza Prozesuariburuzko landa lana.
Sistema Informatiko adi-mendun baten oinarria.
In Internal Report.UPV/EHU/LSI/TR 8-96, Computer ScienceFaculty: University of the Basque Country.S.
Bull.
1994.
Student Modelling for Second Lan-guage Acquisition.
In Computers 8J Education23, pages 13-20.Martxalar, Diaz de Ilarraza 8J Maite Oronoz 58 Computational Model of Interlanguage!S.
Corder.
1971.
Idiosyncratic dialects and erroranalysis.
In International Review of AppliedLinguistics 9, pages 147-159.Arantza Diaz de Ilarraza, Montse Maritxalar andMaite Oronoz.
1997.
Reusability of LanguageTechnology in support of Corpus Studies inan CALL Environment.
In Language Teachingand Language Technology Conference, Gronin-gen, The Netherlands.F.
Karlsson, A. Voutilainen, J. Heikkil/i and A.Anttila.
1995.
Constraint Grammar: alanguage-independent sys em for parsing un-restricted text.
Mouton de Gruyter.G.
Lessard, D. Maher and I. Tomek.
1994.
Mod-elling Second Language Learner Creativity.
InJournal of Artificial Intelligence in Education5(4)., pages 455-480.Montse Maritxalar and Arantza Dfaz de Ilarraza.1993.
Integration of Natural Language Tech-niques in the ICALL Systems Field: The treat-ment of incorrect knowledge.
In Internal Re-port.
UP V/EHU/LSI/TR 9-93, Computer Sci-ence Faculty: University of the Basque Coun-try.Montse Maritxalar and Arantza Dfaz de Ilarraza.1994.
An ICALL System for Studying theLearning Process.
In Computers in AppliedLinguistics Conference.
Iowa State University.Montse Maritxalar and Arantza Dfaz de Ilar-raza.
1996a.
Hizkuntza baten Ikaskuntza-Prozesuan zeharreko Tartehizkuntz Osaketa:Sistema Informatiko baten Diseinurako Azter-keta Psikolinguistikoa.
In Internal Report.UPV/EHU/LSI/TR 7-96, Computer ScienceFaculty: University of the Basque Country.Montse Maritxalar and Arantza Dfaz de Ilarraza.1996b.
Modelizaci6n de la Competencia Gra-matical en la Interlengua basada en el An?1isisde Corpus.
In Proceedings of the XII.
Confer-ence SEPLN, Sevilla, Spain.W.
Nemser.
1971.
Approximate Systems of ForeignLanguage Learners.
In International Review ofApplied Linguistics 9, pages 115-123.G.
Schreiber, B. Wielinga and J. Breuker.
1993.KADS: A Principled Approach to Knowledge-Based System Development.
Academic Press.L.
Selinker.
1972.
Interlanguage In InternationalReview of Applied Linguistics 10., pages 209-231.L.
Selinker.
1992.
Rediscovering interlanguage.
Lon-don:Longman.Martxalar~ Dfaz de Harraza ~ Maite Oronoz 59 Computational Model of Interlanguage
