Self Organisation in Vowel Systems through ImitationBart  de BoerArtificial Intelligence LaboratoryVrije Universiteit BrusselPleinlaan 21050 Brussels, Belgiumbartb@art i. vub.
ac.
beAbst rac tIn this paper an artificial ife approachto the explanation of the shape ofvowel systems is presented.
A popu-lation of artificial agents (small inde-pendent computer programs) that areeach able to produce and perceive vow-els in a human-like way, engages inimitation games.
In these imitationgames one agent makes a sound andanother agent tries to imitate it.
Bothagents use their list of phonemes foranalysing and producing the sounds.Depending on the outcome of the lan-guage game, the agents update theirphoneme .lists, using only local infor-mation.
It is demonstrated that in thisway vowel systems that look remark-ably like human vowel systems emerge.The process is insensitive to factorssuch as noise level, initial conditionsand number of agents.
It is arguedthat this could be a useful way of ex-plaining the universal characteristicsof human vowel systems.1 In t roduct ionThe world's languages contain a surprising num-ber of different sounds.
In the most recent ver-sion (1996) of the UCLA Phonological SegmentInventory Database (Maddieson, 1984) 921 dif-ferent segments are recognised: 652 consonantsand 269 vowels and diphthongs.
However, inany particular language, only a limited numberof these sounds are used.
According to Mad-dieson, most languages have between 20 and 37phonemes.
The minimum number is 11 for theEast-Papuan language Rotokas and the South-American language Mfra-Pirahg, and the max-imum number is 141 for the Khoisan language!Xfi (Grimes, 1996; Maddieson, 1984).
The typ-ical number of phonemes, according to Mad-dieson, lies between 20 and 37.Also certain regularities are found in thesound systems of the languages of the world.
Ifwe concentrate on vowels, we find that certainvowels, such as \[u\] \[a\] and \[i\] appear almost uni-versally, while other vowels, such as \[~\], \[o\] and\[ce\] are much rarer.
The structure of vowel sys-tems also shows great regularities.
They tend tobe symmetric.
If a language has a front vowelof a certain height, for example \[e\], it is likelyto have the back vowel of the same height \[o\]as well, although the two vowels will usuallydiffer in rounding.
Languages tend to prefervowel systems in which the acoustic differencebetween the vowels is as big as possible.
Forthis reason, vowel systems with just \[i\], \[a\] and\[u\] appear more frequently than systems withjust \[e\], \[a\] and \[o\], or with \[i\], \[a\] and \[m\].Traditionally, these phenomena have beenexplained through distinctive feature theory(Chomsky and Halle, 1968; Jakobson and Halle,1956).
The preferred shapes of vowel systemsare explained by innate distinctive features, andby their markedness.
Features plit up the con-tinuous articulatory space.
As there are only alimited number of features, vowel systems willonly contain a limited number of vowels, andbecause some features are more marked thans'tothers, some vowels and some combinations ofvowels will appear less often than others.Unfortunately, this theory does not addressthe question where the distinctive features comefrom, nor how a discrete set of phonemes cameto be used for communication i  the first place.It still remains to be explained what the reasonfor the presence of discrete phonemes and dis-tinctive features is.
As (Lindblom et al 1984,page 187) wrote: "...postulating segments andfeatures as primitive universal categories of lin-guistic theory should be rejected...".
Also, dis-tinctive feature theory does not explain whycertain minor differences in pronunciation arereplicated so closely by speakers of a certaindialect.
For example, there is a difference be-tween English do, French doux (soft), Germandu (thou) and Dutch doe (do) that is perceivedand recognised by speakers of these languages,even though all these words are described as ananterior and coronal voiced consonant followedby a high, back, rounded vowel.In order to explain the shapes of sound sys-tems of the world's language without having toresort to innate features, a number of functionalexplanations have been put forward.
For vowelsystems different researchers (Liljencrants andLindblom, 1972; Bo~ et al 1995) (among oth-ers) have given elaborate computational models.These models predict he qualities of the vowelsin vowel systems with a given number of vow-els by calculating a maximum for the acousticdistances between the vowels.
Carr~ and Mray-ati (Carr~ and Mrayati, 1995) have also usedcomputer models for predicting vowel systems,based on articulatory as well as acoustic con-straints.
Furthermore Stevens (Stevens, 1989)has developed a theory that explains the shapeof sound systems through non-linear character-istics of the human vocal tract and auditory sys-tem.All these theories, although to some extentcontroversial, provide good explanations of whyvowel systems are the way they are.
They max-imise acoustic contrast and minimise articula-tory effort.
However, the theories do not pro-vide a mechanism to explain how these char-acteristics obtain in a population of languageusers.
They all consider language as an in-dependent system that somehow optimises anumber of constraints.
They do not take intoaccount hat languages are used by individualspeakers that are each quite capable of learn-ing and using any vowel system.
Somehow, theinteractions between these speakers cause thefunctional constraints as mentioned above toemerge.The emergence of constraints on vowel sys-tems through the interactions of individualagents has already been studied by Herv~ Glotinand others (Berrah et al 1996; Glotin, 1995;Glotin and Laboissi~re, 1996).
Unfortunately,their work contains a number of unrealistic as-sumptions about the way in which sound sys-tems are transferred from generation to gen-eration.
In their system agents use vowels tomake sounds to each other.
Vowels are shiftedto make them more similar to the ones fromthe other agents.
After a while the agents thathave least shifted their vowels create offspringthat replace agents that have much shifted theirvowels.
The initial position of the new agents'vowels is determined from the initial position ofthe vowels of the agents' parents.
The numberof vowels in each agent is fixed, which makesit less realistic.
Another disadvantage of thissystem is that it does not model the way inwhich new agents acquire their phonemes (theyalready have a set from birth).
Also the pseudo-genetic component obfuscates the actual pro-cesses (the language-like interactions betweenthe agents) that shape the vowel systems.The work that will be presented here is basedon the theory of Steels (Steels, 1997b).
Steelsconsiders language to be a phenomenon that isthe result of self-organisation a d cultural evo-lution in a population of language users.
Knowl-edge of the language is transferred through lin-guistic interactions that Steels calls languagegames.
Individuals actively form and test hy-potheses about the language in these games.Innovation is introduced by random variationsand errors in imitation.
Selection pressurefor more efficient and effective communicationcauses certain variations to be preferred overothers.
Self-organisation e sures that coherenceis maintained.
According to Steels, this mecha-nism can both explain the origin of language, aswell as the acquisition of language by a single in-dividual.
Steels has mainly tested his theory inthe area of lexicon formation (Steels, 1995) andsemantics (St'eels , 1997a).
In the present paperthe theory is 'applied to the field of phonology.In the next section some more background onself-organisation is given.
In section 3 the simu-lation that was used for investigating the theoryis described.
In section 4 the experiments hathave been done are described, and in section 5some conclusions are drawn.2 Se l f -Organ isat ionQuite often spontaneous order can emerge insystems that are not controlled centrally.
Anexample of this is the construction of a hon-eycomb.
No isingle bee (not even the queen)has control over the building behaviour of thewhole swarm.i Still, a very regular pattern ofhexagons eme'rges.
This happens because beesstart to build cells at a certain distance fromother bees that build cells.
After a while theywill encounter the neighbouring cells.
Thus apattern of hexagons emerges.
Other examplesof the outcomes of self-organising processes aretermites' nests, sand dunes and the formationof paths.All self-organising systems have a large num-ber of constituent parts that interact on a smallscale.
Order emerges on a large scale.
This or-der is obtained from initial random behaviour ofthe constituer~t parts through positive feedbackprocesses.
Th'ese feedback processes cause theconstituent parts to settle collectively in a cer-tain state, once an accidental majority of themhappens to be in that state.
The field of "ar-tificial life" is concerned with the investigationof self-organisilng processes that are inspired byliving systems:through computer simulations.The approach that is followed in this pa-per and that was introduced by Steels (Steels,1997b) is an artificial ife approach.
Language isa self-organisi~ig process.
It exists in a commu-nity of speakers, and persists through the inter-actions of the speakers.
No individual has cen-tral control over the language and no individualspeaker is necessary for the persistence of thelanguage.
They are born and they die and stillthe language remains more or less continuousover time and throughout a population.The computer simulations that are presentedhere model linguistic interactions in an artifi-cial life way.
This means that the emergenceof order in a population of agents (small com-puter programs that can operate autonomously)is studied.
The agents are able to produce andperceive speech sounds in an approximately hu-man way, they have only local knowledge (i.e.about their own speech sounds) and engage inlocal interactions with only one other agent ata time.
It will be shown that phenomena thatare also found in human vowel systems emerge.3 The  SystemThe agents in the simulation are equipped witha speech synthesiser, a speech perception systemand a list of phonemes.
It should be stressedthat the agents are not restricted to any partic-ular natural anguage.
The speech synthesiseris capable of generating all simple vowels.
Ittakes as input the three major vowel features:tongue position, tongue height and lip round-ing.
Its output consists of the first four formantfrequencies of the vowel that would be gener-ated by the specified articulator positions.
Theproduction model is based on an interpolationof artificially generated formant patterns of 18different vowels taken from (Vall~e, 1994, page162-164).
A certain amount of noise is addedto the formant frequencies: they are shifted upor down a random percentage.
The speech per-ception system is based on a model developedby (Bo~ et al 1995) who based their systemon a substantial amount of observations of hu-man perception of speech.
In this model lowfrequency formants are considered to be moresalient han high frequency formants and if twoformants are close together, they are perceivedapproximately asone formant with an interme-diate frequency.
These characteristics ensurethat the agents perceive formant patterns assimilar if humans would also perceive them assimilar.
Both the speech synthesiser and thespeech perception system are described in moredetail in (de Boer, 1997)The agents tart with an empty phoneme list:they know no phonemes at all.
They learn theirphonemes through interactions with each other.The shape of the resulting vowel system will bedetermined for a small part by coincidence andfor the largest part by self-organisation u deracoustical and articulatory constraints.The interactions between the robots arecalled imitation games.
For each imitationgame, two agents are chosen randomly from thepopulation.
One agent will initiate the gameand is called the initiator, the other one is calledthe imitator.
The initiator randomly choosesa phoneme from its phoneme list, or createsa new phoneme randomly if its phoneme listis empty.
It then generates the correspondingsound (the formant pattern).
The imitator lis-tens to this sound, and analyses it in terms ofits own phonemes.
It tries to find among itsown phonemes the phoneme whose formant pat-tern most closely resembles the sound it justheard.
If its phoneme list is empty, it generatesa new phoneme.
The imitator then generatesthe sound that corresponds to its best matchingphoneme.
The initiator listens to this sound andalso analyses it in terms of its own phonemes.It then checks whether the phoneme that mostclosely matches the sound it just heard is thesame as the phoneme it originally said.
If theyare the same, the imitation game is successful.If they are not the same, the game is unsuccess-ful.Depending on the outcome of the languagegame, the imitator undertakes a number of ac-tions.
If the language game was successful, itshifts the phoneme it said in such a way thatit will sound more like the sound it just heard.This is done by making slight changes to thephoneme and by checking whether these in-crease the resemblance.
The change that mostincreases the resemblance is kept.
This proce-dure is called hill climbing in artificial intelli-gence, and it is comparable to making soundsto oneself in order to learn how to pronounce agiven sound.If the imitation game was unsuccessful, theagent can either create a new phoneme or shiftthe old phoneme, depending on whether thephoneme it used for imitating the sound hadpreviously been successful or not.
The successof a phoneme is calculated by keeping track ofthe number of times a phoneme was used in animitation game (both by initiator and by imita-tor) and the number of times the imitation gamein which the phoneme was used was successful.The ratio between these numbers is used as ameasure of success of the phoneme.If the phoneme has been unsuccessful, it isshifted to resemble more closely the sound thatwas heard.
If it has been successful, however, itis assumed that the failure of the imitation gamewas caused by the fact that two phonemes areconfused.
The initiator has two phonemes thatare matched by only one phoneme in the imita-tor.
Hence the imitator creates a new phonemethat closely resembles the sound that was heard.This usually resolves the confusion.Two more processes are taking place in theagents.
First of all, an agent's phonemes thatresemble ach other too closely are merged.Two phonemes are merged by keeping the mostsuccessful one and by throwing away the leastsuccessful one.
The successfulness of the newphoneme is calculated by adding the use- andsuccess counts of the original phonemes.
Sec-ondly, phonemes that have a use/success ra-tio that is too low, are discarded.
This causesbad phonemes to disappear eventually from thephoneme repertoire of the agents.4 The  Exper imentsA large number of experiments have been donewith the system described above.
Experi-ments have been performed with varying num-bers of agents and under various conditions ofnoise.
The system consistently produced popu-lations of agents that were able to imitate eachother successfully with the vowel systems thatemerged.
These vowel systems howed remark-able similarities with vowel systems found inhuman languages.
A typical example of thevowel systems of a population of 20 agents, with15 14\[~\]13 1~2' (Bark\] 1 10\[uJ\]s,,Ir.... -o% ?9 8% :\[u\] I'7\[e\]1234~5~678Figure 1: Acoustic representation f the vowelsystems of a population of twenty agents after2000 imitation games.a maximum of 10% noise on the formant fre-quencies, is given in figure 1.
This figure is anacoustic representation f all the phonemes ofall the agents in the population.
In this fig-ure a number Of clear clusters can be discerned.Almost all the phonemes of the agents tend toappear in one of the seven clusters.
In addi-tion, almost all agents have a phoneme in thesix largest clusters.
Only in the small cluster inthe lower left ,corner, representing the \[u\], fewagents have a phoneme.
This is probably be-cause this phoneme has recently been created,and not all agents have been able to make animitation, yet.The vowel systems that emerge from the im-itation games!
are not static.
They are con-stantly changi~ng as new phonemes are formedand old phonemes hift through the availableacoustic spac e .
This process is illustrated infigure 3, the :result from a different simula-tion with the ~ame starting conditions (twentyagents and 10% noise) but with slightly differ-ent random influences.
In this figure we see twovowel systems: that are snapshots of one pop-ulation of agents, taken 1000 language gamesapart.
We see that clusters move through theacoustic space' and that clusters tend to com-pact.
However, a certain distance appears tobe kept between the clusters.
Also the clustersseem to remain spread over a certain area; they15 14 13 l~'(eark~l 10 9. ?
9'e~"l"l to" "  ?
(ul :.
!-:\ [ i \ ] - \ [y \ ]  e~."
?
\ [~ \ ] - \ [a \ ]?
?
,,Q ?
?1235 u-678Figure 2: Vowel system of a population oftwenty agents that communicate with 20%noise.
The three vowel system has been stablefor over 1000 language games.do not reduce to points completely.Under various conditions of noise, systemswith different numbers of clusters emerge.
If theamount of noise is increased, systems with fewerclusters are generated (an example is given infigure 2).
However, the success of the im-itation games stays approximately the same.Also the number of agents does not seem tomatter much.
Experiments with five to fortyagents have all resulted in stable systems.
Fur-thermore, the systems eem to be resistant opopulation change.
If old agents are removedat random, and new empty agents are addedat random, the vowel systems remain stable.The empty agents will rapidly learn the exist-ing phonemes by imitating more experiencedagents.
If the inflow of new agents becomes toolarge, however, instability arises.5 Conc lus ions  and  D iscuss ionThe first conclusion that can be drawn fromthe work presented above is that stable soundsystems do emerge in a population of artifi-cial agents that play imitation games.
More-over, these systems have discrete clusters ina continuous acoustic space that could be de-scribed by (discrete) distinctive features, eventhough there was no predetermined partition of15 14 13 1~2'(Ba~1 10 9 8\[il?
\[_eloe\[el\[aleo e\[ud\[u\] ??
"~  \[9\] 4"?
:~ '  5? "
: .
D I  sQ~e ?7.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
8F2" (Bark)15 14  13  12  11  10  9_ __  L .
.
.
.
, .
.
.
.
~ .
.
.
.
.?
?
~ \ [ i l  "~"  \[wllu\]\ [ , I  .41 .
.8- '  123445 ~-678Figure 3: Dynamics of artificial vowel systems: the system at the right obtained from the one atthe left after 1000 imitation games.the acoustic space.
In addition, it can be con-cluded that the shapes of these emergent sys-tems show remarkable similarities to the shapesof the most frequent vowel systems found in hu-man languages.It remains to be seen to what extent theseresults are applicable to human language.
Itmust be admitted that the language capabil-ities of the simulated agents are a gross sim-plification of the language capabilities of hu-mans.
However, the agents are entirely biolog-ically plausible.
This means that they can donothing that humans could not do in princi-ple.
Also, they provide a possible mechanismby which functional constraints on vowel sys-tem that were first researched with computersby Liljencrants and Lindblom (Liljencrants andLindblom, 1972) can emerge from interactinglanguage users.The system described here provides a modelfor predicting certain universals of vowel sys-tems.
It does not have to postulate innatedistinctive features or innate mechanisms otherthan the fact that agents communicate with alimited set of sounds.
Also the system showsindividual variation and language change thatdo not decrease the agents' ability to analyseeach other's sounds.
A remarkable propertyof the simulations that have been presented isthat both the learning of speech sounds as wellas sound change can be generated by the samemechanism.The author thinks that these results justifyconsidering phonological processes in languageas self-organising processes.
By taking thispoint of view it also becomes possible to bridgethe gap between language as behaviour of indi-viduals and language as a system by using com-putational models.6 AcknowledgementsThe work was done at the AI-laboratory of theVrije Universiteit Brussel in Brussels, Belgiumand at the Sony Computer Science Laboratoryin Paris, France.
It is part of ongoing researchinto the origins of language.
It was financedby the Belgian federal government FKFO emer-gent functionality project (FKFO contract no.G.0014.95) and the IUAP 'Construct' project(no.
20).
I thank Luc Steels for valuable sug-gestions on- and discussion of the fundamentalideas of the work.Re ferencesAhmed-Reda Berrah, Hervd Glotin, RafaelLaboissi~re and Louis-Jean Bog 1996.
From Formto Formation of Phonetic Structures: An evolu-tionary computing perspective Ill: Terry Fogartyand Gilles Venturini, editors Proceedings of theICML '96 workshop on Evolutionary Computingand Machine Learning pages 23-29Louis-Jean Boil, Jean-Luc Schwartz and NathalieVall6e 1905.
The Prediction of Vowel Sys-tems: perceptual Contrast and Stability In: EricKeller, edit6r, Fundamentals of Speech Synthesisand Speech f~ecognition, John Wiley, pp.
185-213tRen6 Cart6 and Mohammed Mrayati 1995.
Voweltransitions, ~?owel systems and the Distinctive Re-gion Model l In: C. Sorin et al (editors) Levelsin Speech Communication: Relations and Inter-iactions, Elsevier, pages 73-89Noam Chomsl~y and Morris Halle 1968.
The soundpattern of English, Cambridge, MS: MIT Press.Bart de Boer 1997.
A second report on emergentphonology, AI-memo 97-04, AI-lab, Vrije Univer-siteit Brusse'lHerv~ Glotin ~995.
La Vie Artificielle d'une socidtdde robots parlants: dmergence t changement ducode phondti~ue, DEA sciences cognitives-InstitutNational Polytechnique de GrenobleHerv(~ Glotin and Rafael Laboissi~re 1996.
Emer-gence du code phon~tique dans une soci6t~ derobots parla0ts.
Actes de la confdrence de Roche-brune 1996: idu Colectif au social, Ecole NationaleSup6rieure des T~l&ommunications-Paris.Barbara F. Grimes, editor 1996.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World, 13 th edition, Summer Insti-tute of LinguisticsRoman Jakobson and Morris Halle 1956.
Funda-mentals of Language, the Hague: Mouton & CoL. Liljencrants and BjSrn Lindblom 1972.
Numeri-cal simulations of vowel quality systems: The roleof perceptual contrast, Language 48, pages 839-862BjSrn Lindblom, Peter MacNeilage and MichaelStuddert-Kennedy 1984.
Self-organizing pro-cesses and the explanation of language universalsIn Brian Butterworth, Bernard Comrie, C)stenDahl, editors Explanations for language univer-sals, Berlin, Walter de Gruyter & CoIan Maddieson.
1984.
Patterns of Sounds, Cam-bridge: Cambridge University PressLuc Steels 1995.
A Self-Organizing Spatial Vocab-ulary, Artificial Life 2, Cambridge (MS): MITPress, pages 319-332Luc Steels 1997~t.
Constructing and Sharing Percep-tual Distinctions.
Ill: Maarten van Someren andG.
Widmer, editors: Proceedings off the ECML,Berlin: Springer Verlag.
To appear.Luc Steels 1997b.
Synthesising the origins of lan-guage using co-evolution, self-organisation andlevel formation.
In J. Hurford et al editor, Evolu-tion of Human Language, Edinburgh: EdinburghUniversity Press.
To appear.Kenneth N. Stevens 1989.
On tile quantal nature ofspeech.
Journal of Phonetics 17, 1, pages 3-45Nathalie ValiSe 1994.
Syst~mes vocaliques: de la ty-pologie aux prddictions, Th~se pr~par~e au sein del'Institut de la Communication Parl~e (Grenoble-URA C.N.R.S.
n ?
368)~S
