Resolving Bridging References in Unrestr icted TextMassimo Poesio, Renata Vieira and Simone TeufelCentre for Cognitive Science - University of Edinburgh2, Buccleuch Place EH8 9LW Edinburgh UK{poesio, renata, simone}@cogsci, ed.
ac.
ukAbstractOur goal is to develop a system capableof treating the largest possible subset ofdefinite descriptions in unrestricted writ-ten texts.
A previous prototype resolvedanaphoric uses of definite descriptions andidentified some types of first-mention uses,achieving a recall of 56%.
In this paperwe present he latest version of our system,which handles ome types of bridging refer-ences, uses WordNet as a source of lexicalknowledge, and achieves a recall of 65%.1 Previous WorkWe are in the process of developing a system forinterpreting definite descriptions (DDs) in writtentext without restrictions of domain.
The implemen-tation work has been supported by an analysis ofdefinite description use in corpora of written lan-guage (Poesio and Vieira, 1997).
In one of our ex-periments, we asked 2 subjects to classify the uses ofdefinite descriptions in a corpus of English texts 1 us-ing a taxonomy derived from the proposals of (Clark,1977; Hawkins, 1978; Prince, 1981; Fraurud, 1990;Prince, 1992).
In the taxonomy used in that study,we defined bridging references as those uses of defi-nite descriptions based on previous discourse whichrequire some reasoning in the identification of theirtextual antecedent (rather than just matching iden-tical nouns).
These definite descriptions may be co-referential with an entity already introduced in thediscourse, but be characterized by a different headnoun (as in a car .
.
,  the vehicle); or may be simplysemantically related to it (in the sense that the dooris related to house).
Of the 1040 DDs in that cor-pus, 204 (20%) were identified as bridging descrip-tions, 312 (30%) as anaphoric (DDs and antecedents1A set of randomly selected parsed articles fl'om theWall Street Journal contained in the ACL/DCI CD-ROM.which co-refer and have the same head noun), and492 (47%) as larger situation/unfamiliar (Hawkins,1978) (Prince's discourse new (Prince, 1992)); theremaining definite descriptions were classified as id-iomatic or doubtful cases.These results led us to concentrate initially on re-solving same-head anaphoric DDs and on recognis-ing larger situation/unfamiliar uses.
Our analysis ofthe corpus suggested that many of the latter couldbe recognised using syntactic heuristics: e.g., on thebasis of the presence of restrictive pre- and post-modification, of the presence of special predicates(such as the superlatives first, best), or because theDD occurred in a copula or appositive construction.A first prototype with these capabilities (Vieiraand Poesio, 1997) achieved an overall recall of 56%and precision of 84% when tested on our corpus.
Ofall anaphoric DDs 72% were resolved, and 74% of alllarger situation and unfamiliar uses were identified.The definite descriptions not handled by this firstprototype were typically larger situation uses basedon common knowledge (such as the government) andbridging descriptions.
In this paper we present oursubsequent work devoted to handling some of theseremaining cases.2 Bridging DescriptionsLinguistic and computational theories of bridgingdescriptions identify two main subtasks involved intheir resolution: first, finding the element in thetext to which the bridging description is related(ANCHOR) and second, finding the relation (LINK)holding between the bridging description and its an-chor (Clark, 1977; Sidner, 1979; Helm, 1982; Carter,1987; Fraurud, 1990; Strand, 1997).A speaker is licensed to use a bridging DD whenhe/she can assume that the common-sense knowl-edge required to identify the relation is shared bythe listener (Hawkins, 1978; Clark and Marshall,1981; Prince, 1981).
This reliance on commonsenseknowledge means that, in general, a system couldonly resolve bridging references when supplied withan adequate knowledge base; for this reason, thetypical way of implementing a system for resolvingbridging references has been to restrict the domainand feeding the system with hand-tailored worldknowledge.
(This approach is discussed in detail in(Carter, 1987)).
In order to get a system capable ofperforming on unrestricted text, we decided to useWordNet (WN) (Miller, 1993) as an approximationof a knowledge base containing eneric information,and to supplement i with heuristics to handle thosecases which WN couldn't handle.Vieira and Teufel (1997) analyzed the corpus toidentify the cases of bridging descriptions that couldbe resolved using WordNet, those for which we coulduse heuristics, and those that couldn't be interpretedat the moment.
Six classes of bridging descriptionswere identified.
2Synonymy/Hyponymy/Meronymy This class(henceforth, Syn/Hyp/Mer)  includes those DDswhich are in a synonymy/hyponymy/meronymy re-lation with their anchors, i.e., the kind of seman-tic relation that is currently encoded in WordNet.Examples 3 are:(1) a. Synonymy: new album - -  the record; threebills - -  the legislation.b.
Hypernymy-Hyponymy: rice - -  the plant;the daily television show - -  the program.c.
Meronymy (part-of relation): plants - -  thepollen; house - -  the chimney.Names This class includes definite descriptionsthat refer back to proper names uch as people's andcompany names, as in:(2) Bach - -  the composer; Pinkerton's Inc - -  thecompany.Compound Nouns  This class includes bridgingdescriptions whose LINGUISTIC ANCHOa (i.e., the el-ement in the text to which they are related) is anoun occurring as part of a compound noun otherthan the head.
Examples include:(3) stock market crash - -  the markets; discountpackages - -  the discounts.Events  These are cases where the linguistic an-chors of DDs are not NPs but VPs or sentences.Examples are:2We should stress that this classification is primarilymotivated by processing considerations.3Note that the examples in (la) and (lb) are classifiedas bridging even though the relation is of co-reference.Class  TotalSyn/Hyp/Mer  12/14/12Names  4925 Compound NounsEvents  40Discourse  Topic  15In fe rence  37Tota l  204%19%24%12%20%7%18%100%Table 1: Distribution of types of bridging DDs(4) Individual investors and professional moneymanagers contend.
- -  They make the argu-ment ...; Kadane Oil Co. is currently drillingtwo wells and putting money into three others.- -  The activity ...Discourse  Topic  There are some cases of DDswhich are related to the (often implicit) discoursetopic (in the sense of (Reinhart, 1981)) of a text,rather than to some specific NP or VP.
For instance,(5) the industry (in a text whose discourse topicis oil companies); the first half( in a text whosediscourse topic is a concert).In fe rence  We collect in this class all the cases ofbridging descriptions whose relation with their NPanchor was based on more complex inferential rela-tions: for example, cases in which the relation be-tween the anchor and the DD was of reason, cause,consequence, or set-membership:(6) last week's earthquake - -  the suffering peopleare going through; Democratics/Republicans- -  the two sides.The relative importance of these classes in our cor-pus is shown in Table 1.
This classification is basedon what we took to be the main linking relation foreach of the 204 bridging DDs in the corpus 4.3 Reso lut ion  of BridgingDescriptionsWe used Vieira and Teufel's analysis as the basis forthe implementation of a second prototype.
In thissection we discuss how this prototype handles thedifferent ypes of bridging descriptions.3.1 Br idg ing  DDs  and  WordNetWe implemented a WordNet interface that reports apossible semantic link between two nouns when one4One problem with bridging references i that theyare often related to more than one antecedent in thediscourse (Poesio and Vieira, 1997).of the following is true:* The nouns are in the same synset (= synonymsof each other), as in su i t  - -  lawsuit .?
The nouns are in direct hyponymy relation witheach other, for instance, dol lar  - -  currency.?
There is a direct or indirect meronymy betweenthem.
Indirect meronymy holds when a con-cept inherits parts from its hypernyms, likecar inherits the part wheel from its hypernymwheeled_vehicle.?
Due to WordNet's idiosyncratic encoding, it isoften necessary to look for a semantic relationbetween coord inate  sisters, i.e.
hyponyms of thesame hypernym, such as home - -  house  whichare hyponyms of housing,  lodging.Sometimes, i fa relation between two head nouns isnot encoded in WN directly, the semantic losenessmight be found through the compound nouns madeup of them.
Thus, for a pair such as record, a lbumwe find synonymy between record_album and album.We ran a test in which WordNet was used to iden-tify the DD's anchors.
For each of the 204 bridgingDDs in our corpus, we considered the NPs in theprevious five sentences as a potential anchor 5, andqueried WN with the DD and potential anchor pair.WordNet reported a possible relation for 107 ofthe 204 DDs.
Often, more than one link was foundbetween a DD and a potential anchor, 6 and some-times links could be found with more than one po-tential anchor in the previous five sentences.
Onlyin 34 of these 107 cases we found at least one appro-priate anchor linking relation, and only in 21 caseswe found only appropriate anchors (for 13 there wasa mixture of suitable and unsuitable anchors).Of these 34 DDs for which a correct anchor wasfound, only 18 were among those we had classifiedas Syn/Hyp/Mer.
In 8 of these 18 cases, WordNetfound a link with an anchor that was not the one wehad identified manually, but which was still valid;for instance, we identified the link pound - -  the cur-rency  which was not found in WordNet, whereas ourautomatic search found ster l ing  - -  the currency) .5Our system does not currently include a proper seg-mentation algorithm.
Instead, we use a simple recencyheuristic--we only consider the antecedents in the n pre-vious sentences, where n is a constant determined empir-ically.
In our previous work (Vieira and Poesio, 1997).we observed that 5 was the value of n which gave thebest tradeoff between precision and recall.6For instance, transaction and trade were reported tobe in a hypernym relation and were also reported as coor-dinate sisters having as common hypernymy commerce.The 16 remaining relations were found for DDs thatwe had not classified as Syn/Hyp/Mer: for instance,whereas we had classified the DD the populat ion asbelonging to the class of DDs based on names hav-ing as anchor Koreans ,  our implementation found aWordNet relation for the pair nat ion  - -  the popu-lat ion; the system also found a few relations withproper names, such as Bach - -  the composer.In the following tests we have considered only di-rect meronymy, as indirect meronymy presented ex-treme low recall and precision at a very expensivecomputational cost.In order to reduce the number of false positives(86 out of 107) 7, we tried using a stack-based ap-proach towards finding potential anchors in the pre-vious sentences, as suggested in (Sidner, 1979); i.e.,the system would go back one sentence at a time,and stop as soon as a relation with a potential an-chor was found, rather than trying to find all possiblelinks.
As a result, we found exactly one correct an-chor for 30 DDs, slightly improving our results (76false positives).Class Total Right Wrong PSyn 11 4 7 36%Hyp 59 18 42 30%Mer  6 2 4 33%Sister  30 6 24 20%Total  106 30 76 28%Table 2: Analysis of the anchors found in WNTable 2 shows the distribution of the different se-mantic relations between DDs and the anchors foundby our stack-based search.
It presents precision fig-ures (P) related to each type of relation s. Sisterrelations are the least satisfactory ones.We tested, in particular, whether WordNet en-coded a semantic link between the 38 syn/hyp/merrelations in our corpus (just described) plus other 32relations extracted from a second corpus tudy (Poe-sio and Vieira, 1997).
The results for the 70 DDs aresummarised in Table 3.
Overall recall (R) was 46%.We could have expected 100% precision, since wehad manually identified the anchors, but the preci-sion figures (P) report an error when a sister relationis found instead of the expected (syn/hyp/mer) e-7The anchors found for 73 of the DDs were incor-rect, for the remaining 13 DDs the resulting anchors weremixed (some right/some wrong).SWe cannot estimate recall since we do not have aprecise number of syn/hyp/mer anchors that should befound (as different ypes of anchors may allow resolutionof bridging descriptions).lation.
The poorest recall was surprisingly obtainedfor synonymy relations, followed by meronymy re-lations, as expected, since these are only partiallyimplemented in WordNet.\[ Class I Total In WN Out R PSyn 20 7 13 35% 71%Hyp 32 18 14 56% 94%Mer  18 7 11 38% 71%Tota l  70 32 38 46% 84%Table 3: Search for semantic relations in WNThe low recall for synonymy relations may bedue to the context dependent, specialized senses ofsublanguage terminology (for instance, crash, bustand slump in Economics terminology).
Some nounswere not even encoded in WN (such as newsweekly,spino3~).
Other relations were missed due to theunexpected way in which knowledge is organised inWordNet.
For example, no association was found be-tween house and walls, because house is not encodedin WordNet as a hyponym of building but of housing,and housing does not have a meronymy link to wallwhereas building does.
Another example of counter-intuitive position in the hierarchy is that of catastro-phe, not listed as a hypernym of earthquake, but asits coordinate sister.
This example demonstrates theproblems that WordNet lexicographers faced whenthey had to coerce real-world concepts into a hierar-chy with single, no-default inheritance: catastrophesclearly subclassify into earthquakes and floods, butminor earthquakes don't have to be catastrophic.3.2 P roper  namesDefinite descriptions which refer back to propernames are very common in Wall Street Journal arti-cles.
Processing such DDs involves, first, determin-ing an entity type for each name in the text, thensearching for semantic relations.
If we get the entitytype person for the a name such as Mrs. Y.J.
Parkwe could, ideally, resolve the subsequent DD thehousewife using WordNet.
A few names are avail-able in WordNet: typically, famous people, coun-tries, states, cities and languages.
Other entity typescan be identified using appositive constructions andabbreviations like Mr., Co., Inc. etc.
as cues.The algorithm we developed, based on a mixtureof access to WordNet and heuristics such as thosewe described, found the correct type for 66% of thenames in our corpus (535/814).
Including a back-tracking mechanism which re-processes a text look-ing for missing name types (with this mechanism weidentify the type for the name Morishita in a textualsequence like Morishita - -  Mr. Morishita) increasesour recall to 69% (562/814).
We then used WordNetto match the types found with previous referencesin the text.
This resulted in the resolution of 53%(26/49) of the cases based on names.
We missed rela-tions which are not found in WordNet (for instance,Mr.
Morishita - -  the 57 year-old).
But again wealso found a large number of false positives.3.3 Compound NounsSometimes, a bridging description is linked to a non-head noun in a compound noun:(7) stock market crash - -  the markets; rulechanges - -  the rules; discount packages ~ thediscounts.One way of processing these definite descriptionswould be to update the discourse model with dis-course referents not only for the NP as a whole,but also for the embedded nouns: for example, afterprocessing stock market crash, we could introduce adiscourse referent for stock market, and another dis-course referent for stock market crash.
The DD themarkets would be co-referring with the first of thesereferents (with identical head noun), and we couldsimply use our anaphora resolution algorithms.
Thissolution, however, makes available discourse refer-ents that are generally unaccessible for pronominalanaphora.
We therefore followed a different route:our algorithm for identifying antecedents attemptsto match not only heads with heads, but also thehead of a DD with the pre-modifiers of a previousNP, the pre-modifiers of a DD with the pre-modifiersof its antecedents, and the pre-modifiers of the DDwith the head of a previous NP.
With this, we ob-tained a total of 54 resolutions of which 36 were cor-rect, although we did not always find a main linkingrelation licensing the use of a DD.Examples of correct resolutions are:(8) a.
Head of DD with pre-modifier of an-tecedent: the stock market crash - -  themarkets; rule changes - -  the rules;b. Pre-modifiers of DD with pre-modifiers ofantecedent: most oil companies - -  the oilfields; his art business - -  the art gallery;c. Pre-modifiers of DD with head of an-tecedent: New ~brk City - -  the city coun-cil district lines; a 15-acre plot and mainhome - the home site.There are also cases in which the pre-modifiersplus the head noun of a DD may indicate a bridg-ing reference: we may find an antecedent with thesame head noun for a DD but referring to a differententity, this being signalled by the pre-modification.Some examples:(9) the company's abrasive segment - -  the engi-neering materials segment; Italy's unemploy-ment rate - -  the southern unemployment rate;Pinkerton - -  the new Pinkerton; increases of3.9 ~ - -  the actual wage increases may havebeen bigger.Our previous heuristics for treatment of pre-modifiers in anaphoric resolution handled the firsttwo examples correctly (Vieira and Poesio, 1997):as they present different pre-modifiers we did nottreat them as anaphoric in the first version of oursystem.
Such cases, as well as DDs modified by newand actual (last two examples), may now be treatedas bridging references 9.3.4 EventsTo process DDs based on events (situations or propo-sitions), we are trying, as a first approach, to trans-form verbs into their nominalizations, and then look-ing for a relation in WordNet.
Some nominalizationscan be generated by general procedures or learnedby means of a stochastic method: e.g., we could useWordNet's morphology component as a stemmer,and augment he verbal stems with the most com-mon suffixes for nominalizations which could be keptin a list, like -ment, -ion.
In our corpus, 17% (7/40)of the bridging references based on events are directnominalizations of this type (for instance, changeswere proposed - the proposals).Another 17% are cases in which knowledge of thesemantics of the verb is necessary (as in borrowed -the loan).
The remaining 66% (26 cases) of bridg-ing DDs based on events require inference reasoningbased on the compositional meaning of the phrases(as in It went looking for a partner - pitching theprospect); these cases are out of reach just now, aswell as the cases listed under "discourse topic" and"inference".4 Rest r i c t ive  Post -mod i f i ca t ion  asAnchorsWhereas the problem of finding the appropriate tex-tual anchor for bridging descriptions requires knowl-edge inference and reasoning, DDs with restrictivepost-modification give the reader both anchor anddescription in the same expression.
As Hawkinspoints out (Hawkins, 1978):... first mention uses of the with both ref-erent establishing relative clauses and as-9This idea is not implemented yet.sociative clauses are not essentially differ-ent from the other uses mentioned in thelast section (Hawkin's associative uses/ourbridging uses).
The only difference is that.in the latter uses set identification and tilelocatability of the referent were possibleon account of previous triggers, whereasit is now function of the modifier itselfto provide the information which makesset identification and location poss ib le -(parentheses ours).This could be seen as an advantage, as we directlyfind the anchors of these DDs.
They are quite com-mon uses of DDs, but not much attention has beendevoted to them as a special case of anchor linkingrelations.
The main problem for these cases is to findout their links, which is also a remaining problem forour proposals of anchor identification throughout t hepaper.The head noun of a DD and its modifier may berelated in different ways, as shown by the examples:(10) the number of job seekers; the anthers of theplant; the ideal of a level playing field; the flipside of the Stoltzman personality.In some cases, the relation between noun and com-plement seem to be looser than the relations forbridging descriptions.
Sequences uch as the laws ofheredity; the cost of the plan are acceptable, whereasheredity - -  the laws; the plan - -  the cost are unlikelyto occur.
On the other hand, bridging such as thehouse - -  the kitchen; the firm - -  the owners are asacceptable as the kitchen of the house; the owners ofthe firm.
Some proposals of a systematic treatmentfor the identification of anchor linking relations forbridging DDs are (Heim, 1982; Barker, 1991; Poesio,1994; Strand, 1997).5 DiscussionWe presented our most recent results concerning theresolution of bridging descriptions.
We identifieddifferent ypes of bridging descriptions, and we pro-posed a treatment for each of them separately.We presented some preliminary experiments withWordNet.
Our experience was mixed.
WordNet wasuseful in determining the type of entity for someof the proper names in our corpus, typically cities,states and countries.
On the other hand, WordNetproved to be unreliable for the automatic identifi-cation of possible link relations, as too many falsepositives were found.
A 'blind' WordNet search forsemantic relations is also very expensive computa-tionally.
A mechanism for focus tracking (Grosz andSidner, 1986) or a clustering algorithm should be ap-plied first in order to minimise the costs.In order to have proper names available for reso-lution of future references, it is useful to create dis-course referents for them which contain their entitytypes.
Up to now we have identified an entity typefor 69% of the names in our corpus, and we resolved53% of the DDs referring back to proper names withthe help of WordNet.Pre-modifiers in compound nouns may license theuse of definite descriptions.
We have presented somepreliminary tests that should be further developed.Cases of bridging references based on events orpropositions usually involve common-sense r ason-ing; some of them (in our corpus, 34% of all casesbased on events) can however be solved by trans-forming verbs into their nominalizations and thensearching for a semantic relation.We also claimed that the same problem of deter-mining a linking relation for bridging descriptionsholds for first mention uses of DD based on restric-tive post-modification.As an estimate, we could say that about 60% ofthe cases in the bridging class could be treated bydeveloping the ideas proposed here.
We combinedthe proposed heuristics with the first version of oursystem-- we applied the heuristics for proper names,compound nouns and WordNet consult (in this or-der) to the cases which the system did not handlebefore.
The impact on the overall system perfor-mance was an increase in recall from 56% to 65%(note that the bridging class is a small class com-pared to the others) but precision decreased from84% to 82%.
The heuristics hould be further devel-oped, and their integration into the system should beworked out in more detai l--the heuristics could beimplemented in parallel or through a decision tree.Acknowledgements  The authors would fike tothank Kjetil Strand and the anonymous referees for theircomments on cartier drafts of the paper.
The authors aresupported by an EPSRC Advanced Fellowship, a CNPqstudentship and an EPSRC studentship, respectively.Re ferencesBarker, C. 1991.
Possessive Descriptions.
Ph.D.thesis, University of California at Santa Cruz,Santa Cruz, CA.Carter, D. M. 1987.
Interpreting Anaphors in Nat-ural Language Texts.
Ellis Horwood.Clark, H. H. 1977.
Bridging.
In P. N. Johnson-Laird and P.C.
Wason, eds., Thinking: Readingsin Cognitive Science.
Cambridge University Press.Clark, H. H. and C. R. Marshall.
1981.
Definitereference and mutual knowledge.
In Elements ofDiscourse Understanding.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Fraurud, K. 1990.
Definiteness and the processingof NPs in natural discourse.
Journal of Semantics,7:395-433.Grosz, B. J. and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention,intention, and the structure of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 12(3) :175-204.Hawkins, J.
A.
1978.
Definiteness and Indefinite-ness.
Croom Helm.Heim, I.
1982.
The Semantics of Definite and In-definite Noun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofMassachusetts at Amherst.Miller, G. et al 1993.
Five papers on WordNet.Technical Report CSL Report 43, Cognitive Sci-ence Laboratory, Princeton University.Poesio, M. 1994.
Weak definites.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth Conference on Semantics and Linguis-tic Theory, SALT-4.
Cornell University Press.Poesio, M. and Vieira, R. 1997.
A Corpusbased investigation of definite description use.Manuscript, Centre for Cognitive Science, Univer-sity of Edinburgh.Prince, E. F. 1981.
Toward a taxonomy of given-new information.
In P. Cole, ed., Radical Prag-matics.
Academic Press, pages 223-256.Prince, E. F. 1992.
The ZPG letter: subjects, defi-niteness, and information status.
In S. Thomp-son and W. Mann, eds., Discourse description:diverse analyses of a fund-raising text.
John Ben-jamins, pages 295-325.Reinhart, T. 1981.
Pragmatics and Linguistics: AnAnalysis of Sentence Topics Philosophica, 27(1).Sidner, C.'L.
1979.
Towards a computational the-ory of definite anaphora comprehension i  Englishdiscourse.
Ph.D. thesis, MIT.Strand, K. 1997.
A Taxonomy of Linking Relations.Journal of Semantics, forthcoming.Vieira, R. and M. Poesio.
1997.
Processing def-inite descriptions in corpora.
In S. Botley andM.
McEnery, eds., Corpus-based and Computa-tional Approaches to Discourse Anaphora.
UCLPress.Vieira, R. and S. Teufel.
1997.
Towards Resolutionof Bridging Descriptions.
In Proceedings of theA CL Student Session.
