Towards Translat ing Spoken Language Pragmat ics  in anAnalogical  FrameworkKeiko HoriguchiDepartment of Language Engineering, UMIST& D-21 Laboratory, Sony Corporation6-7-35 KitashinagawaShinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141JapankeikoQpdp, crl .
sony.
co. jpAbstractThis paper argues that stylistically andpragmatically high-quality spoken lan-guage translation requires the transfer ofpragmatic information at an abstract levelof "utterance strategies".
A new cate-gorization of spoken language phenomenainto essentially non-meaningful "speecherrors", and purposeful "natural speechproperties" is introduced, and the mannerin which natural speech properties conveypragmatic information is described.
Fi-nally, an extension of the analogical speechtranslation approach is proposed that ac-counts for such higher-level pragmatic in-formation.1 IntroductionTraditional grammar, at its origin highly prescrip-tive, was aimed at written sentences, and completelyignored all characteristics of spoken language.
Thisdistinction was codified in Chomsky's competence-performance distinction (Chomsky, 1965).
Chom-sky singled out the abstract notion of grammati-cal competence, the rules or constraints character-ize grammatical sentences, as the proper subject forthe study of language.
All other characteristics oflanguage were relegated to the category of languageperformance, ssentially meaningless by-products ofthe system that happens to implement language pro-duction in humans.
Traditional approaches to com-putational linguistics have also focused on the rulesof grammar.1.1 Spoken LanguageSpoken language, however, has many characteris-tics that are different from written language.
Whenan utterance is produced on-line, the speaker doesnot have a lot of time to think and plan the en-tire utterance.
For this reason, spoken utterancestend to be relatively short, have less complex struc-ture, and contain more fixed or semi-fixed expres-sions than written sentences.
At the same time, theon-line nature of spoken language also gives rise toso-called "disfluencies'.
Furthermore, written com-munication usually aims at an accurate transfer ofinformation, in an interactive mode of verbal com-munication, each utterance often carries larger por-tion of pragmatic information such as a variety ofillocutionary and perlocutionary forces.1.2 Pragmatic InformationAccurate handling of pragmatic information inspeech translation is gaining importance as speechrecognition technology improves.
As can beobserved in communications between a nativespeaker and an intermediate/advanced second-language learner, pragmatic inappropriateness inotherwise perfectly grammatical utterances causesmore communicational damage than purely syntac-tic mistakes, since the listener tends to interpret itas intentional or malicious, instead of viewing it asa result of the speaker's linguistic incompetence.2 Previous Approaches: RecognizingSpeech Act TypesFor the reasons outlined above, it is important ohandle pragmatic information in spoken languagetranslation.
The most studied area in pragmaticshas been the illocutionary force of utterances.
Thistype of information has been shown to be useful forreducing ambiguities and improving the accuracy ofspeech recognition and translation in many systems(Woszczyna nd Waibel, 1994), (Nagata, 1992), (quet al, 1996).2.1 Rule-based ApproachesOne of the traditional approaches to this area ofpragmatics is to recognize speech act types com-positionally using syntactic and semantic rules plus16a few pragmatic principles, such as felicity condi-tions for each speech act type.
Spoken languageexpressions, however, tend to deviate from conven-tional grammars, and a system consisting of layersof rule-based modules is often too brittle to han-dle naturally-occurring spoken input.
Furthermore,there are a number of fully- or semi-lexicalized mor-pheme sequences that carry specific illocutionaryforces but that are not totally predictable from itsforms.
These sequences have an institutionalizedfunction in the particular community, and are bestaccounted holistically rather than analytically (Paw-Icy and Syder, 1983).2.2 Pattern Match ingMany spoken language systems have thus been us-ing robust pattern-matching techniques to overcomethese problems.
They use detailed, task-specifictemplates and semantic grammars, which can recog-nize various fixed phrases to mark speech act typeswhile skipping over disflucncies in the input.
Thismethod has been shown to be successful in many di-aloguc systems (Jackson ct al., 1991), (Ward, 1991).3 Other Pragmatic InformationWhen people engage in face-to-face dialogues, the fo-cus is usually on establishing and maintaining a goodrelationship among the interlocutors, rather thanmere transfer of information.
Each spoken utterancethus usually carries a large portion of what (Trau-golf, 1982) calls the expressive component, whichexpresses the speaker's attitude toward the proposi-tion, toward the interlocutor, and toward the speechsituation.3.1 Ignor ing  Express ive  In fo rmat ionWhen spoken language understanding is performedin a goal-oriented dialogue system, it is usually ac-ceptable to strip off any "extraneous" information inorder to map the speaker's intention onto an unam-biguous ystem command.
This is not possible, how-ever, in a spoken language translation system thatacts as a human-human verbal communication aid,where the expressive information encoded in utter-ances plays a far bigger role.
For example, if we con-sider a conversation between two persons who meetfor the first time at a party and extract only proposi-tionally meaningful chunks and translate them, theresult will resemble an interrogation rather than apleasant conversation.3.2 T rans la t ing  Pragmat ic  In fo rmat ionIn our work, we take the view that important prag-matic information is actually encoded in many of thecharacteristics of spoken language that have beenviewed as defective or ill-formed.
We believe thatmany of such characteristics arry specific commu-nicative functions that must be preserved in orderso-called"disfluencies"(utterance strategiesFigure 1: Communication vs. Performanceto obtain translations with high stylistic and prag-matic accuracy.
We propose that the spoken lan-guage phenomena that have been labeled as "disflu-encies" or "ill-formedness" be divided into two cat-egories: those that serve a communicative function,and those that are non-communicative by-productsof the speech production process.4 Communicat ion  and Per formanceWe refer to the spoken language phenomena thatare non-communicative by-products of the speechproduction process as "speech performance errors",and to the phenomena that serve a communicativefunction as "natural speech properties".4.1 Speech  Per fo rmance  Er rorsSpeech performance errors are obvious errors not in-tended by the speaker and (for our purposes) notbearing any information.
This includes errors inpronunciation, word selection, and structure selec-tion.
When speech performance errors are correctedby the speaker within the utterance, they result inslip-of-the-tongue r pairs.4.2 Natura l  Speech  Proper t iesIn contrast to speech performance rrors, natu-ral speech properties are produced intentionally bythe speaker, and usually carry specific pragmatic,communicative functions.
For example, invertedword order and repetitions usually emphasize cer-tain parts of the utterance.
Incomplete sentencesare often used to soften so-called "face threateningacts" (Brown and Levinson, 1987), speech acts thatmight have negative ffects on the listener, such asrejections or requests.4.3 Speech  Repa i rsSome types of repairs, in which a phrase is para-phrased or repeated with more information, also ful-17Figure 2: Two-level Distortion Model of SpokenLanguagefill communicative functions.
We call such repairselaborating repairs, in contrast o slip-of-the-tonguerepairs which result from correcting speech perfor-mance errors.
Elaborating repairs like the examplebelow may signal the listener about the status ofthe speaker's internal processing, or reduce the face-threatening effect of the utterance.I gave it to you on Monday, yeah, probablyon Monday the 27th.Unlike a slip-of-the-tongue repair, where thespeaker would have deleted the original phrase hadthere be time and means, in an elaborating repair,deleting the phrase (on Monday in the exampleabove) would result in a different effect on the di-alogue.4.4 Ut terance  St ra teg iesWe refer to all the devices that serves pragmatic orcommunicative functions as "utterance strategies".They concern the speaker's intention of "how to say"an utterance, as opposed to "what to say" (proposi-tional content) of the utterance.
For this reason,their semantics are non-truth-conditional.
Utter-ance strategies range from grammatically-encodedinformation to extra-linguistic devices uch as facialexpressions and body language, to natural speechproperties (Figure 1).4.5 D is tor t ion  Mode lBased on this discussion, we arrive at the two-levelmodel of spoken language phenomena shown in Fig-ure 2.
The speaker's intention of "what to say" (in-tended propositional content) is combined with thespeaker's intention of "how to say it" (pragmatic ut-terance strategies) to form the "intended utterance",which contains natural speech properties.
When thespeaker actually produces the utterance, speech per-formance errors might occur, resulting in the "ac-tual utterance" that is to be interpreted by the lis-tener.
We believe that spoken language translationsystems need to be able to translate what is con-veyed through natural speech properties in order tofully convey the speaker's intentions in verbal com-munication.5 Communicating PragmaticInformationThis section discusses the different types of prag-matic information that play a role in spoken dia-logues.5.1 D iscourse  S t ructureOne type of pragmatic information relates to sig-naling discourse structure.
This concerns how thepropositional content of the current utterance is re-lated to what the conversational participants alreadyknow, and to the structure of the discourse.
It in-dicates the theme and the theme of the utterance,and places new or contrasting information into fo-cus.
It may signal a new topic, or the return of an oldtopic, the speaker's attempt o hold the conversa-tional floor.
This type of pragmatic information hasbeen noted to be very important for automaticallysynthesizing utterance with appropriate intonation(Prevost, 1996), and for generating sentences withappropriate word order in free word order languagessuch as Turkish (Hoffman, 1996).Natural speech properties that carry the informa-tion related to discourse include word order vari-ations (inversions, right or left-dislocations), andfilled pauses and hedges used as a floor-holding de-vice to signal the listener not to take her turn.
Someinterjections and hedges can be used to help the lis-tener prepare herself or the subsequent i formation,or aid the listener's processing and comprehension fthe current utterance.5.2 In terpersona l  In tent ion :  Po l i tenessThe majority of utterance strategies express thespeaker's interpersonal intentions, the main aspectbeing politeness.
There are two different types ofpoliteness expressed in spoken language, "discern-ment" and "volition" (Ide, 1989).
Discernmentrefers to the speaker's ecognition of her relationshipwith the addressee and the situation.
This is mainlyexpressed through the speaker's choice of conversa-tional topic, lexical items, and syntactic structures.For example, the same conversational participantsmay use different linguistic forms depending on thespeech situation, such as a discussion during a formalmeeting versus an informal hallway-chat after themeeting.
The choice of formal and informal predi-cate forms in Japanese and the choice of distant and18familiar second person pronouns in French and Ger-man are examples of lexically encoded discernmentmarkers.The volitional aspect of politeness is usually ex-"pressed through projection of "face".
There are twodistinct aspects of face, "positive face" and "negativeface" in the theory of (Brown and Levinson, 1987),which are rephrased as involvement and indepen-dence, respectively, in (Scollon and Scollon, 1995).Positive face or involvement concerns one's desire tobe liked by others, to be involved with others, andto be part of the same group.
Negative face or inde-pendence, on the other hand, concerns one's desireto maintain privacy and independence, and to avoidthe imposition or dominance of others.5.3 Pos i t ive  FaceStrategies to project positive face, which are called"positive politeness trategies" (Brown and Levin-son, 1987) or "solidarity politeness" (Scollon andScollon, 1995), can be carried out by the use of in-tensifiers accompanying positively affecting speechacts such as thanking and complimenting.
The useof the first-person plural pronoun we in English isalso an example of solidarity politeness.
Most of theother linguistic items used in solidarity politenessstrategies, however, do not bear propositional con-tent.
For example, the speaker may try to appeal tomutual beliefs or affective common ground by usingthe English interjection you know and the Japanesesentence-final particle ne (Cook, 1988).
The speakermay also try to invite the addressee's involvementby using hearer-oriented question tags such as right,all right, okay, would you or will you, or by usingdevices to attract the addressee's attention such aslook, listen, hey and informal or affectionate addressterms.Telegraphic utterances that omit obvious informa-tion can be interpreted as a strategy to emphasizecommon knowledge among the interlocutors.
In-volvement strategies "assert the speaker's right toadvance his or her own position on the grounds thatthe listener will be equally interested in that positionand in advancing his or her own position (Scollonand Scollon, 1995):85".
The speaker may achievethis by displaying an assertive, "non-challengeableattitude" (Kawanishi, 1994) with the Japanese janaiform, or by aligning herself and the listener on thesame side by using distant demonstrative ano (that)(Cook, 1993).5.4 Negat ive  FaceStrategies to project negative face, which are called"negative politeness" or "deference politeness", aremainly carried out by the use of "toning down"devices accompanying negatively affecting speechacts such as criticizing, giving advice, requesting,or refusing an offer or request.
Expressions of thespeaker's hesitation or tentativeness, such as hedges(well, I don't know, I think, I am wondering if.
.
.
),use of the interrogative form, or the past tense I waswondering if... or the subjunctive mood it wouldbe better are examples of such devices to soften theforce of the utterance, and to make it easier for theaddressee to refuse.
Sometimes even questions toask permissions to ask a question are used to givethe addressees ways to answer negatively withoutdirectly refusing the request, as shown in the follow-ing example given (Yule, 1996), pp.64-65:I know you're busy, but might I ask youif-em-if  you happen to have an extra penthat I could, you know-eh-maybe borrow?There are also content "downtoners" such as lit-tle, a bit, just, .
.
.
and so on, and the use of collo-quial expressions (such as to give a hand instead ofto help), which trivialize the action mentioned in theutterance.
The speaker may also try to create dis-tance between the addressee by avoiding reference toboth the speaker and the addressee, as in an agent-less passive sentence I would like a reservation to bemade.5.5 Expressing Att itudeAnother type of utterance strategy expresses thespeaker's attitude towards the propositional contentin the utterance.
This information can be conveyedthrough various forms of evidential markers and de-vices to express the speaker's certainty/uncertainty,or the speaker's perspective.6 Handling Pragmatic Informationin Speech TranslationIn the context of spoken language translation, thecrucial characteristic of pragmatic utterance strate-gies is that the surface forms in which they are real-ized are often different across languages.6.1 Example: English vs. J apanesePolitenessFor example, softening the effect of an imperativeforce by questioning the addressee's ability to per-form the action (Can you do X for me ?)
or assert-ing the speaker's desire ( I  would like you to do Xfor me) can be found across many languages.
How-ever, strategies to further reduce the imposing effectof these request forms are usually not directly trans-ferable across languages.
In English, a more politeway of phrasing the request Can you do X for me ?would be the use of the subjunctive mood, Couldyou do X for me ?, but no corresponding form existsin Japanese.
Instead, the Japanese speaker may usethe negative form X shire itadakemasen ka?.
If thisJapanese form is translated literally into English, theresult would be Can't you do X for me ?, which hasa quite different pragmatic meaning, and definitelydoes not convey the same degree of politeness as theJapanese xpression.19?
..Compute :i Ci~i!Examp!~i !iGiven ~ ...Figure 3: Computing an Interpretation6.2 Abstract Pragmatic TransferTo what extent word order can be altered, and howeasily known information can be elided, are alsolargely dependent on the syntax of each language.One strategy that is realized as fronting may bemarked as intonation in another language.
It is notsufficient, therefore, to recognize the surface form ofeach pragmatic strategy and directly transfer it tothe same surface form in another language.
Spokenlanguage systems are thus required to transfer prag-matic utterance strategies at a more abstract leveland to be able to recognize and generate appropriatesurface forms in each language, in order to achievehigh-quallty translation.
In our approach, we treatpragmatic strategies as additional information thatare superimposed upon basic propositional content,try to recognize and extract them, and transfer themto the appropriate target language expressions.7 An  Ana log ica l  F ramework  forT rans la t ing  P ragmat icsThis section gives a brief overview of our approachto translating spoken language.7.1 The  Role of LexicallzationOur approach to translating spoken utterances res-onates well with the insights of (Pawley and Syder,1983) about native speakers' competence and knowl-edge.
According to Pawley and Syder, a nativespeaker has a number of fully- or semi-lexicalizedmorpheme sequences in her long-term memory, inaddition to a set of productive syntactic rules.
Whenpeople engage in a conversation, there are a num-ber of cognitively intensive tasks that they have toperform other than encording and decoding inter-nal structure of each utterance, such as planning alarger unit of discourse, planning and interpretingperlocutionary effects, and paying attention to thesurroundings.
The use of pre-established xpressionshelps both the speaker and the addressee, since suchexpressions can be easily and quickly retrieved fromtheir long-term emory, and little encoding and de-coding work is required.
As Pawley and Syder note,these memorized sequences have varying degrees oflexicalization.
While some are completely fixed ex-pressions, most others are "stems" that can be in-flected, expanded or transformed to some extent.7.2 Analogical TranslationThis model of a native speaker's linguistic compe-tence fits very well with the analogical frameworkof translation (Nagao, 1984), (Jones, 1996).
Inthe analogical framework, thetranslation system isequipped with a large database of pre-translated x-ample pairs, in which the best example that matchesthe input expression is selected and used for gen-erating an appropriate target language xpression.For translating spoken language, an analogical sys-tem should have various entence stems and patternsalong with their corresponding translation i  its ex-ample database.
In this framework, the task of anthe spoken language translation system can be seenas follows: given the speech recognizer output, thesystem must recover the closest example available inthe example database (Figure 3).7.3 A Mode l  of Speech ProductionThere are a number of factors that need to be consid-ered in trying to select the most appropriate examplein the database for the given input.
Based on fourdistinct factors that we have identified, we proposea model of spoken language production that we callthe "cascaded noisy channel model" (Figure 4).
Inthis model, the speaker first selects an example Ethat is closest to the core of the message that sheintends to express.
Then, the speaker modifies pat-terns by replacing subconstituents, by expanding itwith modifiers, and by transforming it into differentsyntactic constructions (for example, transformingit from the declarative mood 4to the interrogativemood, or from the active voice to the passive voice).This process yields the "intended propositional con-tent"~ Next, depending on the speech situation anddiscourse context, the speaker applies certain prag-matic utterance strategies.
This results in the "in-tended utterance", which is characterized by naturalspeech properties such as ellipsis, inverted word or-der, or interjections.When the speaker actually vocalizes the utter-ance, speech performance errors may occur.
The re-sult of this is the "actual utterance" that is presentedto the listener.
The speech recognition program con-verts the speech signal to a string of word hypothe-ses, possibly introducing additional errors and dis-tortions, which results in the "recognizer output".20Closest :Exampie i::.
::: ':Figure 4: Cascaded Noisy Channel Model of SpokenLanguageThus, the speech recognizer output, which repre-sents the input to the translation engine, has tra-versed four distinct channels or distortion processes,each of which is associated with different causes andeffects on the message.
Previous research has shownthat speech recognizer errors can bc modeled, andcorrected, in such a framework (Ringger and Allen,1996).
In our work, we extend this model to cover asequence of separate sources of distortions.7.4 A Hybr id  Analogical Method  forSpeech TranslationWe have incorporated into the analogical transla-tion method a shallow syntactic analysis modulethat identifies clause and phrase boundaries and thatconverts some variations into lexical and syntacticfeatures.
Both input and example expressions arematched after shallow syntactic analysis.
Analogi-cal matching and transfer is applied recursively tothe input syntactic tree.
By applying the recursivcanalogical transfer process from larger linguistic con-stitucnts to subconstituents, the system can handlevarious degree of lexicalization in the input languagein an efficient manner.In our work, the distortion processes are modeledusing a number of distortion operators that operateon the shallow syntactic tree of the utterance.
Givena number of independence assumptions, the mostprobable example can be computed efficiently witha dynamic programming algorithm.
(See (Horiguchiand Franz, 1997) for more details.
)8 An  ExampleThis section shows an example of the manner inwhich an expression containing a pragmatic "polite-ness" component is translated from Japanese to En-glish.8.1 Japanese InputIn the following example, speaker A is explaining anincident in which she was asked a difficult favor, andspeaker B is responding, expressing her understand-ing of A's difficult position.
(1)A: sorede tyotto kangaesaseteso a-little think-CAUSE-PASS''so I said 'let me think for a while'''(2)B:hosii-tte itta no,ant-QUOTE say-PAST PARTnanka muzukasii-yo-ne souiu noHEDGE be-difficult-PART-PART such thingkotowaru no-ttereject thing-TOPThe propositional content of speaker B's responseis "To reject something like that is difficult," but theutterance also contains a number of natural speechproperties that add certain pragmatic elements ofmeaning.8.2 Pragmat ic  OperatorsThe "intended propositional content" of the aboveutterancc's can be paraphrased as follows:(3) Souiu no-wo kotowaru no-ga muzukashii.such thing-0BJ reject thing-SBJ be-difficultOur flexible matching process is ~ble to map aninverted construction like example input (2) onto itsnormalized form (3).
Then, the following pragmaticoperators are found to have been applied to the "in-tended propositional content":a inserting nankapragmatic strategy: soften the current assertionpragmatic effect: deference politeness '?
inserting-yopragmatic strategy: express the attitude thatthe speaker's assertion is non-challcngcablepragmatic effect: solidarity politeness?
inserting-hepragmatic strategy: indicate affective commongroundpragmatic effect: solidarity politeness?
deleting object marker -wopragmatic strategy: emphasize shared knowl-edgepragmatic effect: solidarity politeness?
subject-predicate inversionpragmatic strategy: point to previously estab-lished or implied referentpragmatic effect: discourse coherence, solidar-ity politeness21The last operator, subject-predicate inversion, isusually employed to describe how the subsequentinformation connects to the previous discourse bypreposing the constituent that is implicitly or explic-itly related to something in the previous discourse.In the example above, it is used to point to the sit-uation that A has been talking about as somethingalready established or agreed upon to be difficult,and thus can be interpreted as a solidarity polite-ness operator which reinforces the common groundbetween the interlocutors.8.3 Translating the UtteranceThis subsection discusses why it is necessary to ana-lyze which pragmatic operators were applied to theinput, and to generate the corresponding pragmaticoperators in the output, in order to obtain stylisti-cally and pragmatically high-quality translations.8.4 Pure Analogical  Translat ionIf we employ a pure example-based translationmethod, most of the pragmatic information cannotbe reflected, since it is not feasible for the exam-ple database to contain all possible pragmaticallymarked permutations of the examples.
Therefore,in the best case, the following literal translation ofsentence (3) might be obtained:(4) To reject something like that is difficult.Since sentence (4) is pragmatically neutral, thepragmatic information from the original sentencehas been lost.8.5 Direct Mapp|ngA direct one-to~one mapping of each pragmaticstrategy operator to the target language is not pos-sible, since many of these operators are not directlytranslatable to other languages.
For example, whilemany  languages have hedges similar to nanka, andmany languages include means to invert subject andpredicate, only few languages include dcletable case-markers such as zoo or sentential particles such as yoand ne.
Thus, if we attempt a direct mapping of thepragmatic operators, we might obtain a translationsimilar to the following:(5) Sort of difficult, to reject something likethat isThis translation is quite awkward, and does notfully reflect the pragmatic meaning of the originalsentence.8.6 Translating Pragmatic StrategiesBy analyzing each operator for its pragmatic ef-fect, we can obtain a translation that preserves thespeaker's pragmatic intentions:Well, it's sort of difficult, isn't it, to rejectsomething like that.In this translation, the deference politeness trategyis transferred to the hedge words well and sort of,the solidarity politeness strategies are transferred tothe tag question isn't it, and the subject-predicateinversion is transferred into the extraposition con-struction.8.7 Conclus ions and Further  WorkOur work is motivated by the goal of pragmaticallyhigh-quality translation of spoken utterances of thetype that may be found in human-to-human spo-ken dialogues.
In order to accurately render the fullrange of meaning conveyed by such utterances, itis not sufficient o limit attention to syntactic andsemantic aspects of spoken expressions.Based on a number of independent motivations,we have adopted a hybrid analogical approach tothe problem of translating spoken language.
Briefly,our approach is motivated by the shortcomings thatwe perceive in other approaches, uch as syntactic orsemantic-grammar based, interlingua-based, purelyanalogical, or purely statistical methods.
For moredetailed arguments, please refer to (Horiguchi andFranz, 1997).In this paper, we have described our view of spo-ken language pragmatics, and we have described howpragmatic information can be translated within thehybrid analogical approach.
In future work, we willperform corpus analysis for additional pragmatic op-erators, and extend the prototype implementationof our analogical speech translation system to coverthese phenomena.ReferencesBateman, John.
1988.
Aspects of clause: Politenessin Japanese: An extended inquiry semantics treat-ment.
In Proceedings of the ~6th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics.Bates, Madeleine, Robert J. Bobrow, and Ralph M.Weischedel.
1993.
Critical challenges for natu-ral language processing.
In Madeleine Bates andRalph M. Weischedel, editors, Challenges in Nat-ural Language Processing.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, pages 3-36.Bobrow, R., Robert Ingria, and David Stallard.1990.
Syntactic and semantic knowledge in theDELPHI unification grammar.
In Proceedings ofthe Speech and Natural Language Workshop, pages230-236, June.Brown, Penelope and Stephen Levinson.
1987.Politeness: Some universals in language usage.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K.Chomsky, Noam.
1965.
Syntactic Structures.
TheMIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.22Cook, Haruko Minegishi.
1988.
Sentential particlein Japanese conversations: A study of indezical-ity.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Southern Califor-nia.Cook, Haruko Minegishi.
1993.
Functions of thefiller ano in Japanese.
In Soonja Choi, editor,Japanese/Korean Linguistics Volume 3, pages 19-38.
CSLI, Stanford University, CA.Epstein, M., K. Papieni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, andS.
Della Pietra.
1996.
Statistical natural lan-guage understanding using hidden clumpings.
InICASSP-96, pages 176-179, Atlanta, GA.Hoffman, Beryl.
1996.
Translating into free wordorder languages.
In Coling-96, Copenhagen, Den-mark.Horiguchi, Keiko and Alexander Franz.
1997.A formal basis for spoken language translationby analogy.
In Spoken Language Workshop atA CL/EA CL-97, Madrid, Spain.Ide, Sachiko.
1989.
Formal forms and discernment:Two neglected aspects of universals of linguisticpoliteness.
Multilingua, 8(2/3):223-248.Jackson, Eric, Douglas Appelt, John Bear, RobertMoore, and Ann Podlozny.
1991.
A templatematcher for robust NL interpretation.
In Proceed-ings of the Speech and Natural Language Work-shop, pages 190-194, February.Jones, Daniel.
1996.
Analogical Natural LanguageProcessing.
UCL Press, London.Kawanishi, Yumiko.
1994.
An ananlysis of non-challengeable modals: Korean -canha(yo) andJapanese -janai.
In Noriko Akatsuka, editor,Japanese/Korean Linguistics, Volume 4, pages95-112.
CSLI, Stanford.Maruyama, Naoko.
1996.
Hanashikotoba no shoso(bt).
In wQN'\[gA, pages 41-58, March.Mayfield, L., M. Gavalda, W. Ward, and A. Waibel.1995.
Concept-based speech translation.
InICASSP-g5, pages 97-100, Detroit, MI.Nagao, Makoto.
1984.
A framework of a MachineTranslation between Japanese and English byanalogy principle.
In A. Elithorn and R. Banerji,editors, Artificial and Human Intelligence, pages173-180.
North-Holland.Nagata, Masaaki.
1992.
Using pragmatics to ruleout recognition errors in cooperative task-orienteddialogues.
In Proceedings of International Confer-ence on Spoken Language Processing (ICSLP-g2),pages 647-650.Nakatani, Christine and Julia Hirschberg.
1993.
Aspeech-first model for repair detection and correc-tion.
In Proceedings of the 31st Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 46-3, Columbus, Ohio.O'Shaughnessy, Douglas.
1994.
Correcting complexfalse starts in spontaneous speech.
In Proceedingsof International Conference on Acoustics, Speech,and Signal Processing, volume I, pages 349-352,April.Pawley, Andrew and Frances Hodgetts Syder.
1983.Two puzzles for linguistic theory: Nativelike selec-tion and nativelike fluency.
In Jack C. Richardsand Richard W. Schmidt, editors, Language andCommunication, pages 191-227.
Longman.Prevost, Scott.
1996.
An information structural ap-proach to spoken language generation.
In Proceed-ings of the 34th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 46-53, SantaCruz, CA.Qu, Yon, Barbara Di Eugenio, Alon Lavie, LoriLevin, and Carolyn P. Rose.
1996.
Minimizingcumulative error in discourse context.
In Proceed-ings of the ECAI, Budapest.Ringger, Eric K. and James F. Alien.
1996.
A fertil-ity channel model for post-correction of continu-ous speech recognition.
In Proceedings of Interna-tional Conference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP-g6), pages 897-900, Philadelphia, PA.Scollon; Ron and Suzanne Wong Scollon.
1995.Intercultural Communication: A Discourse Ap-proach.
Blackwell, Oxford UK/Cambridge USA.Traugott, E. C. 1982.
From propositional to tex-tual and expressive meanings: Some semantic-pragmatic aspects of grammaticalization.
InW.
P. and Y. Malkiel, editors, Perspectives onhistorical linguistics.
John Benjamin, Amster-dam/Philadelphia, pages 245-71.Ward, Wayne.
1991.
Understanding spontaneousspeech: The PHOENIX system.
In Proceedingsof International Conference on Acoustics, Speech,and Signal Processing, pages 365-367, May.Woszczyna, Monies and Alex Waibel.
1994.
Infer-ring linguistic structure in spoken language.
InProceedings of International Conference on Spo-ken Language Processing (ICSLP-94), pages 847-850, Yokohama, Japan.Yamashita, Yoichi, Keiichi Tajima, Yasuo Nomura,and Riichiro Mizoguchi.
1994.
Dialog contextdependencies of utterances generated from con-cept representation.
In Proceedings of Interna-tional Conference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP-g4), pages 971-974, Yokohama, Japan.Yule, George.
1996.
Pragmatics.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford, UK.23
