How far are we from (semi-) automatic annotationof anaphoric links in corpora?
(From knowledge-poor pronoun resolution to a tentative look at the(semi-) automatic annotation of pronoun-antecedent pairs in corpora)Ruslan MitkovSchool of Languages and European StudiesUniversity of WolverhamptonStafford StreetWolverhampton WV 1 1 SBUnited KingdomR.
M i tkov@wlv .
ac.
ukAbstractThe paper aises for discussion a proposal for thesemi-automatic annotation of pronoun-antecedentpairs in corpora.
The proposal is based on robustknowledge-poor p onoun resolution followed bypost-editing.The paper is structured as follows.
The introduc-tion comments on the fact that automatic dentifi-cation of referential links in corpora has laggedbehind in comparison with similar lexical, syn-tactical and even semantic tasks.
The second sec-tion of the paper outlines the author's practicaland robust knowledge-based approach to pro-noun resolution which will subsequently be putforward as the core of a larger architecture pro-posed for the automatic tagging of referentiallinks.
Section 3 briefly presents other relatedknowledge-poor approaches, while section 4 dis-cusses the limitations and advantages of thepractical approach.
The main argument of thepaper is to be found in section 5, where we pres-ent the idea of developing a semi-automatic envi-ronment for annotating anaphoric links and out-line the components of such a program.
Finally,the conclusion looks at the anticipated successrate of the approach.1.
IntroductionAnnotated anaphoric links in language corporaplay an important role in teaching and research.Research roles may include investigation intothe distribution of the different types of ana-phors, or into the location or distance of the an-tecedent, and also development of rules or heu-ristics for anaphora resolution and the testing ofanaphora-related hypotheses/theories on the ba-sis of numerous real-life examples.Annotation of referential links has not yetbeen able to benefit from the level of automationenjoyed by its lexical, syntactical and semantic"counterparts".
Part-of-speech tagging hasshown remarkable accuracy (99.2% see\[Voutilaen 95\]), robust parsing in corpora hasdelivered very good results and even word sensetagging has reported a considerable improve-ment.
However, "referential tagging" has notbeen fully explored (and developed) and proba-bly this is due, no doubt, to the complexity ofautomatic anaphora resolution.One of the best known tools for anaphoric an-notation is XANADU - an X-windows interac-tive editor written by Roger Garside, which of-fers the user an easy-to-navigate environmentfor manually marking pairs of anaphors-antecedents (\[Fligelstone 92\]).
Manual annota-tion, however, imposes a considerable demandon human time and labour.In this paper we put forward the idea of incor-porating a practical, knowledge-poor approachto anaphora resolution (\[Mitkov 97\]) within alarger architecture for rough automatic referen-tial annotation of corpora.
At this stage our pro-posal deals with pronominal anaphora only and"rough annotation" implies that a follow-upmanual correction would be necessary.
Never-theless, we believe that this partial solutionbrings us somewhat closer to the automatic an-notation of all types of anaphoric links.2.
Outline of our practical pronoun resolutionapproachWith a view to avoiding complex syntactic, se-mantic and discourse analysis (vital for real-world applications), we have developed a practi-cal approach to pronoun resolution (\[Mitkov8297\]) which does not parse and analyse the inputin order to identify antecedents of anaphors.
Itmakes use of only a part-of-speech tagger, plussimple noun phrase rules (sentence constituentsare identified at the level of noun phrase at most)and operates on the basis of antecedent-trackingpreferences (referred to hereafter as "antecedentindicators").2.1 Antecedent indicatorsOur empirical study (restricted to computer andhi-fi technical manuals) enabled us to developefficient preferences for antecedent tracking inthis sublanguage/genre.
(We studied more than400 different documents which had been hand-annotated; referential links were marked by hu-man experts).
These antecedent indicators aredescribed in detail in \[Mitkov 97\]; we shall out-line here those which are most frequently usedas a supplement to gender and number agree-ment.?
Term preferenceNPs representing terms in the field are morelikely to be the antecedent than NPs whichare not terms (scores 1 if the NP is term and0 if not).?
Verb preferenceI f  the verb is a member of the Verb_set ={discuss, present, illustrate, summarise, ex-amine, describe, define, show, check, de-velop, review, report, outline, consider, in-vestigate, explore, assess, analyse, synthe-sise, study, survey, deal, cover}, then con-sider the first NP following it as the pre-ferred antecedent (scores 1 and 0).
(Empirical evidence suggests that because oftheir salience, the verbs listed above areparticularly likely candidates)These two preferences can be illustrated by theexample:This table shows a minimal configurationi; tidoes not leave much room for additional ap-plications or other software for which you mayrequire additional swap space.?
Lexical  reiterationLexically reiterated items are likely candi-dates for antecedent (scores 2 if the NP isrepeated within the same paragraph twice ormore, 1 if repeated once and 0 if not).
Lexi-cally reiterated items include repeated syn-onymous noun phrases which may often bepreceded by definite articles or demon-stratives.?
Section heading preferenceIf a noun phrase occurs in the heading of thesection, part of which is the current sen-tence, then consider it as the preferred can-didate for the antecedent (1, 0).?
Col location pattern preferenceThis preference is given to candidates whichhave an identical collocation pattern with apronoun.
The collocation implemented hereis restricted to the pattern "noun/pronoun,verb" or "verb, noun/pronoun" (2, 0).
(owing to lack of syntactic information, thispreference is somewhat weaker than thecollocation preference described in \[Dagan& Itai 90\] and suggested subsequently in ourprocedure for semi-automatic annotation)Press the key i down and turn the volume up...Press it i again.?
Referent ia l  d istanceIn complex sentences, noun phrases in theprevious clause I are the best candidate forthe antecedent of an anaphor in the subse-quent clause, followed by noun phrases inthe previous sentence, then by nouns situ-ated 2 sentences further back and finallynouns 3 sentences further back (2, I, 0, -1).For anaphors in simple sentences, nounphrases in the previous sentence are the bestcandidate for antecedent, followed by nounphrases situated 2 sentences further backand finally nouns 3 sentences further back(1, 0,-1)?
"Non-preposit ional"  noun phrasesA "pure", "non-prepositional" noun phraseis given a higher preference than a nounphrase which is part of a prepositionalphrase (0, - 1)Insert the cassette i into the VCR making sure it iis suitable for the length of recording.?
Non-candidatesConstituents introduced by an indefinite ar-ticle and constituents introduced by deter-miners such as "another", "other" (-1, 0)1 Currently we use simple heuristics for identifying clausesin a complex sentence83Each of the antecedent indicators is assigned ascore with a value ~ {-1, 0, 1, 2 }.
These scoreshave been determined experimentally on anempirical basis and are constantly being up-dated.
Top symptoms like "lexical reiteration"assign score "2" whereas non-candidates aregiven a negative score of "-1".
We should pointout that the antecedent indicators are preferencesand not absolute factors.
There are cases wherean antecedent indicator does not "point" to thecorrect antecedent.
For instance, in the sentence"Insert the cassette into the VCR i making sureit i is turned on", the indicator "non-prepositionalnoun phrases" would give a "wrong" contribu-tion.
Within the framework of all preferences(antecedent indicators), however, the right ante-cedent is still very likely to be tracked down - inthe above example, the "non-prepositional nounphrases" heuristics would be overturned by the"collocational preference" one.2.2 Informal description of the algorithmThe algorithm for pronoun disambiguation canbe described informally as follows:1.
Examine the current sentence and the twopreceding sentences (if available).
Look fornoun phrases 2 only to the left Of the ana-phor 32.
Select from the noun phrases identified onlythose which agree in gender and number 4with the pronominal anaphor and groupthem as a set of potential candidates3.
Apply the antecedent indicators to each po-tential candidate and assign scores; thecandidate with the highest score is proposedas antecedent.For an illustration as to how the approach oper-ates see (\[Mitkov 97\]).2.3 Evaluation2A sentence splitter would already have segmented the textinto sentences, a POS tagger would already have determinedthe parts of speech and a simple phrasal grammar wouldalready have detected the noun phrases31n this project we do not t~eat cataphora; non-anaphofic "it"occumng in constructions such as "It is important", "It isnecessary" is eliminated by a "referential filter"4Note that his restriction may not always apply in lan-guages other than English (e.g.
German); on the other handthere are certain collective nouns in English which do notagree in number with their antecedents (e.g.
"government","team", parliament" etc.
can be referred to "they"; equallysome plural nouns (e.g.
"data") can be referred to by "it")and are exempted from the agreement testFor practical reasons, the approach presenteddoes not incorporate syntactic and semantic in-formation (other than a list of domain terms) andit is not realistic to expect its performance to beas good as an approach which makes use ofsyntactic and semantic knowledge in terms ofconstraints and preferences.
The lack of syntac-tic information, for instance, means giving upsubject preference (or on other occasions objectpreference, see \[Mitkov 94a\]) which could beused in center tracking.
Syntactic parallelism,useful in discriminating between identical pro-nouns on the basis of their syntactic function,also has to be forgone.
Lack of semantic knowl-edge rules out the use of verb semantics and se-mantic parallelism.
The preliminary evaluation,however, shows that less is lost than might befeared.Several documents (user's guides), with anoverall length of 40 000 words, served as aninitial evaluation corpus.
The average successrate was 86%.
While the test corpus containedthe pronouns "he", "she" and "they", most pro-nouns were "it" (about 92%).
The approach ada very high success rate with sentences whichcontained one pronoun only (above 90%) butfailed in a few paragraphs which contained anabundance of "it"s, 2 (or more) in a sentence,with "it" referring in turn to different antece-dents.
In these examples, however, a frequentshift of center was observed and, in our view,they were not written in a natural style.A recent est with Computer Science textbookinputs showed a preliminary accuracy rate ofabove 80%.3.
Other knowledge-poor approachesThe approaches proposed by Nasukawa(\[Nasukawa 94\]), Dagan & Itai (\[Dagan & Itai90\]) and Kennedy & Boguraev (\[Kennedy &Boguraev 96\]) address anaphor esolution in a"knowledge-poor" way: the first approach takesinto consideration heuristic preferences, the sec-ond uses frequency of collocational patterns andthe third operates without a parser resorting tosalience factors.3.1 Nasukawa's knowledge-independentapproachT.
Nasukawa (\[Nasukawa 94\]) describes a sim-ple approach which uses intersentential infor-mation extracted from a source text in order toimprove the accuracy of pronoun resolution.
Hesuggests that collocation patterns (modifier-modifee relationships) can be used to determinewhether a candidate for antecedent can modify84the modifee of a pronoun.
Nasukawa lso finds(similarly to (\[Mitkov 93\])) that the frequency ofpreceding noun phrases with the same lemma asthe candidate noun phrase may be an indicationfor preference.
Moreover, he suggests a heuristicrule favouring subjects over objects (compare\[Mitkov 93\] where this preference is sublan-guage-based).Each of the collocational, frequency or syn-tactic preferences gives its "preference value";these values are eventually summed up.
Thecandidate with the highest value is picked up asthe antecedent.As an evaluation corpus Nasukawa uses 1904consecutive sentences (containing altogether 112third-person pronouns) from eight chapters oftwo different computer manuals.
His algorithmhandles the pronoun "it" and has been reportedto select a correct antecedent in 93.8% of cases.3.2 Dagan & Itai's corpus-based approachI.
Dagan and A. Itai (\[Dagan & Itai 90\]) reporton a statistical approach for disambiguatingpronouns; this is an alternative solution to theexpensive implementation of full-scale selec-tional constraints knowledge.
They perform anexperiment to resolve references of the pronoun"it" in sentences randomly selected from the cor-pus.In their statistical model, co-occurrence pat-terns observed in the corpus were used as selec-tional patterns.
Candidates for antecedent weresubstituted for the anaphor and only those can-didates appearing in frequent co-occurrencepatterns were approved of.Dagan andi Itai report an accuracy rate of 87%for the sentences with genuine "it" anaphors(sentences in which "it" is not an anaphor havebeen manually eliminated).
It should be pointedout that the success of this experiment dependson the parser used (in this case K. Jennsen's PEGparser).3.3 Kennedy & Boguraev's approach withouta parserIn a recent paper, Kennedy and Boguraev(\[Kennedy & Boguraev\]) describe an anaphorresolution approach which is a modified andextended version of that developed by Lappinand Leass (\[Lappin & Leass 94\]).
Their systemdoes not require "in-depth, full" syntactic pars-ing but works from the output of a part of speechtagger, enhanced only by annotations of gram-matical function of lexical items in the input textstream.The basic logic of their algorithm parallels thatof Lappin and Leass's algorithm.
The determi-nation of disjoint reference, however, representsa significant point of divergence the two.
Lappinand Leass's relies on syntactic configurationalinformation, whereas Kennedy and Boguraev's,in the absence of such information, relies oninferences from grammatical function andprecedence.After the morphological and syntactic filtershave been applied, the set of discourse referentsthat remain is subjected to a final salienceevaluation.
The candidate with highest salienceweighting is determined to be the actual antece-dent; in the event of a tie, the closest candidate ischosen.
The approach works for both lexicalanaphors (reflexives and reciprocals) and pro-nouns.Evaluation reports 75% accuracy but it shouldbe pointed out that the results were obtainedfrom a wide range of texts/genres: the evaluationwas based on a random selection of genres, in-cluding press releases, product announcement,news stories, magazine articles, and other WorldWide Web documents.4.
Limitations and advantages of the practicalapproachWe must admit that the practical approach asbeen tested mainly on a specific genre: computerand hi-fi manuals.
It also appears that some ofthe rules are more genre-specific than others(e.g.
"verb preference" and "noun preference").Therefore, we cannot claim that an equally highlevel of accuracy would be guaranteed in othergenres.In addition, even though our preliminary re-suits seem to be better than Kennedy and Bogu-raev's (75%), there is no ground for any realcomparison since (i) our evaluation tests are notextensive nough and are of a preliminary natureand (ii) their evaluation is based on a randomselection of genres, whereas our method hasbeen applied to a single text genre.The practical approach presented has been de-veloped recently and is subject to further re-search and improvements.
In particular, we planto enhance the accuracy of the initial score ofeach symptom by collecting more empirical evi-dence and to integrate all the antecedent indica-tors into a uniform and comprehensive probabil-istic model.On the other hand, the main advantage of thepractical approach lies in its independence ofsyntactic, semantic, domain and real-worldknowledge, which makes it not only cheaper toimplement but also appropriate for applications85in corpora.
Thus we see the pronoun resolutionapproach as one of the components of a moregeneral methodology aiming to offer a way for-ward in the automatic annotation of anaphoriclinks in corpora.5.
Proposed methodology for semi-automaticannotationFurther to our comments in section 4, we wouldlike to propose the development of a semi-automatic procedure for annotating pronominalanaphora in corpora.
Such a procedure wouldspeed up the manual marking of pronoun-antecedent pairs.
The semi-automatic annotationeditor would be practically based on our pro-noun resolution approach made more "robust"by a "super" POS tagger and by corpus-basedcollocation patterns.
The process of annotationwill consist of the following stages:a) sentence splittingThe first stage will be to segment the input intosentences by identifying their boundaries.b) "super"part-of-speech taggingWe plan to use the so-called super part of speechtaggers which (i) determine automatically exicalcategories, (ii) provide further lexical informa-tion (e.g.
gender, number) and (iii) identify thesyntactic function of each part-of-speech unit(e.g.
subject, object etc.)
(\[Voutilainen et al1992\], \[Karlsson et al 95\]).c) gender and number agreementOnce the noun phrases (see footnote 2) in a sen-tence have been identified, agreement con-straints for filtering NP candidates in current andpreceding sentences will be activated.
Certain(e.g.
collective) nouns 5 will not be subject tosuch constraints (see footnote 4).d) corpus-based collocation patternsPossible antecedents will be substituted for theanaphors and the frequency of the new con-structions will be calculated in corpora.
Higherweightings will beassigned to NPs which occurmore frequently in the same syntactic functionas the anaphor (e.g.
in combination with a cer-tain verb or subject/object).e) antecedent indicatorsThe antecedent indicators (as described above)will be used for the final weighting of the candi-dates and for proposing the antecedent.
Thecandidate with the highest overall score afterstages d) and e) will be picked up as the mostlikely antecedent.We are aware of the fact that this robust pronounresolver is unlikely to produce 100% accuracy.Therefore, we envisage the development of apost-editing environment.
Anaphors and allo-cated antecedents will be highlighted with theuser accepting or correcting them.If future comprehensive evaluation suggeststhat the success of the new approach is restrictedto certain genres only, it would be worthwhile toconsider using other knowledge-poor ap-proaches (e.g.
\[Kennedy & Boguraev 96\]),which have proved their efficiency, within theframework suggested.Last but not least, another promising optionwould be to enhance the framework proposedwith a robust parser or even better to select anexisting robust platform for pre-processing theinput morphologically and syntactically (onesuch platform which we are currently looking at,is GATE (\[Cunningham et al 96\]).6.
Conclusion and expectationsLancaster University, British Telecom and Uni-versity of Wolverhampton are interested in set-ting up a project for the semi-automatic annota-tion of pronominal anaphora.
(In addition, col-laboration with the University of Sheffield re-garding possible employment of GATE is fa-voured by both sides).
At this stage it is difficultto predict he performance of our robust anaphorresolver, but our expectation is for a level ofaccuracy in the region of 90%.
It should benoted that pronoun disambiguation approachesworking exclusively on corpus-based collocationpatterns have already reported accuracy levels of87% (\[Dagan & Itai 90\]), whereas our practicalpronoun resolution approach reports a level ofaccuracy of 86%.
However, we should drawattention to the facts that our evaluation is basedon the use of a "standard" part-of-speech taggerand not a "supertagger" (which would addi-tionally give information on syntactic functions)and that we have not benefited from the outputof a robust parser or from the highly indicativecorpus-based syntactical patterns.
If our expec-tation were right, limited post-editing wouldmean a considerable gain in speed comparedwith the existing manual annotation methods.5 We are currently preparing an exhaustive list of suchnouns86AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Atro Voutilainen andMarco Antonio Da Rocha for their comments onthe position paper.References\[Cunningham et al 96\] H. Cunningham, Y. Wilks, R.Gaizauskas - Software infrastructure for LanguageEngineering.
Proceedings of the workshop"Language Engineering for Document Analysisand Recognition", Brighton, 2 April, 1996\[Dagan & Itai 90\] I. Dagan, A. Itai - Automatic proc-esshzg of large corpora for the resolution ofanaphora references.
Proceedings of the 13th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, COLING'90, Heisinki, 1990\[Fligelstone 92\] S. Fligelstone - Developing A SchemeFor Annotating Text To Show Anaphoric Rela-tions.
In Leitner G (ed) Proceedings of the 1 lthInternational Conference on English Language Re-search on Computer Corpora.
Berlin, Mouton deGruyter\[Karlsson et al 95\] F. Karlsson, A. Voutilainen, J.Heikkila, A. Antilla - Constraint grammar: a lan-guage-independent system for parsing free text.Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin/New York, 1995\[Kennedy & Boguraev 96\] C. Kennedy, B. Boguraev- Anaphora for everyone: pronominal anaphoraresolutionwithout a parser.
Proceedings of the16th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics COLING'96, Copenhagen, Denmark,5-9 August 1996\[Lappin & Leass 94\] Sh.
Lappin, H. Leass - An al-gorithm for pronominal anaphora resolution.Computational Linguistics, 20(4), 1994\[Mitkov 93\] R. Mitkov - Anaphora resolution andnatural language understanding, Unpublished in-ternal report, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang,1993\[Mitkov 94\] R. Mitkov- An integrated model foranaphora resolution.
Proceedings of the 15th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics COLING'94, Kyoto, Japan, 5-9 August 1994\[Mitkov 97\] Mitkov R. - Pronoun resolution: thepractical alternative.
In S. Botley, T. McEnery(Eds) "Discourse Anaphora nd Anaphor Resolu-tion".
University College London Press, 1997\[Nasukawa 94\] T. Nasukawa - Robust method of pro-noun resolution usblg full-text information.
Pro-ceedings of the 15th International Conference onComputational Linguistics COLING'94, Kyoto,Japan, 5-9 August 1994\[Stys & Zemke 95\] M. Stys, S. Zemke - Incorporat-ing discourse aspects in English - Polish MT: to-wards robust implementation.
Proceedings of theinternational conference "Recent Advances inNatural Language Processing", Tzigov Chark,Bulgaria, 14-16 September 1995\[Voutilainen 95\] A. Voutilainen - A syntax-basedpart-of-speech tagger.
Proceedings of the 7th con-ference of the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Dublin, 1995\[Voutilainen etal.
92\] A. Voutilainen, J. Heikkila, A.Antilla - A constraint grammar of English: a per-formance-oriented approach.
University of HEI-sinki, Publication No.
21, Helsinki, 199287
