Clarification Dialogues as Measure to Increase Robustness in aSpoken Dialogue SystemE l i sabeth  Ma ier  Norber t  Re i th inger  Jan  A lexanderssonDFK I  GmbHStuhlsatzenhausweg 3D-66123 Saarbriicken, Germany{maier, reithinger, alexanders son}@dfki, uni-sb, deAbst rac tA number of methods are implemented inthe face-to-face translation system VERB-MOBIL to improve its robustness.
In thispaper, we describe clarification dialoguesas one method to deal with incomplete orinconsistent information.
Currently, three?
types of clarification dialogues are realized:subdialogues concerning phonological m-biguities, unknown words and semantic in-consistencies.
For each clarification typewe discuss the detection of situations andsystem states which lead to their initializa-tion and explain the information flow dur-ing processing.1 D ia logue  Process ing  in  VERBMOBILThe implemented research prototype of the speech-to-speech translation system VERBMOBIL (Bub andSchwinn, 1996) consists of more than 40 modules forboth speech and linguistic processing.
In the sys-tem, different processing streams are realized: con-currently with a deep linguistic-based analysis, twomethods of shallow processing are realized.
On thebasis of a set of selection heuristics, the best trans-lation is chosen for synthesis n the target language.The central system repository for discourse infor-mation is the dialogue module.
Like all subcompo-nents of the VERBMOBIL system the dialogue moduleis faced with incomplete and incorrect input, andwith missing information.
Therefore we have de-cided to use a combination ofseveral simple and ef-ficient approaches, which together form a robust andefficient processing platform for the implementationof the dialogue module.1.1 The Tasks of the Dialogue ComponentThe dialogue component of the VERBMOBIL systemfulfills a whole range of tasks:?
it provides contextual information for otherVERBMOBIL components.
These componentsare allowed to store (intermediate) processingresults in the so-called ialogue memory (Maier,1996);?
the dialogue memory merges the results of thevarious parallel processing streams, representsthem consistently and makes them accessible ina uniform manner (Alexandersson, Reithinger,and Maier, 1997);?
on the basis of the content of the dialogue mem-ory inferences can be drawn that are used toaugment the results processed by other VERB-MOBIL components;?
taking the history of previous dialogue statesinto account, the dialogue component predictswhich dialogue state is most likely to occur next(Reithinger et ai., 1996).The dialogue component does not only have to berobust against unexpected, faulty or incomplete in-put, it also corrects and/or improves the input pro-vided by other VERBMOBIL components.
Among themeasures to achieve this goal is the possibility tocarry out clarification dialogues.1.2 The Architecture of the DialogueComponentThe dialogue component is realized as a hybrid ar-chitecture: it contains statistical and knowledge-based methods.
Both parts work with dialogue acts(Bunt, 1981) as basic units of processing.
The statis-tics module is based on data automatically derivedfrom a corpus annotated with dialogue acts.
It de-termines possible follow-up dialogue acts for everyutterance.
The plan recognizer as knowledge-basedmodule of the dialogue component incorporates adialogue model, which describes equences of dia-logue acts as occurring in appointment schedulingdialogues (Alexandersson a d Reithinger, 1995).33For the representation f contextual informationa dialogue memory has been developed which con-sists of two subcomponents: the Sequence Memory,which mirrors the sequential order in which the ut-terances and the related dialogue acts occur, andthe Thematic Structure, which consists of instancesof temporal categories and their status in the dia-logue.
Both components are closely intertwined sothat for every utterance of the dialogue the availableinformation can be easily accessed.2 S t ra teg ies  fo r  Robust  D ia logueProcess ingThe dialogue module has to face one major pointof insecurity during operation: the user's dialoguebehavior cannot be controlled.
While the dialoguemodule incorporates models that represent the ex-pected moves in an appointment scheduling dialogueusers frequently deviate from this course.
Since nomodule in VERBMOBIL must ever fail, we apply var-ious recovery methods to achieve a high degree ofrobustness.
In the plan recognizer, for example, ro-bustness is ensured by dividing the construction ofthe intentional structure into several processing lev-els.
If the construction of parts of the structure fails,recovery strategies are used.
An important ingredi-ence of dialogue processing is the possibility of re-pair: in case the plan construction encounters un-expected input it uses a set of repair operators torecover.
If parts of the structure cannot be built, weestimate on the basis of predictions what informa-tion the knowledge gap is most likely to contain.To contribute to the correctness of the overall sys-tem we perform different kinds of clarification dia-logues with the user.
They will be explained in moredetail in the remainder of this paper.In the current implementation f the VERBMOBILsystem, two types of clarification dialogues occur:?
human-human subdia logues  where a dia-logue participant elicits unclear or missing infor-mation from his or her dialogue partner.
Typ-ical cases occur when a dialogue contributioncontains ambiguous information as e.g.
in thefollowing dialogue fragment:A: What about meeting on Friday?B: Which Friday are you talking about?A: Friday February 28.This type of clarification dialogue is processedwithout any active intervention by the dialoguecomponent: the individual utterances are an-alyzed and translated by the various process-ing streams while the dialogue component en-ters the results into the dialogue memory.?
human-mach ine  subd ia logues  where themachine ngages in a dialogue with the user toelicit information eeded for correct processing.In the following we focus on this latter type ofclarification dialogues.
In our current system weonly implemented clarification dialogues where thepotential user of VERBMOBIL is likely to have suf-ficient expertise to provide the information eces-sary for clarification; where the problems presentedto the user require too much linguistic expertise weconsider different recovery strategies (e.g.
the useof defaults).
The following types of clarification di-alogues are incorporated in our system1:1. dialogues about phono-logical similarities (similar_words) which copewith possible confusions of phonetically similarwords like Juni vs. Juli (engh: June vs. July);2. dialogues about words unknown to the system,in particular unknown to the speech recognizers(unknown_words);3. dialogues about inconsistent or inexistent dates( incons is tent_date) ,  e.g.
um 16 Uhr am Vor-mittag (engl.
: at 16 hours in the morning) or am30.
Februar (engl.
: on February 30).If all of the above types of clarification dialoguesare enabled all the time they tend to occur too often.Empirical studies have shown that interruptions ofa dialogue - as is the case in clarifications - putadditional stress on the users and have a negativeinfluence on performance and acceptance (Krause,1997).
Therefore, we implemented the possibility toselectively enable and disable the various types ofclarification dialogues.In the following chapter we explain how the vari-ous types of clarification dialogues are processed.3 P rocess ing  C la r i f i ca t ion  D ia logues3.1 P rocess ing  F lowIn the deep processing mode spoken input is sentthrough components for speech recognition, syntac-tic and semantic treatment, transfer, tactical gen-eration and speech synthesis.
The processing re-sults of the morphological, syntactic and seman-tic components are continuously monitored by thedialogue component.
For every utterance ut t _ idand for each type of clarification dialogue the di-alogue component sends a message to the central1In the remainder of this paper words printed inteletype font indicate full or partial system messages.34control component of the VERBMOBIL system in-dicating whether a clarification dialogue has to beexecuted or not (<x ut t_ id> or <no__x ut t_ id>,where x is either similar_words, unknown_words,or inconsistent.date).If a subdialogue has to be carried out, the clarifica-tion mode is switched on (c la r i : f i ca t ion_d ia logueon) and the processing flow of the system is changed.Depending on the clarification type x, a synthe-sized message is sent to the user, informing him/herof the necessity and reason for a clarification di-alogue.
A list of options for recovery is pre-sented.
In order to minimize processing errorsthe options the user can choose from are formu-lated as yes/no questions; a yes-/no recognizer witha recognition rate of approx.
100 % developedspecifically for this purpose processes the user's re-sponse.
If the user chooses an option that allowsa continuation of the dialogue it is used to mod-ify the system's intermediate r sults; the utteranceut t _ id  and the updated message are sent to the con-trol module (clarification_dialogue_succeededutt_id <modified-message>), the system switchesback into the normal processing mode(c la r i f i ca t ion_d ia logue  of f ) ,  and computationis resumed using the modified data.
If the user findsnone of the presented options appropriate, the useris requested to reformulate the original utterance,the control component is informed of a failure ofthe subdialogue (clarification.dialogue_failedutt_id) and the clarification dialogue is switched off(clarification_dialogue off).To ensure robustness for clarification dialogues wehave added a counter to measure the time elapsedsince a system request (e.g.
the presentation of op-tions to choose from).
If the user does not respondwithin a given time frame, the system assumes anegative answer, which leads to a failure of the sub-dialogue and the request for a reformulation of theinitial utterance.
All clarification types mentioned inthis paper are fully implemented.
All three subdia-logue types follow this uniform processing scheme.3.2 Phono log ica l  S imi lar i t iesThe dialogue system has access to a list of wordsthat are often confused on the basis of a high de-gree of phonological similarity.
Not all of the wordpairs included in this list are intuitive candidates foran average VERBMOBIL user.
Examples are e.g.
theGerman word pairs Halle -/ahren or Modus - Mor-gen. We compiled a subset of this list that containsonly word pairs that are plausible for a user who hasno phonological expertise.
This list includes wordpairs like e.g.
Sonntag - sonntags (engl.
: Sunday -sundays) or fiinfzehn - fiin/zig (engl.
: fifteen - fifty).If the word string processed by the syntac-tic/semantic components contains a member Of thisword list the dialogue initializes the generation of asystem message that points out the potential confu-sion to the user. '
If for example the original inputsentence is Wie wdr's Sonntag?
(engl.
: How aboutSunday?)
the system triggers the message VERB-MOBIL hat eine mSgliche Verwechslung erkannt.Meinen Sie die Angabe 'Sonntag'?
(engl.
: VERB-MOBIL encountered a possible ambiguity.
Do youmean the word 'Sunday'?).
Depending on the an-swer of the user either the proposed word is acceptedor the remaining other candidate is proposed.
Thechosen word is then inserted into the intermediateprocessing result, so that the translation later con-tains the word chosen by the user.3.3 Unknown WordsThe speech recognizers of the VERBMOBIL system areable to recognize input as unknown to the system;if such a fragment is encountered the symbol UNK_followed by the SAMBA-transcription (SAM, 1992) ofthe fragment (e.g.
<UNK_maI62> for the unknownspoken input Maier) is inserted into the output ofthe recognizers.
In our domain, unknown words of-ten refer to names, e.g.
of locations or persons.
Theuser is asked to confirm this assumption.
A messageincluding a synthesized version of the word's SAMBAtranscription is presented to the user, e.g.
Handeltes sich bei maI6 um einen Namen?
(engl.
: Is maI6a name?).
If this assumption is confirmed, syntac-tic processing is continued treating the fragment asa name.
The SAMPA transcription is later includedin the output of the English generator and synthe-sized accordingly.
Further syntactic and semanticinformation is not elicited since such knowledge isirrelevant for a satisfactory treatment of names.3.4 Semant ic  Incons is tenc iesIf a user tries to propose nonexistent or inconsistentdates, this is signaled to the dialogue component bythe semantic module.
If possible, this module alsoproposes alternative dates.
The messageclarify_date ( \[dom: 31, moy: apr\], \[dom: 30, moy : apr\] )for instance, which is sent from the semantic evalu-ation component to the dialogue module, indicatesboth that April 31 is an inconsistent date and thatthe user might have meant April 30.
The messageis coded in terms of a time description languagedeveloped within VERBMOBIL.
It allows to spec-ify temporal information using temporal categories(e.g.
DAY-OF-MONTH (DOM) or MONTH-OF-YEAR(MOY)) and instances of these categories (e.g.
APRIL35(APR)).
Upon receipt his information it is trans-formed into natural anguage and presented to theuser: Die Angabe 31.
April existiert nicht.
MeinenSie die Angabe 30.
April?
(engh The date 'April31' does not exist.
Do you mean April 30?)
If theuser chooses the alternative date, it is passed on tothe relevant components and the resulting transla-tion includes the correct date.4 Related WorkVarious approaches have been proposed to cope withproblems of unexpected, wrong or missing input:(Allen et al, 1996) decided to choose the mostspecific possible option when the system is con-fronted with ambiguities.
To handle this problemthe TRAINS system tries to recognize and exploit cor-rections included in follow-up dialogue actions.
(Quet al, 1997) describe a method to minimize cumu-lative error in the ENTHUSIAST system.
To this enddialogue context, statistical information, and gram-mar information are taken into account o processand predict dialogue states, where non-contextualinformation is preferred over contextual informationwhen processing conflicts occur.While clarification dialogues are common inhuman-machine dialogues (see e.g.
(Eckert and Mc-Glashan, 1993)), they are a rather recent develop-ment in systems that support computer-mediatedinteractions.
To our knowledge the VERBMOBIL pro-totype is the first system that uses repair methods,defaults and clarification dialogues to recover fromproblematic system states.5 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we presented a first approach to achieverobust processing in VERBMOBIL using clarificationdialogues.
We presented three problems that can beresolved using clarification: phonological ambigui-ties, unknown words and semantic inconsistencies.In the next prototype of the VERBMOBIL system wewill additionally incorporate methods to resolve lex-ical and referential mbiguities.
Also, we will tailorthe interaction to different user classes.AcknowledgementsThis work was funded by the German Federal Min-istry of Education, Science, Research and Technol-ogy (BMBF) in the framework of the VERBMOBILProject under Grant 01IV101K/1.
The responsi-bility for the contents of this study lies with theauthors.
We thank the VERBMOBIL software inte-gration team - in particular Thomas Bub, AndreasKlfiter, Stefan Mertens, and Johannes Schwinn - fortheir valuable help.ReferencesAlexandersson, J. and N. Reithinger.
1995.
Design-ing the Dialogue Component in a Speech Transla-tion System - a Corpus Based Approach.
In Proc.o/TWLT-9, Enschede, Netherlands.Alexandersson, J., N. Reithinger, and E. Maier.1997.
Insights into the Dialogue Processing ofVERBMOBIL.
In Proc.
of ANLP-97, pages 33-40,Washington, DC.Allen, J.F., B.W.
Miller, E.K.
Ringger, and T. Siko-rski.
1996.
A Robust System for Natural SpokenDialogue.
In Proc.
o\] ACL-96, Santa Cruz, CA.Bub, Thomas and Johannes Schwinn.
1996.
Verb-mobil: The evolution of a complex large speech-to-speech translation system.
In Proe.
o\] ICSLP-96,pages 2371-2374, Philadelphia, PA.Bunt, H. C. 1981.
Rules for the Interpretation,Evaluation and Generation of Dialogue Acts.
InIPO Annual Progress Report 16, pages 99-107,Tilburg University.Eckert, W. and S. McGlashan.
1993.
Managing spo-ken dialogues for information services.
In Proc.
o/EUROSPEECH-93, Madrid, Spain.Krause, Detlev.
1997.
Using an Interpretation Sys-tem - Some Observations in Hidden Operator Sim-ulations of VERBMOBIL.
In E. Maier, M. Mast,and S. LuperFoy, eds., Dialogue Processing in Spo-ken Language Systems, Springer, Heidelberg.Maier, E. 1996.
Context Construction as Subtask ofDialogue Processing - the VERBMOBIL Case.
InA.
Nijholt, H. Bunt, S. LuperFoy, G. Veldhuijzenvan Zanten, and J. Schaake, eds., Proc.
of TWLT-11, pages 113-122, Enschede, Netherlands.Qu, Y., B.
Di Eugenio, A. Lavie, and C. P. RosS.1997.
Minimizing Cumulative Error in DiscourseContext.
In E. Maier, M. Mast, and S.
LuperFoy,eds., Dialogue Processing in Spoken Language Sys-tems, Springer, Heidelberg.Reithinger, N., R. Engel, M. Kipp, and M. Klesen.1996.
Predicting Dialogue Acts for a Speech-To-Speech Translation System.
In Proc.
of ICSLP-96,pages 654-657, Philadelphia, PA.SAM Final Report.
ESPRIT Project 2589 (Mul-tilingual Speech Input/Output Assessment).
Seehttp://www.phon.ucl.ac.uk/home/sampa/home.36
