?
A PR INCIPLED REPRESENTAT ION OF  ATTRIBUT IVE  DESCRIPT IONSFOR GENERATING INTEGRATED TEXT AND INFORMATIONGRAPHICS  PRESENTAT IONSNancy  ?Green*, G iuseppe Caren in i** ,  and Johanna Moore.
** "*Carnegie Mellon University, **University of Pittsburghnancy.green@cs.cmu.edu, {jmoore, carenini} @Cs.pitt.
eduAbstractThis paper describes a media-independent, compositional, ) an-based approach to represent-ing attributive descriptions for use in integrated text and graphics generation.
An attributivedescription's main function is to convey information directly contributing to the communicativegoals of a discourse, Whereas a referential description's only function is to enable the audienceto identify a particular referent.
This approach as been implemented aspart of an architecturefor generating integrated text and information graphics.
Uses of referential nd attributive de-scriptions are represented as two distinct ypes of communicative acts in a media-independentplan.
It is particularly important to distinguish the two types of acts, since theyhave differentconsequences for dialogue and text generation, and for graphic design,?1 I n t roduct ionThis paper describes a media-independent, compositional, plan-based approach to representingattributiv e descriptions for use in integrated text and graphics generat!on.
An attributive descrip-tion's main function is to convey information directly contributing to the communicative goals ofa discourse, whereas a referential description's only function is to enable the audience to identify aparticular eferent \[Donnellan1977, Kronfeld1986\].
While the generation of referential descriptionshas received considerable attention in text and multimedia generation, the generation of attributivedescriptions has received ?
relatively little attention in computational linguistics.
: However, such descriptions are pervasive in the type of presentations which is the focus ofour research.
We are developing systems that automatically generate presentations consisting ?of coordinated text and information graphics (graphics for presenting abstract, quantitative orrelational information as opposed to depictions of real-world objects or processes).
For example inour current implementation, the ?system produces analyses and summarizations of large amounts ofdata created by a transportation scheduling program.
In this domain, it is necessary to generatedescriptions of aggregate quantities of complex attributes uch as total port capacity of all ports and90~ of the total weight?
of the cargo arriving by day 25.
Furthermore, in this genre both referentialand attributive uses of descriptions occur.
.
.in our approach, presentations are "generated ?using .an architecture that integrates hierarchi-cal Planning to achieve media-independen t communicative goals with task-based graphic design.This architecture has been implemented in a prototype system.
The focus of this paper is onthe  representation a d role of attributive descriptions in the architecture.
First, we describe thereferential-attributive distinction and its importance in dialogue and text generation.
Next, we dis-cuss its importance in task-based graphic design.
After providing an overview of our architecture,we describe how attributive descriptions are planned.
We conclude with a survey of related work.18Ii: II?ii.III,IiIIIIIIIIIII!II!
!2 Referent ia l -Attr ibut ive D is t inct ion  in Language\[Donnellan1977\] describes two different possible uses of definite descriptions: 1 An attributive de-scription's main function is to  convey information directly contributing to the communicative goalsof a discourse, whereas a referential description's only function is to enable the audience to identifya particular referent.
This is a useful distinction for dialogue systems.
In the case of failure of areferential description, a system might try to identify the referent again by giving:an alternate de-scription, as il lustrated in (1) below.
However, when a description is used attributively, the contentof the description plays a different role.
In (2a), the required textbook for CS500 is used attributivelyto indirectly inform the user of how she might assess the difficulty of CS500 herself; the contentof the description contributes to the user's recognition of the system's reason for suggesting thatshe read the book.
In contrast in (2b), where an alternate description is used, the user is unableto recognize the systems's intention.
In contrast to (1), (2c) illustrates that when all attr ibutivedescription fails, a different type of followup by the system is required, one that explicates its in-tent ion.
Also, as Donnellan points out and as can be seen by comparing (!)
and (2c), the samedescription (the required textbook for CS500) can be used either referentially or attributively ondifferent occasions depending on the speaker's intentions.(!)
User: I want to read an introductory AI book.
What do you recommend?System: The required textbook for CS500.User: Which book is that?System: Artificial Intelligence, by Richardson.User: Oh:.
(2a) User: How difficult is CS5007System: Read the required textbook for CS500.
(2b) User: ?
How difficult is CS5007Syste,n: Read Artificial Intelligence, by Richardson.User: Why?System: It is therequired textbook for CS500.
(2c) User: How difficult is CS500?System: Read the required textbook for it.User: VV'hy?System: If you find the textbook difficult, then you'll find the course difficult.In addition to its importance in determining appropriate dialogue fo!lowup behavior, the referential-attr ibutive ?distinction is important for generating effective text.
As was ?shown in (2a), the contentof an attr ibutive description may contribute directly to achieving communicative goals.
To giveanother example, suppose that a user, who wants to buy a house in Somerset County, has asked forinformation about realtors serving Somerset County.
2 The overall goal of the system is for the Userto believe that  it may be beneficial to do business with a certain real estate agency, Realtors Inc.In  that case, the system might generate (3), where (3)ii is intended to provide motivation for (3)i.That  is, the description the city with the largest population in Somerset County was selected bythesystem for its motivational value.
In a system that does not distinguish referential from attr ibutive(i.e., treats all uses of descriptions as referential), there is nothing preventing it from generating(4) or (5) instead, assuming that the city with the largest population in Somerset County, Berlin,.and the city with the worst pollution in Somerset County are three descriptions of the same object(which we refer to below by the internal system identifier $BERLIN).i Although DonneUan did not address uses of indefirdte descriptions, following \[Kronfeld1990\] we apply Dorme!Ian'sdistinction to them as Well.
Also, to be precise, we are interested in what \[Kronfeld1986, Kronfeld1990\] terms :themodal aspect of Donnellan's distinction.
:The information i  this'and all other examples in the paper is fictitious.19(3)i.
We recommend Realtors Inc.ii.
Realtors Inc. serves the city with the largest population in Somerset County.(4)i.
We recommend Realtors Inc.ii.
Realtors Inc. serves Berlin.(5)i.
We recommend Realtors Inc.ii.
Realtors Inc. serves the City with the worst pollution in Somerset County.?
\However, (4)ii is not as effective as (3)ii if the user doesn't know or have in mind that Berlinhas the largest population.
Even worse, (5)ii might have an effect opposite to the one intended.A possible solution might be for the system to include as an additional proposition to be assertedwith (4), the proposition that tBERLIN is the city with the largest population in Somerset County,yielding (6).
On the other hand, there is nothing in the supposed underlyling representation f (6)to prevent (7) from beinggenerated, which may have a less than desirable ffect,?
(6)i, We recoinmend Realtors inc ....ii.
Realtors Inc. serves Berlin.
:iii.
Berlin has the largest population in Somerset County.(7)i.
We recommend Realtors Inc.ii.
?Realtors Inc. serves the city with the worst pollution in Somerset.County.iii.
That.
city has the largest population in Somerset County.3 The  Ro le  of A t t r ibut ive  Descr ip t ions  in Task -Based  GraphicDes ign  'As this section will illustrate shortly, different graphic designs may enhance or detract from auser's performance of certain types of perceptual and cognitive tasks.
The philosophy of task-basedgraphic design is to design an information graphic based upon which perceptual and cognitive tasksthe user wants or needs to perform.
In our architecture (described more fully in the next section)~the graphics generator reasons about what user tasks would enable the system's presentation'goalsto be achieved, so that graphics can be designed to support those tasks (and thus support thepresentation goals).
Note that since the descriptions in Our domain of application are often fairly?
complex (e.g., 90~o f the total weight of the cargo arriving by day 25), we assume that a composi-ti0nalappr0ach to representing attributive descriptions will facilitate the automatic transformationof presentation goals to user tasks.To see how different graphic designs about the same data may facilitate different asks, considerFigure 1.
In (a), the table shows that Arlington's population is .5K, Berlin's is 1K, etc.
Moreover,?
i t  is possible to compute from the data shown in it that Arlington's population is half that ofBerlin's, that Berlin has the largest population, and that Berlin's population is greater than thepopulation of all of the other towns combined.
To facilitate just task (A), the task of looking upthe population of a town given its name, then this table would be adequate.
On the other hand,a bar chart such as the one Shown in (b) would better support both tasks (h) and (B), where(B) is the task 0fdetermining the largest and the smallest own.
(Each vertical bar represents aparticular town and ~the height of a bar represents the population of the town represented by thebar.)
Ordering the towns by population size, as in (c), further facilitates task (B), as can be seenby comparing (b) to (c).
However, task (C), the task of comparing Berlin's population to the totalpopulation of all of the other towns, would be facilitated by the chart shown in (d).
In it, task(C) is facilitated by enabling the user to count the divisions of each bar.
Also, if task (A) is notrequired, it is not necessary t O provide numeric values on the horizontal axis in (d) .20I!IIIIIIIiIIIIPopu la t ion  o f  four  c i t ies.
,K  :2, .
,K, .2K  j(a )  ~ (b )  (c )  ~~ Rea l?ors  Inc .
I Ber l in  ~ O O O O O O O O OVa lue  Inc .
I A r l ington  W ~ O O O OV i l l as  Inc .
I\]ES =a re  Inc .
i Durham jO0Vi l las  Inc .
Ca~ iO  i O = .IK Esc .av .e  " rnc .(e).........
j _Town I Pop .Ber l in  '~OOOO O O O O OtAr l  ingnon ~ O O O ODurha~a IOO \CaW : O ~ O =.
IK  I(d)I TO~Ar l ingtonI Pop  ?
i Agenc~ : :I i Va lue  Inc .I .SK  !
V i l l as  ~nc .Ber l inCary"I DurhamI IK  !
Rea luors  Inc .. IK  Vi l las  ~nc .Esnate  Inc .tl " .2K  i Estane  In  c .?
_ ........(0...................... : .
.
.
.
: ........................ :.
....Figure h Graphics Supporting Different TasksSi~lce in our approach the graphics generator reasons about what user tasks would enable thesystem's presentation goals to be achieved, it is important for the system to distinguisli cases wherethe content of a description itself directly contributes to the presentation's goals, i.e., where thecontent has an attributive rather than a referential function.
For  instance, suppose that a systemmust design a graphic supporting ?the presentation goals described for example (3) above.
Thesegoals could?
be achieved by the user's successful performance of task (B)above, and additionally,task (D), the task of looking up the real estate agency for that town.
These tasks would befacilitated by a graphic such as (e) in  Figure i, which facilitates both tasks.
In contrast, if thesystem provided only table (f) of Figure 1, task (D) but not task (B) would be facilitated, and.thusthe overall presentation might not be as effective.4 Overview of Generation ArchitectureAs reported in a previous paper \[Kerpedjiev et a1.1997\], we are investigating the integration oftwo complementary approaches to automatic generation of presentations: hierarchical planning toachieve communicative goals and task-based graphic design.
Many researchers in natural lan-guage processing, e.g., \[Moore1995\], have modeled presentation design as a process of hierar-chical planning to achieve communicative goal s. Researchers in graphics have emphasized theneed to design presentations that support the perceptual and logical tasks a user must perform\[Beshers and Feiner1993, Casneri991, Roth and Mattis1990\].
In our hybrid approach, a hierarchbcal planner \[Young1994\] is used to refine genre-specific but media-independent presentation?
goalsinto genre-independent and media-independent subgoals.
(For Simplicity, in the rest of this pa-per we shall refer to the genre-independent and media-independent level of the plan just as themedia-independent level.)
These media-independent goals are achieved by media-independent il-Iocutionary actions \[Searle1970\], e.g., Assert, and Recommend, which themselves are decomposedinto media-independent actions that correspond to attributive and referential uses of descriptions.
(Tile language used in our current system to express the content.of illocutionary acts and goalsis described in \[Green et a1.1998\].
In addition to application-specific terms, the language includes21more broadly applicable terms for expressing quantitative relations and aggregate properties.
)The media-independent plan is used by two media-specific generators (one for text, anotherfor graphics) to create parts of the presentation.
(The problems of media-allocation, how the sys-tem decides what parts of the presentation to  realize in which media, and media-coordination,how it coordinates information conveyed in both media, are beyond the scope of this paper.
)The text generator converts parts of the plan (as determined by the media-allocatiom compo-nent) to funct!onal descriptions (FDs) of sentential units, which specify, for example, semanticpredicate-argument structure, open-class lexical items, and aspects of sentence structure withpragmatic import.
The FDs are subsequently realized by a general-purpose ntence genera.tor(FUF/SURGE) \[Elhadad and Robin1996\].
(Decisions regarding the content of referential descrip-t ions and anaphora, which are made by the text generator, are beyond the scope of this pa-per.)
The first stage of thegraphics generator converts parts of the plan (as determined by themedia-allocation component)to a sequence of logical user tasks that will enable the presenta-tion's goals to be achieved; the task sequence is then inPut to the SAGE graphic design system\[Roth and Mattis1990, Chuah et a1.1995, Roth et a1.1994\], which automatically creates a graphicsupporting the user's tasks.
3 For example, the presentation goal that the user know the popula-tion of Arlington would be enabled if the user were able to perform the sequence of logical tasksof searching for Arlington in a graphic, finding its population attribute, and then looking up thevalue; furthermore, these tasks could be performed using a graphic such as (a) in Figure 1.
(Theprocess of converting acts of the plan to tasks is partly described in \[Kerpedjiev et a1.1998\] and is?
beyond the scope of this paper.
)5 Planning Attributive DescriptionsThis section describes ?
how the two types of actions corresponding toattributive and referential usesof  descriptions are created and represented in the media-independent planning phase of generationin our system.
Our system uses media-independent presentation operators to perform content?
se-lection and high~level ?organization of the presentation.
For example, Figure 2. shows a simplifiedversion of the presentation operator that would be used to generate (3) above, in the formalism usedby the presentation planner \[Young1994\].
The strategy encoded in this decomposition is to recom-?
mend anaction, as in (3)i, and to provide information that may motivate the audience?
to adoptthe recommendation, as in (3)ii.
4 The plan parameter ?p2 would be instantiated-with the propo-sition describing the recommended action.
5 The Motivate plan constraint of the operator wouldinstantiate the plan variable ?pl  with the proposition expressed in (3)ii.
In our current system,the Search for a proposition satisfying a constraint such as the Motivate constraint in the exampleis ?performed by accessing a database created by a domain-specific data analysis component.
For?
example, in our current application domain the data analysis component analyzes transportationschedules and records features that may be of interest o the user.Propositions such as ?p2 and ?pl are represented in a RQFOL (first-order logic with restrictedquantification).
RQFOL has been used for representing the meaning of natural anguage queries?
involving Complex referring expressions \[Webber1983, Woods1983\].
In addition to providing a pew-?
erful, compositional representation scheme for the complex descriptions occurring in our domain,~The tasks are called logical tasks since they do not presuppose a particular graphic design.
All design decisionssuch as the type 0f graphic (e.g., a bar chart) or specific properties of a graphic (e.g., the choice of horizontal asopposed to vertical bars) are made by SAGE.4We recognize that the intended effect of the plan may not be achieved.
Dealing with plan failure is an area offuture research.5By convention, symbols beginning with $ are internal identifiers, and symbols beginning with ?
are plan variables.?
22!!I1III!I-II!!!!!I!!!!
(define (action Recommend-act):parameters (?p2):primitive nil:effect((accepted-recommendation SUser ?p2))(define decomposition Recommend-act):constraints((Motivate ?pl ?p2)(Proposition ?pl ?main-predl ?refsl)(Proposition ?p2 ?main-pred2 ?refs2)):steps((Recommend ?main-pred2 ?refs2)(Convey-relation Motivation ?pl ?p2)(Assert ?main-predl ?refsl)))?
Figure 2: Plan Operator for ?Discourse StrategyRQFOL distinguishes information about discourse referents from the main predication of an ex-pression.
For example, the  Proposition plan constraint of the operator in Figure 2, makes use of theRQFOL representation of ?pl to extract information with which to instantiate the plan variables?main-predl and ?refsl with the main predication of ?pl and a list describing the discourse ntities\[Webber1983\] evoked or accessed by use of ?main-predl, respectively.
(The significance to presen-tation generation of the distinction between the main predication and information about discoursereferents is discussed ill \[Green et M.1998\].
)The step of the operator shown in Figure 2 underlying (3)ii is an Assert action.
In general,Assert(?prop, ?refs) is defined as the System asserts ?prop to the User, where ?refs is a list specifyingall discourse entities evoked or accessed by  use of ?lnvp.
6 Discourse ntities are specified in thelist either by an internal identifier (an identifier referring to a database object) or by descriptionsstated as RQFOL expressions.For example, consider the Assert action underlying (3)ii~ which can be represented as follows: 7Assert(serves($RI , d2),-(($RI, ?dl),(d2, (for the c:city(c) has-p0pulation(c,d3)))(d3, (for the y:int(y) max(y,d4))),(d4, (for set z:int(z) has-population(d5, z))),(d5, (for all w:city(w) in(w,$SOMERSET)))($SOMERSET, ?d6)))The variable ?prop has been instantiated with serves($RI, d2), where SRIand d2 are discourseentities; the  variable ?refs is instantiated with a list specifying six discourse ntities:?
SRI, a discourse ntity (identified by the internal identifier of the database Object which it is intendedto represent) representing Realtors Inc.,8 "?
d2, described as the city with a population of d3,?
d3, described as the maximum value of d4,?
d4, described as a set of population values derived from dS,?
d5, described as all cities in $SOMERSET, and?
$SOMERSET, the discourse ntity/databas e object representing Somerset County.6The order Of list elements in ?re\]s i  used to represent quantifier scope.TFor readability, the example is presented in RQFOL-style syntax rather than the LISP-style syntax actually usedin our implementation.8The unbound variables ?dl and ?d6 associated with $RI a~ld $SOMERSET indicate that no descriptions havebeen associated with them by the planner.23(define ?
(action Assert):parameters (?prop ?refs):primitive nil:effect((bel SUser ?prop ?refs)))(define (decomposition Assert):constraints((get-id-list ?prop ?refs ?id-list)(get-desc-list ?prop ?refs ?desc-list)):steps((Predicate ?prop)(forall ?id in ?id-list(hctivate-ko ?id))(forall ?desc in ?desc-list(Activate-as ?desc ?refs))))Figure 3: Plan Operator for Assert?
Figure 3 shows the definition of an abstract Assert action and a simplified version of its de-composition.
An Assert may be decomposed into three types of subactions.
Predicate is used todescribe an event independently of th e things that play a role in that event.Activate-ko is a primi-tive action used to refer to an object,?
i .e., this corresponds to the referential use of a description.To achieve the effect of this action, the text and graphics generators are free to select an3, devicethat will enable the user to identify the object (subject o pragmatically appropriate identificationconstraints \[Appelt and Kronfeld1987\]).
In other words, since the function of the description ispurely referential, its content does not contribute directly to the presentation's goals and thus isnot represented in the plan ?.
Activate-as i used to refer to a discourse ntity as the object fitting thedescription provided, i.e., tliiS corresponds to the attributive use of a description.
An Activate-asmay itself be decomposed into these three types of subactions.During hierachical planning, the constraints of the Assert decomposition operator (shown inFigure 3) are used to instantiate the  plan variables lid-list and ?desc.list.
In the forall step of theoperator, :an Aetivate-ko and Activate-as action is created for each element of ?id-listand ?desc-list, respectively.
E.g., for the Assert shown above representing (3)ii, the ?id'list would contain theidentifiers SRI and $SOMERSET, and ?desc-list would include the descriptions of d2 through d5.Then, the Assert shown above would be partly decomposed into attributive and referential com-municative actions as follows: SRIis the object of an Activate-ko act, and d2 is decomposed into anActivate-as act describing d2, which in turn is decomposed into an Activate-as describing d3, and soon, ending with an Activate-ko to enable the audience to identify $SOMERSET.
In general, a com-plex attributive description may contain one or more Activate-ko acts.
That is, our representationscheme supports the composition of descriptions for attributive use from subcomponents whose usemay be attributive or referential.
Thus, in this example, $SOMERSET could be described in anumber of ways, e.g., Somerset County or the county on the eastern side of Westmoreland County.To summarize the process of generating attributive descriptions in our approach, discoursestrategies such as Recommend-act (shown in Figure 2) determine content selection as well as whetherthe selected information will be presented as part of the main predication or as part of all attribu-tive description.
The ill0cutionary act operators (e.g., Assert) and Activate-as operator further.decompose any descriptions into Activate-as and Activate-ko acts.
?Thus, the ?system's intentionsare represented in the presentation plan, enabling appropriate text and graphics to be generated.For ?example, because the information associated with d2 (the city with the largest population inSomerset county) is part of the above plan, the graphic generator will attempt o produce a graphicsuch as (e) in Figure 1 that will enable the user to see that the agency serving the town with thelargest population is ?Realtors Inc.
Without such a specification in the plan, a graphic might be24iIIIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIdesigned showing only that Realtors Inc. serves Berlin, or worse., that Realtors Inc. serves thecity with the worst pollution in Somerset County.
(For examples of how different Communicativeintentions can be distinguished in graphics ee \[Green et a1.1998\].
)6 Related Work\\[Kronfeld1986, Kronfeld1990\] distinguishes three independent aspects of the referential-attributivedistinction, discusses the significance of the distinction for a computational model of reference,and describes how attributive descriptions may result in conversational implicatures \[Grice1975\].The implications of the referential-attributive distinction for centering theory are discussed in\[Grosz et a1.1983\].
\[Appelt and Kronfeld1987\] provides a formal theory that derives the effectsof referring actions.Previous ?integrated text and graphi c generation systems, e.g., \[Fasciano and Lapalme1996,Feiner and McKeown1991, Maybury1991, Wahlster et a1.1993\] have not attempted to perform task-based design of graphics as in our.
approach.
Previous work on natural language reference inmultimedia generation?
\[Andre and Rist1994, McKeown et a1.1992\] has focused on coordination ofpictoria !
and textual referencesto c ncrete objectsand to actions to be performed o~ ghe objects,and on generating references to the presentation itself.
Previous work on reference in sentence gen-eration, e.g., \[Appelt1985, Dale1992, Dale and Reiter1995, Heeman and Hirst1995, Horacek1997,Stone and Doran1997\], has not addressed the referential-attributive distinction.
\[Elhadad1992\]describes a representation scheme for specifying complex noun phrases, in which a set can bedescribed either by its extension or intension.
However, tiffs distinction .is independent of thereferential-attributive distinction,?
since the same noun phrase can be used with either intention.7 ConclusionWe have described a media-independent, compositional, plan-based approach to generating attribu-tive descriptions for use in integrated text and graphics generation.
An attributive descrip.tion'smain function is to convey information directly contributing to the communicative goals of a dis-course.
In our architecture, uses of referential and attributive descriptions are represented as twodistinct ypes of communicative acts ina  media-independent plan.
It is particularly importantto distinguish the two types of acts, since they have different consequence s for.dialogue followupbehavior, text generation, and graphic design.8 AcknowledgmentsThis project was supported by DARPA, contract DAA-1593K0005.References\[Andre and Rist1994\] E. Andre and T. Rist.
1994.
Referring to world objects with text and pictures.
In-Proceedings of COLING, pages 530-34.\[Appelt and Kronfeld1987\] D. Appelt and A. Kr0nfeld.
1987.
A computational model of referring.
InProceedings of The lOth IJCAI, pages 640,647, Milan, Italy.\[Appelt1985\] Douglas E. Appelt.
1985.
Planning English referring expressions.
Artificial Intelligence,26(1):1-33.25Beshers and Feiner1993\] C. Beshers and S. Feiner.
1993.
AutoVisual: Rule-based esign of interactivemultivariate visualization.
IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, pages 41-49, July.\[Casner1991\] S. M. Casner.
1991.
A task-analytic approach to the automated design of information graphicpresentations.
ACM Transactions on Graphics, 10(2):111-151, April.\[Chuah et a1.1995\] Mei C. Chuah, Steven F. Roth, John Kolojejchick, Joe Mattis, and Octavio Juarez.
1995.\SageBo0k: Searching data-graphics by content.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Human Factors inComputing Systems (SIGCHI '95), pages 338-345.
ACM/SIGCHI.\[Dale and Reiter1995\] R. Dale and E. Reiter.
1995.
Computational interpretations of the Gricean maximsin the generation of referring expressions.
Cognitive Science, 19(2):233-263.\[Dale1992\] R. Dale.
1992, Generating Referring Expressions: Building Descriptions in a Domain of Objectsand Processes.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.\[D0nnellan1977 \] K. Donnellan.
1977.
Reference and definite descriptions.
In Stephen P. Schwartz, editor,Naming, Necessity, and NaturalKinds, pages 42-65.
Cornell University Press, Ithaca.\[Elhadad and Robin1996\] M. Elhadad and J. Robin.
1996.
An overview of SURGE: Areusable comprehen-sive syntactic realization component.
Technical Report Technical Report 96-03, Dept of Mathematics andComputer Science, Ben Gurion University, Beer Sheva, Israel.\[Elhadad1992\] M. Elhadad.
1992.
Using Argumentation to Control Lexical Choice: A Functional UnificationImplementation.
Ph.D. thesis, Columbia University.\[Fasciano and Lapalme1996\] M. Fasciano and G. Lapalme.
1996.
PostGraphe: a System for the Generationof Statistical Graphics and Text.
In Proceedings of the 8th international Natural Language GenerationWorkshop, pages 51-60, Sussex, UK, June.\[Feiner and McKeowni99i\] S. Feiner and K. McKeown.
1991.
Automating the generation of coordinatedmultimedia explanations.
IEEE Computer, 24(10):33-40, October.\[Green et a1.1998\] Nancy Green, Giuseppe Carenini, Stephan Kerpedjiev, Steven Roth, and Johanna Moore.1998.
A media-independent content language for integrated text and graphics generation.
In Proceedingsof the Workshop on Content trisualization and Intermedia Representations (CVIR'98} of the 17th inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING '98)and the 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (A CL'98).
Coling-ACL'98 and ACL SIGMEDIA.
To appear.\[Grice1975\] H. Paul Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In P. Cole and J. L. Morgan, editors, Syntaz andSemantics 111: Speech Acts, pages 41-58.
Academic Press, New York.\[Grosz et a1.1983\] B. Grosz, A.K.
Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1983.
Providing a unified account of definitenoun phrases in discourse.
In Proceedings of the eIst Annual Meeting, pages 44-50, Cambridge, Mass.Association for Computational Linguistics:\[Heeman and Hirst1995\] P. Heeman and G. Hirst.
1995.
Collaborating on referring expressions.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 21 (3) :351-382.\[Horacek1997\] H. Horacek.
1997.
An algorithm for generating referential descriptions with flexible interfaces..In Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and 8thConference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 206-213,Madrid, Spain.\[Kerpedjiev et a1.1997\] Stephan Kerpedjiev, Giuseppe Carenini, Steven F. Roth, and Johanna D. Moore.1997.
Integrating planning and task-based design for nmlt.imedia presentation.
I  International Conferenceon Intelligent User Interfaces (IUI '97), pages 145-152.
Association for Computing Machinery.26\[Kerpedjiev eta1.1998\] Stephan Kerpedjiev; Giuseppe Carenini, Nancy Green, Steven F. Roth, and Jo-hanna D. Moore.
1998.
Saying it in graphics: from intentions to visualizations.
In Proceedings of theSymposium on Information Visualization (Info Vis '98).
IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee onComputer Graphics.
To appear.\[Kronfeld1986 \] Amichai Kronfeld.
1986.
Donnellan's distinction and a computational model of reference.
InProceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 186~-191.\[Kronfeld1990\] Amichai Kronfeld.
1990.
Reference and computation: An essay in applied philosophy oflanguage.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.\[Maybury1991\] Mark T. Maybury.
1991.
Planning multimedia explanations using communicative acts.
InProceedings of the Ninth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence; pages 61-66, July.\[McKeown et a1.1992\] K. McKeown, S. Feiner, J. Robin, D. Seligmann, and M. Tanenblatt.
1992.
Generatingcross-references for multimedia explanation, In Proceedings of AAAI, pages 9-16.\[Moore1995\] J. D. Moore.
1995.
Participating in Explanatory Dialogues.
MIT Press.\[Roth and Mattis1990\] S.F.
Roth and J. Mattis.
1990.
Data characterization for intelligent graphics presen:tation.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (SIGCHI '90), pages193-200.\[Roth et a1.1994\] Steven F. Roth, John Kolojejchick, Joe Mattis, and Jade Goldstein.
1994.
Interactivegraphic design using automatic presentation knowledge.
In Proceedings of the Conference o12 HumanFactors in Computing Systems (SIGCHI '~4), pages 112-117.\[Searle1970\] John R. Searle.
1970.
Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, London, England.\[Stone and Doran1997\] M. Stone and C. D0ran.
1997.
Sentence planning as description using tree adjoininggrammar.
In Proceedings ofthe 35th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and8th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 198-205,Madrid, Spain.\[Wahlster tal.
1993\] W. Wahlster, E. Andre, W. Finkler, H.-J.
Profitlich, and T. Rist.
1993.
Plan-basedintegration of natural anguage and graphics generation.
Artificial Intelligence , 63:387-427.\[Webber1983\] Bonnie L. Webber.
1983.
So what can we talk about now?
In B. Grosz, K. S. Jones, and B. L.Webber, editors, Readings in Natural Language Processing.
Morgan Kaufmann, Los Altos, California.\[Woods1983\] W. Woods.
1983.
Semantics and quantification i natural anguage question answering.
InB.
Grosz, K.S.
Jones, and B. L. Webber, editors, Readings in Natural Language Processing.
MorganKaufmann, Los Altos, California.\[Young1994\] Michael R. Young.
1994.
A developer's guide to the Longbow discourse planning-system.Technical Report ISP TR Number: 94-4, University of Pittsburgh, Intelligent Systems Program.27
