Similarity and contrast relations and inductive rulesAl i s ta i r  Knot tHuman Communicat ion  Research Cent reUnivers i ty  of Ed inburgh1 Compar i sons  as  coherencere la t ionsThis paper considers how comparison relations canbe integrated within an RST-like model of discourse.We will consider two relations, SIMILARITY (proto-typically signalled by connectives like also and too)and CONTRAST (prototypically signalled by connec-tives like whereas and while).
On the face of it.
suchrelations should be easy to fit within an accountlike RST's.
However, they each exhibit certain id-iosyncracies.
For instance, the CONTRAST relationin RST is unusual in having a multinuclear struc-ture, rather than the typical nucleus-satellite struc-ture (Mann and Thompson, 1988).
SIMILARITY isunusual in that its associated connectives can ap-parently violate structural constraints of RST, link-ing the span in which they appear to structurallyinaccessible spans, as in the following text:(1) I have two brothers.
John is a student: hemajors in history.
He likes water polo, andhe plays the drums.
Bill is at high school.His main interest is drama.
He also studieshistory, but he doesn't like it much.Our suggestion for integrating comparison rela-tions within a model of discourse relations derivesfrom a method of defining relations in terms ofpresupposed defensible rules.
This method will beoutlined for causal/inferential relations, and thenadapted to comparative r lations.2 Coherence  re la t ions  and  defeas ib leru lesSeveral researchers have used defeasible rules in rela-tion definitions.
In (Oversteegen, 1995) and (Groteet al, 1995), defeasible rules are used for repre-senting the CONCESSION relation.
In (Knott, 1996;Knott and Mellish, 1996), they are used more widely,in the definitions of a whole family of causal and ar-gumentative coherence relations.
We will begin byoutlining some aspects of this latter account.In Knott's account of coherence relations, all re-lations with a causal or inferential component pre-suppose a defensible rule.
For instance, consider thefollowing case:(2) John was tired, so he went to bed.What information does the coherence relation sig-nalled by so contribute to the text?
It is implausibleto suggest hat it informs the hearer of a new rule ofinference; in fact it seems necessary that the heareralready have the necessary rule to make sense of thetext.
A better analysis is that the hearer is beingtold that this rule of inference succeeds in the sit-uation described.
We can summarise this idea byproposing that a relation of the form P, so Q pre-supposes a defensible rule that has P as part of itsleft-hand side, and Q on its right.The general framework for presupposed rules isgiven in Figure i .
For the present, we interpretthe connective ~ as the defeasible implication > in(Asher and Morreau.
1991)'s logic of commonsenseentailment.
Note that we have abstracted away fromThe relation holds between two propo-sitions, X and Y.It presupposes the existence of a defea-sible rule of the form X A P ~ C.Figure 1: Framework for Presupposed Rulesthe simple correspondence b tween relation and ruleassumed above: the mapping between Y, P and C isdetermined by the values of two further parameters,as explained in Sections 2.1 and 2.2.2.1 POSITIVE and  NEGATIVE POLARITYre lat ionsOne of the parameters we need to speciE' concernswhether the defensible rule succeeds or is defeated.In Example 2, the rule succeeds, as we have seen; butthere are also similar cases where a defensible ruleshould be analysed as being defeated.
For instance:(3) John was tired, but he stayed awake.
(We can call this relation a CO~CESSlO.X.)
If wetreat the success Or failure of the presupposed rule54as a parameter to be specified, we can use the sameframework to represent both examples.
The param-eter can be called POLARITY; The relevant values aregiven in Figure 2.POLARITYPOSITIVENEGATIVEI" is identical to }"; the pre-supposed rule succeeds.}"
is inconsistent with Y': thepresupposed rule fails.Figure 2: The POLARITY parameterThe POLARITY parameter maps Y onto a new vari-able Y'.
In Examples 2and 3, Y' should be identifiedwith the conclusion C of the presupposed rule, togive the right interpretation.
A case where Y' needsa different binding is given in the next section.2.2 UNILATERAL and BILATERAL re lat ionsThe final parameter we will consider is called PAT-TERN OF INSTANTIATION.
This feature is motivatedby examples uch as the following:(4) John was tired, but there was work to do.Clearly we do not want to say that this example pre-supposes a rule allowing inference from John beingtired to there being no work to do.
It is preferable toenvisage a rule with two conditions in its left-handside, saying that if John is tired and there is no workto do, he will go to bed.
We can then associate the }"value with the second premise, rather than with theconclusion.
The parameter determining the bindingfor Y' is given in Figure 3.PATTERN OF INSTANTIATIONUNILATERAL 1" = P.BILATERAL }" = C.Figure 3: The PATTERN OF INSTANTIATION param-eterExample 4 is then analysed as NEGATIVE POLAR-ITY UNILATERAL, while Example 3 is analysed asNEGATIVE POLARITY BILATERAL.
See (Knott,  1996;Knott and Mellish, 1996) for a more detailed pre-sentation of this framework, along with definitionsof several more independent parameters.3 Compar i sons  and  expectat ionsWhy might we assume that there is a defeasible ruleunderlying relations of SIMILARITY and CONTRAST?An initial piece of evidence comes from contexts uchas the following, in which a similarity between twoobjects in one respect apparently gives rise to anexpectation of similarities in other respects.
(5) \[J0 was made by Richard Page.\] .
.
.Th isbrooch was also made by Richard Page.
Butwhereas J0 was made in 1985, this broochwas made in 1990.This compare-and-contrast pattern is common in de-scriptive texts.
We seem to have here a CONCES-SION relation (signalled by but), whose satellite is acomplex span comprising a SIMILARITY relation, andwhose nucleus is a complex span comprising a CON-TRAST relation: see Figure 4.
The question is, why..... tCONCESSIONJ0 was made This brooch was But whereas this broochby Richard also made by J0 was made was madePage.
Richard Page.
in 1985, in 1990.Figure 4: Analysis of the text in Example 5do we have a CONCESSION relation between these twocomplex spans?
According to the analysis of CON-CESSION relations in Section 2.1. the relation mustpresuppose the existence of a defensible rule whichis being defeated at this point.
What could the rulebe in this case?
We would not want to suppose arule that if an object is made by Page, it is likely tobe made in 1990.
Rather, we need a rule that statesthat if two objects are similar in some respect, theyare also similar in other respects.4 Compar i sons  and  induct ive  ru les\Ve propose that a similarity relation should be rep-resented as triggering such a rule.
We suggest hatsimilarity, like other relations, presupposes a defeasi-ble rule: but that the rule in question is inductive inform.
In brief, we suggest hat a similarity relationbetween two propositions be thought of as permit-ting an inductive rule to fire, while a contrast rela-tion be thought of as preventing an inductive rulefrom firing.In Section 4.1 we outline atire rules, and in Section 4.2for comparison relations withanism.mechanism for induc-we frame a definitionrespect o this mech-4.1 A recta- level  sys tem of induct ive  ru lesWe will represent inductive rules as operating ata meta-level on a defeasible first-order logic basedon commonsense entailment.
We envisage inductiverules applying as second-order  ules, whose con-clusions are f i rs t -order  defensible rules; when aninductive rule fires, it results in the addition or al-teration of defensible rules within the first-order sys-tem.
"55For the moment, we do not want so describe theworkings of this second-order system in any detail;our concern here is really just to consider whether in-ductive rules might have a role in explaining certainstructural properties of comparisons.
Nevertheless,we will propose a rudimentary model of meta-levelrules.The first-order system we propose is identicalto commonsense entailment, except that each first-order defensible rule is associated with a s t rength ,represented by a pair of values s/t, where t is thenumber of times the rule has been triggered and s isthe number of times it has succeeded.
A rule onlybecomes part of the set used in first-order defeasi-ble reasoning if its values for t and s/t  each reach acertain threshold.
However, rules with values belowthe threshold can still be used as the preconditionsfor discourse relations.We then define a second-order defeasible connec-tive >> to model inductive rules.
An inductive rulehas the general form given below:(6) VP, a,b P(a) n P(b)(A...) >> ?where ?
evaluates to one or more first-order defensi-ble rules.
When a rule is triggered, the t and s valuesof each of the right-hand side rules are incremented.We will be using just two inductive rules, whichare given in Figure 5.
Rule 7 says that given two ob-jects in class c which are both P, we can incrementthe strength of the rule that asserts that objects inclass c are typically P. Rule 8 says that if two ob-jects have one property P in common, we shouldincrement he strength of all rules that allow us toinfer properties of one object on the basis of knowingproperties of the other.4.2 Induct ive  rules in re lat ion  def init ionsHow might we analyse also as presupposing an in-ductive rule?
The first thing we need is a new pa-rameter for specifying what sort of rule is being pre-supposed; this is given in Figure 6.RULE TYPE1ST-ORDER In the presupposed rule, ~ isinterpreted as >.INDUCTIVE In the presupposed rule, ~ isinterpreted as >>.Figure 6: Definition of the RULE TYPE featureWe can then define also as signalling a POSITIVEPOLARITY, UNILATERAL and INDUCTIVE relation be-tween the propositions it links.
Here is an example:(9) Brooch B 1 is ornate.
( .
.
. )
Brooch B2 is alsoornate.According to our model, one of the effects of this re-lation is to cause the inductive rule 7 to fire, which inturn has the effect of increasing the strength of thegeneralisation that brooches of the class to whichB1 and B2 belong are typically ornate.
This seemsa plausible effect, particularly in a descriptive con-text where a reader/hearer is being informed aboutobjects in an unfamiliar domain.Now consider a contrast relation, of the kind sig-nalled by whereas.
On our model, this relation wouldbe NEGATIVE POLARITY, UNILATERAL and INDUC-TIVE.
Here is an example of such a relation:(10) Brooch B1 is ornate, whereas Brooch B2 issimple.According to the model, the effect of this relationis simply to leave the s and t values of the gener-alisation that 'all brooches of the relevant class areornate' unchanged.
This is not particularly satisfac-tory; we might want to make it have a more signif-icant effect, perhaps by increasing only the t value(thereby reducing s/t): but as things are currentlyformulated, changes to the strengths of first-orderrules are only possible when an inductive rule fires.PATTERN OF INSTANTIATION for INDUCTIVEre lat ionsWe have seen that the POLARITY parameter ap-pears to do useful work for INDUCTIVE relations.We should now consider whether the PATTE~-N OFINSTANTIATION parameter is productive for tNDUC-TIVE relations.
Those we have seen so far have allbeen UNILATERAL.
What might an INDUCTIVE BI-LATERAL relation look like': Such a relation wouldhave to hold between two propositions, one being anindividual proposition, and the other being a gen-eralisation for which the individual proposition pro-vided inductive support.
One possibility is that thisclass of relations are those which can be signalled bythe connective indeed.
Consider the following exam-ple:(11) This jewel is elaborate.
Indeed, most Art-Deco jewels are elaborate.If we assume that the proposition most Art-Deco jewels are elaborate takes as its semanticvalue a first-order defeasible rule of the formVx isa(x, art_deco) > elaborate(x), then it seemsthat we can describe the relation signalled by in-deed as POSITIVE POLARITY .
INDUCTIVE and BILA.T-ERAL.
IZ Defeasible rules in commonsense entailment are actu-ally intended to represent the semantics of generic sentences.However, the generalisa.tion introduced by indeed does nothave to be a generic; the proposed account of indeed under-generates in this regard.56(7) VP.
xl,x~.cisa(xl, c) A P(xl )Aisa(x2,c) A P(xo)>> \[Vx isa(x,c) > P(x)\](s)P(xl)VP.
xl,x2 A >> \ [VQQ(xl)>Q(x2)\]P(x2)Figure 5: Two meta-level inductive rules5 S t ructura l  consequences  o finduct ive  ru lesWe will now consider whether the proposed accountof comparison relations can help us in accounting forsome of their unusual structural characteristics.5.1 Compare-and-cont ras t  ruc turesFirstly, consider again Example 5.
To recap: whatwe have here is a pair of comparison relations, ap-parently linked by a CONCESSIOn' relation, and thedifficulty is to explain why the CONCESSION rela-tion applies.
We can begin to account for this ef-fect by noting that the initial similarity relation be-tween the first two sentences causes Rule 8 to fireas well as Rule 7.
The effect of Rule 8 firing is toadd/increment the strength of a whole set of first-order rules allowing inference from J0's possession ofa given property to the brooch's possession of thatproperty (and vice versa).
One of these rules allowsan inference from the date of manufacture ofone Ob-ject to that of the other.
The contrast relation in thesecond sentence provides information that explicitlystates that this inference is not permitted, and mustresult in the newly-added rule being defeated if con-sistency is to be preserved.
If we can take this to bea case where Rule 8 is defeated, which seems plau-sible, then we can consider the high-level relationsignalled by but to be NEGATIVE POLARITY.
BILAT-ERAL and INDUCTIVE.
thereby subsuming it withina very general account of the contexts where thisconnective is applicable.5.2 Violations of adjacencyFinally, we can consider whether the account ofcomparisons as presupposing inductive rules pro-rides any way of explaining the violation of ad-jacency which the similarity relation signalled byalso appears to permit.
Our suggestion here is thatsince the rules presupposed by comparison relationsare of a different sort from those presupposed bycausal/inferential relations, it is possible that thetheorem-proving systems which search for the infer-ences that can be drawn from the incoming facts ina discourse are different for the two kinds of rules.
Itis uncontroversial that there should be methods forconstraining the search for inferences to be drawn.for both types of rule; in any large system of factsand rules there is an explosion of possible infer-ences to make.
For causal/inferential relations, wecould postulate that the search for inferences is con-strained by the compositional structure of the dis-course, and thus influenced by the nucleus-satellitestructure of its relations; and that it is this whichleads to the criterion of adjacency being enforced.For comparison relations, on the other hand.
wecould imagine different criteria for constraining thesearch space: for instance, we could suggest hat thesearch does not take structural prominence into ac-count, but is simply limited to the previous n propo-sitions.
There is no space here to explore this possi-bility in an3- detail', however, it seems an interestingone to consider.Re ferencesx Asher and M Morreau.
1991.
Commonsense en-tailment: A modal theory of nonmonotonic rea-soning, In Proceedings of the 12th InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Syd-ney.
Australia.B Grote.
X Lenke.
and M Stede.
1995.
Ma(r)kingconcessions in English and German.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation.
Leiden.
the Netherlands.A Knott and C Mellish.
1996.
A feature-based ac-count of the relations signalled by sentence andclause connectives.
Language and Speech, 39(2-3):143-183.A Knott.
1996.
A Data.Driven Methodology for Mo-tivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.D. the-sis, Department of Artificial Intelligence, Univer-sity of Edinburgh.W C Mann and S A Thompson.
1988.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: A theory of text organization.Text.
8(3):243-281.Leonoor Oversteegen.
1995.
Causal andcontrastive connectives.
Technical ReportRl.1.3b, The DANDELION Consortium, CLS.Tilburg/Nijmegen.57
