/l////lSelective Attention and the Acquisition of Spatial SemanticsJ ames  M.  Hogan,  Joach im D ieder ich  and  Gerard  D.  F innNeuroComput ing Research Centre, QUT,GPO Box 2434, Brisbane, Q, 4001.
{hogan,  j oachim, gerry}@f i t .
qut .
edu.
auAbstractThe acquisition of the semantics of naturallanguage spatial terms is considered withinthe cognitive framework introduced by (Lan-gncker, 1987), and the computational frame-work of the Berkeley L0 project (Feldman et.al., 1990).
We describe a computational modelwhich incorporates selective attention mech-anisms to facilitate the identification of sig-nificant objects within the visual field, andtheir consequent binding to linguistic rela-tional identifiers (for example, the trajectorand landmark) according to the conventionsof the input language.
In contrast to previ-ous work in this area, the approach allows ex-tension of the system to more sophisticated(potentially cluttered and feature-laden) in-put scenes and referential linguistic phenom-ena, without a major redesign of the system.The application of the model to lexemes de-scribing static concepts such as the Englishabove, below and in is discussed, as are exten-sions to dynamic oncepts.1 In t roduct ionThis paper is concerned with the acquisition of nat-ural language spatial semantics by a neurally plau-sible connectionist ystem.
Within the cognitiveframework introduced by (Langacker, 1987), elemen-tary spatial concepts (such as the English above) arecharacterised by locative relations between a poten-tially mobile object called the trajector (TR) anda static reference object called the landmark (LM).Previous computational investigations of this prob-lem (Regier, 1992), have relied upon highly struc-tured feature detection systems and the abstractionof object identification issues into the input data.While highly successful on their own terms, systemsof this nature are not readily generalisable to prob-lems involving more sophisticated (especially clut-tered) input scenes and linguistic phenomena, ndprovide neither a conscious nor an autonomous se-lection mechanism through which such inputs maybe successfully processed.The model discussed below resolves ome of theseissues through the use of mechanisms of selectivevisual attention, through abstraction of establishedmodels from computational neuroscience (Nieburand Koch, 1997) and extension to allow linguisticinput to cue selection and scene parsing.
While re-taining the overall computational philosophy of theBerkeley Lo project (see section 2), the present workdoes not rely upon feature pre-processing to thesame extent as the Regier system - representationsbeing based upon probabilistic receptive fields.
Inthis way, 'prior knowledge' oflimited specificity maybe employed through igher level recruitment torep-resent quite complex relations (see section 5.1 and(Hogan and Diederich, 1994), (Hogan and Diederich,1995)).The computational philosophy of the Berkeley Loproject is introduced in the next section, followed bydiscussion of the Regier model and the importanceof explicit object recognition i  the light of evidencefrom early language acquisition.
Section 2.4 relatesthis discussion to an accepted cognitive theory medi-ated through binding of representations at the focusof attention.
Selective visual attention, and recentcomputational models of the process dominate chap-ter 3, prior to a formal outline of the model in chap-ter 4.
The paper concludes with examination frep-resentations for a limited set of English static con-cepts - developed through simulations based uponnovel Gaussian domain response units - along withdiscussion of extensions to dynamic oncepts.2 Connect ion is t  Mode l l ing  and  theL0 P ro jec tAdvances in brain sciences and information technol-ogy in recent decades have allowed the developmentof sophisticated models of cognitive processes at aHogan, Diederich and Finn 235 Selective dttention and Acquisition of Spatial SemanticsJames M. Hogan, Joachim Diedcrich and Gerard D. Finn (1998) Selective Attention and the Acquisition of Spatial Semantics.In D.M.W.
Powers (ed.)
NeMLaP3/CoNLL98: New Methods in Language Processing and Computational Natural LanguageLearning, ACL, pp 235-244.number of levels of abstraction.
Noting the domain-specific nature of much of this work, and the im-portance of integration of disparate cognitive ma-chinery in the long-term development of the disci-pline, (Feldman et.
al., 1990) proposed Lo as a"touchstone \[task\] for cognitive science", requiringelements of visual perception, atural language mod-elling, and learning.
As originally stated, the Lo taskis to construct a computer system to perform Minia-ture Language Acquisition, without reliance upon"forthcoming results in related domains" to resusci-tate an otherwise inadequate model:The system is given examples of picturespaired with true statements about thosepictures in an arbitrary natural anguage.The system is to learn the relevant portionof the language well enough so that givena novel sentence of that language, it candetermine whether or not the sentence istrue of the accompanying picture.The system is further constrained by the substantialvariations known to exist across natural languages intheir characterisation f space - eliminating ad hoccomputational mechanisms - and by the assump-tion that learning must simulate childhood languageacquisition in the exclusion of explicit negative vi-dence (see for example (Chomsky, 1965)).
Thus onlypositive instances of a given concept may be pre-sented during training, but the system may receivenegative xamples during normal operation.2.1 A Semantic Sub-TaskThe L0 sub-task examined by (Regier, 1992) re-quires that the model system acquire "perceptu-ally grounded semantics of natural anguage spatialterms".
Each lexeme describes a locative relation-ship between a special (potentially mobile) objectknown as the trajector (TR) and a static referenceobject known as the landmark (LM) (Langacker,1987).
Figure 1 shows a positive example for theEnglish lexeme 'above'.
In essence, spatial seman-tics define a partitioning of the set of object picturesinto classes prescribed by the underlying natural lan-guage.
The task of the model system is then to learnthis classification from positive xamples of each cat-egory, forming a recognition system for each class ofpictures 1.
In English, these labels might include the1However, examples may belong to a number of cat-egories, and some gradation of class membership is de-sirable as some scenes are better, more prototypical ex-emplars of a given concept han others.
See chapter 2of(Regier, 1992) for discussion of this issue.
?Figure 1: Example image for the Lo task, withwhich one might associate the English fragment "cir-cle above square".static concepts: above, below, left, right, in, out, on,and off; and their dynamic equivalents: above, be-low, left, right, around, in, on, out of, through, andover .System input is provided in the form of a two-dimensional bitmap (static concepts) or sequenceof bitmaps (hereafter a "movie", for dynamic con-cepts) usually showing only the 'line-drawn' LM andTR in a position exemplifying the concept, althoughRegier does also consider more complicated phenom-ena such as deixis a.
The task is thus simplified soas to limit issues of object detection (through avoid-ance of feature-laden scene backgrounds and objectinteriors), confusion due to distractors, and to dis-regard the role of luminance and colour.Nevertheless, computational approaches aregreatly constrained by many years of research in anumber of disciplines, rendering the task of featureextraction and encoding non-trivial.
While acognitive model need not replicate all aspects of theunderlying neural substrate, it gains in plausibilityif it supports classifications based upon processingin cortical areas known to be active during perfor-mance of the given task.
Thus, some functionalreplication of neural pathways - ostensibly at thelevel of systems neuroscience (Churchland and2These extensions are not examined in the presentwork.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImkkHogan, Diederich and Finn 236 Selective Attention and Acquisition of SpatiaI Semantics kaSejnowksi, 1992) - becomes an essential aspectof architectural design, and this is more readilyaccomplished through a top down approach.2.2 The Regler  Model(Regier, 1992) implemented highly structured con-nectionist systems for both the static and dynamicconcept classes discussed above - the dynamic sys-tem incorporating the single frame processing capa-bilities of the static system.
Concepts were repre-sented in terms of directional ~ and non-directional 4features computed from the image, system pre-processing providing the output network with real-valued encodings for each feature value.
In contrastto the present model, objects are tagged as LM orTR tokens as part of the input representation, andthe image is partitioned into separate TR and LMbitmaps as part of pre-processing.Computationally, the Regier system may beviewed within the framework of "partially structuredconnectionism" (Feldman et.
al., 1988), in whichsystems level architectural design is coupled withunstructured local networks which may be trainedto perform (initially unspecified) functions o as torealist an overall system task - although this de-scription understates the specificity of some modelsubsystems s.2.3 Discussion of the Regier ModelIt is well-accepted that perceptual represen-tations may rely upon independent encodingsof object features and properties in distinctanatomical areas, and that some mechanismis then required to associate or bind the rep-resentations together to facilitate processingof a particular object instantiation (Treisman,1996).
This observation is best illustrated by theseparation of the object recognition (variouslythe 'what '/'object '/'ventral' /'occipito-temporal')and location ('where'/'spatial'/'dorsal'/'occipito-parietal') pathways of the visual system.Sin particular, the orientation of a line connectingpoints of closest approach, and of that connecting thecentres of mass.4For example surface contact or inclusion.Sin the original L0 paper, (Feldman et.
al., 1990)noted the difficulty in balancing the facilitation of learn-ing provided by "innate structures" (in computationalmodelling a top down approach) against the potentialgenerality of relatively unstructured networks.
Notwith-standing the apparent structural sophistication of theRegier model - perhaps motivated in part by difficultiesin parameter adjustment with limited training sets - thechoice of feature xtraction machinery was in this casesufficiently general to allow lexeme acquisition across avariety of natural languages.While Regier carefully positioned his model clearof any controversy over correspondence with bio-logical structures, its architecture must ultimatelybe viewed as an abstraction of the 'where' (dorsal)pathway, the need for object recognition being re-duced through explicit tagging of the input data.Although spatial relations are implicitly deter-mined by the position of the objects in an exampleimage, equally valid but semantically distinct (per-haps antonymic) characterisations of the scene maybe made depending upon the selection of trajectorand landmark.
Figure 1, for example, may be re-garded as prototypical example of both above ("Cir-cle above square"; TR=Circle;LM---Square) or below("Square below Circle"; TR=Square: LM=Circle).Identification of TR and LM is thus critical in theselection of the appropriate l xeme, and correct ag-ging appears to require association of an object nameand internal representation sufficient o facilitate vi-sual search, and a language-specific comprehensionof the syntactic relationship between the TK,LM,and lexeme s. It is our contention that childhoodacquisition of spatial semantics i dependent uponsufficient facility in the native language to performthis object-tagging, through parsing of spoken lan-guage fragments associated with the image.It is thought (Crystal, 1995),(Khanji and Weist,1996) that acquisition of elementary spatial lex-emes takes place soon after the ~naming explo-sion" of the second year of life (Woodward et.
al.,1994), and prior to the development of sophisticatedinternal models of space (such as those allowingscene rotation and manipulation).
Studies of spatialand temporal lexeme acquisition among young chil-dren native in various European and Middle East-era languages (Johnston and Slobin, 1979), (Weist,1991),(Khanji and Weist, 1996) indicate that sub-ject groups of mean age as low as 30 months mayc rrectly r associate pictures with spoken sentencessuch as "The parrot is in/on the cage ".SLanguage-specificity to this extent does not violatethe requirements of the L0 task.
While the Regiersystem was successfully applied to a number of natu-ral languages, acquisition for a given language was per-formed independently ofother training, utilising an out-put network encoding (and subtle adjustments to in-ternal feature detector parameters) pecific to that lan-guage.
Syntactic variations are a similar limitation ofsystem generality.rCorrectness i  here a matter of statistically signif-icant deviation from random performance, there beingtypically two alternative language fragments offered witha pair of images.Hogan, Diederich and Finn 237 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial Semantics2.4 Relationship to Feature BindingIssues of visual search and object recognition mustnecessarily assume greater importance with in-creases in the complexity of the scene - with con-sequent difficulty in tagging of TR and LM - butsome linkage must be provided between object iden-tification and location if spatially based semanticsare to be encoded and processed.
(Treisman, 1996),notes that object instantiation requires construc-tion from more elementary features (such as shapeand colour) and maintenance of the resulting entitythrough displacement or continuous motion.
Whilethe exact neural mechanisms which mediate bind-ing are unknown, the most likely candidates arethought to involve temporary cell assemblies selectedby focussed attention - with activations correspond-ing to the attended object remaining undiminishedand those away from this region being suppressed.Propagation of these activations through a globallocation map provides the common reference pointneeded to link disparate representations (Treismanand Gelade, 1980}.Significantly, the cognitive framework discussedabove was introduced to explain performance d gra-dation of visual search within cluttered domainswith complex feature conjunctions, and is closelyaligned with the neural mechanisms considered inthe following sections.
A model based upon selec-tive attention thus has the advantage of a unifiedapproach to the disparate processing requirementsof the problem, while providing a sound base for ex-tensions to more complicated input scenes and lin-guistic phenomena.3 Se lec t ive  V isua l  At tent ionIt is well known that primate visual cortex receivesinformation from the optic nerve at a rate wellabove the region's torage and processing capacities.Some mechanism of selective attention, whereby asmall but important subset of the visual field maybe given detailed processing is therefore necessary.Visual processing is typically decoupled into tworegimes (Niebur and Koch, 1997):?
A pre-attentive phase, during which parallel ex-traction of elementary features is performed?
An attentive phase, during which the moresalient or conspicuous stimuli within the fieldare processed in sequence, input from otherstimuli being suppressed during this processing.Attentional processing thus requires some selec-tion mechanism based upon the elementary featuresextracted uring the pre-attentive phase - with pos-sible external input from some other neural region orsensory'domain s. However, the selection mechanismneed not be spatially sequential, and two types ofcovert 9 visual attention are commonly distinguished,governed largely by the nature of the (perhaps au-tomatic) search task being undertaken by the vi-sual system.
Focal attention (Niebur and Koch,1995),(Niebur and Koch, 1997) is a sequential searchthrough a series of progressively ess salient loca-tions, selection being driven primarily from below- saliency being determined from the contributionsof elementary features extracted uring the pre-attentive phase.
In contrast, dispersed or feature-based attention (Usher and Niebur, 1996), (Nieburand Koch, 1997) is spatially parallel, but regarded assequential within some feature space - the selectionrelying upon some ~top-down" signal to highlight aparticular conjunction of features.3.1 Neural Gating - The Saliency MapRegardless of whether saliency is an emergent prop-erty of the input scene or imposed (perhaps con-sciously) from some other cortical region, each modelrequires that selection and suppression of stimuli berealisable in a neurally plausible structure.
Mostlocation-based attentional models are at presentbased upon the saliency map, introduced by (Kochand Ullman, 1985).
While no localised neural im-plementation f this structure has been discovered,there is strong evidence for the existence of a mech-anism based upon several elementary features ex-tracted from the image (Niebur and Koch, 1997),and unit activations within the map are computedfrom a weighted sum of feature map outputs- giv-ing a measure of "conspicuity" within each unit'sreceptive field 10.
(Niebur and Koch, 1995) employ a total of eightinput maps based upon orientation, intensity, chro-matic omponents and temporal change - along withprovision for "external" (i.e.
top-down) inputs tos (Koch and Ullman, 1985) suggest that attentionalcontrol may be located as peripherally as the LGN, re-lying upon back-projections from cortical feature maps.911igh resolution visual processing is dependent uponalignment of fovea and stimulus, normally achieved inprimates through rapid eye and head movements in aprocess known as overt attention (Niebur and Koch,1997).
Neither mechanism is considered in this briefreview, and our model assumes that covert attentionalshifts are sufficient to capture phenomena of interest -a simplification which must break down for wide fieldmoving trajectors but is otherwise plausible.i?Note the similarity to the raasterfeature map of Fea-ture Integration Theory (Treisman and Gelade, 1980).Hogan, Diederich and Finn 238 Selective Attention and Acquisition of SpatiaI SemanticsmIImIBaccount for cueing effects.
The most salient fea-ture in the input field is then computed by meansof a winner-take-all network over the map, select-ing the unit with the highest activation and sup-pressing output from the remaining units throughrecurrent connections.
In addition, the winning unitis itself inhibited over time, allowing attention toshift to a salient (but previously unattended) stim-ulus even if the scene remains unchanged.
This in-hibition serves also to prevent he immediate r turnof attention to a previously attended site, in accor-dance with psychophysical evidence (Posner and Co-hen, 1984),(Tipper et.
al., 1991).3.2 Neural  Gat ing -  Object Representation(Fujita et.
ai., 1992) found through cell record-ings that neurons within infero-temporal (IT) cortexare organised into columns with optimal selectivitytoward abstractions of known objects (simple geo-metric shapes, differential shading etc.)
with acti-vation significantly greater when presented with theabstracted or minimalist image rather than a de-tailed photograph of a similar object.
On anatomi-cal (i.e.
resource limitation) grounds, these findingssuggest hat objects may be represented through acombination ofno more than 10O0 of these lementalpictures, with adaptation of representations occur-ring as necessary 11.Usher and Niebur's model of feature-based atten-tion (Usher and Niebur, 1996) receives input fromthe entire visual field through such activated IT cor-tex cell assemblies, with the search task guided byweak "tol>-down" activation of the favoured featureclass from a similar representation in working mem-ory (here taken to be pre-frontal cortex).
While anexplicit saliency map is not employed, the attendedstimulus is again determined through competitiveselection among the input representations (here ob-ject cell assemblies).
In a cluttered field, top-downactivation may provide a winning advantage to thefavoured object.3.3 Modulation at the Focus of AttentionOnce the most salient stimulus has been selectedfrom among its competitors, some mechanism mustbe employed to facilitate passage of its associatedinput data to "higher" cortical centres while sup-pressing passage of competing input.
In the Nieburand Koch model (Niebur and Koch, 1995), a modu-lating signal from the saliency map is propagated via11 Note that these columns have low spatial selectivity- existing well along this visual processing hierarchy -and are sensitive to such stimuli regardless of their posi-tion in the field.recurrent connections back to the region of primaryvisual cortex (V1) associated with the winning unit.Enhanced activation is thus re-propagated along thevisual pathways, giving this input stream substantialadvantages in any competitive selection processessubsequently encountered 12.
Widespread propaga-tion of an enhancement signal of this kind to fea-tures associated with an object at the most salientlocation in the visual field is thought o underpinfeature binding (Treisman, 1996).4 Mode l  Arch i tec tureThis section introduces a connectionist model forspatial lexeme acquisition based upon the atten-tional mechanisms discussed above.
0nly the modelfor static concepts is presented here, although fewchanges are necessary to the gross architecture toaccommodate the dynamic ase.
As in the Regiermodel, an unstructured output or decision networkencodes the lexeme representations, receiving in-put from neurally inspired processing modules - al-though here the object recognition pathway is explic-itly considered.
The following sections outline thegross architecture and functionality of the model, de-veloping each substructure in turn before discussionof the output network.
Implementation and repre-sentation issues are examined in section 5.4.1 A Conceptual Model for the StaticCaseEach static scene may be chaxacterised as a movieconsisting of repeated presentations of the sameframe - attention initially focussed upon one object(for example the TR) and passing during movie pre-sentation to the other (the LM).
Network learningdepends upon presentation of frames exemplifyingeach of these phases, and object tagging (identifi-cation of objects as respectively TR and LM) reliesupon "visual search" initiated by parsing of the lan-guage fragment, and subsequent binding of objectfeature and location information.
The approach issolidly grounded in the Feature Integration Theoryof Treisman (Treisman and Gelade, 1980), with per-ceptual binding mediated through selective atten-tion.4.2 The Recognition PathwayProcessing corresponding to the early visual systemis not explicitly modelled, and system input is pro-vided by three unit banks, representing language in-put, object recognition and object location.
Object1~Enhancement of activation is accomplished via tem-poral tagging - modulation of the spike train through atime-varying Poisson process (Niebur and Koch, 1995).Hogan, Diederich and Finn 239 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial Semanticsrepresentation is based upon the IT cortex assem-blies discussed in section 3.2, with the simplifyingassumption that input scenes contain only objectsclosely identifiable with a single iconic image - thesystem being restricted to a discrete set of objecttypes whose presence is indicated by the activationof a single input unit I~.Language input is similarly reduced to a bank ofobject units, on the basis that apprehension of theobject description (for example a simple noun suchas circle) is sufficient o activate a representation fthe object, already available in memory as a resultof exposure to the image.
In computational terms,the visual object has been tagged as a CIRCLE token,and the iconic CIRCLE representation activated, al-though the reality is far less neatly partitioned.
Thisrepresentation provides top-down activation i  muchthe same manner as the working memory moduleof the Usher and Niebur model (Usher and Niebur,1996), the mechanisms together reaiising object ag-ging through an abstraction of feature-based visualsearch.The relationship between language and object in-put is shown at the right of figure 2, tagging be-ing represented by a conjunction between the lan-guage and object units within the binding network- the winning conjunction being selected through aWinner-Take-All (WTA) network (Feldman, 1982),and unwanted, weaker conjunctions being discarded.Such selection and suppression mechanisms readilyallow generalisation of the tagging system to morecluttered scenes or sophisticated linguistic phenom-ena, particularly as tagging is performed over time- greatly reducing problems of cross-talk.The robustness of the cell assembly representationis here captured through multiple random projec-tions from each unit to the binding network, ensur-ing with high probability that at least one connec-tion with a particular binding unit is realised t4.The function of the binding subsystem is illus-trated in the following table by the example of offigure 1 and the language fragment "circle abovesquare".
Input from the object assemblies remainsconstant hroughout the period, and for the sake ofbrevity is suppressed.
For clarity, the number ofscene frames is limited to four, with change in thelanguage input after the second frame:ISExtensions to more complicated objects require rep-resentation i terms of a weighted combination of theseiconic 'letters'.
The binding mechanisms discussed hereare in principle sufficient to handle such extensions, butpre-processing would necessarily be complex.14These reliability arguments are based upon those ad-vanced by Feldman (Feldman, 1982).Hogan, Diederich and FinnLang LangFrame Circle Square .
Binding0 1 0 TR < Circle >1 1 0 TR < Circle'>2 0 1 LM < Square >3 0 1 LM < Square >4.3 In tegrat ion  w i th  the  Locat ion PathwayFor object agging to be useful in the present contextrequires ome integration of the feature and location?
based models of selective attention considered in sec-tion 3.
The mechanisms of the previous ection arestrongly reliant upon feature-based attention (Usherand Niebur, 1996), and do not require an explicitsaliency map.Recall that location-based attentional models(Niebur and Koch, 1995), construct saliency as aweighted sum of several constituent feature maps -which while representing anatomically distinct ar-eas, provide inherent location binding.
The modelalso provides for external input to this map to ac-count for cueing - perhaps mediated through repre-sentations in working memory - but again the inputis location bound.The current work preserves the global saliencymap of (Niebur and Koch, 1995), but introduces fea-ture based input to the map through the externalchannel of the previous paragraph, as though theprimitive object cell assemblies of IT cortex weremerely another feature map contributing to overallsaliency.
Both classes of model (colloquially 'where'and 'what'!
rely on top-down modulation of acti-vation in order to implement the selection of theattended region.
In the former case, modulationtakes place through recurrent connections to pri-mary visual cortex, and 'where' to 'what' informa-tion transfer may take place through binding at thefocus of attention - essentially through lock-step re-propagation of the modulation along both pathways- although this is not required for the present ask.
'What'-to-'where' transfer in the current model isbased upon an extension of the feature-based modelof (Usher and Niebur, 1996), with propagation oftop-down modulation from the IT assemblies to stri-ate cortex, and re-propagation as for the 'where'-'what' linkages I .lSOnly limited success has been achieved to date inelucidating mechanisms of communication between thetwo pathways, although binding of representations eces-sarily demands it.
The model proposed here is attractiveand plausible, but remains to be established experimen-tally (Niebur, 1997).240 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial SemanticsIIIIIIIIVk_kk_IIIIIIIIIIIIIImThis mechanism is abstracted in the current modelso that object-based input is effectively representedin another feature map, although some delay to ac-count for the traversal of the pathway may be desir-able in more sophisticated extensions.
However, theapproach effectively eliminates the need for directinput from the object assemblies to the decision et-work, as binding has been extended to the saliencymap.
As before, we may characterise this interac-tion by examining the bindings realised.
The inputsequence is as before, but suppressed for clarity, andlocation input is restricted to representative ctorsxl (the square) and x2 (the circle).Object ImplicitBinding Location SMNetwork Input BindingTR < Circle > (xl, x2) TR(Zl)TR < Circle > (xl, z2) TR(zl)LM < Square > (Zl, z2) LM(x2)LM < Square > (Xl, X2) LM(x2)4.4 Lexeme BindingAs in the Regier model, lexeme acquisition is ulti-mately accomplished through a sparse-coded repre-sentation at an unstructured (here randomly con-nected) output network.
In its purest form, themodel exerts very tight control over the informationwhich is passed to this decision etwork - object andlocation information being effectively gated by thesaliency map.
This decoupling of the problem bothsimplifies and complicates the issue: binding at theoutput network requires a lower degree conjunction,but the lexeme is now in principle a temporal ratherthan spatial conjunction - necessitating a recurrentoutput network.Bottom up saliency is of relatively little conse-quence in the static case, as the conscious electionimplied by the object tagging mechanism controlsthe focus of attention, and these considerations can-not be over-ridden by an unchanging input scene -although decay of the most salient location helps fa-cilitate the attention shift.Figure 2 shows the gross architecture in its en-tirety.
Lexemes are represented by individual out-put units of the decision etwork, gated input beingprovided to this network from the saliency map, andlanguage input (i.e.
encoding of the lexeme itself)implicit in the learning mechanism.
At this point,the network must represent a binding of the form:above < TR(zl), LM(x2) >.Successful acquisition of such bindings is dependentupon the structure of the saliency map and its rela-tionship to the output network, and these issues areconsidered in detail in the following sections.5 Representat ion  and  Mode lImp lementat ionAs envisaged by Koch and successive co-authors, itis the role of the saliency map to determine the mostsalient input region, and to gate visual input so asto highlight his attended region for more detailedprocessing.
In this way, selective attention is sitedconceptually amongst detection of elementary fea-tures, and decoupled from more sophisticated repre-sentations computed further along the visual path-way.
Yet while the selection mechanism typicallyisolates a salient region for high-resolution represen-tation and processing (in part accomplished throughsuppression of competing stimuli}, modulation mayalso be reflected in a relatively low-resolution rep-resentation of the entire field - highlighting the at-tended object at the expense of less salient ones.
Asthe modulating signal is thought o be directed backto primary visual cortex, such reduced maps may becomputed at a number of points along the visual pro-cessing hierarchy, as required by the sophisticationof the relation to be represented 16.While acknowledging, therefore, the importanceof pre-processing asidentified by (Regier, 1992), thepresent work does not employ feature xtraction ma-chinery of the same sophistication.
In part, this maybe justified by noting that much of the computa-tional difficulty of the problem is removed once thefovea has been positioned - limiting the class of ex-amples with which the system may be faced.
Yeta more powerful justification is philosophical: therepresentations considered below require neither ahigh level of genetic determinism nor a long periodof inductive learning to become stablished.5.1 Random Receptive Fields(Hogan and Diederich, 1994), (Hogan andDiederich, 1995) considered a novel class of connec-tionist networks in which connectivity is determinedrandomly, in accordance with biologically plausibleprobabilities.
Briefly, probability of connection be-tween each pair of neurons is dependent upon the"distance" between them - the local probabilitybeing constant within some local radius R of each16Notwithstanding the clear separation i  this discus-sion between the saliency mechanism and further pro-cessing, the reduced representations di cussed below arecomputed directly from the saliency map on the groundsof computational simplicity.Hogan, Diederich and Finn 241 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial Semanticsunit, and decaying exponentially outside this region.This earlier work established that networks of mod-erate size may harbour small subnetworks (known ascandidate architectures) which could be usefully re-cruited in the representation f Boolean concepts lr.In the present work, the approach is extended toproduce random receptive field units, receiving pro-jections from a high-resolution i put map (30 x 30units) under similar probability and radius restric-tions as those above.
Reduced maps of this typeprovide a kind of probabilistic localisation - prox-imal objects being represented with high probabil-ity, and distal objects being represented with low(but still significant) probability.
Thus, the repre-sentation is flexible within the bounds provided byfoveal alignment, allowing significant fault tolerancein the boundary of each field.
Computationally, theapproach provides a substantial reduction of dimen-sion, producing an encoding of the problem allowingrecruitment at the output network without propa-gation of an error signal to the underlying represen-tation.We conclude this section with an example reducedmap, demonstrating that simple receptive fields ofthis type are sufficient to discriminate concepts suchas above is.
In the limit of a large number of possibleprojections, the response of each receptive field unitmay be modelled through the use of Gaussian do-main .response units 19 developed for this purposeand trainable through gradient-descent.
The sig-nificance of these simulations therefore lies not inthe method of acquisition of the representation, butrather in the fact that such a representation mayperform successfully.Figure 3 shows the combined (weighted) responsemap of receptive fields for above obtained by train-ing on example images showing a smaller objectabove a larger object 2?.
As will be clear from thegraphic, the strong positive response to activation inthe centre of the upper region ensures that the maplrThis approach isbased upon evidence from cognitiveneuroscience - see (Ramachandran, 1993) for a review.18Similar epresentations have also been obtained forother English directional concepts such as below, left andright.
A representation specific to in cannot be demon-strated in this way, requiring the attentional mechanismto highlight a detectable change of state within the localregion - the change only appearing over time.l~The unit response to the intensity of each input isweighted according to a Gaussian function of the dis-tance between the input and the unit centre.2?Typical training sets include strongly positive exam-ples, coupled with a similar number of strongly negativeexamples of the concept, randomly positioned and la-belled manually.
The network successfully generalises tounseen weakly positive examples.provides trong identification of prototypical posi-tive and negative xamples.
However, the decayingrather than hard-limiting response of the fields pro-vides sufficient flexibility that weakly positive xam-ples with typical locations and prototypical exam-ples with atypical locations are also correctly identi-fied.
For example, table 5.1 shows results using thisfield, outputs encoded in the interval \[0, 1\], with 1.0indicating a strongly positive result.
The approxi-mate location of the TR with respect o the LM isindicated using points of the compass, and the weakpositive examples were not assigned a numeric tar-get value.TR True NetworkPosition Value ValueN 1.0 0.966E 0.0 0.066W 0.0 0.088S 0.0 0.064NE N/A 0.357NE N/A 0.302NW N/A 0.5796 Conc lus ionsIn this work, we have developed a powerful new ar-chitecture for modelling the acquisition of spatialsemantics, providing a number of advantages overprevious approaches - in particular in its potentialfor application to more cluttered input scenes andlinguistically complex phenomena.
While discussionhas centred upon a system which caters for staticconcepts, the system is immediately extensible tothe case of dynamic oncepts through the addition ofa temporal change map to the model input (Nieburand Koch, 1995).Representations introduced by the model arebased on simple, probabilistic receptive fields en-coding activation of the saliency map, and requir-ing limited prior knowledge and learning to be re-alised - having also substantial dvantages in faulttolerance.
In forthcoming work we shall present re-sults for system learning from a wide range of staticand dynamic oncepts and examine xtensions of themodel to include linguistic description of faces basedupon the spatial relationship between constituentfeatures (for example, the shape and.
relative posi-tions of nose, mouth and eyes).AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to acknowledge helpful dis-cussions with Ernst Niebur and Claudia Brugman.Hogan, Diederich and Finn 242 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial SemanticsImmmmmmmmIIIIIIIIIIIIIIm_dReferencesChomsky, N. 1965.
Aspects of the Theory of Syntax.Cambridge, MA., MIT Press.Churchland, P. and Sejnowski, T.J. 1992.
"TheComputational Brain".
Cambridge, MA., MITPress.Crystal, D. 1995.
The Cambridge Encyclopaedia ofLanguage.
Cambridge, UK., Cambridge Univer-sity Press.Feldman, J.A.
1982 Dynamic Connections inNeuralNetworks.
Biol.
Cybernetics, 46, pp27-39.Feldman, J.A., Fanty, M. and Goddard, N. 1988.Computing with Structured Neural Networks.IEEE Computer, 21, pp.91-104.Feldman, J.A., Lakoff, G., Stolcke, A. and HollbachWeber, S. 1990.
Miniature Language Acquisition:A Touchstone for Cognitive Science.
TR-90-009,International Computer Science Institute.Fujita, I., Tanaka, K., Ito, M. and Cheng, K. 1992.Columns for Visual Features of Objects in MonkeyInferotemporal Cortex.
Nature, 360, pp.
343-346.Hogan, J.M.
and Diederich, J.
1994.
Random Neu-ral Networks of Biologically Plausible Connectiv-ity.
Proe.
2nd Australian Comple~ Systems Con-ference, Rockhampton, September.Hogan, J.M.
and Diederich, J.
1995.
Feasibilityof Incremental Learning in Biologically PlausibleNetworks.
Proe.
6th Australian Conference onNeural Networks, Sydney, February.Johnston, J.R. and Slobin, D.I.
1979.
The Devel-opment of Locative Expressions in English, Ital-ian, Serbo-Croatian d Turkish.
Journal of ChildLanguage, 6, pp.529-545.Johnston, J.R. 1988.
Children's Verbal Represen-tations of Spatial Location.
In: Stiles-Davies,J.
et.
al.
(Eds), Spatial Cognition.
Hillsdale, NJ.,Lawrence Erlbaum, pp.195-205.Khanji, R. and Weist, R.M.
1996.
Spatial and Tem-poral Locations in Child Jordaniaa Arabic.
Per-ceptual and Motor Skills, 82, pp.675-682.Koch, C. and Ullman, S. 1985.
Shifts in SelectiveVisual Attention: Towards the Underlying NeuralCircuitry.
Human Neurobiology, 4,pp.219-227.Langacker, R. 1987 Foundations of CognitiveGrammar I: Theoretical Prerequisites.
Stanford,CA., Stanford University Press.Niebur, E., and Koch, C. 1995.
Control of SelectiveVisual Attention: Modeling the "Where" path-way.
Proceedings NIPS*95.Niebur, E., and Koch, C. 1997.
ComputationalArchitectures for Attention.
In: Parasuraman,(Ed)., The Attentive Brain.
Cambridge, MA.,MIT Press.Niebur, E. 1997.
Personal Communication.Posner, M.I.
and Cohen, Y.A.
1984.
Compo-nents of Visual Orienting.
In: Bouma, H. andBouwhuis, D.G.
(Eds), Attention and Perfor-mance X. Hillsdale NJ.
Lawrence Erlbaum andAssociates pp.531-554.Ramachandran, V.S.
1993.
Behavioral and Magne-toencephalographic Correlates of Plasticity in theAdult Human Brain.
Prac.
Natl.
Acad.
Sci.
USA,90, pp.
10413-10420.Regier, T. 1992.
The Acquisition of Lexical Se-mantics for Spatial terms: A Connectionist Modelof Perceptual Categorization.
PhD Dissertation,University of California, Berkeley.Tipper, S.P., Driver, J. and Weaver, B.
1991.
Ob-ject Centred Inhibition of Return of Visual Atten-tion.
Q.J.
Ezperimental Psychology, 43A, pp.289-298.Treisman, A. and Gelade, G. 1980.
A Feature Inte-gration Theory of Attention.
Cognitive Psychol-ogy, 12, pp.
97-136.Treisman, A.
1996.
The Binding Problem.
CurrentOpinion in Neurobiology, 6 pp.
171-178.Usher, M. and Niebur, E. 1996.
A neural model forparallel, expectation-driven attention for objects.J.
Cognitive Neuroscience, 8, pp.311-327.Weist, lq.M.
1991.
Spatial and Temporal Locationin Child Language.
First Language, 11, pp.253-267.Woodward, A.L., Markman, E.M., and Fitzsim-mons, C.M.
1994.
Rapid Word Learning in 13-and 18-Month-Olds.
Developmental Psychology,30, pp.553-566.Hogan, Diederich and Finn 243 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial Semantics!IFWTA NeD.York '\,;~  i l l~i l iml l~ i :, !
i,u~ - i~.-~ i~  ~ IJ , X S/j'~",,"--7 7 / /  i ~,.\ / t. /"  / !
',., \,"Where"  "What"F igure  2: The complete system architecture.6~5-4 .3 -2-,10-1-2.
T10.80 0F igure  3: E~rample r ceptive field map for above .IIIIIIIIIIIIHogan, Diederich and Finn 244 Selective Attention and Acquisition of Spatial Semantics
