IIlIIIIIII|lmmPosition Paper on Appropriate Audio/Visual Turing TestBradley B. CusterScreamwarebcus  te r@s c reamware ,  com1.
IntroductionDr.
Hugh Loebner in his 1994 article inCommunications \[1\] makes the statement regardingfuture LP competitions, "the winner of the LoebnerGrand Prize must develop a computer with associatedhardware that can respond 'intelligently' toaudio visualinput in the manner that a human would .... Turing wrote,'The question and answer method seems suitable forintroducing any one of the fields of human endeavor thatwe wish to include.'
Well, I would like to ask questionsabout images and pattern recognition.
If the computeranswers appropriately it is intelligent.
"Some have said that requiring competitors to submittheir programs to this kind of audio/visual interrogationis going overboard for what AI and robotics technologyare prepared to offer \[2\].
The audio/visual requirementmay prevent competitors from achieving the LoebnerGrand Prize in the next ten years (yet I doubt it wouldhave to take that long).
However, observe how successfulthe scientists at Carnegie Mellon were able to be with theNavlab automated riving project in ten years \[3\].Improved technologies for object and speech recognition(major component parts of the imaginedprogram/hardware) are continuely being developed \[4\].Little work has been done to consolidate neuralrecogition technologies and computational linguistics, tomy knowledge \[5\].
Still, I believe that he most unchartedground remains with determining sofrware requirementsfor passing the conventional Turing Test.
The 'thinking'element which should allow a TT to be successfullypassed is still largely unknown; i.e.
the modeling ofexecutive cognitive functions.2.
A Matter of DegreeThe question arises, though, as to how well sighted andacute of hearing does a machine need to be to qualify forthe Loehner Prize?
Drawing on an icon from sciencefiction, it seems to me that the intention of Loebner'saudio/visual Turing Test is to identify amachine which isin the likeness of Author C. Clark's HAL.
But does theLoebner Prize winner's entrant need to be in the state ofperfection HAL was portrayed in in 20017 I believe aninitial success at linguistically identifying the quality ofvarious simple sights and sounds would begroudbreaking.
On the other hand, the principle ofTuring's imitation game is that the interviewer isprevented from distinguishing a machine's responsesfrom a human's responses.3.
Possible MethodsThere are several ways one might test for audial andvisual comprehension.
One technique would be toadminister children's intelligence tests to computers.Such as an adaptation of the WPPSI test (Wechsler Pre-school and Primary Scales of Intelligence), whichrequests linguistic answers to sight-vocabulary, objectmemory, and object relationship (e.g.
which is larger)questions.
Such a visually focused IQ test adaptationwould not only test a machine's object identificationskills, but also it's cognitive skills.David Powers has recommended t sting the machinesability to discuss objects of the judges choice.
Theobjects would be placed at a given location, and theinterviewee would have the chance to examine itbeforeand during the interview.
A similar arrangement couldconceivably be used to test audial comprehension.
Asound could be played and the interviewee asked todescribe it.
I would like to register support for a test afterthe manner which David Powers describes, believing thatit would be feasible to engineer for and easy toadminister.4.
MultimediaOne question looms large, though.
Whether the audioand visual testing will be done discretely or together.Rather then separate the tests a single test could beadministered with a noise making object.
This would addanother layer of complexity to contestants' programs,matching sights to sounds.
I believe deciding whether theaudio/visual requirement ofthe Loehner Grand Prize isto be multimedia or discrete is an important issue.If it were decided that he audio and visual tests wouldbe combined, then another test technique would be tohave the judge and contestant both watch a shortmultimedia clip, and conduct interviews regarding thefilm.
Although this expectation would indeed requireCuster 287 Position Paper on Turing TestBradley B. Custer (1998) Position Paper on Appropriate Audio/Visual Turing Test.
In D.M.W.
Powers (ed.
)NeMLoP3/CoNLL98 Workshop on Human Computer Conversation, ACL, pp 287-288.competitors to develop recognition technology wellbeyond the merger of budding existing technologies (asthe identifications ofobjects in still frames has yet a waysto go).
Again, another technique might be to have thejudge sit in front of a camera nd microphone toconductthe interview, the computer's orconfederate's responsescould be returned via printed screen text.
Visualquestions could pertain to the judges own appearance.This could accomplish testing all three aspects of the A/VTT in one interview.5.
In ConclusionI would like to conclude by simply thanking HughLoebner for the event he's started, David Powers andeveryone who has volunteered time to give the contestthe exciting feeling and potential itholds.6.
References1.
Loebner, Hugh G.; In Response; Communications of theACM; June 1994/v37n6:792.
Hutchens, Jason L; How to Pass the Turing Test byCheating.
http://ciips.ee.uwa~ edu.au/~hutch/hal/Paper.txt3.
Reddy, Raj; To Dream The Possible Dream;Communications of the ACM; May 1996/v39nS:1054.
Cybenko, George; Neural Networks in ComputationalScience and Engineering; Computational Science andEngineering; Spring 1996/v3n 1:36 also seehttp://www.ieee.org/rmc/5.
Lawrence, Steve; Giles, C. Lee; Fong, Sandiway; On theApplicability of Neural Network and Machine LearningMethodologies to Natural Language Processing; Tech.Report CS-TR-3479 Inst.
for Advanced Comp.
StudiesCuster 288 Position Paper on Turing TestIIIlIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIIINeMLaP3/CoNLL98Workshop on Paradigms and Grounding inLanguage LearningFlinders University, 21st JanuaryIIIIIIIIIIII
