On classifying connectives and coherence relationsLiesbeth DEGAND*Department of Experimental Psychology, University of LouvainPlace du Cardinal Mercier, 101348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgiumdegand @exco.ucl.ac.beAbstractThis paper tackles the methodologicalquestion of how coherence relations and theirsurface cues, e.g.
causal connectives, may becategorised into different discourse domains.In this context, the central issue is the need forexplicit and objective criteria that can beapplied by different analysts to all kinds ofnatural texts.
Strengths and weaknesses ofdifferent methods that are currently used incorpus studies are passed in review.IntroductionIn this paper, I would like to address amethodological question that starts from thefollowing observation: There is a growingnumber of corpus studies in the area of the useof coherence relations and discourse markers innatural texts.
Most of these studies try toestablish a relationship between the coherencerelations found in the text and the discoursemarkers used to signal them linguistically, veryoften inter-clausal connectives (Degand 1996,1998; Grote, Lenke & Stede 1997; Knott 1996;Mann & Thompson 1992; Oversteegen 1997;Pit, Pander Maat & Sanders 1997; Pander Maat& Sanders 1995, Sanders 1997).
However, theresults of these studies are hardly everstraightforward to compare.
The main reasonfor this is that the methods used to classify boththe coherence relations and their linguisticmarkers are very often divergent and in the bestcases only partially overlapping.
So, in order toenable comparison of the different studies, thereis a need for clear and explicit classificationcriteria.
In this paper, I will try to set out anumber of such (operationalisable) elements thatcould function as tools in the categorisation task.The goal will be reached if the categorisationcriteria are formulated in such an explicit waythat they can be applied by different analysts toall kinds of natural texts.1 Coherence relationsA classical approach to coherence relations is toclassify them into relational or discoursedomains: semantic vs.  pragmatic (van Dijk1979; Sanders 1992; Pander Maat & Sanders1995), content vs.  epistemic vs. speech-act(Sweetser 1990), external vs. internal (Halliday& Hasan 1985, Martin 1992), subject matter vs.presentational (Mann & Thompson 1988),ideational vs. interpersonal vs. textual (Degand1996, Maier & Hovy 1993), ideational vs.rhetorical vs. sequential (Redeker 1991).
Theseclassifications all account for the fact that thereare different types of coherence relations thatexist at several "levels", "strata", "planes" or"domains" of the discourse.
It is striking to notethat there is a great amount of agreementbetween the authors with respect o the differentgeneral types of coherence relations.
They canbe grossly characterised as follows:?
Ideational / semantic / content / external/ subject matter elations establish a linkbetween discourse units that denotestates of affairs in the world described inthe discourse.
Examples are: cause,sequence, contrast, etc.Interpersonal / pragmatic / internal /presentational / rhetorical relationsestablish a link between theillocutionary meaning of one of thediscourse units with the Iocutionarymeaning of the other.
Examples are:* Senior research assistant at the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (F.N.R.S.
).29justification, motivation, evidence,conclusion, etc.
Furthermore, adistinction can be made between (i)epistemic (knowledge of a fact leads toconclusion of a belief), and (ii) speech-act relations (a fact leads to the utteranceof a speech-act).?
_Textual / sequential relations establish asequential, text organising relationbetween ideationally and interpersonallyonly loosely or indirectly relatedadjacent discourse segments.
Examplesare: list, joint, etc.
or any otherideational or interpersonal relationswhen they are used as comment,digression, excursus, etc.While the characterisation of these relationaldomains is general enough so as to account forall different kinds of discourse structures, thisgenerality poses a number of problems as soonas one starts to work with natural texts.
Most ofthe time there is agreement on proto~.
'picalexamples (very often built-up examples forpurposes of illustration), but in actual textanalysis one gets rapidly confronted with animportant number of ambiguous cases.
That is,when one tries to establish what type ofcoherence relations are present in the text, itbecomes rapidly impossible to classify foundrelations on the basis of these definitions alone.Different elements may account for theseproblems: (i) coherence relations are not alwaysmarked linguistically, (ii) there is no one to onemapping between coherence relation andlinguistic discourse marker, and (iii) there is nogeneral consensus on the type of linguisticconstructions that may function as discoursemarkers (connectives, prepositions, adverbials,intonation patterns, cue phrases, etc.
).In the literature, connectives are generallyconsidered to be prototypical linguistic markersof coherence relations.
In this paper, I will thenconcentrate on the problems that arise when onetries to relate to each other the discoursedomains as described above, the coherencerelations and the connectives that may signalthese coherence relations.
This will beexemplified on the hand of causal constructions.2 From connect ive to coherencerelationWhile it is clear that coherence relations are notalways signalled linguistically, and that theymay be signalled by other linguistic means thanconnectives, it seems plausible to accept thatinter-clausal connectives always mark (at least)a coherence relation.
As a matter of fact, this iswhat appeared from my corpus analyses: anycausal connective linking two (minimallypropositional) segments always functioned as alinguistic marker of a coherence relation.
Thismeans that it is justified to use a bottom-upapproach to study coherence relations.
Thequestion to answer then is: How does one knowwhat type of coherence relation is signalled bythe connective?
And corollary to this: In whatdiscourse domain is the connective used?Answering these types of questions implies tocombine both a top-down approach in whichbroad general semantic categories are definedwith a bottom-up approach in which themeaning and function of a number of linguisticmarkers, such as connectives, are described.
Thecombination of these two approaches should (i)guarantee the linguistic validity of the discoursedomains and the coherence relations and (ii)help to reach a parsimonious and organisedclassification of the connectives that function aslinguistic markers of these higher-level semanticcategories.
Working with more than onelanguage in this context may be helpful to revealthe degree of idiosyncrasy of the different ypesand categories.Since I will restrict my investigations here to thecoherence relations that are linguisticallymarked by connectives, I will only address oneof the three above mentioned problems.
Namely,the observation that there is no one to onemapping between coherence relation anddiscourse marker.
This entails that a coherencerelation is not always marked by the sameconnective, and that a given connective does notalways signal the same coherence relation.
Forexample, in the causal domain, the ideationalrelation NON-VOLITIONAL CAUSE may bemarked by the Dutch connectives omdat anddoordat ('because').
At the same time, theconnective want can signal the coherencerelations VOLITIONAL CAUSE, NON-VOLITIONALCAUSE, and CLAIM-ARGUMENT, in either of theideational or interpersonal discourse domains.30From what has been mentioned so far it shouldbe clear that there is a need to disambiguate he(sometimes complex) relationship betweencoherence relations and their surface cues.Objective and explicit methods are needed thatoperationalise the type of above-mentioneddefinitions.Different methods that are used in the field willpass the review, including (i) the meaning of theconnective itself, (ii) the substitution test, (iii)the paraphrase test, (iv) the underlying meaningof the relation, and (v) the role of other linguisticmarkers such as perspective indicators.
In myopinion, the combination of different teststogether with corpus analyses opens upinteresting perspectives with respect to theusability and applicability of these methods inreal field work.2.1 The role of the linguistic marker  itselfIn agreement with the functional approach tolanguage I consider that different surface cuesreflect different functions and meanings.
In thefield of coherence relations, this functionalstance leads to the following assumption : If onegeneralised meaning, e.g.
a causal relation, canbe expressed by different linguistic expressions,e.g.
because, for, so, therfore, and, etc., it ishighly probable that these different linguisticmarkers are (at least) slightly divergent inmeaning.
The working hypothesis is then thatevery connective has its own specific meaningand that there are no true synonyms.
It followsfrom this that one should be (at least) suspiciouswhen different linguistic markers end up in asame category.
In those cases, finer distinctionsmight be necessary.
A way to test this is tomake use of a substitution test.2.2 Substituting one connective byanotherIn a substitution test a given connective issubstituted by another one (cf.
Knott & Dale1994; Knott 1996 for a systematic study).Acceptability of the substitution is dependent onthe degree of similarity between the twoconnectives.
This leads us to variouspossibilities: from connectives that would betotally overlapping in meaning ~ to partiallyoverlapping, and exclusive ones.
While thissubstitution test can bring us closer to alinguistically motivated classification ofconnectives because it groups together surfacecues that are close in meaning, the main problemis that the whole classification is based on theanalysts' judgement.
And it is clear that thesejudgements may diverge between differentanalysts, especially when the connectives arelargely overlapping in meaning.
Analysts'intuitions must certainly be completed by otheranalyses.2 .3Paraphras ing  the meaning of theconnectiveThe use of paraphrase tests is a very frequentmethod to analyse the meaning of connectives(Pander Maat & Sanders 1995, 1997: Degand1996; Pit, Pander Maat & Sanders 1997; Sanders1997).
They help to determine what themeaning of the segments is on their own, i.e.when the influence of the connective itself is leftout.
The advantage of a paraphrase test is that itforces to be explicit about the interpretation ofthe meaning of the connective underinvestigation.
Once the connective is left out, theanalyst checks whether the segments can berelated by the given paraphrase(s) withoutchanging the reading of the overall fragment.
Ofcourse, the analyst's intuition is still the ultimatecriterion to classify the connective as expressingone or another meaning, but the paraphrase testmakes the different interpretations explicit, so ithelps the analyst o systematically check his/herintuitions.
This is illustrated below on the basisof the following causal paraphrases:?
Ideational, volitionali this action is theconsequence of the following fact :?
Ideational.
non-volitional: this situationis the consequence of the followingfact :?
Interpersonal, epistemic: one mayconclude this on the basis of thefollowing situation :?
Interpersonal, speech-act: his utteranceis motivated by the following situation :With the help of these paraphrases, we canclassify the use of because as being epistemic inNote that this in fact opposite to the basic functional31stance which aims for an ideal "one form - onemeaning" correspondence.example (1) and ideational, volitional inexample (2).. John loves her because / one may concludethis on the basis of the following situation hecame back.precise and explicit way so that it can be appliedunambiguously.
Second, the examples also showthat it is not always clear whether the paraphrasevehicles the meaning of the connective alone.On the basis of the paraphrase test, example (5)should be rejected as being odd.. John came back because / this action is theconsequence of the following fact he lovedher.Nevertheless, although this paraphrasing ives anumber of indications concerning the type ofrelation that is expressed by the connective, it isnot entirely satisfactory.
Consider the followingexamples:5.
?He's handsome because he loves pasta.But other linguistic elements may influence thereading of the overall fragment.
This isespecially the case with the perspectiveindicators.
Adding such a perspective indicatorto (5) seems to make it already a little moreacceptable to an epistemic reading (see Section2.5).. D: De rivier zal .wel hoog staan want herheeft weer de hele nacht geregend.D: De rivier zal wel hoog staan omdat hetweer de hele nacht heeft geregendE: The river is surely high because it hasbeen raining all night.. D: Het zal weer de hele nacht geregendhebben, want de fivier staat erg hoog.D: Het zal weer de hele nacht geregendhebben, *omdat de rivier erg hoog staat.E: It must have been raining all night,because the river is high.On the basis of the above-mentionedparaphrases, the two examples are bestcategorised as being epistemic in meaning.
Thiswould mean that both the connectives want andomdat can express an epistemic relation and thatthey should be mutually substitutable in thiscontext (cf.
example (3)).
Nevertheless, thisseems not to be the whole story.
In example (4),for instance, only the use of the connective wantis acceptable.
On the basis of the paraphrasealone one should then accept hat the connectiveomdat sometimes can and sometimes cannotexpress an epistemic relation.
From a functionalpoint of view this is not satisfactory.
In thefollowing section, I will show that theunderlying meaning of the causal relation alsoplays a restrictive role on the selection of thesecausal connectives.In addition, this example illustrates anotherproblem linked to the use of paraphrases.
First,the paraphrase itself should be formulated in a6.
He really must be handsome, because heloves pasta.So the underlying assumption of a paraphrasetest is that the meaning of a connective iscompatible with the meaning of the two relatedsegments but that it cannot itself impose arelational meaning.
In other words, it is notenough to put a causal connective between anyof two segments to obtain a causal meaningL2,4 The nature  of the under ly ing relat ionIn causal relations the underlying meaningreflects the causal inference to be made.
Thiscausal reasoning can proceed in three ways:deductively, inductively or abductively.
It ismy claim that the type of causal reasoning thatunderlies the causal relation plays a restrictiverole on the selection of connectives (at least inDutch).In general terms, a causal reasoning processconsists of three elements: rule (general law),circumstance (specific case), and result, like inthe following example:Rule: Every time when it rains (a lot), the riveris high.Circumstance: It has rained a lot.Result: The river is high.2 But, Degand (1998) shows that he connective itselfmay sometimes force a given reading.
E.g.
thesubjectifying effect of the connective want('because/for'), and the objectifying effect of theconnective omdat ('because').32Deduction is reasoning from circumstance andrule to the result: It has rained a lot (and everytime when it rains (a lot), the river is high.
), sothe river is high.
In a backward eductive causalrelation the consequence (result) in the firstsegment (SI) is related causally to thecause/reason (circumstance) in the secondsegment ($2).
In Dutch, this relation can beexpressed both by want and omdat (see example(7)).. D: De rivier staat hoog want het heeft dehele nacht geregend.D: De rivier staat hoog omdat het de helenacht geregend heeft.E: The river is high because it rained allnight.Induction is reasoning from (several) results andcircumstances to a rule: The river is high (and ithas rained al lot, and last week when the riverwas high, it also had rained a lot .
.
.
.
), so when itrains a lot, the river is high 3.Abduction, finally, is reasoning from result andrule to circumstance: The river is high (andevery time when it rains (a lot), the river ishigh.
), so it has been raining a lot.
In abackward abductive causal relation acause/reason (circumstance) in S 1 is inferred onthe basis of a consequence (result) in $2.
Thisinference can only take place if there is indeed areal causal link between the two segments(Mackie 1975; Lagerwerf & Oversteegen 1994).If the two segments are substituted by oneanother, one should again obtain a purelydeductive relation.
This reversibility of thereasoning pattern is a good way to operationalisethe deductive-abductive distinction.In my opinion, a (backward) abductive relationcan exclusively be expressed by the connectivewant (see example (8)).. D:Het heeft veel geregend, want de fivierstaat hoog.D: *Het heeft reel geregend, omdat derivier hoog staat.E: It has rained a lot, because the river ishigh.Now, the question that rises is to what extent heunderlying reasoning pattern may contribute tothe classification of the causal relation into the"classical" ideational and interpersonaldiscourse domains.
One could argue that adeductive reasoning pattern is ideational innature because it is close to the real cause-consequence process.
This would then meanthat example (2) above expresses an ideationalrelation (marked in Dutch by want or omdat), inspite of the presence of perspectivising elements.When these are left out as in (7), the ideationalnature of the causal relation appears veryclearly.
With respect o the abductive reasoningpattern one could argue that it is interpersonal,and more specifically epistemic, in naturebecause it reflects a causal reasoning in themental space of the speaker ~.
Here, presence orabsence of perspectivising elements does notchange anything to the situation (see example(8)).
If we take this deductive-abductivedistinction to be indicative for the ideational-interpersonal distinction, then the discoursedomains would have a restrictive role on theselection of connectives.
Namely, want andomdat can both express an ideational (deductive)relation, while an interpersonal (abductive)relation can only be expressed by want.However, it might be counterintuitive andcontrary to the general domain definitions toclassify examples (3), (6), or (9) as beingideational in nature only because they express adeductive reasoning pattern.
A closer lookshould be taken to these other elements whichseem to influence the categorisation, namelyperspective indicators.. D: Door al die milieuwetten mag je het rietniet meer verbranden of in een sloot'afdrijven'.
Dat is allemaal onzinnig, wantriet is een natuurlijk produkt.
(NRC, 1994)E: Because of all these environment lawsyou're not allowed anymore to burn the reedor to drive it 'off' the ditch.
That is allnonsense, because/for eed is a naturalproduct.3 1 did not find this kind of expressions in my corpus.Most authors who refer to epistemic relationsillustrate these with constructed examples of theabductive reasoning type (e.g.
Sweetser, 1990).332.5 PerspectivisationIn the previous ection, it appeared that presenceor absence of perspectivising elements can playa role in the categorisation of coherencerelations in the ideational or interpersonal(epistemic) domain.
Perspective indicators areelements that have to do (i) with theresponsibility for the truth of the utterance(verbs of saying and perception, explicit quotesor references .
.
.
.
), (ii) with the logico-semanticproperties of the utterance (negation, epistemicmodals .
.
.
.
), or (iii) with the evaluation of theutterance (predicates of judgement, evaluation,comparatives, etc.).
At first view, perspectivisedsegments are best categorised within theinterpersonal domain because they mostly referto the opinion or point of view of the speaker (oranother utterer), i.e.
they have an illocutivecharacter.But then, how do perspectivisation, surface cues,and reasoning pattern relate to each other?
Andwhich elements hould be taken into account forthe categorisation into discourse domains?Contrary to the causal reasoning pattern,perspectivisation does not play a restrictive roleon the selection of connectives in Dutch.
Forinstance, both want and omdat can occur in aperspectivised context, Moreover, asexemplified above, both abductive anddeductive reasoning patterns can involveperspectivised segments.
If we agree on the factthat perspectivising elements set up aninterpersonal context, we then obtain a fairlyheterogeneous interpersonal discourse domainthat is only partially restrictive on surface cues(in Dutch).
To account for this, I propose atriple subcategofisation for the interpersonaldomain: epistemic-deductive, epistemic-abductive, and speech-act relations.
Thissubcategofisation is justified by the fact thatthey share a number of general properties withthe interpersonal domain (illocutive character),but that the epistemic-abductive and speech-actrelations are far more restrictive with respect othe surface cues that may be used to signalthem 5.A final question is then whetherperspectivisation automatically leads to5 In Dutch, among the causal connectives only want('because') and dus ('so') may be used to signal anepisternic or speech-act relation.interpersonal categorisation.
This seems not tobe the case.
As a matter of fact, perspectiveswitch (change of perspective between the firstand the second segment), type of perspectiveand explicitness of the perspective also play arole.
There seems to be a tendency for segmentswith perspective switch in which the perspective(implicitly) refers to the evaluation of theutterance to set up an interpersonal context.When there is a continuing perspective, withexplicit perspective indicators referring to theresponsibility for the truth of the utterance, thetendency is rather ideational.
When theperspective has to do with the logico-semanticproperties of the utterance the tendencies are notso clear.What is furthermore interesting to note is thatthe connectives themselves eem to add somemeaning to the reading of the overall fragments.For example, even in absence of anyperspectivising elements there is a tendency forthe connective want to have a subjectifyingeffect (closer to the interpersonal domain).
Therelation appears to be one of justification orexplanation rather than factual causal relation.This is not the case for the connective omdatwhich tends to impose a factualising readingwith an objectifying effect even in presence ofperspectivising elements (closer to the ideationaldomain).So, the situation appears to be fairly complexsince the presence/absence of perspectives andthe type of connective used in the fragment seemto influence the categorisation i the discoursedomain.
The problem is then to find a way tooperationalise the different types ofperspectives, ince a same perspective can havea different effect according to the connectivewith which it is used.34ConclusionIn this paper, I have tried to show that theclassification of coherence relations andconnectives into discourse domains is a complexmatter in which different elements play a role:the connectives themselves whose meaning canbe explicated on the basis of a substitution testand/or paraphrase test; the underlying meaningof the relation (deductive or abductive), which inthe case of causals seems to play a restrictiverole on the connectives; other features in thefragments like the presence or absence ofperspectivising elements.
Together theseelements co-determine the categorisation of thecoherence relation into one of the discoursedomains.In my view, some of these elements have ahigher weight than others in the classification:1) the distinction between deductive andabductive reasoning enables to sort out theepistemic-abductive class straightforwardly.2) Paraphrasing should separate the speech-actrelations from the other interpersonal andideational relations.3) The distinction between epistemic-deductive and ideational relations would bebased on perspectivising elements(perspective switch, explicitness of theperspective and type of perspective).4) The substitution test should be useful oncethe categories have been established inorder to come to finer distinctions.The suitability of these different ests will appearfrom their confrontation with real texts.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank two anonymous reviewersand Yves Bestgen for very useful comments onearlier versions of this paper.ReferencesDegand, L. (1996).
A Situation-based Approach toCausation in Dutch with some Implications forText Generation.
Doctoral dissertation, Universit6catholique de Louvain.Degand, L. (1998).
Het ideationele gebruik van wanten omdat: een geval van vrije variatie ?
\[Theideational use of want and omdat : a case of freevariation ?\] To appear in Nederlandse Taalkunde.Dijk, T. van (1979).
Pragmatic onnectives.
Journalof Pragmatics 3,447-456.Grote, B., Lenke, N. & Stede, M. (1997) Ma\[r\]kingconcessions in English.
Discourse Processes 24, 1,87-118.Halliday, M.A.K.
& Hasan, R. (1985).
Language,Context and Text: Aspects of language in a socialsemiotic perspective.
Geelong, Victoria: DeakinUniversity Press.Knott, A.
(1996).
A Data-Driven Methodology forMotivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh.Knott.
A.
& Dale.
R. (1994).
Using linguisticphenomena tomotivate a set of rhetorical relations.Discourse Processes 18, 35-62.Lagerweff.
L. & Oversteegen, L. (1994).
Inferringcoherence relations through presuppositions.
In: P.Bosch & R. Sandt (eds.).
Focus and NaturalLanguage Processing.
Proceedings of a conferenceon the 10 ~ anniversary of the Joumal of Semantics.Germany: Schloss Wolfsbrunnen, 485-502.Maier, E. & Hovy, E. (1993).
Organizing discoursestructure relations using metafunctions.
In: H.Horacek & Zock, M.
(Eds.).
New Concepts inNatural Language Generation.
Pinter Publishers,London, 69-86.Mann, W.C. & Thompson.
S.A. (1988).
RhetoricalStructure Theory: toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text 8.
243-281.Mann, W.C. & Thompson.
S.A.
(Eds.)
(1992).Discourse Description: Diverse Analyses of aFund Raising Text.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Martin, JR. (1992).
English Text: systems andstructure.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Oversteegen, L. (1997).
On the pragmatic nature ofcausal and contrastive connectives.
DiscourseProcesses, 24.
1, 51-86.Pander Maat, H. & Sanders, T. (1995).
Nederlandsecausale connectieven en het onderscheid tusseninhoudelijke n epistemische coherentie-relaties.\[Dutch causal connectives en the distinctionbetween content and epistemic coherencerelations\].
Leuvense bijdragen 84, 349-374.Pit, M., Pander Maat, H. & Sanders.
T.
(1997)."Doordat'.
"omdat' en 'want'.
Perspectieven ophun gebruik.
\['Doordat', 'omdat' and 'want'.Perspectives on their use.\] Taalbeheersing, 3, 238-251.Sanders, T.J.M.
(1992).
Discourse Structure andCoherence; Aspects of a Cognitive Theory ofDiscourse Representation.
Doctoral dissertation,Tilburg University.Sanders, T. (1997).
Semantic and Pragmatic Sourcesof Coherence: On the Categorization of CoherenceRelations in Context.
Discourse Processes, 24, 119-148.Spooren, W. & Jaspers, J.
(1990).
Tekstoperaties ntekstperspectieven \[Text operations and textperspectives\], Gramma.
tijdschrift voor taalkunde14 (3), 195-220.Sweetser, E. (1990).
From Etymology to Pra~m-natics:Metaphorical and cultural aspects of semanticstructure.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,\[Studies in Linguistics 54\].35
