Texp lore  - exploring expository texts via hierarchicalrepresentationYaakov  Yaar iBar Ilau University, Ramat  GanAbst rac tExploring expository texts presents an interest-ing and important challenge.
They are readroutinely and extensively in the form of onlinenewspapers, web-based articles, reports, techni-cal and academic papers.
We present a system,called Texplore, which assists readers in explor-ing the content of expository texts.
The systemprovides two mechanisms for text exploration,an expandable outline that represents the hi-erarchical structure of the text, and a conceptindex, hot-linked to the concept references inthe text.
The hierarchical structure is discov-ered using lexical cohesion methods combinedwith hierarchical gglomerative clustering.
Thelist of concepts are discovered by n-gram analy-sis filtered by part-of-speech patterns.
Ratherthan the common presentation of documentsby static abstracts, Texplore provides dynamicpresentation of the text's content, where theuser controls the level of detail.q.1 In t roduct ionEver-faster computers, the Internet togetherwith large information repositories linked byhigh-speed networks, are combined to provideimmediate accessibility to large amounts oftexts.
The urgency of exploring these textsvaries depending on the consumer - students,researchers, professionals, decision makers, orjust anybody.
In any case the amounts of textsare beyond our ability to digest them.Research in information retrieval (IR) hasbeen focused until now on the task of present-ing relevant documents o the user.
Commercialtools followed suit, as evident by the many pow-erful search engines now available on the Web.Typically, the relevant doo,ments are presentedby some automatically computed abstract.Our work focuses on medium size and longerdocuments where the user needs some furtherassistance in exploring the content of the re-trieved document.
The idea then is to extendthe applicability of IR methods, beyond the doc-ument retrieval, to the task of a reading assis-tant.We might expect from a reading assistant, ora text exploration tool, to provide us with twobasic capabilities:1.
A controlled view of the content of the doc-ument.2.
The list of concepts discussed in the text.The first capability might be seen as an "elec-tronic" table-of-contents, and is the key vehiclefor efficient text exploration.
The second canbe seen as an "electronic" index, and providesan orthogonal access vehicle to the mechanismof a table-of-contents.We have implemented such a text explorationsystem in Texplore.
It is designed for expositorytexts such as informative articles in magazines,technical reports and scientific papers.
In Sec-tion 2 we discuss ome characteristics of expos-itory texts that make possible the developmentof the above text exploration capabilities.
InSection 3 we focus on the importance of hier-archical representation f texts as a visualiza-tion tool.
Section 4 details the Texplore systemitself, ag~dn focusing on the hierarchical con-tent representation.
We conclude by discussingsome shortcoming of the system and p\]an.q forimprovements.2 Some character i s t i cs  of  expos i to rytextsThe following subsections consider the linguisticevidence that is needed to develop a hierarchi-cal representation f expository texts.
The next25+SuccessionSuccession-ProjectedNarrative1.
First/Third person2.
Agent oriented3.
Accomplished time4.
Chronological time iF~pository1.
No necessary reference2.
Subject matter oriented3.
Time not focal4.
Logical n~kase+ProjectedProceduralI.
Non-specific person2.
Patient oriented3.
Projected time4.
Chron.
linkageHoratory1.
Second person2.
Addressee oriented3.
Mode, not time4.
Logical linlmgeTable 1: Discourse typessubsection discusses expository text in generaland its relation to other discourse types.
H.ier-archical structure in discourse is discussed next,with the paragraph as its basic unit.
The finalsubsection considers lexical cohesion as the ba-sic technique for identifying structure.2.1 Expository text and otherdiscourse typesIn order to understand the particular domainof expository text is important o see it inthe larger context of other possible discoursetypes.
Longacre (1976) presents a 2 x 2 model offour discourse types, Narrative, Procedural (In-structive), Expository, and Horatory (Sermon),shown in Table 1.Expository text is seen to be less modal sinceits discourse is determined by its subject, andthe logical structure built in its exposition,rather than by who the speaker is, the audi-ence or the temporal order of the speech acts.This is not to say that two authors are expectedto produce the same text on the same subject.Personal style is a factor here as in any humanwriting.
However, we can take advantage of themodeless character of expository text when cre-ating a representation f its content.
If the dis-course relations between two segments can beassumed to be modeless we can expect hese re-lations to be manifested, to a large extent, intheir lexical context.
In other words, we canexpect he robust techniques of information re-trieval to be useful for identifying the informa-tion structure of expository texts.2.2 The paragraph unit in hierarchicaldiscourse structureHierarchical structure is present in all types ofdiscourse.
Authors organi~.e their works as trilo-gies of books, as chapters in books, sections inchapters, then subsections, ubsubsections, etc.This is true for an instruction manual, the Bible,for The Hitchhiker Guide to the Galaxy, Warand Peace, and, in a completely different cate-gory, this humble paper.Previous research shows that this hierar-chical structure is not just an author's stylebut is inherent in many language phenomena.A number of rhetoric structure theories havebeen proposed (Meyer and Rice, 1982; Mannand Thompson, 1987) which recognize distinctrhetorical structures like problem-solution a dcause-effect.
Applying this model recursivelyforms a hierarchical structure over the text.From the cognitive aspect, Giora (1985) pro..poses a hierarchical categorial structure wherethe discourse topic functions as a prototype inthe cognitive representation f the nnlt, i.e.
aminimal gener~llzation f the propositions inthe unit.
FFinally, the hierarchical intentionstructure, proposed for a more general, multi-ple participants discourse, is a key part of thewell-accepted discourse theory of Grosz and Sidonet (1986).Hierarchical structure implies some kind ofbasic unit.
Many researches (Longacre, 1979;Hinds, 1979; Kieras, 1982) have shown that theparagraph isa basic unit of coherency, and thatit functions very slmilarly in many languages ofvastly different origin (Chafe, 1979).Not only the paragraph is a basic unit ofcoherency, its initial position, the first one ortwo sentences of the paragraph, provides keyinformation for identifying the discourse topics(Yaari et al, ).
Again, as Chafe shows, thisis true for many varied languages.
The initialposition of a paragraph is thus a key heuris-tic for general purpose document summariza-tion (Paice, 1990).2.3 Cohes ionLexical cohesion is the most common linguis-tic mechanism used for discourse segmenta-tion (Hearst, 1997; Yaari, 1997).
The basicnotion comes from the work of Halliday andHasan (1976) and further developed in (HaUl-day, 1994).Cohesion is defined as the non-structuralmechanlam by which discourse units of differ-ent sizes can be connected across gaps of anytexts.
One of the forms of cohesion is lexicalcohesion.
In this type, cohesion is achieved bychoosing words that are related in some way -26lexicaUy, semantically or collocationally.
Lexi-cal cohesion is important for a practical reason- it is relatively easy to identify it computation-ally.
It is also important for linguistic reasonssince, unlike other forms of cohesion, this formis active over large extents of text.3 H ierarch ica l  representat ion  of  textIn the previous section the hierarchical struc-ture of a text was established as an inherentlinguistic phenomena.
We have also identifiedlinguistic evidence that can be used to uncoverthis structure.In this section we focus on the human-manhine interaction aspects of this form of rep-resentation.
From this point of view, hierarchi-cal representation a swers two kinds of prob-lems: how to navigate in free text, and howto effectively communicate the content of thedocument to the user.
These two issues are dis-cussed in the following subsections.3.1 Navigat ing in free textThe basic approach for free, 1restructured, textnavigation (and the basis for the whole internetexplosion} is the hypertext method.
Navigationfollows what may be called a stream of associ-ations.
At any point in the text the user mayhyper-jump to one out of a set of available desti-nation sites, each determined by its associationwith narrow context around the link anchor.
Inspite of their popularity, the arbitrary hyper-jumps create a serious drawback by losing theglobal context.
Having lost the global context,the navigator is destined to wander aimlesslyin maze of pages, wasting time and forgettingwhat he/she was looking for in the first place.The use of a static ticker frame that allows animmediate deliverance from this maze (typicallyplaced on the left part of the browser's window)is a recognition of this drawback.Once NLP methods are applied on the textdocument, more sophisticated methods becomepossible for navigating in unstructured text.
Animportant example is the use of lexical cohe-sion, implemented by measuring distance be-tween term vectors, to decompose the text tothemes (Salton et al, 1995).
Themes are de-fined as a set of paragraphs, not necessarily ad-jacent, that have strong mutual cohesion be-tween them.
Navigation through such theme-linked paragraphs i a step forward in effectivetext exploration.
However, the user navigateswithin the context of a single theme and stillloses the overall context of the full text.
Be-cause there is only one hierarchy here, the userhas to go through a selected theme to its endto find out whether it provides the sought in-formation.The an.~wer proposed in Texplore is to dis-cover and present he user with a hierarchicalrepresentation f the text.
Hierarchical struc-ture is oriented specifically to present complexinformation.
Authors use it explicitly to orga-nize large works.
Scientists use it to describecomplex flora and fauna.
Manual writers use itto describe complex procedures.
Our task hereis somewhat different.
We are presented with agiven unstructured text and want to uncover init some latent hierarchical structure.
We claimthat in so far as the text is coherent, that is, itmakes sense, there is some structure in it.
Themore coherent he text, the more structure ithas.Combining the capabilities of hypertext andhierarchical representation is particularly at-tractive.
Together they provide two advantagesnot found in other access methods:..Immediate access to the sought piece of in-formation, or quick dismissal if none ex-ists.
In computer memory jargon we callthis random access.
This is the ability toaccess the required information in a smallnumber of steps (bound by the maximumdepth of the hierarchy).User control over the level of details.
Mostnavigation tools provide the text as is sothe user has to scan at the maximum levelof details at all times.
However, for exposi-tory texts beyond a couple of pages in size,the user needs the ability to skim quicklyover most of the text and go deeper onlyat few points.
There is a need, then, tohave good interactive control over the levelof details presented.3.2 Communicat ing  document ' scontentDocument summarization systems today areconcerned with extracting significant, indicativesentences or clauses, and combining them as amore-or-less coherent abstract.27This static abstract should answer the ques-tion "what the text is about".
However, be-cause of the underlying technique of sentenceextraction and its static nature, the answer istoo elaborated in some of the details and insuf-ficient in others.Boguraev et al (1998) discuss extensively thisdrawback of today's ummarizers and concludethat good content representation requires twobasic features: (a) presenting the summary ex-tracts in their conte.~, and (b) user controlover the granularity.
Their solution is basedon identifying primitive clauses, called capsules,resolving their anaphoric references and provid-ing them, through a user interface, at differentgranularities.The expandable outline view of Texplore,built upon hierarchical representation of thetext's contents, nicely meets the requirementsof context and granularity, though the underly-ing NLP technology is completely different.
Inthe next section we discuss the Texplore systemin details, the supporting NLP tools as well asthe front-end visualization system.4 Texp lore  - sys tem descr ip t ionThe overall data-flow in TexpIore is shown inFigure i.
It starts with a preprocessing stage,a structure and heading analyses, leading to ex-pandable outline display.A typical screen of Texplore is shown in Fig-ure 2 I.
It consists of three parts.
The originaltext is shown on the right pane, the expandableoutline on the upper left and the concept indexon the lower left pane.The following subsections describe the differ-ent parts of the system, focusing on the visual-ization aspects related to content presentation.4.1 NLP  preprocessingThe first two preprocessing steps, sentence anal-ysis part-of-speech (POS) analysis, are prettystandard.
The result is a list of POS-taggedsentences, grouped in paragraphs.In the N-gram analysis, a repeated scan ismade at each i 'th stage, looking for pairs of con-secutive candidates from the previous tage.
We1The text in this screen, as well as in the other screencaptures, i  from the article stargazer8 (Hearst, 1997).
Itdeals with the possibility of life on other planets in viewof the unique combination f earth and its moontext fileH~ding ~wat~ leaioas ~tan~a~ JFigure 1: Data flow in Texplorefilter each stage using mutual information mea-sure so the complexity is practically O(N).
Fi-nally we remove those N-grams whose instancesare a proper subset of some longer N-grams, andthen apply part-of-speech filter on the remain-ing candidates leaving only noun compounds.That last step was found to be extremely use-ful, reducing false N-grams to practically nil.4.2 Hierarch ica l  s t ruc ture  segmentat ionThe core of the system is the hierarchicalstructure segmentation.
The method used forsegmentation, called hierarchical gglomerativeclustering (HAC), was described in detail byYaari (1997).
In HAC the structure is discov-ered by repeatedly merging the closest data el-ements into a new element.
In our applicationwe use paragraphs as the elementary segmentsof discourse and apply a lexical cohesion mea-sure as the proximity test.
The lexical cohesionmeasure, Proximity(si, 8i?1) , iS adapted fromthe standard Saltoniau term vector distance.
Itcomputes the cosine between two successive seg-ments, si and si+~.ntBk,i " Wk, i+  lPro imi U(s ,si+ ) = \[18 l\[ (1)k=lHere Wk,i is the weight of the k'th term of si,and \]lsiH is the length of the vector.
The as-28z.z.z.
\]Pzme?la~v~,ceO l~  5073 3binzm\] ILr~l M~r~t syl4etn~t 8.1 ~,4 4dW lava laws 8.2~,4 2~vmg toings 0.265:luflar samples 9073 2IUn ar sudaCe 74~8 2islr~ie star 5.787 4single star system!
8.5~7 2;elax system 0.751 'IZ;tar cluster 5C50 2~narV IW?~mS S?~l 5~0 ~r  s.i~le ?lar" ?Glar sy~er~ has Flit bear~ ~L,Ind.
W~dle astr~nomars|ari4r~ly ~ll~ree tlAt planot| moil pro~.ld~ly form around 8fl stets ~ ~ei~ bitl~,~lal~e'~ ?
~  Cl~slers ~ ~ Or ~"lree ~ ~Id  have ~qzp\] ch~l Jc OZl~s.Computer ~o~els oe$1~eO ~rom ~ masl a4v~u~ce~ ;sl~'ophys~c~ 4abed~ula~e toe orbits Of planMs ~n blnaej arm ~r~'y  syslems so ~ SCM~US~S carl: IlJC tJM.~e ~.te ir5'e ct toIS WOUld h ive  ~ ~e~' i?OlUIIOn.
"l'tle I~l~lsU~Ofls ~veldllgflly efli~cal pales wffich take cee~des to mez~.e one revol~on of lee ~zr:lUSl~f.
"11~S iS ~ecause ofle or ot~le~' OfY~e ~s  ~Ine  CerC~e ~ftoe c~@lex iS~ l in  9 an~J alggtm~ a~ IRe plarmts, ci~sTc~g ~eit  ~a,r~s.
Of~ly wflea ~ey dq~:~se to one Or otoer of toe pam~ sle~ v411N plau~e~s I~k  In INs- g~lngleery .~M even toIl~ "~,/~ll be shoe-lived.
Olst~foances Sei gp by ~le C o-~otll~ OdilU'~ zd~egt o r l~  SO violerzl~y tom plane~ eno up ?elng pulled i~y grav~,, h'ltoFigure 2: Texplore screen.
The original text is shown on the right, the expandable outline in theupper left and the concept index on the lower left.
The outline is shown collapsed except for onesectionsumption that only adjacent segments are com-pared is not necessarily the case, see (Saltonet el., 1995).
However, it allows us to cre-ate the more conventional 2-D structure of atable-of-contents, instead of the arbitrary graphstructure that would have been formed other-wise.
Another modification is the way the termweights, wk,~, are determined.
We found thathaving the weight proportional to the term'sIDF (Inverse Document Frequency, measuringits general significance) and the position of thesentence in the paragraph, improves the qual-ity of the proximity measure, by giving higherweight to terms with higher relevance to inter-segment cohesion.The result is shown in Figure 3.
Inter-segment boundaries are set at points where lex-ical cohesion f~lls below some specific thresh-old.
The resulting nesting could be quite deep(in this example there are 10 levels).
H-manauthors, however, rarely use a hierarchy depthgreater than 3 (except possibly in instructionaldiscourse).
The rather deep nesting is thensmoothed, between the detected boundaries, tofit human convenience, as seen in Figure 4.
Thissmoothed structure is superimposed over theoriginal text, producing the expandable outlineshown in the left pane of Figure 2.i!
!iiiiiiiiii ~i!ii~i!~i~i~!~i!~i~ii~i~i~ii}i~i!i~i}ii~i!!
!~!~i!~ii~i~ii~!~q~!~!i~i~ii~!i !ii~iiii!iiii!
}i }i i~i~i i !i~i~i i~i~i~!i!iii ir b ' lilyFigure 3: Result of hierarchical segmentation.Paragraphs are along the X-axis.
Y-axis indi-cates prox;rnlty.
Higher outline implies closer,and thus deeper-nested, adjoin;ng segments.Vertical ines indicate inter-segment boundaries.The hierarchical structure thus discovered iscertainly not the only one possible.
However,experiments with human judges (Hearst, 1997)showed that segmentation based on lexical cohe-sion is quite accurate compared to manual ones.4.3 Heading generationThe next step, after the hierarchical structureof the text is determined, is to compose head-;ngs for the identified sections.
Figure 5 showsthe outline pane representing the hierarchicalstructure.The generated headings are, at the moment,29Figure 4: The hierarchical structure in Figure 3after smoothing=.x.s.A ~,~ affit~m,m i}2.1.1.1. l ~mmm ~ ~ ii1.1.1.I.
Rdlect~s mi1,1.1.2.1.
A~ ~temld ml  dkatm mndds2.1.L2J.
La~m ~2.1=.
T~ ~ iii2.9.. St~ i~!2.2.1.
The Hdbble md.&e eartt~ i!/Because of the Improbabte sequence that began when agiant asteroid stuck the earkh to form the moon more than ~i~4-billion years ago, scientists say the history off the earth lishould not be thought of as a model for life elsewhere.
It Is a ~:iibillion to one chance, they say, that the earth should have i~received just the right blow to set in mo0on a train of eventsthat led to the emergence and rapid development of living i~ilhings, But suppose that biilion to one chance was repeated ii~~reughout be universe?
There could still be 200 clvtllsattons iiiin our galaxy alone.
But most researchers do not think this is iiithe case, and ~e Hubble 'linalty may put that ~eory to rest ~ii2~.2.
lqmet~ ~Figure 5: The text' outline representing the itshierarchical structure.quite shnp\]ified.
The saliency of noun com-pounds (NPs) is scored for each section bytheir frequency, mutual information (for N-grams with N > 1), and position in the section.A higher score is ~ven to NPs in initial posi-tion, that is, the first one or two sentences inthe paragraph.The syntax of headings follows standard con-ventions for human-composed headings.
Themost common case is the shnple NP.
Anothercommon case is a coordination of two NPs.With these guidelines we came up with the foLlowing heuristics to compose headings:1.
Remove from the list any NP that appearsin an enclosing section.2.
If the saliency of the first NP in the list ismuch higher than the second, use this NPby itself.
Otherwise, create a coordinationof the first two NPs.3.
Prefix each NP in the heading with the de-terminer that first appeared with that NP,if any.
This rule is not very successful andrJiIl be modified in the future.The first rule exemplifies the power of thiskind of content representation.
Once an NP ap-pears in a heading, it is hnplied in the headingsof all enclosed sections and thus should not ap-pear there explicitly.
For example, in Figure 5the NP Moon appears in the heading of section2.
Without the first rule it would appear in afew of the enclosed subsections because of itssaliency.
We, as readers, would see this as re-dundant information.4.4 Expandab le  outl ine displayFigure 5 also ~ustrates the importance of con-text and granularity, mentioned earlier as keypoints in dynamic content presentation.
Theout\]me functions as a dynamic abstract withuser control over the level of granularity.
Theuser is able to read section 2.2.1, The Hubbleand the ear th  in its full context.
He/she isnot lost anymore.In fact, the two panes with the original textand its outline are synchronized sothat the out-line can act as a ticker-only pane viewing thetext on the larger right pane, or be used as acombined text and heading pane.The outline pane also supports the standardcontroUed-aperture m taphor.
Double-clickingon a heading alternately expands and collapsesthe underlying text.
The user can thus easilyincrease the granularity of the outline to see fur-ther detail, or close the aperture to see only thegeneral topics.The heading acts cognitively as the surrogateof its text.
Thus if a heaAing of a collapsedsection is selected, the full text correspondingto this heading is selected on the right.
Thisstrengthens the concept of the out\]me as a true,thought compact, representation f the originaltext.
Figure 6 shows the same out\]me, this timewith reduced granularity, highlighting the cor-respondence b tween a selected heading and itstext.
The concept index, shown in the lowerleft pane of the window, is discussed in the nextsection.30Figure 6: Collapsed outline showing correspon-dence between a heading and its underlyingtext.4.5 Concept indexThe N-gram analysis, combined with part-of-speech filtering, identifies a set of noun com-pounds that are used as a concept index forthe text.
They are termed concepts becausethe information they carry reveals a lot aboutthe text, much more than simple one wordnouns.
Consider, for example, the first three N-grams: lunar samples, living things, anddry lava lakes.
In contrast, the composh~words of each N-gram, e.g.
lava, lake, living,or things, reveal very little.The high information content of the conceptindex makes it a very concise representation fwhat the text is about, though certainly sec-ondary to the outline.
Also, having these "con-cepts" hot-linked to their references in the textforms a hot-llnk index of key topics of the text.5 Conclusions and future  plansWe propose anew approach for dynamic presen-tation of the content of expository text based onuncovering and vis~aliT.ing its hierarchical struc-ture.
Using this "electronic" table-of-contentsthe user has the advautage ofexploring the textwhile staying within the full context of the ex-ploration path.
The user has also full controlover the granularity of the displayed informa-tion.
These characteristics are beneficial bothfor navigating in the text as well as communi-catiug its content, while overcoming drawbacksof existing snmmarization methods.The weakest point in Texplore is the genera-tion of headings.
The current approach is tooshnplistic, both in the criteria for selecting NPsand in the way they are composed to headings.We have analyzed the way headings are formedby human authors (Yaari et al, ) and the re-sults were used to form a machlne-learnlng sys-tem which identifies the NPs of a given sectionusing multiple sources of information.
The sys-tem constructs headings for the text hierarchyusing a fixed set of syntactic formats (found tobe common in heading syntax).
We are in theprocess of integrating this system into Texplore.The hierarchical structure segmentation isalso too simplistic, based solely on the prox-imity of term vectors.
Again, we are workingon a machine learning system that uses a set ofstructured articles to learn segmentation rules.The basic approach isto divide the task into twosteps, determining the boundaries and formingthe hierarchy.
We are using various cohesioncues, associated with each paragraph, as thelearning attributes: lexical similarity, cue tags,cue words, number of starting and continuinglexical chains, etc.Using machine lemming has the advantage ofa built-in evaluation against he segmentationdone by human subjects.
We also plan to eval-uate the usefulness ofthe hierarchical presenta-tion in terms of reading effectiveness.ReferencesB.
Boguraev, Y.Y.
Wong, C. Kennedy, R. Bel-lamy, S. Brawer, and J. Swartz.
1998.
Dy-namic presentation f document content forrapid on-line skimming.
To be published inthe Spring 1998 AAAI Symposium on InteUiogent Text Summarization.W.L.
Chafe.
1979.
The flow of thought and theflow of language.
In T. Giv'on, editor, Syntaxand Semantics: Discourse and Syntaz, vol-ume 12, pages 159--182.
Academic Press.R.
Giora.
1985.
A text based analysis ofnon-narrative texts.
Theoretical Linguistics,,12:115-135.B.J.
Grosz and C.L.
Sidner.
1986.
Attention,intentions aud the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics,, 12(3):175--204.M.A.K.
HMliday and R. Hasau.
1976.
Cohesionin English.
New York: Longman Group.31M.A.K.
Halliday.
1994.
Introduction to Func-tional Grammar, second edition.
London:Edward Araold.M.
A. Hearst.
1997.
Texttiling: Seganent-ing text into multi-paragraph subtopic pas-sages.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1):33-64, March.J.
Hinds.
1979.
Organizational patterns in dis-course.
In T. Giv'on, editor, Syntax and Se-mantics:: Discourse and Syntax, volume 12,pages 135-158.
Academic Press.D.E.
Kieras.
1982.
A model of reader strategyfor abstracting main ideas from simple tech-nical prose.
Text, 2(1-3):47-81.R.
Longacre.
1976.
An anatomy of Speech No-tions.
Peter de Ridder Press, Lisse.R.E.
Longacre.
1979.
The paragraph as a gram-matical unit.
In T. Giv'on, editor, Syntaxand Semantics: Discourse and Syntax,, vol-ume 12, pages 115-134.W.C.
Mann and S.A. Thompson.
1987.
Rhetor-ical structure theory: A theory of text organi-zation.
Technical Report ISI/RS-87-190, ISI.B.J.F.
Meyer and G.E.
Rice.
1982.
The interac-tion of reader strategies and the organizationof text.
Text, 2(1-3):155-192.C.D.
Paice.
1990.
Constructing literatureabstracts by computer : techniques andprospects.
Information Processing and Man-agement,, 26(1):171-186.G.
Salton, A. Singhal, C. Buckley, and M. Mi-tra.
1995.
Automatic text decomposition us-ing text segments and text themes.
Tech-nical Report TR95-1555, Cornell Unievrsity,November.Y.
Yaari, Y. Choueka, and M. Elhadad.
Analy-sis of h~dings and sections' structure in ex-pository texts.
Not yet published.Y.
YaarL 1997.
Segmentation of expositorytexts by hierarchical agglomerative cluster-ing.
In Proceedings o\] RANLP, pages 59-65,Tzigov Chark, Bulgaria.32
