Representing temporal discourse markers for generation purposesBr ig i t te  GroteOt to -von-Guer icke  Universit~it MagdeburgIns t i tu t  fiir Wissens-  und  Sprachverarbe i tungP.O.
Box  4120, 39016 Magdeburg ,  Germanyemaih  grote~iws ,  cs .
un i -magdeburg ,  deAbst ractDiscourse markers are an important means to signalthe kind of coherence relation holding between adja-cent text spans.
Research on generating discoursemarkers has been mainly concerned with causalmarkers, whereas temporal markers have not receivedmuch attention.
In this paper, we identify semantic,pragmatic and syntactic features that are requiredto support a motivated choice of German temporalsubordinating conjunctions and prepositions duringtext production.
Information on individual markersis assembled in a discourse marker lexicon, which isused as a declarative resource at the sentence plan-ning stage.
We illustrate how this resource can beused to produce alternative verbalizations of the tem-poral relationship holding between two events.1 Mot ivat ionIn text, discourse markers signal the kind of coher-ence relation holding between adjacent ext spans.For any but the most trivial applications of languagegeneration, motivated marker choice is an importanttask.
Whereas several studies have been concernedwith causal markers and their interactions with otherlinguistic means, for instance, Vander Linden andMartin (1995), Rhsner and Stede (1992), Delin et al(1996), temporal markers as signals of the temporalrelation holding between two events have not receivedmuch attention, with the exception being Dorr andGaasterland (1995).
However, quite often, it is onlyby means of explicit temporal markers that the cor-rect interpretation of a text can be ensured, as thefollowing examples illustrate:(1) Der Abstand ist nachzumessen, nachdem das Bandmindestens einen Umlauf ausge~hrt hat.
(Checkthe distance after the belt has completed at leastone round.
)(2) W~ihrend Sie den Toaster betreiben, dieBrotschlitze nicht abdecken.
(While operating thetoaster, do not cover the bread slots.
)In both cases, the order of events as recounted inthe text does not correspond to their order of oc-curence: In example (1), nachdem (after) marks theevent denoted in the second clause as temporally an-terior to the one denoted in the first clause.
In ex-ample (2), wiihrend (while) marks both events ascotemporal.
Without a temporal marker, the orderof events would not be obvious.Selecting an appropriate discourse marker for agiven temporal relation is by no means a straightfor-ward matter, though.
First, one and the same tem-poral relation is verbalized ifferently depending onthe syntactic and lexical properties of the clauses itconjoins.
In German, the language we consider, suchproperties are, among others, tense, aspect, and syn-tactic structure.
Interdependencies occur when twotemporal events are realized in the same sentence; wewill therefore restrict the study of German temporalmarkers to subordinating conjunctions and preposi-tions.
Second, temporal discourse markers can evenoverwrite the temporal relations indicated by otherlinguistic means like tense and aspect, as noted by re-searchers who work in the analysis of temporal mark-ers (e.g.
Hitzeman et al 1995).In a nutshell, when aiming at selecting an ap-propriate temporal marker in text generation oneneeds a representation f temporal markers that en-ables marker choice and other sentence level decisions(such as tense and aspect selection) to mutually con-strain each other.
In this paper, we take up the ideasuggested in Grote and Stede (1998) of a discoursemarker lexicon as a declarative resource at the sen-tence planning stage.
We demonstrate how such alexicon for temporal markers can be employed in textgeneration to produce different verbalizations of thesame underlying temporal organization depending onother generation decisions.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 re-views related work on generating temporal mark-ers.
Section 3 describes the major semantic, prag-matic and syntactic properties of German temporalprepositions and subordinating conjunctions.
Sec-tion 4 presents the generation perspective: It brieflydiscusses the shape of the discourse marker lexi-con, introduces the features used in the lexicon, andpresents ample lexicon entries and their applicationin the generation process.222 Re la ted  workWork on discourse marker generation i general hasfocussed on marker selection, mainly for causal re-lations (Elhadad and McKeown 1990; Vander Lin-den and Martin 1995), and on the realization ofRST's subject-matter relations (Rhsner and Stede1992; Delin et al 1996).
As for temporal mark-ers, Dorr and Gaasterland (1995) examine the gen-eration of English temporal subordinating conjunc-tions.
Gagnon and Lapalme (1993), on the otherhand, describe the generation ofFrench temporal ad-verbs based on a DRT representation f the discourse.While Gagnon and Lapalme (1993) only brieflyaddress conjunctions and prepositions, Dorr andGaasterland (1995) present a detailed study of tem-poral connectives, but they consider English mark-ers only.
The only account on automatically produc-ing German temporal expressions that we know of isEhrich (1987); however, she discusses the interactionof tense and aspect in simple sentences only.Most studies that deal with discourse markers re-gard their production as a mere consequence of othersentence l vel decisions uch as aggregation, lexical-ization, syntactic structuring, and--in the case oftemporal markers--as determined by tense and as-pectual choices.
We believe, however, that one needsa more flexible control to increase the expressivenessof generation systems.
Although there have beenquite a few studies on individual aspects of sentenceplanning, little attention has been paid to the in-teraction between the various tasks--exceptions areRambow and Korelsky (1992) and Wanner and Hovy(1996)--and in particular to the role of marker choicein the overall sentence planning process.There exists a large body of research in NLU onanalysing the temporal structure of texts, includingthe role of temporal markers, though again restrictedto English (Moens and Steedman 1988; Lascaridesand Oberlander 1993; Hitzeman et al 1995).
We turnto these studies when it comes to identifying the in-formation that needs to be assembled for representingtemporal markers.3 L ingu is t i c  perspect ive :Descr ib ing  tempora l  markersSelecting an appropriate German temporal markergiven two events in a temporal relationship requiresdetailed knowledge of the semantic, pragmatic andsyntactic properties that characterize t mporal mark-ers.
This section introduces the major properties andexplores the correlations between temporal markersand other linguistic means that indicate temporal or-ganization.
We base our account on two sources:descriptive linguistic studies, mainly by Helbig andBuscha (1991), B/iuerle (1995), Buscha (1989) andSteube (1980); and our analysis of temporal markerusage in the German LIMAS corpus (Glas 1975).3.1 The 'meaning'  of German temporalmarkersTemporal subordinating conjunctions and temporalprepositions conjoin two events where the event in thesubordinate clause (or the PP) provides the tempo-ral framework for interpreting the event in the mainclause: Bevor Sie den Toaster reinigen, den Net-zstecker ziehen.
(Before you clean the toaster, un-plug the device.)
and the corresponding 'shorthand'form l br dem Reinigen des Toasters den Netzsteckerziehen (Unplug before cleaning the toaster).Semantic properties German grammars such asHelbig and Buscha (1991) list about 20 temporalsubordinating conjunctions and 20 temporal prepo-sitions.
Their semantics i usually described by thekind of temporal relation they establish between twoevents, see for instance, Steube (1980) and Helbig andBuscha (1991): The event in the main clause can ei-ther overlap with (simultaneity), succeed (anteri-ority), or precede (posteriority) the event depictedin the subordinate clause or the prepositional phrase.In table 1 we provide a synthesis of the classifica-tions of the most frequent German temporal mark-ers by Helbig and Buscha (1991), Buscha (1989) andB/iuerle (1995).
The markers listed in the table re-flect the scope of the marker study in this paper.Two aspects are especially prominent: First, eachof the three temporal relations can be realized by anumber of temporal markers.
Alternatives within aclass differ in that they realize some additional mean-ing aspect.
Consider the markers of simultaneity:Solange, for instance, conveys the idea of a strict si-multaneity where two events have the same start andend time, and is more specific than w~hrend; sooft,to give another example, highlights the concurrenceof two events.Second, table 1 shows that some markers are am-biguous: Als and wenn occur in all three classes, seit-dem, sobald and sooft in two.
Apparently, neitherof them has any special temporal implicature on itsown; instead, these markers depend on syntactic andlexical contexts to receive an umambiguous temporalmeaning.
We will return to this issue in section 3.2.Pragmatic properties The choice Of a particularmarker to express a temporal relation between twoevents interacts with the focus structure as in:(3) (a) Bevor ihr Mann das Haus verlie\[J, ging sie zurArbeit.
(Before her husband left the house, shewent to work.
)(b) Nachdem sie zur Arbeit gegangen war, verlieflihr ivIann das Haus.
(After she had gone to work,her husband left the house.
)Alternatives (3a) and (3b) both express that theevent of 'going to work' precedes the event of 'leav-ing the house'.
They differ in that they focus on23temporal relation temporal markerssimultaneity subc: als (as), indes(sen) (meanwhile), seitdem (since), sobald (as soon as), solange(as long as), sooft (whenever), sowie (as soon as), w~hrend (while), wenn (when)prep: an (at), auf (on), bei (during), binnen (within), durch (for), in (in), iiber (over),w~hrend (during)anteriority subc: a./s (when), kaum dab (no sooner), nachdem (after), seit(dem) (since),sobald (as soon as), sooft (whenever), sowie (as soon as), wenn (when)prep: ab (from), nach (after), seit (since)posteriority subc: als (when), bevor (before), his (until), ehe (before), wenn (when)prep: his (until), vor (before)Table 1: German temporal subordinating conjunctions (subc) and prepositions (prep) classified by temporalrelations.
Note that the corresponding English markers are only approximate translations.different aspects of the situation: In (3a) the ear-lier event is in the centre of attention, in (3b) thelater one (assuming that the matrix sentence is moreprominent).
This phenomenon i teracts with otherdiscourse phenomena, for instance, given and newinformation, and--when placed in a larger discoursecontext--with presuppositions and their accommo-dation (Lascarides and Oberlander 1993).
However,the treatment of the discourse behaviour of temporalmarkers is beyond the scope of this paper.Pragmatic issues further concern style.
Regard-ing temporal markers, stylistic features are of minorimportance: We only observe variation between ar-chaic and neutral (da vs. als), and formal and neutral(kaum dab vs. sobald) markers.3.2 Syntact i c  and lexical constra intsWhen expressing several events in the same sentence,marker choice interacts with other linguistic means:Temporal markers impose particular constraints onthe syntactic and lexical contexts they can occur in.Conversely, these contexts can influence the meaningof markers.
1Markers  and  Akt ionsar t /aspect  Aspect is tra-ditionally taken to have two components, the non-inherent grammatical features, and the inherent lex-ical features.
Inherent features characterize facets ofthe situation denoted by a verb, for instance, whetherit is an event or a state.
We will label these fea-tures Aktionsart o avoid confusion.
According toBussmann (1990), the major Aktionsarten i Germanare stative (wissen/to know) and dynamic.
For thelatter, the basic dichotomy is that between durative(schlafen/to sleep) and non-durative verbs, which aresubdivided into iterative (flattern/to flap), semelfac-tive (klopfen/to knock), resultative (verbrennen/toburn up) and causative verbs (trii.aken/to water).1Traditional grammars, which the present account isbasedon, usually list aspect, Aktionsart and tense as constrainingparameters on marker choice.
However, there is no consensuson the role of these parameters; B~.uerle (1995) provides a goodoverview of the range of positions.Two kinds of interdependencies are generally ac-knowledged, see Ehrich (1987), Buscha (1989) andB~iuerle (1995).
First, temporal markers are sensi-tive to the Aktionsart of a verb.
Consider w~ihrendand als which can both express imultaneity:(4) (a) Als das Kabel schmolz / riB, war ich nicht imRaum.
(When the cable melted / tore, I wasn't inthe room.
)(b) W~hrend as Kabel schmolz / *riB, war ichnicht im Raum.
(While the cable melted / *tore, Iwasn't in the room.
)Wghrend expects a durative verb in the subordi-nate clause, hence it can occur with schmelzen/tomelt but not with reit3en/to tear.
Als, in contrast,can be used with durative and resultative verbs, as(4a) illustrates.
Second, temporal markers may evenshift the Aktionsart of a verb, for instance from asemelfactive r ading to an iterative one as in:(5) (a) Wenn es an der Tfir klopft, schreit das Baby.
(When someone knocks at the door, the baby cries.
)(b) Wiihrend es an der Tfir klopft, schreit dasBaby.
(While someone knocks at the door, thebaby cries.
)Grammatical aspect reflects the individual per-spective a speaker adopts with respect o an event,such as perfective (temporally closed) or imperfec-tire.
In German, this distinction is grammaticallyrealized by choosing a perfective or simple tense, eAktionsart and aspect closely interact, consider ex-ample (6) where the anterior reading (6b) is due tothe use of a perfective tense with a non-durative verbin the subordinate clause, which indicates that theactivity has been concluded:(6) (a) Seitdem ich ihn kenne, ist er Nichtraucher.
(Since I know him, he is a non-smoker.
)(b) Seitdem seine I~rau gestorben ist, sehe ich ihnnur selten.
(Since his wife has died, I only rarelysee him.
)Sin contrast to English, and especially to slavic languages,German has no elaborate aspect system: Distinctions like pro-gressive and simple cannot be signalled by morphological fea-tures of the verb, but require a separate temporal adverb: Heis reading vs. Sie 1lest gerade (She reads right now).24Here, verb properties determine the reading of thetemporal marker.
Our study of temporal marker oc-currences in the LIMAS corpus suggests that mark-ers belonging to the simultaneity class typically real-ize imperfective aspect, whereas temporal connectingwords that signal anteriority correlate with a perfec-tive aspect in the subordinate clause.Markers  and verba l  tense Some markers canonly be used with particular tenses, for instance, a/sin its simultaneous reading cannot occur with presenttense, whereas wenn as signal of simultaneity corre-lates with present and past tense:(7) (a) Als er in Dresden war (*ist), suchte (,sucht) erseine 1~reundin au?
(b) Wenn er in Dresden ist / war, sucht / suchte erseine Freundin au?However, tempus sensitivity of temporal markers isnot a matter of the grammatical tense form (such assimple past, present perfect, etc.)
but relates to thetemporal structure of the individual events, and tohow their temporal structures are related.
Assum-ing the Reichenbachian threefold istinction betweenEvent Time (E), Reference Time (R), and SpeakingTime (S) (the Basic Tense Structure, BTS, (Reichen-bach 1947)), we observe that the constraints imposedby a marker on verb tense concern the underlying re-lation between E and S of both clauses: Selectingeither a/s or wenn to express imultaneous events inthe main clause (era) and in the subordinate clause(es) depends on whether the event times precede S(E(em),E(es)_S) or concur with S (E(em),E(es),S).
3The grammatical tense results from combining theBTS of both clauses and their aspectual features.Markers  and  syntact ic  s t ruc ture  The moststraightforward correlation is that between syntac-tic structure and marker choice: If two events areexpressed by a hypotactic structure, a subordinatingconjunction is required.
When a deverbal realizationof an event is possible (e.g.
treffen/das Treffen; tomeet/the meeting), a clause with an adverbial (tem-poral) prepositional phrase is realized.Markers  and tempora l  quant i f iers  With somemarkers, the temporal relation denoted by the markercan be quantified by a temporal adverb as in kurzbevor (shortly before) or einige Stunden nachdem(several hours after); others cannot be quantified:?
einige Stunden sobald (.several hours as soon as).4 Generat ion  perspect ive :Represent ing  tempora l  markersA representation of temporal markers suitable forgeneration purposes has to accommodate he follow-ing demands: First, it has to describe the semanticSThe comma stands for 'is cotemporal', the underscore for'precedes'.and pragmatic features of markers in a manner thatsupports a motivated choice between markers whichcan realize the same temporal relation.
Second, ithas to account for the constraints temporal mark-ers impose on their syntactic and lexical contexts,thereby enabling interactions between marker choiceand other sentence planning decisions where the orderof decision-making is not fixed.
In Grote and Stede(1998) we argue that such a flexible control is bestrealized by introducing independent modules for thedifferent sentence planning tasks, such as proposedby Wanner and Hovy (1996), and that these modulesshould rely on declarative representations as much aspossible.
Therefore, we propose a discourse markerlexicon, i.e.
an independent lexical resource that as-sembles pecifically the information associated withdiscourse markers.Traditional lexicology and grammars describe lexi-cal entries along three features: semantic, pragmaticand syntactic dimensions (see section 3).
From theproduction perspective, these features are to be clas-sifted with respect o when and where they come intoplay in the generation process; this amounts to a pro-cedural view on the information coded in the lexicon.Following Grote and Stede (1998) we assume threecategories in the marker lexion:?
Appl icabi l i ty  condit ions:  The necessary con-ditions that need to be present in the input rep-resentation for the marker to be a candidate.Chiefly, this is the semantic/discourse relationto be expressed, and also (if applicable) featurespertaining to presuppositions and intentions.?
Combinab i l i ty  condit ions:  The constraintsthat the marker imposes on its neighbouring lin-guistic constituents (the 'syntagmatic' dimen-sion).
These are syntactic onstraints on subcat-egorization and semantic type constraints, whichinteract with other realization decisions in sen-tence planning.?
D is t inguish ing features:  If preferential choicedimensions, such as style, brevity, etc., are at-tended to in the system, then these features erveto distinguish markers that are otherwise quiv-alent (the 'paradigmatic' dimension).In the remainder of this section we describe lexiconentries for temporal markers along these lines.4.1 Appl icabi l i ty  condi t ionsSemantic condit ions The semantic lasses intro-duced in section 3.1 (simultaneity, anteriority andposteriority) turned out to be too coarse for genera-tion purposes.
Instead, one needs a more fine-grainedrepresentation f the semantics of temporal markersto support an informed choice among markers withinthe broad classes.Allen's temporal interval relationships provide anadequate framework (Allen 1984), as already sug-25gested by Dorr and Gaasterland (1995).
Allen in-troduces even basic temporal interval relationships,namely equals(=), after(>), during(d), overlaps(o),meets(m), starts(s), finishes(f)--and their inverses<,di, oi, mi, si,fi--that may exist between two eventsem and es.
For instance, overlaps(em,e~) as in (4b)implies that there is an intersection between the timeat which em occurs and the time at which es occurs,but that neither event is a subset of the other.Each temporal relation corresponds to one or sev-eral German temporal markers, for instance, overlapsmay be expressed by the entire range of simultane-ity markers given in table 1, except for solange andkaum daB.
Conversely, the majority of the tempo-ral markers can realize several temporal interval re-lations.
Take the connective nachdem as in example(1), which can have the following meanings,after(ern, es) A meets-i(em, es)or w~ihrend as in example (4b),equals(ern, es) A during(era, es) A starts(era, es)A finishes(era, es) A overlaps-i(em, es)whereas olange has only one reading:equals(era, es ).This adequately captures the semantic differencebetween w&hrend and solange.
In the lexicon, the ap-plicability conditions of a particular temporal markerare now described by listing the temporal interval re-lations it can realize.Pragmat ic  cond i t ions  In section 3.1 we brieflydiscussed pragmatic features of temporal markers.For the time being, the lexicon supports the featuresstyle, with the values neut ra l ,  b r ie f ,  formal,archa ic ,  and intention.
Its value eva luat ive  in-dicates the speaker's (negative) attitude towards thekind of temporal relation holding between two events(Steube 1980; Buscha 1989).4.2 Combinab i l i ty  cond i t ionsCombinability conditions appear as constraints in thelexicon entries of individual markers.
In the presentlexicon, constraints are described using the followingfeatures:Akt ionsar t  The Aktionsart plays a central roleduring the lexicalization of events: Candidate verbsare, among others, selected due to their Aktion-sart.
Aktionsart features are usually stored in thelexicon entries of verbs, and are thus available tosentence planning.
To represent these constraints,we turn to Bussmann (1990) for the major Aktion-sarten in German (see also section 3.2).
4 At present,the lexicon supports a subset of Bussmann's Aktion-sarten, namely stative, durative, iterative,semelfactive, causative and resultative.4There is no generally accepted and well-defined set of Ak-tionsart features; we opted for Bussmann (1990) because thesefeatures are supported by the lexicalization component we in-tend to use (Stede 1996).Aspect  Grammatical aspect is encoded using thefeature values per fec t ive  and imper fec t ive .Tense  We argued above that marker choice relatesto the underlying temporal structure---as expressedin terms of the Reichenbachian threefold escriptionof time-and not to a particular grammaticai tense(see also Ehrich (1987)).
Temporal constraints in themarker lexicon will thus be described using the BTSnotation, and defining the legal linear orderings ofE, R and S of the related events.
For instance, alsin its simultaneous meaning imposes the constraintE(e~),E(e~)_S, which can be realized by all gram-matical tenses that meet this constraint.Mapping this representation into grammaticaltense requires knowledge on how to map pairs of Ba-sic Tense Structures to the tense structure of complexGerman sentences, as described in Hornstein (1990)for English (Complex Tense Structures, CTS) and ex-tended by Dorr and Gaasterland (1995) to cover in-tervals, too.
Since we envision independent modulesfor the different sentence planning tasks that posittheir choices as constraints, the tense selection pro-cess need not concern us.Syntact ic  s t ruc ture  Possible values are pp(prepositional phrase) and subord (subordinateclause); both refer to the realization of the event thatacts as temporal reference point.Quant i f icat ion The lexicon contains the two val-ues quantifiable and not-quantifiable.4.3 The  shape of  the  lexiconThe possible values for the applicability and combin-ability features can now be used in the lexicon todescribe individual temporal markers.
Table 2 givesthe lexical representations for most of the Germananteriority markers and the posteriority marker be-fore.
Similar representations have been developedfor the other marker classes given in table \].
si-multaneity and posteriority.
Feature values for in-dividual markers have been identified by analysingmarker occurrences in the UMAS corpus (Glas 1975);as such, they mainly reflect marker usage.
We thencompared our marker descriptions to results from re-search literature (see section 3).
Note that combin-ability conditions can apply to main and subordinateclause/prepositional phrase separately, hence somefeature values are prefixed with me:, sc: and pp:to mark their scope.
If a marker involves no con-straint for a particular feature, the slot in the tableremains empty.Table 2 contains an informal description of the lexi-con entries; the formal representation depends on theactual sentence planner used in text production, seeGrote and Stede (1998) for a preliminary proposal.26Feature nachdem (after) nach (after) sobald (as soon as) kaum dab (no sooner bevor (before)applicability- denotation after(e,,, e~)A after(e,,, e,)A meets-i(e,~, e~) meets-i(e,~, e, ) before(e~, e~)Ameets-i(em, e ) meets-i(e~, e~) meets(e~, e )combinability- Aktionsazt- aspect- tensesc:resuitativeAsc:iterativeAsc:semelfactivesc:perfectivemc:imperfectiveE(e,)._E(e,n)_SAE(e~)...E(e~), SAE(e,)3_E(e,)subordpp:resultativeApp:iterativeApp:semelfactive{E, S}(e~)= {E, S}(e,)AE(e~)_E(e.)_SsubordE(e,)..E(e~)_SAE(e,), E(e,,)_Ssc:non-durative{E, S}(e~)= {E, S}(e,)- syntax pp subord subord- quantifier quantifiable I quantifiable not-quantifiable not-quantifiable quantifiablepre ferences- style neutral brief neutral formal neutral- intention evaluativeTable 2: Lexicon entries for some German temporal markers4.4 Se lect ing tempora l  markersThis section briefly addresses the issue of selecting anappropriate temporal marker during text productionusing the discourse marker lexicon.
We will focus onthe anteriority markers.In our scenario, generation starts from a conceptualrepresentation which contains the facts that must bereported in the text and their position in time.
Letus assume the following very simple input structure: 5el: arrive (he, home, 19 : 14)e2: watch(he ,TV, 19 : 15,22 : 30)The first event precedes the second event, but they'meet '  at one point in time.
Now, the first step isto determine the applicable temporal relations.
Twointerpretations are possible, depending on the dis-course context and focus structure, which we havenot dealt with so far: Focussing on the earlier eventwould yield the temporal relation meets(era, es), withem = el, focussing on the later event the relationmeets-i(e,n, e ), with e,n = e2.
Matching this againstthe lexicon entries in table 2 would produce bevor inthe former case, and nachdem, nach, sobald, kaumdat3 as candidate realizations for the latter interpre-tation.
Possible verbalizations are:(8) (a) Bevor er Fernsehen Euckte, ist er navh Hausegekommen.
(Before he watched TV,  he has come home.
)(b) Sobald er nach Hause gekommen war, guckte erFernsehen.
(As soon as he had come home, he watched TV.
)(c) (Direkt) nachdem er nach Hause gekommenwar, gucckte r Fernsehen.SThis is an abridged representation.
We will eventuallyrepresent the facts as SitSpecs (Stede 1996), which will be an-notated with temporal information.
During lexicalization--asone task in the sentence planning phase---SitSpecs aremappedonto semantic representations (SernSpecs).
((Right) after he had come home, he watched TV)(d) Nach dem Heimkommen guckte er Fernsehen.
(After coming home he watched TV.
)(e) Kaum dab er nach Hause gekommen war,guckte er Fernsehen.
(As soon as he had come home, he watched TV.
)Assuming the anteriority interpretation (Sb-e),how does a generation system choose among the fourremaining alternatives?
We argued above that weenvision a modular architecture where independentsentence planning modules posit their constraints re-garding tense selection, lexicalization, syntactic real-ization, etc.
6 In case no constraints are put forwardby the sentence planning modules, sobald (Sb) wouldbe selected, as it is the most specific and at the sametime neutral realization.
If, however, a quantifier isto be included, then nachdem would be chosen i~c).If brevity is a stylistic concern, and the process in thesubordinate clause can be deverbalized, a phrasal re-alization with the preposition ach is selected (Sd).If, on the other hand, a more formal realization isthe overall goal given to the generator, kaum daft (Se)would be chosen.
In these cases, marker choice wouldposit constraints (as given in the combinability slotin table 2) on all other sentence planning decisions.So far, we only considered a perfective aspect inthe subordinate clause.
Once we change aspect toimperfective, a realization including nachdem is nolonger an option, compare ,Nachdem er nach Hausekam, hat er Fernsehen geguckt (After he came home,he has watched TV).
Sobald would be an adequaterealization.
Likewise, changing the Aktionsart fromresultative to durative, as in Sobald er schlMt, guckt6This approach differs from Dorr and Gaasterland (1995)who impose a strict order on the selection of tense, aspect andconnecting word.27sie Fernsehen (As soon as he sleeps, she watches TV)would rule out nachdem.
With the resultative varianteinschlafen (fall asleep) both markers are possible.Finally, if a constraint is posited that the tense hasto be 'present', kaum dab would not be available.5 Conc lus ion  and OutlookTemporal markers have neither received much atten-tion in NLG, nor has a principled account of markerselection as such been introduced.
In this paperwe presented a general framework for representingGerman temporal markers for generation purposes.We identified some of the features required to de-scribe applicability conditions, constraints and pref-erences, and proposed a declarative lexical resourcethat makes it possible to treat temporal markers andother linguistic means as mutual constraints at thesentence planning stage.
Now, we need to examineindividual temporal markers more closely and incor-porate the temporal marker lexicon into a text gen-eration system.For the purpose Of this paper, we have assumedthat temporal relations are always explicitly sig-nalled, and thus limited our study to marker selec-tion.
Marker occurrence, however, is an importantissue.
First, Hitzeman et al (1995) argue that thereexist temporal defaults of the kind "An event willoccur just after a preceding event"; this renders theintroduction of explicit markers uperfluous.
Second,we have only assumed pairs of time-stamped expres-sions, but have ignored that they usually occur ina larger discourse situation where other kinds of co-herence relations might hold between events.
For in-stance, all causal coherence relations have some tem-poral implicature; still, one does not want a temporalmarker to signal a VOLITIONAL-CAUSE, even thoughcause and effect are temporally related.Finally, future work needs to address the interac-tion of marker choice and temporal adverbs, as theseare the means to realize the simple/progressive dis-tinction in German.Acknowledgement Thanks to Manfred Stede andtwo anonymous reviewers for helpful comments onearlier versions of this paper.ReferencesJ.
Allen.
Towards a general theory of action and time.Artificial Intelligence, 23(2), 1984.R.
B~iuerle.
Temporals~itze und Bezugspunktsetzung imDeutschen.
In B. Handwerker (ed.)
1Wemde SpracheDeutsch.
Tiibingen: Gunter Narr, 1995.J.
Buscha.
Lexikon deutscher Konjunktionen.
Leipzig:Verlag Enzyklop~idie, 1989.H.
Bussmaan.
Lexikon der Sprachwissenschaft.
S uttgart:KSrner, 1990.J.
Delin, D. Scott, A. Hartley.
Pragmatic congruencethrough language-specific mappings from semantics tosyntax.
In Proe.
of the 16th Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics, Copenhagen, 1996.B.
Dorr, T. Gaasterland.
Selecting tense, aspect and con-necting words in language generation.
In Proc.
of thei~th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, Montreal, 1995.V.
Ehrich.
The generation of tense.
In G. Kempen (ed.
)Natural Language Generation: New Results in Ar-tificial Intelligence, Psychology and Linguistics.
Dor-d.recht: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, 1987.M.
Elhadad, K.R.
McKeown.
Generating connectives.
InProc.
of the 13th Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, Helsinki, 1990.M.
Gagnon, G. Lapalme.
Pr6texte: A generator for theexpression of temporal information.
In Proc.
of the 4thEuropean Workshop on Natural Language Generation,Pisa, 1993.R.
Glas.
Ein Textkorpus fiir die deutsche Gegenwart-sprache.
In: Linguistische Berichte 40, 1975, pp 63-66.B.
Grote, M. Stede.
Discourse marker choice in sentenceplanning.
In Proc.
of the 9th International NaturalLanguage Generation Workshop.
Niagara-on-the-Lake,Canada (to appear).G: Helbig, J. Buscha.
Deutsche Grammatik: Ein Hand-buch fiir den Ausldnderunterricht.
Berlin, Leipzig:Langenscheidt, Verlag Enzyklop~idie, 1990.J.
Hitzeman, M. Moens, C. Grover.
Algorithms foranalysing the temporal structure of discourse.
In Proc.of the Proceedings of the 6th International Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Dublin, 1995.N.
Hornstein.
As Time Goes By.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MITPress, 1990.A.
Lascarides, J. Oberlander.
Temporal connectives in adiscourse context.
In Proc.
of the 6th Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Utrecht, 1993.M.
Moens, M. Steedman.
Temporal ontology and tempo-ral reference.
Computational Linguistics, 14(2), 1988.O.
Rainbow, T. Korelsky.
Applied text generation.
InProc.
of the Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, Trento, 1992.H.
Reichenbach.
Elements of Symbolic Logic.
London:Macmillan, 1947.D.
RSsner, M. Stede.
Customizing RST for the automaticproduction of technical manuals.
In R. Dale et al (eds.
)Aspects of Automated Natural Language Generation.Berlin: Springer, 1992.M.
Stede.
Lexical semantics and knowledge representa-tion in multilingual generation.
Doctoral dissertation.Published as Technical report CSRI-347, Dept.
of Com-puter Science, University of Toronto, 1996.A.
Steube.
Temporale Bedeutung im Deutschen.
studiagrammatica XX.
Berlin: Akademie-Verlag, 1980.K.
Vander Linden, J. Martin.
Expressing rhetorical rela-tions in instructional texts: a case study of the purposerelation.
Computational Linguistics, 21(2), 1995.L.
Wanner, E. Hovy.
The HealthDoc sentence planner.In Proc.
of the 8th International Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation, Herstmonceux Castle, 1996.28
