Lexical  mark ing of discourse relat ions - some exper imenta lf indingsClaud ia  So f iaUn ivers i ty  of P isaDepar tment  of L inguist icsV ia  S .Mar ia  36 - 56126 P isa  - I ta lye -mai l  sor ia~l ing .un ip i .
i tG iacomo Fer rar iUn ivers i ty  of East  P iemonteDepar tment  of Human Stud iesV ia  G .Fer rar i s  109 - 13100 Verce l l i -  I ta lye-mai l  fe r rar i@zeus .vc .un ipmn.
i tAbst rac tBoth in written and in spoken language, discourserelations may or may not be signalled by lexical ma-terial.
In this paper we present the results of twoexperiments which were intended to answer somequestions concerning the relationship between dis-course relations and their lexical markers.
Assumingthat, in any case, discourse relations are inferred bythe addressee/interpreter, he question arises aboutwhat suggests to the speaker/writer the strategicaldecision of using rather than not using explicit sig-nals, such as connectives or cue phrases.
In order toanswer this main question, the following subques-tions need to be answered: first, which role do dis-course markers play in the task of reconstructing thediscourse relation which was originally intended bythe speaker/writer.
Second, to what extent the lexi-cal signalling of the relation is essential for the rela-tion to be inferred.
Third, whether there are coher-ence relations that are always lexically signalled andwhether there are any that are never lexically sig-nalled.
Finally, if the different access that addresseeshave to the linguistic context in spoken and writtenlanguage affects the kind of relations employed inthe construction of text and/or in the realization ofthe relations.1 D iscourse  Re la t ionsDiscourse relations have been addressed by a numberof different approaches for the purposes of text un-derstanding, text analysis and text planning.
Thisresults not only in a difference in the theoreticalinterpretations of the concept, but also in a het-erogeneity among the actual sets of relations whichare assumed to be psychologically and/or descrip-tively adequate.
On the other hand, the various ap-proaches how a considerable overlap in the individ-ual relations adopted, thus suggesting a "commOnground" shared by all approaches.
For the aims ofour research, rather than committing to one or an-other interpretation of discourse relations, we haveabstracted from the various taxonomies three broadclasses or types of relations, namely an additive type,a consequential type, and a contrastive type.
Thesethree classes are identified on the ground of the basiccognitive operation which is implied in the instanti-ation of a connection between adjacent segments ofdiscourse.Add i t ive  relations hare the common feature ofimplying some kind of similarity between the seg-ments they relate.
We conceive the notion of simi-larity in a broad sense, so that an additive relationis supposed to hotd whena) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of $1and p(y) can be inferred from the assertion ofS2,where x and y belong to a similar class ofentities.
For example:1.
The French proposal to invoke theright to self-determination f that pop-ulation having been rejected ($I), alsothe idea of a military intervention hasbeen abandoned ($2).b) p(X) can be inferred from the assertion of 5'1and p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of$2, where x is a member or subset of X (as forspecification or exemplification).
For example:362.
In spite of their unwelcom-ing appearance, the islands off Kerryhave been once inhabited ($1).
Skel-lig Michael, for instance, hosted amonastery in the VI century ($2).c) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of St andp(X) can be inferred from the assertion of S~,where x is a member or subset of X (oppositecase of generalization).
For example:3.
Phil is 6 feel tall (S1).
All the menin my family are tall ($2).d) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of $1and p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of$2 (that is, the "same" proposition can be in-ferred from the assertion of the two segments;this class concerns reformulations and correc-tions).
For example:4.
One of the central notions of neu-rophysiology is that neurons work in"frequency modulation" ($I).
Thatis, they exchange signals by increasingor decreasing the frequency of nervousimpulses ($2).e) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of $1and q(x) can be inferred from the assertion of$2.
This class concerns those cases generallyidentifiable as "continuation", as in 5, as wellas instances of "alternative", as in 6:5.
In 17.32 Tiepolo was in Bergamo,painting Colleoni chapel; he received,then, important commissions for thevenetian churches ($1) and dedicatedhimself to the decoration of palacesand villas of the high venetian aristoc-racy (s2).6.
Pursuing the desire of a better feel-ing, one smokes ($1) or keeps swallow-ing drugs ($2}.f) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of St andq(y) can be inferred from the assertion of S.2,where x and y are connected by one of the fol-lowing relations (cf.
van Dijk, 1977): whole-part, including-included, possessor-possessed,outside-inside, Figure-ground (cf.
Hobbs, 1985;1990), as in7.
They climbed upon the hill ($I).
Inthe distance they could see the line ofthe sea ($2).and script-based relations, as in the two follow-ing examples:8.
Paul is a doctor (SI).
The childrenare three and five years old ($2).9.
The effect is guaranteed (SI) andthe pureness increases the risks ofoverdose ($2).Generally speaking, the additive class of relationscovers Hobbs" Paral le l ,  E laborat ion ,  Exempl i f i -cat ion and Genera l i za t ion  relations (of.
Hobbs1985; 1990), Mann and Thompson's Sequence,E laborat ion ,  Jo int ,  Summary ,  Restatementand In terpretat ion  relations (cf.
Mann andThompson, 1986; 1988); it also embraces the re-lations List and Enumerat ion  of (Sanders et al,1993).Typical markers of the additive type are and, or, orelse, in other words, that is, or better, I mean, inaddition, also, alternatively, for example, etc.Consequent ia l  relations hare the common fea-ture of establishing an implication or a dependence ofsome kind (causal, temporal, modal, concessive, hy-pothetical, etc.)
between the segments they relate.Iu all the relations belonging to this class the infor-mation (or the content) that can be inferred from $1implies the information (or the content) that can beinferred from 5"2 (or vice versa).
More precisely, pcan be inferred from the assertion of $1 and q can beinferred from the assertion of S2, and p implies q orvice versa, from a point of view which can be causal,temporal, modal, hypothetical, etc.
Some examples,representative of the different kinds of implication,are the following:10.
If you want to work (S1), the moreyou look lean and pale the more they thinkyou're wonderful ($2).11.
We should reckon with the resources wedispose of, because no one would accept togo to the moon with a bycicle (SI).
It is aquestion, thus, of attentively evaluating theappropriateness of the means in regard tothe target ($2).12.
Preparing jams, marmalades and jel-lies, to be consumed in the winter and to beproudly offered to friends, can be a pleasantand relaxing pastime ($1).
The operation,although beginners may think is very com-plex, does not present, in fact, any partic-ular difficulty ($2).3713.
From I750 to 1753 he was alreadyworking out of Italy in W~rzburg, at theresidence of the prince-bishop ($1); finallyhe left to Madrid, where he spent the lasteight years of his life concentrating uponthe frescos of the royal palace ($2).Typical markers are because, so, so that, thus, asa consequence, as a result, then, while, after, there.fore, finally, consequently, it follows, for this purpose,nez~, etc.Cont ras t ive  relations hare the common featureof implying a contrast of some kind between the seg-ments they relate.
The relations of this class repre-sent the negative counterpart of the two precedingclasses, thus involving a negative component.
As aconsequence, this type can be further specified intwo subtypes, one which defines those cases imply-ing the negation of a similarity and another whichdefines those cases implying the negation of an impli-cation.
More precisely, a contrastive relation holdswhena) p(x) can be inferred from the assertion of $1 andp(y) can be inferred from the assertion of $2(negation of the additive type).
For example:14.
John is good-looking ($I).
Frankis ugly (s~).15.
Cork county is characterized byluxuriant valleys and gorgeous coasts($I), whereas the territory of Kerrycounty is wilder and hilly ($2).b) p can be inferred from the assertion of Sl and qcan be inferred from the assertion of $2, where pimplies ~q (negation of the consequential type).For example:16.
Torn is a lawyer ($I) but he ishonest ($2).17.
Although its port does not havethe importance it had in the past (SI),Cork is still the second town of the re.public ($2).This type of relations coversMann and Thompson's Ant i thesis ,  Concession,Otherwise  and Cont ras t  relations, Hobbs' Con-t ras t  and V io la ted  Expectat ion ,  Sanders et al'sCont ras t ive  Cause-Consequence ,  Cont ras t iveConsequence-Cause ,  Cont ras t ive  Argument -C la im,  Cont ras t ive  C la lm-Argument ,  Oppo-s i t ion  and Concess ion relations, as well as all therelations haring a negative polarity value in the ap-proach of (Knott and Mellish, 1996).Typical markers of this class are but, while, on theother hand, on the contrary, however, although, nev-ertheless, in any case, in fact, actually, otherwise,etc.2 Exper iment  1: The  ro le  o fd i scourse  markers  incomprehens ionIf connectives play a significant a role in directingthe receiver toward the reconstruction of a discourserelation, their presence should result in a higher rateof correct recognition of relations, while their ab-sence should determine a significant worsening in therecognition ability; also, relations different from theoriginal ones may be inferred more easily.2.1 Methodo logy  and Data  Co l lect ionIn Experiment 1 subjects had to label the relationperceived between two textual segments, presentedin two different versions, either with or without theoriginal connective.The material for the experiment consisted of twosets of 72 pairs of discourse segments, embedded ina larger context.
The segments were taken from acorpus of written texts, of various genres; all itemswere in Italian.
In the "with connective" version, thesegments had not been altered; in the "without con-nective" version, the original text was modified aslittle as possible.
The segments had been chosen inorder to form a representative s t of the three classesof coherence relations (21 examples for the additivetype, 27 for the consequential type, and 24 for thecontraztive type; attribution of actual instances totypes was made on the basis of the taxonomy insection 1), as well as to display a vast range of con-nectives for each type of relations.The subjects were ten undergraduate students.
Sub-jects were instructed to spontaneously abel the re-lation they perceived between the two segments.
Ahalf of the subjects had to read 36 examples withthe connective and 36 without: the other half had toread the same examples, in inverted order.2.2 Resul ts  and  Discuss ionThe data were analyzed according to the followingcriteria.
For each type of relation, we determined thenumber of cases where the relation between the seg-ments was correctly inferred, either with connectiveand without connective.
A relation was consideredto be correctly inferred when the spontaneous labelchosen matched our taxonomy-based classification.Those cases where the relation was not correctly38Additive Typewith conn. without conn.correct identification 72.6 64.3uncertain 1 ~.9 9.5confusions with 2.4 14.3contrastiveconfusions with 13.1 11.9consequentialConsequential Typewith conn. without conn.correct identification 88.9 60.2uncertain 2.8 3.7with 0.9 8.3 confusionscontrastiveconfusions withadditive7.4 27.8Contrastive Typewith conn. without conn.correct identification 83.3 42.7uncertain 2.1 9.4confusions withadditiveconfusions withconsequential9.45.231.216.7Table 1: Percentage of recognitions per typeretrieved were further classified in uncertainty in-stances and confusion instances (i.e., when subjectsattributed the relation to a different class).
Table 1illustrates the data for each of the three classes ofcoherence relations.The degree of correctness in the answers is takento be representative of the degree of comprehensionof the relations.
The data confirm our hypothesisthat a connective facilitates the interpreters' abilityto infer the relation intended by the message sender.For all types of relations, the absence of the con-nective corresponds to a reduction in the number ofcorrect answers.
However, this reduction displaysdistinct patterns according to the type of relationinvolved.
The contrastive type shows the highest re-duction, while the additive type the lowest.
The con-sequential type holds an intermediate position.
Sim-ilarly, the different ypes of relations are not equallyaffected by the presence/absence of a connective:additive relations seem to be less comprehensiblethan contrastive and consequential relations; how-ever, they are those which are best comprehendedwhen lexical signalling is missing.The difficulty with which a contrastive relationis inferred without a connective could be due to thefact that lexical marking is essential for the inferenceof the contrastive component of meaning.
Accord-ing to our hypothesis, the contrastive type should becognitively more complex than the other two, since itinvolves an additional negative component.
If thereis lack of marking, the negative or contrastive com-ponent of the relation is lost and the relation is thusinterpreted as an additive or consequential relation,according to the underlying type, as it is shown bythe redistribution i to these other two classes.Lexical marking seems not to have a fundamen-tal role for guiding the inference of additive rela-tions: in fact, there is only a slight difference be-tween the number of correct answers in the condi-tion with connective and those in the condition with-out connective.
This could be due to two different,non competing factors: first, it could be that ad-ditive connectives are not particularly efficient forguiding the inference of the relation because of theirintrinsic ambiguity.
Second, it could also be thecase that interpreters tend to instantiate wheneverpossible a "stronger" implicational relation betweentwo segments.
Numerous tudies (of., among others,Townsend and Bever, 1978; Trabasso and Sperry,1985; Trabasso and van den Broek, 1987; Garnhamet al, 1996; Noordman and Vonk, 1997) suggest hatthe various types of relations differ not only alongthe dimension of cognitive complexity, but also alongthe dimension of cognitive relevance.
According to?
these studies, causal and temporal relations are cog-nitively more relevant since they promote the storagein memory of the connection between information.On the other hand, the ease with which an additiverelation is inferred when there is no lexical mark-ing to signal it could be explained by the fact thata relation of this type is inferred by default, sinceit signals a simple and general continuation withoutally other particular connotation.Consequential relations, while showing a reduc-tion in the number of correct answers from the con-dition with connective to the condition without con-nective, display a relative ease of comprehension.This is not plausibly explained by making refer-ence to the basic common knowledge shared by writ-ers and readers, since this should determine a goodrecognition of contrastive relations as well.
It is moreadvantageous to hypothesise that the high degree ofunderstanding ofconsequential relations is related tothe well-known preference toward inferring an im-plicational relation between the segments (el.
forexample Black and Bern, 198!).
Again, the factthat this class of relations is the best comprehendedone whith lexical signalling is explainable in termsof semantic non-ambiguity of the connectives usually39employed for its expression.In sum, Experiment 1 supports the hypothesisthat connectives have a facilitating effect for theinference of the relations intended by the messagesender.
The fact that not all types of relations areequally facilitated by a connective has been inter-preted as the result of three different phenomena:a) semantic ambiguity of connectives for the additiveclass vs. non-ambiguity of connectives for the conse-quential and contrastive classes; b) higher cognitivecomplexity of the contrastive type of relations andhence necessity of connectives for the understandingof the contrastive meaning; c) different cognitive rel-evance of the different classes of relations.3 Exper iment  2: The  ro le  o fd i scourse  markers  in p roduct ionThe aim of our second experiment consisted in ver-ifying whether there is any significant difference be-tween spoken and written language, in terms of thekind of relations employed and of lexical marking ofthe relations.
We decided to compare the spokenand written narratives produced by subjects abouta common topic.
Our original hypothesis was thatspoken language would display a lower proportionof cognitively more complex relations as well as anincrease in the global marking of the relations.
Thefirst expectation was due to the hypothesis that spo-ken language, being constrained by the limitationsimposed by short-term memory, would avoid thecognitively more complex relations and, at the sametime, would contain a higher number of connectivesas a trace or footsteps of the cognitive processes un-derlying the production process.3.1 Methodology and Data CollectionThe stimulus employed for this experiment consistedin a humorous story depicted in a set of eleven car-toons, put in order.
Pictorial material was consid-ered to be appropriate for the experiment in that itenables the analyst o have a comparable s t of nar-ratives based on the same subject; in addition, thepictorial form provides a neutral input with regardto the target form of expression (spoken or writ-ten), thus preventing from a priming effect.
Thesubjects were 19 undergraduate students, who wereinstructed to look at the cartoons and tell the storythey presented (the data for subject 9 had been laterexcluded from analysis).
Once the spoken narra-tive was concluded, they were asked to put the storyin written form.
Spoken narratives were taped andtranscribed according to the standard Italian orthog-raphy.lengthSPOKENn.
of conn.
I conn/claus10.6 \[ 1:1.6 131w.
21c.Table 2: Length of narratives and percentage ofcon-nectives for spoken language; w = words, c = clausesWRITTENlength I n. ofconn.
I conn/claus95w.
16c.
7.6 1:2.5Table 3: Length of narratives and percentage ofcon-nectives for written languageIn order to compare the two versions of the narra-tives, each pair of narratives underwent three levelsof analysis.
First, the total number of connectiveswas measured, as well as the percentage of connec-tives in relation to the total number of words and theratio connectives:clauses.
Second, after translatingthe narratives into a propositional form, we labelledthe individual relation holding between a proposi-tion and the preceding one and we determined therelative percentage ofevery class of relations for bothversions, spoken and written.
Finally, for each classof relations we measured the proportion of relationswhich were signalled by a connective.3.2 ResuRs and Discussion3.2.1 Length of narrat ives and percentageof connectivesTables 2 and 3 illustrate, for each pair of narratives,the mean values for length, the total number of con-nectives, the percentage ofconnectives over the totalnumber of words and the connectives:clauses ratio.The figures show a steady tendency toward a de-crease in the number of connectives from the spokento the written version of the narratives (M = 10,6%in the spoken version, 7,6% in the written version).3.2.2 Types of relations employed in thetwo versionsTable 4 shows a comparison of the relations em-ployed in the spoken and in the written versionsof the narratives (where A means additive type,CS consequential, nd CTcontrastive, respectively).The data show no significant difference between thesPOKEN WRITTENA Cg \] CT A \] CS \ ]CT40.4 ,t9.6 i0.0 43.4 46.7 9.9Table 4: Types of relations employed in the two ver-sions (mean percentage values).40\[ SPOKEN I WRITTENl 48.4 37.3Table 5: Percentage of lexically signalled relations(mean values)spoken and written versions: in both cases most ofthe relations belong to the consequential nd addi-tive types, with a relatively low percentage of con-trastive relations.
There is a straightforward rela-tion between the slight preponderance of the con-sequential type and the nature of the task: sincethe narratives describe a story, it is obvious that theconsequential type of relation would be the prevail-ing one.
Another possibility, which is not in contrastwith the preceding one, is that consequential type ispreferred because it is cognitively "stronger" thanthe additive (cf.
Experiment i).
Nevertheless, it issafe to assume that consequential nd additive rela-tions represent to a large extent alternative choicesfor the organization of the narrative content, as it isshown by the high degree of individual variation.Regarding contrastive relations, it can be notedthat they are generally little employed, both in spo-ken and in written language.
As before, this genera\[phenomenon could be explained by reference to thenature of the task; however, an alternative xplana-tion could be in terms of avoidance of cognitivelycomplex relations discussed earlier.
Again, there isno difference in the percentage of use between spo-ken and written versions of the narratives.3.2.3 Lexieal real izat ionsIf the data concerning the use of relations do notexhibit a significant variation explainable in terms ofan influence of the spoken vs. written modality, thedata regarding the lexical marking of the relationsare highly indicative of some constraints imposed bythe means of expression.
Table 5 shows tile globalpercentage of lexically signalled relations in the twoversions of the narratives.The figures suggest a uniform tendency towardmarking the relations in the spoken versions, whichdrastically drops in the written form.
This frame-work is consistent with our original hypothesis, i.e.that the spoken form would exhibit a higher num-ber of connectives in that they represent a footstepof the cognitive processes underlying production.At a closer inspection, however, it turns out thatthe reduction of lexical marking in writing displaysagain distinct patterns according to the type of re-lations involved.
Table 6 illustrates for each class ofrelations the proportion of relations ignalled by aconnective.si?KE r 'v ITTi A CS CT A CS CT21.6 59.7 95.3 24.8 43.4 91.7Table 6: Percentage of relations ignalled by a con-nective for the two versions (mean values)As it can be seen, the contrastive type holds thehighest degree of marking (over 90% in the two ver-sions); the consequential type of relations shows arelatively high degree of marking (around 60% inspeaking, around 40% in writing).
On the otherhand, the additive type has a very low rate of lexi-cal signalling (around 20%).
In addition, the figuresshow that reduction in the degree of lexical signallingsignificatively concerns the consequential type only(- 16.3%), while the contr~tive type is only slightlyaffected (-3.6%); more importantly, reduction doesnot concern the additive type, which shows an oppo-site tendency toward an increase in the global per-centage of lexical marking (+3.2%).The fact that a contrastive relation is almost al-ways marked by a connective, ither in speaking andin writing, indicates that connectives are obligatoryfor this class.
This is again in accordance with thehypothesis of a higher cognitive complexity for thiskind of relations.
In production, thus, higher cog-nitive complexity imposes a constraint in the formof an obligation to lexically signal the relation (thisalso indicates that graphic and punctuation markersare felt as inadequate for a correct retrieval of therelation).The relatively low degree of lexical marking ofthe additive type in speaking indicates a tendencyagainst he marking of the relation which is invertedin writing.
However, the data for writing (here notpresented in full) show a higher individual variationthan the one in speaking and as a result they sug-gest a less consistent tendency to mark the relationas opposed to the steady one for speaking.For what concerns the consequential type, writ-ing and speaking show a similar tendency to consis-tently and steadily signal the relation, but, again,the written language highlights a higher individualvariation, and the general percentage of marking issignificantly lower than in the oral versions.
Forthe additive and consequential types, thus, the datashow an influence of the means of expression i  termsof an increased egree of lexical marking for the spo-ken versions which decreases in the written versions.This latter phenomenon could be due to the fact thatwriting has graphic and punctuation marks availablein order to signal the relation.41In sum, with reference to our original questions,i.e.
a) whether the means of expression (oral vs.written) constrains the type of relations used in thenarratives; b) whether any difference could be re-lated to the use, in spoken language, of cognitivelyless complex relations; c) whether spoken languagemanifests a tendency toward marking the cognitivelymore complex relations; and d) whether spoken tan-guage shows a significantly higher use of connectives,as a trace of the cognitive processes involved in pro-duction, the data from our second experiment sug-gest the following conclusions.a) Discourse relations do not depend on themodality of expression, since both spoken and writ-ten narratives show a basically identical use of thethree classes; this directly rules out question b).With regard to question c), this is contradicted bythe data, which show that lexical marking is almostobligatory for contrastive relations both in spokenand in written language.
Finally, the hypothesis un-derlying question d) is strongly strengthened bythedata relative to the degree of signalling of the dif-ferent types of relations.
The spoken versions howa large use of connectives, which is globally muchhigher than it is for the written versions.
As regardsa comparison among the different ypes, the almostobligatory marking of contrastive relations, both inspeaking and in writing, represents an unexpectedfinding, which is nevertheless consistent with tile hy-pothesis of a higher cognitive complexity of the con-trastive type.
A further phenomenon is representedby the low degree of marking of additive relationscompared to consequential relations for which we donot possess at present a convincing explanation.4 Conc lus ionsThe Experiments shown in the previous ections ug-gest that lexical marking of discourse relations i  notentirely optional but is at least partially constrainedby the type of relation signalled and the means ofexpression.
Thus, contrastive relations obligatorilyneed a connective both in comprehension a d in pro-duction, while lexical marking does not appear tobe as necessary for additive and consequential rela-tions.
Although the data do not allow to concludethat there are discourse relations that are never lex-ically signalled, additive relations appear to be onlysparsely marked; in addition, lexical marking doesnot significatively improve the comprehension forthis class of relations.
The means of expressionsconstrains lexical marking in that spoken discourserequires a higher number of cue phrases than it isnecessary for written discourse.
However, there is noevidence whatsoever of a difference between speak-ing and writing in the marking of relations accordingto type.Re ferences\[i\] Black, J. and H. Bern.
1981.
"Causal coherenceand memory for events in narratives."
Journal ofVerbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 20: 267-275.\[2\] Garnham, A., Traxler, M., Oakhill, J. and M.A.Gernsbacher.
1996.
"The locus of implicit causal-ity effects in comprehension."
Journal of Memoryand Language 35: 517-543.\[3\] Hobbs, J. R. 1985.
"On the coherence and struc-ture of discourse".
Technical Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Stanford, CA: Center for the Study of Lan-guage and Information, October 1985.\[4\] Hobbs, J.R. 1990.
Literature and Cognition.
CSLILecture Notes.
Stanford, CA: CSLI.\[5\] Knott, A. and C. Mellish.
1996.
"A feature-basedaccount of the relations ignalled by sentence andclause connectives."
Language and Speech 39: 143-183.\[6\] Mann, W. C. and S. A. Thompson.
1986.
"Rela-tional propositions in discourse".
Discourse Pro-cesses 9: 57-90.\[7\] Mann, W. C. and S. A. Thompson.
1988.
"Rhetor-ical Structure Theory: Toward a functional theoryof text organization."
Text 8: 243-281.\[8\] Noordman, L.G.M.
and W. Vonk.
1997.
"The dif-ferent functions of a conjunction i  constructing arepresentation f the discourse."
In J. Costermans,M.
Fayol (Eds.
), Processing \[nterclausal Relation-ships.
Mahwah.
NJ: Erlbaum, 75-93.\[9\] Sanders, T.J.M., Spooren, W.P.M.
and L. G.M.Noordman.
1993.
"Coherence relations in a theoryof discourse representation."
Cognitive Linguistics4: 93-133.\[10\] Townsend, D.3.
and T.G.
Bever.
1978.
"Inter-clause relations and clausal processing."
Journaloff Verbal Learning and verbal Behavior 17: 509-521.\[11\] Trabasso, T. and L.L.
Sperry.
1985.
"Causal re-latedness and importance of story events."
Jour-nal of Memory and Language 24: 595-611.\[12\] Trabasso, T. and P. van den Brock.
1985.
"Causal thinking and representation f narrativeevents."
Journal of Memory and Language 24:612-630.\[13\] van Dijk, T. A.
1977.
Text and Context.
London:Longman.42
