Integrated generation of graphics and text: a corpus studyMarc  Cor lo  and Guy  Lapa lme<cor io@IRO.UMontreal .CA><lapa lme@IRO.UMontrea l .CA>D6partement d' informatique et de recherche op@rationnelleUniversit@ de Montr6al, CP  6128, Succ Centre-Vil leMontr6al Qu6bec Canada, H3C 3J7Abst rac tWe describe the results of a corpus study ofmore than 400 text excerpts that accompanygraphics.
We show that text and graphics playcomplementary oles in transmitting informa-tion from the writer to the reader and derivesome observations for the automatic generationof texts associated with graphics.For the past few years, we have studied theautomatic generation of graphics from statisti-cal data in the context of the PostGraphe sys-tem (Fasciano, 1996; Fasciano and Lapalme,1998) based on the study of graphic princi-ples from such diverse sources as Bertin (1983),Cleveland (1980) and Zelazny (1989).
Post-firaphe is given the data in tabular form asmight be found in a spreadsheet; also input is adeclaration of the types of values in the columnsof the table.
The user then indicates the inten-tions to be conveyed in the graphics (e.g.
com-pare two variables or show the evolution of aset of variables) and the system generates a re-port in lATEX with the appropriate PostScriptgraphic files.
PostGraphe also generates an ac-companying text following a few simple textschemas.
But before adding new schemas, wehave decided to make a corpus study of texts as-sociated with graphics and this paper presentsthe results of this study.
We studied more than400 texts and we will show that the saying "apicture is worth a thousand words" needs to bemodulated because graphics and text are farfrom being interchangeable and that their in-teractions are quite subtle.
With hindsight, thismay seem obvious but, without a corpus study,we could not have documented this result.
Al-though multimedia systems have been studiedfor many years, we are not aware of any previ-ous corpus study of the same scale.631 Overv iew o f  PostGrapheMany sophisticated tools can be used to build apresentation using statistical graphs.
However,most of them focus on producing professional-looking graphics without rying to help the userto organize the presentation.
To help in this as-pect, we have built PostGraphe which generatesa report integrating raphics and text from aset of writer's intentions.The writer's intentions can be classified ac-cording to two basic criteria: structural differ-ences and contents differences.
We refer to in-tentions derived from structural differences asobject ive in tent ions  and intentions derivedfrom contents differences as sub ject ive  inten-t ions.
This definition stems from the fact thatwhen differences between two intentions aremore content han structure related, the writeris choosing what to say and not how to say it.The writer is thus making a subjective choice asto what is more important.In our research, we have built a classifica-tion of messages, given in figure 1, based onZelazny's (1989) work.
At the first level, ourclassification contains 5 categories two of whichhave sub-categories obtained by using a frac-tional modifier.For comparison, the fractional modifier indi-cates that the comparison should be done onfractions of the whole instead of the actual val-ues.
For distribution, we obtain a specializedintention where the classes are presented ac-cording to their fraction of the total.
At thesecond level, the intentions become specializedaccording to subjective criteria.These simple intentions can then combinedeither by composition or superposition.
In com-position, the order of the variables is importantand there is a dominant intention; for example,the comparison of evolutions is quite differentObjective Structure i Subjective ContentHow to say ?
What to say ?Reading(V)Comparison(S1,S2)ComparisonFractional(V,S)Evolution(V1,V2)Correlation '<V1,V2)Distribution(V,S)DistributionFractional(S)IncreaseDecreaseStabilityRecapitulativeFigure 1: Two level decomposition f simple in-tentions: V is a variable and S is a set of vari-ablesfrom the evolution of a comparison.
For exam-ple, Sales figures of Xyz increased less quicklythan the ones of Pqr between 1992 and 1994compares evolutions while Pqr always tayed atthe top except between 1992 and 1994 shows theevolution of the comparison.
In superposition,the intentions are merely expressed using thesame graphic but the intentions do not inter-fere.Figure 2 shows the the part of the Prolog in-put specifying the intentions and the outputfrom PostGraphe.
The intentions are dividedin 2 sections: the first presents the 3 vari-ables (year, company and profits).
The secondpresents the comparison of the profits betweencompanies and the evolution of the profits alongthe years.We have also "ported" this idea of taking ac-count of the writer's intentions into the spread-sheet world by creating an alternative ChartWizard for Microsoft Excel which asks for theintentions of the user (comparison, evolution,distribution ... ) instead of prompting for thesort of graphic (bar chart, pie chart ... ); see(Fasciano and Lapalme, 1998) for more infor-mation.2 Text  and  graph ics  in tegrat ionGraphics and text are very different media.
For-tunately, when their integration is successful,they complement each other very well: a pictureshows whereas a text describes.
To create andata(...7. the intentions\[ \[lecture (~nn4e), lecture (compagnie),lecture (profits) \],\[comparaison( \[profits\], \[compagnie\] ),evolution (profits, ~nn~e) \]\] ,7, the raw data\[\[1987,'A' ,30\] , .
.
.
\ ] ) .Nouvel le section (3 intent ions h t ra i ter) .anndecompagnieABC1987 1988 1989 1990profits profits profits profits30 35 40 35160 165 140 15550 55 60 95Nouvel le section (2 intent ions h t ra i ter) .180150120906030profits Bprofi~ C /profits A1987 1988 9 1990ann6eDe 1987 ~ 1989 les profits de la compagnie Aont augment6 de 30 $ ~ 40 $.
Jusqu'en 1990 ilsont diminu6 de 40 $ ~ 35 $.De 1987 h 1988 les profits de B ont augment6de 160 $ h 165 $.
Pendant 1 annfie ils ontdiminu6 de 25 $.
Jusqu'en 1990 ils ontaugments de 140 $ h 155 $.De 1987 h 1990 les profits de C ont augment6de 50 $ h 95 $.Figure 2: Input specifying the intentions andthe French Report generated by PostGraphe64efficient report from tabular data, choices mustbe made between modes of expression (text vsgraphics) by taking into account their strongpoints but also their effect on the reader.Graphics are usually floating elements that donot appear just beside the accompanying text,they are often moved to satisfy other graphicalconstraints such as avoiding blank space at theend of a page.
Graphics make important ele-ments of the data standout and catch the eyeof the reader.
The text of the report does notonly describe or analyse data but it also linkswith the graphics by means of references to re-inforce the intentions of the writer.
Text andgraphic coordination pose important problemsidentified in (Roth et al, 1991) ass t ruc tura l  incompat ib i l i ty :  text and graph-ics do not compose in the same way: for ex-ample, in a graphic representation f a tree,dependents are near the root but in a pre-order textual description, the links mightbe harder to make;lack of  cohesion: for a text to make an ex-plicit link with the graphical elements of anillustration, the text generator must haveaccess to the structural elements of thegraphics;redundancy :  the text should not repeat infor-mation that is better given by the graphics,although in a few cases it is a good idea tore-emphasize important information in thetext.3 Corpus  s tudyAs we want to generate not only well formedtext but appropriate ones that complement theinformation available from the graphics, wehave built a corpus of 411 French texts asso-ciated with graphics from such diverse sourcesas "Tendances ociales" published every threemonths by Statistics Canada, books on statis-tics, investment funds reports, governmental re-ports, etc.
; see (Corio, 1998) for details.
Likewith most corpus studies, it is very hard to af-firm that this study is representative but wehave tried not to bias the kind of texts in anyway except for cases when we detected that ei-ther the text or the graphics were not appropri-ate given the principles alluded to in section 2.The analysis of our corpus revealed 7 mainthemes for texts combined with graphics.
Ta-ble 1 gives the frequencies of each theme for theintentions described in figure 2.
We now brieflydescribe ach theme with a few examples.
Fi-nally, we will raise some automatic text gener-ation issues that were the main motivations forthis study.descr ipt ive  gives an overview of the graphic oridentifies its main visual aspect: for exam-ple, using a title or a legend, it describesthe data on the X or Y axis or the generaltendency (increase or decrease).
Often thisdescription identifies a selection criteria forthe data such as Ten OCDE countries hav-ing the highest percentage of adults regis-tered to a University which indicate thatthe graphics only gives a partial view ofthe data.This theme is mainly associated with read-ing (73%) and evolution intentions (22%).quant i ta t ive  messages select the raw datathat should interest he reader because, forexample, the reader is directly concernedwith this value: for a bar chart givingthe annual income of a group of cities Theannual income of a Vancouver .family was59 7005 in 1993 is particularly interestingfor somebody who lives in the Vancouverarea or if it illustrates an article that dealswith Vancouver.It is interesting to see that many quanti-tative messages of our corpus refer to datathat do not appear in the graphics; for ex-ample, the graphics hows a pie chart giv-ing a budget distribution for 1997 but thetext compares those figures with the onesof the previous year.This theme is mainly associated with com-parison (46%), evolution (30%) and read-ing (23%) but it is almost always possi-ble to generate a quantitative message fromany data either as it is or after some trans-formation such as a mean, a sum or by giv-ing the range of the values.dominat ion  expresses the highest or lowestvalues of the data such as Which companymade the most or the least profit.
Our cor-pus shows that sometimes the 2 or 3 domi-nating values are identified when these are65DescriptiveQuantitativeDominationDeductiveDiscriminantQualitativeJustificativereading comparison evolution correlation , distribution%982311646651672430303531833173Total 132 146 107 37 2030 33 24 8 5total %134 3099 2285 1968 1538 913 35 1442 100100Table 1: Counts of themes and intentions of messages in our corpus of 411 French texts; some textscarry more than one intentions and themeclearly separated from the rest.
The mes-sages can also indicate if the dominatingvalues are for all possible cases.
In Canada,adults in the Newfoundland o the leastsport can only be said if all provinces areshown on the graphics.This theme is associated with comparison(76%) or distribution (20%) intentions; inthe case of a fractional modifier, the domi-nating values are in terms of percentagesbut for distribution, domination is indi-cated by an interval instead of specific data.deduct ive messages draw a conclusion fromthe shape of the graphics or the values ofthe data; it can be either some form ofcorrelation, a characteristic or a constantvalue in the data.
These messages oftenuse extra information to draw some con-clusion.
For example, Provinces of westernCanada had the highest employment ratefor teenagers in 1993 makes use of geo-graphic knowledge to link seemingly uncon-nected data: British Columbia, Alberta,Saskatchewan are part of western Canadabut that fact is not explicitly given in thedata for each of the ten provinces.This theme is not closely linked with anyparticular intentions although correlation(49%) and comparison (24%) occur mostoften.d iscr iminant  messages identify a particularfact that distinguish this value from theothers: we show an irregularity, a turningpoint in a curve is identified or an exceptionin an otherwise constant situation.This theme is associated with evolution(82%) and comparison (18%) intentions.qual i tat ive messages describe data in wordssuch as rare, weak, strong, frequent, high,low; the shape of the curve can also begiven.
Here the judgement of the writerhas the highest influence because the samevalue can qualified ifferently depending onthe context.These messages are most often associatedwith evolution (62%) intentions but theycan also be encountered with correlations(23%) and comparisons (15%).just i f icative messages identify causes for phe-nomena such as Why is a bar the highest?,Why the canadian dollar fell?, Why a givenpolitical party has more voting intentions?.As our corpus has been mostly built fromsmall texts we do not have enough data toassociate this theme with particular inten-tions.
These kinds of messages are mostoften met in longer texts.3.1 Text  and graphics interact ionIt is often thought and said in the multimediageneration folklore and in some graphic genera-tion texts that to obtain agood interaction be-tween text and graphics, that text should giveinformations that the graphics does not show.But in our corpus, we observed most often thatthe text merely reinforces what is already evi-dent in the graphics.
For example, 29% of textsassociated with a comparison intention, thereis a mention of the highest value as to say tothe reader: "Yes, what you see in this graph-66ics is really what is important".
Redundancyonly occurs when the text repeats exhaustivelyall the information and not when it pinpointssome important facts already "obvious" in thegraphics.Cohesion between text and graphics does notdepend mainly on the type of graphics (barchart, pie chart, etc.)
but more on the typeof data on each axis.
For example, in a graphicillustrating the sentence There are more gradu-ates in the highest salary brackets, data mightbe represented in salary intervals that can eitherbe shown as bars, as columns, as an area undera curve or even as pie pieces.
Thus each type ofdata has its own lexicon to insure cohesion: ten-dencies and evolution refer to a temporal axisno matter if the graphics is a curve or a barchart.In our corpus, there are few coreferences tovisual elements of the graphics, but we believethat this phenomenon is specific to our domainof statistical data.
We are quite sure that inthe domain of instructional texts, references tographical elements occur more often.3.2 Lessons learned for automat icgenerat ionFrom this corpus study, we developped somerules for selecting appropriate comments asso-ciated with the graphics chosen by PostGraphewhile not overburdening the user with specialannotations for the data.
But as we saw thatthe texts are used to pinpoint some importantaspects of the data, we need to know the inter-ests of the user in much the same way as Post-Graphe needs to know the intentions of the userlike the Vancouver example given in the previ-ous section.
The system must also know if a setof nominal values form a complete numerationto affirm that a value is the lowest ranking or ifit deals with the ten most important countries.There is also the problem of knowing if it is ap-propriate to mention the crossing point of twocurve or not or to speak about the reversing ofa tendency.Data must also be identified with sufficientdetail to be described in the text.
The systemcannot infer that a given percentage is the rateof persons charged of impaired driving withoutbeing given explicitly.The system must also be aware of the ap-propriate vocabulary to qualify certain types of67data.
For example 5% might be qualified aslow for certain income tax rate but might bethought as high if it deals with an inflation ratein North America these days.Messages that draw a general conclusion suchas Canadian families have been quick to adoptnew information technologies in their home arequite difficult to generate automatically.
Thesame can be said of justifications or links withthe outside world such as those found in stockmarket reports (Kukich, 1983).
For example,it is impossible to generate The price of golddropped because of the BRE-X scandal from theraw data of transactions on gold.For our text generation module, we will thusneed a few more informations from the user suchas the list of variables that are more importantto the writer and a slightly more explicit namingof the variables.
As these informations are ofutmost importance for the writer, they shouldnot be a burden to find and give.
If they are,then that means that the intentions of the writerare not clear.4 Conc lus ionOur system is not the first one to combinetext and graphics (see for example, multime-dia generation systems like COMET (Feiner andMcKeown, 1991), SAGE (Roth et al, 1991) orWIP(Andr~ et al, 1993)).
In our case, the out-put looks much simpler but our corpus analysisshows that, even in this case, the text genera-tion concepts necessary to combine with theseseemingly simple graphics is quite involved be-cause it must rely on the intentions of the writerwhich are often left implicit.
Even when theyare given, complexity comes from the combina-tions of both media and intentions.AcknowledgmentsWe thanks Massimo Fasciano for fruitful discus-sion about his work and his collaboration on thisproject.
This project has been partially fundedby a student grant from FCAR (Gouvernementdu QuEbec) and a research grant from NSERC(Governement of Canada).Re ferencesE.
Andre, W. Finkler, W. Graf, T. Rist,A.
Schauder, and W. Wahlster.
1993.
WIP:the automatic synthesis of multimodal pre-sentations.
In M. T. Maybury, editor, Intel-ligent Multimedia Interfaces, pages 75 - 93.AAAI Press, Cambridge, MA.Jacques Bertin.
1983.
Semiology of Graphics.The University of Wisconsin Press.
Trans-lated by William J. Berg.William S. Cleveland.
1980.
The Elements ofGraphing Data.
Wadsworth Advanced Booksand Software.Marc Corio.
1998.
SElection de l'informationpour la g6n~ration de texte associ~ ~ ungraphique statistique.
Master's thesis, Uni-versit6 de Montr6al.M.
Fasciano and G. Lapalme.
1998.
Intentionsin the coordinated generation ofgraphics andtext from tabular data.
submitted to NaturalLanguage Engineering, page 27p., January.Massimo Fasciano.
1996.
Gdndration intdgrdede textes et de graphiques tatistiques.
Ph.D.thesis, Universit6 de Montreal.S.
Feiner and K. McKeown.
1991.
Automatingthe generation ofcoordinated multimedia ex-planations.
Multimedia Information Systems,24(10):33-41, October.Karen Kukich.
1983.
Knowledge-b'ased reportgeneration: A technique for automaticallygenerating natural language reports fromdatabases.
In Proceedings of the A CM SIGIRMeeting, pages 246-250.
ACM.Steven F. Roth, Joe Mattis, and Xavier Mes-nard.
1991.
Graphics and natural anguageas components of automatic explanation.
InJoseph W. Sullivan and Sherman W. Tyler,editors, Intelligent User Interfaces, FrontierSeries, chapter 10.
ACM Press.Gene Zelazny.
1989.
Dites-le avec desgraphiques.
Interl~ditions.68
