!1IIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIInduction of a Stem Lexicon for Two-level Morphological AnalysisEr ika  F .
de  L imaIns t i tu te  for Natura l  Language Process ingStut tgar t  Univers i tyAzenbergstr .
1270174 Stut tgar t ,  Germanydelima~ims, uni-stuttgart, deAbst rac tA method is described to automatically ac-quire from text corpora Portuguese stem lex-icon for two-level morphological analysis.
Itmakes use of a lexical transducer to generateall possible stems for a given unknown inflectedword form, and the EM algorithm to rank al-ternative stems.1 Mot ivat ionMorphological analysis is the basis for most naturallanguage processing tasks.
Hand-coded lists usedin morphological processing are expensive to createand maintain.
A procedure to automatically inducea stem lexicon from text corpora would enable thecreation, verification and update of broad-coveragelexica which reflect evolving usage and are less sub-ject to lexical gaps.
Such a procedure would alsobe applicable to the acquisition of domain-specificvocabularies, given appropriate corpora.In the following, a method is described to au-tomatically generate a stem lexicon for two-levelmorphological nalysis (Koskenniemi, 1983).
Themethod, which was implemented and tested on anewspaper corpus of Brazilian Portuguese, is appli-cable to other languages as well.2 MethodThe learning algorithm consists of a procedure whichattempts to determine the stem and part of speechfor each (unknown) inflected form in its input.
Forinstance, given the inflected form recristalizaf~es('recrystallizations'), the procedure induces thatcristal ('crystal') is a noun, and adds it to the setof learned stems.The system makes use of a two-level processor-PC-KIMMO (Antworth, 1990)-to generate a set ofputative stems for each inflected form in its input.
(For a detailed account of the PC-KIMMO two-levelframework, see (Antworth, 1990).)
In order to mor-phologically analyze its input, the processor makesuse of a set of two-level rules, a lexicon contain-ing inflectional as well as derivational affixes, anda unification-based word grammar.
No stem lexi-con is provided to the system.
In the word grammarand lexical transducer, a stem is defined to be a non-empty arbitrary sequence of characters.The current system contains 102 two-level rules,accounting for plural formation, e.g., cristal ('crys-tal') - cristais ('crystals'), diminutive and augmenta-tive formation, e.g., casa ('house') - casinha ('house-DIM'), feminine formation, e.g., alemao ('German-MASC') - alema ('German-FEM'), superlative for-mation pag~o ('pagan') - pananissimo ('pagan-SUP'), verbal stem alternation, e.g., dormir ('tosleep') - durmo ('sleep-IP-SG-PRES'), and deriva-tional forms, e.g., forum ('forum') - \]orense ('foren-sic').
The a~xes lexicon consists of 511 entries, ofwhich 236 are inflectional and 275 derivational.
Theunification-based word grammar consists of 14 rulesto account for prefixation, suffixation, and inflection.Each word parse tree produced for an inflectedform yields a putative stem and its part of speechthrough the constraints provided by the grammarand affix lexicon.
For instance, given the unknowninflected form cristalizar ('crystallize'), and the con-stralnt hat the suffix izar ('ize') may only be appliedto nouns or adjectives to form a verb, the system in-duces that the string cristal ('crystal') is possibly anominal or adjectival stem.Since a stem is defined to be an arbitrary non-empty string, a parse forest is usually producedfor each inflected form, yielding a set of putativestems, each corresponding to one parse tree.
In or-der to establish the correct stem for an inflectedform, the learning procedure attempts to combinethe accumulated evidence provided by related wordforms, i.e., word forms sharing a common stem.
Forinstance, the word recristalizaf5es ('recrystalliza-de Lima 267 Induction of a Stem LexiconErika F. de Lima (1998) Induction of a Stem Lexicon for Two-level Morphological Analysis.
In D.M.W.
Powers (ed.
)NeMLaP3/CoNLL98: New Methods in Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, ACL, pp 267-268.tions') shares a common stem with related wordssuch as cristal ('crystal'), cristalino ('crystalline-MASC'), cristaliza ('crystallize-3P-SG-PRES'), etc.The EM algorithm, used to assign a probability toeach stem in a set, makes use of this fact to deter-mine the most probable stem.3 EM Algor i thmThe system uses the expectation maximization (EM)algorithm (Dempster, Laird, and Rubin, 1977) to as-sign probabilities to each stem in a set, given all setsobtained for a given corpus of inflected word forms.In the current setting, the algorithm is defined asfollows.Algorithm.
Let S be a set of sterns.
Further, let Sbe a finite set of nonempty subsets of p(S), and letSo = Uxes  X.
For each stem x in So:Initialization:co(x) = Ex~s(I(z, x ) .
gc(x))Step k + 1:ck+~(z) = ck(=) + Ex~s(Pk(=, X).
gc(X))Where Pc is a function from S to the natural num-bers mapping a set X to the number of times it wasproduced for a given corpus C of inflected forms, andI,  Pk, and Pk are functions defined as follows:I :  Sx~(S) -,\[0,1\]{ I-~1 i fxEX(x, X)  ~ 0 elsePk : s x p(s)-~ \[o, 1\]( p~_,.~4r.L_ if zex  and IX l> l(=,x) l "(') el,ePk : S --+\[0,1\]X ~ ~(_..~.~_L_~ESoA stem x is considered to be best in the set X atthe iteration k if x E X and p~ (x) is an absolutemaximum in U~x Pk(~).In the experiment described in the next section,a set of stems was considered isambiguated if itcontained a best set at the final iteration; the finalnumber of iterations was set empirically.4 Resu l tsThe method described in the previous ections wasapplied to a newspaper corpus of Brazilian Por-tuguese containing 50,099 inflected word types.
Thesystem produced a total of 2,333,969 analysis (puta-tive stems) for these words.
Of the 50,099 stem sets,33,683 contained a best stem.In order to measure the recall rate of the learn-ing algorithm, a random set of 1,000 inflected wordtypes used as input to the system was obtained, andtheir stems manually computed.
The recall rate isgiven by the number of stems learned by the system,divided by the total number of stems, or 42,3%.
Thelow recall rate is due partially to the fact that notall sets produced by the system contained a beststem.
The system produced partial disambiguationfor 15,814 of the original 50,099 sets, e.g., after thefinal iteration, there was a proper subset of stemswith maximal probability, but no absolute maxi-mum.
A large number of partial disambiguationsinvolved sets containing a stem considered to beboth an adjective and a noun, e.g., {AJ stem, Nstem}.
This reflects the fact that very often Por-tuguese words are noun-adjective homographs, andassignment to one category cannot be made basedon the morphological evidence alone.
If the systemwere to consider partial disambiguation aswell, therecall rate could be significantly improved.In order to evaluate the precision of the learningalgorithm, a random set of 1,000 stems produced bythe system was compared to the judgements ofa sin-gle judge.
The precision of the system is given by thenumber of correct learned stems divided by the totalnumber of learned stems, or 70.4%.
A small percent-age of errors was due to the fact that closed-classwords were assigned open-class word categories.
Aclosed-class word lexicon would eliminate these er-rors.
Spelling errors are another source of errors.Taking frequency of occurrence into account wouldalleviate this problem.
By far the largest percentageof errors was due to the fact that the system wasnot able to correctly segment stems, mostly due tOincorrect prefixation.
In order to improve precision,the system should make use of not only of the stemprovided by each parse tree, but take the structureitself into account in order to correctly determinethe stem boundaries.ReferencesAntworth, Evan L. 1990.
PC-KIMMO: a two-levelprocessor for morphological analysis.
Summer In-stitute of Linguistics, Dallas.Dempster, A.P., N.M. Laird, and D.B.
Rubin.
1977.Maximum likelihood from indomplete data viathe EM algorithm.
J.R.Statis.
Soc.
B, 39:1-38.Koskenniemi, Kimmo.
1983.
Two-level morphol-ogy: a general computational model \]or word-\]or'mrecognition and production.
University of HelsinkiDepartment of General Linguistics, Helsinki.de Lima 268 Induction of a Stem LexiconIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII/////////NeMLaP3/CoNLL98Workshop on Human Machine ConversationMacquarie University, 14th Januarymmmmmmmmm
