Movement rules revisited"Eva Haji~ov~Institute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles UniveristyMalos~'anskd n/un~st| 25118 00 Prague, Czech Republichajicova@ufal.mff.cuni.cz0.
IntroductionThe Praguian approach to formal description oflanguage (in detail, see Sgall et aI.
1986), workswith dependency s ntax and includes the topic-focus articulation into the (underlying,tectogrammatical) syntactic representations ofsentences, using the left-to-right order of thenodes of the dependency tree for that purpose.The edges of the tree denote the dependencyrelations and the nodes carry complex labelsindicating their lexical and morphological values(e.g.
Preterite).
No nonterminals and no nodescorresponding to function words (auxiliaries,prepositions, conjunctions, articles) are presentin the tree.
Counterparts of function words (andfunction morphemes) are parts of the complexsymbols of the nodes.
Instead of using the notionof phrase, we work with subtrees (i.e.
thegovernor and its dependents, or all itssubordinate nodes, where "subordinate" is thetransitive closure of "dependent").The present paper concentrates on amotivating discussion pointing out the reasonsfor distinguishing three layers of the order oflexical occurrences (Sect.
1), presenting acharacterization f movement rules (Sect.
2),discussing certain relevant relationships betweenthe level of syntax and that of morphernics (Sect.3), and sketching a possibility how to proceedfrom surface (morphemics) to (underlying)syntax (Sect.
4).
A way how to formalize thedescription of (underlying) syntactic slructure isbriefly outlined in Section 5.1.
Three layers of word order1.1 As has been argued in detail in Sgall et al(1986), there are good reasons (concerning thesemantic relevance as well as syntacticconstraints of the topic-focus articulation, seebelow) to distinguish three layers of the order ofthe occurrences of lexical (autosemantic) temsin the sentence:(i) the surface word order, which can beunderstood as the order of items on the levelof morphemics; on that level the sentencerepresentation has the shape of a string ofword-forms (rather than that of a tree);( i i )  the communicative dynamism (underlyingword order), i.e.
the order of nodes in anunderlying (tectogrammatical) representation(TR), which has the shape of a dependencytree; the topic of the sentence ischaracterized as consisting of items whichare less dynamic than those belonging to itsfocus; thus, if A belongs to the topic in allTRs of a given sentence S and B belongs tothe focus in some of  the TRs of S, then A isless dynamic than B;(iii)the systemic ordering of valency slots(kinds of dependency relation), which isspecified in the valency frames (included inthe lexical entries), see Sgall et al 0986),Sgall (in press).Let us illustrate the mentioned three layers by thefollowing example (with the capitals denotingthe intonation center of the sentence):"The work on this paper was supported by the grant of the Czech Grant Agency GA~R 405/96/K214.49!iIIIIIIIiIii(1) My sister was visited by a painter in PARISlast week.A difference between (i) and (ii) - the surfaceword order and the communicative dynamism -concerns here the fact that the most dynamicitem (the bearer of the intonation center) doesnot occupy its prototypical position at the end ofthe sentence.
Since the temporal adverbial at theend follows the intonation center, it can only beunderstood as belonging to the topic of thesentence, i.e.
as less dynamic than the focus.
Letus assume that the preferred reading of (1) - seeFig.1 - can be paraphrased as "As for the lastweek in my sister's life, (she) was (then) visitedby a painter in Paris"; the order of the valencyslots (the communicative dynamism) of the(tectogrammatical) syntactic tree representingthis reading is, in ascending order, Patient(Objective) - Temporal-when - Actor - Locative(with the Patient being the least dynamic item,i.e.
the topic proper, and the verb being lessdynamic than the Actor and more dynamic thanthe temporal adverbial).visit.Prets i s t ~ a r i s  Loc / /I.Appurt last.RestrFig.
1.
A simplified TR of the sentences (1) and (2).As a matter of fact, another surface ordercorresponding to this underlying wee may be thatof(2):(2) Last week, my sister was visited by a painterin PARIS.The relationship between (ii) and (iii) isreflected in (1) by the fact that the abovementioned ascending order of valency slots is inaccordance with the systemic ordering within thefocus (Actor preceding Locative), while this isnot the case with the .position of Actor withregard to the two valency slots in the topic:Actor follows both Temporal and Objective,although the systemic ordering of these threevalemcy slots is Temporal - Actor - Objective(see Haji6owi and Sgall 1987; Haji6ovfi 1991).This difference is determined by the fact that theparts of the topic are less dynamic than those ofthe focus, even if the degrees of dynamism arethen not in accordance with systemic ordering.The restriction that the communicativedynamism within the focus part of the sentenceis in accordance with systemic ordering, iscrucial for the specification of syntacticrepresentations, as will be seen in paragraph(ii)Co) in Sect.
5.3.1.2 The differences in communicative dynamismare relevant not only for the appropriateness ofthe use of the given sentence in this or thatcontext, but also semantically, even in thenarrow sense of differences in truth conditions.This clearly concerns sentences with certainkinds of complex quantification, such as (3), butalso sentences without such (overt) quantifiers,such as (4) - (7) (I mostly use examples takenfi, om earlier linguistic discussions):(3) (a) Two languages are known by everybodyin this ROOM.Co) Everybody in this room knows twoLANGUAGES.
(4) (a) He wrote his dissertation on SUNDAYS.Co) On Sundays he wrote hisDISSERTATION.
(5) (a) I exercise in the MORNINGS.Co) In the mornings I EXERCISE.
(6) (a) John saw an EXPLOSION.Co) Mary saw an EXPLOSION.
(c) John and Mary saw an EXPLOSION.
(7) (a) An explosion was seen by JOHN.Co) An explosion was seen by MARY.
(c) An explosion was seen by JOHN ANDMARY.
(d) An EXPLOSION was seen by Johri andMary.With (6c) John and Mary could have seendifferent explosions, which is not the case with(7c), at least on the preferred reading.
It is worthnoting that he mere change of the position of theintonation center in (7d) gives a reading different!
!50from (7c), namely the same reading as that of(6c).Examples in which the degrees of dynamismwithin topic are relevant can be presented e.g.from Czech:(8) (a) Tady byla loni MILENA.here was last-year MilenaE.
Here was MILENA last year.
(b) Byla tady loni MILENA.was here last-year MilenaE.
Last year, MILENA was here.While (8a), with 'tady' \[here\] in the positionof topic proper (i.e.
the least dynamic word),which may carry a (contrastive) phrasal stress,can be paraphrased as "The place we are now iswhere MILENA was last year", (8b) means "Rhappened that MILENA was here (notnecessarily in the place we are now, but in abroader sense) last year.
"In the sequel, we argue first for the usefulnessto work with movement rules between syntaxand morphemics (Section 2), we characterize ourapproach to these two levels of grammar(Section 3), focussing then on the transition frommorphemics to syntax (Section 4) and on aformal specification of syntactic(tectogrammatical) representations and theirtransduction tomorphemic ones (Section 5).2.
Movement  rulesThe examples from Section I show that it isnecessary to work with an order of items also inthe (underlying) syntactic representation.
This ismuch easier with dependency syntax than withthe constituency based descriptions where orderis handled as closely connected with thedetermination f syntactic re'\[ations.
However, itis impossible to straightforwardly copy in theserepresentations the surface order, due to thedifferences between these two layers, asillustrated in I.I above, in the discussion ofexample (I).These differences may be described by meansof movement rules, or perhaps e.g.
of numericalindices for underlying positions and of specifictopic and focus slots, as Starosta (1993; in press)proposes.
It would deserve a systematicinvestigation to find whether such an approachallows to account in a natural way not only for51the subtle relationships between surface wordorder, communicative dynamism and thesystemic ordering, but also for those concerningthe different positions of quantifiers or of'focalizers', cf.
Haji~ov~i et al (in press).
Ofcourse, an important methodological requirementis to minimize the number of movement rules,and of  all distinctions between morphemicstrings and syntactic representations, be theytreated as constituting two layers of descriptionor as corresponding to different subsets ofsymbols within complex node values.
In anycase, at least the following issues have to beaccounted for, and we indicate below how thiscan be done by means of movement rules (cf.Sect.
5.4):(a) Sentences with a secondary (other thanrightmost) placement of the intonationcenter, which marks the position of focus,cf.
(1) and its TR in Fig.
1 above; see also(7d); for Czech, the rule may transfer therighmost item of the TR to the leftmostposition, marking the moved item as thebearer of the intonation center of thesentence (which then, in phonemics, gets afalling stress).
(b) Grammatically determined positions ofverbs, adjectives, clitics, and so on, indifferent languages; the adjective primarilyis more dynamic than its head noun, but itis placed to its left in English surface wordorder; in Czech clities usually are placed inthe "second" (Wackemagel's) position, evenif they depend on an infinitive standingafter the main verb:(9) Martin mi ji tu chtel UKJ~AT.Martin to-me her here wanted to-showE.
Martin wanted to SHOW me herhere.chtel.PretMartin.Act tddzat.Patn'nSLocFig.
2.
A simplified TR of sentence (9).IIIII!i!IiIiiIiIIThis also concerns other dependents of aninfinitive, if they belong to the topic:(l 0) Martin mi Milenu zam3~lel ~ T .Martin to-me MilenaA,~ intended to-showE.
Martin intended to SHOW me Milena.Wackernagers position, into which themoved items usually are placed, is theposition just after the lefanost node of theuppermost part of the tree (and, if thelei~most node differs from the verb, alsoafter all nodes subordinated to the lefanostone).
(c) Positions of function words (articles,prepositions, conjunctions, auxiliaries),which need not have any nodes as theirunderlying counterparts (just indices withinnode labels, see Section 4 below): in themorphemic sizing (i.e.
in the surface wordorder) they are usually placed at thebeginning of their word groups; the rulesdescribing these movements are to becombined with changing the indices in thecomplex node labels into symbols ofarticles, prepositions, etc.
(l l) Jim visited me, since he wanted to askme for ADVICE.
(d) Also other cases of apparent non-projectivity (i.e.
peripheral, strongly limitedcases) can be described by movement rulesconcerning morphemics:(12) I met a man yesterday, who asked mefor your ADDRESS.The order in the TR: I - yesterday - met - aman, who... (see Fig.
3).
(13) a largcr town than Boston:The order in the TR: larger - than Boston -town.The use of movement rules, rather than ofnumerical indices for underlying positionsenables us to work with perspicuous yntacticrepresentations reflecting all the differencesillustrated in the above quoted examples,including an economical handling of systemicordering and dynamism.Even when attempting at a'monostrataldescription, it is always necessary to distinguishbetween morphemics and syntax, e.g.
by usingabstract symbols in the complex labels of nodes;52thus, also with such an approach the problemstressed by Starosta (1993) is still present,namely the danger that abstract symbols mightget too far from the empirical properties oflanguage.
As mentioned in Section 2 above, therequirement of the minimalization of the numberof rules (or symbols) is to be given due attention.meet.PretI.Act yesterday.Temp-when man.Patask.Pret.Res~/2who.Act I.Addr address.Pat /you.AppurtFig.3.
A simplified TR of sentence (12).3.
Syntax and morphemicsUsing movement rules to describerelationships between syntax and morphemicsmakes it possible to treat these two levels apart,with simple strings of (complex) symbols asmorphemic representations, and trees (or morecomplex networks) as syntactic ones.
It isnecessary to distinguish these two levels at leastfor two reasons:(i) the relation between a function word and itsautosemantic 'partner' differs essentiallyfrom the dependency relation: a prepositionor article cannot occupy any other positionthan that of accompanying a noun; anauxiliary or (typically) a conjunction alwaysaccompanies a verb; in this point they aresimilar to endings, rather than to adjuncts; itis essentially more economical to have justi!io(ii)indices in complex node labels than largenumbers of nodes;to work with a node for every surfacelexical occurrence (and to use no othernodes) is difficult, not only with respect othe description of deletions of differentkinds, but first of all with surface wordforms such as French du, au, or Germanrum, beim; these forms show that theboundary between surface word forms is notreliable.
Such cases can be found in manylanguages, of.
e.g.
in Czech the conjunction-li 'if (occurring only after a verb form andattached to it by a hyphen, so that theintermediate position between a functionword and a suffix of the verb is clearlymanifested), or the clitic s (auxiliary of the2nd Person Sing.
Preterite), written togetherwith (any!)
preceding word form, not onlyafter a verb as in dostals 'you got' or afterthe subject pronoun as in tys DOSTAL 'youGOT', but also e.g.
after the object noun asin knihus DOSTAL 'you GOT the book'.4.
F rom surface (morphemics)  to(under ly ing)  syntaxIn the primary unmarked situation,morphemes (endings, prepositions, otherfunction words) express dependency relationsand values of morphological categories (number,definitness, tense, aspect, modalities, degrees ofcomparison), whereas urface (morphemic) wordorder expresses the basic scale of the topic-focusarticulation, i.e.
that of communicativedynamism.
Prototypically these two orders areidentical, the differences - described bymovement rules - are relatively rare and can bedescribed by a limited number of rules.The core of the transition from morphemicstrings to syntactic representations (preliminaryformulations of implemented procedures forwhich can be found with Kirschner 1987;Haji~ovfi et al 1994) then is to describe thetransition from endings and function words totheir functions.
Thus, a Genitive typicallydepends on the adjacent noun, a prepositionalgroup usually expresses an adverbial (dependenton the verb), prepositions have either theirprimary 'meanings', as e.g.
E. with:Accompaniment or Means, from: Directional.I,through: Directional.3, or they have theirsyntactic functions (they express certain kinds ofdependency relation; perhaps it would be moreexact o see dependency as a family of relations)- to: Addressee, by: Actor with Passive.Another part of the task is to proceed fromsurface word order and certain properties ofsentence prosody (positions of the intonationcenter or the main stress of the sentence, and ofphrasal stress) to the scale of dynamism.
In non-prototypical (not just marginal) cases the wordorder expresses syntactic (dependency) relations.Among such cases there is the English'configurationality' with the order Actor, verband Objective; however, even in English, as soonas other kinds of the dependency relations areencountered, it is necessary to take morphemesinto account (in English - prepositions, seeabove; in most Continental anguages - caseendings; in the agglutinating languages of Asiaand other regions - suffixes; verb categories arepractically always expressed by morphemes,etc.
).Furthermore, it is necessary to restore thedeleted items; this task has often been discussedwith different frameworks, but an adequatesolution still seems to be connected with manyopen questions.
One of them is that it is not easyto draw the boundary line between those cases inwhich the deleted lexical unit is to be inserted assuch, and cases in which just an anaphoric orindexical item is appropriate.
The former caseclearly concerns at least the basic kinds ofcoordination deletion (e.g.
with blue and yellowflag it is appropriate to restore blue flag in theTR).
The latter case can be illustrated by thedeleted Directional with George has arrived onSunday - either here or there is present in theTR, i.e.
the sentence is ambiguous in this point.5.
Formal isat ion of dependency syntax5.1 A descriptive framework meeting theconditions specified in the preceding sectionscan now be briefly characterized.
We presentfirst an illustration of how the complextectogrammatical networks can be formallydescribed (Sect.
5.1), then we characterize theform of a lexical entry (5.2) and proceed to abrief sketch of a specification of the set o f  TRs(5.3), adding a partial illustration of movement53!IIIIIIIIIIiIIIiIiIrules used in transducing TRs to morphemicrepresentations (5.4).A dependency tree is not sufficient, since itcannot reflect he complex relationships betweendependency and coordination, if we do not wantto neglect he difference between the binarydependency relations and the coordinated (andappositional) constructions having an indefinitenumber of members.
However, even a networkwith a greater number of dimensions, which inthis sense can serve as the shape of a TR, can beformally described in the form of its one-to-onelinearization (see Petkevi6 1995; Sgall 1997), cf.examples (14) and (15); every dependent item orgroup is enclosed in a pair of parentheses and thesubscripts, indicating the dependency relations,are placed at the parenthesis that is closer to thehead and can be read as Restrictive (adjunct),Directional, Appurtenance (broader than justpossession); Conjunction is understood as a kindof coordination:(14) My younger brother arrived thereYESTERDAY.
(14') ((mY)Restr (younger)Restr brother)Actarrive.Pret (Dir there) (Temp yesterday)(15) Mary and John, our neighbors, who are anice pair, ARRIVE.
(15') (((Mary John)Con j (we)Appur tneighbor)Appos (Restr (Rel)Act be.ires(Obj (nice)Restr pair)))Act (here)Dirarrive.Ires5.2 The relationship between lexical andgrammatical information can be characterized byincluding much of grammatical information inthe lexicon (especially in the valency frames orgrids).
The lexical entry contains the followingparts:(a) the lexical meaning, which itself has itsinternal structure; in the cases of lexicalambiguity there are several representations,i.e.
several lexical units;(b) the slots for values of relevant grammaticalcategories, i.e.
of grammatemes; while e.g.gender with nouns is specified here, othergrammatemes (number and definiteness withnouns, or tense, aspect, modalities withverbs, degrees of comparison with(c)54adjectives) get their values only forindividual occurrences of the word forms indiscourses;the valency frame: optional and obligatorydependents are ordered in accordance withsystemic ordering; arguments or 'innerparticipants' (occurring at most once with ahead node) and obligatory adjuncts areindicated (e.g.
arrive at a place, behavesomehow, last how long,...); optionaladjuncts may be indicated by listsconcerning individual word classes; surfacedeletability is indicated (e.g.
Directional.2with to arrive is deletable, Objective with tomeet is not (We met there is a case ofreciprocity, rather than of deletion); furtherdata concern an optional or obligatorycontroller (e.g.
Actor is an obligatorycontroller with to try, an optional one with todecide; Addressee is an optional controllerwith to advise, to forbid), the dependent'sability to occupy certain syntactic positions(e.g.
of Subject with Passivization, of a wh-element) or to constitute barriers formovement, and subcategorizationconditions.5.3 The class of syntactic representations can bespecified by means of a small number of generalprinciples describing the core of grammar and byspecific rules for peripheral patterns.The general part of this specification can havethe shape of a generative procedure (firstformulated by Haji~ov6 et al 1991):(i) generate a node:(a) create the node either as the root of therepresentation, or as a node dependent onanother one and placed to the right of all itssister nodes;Co) choose its lexical value and the values of itsgrammatemes, taking into account (byunification) the subcategorization c ditionsof the mother node and the restrictions onthe combinations of grammatemes asspecified in the lexical entry of the head orin the data concerning the respective wordclass;(c) if a root is being generated, itsgrammatemes determine it as a finite verbform; it may be denoted as CB, contextuallybound, in topic (otherwise it is non-bound,in focus); the node that has just beengenerated is considered as node n in thenext step;(ii) if the frame of node n contains acomplementation, then it is possible to generate(ii) (a) either a left daughter of n, assign it 'CB'and a complementation value chosenfrom the frame of n,(ii) Co) or a right daughter of n, and assign it acomplementation value from the left endof n's frame (this ensures that theunderlying order of thecomplementations i  the focus part of thesentence will obey the systemic ordering,see the end of Sect.
1.1 above).NOTE: If the chosen complementation valueis an inner participant, it is deleted in theframe of n (as saturated); "from the left end"means that optional complementations can beskipped and deleted in the frame of n.(iii) if the frame of n contains nocomplementation, then the mother node of nis considered as node n; if no mother node ispresent; the procedure (generating the treefrom the top down and from the left to theright) is finished;(iv) only representations containing a focus areaccepted, i.e.
only those whose branch goingfrom the root to the rightmost daughter ofthe rightmost daughter of ... of the rootincludes anon-bound node.A declarative specification of the syntacticrepresentations is well possible, if the concept ofunification is so complemented as(a) to distinguish saturated items (cf.
the Noteabove) and(b) to check the correspondence of the order ofnon-bound sister nodes with the systemicordering.Then it can be checked whether the treeunifies with conditions tated in the lexicon, i.e.whether all obligatory complementations of theheads present in the representation are among thedaughters of the heads, whether onlycomplementations contained in the frame of anyhead (or in the relevant list of free modifications)occur as the bead's dependents, and whethersubcategorization (and similar) restrictions aremet.As we mentioned, this specification coversthe core of sentence syntax; it can be completedto cover coordinated structures (see Petkevi~1995), negation and other focalizers ('only','also', 'willingly', etc.
), in specific positions(prototypically they occur at the beginning of thefocus; see Haji~ovk, Partee and Sgall, in press).The relatively very simple form of therepresentations (strings of bracketted andindexed symbols) may be helpful in explainingthe easiness of the child's acquisition of themother tongue, although the representationscontain all semantically relevant informationimmediately comprised in the structure of thesentence.5.4 TRs of the form described in 5.3 can betransduced to morphemic representations(sUings) in that prototypically the left-to-rightorder of their nodes is retained, being changedonly in specific cases.One type of such movement rules takes careof placing the most dynamic item (the bearer ofthe intonation center of the sentence) more to theleft.
In English this concerns first of all thosecases in which the syntactic functions ofparticipants (arguments) and adjuncts dete,~-~-~inecertain restrictions of their surface positions.Thus, e.g.
sentence (1), repeated here forconvenience, can be handled with the use of thefollowing rule (presented here with manysimplifications):(1) My sister was visited by a painter in PARISlast week.Rule MI: I f  x.Loc as the rightmost i em ofa  TRis preceded by y.Temp (which is placed betweenx and the verb), then y.Temp will be moved tothe right of xF.Loc in the morphemic string; withthe chosen linearization of TRs (see Sect.
5.1)the rule can be technically written (with manysimplifications) as follows:X (U y.Temp W) Y (Z x.Loc) -->X Y (Z xF.Loc) (U y.Temp W)where X and Y are well parenthesized strings, xstands for a noun, pronoun or verb, y stands for anoun, adverb or verb (again, with theirdependents), the superscript F denotes theplacement of the intonation center of thesentence, Z, W, U, V are (possibly empty)strings of well parenthesized items (dependentsof x and y), X (U y.Temp W) Y (Z x.Loc) is a55IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIiwell formed TR (according to Sect.
5.3), and theparentheses are supposed to be removed by oneof the last steps of the procedure transducingTRs into morphemic strings.Rules of a similar kind can determine themovement of the subject (be it derived fromActor, or, with passivization, from Patient orAddressee) to the left of the verb in case itstectogrammatical source is more dynamic thanthe verb and thus stands to the right of the verbin the underlying order.Another kind of rules concerns the changes oftectogrammatieal values uch as Plural, Preterite,Feminine, Comparative into morphemic items(endings, alternations, affixes, function words)and the placement of these morphemic items.Thus, e.g.
for the treatment ofnouns rules as thefollowing one are needed:Rule M2: If x in a node label x.Num.Def is anoun, Num the value of Number (Sg or P1) andDef that of Definiteness (+ or-), then(i) rewrite + (-) into Artdf (Arfin) and place thissymbol to the left of the nodes subordinatedto node x (including x itself); recall that'subordinated' is the transitive closure of'depending'; Artdf will be transduced into thephonemic and phonetic (or graphemic)shapes of the, and Artin into a, an, or (withplural) into zero,(ii) rewrite PI (Sg) into -s (0) (this certainlyrequires to take into account also severalspecific sets of exceptions before Rule M2 isapplied, cf.
forms like mice, oxen, loaves); -swill be then changed into the surface shape ofthe Plural (or 3rd Person Singular) ending bythe subsequent components ofthe procedure.The simplified technical form of M2 is:(Z x.Num.Def W) - ,  (Art Z x.End W)where x stands for a noun or a pronoun, Z and Ware (possibly empty) slrings of wellparenthesized items (dependents of x), Art isArtdef (Artin) if Defis + (-), End is -s (0) ifNumis PI (Sg).Still another type of movement rules isneeded for apparently non-projectivecon.structions, illustrated by ex.
(13), repeatedhere for convenience:(13) a larger town than BostonM3: ((Art 2 X A.Comp (than U Art I N1.End) WN2.End Z) --~ Art 2 X A.Comp W N2.End 2Z than Art 1 U N 1.End 1where N 1 and N 2 are nouns, A is an adjective,X, Z, U and W are (possl~oly empty) strings ofwell parenthesized items, Art i is Artdef or Artin(or zero, with a proper name), End i is -s or 0 fori-- 1,2.Rules of the last mentioned type are supposedto be applied after ules of the types M 1 and M2.Many technical as well as empirical issues arestill open and constitute interesting topics forfurther esearch.References:Haji~,ovfi E. (1991): "Free" word order describedwithout unnecessary complexity.
TheoreticalLinguistics 17:99-106.Hajifovfi E., Panevovfi J. and P. Sgall (1991):Why do we use dependency grammar?
In:Buffalo Working Papers in Linguistics, SpecialIssue for Paul Garvin (ed.
by W. W61ck).Buffalo:State University of New York, 90-93.Hajifovfi E., Partee B. and P. Sgall (in press):Topic-focus articulation, tripartite structures,and semantic ontent.
To be published byKluwer, Amsterdam.Hajifovfi E. and P. Sgall (1987): The orderingprinciple.
Journal of Pragmatics 11,435-454.Hajifovfi E., P. Sgall and H. Skoumalovfi (1994):An automatic procedure for topic-focusidentification.
Computational Linguistics21:81-94.Kirschner Z.
(1987): APAC3-2: An English-to-Czech machine translation system.
ExpliziteBeschreibung der Sprache mad automatischeTextbearbeitung XIII.
Prague: Faculty ofMathematics and Physics, Charles University.Petkevi6 V. (1995): A new formal specificationof underlying structures.
TheoreticalLinguistics 21:7-61.Sgall P. (1997): Valency and underlyingstructure.
An alternative view on dependency.In: L. Wanner (ed.
): Recent rends in Meaning-56Text Theory.
Amsterdam/ Philadelphia:Benjamins, 149-166.Sgall P. (in press): On the usefulness ofmovement rules.
In: Caron B.
(ed.
), Acres du16e Congr~s International des Linguistes(Paris 20-25 juillet 1997), Oxford: ElsevierSciences.Sgall P., Haji~ovA E. and J. Panevov/l (1986):The meaning of the sentence in its semanticand pragmatic aspects, ed.
by J. L. Mey,Dordrecht:Reidel - Prague:Academia.Starosta S. (1993): Word order and focus inconstrained dependency grammar.
In:Haji~ov~ E.
(ed.
), Functional description oflanguage.
Prague: Charles University, 237-252.Starosta S. (in press): Comments on Petr Sgall's"On the usefulness of movement rules".
In:Caron B.
(ed.
), Acres du 16e Congr sInternational des Linguistes (Paris 20-25juillet 1997), Oxford: Elsevier Sciences.57
