RULE BASED LEX ICAL  ANALYS IS  OF  MALTESEPaul Micallef, Department of Communication a d Computer Engineering, University of MaltaE-mail pjmica@eng.um.edu.mtABSTRACTSince no computer based dictionaries exist forMaltese, the only analysis that can be made atpresent is rule based.
The paper describes a rulebased system taking into account the mixedorigins, (semitic and romance), of Maltese tocategorise function and verb words.
The systemseparates the database, the rule formalisms andthe rule definitions, enabling easier analysis andquicker changes to rules when necessary.~ITRODUCHONMaltese is written in Roman script using 30letters made up of six vowels and twenty fourconsonants.
Of particular interest are twographemes gh and ie which though written astwo letters are actually considered as onegrapheme in the language.
A recent survey,based on the most well known Maltesedictionary \[l\], found that the origin of thewords is 40% Semitic, 40% Romance (Italian)and 20% English.
The linguistic processing hastherefore to take into account this mixedstructure.
The purpose of this work was toanalyse the words to try and distinguishfunction words and verb words in the runningtext, within a text-to-speech synthesisapplication.
This is necessary to obtain pauseinformation at appropriate word boundaries.Therefore only a partial exical analysis is beingconsidered.
The method used here involves arule based system with separation between therule definitions, the rule operations and theinput data formalism.
Two databases have thefunction words and the verb words respectively,to compare with the word under test.
The ruleformalisms are kept in small local tablespertaining to the various rules under test.
In thisway addition/deletion f the data is completelyindependent of the rule formalism, and rulescan be added or amended independently of eachother.MALTESE HNGUISTICSAs in other Semitic languages, Maltese wordsof semitic origin do not have a stem to whichaffixes are connected, but rather use transfixes.The stem or root is made up of a number ofconsonants, which can never occur in isolation,and whose order cannot be altered.
Transfixesare then added to the root, sometimes also withprefixes and suffixes.
Transfixes are made upof a number of vowels and may includeoperation on consonants such as doubling themiddle consonant, (geminate).
On the otherhand, words of Romance origin follow theusual pattern of a stem and affixes of theinflectional and derivational type to form otherlexemes.
For example the semitic derivationsfrom k,t,b arekiteb to writekitba writingktib writingsktieb bookktejjeb small bookkittieb writermikteb writing desknkiteb to be writtenwhile romance derivations fromdeftaddertadertezzadertezzidertam entindertdertissm ucertainto ascertaincertaintycertaintiescertainlyuncertainvery sure102~-'UNCZON WORDSFunction words in Maltese are classified asp~tidelli and pronomi and they are made up ofpronouns, prepositions, conjunctions,interjections and adverbs.
These can in turn bedistinct words hawn, hekk, gSal, qabel,jienhave personal pronoun suffixes g$~ alina,qablekcomposite hawnhekk, g~alhekkshort phrases fuq il-qalb, sewwa sewIn addition the definite article is added to thelist of function words.
The dictionary byAquilina was used to obtain a comprehensivelist of function words, for the database.Some function words use inflectionalmorphemes as suffixes.
The definite article andfunction words that assimilate the definitearticle change their final letter for someconsonants, distinguished as xemxin.
Thereforemorphological nalysis is essential to keep thefunction word database to a reasonable size.The function word types are also distinguishedfor the purposes of the application asarticle il-, ir-pronoun fien, humaadverb hekk, sewwaconjunction u, jekk, melaprepositions assimilating the article mas-, fil-,ta'This subdivision is important as it helps in thesyntactic analysis.
The definite article isassociated with a noun or adjective, thepronoun is associated with a noun phrase, aconjunction i troduces a phrase, and the adverbindicates a verb phrase.
Many function wordscan be of more than one type, and depend onthe sentence syntax for the outcome.WORDSVerb words in Maltese can be, like in otherlanguages, conjugated in the present and pasttense.
There is no formal future tense, as inItalian, and auxiliary verbs are used to obtainother tenses.
In general the present ense hasprefixes to distinguish person, and suffixes todistinguish quantity.
The past tense has suffixesto distinguish both person and quantity.
In allof these the surface form of the stem canchange.
Like other languages there arenumerous exceptions.
Other verb words includethe imperative, the negation of the verb and thepassive and reflexive forms.
Additionally theMaltese language tends to use suffixesextensively within verb words, to obtain genericaccusative and dative object.
For exampleniktebniktibhom.niktibhomlokkitbithiel_...dI am writingI am writing themI am writing them, to youShe wrote it (fem.)
to meThe number of pronoun suffixes that can beadded to every verb is considerable, \[2\].LINGUISTIC ANALYSISTo keep the same formalism, the same datastructure is defined for the analysis of thefunction words and the verb words.
Thisconsists essentially of the stem consonants, thestem word, the part of speech, and the lexicalgroup.
The lexical group relates to the VC,(vowel consonant) sequence within the word.This order gives rise to different manipulationsof prefixes and suffixes with the stem, andtherefore different sets of morphological rules.Function Word AnalysisThe word under test is first checked for a validfunction word.
The analysis starts by lookingfor valid suffixes.
The remaining stem isanalysed for the consonants within the stem.The function word database is then examinedfor keys with the same consonants or more.Each corresponding entry has its lexical groupwhich is then used for the test.
The test is103according to the morphological rule appropriatefor that lexical group.
If a match is made theword is assigned the corresponding functionword category stored in the function worddatabase.
The rule syntax is as follows.Removing suffix I results in a stem that hasoperations done on stem.
Stem operations aredenoted as(Type)(Letter Strings)(Position) (1)where Type can be(+,, -)  meaning addition, no addition,deletionor (+/ - )  meaning delete the left stringand add the right string.Letter Strings are ASCII strings to add ordelete.
In cases where no operation or only onetype of operation is to be done, the rest of thefield is left blank.
Position is optional anddenotes where in the stem the change shouldhappen.
The position is with respect o the end(right hand side of stem).
Default is 1 andmeans abut to the stem.
For example(+)('e')(2) means add to the stem letter e atposition 2 from end of the stem(+/-)(a'/ieg~) means delete the part iegL~ fromthe stem end and substitute witha'.No operation is also valid.
The decision forvalidity depends on whether the resulting stem,after stem operations, is a valid lexeme in thedatabase.Verb Word AnalysisIf not a valid function word, a further test ismade to check whether it is a valid verb word.Verb word analysis is initially different fromfunction word analysis since verb words earlalso have prefixes.
All possible consonantgroup sequences made up of two or moreconsonants from the surface word areconsidered, starting from the sequence with allthe consonants in the surface word.
Initiallythese groups are passed through the irregularverb list, then through the mute verb list, andthen through the database.
(Mute verbs arethose that have a consonant in the stem that ismissing in the surface form).
Any consonantgroupings found in the surface form that haveentries in the dictionaries (irregular, mute ormain) are potential candidates.
For the firstpotential candidate the lexeme stem partdefined as that part of the surface word thatincorporates the lexeme consonants i isolated.If any prefix or suffix stems result, these areexamined using the morphological rules forverbs.
This results in either rejection since theaffix stems cannot result in valid affixes, orvalid affixes.
If the affix stems have anyremaining parts after valid suffix and prefixassignment, it is returned to the lexeme stem.The lexeme stem is now examined for a validlexeme stem for the particular database l xemeunder test.
This is done by a separate rule setfor each verb type.
If it is validated the stemhas the immediate prefix and suffix restored.
(This should exclude all pronoun suffixes).
Thisresults in a word form (P).X.
(S), where P is anoptional prefix, and similarly for the suffix.This diminished surface word form is used toobtain, from the linguistic database for the verbtype, the linguistic analysis for the word.The rules are based on the root which is the 3rdperson singular masculine in the past ense.
Thekeys of the database contain the consonants ofthe root.
Sixteen verb categories are defined inthe database.
Each verb category has a numberof formalisms, defined as VC patterns, thesurface word is allowed in the stem part forthat particular verb category.
Each VC formalpattern has in turn, a set of rules :(prefix) + stem + (suffix) (2)where the optional prefix and suffix are definedin the rules.
One entry in the rule set for verbsof category type Vl 1 is as followsj ; u +VCCC+ verb(indicative, present,2nd person plural) (3)104The first column has format<prefix 1>, <prefix 2> ..<prefix i> ; <suffix 1>,<suffix 2>, ..The meaning is any of the prefixes is valid.The ' ; ' is a delimiter when there are bothprefixes and suffixes.
The second columndefines the surface stem for the current rule inthe verb category and the valid affixes it cantake.
The stem definition is in terms ofconsonant and vowel positions.
For a given rootthe stem consonants are identical to the rootconsonants in the sequence of the rootconsonants.
The vowels in the stem do notnecessarily have to be the same vowels as inthe root.For example consider the word under testjiksruhomlok.
Initially all potential aggregate ofconsecutive consonants is examined as apotential verb stem.
In particular for theconsecutive consonants k, s, r, the databaseyields the verb kiser, in verb category V11.Using (2) the affixes are 'j'i' and 'uhomlok'.
'uhomlok' is found in the initial analysis asbeing three valid suffixes - 'u', ~om' 'lok'.)"
is found as a valid prefix.The immediate affixes are returned so that thelexeme under test is now )'iksru'.
Out of all therules defined for verb category V11 to whichkiser belongs, the rule definition (3) gives avalid outcome.For Romance verbs a corresponding rule entryis as followsn ; a,i +< >+ verb(indicative presentfirst person singular) (4)where the < > implies the root stem whichremains the same in all verb forms for romanceverbs.For example given the word formnippermettilek, the consecutive consonantsp,p,r,m,t,t find a database entry ippermettiunder the verb category for romance verbs.Using (2) 'n' and 'ilek' are found as validaffixes.
The immediate affixes are returned andthe rule (4) is then found to be satisfied.RESULTSThe rules were tested with a series ofsentences.
Errors were considered to be of twotypes.
These are no classification errors wheneither a function or a verb word was notclassified, and misclassification when a verbword was classified as an adjective or noun,and viceversa.
The results gave errors of thefirst type whenever the corresponding stem wasnot in the database.
Errors of type 2 occurred inthe case of one verb category, otherwise allfunction and verb words were classifiedcorrectly.
The error occurs because in the verbcategory CVCV the derivational morphologybetween verb and noun or adjective involvesonly a change of vowels.
For example b?da_,(he started); b/du (start).
The analysis thereforeyields both types as being possible validanswers for the word, though clearly a nativespeaker can distinguish between them.
One ofthe future features to be added is to use avowel tier on the present morphologicalanalysis tructure.CONCLUSIONSA rule based analysis suitable for a languagewith a mixed linguistic categories wasdesigned.
This was based on a separation ofdatabase and rule definitions enabling a quickeranalysis as well as easier addition / deletion ofrules based on a set of rule formalisms.REFERENCF~.J.
Aquilina, "Maltese - EnglishDictionary Volumes 1 and 2", MidseaBooks Ltd. 1987P.
Micallef, "A Text to SpeechSynthesis System for Maltese",unpublished Ph.
D. thesis University ofSurrey UK, 1998105
