Maltilex: A Computational Lexicon for MalteseM.
Rosner ,  J .
Caruana  and R. Fabr iUniversity of Malta, Msida MSD06, Maltamros@cs, tun.
edu.
mt, j car l@um.
edu.
mt, rfab l@um.
edu.
ml;Abst ractThe project described in this paper, which isstill in the preliminary phase, concerns the de-sign and implementation of a computationallexicon for Maltese, a language very much incurrent use but so far lacking most of the in-frastructure required for NLP.
One of the maincharacteristics of Maltese, a source of many dif-ficulties, is that it is an amalgam of differentlanguage types (chiefly Semitic and Romance),as illustrated in the first part of the paper.
Thelatter part of the paper describes our generalapproach to the problem of constructing the lex-icon.1 In t roduct ionWith few exceptions (e.g.
Galea (1996)) Mal-tese is pretty much virgin territory as far aslanguage processing is concerned, and thereforeone question worth asking is: where to begin?There are basically two extreme positions thatone can adopt in answering this question.
Oneis to attack a variety of applications first, e.g.translation, speech, dialogue tc., and hope thatin so doing, enough general expertise can be ac-quired to build the basis of an NLP culture thatis taken for granted with more computationallyestablished languages.
The other extreme is toattack the linguistic issues first, since, for what-ever reason, there is currently rather little in theway of an accepted linguistic framework fromwhich to design computational materials.We have decided to adopt the middle groundby embarking upon the construction of a sub-stantial machine-tractable lexicon of the lan-guage, since whether we think in terms of appli-cations or linguistic theory, the lexicon is clearlya resource of fundamental importance.The construction of the lexicon involves tworather separate subtasks which may in practice97become interleaved.
The first is the identifica-tion of a set of lexical entries, i.e.
entries thatwill serve as the carriers of information.
Thesecond is the population of the entries with in-formation of various kinds e.g.
syntactic, se-mantic, phonological etc.Our initial task, trivial as it may sound, is toconcentrate on the first of these subtasks, creat-ing what amounts to a word list, in a machine-readable and consistent format, for all the basiclexical entries of the language.
The idea is thatthis will subsequently be used not only as a basisfor applications (initially we will concentrate onspell-checking), but also as a tool for linguisticresearch on the language itself.2 The  Ma l tese  LanguageMaltese is the national language of Malta and,together with English, one of the two officiallanguages of the Republic of Malta.
Its use be-yond the shores of the Maltese islands is lim-ited to small emigrant communities in Canadaand Australia, but within the geographical con-fines of Malta, the language is used for thewidest possible range of types of interactionand communication, i cluding education, jour-nalism, broadcasting, administration, businessand literary discourse.Unsurprisingly in view of the disparate po-litical and cultural influences the islands havebeen exposed to over the centuries, Malteseis a so-called 'mixed' language, with a sub-strate of Arabic, a considerable superstrate ofRomance origin (especially Sicilian) and, to amuch more limited extent, English.
The Semitic(Western/Maghrebi Arabic) element is evidentenough to justify considering the language a pe-ripheral dialect of Arabic.
Its script, codified asrecently as the 1920s, utilises a modified Latinalphabet.
This is just one of the peculiarities ofMaltese as compared to other dialectal varietiesof Arabic, more important ones being its statusas a 'high' variety and its use in literary, formaland official discourse, its lack of reference to anyQur'anic Arabic ideal, as well as its handling ofextensive borrowings from non-Semitic sources.These features make Maltese a very interestingarea for those working in the fields of languagecontact and Arabic dialectology.2.1 The  Mal tese  A lphabetAs noted above, Maltese is the only dialect ofArabic with a Latin script.
Maltese orthogra-phy was standardised in the 1920s, utilising analphabet largely identical with the Latin one,with the following additions/modifications:MaltesehghhiePronunciationchip (Eng)jam (Eng)silentmostly silenthat (Eng)zip (Eng)ear (Eng) (approx)2.2 Morphologica l  Aspects of MalteseThe morphology is still based on a root-and-pattern system typical of Semitic languages.For example, from the triliteral root consonantsh - d - rn one can obtain forms like:liadem work (verb);haddiem worker;hidma work (noun);nhadem be worked (verb passive);haddem caused to work.Most of these forms are based on produc-tive templates (binyanim/forom/conjugations),of which Maltese has a subset of those in Clas-sical Arabic.
One other typical feature sharedwith Semitic languages i broken plural forma-tion as opposed to so-called sound plural.
A fewexamples are:qamar moon qmura moons;tifel/tifla boy/girl tfal children.Plural formation in such instances involves achange in CV pattern.
Sound plural formationinvolves affixation of suffixes such as -i, verycommon with words of Romance origin, -let or-a  as in:karozza car karozz-  i cars;ikla meal i k l -  iet meals;haddiem worker haddiema workers.Maltese has taken on a very large number ofRomance lexical items and incorporated themwithin the Semitic pattern.
For example, pizza,a word of Romance origin, has the broken plu-ral form pizez (compare Italian pizza/pizze),and ~ippa, a very recent borrowing from English(computer chip) has a broken plural form ~ipep.In certain cases, one gets free variation betweenthe broken plural form and a sound plural basedon (Romance) affixation, e.g.
:kaxxa box kaxex/kaxxi boxestapir carpet twapet/tapiti carpets.The stem, as opposed to the consonantal root,also plays an important role in word forma-tion, in particular in nominal inflection.
Typi-cal stem-based plural forms in which the stemremains intact are:ahar news item ahbar- iiet newsomm mother omm- ijiet mothersVerbs are also often borrowed and fully inte-grated into the Semitic verbal system and cantake all of the inflective forms for person, num-ber, gender, tense etc.
that any other Malteseverbs of Semitic origin can take.
For example:spjega explain (It.
spiegare)jispjega he explainsnispjegaw we explainspjegat she explainedspjegajt I explained, etc.izzuttja kick a football (Eng.
shoot)jixxuttja he kicksnixzuttjaw we kickizzuttjat she kickedixzuttjajt I kicked, etc.The vigour and productivity of these pro-cesses is attested to by the fact that one keepscoming across new loan verbs all the time (in-creasingly more from English), both in spokenand in written Maltese, without the languagehaving any difficulty in integrating them seam-lessly into its morphological setup.Within the verbal system complex inflectionalforms can also be built through multiple affixa-tion.
For example, the word98bghat  - t - h ie  - lu  - x'I didn'tsend her to him', contains the the suf-fixes - t  for 3rd person singular masculine sub-ject (perfective), -h ie  for 3rd person singularfeminine direct object, - lu  for 3rd person sin-gular masculine indirect object, and -x  for verbnegation.
This ready potential for inflectionalcomplexity is another Semitic feature of Mal-tese which applies across the board, whateverthe origin of the verb.
It also raises interest-ing questions concerning the nature of lexicalentries, the relationship between lexical entriesand surface strings, and the kind of morpholog-ical processing that is necessary to connect hetwo together.Many of the linguistic issues that could helpto resolve these questions are themselves unre-solved for lack of suitably organised languaageresources (like the lexicon itself!).
For this rea-son, we see the design/implementation of thelexicon, the development of language resources,and the evolution of linguistic theory for Mal-tese as three goals which must be pursued inparallel.At this very early stage of the project, wehave sidestepped many of the finer issues byopting to codify the most uncontentous partsof the lexicon first, as described below.
At thesame time, we are in the process of develop-ing an extensible text archive which will serveas the basis for empirical work concerning boththe lexicon and the underlying linguistics.3 Const ruct ing  the  Lex iconThe two main resources available to constructthe lexicon are dictionaries and text corpora.Both, in some sense, are representative of thelexical behaviour of words, and both have theiradvantages and disadvantages.3.1 The  Dict ionary  ApproachThe basic idea underlying the dictionary ap-proach is this: if some lexicographer has al-ready gone to a great deal of trouble to compilea dictionary, why not make use of that workrather than repeat it?
The appeal is obvious,and can be made to work, as is evidenced by,for example, the work of Boguraev and Briscoe(1987) who attempted to extract entries fromthe machine-readable version of Longman's dic-tionary.
Problems of a practical nature soon99arise, however, such as:?
What to do if a machine readable versionof the printed dictionary is not available, asis in fact the case with Maltese.?
How to deal with the idlosynchratic for-mats adopted by different lexicographers,and how to handle the omissions and in-consistencies that are characteristic of allhuman oriented ictionaries.?
Once the information is available, how torepresent i .?
How to deal with evolution of the languageunder investigation.
Dictionaries alwaysreflect he language as it was, not as it is.
Inthe case of Maltese this problem is partic-ularly acute, given that the most obviouslyuseful dictionary contains a large numberof entries that are regarded by many as ar-chaic.Many of these problems, except the last, arealleviated by adopting an essentially manual ap-proach in the early stages.
We have adoptedthe most complete and detailed dictionary cur-rently available by J. Aquilina (Aquilina, 1987)and are in the process of transcribing the so-called major  entries into our own format bymeans of a form interface as illustrated in figure3.1.
Major entries of this dictionary comprisea specific, orthographically distinguished (capi-talised) subset containing the basic lexical formsof the language.
They thus form a reasonablestarting point for our purposes.
The other (non-capitalised) entries are der ived lexical forms ofvarious kinds.For the present, we are simply ignoring in-flectional forms, since ultimately it is more ef-ficient to assume that they can be systemati-cally related to the basic entries by a morpho-logical transformation of the sort implementedby Galen (1996).The most important information is headword,a sequence of characters used to identify a par-ticular lexical primitive or lexeme.
Most ofthe time, the headword and the lexeme are inone:one correspondance, but there are excep-tions.
Distinct lexemes (and therefore ntries)with the same headword are homonyms (e.g.t i kk ,  a clock tick and t i kk ,  a facial spasm).Single lexemes can also manifest polysemy, dif-ferent meanings under the same headword (e.g.Maltilex Lexical EntryHeadWord:IIs-=Vadam 2: Vafi~mt 1:VerbTr.msiliveSuhuamJveNouaDimunifiveGenderMasculine Fenuninlne \]PluralsVadam I: Vadant 2: 1Vadam 3: Coll?~ve: \]iI mr~lJ,~e ~ l ~ eVerbal Noun \[\[ Noun AgemSearching the Word ListEmer a wo~DefinitionsSmma morl/~me or' a ctmlb~nafion of nnot~anes It) which affixes are addedP~vious PageHolr~Figure 1: Internet Form for Dictionary Entriestikka, a point-like diacritic mark and tikka, avery small amount).These variations are accommodated using theheadword (string), homonym (integer) and pol-yseme (integer) fields in the form, the inte-gers deriving from the ordering implicit in theprinted dictionary.The second line of the form contains root(typically 3 consonants) and stem informationfor words of semitic and non-semitic origin re-spectively, whilst the third contains variants(e.g.
farfett/ferfett,  butterfly).The remainder of the form contains mostlygrammatical information, including that on(various forms of) plural.
There is also spacefor comments from the individual lexicographer.The end product of the work described in thissection is essentially a list of lexical entries forwhat we are calling the uncontentious parts ofthe language.
The content of entries is essen-tially by reference (to the entries of Aquilina'sdictionary) rather than literal.
1003.2 The Corpus ApproachComparatively recent technological changeshave made it possible, in principle, to createand maintain corpora that are sufficiently largeand accessible to be suitable for the purposes ofIexical acquisition.
One of the greatest advan-tages of the corpus approach to lexical acquisi-tion, compared to the dictionary approach justdescribed, is that in principle such corpora comeas close as it is possible to get to a truly currentsnapshot of the language, particularly if theyare continuously updated.
Other arguments infavour of using texts as the basis for lexical ac-quisition are advanced in the editor's introduc-tion to Boguraev and Pustejovsky (1995).To adopt the corpus approach it is of coursenecessary to have a corpus, so that a prioritytask is the construction of a machine-readable,evolving record of the current written language.All the main Maltese language newspapers havebeen approached, and some journalistic texts(various fields) have already been obtained.
Wehave recently managed to obtain speech corporawith parallel text of national radio news broad-casts.
Furthermore, practical arrangements arecurrently being made for the provision of suchmaterials on a regular and frequent basis.
Bookpublishers have agreed to make titles from theirrespective ranges available for inclusion in thecorpus.
As it stands, the raw collection includesa number of book excerpts from various titles.One feature of this approach is the constantlyevolving relationship between corpus and lex-icon: the corpus enriches the lexicon, but asthe latter evolves, it can be used to add fur-ther information to the corpus in the form ofannotations or tags, thus expanding its scope.A corpus annotated with part-of-speech tags,for example, can be used to infer a statisticalmodel that can be harnessed to efficiently andautomatically assign tags to previously unseentexts.3.3 Character  Representat ionIn the course of collecting corpus texts, it soonbecame apparent hat, as a result of lack ofstandardisation early on in the introduction andspread of IT in Malta, a certain amount of anar-chy reigns, with various computer/printer sup-pliers having developed and disseminated 'Mal-tese' adaptations of existing fontsets.
The factthat they proceeded independently of each otherand with no external regulation meant hat thesame Maltese-specific characters were assigneddifferent ANSI codes in Windows (TTF) fontssupplied by competing sellers, making it diffi-cult to read documents not only across plat-forms but also within the same platform.A persistent challenge to the computationaltreatment of Maltese is therefore the questionof text representation, i.e.
the numerical codingfor the characters that make up words.
Therequirements are:?
That the coding should follow an interna-tionally recognised standard.?
That there exist appropriate fonts foruse on  the screen and on the printeracross a variety of hardware platforms(PC/Mac/Unix).?
That there exists an accepted keyboardconfiguration to generate the codes.Although no code satisfying all of theserequirements exists, the most acceptableworkaround available at present is to adoptfonts conforming to IS08859-3, known as LatinAlphabet No.
3.
Two PC-compatible fonts con-forming to this standard are known as "Tor-nado" and "FTIMAL" and we are currently in-vestigating the copyright status of each of these.Given that these fonts are closely tied toPC (rather than Unix or Macintosh platforms),and given rather casual attitude taken to theadoption of text representation standards lo-cally, we have defined a project-internal Stan-dard Maltese Text Representation (SMTR) forstoring text archives in a way that is (a) human-readable (and human-editable), (b) compatiblewith Unix systems and (c) easily translatableto and from any other coding format by meansof simple finite-state methods (we are using Xe-rox's x fst  for this purpose).Maltese Ascii_cgh _yh _.h_2.ie _i i014 Conc lus ionThis paper has attempted to convey our ap-proach to the problem of rendering Malteseamenable to current language ngineering tech-niques via the construction of a computationallexicon.
One difficulty that we are currently fac-ing is a shortage of appropriately qualified per-sonnel to work on the project, though hopefullythis problem will be alleviated by the appear-ance of our first CS/Computational Linguisticsgraduates during the coming year.
Three sub-projects are currently in the pipeline with thefollowing themes:?
F inite State Methods.
Development offinite state transducers for extracting lexi-cal information from text corpora.?
Computat iona l  Grammar .
Develop-meat of a grammar and parsing system forMaltese sentences.
This will probably bebased on HPSG.?
Computat iona l  Morphology of P lura lForms.5 AcknowledgementsThe authors grastefully acknowledge the con-tribution made by the Mid-Med Computer andCommerces Foundation to the funding of thisproject.Re ferencesJ.
Aquilina.
1987.
Maltese-English Dictionary.Midsea Books.B.
Boguraev and T. Briscoe.
1987.
Large lex-icons for natural language processing: ex-ploring the grammar coding system of ldoce.Computational Linguistics, 13:203-218.B.
Boguraev and J Pustejovsky.
1995.
Cor-pus Processing for Lexical Acquisition.
MITPress, Cambridge, Ma.D.
Galea.
1996.
Morphological analysis of mal-tese verbs.
Technical Report B.Sc Disserta-tion, Department of Computer Science, Uni-versity of Malta.
