Interactive Multimedia NavigationProf.
Dr. Dr. Mihai NADINComputational Design, University of WuppertalHofaue 35-39D-42103 Wuppertal, Germanynadin @ code.uni-wuppertal.deDipl.
Des.
Clemens LANGOComputational Design, University of WuppertalHofaue 35-39D-42103 Wuppertal, Germanylango@code.uni-wuppertal.deAbstractWe understand knowledge as an infinite sequenceof associations between what we know and whatwe are in the process of acquiring as knowledge.The most important cognitive processes thatsupport acquisition of knowledge are associations.How associations come into being is difficult todescribe because association processes occur inopen systems.
Associations that have taken placecan be documented, refined, or, if some turn outto be irrelevant, discarded.
Associations are almostalways multimedial, i.e., we associate texts,sounds, pictures, movement e c.The structure of an interactive, multimediaencyclopedia that is based on associations includes1) a knowledge space/domain,2) an associative search procedure,3) a function for storing associative traces.Interactive Multimedia NavigationUntil now, problems of navigation have in the mainbeen reduced to the research of interface.
Aspectsof metaphor constitution, of the role of visuallanguage, as well as of the understanding offeedback mechanisms, and the role of backchannels were pushed into the background.Moreover, questions pertinent o knowledgeacquisition, expression, understanding, andapplication are still only marginally approached.Consequently, navigation is defined forapplications pertaining to homogenous sets of data,such as numerical representation, images, andtexts.
Indeed, relatively stable navigation methodsand tools support ext-based issemination ofknowledge, applications of mathematical intent,and simple ways to handle visual information bymeans of zooming or by animation procedures.Although the community of scientists dedicatedto the design and implementation f distributedcollaborative l aming systems is aware that thereal potential of the digital dissemination ofknowledge lies in media integration, very little hasbeen done to specifically deal with the integrationof image (produced as computer graphics, photo,film, animation, video), text, audio, and othermedia.
Even less has been done in developingnavigation concepts, methods, and instrumentsappropriate to this complex task.
Until now,navigation has been predominantly consideredindependent of forms and means of representation.Representation, however, is a constitutivedimension, of gnoseological ctivity, not just atheme of formal description and focus.Accordingly, those involved in the cognitiveaspects of learning realized that it is essential toconceive, design, and optimize navigation tools inrespect to the representation modi, and not only towhat is still naively defined as the content.
Variouspossibilities and restrictions are intrinsic to achosen representational mode-assuming that therequirement of adequacy is effectively met.
It isnot the same thing when navigation takes place ina 3-dimensional space as when it takes place in 2-dimensional text display.
We can read of moleculardocking or we can experience it.
The representationchosen (text description, graphical i lustration, orvirtual reality context) affects to a high degree thenature and the outcome of the learning experience.Texts can be disseminated in various forms (frome-mail to scholarly publications).
Graphicalrepresentations can range from simple diagrams47to animated sequences.
However, these forms areinteractive in a limited sense only.
They can beintegrated in Web interactions, but not incooperative forms of learning.
A virtual realityenvironment can be distributed and accessed frommany parts of the world, and experienced in acooperative/collaborative effort.
In recent ime,with the emergence of channels and activedesktops, the dynamic haracteristics ofnavigationtools have again changed.
We know "pull" methods(ieamer finds a site and pulls a subject in someformat varying between a PS download of text toa chat room), as well as "push" methods.
Theseapply to "subscriptions" made in the network bythose pursuing a specific course of learning.
Inboth cases-push and pull-the subject of navigationmust reflect he need for customization (learningis an individual experience r gardless of whereand when it takes place).
Our research at theComputational Design Program is focused on theconcept of mind ergonomics.
This term addressesexactly the expectation ofcustomization, i.e., theindividual nature of learning based on how minds,as opposed to systems, work.
The three aspectsthat make up the object of our research are 1) theexpression of knowledge through interactivemultimedia; 2) navigation tools corresponding tothe expression of knowledge through interactivemultimedia; nd 3) mechanisms for updating boththe body of knowledge represented throughinteractive multimedia methods and theappropriate navigation tools.
A multimedia systemfor digital dissemination of knowledge usuallyconsists of editors, search tools, and browser.Within this model, those using it still faceshortcomings such 1) "getting lost in hyperspace,"2) "spaghetti appearance" (interference of datastreams), and 3) desynchronization (betweennavigation methods and new knowledge, betweenthe representation a d interior connection of thisnew knowledge).
Our alternative mind ergonomicapproach addresses the following aspects: theconstitution of vast knowledge spaces, the bestexample being the Web; the evolution ofcommunication models (one-to-one, one-to-many,many-to-many); the variety of forms of access,from the traditional question-answer model tohyperlinks and timescaling.
This approachsuggests he following da ta-mining procedure: theconstitution ofassociative links and the automaticgeneration of associative maps corresponding todifferent ypes of learning and investigation.
Inorder to accomplish this goal, we suggest amultimedia database with powerful indexing andclassification functions.
(eventually with residentintelligent procedures).
This database iscomplemented by an intelligent search procedureable to handle multimedia representations ofknowledge.
The underlying information is providedwith a gnoseological map of known interpretations,as well as with an indexing utility in which thelearner or researcher advances new hypotheses ornew interpretations a these arise through thecontinuous progress of knowledge acquisition anddiscovery.
In developing the navigational tools, weaddress the constitutive lements of the mind-ergonomic structure.
Specifically, this refers to thevariety of cognitive types of learners, for instance,exemplified in question formulation through textqueries or through visual or aural interrogation.Answers, although independent of these cognitivetypes, are made available in a variety of formatscorresponding to those types.
They are collectedand submitted to further evaluation through theprogram and through the users themselves.
Themajor cognitive process on which the projectfocuses at this time are associations.
The difficultyin dealing with these processes is that theyconstitute an open system.
Once constituted,associations can be documented, refined, discardedif they are irrelevant, or submitted for futureevaluation by the leamer and by researchers.
Interms of programming, associations require theinvolvement offuzzy models and a fully supportedinteractive multimedia environment.
(A text canbe associated to sound, image, motion, etc.
andcombinations thereof.)
In the knowledge space thatwe define, learners can pursue aone-dimensionalinquiry, the classic example being historicalanalysis, i.e., the gnoseological sequence.
Or theycan pursue a multi-dimensional inquiry, forinstance, the relations between a theory in physicsand the broader context of knowledge and action,including identifiers uch as aesthetic value,dominant cognitive characteristics, the state oftechnology, etc.
We are motivated inthis approachby the notion that knowledge dissemination cannotand should not be reduced to retrieval mechanisms.48Learning minds, i.e., people interacting in theprocess of learning in a digitally supportedenvironment, are actually defined in a process ofdiscovery.
The active component of the act oflearning is what we are in fact pursuing.Accordingly, the navigation tools developed aretools for making such interaction possible.Especially in a context of information overload,learners have to be able to prune what appears tothem as the seemingly endless knowledge treesprovided by digital systems.
The result of learningis expressed through the associative map generatedby the system as the learner gets closer tounderstanding the subject researched.
After severalinquiries, the learner will "own" several suchassociative maps and will be able to continue thelearning process at the level of generality orabstraction at which new knowledge can begenerated.
Obviously, we no longer supportlearning as a form of information consumption,but rather as a form of knowledge generation.This research project is funded by the GermanResearch Center (DFG).4950",~.,IIO0mC~51=AviAimAAiAiAiAi
