AN ARCHITECTURE FOR OPPORTUNIST IC  TEXT GENERATIONChris Mellish, Mick O'Donnel!
, Jon Oberlander and Alistair KnottDepartment of Artificial Intelligence and Human Communication Research Centre,University of Edinburgh 1AbstractWe describe the architecture of the ILEX system, ?
which supports opportunistic text generation.
In?
web-based text generation, the SYstem cannot plan the entire multi-page discourse because the user'sbrowsing path is unpredictable.
For this reason, ?
the system must be ready opportunistically to take?
advantage ofwhatever path the user chooses.
We describe both the nature of opportunism in ILEX'smuseum domain, and then show how ILEX has been designed to function in this environment.
Thearchitecture presented addresses opportunism in both content determination a d sentenceplanning.1 Exp lo i t ing  oppor tun i t ies  in text  generat ion  ?Many models of text generation make use of standard patterns (whether expressed as schemas (e.g.\[McKeown 85\]) or plan operators (e.g.
\[Moore and Paris 93\])) to break down communicative goalsin such a way as to produce xtended texts.
Such models are making two basic assumptions:1.
Text generation is goal directed, in the sense that spans and subspans of text are designed toachieve unitary communicative goals \[Grosz and Sidner 86\].2.
Although the details Of the structUre of a text may have to be tuned to particulars of thecommunicative situation, generally the structure is determined by the goals and their decom-position.
That is, a generator ?needs strategies for decomposing the achievement of complex ?goals into sequences ofutterances, rather than ways of combining sequences of utterances intomore complex structures.
Generation is "top-down", rather than"bottom-up" \[Marcu 97\].Our belief is that there is an important class of NLG problems for which these basic assumptions?are not helpful.
These problems all involve situations where semi-fixed explanation strategies areless useful than the ability to exploit opportunities.
WordNet gives the following definition of0pportunity':Oppor tun i ty :  "A possibility due to a favorable combination of circumstances"Because ?
opportunities involve ?combinations of circumstances, they are often unexpected and hardto predict.
It may be too expensive or impossible to have complete knowledge about them.
Top-down generation strategies may not be able ?to exploit opportunities (except at the cost of lookingfor all opportunities at all?
points) because it is difficult to associate classes of opportunities withfixed stages in the explanation ?process.We are investigating opportunistic text generation i the Intelligent Labelling Explorer (ILEX)project, which seeks automatically togenerate a sequence of commentaries for items in an electronic180 South Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1HN, Email: {chrism,miCko}@dai.ecl.ac.uk.
2 Buccleuch Place, EdinburghEH8 9LW, Email: {alik, jon}@cogsci.ed, ac.uk28catalogue (or museum gallery) in such a way as to reflect he interest of the user and also to furthercertain educational (O r other)aims.
The current domain of the system is the 20th Century JewelleryExhibit in the Royal Museum of Scotland but ILEX is?
designed to work with any domain whereobject descriptions are required.
In ILEX, the system has an agenda of communicative., goals toachieve, which reflect the goals of the curators.
The user has the freedom to look at any object inthe gallery at any time.
The system produces a description of each object asked for by the user,such that each description contributes as best it can to the system's goals and the sequenc e ofdescriptions fits together into a coherent whole.
The result is a variety of mixed-initiative dialogue,in which the user is in control of the high-level communicative goal (what gets described) but thesystem is in control of how the goal is realised (how the chosen object is described).In such a dynamically unfolding environment, it is not possible to predict all possible pathsthrough the interaction.
The system must thus be ready to exploit opportunities in order toachieve its goals.
In ILEX, the user's arbitrary choice represents a horizon beyond which is it notpractical to predict.
Each generated page may be the lastone to be generated and therefore has tobe planned to achieve as much as possible on its own.
Moreover, almost any part of the generatedtext  can be optimised to exploit the arbitrary Situation that the user has got themself into.2 Opportunities: evidence and models2.1 Ev idence:  the  goals  of  a museum curatorA museum curator seeks to achieve general educational goals through the description of a setof carefully selected objects.
In general, the goals are to  convey important generalisations (e.g.
"Organic jewellery tends to have natural themes") and to dispel important misconceptions (e.g.
"Jewellery tends to be made of expensive materials").?
These important points have to be broughtin appropriately during the description of the exhibits which are selected by the visitor.?
In order to see how a human being tackles such complex goals, we performed a "CuratOr ofOz" experiment, ?
in which we chose an arbitrary sequence of exhibits:in the 20th Century Jewellerygallery of the National Museum of Scotland and asked the curator to give Us a commentary.
Thecurator intro~luced general  po in ts / themes  suggested by the Objects, moving from the objectsto the general issues surrounding them, using the objects merely as an excuse to introduce thesetopics, for instance as in the following ("V" indicates the visitor and "C" the curator):V: "There's a set of three objects here?
'C: "What these symbolise for me are the preoccupations of the 1980's with .... "She re inforced points f rom the past,  exploiting an excuse to come back to an important pointthat  has already been made and show its relevance in a new situation: _~V:C:She also"This one here...""Yes, you've made a link with the first piece that we looked at, which is the idea ofa jewel which is also a work of art and a sculpture..."made l inks  to previous i tems, thereby improving the continuity of the discourse:C: "...  and it was work like this which directly inspired work like the Roger Morrisbrooch on the stand which we looked at earlier.
": 29All of these can be regarded as ways of exploiting opportunities offered by the situation.There is nothing like a conventional schema structure to the descriptions produced.
The ap-proach looks a lot more like putt ingtogether a bitrary pieces of interesting material subject toonly very loose retrictions.
This may not be the best way to produce a carefully-argued'writtentext, and clearly the result is not always fluent according to stringent criteria.
In some but notall--respects, it resembles the Unplanned iscourses discussed by \[Ochs 79\].
Furthermore, in theinteractive and?relatively informal setting of a museum tour, it works.We thus decided that ILEX should have a whole set of goals about things tosay.
These arelinked into a single metalevel goal, which is something like "to achieve as many of the individual?
goals as possible, within the space available, in the context of a globally coherent discourse whichmaintains the reader's interest".2 .2  Mode ls :  p lann ing  for  oppor tun i t ies  ?We discussed above why t0p-down planning seems an unnatural basis for formulating an NLG modelthat can exploit opportunities.
In contrast, ILEX is inspired loosely by ideas from opportunisticplanning \[Hayes-Roth and Hayes-Roth 79, Pryor 96\].
Key elements of this are:?
Interleaving Of planning and execution.?
Expanding "sketchy plans" as needed, taking into account he current state of the world.?
Flexible choice of tasks from an agenda.?
Recognition of opportunities through detection of reference f atures, followed by more thor-ough analysis.PrYor's Work is ?implemented in PARETO, a planner for a simulated robot delivery vehicle: Thevehicle is given orders to deliver various objects to various building sites, and needs to locate theseobjects at other sites.
The system is opportunistic n that while the truck is working on one goal, iti s  always read Y to switch to another if an ?object on its find-and-deliver list turns up.
For example,i f  thet ruck  stops a t  one place to pick up a hammer, it may notice a saw, which is also on its list,?
and thus pick it up and proceed to  its delivery point.Pryor's planning occurs within a limited horizon--the robot only has certain knowledge inregards to the immediate location, and outside of that, the world is uncertain (objects are sometimesrandomly moved between sites in the world).
ILEX inhabits a world analogous in certain respectsto PARETO's: .each?page is a site on the map, and i t is  up to us to find opportunities for realisingour goals at each site.
However, while in the truck world the system is in control of motion tothe next site, in the museum, it is the user who chooses the next page.
Conversely, while objectsoutside the truck's immediate vicinity may move autonomously, for ILEX, facts and their valuesdo not change.Opportunist icplanning has similarities with a number of other approaches to planning.
It?
shares with incremental p anning (used in NLG by \[Cawsey 92\]) the idea of starting to executea plan before the plan is complete, andbeing prepared to repair the partial plan in the light offeedback.
It shares with reactive planning the idea of being directed as much by the characteristicsof the state of the world at execution time as by the pursuit of preconceived goals.
However, unlikepure reactive planning it does acknowledge the need for explicit plans to be manipulated and it30IplII,Ii'IIII,IIIIo- .
o~ -Q-.
Q o .
Q. Q ~rn~@- u-.
.
?
- -  J ?
- -  ?
FACTScS REJ~.TIONSFigure 1: The Content Potentialdiffers from many models of incremental planning in the extent to which the original p lan can bediverted to exploit the characteristics of the world at execution time.3 The  ILEX arch i tec ture  ?To show how ILEX supports opportunistic ?
text generation, we will here outline the parts of thesystem and the operation of its text planning.
Basically the ILEX task agenda at each pointconsists of the facts that the system knows which have not yet been conveyed to the user.
Eachof these 'tasks' has an opportunity value (its educational value, assumed interest o the reader andcontribution to coherence).
At each point of the discourse, we 'perform tasks' (include facts) whichprovide the highest opportunity gain.3.1 The  Content  Potent ia lThe facts of our knowledge base are interconnected in various ways, and to facilitate contentselection and structuring, we organise the facts into a content potential - a graph of facts inter-connected in terms of thematic and rhetorical relations.
The content potential is an intermed.iarystage between the knowledge base and text, motivated in a similar way to DRSs \[Kamp 81\] by thedesire explicitly to represent the selection of possible knowledge structures that can be reflectedlinguistically.
;As Figure 1 shows, the content potential forms a three-tiered structure of entities, ?facts and relations.
There are links between items in adjoining tiers, but no links within a tier orbetween entities and relations.
We now discuss the three tiers in turn.3.1.1 Ent i t iesEntities are the participants in facts (things and qualities in terms of Penman's  Upper Model).Entities may be of two kinds: specific entities - such as an individual jewel or person; and gen-er/c entities - an entity representing some class of entities, such as Scottish jewellers, or art-decobrooches.
Generic entities are treated essentially in the same way as specific entities in the contentpotential, for purposes uch as the tracking of focus, anaphor generation, and so on.3.1 .2  FactsFacts represent the relations between entities, in both events (e.g., X made Y), and states (e.g.,X owns Y) .
In ILEX, we have assumed that all facts are binary (simple relations between twoentities), e.g., made-by(J -9999, K?ng01) represents he  fact that the designer King made item?
31 ?E~'ITIESI   ojo o, ,o,ol I~'~ dcco jcwcl Ito be mad?
ofe..m?~ made of enamctS~tcllitc'k _- 'Prccond ~: - - - .
/Nuclcus .RELATIONSFigure 2: The Concession RelationJ-9999.
The binary assumption simplifies our architecture, allowing quicker text generation.
Ata later stage, we may allow more complex fact-representation.
Complex sentences can be formedthrough aggregating together these binary facts.
Each fact has the following fields: 2Pred : The name of the Predicate connecting the two entities.Argl : The entity in the relationship which the fact is primarily about.
For instance, "J-999 wasdesigned by ?Jessie King" is primarily about J-999, not about King.Arg2 : The other entity in the relat ionship.
This is sometimes another thing (such as "JessieKing") and Sometimes a quality.Various other fields exist which detail the polarity, defeasibility, interest, importance and assimil-ation Of the ?fact.
Facts representing general principles or negations of general misconceptions areexpressed using generi c entities and can be included in a text just like any other facts.
?3.1.3 Re la t ions  ??
Relation nodes represent relations between facts.
Although based on conceptual relations, theyqualify as rhetorical in that only the Subset of relations that could explicitly be conveyed is in-Cluded in the content potential.
Relations include Example, Concession, Amplification, Similarity,Contrast, "In that", "In other words", Specification, Whereas and While.
Each relation has a nuc-leus and  satellite (as in RST) as well usa  set of precondition facts, which must be assimilatedbefore the relation can be.
There are no relations between relation-nodes in the content Potentialat present.
Relation-nodes only link fact-nodes.Relations in the content potential present a uniform interface as nodes connected to facts in thegraph but we do not have a uniform theory of all the relations.
Figure 2 shows a small subgraphof the content-potential , showing two Concession relations between facts.Most of the content potential is precompiled, though relevant negations and comparisons dependon the set of entities already encountered and have to be computed on demand, causing the additionof various consequent facts and relations.2Another type of fact node is used to contain canned text.
The canned text is usually associated with the focalobject of the text, and no Arg2 field is provided.32IlII.
!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII|iIA rg l~ A rg2~ A rg l~  A rg2~I Pred: "designer" \[ Pred: "Workplace" IArgh J-999 \[ Argl: King01 IArg2:King01 I Arg2: London I"This jewel was designed "King workedby Jessie M. King" in London"Figure 3: An Entity-Based Move3.2 Content  Determinat ionILEX plans a single page of text, describing a single entity, at a time.
The  content potentialrepresents he information we can express, and the interconnectivity of information.
When wereceive the resquest for an entity description, the planner sets that entity as the global focus of thecurrent page.
Opportunistic planning then commences: The facts directly Connected to that entityrepresent opportunities: the system can coherently include these facts in the text.
?If any of thesefacts are actually selected, then new opportunities are created in two ways:Ent i ty -based moves:  From the fact, we go to the argument which we didn't enter the factfrom.
We then select anew fact reachable from this node.
See Figure 3.
If we followed theArg2 role of a fact, then we are in a sense selecting a new focus (local focus).
The facts wegenerate about this entity should have the new entity as the ?
focus.
Thus in the example,King becomes the Theme of the second sentence.
Sentences introduced using entity-basedmoves can be realised using an Elaboration relation to the starting fact.An entity:based move from an individual entity to its generic lass ?entity can be made oncethe appropriate "isa" fact has been selected:This item is an organic jewel.Organic jewels tend to be ...?
Relat ion-based moves: from the initial fact, we follow a relation-node to some new fact.The new fact will be realised textually as a satellite to the original fact's nucleus.
The typeOf the relation-node will determine the rhetorical relation of the link.
See Figure 4.Once we select a new fact in either of the ways described above, the new fact may act as the?
starting point for new opportunistic expansion.
Alternatively, we may decide to backtrack to someearlier point, effecting a focus pop in Grosz and Sidner's \[Grosz and Sidner 86\] terms.The selection of which opportunity to explore is determined by a ?number of heuristic factors.Firstly, facts are weighted according to the chain of relations back to the focus of the page\[O'Donnell 97\].
This is a way of preventing lengthly digressions from the supposed topic of thetext.
Secondly, each fact is associated with numbers which represent the opportunity 'value' of thefact.
The opportunities are of two kinds:Interest .
the estimated value of the fact to the user, e.g.
being made of plastic or paper are moreinteresting (to the user), because they are unusual in jewellery.
Canned anecdotes about apiece of jewellerY may also have high interest values.33F t \[ Pred: "HasProp" Il Argl: A&CJ I\[ Arg2: Elaborate\] Status: defeasibleRelation: "Example"\] Nuc: FI\] Sat: F2F2 Prcd: "HasProp" kJ Arg2: floral-motifs\[ Status: indefeasibleSa,///I"Arts and Craft jewellcry "For instance, this jeweltends to be elaborate" has floral motifs.
"Figure 4: A Relation-Based MoveImpor tance .
?
the value of the fact as regards the system's educational genda, e.g., the  system?
considers it important  o  educate on stylistic development, so facts about styles are rated?highly.These values are moderated by a third fact annotation:Ass imi lat ion.
the degree to which the fact is assumed known to the user, either from generalknowledge, or through prior mentions in the web interaction (these values change dynamic-ally).The three values interest, importance and (1 - assimilation) are multiplied together to calculatethe local score of each fact.
The overall opportunity value of a fact is the product of the local scoreof the fact, the overall opportunity value of the parent (the node through which it was reached)and a weight for the relation between them.
It is the overall opportunity values that axe usedto select which textual opportunities to follow.
We have no special theory about where interestand importance come from, though the above examples suggest that there may be domain- anduser-type-specific rules that can be used to derive some of them.In Summary, content-determination in ILEX is seen as the task of optimising the selectionof opportunities that are offered by the topic of the text, subject to not moving too far fromthat topic.
The result of content-determination is a connected subgraph of the content potential(Figure 5).
The use of interest and importance in ILEX is analogous to theuse of "salience" in\[McDonald and Conklin 82\].
Because the process is seen as a graph traversal problem, there areals0 similarities with work on generating text from semantic networks \[Simmons and Slocum 72,Sibun 92\].
In a sense, our work aims to combine the best of both.3.3 Text  P lann ingAlthough the process of content determination has worked through a number of moves that may bemade in the generated text, the result is not the kind of tree structure that one needs for realisationand also has been influenced only by local considerations of coherence.
Text planning thereforerequires the following two steps:I.
Extend the subgraph to a complete subgraph that includes all the relations linking the selectedfact nodes.34?
?
.
.
.. o~o,~a.
.
q o. q " a ,m ux ?
11 I~TITIESFACTSR?L~TIONSFigure 5: Result of Content Determination2.
Produce from this an "optimal" selection of relations, so as to give rise to an RST?
tree?
including all the selected facts~The idea of combining a set of facts together into an "optimal" text is compatible with \[Hovy 90\]and the earlier work of \[Mann and Moore 81\].
Again this involves exploiting opportunities.
For in-?stance, in order to avoid an awkward focus shift at some point, one might attempt to include a selec-ted fact about a new entity immediately after another one that mentions the same entity.
Other text?
planning operations that are opportunistic in nature include aggregation \[Dalianis and Hovy 96\]and redundancy suppression \[McDonald 92\], though we will not consider these here.The second step described above is exactly that described by \[Marcu 97\].
That is, one is givena set of facts all of which should be included in a text and a set of relations between facts, someof which can be included in the text.
The task is to produce a legal RS tree using the facts andsome relations (or the "best" such tree).
Marcu's approach first of all attempts to find the bestordering 0f the facts.
For every relation that could be indicated, constraints are generated sayingwhat the order of the two facts involved should be and that the facts should be adjacent.
TheConstraints are weighted accord!ng to attributes of rhetorical relations that have been determinedempirically.
A standard constraint satisfaction algorithm is used to find the linear sequence suchthat the total weight of the satisfied constraints i maximal.
Once the sequence of facts is known,a general algo~thm is used to construct all possible RS trees based on those facts.We could use Marcu's methods directly, but are exploring more widely because we would liketo take into account a wider range of preference criteria, develop algorithms that treat entity-basedelaborations rather differently from other rhetorical relations \[Oberlander t al 98\] and investigateheuristic approaches that wilt scale up better.
We are currently experimenting with ?three differentalgorithms for building an RST tree.
These are all opportunistic in nature, rather than beingstrongly goal-directed or schema-based:1.
The RS tree (realised depth-first) is built to directly reflect the tree of nodes explored(breadth=first) in the content potential.2.
The best trees up to a fixed depth using relational moves are constructed; these are "glued ''?together using entity based moves \[Oberlander t al 98\].3.
A genetic algorithm is used to search for a legal tree that is of as high quality as possible\[Mellish et al98\].The current version of ILEX, which is being prepared for evaluation, uses the second of thesealgorithms and generates context-dependent descriptions for 32 different items of modern jewellery?
35IIThis jewel is a bracelet and is in the Organic style.
It draws On natural themes for inspiration,in that it is a remarkably fluid piece.
Indeed Organic style jewels usually draw on natural themesfor inspiration; for instance this jewel is inspired by forms found in natural wood, in that it has abracelet with a twig-like appearance.
It resembles the Arts and Crafts style necklace, in that likethe ?necklace it is made from silver metal.
However this jewel differs?
from the necklace, in that itwas made by Gerda Flockinger, whereas the necklace was made by Arthur and Georg~e Gaskin ....Organic style jewels differ from Art Deco style jewels, in that they are usually ?
made up of asymmet-rical shapes, whereas Art Deco style jewels usually use geometric forms.Other jewels in the Organic style include...IIFigure 6: Example output text(the non-demo Version deals with 120).
?Descriptions of different lengths can be obtained (for theevaluation, the system generates on  demand 4 or more pages of about 10 clauses each for eachitem).
Figure 6 Shows part of a relatively long description generated.3 .4 I LEX  and  Oppor tun is t i c  P lann ingWi thth is  description of ILEX in mind, we can explore the analogy with PARETO in more detail.Where PARETO embarks on the execution of a sketchy plan ?to start moving around the truck?
world, ILEX embarks on a graph traversal, starting out from the topic entity and guided by thedesire not to digress excessively~ Thecontent  potential offers options to ILEX in a similar way toPARETO's world.
In PARETO, reference features indicate possible opportunities; in ILEX thisrole is played by the interest and importance annotations.
Deeper analysis is require d by PARETObefore seizing an opportunity; this is ?probably analogous to the way that ILEX attempts to findth e globally best way o f  incoporating material into the RST tree.4 Conclusions:An opportuni/~tic planning ?
algorithm seems to be required for the ILEX domain (and some otherdomains tOO).
ILEX certainly does have goals - to educate the user and keep them interested.But these are essentially compiled away into the content of the content potential (e.g.
the entitiesand general facts that are included) and the interest and importance annotations on facts.
Atruntime, ILEX just has the task of selecting the best opportunities, given the situation that theuser has reached.
These opportunities arise not just in how content is selected but also in how itis structured.
We conclude that' there a strong analogy between the way that ILEX operates andthe ?techniques used in opportunistic ?approaches to planning in other domains, and this connection ?i s  worthy of further exploration.5 AcknowledgementsThe ILEX project is Supported by EPSRC grant GR/K53321, and the third author is supportedby an EPSRC Advanced Fellowship.
This work is in collaboration with the National Museums ofScotland, Interactive Information and VIS Interactive Media?36IIIIReferences\[Cawsey 92\] Cawsey, A., Explanation and Interaction, MIT Press, 1992.\[Dalianis and Hovy 96\] Dalianis, H. and Hovy, E., "Aggregation i Natural Language Generation", in Ad-orni, G. and Zock, M., Eds., Trends in Natural Language Generation, pp88-105, Springer Verlag, 1996.\[Grosz and Sidner 86\] Grosz, B. and Sidner, C., "Attention, intentions and the structure Of discourse".,Computational Linguistics, 12, 175-204, 1986.\[Hayes-Roth and Hayes-Roth 79\] Hayes-Roth, B. and Hayes-Roth~ F., "A cognitive model of planning",Cognitive Science, 3, pp275-310, 1979.\[Hovy 90\] Hovy, E., "Unresolved issues in paragraph planning" , in Dale, R., Mellish, C. and Zock, M., (eds.
)Current Research in Natural Language Generation, pp17--45.
Academic Press, 1990.\[Kamp 81\] Kamp, H., "A theory of truth and semantic representation", in Groenendijk, J.
A. G., Janssen,T.
M. V. and Stokhof, h,I: B. J.
(eds.)
Formal Methods in the Study of Language 136, pp.277-322.Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre.
Tracts.\[Marcu 97\] Marcu, D., "From local to global coherence: a b0ttom-up approach to text planning", in Pro-ceedings of AAAI-97, pp629-635, American Association for Artificial Intelligence, 1997.\[Mann and Moore 81\] Mann, W. and Moore, J .
,  "Computer generation of multiparagraph english text",Computational Linguistics, 7, 17-29, 1981.\[McDonald 92\] McDonald, D., "Type-Driven Suppression of Redundancy in the Generation of InferenceRich Reports", in Dale, R., Hovy, E., RSsner, D. and Stock, O., Eds, Aspects of Automated Natural?
Language Generation, pp73-88, Springer Verlag, 1992.\[McDonald and Conklin 82\] McDonald, D. and Conklin, E. J., "Salience as a simplifying metaphor for nat-ural language generation", in Proceedings of AAAI-82, American Association for Artificial Intelligence,1982.\[McKeown 85\] McKeown, K., Text Generation: Using Discourse Strategies and Focus ?
Constraints to Gen-erate Natural Language Text, Cambridge University Press, 1985.\[Mellish et al98\] Mellish, C., Knott, A., Oberlander, J. and O'Donnell, M., "Experiments u ing stochasticsearch for text planning, Procs of INLGW-98, 1998.\[Moore and Paris 93\] Moore, J. and Paris, C., "Planning texts for advisory dialogues: capturing intentionaland rhetorical information", Computational Linguistics,19, pp651-694, 1993.\[Oberlander tal 98\] Oberlanderl J., Knott, A., O'Donnell, M. and Mellish, C., "Information structure andnon-canonical syntax in descriptive texts".
To appear in ?Sanders, T., Schilperoord, J. and Spooren, W.,E.ds., Text Representation: Linguistic and Psycholinguistic Aspects, Amsterdam: Benjamins, 1998.\[Ochs 79\] Ochs, E., "Planned and unplanned iscourse", in Giv6n, T.
(ed.)
Syntax and Semantics 12:Discourse and Syntax, pp.51-80.
New York: Academic Press.\[O'Donnell 97\] O'Donnell, M., "Variable-length on-line document ?generation", in Proceedings of the 6thEuropean Workshop on Natural Language Generation Gerhard-Mercator University, Duisburg, Ger-many, 1997.\[Pry0r 96\] Pryor, L., "Opportunity recognition i complex environments", in Proceedings Of AAAI-96, Amer.ican Association for Artificial Intelligence, 1996.\[Sibun 92\] Sibun, P., "Generating texts without rees", Computational Intelligence,8, 102-122, 1992.Simmons and Stocum 72\] Simmons, R. and Slocum, J., "Generating English discourse from semantic net-works", Communications of the ACM 15, 891-905, 1972.37
