The Role of Cardinality in Metonymic Extensions to NounsHelmut HoracekUniversit~it des Saarlandes, FB 14 InformatikPostfach 1150, D-66041 Saarbrticken, Germanyhoracek@cs.uni-sb.deAbstractMeaning shifting phenomena such as metonymy have recently attracted increasing interestof researchers.
Though these phenomena have been addressed by a variety of computa-tional methods, the impacts of cardinalities of metonymically related items have beenwidely ignored in all of them.
Motivated by this lack of analysis, we have developed amethod for representing expectations and knowledge about the cardinalities of metonymi-cally related entities and for exploiting this information to build logical forms expressingmetonymic relations, the entities related, and their cardinalities as precisely as possible.
Therepresentation f lexically motivated knowledge is realized as an enhancement to Puste-jovsky's Generative Lexicon, and the process of building logical forms takes into accountoverwriting of default information and mismatch of cardinality requirements.
Our methodenables a precise attachment of sentence complements, and it provides better prerequisitesfor reference resolution in the context of metonymic expressions than previous approaches.1 IntroductionMeaning shifting phenomena such as meto-nymy have recently attracted increasing interestof researchers.
Computational methodsaddressing these phenomena im at inferringimplicitly represented relations, predictingmeaning shifts of nouns or verbs, expressingrestrictions on these meaning shifts in depen-dency of context- or language-specific actors,and facilitating reference resolution.
Measu-rements to achieve these issues include represen-tation of default knowledge, and various sorts ofdedicated inference methods and constructiveprocedures.
However, the entities in the textsexamined almost always appear in singular formso that issues of cardinality of metonymicallyrelated items have been widely ignored by theapproaches undertaken so far.Motivated by this lack of analysis, we haveexamined sentences taken from the literatureabout metonymic phenomena, and we havemodified them by varying cardinalities of theitems appearing explicitly or implicitly, toanalyze ffects of these alternations.
The resultshave inspired us to undertake xtensions toother techniques, uch as lexical representations,to build increasingly explicit versions of logicalforms, and to formulate conditions on prono-minal accessibility, The insights gained arelikely to improve analysis methods for meto-nymic expressions, especially for relatingcontextual specifications to the appropriateentity, and for supporting reference resolutionto entities related implicitly.This paper is organized as follows.
First, wereview major computational approaches tometonymy.
Then we illustrate the phenomenainvestigated by a number of typical examples.We continue by elaborating techniques to dealwith these phenomena, that is, an enhancementto entries in the Generative Lexicon, and aprocedure for building a logical form thatappropriately represents relevant aspects ofmetonymic expressions.
Finally, we discuss im-pacts of our analysis on pronominal resolution.2 Approaches to MetonymyMetonymy belongs to a variety of naturallanguage phenomena that contribute to express-ing information in an effective and economicway.
All these phenomena involve what hasbeen termed 'transfers of meaning' by (Nunberg,1995), i.e., the meaning of some constituentdoes not correspond to what can usually beexpected according to the syntactic and seman-tic environment.
Metonymy, or semantic oer-cion, is usually defined as a figure of speech inwhich the speaker is "using one entity to refer to103another that is related to it" (Lakoff andJohnson 1980).
For example, in the utterance"The ham sandwich is waiting for his check", itis not literally the ham sandwich, which wants topay, but the person who ordered it.Motivations to address metonymy includeboth theoretical insights and practical appli-cations (cf.
(MACDOW 1992) and the naturallanguage database interface TEAM (Grosz et al1987)).
Computational pproaches are mostlyconcerned with inferring implicitly expressedmetonymic relations in English texts - (Fass1991), Hobbs (Hobbs et al 1993) (Lakoff andJohnson 1980), (Nunberg 1993, 1995), (Puste-jovsky 1991), and (Wilks 1975) are prominentrepresentatives.
Some analyses also considerFrench (Kayser 1988), (Pustejovsky and,Bouillon 1995) and German (Horacek 1996).In his program met*, (Fass 1991) makes useof formal definitions of several kinds of meto-nymic relations; met* also allows chainingmetonymic relations in order to fill in implicitlyexpressed knowledge.
Sowa's conceptual graphs(Sowa 1992) are used for inserting an unknownrelation between a concept of the type expectedand the concept appearing on the surface, whichis later filled on the basis of world knowledgeaccessible to the system.
The TACITUS system(Hobbs, Martin 1987) uses similar methods fordealing with metonymy and for interpretingnoun-noun components, which are consideredspecial cases of reference resolution - thatapproach, which is also described in (Hobbs etal.
1993), treats interpretation as a uniformabduction process to find the best explanationfor the observables'.
These approaches worknicely for analyzing utterances of the kindconsidered by inserting a plausible relation toremove a constraint violation, and they havesimilar and characteristic properties:?
The conditions expressing when leaving ametonymic relation implicit or not ispossible are too unconstrained to cover alarger number of examples in severallanguages.?
The entities involved, the real and the literalreferent, always appear in singular form.There are only two approaches which in someaspects deviate from this characterization:?
Pustejovsky's Generative Lexicon (Puste-jovsky 1991) addresses the first aspect.
Heproposes a Theory of Qualia within aGenerative Lexicon, which enables theexplanation of systematic polysemy.Applying type coercion enables one toarrive at cases of ordinary metonymy whichcan be grounded in terms of the semanticsof lexemes, as well as at word senses whichPustejovsky has termed logical metonymy,like the reading of a book in the sentence"Mary enjoyed the book".
Enhancing thesemantic representation of a noun withinsuch contexts is done by exploiting proto-typical knowledge derived from AGENTIVEor TELIC roles of the lexical entry for'book', which are prominent roles in theQualia Structure of lexical entries fornouns.
The accuracy of the theory has beenextended by the incorporation of restric-tions on the productivity of lexemes.
Parti-cularities of the Qualia Structure of nounsregulate the acceptability or unacceptabilityof leaving a metonymic relation implicit incontext of the words engaged (McDonald,Busa 1994, Pustejovsky, Bouillon 1995).?
(Stallard 1993) indirectly addresses thesecond aspect by taking into accountscoping relations and consequences forpronominal reference.
He has introduced adistinction between referential and predica-tive metonymy, depending on whether theactual or the literal argument is accessiblefor subsequent pronominal reference.
Thisdistinction manifests itself in differentscope relations that hold between the actualand the literal argument in the corres-ponding logical forms.
Though we do notagree with his usage of scoping and theresulting strict distinction of pronominalaccessibility, Stallard's approach to buildlogical forms has inspired our techniques.Though neither Pustejovsky's nor Stallard'sapproach address the role of cardinalities, weshow that both of them can be extendedaccordingly: the Generative Lexicon can beaugmented to represent knowledge about cardi-nality information associated with the semanticsof nominals, and techniques imilar to thoseused by Stallard can be set up for buildinglogical forms with more precise cardinalityspecifications of the metonymically relatedentities.
But before we expose these methods indetail, we prepare the ground for this enterpriseby discussing a set of sentences illustrating thephenomena we intend to investigate.1043 Phenomena InvestigatedFor a number of metonymic relations, such asPRODUCER for PRODUCT ('I bought a Ford')and ARTIST for ARTWORK ('He plays Beet-hoven'), cardinalities are never a problembecause the literal referents are expressed asproper names.
Similar considerations apply tothe eventualities involved in logical metonymy.For other metonymic relations, especially PARTfor WHOLE and ORGANIZATION for MEMBER, anumber of complications may arise due to the?
cardinality of the items involved in a metonymicexpression, as the following examples demon-strate.
Let us start with two contrastive sentences(1) and (2), taken from (Hobbs et al 1993), and(Lakoff and Johnson 1980), respectively (anearlier version of the subsequent analysis isavailable in (Horacek 1994)):(1) The ham sandwich is waiting for hischeck.
(2) The Boston office called.Following Stallard, (1) is interpreted as anexample of referential reading, while (2) as anexample of predicative reading: (1) can berephrased more explicitly by The manx who haseaten a ham sandwichy is waiting for hisx check,while (2) in a similar Way gets expanded to TheBoston officex represented by one of itsxemployeesy called: These reformulat ionssuggest that the man m (1) and the Boston officein (2) have wider scope in Stallards represen-tation than the ham sandwich in (1) and theemployee in (2), which predicts pronominalaccessibility in (la) and (2b), as opposed to (lb)and (2a).
We challenge this analysis in its strictsense, but we agree with it insofar as pronominalreferences as in (lb) or (2a) are rare, but quitecommon in sentences such as (la) and (2b).
(1) The ham sandwich is waiting for hischec!<.
(1 a) He is getting impatient.
( lb) It is25.
* (lc) They are getting impatient.
(2) The Boston office called.
(2a) He was angry.
(2b) It is our head quarter.
(2c) They want us to organize a meeting.Apart from this difference, there do not seemto be further complications in these sentences:all referents involved are in singular form, as arethe metonymic extensions.
Since cardinalities ofthe entities involved are identical, conditionsabout pronominal reference depend primarilyon pragmatic factors, which make referencessuch as (la) and (2b) more common than thosein (lb) and (2a).
However, more complicationsthan the analysis made so far has shown arise,when variations of cardinality in sentence (1)(see sentences (3) to (6) and their follow-ups),and variation of circumstances in sentence (2)(see the follow-ups of sentences (7) and (8)) areconsidered.
For dishes made of animal ('themussels'), additional complications may arisethrough interference between animals andpersons as pronominal referents.
Because wewant to study the effects of cardinality variationsper se, we avoid examples of this sort.
(3) The pizzas are waiting for their checks.?
(3a) He/she is getting impatient.
(3b) They are getting impatient.
(4) The fruit dumplings want(s) to pay.
(4') The fruit dumplings is waiting forhis/her check.
(4a) He/she is getting impatient.
(4") The fruit dumplings are waiting fortheir check(s).
(4b) They are getting impatient.
(4'") Die Fruchtknrdel warten auf ihreRechnung.
(5) The meat plate want(s) to pay.
(5') The meat plate are waiting for theircheck(s).
(5a) They are getting impatient.
(5") The meat plate is waiting for his/hercheck.
(5b) He/she is getting impatient.
(5"') Die Schlachtplatte wartet auf ihreRechnung.
(6) Table 7 want(s) to pay.
(6') Table 7 are waiting for their check(s).
(6a) They are getting impatient.
(6") Table 7 is waiting for his/her check.
(6b) He/she is getting impatient.
(6'") Tisch 7 wartet auf seine Rechnung.These sentences demonstrate hat both intra-((1) and (3)) and intersentential (( a) and (3b))prononminal reference work fine, if the literalreferents (here, various sorts of food) and thereal referents (here, the persons) agree innumber.
Otherwise, a variety of complicationsarise in intrasentential reference, which alsoinclude cross-language differences, as theGerman sentences (4"') to (6'") as opposed tothe English sentences (4') to (6') and (4") to (6")demonstrate.
In these sentences, a fundamentaldifference manifests itself in the way how meto-nymic expressions are syntactically embeddedin these languages.
In English, it is the intendedreferent that determines verb agreement andpronominal reference in the same sentence.That is, the singular or plural form of the verb?105in (4' to (6') and (4") to (6") indicates the cardi-nality of the intended referent, which maydeviate from the cardinalities of the literalreferents in each of these sentences.
In (5'), thecardinality of the intended referent naturallydiffers from the number of the literal referent,assuming the meat plate is known as a dish formore than one person.
For the fruit dumplings,situations with single (4') as well as with multipleintended referents (4") are possible, because theexpression 'fruit dumplings' is ambiguous in thesense that it can refer to one plate of dumplingsto be eaten by a single person, or to severalplates, each for another person.
Moreover,sentences (6') and (6") illustrate a case similar tosentences (4') and (4").
As a tendency, a singleintended referent would be the default inter-pretation for the metonymic use of  'fruitdumplings', while 'table' seems to be moreneutral with respect o the number of personssharing it.
As with the verb agreement, also thepossessive pronouns are always agreed in.gender and number with the intended referentin English.
In contrast to that, the verb andpossessive pronouns in German appear in strictagreement with the literal referents in the corres-ponding sentences (4"') to (6'").
Altogether,English sentences of this sort are more conclu-sive by making cardinalities and, in case ofsingular, also gender of the intended referentexplicit, while the German sentences are ambi-guous in these respects.Unlike with intrasentential reference, intersen-tential pronominal reference with numberfeatures deviating from the referent that ispronominally accessible intrasententially ispossible also in German under a variety ofcircumstances.
These include default expec-tations about the cardinality of the real referents(see (4a) and (5b) as two complementary cases),and may perhaps be considered felicitous inother cases (see (5a)), similarly to (3a).
Theremaining case, as exemplified by sentence (4b),is felicitous for similar reasons as the differentcases (4') and (4").
Finally, sentences (6') to (6b)constitute further pieces of evidence that defaultexpectations about the cardinality of metonymi-cally related entities (here, persons as eaters ofkinds of food) play a certain role as to whetherpronominal reference to metonymic expressionsis felicitous or not, but not in a strict sense.
Inaddition, (6b) is probably more common than(6a) as a default, due to the pragmatics ofpaying and plausibilities about table sharing,especially about food sharing according toreasonably assumed food quantities, seem toinfluence felicity in a subtle, hardly generaliz-able way in these sorts of sentences.
For amember of a group as in (3b) (one of the pizzaeaters), the pragmatics of paying (a singleperson on behalf of several ones) may evenlicense the use of the singular form as in (3a).However, a somehow chained metonymic refer-ence to a group as in (lc) (to which the eater ofthe ham sandwich belongs) is certainly notpossible.
(7) The Boston office is represented in thebusiness meeting.?
(Ta) He/she is an expert in marketing.
(7b) They are experts in marketing.
(7c) They always send someone toimportant meetings.
(8) The Boston office will meet for anexcursion on Friday.
* (Sa) He/she likes to walk.
(Sb) They will make a lunch break at 2 pm.
(8c) They like to organize social events.In contrast o the examples discussed so far,sentences in the next group ((2), (7), (8), andtheir follow-ups) involve slightly harderrestrictions.
These are, however, no cross-language differences, because all references inthese sentences are intersentential.
The examplesentences demonstrate certain complications inmetonymic uses of 'office' in contrast tometonymic uses of 'sandwich', which originatefrom the differences in the underlying relationsbetween food and the persons eating it, asopposed to the office and the caller who isrelated in a more indirect or perhaps morepronounced way to the office than persons areto the food they eat.
Plural pronominal refer-ences as in sentences (7b), (7c), (8b) and (8c)are felicitous, but there is a difference betweenthe sets of entities the plural pronouns refer to.While in (7c) and (8c), the pronouns refer to theentire set of employees of the Boston office,they more plausibly refer to the representativesin the meeting in (7b) and to the excursionparticipants in (8b).
In any case, these examplesindicate an additional demand on :the treatmentof cardinalities and referential accessibility ofmetonymic expressions: a distinction is to bemade between the entities referred to metony-mically (here: employees of the Boston office),and those of its member involved in the eventexpressed by the sentence (here: the meetingand the excursion).
For the restaurant scenario,these sets of persons are mostly identical exceptto those cases where one person out of a groupof persons eating together and referred tometonymically is the one who intends to pay.
(9) Which airlines serve diet food fromBoston to New York?
(9a) In the first class?106food(x)CONST = {food ingredientslFORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = eat(eT,y,x)AGENTIVE = cook(e ' r ,z ,X)sandwich(x)CONST = {ham, bread, .. }FORMAL = eatable(x)TELIC = eat(er ,y ,x)AGENTIVE = prepare(e 'T ,z ,x )pizza(x)CONST = {dough, tomato, ...FORMAL = eatab le(x)TELIC = eat(eT,y,x)AGENTIVE = bake(e ' r , z ,x )Figure 1: Some 'standard' examples of Qualia Structures, for the nouns 'food', 'sandwich', and 'pizza'As a further aspect of metonymic expressions,the last set of examples demonstrates chainingof metonymic relations and the relevance ofeach set of items involved for the associatedanalysis.
In sentence (9), the airlines are theliteral, and the persons the real referents.However, relating these two entities directly byan employment relation is problematic, since itis impossible to connect he locality information(from Boston to New York) and the first classrestriction to either of them.
Linking this infor-mation to the airline would decontextualize theserving process, and linking it to the personswould make the serving process independent ofthe context of a flight and the person's workingfor the airline.
Therefore, it is more appropriateto elaborate the relation between the airlines andtheir employees to include the implicitlyreferred flights explicitly.
These flights, ofcourse, are the items that are first class and gofrom Boston to New York.
Note, that linking thelocality context properly is essential for settingup correct database requests, at least for requeststo databases not restricted to flights only.4 Express ing  Lexical  KnowledgeIn order to capture distinctions between thevarying interpretat ions of metonymicexpressions illustrated in the previous section,knowledge about the lexical items involvedplays a crucial role.
For adequately expressingthis knowledge, we make use of entries in theGenerative lexicon (see Figure 1).
Since theinformation represented therein is insufficientfor reasoning about cardinalities, we extend theentries in the Generative lexicon, prominentlythe TELIC role, by quantifier specifications.
Inthe original form, the entities involved (typi-cally, the lexical item itself and some relatedentity) are implicitly quantified, and a typedevent variable is used (an event may be a state(S), a process (P), or a transition (T)).
A similarexploitation of taxonomic knowledge in termsof cardinality restrictions has been exploited forscope disambiguation i  (Fliegner 1988).In the extended form (see Figures 2 and 3),we introduce xplicit quantifiers, and we option-ally add restrictors to variables referred to byevents predicates.
In addition, the scoping ofquantifiers allows the derivation of cardinalities- see the entries for FRUIT-DUMPLING andMEAT-PLATE, as contrasting examples.
Wedistinguish several types of quantifiers to coverthe cases elaborated in the previous section, inaddition to the standard quantifiers EXIST andWH (the first two constitute default information,and the others express definitional restrictions):FORMALTELICfruit-dumpling(x)CONST = {dough, fruit, ... I= eatable(x)= (DEFS INGLE y(DEFMULT IPLE  x(eat (er ,y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = cook(e ' r , z ,x )FORMALTELICmeat -p la te (x )CONST = {pork,  beef, .. }= eatab le(x)= (DEFS INGLE x(DEFMULT IPLE  y(eat (eT ,y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = prepare(e 'T ,z ,x )table(x)CONST = {legs, p late .
.
.
.
}FORMAL = physob j (x )TELIC = (DEFS lNGI  E x(DEFMULT IPLE  y( s i t -a t (eS ,y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE = bui ld(e 'T ,z ,x)Figure 2: Some 'extended' examples of Qualia Structures, for special food sorts and for 'table'107?
DEFSINGLE for a single object?
DEFMULTIPLE for multiple objects?
SINGLE for a single object?
MULTIPLE for a multiple objectsFigures 2 and 3 show entries in the GenerativeLexicon with extended TELIC roles.
In principle,the same extensions also apply to the AGENTIVEroles, but we do not elaborate these extensionsbecause we do not make use of these roles forour current purpose.
Figure 2, for example,shows that some sorts of food are associatedwith different expectations about how manypersons typically eat them.
Frt::t dumplingsappear as sets (quantified by DEFMULTIPLE), tobe eaten as a dish by a single person (quantifiedby DEFS INGLE) .
In contrast to the fruitdumplings, cardinality relations are inverted forthe meat plate.
Similar, but weaker defaultassumptions hold for a table in a restaurant.In contrast o the restaurant scenario, cardina-lity relations are less vague and associated withdefaults for elementary relations in organi-zations.
Each office, and airlines in particular,are supposed to employ a set of persons largerthan one, and each person is working for oneorganization only, at least in his/her individualactivities (hence, the quantifiers SINGLE andMULTIPLE in the lexical entries hown in Figure3).
Similarly, each flight carries some set ofpeople, each of which participates in one flightonly (at the same time).The knowledge contained in these lexiconentries can be used for building logical formsrepresenting metonymic expressions of the kinddiscussed in section 3.
The event predicates inthe TELIC roles (and, less frequently, in theAGENTIVE roles) are exploited to infer therelation involved, which works similarly to otherapproaches.
Moreover, the new quantificationspecification yields the otherwise missing sourceof information to build an explicit logical formwith cardinality specifications from concisesurface expressions in a precise manner.5 Building Logical FormsBased on entries in the Generative Lexicon andon the context given by a sentence to be inter-preted, appropriate logical forms can be builtthat represent semantic relations involved moreexplicitly than this is the case with previousapproaches.
These logical forms take intoaccount sorts of the entities involved and sortsof case frame slots in which these entitiesappear, syntactic information about number,and default expectations or semantic restrictionsabout the cardinality of these entities, the latteraspect being a new feature in our approach.
In anutshell, metonymic extensions are triedaccording to specifications found in the lexicon,as long as the sort of an NP and the sort of thereferring case role are incompatible.
In addition,agreement between syntactic number andsemantic ardinality specifications i achieved,which may require overwriting defaults or intro-ducing a new set of entities as a subset of thosealready introduced.
In concrete, logical formsare built by pursuing the procedure sketched inFigure 4, with step 2a performing metonymicextensions, and step 2c performing a finalextension in case of a cardinality mismatch.
Inthe following, we illustrate the procedure bysome examples.
Consider the sentence(4) The fruit dumplings wants to pay.office(x)CONST = {employees  .
.
.
.
}FORMAL = organization(x)TEL IC  = (S INGLE x(MULT IPLE  yPERSON(work(e p,y,x))))AGENTIVE  = es tab l i sh (e ' r , z ,x )airline(x)CONST = {p lanes ,  off ice, .. }FORMAL = organization(x)TEL IC  = (S INGLE x(MULT IPLE  yFL IGHT(organize(eT ,y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE  = found(e ' r , z ,x )f l ight(x)CONST = {place, source .
.
.
.
}FORMAL = location-change(x)TEL IC  = (S INGLE x(DEFMULT IPLE  yPERSON(car ry (e  r ,y ,x ) ) ) )AGENTIVE  = organ ize(e ' r , z ,x )Figure 3: Some 'extended' examples of Qualia Structures, for the nouns 'office', 'airline', and 'flight'1081.
Build an initial logical form from the surface expression.The representation is composed as an expression of the form (Qs xE Sz <P>), withXE being the variable whose representation is to be extended(initially equal to x, denoting the literal referent),QE being its quantifier, and SE its sort(initially equal to Q and S, which are associated with the literal referent), and<P> being an eventually structured representation f the sentence predicate and its modifiers.Moreover, the conflicting restrictions are stored.
LetSR be the sort required within the referring case frame, andQR the quantifier representing the associated case slot restrictions.2.
Extend the meaning of noun phrases where a sortal incompatibility occurs.2a.
Build a metonymically extended expression through consultation of  lexical knowledge.Merge the partial expression (QE xE SE <P>) with the extended representation found in thelexical entry for SE (typically under the TELIC role), which structurally ields(Q~ x~ S~ (AND <P~> (Q2 x2 $2 <P2>))) - that is, the structure taken from the lexicon, withQ1 = QE, xl = xz, S1 = SE, and Q2 = QN, x2 = XN, $2 = SN,if the referent with the same sort as xE has wider scope in the lexicon entry, orQ2 = QE, x2 = xe, S2 = Se, and Q1 = QN, xl = Xs, S1 = SN,if the referent with the same sort as xz has narrower scope in the lexicon entry.<P> is partitioned according to sortal compatibility of its components, as followsif xl = xEthen <P~> contains parts that refer to xE and are sortally compatible with S~,else <P2> contains parts that refer to xE and are sortally compatible with SE.Similarly, the remaining parts of <P> become <P2>, if xl = XE, and <P~> otherwise.2b.
Test the compatibility of the newly inserted sort with the restrictions to be met.If SN (SN = $2, if S~ = SE, and SN = S1 otherwise) is again incompatible with SR,then repeat step 2a with Xs, SN, QN and <PN> as XE, SE, QE and, <P>, respectively(XN, QN and <PN> have the same index as Ss);else QN is overwritten by QR if QN is a default quantifier compatible with QR.2c.
Test the cardinality compatibility of the newly inserted sort with the restrictions to be met.If SN is compatible with SR, but Qr~ is incompatible with QR,then the expression is expanded as under 2a, by a MEMBER relation between xe and xN.If not the whole set of entities bound to xz participates in the eventuality,then an expansion is performed with a SUBSET relation instead of a MEMBER relation.Figure 4: The procedure for building logical forms with extended metonymic relationsThe initial logical form directly built from thesurface expression simply is(MULTIPLE x FRUIT-DUMPLING(WANT-PAY x))which contains a sortal incompatibil ity.Making use of the lexical entry for 'fruitdumplings' and expanding the expressionaccording to the TELIC role (see Figure 2)yields(SINGLE y PERSON(MULTIPLE x FRUIT-DUMPLING(AND (EAT y x)(WANT-PAY y))))109?
More referents than just the real and theliteral referent may be introduced, eitherthrough chained metonymic extensions orthrough membership/subset insertions.?
An additional inserted referent may providea proper place to relate sentencecomplements (e.g., locality information toflights rather than to airlines or to persons).Note, that there is a scoping difference in theexpressions underlying the phrases 'one and thesame person eating several fruit dumplings' and'several persons sharing a meat plate' (thedefault interpretations), which is in contrast othe approach by (Stallard 1993), Moreover, theadditional referents may not only improve thebasis for complement attachment, but also forpronoun resolution.
Both aspects are brieflydiscussed in the next section.6 Impacts  on Reference  Reso lut ionEmpirically supported by the considerablenumber of examples discussed in section 3, ourapproach is able to explain more pronominalreferences to metonymic expressions thanothers.
This achievement is based on thefollowing factors we have examined:?
Reference to literal and intended referents ispossible in an increasing number of cases.?
Pronominal reference in plural form mayhave as antecedents distinguished sets ofentities that are associated with a metonymicexpression.?
There are cross-language differencesbetween German and English in thetreatment of intersentential pronominalreference.In order to express coping relations among setsproperly, the logical forms representing meto-nymic expressions with entities of cardinalitygreater than one must deviate from Stallard'smethods.
According to (Stallard 1993), prono-minal reference to literal and real referents isregulated by their scope, which distinguishesreferential from predicative kinds of metonymy.Unfortunately, this realization of metonymicextension is incompatible with the common useof scoping.
However, we believe that Stallardsdistinction is in some sense artificial, because thefelicity of pronominal reference seems to bemore complex and influenced by other factorsthan scoping.
For example, the sentence 'theham sandwich is waiting for his check' can befollowed by some information useful to anovice waiter: 'It costs 25.'
Moreover, themessage 'The Boston office called' can befollowed by the remark 'He spoke angrily' insome plausible contexts.
Hence, it does not seemto be referential inaccessibility which makesmany similar examples ound odd, but the rareoccurrence and the eventual low coherence inneutral contexts.
For example, it is usually ofminor interest whether the person calling onbehalf of the Boston office is angry himself; it isthe attitude of the responsible representatives atthe office that is usually more interesting, sincethis is usually considered an influential factorregarding the content of the message.Given these pieces of evidence, reference reso-lution is essentially supported by the explicitlogical form built through our techniques, and itis additionally guided as follows:lntrasentential referencePossessive pronouns always relate to theintended referent, which is accessible throughthe logical form.
Since possessive pronouns inthe same sentence agree in gender and numberwith the real referent in English, while theyagree with the literal referent in German, onlyEnglish sentences contain additional infor-mation about cardinality and gender of theintended referent.
For example, the sentence 'thefruit dumplings is waiting for his check' carriesthe additional implication that there is one maleperson who wants to pay.Intersentential referenceReference through personal pronouns ispossible to the literal and to the real referent,and to referents of the same sort but withpossibly different cardinality as the realreferent.
Thus, all entities involved in a meto-nymic expression in its appearance in theexplicit logical form are potential antecedents,except to some internal elements of a meto-nymic chain, so that a dialog memory should bemaintained accordingly, For example, followingthe sentence 'The Boston office called', prono-minal reference is possible to the office (theliteral referent), to the caller (the real referent),and to the people at the office (differing fromthe caller by number only).
However, 'theflights' appearing in the extended logical formrepresenting the sentence 'Which airlines servediet food from New York to Boston?'
are notpronominally accessible.1117 Conclus ionIn this paper, we have presented an approach todeal with cardinality aspects of metonymicextensions to nouns.
We have discussed a varietyof constellations with pronominal references toimplicitly related items, sometimes associatedwith subtle conditions, including cross-languagedifferences between English and German.
Inorder to build explicit logical forms with cardi-nality specifications, we have extended entries inPustejovsky's Generative Lexicon by defaultquantifier specifications, and we have describedmethods for exploiting these entries accord-ingly: Metonymic extensions are introduced onthe basis of events represented in the roles of theQualia structure, and member or subset relationsare introduced on the basis of the associatedquantifier specification.
Our method for build-ing explicit logical forms challenges Stallard'sdistinction of predicative and referential read-ings of metonymic expressions: it produces dif-ferent scopings that reflect proper quantifierdominance relations rather than pronominalaccessibility conditions, and it allows for addi-tional cases of pronominal reference.
In addi-tion, our method enables a more precise attach-ment of contextual specifications to relatedentities, and it yields a better basis for referenceresolution to metonyrnically related entities.Re ferencesDan Fass.
1991. met*: A Method for Discrimi-nating Metonymy and Metaphor by Compu-ter.
Computational Linguistics 17(1):49-90.Michael Fliegner.
1988.
HOKUSKOPUS - Ver-wendung terminologischen Wissens bei derAnalyse von Quantorenskopus nd Distribu-tivit/it.
In Proc.
of GWAI-88, pages 112-117.Barbara Grosz, Doug Appelt, Paul Martin, andFemando Pereira.
1987.
TEAM: An Exper-iment in the Design of Transportable Natural-Language Interfaces.
Artificial Intelligence32:173-243.Jerry Hobbs, and Paul Martin.
1987.
LocalPragmatics.
In Proc.
of IJCAI-87, pages 520-523, Milan, Italy.Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel, Doug Appelt, andPaul Martin.
1993.
Interpretation as Abduc-tion.
Artificial Intelligence.Helmut Horacek.
1994.
Some Issues in Dealingwith Metonymy.
In Proc.
of KONVENS-94,pages 171-180, Vienna, Austria.Helmut Horacek.
1996.
On Expressing Meto-nymic Relations in Multiple Languages.Machine Translation 11:109-158.Daniel Kayser.
1988.
What Kind of Thing is aConcept.
Computational Intelligence 4(2):158-165.George Lakoff, and M. Johnson.
1980.
Meta-phors We Live By.
Univ.
of Chicago Press.MACDOW Committee (L. Hirschman et al).1992.
Multi-Site Data Collection for aSpoken Language Corpus.
In Proc.
of Speechand Natural Language Workshop.David McDonald, and Frederica Busa.
1994.
Onthe Creative Use of Language: the Form ofLexical Resources.
In Proc.
of 7th Inter-national Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 81-89, Kennebunkport,Maine, USA.Geoffrey Nunberg.
1993.
Transfers of Mean-ing.
In Proc.
of ACL-93, pages 191-192,Columbus, Ohio, USA.Geoffrey Nunberg.
1995.
Transfers ofMeaning.
Journal of Semantics 12:109-132,Oxford University Press.James Pustejovsky.
1991.
The Generative Lexi-con.
Computational Linguistics, 17(4):409-441.James Pustejovsky, and P. Bouillon.
1995.Aspectual Coercion and Logical Polysemy.Journal of Semantics 12:133-162, OxfordUniversity Press.John Sowa.
1992.
Logical Structures in theLexicon.
In J. Pustejovsky, S. Bergler (eds.
):Lexical Semantics and Knowledge Represen-tation, pages 39-60, Springer.David Stallard.
1993.
Two Kinds of Metonymy.In Proc.
of ACL-93, pages 87-94, Columbus,Ohio, USA.Yorick Wilks.
1975.
An Intelligent Analyzerand Understander of English.
Communi-cations ACM 18(5):264-274.112
