IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIILinking WordNet Verb Classes to Semantic InterpretationFernando GomezSchool of Computer Science, University of Central FloridaOrlando, Fl 32816(gomez~cs.ucf.edu)AbstractAn analysis that defines predicates for Wordnet verbclasses and links them to semantic interpretation ispresented.
The selectional restrictions for the the-matic roles defining the predicates are WordNet on-tological categories.
Thematic roles are also linkedto the syntactic relations that realize them.
The pa-per illustrates the methodology by providing a de-tailed analysis of some major WordNet verb classes.1 IntroductionWe present an analysis i of some WordNet verbclasses (Miller et al, 1993; Fellbaum, 1993).
Itspurpose is to offer a detailed analysis of some verbclasses o that the reader may grasp the main ideasguiding our methodology for constructing verb pred-icates using the WordNet lexicon.
We plan to pub-lish a complete listing of all our predicates and sub-predicates for all WordNet verb classes, once theyhave been fully tested.
In (Gomez, 1998), the readercan find a detailed description and evaluation of thesemantic interpreter algorithm that uses the lexi-cal entries defined here.
This paper complements(Gomez, 1998) in which, for space reasons, only onepredicate could be analyzed.The hierarchical decomposition of predicates playsa central role in our methodology.
A generic predi-cate subsumes all its subpredicates in a similar wayin which the generic concept "book" subsumes all itssubconcepts.
A subpredicate inherits thematic rolesand inferences from its super-predicate.
From thepoint of view of the lexicographer, inheritance comeswith an added bonus because it allows her/him tohandle a large number of verbs by just defaultingtheir lexical entry to its super-predicate.
In a sub-sequent analysis, the lexical entries can be refinedby mapping some verbs which were just defaulted toa superpredicate into their own subpredicates.
Thistop down approach and the WordNet lexicon makespossible to define predicates for every English verbin a "reasonable" amount of time.
The mapping ofQXThis paper contains ome material published aa reportUCF-CS-TR-97-03 January-4-1997 with the same title.58WordNet verb classes into generic predicates has re-quired to define new classes and to reclassify and/orredefine some WordNet classes and subclasses.
TheWordNet ontology for nouns also has been reorga-nized and redefined in some respects in order to con-form with the entries in the thematic roles of thepredicates.
(See (Gomez, 1998) for some details.
)Two major consequences derive from anchoring verbclasses in abstract semantic predicates: coalescingseveral WordNet synsets into a predicate, and map-ping the same WordNet synset into distinct pred-icates.
The differentia between a generic predicateand its subpredicates are given by one or more of thefollowing: a) specific selectional restrictions for thethematic roles, b) different syntactic realizations ofthe thematic roles, and c) specific sets of inferencesassociated with the subpredicates.The semantic interpreter algorithm, which is anextension of the one reported in (Gomez et al, 1997),is based on the idea that the meaning of the verb de-pends not only on its selectional restrictions, but alsoon the syntactic relations that realize them.
A sim-ilar view has been presented in (Pustejovsky, 1995).Semantic interpretation is delayed until the end ofa clause.
For every verb in a clause, WordNet pro-vides a list of verb synsets for which we have definedpredicates.
These predicates are contenders for themeaning of the verb.
For every syntactic relation inthe clause, the interpreter checks each predicate inorder to see if the predicate has a thematic role whichis realized by the syntactic relation.
The interpreterrecords this fact and gets the next syntactic rela-tion.
The predicate that realizes the most syntacticrelations in the sentence is selected as the meaningof the verb.
In case of ties, the predicate that hasmore thematic roles realized is selected.2 The syntax of rolesThe syntax of roles in the predicates that will be de-fined below is ~ven by the cfg grammar on the nextpage.
Each thematic role is followed by any numberof list pairs.
The first list contains the selectionalrestrictions, a subset of the ontological categories inWordNet, in order of preference (Will<s, 1975) for!
!the thematic role, and the second list contains thesyntactic relations (henceforth, SRs) that may real-ize the thematic role.
For any given sentence, onlyone of the SIRs in the list realizes the role.
An onto-logical category preceded by the sign %" in a selec-tional restriction means that any noun sense that issubsumed by the semantic ategory preceded by "-"does not realize that thematic role.S -> (ROLE L); ROLE -> agentJtheme\[..L -> (SM) (SR) L\[ (SM) (SR)SM -> 0NTOLOGICAL-CAT SM I 0NTOLOGICAL-CATSM -> -0NTOLOGICAL-CAT SM 1-0NTOLOGICAL-CATSR -> SYNTACTIC-REL SR I SYNTACTIC-RELSYNTACTIC-REL -> (prep PREP) I subj ~\[ obj \[obj2\[ sub j - i f -ob j  \[ sub j - i f -no-ob j  f\[ obj-if-obj 2 \[ predicate-complement \[\[ complement-phrase } adj ect ire-phrasePREP -> ANY-PREP PREP J ANY-PREP0NTOLOGICAL-CAT ->thing \[ physical-thing f...ANY-PREP -> on \[ in \[ ....The entry obj refers to the first postverbal NP, obj2to the second postverbal NP.
Subj-if-obj refers to thesubject of a sentence that also has an object (theverb is used transitively), and subj-if-no-obj refersto the subject of a sentence containing no object(the verb is used intransitively).
Obj-if-obj2 refersto the obj of a sentence having also an obj2 (theverb is used ditransitively).
Thus, subj refers to thesubject of a sentence without expressing any contextabout the transitivity or intransitivity of the verb.3 Verbs  in wh ich  the  agent  causes  achange o f  locat ion  o f  someth ingelseIn (Gomez, 1998), we provide an analysis of verbs inwhich an animate agent changes location.
We startexplaining the predicate cause-to-change-locationdepicted on top of the next column.
The primaryevent expressed by this predicate is a cause of changeof location of something other than the agent; al-though the agent may have also changed location.In "Kelly carried the flowers to the table" and in"Kelly drove John to school," the agent has also beenmoved, but the primary event is the fact that Kellycauses a change of location of the flowers and John,respectively.
The WordNet synset "move2, displace,make move - (cause to move)" is coalesced, in prin-ciple, into this predicate.
But, also many of the sub-classes of "move3, change position" are mapped intosubpredicates of this predicate.
(Physical-thing hasbeen abbreviated to phy-thing in some entries forspace reasons.)
The urn-map entry means that allverb forms under the synset move2 are in principlecoalesced into the concept cause-to-change-location.However, subpredicates of this predicate will be rec-ognized as explained below.
The category human-59agent subsumes human and social-group.
The roleinanimate-cause tands for an agent that is not ananimate being or an organization.
The syntactic re-alization of this role is always a sub j-if-obj.
Becausethe agent of this predicate is also realized by subj-if-obj, and the ontological category animal and human-agent are subsumed by physical-thing, then in "Bethput the books on the table," both the agent and theinanimate-cause will match.
The impasse is solvedby preferring the agent over the inanimate-cause.The theme is realized by obj, and is also realized by asubj if the verb is used intransitively.
Thus, for "Thewind has knocked own many apples from the tree,""the wind" is the inanimate-cause, "many apples" isthe theme and "from the tree" is the source.
In "Theleaves have moved," the "leaves" is the theme, andthe agent, or inanimate-cause is unknown.
In "Thetractor has pulled the tree" "the tractor" is the in-strument, and the agent is unknown.
The differentways of expressing a path, namely toward-goal, near-goal, etc.
have been collapsed here into goal for spacereasons.
Actually, there is one role for each preposi-tion that expresses a different spatial relationship.\[cause-to-change-location(is-a (action))(~m-map(move2))(agent(human-agent animal)(subj-if-obj))(theme(phy-thing) (obj subj-if-no-obj))(source(location phy-thing) ((prep from)))(goal(location phy-thing)((prep to tovaxdstoward in through into back-to along overbeside above by on under below throughoutbeyond past across near up)))(instz~tment(instrumental?ty animal-body-part)(subj-if-obj((prep with on in)))(animal) ((prep on)))(distance(distance linear-measure)((prep for)))(inanimate-cause(phenomenon physical-thing)(subj-if-obj))\]The first subclasses of move2 analyzed by Word-Net are the senses of "transport."
The subclassesformed by the synsets "transportl (move somethingor somebody around; usually over long distances),""transport2, carry (move while supporting, eitherin a vehicle or in one's hands or on one's body),""transport3, send, ship - (transport commercially)"and "transmit, transfer, conduct, transport5, chan-nel, channelize" are mapped into subpredicates ofthe predicate transport which is:\[transport(is-a(cause-to-change-location))(theme (physical-tbing)(obj obj2))(goal(human-agent animal)(obj-if-obj2 (prep for)))(location phy-thing)((prep to towards ...same as cause-to-change-location)))\]\[transport -over-long-distances(is-a(transport)) (wn-map(transpor~l))\]<other transport predicates here>The goal, besides being realized by the same prepo-sitions as those for cause-to-change-location, is alsosyntactically realized by an indirect object (obj-if-obj2), e.g., (1)"Susan brought her children a bookfrom Harvard."
Thus, the theme can be realized byan obj2 or by an obj, e.g., "Mary brought her chil-dren from school."
This is the analysis that thiswork provides for all double object verbs.
Becausethe semantic interpreter delays commitment untilthe end of the clause, the interpreter does not haveto reanalyze.The predicate pull, which corresponds to thesynset "pulll, draw, force," and that contains uchforms as "jerk," "twitch," "trail," "drag," etc.
is:\[pull (is-a (cause-to-change-location))(vn-map (pulll))(agent (human-agent animal) (subj-if-obj))(theme(instrumentality physical-thing)(obj (prep from off)))(source(location phy-thing) ((prep fromoff)))\]Next, WordNet includes a large class of forms un-der the synset "put, set, place, pose, position, lay;also with abstract objects and locations."
This workdiffers from WordNet and does not include abstractobjects as themes of this predicate.
The predicateput is:\[put (is-a (cause-to-change-location))(~ra-map (purl))(theme (physical-thing) (obj))(goal(location physical-thing) ((prep onin towaxds through into back-to alongover beside above by under belowthroughout beyond past across near)))(instrument (instrumentality) ((prep with)))(source (nil) (n i l ) ) \ ]This predicate illustrates two points.
First, its goal isnot expressed with the preposition '%o," e.g., *Maryplaced/arranged/put/etc thebooks to the table.
Sec-ond, the source is not realized by any syntactic re-lation (Levin, 1993).
That is why the source entryis nil for the selectional restriction and the syntac-tic relation in order to indicate that this predicatedoes not inherit a goal from its ancestors.
The con-cern here is not syntactic subcategorization f theverb forms, which is handled by the parser, but at-tachment of PPs.
Any PP whose preposition ap-pears in th~ entry of a thematic role is going tobe attached preferentially to the verb.
Thus, in"Connie put the reports from MIT on the shelf,"60the prepositional attachment algorithm should notconsider "from MIT" as a possible complement of"put."
WordNet includes everal subclasses of putl,all of which have been mapped to subpredicates ofput.
Some verb forms under this predicate, suchas "put" and "place," realize their goal with ~at"phrases.
This fact is represented in the verb formsthemselves.
The next major subclass of move2 isunder the synset "propell, impel, move forward,"which includes the subclasses "hitl cause to move bystriking") and "throw" verbs.
The predicate propelis depicted on the next column.
Most of its thematicroles are inherited from cause-to-change-location, il-lustrating how relatively easy it is to build these en-tries once the predicates for the main subclasses havebeen constructed.
The goal of this predicate is alsorealized by an indirect object (obj-if-obj2), e.g., ~Suethrew the pitcher a ball."
This class of verbs hasan argument realized by the preposition "against,"that has been mapped into the role contact-goal, arefinement of the role goal, meaning that the themecontacted the goal\[propel(is-a (cause-to-change-location))(ira-map (propel1))(theme (physical-thing) (obj obj2))(goal(human-agent) (obj-if-obj2)(location physical-thing)((prep to on in through towardsinto back-to along over beyond pastacross by near at)))(contact-goal(physical-thing)(against))\]The subclass formed by hitl, not to be con-fused with "hit3 - ideal a blow to; He hit herhard in the face)," becomes \[cause.to-move-by-biting(is-a(propel))(wn-map(hitl))\], the one formed by"throwl, project hrough the air" becomes \[throuJ(is-a(propel))(urn-map(throwl))\].
A subclass of throwlis formed by those verbs that Levin (Levin, 1993)calls ~pelt" verbs ("buffet," "bombard," "pelt,""shower," "stone,) in which the goal is realized byobj and the theme by a "with" phrase, e.g., "Bethpelted Chris with snowballs."
Of these, WordNetdoes not include "shower" and "stone" as forms un-der peltl.Some classes in move2 and move3 are not mappedinto subpredicates of the generic predicate cause-to-change-location.
The reasons for not mapping aWordNet subclass into a subpredicate of the genericpredicate for the WordNet class are any one of thefollowing: a) these predicates do not share the the-matic roles of the generic predicate, b) the primaryevent expressed by these subpredicates is not that ofthe generic predicate, or c) the ontological categoriesin the selectional restrictions of the generic predicatedo not subsume those in the subpredicates.
Onemajor subclass of move2 that clearly is not a sub-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIpredicate of cause-to-change-location is grouped un-der the synset "transfer, convey, transmit, communi-cate, bring," and includes uch forms as "relay," re-quest," "demand," "expect," require," beg," andmany others.
The theme of the predicate for thisclass is not a physical-thing, but an abstract hing,idea or a proposition, which is many times realizedby a sentential complement.
Two other stronglyrelated subclasses of move2 that are not subpredi-cares of cause-to-change.location aregrouped underthe synsets "expel, eject, chuck out, exclude, throwout, kick out, turf out, boot out, turn out - (from aplace)," and "expel, throw out, kick out - (as from acountry)."
The first subclass includes such forms as"evict," "exorcise," and the second subclass includes"expatriate," "deport," "disbar," "extradite," "os-tracize," and others.
The relation between the themeand the agent in the predicates underlying most ofthese forms is an abstract relation rather than aphysical relation.
The analysis provided for theseclasses has been to create a subpredicate of action,called expel-human-agent, which coalesces the twosynsets discussed above plus a synset of remove, re-move2, a class by itself, "remove - (remove from aposition or an office)."
Remove2 includes such formsas "fire," "lay off," etc.
This generic predicate is an-alyzed into several subpredicates.Another major subclass of move2 that is notmapped into a subpredicate of cause-to-change-location is grouped under the synset "separate2, dis-unite, force apart, divide, part, take apart, pull apart- He separated the fighting children; Moses partedthe Red Sea," and includes such forms as "com-partmentalize," "polarize," "disarticulate," "discon-nect," "cut" and its subclasses, and many oth-ers.
The primary event of this subclass is not acause-to-change-location, although one may be im-plied.
Some of these forms can be used in thecausative/inchoative alternation, e.g., "The creamseparated from the milk," and in the middle al-ternation, e.g., "Cream separates easily from milk"(Levin, 1993).
Separate2 is analyzed as a subpred-icate of cause-a-change-of-state, and coalesced withsome other synsets of "separate" which are classi-fied by WordNet as subclasses of change1, cause achange of state.
Another subclass of move2 that hasrequired a special analysis is that of "chase away,drive out, turn back, drive away, dispel, drive off,run off" in which the agent is causing the theme,an animate being, to move away from the agent'slocation.In move3, some individual forms and some sub-classes are mapped into the predicate move-body-part, a subpredicate of action.
Some of these sub-classes are: "move involuntarily, move reflexively -(move in an uncontrolled manner)," "dance, do adance ..." and a few others.61The following predicates do not come from sub-classes of move2 or move3, but from change1 (cause achange of state).
However, they are analyzed as sub-classes of cause.to-change-location.
The first predi-cate fill-or-load, depicted on the next column, co-alesces the synsets: "fill1, fill up, make full," and"flU2, fill up, become full."
Of these, flU1, which isa subclass of change1 contains most of the forms,including all the "load" verbs.
Fill2, a subclassof change2 (undergo a change) contains two forms.Note the different syntactic realizations ofthis predi-cate, as exemplified by "The farmer loaded the truckwith hay" and "John loaded the tractors into theship."
It is not very helpful to include inntrumental-ity as one of the selectional restrictions of the themebecause anything can be loaded.
However, substancecould help to choose the correct sense of certainnouns, because it is a selectional restriction usedfrequently with "fill" verbs.
The predicate mptythat coalesces the synsets "empty1, make empty,make void" and "empty2, become mpty, becomevoid, discharge" becomes a subpredicate of remove-physical-thing, described below.
The obj-if-with re-lation in the goal role means that this role can berealized by an obj if there is a with-phrase.
For in-stance, "Kelly loaded the truck with hay.
"If ill-or-load (is-a (cause-to-change-location))(wn-map (filll) (fill2))(theme(substance physical-thing) (obj( (prep with) ) ) )(goal(instrumentality physical-thing) (objobj-if-with (prep into on onto in)))\]The next major class is grouped under the synsetof "remove1, take, take away - (remove somethingconcrete, as by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.
; orremove something abstract; remove a threat ...).
"Remove2 was analyzed above in the predicate xpel-human.
Remove1 forms a class by itself in WordNet.\[remove-physical-thing (wn-map (remove1))(is-a (cause-~o-change-loca~ion))(theme(physical-thing) (obj))(source(physical-thing) ((prep off from)))(goal(nil) (nil))\]Removel contains many subclasses, most of whichare mapped to subpredicates of remove-physical-thing.
Remove3: "get rid of, remove," also formsa class by itself and is analyzed as a subpredicateof remove-physical-thing.
WordNet does not include"rid" as a subordinate of any of the "remove" senses,but as a small class by itself containing nine forms.This work maps "rid1, free, disembarrass" to r/d,a subpredicate of remove-physical-thing, in whichthe theme is realized by an "of" phrase, and thesource by obj, e.g., "He rid the city of rats."
Empty,another subpredicate of remove-physical-thing, mayIIIalso realize its theme and goal with an "of" phraseand obj, respectively.
Some forms under this sub-class are used in the sense of "firing somebody.
"Rather than to reclassify these forms, a meaningpostulate connects this predicate to the predicateexpel-human-agent, xplained above, if its theme isthe concept human.
This subclass also contains asubclass that does not express a source, but a goal.This subclass is: "abandonl - (We abandoned theold car in the empty parking lot)," which includessuch forms as "chuck," "ditch," "dispense with,"and others.
AbandonS: "abandon, forsake, desolate,desert, lurch - (leave someone who needs or countson you);" which is a suclass of "leave2" is also coa-lesced into the the predicate: \[abandon-phy-thing-or-animate (is-a(get-rid-of ) ) (wn-map(abandonl )O veZ)) (sou e(nit)(nit))\]4 Transfer  of Possession VerbsTable 1 depicts the hierarchy of subpredicates oftransfer-of-possession.sell leasepay investtrade spend-physical-thingimport use-upexport squandergive get-somethinggive-back capture-an-animalbestow receive-somethingfeed graduatenourish buybribe subscribedistribute accept-somethingdeposit-money accept-a-joblend accept-somebodyoffer-something obtainprovide get-backserve-somebody reclaimarm win-at-an-eventfuel-an-engine score-in-a-gameequip win-in-an-electionshelter gain-somethingdonate profitbequeath inheritendow borrowgather-thingsget-by-force-ilegly~nnezstealTable 1: Hierarchy for subpredicates of transfer ofpossessionThe major subpredicates are give and get whichare listed last.
The generic predicate transfer-of-possession is described below.
There are two eventsin a transfer of possession.
The theme refers to the62thing obtained or received by the agent of the pri-mary event, and the co-theme to the thing obtainedor received by the agent of the secondary event.
Ameaning postulate infers the predicate and its rolesfor the secondary event.
The exclusionary semanticcategories in the co-theme are to impede indetifyinga \[for NP\] as a co-theme when it is a to-poss, e.g.,"He bought a book for Mary/20 dollars.
"\[transfer-of -possession(is-a(action))(wn-map (trans f er6) )(agent (human-agent animal) (subj))(theme(possession thing) (obj obj2))(to-poss (human-agent animal)(obj-if-obj2 (prep for to))(physical-thing) ((prep to)))(c o-theme (po s s e ss ion -human-agent -animalphysical-thing thing) ( (prep for))) \]The subpredicate give is depicted below.
The onlydifference between give and its generic predicate isthat it does not have a co-theme.
The synset give3has many verb forms.
Some of them are analyzedbelow.\[give(is-a (transf er-of-possession) )(wn-map (give3))(co-theme(nil) (nil))\]The predicate feed depicted below has some inter-esting garden path constructions.
Compare "Bethfed the frogs insects" to "Ann fed the frogs to thesnakes" and "Kathy fed the frogs.
"freed (is-a(give))(wn-map (feedl) (feed2))(agent (animal) (subj-if-obj))(theme(food substance physical-thing)(obj-if-to obj2) )(to-poss (animal human-agent)(obj obj-if-obj2 (prep to)))\]The synsets supply1 and provide2 are mappedinto two predicates, provide and provide-inanimate-cause depicted on the next page.
The predicateprovide-inanimate-cause subsumes all those predi-cates in which the thing that causes the transferis not an animate being, but an inanimate thing,e.g., "The river provides water to many cities."
Thesyntactic relation obj.if-with indicates that the roleto-poss can be realized by an obj if this is followedby a \[with NP\].
This is necessary in order to handlethe sentence "France also provided the missionarywith new churches."
The next mayor subpredicate oftransfer-of-possession is get-something depicted be-low.
Its synset, getl, is a unique class in WordNet.One of the major subclasses of get-something is thepredicate capture-an-animal which has a very simpleentry.IIIIIIIIIIIIIII\[provide(is-a(give))(ran-map (supply1) (provide2))(theme (t:hing) (obj obj 2 (prep with)))(to-poss (human-agent animalphysical-thing thing)(obj-if-obj2 obj-if-with(prep to for)))(inanimate-cause (thing) (subj -if-obj ) ) \]\[provide-inanimate-cause(is-a(give))(agent (nil) (nil))(wn-map (supply 1) (provide2))(theme (physical-thing) (obj obj 2 (prep with)) )(to-poss (human-agent animalphysical-thing thing)(obj-if-obj2 obj-if-with(prep to for)))(inanimate-caus e (-human-agent -animalthing) (subj-if-obj)) \]\[get-something(is-a(transf er-of-possession) )(un-map (get I) )(theme(physical-thing thing)(obj obj2))(from-poss (human-agent animal phy-thingthing) ((prep off from out-of)))Most of its subpredicates require a human as agent,but some take an animal as agent.
Another class isformed by the verbs belonging to the synset receiveland receive2 whose predicate is:\[receive-something (is-a (get-something))(un-mapCreceivel) (receive2))(theme(auard -human-agent physical-thing-perception thing) (obj obj2))\]The exclusionary categories human-agent and per-ception are intended to exclude the sense of receiv-ing, or welcoming somebody, and that of receivingexperiences, or experiencing something, from thispredicate.
Those senses are mappped into their ownpredicates.The synset winl (be the winner in a contest orcompetition) that is a unique class in WordNethas been mapped into the predicate win-at-an-eventwhich has become a subconcept of get-something.The synset win2 (win something) is mapped intothe predicate gain-something.
Two other subpred-icates of get-something whose synsets form uniqueclasses in WordNet are gather-things (gatherl) andget-by-/orce-or-illegally (takel4).5 Conc lus ions  and  Re la ted  ResearchWe have described a method for defining predicatesfor WordNet verb classes and illustrated it by ann-63lyzing some major WordNet verb classes.
The the-matic roles of the predicates are connected to Word-Net ontology for nouns and to the syntactic rela-tions that realize them.
Our approach to buildingverb meaning is based on the decomposition of apredicate into subpredicates.
Subpredicates inheritnot only thematic roles, but also inferences as ex-plained in (Gomez, 1996).
Inferences will be definedfor generic predicates and subpredicates subsuminga large class of verb forms.
The final product willbe a network of predicates linked by subsumption,and inferences, and connected to the WorcbNet on-tology for nouns and to grammatical relations.
Asof this writing we have defined predicates for 70% ofWordNet verb forms.We are using the term "inference" to refer toboth entailments and non-monotonic inferences, alsocalled defeasible inferences.
The term "entailment"is used in the sense of analytic implication (Quine,1960).
A sentence, say sl, entails sentence s2 if s2 istrue in every world in which sl is true.
An exampleof entailment is "if Peter killed the roach, the roachis dead."
An  example of non-monotonic inference is"if Peter likes apples, he eats them."
Of course, it isvery important to bear in mind that the differencebetween non-monotonic inferences and entailmentsis a question of degrees as Quine (Quine, 1953) hasargued convincely.
See (Gomez, 1996) for a discus-sion.Our work differs from the semantic role list ap-proaches (Fillmore, 1968) in several essential as-pects.
First of all in our method, the semantic rolesare not defined independently of the meaning of theverb and are not semantically unanalyzable.
In addi-tion, the number of thematic roles depends on eachpredicate, and not on some general criteria sayingwhich thematic roles there will be, irrespective ofeach predicate.
Any thematic role in a predicatecorresponds to a meaning relation from which in-ferences pecific to that predicate or subpredicatesmust be established.
Consider the sentence "Thesebirds fly 11,000 miles from their breeding roundsto their winter home in the Antarctic."
What isthe thematic role corresponding to the NP "11,000miles?"
Some semantic relation needs to be rec-ognized so that inferences such as "there is a dis-tance of 11,000 miles between the breeding roundsof these birds and their winter home" can be es-tablished.
We have recognized that semantic rela-tion by creating the role distance meaning the dis-tance traveled by an animate agent in a change-of-location predicate (Gomez, 1998).
The inference isbased on that role and on that predicate.
Becausethe NP "11,000 miles" is not a subcategorized argu-ment of "fly," why call it a "role" and not an "ad-junct"?
From a semantic point of view, it makesno difference whether one calls it "adjunct" or "the-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIImatic role."
Dowry (Dowty, 1991), then, asks that,if one assigns a thematic role to measures of dis-tance, why not assign a role to "quickly" in "Shewalks quickly."
Our answer is that we should as-sign a role to "quickly."
But, that role, whatever itsname, should not be placed in the predicate change-o\]-location but in the action node because it can beinherited by every subpredicate of action.
It makessense to say "She eats/studies/writes/.., quickly,"but not "She eats 20 miles."
Thus from our pointof view, an "adjunct" is a role that is inherited byevery subpredicnte of action.This approach does not lead to a propagation ofroles since their number and nature depend on thegeneric predicate and its subpredicates.
The critiqueof "role fragmentation - the subdivision of a singlerole into many subroles as result of subsequent anal-ysis (Dowry, 1991) - is valid ff the entailments arebased exclusively on the role, but not if they are an-chored on the role and the predicate.
The roles thatwe have used throughout our analysis have differ-ences in meaning across diverse generic predicates,or verb classes.
For instance, the meaning of therole theme in a change of state verb, say "break,"is different from its meaning in a transfer of infor-mation verb, say "tell."
Hence, if the entailmentsare based only on the role, one would be compelledto recognize several types of theme (Dowty, 1991),but because the entailments are based on the pred-icate and on the role, this is not necessary.
Roleentailments are shared by subpredicates of a genericpredicate not across generic predicates.Our approach also differs from those analyses thatattempt o reduce the verb semantic analysis to asmall set of notions e.g., Jackendoff'localist hypoth-esis (Jackendoff, 1990), Dowty-Vendler's aspectualhypothesis (Vendler, 1967), Dowty (Dowry, 1979),or to a small set of primitives (Schank, 1975).
Ourmajor critique to reductionist analyses are Quinean(Quine, 1960) in nature, namely meaning is holis-tic.
Trying to reduce verb meaning to a small set ofnotions is going to fail because verb meaning is inter-sentential.
One may take some verbs whose meaningcan be reduced to some few principles, or notions.Verbs of change of location fit very well within thelocalist hypothesis, while verbs of creation seem tosupport he aspectual hypothesis.
But, if you con-sider a verb like "graduate" the situation is ratherdifferent because many sentences mediate to formits meaning.
One may say that it is an accomplish-ment verb, but that is not saying much.
Trying toprovide a CD representation (Schank, 1975) for itseems hopeless.
The key point here is that the repre-sentation eeds to make possible the inferences nor-madly associated with such verb.
For instance, thatif one is asked which school Clinton attended, oneshould say "Yale" upon reading that Clinton grad-64uated from Yale.
Hierarchical predicate decomposi-tion and inferences hared by subpredicates of thesame generic predicate is the solution that we offer.However, we always keep in mind that meaning isa question of degrees.
It can be approximated, butnot fully grasped.
Fortunately, approximation is allwe need for the task of natural anguage processing.ReferencesD.
R. Dowty.
1979.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
Dordrecht: Reidel, Dordreeht.D Dow-ty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and argumentselection.
Language, 67:547-619.C.
Fellbaum.
1993.
English verbs as a semantic net.Technical report, Princeton.
CSL Report 43, re-vised March 1993.C.
J. Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.
In E. Bachand R.T. Harms, editors, Universals in LinguisticTheory, pages 1-88.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston,New York, NY.F.
Gomez, C. Segami, and R. Hull.
1997.
Determin-ing prepositional attachment, prepositional mean-ing, verb meaning and thematic roles.
Computa-tional Intelligence, 13(1):1-31.F.
Gomez.
1996.
Acquiring intersentential ex-planatory connections in expository texts.
In-ternational Journal o\] Human-Computer Studies,4(1):19-44.F.
Gomez.
1998.
Semantic interpretation of un-restricted omains using wordnet.
CS-TR-98-2,Jan.
1998.R.
Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic Structures.
MITPress, Cambridge, Mass.B.
Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes and Alterna-tions: A Preliminary Investigation.
University ofChicago Press, Chicago.G.A.
Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross,and K. Miller.
1993.
Introduction to WordNet:An on-line lexical database.
Technical report,Princeton.
CSL Report 43, revised March 1993.J.
Pustejovsky.
1995.
The Generative Lexico~ MITPress, Cambridge, Mass.V.W.
Quine.
1953.
Two dogmas of empiricism.
InFrom a Logical Point o/View.
Harvard UniversityPress, Cambridge, Mass.V.W.
Quine.
1960.
Word and Object.
MIT Press,Cambridge, Mass.R.
Schank.
1975.
Conceptual Information Process-ing.
North Holland, Amsterdam.Z.
Vendler.
1967.
Linguistics in Philosophy.
CorneUUniversity Press, Ithaca, New York.Y.A.
Wilks.
1975.
Preference semantics.
In E.L.Keenan, editor, Formal Semantics of Natural Lan-guage.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.
