Automatic Disambiguation of Discourse ParticlesKerstin Fischer and Hans Brandt-PookGraduate Program Task-oriented CommunicationUniversity of Bielefeld, GermanyPostfach 100131, D-33501 Bielefeldfischer@nats.informatik.uni-hamburg.dehbrandt@techfak.uni-bielefeld.deAbstractIn spite of their important quantitative role,discourse particles have so far been ne-glected in automatic speech processing fortwo reasons: Firstly it is not clear whatthey may contribute to the aims of auto-matic speech processing, and secondly theirfunctions seem to vary so much that itseems difficult to identify the informationrelevant o such aims.
The approach pre-sented here therefore attempts to provide au-tomatic means to distinguishing the differentreadings of discourse particles and to filter-ing out the information which can be use-ful for speech understanding systems, em-ploying positional information and their rolewithin a dialogue model of the respective do-main, two types of information which are es-pecially easy to obtain.
First results indicatethat discourse particles can indeed be auto-matically disambiguated on the basis of themodel proposed.1 IntroductionDiscourse particles, as for instance Ger-man ja, nein, ach, oh, and ~hrn, and En-glish well, yes, oh, ah, and uhm (Schiffrin,1987), are extremely frequent phenomenaof spontaneous spoken language dialogues.For instance, in informal German human-to-human communication, their frequencyranges between 8.8% and 9.8% (Fischer andJohanntokrax, 1995).
In human-computerinteraction, this prominent quantitative roledecreases; however, they may still constitute6.6% of the 150 most frequent words (Fis-cher and Johanntokrax, 1995).
In spite oftheir important quantitative role, discourseparticles have so far been neglected in au-tomatic speech processing; if they are iden-tified at all, then only in order to eliminatethem (O'Shaugnessy, 1993).
Reasons maybe firstly that it is not clear what they couldcontribute to the aims of automatic speechprocessing, and secondly that they may ful-fill so many different functions that it seemsdifficult to identify the information relevantto such aims.In this study, it will firstly be investigatedwhat these discourse particles contribute tonatural human-to-human conversation withthe aim to determine which of their functionscan be useful for automatic speech process-ing.
In order to make use of the informationthey provide: however, they need to be dis-ambiguated.
Two different strategies will beemployed to disambiguate them automati-cally: On the one hand their position withrespect o the turn and utterance in whichthey occur will be investigated in order tosee how much it contributes to the interpre-tation of a discourse particle occurrence, onthe other their role in the dialogue structure,especially regarding a dialogue model, willbe analyzed.
These two types of informa-tion, position and dialogue acts, are particu-larly easy to obtain during automatic speechprocessing.
The aim of this investigation isthus to determine?
what discourse particles contribute tohun~an-to-human dialogues;?
what they may contribute to automaticspeech processing;?
in how far their surface properties, inparticular their position regarding the107turn and the utterance, influence theirfunctions;what the dialogue structure may con-tribute to their automatic disambigua-tion;how these aspects interact and how thisinteraction can be modelled in an actualautomatic speech processing system.It will be shown that the two types of in-formation involved suffice to disambiguatea considerable portion of discourse particleoccurrences and that there is consequentlyno reason to eliminate them from automaticspeech processing.
Finally, a model for animplementation i a semantic network forthe automatic disambiguation of discourseparticles will be proposed.2 The Functions of DiscourseParticlesThe following examples from a corpusrecorded in the appointment scheduling do-main (Verbmobil Database, TP 13) show sev-eral different functions the English discourseparticle yeah may fulfill:(1) 13BAR: what about the 18th of De-cember?14RIC: <P> yeah, yeah, that work.
(2) 1UMI: yeah, we've got to get togetherand discuss <P> Stufe A fiir die Stu-dienordnung, a(3) 124ENG: so that won't work either.125UMI: yeah, that's not good.
(4) 3RIC: I'm Ric M. and I am <P>what do I do?
(whispering) software?
yeah, I'm working for a softwareaccount 21The dialogue between ative speakers ofEnglishwas recorded at a German University.Sin these dialogues, recorded for scenario design,speakers are assigned a new identity.In example (1), yeah is a positive answer toa proposal.
In (2), it functions as a signal bymeans of which the speaker introduces a newtopic, here it opens up the conversation, con-stituting the first utterance in the dialogue;in example (3), it serves to give feedback tothe hearer, indicating perception and under-standing and also basic agreement with thepartner (Schegloff, 1982).
Finally, in exam-ple (4), yeah occurs after a speech manage-ment problem, that is, after the speaker doesnot know how to continue.Other discourse particles may fulfill simi-lar functions: in example (5), the discourseparticle mmm functions as a signal of per-ception and understanding, and so does thefirst well in example (6) while it furthermorerelates the current utterance to the previ-ous.
The second instance of well in this ex-ample marks a thematic break, concludingthe topic concerning the partner's cold andreturning to the previous attempt o find apossible date for a meeting.
This discoursestructuring function can also be found forthe hesitation marker uh in example (7).16UMI: yeah, just one of the studentsabout San Soto anyway.17ENG: mram(6) 6UMI: I've got <P>7ENG: well, you've got a very heavycold, but well <P> wh/ wh/why isthis week out of the question?
(7) l l4UMI: yeah, this weekend's k k kcompletely chaotic, uh.
let's see.Thus, the functions discourse particlesmay fulfill are as follows: they markthematic breaks, thus making the macro-structural organisation of the dialogue trans-parent for the hearer; they signal the relat-edness of the current utterance to the previ-ous, they indicate whether the informationtransfer is successful, and whether the chan-nel is still available.
Finally they support heformulation process in case there are speechmanagement problems.
Thus, they may ful-fill a large but not an unlimited number offunctions.108Furthermore, several of these functionshave been found to co-occur in stable featurebundles.
For instance, in example (6), thefirst instance of well displays perception andunderstanding of what the partner has saidand furthermore indicates that the speakeris going to add something to the same topic.The same information is conveyed by yeah inexample (3).
This implies that there are notonly co-occurrence relations between differ-ent functional features but also that a gen-eral inventory of pragmatic interpretationof discourse particles can be proposed, suchthat the same pragmatic function can be ful-filled by different discourse particles.The linguistic model presented here conse-quently assumes that each discourse particlecan be assigned a context-specific nterpre-tation (StenstrSm, !994) which belongs to alimited inventory and which can be seen as abundle of functional features which may befulfilled by several different discourse parti-cles.
Additional information is carried bythe lexemes themselves (Fischer, 1996), forinstance, in the case of yes agreement, andrejection in the case of no.The descriptive inventory, which was ar-rived at by means of several hypothesis-test-cycles on the basis of four large corpora(Fischer andJohanntokrax, 1995; Schmitzand Fischer, 1995), consists of the followingitems:?
take-up: signals perception and under-standing regarding the previous utter-ance and takes up the current opic;?
backchannel:  gives feedback and sup-ports the other's turn;?
f rame: marks a break in the thematicstructure;?
repair  marker:  signals problems in theformulation process;?
answer: signals agreement on, or rejec-tion of, a proposition;?
check: signals the hearer that thespeaker would like to get positive feed-back;?
modal :  refers to the common ground orthe information 'on hand;' establishes arelation of coherence between the utter-ance and a pragmatic pretext.In how far can these functions now be usedfor automatic speech processing?
On the onehand, the most trivial point is the ambigu-ity of certain discourse particles concerningpropositional and other information, for ex-ample German ja, nein, doch or nicht, or En-glish yes or no.
Information on this ambigu-ity is essential for automatic speech process-ing systems ince if it is not resolved, con-tradictory or just wrong information will beinferred.
Consider the following proposal foran appointment in example (8).
(8) geht es nicht urn 13 Uhr.?
(isn't it possible at 1 p.m.?
)In this example the discourse particlenicht does not contribute to the proposi-tional information; however, it does so in thefollowing example:(9) es geht nicht urn I3 Uhr.
(it isn't possible at 1 p.m..)The examples demonstrate the need forthe disambiguation of discourse particle oc-currences ince the recognition of keywordssuch as nicht would lead to wrong conclu-sions regarding the first example; however,disregarding it would obscure the proposi-tion in the second example.On the other hand, if the different func-tions of discourse particles can be automati-cally determined, they can also support fur-ther semantic and pragmatic analyses con-cerning the information structure and themacro-structural organisation of a dialogue,segmentation, and the recognition of repairsequences in the same way as they are takenas signals by human speech processors.
Au-tomatic disambiguation of discourse parti-cles is therefore essential to their furtheremployment in automatic speech processingsystems.1093 Automat ic  Disambiguat ionof Discourse ParticlesTo account for the multifunctionality of dis-course particles, two strategies are com-bined: the analysis of the syntactic positionof a discourse particle and the role of thepragmatic environment the discourse parti-cle occurs in.3.1 The  Inf luence of the Posi t ion inTurn  and Ut terancePositions in turn and utterance seem to begood candidates for determining the inter-pretation of German discourse particles; forinstance, if ja occurs utterance finally, it islikely to be used in a checking function, forexample:(10) elf Vhr sagten Sie, ja?
(FRS001)(you said l 1 a.m., right?
)Thus, different functions can be assignedto certain contextual positions of ja; as wehave seen, turn-final ja usually functions toelicit feedback from the hearer; utterance-medial ja, if the utterance is not inter-rupted and a new utterance is begun, servesas a modal particle, otherwise as a repairmarker.
The largest group is constituted byturn- and utterance-initial discourse parti-cles; these serve either to signal perceptionand understanding and that one is going toadd something to the same subject matter,or as answer signals.
The latter may howeveralso occur as a complete turn or turn-finally,so that other types of information are nec-essary to identity' the function of ja as ananswer signal carrying propositional contentthan the position in turn and utterance only:Nevertheless, the syntactic position in whicha discourse particle occurs provides a valu-able source for the automatic disambigua-tion of discourse particles, as will be shownby means of the following experiments.First of all, 150 examples of the especiallymultifunctional German discourse particle jawere analyzed regarding their surface andpragmatic properties.
Secondly, to each dis-course particle a context-specific interpreta-tion from the inventory proposed in the pre-vious section could be assiglJed.
By meansof an artificial neural network classificator(Scheler and Fischer, 1997), it was deter-mined whether the eight classes described inthe previous section can be assigned auto-matically on the basis of a selection of struc-tural and pragmatic features.
In particular,training a feedforward-backpropagation net-work simulated by SNNS p.d.
software withca.
100 examples of German ja, and test-ing on ca.
50 new examples can show firstlywhether the classification proposed is suffi-ciently contrastive and thus learnable.
Fur-thermore it is determined of which influenceon the correct classification of the new ex-arnples particular properties are such as thesyntactic position or the respective intona-tion contour.Good results in the experiments employ-ing the whole feature set indicate that theclasses are learnable and that the classifica-tion can be replicated by an automatic las-sifter (Scheler and Fischer, 1997).
Concern-ing the role of particular surface features,ca.
55% (standard deviation 4.38) of thecontext-specific interpretations can be deter-mined only on the basis of surface propertiessuch as syntactic position, combination withother discourse particles, intonation contour,or tim left and right context.
The positionin turn and utterance alone produces simi-lar results.
On the basis of the intonationcontours alone, ca.
fifty percent can be as-signed correctly (however, the standard de-viation here is quite high).
Position andprosody together each 57.7% (standard e-viation 4.31).
The other surface propertiestherefore only provide redundant informa-tion compared to these two types, addingthem for training and testing the networkdoes not increase the assignment rate.
Soit seems promising to regard aspects of thesurface realization as a valuable source forthe automatic disambiguation of the func-tions of discourse particles.
This informa-tion is exploited in the implementation ofa speech processing system in the appoint-ment scheduling domain described in section4 especially regarding the position with re-spect to the utterance since it is the informa-tion most easily to obtain for an automaticii0= OS_OPENINGS_REJECT OU_PROPOSAL= OO U_PRECISE= 0'~"'"-.....,...~.
S_FINAL_CONFIRM l/0U_REJECTFigure 1: Dialogue modelU_CONFIRM= 0 ----b- 0S CLOSINGspeech processing system.The first type of information which the au-tomatic speech processing system is going torely on for the automatic disambiguation fdiscourse particles is thus the prototypicalsyntactic position for each discourse func-tion.3.2 The Role of a Dialogue ModelAs a second major source of information forthe automatic disambiguation of discourseparticles, a significant correlation betweencertain dialogue acts, domain-specific speechacts (Schmitz and Quantz, 1995), and cer-tain discourse functions, the context-specificreadings of discourse particles, was deter-mined.
For instance, in the informal task-oriented human-to-human dialogues, 40.43%(standard deviation 7.9) of the discoursefunctions of ja could be assigned correctlyby the artificial neural network classificatoronly on the basis of the information whichthe preceding and which the following dia-logue act was, although in this corpus thenumber of dialogue acts assigned is quitehigh, and the relationship between them ishighly variable.
Consequently, the reductionof complexity caused by the specialization onone domain in task-oriented settings can beexploited here by postulating a limited in-ventory of speech acts occurring in the cor-pus under consideration.
A dialogue modelwhich represents the possible relations be-tween dialogue acts in a flow chart can thusmake predictions about the following dia-logue act and also about a probable functionof the respective discourse particle.
Thus, in-formation for each discourse particle aboutits occurrence in certain dialogue acts maysupport its automatic disambiguation.
Inhuman-computer interaction, for example,this sequential relationship between dialogueacts may be even more straightforward, andthe domain may be furher restricted.For analyses of the appointment schedul-ing domain, a small corpus of 30 dialogueswith altogether 145 turns was gathered in ahun~an-to-machine sc nario to arrive at sta-tistical correlations between functional in-formation concerning discourse particles andtile dialogue acts in which they occur.
Onthe basis of these instances of spoken in-teraction, a dialogue model was constituted(see Fig.
1).
Tile descriptive categories werebased on those proposed for tile Verbmo-bil corpus (Alexandersson et al, 1997).
Bymeans of these dialogue acts, it can be partlydetermined what the fun,tion of a respectivediscourse particle may be in the particularsetting; for instance, it is much more likelythat ja is an answer particle if it occurs inan utterance after the system has asked forthe confirmation of a date (as in example11) rather than an uptaking signal when itis used at the beginning of a dialogue be-tween system S and user U (as in example11112).
(il) S: Bitte bestgtigen Sie diesen Ter-rain.
(Please confirm this appointment.
)U: ja, dieser Termin ist richtig.
(10_2_02)(yes, this is the right date.
)(12) U: ja, guten Tag, ich h?tte gerneinen Termin.
(6_1_00)(yes, hello, I'd like to schedule an ap-pointment.
)In the linguistic model, information on thecorrelation between dialogue acts and cer-tain functions of discourse particles as wellas syntactic information are combined.
Thefollowing section describes the implementa-tion of these types of information.4 Implementat ionThe model described above was imple-mented and tested in a system for appoint-ment scheduling (Brandt-Pook et al, 1996).For the representation of linguistic knowl-edge, this system uses the semantic net-work language ERNEST (I(ummert et al,1993).
The linguistic knowledge of this sys-tem is modelled hierarchically on five levelsof abstraction: The word hypothesis level es-tablishes the interface to the speech recog-nition system; the syntactic, semantic andthe pragmatic level declaratively representthe interaction of lexical and other knowl-edge; and the dialogue level manages dia-logue strategy and dialogue memory.
Theconcepts at the different levels are connectedby means of abstraction links.
Within a level,has-part and is-a links are defined.Each occurrence of a discourse particleis interpreted bottom-up.
Thus, a word-hypothesis is created so as to identify therelevant word form; connected to this is aconcept PARTICLE, for which the utteranceposition for the respective discourse parti-cle is identified.
On the dialogue level theinterpretation of a discourse particle occur-rence and its functional role is completed.The attribute att_disc_particle realizes rulesthat combine the different ypes of informa-tion which participate in the model for thepragmatic interpretation of discourse parti-cles.
Thus, on the one hand, the positionin turn and utterance is treated as a condi-tion on the interpretation of a discourse par-ticle, on the other, due to the fact that theprevious system-output influences the nextuser utterance, the dialogue act of the fol-lowing utterance and consequently the func-tion of a respective discourse particle can bepredicted.
For instance, a system requestfor an explicit confirmation predicts an an-swer signal by the user, as implemented inthe rule concerning the word form ja (seeFig.
2).
With this information, an utteranceIF (word == ja)IF (position == INITIAL)IF (last_sys-output==S..P_C0NFIl:tM Ilast~ys-output==S_F_C0NFIRM )discourse.function := ANSWEI:tELSEdiscourse_function := TAKE-UPELSE IF  (position == MEDIAL)discourse_function := MODALELSE /* position == FINAL */discourseZunction := CHECKFigure 2: Rule concerning the word form jaof ja can be correctly classified as either ananswer signal or as a discourse particle withcertain pragmatic functions.5 Results and ConclusionTo determine in how far the system rely-ing only on the two types of informationdescribed, syntactic position and the previ-ous dialogue act, can automatically disam-biguate occurrences of discourse particles, atest was designed on the basis of naturalauthentic dialogues.
These, however, weretyped into the system in order to be able toanalyze the contribution of the implementa-tion most clearly; the results are thereforenot obscured from errors by the speech rec-ognizer.Good results were achieved regarding the112test-sentences with altogether 75 discourseparticles.
In comparison with a double-checked hand-tagged version, 83% were au-tomatically assigned the correct discoursefunction.
These results show that automaticspeech processing systems can indeed disam-biguate discourse particle occurrences on thebasis of extremely reduced linguistic knowl-edge.
Consequently it is not the case thatautomatic speech processing systems can-not identify the relevant information.
Thus,discourse particles do not constitute such achaotic domain after all; already very sim-ple and easily obtainable linguistic informa-tion on their occurrences in dialogues canlead to their automatic lassification.
A sys-tem which could make use of prosody, forinstance, may get even better results.
Thisopens up the way to employing discourseparticles in automatic speech processing sys-tems, for instance, as keywords regardingpropositional information, to infer dialoguestructure, or in order to control the informa-tion flow and to support speech managementtasks, which all can support the aims of au-tomatic speech processing systems.ReferencesJan Alexandersson, Bianka Buschbeck-Wolf,Tsutomu Fujinami, Elisabeth Maier, Nor-bert Reithinger, Birte Schmitz, andMelanie Siegel.
1997.
Dialogue acts inverbmobil-2.
Report 204, ?~rbmobil.Hans Brandt-Pook, Gernot A. rink, BerndHildebrandt, Franz Kummert, and Ger-hard Sagerer.
1996.
A Robust DialogueSystem for Making an Appointment.
InICSLP96: Proc.
of the Int.
Conf.
on Spo-ken Language Processing, volume 2, pages693-696, Philadelphia.Kerstin Fischer and Michaela Johanntokrax.1995.
Ein linguistisches Merkmalsmodellfur die Lexikalisierung von diskurssteuern-den Einheiten.
Report 18, SFB 360 "Si-tuierte k/instliche Kommunikatoren'.
Uni-versity of Bielefeld.Kerstin Fischer.
1996.
A construction-basedapproach to the lexicalization of inter-jections.
In M. Gellerstam, J. J?rborg,S.
Mahngren, K. NSren, L. RogstrSm, andC.
Rojder Papmehl, editors, Euralez '96:PROCEEDINGS, pages 85-91.
Universityof Gothenburg.Franz Kummert, Heinrich Niemann, Rein-hard Prechtel, and Gerhard Sagerer.
1993.Control and Explanation in a Signal Un-derstanding Environment.
Signal Pro-cessing, special issue on 'Intelligent Sys-tems for Signal and Image Understand-ing ', 32:111-145.Douglas O'Shaugnessy.
1993.
Locating dis-fluencies in spontaneous peech: Anacoustic analysis.
In Proceedings of the3rd European Coriference on Speech Com-munication and Fechnology, pages 2187-2190.Emanuel A. Schegloff.
1982.
Discourse as "an interactional chievement: Some usesof 'uh huh' and other things that comebetween sentences.
In Deborah Tannen,editor, .4nalysing Discourse.
Text andTalk.
Washington: Georgetown UniversityPress.Gabriele Scheler and Kerstin Fischer.
1997.The many functions of discourse parti-cles: A computational model of pragmaticinterpretation.
In Proceedings of Cogsci1997.Deborah Schiffrin.
1987.
Discourse markers.Number 5 in Studies in Interactional Soci-olinguistics.
Cambridge University Press.Birte Schmitz and Kerstin Fischer.
1995.Pragmatisches Bescheibungsinventar f/JrDiskurspartikeln und Routineformelnanhand der Demonstratorwortliste.Memo 75, Verbmobil.Birte Schmitz and ,Joachim J. Quantz.
1995.Dialogue acts in automatic dialogue pro-cessing.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Con-ference on Theoretical and MethodologicalIssues in Machine Translation, TMI-95,Leuven, pages 33-47.Anna-Brita Stenstr6m.
1994.
An Intro-duction to Spoken Interaction.
Learn-ing about Language.
London/ New York:Longman.113
