Anchoring a Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar for DiscourseBonn ie  Lynn  Webber  and  Arav ind  K .
Josh iDepar tment  of Computer  & In fo rmat ion  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of Pennsy lvan iaPh i lade lph ia  PA USA 19104-6389\ [bonnie ,  josh i \ ]~cent ra l .
c i s .upenn.eduAbst rac tWe here explore a "fully" lexicalized Tree-AdjoiningGrammar  for discourse that takes the basic ele-ments of a (monologic) discourse to be not simplyclauses, but larger structures that are anchored onvariously realized discourse cues.
This link withintra-sentential grammar suggests an account for dif-ferent patterns of discourse cues, while the differ-ent structures and operations uggest three sepa-rate sources for elements of discourse meaning: (1) acompositional semantics tied to the basic trees andoperations; (2) a presuppositional semantics carriedby cue phrases that freely adjoin to trees; and (3)general inference, that draws additional, defeasibleconclusions that flesh out what is conveyed compo-sitionally.1 In t roduct ionIn the past few years, researchers interested in ac-counting for how elements combine in a discourse,have taken to using the adjoining operation foundin Tree-Adjoining Grammar (TAG) (Gardent, 1994;Gardent, 1997; Polanyi and van den Berg, 1996;Schilder, 1997; van den Berg, 1996; Webber, 1991).More recently, Cristea and Webber (1997) have ar-gued that a Tree-Adjoining Grammar for discoursewould also need the substitution operation found ina lexicalized TAG (Schabes, 1990).
Here we movefurther and explore a fully lexicalized TAG for dis-course, allowing us to examine how the insights oflexicalized grammars - that the basic elements of aclause are not simply words, but structures that re-flect a word's role and syntactic/semantic scope -carry over to discourse.
We show how this suggestsexplanations for such phenomena s the following:?
that arguments of a coherence relation can bestretched "long distance" by intervening mate-rial;?
that multiple discourse cues can appear in a sin-gle sentence or even a single clause;?
that when discourse cues appear in the middleof clauses, they contribute to coherence in morespecific ways;?
that coherence relations can vary in how andwhen they are realized lexically.One way of understanding the current work isthat it extrapolates from lexically-based views ofhow structure and meaning are associated within asentence to how aspects of discourse structure andmeaning might be associated in similar ways.
Whilethe idea that discourse-level mechanisms might re-semble intra-sentential mechanisms has long beenan undercurrent within discourse research, we havecome to believe that the framework of lexicalizedgrammar can be effecti'.
'ely used to demonstrate thevalidity of this intuition.
While we present he ideasin terms of one well-known formalism - LexicalizedTAG - other lexicalized formalisms uch as CCG(Steedman, 1996b) might prove equally useful forexpressing the same theoretical insights and imple-menting them for discourse generation and/or inter-prey ation.A superficial reading of the current proposal mightsuggest hat it ismerely a simple embedding of RST(Mann and Thompson, 1988) in TAG.
That  wouldbe incorrect.
First, the primary feature of a fullylexicalized TAG is that each elementary tree in thegrammar has an anchor that indexes the tree anddefines its syntactic/semantic scope.
Here, we posita set of inilial (non-recursive) trees, whose anchor isa discourse cue.
Structurally, some initial trees re-semble the nucleus-satellite structures of RST, andsome, its joint schema.
But the resemblence is onlysuperficial, as initial trees have a purely composi-tional semantics that makes no assumptions aboutwhat the speaker is trying to do.
ISecondly, there is a single auzil~ary tree whosesemantics corresponds simply to continuing the de-scription conveyed by the structure to which it isadjoined.
Any additionalinferences that a listenerdraws from the resulting adjacency are defeasible,1 The LTAG formalism itself allows an elementary tree tobe associated with a meaning that is not compositional withrespect to its sub-parts.
This is used, for example, for asso-ciating meaning with syntactically-flexible idioms.
However,we have not found the need to exploit his possibility for dis-course, though we leave open the possibility.86and may be cancelled or corrected by material in thesubsequent discourse.
Our proposal thus factors thecombinability of elementary discourse clauses frominferences that may then be drawn, thus providinga tool for sorting out different semantic processes indiscourse, instead of lumping them into a single cat-egory.
Many of these inferences have been given thestatus of discourse relations in RST.
However, weargue in Section 2.3 that one can gain from distin-guishing what is derived compositionally from whatis derived inferentially.Thirdly, there are auxiliary trees for other dis-course cues, that can adjoin to either initial treesor auxiliary trees.
These discourse cues contributemeaning (and coherence) through their presupposi-tions or assertions or both.
They can thereby serveto constrain the range of inferences that a listenermight draw when a description is extended, limit-ing them to ones compatible with the contributionof the discourse cue.
Similarly, a discourse cue ad-joined to an initial tree can either further specify thecompositional meaning of the related units or con-strain how that initial tree can be used in extendinganother description.
This will explain how severaldiscourse cues can appear in the same sentence oreven the same clause, each contributing to eitherthe compositional or presuppositional semantics ofthe discourse (Section 2.2).This is still a "work in progress", with many openquestions.
However, it may still pique the interestof two historically distinct groups: it may stimu-late people working on syntax to look beyond theclause for phenomena familiar to them within it,while it may help people working on discourse toground their claims and insights in more traditionalvarieties of linguistic formalisms.2 E lements  of a Lexical ized TAG forDiscourseA lexicalized TAG begins with the notion of a lexi-cal anchor, which can have one or more associatedtree structures.
For example, the verb likes anchorsone tree corresponding to John likes apples, anothercorresponding to the topicalized construction Ap-ples John likes, and a third corresponding to thepassive construction Apples are liked by John.
Allin all, there is a tree for each minimal syntacticconstruction in which likes can appear, all sharingthe same predicate-argument structure.
This syn-tactic/semantic encapsulation is possible because ofthe extended domain of locality of LTAG.
Trees insuch a tree family may differ in being licensed by dif-ferent states of the discourse (i.e., information struc.ture (Steedman, 1996a)).A lexicalized TAG contains two kinds of elemen-tary trees: initial (non-recursive) trees that reflectbasic functor-argument dependencies and auxiliarytrees that introduce recursion and allow elementarytrees to be modified and/or elaborated.
In our Iex-icalized discourse TAG, we have so far found theneed to posit only two types of initial tree families(Section 2.1) and two types of auxiliary trees (Sec-tion 2.2).
While the resulting grammar  is thus verysimple - only one type, only binary pred icates -  itso far appears expressively adequate.2.1 In i t ia l  T reesSubordinate conjunctions are one major class of dis-course cues, and clause-level LTAG already providesan account of subordinate clauses with overt sub-ordinate-conjunctions.
Its "verb-centric" accountin (XTAG-Group, 1995) appropriately treats sub-ordinate clauses as adjuncts - i.e., auxiliary trees.However, from a discourse perspective, we treat twoclauses connected by a subordinate conjunction asan initial tree whose compositional semantics re-flect the subordinate conjunction as predicate (or"functor") and the clauses as arguments.
There isan initial tree for each minimal structural patternof main clause and subordinate clause, includingthose shown in Figure 1.
All such trees share thesame predicate (functor) argument structure.
As inclause-level tree families, each pattern may have dif-ferent preconditions on its use that reflect the cur-rent state of the discourse (i.e., information struc-ture).
For example, it has been noted that a "when"clause in initial position presupposes that the sit-uation described therein is in the heater's discoursemodel (or can be so accommodated), while a "when"clause coming after the main clause is not so con-strained.In Section 3, we discuss reasons for taking the lex-ical anchors of these initial trees to be feature struc-tures that may correspond to one or more subordi-nate conjunctions uch as "if" and "when".
Here wejust take them to be specific lexical items.Now one reason for taking something to be an ini-tial tree is that it has local dependencies that canbe stretched long-distance.
For example, the depen-dency between apples and likes in both John likesapples and apples John likes is localized in all thetrees for likes.
It can be stretched, however, long-distance as in Apples..Bill thinks John may like.
In(Cristea and Webber i997), we have shown thatthe same long-distanc,~ stretching of dependenciesoccurs with both subordinate clauses (Ex.
1) andparallel constructions (Ex.
2) - e.g.1.
a.
Although John is very generous,b.
giving money to whoever asks,c.
when you actually need it,d.
you'll see that he's a bugger to find.2.
a.
On the one hand, John is very generous.b.
For example, suppose you needed somemoney.87S @~ NP\ [ \ ]  ~ ~//X VPsubconj (a) subconj (b) \[ (c)subconj(d)Figure 1: Initial Trees (a-c) belong to the tree family for a subordinate conjunction.
The symbol I indicatesa substitution site, while \[ \] stands for a particular subordinate conjunction and its feature structure.
(d) isthe initial tree for a parallel construction.c.
You would just have to ask for it.d.
On the other hand, he's a bugger to find.Thus here we also posit an initial tree for paral-lel structures (Figure ld).
Since there are differentways in which entities are taken to be parallel, wecurrently assume a different initial tree for contras~("on the one hand" .. .
"on the other hand" ... ), dis-junction ("either" .
.
.
"or" ... ), addition ("not only"... "but also" .
.
. )
,  and concession ("admittedly".
.
.
"but"  .
.
. )
.
Such trees have a pair of anchorswith two main properties.The first is that their lexical realization seemsoptional.
In contrastive cases, a medial anchorsuch as "on the other hand" often appears lexical-ized without an initial phrase such as "on the onehand".
In fact, there are more cases of this in theBrown Corpus than of the two appearing together.Also optional is the realization of the initial anchorin disjunction (omitting "either"), addition (omit-ting "not only"), and concession (omitting "admit-tedly").
But we have recently noted cases whereonly the initial anchor is realized lexically but notthe medial anchor, although this is less common:Not only have they \[Rauschenberg's blueprints\]survived.
The process of their creation wasrecorded by Life magazine in April 1951.
(NewYork Review of Books, 6 November 1997, p.8)The second property is that the medial anchor ap-pears realizable in multiple ways.
Cristea and Web-bet (1997) report that, of the eleven instances of "onthe one hand" found in the Brown Corpus, four havetheir contrasting item cued by something other than"on the other (hand)" - including "but" and "at thesame time" :3.
On the one hand, the Public Health Service de-clared as recently as October 26 that presentradiation levels resulting from the Soviet shots"do not warrant undue public concern" orany action to limit the intake of radioactivesubstances by individuals or large populationgroups anywhere in the Aj.
But  the PHS con-ceded .
.
.
.
(cb21)4.
Brooklyn College students have an ambivalentattitude toward their school.
On the one hand,there is a sense of not having moved beyondthe ambiance of their high school.
This is par-ticularly acute for those who attended Mid-wood High School directly across the streetfrom Brooklyn College.
They have a sense ofmarginality at being denied that special badgeof status, the out-of-town school.
At  the  samet ime.
there is a good deal of self-congratulationat attending a good college ... (cf25)Other examples occur with "on the other extreme"and "at the other extreme" - cf.5.
On the one hand we have the "All you have todo is buy it" brigade who seem to think the onlyproblem is that we haven't gone and "done it".On the  o ther  ext reme there are groups whothink if it has been explored theoretically thenit's been done.In Section 3, we will argue that both these propertiescan be accommodated by treating the lexical anchorsof these initial trees as feature structures.2.2 Aux i l i a ry  TreesDiscourse cues other than subordinate conjunctionsare either adverbs (adverbial phrases) or conjunc-tions.
In XTAG (1995), adverbials are handled assimple auxiliary tree s (Figure 2a-b).
We do the samehere, associating each cue with a feature structurethat indicates its semantic properties for reasons tobe discussed in Section 3.
Semantically, such auxil-iary trees can be used to elaborate or clarify the dis-course relation holding between two discourse units.This may result in the phenomenon of there beingmore than one discourse cue in a sentence, as in6.
Stephen Brook, in Class: Knowing your placein modern Britain, begins promisingly with88z/s, vP} \[\] - .
\[\]cue (a) (b) cue(AcueFigure 2: Aux i l i a ry  Trees.
(a) and (b) are auxiliary trees in the tree family for adverbial discourse cues,which serve to modify or constrain the relation holding between discourse units.
Trees in the family may berooted on S or VP.
The symbol * indicates the foot node of the auxiliary tree.
(c) is the auxiliary tree forbasic elaboration.the proposition that "class distinction andclass consciousness - they are both withus".. .
.
Brook then,  however,  runs into trou-ble because he feels obliged to provide a theory7.
A l though the episodic construction of thebook often makes it difficult to follow, it nev-e r the less  makes devastating reading.We will discuss the semantics of such examplesshortly, and also the conjunctions "so" and "but".As noted in Section 1, an auxiliary tree (hereshown in Figure 2c) is used to adjoin to a structureand continue the description of the entity (object,event, situation, state, etc.)
that it conveys.
Sucha tree would be used in the derivation of a simplediscourse such as:8.
John went to the zoo.
He took his cell phonewith him.Here, the foot node of the auxiliary tree in Figure 2cwould be adjoined to the root of the tree for the firstclause, and its substitution site filled by the tree forthe second.
The tree's anchor may have no lexi-cal realization (as here, between main clauses), or itmay be realized by "and" (as in embedded clauses- e.g.
"Fred believes that John went to the zoo andthat he took his cell phone with him").
The compo-sitional meaning associated with adjoining this treeis simply that the meaning of the second clause con-tinues the description of the same entity as the first.Other aspects of meaning - such as there being acausal connection or temporal relation between itssub-parts, or an evidential relation between them -would be derived inferentially, and hence possibly befound inconsistent, given the subsequent discourse.When an adverbial discourse cue is adjoined to aclause, it can constrain how the clause can be inter-preted as continuing the already-started description- for example,9.
John went to the zoo.
However ,  he took hiscell phone with him.Following Knott and others (1996), we take the se-mantics of such discourse cues to be presupposi-tional.
For example, according to Knott, "however"presupposes the existence of a (shared) defeasiblerule, some or all of whose antecedents are licensedby the previous discourse, but which fails to hold ei-ther because the clause so marked contradicts eitherthe conclusion or an antecedent.
In Example (9),the defensible rule might be something likeWhen people go to the zoo, they leave theirwork behind.So the clause marked by "however" in (9) both con-tinues the description of the event of John's going tothe zoo (compositional semantics) and conveys thatthe above rule fails to hold because its conclusion iscontradicted (presuppositional semantics).Of course, since these relation-modifying auxiliarytrees are adverbials, they can, at least in English, beadjoined elsewhere in the structure, not just at theanchor - e.g.10.
Cracked and broken plastic tableware will at-tract germs, so it should be thrown away, nevermended.
Plastic furniture and toys.
however ,can be repaired successfully with the appropri-ate adhesive.We speculate that such medially-occuring discoursecues (of which we are acquiring a growing corpus ofnaturally-occuring examples) occur at the boundarybetween a sentence's topic or theme (i.e., the ques-tion under discussion) and its comment or rheme(i.e., the contribution made towards that question)(Steedman, 1996a).
There are then three possibili-ties:?
The cue merely makes the boundary explicit,while its presuppositional semantics remainstied to the proposition as a whole;?
The presuppositional semantics of the cueis grounded in whichever informational unit(theme or theme) occurs to its left;?
The presuppositional semantics of the cue isgrounded in the theme (wherever it occurs),specifying how the theme links to the discourse(i.e., how it is the question under discussion).89Deciding among these alternatives requires moretime for thought and analysis of both constructedand such "naturally-occuring" examples as1I.
A soldering iron is a much more specialized tool,which you will rarely need.
I f  the occasiondoes arise when you need to solder two pieces ofmetal together, however,  choose a large elec-tric soldering iron with a tapered head.and Examples (6) and (7) above.
In (11), the sub-ordinate clause itself is the theme.
Such examplesas (7) and (11) call into question RST's assump-tion that satellites, which these subordinate clauseswould be taken to be, can be omitted without a greatchange in meaning to a discourse.
These certainlycannot.Another open question (but more of a technicaldetail) is the appropriate handling of conjunctionssuch as "so" and "but".
On the one hand, their se-mantics can best be seen as presuppositional - pre-supposing a defensible rule grounded in the previousdiscourse that succeeds in the case of "so" and failsin the case of "but" (Knott, 1996).
On the otherhand, they can only occur in the same position as"'and", which we treat as a possible lexical realiza-tion of the anchor of the description-extending aux-iliary tree, but which is not presuppositional.
It isnot.
yet clear to us which is the more appropriateway to treat them.2.3 Compos i t iona l  vs.
In ferent ia lSemant icsOne consequence of this approach is that clauseslinked by an explicit subordinate conjunction havea different structural analysis than do clauses thatare simply adjacent.
This might appear problematicbecause the perceived meaning of such discourses isusually the same.
For example,12.
The City Council refused the women a permitbecause they feared violence.13.
The City Council refused the women a permit.They feared violence.In our approach, (12) derives from the initial treegiven in Figure 3a, while (13) derives from adjoiningan auxiliary tree (Figure 3b) to the tree for the firstclause and substituting the tree for the second clauseat I. Herein lies the difference between the two: In(12), the causal connection is derived composition-ally, while in (13), one infers from the second utter-ance continuing the description started in the first,that the speaker intends the situation described inthe second utterance to serve as an explanation forthat described in the first.
Thus, the causal connec-tion is defensible in (13) but not in (12).
This canbe seen by trying to continue ach with "But that.wasn't the reason for their refusal."
The extendedversion of (12) seems ill-formed, while the extendedversion of (13) seems perfectly coherent.Another reason for distinguishing a limited com-positional semantics from an open inferential seman-tics is illustrated by the following example:14.
My car won't start.
It may be out of gas.An RST analysis would simply decide what rela-tion held between the two clauses - perhaps non-volitional cause.
However, non-volitional cause doesnot capture the different modal status of the twoclauses, which in turn affects the modal status ofthe perceived relation: it is the car's possibly beingout of gas that is possibly the cause of its not start-ing.
We believe it is more systematic to just decidewhat description is being continued (here, the onebegun in the first clause) and then derive furtherinferences that reflect the different modal status ofthe two clauses.
That the above inference is defen-sible can be seen by continuing the discourse in (14)with "But that's not a possible reason for its notstarting".2.4 Br ie f  ExampleHere we illustrate our approach by considering Ex-ample 9 (repeated below) in more detail.9.
John went to the zoo.
However, he took his cellphone with him.Three types of elements participate in the analysis:(1) the syntactic analyses (trees) of the two clauses("John went to the zoo, "he took his cell phone withhim") labelled a and fl in in Figure 4., along withtheir respective meanings (call them Pl(j) and P2(J));(2) the auxiliary tree for the discourse cue "how-ever", labelled 7, along with its feature structure;and (3) the description-extending auxiliary tree la-belled 6.As the derivation in Figure 4 (below the arrow)shows, 3' adjoins at the root of a, fl substitutes into6, and ~5 adjoins at the root of ~.
The semantics isas described earlier in Section 2.2.903 Cue  Phrases  as  Feature  S t ructures(Knot t ,  1996)Earlier we noted that there was benefit o be gainedfrom taking the anchors of elementary trees to befeature structures into which discourse cues (whosesemantics was also in terms of feature structures)could substitute.
Here we briefly argue why we be-lieve this is so.First, in viewing discourse cues in terms of featurestructures, we are following recent work by Knott(1996; 1996).
Knott's study of the substitutabil-ity patterns of discourse cues reveals that their fourcommon patterns - synonymy, exclusivity, hyper-nymy/hyponymy and contingent substitutability -because 0?sem = pl(j)?sem = p20)Figure 3: Trees used in the derivation of Ex.
12 and Ex.
13however 7 ' . '
\[ \] \[\] .2'),' however sem = p20)5"Figure 4: Derivation of Example 9can, by assuming inheritance (that, except for con-tingent substitutability, a substitution pattern thatholds for a discourse cue also holds for all its hy-ponyms),  follow from interpreting cues in feature-theoretic terms:?
If cue a is synonymous with cue 3, they signalthe same values of the same features.?
If a is exclusive with /3, they signal differentvalues of at least one feature.?
If a is a hypernym of ~3,/3 signals all the featuresthat o~ signals, as well as some features for whicha is undefined.?
If a and ,3 are contingently substitutable, c~ andfl signal some of the same features, but a is alsodefined for a feature for which /3 is undefinedand /3 is defined for a feature for which a isundefined.Drawing on the extensive literature devoted to in-dividual cue phrases, Knott provided semantics forsome of these features in terms of preconditions ontheir use and/or  their communicative effects.Following Knott  in treating discourse cues interms of feature structures, it also appears benefi-cial to treat tree anchors as feature structures aswell, distinct from those of discourse cues.The reason for treating the anchor of subordinateclause initial trees as feature structures is one ofrepresentational efficiency: we can posit fewer suchtrees if we take their anchors to be features struc-tures that allow the (possibly contingent ) substitu-tion of any subordinate conjunction with a compat-ible feature structure.
For example, we can haveone tree whose anchor has the feature restricted-situation, that can be realized as either "if" or"when" in some texts, but only "when" in others- -  e .g .
:15.
Emergency parking regulations are in force\[when, if\] more than six inches of snow hasfallen.16.
I found 30 new messages had arrived \[when, *if\]I logged on this morning.
(Knott and Mellish, 1996) distinguish "if" and"when" by their different values for the featuremodal status: "when" has the value actual, while "if"has the value hypothetical.
One can therefore saythat other semantic features in Ex.
I6 conflict withthe value hypothetical, only allowing "when".
(N.B.One could also take "'when" as being unmarked formodal status, its hypothetical  reason begin synony-mous with "whichever".
The conflict with "if" inEx.
16 would still follow.
)The argument for treating the pair of anchors ofparallel structures as feature structures follows fromthe variability in the realization of the medial anchornoted in Section 2.1.
One way to account for this isthat the anchor has features separate from those ofthe discourse cues.
Any cue can then be used torealize the anchor, as long as it is either?
less specific than the anchor, as in Ex.
3 - "but"has few features in Knott 's  taxonomy;?
more specific than the anchor, as in Ex.
5 -"on the other extreme", although it does notappear in Knott 's  taxonomy, intuitively appearsto mean more than just "side".?
partially overlapping with the anchor, as inEx.
4 - "at the same time" has temporal91features, but does not seem intrinsically con-trastive.
This corresponds to Knott's conceptof contingent substitutability.It also appears as if the clause/discourse within thescope of an anchor can either reinforce its features(as in Ex.
17 below) or convey features of the anchorwhen it is not itself realized lexically, as in Ex.
18:17.
On the one hand, according to Fred, John isvery generous, On the other hand, accordingto everyone lse, he will only give if he sees anangle.18.
According to Fred, John is very generous.
Ac-cording to everyone lse, he will only give if hesees an angle.But this part of our work is more speculative andthe subject of needed future work.4 SummaryOne way of seeing a grammar for discourse is asa story grammar - i.e., a semantic grammar withcomponents marked for the role they play in thestory or some sub-part.
Alternatively, a discoursegrammar can, like a sentence-level grammar, merelyspecify how structural units fit together and howthe semantics of the whole would be derived.
Thisis one such grammar.
While previous authors haveadopted only certain aspects of TAG or LTAG, herewe have explored the possibility of a "fully" lexi-calized TAG for discourse, which allows to examinehow the basic insights of a lexicalized grammar carryover to discourse.Our proposal allows us to construct a smoothbridge between syntactic clauses and discourseclauses, each anchored on a lexical item (at timesempty but always carrying the appropriate f atures).It also allows us to factor out three separate sourcesfor elements of discourse meaning, thus providing atool for sorting out different processes in discourseand modeling them individually.
As such.
we believethe approach provides ome new insights and toolsfor investigating discourse structure and discourserelations.AcknowledgementsOur thanks to Mary Dalrymple, Christy Doran,Claire Gardent, Laura Kallmeyer, Alistair Knott,Matthew Stone and Mark Steedman for their invalu-able comments and suggestions.
An earlier draft ofthis paper was presented at the Workshop on Un-derspecification, Bad Teinach, Germany May 1998.Re ferencesDan Cristea and Bonnie Webber.
1997.
Ex-pectations in incremental discourse processing.In Proceedings of the 35 th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL97/EACL97), pages 88-95, Madrid, Spain.Morgan Kaufmann, Palo Alto CA.Claire Gardent.
1994.
Discourse multiple depen-dencies.
Technical Report ILLC Report LP-94-18,University of Amsterdam.Claire Gardent.
1997.
Discourse tree adjoininggrammars.
Claus report nr.89, University of theSaarlandes, Saarbriicken.Alistair Knott and Chris Mellish.
1996.
A feature-based account of the relations ignalled by sen-tence and clause connectives.
Language andSpeech, 39(2-3):143-183.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-driven Methodol-ogy for Motivating a Set of Coherence Relations.Ph.D.
thesis, Department ofArtificial Intelligence,University of Edinburgh.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281.Livia Polanyi and Martin H. van den Berg.
1996.Discourse structure and discourse interpretation.In P. Dekker and M. Stokhof, editors, Proceedingsof the Tenth Amsterdam Colloquium, pages 113-131, University of Amsterdam.Yves Schabes.
1990.
Mathematical nd Computa-tional Aspects of Lexicalized Grammars.
Ph.D.thesis, Department of Computer and InformationScience, University of Pennsylvania.Frank Schilder.
1997.
Tree discourse grammar, orhow to get attached to a discourse.
In Proceedingsof the Tilburg Conference on Formal Semantics,Tilburg, Netherlands, January.Mark Steedman.
1996a.
Representating discourseinformation for spoken dialogue generation.
InProceedings of the Second International Sympo-sium on Spoken Dialogue, pages 89-92, Philadel-phia PA, October.Mark Steedman.
1996b.
Surface Structure and In-terpretation.
MIT Press, Cambridge MA.Martin H. van den Berg.
1996.
Discourse grammarand dynamic logic.
In P. Dekker and M. Stokhof,editors, Proceedings of the Tenth Amsterdam Col-loquium, pages 93-111, ILLC/Department of Phi-losophy, University of Amsterdam.Bonnie Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostension inthe interpretation of discourse deixis.
NaturalLanguage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2):107-135..The XTAG-Group.
1995.
A Lexicalized Tree Ad-joining Grammar for English.
Technical ReportIRCS 95-03, University of Pennsylvania.
Seehttp://www.cis.upenn.edu/xtag/manuals.html.92
