Signalling in written text: a corpus-based approachMarie-Paule PLRY-WOODLEYERSS/PRESCOT, Universit6 de Toulouse Le Mirail5 atl6es Antonio-Machado31058 Toulouse cedex.
Francepery @univ-tlse2.
frAbstractThe concern of this paper is the signalling ofsegments and relations in written texts.
Itexplores the role of visual formatting and itsrelation to lexical and other markers.
Through acorpus-based study of a specific "text object" -definitions - in instructional texts, it bringstogether two models of text structure: RST andthe model of text architecture.
Unlike RST, thislatter model gives a central place to signalling,establishing a theoretically-motivated relation offunctional equivalence between markers based ontypography or layout and lexico-syntacticmarkers.
Definitions in the corpus arecharacterised on the basis of configurations ofmarkers, and their occurrences charted in theglobal structure of the text.
The distribution ofdefinition patterns highlights the dynamic natureof text: markers of a specific text object varysystematically according to where it occurs in thestructural hierarchy of the text.
The studyestablishes a relation between text objects andRST segments, thus opening the range ofdiscourse markers to include visual formatting,and providing RST segments with a textualstatus.I n t roduct ionDiscourse relations are heterogeneous; textorganisation seems to work on several distinct levels(Cf.
Moore and Pollack 1992).
This complexity hasbeen the focus of much research recently, with anumber of authors appealing to Halliday's tripartitedistinction of linguistic metafunctions - ideational,interpersonal and textual - in order to articulatedifferent perspectives on discourse organisation, ordifferent levels of description (Maier and Ho W 1993,Bateman and Rondhuis 1997).
These authors exploredways in which the metafunctions could provide anorganising principle for the classification of discourserelations and markers (otherwise classified as semanticvs.
pragmatic, subject-matter vs. presentational, etc.
).The textual metafunction, described by Halliday andHasan (1976) as "the text-forming component in thelinguistic system", comprising "the resources thatlanguage has for creating text" (ibid: 26) has tended toreceive the least developed treatment.
The focus ofthis paper is the textual metafunction, and its aim isto contribute to an understanding of the "resources"that are exploited to create textual meaning, morespecifically markers of relations and segmentboundaries.My approach belongs in corpus linguistics, and istherctore guided by an awareness of the diversity oflanguage productions.
A first factor of variation isdomain: a number of studieg are concerned with thelinguistic characterisation f domain sublanguages(Grishman and Kittredge 1986; Sager, Friedman et al1987) A second factor is genre, which subsumessocial /'unction, discourse purpose, channel.
Thisstudy focusses on written texts with a specificdiscourse function - ins t ruc t iona l -  within aparticular domain: software manuals.
The specificityof written texts and its relevance to an understandingof discourse organisation must be stressed: firstly, inmost cases, writing implies that the writer 1 and theintended audience do not share the context ofcommunication.
This has two major consequences forthe organisation of written text: a) a written text isgenerally a monologue, where topics are introduced.continued or dropped not through negociation betweendiscourse participants but on the sole basis of thewriter's representations and intentions; b) there is arequirement for explicitness in the signalling of thevarious levels of meaning.
Secondly, a written text isa visual object, and its visual properties are directlyinvolved - and exploited by readers - in theconstruction of meaning.
The choice of instructionaltexts derives from a hypothesis linked to theexplicitness requirement: the social function of thesetexts is such that their writers are likely to try andleave as little interpretative l eway as possible.
Theytherefore constitute a good starting point for a studyof organisational signals.Discourse theorists are generally agreed on a recursivestructuring involving text segments and discourserelations.
Many questions remain open, however, overthe signalling of relations and the nature and status ofthe segments.
In RST.
the authors tress the absenceof specific signalling of rhetorical relations.
As forthe segments concerned, the minimal units are definedas "typically clauses", but Mann and Thompsonspecify that the relations in fact hold between the1 I use the word writer for convenience, ven thoughthe production of a text may involve several agents.79meanings and intentions represented by the clause(Mann and Thompson 1989; Mann, Matthiessen andThompson 1992).
In other words, there is anexploitable correspondence b tween the syntactic unitclause, identifiable on the basis of surfacecharacteristics, and the unit of meaning which is theargument of a relation.
But what of the largersegments formed out of these basic units?
Do theyhave a status of their own?
Can they be identified onthe basis of surface signalling?
Some positiveanswers are proposed here, in the light of a modelwhich describes texts in terms of an architecture ofobjects, and on the basis of a study of a specific textobject - definitions - in software manuals.
Thenotion of marker is broadened to include typographicaland layout features, which we will see can befunctionally equivalent to lexical markers.1 The textual levelHalliday (Halliday and Hasan 1976; Halliday 1985)examines "the text-forming component in thelinguistic system" at three levels of organisation:- the clause: use of word order to signal theme, ofphonological prominence to signal new information;- the group or clause complex: use of .syntax tosignal interclausal relations, of punctuation to markthe sentence:- the text: use of cohesion devices (reference,substitution, ellipsis, conjunction, lexical cohesion).What I propose is an extension of this examination of"resources that language has for creating text"focussing on written text.
Virbel and his group(Virbel 1985; Virbel 1989; Pascual 1991) have doneextensive work on the visual aspects of textorganisation, as one realisation of what will be called"formatting", though, as will be seen, it is formattingin a somewhat broader sense than the usual acception.The question which immediately arises is whethervisual Lurrnatting can be seen as part of the resourcesof language.
In answer to this question, Virbel (1985)convincingly shows the relation of functionalequivalence (if one sets aside considerations ofappropriateness to genre and stage in the textdevelopment) between formulations based on visualformatting and discursive tbrmulations.
The made-upexamples in figure 1 will explain:1.l.
!1.21.3I?In this section 1 shall present hree ways ofapproaching First, .The second approachThirdlv .
.
.
.
.
.DefinitionsA:B:C:A i sB can be defined asWe call C IFigure 1: Formatting-based vs.In the first example, the claim is that the samestructuring is created - and meant o be recognised bythe reader - in the text images on the left and on theright.
Similarly, in the second example, threedefinitions are formulated, and meant o be recognisedas definitions, in both cases.
The formulations on theleft are based mostly on layout, typography andenumerations, while those on the right, though notdevoid of visual formatting, rely more on discursivemeans.
These examples have been made fairly clear-cut for the purposes of the demonstration, but in-between formulations are obviously possible.
Theresources available for written text organisation thusappear as a continuum from wholly discursive towholly visual, There seems to be no hard and fastconventions for layoutand  typographicalenhancement, but rather a general principle ofconu'ast.discursive formulationsOn these observations the main tenets of the model oftext architecture were formulated (Virbel 1985:Pascual 1991 ):- these formulations are perceived as "equivalent"because they are interpreted as performing the same"text act", here organising and defining.
Success ofsuch text acts is that they be recognised, and that thetext segments concerned (the arguments of thepertormative) be understood as sub-parts or asdefinitions.
These are metalinguistic performativeswhose performativity is directed at the text itself astext, and not at its ideational content or interpersonalpurpose.- the textual metalanguage, exemplified by the fullydiscursive formulations, is part of the language, andtherefore open to description in terms of operator-argument relations (after Harris 1968: 1982).
Theoperators are verbs such as organise, entitle, illustrate,conclude, define...: their arguments are text segmentscalled text objects.
A text object is therefore a80segment corresponding to a specific metalinguisticformulation and signalled by formatting.
The notionof formatting 2 covers lexico-syntactic, typographical,layout, and punctuation markers.This model of text organisation centres on theidentification and characterisation f segments at thetextual level.
To what extent do text objectsidentifiable through formatting correspond tosegments at other levels of description?
If acorrespondence can be established, the notion ofmarker, mostly geared toward lexical markers, couldbe radically broadened.
But this requires that therelations between the textual and the other levels oftext organisation be better understood.
In order tobroach these questions, our approach (Pascual andPrry-Woodley 1997a; 1997b; 1997c) has been toexamine a specific text object in a subset of aparticular genre.
Some elements from the study ofdefinitions in a software manual are presented insection 2.2 Definitions in a so f tware  manua l2 .1  Methodo log ica l  preliminaries2.1 .1  The corpusOur corpus consists of three software manuals.
Forthe initial exploration of the text object definition, weselected a limited sub-corpus extracted from themanual of a text analysis and categorisation systemcalled SATO 3.
The manual is organised in 7 chapters,numbered I to 7, and a number of peripheral objectssuch as acknowledgments and index.
Our sub-corpusis chapter 6 (78 pages.
49 000 words), which isdevoted to the description of the commands of one ofthe two main modules making up the system.
Theanalysis below focusses on section 6.1, dedicated to aspecific type of commands called "analyseurs".2.1 .2  The methodWe produced a representation f the text in terms ofthe higher levels of architecture (parts, titles,paragraphs, examples, etc.).
This representation wasobtained on the basis of a top-down analysis by a firstcoder, the starting point being the visual formattingfeatures - traces on the text's surface of the textualmetalanguage - which make these text objectsidentifiable.
Jointly.
a bottom-up RST analysis wasperformed by a second coder.
Definitions were thenidentified intuitively by the two coders.
There wasgeneral agreement, though there remains someuncertain cases which will not be dealt here.Definitions in the corpus are signalled byconfigurations of lexico-syntactic, typographical ndlayout markers.
Our final model of the grammar ofdefinitions in this corpus, presented fully in Pascualand P6ry-Woodley (1997b), is the result of severalcycles of approximation-refinements.
It presents anumber of basic patterns which are one level ofabstraction removed from the surface forms: theyallow the grouping together of surface forms in termsof an analysis in Harrisian elementary phrases andtransformations.2.2 Representing the h igher  leve ls  o ftext s t ructure2.2.1 A synthetic representationThe partial representation in figure 2 is a hybrid one:it shows the convergence between an analysis interms of text objects and an analysis in terms ofrhetorical relations.
The schemas are therefore labelledboth in terms of clausal units and relations, and interms of text objects (see key below figure 2).
"Part"is used as a generic term subsuming chapter, section,sub-section, etc.
When it coincides with numberedparts in the manual, the original numbers are used(part 6.1.1); non-numbered parts are attributed anumber (parts 26 to 31).
For reasons of readabilityan d space, figure 2 focusses on part 6.1.14.The structure represented displays great regularity: itis a series of nested elaborations, which correspond tonested definitions.
As mentioned before, part 6.1 ofour manual describes/defines a set of commands called"analyseurs".
At the first level (not shown), there is apreamble (pre 1) which is the nucleus of eightelaborations (parts 6.1.1 to 6.1.8) dealing with each"analyseur" in turn.
Pre 1 is itself an elaborationschema.
Part 6.1.1 is structured in the same way aspart 6.1, with a preamble (pre 2) and an elaboration.Again the preamble is an elaboration schema.
Thebody of part 6.1.1 is again an elaboration schemawith a preamble (pre 3) as its nucleus, and threeelaborations, of which the last two, an explanationand an example, will be analysed no further.
Theanalysis of the remaining elaboration (parts 26 to 31)reveals a more complex structure, where related spansare not strictly adjacent5: text-span 7-8 and clause 9are the nuclei of elaboration relations involving parts26 and 27 (elaborating 7-8) and parts 28 to 31(elaborating 9).2 The original term is "mise en forme matrrielle".3 SATO (Syst~me d'Analyse de Textes par Ordinateur)is a system developed by F. Daoust at the Centred'ATO of the University of Quebec at Montreal.
It isthe software used to search for occurrences ofdefinitions in our corpus.4 The reader is asked to ignore at this stage theindications of definition types (BP, RPI-5), whichwill be dealt with in sections 2.3 and 2.4 below.5 I realise this is not conform to the tenets of RST.This anomaly seems linked to the list structuretypical of the genre, which will be discussed later.81part 6.1: pre 1 and part 6.1.1pre 1 part 6.1.1 elaboration1 2 3-6BP pre 2part 6.1.1 (body)re 2 part 6.1. l (body)lab I elaboration3 4-6 7-9 10-32RP1 pre 3 part 26-31 expl 1 exa 1part 6.1.1 : pre 3 and part 26-31pre 37-8 9 10-13 14-18RP5 RP3 part 26 part 27Key to figure 2:elaboration19-22 23-24part 28 part 29Figure 2.
RST/archirecture presentation1-32 = clausal units expl = explanationpre = preamble exa = example25-26 27-32part 30 part 312.2.2 Architectural segments vs. rhetoricalsegmentsIn this analysis, text objects, identified on the basis offormatting features, are all RST text-spans.
Thisimplies that formatting features can also be markersof rhetorical segments.
The authors of RST.
whilststating that the analysis can be approached top-downas well as bottom-up, do not give any indication as tothe identification of high-level segments.
Yet analystsperforming a top-down RST analysis are bound to useformatting to delimit high-level text-spans, as part ofthe interpretation process.
The model of textarchitecture is an attempt at making explicit thisaspect of text-meaning production.
The congruencebetween architectural and rhetorical segmentsdisplayed in the reference text may not begeneralisable.
It is probably desirable, however, atleast in certain genres, and could be developed into aprinciple in generation and composition i struction.In this analysis, RST text-spans acquire a status at thetextual level.
This may be an organisational status,such as parts at different levels of the hierarchy, or afunctional status, such as definitions.
There appears tobe a strong correspondence b tween some text objects82and particular relation schemas: the definition patternsdetailed in the next section are the nuclei ofdefinitional text-spans which are all elaborationschemas 6.
Finally, definitions can be made up ofdefinitions, just as elaboration schemas can be madeup of elaboration schemas.2.3 Character i s ing  de f in i t ions2.3.1 The patternsDefinitions in our text are signalled through acombination of discursive and visual formattingfeatures.
These are sufficiently recurrent and regular toallow the formulation of a basic pattern (BP in Table1), where every distributional s ot is filled, and of fivereduced patterns (RPI to RP5), where one or moreelement is missing.
There is a gradation in thenumber of reductions: RPI and RP2 involve onereduction; RP3 and RP4 involve 2 reductions; RP5involves 3 reductions.6 Other such correspondences between particularexpressions of the textual metalanguage(metasentences) and RST relations have beensuggested in Pascual and P6ry-Woodley (1997a).Given the objectives of this paper, Table l onlyshows patterns actually occurring in the corpus.
If theaim was to generate all possible formulations,whether in order to capture all potential forms forautomatic recognition, or for text generation, it wouldobviously be easy to complete the table.The patterns always coincide with the beginning of  aparagraph; the word being def ined is a lwaystypographical ly  marked (capitals,  bold, invertedcommas).
These layout and typographical features arean integral part of the patterns.BPno reductionRP1reduction Vi Nc2Ncl?
La commandeThe command?
L 'ana lyseurThe analyserNnDistanceDistanceCOMPARAISONCOMPARISONVi Nc2?st un  ana lyseurlex ico-stat is t ique.is a lex ico -s ta t i s .tical analyser.VcElle permet deIt is used topermet deis used toml|comparer statistiquementles lexiques de deuxsous-textes quelconquesd'un corpusstatistically compare thelexica of any two sub-texts o(a corpusmarquer ...mark ,..RP2reduction Nc lRP3reduction Ncl, ViNc2RP4reduction Vi Nc2 VcRP5reduction Ncl ,V iNc2.
Vc?
L'analyseurThe anal;x'ser?
Le f i l t reThe f i l ter?
EXPORTEREXPORTSEGMENTATIONSEGMENTA~ON?APPLIQUERAPPLYest un patron defouilleis a search patternqui perrnet dewhich is usedt(Ipermet  d'is ttsed todefinir ...define...enreg is t rer  ...record ...d6coupe ...segments..I alflCe ...SI~IFIS.
.Table 1: Definition patternsKey (the classes are distributional c asses which have been functionally labelled, apart from the final verb phrase):Nc: classifier noun Vc : "can-verb" {permettre.
servir a, avoir pour effet,Nn : domain-specific name 6tre utilis6 pour .
.
.
.
}Vi : "is-verb" {6tre, ddsigner} ?
: indicates the start of a paragraph.2.3.2 Interpret ing the variationA definition typical ly consists of two functionalelements: the class, expressed by a hypernym, and thespecificity, expressed by a modifier attached to thehypernym.
Table 1 shows that the corpus displayslittle variation as regards the specificity (Vc VP orjust VP), but the class can be expressed twice (Ncland Nc2), once (Nc2) or not at all (in RP5).
Beforemoving on to the next section, concerned with thedistribution of these different patterns within thehierarchy of the text, I shall report some recentobservat ions oil "c lass - less"  def in i t ions:  alloccurrences of RP5 are found in list structures wherethe class is indeed expressed, but in the header of  thelist and not in every definit ional item.
Ongoinganalysis of other software manuals conf irms theregularities underlying the variations in the use oflists in definitions.
The three examples in Figure 3show how the class relation may be formulated withdiffering levels of reliance on visual clues.
In therightmost formulation, the interpretation of "Display"as a type of command relies solely on layout clues:Three commands may be applied " J Commands :Display is a command which \[ - Display: this command ...Export is a command allowing ....
I - Export: this command ...Print is a command which .... \[ - Print: this command ...Commands :- Display: <function>- Export: <function>- Print: <function>Figure 3."
Lists and the expression of class832.4 Mapping definitions onto theoverall structureThe RST/architecture presentation in figure 2 aboveindicates the position of different definition patterns inthe structure.
The nucleus of  the preamble(elaboration schema) to part 6.1 is a basic pattern(BP).
At the next level down, the nucleus of thepreamble to part 6.1.1 is a reduced pattern of typeRPI (one reduction).
Down one more level, tgepreamble to the body of part 6.1.1 comprises tworeduced patterns of type RP5 and RP3 respectively,i.e.
patterns having lost two or three elementscompared with the basic pattern.
There is therefore anapparent correlation between definition type and textstructure.
We went on to investigate this correlationfor the whole of part 6.1.
The results are presented infigure 4 in terms of occurrences of definition patternsin the numbered text parts.
They show that thedistribution suggested in figure 2 is a constant overthe 8 sub-parts.
The definitions, or rather definitionnuc le i -  as the elaborations must be seen as part ofthe definit ions- which initiate each sub-part (6.1 to6.4) are all representatives of the basic pattern.
Onestep below in the hierarchy, the definition nucleiwhich initiate parts 6.
I. I to 6.1.8 are mostly reducedpatterns of type RPI (6 out of 8), with one instanceof basic pattern and one of reduced pattern RP4.
In theparts which make up parts 6.
I. I to 6.1.8, the patternsshowing multiple reductions dominate':Part 6Part 6.1 : BPPart 6.1.I : RPIPart 6.1.1(body): RP5RP3Part 6.1.2 : RPIPart 32: RP3RP5RP5RP5PartPartPartPartPartPartPart 6.2: BPPart 6.3: BPPart 6.4: BP6.1.3 : BP6.1.4 : RPI6.1.5 : RPI6.1.6 : RP16.1.7 : RP46.1,8 : RPIFigure 4.
Distribution of definition patterns in part 6This study attempts to relate a fine-grained analysis ofa specific text object and the organisation of a largesegment of text, The regularities in the distribution of7 The detail of this level has only been given for parts6.1.1 and 6.1.2 for readability's sake.
The distributionis however constant throughout.84definition patterns are of interest with respect o thedynamic aspect of text construction, Definitions inthe corpus are seen as text objects which correspondto elaboration schemas whose nuclei are characterisedby regular formatting patterns (lexico-syntactic,typographical nd layout).
Within these patterns, theclassifier Nc states the class (what type of command itis) while the modifier (Vc VP) expresses thespecificity.
What the distribution of these patternswithin the text as a whole shows is that theexpression of the class can disappear at the lowerhierarchical levels, when the classificatory elementshave already appeared at structurally higher levels,leaving definitions entirely focussed on the functionalaspects (what the command oes).
With each new partthere is therefore an evolution from definitions whichsituate the command within the universe of thesystem to definitions which focus solely on what canbe done with the command.ConclusionThe above representations come out of  a studystarting from premises somewhat apart from mostwork on discourse organisation.
The first is that thereis a specific textual level of organisation which issignalled through what has been called "formatting".This textual level is seen as participating in theconstruction of textual meaning, in an interactionwith other levels which has yet to be fullyunderstood.
The second is that formatting may be tosome extent constrained by genre and domain, and thatit therefore makes sense to identify generalisable traitswithin a genre/domain before going on to look forconstants across genres/domains, The third is that itmay be enlightening to focus on a specific textobject, hut view its behaviour within the text as awhole.
This leads us to encompass a much larger textthan is usually the case in detailed studies of discourseorganisation, while adopting a fine-grained analysisfor the text object under study.Formatting as presented here provides a novel andtheoretically-motivated way of envisaging the textualmetafunction.
It opens up the notion of discoursemarker for written text, situating typographical andlayout clues in a relation of functional equivalencewith "classical" linguistic clues.
Where there iscongruence between RST and architectural segments,formatting markers are clues to discourse structure.The regular lexico-syntactic, layout and typographicalpatterns which we have called definition patterns havea dual status: they signal definitional text objects aswell as being nuclei of a particular type of elaborationschema.Whereas RST analysis is presented as essentiallybased on an interpretative process, fundamentallyindependent from any specific surface markers, theanalysis of architecture centres on the signalling oftextual objects through formatting.
This paper hasbrought to light some convergence between theresults of the two analyses in texts subject to highrequtrements of explicit signalling.
This is a steptowards understanding the linguistic resources broughtinto play for the signalling of discourse relations.Future work on these issues could take a number ofdistinct but potentially converging viewpoints:starting from special formatting devices, such asparentheses or foomotes; starting from specific textobjects, to extend the study of definitions to othercorpora or to examine other functional text objectssuch as examples or conclusions: taking particularrelations as the starting point, to investigate relationswhich are reputed to have no marker - e.g.
elaboration- in the light of the broader conception of signallingdeveloped here.AcknowledgementsThis paper derives from work carried out over severalyears with Elsa Pascual, who died accidentally lastsummer.
It is written in her memory.I would like to thank A. Borillo and J. Rebeyrolle(ERSS.
Toulousel, C. Garcia-Debanc.
C. Luc andJ.
Virbel (PRESCOT, Toulouse), and D. Scott~ITRI.
Brighton) for their comments and suggestionson earlier versions of this paper.ReferencesBateman.
J. and K.J.
Rondhuis (1997~.
CoherenceRelations.
Towards a General Specification.Discourse Processes 24/1.
pp.
3-50.Grishman.
R. and R. Kittredge (1986) Analyzinglanguage in restricted domains.
Sublanguagedescription and processine.
Hillsdale.
N.J..Erlbaum.Halliday, M. A. K. and R. Hasan (19761.
Cohesion inEnglish.
London.
Longman.Halliday.
M. A. K. (1985).
An Introduction toFunctional Gramnzar.
London, Edward Arnold.Harris.
Z.S.
(1968).
Mathematical Structures ofLanguage.
New York, Wiley & Sons.Harris.
Z.S.
(1982).
A grammar of English onmathematical principles.
New York, Wiley-Interscience.Luc.
C. (1998'~ Relations constructives entre phrasesdldmentaires trelations rhdroriques dans le cadre dela g(n(ration automatique de textes h consignes.Paper submitted to RECITAL'98.
LeMans.France.
8-9 September 98.Maier, E. and E. Hovy (1993).
Organizing discoursestructure relations using metaffunctions.
In "'NewConcepts in Natural Language Generation", H.Horacek & M. Zock, ed., Pinter, London.Mann.
W.C. and S.A. Thompson (1989).
Rhetoricalstructure theory: A theor3" of text organization.
In"The Structure of Discourse".
L. Polanyi, ed.,Ablex.
Norwood, N.J.Mann.
W.C., Matthiessen, M.I.M.
and S.A.Thompson (1992).
Rhetorical structure theor3."
andtext analysis.
In "Discourse Description: DiverseLinguistic Analyses of a Fund-raising Text", W.C.Mann & S.A. Thompson, eds., John Benjamins,Amsterdam/Philadelphia.
pp.
39-78.Moore.
J.D.
and M.E.
Pollack (1992).
A problem forRST: the need for multi-level discourse analysis,Computational Linguistics, 18/4, pp.
537-544.Pascual, E. ( 1991).
Reprdsentation de l'architecturetextuelle t g(n(ration de texte.
Doctoral thesis,Universit6 Paul Sabatier, Toulouse.Pascual.
E. and M.-P. P6ry-Woodley (1997a).D~finition et action dans les textes procdduraux.
In"'ke texte procddural : langage, action et cognition",E. Pascual.
J-k. Nespoulous & J. Virbel, eds.,PRESCOT, Toulouse, pp.
223-248.Pascual.
E. and M.-P. Pdry-Woodley (1997b).Moddlisation des ddfinitions dans les textesconsig,es.
In "'Cognition.
Discours procedural,Action".
J. Virbet.
J-M.
Cell ier & J-L.Nespoulous, ed.. PRESCOT, Toulouse.
pp.
37-55.Pascual.
E. and M.-P. P6ry-Woodley (1997c).Modbles de texte pour la ddfinirion, "'Proceedings ofleres Journees Scientifiques et Techniques duRfiseau francophone de l'Ing6nierie de la Langue deI'AUPELF-UREF", AUPELF-UREF, Avignon,pp.
137-146.Pdry-Woodley.
M.-P.  and Rebeyrolle, J.
(1998)Domain and genre in sublanguage text: definitionalmicrotexts in three corpora, "Proceedings FirstInternational Conference on Language Resources &Evaluation", Granada.
May 1998.
ELRA, Paris, pp.987-992.Sager, N., C. Friedman.
et al, (Ed.)
(1987).
Medicallanguage processing.
Computer management ofnarrative data.
Reading.
MA., Addison-Wesley.Virbel, J.
(1985).
Langage et mdtalangage dans letexte du point de wee de l'ddition en informatiquetextuelle.
Cahiers de Grammaire, 10. pp.
5-72.Virbel, J.
(1989).
The contribution of linguisticknowledge to the interpretation of text structures, tn"'Structured Documents", J. Andr& V. Quint & R.K. Furuta, ed., CUP, Cambridge.
pp.
161-181.85
