Intel l igent Network  News Reader  w i th  V isua l  User  Inter faceHi tosh i  ISAHARA,  K iyotaka  UCHIMOTO and H i romi  OZAKUCommunicat ions  Research Laboratory588-2, Iwaoka, Iwaoka-cho, Nishi-ku, Kobe,  Hyogo, 651-2401, JapanAbst rac tWe are developing an Intelligent Network NewsReader which extracts news articles for users.
Incontrast o ordinary information retrieval and ab-stract generation, this method utilizes an "informa-tion context" to select articles from newsgroups onthe Internet and it displays the context visually.
Asalient feature of this system is that it retrieves ar-ticles dynamically, adapting itself to the user's in-terests, not classifying them beforehand.
Since thissystem measures the semantic distance between arti-cles, it is possible to refer to the necessary informa-tion without being constrained within a particularnews group.
We finished a prototype of the Intelli-gent Network News Reader in March 1998 and willcomplete a final practical version in March 2000.1 In t roduct ionExtracting necessary information easily from thebulk of information available throughout the worldis crucial for people living in this highly computer-ized society, and therefore, it is necessary to developsystems which can visually present he selected in-formation ecessary to assist people in forming newconcepts.
A great deal of work on this subject hasbeen done by various researchers, e.g., informationretrieval from newspaper articles and message un-derstanding in newspaper articles.It is not sufficient hat this kind of expert systemsimply imitate the real world.
Such systems have tocreate a richer environment with the visual interfacethan there is now.
This means not simply supplyingan imitation of the real world, but actively buildinga virtual world where the density of information ishigher than that of the real world for a given use.
Inother words, we need information screening for eachindividual user.
Therefore, technology which selectsand presents the necessary information will be thekey to information retrieval in the future.As an application of this kind of technology tothe Internet, we are developing an Intelligent Net-work News Reader (HISHO: Helpful Information Se-12lection by Hunting On-line) which extracts news ar-ticles for users and which visually displays the struc-ture of articles.
In contrast o ordinary informationretrieval and abstract generation, this method uti-lizes an "information context" to select articles fromnewsgroups on the Internet.
We finished our pro-totype of the Intelligent Network News Reader inMarch 1998 and will complete a final practical ver-sion in March 2000.In this paper, we discuss how to find topic chang-ing articles in the tree structures of news articles,how to extract topic differences from the thread ofarticles, and how to indicate this information in thedisplay to help users decide which part of the treestructures of articles they will read.2 In fo rmat ion  Gather ing  f rom theNetwork  NewsNetwork news has recently become very popularworldwide, and the number of articles generated ev-ery day is increasing rapidly.
Also the quality of in-formation in these articles varies widely.
This makesthe percentage of important information lower andlower.Many people use or want to use Internet news.However, since it is not possible to read all the arti-cles received, it is difficult to find articles on a spe-cific topic and it is difficult to determine from thesearticles, which are relevant to one's pecific interests,especially where the author of the article neglectedto use a suitable subject, i.e., title.
This situation,i.e., articles without suitable subjects, often occursand thus, it is not easy to retrieve information uti-lizing a simple keyword-based method.Some research on such problems, i.e., on gather-ing information efficiently, has been done, but mostof the research as been limited to generating ab-stracts or extracting some topics.
However, they areimmature and still have many problems.
No one,yet, has established a way for the user to tell a newsreader what he/she requires.3 In fo rmat ion  Ret r ieva l  and  NewsReaderThere is much on-going research in information re-trieval.
In document retrieval, the key technologyis the utilization of keywords, titles, and user de-fined "key words" (Jacobs, 1992).
Full text search isnow very fast using some programming techniques.TREC (Text Retrieval Conference) by ARPA in-cludes this kind of approach (Harman, 1994).One of the targets of the summarization and in-formation extraction domains is to plug informationinto some templates.
MUC (Message UnderstandingConference) by ARPA is in~colved in doing this kindof work (ARPA, 1993).However, these approaches are not suitable for in-formation retrieval from the network news on theInternet.
Therefore, there have been many propos-als for network news readers.
For example, "Galaxyof News" retrieves ets of information related to oneanother by adopting a stochastic method to producea hierarchy of keywords and it presents the results ofthe search visually, i.e., 3-dimensionally (Rennison,1994).
However, users have to manually chose thearticles they want to read.Another program which assists users in selectingarticles they should read is the "Personalized Elec-tronic News Editor" (Sheth, 1994).
First, a userinstructs the agents who are in charge of informa-tion retrieval of his/her preferences.
Then, they ex-tract keywords, chose articles using the extractedkeyword, and recommend the chosen articles to theuser.
There is also research being done on the sum-marization of news articles to help people who readthe network news (Sato, 1994).
Although this is avery useful research domain, when we think of theactual user needs for a network news reader, theseneeds are not being met.
Users generally want toread the whole article relevant o their interests, andthey are not satisfied reading abstracts.
Therefore,it is necessary to display not only the summary con-ceived in terms but the whole relevant section of theoriginal articles.Also, we have to be aware of the following point.There are two types of network news.
The first isnewswire-like newsgroups, which are similar to theordinary newspaper and which makes various an-nouncements, uch as meetings, job opportunities,and so on.
Of course, these newsgroups are veryinformative, but they do not contain such a largenumber of articles.
The second is newsgroups fordiscussion among users.
This is where people dis-cuss things, the topic for which has been introducedby one of them.
Each article in the newswire-likenewsgroups i mainly self-contained, therefore, it is13possible to retrieve previous articles dealing with thesame subject by using simple keyword-based tech-nology.However, articles in the newsgroups for discus-sion are neither semantically nor referentially self-contained.
The previously mentioned "PersonalizedElectronic News Editor" and summarization systemsare for articles in the newswire-like newsgroups.
Oursystem focuses on assisting the reader of the discus-sion newsgroups by intelligently screening articles inthe network news.4 Features  o f  Network  NewsNetwork news is a good knowledge source and theexpectation is that the articles are well organized.The assumption is that related articles should havethe same title or be linked together by informa-tion in a reference field and that non-related arti-cles should have different itles.
However, often thisis not true.
Recent news reader systems which uti-lize this kind of information to classify news arti-cles have been misleading.
We checked two news-groups, specifically, fj.life.health and fj.sci.medical.In fj.life.health, we found 525 disjointed parts in1431 articles over 13 months using their referencefields, and in fj.sci.medical, we found 692 disjointedparts in 1683 articles.
For example, in fj.life.health,209 articles had no relation to other articles explic-itly, however, 61 of these had some relation to theothers when we checked their content.
Also, someparts which involved more than one article were se-mantically related to the other parts.
This indicatesthat if we use the reference field to find relations be-tween articles, many of these would not be extracted.The subject field of each article seems informa-tive, however, news writers do not tend to changethe subject even if they change the topic of theirarticles from the former one.
We found during ourexperiment that the subject is not very informativeand it is not efficient if a news reader presents allarticles with the same subject to users.Therefore, it is necessary for the Intelligent Net-work News Reader to have a way of gathering all therelations between articles based on their content.
Wepropose a system which sees the articles in networknews as a kind of conversational text, which goes up-stream in the flow of topics for articles, consideringreferences, quotations and the relative importancebetween words and/or sentences, and which extractsand visually displays articles which have user rele-vant information.5 In te l l igent  Network  News ReaderWe are developing an Intelligent Network NewsReader as part of the environment in assisting thegrowth of human intellectual creativity, focusing onscreening technology to raise the density of informa-tion.
We see this as one application of natural an-guage processing technology as we progress towarda mult imedia network society (Nikkei, 1995).In this paper, we clarify problems which preventthe effective use of information on the network news,and we propose a way of extracting the necessaryinformation by focusing on the consistency of topicsin the articles.
We also propose a way of displayingthe extracted information visually to assist users inreading informative news articles effectively.
We alsoattempt o solve the problems.
Our system has thefollowing features: it treats the article in which theuser is interested as a key to information retrieval,weighs the relative importance between sentences byusing natural language processing technology, andit utilizes heuristics on the features of the networknews assuming it to be a kind of conversational text.Typical usage of this system would be: the user isvery busy and cannot keep up with the recent news,he/she gets some free time and takes a look at to-day's news articles which are extracted from a hugeset of unread articles.
He/she finds one very inter-esting article and wants to read all the articles per-taining to that topic, enough to understand wholediscussion.
So, what should the news reader do tohelp him/her?A news reader for busy people needs not onlymake an abstract of the recent news - since the ab-straction process can drop some important informa-tion - but to choose the suitable thread to followon the basis of the content of the news articles.
Wetherefore propose the concept of "information con-text" defined by the structural distribution of wordsin the articles.
Using this context, the user can fol-low a suitable thread, even if some articles are lack-ing a suitable subject.To make a decision regarding article retrieval orsummary generation, it is not enough to give sucha system keywords or a title in the subject field ofthe news.
Recently developed news readers classifynews items using their subjects, however, since thesubject often differs from the contents of the article,many unnecessary articles are extracted by such asimple screening method.A keyword method can be useful when one knowswhat information he/she wants, or when one pre-cisely knows the hierarchy of keywords, e.g., a the-saurus.
When one is in the process of forming a newconcept from his/her basic concept, it is not possibleto chose a suitable keyword.
The human conceptionprocess begins from the basic stage, passes into thethinking stage with the process of extracting relatednews, and clarifies its target and/or  its result.
Ourintelligent news reader is expected to improve the ef-ficiency of the retrieval of network news, and is alsoexpected to be a tool for assisting some intelligentactivities by humans.Here, the key to retrieval is not the keyword ortitles which are decided by the users based on theirown intuition, but the relevant article itself.
Inother words, this system allows information retrievalthrough the use of ambiguous keys.
It is not neces-sary for the user to enter any concrete keywords ortitles of articles.
He/she simply needs to point to thearticle which he/she is interested in.
The system willfind (almost) all related articles.We are developing the system in JAVA languagewhich is one of the most popular languages capableof handling visual images on the screen.The system works as follows:1.
A user finds an article which fits his/her inter-ests.2.
The HISHO system makes a reference tree (RT)and sets a family tree obeying the user's electedarticle.
It checks the article's relation inside theFT.3.
The system checks the relation between the FTand other RTs.4.
The system displays the relevant articles whichfit the user's interests by using a graphic inter-face.When the user activates the system, it automat-ically creates a tree structure of articles in a newsspool by using their "References" field, then it re-fines these tree structures using the "Subject" field.We call these structures reference trees.The user begins to read articles and finds a newsarticle which fits his interests.
The selected articleis called the focus article (FA).
An RT including theFA is called a family tree.When the user selects the FA, HISHO starts tofind the FT and extract features of the FA.
Some-times an RT has a lot of articles.
In that case, itis possible that the RT includes several topics.
So,HISHO identifies a topic-changing article in the FT.The feature of the FT  is calculated by using thescore of terms in articles of the FT.
The terms in theFA add the special score.
The system calculates fea-tures of the RTs including the FT  and gathers imi-lar RTs.
Related articles are extracted using the fea-ture value from articles not connected by "Subject"14and/or "References" field.
It means that HISI-IO cangather similar RTs even if those belong to differentnews groups from the original news group.HISHO gathers the articles which are related tothe article selected by a user.
After calculating therelevance that is checking the topics, HISHO catego-rizes some articles in time order, and gives the userthe end result by using a graphic interface.The salient feature of this system is that it re-trieves articles dynamically, that is adapting to theuser's interests, without classifying them before-hand.
Since this system measures the semanticdistance between articles, it is possible to refer tothe necessary information without being constrainedwithin a particular newsgroup.6 V isua l i zat ion  of ArticlesOur aim is to allow users to clearly grasp the streamof discussion in discussion-type newsgroups whenthey are shown articles by our system.
The sum-marization of articles is an efficient means of outlin-ing a discussion.
However, it is hard to convey thestream of discussion by using only summarization.We are developing a systemn that can help users toread smoothly by showing them structuralized arti-cles instead of summaries.We can divide streams of discussion into threekinds of groups by paying attention to the transitionof topics.
The first is a stream where the topic doesnot shift from first to last, the second is a streamwhere the topic shifts halfway, and the third is astream where several topics are discussed in a certainarticle and then each topic is discussed respectively.Further, the attitudes of contributors, e.g., proposal,approval, opposition, supplements and so on, are re-flected in each stream.
In this paper, we discuss amethod of presenting articles so that it is easy forusers to grasp the stream of discussion, and we deferdealing with the individual attitudes of contributorsof the articles towards the discussion.We assume the following structure which is easyfor users to understand:?
Parts where the topic shifts or branches aretagged.?
The difference between topics is represented bykeywords.If we structure articles in this manner, users cancatch the changing topic points and the topicbranching points and they can easily grasp the dif-ference between topics, enabling them to have a cleargrasp of the stream of discussion.
A distinctive fea-ture of our method is that when users read a cer-tain article, they can grasp the outline of the articleswhich follow.So far, several methods of visualizing archives byusing keywords have been proposed.
These methodswere applied to discussion-type newsgroups and theWWW (Yabe et al, 1997; Arita et al, 1995).
Inthese, articles where the same topic is discussed arelocated nearer than those where a different opic isdiscussed, and the topics are visualized by represent-ing keywords.
Those methods have an advantage inthat users can easily grasp what kinds of topics arebeing discussed as a whole and which articles thosetopics are discussed in.
However, these methods donot deal with the stream of discussion.
Our proto-type system can extract the stream of discussion asan RT (Isahara et al, 1997), and it can indicate thearticle region where the same topic is discussed byidentifying the changing topic.
That is to say, whena user is interested in a certain article, the systemcan designate the article region that he should readnext.
Furthermore, in our method, topic branchingcan automatically be identified, and the differencebetween topics discussed in articles can be repre-sented by using keywords, so that articles can beshown to users as those being easy to understand.6.1 S t ruc tura l i za t ion  of  Art ic lesFigure 1 shows a conceptual image of the structural-ized articles.
The tree represents a series of discus-sions.
By using the "References" information eacharticle has, we can easily relate the articles in thetree structure.
The tags, "TCA" and "TBA", in-dicate that the topic changes and branches respec-tively from each tagged article.
Our method cancorrectly identify changing topics and topic branch-ing through evaluating the difference in keywordsbetween articles.
The keywords confirming identifi-cation are those that represent the difference in top-ics.
Therefore, we extract these keywords and dis-play them as Figure 1 shows.
In the articles withinthe ellipse, the same topic is discussed.In the following section, we first define topic-changing and topic-branching articles, and in Sec-tions 6.1.2 and 6.1.3 we describe the basic idea ofour methods in identifying these articles.6.1.1 Top ic -chang ing  Art ic les andTop ic -branch lng  Art ic lesUsers in discussion-type newsgroups have discus-sions with each other in the form of articles.
Eacharticle contributed to network newsgroups has "Ref-erences" information, which is a list of related arti-cles and is much like a list of cross-references.
Byusing this information, we can easily relate the arti-cles in a tree structure (reference tree).15x,Z / Q:ArticleFigure 1: Conceptual Image of Structuralized Arti-cles.In this tree, a subordinate article is a reply to orcomment on the more highly ranked article.
Thetree branches off at articles which are replied to orcommented on by several contributors.The greater the length of the path and the morebranches the tree has, the higher the probability oftopic-changing and topic-branching.
In this paper,we call an article in which the topic changes a topic-changing article and one in which the topic branchesa topic-branching article.6.1.2 Method  of Ident i fy ing  aTop ic -changing Art ic leIf the topic does not change, in a series of articles,a lot of the same words tend to be used in all thearticles.
If the topic changes, on the other hand, it isexpected that words different from those in previousarticles will be used after that turning point.
Oursystem identifies topic-changing articles by lookingfor the transition in the frequency of words (Uchi-moto et al, 1997).We utilize the following distinctive features toidentify topic-changing articles.Feature  1 At a topic-changing article, the ratio ofkeywords never seen in the previous articles toall keywords in the article is higher than theratio in the previous article.Feature  2 When we split articles into two groupsat a topic-changing article, keywords chosen inone group tend to appear frequently in thatgroup, and less frequently in the other group.We extract keywords which conform to Feature 2from identified topic-changing articles, and utilizethem as the keywords to present o users.It is impossible for our system to split a sentenceinto words correctly, since it does not use dictio-naries.
So instead of using words, our system useskeywords.
A keyword consists of strings of kanji,e.g., "1.~5~:1~30:~", or strings of kanji, katakana, letters,and/or numbers, e.g., "n P'3./-," or "4 :~ 1) T l ,~" .We assume that nouns represent features of an arti-cle better than verbs, adjectives, and so on do, andthat most of the nouns in articles consist 0fstrings ofkanji or strings of katakana, letters and/or numbersfollowed by hiragana.
If we cut the strings of hira-gana from the text, what is left will be either nounsor arbitrary strings without hiragana.
When thatremainder consists of only one kanji character andis not followed by a cue word, e.g., a function word"l:t (ha)", "~ (ga)", "~ (wo)", "k  L'C (to-shite)",we eliminate it, because it will not be a noun buta verb stem or an adjective stem.
We regard thesehiragana-free strings as keywords.6.1.3 Method  of  Ident i fy ing  aTop lc -branch ing  Art ic leWhen several topics are discussed in a certain ar-ticle, as is often the case, each topic is discussedrespectively at each branch extending from the ar-ticle.
However, each topic is not always clearly dis-cussed at each branch, but several topics are oftendiscussed at several branches.
When this happens,the article region where the same topic is discussedoverlaps the others as the left branch of Figure 1shows.
Therefore, in the clustering of articles thatbranch from a certain article, the articles are allowedto belong to several clusters.
Our method comparespairs of articles and classifies articles whose topic isthe same into the same cluster.
If several clusters areproduced by clustering, our method presumes thatthe topics branch at that branching article.
For ex-ample, we assume that five articles A1 - As branchfrom article A0 as Figure 2 shows.
When our methodcompares pairs of articles and identifies the two ar-ticles indicated by the open circle (0 )  in the Tableof Figure 2 as articles where the same topic is dis-cussed, the results of clustering can be presented asshown at the right of Figure 2.A20A30~OAiO:same topic ~ A 3Figure 2: Example of Clustering ArticlesWe utilized the following distinctive features todetermine whether the topic discussed in the arti-cles was the same or not.
Two branches where thesame topic is discussed tend to quote the identical16parts from the branching original article (Feature3) and to have a lot of common words (Feature4).
Concretely, when the proportion of the samequoted part is high or the proportion of the com-mon words between two articles is high, our methoddetermines that the same topic is discussed in thosetwo branches.Our method weights the keywords in each articleaccording to the positional information and keywordfrequencies in articles occurring before and after thearticle, and it uses keywords whose score is above agiven threshold.
Concretely, keywords are weightedusing the following heuristics:?
Keywords used in sentences which are notquoted from the previous article are more im-portant han those used in the quoted sentences.In particular, keywords used in a sentence nextto the quoted sentences are the most importantbecause a contributor tends to write what hewants to say in such a place.?
Keywords also used in articles before and afterthe article are important because such keywordsoften represent the central topic discussed in thestream.Our system detects quoted sentences by investi-gating the correspondence of sentences between twoarticles related to each other such as a parent-childrelationship (Uchimoto et al, 1998).6.1.4 Exper iment  and Evaluat ionWe constructed RTs from about 10,000 articles intwo discussion-type newsgroups, e.g., fj.life.healthand fj.living.
From these RTs we selected 20 RTswhich consisted of about 400 articles with topic-changing articles.
We applied our methods after cut-ting the headers and footers from the articles.In order to evaluate our methods, we also hadthe topic-changing and topic-branching articles iden-tified by human subjects.
They identified topic-changing articles and topic-branching articles by ac-tually reading the articles.
We selected these as tar-get articles, and compared the output of our systemwith the target articles.
The results are listed inTable 1.Our system could correctly identify 18 topic-branching articles, and nine of these had more thanthree branches.
Our system could correctly iden-tify six of the nine.
We used the following criterionfor topic-changing articles; When articles the systemidentifies are the same as the target article, or adja-cent to a target article, the system is judged to becorrect (Uchimoto et al, 1997).17Table 1: Results.Topic-branchingarticle (TBA)Topic-changingarticle (TCA)Recall PrecisionlS/22 lS/23(7s%) (s2%)20/35 17/18(57%) (94%)6.2 Actual  Example  and DiscussionIn the experiment in Section 6.1.4, There were 35target articles for topic-changing articles and 22 fortopic-branching ones.
Out of these target articles,our system could correctly identify 17 articles and 18articles respectively.
Incidentally, there were threearticles where the topic changed and branched.We structuralized actual articles using the out-put of our system and extracted keywords.
Fig-ure 3 shows part of the structuralized articles, andit shows the top four keywords according to theirscores at the topic-changing and topic-branching ar-ticles.
The discussion topic was " ~  (static elec-tricity)" until article A0.
Then, the topic branchedand changed in the article.
The topic changed to"Walk Man" in article At, and in article A2, thetopic about static electricity was discussed through-out.We want to evaluate our method in the near fu-ture using psychological experiments.
We need toinvestigate whether the presented keywords are use-ful for users to grasp the stream of discussion or not,and we need to estimate the number of keywords oursystem should present o users.7 Conc lus ion  and  Future  D i rec t ionsIn real articles in network news, writers do not al-ways make suitable references to former articles.They might refer to all of a former article or onlytalk about a small part.
Or, they nfight talk about atopic which is mentioned in the former articles whichis not referred to by their article.
It is necessary todevelop a powerful and precise retrieval system tosolve, among others, the following problems:1.
The addition of a better visual man-machineinterface, users can more easily find where theinformation they need is.2.
The development of heuristics to define thedifferences in weight of general and domain-specific terms.3.
The improvement in calculation of semantic fea-tures of sentences and articles.KW---,/Rill ~iI~K, ~ i l~ ,  I: 7" \] 7"A~ :KW--WalkMan, ~,  ~?.~.~ii, QC)Ao: TBA"~"~-A2:KW---, ~--, ~- - ,1~- - , /R i l l  i~flii~: ~ t L ~  5 t~'~'~w?-~'~-~, ~tc~o-C~ ~--~-v>,~: ~ L"C b~ 9 7"vx t- ~ l, ~ 1994/11 I ~ ?
~ two ~ff~,~l~i ,,i: AI : TCAi  sei den~ ~-gw~, >~ b  MrFirstSony ~ 'c?
)~b 9 t b~:~A2-c- ~ ',t-~L, ?
(KW--~ : The keywords that the user who reads the article A0 should refer before reading next articlesTBA : Topic-branching article, TCA : Topic-changing article)Figure 3: Actual ExampleWe have finished testing our prototype, and weare now studying the results in order to develop apractical system which will be open to the public.We intend to research the problems above to improvea practical model of an Intelligent Network NewsReader.This project is partially funded by the AdvancedInformation Technology Program(AITP) of theInformation-technology Promotion Agency(IPA),Japan.ReferencesH.
Arita, T. Yasui, and S. Tsudaka.
1995.
Infor-mation strolling through automatically organizedinformation space.
IPSJ-WGNL, NLC95-17.
(inJapanese).ARPA.
1993.
Proceedings of Fifth Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-5).M.
Sato.
et al 1994.
An implementation of auto-matic digesting on the netnews.
In The 49th An-nual Convention IPS Japan.D.
Harman.
1994.
Overview of the second text re-trieval conference (tree-2).
In NIST Special Pub-lication 500-~15, pages 1-20.H.
Isahara, H. Ozaku, and K. Uchimoto.
1997.Intelligent network news reader for discussiontype news groups.
IPSJ-WGNL, NLl19-3.
(inJapanese).P.
S. Jacobs.
1992.
Text-Based Intelligent Systems.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Nikkei.
1995.
Intelligent news retrieval system.Nikkei Computer, 10, 2.
(in Japanese).E.
Rennison.
1994.
Galaxies of news: An approachto visualizing and understanding expansive newslandscapes.
In Proceedings of UIST 94.B.
Sheth.
1994.
NEWT: A Learning Approach toPersonalized bzformation Filtering.
MIT MastersTheses.K.
Uchimoto, H. Ozaku, and H. Isahara.
1997.
Amethod for identifying topic-changing articles indiscussion-type newsgroups within the intelligentnetwork news reader hisho.
In Proceedings of theNatural Language Processing Pacific Rim Sympo-sium, pages 375-380.K.
Uchimoto, H. Ozaku, and H. Isahara.
1998.Structurization ofnetwork news articles using key-words.
Proceedings of The Fourth Annual Meetingof The Assosication for Natural Language Pro-cessing.
(in Japanese).J.
Yabe, S. Takahashi, and E. Shibayama.
1997.Visualizing semantic content and relationships.In Proceedings of The 141h Annual Meeting ofJapan Society for Software Science and Technol-ogy, pages 129-132.
(in Japanese).18
