The Pausanian Notation:a method for representing the structure and the content ofa hyperdocumentNickolas Gouraros and Wendy HallDepartment of Electronics and Computer Science,University of Southampton Email: ng94r@ecs.soton.ae.uk, wh@ecs.soton.ae.ukABSTRACTThis paper introduces a new approach for improvinghypermedia design, by providing the author with a tool tovisualise, examine, and analyse the structure of documentscontaining hypermedia links.
Our proposal is a newrepresentation method the purpose of which is not to showthe document structure in graphical form in order to enablethe users to know where they are, where they can go next,or to give an overview of their environlncnt \[12\].
Thepurpose of our representation method is to depict whatoptions the users are about to be offered, so that the authorcan examine the structure in order to better guide thelnaround the information space.
Our representation is shownin the tbl'm of a map consisting of a proposed classificationof elements that define the composition of ahyperdocument.
To extract and classify those attributes wehave analysed in detail all three dimensions of thehypermcdia cube: internal dynamics, external visualappearance and content synthesis.After introducing our diagrammatic notation we give a briefexample of how it could be applied to an existinghyperlnedia pplication.
In the boundaries of this paper, weinclude the part of the method which represents thestructure of just one hypermedia document and its linkedbranches.
The paper concludes with.
a brief description ofhow the lnethod is applied to represent groups ofhyperlnedia documents, and a discussion of our plans forfuture work.KEYWORDS: Hypermedia design, authoring tools,representation methods, hyperlnedia maps.
navigation,hypermedia writing.1.0 INTRODUCTIONModels or methodologies such as OOHDM \[30\], RMM\[17\] and HDM, \[10\] have been applied very successfully inthe process of hypermedia application design by expressingin a non-ambiguous way \[28\] the relationships among theinterconnected objects.
Their success solved many designproblems and proved formally the need of structuring thedesign process.Two-dimensional, three-dilnensional, n-dimensional,hierarchical and non-hierarchical structure representationsof hyperlnedia networks, have been the subject of muchresearch, as well as commercial products for many years.Generally.
their main goal has been to provide 'the user'with a tool which will solve problelns uch as disorientationand being lost in hyperspace.However, the questions we need to ask but which have notyet been suitably answered are: "what causesdisorientation?
why are users allowed to becolne lost in thehyperspace; why do we still, and how long we will bedesigning applications witll navigational errors?"
Thehypermedia field has produced some excellentrepresentations -in the forms of overview diagrams ormaps- but, 'to tell a multitude of little white lies; theysuppress the truth to help the user see what needs to beseen' \[23\].
Most of those maps have been "system-generated means of reader orientation' \[20\].2.0 THE PAUSANIAN NOTATION APPROACHThe need for another approach to the representation ofhyperlnedia networks derived from our research and thedevelopment of the Pausanias 2000. a hypermedia libraryfor the ancient Hellenic World (The Attica Region) basedon the Microcosm hypermedia systeln \[81.
The applicationat its prototype stage, includes 140 content categories,including links between 300 text documents.
2000 pictures,250 region maps, 3D graphics in a VR environlnent, videoand sound sequences etc.
As authors, duringilnplementation, we felt that we needed a tool which wouldallow us.
to keep track of, and control the entire structure.A way to achieve this.
is obviously to be able to visualisethe hyperdocuments.
Having exalnined CUl'rcntrepresentation inethods \[5,7.9, I 1.12,13.18.22,24,25,27,29,32\] we realised that the majority, if not all of them.are implemented as an aid to users rather than the authors.By combining the philosophics of a design model with anoverview diagram we began to develop a representationmethod, that is a tool lbr helping the author, to improve theoverall structure of the hyperlnedia pplication, and toavoid inconsistencies and navigational crrors that confusethe user.
The Pausanian method is a diagrammatic notationfor representing the static and dynamic properties of asingle or a collection of hypermedia documents in order tohelp the author to visualise the structure they are creating.
Itemploys a wide range of shapes and symbols based on thecharacteristics that make up the structure of a documentcontaining hypermedia links (figures la.lb).
With a cleardiagrammatic representation a d an overall picture of thedifferent issues concerned with the design of thehypermedia pplication, the author can save considerableamount of design time by evaluating or examining theprototype in order to minimise the amount of serious?
navigational nd interaction errors that often occur \[26\]iThe name Pausanian derives from Pausanias, a Greekhistorian, traveller, and geographer.
During the 2'" centuryAD he was travelling around Greece and describing all thesites and monuments he was seeing.
His work was calledthe "Description of Greece" which gives a detailedaccount of the monuments of art and of the legendscotznected with them.Tile Pausanian otation is divided into two main sections.The first section represents one hypermedia document, andthe second one represents a group of selected hypermediadocurnents.
To visualise the structure of one hypermediadocument we distinguish those elements that, we believe.characterise it (aspects of interest).
These elements aredrawn diagrammatically in what we call the "PausanianMap fo," representing the structure of a single hypermediadocument".
To visualise the structure of a group ofhypemedia documents, we define a set of variables(variables of interest) which are statistically represented inwhat we call the "Pausanian Charts for representing thestructure of a group of hypernledia documents".3.0 ASPECTS OF INTERESTWe call the characteristic elements that define the structureof a hypermedia document and are appropriate to thehypermedia uthor's interest, the aspects of i~uerest.
Theaspects of interest within a hyperdocument s ructure areclassified into three main categories: The 'endogenous',which include aspects that characterise the internalstructure or dynamics of the hypermedia document, tile"exogenous' which contain aspects that define its visualappearance and the 'auctorial" category which is concernedwith aspects of interest on tile content's structure andcomposition.
All aspects of interest are assigned withattributes graphically represented in the Pausanian map.Authors are provided with the pre-defined attributes, butthere are cases where they are also given the opportunity toinclude their own.3.1 ENDOGENOUS ASPECTS OF INTERESTTile representation f the endogenous aspects of interes{, onthe Pausanian map.
produces an 'x-ray' that depicts theinternal structure and dynamics of a hypermedia document.By examining the map, the author can clearly perceive allobjects that comprise the structure as well as the dynamicseffecting it.
At the top level we classify the endogenousaspects of interest as: types of nodes, types of links, typesof anchors, location of anchors, status of traversal, status ofdirection and depth of path.Each endogenous aspect of interest is characterised with aset of attributes acting as identification marks on thePausanian Map.
The classification of attributes for theen&~genous a pects ~f interest is as follows:3.1.1 Type of NodeTile 'type of node" justifies its role as an aspect of interestto the hypermedia author, because it defines the identity ofall the different objects that comprise the structure of ahypermedia pplication i.e.
text, picture, sound etc.
Eachtype of node together with its attributes will be representedin the Pausanian map so that tile author will be able toclearly distinguish all information units and the way theyare presented to the user.
Since the Pausanian otation iscurrently implemented on Microcosm based hypermediaapplications, eight categories have been assigned, as thetypes of nodes that can be currently viewed in Microcosm:Text, Graphic.
Audio, Video.
Animation, Graphic Menu.HTML( any HTML document, viewed by the Microcosm'sWeb viewer), VR (any virtual reality objects) viewed by theMicrocosm's 3D viewer, External Object (any independentapplication linked with Microcosm).
Since each type ofnode has different characteristics (in terms of comprisingthe structure of a hyperdocument), it has been assigned withattributes which identify it as an aspect of interest o thehypcrmedia author.Type of Node: TEXTType of TEXT: includes Core Docmnent, Section.Supplement, Question - Answer (attrb - Interactive.Passive), Table (attrb - Dimensions).
List-menu, Footnote.Reference, Glossary.
Dictionary, Bibliography.Combination of (Type of Text + Type of Tcxt), other by tileauthor.Type of Node: GRAPHICThe type of node graphic is given two sets of attributes, onethat identifies what type of graphic it is and another onethat defines the semantic relation between the graphic andits source, when tile graphic is a picture and serves as adestination ode.Type of Graphic: includes Picture.
Diagram, Graph-Chart.Graphic Combination.Status of Semantic Relation when tile graphic serves as adestination node includes: Explanatory, Decorative.Allegorical I2\].Each of tile types of graphic attributes arc given anadditional identification mark which represents on tilePausanian Map the case of any text accompanying thegraphic.The type of node: AUDIOThe attributes that define an audio node and are appropriateto the hypennedia uthor's interest include: tile type ofaudio, which reveals the content of the particular audio file.For example, Verbal description, Music.
Composite: thelength of the sequence which represents the total playingtime of the audio file; and the status of the audio player's(viewer) controls, which show whether they are available oz"not to tile user while they are listening to audio information.The type of node: VIDEO, ANIMATIONThe attributes that define kinetic information \[19\] such asvideo and animation and are appropriate to tile author'sinterest include: the length of the sequence whichrepresents the total playing time of a video or animationinformation unit; the status of the video and animationplayer's (viewer) controls, which show whether they areavailable or not to the user while viewing the particularvideo or animation; and the status of interaction, whichrepresents whether a sequence is interactive or passive.The t37~e of node External Object is assigned two attributes:the type of External Objcct which states its identity e.g.
'database', and the status of interaction representingwhether that particular external object allows userinteraction or appears passive.
Attributes for the types ofnode Graphic Form- Menu, HTML and VR are underresearch.3,1.2 Types of LinksOne of the most important elements in the structure of ahypermedia document, is the different types of linksprovided by the hypermedia system.
Microcosm includes,four associative types of links, one visible (button link -highlighted anchor) and three invisible (specific, local andgeneric - their anchors are not highlighted).
At this point wedo not consider other dynamically generated types of links(i.e.
Microcosm's compute links).ButtonA link fl'om a visible anchor in a source node to a specificlocation in a target document.
It is used in situations wherethe link should be obvious and the author wishes to indicatevisibly its prescncc; for example a link from the anchor thefirst Athenian Coin, to the associated picture of the actualcoin.SpecificA link from an invisible anchor in a source node to aspecific location on the target document.
It is used insituations where the link provides detailed informationabout a particular subject "not strictly related' to the overallcontent of "the source node" but directly related to itsanchor.
Authors would use the specific link when they wishto offer the particular information but also allow the usersto study the content without interrupting their cohesion; forexample a link fi'om a reference: Aristotle's description ofKing Archon's role, to the actual document is rclErred toas Aristotle's work "Athenaion Politeia" line 57.
The userhas already read the text block in the source node where theauthor discusses the King in ancient Athens and if theywish to examine the actual reference they can trace aquestion (select he text block and ask Micrososm to 'show'the link connected to that phrase) and follow the link to theAristotle's work.LocalA link from an invisible anchor(s) in a source document toa specific location in a target document.
When a phrase orword has been linked as a local link, all occurrences of thisparticular anchor in the source node are linked to the samedestination ode.
It is used to ensure that users can onlyreach certain documents by careful research, or to avoidpresenting thern with inappropriate intbrmation.
Supposethe word harbour in a text node about the ancient harbourof Piraeus, is selected as the source anchor and a link ismade to a picture painting of the ancient harbour.
If the linktype local is selected when the link is made 'all"occurrences of the word harbour "in the source documentonly" are linked to that painting.GenericA link from an invisible anchor to a specific location in atarget document.
When an anchored piece of  text has beenlinked as a generic link, all occurrences of this anchor inany document throughout the application, are linked to thesame destination ode.
It is used in situations where thelink should be available 'throughout the application': forexample a link from the word 'archon" to its explanation inthe ancient Greek-English dictionary.SequentialAnother type of link included in the Pausanian notation isthe sequential link.
It is represented on the Pausanian mapwhen a visible anchor (anchored text, anchored graphicobject, or anchored graphic selection) leads the user to asingle linear path of related nodes.
It is therefore anavigational rather than an associative link.
The hypertextauthor uses such links when he wishes to guide readers intoa logical path in order to achieve a specific objective.
Asource node can include visible and invisible links as wellas a sequential ink(s) defining guided tours specificallycreated by the author.
Sequential links provide a morelimited version of what is available within the structure ofthe particular node \[15\].
That linear-logical path consists ofnodes including a tEw or no button, specific or local links,only anchors indicating 'go to Next' and 'go to Previous"nodes.
In the case when there is a sequential link starting alinear path fi'om a graphic type of node.
then only themaximum depth of path will be represented on the map.
(for the aspect of interest depth of path see later).Three other attributes attached to each type of link are theStatus of Travcrsal.
Status of Direction and Target at theDestination document:3.1.3 Status of TraversalOne to OneThe source anchor leads the user to only one destinationnode.One to Many (Indirect)The source anchor leads the user to a choice of destinationnodes, e.g.
the source node is about the ancient Greekphilosophers and in the tburth paragraph the name Plato isa visible anchor linked to a choice of three differentdestinations: a document about his life.
a picture of  astatue and another document about his works.One to Many (Direct)By following the source anchor the user is lead directly tomore than one destination nodes, e.g.
the source node isabout Daily life in Athens at the 5"' century BC; a visiblesource anchor is the words women's  embellishment.
If theuser follows the link, three nodes will appear: a picture of  avase painting showing such scenes as friends preparing abride for her wedding, a picture of a vase painting showingwomen applying perfume to themselves, and the third, atext node discussing embellishment in ancient AthenianSociety.3.1.4 Status of DirectionOne way LinkThe source anchor leads the user to a destination node fromwhere they cannot return automatically, to the document ofdeparture.Bi-directional LinkThe source anchor leads the user to a destination node,from where they can 'reverse the link', or in other wordsreturn to the node of departure.
In Microcosm this occurseither, when both the source and the destination ode stayactive on the screen so that the user can jump from B backto A. or when.
the destination document has replaced thesource node (in Microcosm terminology: the viewer startsunlocked) but includes an anchor that connects back to it.The 'target" at the destination ode is an attribute mostlyused in situations where the destination is a text type ofnode.
It represents the location within a text node, wherethe link points to: e.g.
specific location, beginning ofdocument.
For example a link from the source anchor 'W.Thomson" to the specific location of a bibliographicalreference in the bibliography type of text node.3.1.5 Types of AnchorsThe aspect of interest "Types of Anchors' is represented onthe Pausanian map.
in order to show what part of a node islinked to other information units.Anchored TextAny piece of text serving as a mark.
emphasising (visible),or containing (invisible) a connection with anotherinRmnation unit; tier example the visible anchor'Democracy" which links to a text node about theConstitution in Ancient Athens.Anchored Graphic ObjectAn3,, graphic element serving as a link to anotherinformation unit: for example a navigation sign on the mapof the Acropolis.
a sound icon at the end of a text nodewhich links to a musical reconstruction from the Orchestrain the Athenian Agora.Anchored Graphic SelectionA link made on a particular selection within a picture or agraphic e.g.
a link made on an ancient wine cup (being partof a picture presenting six red-figure wine cups) connectingto another picture consisting of the bottom of that cupwhich depicts an ancient potter sitting at his wheel, thespeed of which he controls with his knee and above him ona shelf there are some of his pots.All three types of anchors are attached to another set ofattributes that represent he destination flag which is anypossible indication at the source anchor for the type of thedestination ode.Destination FlagThe destination flag will be shown on the Pausanian mapwhen a source anchor is accompanied by any indication ofits destination e.g.
an icon: a video camera icon situatednext to an anchor showing that the destination node is avideo sequence; or any other way of indicating thedestination such as a label appearing after a mouse action: alabel stating "animation" which appears when the mouse isover an anchor; or a link preview: where the source anchorincludes a preview of the destination ode such as the nodetype and a name such as a title or a brief summary of thecontent.3.1.6 The Location of AnchorsThe aspect of interest 'location of anchors' includesattributes that show in the map, the exact position of eachanchor in the source document: Paragraph No.
Beginningof Document.
Middle of Document.
End of Document.
It isa very important aspect of interest because it shows clearly,the frequency or concentration of links within a document.3.1.7 The Depth of PathThe Depth of Path is an aspect of interest represented onthe Pausanian Map in the form of steps.
Those steps arc theattributes that identify the depth of the linking path.
fromthe "surface" of the hypermedia document (tile sourceanchor) to its "bed" (the last linked destination ode).
Forexample: \[anchor AI\] in node A linked to Node B (1"Step) \[anchor B3\] in node B linked to node F (2"" Step)\[anchor F3\] in node F linkcd to node L (3'" Step), \[anchorA2\] etc.The Pausanian Map includes a visual representation f linkstraversed up to the Iburth step.
If a linking path "pulls" theuser further than the fourth step.
then only the location ofthat last destination node is shown but not therepresentation f its attributes.3.2 EXOGENOUS ASPECTS OF INTERESTThe second category of aspects of interest to thehypermedia author is the exogenous.
The e.rogenousaspects of interest define the visual appearance, of ahypermedia document:Length of Document.
Scrolling document (more than onescreen page), Non-Scrolling document (one screen page).
Ifthe document is scrolling, it is represented in the PausanianMap by the number of pages.
Further attributes that arebeing considered include: Width of Text Block, Alignmentof Text Block, and Nurnber of Fonts used in theDocument.3.3.
AUCTORIAL ASPECTS OF INTERESTThe final category of the aspects of interest to thehypermedia uthor, is the auctorial I.
The auctorial aspectsof interest are concerned with the content's tructure andI .
We use the name Auctorial from the Latin word auctor whichis the origin of the word author.
What we mean by auctorial is.anything to do with the actual writer who writes his ideas in theform of hyperrnedia (presented in an electronic medium) and notin a linear way as the traditional author of the printed book.ccmaposition.
We have classified these as: the status ofassociation, the arrangement of cognitive layers, the contentkermatism and the level of content fragmentation.3.3.1 The Status of AssociationA very irnportant aspect of interest for the hypermediaauthor is the association between the source anchor and thedestination text node.
The Pausanian notation includeseight different attributes which define the status of theassociation.
These attributes are offered as predefined to theauthor, ( as well as to the content expert or the evaluationteam) of the application.
As well as the status ofassociation we are considering including in the notation,Trigg's links taxonomy \[31\] which is a very explicitclassification of attributes defining the semantic relationbetween odes.Consecutive AssociationA consecutive association is the smooth content ransitionfrom the source node to the destination document.
Forexample, the source node is about sculpture in ancientGreece and it discusses the different ypes of Korai (femalestanding figures) The third paragraph of the documentexplains briefly their characteristic elements and thedifferences between the Kore of the 6'" century BC and theKore sculptured in tire 7" century BC.
Within thisparagraph there are two button links (visible) one on theanchor: "Kore of the 6'" century' and another on the anchor:"Kore of the 7'" century'.
Both anchors lead the user todocuments which discuss in detail the characteristics ofeach statue.
If the user chooses to follow the link and readthese documents they can easily compare theircharacteristics because tire source document has ah'eadvprepared them by irrtroducing the subject.Therefore there has been a smooth transition from thedestination odes to the source node and vice versa.
Thecontent of the destination document succeeds the sourcenode.Renaissance AssociationAuthors create a renaissance relation between two nodes,when they make a link to a document, that 'revives' theuser's enthusiasm.fi~r learning more information about thecorresponding subject.
For example, the source documentdiscusses the sculpture of the Parthenon where the authortalks about its fiieze and metopai.
In the text blockdiscussing the fiieze of the Parthenon, the author has madea link on the word 'frieze' that connects to a detaileddocurnent containing a description.
The same strategy hasbeen chosen for the word 'metopai'.
Both anchors arevisible (button) links.
Since the source document is about'the sculpture of Parthenon' and includes links toinformation about the main architectural elements of thetemple, it is building a renaissance relation where theauthor inclines the reader's mood to learn more about theanchored subjects.The distinction between the two examples given for theattributes of content relevance: renaissance relation andconsecutive relation, is that in the renaissance r lation, thedestination nodes consist of information about differentsubjects that comprise the theme: Sculpture of Parthenon,(the user follows the link in order to learn more about thesource subject), whereas in the consecutive relation thedestination nodes consist of information on the samesubjects (statues of Korai) but in different chronologicalperiods.
(the user-reader compares the information in thedestination ode, to the source node-a smooth transitionfrom A to B)Umbilical-Cord AssociationAn Umbilical-Cord relation is created when the destinationnode(s) complements he content of the source node.
Forexample, the source document discusses the columns(kiones) of temples built in the Archaic period.
The secondparagraph of the text explains that the ancient temple'scolumns consist of parts such as the stylobate, thekrepidoma, the capital and the entablature.
All these wordshave been anchored by the hyperlnedia uthor as visiblelinks, leading the user to destination odes containing thedescription of each par!
and its corresponding location onthe column of an archaic temple.
Since the destinationdocuments complete the subject about the structu,'e ofcolumns in the archaic temples, they create an umbilical-cord relation between the source node and its targetdocurnent(s).Subversive AssociationHypermedia uthors build a subversive relation when theyconnect two documents, and the destination documentsubverts the content of its source.
For example the casewhere the source document is about the Parthenon's Friezeand its sculptured ecor which represents the PanathenaicProcession.
In the entire text the author concentrates on theinterpretation of the sculptured representation andmaintains the most popular theory which is the processionthat accompanies the presentation of the robe of" theGoddess Athena.
In the middle of this document, the authorreports that there is another interpretation for the decor ofthe frieze, but it is not accepted by the experts.
The words'another interpretation" are visible links connecting to thetext reporting this alternative xplanation which howeversubverts the globally accepted theory in the sourcedocument.
In this case the author has created a subversiverelation between the source and the destination ode.Intrusive AssociationAn intrusive relation is created when the destinationdocument suddenly disrupts the coherence of the content.For example, the source document discusses the mostfamous ancient Greek sculptor Feidias and his master workon the gold statue of Zeus sculptured for the temple of" Zeusin Olympia.
The author has chosen the words 'temple ofZeus in Olympia" (which are situated at the first paragraphof the source document) o be a visible anchor (button link)frorn which the user 'is given the opportunity' to follow thelink and learn more information about this famous temple.The destination document happens to be extremelyinformative as two pages description of the templeincluding information about its architectural elements, theeast and west metopies and what they represent ( he laborsof Heracles ).
All tile main characteristic elements of thetemple are visible anchors ( 15 button links) linking toother documents with more detailed information for eachpart of the temple i.e, its columns.
The user started to learnabout tile sculptor Feidias and his master work the goldstatue of Zeus and ended up reading very detailedinformation about the temple of Zeus where the statue wassituated, having previously passed from a text about therepresentation the decor of the west fi'ieze.
In this casethe destination document has suddenly interrupted thereader from the content of tile source document and createdan intrusive association.Magnetic AssociationThe characteristics of a magnetic relation could be the sameas the renaissance relation with the difference that theformer brings possible danger.
Let us take the sameexample as in the renaissance relation where the sourcedocument discusses the Pheidias" sculptures of theParthenon, specifically the gold statue of the goddessAthena.
Somewhere in the middle of the description theauthor refers to Pheidias" students who contributed in theconstruction of that most important emple of the ancientHellenic civilisation.
The words 'Pheidias' students' arevisible anchors linking to  documents of detailedinformation about each student.
In this case the author hasroused the reader's interest (magnetised) to learn about asubject completely different from the initial content.
It isnot a renaissance relation because there hasn't been anypositive transition and the visible anchor leads the reader toa completely different context from the one in the sourcenode.Association of SuperiorityA relation of superiority is created when the destinationnode is full of inlbrmation and overwhelms tile sourcedocument.
For example the source document is aboutceramic vase painting in the 7'" century BC, and discussesthe Attic workshops and the technique for applying thedecoration of the vases.
In the third paragraph of thedocument he author reports a later technique (applied inthe 6'" century BC).
which was one of the two mostcommon in the Attic workshops: the black-figure painting(the second most common technique was tile red-figurepainting).
The author explains that all vase-painting in the6'" century was based on the black-figure technique.
Thewords 'black-figure" technique are a visible anchor, whichleads the reader to a document containing a well composeddetailed description on the actual technique, includinginformation about different painters and their vasepaintings.
In this case the author by providing a visible linkto such important and detailed intbrmation, overwhelms thecontent of the source document.Association of DiscontinuityContent discontinuity is created when there is no relationbetween the destination document and its source.
Forexample, suppose the source document is about 'the templeof Poseidon in Sounion'.
In the second paragraph of thatdocument there is a very brief reference to the columns ofthe Parthenon.
The words 'columns of the Parthenon' areanchored as a visible link connecting to the documentconsisting of general information about the Parthenon.Since the source document is the temple of Poseidon andthe destination ode is about the Parthenon, there is nocontinuity in the content.
If the destination document wasabout the columns of the Parthenon then there would besome continuity but not as much as in the umbilical-cordrelation.Each of the above attributes are represented in thePausanian map together with another attribute which statesif the destination ode has been composed by the same ordifferent author.3.3.2 The Arrangement of Cognitive LayersHypermedia authors, build cognitive jumps in order to offerthe user what he anticipates from possible questions.
Theyoffer the reader, anticipated solutions to possible questionswhich arise, while reading the source document.
We callthese cognitive jumps the layers which are created by thereader's transition fi'om the informative source documentto the destination node which focuses attention to aparticular point of information.
The author inventscognitive solutions that comprise tile necessary channels toenable the reader to attain their anticipated target.
In somecases the author's intention to offer the anticipated, couldbe perceived by the reader as "a present".
However, thereare times when the readers get exactly what they expect.but there are also other times where they are given little ornothing that would meet their expectation.
The hypermediaauthor is obliged to know his readers very well and playsthe role of an augur who knows both, the person who isasking for an oracle as well as their problem.
In otherwords, the reader and what they anticipate from the contentin a source document, and the provided linked information.The cognitive channels or layers created by the author,resemble the oracles given by the augur (author) to theapplicant (user).This mechanism of the creation of layers, if they have notbeen built carefully, will easily miss their target.The most important concern in that mechanism is what arethe transitio~ls which create the layers.
For example, if thereader studies a document about the Temple of Poseidonand follows a link from the visible anchor 'tile statue ofPoseidon" to the actual picture of the statue, have theyjumped to another layer?
Probably not because thedestination node is only a static (level of interaction:passive) graphic-picture which complements (explanatoryrelation) the anchor.
Therefore the reader remains at thefirst layer.
For example if a document is about the statue ofthe eponymous heroes in the Athenian Agora and there is avisible link on the anchor 'the Tribe of Leontis' (definedby the author as a magnetic association) leading to adetailed document about that tribe, then the author hasguided the reader to another layer.
We are still working ona clear classification of attributes that define these layers,so we have not yet included them as a representation themap.3.3.3 The Level of Content KermatismThe kermatism of a hypermedia application is thesegmentation and classification of the aggregate contentinto interrelated atomic subsets each of which comprise anindividual subject.
For example, the content of Athens inthe Years of Perikles divided in chapters and sections uchas The City, its structure and organisation, SocialOrganisation and day-to-day l(fe, Professions and Finance,The Athenian Constitution, Perikles, his life and mission, ora documetlt about the daily life in Ancient Athens and theinformation linked from anchors located within that sourcedocument.
The hypermedia uthor by segmenting theaggregate content, gives each subset -section or subsection-an entity.
They consider it as something discrete orindividual within the entity of the aggregate content.However, this does not imply that those subsets do notintersect with each other.
In a hypermedia application, theycould exist within the content, as self-subsistent or sell'-created but they can also interrelate (be semanticallylinked).
Some of the subsets, being either chapters ectionsor subsections, can supplement and complete a notionalaggregation.
By segmenting the content, authors can offertheir best writing capability and meet their targets moreeasily.
One of those targets may be the effectiveinterrelation (linking) of subsets in order to achieve contentcoherence and comprehension.
It is much more likely, thatsuch targets will be met by the kermatism of the content(linked chapters, sections, subsections), rather than it, beinga whole single linear unit.4.0 The Level of content FragmentationWe describe the fragmemation of a single h3permediadocument, as all the typographic and conceptualinterruptions which lead the user to a path of cognitivejumps.
Both the kermatism and the fragmentation map willhelp the author to experiment with different strategies inorder to see if readership improves or inclines.Unfortunately.
due to space limitations we can not includetheir representations in this paper.
(For details of.
thePausanian Kcrmatism Map, Pausanian Fragmentation Mapand Pausanian Generic Links Map see HT'97 posterpresentation: The Pausanian Notation \[ 14\] ).5.0 THE PAUSANIAN MAP, AN EXAMPLEThe Pausanian Map shown in figure 2, represents thestructure of a hypermedia document about "the statue of theeponymous heroes" in the Athenian Agora.From a first glance at the Pausanian Map of this particulardocument we can clearly see both the direction anddistance o.fmovement.
The author has included informationguiding the reader along a linking path up to the fourth step.Research studies have shown that if readers are guidedalong more than four steps there is significant possibilitythat they will loose track of their current position \[16\].
Ifwe \[bllow the linking path in reverse (from the fourth stepto the first) we can see that the path started from the visibleanchor "the Metroon'.
The attributes of the destination odeat the second step signify that the author has created anintrusive association between the destination ode and itssource.
The hypermedia uthor has chosen, to describe theassociation between, the sou,'ce node and its destination, asintrusive.
By definition, an intrusive association reveals anegative status.
However, negative attributes betweensubsets, would not necessarily be negative for theirhypermedia inclusion.
This representation on thePausanian Map, will help the author to visualise thethinking and structure of their ideas in order to examinehow well they were composed within the hypermediacontext.
A suggestion in this particular example would beto avoid linking subsets that are not coherently associated.If the author particularly needs, to provide informationabout the Metroon, and make it available from that location(1" paragraph of the document, anchor: the Metroon), hecould possibly change the selection of the visible Buttontype of link and make it, say an invisible Specific link.
(ALocal type of link would be a good choice only when theauthor wishes to make the information available from allthe occurrences of the anchor "Metroon' in that document.However, if the link is described with a negative status ofassociation, a local type of link is not recommended).The representation of the source document's linkingstructure shows the author that it contains six button links,two specific and one local (six visible and three invisiblelinks).
The length of the document is four screen-pages.
Ifwe consider its length, in combination with the number oflinks included, we can observe that there is no great levelof fragmentation.The second paragraph of the document contains two buttonlinks one on the anchor 'Kleisthenic Reforms" and anotheron the anchor "Citizenship in Athens'.
As represented onthe map both visible anchors lead the reader to twodifferent Graphic -Menu type of nodes.
This means thatwhile the users read the second paragraph of a sevenparagraph document, they are "'offered" the opportunity tostop themselves from completing the reading of its contentand to jump to a graphic-menu that contains links tocompletely different subjects.
Again in this situation theauthor should either not link visible anchors to graphicmenus in the beginning of the document or choose a moreappropriate, invisible type of link.
It is recommendedhowever that the hypermedia uthor should not use theselinks at all, because both the content interruption, and thetransition to completely difl~rent subjects, could mean thereader looses information taken from the source andbecome disorientated.Carrying on the examination of the structure in the fourthand fifth paragraphs respectively, two button links connectto pictures that complete the subject of the paragraph(explanatoly relation).
The visible anchor 'The Eponymousheroes" connects to a picture which is accompanied by text.Undoubtedly, if carefully assigned, that strategy saves, astep and a layer, from the depth of links, and thearrangement of cognitive layers, respectively.
The visibleanchor 'preserved today' connects to another picture whichis also accompanied by text.
The map shows that thispicture contains an anchored graphic object that links to avideo sequence.
However, this anchored graphic object isnot accompanied by a destination flag, which means thatthe reader is not being informed by the author that theyshould expect khwtic information.
It is recommended thatall anchors connecting to either sound or kineticinformation such as animation, video or movement in a VRenvironment, should be accompanied by a destination flag(i.e.
a video camera icon or mouse label) to indicate what typeof object is linked to the anchor \[19\].
Moreover.
that video node isrelatively long (6":35"').
Especially with teaching material thelength of video and animation sequences should be restricted inproper length.
Such long video nodes (more than 4 minutes) mightprevent users \['or comprehending the content, reduce theconcentration and will to study and give much more complexoperation of software tools \[ 16\].6.0 VARIABLES OF INTEREST- PAUSANIAN CHARTSUp to this point in the paper wc have introduced how thePausanian notation could be used to represent a singlehypcrmedia document in order to analyse its functionalityor dynamics, and recommend possible improvements oralterations.As mentioned in the introduction, to visualise the structureof a group of hypcrmedia documents, we have defined a setof variables, (derived from the aspects of interest), whichwe call the rariables of interesr These are statisticallyrepresented in what we call "PausaHia~ Charts forrepresenting the structure of a group of hypermediadocuments" (Figure 3).
Such variables include: TotalNumber of Visible Links.
Total number of Generic Links,Maximum Depth of Path started from Visible Links.Maximum Depth of Path started from Generic Links.Concentration of Visible Links.
Number of Associations ofDiscontinuity.
Numbcr of Graphic-Picture Nodes.
etc.
(allvariables are applied per hypermcdia document)Firstly.
the author can select a group of documents lk)rinvestigation.
(i.e.
all the text nodes from the chapter DailyLife in the Pcriklcan Athens) , and then choose from ourclassification of the variables of interest, the ones theywould like to represent on the Pausanian Charts, in order toexamine their structure.
Then a data table is generated and aseries of provided types of charts, is recommended.
Theauthor can then choose one of the charts from which, theappropriate Pausanian Chart will be drawn, groupingtogether the selected variables and representing themstatistically.
By examining the Pausanian Chart, the authorcan visualise certain issues from the synthesis of all theselected ocuments, in order to perceive their structure at aglance.
If they want to look more closely at a particularpoint in the chart they could apply the Pausanian Map onthat particular node.
This aspect of work is still underresearch.CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKBy proposing the Pausanian notation we argue that it istime to start providing hypermedia uthors with tools tohelp them find the problerns inherent in their designsthemselves.
By no means do we believe that a notation willsolve all the problems.
What we argue is that by definingthe attributes that play a key role in the synthesis of ahypermedia structure and making them visually availableto the composers of the application, possible problems andcauses can be revealed, and the overall design and theperformance of the application can be improved.In this paper we have introduced the Pausanian otation aswell as its main features: the aspects of interest, thePausanian Map, the variables of interest, and the PausanianChart.
The major case study being used lbr evaluating andtesting the notation, is Pausanias 2000, a h37)ermedialibrao'for the ancient Hellenic WorM (The Attica Region).We are also currently evaluating our method on another sixMicrocosm and three Storyspace \[6\] applications.
Due tospace limitations, we cannot discuss in detail the results ofour evaluation however, we have found that our approachhas been justified and that.
by using the PausanianNotation, the author can quickly track and correct en'orsoccurring throughout the structure.Our plans for future work are directed as follows: in thevery near future we would like to have completed theclassification of aspects (!f interest and rariables of interestas well as to improve the paper representation of thePausanian Maps.
In parallel, we will be working in theimplementation f the Pausanian Notation for representing,examining and analysing the structure of Web basedapplications.
Having achieved that.
we will startautomating the process of creating the Pausanian maps tk~rMicrocosm applications, by adding the appropriatefunctions to the Microcosm Make-Link feature.
The factthat Microcosm keeps all the link information stored in alinkbase file, makes it much easier to extract anyinformation eeded for producing the different PausanianMaps.
The implementation of the Pausanian method forrepresenting the structure of a Web application, will bebased on WebCosm (the Web version of Microcosm \[4\] ).REFERENCES1.
Bieber.
M. & Kacmar.
C. Designing hypertext supportfor computational applications.
Communications ofthe ACM.
38(8), 1995.2.
Bolter.
J.
"Writing space, the computer, hypertext andthe history of writing".
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,Inc., 199 I.3.
Card, S.K.
Robertson, C.G.
Mackinlay, J.D.
"Theinformation visualiser, an information workspace".
Inproceedings of CHI "91 New Orleans, April 27-May2, 1991 181-188.4.
Cam L, De Roure, D. Hall.
W. and Hill, G. "TheDistributed Link Service: A Tool for Publishers,Authors and Readers".
In proceedings of The WebRevolution: Fourth International World Wide WebConference, in The Web Journal I(I), O-Reilly andAssociates, 1995.. Collier, G. H. Thoth II: hypertext with explicitsemantics.
Hypertext '87 Proceedings, pp.
269-290,New York, NY: ACM Press, 1987.6.
Eastgate Systems, Inc. STORYSPACE: A HypertextTool for Writers and Readers,I) ttI~:llwww.eastgate.com/Storyspace.hlml.7.
Dynamic Diagrams, Inc.
Introducing MAPA,I) ttp:/Iwww,dynamicdiagrams.com/producls.htm...Davis, H. Hall, W. Heath.
I. Hill, G. Wilkins, R."'Towards an integrated information environment withopen hypermedia systems".
In ECHT'92: Proceedingsof the Fourth ACM Conference on Hypertext, Milan,Italy (Nov.- Dec. "92), p. 181- 190, 1992.Furnas, G.W.
"Generalised fisheye views".
Inproceedings of CHI 1986, 16-23.10.
Garzotto.
F. Schwabe, D and Paolini, P: 'HDM-AModel Based Approach to Hypermedia ApplicationDesign" ACM Transactions on Information Systems,I 1 (1) Jan. 1993, pp.
1-26.II.
Ghedini Ralha, Cohn, A.
"'Building maps ofhypcrspace".
WWW National Conference, InternetMuhimedia Information, July 6-8, Minho University,Portugal.
1995.12.
Gloor.
P. Cybertrees: "Tree-Shaped overview maps".In elements of hypermedia design, techniques fornavigation and visualisation in cyberspace, Gloor P.cd.
Birkhauser, 1997.13.
Gloor.
P. "Elements of hyperrnedia design :techniques for navigation and visualisation incyberspace".
Birkhaueser, Boston.
1997.14.
Gouraros, N. "'The Pausanian otation, a method forrepresenting the structure of a hyperdoeument".
PosterPresentation ACM Hypertext "97, Southampton 1997.15.
Grabinger, S. Dunlap, J.
"'Links".
In hypermedialearning environments: Instructional design andintegration, Kommers, P. Grabinger, S. Dunlap, J.(eds).
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. 1996.16.
Haga, H. Nishino, M. "Guidelines for designinghypermedia teaching materials".
In Proceedings oftheConference in Educational Multimedia ED'95, 1995.17.
Izakowitz, E, Stohr, E and Balasubramaniam, P:"RMM: A methodology for structured hypermediadesign'.
Comm.
Of the ACM, October 1995, pp.34-44.18.
Johnson.
B. Shneiderman, B.
"Tree-maps: A space-filling approach to the visualisation of hierarchicalinformation structures".
In Proceedings tbrVisualisation "91.
San Diego, CA, 1991 284-291.19.
Landow, G. "'The rhetoric of hypermedia: some ruleslbr authors".
In hypermedia nd literary studies,Delany, Landow (eds).
MIT Press, 1990.20.
Landow, G. Hypertext 2.0: The Convergence ofContemporary Literary Theory and TechnologyJohns Hopkins University Press, 1997.21.
Mackinlay, J.D.
Robertson.
G.G.
Card.
S.K.
"'Theperspective wall: Detail and context smoothlyintegrated".
In proceedings for CHI '91, New Orleans,April 27 - May 2, 1991, 173-179.22.
Maurer, H. Hyperwave: The Next Generation WebSolution.
London: Addison-Wesley, 1996.23.
Monmonier, M. "How to lie with maps".
Universityof Chicago Press, Chicago 199 I.24.
Mukherja, S. Folley, J.D.
"Visualising the world wideweb with the Navigational View Builder".
InProceedings for the Y" International World Wide WebConference.
Computer Networks and ISDN Systems27, no 6, 1075-1987.25.
Mukherjea, S. Foley, J. Hudson.
S. "Visualisingcomplex hypermedia networks through multiplehierarchical views".
In proceedings of CHI '95.Addison Wesley.
1995.26.
Newman, W. Lamning M. (eds), "'Interactivesystems design".
Addison-Wesley.
1995.27.
Robcrtson.
G.G.
Mackinlay, J.D.
Card S.K.
"Conetrees: Animated 3D visualisations of hierarchicalinformation".
In Proceedings lbr CHI "91, NewOrleans, April 27 - May 2.
1991, 189 - 194.28.
Rossi, G. Schwabe.
D. Garrido, A.: Design reuse inhypermedia applications developmcnt.
In proceedingsof the ACM International Conference on Hypertcxt(Hypertext "97) Southarnpton, UK April 1997.29.
Sarkar.
M. Brown, M. "Graphical fish-eye views ofgraphs".
In proceedings of CHI "92, Monterey, CA.May 3-7 1992, 83-9 I.30.
Schwabe, G. Rossi and Barbosa, S: "SystematicHypermedia Design with OOHDM'.
Procceedings ofthe ACM International Conference on Hypertext(Hypertcxt "96) Washington.
Marcll 1996.31.
Trigg, R. A taxonomy of link types.
In A network-based approach to text handling for the onlinescientific community.
Pd.D.
dissertation, Univeristyof Maryland Technical Report.
TR-1346, November1983.32.
Utting, K. Yankelovich, N. "Context and orientationin hypermedia networks".
ACM Transactions onOffice Information Systems 7, no.
1, January 1989,58-54.33.
Zizi, M. "'Providing maps to support he early stage ofdesign of hypermedia systems".
In proceedings ofIWHD'95 International Workshop on HypermediaDesign- 1995.Figures la, lb : Examples of symbols used torepresent aspects of interest and theirattributes on the Pausanian map.BMType of NodeText-ReferenceType of NodeText-SectionType of NodeGraphic-PictureType of NodeGraphic-MenuType of NodeAudio-VerbalDescriptionType of NodeVideoType of NodeText-SuplementType of NodeVR-Object - length: 2 screen ha l l s~ = ~  Bi-Directional link~ PictureAccompanied by text@Length of Sequence- - ~ _ _  Link back to the firststep of the Path?
e l - -  Location of the Link?
Paragraph NumberE ~ Location of the Link End of Text NodeI~ Number of paragraphs in t~e DocumentFigure la.FigureIThis is a Button Link (Visible)l\[This is a Specific Link(Invisible)\]This is a Local Link (Invisible)Slams qf AssociationConA : Consecutive Associationh~trA : intrusive AssociationDisA : Association of DiscontinuityMagA : Stimulant AssociationE.~R : Explantm~' Relation -Stares qf Semantic RelationGraphic-Picture as Destinatioa .\2>de: : Anchored Graphic object:Dcstination Flags2: Depth of Path - Second Stepl b .25 ~Total N~bmr Total Numberof vilabl* of Oe.. a?Links LinksoV,~t.
BG~LiOraw Pa=~niafl Map ......... i;DRy  Node Proper~es IShow VariaUes-of-lnteresti"Mal DQpth of Path Mal Oeplh of PathVi=b?.
Gin.atLinks LinksCkqaxPV QMaxPGeo .Figure 3 : Example of the Pausanian Chart10e- ?
- -  - -B~earlle~t references\]lih?
M?irl""ll InlrAIKl?i~lhcnk ln t rA{; rcf.,+ns IIt'ili~i'll~ hlli in DisA.llllien~ IM{, Inc~ h(md,,ifhi) all', IH~'r,~'~l6 ihe tribe o f L~ontis\[lcgislafioni7ExpRExpR ~ t  ~l/MagAFigure 2: Example of  the Pausanian MapText Node: The Statue of  the Eponymous  Heroes in the Athenian Agoras2 : oo , s3 I o , ?2 \[in Ihe "Phihppics'\]\[Ihe wtalu?
of Ih?liillhCr lit Cixl~{ ~RI IIII2 la similar NtalUel ConAIflfi) rcfi','coccs IEI5 {~, hir~?r iiuihiingl E~RtIE l ,View the nodeView the source nodeGo to the }ink editorDisplay node propertiesDraw the Generic Links map//#Jl .
r -IE33IL~,n}Imcmi~r~ls4dP =~11
