Discourse Relat ions versus Discourse Marker Relat ionsJacques JayezEHESS54, Bid Raspail75006 Paris FRANCEj j ayez~dial, oleane, cornCorinne RossariUniversit~ de Gen~veD4partement de Linguistique Franqaise1211 Gen~ve 4, SWITZERLANDCorinne.
Kossari~lettres.
unige, chAbstractWhile it seems intuitively obvious that many dis-course markers (DMs) are able to express discourserelations (DRs) which exist  independently, the spe-cific contribution of DMs - if any - is not clear.
Inthis paper, we investigate the status of some conse-quence DMs in French.
We observe that it is difficultto construct a clear and simple definition based onDRs for these DMs.
Next, we show that  the lexi-cal constraints associated with such DMs extend farbeyond simple compatibi l ity with DRs.
This sug-gests that  the view of DMs as signaling general all-purpose DRs is to be seriously amended in favor ofmore precise descriptions of DMs, in which the com-patibil ity with DRs is derived from a lexical semanticprofile.1 Introduct ionThe idea that discourse markers (DMs) like then oranyway signal underlying discourse relations (DRs)like cause, opposition, contrast, etc., has beenadopted in a certain number of works on text andconversation structure (see Roulet 1985, Martin1992, Knott  1996 for various examples).
In itself, theidea is reasonably intuitive and appealing and seemsempirically true to a large extent (Knott 1996).However, the linking between DRs and DMs is moreintricate than is currently assumed.
We show herethat  some French consequence DMs akin to therefore( donc, par consequent, alors) are difficult to describein terms of DRs.
We argue that such clashes are dueto the semantic profiles of DMs, that is to the wayDMs 'see' the left and right argument of the seman-tic relation they denote.
We offer an analysis of theprofile of the donc class DMs along the lines of Velt-man's  update semantics (Veltman, 1996).
We con-clude that  the compatibil ity of DMs with DRs mustbe studied by identifying first the relational core ofDMs, that  is, the semantic relation they denote andthe types of arguments elected by this relation)ll.n this paper, we consider only the deductive use of donc,in monologual written speech, a use illustrated for exampleby Paul opened the tuindow, DONC we 90t some fresh air.We ignore here other uses of doric.
We will also ignore the2 The profile problem2.1 Observat ionsLet us consider the following examples.
(1) a. Je me suis r4veill4 trop tard.
DONC jeI woke up too late.
Therefore In'ai pas pu aller ~ la r4unioncouldn't go to the meetingb.
Jean n'4tait pas ~ la r4union.
DONCJohn wasn't at the meeting.
Thereforeil a dfi se r4veiller trop tardhe must have waked up too late(2) a. Je n'ai pas pu regarder la t@l@, est-ce queI couldn't watch the TV, is-it thatles Red Sox ont gagn4?the Red Sox won?
(I couldn't watch the TV, did the Red Soxwin?)b.
Je n'ai pas pu regarder la t@l@, 7?DONC est-ceque les Red Sox ont gagn~?
(I couldn't watch the TV, therefore did theRed Sox win?)c.
Je n'ai pas requ le rapport, DONCI didn't receive the report, thereforeest-ce que le d4partment 1' a envoyS?is-it that the department i  sent(I didn't receive the report, therefore did thedepartment send it?
)(3) a. Ouvre la fen~tre, (et) on aura deOpen the window, (and) we will get someFairair(Open the window (and) we'll get some freshair)b. Ouvre la fen~tre, ?
?DONe on aura de Pair(Open the window, therefore we'll get somefresh air)other class of consequence onnectives (du coup, de ce/air),for which the reader is referred to (Jayez and Kossari, 1998).Unless indicated otherwise, doric, alors and par consdquentare intersubstitutable in the examples.
This does not mean,however, that these DMs are synonymous in all contexts (see(Jayez and Rossari, 1998) for the difference between doric andalors).72c.
Si tu ouvres la fen~tre, ALORS onIf you open the window, then weaura de l'airwill get some air(4) a. Sois ~ l'heure.
Prends l' autorouteBe on time.
Take the highwayb.
Tu es en retard, DONC prends l'You are late, therefore take theautoroutehighwayc.
Sois ~ l'heure, 7?DONC prends l'Be on time.
therefore take theautoroutehighwayd.
Essaie d'etre h l'heure.
Donc prendsTry to be on time.
Therefore take1' autoroutethe highwaye.
Prends l' autoroute.
?
?DoNC sois hTake the highway.
Therefore be onl'heuretimeWhen it is used to connect two assertions,the consequence DONC corresponds either to acause-consequence relation, as in (l-a), or to aconsequence-cause relation, as in (l-b).
In contrast,it is not clear how we should analyze the behaviour ofDONC in the other examples (2-b)-(4-e).
The moststriking fact is that no simple correlation betweenthe speech act types (assertion, question, impera-tive) and the possibility of using DONC emerges fromthe examples.In (3-a), the second proposition appears as a con-sequence of the execution of the imperative, as ev-idenced by the future tense.
2 DONC is extremelyclumsy in such contexts, while it may occur afterimperatives in some others (cf.
(4-d)).
In (4-a), therelation is a means-end one.
Taking the highway is apossible means to arrive somewhere in due time.
Toexplain (4-c), it could be argued that DONC does notsupport means-end relations.
But, first, this doesnot square well with (4-b) and, second, the contrast(4-c)-(4-d) remains to be explained.2.2 Speech  acts and semant ic  profileDRs, qua relations, bear on arguments of sometype(s).
We call profile of a DR or DM the typesof its arguments.
It is possible to express pro-file distinctions within theories of DRs.
For in-stance, Sanders et al (1992) use the primitiveSource of Coherence with the two values Seman-tic and Pragmatic, corresponding respectively to alink between propositional contents and between il-locutionary meanings (or speech acts).
In Cause-Consequence or Consequence-Cause relations, the~Such pseudo-imperatives are studied in (Clark, 1993).value of Source of Coherence is Semantic, while itis Pragmatic for Goal- Instrument relations.
If weassume that questions like (2-a) are grounded on aCause-Consequence relation, the clumsiness of (2-b)can be explained by noting that there is no link be-tween the propositional contents of the assertion andof the question: my watching the TV cannot in-fluence the result of the game.
Unfortunately, thesame line of argument predicts that (2-a) itself isanomalous.
Symmetrically, let us assume that (2-a)is rather a Goal- Instrument relation with Goal ='the speaker wants to know whether p' and Instru-ment = 'the speaker asks whether p'.
We could ex-plain (2-b) by denying to DONC any compatibil itywith a Goal- Instrument connection.
However, thisis not consistent with the possibility of examples likeI need a hammer,  DONC lend me yours \]or a minute.Another variant of the same problem occurs whenone tries to use commonsense DR categories like jus-tification (Roulet et al, 1985; Mann and Thompson,1988).
DONC normally resists introducing a justi-fication, as in (3-b).
But, in some cases, it is ableto introduce a speech act justified by a proposition(4-b), while in other cases the very same patterndoes not license DONC (2-b).Knott (1996) proposes that semantic and prag-matic connections are sensitive to intended effects.The semantic intended effect is that the addresseebelieves the relation associated with the DR to holdbetween the propositional contents of the arguments.If DONC is semantic rather than pragmatic, we canaccount for the clumsiness of (2-b) in the same wayas Sanders et al: watching the TV cannot influencethe result of the game.
However, this is not consis-tent with the impossibility of (3-b).
The pragmaticintended effect is that some relation actually holdsbetween the intended effects associated with the ar-guments.
In (2-a), the intended effect of the asser-tion is that the addressee believes that the speakerdid not watch TV.
The intended effect of the ques-tion is that the addressee answers the question, ifpossible at all.
The intended eSect of the whole isthat the first belief causes the addressee to answerthe question.
If DONC is pragmatic and expresses aconsequence r lation, the intended effect of the firstargument must have the intended effect of the sec-ond as one of its consequences.
This seems to be thecase in (2-b).
Yet the linking is not natural.These hypotheses seem to suffer from calibrationproblems.
The possible profiles they allow us toconstruct tend to overlicense or underlicense the ob-served combinations.2.3 Towards a dynamic notion of profileThe difference between (3-a) and (3-b) hints at whatis happening.
In (3-a), obeying the command resultsin a situation in which the window is open.
This sit-uation is not real but only potential.
Using accom-73modation (Lewis, 1979), we can consider a potentialversion of the real world in which this situation isrealized.
In such a version, it is legitimate to con-clude that we'll get some fresh air.
Although thetechnical details of accommodation are somewhatintricate (see Frank 1996 for a recent survey), thegeneral principle remains constant.
Accommodationgives us the opportunity of importing information ina possible world.How is it that DONC seems to block accommo-dation in (3-b), although there is a clear Cause-Consequence relation between opening a windowand getting some fresh air?
Generally speak-ing, DONC requires that we construct an inferentialbridge between the representation of the first sen-tence and that of the second sentence.
In (3-b),obeying the command creates a potential worldwhere the window is open.
Assertions consist basi-cally in updating a world with the information con-veyed by the asserted sentence.
So, they are func-tions from a state of some world to another stateof the same world.
This granted, there are severaloptions.
(i) The assertion in (3-b) is evaluated in the poten-tial world where the window is open.
There is noreason why the sentence should be odd.
(ii) The opening of the window is evaluated in theworld where the assertion is, that is, presumably,the real world.
Again, there is no explanation forthe oddness of (3-b).
(iii) The opening of the window and the assertionare evaluated in different worlds.
This could explainthe oddness of (3-b).So, the Option (iii) seems to be the right candidate,but the only difference between (3-b) and (3-a) isthe occurrence of DONC in the former.
Therefore,DONC must be responsible for the phenomenon.Specifically, we make two assumptions.
(i) DONC signals some consequence connection be-tween two semantic constructs.
(ii) This connection is evaluated in one type of worldat one time.
It may  not link two constructs from twodifferent types of world at the same time.
(i) is unobjectionable.
One of the roles of a con-sequence DM is to signal a consequence relation.Which  notion of consequence is appropriate remainsto be seen, however.
From (i) we derive the observa-tion that the left construct must have the type of aproposition (or, more generally, of a judgment).
(ii)explains why we cannot freely mix speech act typeswith DONC.
We can go from assertions to assertionsor from imperatives to imperatives because we stayin the same type of world.
We can go from assertionsto imperatives because there is some reflection of theworld of assertions in that of imperatives.
3 This is3Concerning {./--clauses, there is a sharp diIfererLce betweenALORS and DONC and PAR CONSEQUENT whose compatibilityas expected if we consider that, in a consequence r -lation, the premise and the conclusion must have thesame modal status (belong to the same world).Condition (i) echoes the current belief that ques-tions do not introduce propositions, that is, semanticconstructs evaluated as true or false (in some world).If consequence DMs need propositional premises,they cannot follow questions.
4 That  imperativeshave a propositional behavior, on a par with asser-tions and in contrast with questions, is evidenced bytt-,e following contrasts.
(~} a.
It a ouvert la fen~tre, ce qui a rafrMchiHe opened the window, which cooledla piecethe roomb.
Ouvre la fen~tre, ce qui rafredchira laOpen the window, which will cool thepieceroomc.
Est-ce qu' il a ouvert la fen~tre?Is-it that he opened the window??
?Ce qui rafrMchira la pieceWhich will cool the roomDid he open the window?
Which will coolthe roomThe remaining problem is that DONC accepts ques-tions on its right, as in (2-c).
DONe does not acceptjust any question, however, but only those questionswhich convey some propositional link between one ofthe possible answers and the proposit ion/judgmenton the left.
In (2-c), in view of the fact that thespeaker did not receive the report, it is more plau-sible, other things being equal, that the departmentdid not send it than the contrary.
The constraintthat the proposition on the left should impinge onthe possible answers to the question explains why(2-b) is strange.
My (not) watching the TV can-not possibly exert any influence on the result of thegame.
The observations show that DMs of the DONCclass connect speech acts only if the left speech act isa judgment and conveys information which rendersthe right speech act propositionally successful.
Wedefine a speech act to be propositionally successfulif the states of affairs it represents as true or pre-supposes to be possible in a given (set of) world(s),by means of its propositional content, are actuallytrue or possible in this (these) world(s).
The restric-tion by means o/its propositional content is essen-tial.
It distinguishes between propositional successwith conditional structures is poor.
See (Jayez and Rossari,1998) for a discussion of this problem.4Recall that we consider here the deductive use of donc.
Asshown in (Rossari and ,)ayez, 1997), DONC may follow ques-tions when it hm a rephrasing use corresponding to in other~errns (Tanaka, 1997).
Deductive consequence connectives,however, are strange after questions.74and pragmatic felicity.
The question in (2-a) is felici-tous if we assume that the speaker does not know theanswer.
But it is not necessarily propositionally suc-cessful given the first assertion I couldn't watch theTV.
The possibility that the Red Sox won is neitherimplied nor entailed in any reasonable sense by thefirst sentence.
DONe resists the consequence r lationin this case because it does not 'see' speech acts assuch, but their underlying informational structure.So, the semantic/pragmatic distinction is of no availin the case of DONC.
We need to construct specificobjects to which DONC is sensitive.
This sensitiv-ity constitutes the profile of DONC and of its mates( alors and par consgquent).The difference on the left between questions andthe other speech acts points to a notion of dynamic-ity: assertions and imperatives update informationstructures, questions just test them, that is, checkthat certain conditions are satisfied.
Veltman's up-date logic (Veltman, 1996; Groeneveld, 1995) pro-vides a convenient framework for studying the dy-namics of information at an abstract level.
Roughly,updating an information state with an expression ?amounts to suppress all worlds where -~?
is true.
Anexpression Might ?
holds in an information state ifthe state is consistent with ?.
Unfortunately, thedifference between a possibility Might ?
introducedby an assertion and that associated with a questionis extremely difficult to express in this framework.There is no substantial difference between the statictruth of Might ?
(a test triggered by a question)and a dynamic update with Might ?
(an assertionof possibility, as in Mary is late, so she might havemissed the train).
In the next section, we describeinformally a modification of the framework whichallows us to take into account his difference.2.4 Speech.acts  and DONCAn information state is a set of worlds (epistemicalternatives, possibilities).
We consider the basicepistemic objects to be sets of information states.Information states and updates in Veltman's enseare called V-states and V-updates.
Non-modal as-sertions (without Might) update a set of states byV-updating each member of this set (i.e.
each V-state).
Imperatives have a similar effect, but theybear on a set of ideal future V-states.
Might ?
as-sertions update states by withdrawing every V-statewhere Might ?
is false.
Questions only test whetherthere is some V-state in which a given appropriateanswer is possible.
So, they do not update anythingin a strong sense (they are static or non-eliminative).However, questions, like genuine updates, are func-tions: applied to a state, they return this state or theabsurd state (the empty set of V-states).
Considerthe two examples below.
(6) a.
It's not Paul, neither Henry, so who did it?b.
This is obvious, so who would say the con-trary?In (6-a) and (6-b), the speaker seems to be preparedto accept Nobody you might know and Nobody as ap-propriate answers.
It is often the case that questionsimpose a hierarchy of speaker-oriented xpectationson the set of appropriate answers.
We will speak ofexpected answers in this case.
The effect of questionsis to test whether appropriate answers are possible.When the question does not imply some preferenceof the speaker, the set of expected answers and theset of appropriate answers coincide.
5Let O(?)
DONC O'(?)
be the logical form of a XDONC Y construction, where O and O' are opera-tions (updates, etc.)
on ?
and ?.
DONC signalsthat there is some set of rules, say R, such that thepossibility of updating/testing successfully the waywe do on the right (O'(?))
is predictable from theupdate on the left (O(?)).
DONC warns us that,for some R, R and O(?)
jointly predict that O'(?
)cannot always fail.
6 In other terms, DONC connectoperations of certain kinds, not propositional con-tents, nor speech acts in the traditional sense.
Thisis because speech acts signal operations that theyare sometimes (mis)taken for the arguments of theD O N C-relation.3 A dynamic  mode l  o f  p ro f i l e3.1 BasicsIn update semantics, information states are sets ofworlds.
Updating an information state with someformula ?
consists in eliminating from the informa-tion state all the worlds where ?
does not hold.Def.
1 - - In fo rmat ion  states and updatesLet P be a set of atomic propositions p,q .. .
.
and B(P)the set of boolean combinations ofmembers of P. Mem-bers of B(P) are called expressions and axe denoted by?, ~b,.... A world (w, w',... ) is a set of expressions.
AV-state (s, s',... ) is a set of worlds.An expression ?
holds in a world w, in symbols w ~ ?,iff ~ E w. There is no expression ?
and no world w suchthat w ~?andw~?.The update of s with ?, in symbols + ?, is defined by:s+p= {w:w esAw ~p},s+~?= s -{w:w ~?
},s + ?
V ~ = s + ?
U s + ?.
Usual boolean equivalenceshold.
?
is called the update expression.A V-state s accepts an expression ?, in symbol s If- ?iff s ?
?
= s. A V-state s tolerates an expression ?
iffs+?
?0.5In a series of works, Ginzburg has proposed to extend thenotion of appropriate answer used in the current literatureon questions (see Ginzburg 1998 for a global presentation).Assessing the (possible) usefulness of this extension for ourcurrent purpose is beyond the scope of this paper, however.We ignore also, for space reasons, the problem of the 'negativevalue' of questions (Ducrot 1984, 227-228).6That the DONC sentence does not (always) sound redun-dant comes from the fact that the rules are not explicitlyindicated, but are to be reconstructed via some abductiveprocess.75Note that the empty V-state (or absurd V-state) acceptsanything and tolerates nothing.This basic language is extended by considering ex-pressions of possibility of the form Might ?.
Theupdate notion is extended as follows.Def.
2 - -Update  for Might express ionss + Might q~ : s if s + ?
-~ @, O otherwise.Obviously, for s ?
0, s tolerates ~ iff s tolerates Might ?,and s accepts Might ~b iff s tolerates Might ?.3.2 In fo rmat ion  s ta tesAn information state (henceforth simply state) is aset of V-states.
We distinguish two types of statescorresponding to assertions and imperatives.
Theyare noted S ~ss~t and S i'np respectively.
A booleanexpression without Might is called classical.
A stateaccepts ?
iff each of its V-states accepts ?.Def.
3 - -  Asser t ive  and imperat ive  updatesThe update of S ~sse~t with a classical expression ?, notedS ?
's~'  ~q~, is the set of non-empty V-states s such that,for some s' in S ~se~t.
s = s' + ?.The update of S a'~'~ with Might ~, where ?
is classi-cal, noted S .
.
.
.
.
~ ~ Might ?, is the set of V-states s inS .
.
.
.
.
* such that s tolerates ~b.The update of S ~'~p with ~b, noted S "~ ~?,  is defined asin the S a~'~'* case, provided that S ~mt' does not accept?, in which case the update returns the empty set.The conditional update of S imp with ?, noted S ''~p ~ ?,returns S imp itself if S ~mp accepts ~b, and S i'~p ~ ?
oth-erwise.The conditional update of S ~ is not different fromthe standard update: S ~ ~c ?
= S ~  ~ ?.When the update of 5 with ?
is (not) the empty set, wesay that the update fails (succeeds).
When S ~ Mightsucceeds, we say that S tolerates ?.
~b is called the up-date expression.Assertive updates with classical expressions consistin V-updat ing each member of the state with theexpressions.
For Might ?
expressions, we keep onlythe V-states where ?
is not a priori excluded.
Im-perative updates with ?
also amount to force therealization of ?, whenever it is not already accepted.A global state S is a pair (S assent, S'm~).
Globalstates are subject to two conditions on imperativestates.
A faithfulness condition ensures that im-perative states reflect assertive states: every expres-sion accepted in an assertive state is also acceptedin the associated imperative state.
So, imperativestates are 'realistic': they take true states of affairsinto account.
To avoid conflicts, we use conditionalupdates for imperatives: S imp is not updated with?
ff it contains ?.
The second condition, labelledMust ~ Might, stipulates that  an obligatory stateof affairs is always possible.
In a more intuitive form,one does not issue commands which cannot be exe-cuted.
77See (yon Wright, 1971) on this and related topics.
Must?expressions are considered to be classical in the context of thispaper.Def, 4 - -  Must ~ MightIf S accepts Must ?, S ~ Might ?
succeeds.Def.
5 - -  Global s ta tesA global state S is a pair (SaS'ert,S imp) where everyexpression accepted in every V-state of S ~sert isaccepted in every V-state of S imp.
A global state(S,S') is degenerate when S or S' is the empty set.
Itaccepts an expression ~b when S and S' accept ?Def.
6 - -  Propos i t iona l  denotat ionThe propositional denotation of a sentence P, noted\[p\]i ,  is a set of pairs of global states, where the secondmember of each pair is obtained by updating/testingthe first member.If the sentence P consists in asserting that ?,S?
.. .
.  '
$ ?
and S~ rnp = S~ rnp @c ?
}.If the sentence P consists in commanding that ?,l \ ku l  ~ ~-'1 \]1 k'-.,'l ' ~"'2 11 : v2  :s;  ~ ?
?
}.If the sentence P is a question which respect towhich @ is an answer, \[P\]~'~ = {( (S  .
.
.
.
.
~,S'~P),(S .
.
.
.
.
*, S'mP)) : S .
.
.
.
.
* tolerates ?
}.To shorten notation, we write S ~ ?
instead of(S .
.
.
.
.
t $ ~b, S "~p ~c ?)
when S = (S .
.
.
.
.
*, S"~P).The faithfulness condition is implemented by impos-ing a parallel update on S ~e~* and S i'~p in asser-tions.
The definition separates updates and tests.Updates correspond to assertions and imperatives.They consist in changing V-states by eliminativeV-updates.
Tests correspond to questions.
Theyconsist in checking that  a state tolerates a certainexpression.
Since, in this case, the expression is notuniformly true nor possible across V-states, it can-not provide a stable premise from which to draw aconclusion.
This explains why consequence connec-tives, which mimic the game of drawing conclusionsfrom premises, cannot be preceded by questions inmonologues.
Note that,  in line with the remarks ofsection 2.3, we do not consider the denotat ion of sen-tences in general, but only those denotations (propo-sitional denotations) which are 'seen' by DONC.3.3 Ru lesWe will not attempt to discuss here the nature ofthe commonsense rules and inference schemas whichare used in theories of semantic interpretation.
Inthe context of this paper, we only need to make twosimplistic assumptions.1.
A rule is an implicative structure of form ?1 A. .
.
A ?,~ ~ ?, with its tradit ional semantics: ~b istrue whenever ?1 .
.
.
?n are.2.
The set of rules does not form a theory in anylogically interesting sense.
It is just a package ofresources.
We can freely use any subset of rules toobtain a given conclusion and we have no warrantythat the set of rules is classically consistent, s ThisS A well-known cause of inconsistency is the coexistence ina rule database of monotonic rules like R1 and R2:R1 -~ ~b76can remedied by imposing a non-monotonic struc-ture on the inferential relation ~ as in (Veltman,1996).
However, this is not a move we will considerhere.
We will rather focus on the definition of anappropriate ntailment relation.
We need a slightlymore subtle notion than that of entailment betweenexpressions.
The next definition says that some op-eration (update/test) entails some other operationmodulo "R whenever successfully executing the firstentails modulo ~ that we can successfully executethe second.Def .
T - -  Operat ion  enta i lmentLet 7~ be a set of rules and O(?)
and 0'(?)
two opera-tions of update or test with ?
and ?, we say that O(?
)T~--entails O'(?)
iff, for every global state S, applyingO(?)
to S results in a state S = O(?
)\[S\] for which thereexists a rule r = ?
=~X in T~ such that, if S" = S' ~B ris non-degenerate, O'(?
)\[S"\] is non-degenerate.Since operations correspond to sets of pairs of globalstates which themselves correspond to sentences, thelast definition readily extends to sentences and prac-tically gives us the denotation of DONC.3.4  DONC semant ic  profi leWe now define the denotation of a sentence pair ofform P DONC Q, where DONC has its deductive sense.It is the set of pairs of global states (S,S") suchthat there is an intermediate global state S' that onereaches from S by a conditional P-update and whoseupdate by a finite subset of 7~ warrants a successfulconditional Q-update or Q-test.
We require the op-erations to be conditional because we want to drawa distinction between cases where imperative speechacts are infelicitous in view of the context and caseswhere conditions on DONC are not satisfied.
E.g.,a command that ?
is infelicitous if ?
already holds.However, the same command is not necessarily in-compatible with the constraints on DONC.Def.
8 - -  DONC semant ic  p ro f i leLet 7~ a set of rules, ?
and ~b two expressions.I P DONC Q\] with respect o 7~, ?, ~b is the set of pairs S, S") such that:a. O(~) is the conditional version of the operation asso-ciated with P and is an update,90 ' (?)
is the conditionalversion of the operation associated with Q.b.
There exists S' such that (S,S') E \[p\]1,~ and<s', s") e \[q\]c.
O(?)
T~-entails O'(?
).To motivate informally this definition, consider (2-b)again.
The first assertion results in updating S~ ' '~tand ?irnp with an expression ot watch TV.
This\[?assert oimP~ results into a state v~2 ,o  2 ; which acceptsnot  watch TV.
Let us assume that we have a rule?, R2 = ?
^  X ~ "~?.
When ?
and X are both true ?
and ~g,are both true.9Actually, we could eliminate this condition by defining amore general notion of stability, but this would require someextra technical machinery.in 7~: not watch TV ~ not know resu l t .
Then,~,mp with the rule results in updating S~ 8serf and ,2a global state where the two members accept notknow resu l t .
The question Did the Red Sox win isinterpreted as connected with answers like Red Soxwin or Red Sox not win.
But, clearly, the fact thatnot know resu l t  is accepted oes not warrant hatRed Sox win is tolerated by any V-state in the ques-tion test on S~ sSert.
The same holds for Red Soxnot win.
So, we are in no position to conclude thatthe test will be successful, unless we ascribe to thesentence some contrived interpretation.The definition distinguishes between (i) the con-ditional operations which are used to check out 7~-entailment and (ii) (absolute) operations associatedwith P and Q.
This allows for situations in which 7~-entailment holds, but there are still problems with Pand/or Q, which is precisely the case in (4-c).
In thenext section, we show how the proposed constraintsshed light upon other observations.4 App l i ca t ionsAsser t ion - Imperat iveThis the (4-b) case.
?You are late : (S~'" ' t ,S ' l  ~p) ---+ =?irnp ?imp ec  l a te)  (by def.
6 S~ ssert ~ l a te ,  ~2 : ~1and 8).We assume a rule r: l a te  ~ Must  highway.
Whensomebody is late, she must take the highway (incertain circumstances).
?irnp ~c r) accepts  2vlust h ighway.
(S~ .
.
.
.
t ?
r, ~2Take the highway : (S ~r,  S~mP~BCr~.BChighway) ~sser~> ?
r, s; # ?
).Success is warranted because the principleMust  ~ Might  entail that any conditionalupdate with highway will be succesful.
Of course,(4-b) could be issued in a context where theaddresse is already on the highway.
It would thenbe infelicitous, but DONC is not responsible for thiscommunication clash.Imperat ive - Imperat ive  Let us explain thecontrast (4-c)-(4-d).
In (4-c), we have:Be on time : (S 1 ,S  1 ) ~ =sassert ?irnp ~irnp ec  t ime) .
1 , ~2 = '-,1 onWe assume there is a rule r = on t ime ~ highway.This rule is intended to mean that somebody whois on time is on the highway or took the highway.q~mp ec r) accepts highway.
(S~ 's~'~ ?
r, ~2\[ Sasser~ m r S~mP eCr~eh ighway)  Take the highway : ~ 2  ,?imp ?
r, # ?
)"7~-entailment holds, but the imperative updateassociated with Q (=take the highway) is bound~imp to fail, since ~'2 accepts highway.
This is a casewhere satisfying the DONC constraint amounts to an77illocutionary suicide: the rule which licenses DONCforbids us to update non-conditionally on the rightsentence.
A similar explanation goes for (4-e).
Ifthe rule links the event of taking the highway andits result (being on time), any update with on timefails or is infelicitous, ince the addressee is asked toobtain a result (being on time) which is anyway, inthe imperative world, an unescapable consequenceof what she 'did' (taking the highway) in the sameworld.In (4~d), we have:Try to be on time: (S~ sser~,S~ rnp) ~ (S~ ssert =Sasser~ ?irnp imp c time).
1 ,"2 = S 1 $ t ry  onWe assume that there is a rule r = t ry  on timeMust highway, which is intended to mean thatsomebody who wants to be on time is going to takethe highway.
(S~ "Se't @ r, ~mp @c r) accepts Must highway.
~2Take the highway: (ST'BettOr, S~mP $Cr~Ch?ghway)~irap (S~ s'er~ $ r ,~  ?
~).
Success is warrantedbecause of the Must ~ Might constraint of defini-tion 4.As noted above, questions on the left are notupdates and are thus blocked by def.
8.
In con-trast, Might assertions are treated on a par withassertions.
So, Paul might come, DONC he mightmeet Henry would analyzed with the help of ruleslike Might come ~ Might meet ,  possibly basedover non-modal rules like come ~ meet in T~.
Fi-nally, assertion-assertion structures are essentiallyunproblematic.5 Conc lus ionAlthough the analysis presented here is limited, itshows that the view of DMs as manifestations of verygeneral communication-oriented DRs is oversimpli-fying.
Some DMs are able to signal DRs only insofaras their own lexical constraints are satisfied.
Theseconstrains pertain to the semantic relation and tothe argument types associated with particular DMs.An open question is whether the importance of se-mantic profile is particular to some class(es) of DMs.Consequence onnectives are inferential, in the senseof (Jayez and Rossari, 1998).
The other classes ofinferential DMs are oppositive (yet, however) andrephrasing (anyway).
In subsequent work, we willaddress primarily th e following questions.
Is the im-portance of a specific semantic profile particular tothe category of inferential DMs?
Are the profile re-strictions inside the class of inferential DMs just thereflection of the inferential processes these DMs sig-nal, or have they a (partly) independent s atus?ReferencesBilly Clark.
1993.
Relevance and "pseudo-impe-ratives".
Linguistics and Philosophy, 16:79-121.Oswald Ducrot.
1984.
Le Dire et le Dit.
Editions deMinuit, Paris.Anette Frank.
1996.
Context Dependence in Mo-dal Constructions.
Ph.d. thesis, University ofStuttgart.Jonathan Ginzburg.
1998.
Querying and assertionin dialogue.
Unpublished book ms.Willem Groeneveld.
1995.
Logical Investigationsinto Dynamic Semantics.
Ph.d. thesis, Institutefor Logic, Language and Computation, Universityof Amsterdam.Jacques Jayez and Corinne Rossari.
1998.
Prag-matic connectives a  predicates.
The case of infer-ential connectives.
In Patrick Salnt-Dizier, editor,Predicative Structures in Natural Language andLexical Knowledge Bases, pages 306-340.
KluwerAcademic Press, Dordrecht.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodol-ogy for Motivating a Set of Coherence Relations.Ph.d.
thesis, University of Edinburgh.David Lewis.
1979.
Scorekeeping in a languagegame.
In R. B?ue:le, U. Egli, and A. von Ste-chow, editors, Semantics from Different Points ofView, pages 172-187.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organization.
Text, (8):243-281.James R. Martin.
1992.
English Text: System andStructure.
John Benjamins Publishing Company,Amsterdam.Corinne Rossari and Jacques Jayez.
1997.
Con-necteurs de consequence et portfie s~mantique.Cahiers de Linguistique Fran~aise, 19:233-265.Eddy Roulet et al 1985.
L'articulation du discoursen fran~ais contemporain.
Peter Lang, Berne.Ted J.M.
Sanders, Wilbert P.M. Spooren, andLeo G.M.
Noordman.
1992.
Toward a taxonomyof coherence relations.
Discourse Processes, 15:1-35.Hiroaki Tanaka.
1997.
In other words and conversa-tional implicature.
Pragmatics, 7(3):367-387.Frank Veltman.
1996.
Defaults in update semantics.Journal of Philosophical Logic, 25(3):221-261.Georg Henrik von Wright.
1971.
Deontic logic andthe theory of conditions.
In Risto Hilpinen, editor,Deontic Logic: Introductory and Systematic Read-ings, pages 158-177.
David Reidel, Dordrecht.78
