Identifying the Linguistic Correlates of Rhetorical RelationsSimon H. Corston-OliverMicrosoft ResearchOne Microsoft WayRedmond WA 98052-6399, USAsimonco @microsoft.cornAbstractRASTA (Rhetorical Structure TheoryAnalyzer), a system for automatic discourseanalysis, reliably, identifies rhetoricalrelations present m written discourse byexamining information available in syntacticand logical form analyses.
Since there is amany-to-many relationship betweenrhetorical relations and elements of linguisticform, RASTA identifies relations by theconvergence of a number of pieces ofevidence, many of which would beinsufficient in isolation to reliably identify arelation.1.
IntroductionWithin Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mannand Thompson 1986, 1988), the discoursestructure of a text is represented by means of ahierarchical tree diagram in which contiguoustext spans are related by labeled relations.Hierarchical structure results from the fact thateach text span in a labeled relation may itselfhave a complex internal discourse structure.Traditionally, human analysts have constructedRST analyses for texts by employing tacit,subjective, intuitive judgments.
RASTA (Corston-Oliver 1998a, 1998b), a discourse analysiscomponent within the Microsoft EnglishGrammar, automatically produces RST analysesof texts.
To do so, it proceeds in three stages.
Inthe first stage, RASTA identifies the clauses thatfunction as terminal nodes in an RST analysis.
Inthe second stage, RASTA examines all possiblepairs of terminal nodes to determine whichdiscourse relation, if any, might hold between thetwo nodes.
In the third stage, RASTA combinesthe terminal nodes according to the discourserelations that it hypothesized to form RSTanalyses of a complete text.This paper discusses the second stage ofprocessing, during which RASTA identifiesdiscourse relations.
Whereas introspection is aviable strategy for human analysts, acomputational discourse analysis system likeRASTA requires explicit methods for identifyingdiscourse relations.
This paper thereforedescribes (section 2) the kinds of linguisticevidence that RASTA considers in positingdiscourse structure.
Intuitively, cues to discourserelations are not all equally compelling.
Thisintuition is reflected in the use of heuristic scores(section 3) to measure the plausibility of arelation.
Section 5 describes in detail the cuesused to identify the SEQUENCE relation and givesa worked example.
For a more completedescription of the workings of RASTA, the readeris referred to Corston-Oliver (1998b).The Microsoft English Grammar (MEG) is abroad-coverage grammar of English thatperforms a morphological analysis, aconventional syntactic onstituent analysis and alogical form analysis (involving thenormalization of syntactic alternations to yield arepresentation with the flavor of a predicaterepresentation).
Functional roles such as subjectand object are identified and anaphoric referencesare resolved uring linguistic analysis.To date, I have focused on the text of Encarta96 (Microsoft Corporation 1995, henceforthEncarta), a general purpose electronicencyclopedia whose articles exhibit a variety ofcomplex discourse structures.
All examples inthis paper are taken from Encarta.
Referencesgiven are to the titles of articles.2.
Identifying rhetoricalrelationsIn the computational discourse analysis literature,there are three strands concerning theidentification of rhetorical relations.
The firststrand (Knott and Dale 1995; Kurohashi andNagao 1994; Marcu 1997; Ono et al 1994;Sanders 1992; Sanders et al 1992, 1993; Sandersand van Wijk 1996; Sumita et al 1992) concernsthe identification of rhetorical relations by fairlysuperficial means.
Typically simple patternmatching is used to identify cue phrases.
Thesecue phrases are then assumed to be in a one-to-one relationship to rhetorical relations.The second strand (Fukumoto and Tsujii 1994;Hobbs 1979), in contrast to the first strand,eschews an examination of the form of a text infavor of reasoning with more abstractrepresentations such as predicate representationsof linguistic content and axiomaticrepresentations of world knowledge.The third strand concerns programmaticdescriptions of how a computational discourseanalysis might proceed (Polanyi 1988; Wu andLytinen 1990), with no specific details about howdiscourse relations might be identified.RASTA identifies rhetorical relations bydirectly examining a text, and is therefore mostclosely aligned with the first of these threestrands.
Like previous work in this vein, RASTAconsiders cue phrases to be a useful indicator ofrhetorical relations (section 2.3).
However,RASTA goes beyond a simple examination of cuephrases and considers uch linguistic evidence asclausal status (section 2.1), anaphora, deixis andreferential continuity (section 2.2) and tense,aspect, and polarity (section 5).Traditionally, RST analysts have been averse totying their analyses of discourse structure tospecific elements of linguistic form.
Thedescriptions of rhetorical relations in Mann andThompson (1986~ 1988), for example, studiouslyavoid all mention of the correlates of discoursestructure.
This aversion is apparently intended toavoid "naive mono-functionalism", i.e.
theoverly-simplistic assumption of a one-to-onemapping between linguistic form and rhetoricalstructure.
This laudable concern is accompaniedby a general pessimism.
For example, Mann andThompson (1986:71-72) note that "we do notbelieve that there are undiscovered signal forms,and we do not believe that text form can everprovide a definitive basis for describing howrelational propositions can be discerned."
Insteadof looking for simple one-to-one mappingsbetween linguistic form and discourse structure,RASTA considers a number of small cues thatstand in many-to-many relations to rhetoricalrelations.
By allowing these minor cues toconverge in identifying discourse relations, theprospects for identifying rhetorical relationsappear osy, as this paper demonstrates.2.1.
Clausal statusEach RST relation can be classified as a memberof one of two structural types: symmetric andasymmetric.
Symmetric relations (CONTRAST,JOINT, LIST, SEQUENCE, etc.)
consist of two ormore co-nuclei, each of which is equallyimportant in realizing the writer's communicativegoals.
Asymmetric relations (CAUSE,ELABORATION, CONCESSION, etc.)
have twoconstituents: a nucleus, the more central elementin realizing the writer's goals, and a satellite, aless important element hat is in a dependencyrelation to the nucleus.Matthiessen and Thompson (1988) suggest thatthe grammatical distinction between paratacticclause combining (including coordination,apposition and quoting) and hypotactic clausecombining (including various kinds of clausalsubordination) represents the grammaticizationof the two different kinds of RST relation.
Thisproposal motivates the most importantdiscriminator f rhetorical relations employed byRASTA.
Hypotactic lause combining, identifiedby the syntactic analysis performed by MEG,always suggests an asymmetric RST relation inwhich the matrix clause is posited to be thenucleus and the subordinate clause to be thesatellite.
Paratactic lause combining, however,may correspond to either a symmetric or anasymmetric RST relation.In rare cases, this correlation between clausalstatus and rhetorical status is the only clue todiscourse structure that RASTA is able to identify,i.e.
having correctly identified a hypotacticrelationship, RASTA is unable to identify aspecific corresponding asymmetric rhetoricalrelation.
In such cases, RASTA proposes anasymmetric relationship which it then labels witha question mark, as illustrated in Figure 1.Clause: is clearly a satellite of Clause,.
However,it is not quite clear exactly what RST relationholds.
The PURPOSE or RESULT relations areweak candidates, but certainly not invitingenough to warrant a commitment toeither.1.
The legs have powerful claws,2.
adapting the animal for rapid digging intohard ground.Figure 1 Echidna2.2.
Anaphora, deixis andreferential continuityAnaphora, deixis and referential continuity arestrongly cohesive devices (Halliday and Hasan1976).
Often, RASTA need do no more thanidentify the form of a referring device, withoutactually resolving the referent.
Pronouns anddemonstratives, for example, are frequentlypositively correlated with the satellite of anasymmetric relation, especially when they occuras syntactic subjects or as modifiers of subjects,and negatively correlated with the co-nucleus ofa symmetric relation (see for example criterion 4for the SEQUENCE relation in Figure 3, section 5).In other cases, the form of a referringexpression is insufficient, and RASTA mustconsider eferential continuity.
The MEG systemresolves pronominal anaphoric references duringthe construction of the logical form.
AlthoughMEG is sometimes able to identify a singleantecedent for a pronoun, it often proposes a listof plausible antecedents.
In determining subjectcontinuity, the most important kind of referentialcontinuity for identifying discourse relations,RASTA considers whether the subject of oneclause is one of the possible antecedents of thesubject of another clause.
For a pronominalsubject, RASTA examines the list of proposedantecedents.
For a subject modified by apossessive pronoun, RASTA considers theproposed antecedents of the possessive pronoun.For lexical subjects, RASTA considers simplywhether the head of the subject noun phrase ofone clause is identical to the head of the subjectnoun phrase of the other clause.
(MEG does notcurrently perform anaphora resolution for lexicalnoun phrases.)2.3.
Cue phrasesMany clauses contain cue phrases that provideevidence of rhetorical structure.
Like otherapproaches to identifying rhetorical structure(Ono et al 1994; Knott and Dale 1995; Marcu1997), RASTA recognizes cue phrases as avaluable source of evidence.
RASTA, however,attempts to overcome two problems related tocue phrases: compositionality, i.e.
some cuephrases are amenable to different compositionalanalyses, and coverage, i.e.
not all clausescontain cue phrases.Some phrases ought o be treated as lexicalizedunits in some contexts and as phrases withinternal constituency in other contexts.
TheEncarta article Quasar, for example, contains thephrase as long as in sentence medial position:"...their observed light would have beentraveling practically as long as the age of theuniverse."
Such instances of the phrase as longas are amenable to a compositional nalysis.
Inother cases, the same phrase in sentence-medialposition ought to be treated as a lexicalized unit,analogous to the subordinating conjunctionprovided, as illustrated in Figure 2.1.
The premier and cabinet remain in power2.
as long as they have the support of amajority in the provincial legislature.
 onditio~10Figure 2 Prince Edward IslandRASTA examines cue phrases as a form ofevidence for rhetorical structure, distinguishingambiguous readings of phrases like as long as onthe basis of the syntactic analysis performed byMEG.Unfortunately, it is not the case that all clausescontain useful cue phrases.
Cue phrases aretherefore insufficient for the task of constructingdiscourse representations that cover an entiretext.
To overcome this deficiency, RASTAaugments cue phrases with additional evidenceavailable in a text.3.
Necessary criteria and cuesThe process of hypothesizing discourse relationsinvolves tension between two competingconcerns.
On the one hand, it is desirable topostulate all possible discourse relations thatmight hold between two terminal nodes, in orderto ensure that the preferred RST analysis for atext is always in the set of analyses produced byRASTA.
On the other hand, considerations ofcomputational efficiency lead us to desire a smallset of relations, since as the number of possiblediscourse relations increases, the number ofpossible discourse trees to be consideredincreases exponentially; the smaller the set ofhypothesized relations, the more quickly thealgorithm for constructing RST trees (Corston-Oliver 1998a, 1998b) can test all possibilities.RASTA resolves this tension by distinguishingtwo kinds of evidence.
The first kind of evidenceis the set of necessary criteriamthe conditionsthat simply must be met before RASTA is evenwilling to "consider" a given discourse relation.The second kind of evidence is the set of cuesthat are only applied if the necessary criteria aresatisfied.
Coordination by means of theconjunction and, for example, correlates with theSEQUENCE conjunction (Figure 6, section 5), butonly weakly.
If we were to posit a SEQUENCErelation every time we observed the conjunctionand, we would posit a great many spuriousrelations.
However, RASTA only tests this cue ifan extensive set of necessary criteria for theSEQUENCE relation have been satisfied (Figure 3,section 5).The cues that RASTA uses tO identify rhetoricalrelations by no means constitute an exhaustivelist of the correlates of each relation.
Rather, thecues that RASTA employs are sufficient o enableit to distinguish reliably among the thirteenrelations (ASYMMETRICCONTRAST, CAUSE,CIRCUMSTANCE, CONCESSION, CONDITION,CONTRAST, ELABORATION, JOINT, LIST, MEANS,PURPOSE, RESULT, SEQUENCE) necessary for anadequate discourse analysis of the text of thearticles in Encarta.
The extent o which the cuesused by RASTA correspond to the evidence thathuman readers use when attempting tounderstand the discourse structure of a text is amatter for independent experimentalinvestigation.4.
Heuristic scoresRASTA examines many cues in identifyingrhetorical relations.
Intuitively, these differentcues are not of equal weight.
To reflect thisintuition, RASTA associates a heuristic score witheach cue.
Each cue is thus able to "vote" for arelation.
Each relation receives a score, equal tothe sum of the heuristic scores of the cues thatvoted in favor of that relation.The heuristic scores assigned accord well withhuman linguistic intuitions.
However, theprimary role of the heuristic scores is to guideRASTA in subsequent s ages of processing.
Whenconstructing RST trees, RASTA applies therelations with the highest scores first.
This causesRASTA to' converge on better analyses of a textbefore producing less plausible analyses(Corston-Oliver 1998a, 1998b).5.
The SEQUENCE relationTo illustrate the kinds of evidence that RASTAconsiders, let us consider how RASTA identifiesthe SEQUENCE relation.
The SEQUENCE relationis a symmetric relation in which two or moreclauses report events that are in a relationship oftemporal succession.
Figure 3 gives the necessarycriteria for the SEQUENCE relation.
If thenecessary criteria are satisfied, then it isreasonable to posit a SEQUENCE relation betweentwo clauses.
The criteria are sufficiently stringentthat an initial heuristic score of 20 is associatedwith this hypothesized relation.111.
Clause, precedes Clause 2.2.
Clause~ is not syntactically subordinate toClause-,.3.
Clause_, is not syntactically subordinate toClauses.4.
The subject of Clause: is not ademonstrative pronoun, nor is it modifiedby a demonstrative.5.
Neither Clause~ nor Clause s hasprogressive aspect (marked by the -ingverbal suffix).6.
If either Clause, nor Clause, has negativepolarity, then it must also have an explicitindication of time.7.
Neither Clause, nor Clause, is a Whquestion.8.Neither Clausej nor Clause: has anattributive predicate.9.The event expressed in Clause, does nottemporally precede the event in Clause c10.
Clause I and Clause, match in tense andaspect.11.
Clause 2 must not be immediatelygoverned by a contrast conjunction.Figure 3 Necessary criteria for the SEQUENCErelationA few of the necessary criteria merit specialdiscussion.
Criteria 2 and 3 are intended toexclude situations in which one clause issyntactically subordinate to another, since arelationship of grammatical subordination alwayscorresponds to an asymmetric relation (section2.1), whereas the SEQUENCE relation is asymmetric relation.Criterion 4, "The subject of Clause, is not ademonstrative pronoun, nor is it modified by ademonstrative", is intended to block cases inwhich the correlations between deixis anddiscourse structure (section 2.2) would make anasymmetric relation more likely than thesymmetric SEQUENCE relation.
For example, inthe following excerpt, a SEQUENCE relation isdispreferred in the face of a more plausibleRESULT relation because the subject of thesecond main clause, this study, contains ademonstrative:"He made a study of the famous Adamsfamily of Massachusetts, to which hewas not related; this study resulted in"The Adams Family"..." (Adams,James Truslow).Since the SEQUENCE relation involves anarrative sequence of events, criterion 5, "NeitherClause I nor Clause, has progressive aspect...",excludes clauses which are not eventive, as in thefollowing example:"Abbott was willing to admit a numberof manufactured goods from the UnitedStates duty-free" (Abbot, Sir JohnJoseph Caldwell).For the most part, clauses with negativepolarity do not express events and thereforecannot enter into the SEQUENCE relation.
Onenotable exception to this generalization is clauseswith negative polarity which also contain anexplicit indication of time (criterion 6), asillustrated in Figure 4.
The clause with negativepolarity and an explicit indication of time isgiven in bold type.
This clause entails an eventwhich is in a SEQUENCE relation with otherevents.
RASTA does not require a sophisticatedreasoning module to detect this entailment.Rather, the mere presence of an explicitindication of time within a negative clauseappears to be sufficient o identify the entailmentin this instance and in other similar instances.Prepositional phrases and subordinate clausesintroduced by before or until are the mostcommon means of explicitly indicating time forclauses with negative polarity in Encarta.1.Although AIDS has been tracked since1981,2.
the identification of HIV as thecausative agent was not made until1983.3.In 1985 the first blood test for HIV,developed by the research group led byRobert Gallo, was approved for use inblood banks.Figure 4 Acquired Immune DeficiencySyndromeNeither Wh questions (criterion 7) nor12attributive predicates (criterion 8) report events.They therefore cannot participate in SEQUENCErelations.
Changes in state, unlike attributivepredicates, can however participate in SEQUENCErelations.
Clause 2 in Figure 5, and \[Abacha\]became a captain in the army in 1967, illustratesa change of state.1.Abacha graduated from the NigerianMilitary Training College in Zaria in1963,2.
and became a captain in the army in 1967.Figure 5 Abacha, SaniCriteria 1 and 9 together constitute the traditionalminimal definition of a narrative (Labov 1972;Reinhart 1984): a narrative sequence is one inwhich a series of tensed clauses reports asequence of events, with the linear order of theclauses expressing the events matching the real-world temporal order of those events.Provided that the necessary criteria for theSEQUENCE relation are satisfied, RASTA tests thecues given in Figure 6.1.Clause, contains a sequence conjunction(and later then...).
Score = 10.2.
Clause, and Clause: are coordinated.
Score=5.3.There is an explicit indication that theevent expressed by Clause~ temporallyprecedes the event expressed by Clause,..Score = 5.Figure 6 Cues for the SEQUENCE relationNote that RASTA does identify SEQUENCEconjunctions (cue 1).
However, the presence of aSEQUENCE conjunction is not a necessarycriterion in identifying the SEQUENCE relation.Explicit indications of time are of great valuein identifying the SEQUENCE relation (criterion 9and cue 3).
In Figure 7, for example, the eventsdescribed in clauses 2 through 7--conferencesbeing held, agreements being made, and so on moccur during the 1920s, the timeframe describedin clause 1.
RASTA identifies the timeframe of theexpression the 1920s by the presence of a definitearticle with a numeric year, together with thepresence of the plural suffix -s. The timeframethus identified spans the first day of 1920 to thelast day of 1929.
It is a matter of simple math todetermine that the dates 1920 (clause 2), 1921-1922 (clause 4), 1925 (clause 5) and 1928 (clause6) fall within this interval.Clause 1 describes a temporal interval withinwhich the events described in clauses 2 through 7occur, rather than describing any event thatprecedes the events in clauses 2 through 7.RASTA therefore does not posit a SEQUENCErelation between clause 1 and any of thefollowing clauses.
Rather, clause 1, the topicsentence of this paragraph, is in anELABORATION relation with the SEQUENCE nodethat spans clauses 2 through 7.Clauses 2 through 7 satisfy criterion 9, sincethe temporal order of the events describedmatches the temporal order of the events in theworld and none of the clauses describes atemporal interval within which the events of anyother clauses occur.
Cue 3 identifies theappropn.
'ate sequencing of the temporalexpressions in each of the relevant clauses,leading RASTA to posit the SEQUENCE nodedepicted in Figure 7.6.
ConclusionRASTA posits plausible rhetorical relationsbetween clauses by identifying the linguisticcorrelates of rhetorical relations.
The evidencethat RASTA examines goes beyond cue phrases,including such cues as clausal status, anaphora,deixis and referential continuity.The form of a text represents the sum of anumber of the decisions made by a writer.
Thesedecisions include the rhetorical structuring of thetext, motivating the choice of linguistic devicessuch as specific grammatical constructions andtense and aspect sequencing.
By examining thelinguistic form of a text, we are able to makeplausible inferences about rhetorical structure.Even subtle entailments (criterion 6, Figure 3,section 5) can be identified by an examination oflinguistic form alone.RASTA allows for a many-to-many mappingbetween elements of linguistic form and specificrhetorical relations.
Specific relations areidentified by the convergence of multiple piecesof evidence.
Future research in this vein will seekto mine the wealth of information present in atext for more cues to rhetorical structure.1.
During the 1920s, attempts were made toachieve a stable peace.2.The first was the establishment (1920) ofthe League of Nations as a forum in whichnations could settle their disputes.3.The league's powers were limited topersuasion and various levels of moral andeconomic sanctions that the members werefree to carry out as they saw fit.4.At the Washington Conference of 1921-22, the principal naval powers agreed tolimit their navies according to a fixedratio.5.The Locamo Conference (1925) produceda treaty guarantee of the German-Frenchboundary and an arbitration agreementbetween Germany and Poland.6.
In the Paris Peace Pact (1928), 63countries, including all the great powersexcept the USSR, renounced war as aninstrument of national policy7.
and pledged to resolve all disputes amongthem "by pacific means.
"ElaborationI IFigure 7 World War  IIReferencesCorston-Oliver, Simon.
1998a.
Beyond StringMatching and Cue Phrases: ImprovingEfficiency and Coverage in DiscourseAnalysis.
In Proceedings of the AAAI 1998Spring Symposium Series, Intelligent TextSummarization.
March 23-25, 1998.Corston-Oliver, Simon.
1998b.
ComputingRepresentations of the Structure of Written13Discourse.
Ph.D. dissertation.
University ofCalifornia, Santa Barbara, U.S.A.Fukumoto, J. and Tsujii, J.
1994.
Breaking downrhetorical relations for the purpose ofanalyzing discourse structures.
In COLING 94:The Proceedings of the 15 * InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, vol.2:1177-1183.Hobbs, J. R. 1979.
Coherence and coreference.Cognitive Science 3:67-90.Kurohashi, S. and Nagao, M. 1994.
Automaticdetection of discourse structure by checkingsurface information in sentences.
InProceedings of COLING 94: The 15 ~International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, vol.
2:1123-1127.Knott, Alistair and Robert Dale.
1995.
Usinglinguistic phenomena to motivate a set ofcoherence relations.
Discourse Processes18:35-62.Labov, W. 1972.
Language in the Inner City:Studies in the Black English Vernacular--Conduct and Communication.
Philadelphia:University of Pennsylvania Press.Mann, W. C. and Thompson, S. A.
1986.Relational Propositions in Discourse.Discourse Processes 9:57-90.Mann, W. C. and Thompson, S. A.
1988.Rhetorical Structure Theory: Toward afunctional theory of text organization.
Text8:243-281.15 ~ International Conference onComputational Linguistics, vol.
2:344-348.Polanyi, L. 1988.
A formal model of the structureof discourse.
Journal of Pragmatics 12:601-638.Sanders, Ted J.M.
1992.
Discourse Structure andCoherence: Aspects of a Cognitive Theory ofDiscourse Representation.
Lundegem:Nevelland.Sanders, Ted J.M., W.P.M Spooren and L.G.M.Noordman.
1992.
Toward a taxonomy ofcoherence relations.
Discourse Processes 15:1-35Sanders, Ted J.M., W.P.M Spooren and L.G.M.Noordman.
1993.
Coherence relations in acognitive theory of discourse representation.Cognitive Linguistics 4:93-133.Sanders, T. J. M. and Wijk, C. van.
1996.
PlSA: Aprocedure for analyzing the structure ofexplanatory texts.
Text 16:91-132.Sumita, K., Ono, K., Chino, T., Ukita, T. andAmano, S. 1992.
A discourse structureanalyzer for Japanese text.
In Proceedings ofthe International Conference of FifthGeneration Computer Systems, 1133-1140.Wu, H. J. P. and Lytinen, S. L. 1990.
Coherencerelation reasoning in persuasive discourse.
InProceedings of the Twelfth Annual Conferenceof the Cognitive Science Society, 503-510.Marcu, D. 1997.
The Rhetorical Parsing ofNatural Language Texts.
In Proceedings of the35 m Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL/EACL-97),96-103.Matthiessen, C. and Thompson, S. A.
1988.
Thestructure of discourse and 'subordination'.
InHaiman, J. and Thompson, S. A., (eds.).
1988.Clause Combining in Grammar and Discourse.John Benjamins: Amsterdam and Philadelphia.275-329.Microsoft Corporation.
1995.
Encarta?
96Encyclopedia.
Redmond: Microsoft.Ono, K., Sumita, K. and Miike, S. 1994.
Abstractgeneration based on rhetorical structureextraction.
In Proceedings of COLING 94: The14
