IiiIIiIIIIIIIIIlIIITowards a Representation of Idioms in WordNetChr i s t iane  FellbaumCognitive Science Laboratory, Princeton UniversityRider UniversityPrinceton, New Jersey, USA1 In t roduct ionWordNet (Miller, 1995), (Fellbaum, 1998) isperhaps the most widely used electronic dic-tionary of English and serves as the lexiconfor a rarity of different NLP applications in-cluding Information Retrieval (IR), Word SenseDisambignation (WSD), and M~hine Transla~tion (MT).
Despite WordNet's large coverage,which comprises ome 100,000 concepts lexi-cMi~.ed by approySmately 120,000 word forms(strings) and is comparable to that of a colle-giate dictionary, it contains relatively little figu-rative language.
WordNet includes a w~mber ofmulti-word strings, such as phrasal verbs, butmany idiomatic verb phrases Like smell a rat,know the ropes, and eat humble pie, are mi~g-ing.
Idioms and metaphors abound in everydaylanguage and are found in texts spanning manygenres (see, e.g., (Jackendoff, 1997) for a nu-merical estlm~te of the frequency of idioms andfixed expression).
Clearly, a dictionary that in-dudes extended senses of words and phrases islikely to yield more successful NLP applications.On the one hand, no system wants to retrievethe string bucket from the idiom kick the bucket.On the other hand, MT and WSD efforts needto distinguish the sense of ropes in phrases likeknow~learn/teach someone the ropes from thesense meaning "strong cords"; selecting the lat-ter sense in any of the idiomatic phrases leadsto failure.
An IR query is likely to be interestedonly in the "strong cord" reading.
When thissense is to be retrieved with the aid of a lexiconintended for multiple applications, the figura-tive sense must be successfully recognized andexcluded from a text that may contain instancesof the string ropes with both meanings.In this paper, we consider the possibility ofextending WordNet o accommodate figurativemeanings in the English lexicon.
While much52h~.~ been written on figurative language, thereis no agreement on the boundary between literaland non-literal language, see e.g.
(Moon, 1986).Criteria that are commonly accepted include se-mantic non-compositionality and syntactic on-straints on internal modification (such as adjec-tive and adverb insertion) and movement trans-formations.
Our purpose here is not to attempta clear delimitation or definition of non-literallanguage, but to examine how extended sensesof words and phrases from different syntacticand lexical categories-or conforming to none ofthe standard categories-are compatible with thenetwork structure of a relational exicon likeWordNet and its particular way of represent-ing words and concepts.
Our discussion will fo-cus on, but not be limited to, idiomatic verbphrases.2 A s imple  Classif icat ionAn inspection of idiom dictionary sources uchas (Boatner et al, 1975) suggests a three-folddistinction among idioms for our purposes.3 Const ruct ionsFirst, some idiomatic onstructions are simplytoo complex to be integrated into WordNet andmust be excluded at this point.
We have inmind constructions of the kind studied by (Fill-more et al, 1988) and (Jackendoff, 1997),(Jack-endoff, 1997).
Examples are the more the mer-rier and she can't write a letter, let alne anovel These structures comprise discontinu-ous constituents and morpheme chunks thatare governed by special syntactic and seman-tic rules.
Thus, the X-er the Y-er allows theinsertion of a wide variety of adjectives.
Fill-more et al discuss let alne and show that itssyntactic properties require an amazing amountof description of facts absent from the standardIiIIIIIitIIIIIIiIIIgrammar.
A full account of these constructionsgoes far beyond the lexical level, and there-fore we need to exclude them, at least for now,in a database like WordNet that does not in-dude much syntax and whose relational seman-tics cannot accommoda~ the kind of semanticfacts observed by Fillmore et al and Jackend-off.4 Id ioms as a k ind  o f  po lysemyBy contrast, the second kind of idiomatic struc-ture is unprobl~matic for WordNet.
Word-Net contains not only simple verbs and no-nabut also more complex verb and noun phraseslike show the way and academic gown.
Stringslike stepping stone, kick the bucket, hit the bot-tle, and come out of the closet therefore corre-spond to categories already represented in thedatabase, and can be included when they areconsidered as partie, lar manifestations of pol-ysemy.
Polysemy in WordNet is representedby membership of the polysemous string in dif-ferent synonym sets; synonym sets (synsets) inWordiNet represent concepts that are lexicalizedby one or more strings (synonyms).
In otherwords, the synsets contain different words formswith the same meaning, and a word form withmore than one meaning appea~ in as many dif-ferent synsets as it has meanings.For example, the string fish occurs as a verbin two different synsets, and has thus two dis-tinct senses in WordNet.
One expresses the con-cept "catch, or try to catch, seafood;" the othersense is ~seek indirectly," as in the phrases fishfor compliments and fish for information.
Notethat such a representation does not in fact at-tempt to answer the question as to whether ornot the second sense of fish is indeed an "ex-tended" one or not, but simply treats them asdifferent meanlngs of the same word form.Figurative senses can be seen as homophonesrather than polysemes in that there is no dis-cernible relation between the "literal" and the"extended" senses.
WordNet does not formallydistinguish between polysemy and homophonybut treats these two phenomena of multiplemeanings alike under the label of polysemy.In all cases of polysemy, membership in twodifferent synsets entails a different location inthe semantic network and relatedness to distinctconcepts for each sense.
Thus, the first sense of53fish is a subordinate of catch and is further re-lated to more semantically specified senses (tro-ponyms) including flyfish, net fish, trawl, andshrimp.
The second, arguably extended, senseh~_q as its superordinate concept he synset con-taining the strings search and look .for.
The dif-ferent locations in the network of the two sensesoffish, together with the difference in the kindsof noun objects they select are the sort of in-formation exploited in NLP applications, andthey will suffice in most cases to distinguish thetwo senses in such cases where the senses arehomophones rather than polysemes.Some phrases consisting of more than oneword can be treated in a similar manner.
Forexample, the idiomatic verb phrases kick thebucket, chew the fat, and take a powder can beconsidered as single units.
Their constituentsnever occur in an order different from the citedone because these idioms are syntactically com-pletely frozen.
They not tolerate the insertionof an adjective or adverb, nor do they undergopassivization, clefting, or any movement trans-formation that would change the order of theindividual strings.1The system therefore needs only to recognizethe string that is part of the lexicon.
If thestrings kick, bucket, powder, fat, etc., occur out-side of the idiom order, they do not receive theidiomatic interpretation a d must be consideredas carrying different meanings.Some compound nouns have extended sensesas well, such as stepping stone, straight ar-row, and square shooter.
We classify these asinstances of non-literal anguage, because thehead (the rightmost noun) is not the superordi-nate concept for the figurative reading: a step-ping stone is not a kind of stone; a straightarrow is not a type of arrow, and a squareshooter is not a specific shooter.
By contrast,nouns like limestone, gravestone, and gemstone,and sharpshooter and trapshooter are linked totheir superordinates senses, one or more sensesof stone and shooter, respectively; similarly, abroad arrow is a subordinate of arrow.
ManyNLP applications using WordNet for determin-lOaly the verb changes in that it shows the usual in-flectional endings; this should not pose a major problemfor English idioms where the verb is virtually always thefirst constituent in a Verb Phrase (VP) idiom and canthus be easily recognized.IIi1IIIIIIIIIIIIing discourse coherence, finding malpropisms(Hirst and St-Onge, 1998), and word sense dis-ambiguation (Voorhees, 1998); (Leacock andChodorow, 1998) identify related word sensesby means of links such as between super- andsubordinates.
When searching a text, such sys-tems could easily recognize (and discard as po-tentlaUy related senses) figurative compoundssuch as stepping stone and straight shooter be-cause these are not l inked to nouns  correspond-tug to their heads.
2Moreover, literal and figurative senses are of-ten in very different WorclNet files: an arrow(and its hyponyms broad arrow and butt shaft)are classified as noun.artifacts; while a straightarrow is found in the noun.person file.Frozen VP idioms and metaphoric noun com-pounds can be integrated into the WordNetdatabase and distinguished from literally refer-ring expressions in many cases.
But much ofwhat is commonly considered to be figurativelanguage presents more serious problems for asemantic network like WordNet and applica-tions relying on its particular design.
The re-mainder of this paper will be devoted to a dis-cussion of the third category of idioms, whichincludes verb phrases like learn the ropes andhide one's light under a bushel.
These cannotautomatically be integrated into WordNet, butwe offer some proposals for adding them to thelexicon.5 Some cha l leng ing id ioms forWordNetThe integration into WordNet of many idiomsthat do not fall into one of the categories dis-cussed above is problematic for a variety of rea-sons.6 Formal  p rob lemsFirst, there are formal problems.
Some idiomstrings have surface forms that do not conformto any of the syntactic categories included inWordNet.
For example, many idioms must oc-cur with a negation: the VP  give a hoot losesits (figurative) meaning in the absence of nega-tion; the same is true for the VP  hold a candle2In this respect, idiomatic ompounds resemble xo-eestric compounds like lot~-life and sea~ata, which arenot kinds of lives or latum, either, nor ate they found inthe vicinity of these concepts in the semantic net.54to.
The negation must therefore be consideredpart of the idioms.
But a verb phrase headedby negation is not a constituent recognized inWordNet.Consider also the string eat one's cake andhave it, too: here, two verb phrases are adjoinedand are often followed by an adverb.
Moreover,the second clause contains a pronoun coreferentwith the noun in the first clause.
Again, sucha string does not fit in with WordNet's entries.Some idioms are entire sentences.
Wild horsescould not make me do that and the cat's got yourtongue are not compatible with any of Word-Net's noun, verb, adjective, or adverb compo-nent.
WordNet does not contain sentences, andat present we see no way of integrating theseinto the lexical database.
The problem shouldbe addressed in the future, because an NLP sys-tem would simply attempt o treat each con-stituent in these idioms separately, with unde-sirable consequences.In some cases, idioms whose syntactic shapedoes not correspond to any of the categories inWordNet could be accommodated neverthelesswhen they are synonymous with strings that arerepresented in an existing synset.
For example,the negation-headed phrase not in a pig's eyeand the clauses when hell freezes over and whenthe cows come home are all synonymous withnever, which is included among Word.Net's ad-verbs.
If such strings are completely frozen, asthey tend to be, they can be included as syn-onymous members of existing WordNet synsetsand the fact that they do not conform to any ofWordNet's yntactic ategories can be ignored.Such idioms do not pose problems for automaticprocessing because they do not admit of anyphrase-internal variation or modification.Another formal (syntactic) problem pertainsto the fact that the fixed parts of many VP id-ioms are not continuous.
For example, a num-ber of expressions contain nouns that resem-ble inalienable possessions, uch as body parts,and a possessive adjective that is bound to thesubject.
Examples are hold one's light under abushel, blow one's stack, and flip one's wig.
Inother idioms with a similar structure, the pos-sessive is not bound to the subject but refersto another noun (got someone's number).
Andexpressions like cook one's goose allow for bothbound and unbound genitives.III!IiIIII|II!iIIThese idioms cannot be treated as singlestrings because the genitive slot can be filled byany of the possessive adjectives, or by a nounin the case of the unbound genitive.
One so-lution would be to enter these strings into thelexicon with a placeholder, such as a metachar-acter, in place of the genitive.
This would makefor a somewhat unfelicitous entry.
But a rulecould be added to a preprocessor for a syntactictagger that allowed the placeholder be substi-tuted with either a pronoun from a finite list(for the bound cases) or any noun from Word-Net (for the unbound cases); the preprocessorwould then be able to recognize the idiom asa unit and match the WordNet entry and theactual string.
Currently, we do not have a pre-processor that is able to recognize discontinuousconstituents, but given the large number of VPidioms and their frequency in the language, thedevelopment of such a tool seems desirable.
37 What  kinds of concepts axe these?In the previous section, we considered idiomswhose syntactic form does not comply with anyof the categories N(P), V(P), Adj(P), or Adver-bial(P) represented in Word.Net or whose syn-tax poses problems for the creation of a neatdictionary entry.
However, such idioms couldeasily be added to the lexical database whenthey are synonymous with strings that fit intoWordNet's design and organization.
But manysuch syntactically idiosyncratic idiom stringsraise a second problem having to do with theirconceptual-semantic rather than their syntacticnature.
They express concepts that cannot befitted into WordNet's web structure either asmembers of existing synsets or as independentconcepts, because there are no other lexicalizedconcepts to which they can be linked via anyof the WordNet relations.
In fact, if one exam-ines idioms and their glosses in an idiom dictio-nary, one quickly realizes that almost all idiomsexpress complex concepts that cannot be para-phrased by means of any of the standard lexicalor syntactic categories.
Consider such exam-plea as fish or cut bait, cook one's/somebody's9oose, and drown one's sorrows/troubles.
These~A related phenomenon is that of phrasal verbs, manyof which allow particle movemeat.
In the cases wherethe verb head and the particle are not contiguous, theye~nnot currently be adjoint by the preprocessor and theyare  therefore not matched to an entry in Word.Net.55idioms carry a lot of highly specific semantic in-formation that would probably get lost if theywere integrated into WordNet and attached tomore general concepts.The problems for WordNet posed by syntacti-cally or semantically idiosyncratic dioms wouldbe reduced if these could be broken up, that is,if the individual content words in the idiomscould be treated as referring expressions and beassigned meanings that are similar to conceptsalready represented in the lexicon.
Some tradi-tional dictionaries decompose a number of suchidioms and attempt o give an interpretationsto their individual parts.
This may seem justi-fiable particularly in cases where the idioms aresyntactically variable, indicating that speakersassign meanings to some of their components.For example, the American Heritage dictionarydefines one sense of the noun ice as "extreme un-friendliness or reserve."
This entry seems mo-tivated by the apparent semantic transparencyof the noun (in contrast o strings like bucketin Idck the bucket, which seems to have no ref-erent at all, let alne a transparent one).
Butsynsets of the kind ice, extreme unfriendlinessor reserve seem undesirable for a computation-ally viable dictionary like WordNet, because icecannot be used freely and compositionally withthe proposed meanings.
This is evident in sen-tences like the following:(a) I felt/resented his unfriendliness/reserve/*ice.
(b) His unfriendliness/reserve/*ice melted away.
(c) Our laughter broke the .unfriendliness/reserve/ice.A language generation system (or a learnerof English) relying on WordNet's lexicon couldnot be blocked from producing the ungrammat-ical sentences above, if they are exploiting onthe close similarity and usage of the membersof the synset.
Moreover, automatic attemptsat word sense disambiguation that rely on syn-tactic taggers could probably not identify thecorrect sense of ice in this phrase, because theycould not recognize that the noun is a part ofan idiom if the dictionary entry contains thisnoun in isolation, outside of its idiomatic con-text.
Only when one entry for ice lists the spe-cific environment (break and the definite deter-miner) can a program recognize the idiom andassign the proper meaning.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIConsider a second example.
The AmericanHeritage Dictionary contains an sense of ropesthat is glossed as "specialized procedures ordetails."
This sense of ropes is the one inthe expressions know/learn/get/teach theropes.To assume a compositional reading here seemsmore justified than in the case of ice, becausethis idiom is more flexible than break the iceand can undergo some internal modificationas well as passivization (he never learnt theropes~he taught Fred the ropes/Pfed was taughtthe ropes).
Moreover, ropes co-occurs with moreverbs than just one.
In fact, the verbs for whichit can serve as an argument are compatible withthe meaning assigned to ropes by the Ameri-can Heritage Dictionary.
A word sense disam-biguation system that relied on the semanticsof the contexts of the ambiguous word (such as?
the verbs a noun co-occurs with), would prob-ably choose the correct sense of rope, becausethe contexts of "specialized procedures n or "de-tails ~ do not seem to overlap with the contextsin which ropes is found with the sense of "strongcords.
"Yet despite their shared verb contexts, thedistribution of ropes is far more narrow thanthat of specialized procedures or details.
Again,a language generation system or a learner of En-glish might overgenerate and produce incompre-hensible sentences like I forgot the ropes or Tellme the ropes.
Therefore, an optimal solutionmight be to enter the idiom as a string but witha placeholder instead of the verb; a separate rulein the lexicon would list the verbs that are com-patible with the idiomatic reading of the string.The proposed solution for the idioms Liketeach/%arn/get the ropes and those that con-tain a possessive genitive might suggest a hugeamount of work.
However, a survey of Englishidioms suggests that most are frozen and couldtherefore simply be entered as entire strings,without he need for specifying a list of selectedverbs.Another type of VP idiom that does not read-ily fit into WordNet is that whose meaning canbe glossed as be or become Adj.
These idiomshave the form of a VP but express tates: hideone's light under a bushel and hold one's tonguemean "be modest" and "be quiet, ~ respectively;flip one's wig;, blow one's stack/a fuse, and hitthe roof/ceiling all mean "become angry," and56get the axe means be fired/dismissed.
Simi-laxly, the phrase one's heart goes out (to) canbe glossed by means of the verb .feel and theadjective phrase "sorry or sympathetic (for).
"Such idioms pose a problem for integration intoWordNet, not because of their form but becauseof the kinds of concepts they express.
In Word-Net, verbs (including eopular verbs) and adjec-tives are strictly separated because they expressdistinct kinds of concepts.
This separation is ofcourse desirable and even necessary when onedeals with non-idiomatic language, where themeaning of a phrase or sentence is composed ofthe meanings of its individual parts.
Copular orcopula-like verbs like be and .feel combine with alarge number of adjectives and there is no pointin entering specific ombinations into a lexicon.
4While the separation of verbs and the adjec-tives they select accounts for the large num-ber of possible combinations allowed in the lan-guage, it also means that there exist no conceptslike "feel sorry/sympathetic (for)" or "becomeangry" in WordNet, and idioms like one's heartgoes out (to} and hit the roof are presently ex-cluded from the lexicon.
Yet these strings needto be added if the lexicon is to serve NLP appli-cations of real texts, where idiomatic language ispervasise.
Expressions of the kind listed abovecan simply be added as subordinates of be with-out causing a change in the structure of the lex-icon.
They would stretch the meaning of tro-ponymy, the manner elation that organizes theverb lexicon, in that it is somewhat off to statethat "to be angry is to be in some manner.
"However this seems to be the only way to ac-commodate such idioms, which express conceptsof the kind not found in the literal language.8 Summary  and  conc lus ionsWe considered the nature of idiomatic expres-sions in the light of their potential integrationinto WordNet.
Some idioms pose formal, syn-tactic problems and express complex conceptsthat are not expressible by mean.q of the stan-dard lexical and syntactic ategories, includingthose represented in WordNet.
Other idiomsare formally uaremarkable but express concepts4There are some de-adject ival  verbs that  express spe-cillc concepts with meanings "be or become Adjective,"such as pa/e or redden.
Id ioms that  express the  sameconcepts as such verbs could be added as synonyms,  butthese cases are very few.
!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIthat cannot easily be connected to any of theconcepts in the semantic network.
Perhaps onefunction of idioms (and one reason for their fre-quency and their persistence over time) is toprovide for the pre-coded lexicalized expressionof complex concepts and ideas that do not ex-ist as units in the language and would have tobe composed by speakers.
Their frequent oc-currence in the language seems to show thatmany idioms refer to salient concepts and mustbe considered an important part of the lexicon.We have made some proposals for their integra-tion into WordNet that should benefit in par-ticular the kinds of NLP applications that relyon this lexical resource.ReferencesMaxine Tull Boatner, John Edward Gates andAdam Makl~.
A dictionary of American id-ioms.
Barron's Educational Series, Wood-bury, NY, 1975.Chr=lstiane F llbaum.
WordNet: An electroniclezical database.
MIT Press, Camhridge, MA,1998.Charles Fillmore, Paul Kay and Cather-ine O'Connor.
Regularity and idiomaticityin grammatical construction.
In Language,64:501-568, 1988.Graeme Hirst and David St-Onge.
LexicalChains as Representations of Context for theDetection and Correction of Malapropisms.In WordNet: An electronic le.z-ical database.Christlane FeUbaum (ed.
), MIT Press, Cam-bridge MA.,1998.Ray Jackendoff.
The Boundaries of the Lexi-con.
In Idioms: Structural and PsychologicalPerspectives, M. Everaert, E. J. van den Lin-den, A. Schenk, and R- Schreuder, (Eds.)
,HiUsdale, N J: Erlhaum, 1995.Ray Jackendoff.
Twistin' the night away.
InLanguage, No 73:534-559, 1997.Claudia Leacock and Martin Chodorow.
Com-bining Local Context and WordNet Similar-ity for Word Sense Identification.
In Word-Net: An electronic lezical database.
Chris-tiane FeUbaum (ed.
), MIT Press, CambridgeMA.,1998.George A. MiUer.
Word_Net: a lexical databasefor English.
In Communicatioas of the A CM,Vol.38, No.11:39-41, 995.Ro~mund Moon.
"Time" and idioms.
InProceedings o.f the EURALEX InternationalCongress , SneU-Hornby M.
(Ed.
), FranckeVerlag 107-160, 1986.Ellen Voorhees.
Using WordNet for Text Re-trieval In WordNet: An electronic lezic~database.
Christlane Fellbaum (ed.
), MITPress, Camhridge MA.,1998.57
