Integrating Referring and Informing in NP PlanningMichael O'Donnell, Hua Cheng,Department of Artificial Intelligence,University of Edinburgh,80 South Bridge, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9JF.Janet HitzemanHuman Communicat ion Research Centre,University of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH8 9LW.Abst ractTwo of the functions of an NP are to refer(identify a particular entity) and to inform(provide new information about an entity).While many NPs may serve only one of thesefunctions, some NPs conflate the functions, notonly referring but also providing new informa-tion about the referent.
For instance, this deli-cious apple indicates not only which apple thespeaker is referring to, but also provides inform-ation as to the speaker's appreciation of theapple.This paper describes an implemented NP-planning system which integrates informing intothe referring expression generation process.
Theintegration involves allowing informing to influ-ence decisions at each stage of the formationof the referring form, including: the selectionof the form of the NP; the choice of the headof a common NP; the choice of the Deictic incommon NPs; the choice of restrictive modifi-ers, and the inclusion of non-referring modifi-ers.
The system is domain-independent, and ispresently functioning within a full text genera-tion system.1 In t roduct ionTwo of the functions of an NP are to refer(identify a particular entity) and to inform(provide new information about an entity).
Inmost cases, a given NP may serve only one ofthese functions.
However, in some cases, thewriter/speaker may choose to conflate the func-tions, providing an NP which not only refers butalso provides new information about the refer-ent.
For instance, this delicious apple indicatesnot only which apple the speaker is referring to,but also provides information as to the speaker'sappreciation of the apple.Most of the work on NP planning has con-sidered only the referring function of the NP(e.g., Dale 1988, 1989; Reiter 1990; Reiter &Dale 1992; Horacek 1995).
Appelt (e.g., Ap-pelt 1985; Appelt & Kronfeld 1987) has con-sidered the question of integrating referring andinforming, although rather briefly, and withoutmuch detail.
This paper will extend upon hisdiscussion, and describe its role in ILEX, a textgeneration system which delivers descriptions ofentities on-line from an underlying knowledge-base (see Mellish et al 1998).
ILEX is atpresent generating descriptions in the museumdomain, in particular, that of 20th Century jew-ellery.Our focus on this topic has grown out ofthe need to integrate two strands of researchwithin ILEX.
One strand involves the work onanaphora by Janet Hitzeman.
She implemen-ted a module to construct contextually appro-priate referring expressions within ILEX, basedon Centering Theory (Grosz et aI.
1986).
SeeHitzeman et al 1997.The second strand involves the aggregationmodule (implemented byHua Cheng, see Chenget al 1997).
The task of this module is to re-package discrete informational units into singlecomplex sentences.
She is presently exploringthe aggregation of information into the NP, forinstance this gold and silver ring, designed byKing.These two functions, the referring and the in-forming, interfere with each other, to the extentthat each wishes to control the construction ofthe NP form.
These tasks thus need to payregard to each other, and this paper, and theimplementation it describes, are an attempt oanswer this need.Appelt's approach seems to be to build an NP46~.
.
O~...O-.
Q. O. Q cl1 ?
.
?
?
u ?
uu l  u S?
?
?
I a i ~ FACTSR~.-ATH)N$Figure 1: The Information Graphfor referring, then either modify the elements(e.g., substitution of the head noun) or fill un-used structural slots with non-referring inform-ation.
However, we have found that the twotasks of referring and informing can be morehighly integrated, with each decision within theconstruction of the NP taking into account heneeds of both tasks, rather than satisfying thereferring function first, then looking to the in-forming function.
In other words, we follow anintegrated rather than pipeline approach.Section 2 will describe how information is rep-resented in ILEX.
Section 3 describes the inter-face between the text-planner and the NP- plan-ner, the input specification for the NP-planner.Section 4 discusses the syntactic structure of theNP, and which syntactic positions allow inform-ing without interfering with referring.
Section 5details the referring expression generator whichintegrates referring and informing oals.
An ex-ample of the generation process is given in sec-tion 6 and section 7 summarises.2 In fo rmat ion  Representat ionTo properly describe our NP-planning process,we need to describe how information isrepresen-ted in ILEX.
Domain knowledge is representedin terms of an information graph, which rep-resents the entities of the domain, the inter-relation between these entities (called facts);and the relations between these facts (e.g., acausal relation between two facts).
Figure 1shows an abstract representation f an informa-tion graph.
At present, relations between factsare not used in tim NP-planner, so will not bediscussed further here.Initially, the information graph representa-tion was developed for text planning.
However,following a suggestion from Alistair Knott, wehave found it useful to use it for NP-planningas well.2.1 EntitiesEntities represent the objects of the domain.
Inthe Museum domain, this includes not only themuseum artifacts, but their designers, the ma-terials they are made from, the styles they aremade in, the periods they belong to, the loca-tions of their manufacture, tc.Entities are typically specific entities: real-world individuals.
However, some of the entit-ies will be generic entities, those representingclasses of entities, such as Art-Deco jewellery.We also cater to sets of entities, which can berealised through either plural anaphora, or con-junctive NPs.2.2 FactsA fact in ILEX represent a relation between twoentities.
These relations may be processual, e.g.,that X made Y: maker(J-999, King01); orstative (e.g., that X is a type of Y: i sa ( j -999 ,gener ic -brooch) .Each fact is represented asan attribute-valuestructure as below:P red: "maker"Argl: J-999Arg2: King01Polarity: positiveStatus: indefeasibleAssimilation: 0Importance: 6Interest: 8Note that apart from the predicate and ar-gument information, several other fields qualifythe informational status of the fact, includingthe polarity (whether or not the relation holds),and de feasibility (distinguishing between hardfacts about the entity, and those which are onlytendencies, e.g., Art-Deco jewellery tends to bemade of enamel (see Knott et al 1997 for dis-cussion of defensibility in ILEX).
The remainingfields, having a stronger affect on NP-planning,include:?
Assimilat ion: the degree to which thesystem considers the user to have under-stood the information.
This is of particu-lar importance to reference, since adequatereference usually requires the user to knowthe information used for reference (see laterfor exceptions}.47Impor tance / In teres t :  the degree towhich the fact is considered important forthe system to deliver to the user, and thesystem's estimate of the degree of interestto the user.
These values are representedfor each predicate type as a whole, and varyfor different user models.
These values areused when selecting the facts to use to pro-duce a unique reference.3 NP Spec i f i ca t ionOne of our goals in the design of the ILEX NP-planner was to provide a clean interface betweentext-planning and NP-planning, such that thetext planner can specify what it wants fromthe NP without needing to know about syntaxat all.
To this end, we have developed a two-level specification of the NP, one at the semanticlevel, and one at the syntactic level.
The text-planner specifies the NP only at the semanticlevel, leaving details of syntax totally to the NP-planner.3.1 The  NP  Speci f icat ion Inter faceThe interface between the text-planner and theNP-planner is in the form of an attribute-valuematrix, the attributes of which are:1.
Cat:  the function of the NP being pro-duced.
The NP-planner allows a widerange of NP functions, not only referring,shown in figure 2 and discussed below:(a) Referring: an NP which uniquely ornon-uniquely refers to the referent.More delicate options can be specified,such as refer-by-name, refer-by-type,or refer-by-pronoun; and also whetherthe reference should be unique or not.
(b) Describing: an indefinite NP giving anarbitrary number of the entity's attrib-utes without attempting to be definit-ive.
(c) Classifying: an indefinite NP whichprovides only the superclass of theitem, e.g., this is a brooch(d) Defining: for generic entities, an NPwhich provides the entities definingcharacteristics, e.g., a necklace is ani tem o f jewe l le ry  worn  around theneck.....(e) Eliciting: a wh- NP for the referent.Eliciting can be selective, e.g., whichdesigner or non-selective, .g., Who.If referring-np is selected, various sub-typesof reference can also be preselected throughthis slot (the specification of the Cat can belogically complex).If no preselection is made by the text-planner, the system will decide NP functionon the basis of constraints and defaults.For instance, in the usual case, the text-planner will specify only referring-np, andleaves it up to the NP planner to choosethe exact type of reference.In some cases, the system will overridethe preselection if it is incompatible withthe referring environment.
For instance,if the text-planner specifies refer-by-name,but no name information is provided for theentity, then a choice between refer-by-typeand refer-by-pronoun will be made.
TheNP-specification can thus be seen to offer aflexible interface, allowing the text-plannerto determine the amount of control it de-sires to assert.Sem: the referent of the NP, an entity inthe information graph (or a set of such en-tities if desired, realised as either a coordin-ated NP, or using plural anaphora).Syn: the slot to be constructed by the NP-planner, a syntactic structure.Orth:  the slot to hold the eventual sur-face string for the NP.
If the sentence plan-ner provides a filler for this slot, then NP-planning is avoided and the string is used.ILEX thus allows canning of NPs whenneeded.Agenda:  a list of fact-ids which are to beincorporated into the NP if possible.
Theaggregation module uses this slot to stateits requirements from the NP, which factsthe NP is to express.Restr ic t ions:  a list of fact-ids whichshould not be used in the NP.
For instance,we might wish to avoid generating the sen-tence Other jewels designed by Jessie M.King include a brooch designed by Jessie M.King.
To avoid such sentences, we place48-descnbing-np-classifying-np-defining-npNP-N~ JDE- - elicidng-npnp-node ~/ t  - referring-npEL|CrrATION- r selective-elicitafi?nSE~.,.SCTWtTf ~ nonselecfive-elicimtionREEERF, J~CE-s.rRATEGy f nonposidonal-rcfercnce~,- posi\[ional-re fcrenceNON~ Isrn{,NAL-REIF,.,R ~CE -SI'RA'r~; Y,_F - re fer -by-name.
.
.t... refer-by-pronounFigure 2: System Network for Nominal Functionthe fact-id of the 'designer' fact into theRestrictions field for the mention of thebrooch.
The designer fact will not then beused as a referential restrictor.A sample NP-specification is shown below:Cat: unique-reference"Sem: J-999Agenda: (FN-48 FN-56)Restrictions: (FN-59)...where FN-48 and FN-56 are facts to includein the reference, and FN-59 is a fact to avoid.P rob lems of  Modu lar i ty :  One of theproblems of a clean separation between NP-specification and NP-planning is that it mightnot be possible to incorporate all facts on theinforming agenda into the NP.
However, giventhat NPs syntactically allow any number ofnon-referring post-modifiers, our planner willhandle any arbitrary number of facts on theagenda.
However, in terms of intelligibility, toomany post-modifiers will produce unintelligibleNPs.
We make the simplifying assumption thatthe text planner uses some metrics (simple orcomplex) to avoid overloading the NP.
We aremerely providing a mechanism to support NP-planning once the agenda is specified.3.2 Focus SpacesApart from the text-planner's specification ofthe NP-form, the text-planner also maintainssome variables concerning the current referringenvironment, mainly in terms of various focusspaces.
These various spaces are:...Ment ioned Entit ies:  entities mentionedat some point within the discourse.Shared Entit les:  entities which thesystem assumes the addressee to knowabout.
These entities include world-knowledge (e.g., Ronald Reagan), but alsoentities mentioned previously in the dis-course (mentioned-entities), and entities inthe immediate context (focal-objects).
En-tities in this space are potential confusersfor definite reference with the.Focal Objects:  the focal space includesa set of entities which may potentially bereferred to as this z. Firstly, we have thePrior-Cb (backward looking centre, usuallythe subject of the prior sentence).
Entitiesdirectly related to this may also be focal.This is also called the local focus in oursystem.
Then there is the page-focus, thefocus of the current object description inthe ILEX system, e.g., this brooch.
Otherobjects are also focal by being part of theimmediate context of the reader/writer.
Ina web-browsing environment, this might in-clude the current page (this page), or partsof the page (this picture).49In addition to the focal spaces, there are alsovariables holding individual focal objects, in-cluding the Cb and Prior-Cb, Page-Focus andDiscourse-Focus.
We allow pronominalisationonly when the object being referred to is Prior-Cb, which seems to produce coherent reference.4 NP  St ructure  for Re fer r ing  andIn fo rmingThe NP-Planner has distinct procedures foreach of the NP functions, one for classifying, onefor referring, one for eliciting, etc.
Due to lackof space, we will focus from now only on NPsprimarily serving a referring function.
Othernominal functions will be covered in a later pa-per.The issue of how to construct a referring NPis well explored.
The issue remaining is hownon-referring information can best be incorpor-ated into referring NPs.
This section will look atthe locations in the NP which can express non-referring information, without interfering in thereference of the NP.
The following section willdescribe the algorithm which allows referringand informing to be integrated.4.1 Nuc leus  and Sate l i te  Compos i t ionof the  NPWe consider the basic structure of the NP to fallinto two components: a nucleus, which performsthe nominal function of the NP, and optionalsatelites, where additional information can beplaced.
1 The nucleus of the NP consists of allslots before the head, and the defining post-modifying slots (e.g., defining relative clauses,or prepositional phrases).
The satelite elementsare typically realised by indefinite NPs, or non-defining relative clauses (or complexes of such),e.g., \[Nue: this brooch\], \[Sat: designed by JessieM.
King\], or \[guc: King\], \[Sat: a Scottish de-signer\].In our model, all referring is performed bythe nucleus - the satelite(s) are non-defining,i.e., perform only an informing role.
However,as will be discussed below, the nucleus can alsocontain non-referring information.1Nucleus and sateli?e are terms taken from RST(Rhetorical Structure Theory, e.g., Mann & Thompson,1987), although usually applied to the relations betweensentences.4.2 The  St ructure  of  the  Nuc leusThe range of slots in a systemic analysis of theNP, in the order they typically appear (afterHalliday 1994), appears below, and figure 3shows a typical NP structure:(De ic t i c )  " (Numerator )  " (Ep i thet* )  "(C lass i f ie r* )  " Th ing  " (Qua l i f i e r* )Key :  () - opt iona l i ty* - any  number  o f  th i s  s lo t  mayoccur4.3 In forming wi th in  the  Nuc leusWhile primarily for referring, non-referring in-formation can sometimes be included in the nuc-leus without interfering with the referring func-tion.
For instance, we can add information to analready uniquely-referring NP, making the ref-erence more explicit: The \[granny smith\] appleon the table; this \[enjoyable\] book.
The degreeto which informing and referring can be so in-tegrated varies from domain to domain.The major constraint we seem to face is thatthere is a degree of expectation under conversa-tional implicature that the speaker efers usinginformation known to the addressee (see Dale& Reiter 1996).
Thus, in a situation whereonly one apple is visible, if I say pass me theSpanish apple, the addressee might be confusedby the inclusion of the superfluous information,and perhaps think there must be another applesomewhere.However, in some registers this form of ref-erence seems to offer no problems.
Appelt(1985) mentions the case of the speaker pointingat some implement and saying use the wheel-puller.
The addressee, not knowing the name,but having the item identified through point-ing, accepts the naming.
We thus have an NPwhose head-noun is not serving a referring func-tion, but rather an informing function, since thereferring function was otherwise fulfilled.The newspaper genre is particularly strong onthis type of reference, as shown by the newspa-per article below:Student  fights for life after  flat fire:A young student was today fighting for50"Cat:Deictic:Numerator:Epithet:Classifier:Thing:Qualifier:nominal-groupI Cat: definite-determiner| Lex: the-det \[ Orth: "the" jI Cat: ordinal-adjective 1 Lex: seven-adj | Orth: "seven" J"Cat: adjectival-group"Cat: intensifier\]Intensif: Lex: very-adv |Orth: "very" J"Cat: adjective'Head: Lex: large-adjOrth: "large""Cat: nominal-groupCat: adjective"Epithet: Lex: used-adj\[Orth: "used"'Cat: nounThing: Lex: car-noun\[Orth: "car"nounsaleman-noun"salesman"Cat:Lex:Orth:"Cat: prep-phrase'Cat: preposition"Marker: Lex: from-prep\[Orth: "from"Cat: nominal-groupHead: \[Thing.Orth: "Perth"Figure 3: A Sample NP Structureher life after fire ripped through her Ed-inburgh flat.
Nicola Graham is in a "seri-ous but stable" condition at the specialistburns unit in St John's Hospital, Living-ston.
Firefighters uspect he blaze mayhave been started by a dropped cigar-ette in Miss Graham's bedroom.
The 19-year-old was transferred from EdinburghRoyal Infirmary to St John's for emer-gency burns treatment .... "The sequence of references to the student suc-cessively add new information: A young stu-dent: Age and occupation; Nicola Graham:Name; Miss Graham: Marital status; the 19-year-old: Age.
This writer is not depending onassimilated information to refer, but, dependingon the lack of potential confusors, is successfullyreferring with new information.
While this styleis more typical of newspaper reporting, wherecompact information delivery is important, it isstill an issue which needs to be addressed in anyNP-planner.In the register of museum object descriptions,it seems that the degree to which new inform-ation can be included in the nucleus is limited.New information seems not to be appropriate inthe Deictic, Classifier, Thing or Qualifier slot,but is generally allowed in the Numerative andEpithet slots.
This makes ome degree of sense,since these slots are the least restrictive.
TheNumerative can be used restrictively when usedcontrastively, e.g., the five cups (butnot the setof three), but this is rare.
Epithets generallyadd qualitative information, and are thus lessrestrictive.
2Another approach is to examine the se-mantic types of pre-modifier elements, to seewhich, when inserted for informing reasons,seem to interfere with the referring function.We have found some of our fact-predicates in-terfere more, some less.
As a result of this,we maintain a list of fact-predicates which arejudged, for the current domain, to be suitablefor pre-modifier slots without interfering withreference.
This allows us to produce, for in-stance, this \[important\] designer; the |gold andenamel\] brooch designed by King; the \[quite in-fluential\] Art-Deeo style.
!5 The  P lann ing  A lgor i thmThe tension in planning definite reference de-rives from the need to serve both the referringand informing functions.
The referring functionis mainly concerned with the Sere slot of theNP-specification: the task is to point uniquelyat the filler of this slot, distinguishing it fromall other entities.
The planner may need to useany or all of the syntactic slots of the nucleus2A study of 20 randomly chosen museum descriptions, undertaken by Cheng, from four museums and galleriesrevealed that only 1/3 of Epithets act restrictively.51to do this.On the other hand, the informing function isprimarily concerned with the Agenda slot - thefunction is satisfied if all the facts in this slot areexpressed somewhere in the NP (whether nuc-leus or satelite).
While these facts can be placedin satelite position, it is often more coherent oplace them within the nucleus.As such, the two functions are in competitionfor the syntactic slots, and structural decisionsgood for one function may be sub-optimal forthe other.
The usual approach is to allow thereferring component to go first, generating thedesired referring form.
Then, the needs of theinforming component are fitted into this struc-ture.However, we have found it far more rewardingto allow all syntactic decisions to be mutuallynegotiated between the two functions.
Below,we describe the definite description algorithmas used in ILEX.5.1 Const ruct ion  of  NPThe steps of building the NP are as follows:Bu i ld  Nucleus:  Since we wish to choosea referring expression which opportunisticallyserves some of the informing function, we willbuild the nucleus on the basis of i) the refer-ential context, and ii) the agenda of things tosay:1.
Location of Assimilated Agenda: the factson the agenda need not all be new inform-ation (unassimilated) - the text-plannermay place previously given information onthe agenda, perhaps for some pragmaticreason, e.g., to ensure that the addresseeis aware of some fact at this point of thediscourse.Assimilated facts on the agenda play an im-portant role in our algorithm, since we willuse them preferentially for referring.2.
Choose Referential form: we need to choosebetween refer-by-name, refer-by-pronounand refer-by-type, on basis the referentialcontext.
Where the referential context al-lows more than one choice, we refer to theassimilated-agenda to help.
For instance,if a Name fact is the agenda (and assim-ilated), we might favour refer-by-name, ifGender is the sole fact on the agenda, pro-nominal might be favoured.
With several(assimilated or unassimilated) facts on theagenda, a common-group is preferred sinceit offers more opportunities for inclusion offacts (although proper-np expression alsosupports non-referring post-modification).3.
Choose Head Noun: for common noun-phrases, the head noun will be chosen fromthe most specific assimilated isa fact aboutthe object.
However, an assimilated isafact on the agenda is allowed to overridethe default.4.
Choose Determiner.
for common noun-phrases, the determiner will be chosen onthe basis of the objects focal status (e.g.,this if focal, the otherwise).
If a fact spe-cifying the owner of the entity being ex-pressed is on the agenda (and assimilated),then a genitive deictic will be used.5.
Choose Restrictive Modifiers: if thecommon-noun-phrase form was selected,then we need to determine which modifi-ers are to be included to produce a uniquereference.
For instance, if we have the Stylefact of a jewel on the agenda, and it is as-similated, then that will be preferred as arestrictive modifier.
See below for more de-tail.6.
Fill in Unused Slots: When we have a func-tioning referring form, then we can add in-formation from the agenda into the unusedslot, e.g., this book -b enjoyable ~ this en-joyable book.
The system is provided witha list of fact-predicates which can be ex-pressed in pre-modifier slots, e.g., in theJewellery domain, Materials - this gold andenamel brooch, Fame-  the famous designercalled Jessie M. King.Add $atel i tes:  Any information which wasnot consumed in the nucleus can now be placedinto non-defining satelites, e.g., \[Nuc: Jessie M.King\], \[Sat: a Scottish designer\].5.2 The Confusor  SetThe confusor set is the set of entities which apartially constructed NP unintentionally refersto.
For instance, if we have only selected thehead noun, brooch, then the confusor set is all52brooches known to the system apart from theintended referent.The process of building a referring expressioncan be seen as successively reducing the con-fusor set until it is empty.
Assuming a common-np, the steps in this reduction are:1.
Set Initial Confusors based on focus status:?
Sere is member of Focal-objects:Deixis: proximal (this/these).
Con-fusors: Focal-objects, without Sere.?
Entity has an assimilated Owner fact:Deixis: Owner.
Confusors: other en-tities owned by Owner.?
Entity has been mentioned already onthis page: Deixis: nonproximal (the).Confusors: Other entities mentionedon page.?
Default: Deixis: nonproximal (the).Confusors: Shared-Entities.2.
Restrict on class: Choose a head noun forthe item, and eliminate all confusors whichdo not take the class.3.
Add Restrictive Modifiers: Choose a sub-set of assimilated facts which eliminates allconfusors (see next sub-section).4.
Insert "One of" if needed: (not yet imple-mented) If insufficient assimilated facts toeliminate all confusors, insert "one of' or"another off into the Pre-Deictic slot.
"an-other of' is used if the confusor is alreadymentioned on the page.5.3 Choos ing  Rest r i c t ive  Modi f iersThere are a number of strategies used to se-lect the optimal set of restrictive modifiers toproduce unique reference.
There seems to betwo main approaches.
One attempts to selectthe smallest subset of modifiers which uniquelyrefers (e.g., Reiter 1990; Dale 1989).
A solutionwhich offers better ~omputational complexity isbased on the premise that some fact-types arebetter suited as restrictive modifiers than oth-ers, and thus restrictive modifiers are chosen byincrementally taking the next modifier from thelist (e.g., Reiter & Dale 1992).In ILEX, we follow the incremental approach,adding restrictors in order from our (domain-dependent) list (but only if the restrictor elim-InformationClass: appleOwner: JohnColor: RedVariety: Granny SmithPosition: on tableTaste: goodOn Agenda?noyesnoyesyesnoAss im.
?yesnoyesnoyesnoFigure 4: An Example Information Baseinates some confusors).
We have found that or-dering restrictors in terms of goodness, the NPswe generate are of better quality.The need to integrate informing into the pro-cess changes the process slightly.
As statedabove, the text-planner is allowed to place as-similated, as well as unassimilated, informa-tion on the agenda.
If this has not happened,then we use the standard incremental strategy.However, if the text-planner has placed assimil-ated information on the agenda, then our plan-ner places these at the front of the preferred-restrictors list.We note however, that there are cases where,while the text-planner may want the fact to beincluded, the fact is not a suitable restrictor.For instance, including the place-of-wearing facton the agenda could result in an NP like the goldnecklace that is worn around the neck.
However,since the place-of-wearing does not actually dis-criminate (given all necklaces are worn aroundthe neck), the fact was not used restrictively,and was later realised in a satelite of the NP,e.g., the gold necklace, which is worn aroundthe neck.
However, there may be facts whichare partially restrictive, but nevertheless poorcandidates for restriction.
Our algorithm doesnot cater to these cases as yet.
:6 An  ExampleAgenda:  Assume we are talking about anapple, and have the information as in figure 4 toexpress.
In short, the facts on the agenda are:Owner, Variety, and Position.Referent ia l  Context :  Assume also that wehave several red apples, but only one on thetable.
The apple above has been mentioned,but not for a while, with other apples mentionedsince.Stage 1: Building the Nucleus:531.
Choose Referential form: Since the item isnot the Cb, we cannot use a pronoun.
Sinceit doesn't have a proper-name, proper-nounreference is also out.
We axe forced to usea common oun-phrase.2.
Choose Restrictive Modifiers: We havea set of potential referential restrictorsof: (Class Owner Color Variety PositionTaste).
Of these, we can only refer using as-similated roles, so we can use: (Class ColorPosition).
We also have the agenda role-listof: (Owner Variety Position).
of which theassimilated items axe: (Position).
Since theClass fact is assimilated, we automaticallytake the class as the  head of the referringNP, e.g., the apple.
This is not howeverunique, so we need to add more restrictions.We use the first (and only) item in the as-similated agenda: Position: the apple onthe table.
This happens now to be unique,so we have a functional referring NP.3.
Fill in Unused Slots: This leaves two factsunexpressed: Owner and Variety.
TheOwner predicate can normally be expressedin one of two slots of the nucleus:?
the Deictic slot e.g., John's apple onthe table; or,?
the Qualifier slot (after the Head noun,e.g., the apple that John owns onthe table.
(I assume here that non-restrictive relative clauses are alwayssatelites, discussed below).In both of these slots, the inclusion of unas-similated Owner information seems to messup the reference, seemingly because it im-plies the reader should already know theownership.
We thus leave the Owner rolefor expression i a satelite position (realisedas a non-restrictive r lative clause, e.g., theapple on the table, which john owns).The variety fact can be realised bestthrough the Classifier slot, e.g., the GrannySmith apple on the table.
This does notseem to interfere with the referring func-tion, so this fact-type would occur on ourlist of facts which can appear in a pre-modifier slot without interfering with thereferring function.This stage thus ends with the referring slotconsisting of: the Granny Smith apple on thetable.
We have only one item left on the agenda,the Owner fact.Stage 2: Add ing  Satel i tes The Owner factcan be incorporated into the NP as a satelite (asa non-referring relative clause), e.g., the GrannySmith apple on the table, which John owns.7 Conc lus ionsWe have improved on the integration of refer-ring and informing within NP generation by al-lowing informing to influence decisions at eachstage of the formation of the referring form.Previous np-generation systems only satisfy in-forming goals after the referring form has beendetermined.The points of intervention in the referringprocess include: the selection of the form of theNP; the choice of the Deictic in common NPs;and choice of restrictive modifiers.
Informationremaining on the agenda at this point is ex-pressed in non-referring slots of the NP, in pax-ticular, the Epithet slot, or non-referring post-modifier slots.
The use of an Agenda slot inthe NP-specification is the main addition, whichallows the Aggregation component to interfacewith the referring expression generator.8 AcknowledgementsThe ILEX project is supported by EPSRC grantGR/K53321.
Thanks to Alistair Knott for ideascontribing to the implementation, and to Ren-ate Henschel for valued comments on this paper.9 ReferencesAppelt, D E. 1985.
"Planning English ReferringExpressions".
Artificial Intelligence, 26, pp 1-33.Appelt, D and Kronfeld A.
1987.
"A Compu-tational Model of Referring".
In Proceedingsoff the Tenth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Milan, Italy, August 23-28, 1987, pp 640-647.Cheng, Hua,& Chris Mellish.
1997.
"Aggrega-tion in the Generation of Argumentative t xts".Proc.
of PhD Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, 9th European Summer School inLogic, Language and Information (ESSLLI97).Aug.
1997, France.54Dale, Robert.
1988.
Generating ReferringExpressions in a Domain of Objects and Pro-cesses.
Ph.D. Thesis, Centre for Cognitive Sci-ence, University of Edinburgh.Dale, Robert.
1989.
"Cooking up referring ex-pressions".
Proceedings ofA CL-89.
Vancouver,pp 68-75.Dale R. and E. Reiter.
1996.
"The Roleof the Gricean Maxims in the Generation ofReferring Expressions".
Working Notes forthe AAAI Spring Symposium on ComputationalImplicature, Stanford, 1996, pp 16-20.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi and ScottWeinstein.
1995.
"Centering: A Frameworkfor Modeling the Local Coherence of Discourse".Computational Linguistics, Volume 21, Number2, June 1995, pp 203-225.Halliday, M.A.K.
1994.
Introduction to Func-tional Grammar.
2nd edition.
London: EdwardArnold.Hitzeman, Janet, Chris Mellish & Jon Ober-lander.
1997.
"Dynamic Generation of Mu-seum Web Pages: The Intelligent Labelling Ex-plorer".
Proceedings of the Museums and theWeb Conference, Los Angeles, March 1997.Horacek, Helmut.
1995 "More on GeneratingReferring Expressions".
Proceedings of the 5thEuropean Workshop on Natural Language Gen-eration.
Leiden, The Netherlands.Knott, Alistair, Michael O'Donnell, Jon Ober-lander, Chris Mellish.
1997.
"Defensible Rulesin Content Selection and Text Structuring".Proceedings of the 6th European Workshop onNatural Language Generation.
March 24 - 26,1997 Gerhard-Mercator University, Duisburg,Germany.Mann, William & Sandra Thompson, 1987.
"Rhetorical Structure Theory: A Theory ofText Organization".
Technical Report ISI/RS-87-190.Mellish, C., O'Donnell, M., Oberlander, J. andKnott, A.
1998 "An architecture for opportun-istic text generation".
Proceedings of the 9thInternational Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration.
5-7 August 1998.
Prince of WalesHotel, Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario, Canada.Reiter, E. 1990 Generating appropriate naturallanguage object descriptions.
PhD Thesis, Hat-yard University.Reiter, E. and Dale R. 1992 "A Fast Algorithmfor the Generation of Referring Expressions".Proceedings of COLING-92.
Nantes, 1992.55
