l/Il/////|/ISense Variation and Lexical Semantics Generative OperationsPat r i ck  Sa in t -D iz ie rIR IT -CNRS,  118, route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse Cedex Francestdizier@irit, frAbst ractIn this document, we outline some elementsrelated to sense variation and to sense delim-itation within the perspective of the Gener-ative Lexicon.
We then show that, in somecases, the Qualia structure can be combinedwith or replaced by a small number of rules,which seem to capture more adequately therelationships between the predicator and oneof its arguments.1 In t roduct ionInvestigations within the generative perspective aimat modelling, by means of a small number of rules,principles and constraints, linguistic phenomena (ei-ther morphological, syntactic or semantic) at a highlevel of abstraction, level which seems to be appro-priate for research on multi-linguism and languagelearning.
These works, among other things, attemptat modelling a certain form of 'creativity' in lan-guage: from a limited number of linguistic resources,a potentially infinite set of surface forms can be gen-erated.Among works within the generative perspective,let us concentrate on the Generative Lexicon (Puste-jovsky 91, 95), which has Settled in the past yearsone of the most innovative perspective in lexicalsemantics.
This approach introduces an abstractmodel radically opposed to 'flat' sense enumerationlexicons.
This approach, which is now well-known,is based (1) on the close cooperation of three lexi-ca\] semantic structures: the argument structure (in-cluding selectional restrictions), the aspectual struc-ture and the Qualia structure, (2) on a detailed typetheory and a type coercion procedure and (3) on arefined theory of compositionality.
The GenerativeLexicon (GL) investigates the problem of the mul-tiplicity of usages of a sense of a lexeme and showshow these usages can be analyzed in terms of possi-ble type shirtings w.r.t, the type expected by a usageof that sense defined as the core usage.
Type shift-ing is modelled by a specific inference mechanism:type coercion.
The GL shows very clearly the inter-dependence b tween arguments and predicates.In our perspective, we are not only interested indeciding whether an expression is an acceptable ar-gument for a predicate and for what reasons as itis also the case in the GL, but we want to be ableto 'reconstruct' or infer the meaning of the proposi-tion from its parts (the predicate and its arguments),and possibly also from the implicit semantics con-veyed by the syntactic form (Goldberg 94).
We as-sume that the impossibility of building a semanticrepresentation fora proposition entails that it is se-mantically ill-formed w.r.t, our grammar, lexiconand composition rules.
The work presented here isnot definitive, it is a feasability study which aimsat opening new perspectives and new treatments forthe GL, while remaining in the same spirit.
We willin particular show that in some cases, the Qualiastructure can be combined with, or replaced by, aset of relatively general rules, which, in addition,better capture the relations between the predicatorand the predicated elements.In this paper, we contrast a rule-based approach(also used by other authors uch as (Copestake andBriscoe 95), (Ostler and Atkins 92), (Numberg andZaenen 79) with different perspectives) with theQualia-based approach and comment on their re-spective advantages.
We show how, in fact, they cancooperate.
Another view is that presented in (Jack-endoff 97, chapter 2) with his principle of enrichedcomposition, which is in fact quite close to our view,but restricted to a few coercion situations (aspec-tual, mass-count, picture, begin-enjoy).
As will beseen, these systems are not incompatible, they coverdifferent forms of knowledge and may be useful indifferent situations.
The rules we present here arenot lexical rules, as in (Copestake and Biscoe 95),but they are part of the semantic omposition sys-Saint-Dizier 121 Sense Variation and Lexical SemanticsPatrick Saint-Dizier (1998) Sense Variation and Lexicai Semantics Generative Operations.
In D.M.W.
Powers (ed.
)NeMLaP3/CoNLL98: New Methods in Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, ACL, pp 121-130.tern.
Compared to the Qualia system (Pustejovsky91, 95), the different senses which can be derivedfrom a more central sense are constructed in our sys-tem in context i.e.
when dealing with arguments, nota priori as in the Qualia roles.
Finally, in the last sec-tion of this document, we show that some problemsadvocated by (Copestake and Briscoe 95) concern-ing unification can be resolved by a constraint-basedapproach.Before going on into more details about our ap-proach, here are some general comments about lex-ical semantics generative systems.In a lexical semantics generative system, it is ofmuch importance to have a clear analysis of the no-tions of word-sense and of sense delimitation.
In-deed, depending on the strategy adopted (e.g.
nar-row senses as in WordNet, or very large ones as inmany AI works), the nature and the scope of gen-erative operations, and therefore the philosophy oflanguage behind these operations, may entail verydifferent sense delimitation strategies.
We do notthink that it is possible to define a real theory ofsense delimitation, but it is certainly possible to de-fine a few principles or a strategy.
Then, given astrategy for sense delimitation, we can adjust thecomplexity and the scope of generative operations.We assume that a verb potentially contains anum-ber of subsenses which are 'triggered' by semanticcomposition rules depending on the arguments foundin a sentence.
There are several possibilities to rep-resent a sense and its relations with subsenses, ourapproach is, as shall be seen below, to develop under-specified Lexical Conceptual Structure (LCS) (Jack-endoff 91) representations, that will also be used asa basis for developping generative mechanisms, Itshould be noted that, apart from fixed forms, sub-senses share quite a lot of features and are oftendistinguished by a few features.As shown in (Pustejovsky 95) and (Copestake andBriscoe 95), type coercion does not occur within theverb, but at the level of the proposition, allowing asentence such as:Mary enjoys the film and eating ice-cream.This type of sentence is problematic for unificationbecause the verb must bear two types for the firstobject, syntactically an NP and a proposition (S-bar) and semantically a physical object and an event.A constraint-based approach which allows domainsto be assigned to variables (the variable representingthe semantics/syntax of the object) would be a goodsolution (see section 6).In spite of evidence of its existence (explored inthe Euronet project, the European WordNet), theQualia structure turns out to be quite difficult todescribe.
It is well-designed for nouns, and looksmore artificial for other lexical categories, but itis in fact essentially useful for predicated elements,mostly nouns.
In fact, it seems that Qualia struc-tures are not really motivated and relevant for pred-icators.
This can be noted in a concrete way whenlooking at verb Qualias which do not turn out to bevery satisfactory and expressive, but rather look alittle bit artificial.
The descriptions made in roles arealso often more pragmatic than semantic, and thismay entail additional confusions in resolving typemismatches.
This is in fact clearly stated in variousanalysis of the Aristotelician AITIAs, from whichthe Qualia roles emerged (M0ravcsik 75), where theauthor shows that there is a kind of continuum be-tween telic and agentive roles.
Finally, the formaland constitutive roles are also somewhat redundantwith the part-of and isa relations used to structurelexicons (or similar relations used in thesauri), itmay not therefore be totally necessary to includethem in the Qualia.A close observation of linguistic data and of sensevariations hows that the most important role is thetelic role.
It is in fact the role to be considered asa default role for the coercion object -+ event.
Theformal role is far less frequently considered.
We alsothink that this role should not only describe the com-ing into being of entities but also their destruction,which cannot enter into the telic role.We do not thing that generativity can only bebased on an elaborated theory of types, and on theoperation of type coercion.
This operation is verypowerful, simple and works satisfactorily for a num-ber of cases, but it turns out in some cases to beinsufficient and also to largely overgenerate (in par-ticular it is quite d i~cult to use in natural anguagegeneration systems), unless a very rich and refinedtheory of type is defined, which may be contrary tothe type philosophy.
We think that the type systemis well-designed to detect derived usages, characteri-zable by a type mismatch.
The generality and gener-icity of the type coercion operation should howeverbe kept because, via the reference to quite generaltypes, it preserves a good degree of generality andsystematicity o type shiftings.
However, we feelthat types are not sufficiently 'constrained' to ac-count for the constraints holding, for each verb, onthe different sense/usage variations it may be sub-ject to.
For example, an underspecified LCS formcould be more appropriate because of its ability topartially represent meaning.
The Qualia structurecannot encode all these constraints, in particularfirst because they are better designed for argumentsthan for predicators and second because some con-Saint-Dizier 122 Sense Variation and Lexical SemanticsIIIIIIIIII!1IIIIIIE||ImmmmmI/mmstraints are relational between the predicator andthe argument, which the roles cannot describe.In this document, we first present a standardclassification of the different forms of relations be-tween a predicate and its arguments, then we outlinesome considerations on the difficult problem of sensecharaterization a d delimitation.
We then show howit is possible to give up the principle of a Qualiastructure and, in some cases, of type coercion infavor of (1) other sources of knowledge, essentiallyinherent properties of lexical items and (2) simpleinference rules.
This approach may be felt to some-what resemble meaning postulates, but it is orga-nized on a larger scale and treats different phenom-ena.2 Usage relations in thepredicate-argument pairIn this section, we consider the different ypes ofusage relations between an argument and a predi-cate as introduced in the GL, and add some distinc-tions.
By usage relation, we mean the analysis ofthe concordance/matching relation between a pred-icative term and one of its arguments in a languageutterance.
These relations are well-known and arediscussed within our framework in (Mari 97) and(Marl and Saint-Dizier 97).The relational perspective adopted here is math-ematically richer than a functional one, it allows usto introduce ambiguity and non-determlnism.
It alsogives an equal role to the predicate and to the argu-ment (this is also the case in the GL).The typology of usage will then serve as a basis foran analysis of sense delimitation and for the devel-opement of generative operations.
We consider here "the following forms of usage relations, which are, formost of them, very classical:?
Selection: the type of the argument is sub-sumed by the type (possibly polymorphic or'dotted') expected by the predicate for that ar-gument.
In general, the sense conveyed by theverb, which may be largely underspecified, ismade more precise by the type of the argumentby means of more or less complex compositionalrules.
For example, for the verb construire (con-struct), the expected object is, for example, oftype 'physical-object v abstract-construction'.Selection is also called selective binding in theGL.
Selection is clearly a wider phenomenon forgeneral purpose (generic) verbs than for verbswith a more restricted meaning.
Within ourapproach, instead of just using types, the dif-ferent subsenses of a verb are represented bySaint-Dizier 123means of underspecifled LCS forms.
The pos-sible/potential instanciations are described bymeans of a system of constraints and LCS forms:Constraint : LCS form used to fill in under-specied positions.This is exemplified in sections 4 and 5.?
Metonymy: in an argument, an entity isused to refer to another one, via lexical rela-tions, among which mainly the part-whole re-lation (and its different forms (Winston et al87)), but also forms such as producer-productor institution-person relations.
A number ofmetonymies have a high degree of systematic-ity in language (Lakoff 80), possibly over differ-ent languages.
There are well-known examplesof metonymies such as buses are on strike to-day (object for user or controller) or I bought aFord (make for object).
Most of these forms aretreated by the GL via the constitutive or formalroles, but in a rather unconstrained way (exceptfor the constraints implicit in the Qualia).We can somewhat structure metonymies by con-sidering 3 major forms:- metonymies based on the part-of relation,- metonymies based on various forms of ar-gument ype shirtings uch as the make forobject illustrated above (I bought a Ford/aSun).
There is always a semantic link suchas possession between the expected and therealized arguments.
Another link is, e.g.physical object -+ monetary value.
An in-teresting case is a sentence such as I boughtFrench to express that I bought some prod-uct made in France or whose makeis knownto be French.- metonymies introducing an emphasis onproperties of the argument related to ac-tions and to its uses.
From the argument'sproperties, argument ype shiftings (alsocalled alternations) can be defined such asthe alternation physical object ~ event.The famous ambiguous example of the GL:'begin a book' is treated by this type ofmetonymy, using the general rule that anyphysical object was once created and canbe used in a number of ways.Metonymies will not be developed in this paper.?
Metaphor:  this phenomenon is more com-plex and diverse than metonymy.
It is howeverpossible to isolate several types of metaphorswhich are relatively concrete, and which alsoSense Variation and Lexical Semantics, ihave a good degree of systematicity.
Thesemetaphors refer usually to partial homomor-phisms between ontologies of different concep-tual domains, with a focus on some aspects (orseines) carried prominently by the argument.General schemas have been defined, e.g.
in(Lakoff 80), such as: Ideas are objects, ideas arefood, creation is birth, activity is a substance,etc.
which can, roughly speaking and withinthe GL perspective, allow a type to be changedinto another.
Metaphors are not, in general,treated by the GL, at least in a simple way.Rules for metaphors axe based on type shift-ings; their scope must undoubtly be restrictedto some groups of nouns.
The semantic inter-pretation of a metaphorical expression is in gen-eral not a trivial matter and much remains tobe done in this area.. Co-compos i t ion  deals with the emergence ofunexpected new senses, often with an impor-tant sense variation, from the combination of anargument with a predicate.
This phenomenonusually goes somewhat beyond compositional-ity and may be at the origin of semi-fixedor fixed forms.
Compared to the definitiongiven in (Pustejovsky 91), we have a more re-stricted view of co-composition.
In our view,co-composition occurs when there is an impor-tant change in meaning, not simply when an ar-gument has influence over the verb's emantics.We do not think, in fact, that an argument maymodify the meaning of a verb, it can just spe-cialize it, but this specialization remains com-positional.
Situations of co-composition occurwhen the meaning of a proposition is not just acertain composition of the meaning of its parts,but something different.Examples abound of this phenomena, such as:produire des tdmoins, se payer un zdro, gagnersa vie.
Co-composition is particularly difficultto analyze.
Let us note two points.
First, ina number of co-composition relations, a few,usually secondary, features are strongly high-lighted, producing the feeling of 'unexpected'use.
Secondly, these forms are not formed atrandom and do not acquire a meaning also atrandom.
Some of them may be the remnants ofproductive forms, perfectly compositional, sev-eral centuries ago.
Fixed forms may then beconsidered as an impoverishment of previouslycompositional forms (see (Marl 97) for a fewnotes).Althought we haven't studied very far co-composition, we believe that a simple way tohandle a number of them is to establish a linkwith one of its paraphrases, whenever possible,which involves a more regular form of compo-sition.
For example, se payer un zdro will beassociated with a verb (in English) such as toget and more precisely to get a zero.
Similarly,se composer un visage = to compose one's face(section 5.1) will be associated with the expres-sion to hide one's feelings or opinions.These types of variations are claimed (e.g.
in(Lakoff 80)) to have a quite good degree of system-aticity among verbs.
It is important for our modelto evaluate how stable they are within and over verbsemantic lasses in order to attain a certain general-ity and reusability.3 The  prob lem o f  sense  de l imi ta t ion3.1 PreliminariesSense delimitation is a very delicate, but crucial,problem.
It has been studied at length by manyauthors and in many projects.Let us say very informally that, in our perspec-tive, we assume that a sense (more or less large andconstrained) of a lexeme has a basic form and basicexpressions called usage(s) (a surface form reflectingthe basic sense).
For example, let us assume thatfor the verb devour, its basic sense has a human oranimal as subject and an edible object as its object.Then John devours meat is a basic usage.
The basicsense expects ome types of arguments but it mayalso originate derived usages (via the above genera-tive operations), which axe more or less constrainedand limited.
For the above example, we have Johndevours books, which is metaphorical.
Since we canonly observe linguistic realizations of these derivedusages, sense delimitation is then defining sets of us-ages sharing the same semantic 'root', and identify-ing that root.
Meaning is then assigned to linguisticexpressions from the meaning of their constituentsand by taking into account he semantic shifts intro-duced by the generative operations involved.This perspective may be felt to be somewhat naiveand archaic: (1) examples abound where it is notpossible to identify a root among usages, and (2) us-ages are not necessarily derived from a more or lessunique root but may result from complex interac-tions among derived usages.
Nevertheless, we cansay that:?
our perspective is workable for utterances fromrelatively standard texts.
It is of course al-ways possible to find counter-examples, butSaint-Dizier 124 Sense Variation and Lexical Semantics!1I|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!1IIIIIIIIIIthen their rate of occurence should be evalu-ated.We have at our disposal formal and practicaltools to 'soften' the notion of Semantic root, e.g.polymorphic types, or complex systems for se-mantic representations.?
Our approach is incremental, allowing the ad-junction, step by step, of new usages.Semi-fixed forms and fixed forms are treatedapart, and we believe that a number of counter-examples to our approach could fall in this class.Sense delimitation is largely an open problem.
Itis indeed almost impossible to state precise and gen-eral principles that characterize the boundaries ofdifferent senses of a lexeme and what a sense xactlyis.
To make our approach workable, let us assumethat senses exist independently of linguistic realiza-tions, whatever they are called (e.g.
concepts), andthat it is possible to formally represent them.
Sensedelimitation largely depends on the theoretical ndpractical perspectives and, to a large extent, on intu-ition.
The diff?culty is then to elaborate a coherentsystem of sense delimitation and of sense/usage vari-ation.
Extreme solutions have been proposed, whichare not totally satisfactory.
For example WordNet(FeUbanm 93) tends to introduce one sense per us-age, where a usage is characterized by the semanticfeatures of the arguments.
For example, WordNethas 27 different senses for the verb give.
Distinc-tions between senses are often very subtle and some-what hard to represent in a formal semantic repre-sentation.
This approach is very useful in the sensethat it provides a very detailed escription of the us-ages of a large number of words in English, but wethink it lacks generalizations about language whichare often useful for NLP systems to work efficiently.On the other extreme, there are AI systems whichtend to postulate a unique sense for a lexeme andvery complex derivation procedures, involving com-plex logical systems, to produce different sub-senses.This may be explained by the fact that most M ap-proaches are not concerned with usages in languagebut just by meaning representation.Our perspective is in-between these extremes.
Wethink that the different usages of a word should beorganized around a small, relatively generic, num-ber of senses.
From these senses, similarly to theGL, generative procedures should produce or recog-nize derived usages, with possible slight changes inmeaning.
Sense delimitation is addressed more for-really in (Saint-Dizier 98).A second problem is the definition of the natureand the form of constraints related to sense delimi-tation.
For example, there are meaning componentswithin a given sense which can be more or less con-strained or opened.
Within a given sense, modali-ties, which are often more peripheral, such as: man-ner, means, goals, existence of an effect or telicitymay be left unconstrained whereas elements such asthe type of agent, the existence of a cause, or thetype of the first object (e.g.
physical object or not, asin vendre un objet = to sell versus vendre quelqu'un= to denounce) may be much more constrained.Then, given a set of usages assumed to be relatedto a unique sense, on what basis should the basicusage(s) and, therefore, sense be defined ?
We willshow that it is often the most usual usage which isthe most primitive, probably the most concrete one,often one of the most widely used, and also possiblyhistorically and ontogenetically the oldest (Marl 97).The semantic properties and representation f thebasic usage must then be able to allow and possiblyto explain the derived usages.3.2 Semant ic  representat ions of  senses: apsycho- l inguist ics  perspectiveThese questions inevitably raise the problem of thesemantic representation.
Even if it is not compre-hensive, it turns out, from our experiments on dif-ferent semantic lasses of verbs, that the LCS (Lex-ical Conceptual Structure (Jackendoff 90)) is a rela-tively adequate framework (possibly associated witha few attribute-value pairs for some properties) torepresent the semantics of expressions subject o thesense variations we have identified, and to allow forthe implementation f the generative operations ad-vocated in the previous ection (see also B. Dorr'swork on LCS forms for verb classes in English).
Thedifferent, hierarchically organized, elements at stakein the LCS seem to correspond, in general, to thevariation factors that we have identified and to besufficiently fine-grained.It also turns out that, in the LCS, the primitiveconstituents and some basic formulae correspond todifferent steps of the categorization procedure whenlearning a language (Dubois, Marl and Saint-Dizier97).
It will then be possible to modify or replaceautonomous and often elementary parts of the LCSby others when representing sense variations, in away similar to the human categorization a d learn-ing procedures which modify the structure of con-cepts.
Notice that operations of composition withinthe LCS are simply the embedding and the concate-nation of LCS formula within others.On a psycho-linguistic level, (Dubois et al 97)Saint-Dizier 125 Sense Variation and Lexical Semanticshas shown, for the possession verb family, elementsof meaning which organize this family around pro-totypical kernels.
For example, verbs such as ra-cheter and facturer aggregates very early in lan-guage developement stages to the kernel verb acheter(buy).
Then, verbs such as indemniser, payer, rem-bourser, rdmundrer, dddommager come later.
Witheach of these levels can be associated well-formedfragments of LCS, which can be combined with thekernel's representation a d which make the mean-ing of these verbs more precise and distinct fromthe kernel (Dubois, Saint-Dizier 96).The generative operations we present operate ontypes and on LCS fragments, that they modify viasubstitution or concatenation to take into accountsense variations.
To allow for flexible substitutions,some LCS fragments will be represented apart, e.g.as default representations or as underspecified rep-resentations.
Generativity, in a certain sense, is di-rectly related to the evolution of the language ac-tivity.
This statement looks trivial, but it has someimmediate consequences onthe type of structural el-ement necessary to implement generative operations.4 Ad jec t ive  Mod i f i ca t ion  andSe lec t ionThis section is devoted adjectival modification.
Thegoal is to study the use and impact of the Qualiastructure of the modified noun in the determina-tion of the semantic representation f the associationNoun + Adjective.
Similarly to verbs, we show thateven for highly polysemic adjectives, there is a cen-tral sense, or a small set of closely related senses, forthe adjective which is altered or specialized by .themodified noun.
This is typically a selection (or se-lective binding) situation.
The problems we addressare the identification of what is exactly modified inthe noun and how, by what means is it determinedand what is the ensuing semantic representation.
Toillustrate this study, we have chosen one of the mostpolysemic French adjectives: bon (good).
Other ad-jectives studied in the GL litterature are e.g.
fast,sad, afraid and noisy.Bon in French has a major global meaning, namely'that works well', as in une bonne machine, un bonoutil (a good tool, machine).
It is also an adjec-tive of intensity, in quantity or quality, as in un bonrepas (a good meal).
These two meanings are veryclose as shall be seen below.
Bon may also be com-bined with determiners expressing measures to indi-cate that the measure is slightly excedeed as in unbon litre (a good liter), and it is at the origin of a fewfixed forms as un bon coup, une bonne gifle (a goodslap), which are, in fact, synonymous of un mau-vais coup, une mauvaise gifle (a bad slap) even ifbon and mauvais are opposites.
This shows the non-compositional character of these fixed forms.
Otherfixed or semi-fixed forms are: bon suns, bon vivant.Let us now study in detail each sense.
In generalexamples will be given in English to facilitate read-ing as long as they exactly correspond to the Frenchones.4.1  Bon  = that  works  wellThis first sense applies to any noun of type tool, ma-chine or technique (in a general sense): a good car,a good screw-driver, a good computer, a good algo-rithm, a good cure, a good medecine, etc.
It alsoapplies to more abstract nouns denoting communi-cation acts or cognitive procedures, uch as: a goodadvice, a good argument, a good talk, a good demon-stration.
Exactly the same phenomenon occurs forits opposite mauvais (bad).Let us now consider the construction of the se-mantic representation.
In (Pustejovsky 95), a rolein the telic is considered, and ~an adjective such asfast, modifying a noun such as typist is representedas follows:he \[type'(e,z)  ^ fast(e)\]where e denotes and event.
This formula says thatthe event of typing is fast (fast may later be inter-preted in more depth).
A similar representation isgiven for long, in a long record.
This approach is fineto represent temporal notions in a global way, i.e.the event is said to be fast (i.e.
short) or long.
Butthis is not so straightforward for an adjective suchas bon, and many other adjectives with no temporaldimension.
Consider the representation f a goodtypist:)~e \[type'(e,z) A good(e)\]where it is not the typing event which is good butsome more refined properties.
Also, we do not wantto consider a precise vent, but to state that in gen-eral someone is a good typist.
Such a statementimplies at least a quantification over typing eventsof x.
Finally, bon being polysemous, a single repre-sentation shouldn't be sufficient to accomodate allthe senses.We can define an abstract representation for bonwhich includes a reference to the telic role of theQualia structure of the noun.
Let us assume thatany noun which can be modified by bon has a telicrole in which the main ftmction(s) of the object isdescribed (e.g.
execute programmes for a computer,run for a car):noun: N, Qualia: \[ Telic: T, ...\]where T denotes the set of properties associated withSaint-Dizier 126 Sense Variation and Lexical SemanticsIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIImmmmmmmmBmBmmmmBthe telic role of the noun N. Let us assume that T isa sequence of predicates of the form Fi(X, Y) whereY denotes the noun N. Let us assume that F~(X, Y )is the property modified by the adjective bon, identi-fied by means of semantic types.
Then a LCS-basedrepresentation f bon is:\[stato BE+oho~,+id~.t(\[thi.g ?
\],\[+p~op ABIL ITY  - TO(F,(X, Y)) = good \])\] .This representation expresses the fact that the en-tity denoted by the noun works well via the evalu-ation function ABILITY-TO and the value 'good'.sFrom a certain point of view, this representation isclose to the idea of (high) intensity, but specializedaround the basic functionalities of an object, not itsqualities, as emphasized in section 4.3.
It is impor-tant to note here the role of the Qualia structure: togo beyond a general semantic representation a d tointroduce in a direct way a pragmat ic  or inter-pretat ive  d imens ion  via the instanciation of thepredicate Fi (X, Y).The constant 'good' can be replaced by a more ac-curate representation, e.g.
'above average', but theproblem of effectively measuring the activity remainsopen (in the pragmatics).
Notice also that instead ofquantifying over events, bon is described as a state,independently of events associated with the use ofthe object.
The functionalities of the object remaingood, even when it is not used effectively.If several properties are at stake, we may have aconjunction of functions:\[state BE+char,+ident(\[thin9 r \],\[+p,op A,=,,, ABIL ITY -  TO(F~(X, Y)) = good \])\].~From a compositional point of view, the combi-nation Adjective + noun is treated as follows, whereR denotes the semantic representation f the adjec-.tive, T the contents of the telic role of the Qualia ofthe noun, and Y is the variable associated with thenoun:f(Adj (R),Noun(Qualia(T)) =AX, Y BT(X,Y) 6 T, (N(Y) ^ R(~(X,Y))).4.2 Bon restr icted to mora l  qualitiesA subsense of bon occurs in conjunction with personsor entities exhibiting some form of moral qualities,as in une bonne personne.
The treatment is the sameas in the above section, but the selection of the pred-icates r = Fi (X, Y) in the telic of the noun's qualiamust be restricted to properties related to the moralbehavior (charity, compassion, integrity), or, by ex-tension, to some psychological ttitudes and cogni-tive capabilities (e.g.
a good researcher).This case is interesting for the development of theQualia structure in the sense that it motivates sub-divisions, or at least a typing of the predicates in theQualia.
This is advocated in (Pustejovsky 95), butnot really made concrete, as far as we know.4.3 Bon as an intensif ierAnother main role of bon is to emphasize a qualityof the object denoted by the noun.
If the object ise.g.
of type:?
+edible, as in un bon plat/repas (a gooddish/meal), then the meaning of bon is deli-cious, excellent,?
+fine-art, as in un bon f i lm/tableau/ l ivre (agood film/ painting / book), then the mean-ing of bon is of good expressive and intellectualquality,?
+smell, as in une bonne odeur (a good odor),then the meaning is pleasant.zFrom these examples, we can conclude that,when bon modifies a nouns, then there is a certainproperty associated with the telic of the noun thatproduces a certain pleasure.
For example, watchinga good film entails a certain pleasure, eating a goodmeal entails another form of pleasure.
Let us con-sider again that the noun N modified by the adjec-tive bon is represented by the variable Y, the entityundergoing the pleasure is not explicit in the NP, itis represented by X in the scope of a A-abstraction:XX, \[ .
.
.
.
t CAUSE(\[ .
.
.
.
t F,(X,Y)\],\[state BE+char,+ident(\[thing X \],\[~a,e AT+ps?
(\[+p,op pleasure \])\])\])\].We have here a second type of representation forbon, which is also quite far from those developed inthe GL (see above).
The term 'pleasure' is a di-mension that refers to an ontology describing e.g.mental attitudes and feelings.
A primitive such asTOWARDS could also be used instead of AT, toindicate a path instead of a place.
Similarly, weare developing for psychological verbs and verbs offeeling a more appropriate primitive system (Kamel,forthcoming), e.g.
with a primitive such as FEEL,which could be appropriate also for the above rep-resentation.
The notion of event at the higher levelin the LCS can be subject o debates because thereis also an idea of systematicity and regularity whichmust be captured.
The semantic omposition formis similar as in 4.1.4.4 Bon as a quantif ierIn expressions indicating measures where bon iscombined with a kind of measure as in:un bon verve/ l i t re /m~tre(a good glass, liter, meter),Saint-Dizier 127 Sense Variation and Lexical Semanticsbon indicates that the measure is slightly abovethe unit considered.
It therefore contributes to thequantification.Bon can also be a quantifier in:un bon salaire, une bonne somme (a good salary /amount)which indicates that the level of the salary is abovethe average.
For these expressions, the semantic rep-resentation is that of quantifiers.4.5 Bon  meaning exact or correctThere are a few acceptions such as:un bon raisonnement, calcul, une bonne information(a good reasoning/computation/information), orun bon ticket / billet (a good ticket/bank note, op-posed to fake)which may mean 'correct', valid' or 'exact'.Another meaning of une bonne in/ormation, unbon catcul is a useful information and a well-plannedaffair.
These forms are rather semi-fixed and prob-ably fall within the case of co-composition.5 Selection and Dimensions ofInterpretationSelection is directly related to the problem of sensedelimitation since it is more or less complex, depend-ing on the 'breadth' of a sense.
The larger a senseis, the more complex is this phenomenon.
It alsowell illustrates the use of LCS and how the meaningof a proposition is computed from the fundamentalstructure and semantics of the verb, its argumentsand the taking into account of usage variations.We hypothesize that a verb sense receives a singleLCS representation, possibly largely underspecified,and a list of instanciations constrained by the natureof the arguments and also possibly by pragmatic fac-tors.
The global format is given informally for theSell verbs in section 5.2.
This 'polymorphic' repre-sentation is the representation f the verb.
Usagevariations entailed by metaphors or metonymies donot alter the meaning of the verb, but they operateon, and alter the meaning of, VPs or propositions.In a selection situation, the verb meaning becomesmore specialized (a definition of subsumption i LCSis given in (Dubois and Saint-Dizier 96)).
In theGenerative Lexicon (Pustejovsky 91, 95), selectionis treated by selective binding, which is an opera-tion entirely based on type concordance and typesubsumption.
No attempt seems to be made to con-struct a meaning representation, which is not thegoal of the GL.Let us now present a few examples.
Note thatthe verb classes considered here are those we havedefined for French, they do not necessarily overlappwith those defined in (Levin 93), (Saint-Dizier 96b).5 .1 The case of  Construction verbsThe construction verb class includes verbs like con-struire, batir, ddifier, rdaliser, composer, (build,construct, realize, compose), etc.
Let us concentrateon the verb construire, which includes usages suchas:construire une maison / un cercle / un projet /unerelation.The sense variation goes from a central meaning witha concrete, physical object to an abstract object.The general representation f this verb is:A J, 1, \[event CAUSE(\ [ th in9 I \],\[?~ent GO+ch~r,+ident(\[pc~th FROM+char,+ident(\[+prop EP IST  - STATUS(d)  = non - ezist \]),TO+eha~..+ident(\[+prop EP IST-  STATUS( J )  = ez ls t  \]),FRO M+cha,,+id~nt (part -- of( J ) ) ,VlA+ehar,+ident (def init ion - cor~$titutive(J))\])\].which describes the coming into being of J. Twofunctions, related to lexical data, are used: part-of(J) which gets the parts of J, and definition-constitutive(J) which gets the definition of J (e.g.
acircle is a set of points equidistant from a particularpoint: the center).
If this definition is not availablein the lexical entry corresponding to the lexeme J,then the fimction remains as it is, justs stating thatJ has a certain constitutive definition.Construire is probably the generic element of theclass.
If we consider the following sense of the verbcomposer, which is more specific, as in: composerune sonate (to compose a sonata), which is basicallyrestricted to musical pieces (imposed by constraintsproper to the verb), we get exactly the same phe-nomena and restrictions.
Note that this verb hasmetaphorical extensions such as composer un menu/ une salade (to compose a menu, a salad) wherethe property outlined is that the menu or the saladis going to look like a piece of art.
These extensionsare treated exactly as above.
The form se composerun visage (to compose one's face = to hide his opin-ions/feelings) is also metaphorically derived from thesense considered here, but is rather a semi-fixed formsince it is quite remote from the original sense andweakly compositional.5.2 The Sell verbsThe 'sell' verb class introduces a simple default rep-resentation.
Let us consider the verb vendre (sell),generic element of the class.
Its basic argument is aphysical object (which has an intrinsic value).
Be-sides this usage, we have slightly more metaphoricalones, such as:Saint-Dizier 128 Sense Variation and Lexical SemanticsIIIIIIIImIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIvendre des r~ves / des illusions (to sell dreams / il-lusions),if we assume that, in this latter case, a dream hasno intrinsic value, it is its association with vendrewhich makes it emerged via the expectations onthe argument.
We also have expressions like ven-dre quelqu'un = to betray someone.
These usagesdefines the possible sense variations of the verb sell.We can then say that these objects, in associationwith verbs of the 'sell' class (and a few other classesas well) get e.g.
a fictive value, represented by thefunction: FICTIVE-VALUE(J), and there is also atype shifting on J.The basic representation f sell is the following:hi, J, K, \[event CAUSE(\[thing I \],\[.re., GO+po.s(\[thing J \],\[path FaOM+possf\[thin9 1 \]), TO+l~oss(\[thln 9 K \])\]),ao+poss(\[thin" P \],\[path FROM+po,.,(\[thin9 K \]), TO+po,s(\[thinu I \])\])\])\]ADEFAULT(P ,  VALUE-  OF(J), J,TYPE( J )  = physical - object, COERCED - TYPE( J )  = no.e).where P is the anchoring point for the default, ac-tivated when J, the variable concerned, is of typephysical-object.
In this case, which is the standardone, J need not be coerced to any other type.
Thedefault representation represents the basic usage, forthe other cases, this default is not used and othertypes of representations are anchored at P.The general form of a default is then:DEFAULT(anchor, representation, variable con-cerned, expected type for argument, coerced typeif appropriate).When the type is not physical object, then a differ-ent value is anchored to the position P, as explained"above.
The other possible values may equivalently(1) be specifi.ed in the representation f the verb,similarly to the default, but not with the status of arepresentation by default, and associated with con-straints of use, or (2) by means of a rule.
If the firstcase is chosen (with constraints on the type of theobject), then it has the following form:OTHER-Iq.EPT(P, FICTIVE-VALUE(J), J, TYPE(J)=abstract artefact, COERCED-TYPE(J) = physical-object).5.3 The Measure verb classThe measure verb class includes verbs such as:4valuer, mesurer, apprdcier, explorer, etc.
(evaluate,measure, appreciate, xplore).
They can be repre-sented by an LCS form, but this form needs to bepaired with additional information.
Of interest is,for example, the quality or certainty of the measure,which can be best represented by a non-branchingproportional series (Cruse 86) where the scale ordersverbs by increasing precision of the measure.The object argument J of these verbs may be verydiverse.
It is however elated to a measurable prop-erty (directly or metaphorically measurable).
In thefollowing LCS, we introduce the conceptual category'epistemic', as defined in (Pinker 93).
We first havethe extraction of the property being measured, thenstate that it becomes known, and finally indicatesthat the value becomes known to the subject I. Thesense variations introduced by the argument J is cap-tured by the function PROPERTY-OF(J) which ex-tracts a property in J (these functions are advocatedin very recent works by Jackendoff (Jackendoff 97)).The representat!on is the following:hi, J, P, \[event CAUSE(\[thi~t9 1 \], \[ev,at ACT+epist (\[thin9 1\],TOWARD+ehar.+ident (\[eventGO+ekar.+ident(\[ P = PROPERTY( J ) \ ] ,\[path FROM+ehar,+ident(\[p,'o;, EP IST  - STATUS(VALUEOF(P) )  = unkonwn\]),\[path TO+cha.,+id.,*t(\[peop EP IST  - STATUS(VALUEOF(P) )  = known\]),FOa+.pist(\[e,J.,tt GO+epi.t(\[thin.
VALUEOF(P) \ ] ,\[path TO+epist(\[thin9 Z \])\]))\].If the object is not directly measurable, then a'metaphorical' value can be associated with it.
Theprimitive FOR indicates the goal.6 Computat iona l  Aspects :  towardsconst ra in t -based  sys temsLFrom a computational perspective, we think thatprogramming languages based on unification andthe generate and test strategy may be too weak tohandle the problem of polysemy in general.
Weindeed need languages which support the idea ofe.g.
conveying sets (disjunctions) of potential solu-tions.
Constraint-based approaches handle domainsof potential assignements for variables; domains be-come restricted as soon as constraints are formula~;edon them, via dedicated constraint resolution mecha-nisms.Constraint logic programming (e.g.
(Benhamouand Colmerauer 93)) is one such paradigm wherelogical implication has been paired with other mech-anisms for handling various forms of constraints, inparticular on finite domains.
In that case, more orless complex algorithms have been developed andintegrated into logic programmes.
These algorithmsbasically handle classical operations on sets (e.g.
in-tersection).For example, in sentences such as:John knows+wh,-wh \[that whales are mammals\]_whand \[whether they have lungs or not\]+wh.Mary enjoys \[the film\]object and \[eating ice-Saint-Dizier 129 Sense Variation and Lexical Semanticscream\]event ?the verbs know and enjoy must select two a prioriincompatible types, syntactic or semantic.
For thelatter sentence, a rule of the following form, in DCGassociated with constraints can be used:vp --> v(Sel-restr), sentence(Sem),{domain(X,Sel-restr), domain(Y,Sem),included-into(Y,X)}.sentence (Sem) -->sentence(Seml), \[and\], sentence(Sem2),~domain (X, Sere), domain (Y, Seml),domain (Z, Sem2),included-into (Y, X), included-into (Z, X) }.Between brackets are the constraints, which arenot interpreted as Prolog terms, but as predicatesrelated to set manipulations.
The predicates doma?nand ?ncluded-?nto express constraints, they aretherefore not evaluated to true or false.The same approach can be used to handle type co-ercion in the GL, where a domain for a variable canbe the (finite) set of all the types the entity denotedby the variable can be coerced to.
The domain thenexpresses the generative expansion of the entity.
Nocommitment to any particular derived type is madea priori.7 ConclusionIn this paper, which is mainly a feasability study, wehave proposed some generative principles, based onrules, which possibly use some aspects of the Qualiastructure, in particular the contents of the telic role.This approach supports the idea of an enriched se-mantic composition system, as advocated earlier byJackendoff, instead of lexical redundancy rules ortype coercion.
This approach includes the construc-tion of the meaning of a proposition, taking into ac-count sense variations.
The analysis is carried outusing notions of verb semantic lass and Lexical Con-ceptual Structure, which both give a certain degreeof genericity to our descriptions.It is clear that this work is essentially preliminary,it needs a lot of extensions and more fruitful com-parisons with the GL.Acknowledgements  I would like to thank AldaMari for working jointly with me on preliminarystudies from which this work emerged.
I also thankJames Pustejovsky, Federica Busa, Mouna Kameland Fran~oise Gayral for discussions which greatlyhelped improving this work.ReferencesBenhamou, F., Colmerauer, A.,(eds.
), (1993), Con-straint Logic Programming, MIT Press.Bnsa, F., (1996), Compositionality and the Seman-tics of Nominals, PhD.
Dissertation, Brandeis Univer-sity, MA.Copestake, A., Briscoe, T., (1995), Semi-Productivepolysemy and sense xtension, journal of semantics, vol.12-1.Cruse, A., (1986), Lezical Semantics, Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Dubois, D., Saint-Dizier, P., (1996) Construction etrepresentation de classes sdmantiques de verbes: uneeoopdration entre syntaxe t cognition, in proe.
RFIA96,Rennet, France.Fellbaum, C., (1993), "English Verbs as SemanticNet", Journal o\] Lexicography.Goldberg, A., (1994), Constructions: A ConstructionGrammar Approach to Argument Structure, Universityof Chicago Press.Jackendoff, R., (1990), Semantic Structures, MITPress.Jackendoff, R., (1997), The Architecture of the Lan-guage Faculty, MIT Press.Lakoff, G., Johnson, M. (1980), Metaphors we LiveBy, University of Chicago Press.Levin, B., (1993), English verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation, Chicago Univ.Press.Mari, A., (1997), Une analyse de la gdn~rativitd ens~mantique l xicale utilisant la structure lexicale con-ceptueUe, reserach report universitd e Lausanne andIRIT.Marl, A., Saint-Dizier, P., (1997), Gdndrativitd: au-delh d'une th~orie des types, in proc.
RFIA, Grenoble,IMAG.Martin, R., (1979), revue de linguistique, vol.
17.Paris.Moravcsik, J.M., (1975) Aitia as a Generative Factorin Aristotle's Philosophy, Dialogue, 14.Nunberg, G.D., Zaenen, A., (1992), Systematic Poly-semy in Lexicoilogy and Lexicography, proc Euralex92,Tampere, Finland.Ostler, N., Atkin~, S., (1992), Predictable MeaningShifts: some lexical properties of lexical implicationrules, in J. Pnstejovsky and S. Bergler (eds.)
Lexical Se-mantics and Knowledge Representation, SApringer ver-lag.Pinker, S., (1993), Lcarnability and Cognition, MITPress.Pnstejovsky, J., (1991), The Generative Lexicon,Computational Linguistics, vol 17-4.Pustejovsky, J., (1995), The Generative Lexicon, MITPress.Saint-Dizier, P., (1996), Verb semantic lasses basedon 'alternations' and on Word.Net-like semantic riteria:a powerful convergence, in proc.
Predicative Forms inNatural language and in lexical knowledge bases, I1LIT,Toulouse, to appear in a volume published Kluwer Aca-demic (P. Saint-Dizier, ed.
).Saint-Dizier, P., (1998), Generativity in Lexical Se-mantics: Rules versus Qualia ?, to appear in a volumeunder preparation, P. Bouillon and F. Busa (eds.
), CUP.Winston, M.E., Chaffm, R., Hermann, D., (1987), Ataxonomy of part-whole r lations, Cognitive Science, vol.11.Saint-Dizier 130 Sense Variation and Lexical SemanticsIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
