Discourse Markers in Spontaneous Dialogue:A Corpus based study of Japanese and EnglishMasahito KAWAMORU Takeshi KAWABATA tNippon Telegraph and Telephone,NTT Basic Research Laboratories tkawamori~atom.brl.ntt.co.jp kaw~idea.brl.ntt.co.j pAkira SHIMAZU"Japan Advanced Instituteof Science and Technology"shimazu ~j aist.
ac.j pAbstractA spontaneously spoken, natural Japanese discoursecontains many instances of the so-called redundant in-terjections and of back-channel utterances.
These ex-pressions have not hitherto received much attention andfew systematic analyses have been made, since theywere regarded as useless, spurious expressions.On the basis of the analysis of spoken dialogue cor-pus, we claim that these utterances have the charac-teristics of discourse markers, which delimit and defineunits of discourse.
Our corpus consists of task-orienteddialogues conducted both in Jacanese and in English.The analysis of the Japanese c,:rpus shows that abouthalf of the turns are started with these so-called redun-dant utterances, while the English corpus shows thatabout 25 % of the turns start with corresponding En-glish expressions.
This suggests that at least in the caseoi" Japanese, these so-called redundant utterances havemuch to do with units of discourse, the building blocksof discourse relations, and that they do indeed functionas discourse markers.We show that these utterances comprise a well-defined category, characterizable in a regular mannerby their prosodic properties.
Prosodic patterns of dis-course markers occurring in the recorded corpus havebeen analyzed.
Several pitch patterns have been foundthat characterize the most frequently used Japanese dis-course markers.
Based on these characteristic pitch pat-terns, a system of discourse markers can be designed sothat a relatively small number of basic forms are shownto give rise to most of the discourse markers, with into-nation patterns corresponding to the functions of dis-course markers.IntroductionJapanese is an agglutinative language with predomi-nantly verb final sentence patterns.
It is to be ex-pected, therefore, that Japanese sentence units arerather easy to recognize, and textbooks and writtenforms of Japanese indeed vindicate such an expecta-tion.A spontaneously spoken Japanese discourse, however,is full of features which are not part of its written coun-terpart: phrases ending with conjunctions, interjectionswith verbs attached, unfinished utterances and otherdisfluencies.Aizuchi, or back-channel utterances, and other so-called redundant utterances, such as hai, un, anooand ee, are especially abundant in Japanese discourse.These are often taken as the manifestation of the irreg-ularity and non-systematic nature of spoken language.Especially when one wants to recognize 'sentences' indiscourse, these utterances inevitably stand in one'sway, destroying the sentential structures expected bygrammar.
Because of these utterances, from the standpoint of the conventional grammar, clarifying such mat-ters as which utterances constitute one sentence andwhich utterances belong to two different sentence unitsbecomes extremely difficult.
If the task of discerningsentence units~ the building blocks of discourse, is dif-ficult, the difficulty of discerning discourse structure isenormous.If these utterances are really just noise, then they arehindrance to the understanding of discourse, and spo-ken discourse would be far more difficult for people tounderstand than written texts.
But this flies in the faceof the fact that people do communicate and understandeach other in spoken language, and quite easily for that.Given that spoken language is full of such so-calledredundant utterances and that people can neverthelesscommunicate rather easily, we have to conclude thatthese utterances are not just noise after all; their func-tion in discourse is effective, and they contribute some-what to the understanding of spoken discourse.
Webelieve that these utterances have important functionsin discourse, as what is called discourse markers.As was reported in \[Kawamori et al, 1994\], there arefair indications that these expressions play crucial rolesin determining discourse structures, especially with re-spect to units of surface discourse as well as of speechacts and planning.
Elucidating such roles can not onlyclarify syntactically relevant features of discourse butmay shed light on intended meaning and other issuesconcerning pragmatics \[Takubo, 1994\].
Aside from the93fact that since spoken discourse is full of these expres-sions, one cannot avoid treating these phenomena inorder to understand and explain the language in ac-tual use, we are interested in these utterances becausethey have particular functions, not required in writtenlanguage but specifically called for in its spoken coun-terpart.In addition to these theoretical interests, clarify-ing these phenomena serves more practical purposesalso.
For example, constructing a truly friendly human-machine interface would require a systematic knowledgeof these features.
Moreover, since written language gen-erally lacks many discourse markers abundant in itsspoken counterpart, interfaces between these two me-dia would invariably have to be able to handle discoursemarkers.
For example, a machine designed to take thedictation of its human interlocutor could not do with-out the ability to discern these discourse markers, unlesscorrect dictation means interspersing every phrase withah's and uh's.
The inability to handle these featureswould limit the capacity of an expert system \[Pollacket al, 1982\], \[Whittaker and Stenton, 1988\].CorpusIn order to analyze spontaneously spoken discourse, wehave been collecting task-oriented dialogues.
Althoughwe are mainly concerned with spoken Japanese, we arealso collecting English dialogues for comparison.
Thecorpus is still growing.The Japanese corpus comprises 312 dialogues, whosetotal recording time is about 18 hours (1081 minutes).The recorded conversations are transcribed and the sizeof the resulting text is about 1 megabyte, which roughlycorresponds to 500,000 characters in Japanese orthog-raphy and contains approximately 29,000 turns.
Thetranscription is made using a tool that automaticallysegments peech data into units separated by pauses.Hence a turn is defined prosodically rather than syn-tactically or semantically.The English corpus comprises 77 dialogues.
Therecording time is about 4 hours, and the text size isabout 400 kilobytes with approximately 5000 turns.The same tool is used for transcription.
The tasks ofthe English dialogues are the same as those of aapanese.The subjects are all native speakers of the North Ameri-can variety of English, with varying degrees of exposureto Japanese culture and language.Japanese Discourse MarkersSchiffrin \[Schiffrin, 1987\] gives the operational defini-tion of discourse markers as "sequentially dependentelements which bracket units of talk", units that in-clude such entities as sentences, propositions, speechacts, and tone units, the exact nature of which she delib-erately leaves vague.
She also suggests that, conversely,discourse markers themselves may define "some yetundiscovered units of talk".
\[Hirschberg and Litman,1987\] state that they "may, instead of making a 'se-mantic' contribution to art utterance (i.e., affecting itstruth conditions), be used to convey explicit informa-tion about the structure of a discourse."
Other termsused to designate discourse markers are 'cue phrase','clue word', and 'discourse particles'.
Examples of En-glish discourse markers are: okay, but, now, anyway, bythe way, in any case, that reminds me.Unlike their English counterparts, many Japanesediscourse markers are not lexical; they are not gener-ally regarded as comprising a well-defined category.
Forexample, in English, such words as "well" and "now"not only function as discourse markers, but also havetheir inherent senses like "in a good manner" and "thepresent ime".
Their status as 'words' are unquestion-able.
Their Japanese counterparts, eeto and hal, on theother hand, have no other functions than as discoursemarkers.
They have no 'meaning' by themselves, andthey are never used in written language.This fact explains why little consensus exists amongresearchers a  to which 'words' constitute Japanese dis-course markers and why these utterances have conven-tionally been bundled into interjections, given up asstanding "outside the domain of the well-formed sen-tence itself," \[Martin, 1975\].Another consequence of this fact is that the disam-biguation between lexical and non-lexical uses.
or thatbetween on-cue and cue usages, of words used as dis-course markers does not constitute a particularly urgentproblem in Japanese, because most of the time there isnothing to be disambiguated.
On the other hand, thequestion of distinguishing among the different functionsborn by discourse markers becomes important, sinceone discourse marker can have different functions de-pending on the context or its prosodic features.Although there is no received categorization,Japanese discourse markers can naturally be dividedinto two main groups: phrasal and non-phrasal mark-ers.Phrasal markers are those phrases that are routinelyused for conveying information about the structure ofdiscourse.
They are lexical phrases, like sore-kara-desu-ne 'and then' and sou.shimasu-to 'the case being so',or words, like toiuka 'rather' and yappari 'as expected',usually complex in form, with inherent meaning directlyrelated to the discourse.Non-phrasal (particle) discourse markers can be fur-ther grouped into four categories: fillers, responsives,(sentence) final particles, and conjunctives and otheradverbial expressions.
The so-called redundant expres-sions and interjections belong to the first two categories.As was noted above, the expressions belonging to thesecategories are usually not recognized as part of the lan-guage proper, and therefore not given the status of mor-pheme.Sentence final particles are morphemes like -yo and -ne that are attached to the end of a sentence or a phrase94to express peaker's attitudes \[Kawamori, 1991\].
Theirrole in conversation is somewhat similar to that playedby French quoi and German doch and jo.Other particles, mostly conjunctive in nature andexpressing various discourse relations, like -node 'be-cause', -kedorno 'though', -to 'then', -ga 'but', also func-tion as discourse markers.
Their functions are similarto those of ordinary conjunctives, but particles are morecommon in spoken language.
They are not only used toconnect sentences but also to end sentences with, indi-cating that in conversation they are more like sentencefinal particles than pure conjunctives.Conjunctive adverbials are expressions like ja (then),de 'then', ato 'in addition' - many of which are derivedfrom conjunctions and conjunctive particles - that areused to express various relations between sentences.Discourse Markers and Units of DiscourseThat these non-phrasal markers are indeed discoursemarkers as defined by Schiffrin can be shown by theanalysis of our corpus.
We selected 59 dialogues fromour Japanese corpus, and found out that 3,210, or49.3%, of the total turn of 6,507 start with either a filleror a responsive.
On the other hand, 4,308, or 66.2%, ofthe turns end with a particle, filler, or responsive.
Thisseems to suggest hat these expressions are indeed usedto "bracket units of talk".These units are not necessarily sentences in the con-ventional grammatical sense, but are closer to what thetraditional Japanese linguistics call bunse~su, or senten-tial clause, though strictly speaking, they are not whatare usually regarded as well-formed bunsetsu.This also shows how precarious the status of sentenceis in spoken Japanese discourse, as mentioned at theoutset, since it is possible that in at least half of thetime, a turn does not consist of a sentence.
This sug-gests that the discourse structure of dialogue cannot beunderstood in terms of the traditional grammar basedon sentence, or well-formed bunsetsu, \[Dohsaka and Shi-mazu, 1996\].For comparison, we looked at 13 of the English dia-logues on a similar task, and found that 930, or 25.9 %,of the 3,584 turns start with uh, ah, OK, urn, or right.We did not specifically look at what comes at the endof each turn, but it appears that an English dialoguetends to have a longer turn with a finished sentence.Respons ives  and Fi l lersSince responsives and fillers are those expressions thathave hitherto been categorized as jouchou-go (redun-dant words) or fuyou-go (unnecessary words) andhence regarded as redundant or needless \[Takagi et al,1993\],\[Kobayashi et al, 1993\], little attention has beenpaid to give a systematic account of their forms, muchless their functions.
But, as we said in the introduction,the elucidation of their exact status is more urgent, inthat they occur so frequently in spoken language.
Inthe following we look more closely at responsives andfillers and try to characterize their nature.Respons ives  are what \[Kawamori et al, 1994\] callinterjectory responses and roughly correspond to whatin Japanese are traditionally referred to as aizuchi, orback-channel utterances in English.
These expressionsare rather limited in their realization: there are onlya few expressions belonging to this class in the Stan-dard Japanese.
Their forms seem to be restricted toexpressions with two morae.An example of a responsive discourse marker ishal, one of the most frequently used words in spokenJapanese as well as one of the most complex and diffi-cult to analyze.
If used in response to a question, haimeans a simple "yes", while if it is in reply to a request,it means an accepting "OK".
When used by itself, atthe beginning of a sentence, it usually means, "now" or"well".
In addition to all these functions, it also has itsmost common use as an expression of acknowledgment,as does "uh-huh" in English.
Of the responsives, hal isby far the most commonly used, and most neutral instyle.F i l lers are those expressions which have ordinarilybeen taken as rather 'meaningless' or 'unimportant' .They are usually characterizable as consisting of oneor two vowels, with or without consonants.
Their syl-lable compositions are generally very simple.
The ex-pressions of this class have functions, and forms, rathersimilar to the fillers in English, like mm and ah.
Typicalexamples of fillers are anoo and eeto.Another type of fillers are shorter than the fillers dis-cussed above, and often amount o no more than a catchof voice.
Examples are a and e. The phonological char-acteristics of this type of fillers seem to be somewhatsimilar to those of responsives, but the exact clarifi-cation is rather difficult because these expressions areuttered in extremely short duration, usually less than100 milliseconds, making it almost impossible to detectthen as voiced sounds.Taxonomy o f  Respons ives  and  F i l l e rsThe inventories of these discourse markers in litera-ture, such as listed by \[Takubo, 1994\], \[Kobayashi etal., 1993\], and \[Takagi e~ al., 1993\], together with thecharacterizing features discussed above, seem to sug-gest that these discourse markers can be classified in asimple way in terms of the three dimensions: the pho-netic form of the marker, the tone of a vowel, and thelength of a vowel.
More concretely, the following threecan be offered as important aspects in classifying fillerand responsive discourse markers:Sound formsThese are the basic phonetic forms that constitutethe realizations of discourse markers.
These forms canbe further divided into two groups in the following way:95Regular Type: (Type  R) This group is composed ofthose markers that are regularly constructed fromtwo elements: the initial sound plus the main vowel.These discourse markers can be summarized in thefollowing table.i \[ vowels!,,initial sound a e ua oI ' 1  a " e un  o/h /  ha he hun ho/m/ ma - moIn the table, the mark ' stands for a glottal stop; inpractice it shows that there is no noticeable conso-nant, The 'vowel' un is so-called because it is not/u /  plus /n / ,  but rather a nasalised u.
Note that thebasic phonetic forms of both fillers and responsivesare included in this group.
The table indicates thatthere are 10 basic phonetic forms of discourse mark-ers, including o, ho, and mo.
Those forms in the ocolumn may not actually be fillers but simple inter-jections, for the usages of their actual instances eemto differ from those of the fillers.
We include them inthe table for the sake of completeness.Independent Type: (Type  I) The other group ofsound forms is made up of those fillers/responsiveswith more than one morn that do not belong to theabove regular type.
These are small in number, andcan be summarized as follows:hal, ano, kono, sono, eetoNote that to in eeto may be regarded as a separateparticle, for unto and or-to are also possible.
In fact,in familiar occasions, people often use such expres-sions as hal-fro and a-fro.
If this is true then eetoshould be regarded as ee plus to, and not as a singleform.It is further to be noted that, again, responsivesand fillers share a type.
Consideration of the soundforms, therefore, leads us to believe that fillers andresponsives somehow constitute a larger, more gen-eral category which comprises phonetically related,but prosodically and functionally distinct, elements.LengthIn addition, the length of a vowel is also to be consid-ered.
In Japanese, the long vowel and its short coun-terpart are phonemically distinct so that a word witha short vowel is distinguished lexically from a corre-sponding word with a long vowel, as can be seen fromobasan (aunt) and obaasan (grand mother).
Similarly, adiscourse marker with a short vowel often has differentfunctional/semantical features than does its long vowelcounterpart.
The filler anoo with the long vowel oo isusually thought o be different, lexically and function-ally, from ano with the short o.Hence we add the following four features concerningthe lengths of vowels in our inventory:?
H+H (for a lengthened vowel at higher pitch),?
L+L (for a lengthened vowel at lower pitch),?
H- (for a short vowel with an abrupt stop at higherpitch),?
L- (for a short vowel with an abrupt stop at lowerpitch).Notice that + and - are used in a different mannerfrom the way they are meant in \[Pierrehumbert andHirschberg, 1990\].
With such an inventory of symbolsfor representation, we can describe the prosodic char-acteristics of Japanese discourse markers\[Kawamori etal., 1996\].H+H F0 pat tern  (ee)SFigure 1:HL% F0 pat tern  (hai)%QFigure 2:Any of the sound forms can take on one of theselengths, although some of them may not actually beused in discourse.
For example, the sound form a oftentakes L-; this usually shows awareness or acknowledg-ment.
It is often found in an utterance like the follow-ing:(1) a, wakam mashitaL-  L%FILLER understand PAST'uh, OK.'a with the higher H-would usually imply some elementof surprise.The long H+H accompanying a, often written as an,signals some kind of hesitation, as in:(2) aa, haiH+H HL%FILLER yes'well, yes.
'Similarly, the other markers in Type R above may haveeither of the long or short tones.Those of Type I also can be realized with either a longvowel or a short one.
ano as a filler is usually utteredwith H+H, but it may  also have L-.
Although hai is96'tt  ono Form L- H- H+H HLY, (L)H%aehaianoRecognitionRecognitionRecognition HesitationRecognition HesitationResponseResponse Qu&tion- : - - Response Question- - Hesitation - -Table 1: Function and Prosodic Patterns of Markersusually short HL%, in a situation where one calls out toreply, H+H plus LX may be used.
Table 1 summarizesthese points succinctly.P i tchThe two pitches, H and L, can be used to character-ize different markers.
As noted above, a with H+H cansignal hesitation, but the same a with HL%, also writtenaa, is usually taken as a responsive, albeit an impolite,or arrogant, kind.
The sound form e with L-is usuallyinterpreted in a similar way to what a with L-is inter-preted.
But e with H-% is usually used to express aquestion, rather like English Pardon?
or huh?.We analyzed another set of recorded dialogues andobserved the pitch pattern of the token utterance of aresponsive discourse marker.
There were 308 token ut-terances of the form has.
Of these 292 had the formHL%, as predicted.
This is approximately 95 percent ofthe cases.
There are 16 instances in which hai did nothave HL% pattern.
Of these, 8 were either immediatelyfollowing or immediately followed by some other utter-ances, including two instances of hal hal.Single utterances of hal that do not have HL% patterncomprise fewer than 3 percent.
These had the patternHL+LS: or HL+L with the lengthening of the last vowel.There were 60 token utterances of un, which may beconsidered an informal counterpart of hal.
Of these, 49,or approximately 82 percent, were of the pitch patternHAY,.A possibly more interesting, and perhaps more chal-lenging, case is that of ee, for ee is both a filler anda responsive.
Our result shows that there were 96 oc-curences of the token form ee, of which 76, or about 80percent, were of (L)H+H pattern.
The HL% pattern com-prised fewer than 10 percent of the total 96, while otherpatterns counted 11, or slightly more than 10 percent.As it stands, this result does not refute our character-ization, but it only shows that ee may be used moreoften as a filler than a~ a responsive.
The results aresuccinctly summarized in Table 2.This way of characterizing discourse markers, moreprecisely fillers and responsives, is interesting becauseit gives a good idea of the domain of discourse markersby systematically offering us a large sample of theseexpressions.As was noticed earlier in this paper, \[Takubo, 1994\]gives a rather comprehensive, though not exhaustive,Table 2a for halI pat tern tl HL% others l \]total \]\[ 'number \] '292 16 t\[ 308 Ipercentage 94.~ "' 5.2 100Table 2b for unI .... pattern.
II HLX others II t?t.al lI"number 711"49 i i II 60 lpercentage  1.7  S.a li 100iTable 2c for eepat{ern fl HL% I (L)H+H I ?t'hers IT ' t?tal  7Inumber 99.3 , 76 79.2 I 11 percentageTable 2: Pitch Patterns of Fillers and Responsiveslist of discourse markers, a list that arranges discoursemarkers into groups defined in terms of operational,or performative, concepts.
\[Takagi et al, 1993\] and\[Kobayashi et al, 1993\] also give similar lists.
It isworth noticing that all the discourse markers listed inthese are accounted for in the categorization i  this sec-tion.Phor ic i tyOur taxonomy of discourse markers shows that thereis a dividing line between two types of fillers.
One ofthem is the type that is composed of such fillers asaL_,eL_, and ell_ ; the other is the long type, wh ichincludes eetoH+ H and anooLH+H.
The former may becalled anaphoric because a member of this class is gen-erally uttered when there is an antecedent situation,either linguistic or otherwise, that triggers its utter-ance: a situation that is surprising, outstanding, orsimply salient for some reason.
The latter class, onthe other hand, may be called cataphoric, for its mem-ber is usually used to prepare the listener, and possiblythe speaker also, for imminent continuance of speech bysignaling, for example, hesitation.
Responsives are bydefinition anaphoric, because they always presupposesomething to which they are used to reply.
We call theproperty of being anaphoric or cataphoric phoricit~ of97that expression.This demarcation in fillers, along with the remarkabove about the more general, comprehensive cate-gory comprising both fillers and responsives, hows thatthere are in fact three distinctive categories amongfillers and responsives: anaphoric fillers, cataphoricfillers, and responsives.
Moreover there are threeprosodic characteristics that correspond to these threecategories: the typical prosody of an anaphoric filler iseither L-or It-; that of a cataphoric filler is (L)H+H; and?
that of a responsive is HLY,.
This situation is summa-rized in Table 3.Whether the correspondence b tween the phoricityof an expression and its prosodic pattern is universalor not remains to be seen.
It would be interesting topursue this in comparison with other languages otherthan English and Japanese.The correlation between the typical prosodic charac-teristics of fillers and responsives and the three cate-gories discerned among them also defines the possibil-ity of linear precedence r lation among these discoursemarkers and discourse units.As noted above there are cases in which the speakerrefers back to his own utterance with a hal.
There aremany examples of a with L-preceding hal.
But it is rareto find ee with the H+It prosody followed by hai.
Thefollowing are frequently observed sequences of discoursemarkers:in, hai),<a, a,,oo), <soudesu, ha/);while these are rarely observed:(hai, a), (eeto, e>, (soudesu, a).Summarizing, we get the following rough generaliza-tion:?
Fillers with L-or  It-, the anaphoric fillers, such asa L- ,e L- ,  and e It-, come at the beginning of a 'unit';?
hal and other responsives with tIL% come at the endof a 'unit'.
(Sometimes it may be the only unit.)?
The cataphoric fillers, such as ano It + H,eH + ti, andeL + L, come in between some 'units'.Such generalization helps us to formulate a rule thatpossibly characterizes the way discourse markers occurin daily discourses.
One possible way of doing so wouldbe to posit a rule like the following:( r - ) ( ({L ) r  q- r) ' ,  UNIT)+(HLY,),where UNIT is some antecedently defined unit of dis-course, possibly bunsetsu, r is either H or L, the raisedPhoricltyFiller i CataphoricAnaphoric 'Responsive i Anaphoric\[ T)ne \[ Examples(L)It+It \[ ee, anooL - ,H -  i a, e, ma,HL% I hal, ee, unTable 3:+ indicates the possibility of iterating the same ele-ment once or more times, and the raised * indicates thepossibility of iterating the same element zero or moretimes.While imperfect as it stands, this rule 'defines' manysurface strings as well-formed iscourses.
For example,the following is well-formed according to this rule:(3) a anoo tokyoo-ni eeto detaindesuyo halL- LH+H LH+H HL%Tokyo-TOWARD want-to-go-out'I want to go to Tokyo.
'This characterization itself is rather too simple, andmore work has to be done to improve upon it, a taskwhich is beyond the scope of this paper and is to betaken up in a later work.
But such a rule will be usefulin devising a 'grammar' of the spontaneously spokenlanguage taken in its totality, an attempt made by, forexample, \[Nakano et al, 1994\].
Indeed, once a trulynatural discourse is taken seriously, an attempt at sucha grammar, and a formulation such as in this section,seems not only indispensable but also inevitable.Another thing to be noted is that such a rule un-derscores the fact that these expressions are not to beregarded as redundancies, but rather as legitimate dis-course markers, as has been claimed at the outset.Conc lud ing  RemarksWe looked at Japanese discourse markers, comparingthem with their English counterparts.
Although manyEnglish discourse markers are phrasal or lexical, withindependent s atus as words, many Japanese discoursemarkers are non-phrasal and some of them have beendenied the status of being discourse markers, dismissedas redundant or spurious.We claimed, on the basis of the analysis of spokendialogue corpus, that these utterances have the charac-teristics of discourse markers, which delimit and defineunits of discourse.
Our corpus consists of task-orienteddialogues conducted both in Japanese and in English.The analysis of the Japanese corpus shows that abouthalf of the turns are started with these so-called redun-dant utterances, while the English corpus shows thatabout 25 % of the turns start with corresponding En-glish expressions.
This suggests that at least in the caseof Japanese, these so-called redundant utterances havemuch to do with units of discourse, the building blocksof discourse relations, and that they do indeed functionas discourse markers.We also examined the formal properties of thesenon-phrasal  discourse markers, fillers and responsives,specifically looking at their prosodic features.
Our anal-ysis suggested that the intonational characteristics ofthese markers are category-dependent, i  that markersof a category share similar intonational patterns.
Theexistence of natural phonological demarcations among98the discourse markers uggests a systematic categoriza-tion of these expressions, a taxonomy of discourse mark-ers that may enable us to systematize the seeminglychaotic, ad-hoc way these expressions are currentlytreated.
We noted that the phoricity of a discoursemarker corresponds to a certain prosodic pattern.
Al-though whether such a correspondence is universal ornot remains to be seen, it would be interesting to pur-sue this in comparison with other languages other thanEnglish and Japanese.Our taxonomy would in turn suggest he possibilityof developing a system of linear precedence relationsamong discourse markers and discourse units, with rulesgoverning when and where a discourse marker may oc-cur in an utterance.
Such a 'syntax' of discourse mark-ers naturally has an important bearing on constructinga grammar of natural, spoken discourse \[Nakano et al,1994\].On the other hand, the presumed categoricity doesnot seem to be so fine-grained as to provide clear-cutphonological telltales distinguishing among the "func-tional meanings" of a member of one category: thedifferent functional meanings of hat, for example, doesnot seem to be disambiguated solely by the differencesin pitch patterns.
Such finer-grained istinctions couldonly be made with a help of context; one has to take intoaccount what type of expression or speech act precedesthe discourse marker, and in what position of a phrasethe marker occurs \[Walker and Whittaker, 1990\].AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank Dr. Ken'ichiro Ishii,the director of Information Science Laboratory, NTTBasic Research Labs, and the other members of Dia-logue Understanding Group for their support.Re ferences\[Dohsaka and Shimazu, 1996\] Kohji Dohsaka andAkira Shimazu.
A computational model of incremen-tal utterance production in task-oriented ialogues.In Proceedings of the 15th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, 1996.\[Hirschberg and Litman, 1987\] Julia Hirschberg andDiane Litman.
Now let's talk about now: identi-fying cue phrases intonationally.
In the Proceedingsof the $hth Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 163-171, 1987.\[Kawamori et at., 1994\] Masahito Kawamori, AkiraShimazu, and Kiyoshi Kogure.
Roles of interjectoryresponses in spoken discourse.
In the Proceedingsof the 3rd International Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Processing, 1994.\[Kawamori et al, 1996\] Masahito Kawamori, AkiraShimazu, and Takeshi Kawabata.
A phonologicalstudy on Japanese discourse markers.
In the Pro-ceedings of the l l th Pacific Asia Conference on Lan-guage, Information and Computation, 1996.\[Kawamori, 1991\] Masahito Kawamori.
Japanese sen-tence final particles and episternic modality.
TheTechnical Report of the Institute of Electronics, In-formation and Communication Engineers NLC 91-12,-, pages 41-48, 1991.\[Kobayashi et al, 1993\] S. Kobayashi, M. Yamamoto,and S. Nakagawa.
Accoustic characteristics oncern-ing the occurrences of interjections, repairs etc.
TheTechnical Report of the Institute of Electronics, In-formation and Communication Engineers SLP 93-1-2, pages 7-10, 1993.\[Martin, 1975\] Samuel Martin.
A Reference Grammarof Japanese.
Yale University Press, New Haven, 1975.\[Nakano et al, 1994\] Mikio Nakano, Akira Shimazu,and Kiyoshi Kogure.
A grammar and a parser forspontaeous speech.
In Proceedings of the 15th Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics,1994.\[Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg, 1990\] Janet Pierre-humbert and Julia Hirschberg.
The meaning of into-national contours in the interpretation of discourse.\[n Philip R. Cohen, Jerry Morgan, and Martha E.Pollack, editors, Intentions in Communication, pages271-311.
MIT Press, 1990.=Pollack el al., 1982\] Martha Pollack, Julia Hirschberg,and Bonny Webber.
User participation i  the reason-ing process of expert systems.
In the Proceedings ofthe American Association for Artificial Intelligence,1982.\[Schiffrin, 1987\] Deborah Schiffrin.
Discourse Markers.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1987.\[Takagi et al, 1993\] K. Takagi, N. Houra, and S. Ita-hashi.
Characteristics of utterance units in relationto the topic flow of spoken dialog.
The Technical Re-port of the Institute of Electronics, Information andCommunication Engineers SLP 93-1-3, 1993.\[Takubo, 1994\] Yukinori Takubo.
Towards a perfor-mance model of language.
TR SLIP, pages 15-22,1994.\[Walker and Whittaker, 1990\] MarilynWalker and Steve Whittaker.
Mixed initiative in dia-logue: An investigation i to discourse segmentation.In Proceedings of the 28th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, 1990.\[Whittaker and Stenton, 1988\] Steve Whittaker andPhil Stenton.
Cues and control in expert client dia-logues.
In the Proceedings of the e6th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 123-130, 1988.99
