IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIThe Total Turing Test and the Loebner PrizeDavid M. W. PowersDepartment ofComputer ScienceThe Flinders University of South Australiapowers@acm.orgAbstractThe Loebner Prize is the first, and only regular,competition based on the Turing Test, but in order tostage the competition various modifications to theoriginal test have been made.
In particular, the GrandPrize has a controversial nd as yet undefined Audio-Visual condition attached toit.
This paper discusses thevalue of the test with and without the A/V condition, andmakes a proposal about what he general nature of theA/V test should be.1.
Introduction and MotivationThe Turing Test has always been controversial, and hasbeen a continuing topic in AI journals and discussionssince well before the Loebner Prize.
We, however, willnot pick up the story till after the first Loebner Prizecompetition was held, since this sparked a number ofcritical articles in both the general and the specialistmedia, including AI Magazine, The Economist, andmultiple treatments in each of SIGART Bulletin (e.g.3#4, 4#I, 4#4, 6#4) and CACM (Wilkes, 1992; Shieber,1994; Loebner, 1994;.As Harnad (in a SIGART Editorial and Commentary,1992) puts it, Turing's insight is that we can discern theintelligence of a lifelong pen pal without ever meetinghim, but the Eliza and Party experience suggest that it istoo easy to trick the computer, and Shapiro points out theimportance of knowing that you may be talking to thecomputer.
Our default 'charitable assumption' is that weare talking to 'a person like us'.Even in a special issue on an apparently unrelatedcontroversy, the connectionism/symbolism debate, theissues relating to the representation f knowledge mergein with the debate about he nature ofintellegence and theTuring Test (Powers, 1993).
The issue of SymbolGrounding is the bridge, and Hamad in particular hasdevoted considerable attention to this in bothof theseforums and elsewhere (e.g.
1987, 1989, 1990, 1991,1992), and it is alsothe issue you I wish to focus on here.I will therefore ignore the questions as to whether theTuring Test promotes dishonesty or the Loebner Prizepromotes tricks, and focus on the issue ofwbetber robot-like interaction with the world is necessary to pass theTaring Test, and how the Loebner Prize shouldimplement the Audio-Visual component of the GrandPrize which Loebner added in the face of the criticismsthat the Turing Test was too shallow (Shieber, 1994;Loebner, 1994).2.
Symbol Ground and the TTTThe problem with Natural Language Processing today isthat it tends to amount to translation between formalismswithout understanding.
The original criticisms of theLoebner Prize, and earlier the Turing Test, focus on thefact that Eliza-style 'parrying' involves no understandingbut can still fool the unitiated for short periods of time inhighly constrained circumstances (e.g.
where they havebeen led to believe the program is a doctor or a patient).The converse of this is the claim that nothing betterthan this kind of translation and reflection, albeit inincreasingly sophisticated forms, can be achieved by acomputer that has no connection with reality.
Even anencyclopaedia h s pictures, and a dictionary assumes abasic vocabulary and understanding based on a lowestcommon denominator form of basic human experienceand language capability.
Hamad (1990) calls this thesymbol grounding problem, and claims that it will not bepossible to pass an unrestricted Taring Test withoutsymbol grounding - that is our symbols, or words, need tohave some connection to a sensory-motor experience ofthe world.
Thus a computer system capable of passing theTuring Test would have to be more like a robot capable ofpassing the Total Turing Test, in which behaviour ininteraction with the world must be the same.This is the reason that Loebner (1994) felt constrainedto place an Audio-Visual condition on the Grand Prize.The very first winner of the annual Loebner Prize, fooledhalf the judges in a restricted Turing Test (and a carefullychosen domain, "whimsical conversation"), but fell farshort of exhibiting intelligence or of providing aconvincing performance to those familiar with Eliza andthe standard tricks.
There was no evidence ofunderstanding, and according to the symbol groundingprinciple there was not possibility of understanding.
Oneway to ensure that systems are grounded is to move to aversion of the Total Turing Test by adding in a Audio-Visual requirement which has not yet been fully defined,and has served to create another controversy.Powers 279 Turing Test and LoebnerPrizeDavid M. W. Powers (1998) The Total Turing Test and the Loebner Prize.
In D.M.W.
Powers (ed.)
NeMLaP3/CoNLL98Workshop on Human Computer Conversation, ACL, pp 279-280.There are two main reasons for this: one is that not allagree that grounding is necessary, and the other is that itis no longer the Turing Test as defined by Turing.
On theother hand we have a solid hypothesis.
IfHarnad is fight,the first program to pass the TT should be able to pass theTTT.
I fHamad is wrong, there are likely to be some yearsbetween the passing of the TT and the passing of the TTT.3.
Gold, Silver and Bronze MedalsTo address this, Loebner has agreed to provide threelevels ofpfizes, initially $100,000, $25,000 and $2,000,and corresponding Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals forthe Grand Prize Winner, Turing Test Winner and AnnualPrize Winners, respectively.
The Silver Medal will beawarded for the straight Turing Test, whilst the GoldMedal and Grand Prize are for a version of the TotalTuring Test.Note that he prize is now awarded by a panel of judgesof which 50% are experts in AI - which will mean Eliza-like tricks will not suffice to win the Silver Medal.
TheAN version of the test will be run separately, with onlyprograms capable of fooling 50% of the judges beingeligible.
The remainder of this paper discusses a proposalfor the AN condition to be used for the Grand Prizecompetition.4.
Show and TellLet's go back to kindergarten for a moment.
Rememberwhen you had to bring in a favorite object, show it to yourclassmates, and talk about what was so special about it.This is the basic concept.Now let's consider some possible Loebner Prizeentries.
Some may have robot arms and cameras; somemay have speech recognition and synthesis capabilitiesalong with a broader range of auditory capabilities.Now let's consider some possible Loebner Prizeconfederates.
Some intelligent people have disabilitiesand lack arms or vision; some may be deaf or have nomusical ability, but they will have a range of other sensesopen to them.The aim of the Loebner Prize for Artificial Intelligenceis not to test entrants' auditory or visual acuity, but rathertheir ability to take in information from and interact withtheir environment, to deal with it in an intelligent way,and to discuss it in a way that is indistinguishable from ahuman participant - -  allowing for the fact that somehumans may be deaf or blind.Part of the purpose of the Loebner Prize is to providean understanding ofwhat it is that distinguishes a humanfrom a computer, natural intelligence from artificialintelligence.
Another aspect is to understand what it isthat leads us to decide that a person, or a computer, isintelligent, and to wean ourselves away from thesuperficial accidental features which might distract fromthis focus on intelligence.
For this reason, the currentorganizers of the Loebner Prize competition aim toinclude a confederate or a judge with some kind ofdisability each year.
We aim for it to be representative ofa broader class of people, both in the general populationand in the scientific community.
If the computer can'tsee, does that mean that a blind person may be confusedmore easily with a computer, or that a computer may bemore easily confused with a blind person?Giving the participant an object allows them to makeuse of whatever sensory-motor capabilities they have,and shouldn't bias against any particular disabilities.
I fyou hand a deaf-person a musical instrument, or a CDand CD-player, they can tell you they are deaf, but stillappreciate the objects per se and demonstrate theirintelligence in terms of their understanding of the use orfunction of the object(s).5.
DiscussionThis paper is intended to lead to discussion of this andother possibilities for the implementation f the LoebnerPrize AN condition.
We have shown that it is closelyrelated to the Total Turing Test, and that there is asiguifieant empirical question to be answered in relationto whether it is or is not effectively a stronger test han thestandard Turing Test.6.
ReferencesEditorial (1992), Artificial Stupidity, The Economist324#770:14.Editorial+Commentary (1994) SIGART Bulletin 3#4:7-11Epstein, R. (1992), The Quest for the Thinking Computer,AI Magazine 13#2:80-95.Hamad, S. (1987, ed.)
Categorical Perception, CUPHamad, S. (1989) Minds, Machines & Searle, JETAI 1:5-25Harnad, S. (1990) The Symbol Grounding Problem,Physica D 42:335-346Hamad, S. (1991) Other Bodies, Other Minds, Minds andMachines 1:43-54Harnad, S. (1992) Cormeeting Objoet to Symbol inModeling Cognition, in Clarke A.
& Lutz R. (Eds)Connectionism in Context, Springer-VerlagLoebner, H.G.
(1994) Response to Lessons from aRestricted Turing Test, CACM37#6:79-82Powers, D.M.W.
(1993) Special Issue on Cormectionismversus Symbolism, THINK 2:1Shieber, S.M.
(1994) Lessons from a Restricted Turing Test,CACM 37#6:70-78Turing, A.M. (1950) Computing Machinery andIntelligence, Mind, 59#236:433-460Wilkes, M.V.
(1992) Artificial InteUigenee as the Year 2000ApproachesPowers 280 Turing Test and LoebnerPrizeIIIIIlIIlIllIIIII
