Some Exotic Discourse Markers of Spoken DialogNige l  Ward  1Un ivers i ty  o f  TokyoAbst rac t :  In Japanese and English conver-sation corpora we have found an interestingdiscourse marker: a 110 millisecond region oflow pitch region, which can cue back-channelfeedback from the hearer.
We have also foundthat many back-channel responses appear to bemore explainable if considered not as words, butas complex sounds which directly convey dis-course functions with sotmd symbolism.c) coming after at least 700ms of speech,d) providing you have not output back-channelfeedback within the preceding 1.0 seconds,e) after 350ms waityou should produce back-channel feedback.Our model for English is the same except for someparameters: pitch level (clause a) 26th-percentile, re-covery time (clause d) 800ms, and delay (clause e)700ms.1 In t roduct ionBack-channel feedback, also called "listener re-sponses'~ is, to a first approximation, those responsesproduced by one participant which do not interferewith utterances by the other participant.
In Ameri-can English yeah, mm and uh huh are typical back-channel feedback.
In Japanese un is most typical.This paper summarizes ome findings on back-channels and their cues, as primitive examples of dis-course markers in spoken dialog.
Definitions, details,discussion, and references appear elsewhere (Ward1996; ~Vard 1998; Ward & Tsukahara to appear:~vVard submitted; Ward & Tsukahara 1998).
Thefindings arose from our corpora of unrestricted two-person conversations in Japanese and in AmericanEnglish, and might not apply to ta,sk-directed is-courses, small talk, multi-party conversations, andconversations with audiences.2 A Cue for Back-channel FeedbackIn Japanese and in English, the prosody of thespeaker's utterances can mark times when the lis-tener is welcome to produce back-channel feedback.One specific cue is a region of low pitch.
Behavior ofJapanese listeners can be modeled with the followingrule:Upon detection ofa) a region of pitch less than the 28th-percentilepitch level andb) continuing for at least 110ms,I nigel~@s~npo.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp, h t tp://www.sanpo,t.u-~ okyo.ac.jp/~nigel/, Mech-lnfo Engineering, Urliversity of Tokyo.Bunkyo-ku Tokyo 113-86.56 Japan.Thanks to Wataru Tsukahara, Dan Jurafsky.
and anonymousreviewers for suggestions, and to the Hayao Nakav'ama FoLm-dation and the \[naraori Foundation for support.3 Corpus -based  Eva luat ionWe have tested the predictions of the above ruleagainst a corpus of ca~sual, mostly friendly Japaneseconversations between mostly students (80 minutestotal).The rule gave a coverage of 56(~ (of 873 back-channels in the corpus, the rule predicted 496, usinga 500 ms tolerance) and an accuracy of 34~ (of 1447predictions, 496 were correct).
This did better than arule which makes predictions at random (while obey-ing clauses c, d, and e), both on average (Table 1),and for most speakers in most conversations: in 34cases out of 36 (2 sides times 18 conversations) thefigure of nlerit (namely the product of coverage andaccuracy) was higher for the low pitch rule.Analysis of the false predictions for Japanese sug-gests that roughly half are due to inter-speaker dif-ferences in back-channel behavior; this is the sourceof the "'eavesdropping" estimate.Similar results were obtained for a corpus of 68minutes of English conversation data for the Englishrule (Table 2), although the accuracy was much lower,suggesting that in English factors other than lowpitch are relatively more important han in Japanese.4 Informal Exper imentsWe have also tested the performance of the rules inlive conversation, mostly over the telephone.
We useda human decoy to start the conversation.
After thesubject started talking, the decoy shut up and thesystem took over, producing back-channel feedbackin response to regions of low pitch, This feedbackwas un  for Japanese and a random selection betweenuh-huh and mm for English.
\~  used pre-recordedsamples of the decoy's voice to make it impossible for62Predictions from Coverage Accuracy : Figure of Meritlow pitch regions 56t~ (496/873) 34~)t (496/144.7) .195random 25~, (2'22/873) 24~ (222/91,5) .062utterance nd 689~: (593/873) 22~X (.393/2751) .146utterance nd and low pitch region 36~c (314/873) 32~ (277/978) .115utterance nd and no low pitch region 32tX (279/873) 16cZ (279/1773) .050eavesdropping human judge (estimate) 95% 67'/c .64Table 1: Performance of Various Rules for Predicting Back-channel Feedback (Japanese)Predictions from Coverage I Accuracy Figure of Meritlow pitch regions 48t~ (172/359) 18c~: (172/936) .088random 22'/ (80/359) 13~ (80/618) .029utterance nd 46~: (164/359) 10~ (i.64/1698) .044utterance nd and low pitch region 30~: (109/359) 19'/ (109/578) .057utterance nd and no low pitch region 15~: (55'/359) .008 5~ (55/1120)Table 2: Performance of Various Rules for Predicting Back-channel Feedback (English)subjects to distinguish between the decoy's live voiceand the system's output.
If the conversation flagged.the decoy would speak up with another question orcomment o get the subject talking again.We have done a few dozen runs in both Japaneseand English.
In general third party judges listen-ing to the conversations could distinguish the lowpitch based aizuchis from randomly produced ones:the former sounded natural and the latter soundedodd, with clear cases of inappropriate aizuchis andof inappropriate silences when an alzuchi was calledfor.
However, those who were actually talking to thesystem were apparently seldom aware of nor affectedmuch by when or whether back-channels were pro-duced.5 Communicat ive FunctionsThe 110ms low pitch region has no single fixed mean-ing or function, at least in our data.One thing it often co-occurs with is completion ofa grammatical clause.
Here it often seems to serveas an indication that the speaker considers that hehas transmitted some new information, and so thehearer is welcome to confirm receipt or understand-ing or interest, with a back-channel.
(We can thinkof it as conveying "this completes that thought, didyou follow?")
Sometimes what has been transmit-ted is a complete new fact or proposition, but oftenit is the introduction of just enough information forthe listener to infer the speaker's point, especiallyin Japanese.
In such causes back-channel feedbackcan appear before the speaker has completed a gram-marital phrase or logical proposition, and sometimesback-channel feedback ill such causes rakes the form ofcompleting the speaker's thought or sentence.The low pitch region also often co-occurs with rep-etitions of a word previously spoken, produced foremphasis or clarity and/or when recovering from afalse start, especially in English.
In such cases it oftenwelcomes back-channel feedback, perhaps conveying"'I said it again, did you get it that time?
"The low pitch region also occurs frequently withdisfluencies and markers of formulation difficulties,especially in English.
In these cases we can imag-ine that the low pitch region conveys, "I'm stuck.but keep listening, something meaningful will comeout soon".
It also occasionally occurs as a speakertakes the floor.
In some of these cases, especially forJapanese, it elicits back-channel feedback, presum-ably as encouragement to continue.Another place where the low pitch region oftenoccurs is together with back-channel feedback itself.Such cases of back-channel feedback themselves oc-casionally elicit a confirmatory word or sigh.6 Co-occurr ing MarkersThe low pitch cue tends to occur together with otherdiscourse markers.63It co-occurs frequently with specific lexical items,as one would expect from the communicative func-tions identified in the previous section.
In Japaneseit often occurs with clause connectives (most com-monly kara, -te and kedo), with 'agreement seekingsentence-final particles', especially he, and with theback-channel un.
In English the association with spe-cific lexical items is less strong, but the low pitch re-gion falls most frequently on the (almost always inthe lengthened, unreduced pronunciation indicatingdifficulty finding the next word to say), and, and urn.The low pitch region is often followed by silenceat the end of a speaker's utterance.
The energydrop that marks the start of this silence is, counter-intuitively, not much of a cue for back-channel feed-back, providing little or no information beyond thatprovided by the low pitch cue, as seen in the tables(results are for a rule which predicts a back-channel inresponse to 150ms of silence, subject to clauses c, d.and e of the corresponding low pitch rule).
This alsoimplies that the low pitch region is often a valid cueeven when it appears in the middle of an utterance.The low pitch region occasionally segues into arise in intonation (uptalk).
This seems to turn aninvitation for feedback into a demand for it.The low pitch cue sometimes co-occurs with vowellengthening.
This may be a consequence of the needto produce a low pitch region of sufficient length, inthose cases where there is.only a single syllable oflexical content to work with, for example with ne('you know').Gaze, posture, and facial and hand gestures alsomay correlate with low pitch regions.Given all these correlations, it is natural to won-der whether it is necessary to invoke a notion of lowpitch cue to explain the data.
We have found thatno other single factor can for all the occurrences ofback-channels that low pitch regions can; to say nmrewill require further analysis.7 Responses EvokedThere have been many studies of the lexical itemsused in back-channels and the types of semantic func-tions served thereby.This section discusses one problematic subset ofback-channels, those sounds which do not seem tobe words, For example, in the Japanese corpus, inaddition to the ubiquitous un, there is also uu, uh,uun, ununun, huun, huh.
hmrnm, hrn-um, and over ahundred other items not found in dictionaries, withdiverse prosody and voicing.
In English, there is afamily containing uh-huh, um-hm, uh-hrn, hm, hmm,mm, un, and ahhh.
and another containing okay, kay,and n-kay.Rather than consider each of these a distinctlexical item, a nmre parsimonious account may bereached by means of the following hypotheses: A:these sounds are not fixed sequences of phonemes,but are formed for each occasion from basic acousticcomponents; B: these acoustic components individ-ually bear meanings; C: the meaning of a combina-tion of acoustic omponents i  the combination of themeanings of each component.Some specific hypothesized meanings,for Japanese and possibly English too, are agreementfor na.salization, contemplation for m, deference forbreathiness and h, willingness to listen for number ofsyllables, and coldness for sharpness of final energydrop.
In addition energy and pitch height and slopeappear to bear the usual meanings.If these hypotheses are correct, then these con-versational sounds are "iconic', or, in other words,involve "sound symbolism" or 'synaesthesia'.
Thisdiscourse-functionM system of sound symbolism ap-pears to be distinct from the onomatopoeic andmimetic systems Of sound symbolism.8 Envo iExamination of simple markers for some cross-speaker discourse relations in spoken dialog hasshown that  prosody plays an important role.
Animportant next topic is study of the interplay be-tween prosodic discourse markers and lexical dis-course markers.ReferencesWard.
Nigel (1996).
Using Prosodic Clues to DecideWhen to Produce Back-channel Utterances.
In Inter-national Conference on Spoken Language Proceasing.pp.
1728 1731.\~rd.
Nigel (1998).
The Relationship between Sound andMeaning in Japanese Back-channel Grunts.
In Pro.ceeding,, of the 4th Annual Meeting of the (Japane.se)A~.~ociation for Natural Language PTvces.~ing, pp.464 467.~,~.rd.
Nigel (submitted).
On Back-Channel Feedback andCooperation i Spoken Dialog.
InteT~national Jou;~alof Human- Computer Studie,~.Ward.
Nigel & \Vataxu Tsuka.hara (1998).
Prosodic Fe~t-tures which Cue Back-Channel Feedback in Englishand Japanese.
manuscript.Ward.
Nigel & xA'ataru Tsukahara (to appear).
A Respon-sive Dialog System.
In Yorick WiNs.
edito r, MachineConve,'.~ation~< Springer Verlag.64
