A Morphological Analyzer for Akkadian Verbal Forms with aModel of Phonetic TransformationsFranqo is  Bar th~lemyGalatasaray Universitesi, Istanbul, Turkey, andConservatoire National des Arts et M~tiers, laboratoire CEDRIC ,  Paris, Francebarthelemy@gsunv.gsu.edu.trAbst rac tThe paper describes a first attempt o designa morphological nalyzer for Akkadian verbalforms.
Akkadian is a semitic dead languagewhich was used in the ancient Mesopotamia.The analyzer described has two levels: the firstone is a deterministic and unique paradigm thatdescribes the flexion of Akkadian verbs.
Thesecond level is a non deterministic rewriting sys-tem which describes possible phonetic transfor-mations of the forms.
The results obtained sofar are encouraging.1 In t roduct ionAkkadian is a dead Semitic language that wasspoken and written in Mesopotamia between2800 and 0 B.C.
The main difficulty in this lan-guage is that verbs take a great variety of formsthat differ not only by their ending, as in Indo-European languages, but also by the beginningand by the middle part.
The only constant inall the forms of a verb is the root, which is com-posed of three consonants.
These consonantsappear mixed with other consonants and vari-ous vowels.
Furthermore, some of the root con-sonants may be "weak," meaning they do notappear in actual forms.
At times, a weak con-sonant simply disappears, at others, it mutatesto another consonant or to a vowel.We have constructed a two-part morpholog-ical analyzer for Akkadian verbal forms.
Thefirst is a grammar, which describes the system-atic morphotactics of Akkadian verbs.
There isa single paradigm for all verbs, weak or strong.The second component is a transducer, whichchanges a given theoretical form generated bythe grammar into an actual form, by applyingsome phonetic transformation rules (e.g., assim-ilation, mutation, etc.).
This transducer doesnot rely on a phonetic theory but on a set of ob-served transformations.
In fact, the transduceris primarily used backwards, to retrieve the the-oretical original form from an actual word to beparsed.The morphological nalyzer ecognizes all theverbal forms we have collected so far.
On theother hand, the second level is not efficient onlong forms.
The paper describes the first re-sults obtained in a work in progress.
Theseresults show that more sophisticated computa-tional methods must be used in order to improvethe efficiency.The next section is devoted to the Akka-dian language.
It is followed by brief descrip-tion of Akkadian verbs and how they conju-gate.
The morphological nalyzer, its two com-ponents, and its results are presented in sec-tion 4.2 The  Akkad ian  LanguageAkkadian is a dead language of the Semiticfamily.
It was used as a native language inMesopotamia nd as a written language ina wider area, including the entire near-east:Egypt, Syria, Palestine, Anatolia, and Persia.The name comes from the city of Akkad, oncethe center of one of the oldest empires in theregion.
Akkadian was later the language of theBabylonian and Assyrian empires.
The oldestdocuments written in Akkadian date back toapproximately 2500 B.C., whereas the most re-cent ones are from the first century B.C.
Dur-ing the 2500 years of life, the language changedand so has traditionally been divided in sev-eral dialects using temporal and spatial criteria(Old Akkadian, Old Babylonian, Medium Baby-lonian, New Babylonian, Late Babylonian, OldAssyrian, Medium Assyrian, Late Assyrian).Akkadian is written using Cuneiform signs.Most texts are written on clay tablets, though73T,JgFigure 1: An example of Cuneiform writinga few are written on stone or metal.
There arenumerous documents, mostly in museum anduniversity reserves, and new ones are discoveredevery year.
The writing system was inheritedfrom the Sumerian language, which was spo-ken and written in Mesopotamia before Akka-dian appeared.
Figure 1 shows an example ofan Akkadian phrase in Cuneiform.
The systemcombines logograms, yllabograms and determi-natives.
Most signs have both a logographicvalue and several syllabographic values, so thesystem is ambiguous.
The phonetic value of asign is a syllable made of either a single vowel(such as a or i), or a consonant followed by avowel (nu, ta), or a vowel followed by a conso-nant (ak, im), or a consonant-vowel-consonantpattern (til, nin).
Words are decomposed intosyllables, which are written by a sign.
For in-stance, the word iprus (he separated) can bedecomposed into ip-ru-us.
Note that a singleu appears in two adjacent syllables.
This sys-tem cannot write consonants which are not justbefore or just after a vowel.
For example, prusis not writable.
A vowel must be added some-where.
Akkadian is the only Semitic languagewhere all vowels are written.As Cuneiform is not very convenient for themodern writer, people interested in Akkadianrepresent exts with modern writing systems.The one we use for this paper and the morpho-logical analyzer is the transcription in an ex-tended Roman alphabet.
This system is alsoused in the grammars, to describe the language.3 Akkad ian  VerbsAkkadian verbs take a great variety of forms,which differ in five ways:?
adjunction of a prefix?
adjunction of a suffix?
adjunction of an infix syllable or consonantwithin the root?
doubling of the second root consonant?
change in the vocalization of the root con-sonantsThe factors of verbal forms are: the root ofthe verb; the characteristic vowels of the verb;the mode; the aspect; the gender; the number;the stem; the regional factor; the temporal fac-tor.
We now detail these factors and give someexamples of their influence on morphology.As in the other Semitic languages, verbalroots are composed of consonants.
In mostcases, there are three consonants in a root,though occasionally there are four.
The rootconsonants appear in all the forms of a verb.Here are some of the numerous forms of para-sum, to separate: parasum, iprus, niprusam,paris, uptanarras, putarris, pitarras, ippar-rasam, u~apris, pursa, parsaku, parsatina.
Onecan check that every form contains the root con-sonants p, r, and s in this order.
In the follow-ing, we will call radicals individual root conso-nants.The Akkadian consonants are: b, g, d, w, z,h, t., j, k, l, m, n, s, p, .s, q, r, ~, t, aleph.
Aleph isusually denoted by a single quote, but we preferto write it a in this article to avoid any confu-sion.Each Akkadian verb has two characteristicvowels.
They are used to vocalize one or an-other radical in some forms.
These vowels, aswell as the root, comprise a lexical piece of in-formation.
There are 4 vowels in Akkadian: a,e, i, and u.
Each vowel may be either long orshort.
Figure 2 shows examples of variations informs due to the vowels.There are three modes in Akkadian:?
indicative, used in independent clauses.?
subjunctive, used in dependent clauses.?
ventive, used in independent clauses to em-phasize the verb's meaningSome examples are given in figure 3.The Akkadian language uses five aspects.
Asin other Semitic languages, aspects do not en-code temporal information, but the status of theaction.?
the imperfect denotes an action that is notaccomplished.
It may or may not have be-gun yet.
It is usually translated into En-glish by the present perfect or future tenses.?
the perfect is employed for an action justfinished.74root vowel 1 vowel 2 infinitive imperfect preteritprs a u parasum iparras iprussbt a a .sabatum isabbat isbatpqd i i paqadum ipaqq/d ipq/dFigure 2: vocalic variationsexample 1 example 2 example 3 example 4indicative iprus taprusi paris iprususubjunctive iprusu taprusi parsu iprusuventive iprusam taprusim parsam iprusunimFigure 3: modes?
the preterit is the aspect of completed ac-tions.?
the stative designates an atemporal stateor the lasting effects of an action.?
the imperative has the same use as in En-glish.Some examples are given in figure 4.As shown by the example in figure 4, genderand number are factors of the verbal form.
Thedifferences are in prefixes and suffixes.
Some-times (e.g., stative, imperative), the absence ofvocalization of the third radical imposes the vo-calization of the second.
For instance, the sta-tive third person masculine should be Spars.But it is impossible to write this within thesyllabic framework of Akkadian Cuneiform.
Avowel u is therefore added.Some verbal forms are not conjugated at anyaspect: the infinitive and the participle, whichact as nouns and are declined as such.
The ver-bal adjective acts as an adjective and it is de-clined as well.
Infinitives, participles, and ver-bal adjectives do not exist in the subjunctiveand they have the same stems (presented be-low) as the conjugated forms.Verbs are conjugated in several subsystemscalled stems.
They are distinguished by pre-fixes, infixes, and reduplication of the secondradical.
There are 12 different stems classifiedin 5 stem groups:?
stem I is the basic one.
The other stemsmay be described as a transformation ofthis one.
Example: iprus, he separated(root prs, preterit).?
stem II (or, D-stem) is characterized by thereduplication of the second radical and bythe prefix vowel u.
Example: uparris (rootprs, preterit).?
stem III (or, S-stem): the ~ consonant pre-fixes the root and the prefix vowel u is used.Semantically, it is a causative form.
Exam-ple: ugapris (root prs, preterit).?
stem I I I / I I  (or, SD-stem): there are botha ?
prefix and reduplication of the secondradical.
It is semantically equivalent to thestem III.
Example: u~parris.?
stem IV (or, N-stem): the root is prefixedby an n. Example: ipparis.
In this ex-ample, the n prefixed has changed into a pby an assimilation process.
This is not aspecial case: the prefixed n almost alwaysassimilates to the first radical.Within each stem group, stems are distin-guished by the presence or the absence of aninfix.
The infix is added after the first radicalfor stems of groups I and II, and after the in-fixed g or n for groups III, I I I/ I I , and IV.
Thenotation for a stem is made by adding an indexto the stem group number.?
no infix (index 1): all the groups have astem without infix.?
infix T (index 2): stem groups I, II, and IIIhave a stem with a t infixed.75pers.
imperfect preterit perfect imperative stative3 sing.
iparras iprus iptaras ?
- -  ?
paris2 sing.
masc.
taparras taprus taptaras purus parsata2 masc.
pl.
taparrasa taprusa taptarsa pursa parsatunu2.
fern.
pl.
taparrasa taprusa taptarsa pursa parsatinaFigure 4: aspect, gender and number?
infix Tn (index 3): all stem groups exceptthe III/II group have a stem with a tn infix.Each stem has a specific semantics that com-bines with the semantics of the root to give ameaning to a verbal form.
The table of figure 5summarizes the semantics of the stems.Though the language volved uring its 2500year lifetime, verbal forms did not change dra-matically.
One typical change was the disap-pearance of the final m from the infinitive.
Inold Akkadian, the infinitive of the verb prs wasparisum whereas in later states of the languageit became parasu.Akkadian also varied slightly between orth-ern and southern Mesopotamia.
The imperfectsubjunctive for parasum is given in the figure 6for Babylonian and Assyrian dialects.The combination of all the factors gives agreat number of different forms (more than 1000for each verb).There is one more factor of verbal forms thatwe deliberately separate from the others: it isthe phonetic factor.
We have already seen aneffect of this factor in an example: the formIV.1 was ipparis instead of ~inparis.
The n isassimilated to the following p. There are otherexamples of assimilation (ex: .tt > .t.t).
There arealso other transformations such as dissimilation,contraction, mutation, etc.Phonetic transformations are almost system-atic for a subset of consonants called weak con-sonants.
The weak consonants in Akkadian are:~, w, j.
They usually do not appear at all in ac-tual forms.
Sometimes, there are traces of theseconsonants: there is either another consonantor a vowel that comes from the transformationsoccurring in the context of the weak consonant.For instance, the following transformations oc-cur: aw > u, ay > i, *nw > nn.
Sometimes,there is no trace whatsoever: *wis.i :> s.i, *irn-nuw > imnu.
Sometimes, however, the weakconsonants remain: wagabu (but the form agabuis also attested).N is a semi-weak consonant: it assimilateseasily, but it does not disappear.A verb with a weak consonant in its root iscalled a weak verb.
Forms of these verbs aredifficult o recognize because all the radicals arenot actually in the form.
For instance, the redu-plication of the second radical is important oidentify the stem II and the imperfect aspect.How do we recognize this form and this aspectwhen the second radical is weak?
When the firstradical is weak, it is sometimes difficult to findthe relevant entry in a dictionary.
Some verbsare doubly weak and there is even one verb withall three of its radical weak.
Weak verbs are notrare.
For instance, in 17 forms collected in atext fragment 1, there are 9 weak forms.Here are some examples of weak verbs formscompared with their supposed original form:*j~ip > e.sip, *iwa~ab > u~ab, *banaju >banu.4 Morpho log ica l  ana lyzerRecognizing Akkadian verbal forms is certainlythe most difficult part of Akkadian morphology.We attacked this issue first and the result isa morphological nalyzer for the verbal forms.The aim of this work is to provide some help tothe Akkadian learner.
This aid is twofold: first,the analyzer can help students learn strong verbconjugation; second, it helps generate hypothe-ses about weak forms.There are some restrictive hypotheses:?
forms are free of suffixes uch as pronounsor enclitic particles.
Such suffixes are quitefrequent in texts.
* the analyzer is designed to analyze the OldBabylonian dialect.
It should also work forsome forms of other dialects, but not all ofthem.
Most grammars describe this dialectICodex Hammurapi, items 228 to 23376IIIIII I I / I IIV1 (no infix) 2 (infix t) 3 (infix tn)basic form reciprocal habitualsometimes reflexive iterativeseparative (motion verbs)passive to II.1 factitiveelativishfrequentativecausative (action verbs)factitive (state verbs)passive to III.1habitualiterative~ I i Iidentical to III does not exist does not existpassive to 1.1 does not exist iterative to IV.1sometimes reflexiveFigure 5: stems semanticsgender number singular pluralBabylonian Assyrian Babylonian Assyrianmale 3 iparrasu iparrasuni iparrasu iparrasunifemel 3 taparrasu taparrasuni iparrasa iparrasaniFigure 6: examples of dialectal differencesfirst and the other ones by the differenceto this basic dialect.
We have used a cor-pus for this dialect, namely the Hammurabicode (Szlechter, 1977).?
the length of vowels is not taken into ac-count.
Each vowel may be short or long,but the length is not always explicit in writ-ing.The analyzer has two levels.
The first de-scribes the complete paradigm for strong verbswithout any transformation.
The second de-scribes transformations that may apply on agiven form.
The two-level approach of morphol-ogy is classical (Sproat, 1992).
We adopted asimple model where the two levels are sequen-tial processes with no strong interaction.4.1 St rong verb parad igmConceptually, the first level of the analyzer isa finite language.
We have a finite numberof parameters: the root is a consonant ripleand there are only a finite number of conso-nants.
Within this domain, not all triples areconfirmed roots.
Each of the parameters dis-cussed in the previous ection ranges over a fi-nite domain.
If we consider all the combinationsof these parameters, they are finite in number.Though finite, the language is quite large.Enumerating all the forms is not tractable, soa grammar must be written.
The natural wayto describe such a language is probably a Fi-nite State Automaton (FSA).
Conceptually, ourgrammar of Akkadian verbal forms may be seenas an FSA, but formally, it is a Prolog DefiniteClause Grammar (DCG).
There are several rea-sons for this.
First, it is a concise way to de-scribe the FSA.
A single DCG rule may imple-ment a number of FSA transitions.
Second, itgives procedures to use the FSA either for pars-ing or generation.
Third, Prolog is convenientfor computations with partial information.This grammar is a mid-size grammar, with162 rules in the current version.
A form is de-scribed in several slices.
At first, we attemptedto divide forms into three parts: the prefix, theroot, and the suffix.
It was just too difficult todesign these three parts, so we split the formsin smaller slices.
There are now 9 parts:?
the personal prefix, which depends mainlyon the number and gender of the subject.?
the stem prefix, which depends on thestem.?
the infix, which is placed before the first77radical if there is a stem prefix?
the first radical.
This consonant nevervaries, but its vocalization does, depend-ing on many factors, including the aspect,the stem, and the infix.?
the infix, which is placed after the first rad-ical whenever there is no stem prefix.?
the second radical reduplication?
the second radical (and its vocalization)?
the third radical?
the ending (suffix), which depends on eitherthe subject's gender and number, or on theverb's mode and aspect.Each of these parts of a form is describedusing a proper non-terminal.
The experimentproved that this slicing is tractable, but we be-lieve that it is not optimal.
For instance, the de-scription of the third radical is trivial, whereasthe second radical with its vowel is complex (33rules).The grammar in its current state implementsmany, but not all, of the verbal forms.
The in-finitive, participle, and verbal adjective are notfully implemented.
More precisely, the declen-sion, which is the nominal declension for thefirst two, and the adjectival declension for thelatter, are not described.
The other forms mayall be generated by the grammar.This grammar has been carefully tested.
It iswritten in pure Prolog, so it is reversible, andthe grammar may be used either for parsing orgeneration.Currently, our grammar does not use any dic-tionary because we do not have any Akkadiandictionary or any Semitic root dictionary in anelectronic form.
We did not want to rely onnon-existing resources, but the results are notas satisfactory as they would have been with agood lexical source.
In parsing mode, the gram-mar does not actually recognize verbal forms,but gives a possible interpretation of the form.The proposed root has to be checked in a dic-tionary.For a delimited corpus such as Hammurabicode, we can make a comprehensive dictionaryof verbs.
It is easy to interface our grammarwith this lexical information.
We have notyet tested whether this greatly enhances per-formance.4.2 Phonet ic  t ransformat ionsThe second level of the morphological nalyzerdescribes the transformations that may applyon a given form.
This level is not a grammar, aswe are not trying to recognize a language, butto rewrite words.
There is one word in inputand one or several in output.The focus of our work, designing a model ofthe transformations due to phonetic phenom-ena, is quite difficult.
We started with a setof rewrite rules (given in (Ryckmans, 1960))that we completed with other rules when re-quired by a weak form from our corpus.
Theserules are simple and somehow context-free.
Thesame rules apply on the beginning and endingof verbs.
The same transformations apply oninfixed t and on radical t. Neither the lengthof vowels nor tonic accent is taken into account.The model is therefore simplistic and it over-generates: a rule may be applied even to somecontexts where it should not.Furthermore, it is very influenced by the setof weak forms that we have considered.
Some-how, one can say that the set of rules is suffi-cient to give the good interpretation of all theseforms, among other interpretations that are notall satisfactory.
We cannot predict how the setof rules will act on other weak forms.
It is likelythat several other rules will be added to handlecases not yet encountered; we must consider alarge set of examples.Some transformations are very systematic(for instance the assimilation of the prefixed nfor stem IV) while others are not (for instance,the dissimilation bb > mb).
At the moment,the model does not give the probability that arule will apply (this is a difficult computation).Since the model is non-deterministic, the appli-cation of a rule is never mandatory.Intuitively speaking, rules are perceived asthe formalization of a temporal evolution.
Theleft-hand side of the rule represents the origi-nal form, and the right-hand side its form af-ter the passage of time.
But in our applica-tion, rules are used in the other direction.
Wehave retrieved some attested forms from certaintexts, and we want to deduce their original form,which is recognized by the Final State Automa-ton.Going from an actual form to its possible pro-totype is difficult, mainly because the transfor-78mation process tends to shorten words.
Con-sider the typical rule ij > i.
If you apply itbackwards, you may change any i to an ij.
Infact, if most ij became i, few i come from ij.Most transformation rules have this quality.Using the set of rule as a rewriting systemis not adequate because it is does not converge- there is a termination problem.
Even withonly one rule ij > i, using it backwards wouldproduce unbounded sequences of j.
This is notonly a computational drawback, it is also pho-netically irrelevant.Instead of a rewriting system, rules are usedto define a transducer.
Whenever ule compo-sition seems possible, we just add this composi-tion as a new rule to the set.
The transducer hasno loop and the transducing process terminates.Of course, it is a non-deterministic ransducer.We implemented the transducer in pure Pro-log so that it can also be used to generate pos-sible forms.
The results obtained in generation,however, are difficult to interpret.
The transfor-mation model is too approximative to produceactual forms.The complete code contains 47 prolog clauses.The transducer, as it is implemented now, isnot very satisfactory: it is a raw and naive im-plementation that we used to validate our ap-proach.
It gives some interesting results that wesummarize in the next subsection.The main problem encountered at the mo-ment is efficiency.
The transducer is non-deterministic and so generates many possibleforms.
For instance, a weak consonant may beinserted almost everywhere in a word.
Prolog'sprocedural strategy results in enumerating allof the solutions.
The transducing process istherefore xponential in the length of the in-put verbal form (this can be felt during exper-iments).
Whereas the shorter forms (often theweak forms) are processed quickly, the compu-tation of the complete set of solutions for thelonger forms (up to 10 characters) may last sev-eral hours.While the quality of the results of the mor-phological analyzer are quite satisfactory, its ef-ficiency is not.
The first level of the analyzer,namely the finite state automaton is efficient,but the transducer is not.
We view several waysto solve this problem.The first solution consists in changing theprocedural way to execute the transducer, es-pecially the way non-determinism is handled.With Prolog, the alternative solutions are foundone after the other, using backtracking.
An al-ternative solution would involve computing asingle data structure to represent all the solu-tions, with the common parts of the differentsolutions hared.
This would break down thecomplexity, since the rules encoded in the trans-ducer apply independently on the different partof the input string.
A regular expression wouldbe the natural data structure to represent a setof strings with sharing.
This form is suitable forparsing with the FSA.
Parsing in this case con-sists in computing the intersection of two reg-ular languages.
This is a well-known operation(see for instance (Hopcroft and Ullman, 1979)).Another idea to improve efficiency is to pre-dict where the transducer should insert weakconsonants.
This could be clone by a rough anal-ysis based on consonant count.4.3  Resul tsWe have developed and tested the morpholog-ical analyzer using verbal forms from severalsources.
We collected 122 forms in (Caplice andSnell, 1988), 87 strong and 35 weak.
We alsoused 54 forms found in the Hammurabi Code,mainly in articles 185 to 233, but also from othervarious articles.
This is only a small subset ofthe verbal forms occurring in the code.The first result is that all these forms are rec-ognized by the morphological nalyzer with therelevant interpretation.
This is not a surprise,since we augmented the transducer in order toobtain the desired result.
The point is: does theanalyzer give wrong interpretations?
It does in-deed, sometimes, but its behavior is generallycorrect.First, we tested 60 strong forms.
On these,only two have been interpreted as possible weakverbs: s.abat and ritgum.
For s.abat, three possi-ble roots were identified: sbt (which is the cor-rect hypothesis), .scab and .sbc~.
The interpreta-tions given by the analyzer for the two later arethe following: the form is taken as a stative,feminine, third, person, stem I, s.a~bat > s.abatand s.abc~at > sabat.
This seems plausible.
Con-cerning ritgum, the ambiguity comes from thet which is a radical but may be interpreted asan infix and from the m which is the mark ofthe ventive but can be seen as the third radi-79cal.
here again, the proposed root is plausible.Surprisingly, some forms very close to the twoambiguous ones are not ambiguous.The most ambiguous form in the data we con-sidered is iddu, for which 15 roots have beencomputed.
The right explanation of the form is*indiju > iddu.
There are two transformations:assimilation of the n and contraction of iju.
Itis a typical example of a form that is difficultto understand for the Akkadian learner.
Evenif there are many hypotheses, the answer givenby the system may help in such a case.
Thehelp would be much better if the system had acomplete Akkadian root dictionary.The verb alakum which is sometimes aidto be irregular (see, for instance, (Heise,)) istreated as the other verbs by our system.
Wefollowed the interpretation of its forms (radicalc~ assimilated to the radical l) found in (Ryck-mans, 1960).
This gives satisfactory results.The main weakness identified so far is in theaspect discrimination between imperfect andpreterit for weak verbs with a second radicalweak.
For these verbs, the main difference be-tween the two aspects, namely the second rad-ical reduplication, is not perceptible.
In thatcase, the vowel is significant.
For instance, theverb kanum has a root kwh.
The preterit is*ikwun > ikun and the imperfect *ikawwun >ikan.
The morphological nalyzer proposes ei-ther preterit and imperfect as possible aspectsfor ikun.
It is not possible to prevent he mu-tation of the w in u in this case, because such amutation sometimes occurs in other contexts.Generally speaking, the morphological na-lyzer gives the right solution, but also proposesother ones.
These other ones are often accept-able, but sometimes, as shown by the latest ex-ample, they are not.5 Conc lus ionThe work we have done so far shows that manyAkkadian verbal forms can be interpreted usinga single conjugation paradigm and a phonetictransformation model.We think that our approach is a good one forAkkadian, due to the language peculiarities.
Isthis approach well-suited for other languages?We do not know.The basis for our work is that we model pho-netic transformations fora language with a pho-netic writing.
The Akkadian writing system isphonetic and syllabic.
As far as we know, itis not the case of other Semitic languages.
Forinstance, they do not transcribe vowels.
The re-sults obtained so far show that the vocalizationin Akkadian breaks down ambiguity.It is not obvious that our approach is suitablefor languages other than Akkadian, for which itis quite convincing.The work described here is in progress.
Wehave to study the work done for the morpholog-ical analysis of the other semitic languages.
Wealso have to search for a better way to performthe second level of the analysis.The morphological nalyzer presented in thispaper could be enhanced by expressing thetransformation rules more contextually and bycoupling the two levels.Re ferencesR.
Caplice and D. Snell.
1988.
Introductionto Akkadian.
Biblical Institute Press, Rome,Italy.J.
Heise.http://saturn.sron.ruu.nl/- j  heise/akkadian.J.E.
Hopcroft and J.D.
Ullman.
1979.
Intro-duction to Automata Theory, Languages andComputation.
Addison-Wesley.G.
Ryckmans.
1960.
Grammaire Accadienne.Publications Universitaires de Louvain, Lou-vain, Belgium.R.
Sproat.
1992.
Morphology and Computation.MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachussetts.E.
Szlechter.
1977.
Codex Hammurapi.
Pontif-ica Universitas Lateranensis, Rome, Italy.6 Append ixWe did not know a previous work on Akkadianmorphology by Kataja and Koskenniemi (1988)until a referee report for this workshop.We do not have the time to make a completecomparison between their work and ours.
Fur-thermore, the paper does not give all the detailswe need to make such a comparison.
We canmake some brief comments however:?
the two systems plit the analysis in twoparts: morphotactic and phonology.?
the morphotactic level in Kataja andKoskenniemi is based on a linguistic model.80It is more convincing than our morphotac-tic description.
Our intermediate l xicalrepresentation is too written-oriented, andit is not the adequate input for the sec-ond level which deals with phonetic phe-nomena.?
the phonological pproach seem very simi-lar in the two works.?
Our system is deliberately non-deterministic, due to the fact thatseveral writing of the same form may befound even in a single Akkadian text.?
the Kataja and Koskenniemi description iscomplete.
It is not limited to verbal forms.The phonological description is said "fairlycomplete and tested".?
it is not clear that the problems we encoun-tered are solved by the other system.
Forinstance, the ambiguity between preteritand imperfect for verbs with their secondradical weak.
We need the complete ruleset to answer to this question, but the pa-per gives only examples.The following references, given by one of thereferees as relevant o our work, were not usedfor lack of time.Re ferencesKenneth R. Beesley.
1990.
Finite-state de-scription of Arabic morphology.
In Proceed-ings of the Second Cambridge Conference onBilingual Computing in Arabic and English,September 5-7.
No pagination.Kenneth R. Beesley.
1996.
Arabic finite-statemorphological analysis and generation.
InCOLING'96, volume 1, pages 89-94, Copen-hagen, August 5-9.
Center for Sprogteknologi.The 16th International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics.Laura Kataja and Kimmo Koskenniemi.
1988.Finite-state description of Semitic morphol-ogy: A case study of Ancient Akkadian.
InCOLING'88, pages 313-315.Martin Kay.
1987.
Nonconcatenative finite-state morphology.
In Proceedings ofthe ThirdConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 2-10.George Kiraz.
1994.
Multi-tape two-level mor-phology: a case study in Semitic non- linearmorphology.
In COLING'9,~, volume 1, pages180-186.George Anton Kiraz.
1996.
Computingprosodic morphology.
In COLING'96.81
