tTypes of syntagmatic grammatical relations and theirrepresentationE lke  Te ichInst i tute of Applied Linguistics, Translation and InterpretingUniversity of the Saarland66041 SaarbriickenGermanye lke~dude,  un i - sb ,  deAbst rac tThe paper reviews the kinds of representation fsyntagmatic grammatical relations typically em-pl~'ed in grammar models used in computa-tional linguistics.
Exemplars of dependency-only, constituency-only and hybrid constituency-dependency approaches will be considered.
In amove away fi'om the much discussed question 'Con-stituency or dependency?
', the purpose of the paperis to ask more radically: 'Are constituency and de-pendency sufficient at all to represent the kinds ofsyntagmatic patterning we find in language?'
Dis-cussing three problem cases for representation withconstituency/dependency - coordinate structure, in-formation structure and agreement, I argue for amore diversified view of syntagmatic structure.1 In t roduct ion :  the  goa ls  o f  th i spaperThe paper reviews the kinds of syntagmatic gram-matical relations typically acknowledged in gram-mar models used in computational linguistics andthe kinds of means employed for their represen-tation.
The kinds of representation f syntag-matic structure can be broadly classified into threetypes: dependency, constituency and hybrid con-stituency/dependency approaches.
Here, the follow-ing are considered in particular as representatives ofthese three types: Word Grammar (Hudson, 1984)(henceforth w(;) as an example of dependency ap-proaches, Categorial Grammar (co) (e.g., (Steed-man, 1985; Steedman, 1987; Uszkoreit, 1986) asan example of constituency approaches, and Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar (HI'SO) (Pollardand Sag, 1987; Pollard and Sag, 1994) as an exampleof hybrid approaches.Moving away from the much discussed question'Constituency or dependency?
', the purpose of thepaper is to ask more radically: 'Are constituency anddependency sufficient for representing all the kindsof syntagmatic patterning we find in language?'
Fo-cusing on three problem cases for representationwith constituency/dependency --  oordinate struc-ture, information structure and syntactic agreement,I argue for a more diversified view of syntagmaticstructure.The paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 re-views some of the main issues in the 'constituencyor dependency' debate based on the two positionsbrought forward in (Zwicky, 1985) and (Hudson,1987).
Section 3 then asks more generally abouttile limits of dependency, constituency and hybridmodels, discussing coordinate structure as a prob-lem case for dependency approaches and informa-tion structure as a problem case for traditional con-stituency approaches, and presenting agreement asyet another kind of problem case.
Section 4 intro-duces the view on representating syntagmatic re-lations subscribed to Systemic Functional Gram-mar (SFG; cf.
(Halliday, 1979; Halliday, 1985;Matthiessen, 1995)), reflected in the 'modes of ex-pression' hypothesis.
I will show that with a func-tionally diversified model of syntagmatic relationssuch as the one employed in SFG some of therepresentational problems of dependency and con-stituency approaches do not arise.
Section 5 con-cludes the paper with a summary and some implica-tions for computational representation a d process-ing.2 'Const i tuency  or dependency  orconst i tuency  and dependency? '
-A br ie f  rev i s i tIt was shown already quite early in the discussionof constituency vs. dependency that dependencyrepresentations a d constituency representations areat least weaidy equivalent (Hays, 1964; Gaifman,1965; Robinson, 1970).
However, the discussion hascome up again and again bringing forward a num-ber of arguments for and against dependency-only/constituency-only and for and against hybrid ap-proaches.Dependency-only approaches.
Dependency-only approaches (Tesniere, 1959) maintain that it issufficient o account for the relation between wordsfor a syntactic description to be adequate, the wordbeing the only syntactic unit acknowledged.
Fig-39IIIIIIIIlIlIlIIIIIIVShe left the possum on the deckFigure 1: A dependency structureure 1 shows an example of a syntactic structure re-sulting from a dependency analysis.The early arguments put forward against thedependency-only approach in the areas of linear se-quencing (e.g., (Baumgiirtner, 1970)), features andcategorization of higher nodes, and headless con-structions could be largely dismissed.
Linear orderwas considered a problem for dependency grammarsat a time in the development of grammar theorywhen in constituency-based grammars sequence wasreflected ill tile surface-syntactic ree.With removing linear ordering from tree represen-tations and formulating sequencing rules separately,this was no longer considered a problem for depen-dency grammars (cL (Matthews, 1981))..,Moreover,higher nodes as domains for rule application havebeen shown not to be necessary because they canequally well be formulated on words, e.g., gappingrules can be formulated on verbs (Hudson, 1989).Furthermore.
headless constructions can be circum-vented, if the notion of category is broadened sothat there will be no headless constructions; ee e.g.,(Hudson, 1980.
194-195).Characteristic of current dependency approacheslike Meaning-Text Models (XtTM:s; (Mel'~uk.
1988))or Word Grammar (Hudson, 1984) is the notion oflexicalization: the descriptive burden is in the lex-icon, which carries information that acts as con-straint on syntactic structure.
In particular, thenotion of valence is often combined with that of de-pendency by associating valence with heads, whoseproperties thus become major constraining factorson syntactic structure.Const i tuency-on ly  approaches.
At the otherextreme is tile constituency-only position arguing forheads not being necessary for syntactic description,if constituency relations are accounted for.
For anexample of a traditional constituency structure seeFigure 2.Strong arguments for the constituency-only po-sition are brought forward for instance in (Zwicky,401985).
Zwicky mainly discusses five candidates fortile concept of head: the subcategorizand, the seman-tic ar~ment, he morphosvntactic locus, the deter-minant of concord, and the constituent determininggovernment.
These notions have to be included inany grammar model, if it is to interface with se-mantics, the lexicon, and morphology.
However, itshould not be necessary to introduce a separate cate-gory 'head', unless it can be sho~a that the head-likenotions can be generalized int O one category that onecould then call 'head'.Analyzing six syntactic onstructions (Det + N, V+ NP, Aux + VP, P + NP, NP + VP, and Comp +S), Zwicky shows that the x~arious head-like notionsrepresent different, actually competing, analyses ofsyntactic structure.
There is identity only betweenthe semantic functor, which he has not listed as ahead candidate, the subcategorizand and the gov-ernor.
Also, the three additional head-like notionsthat are considered--two of which are often quotedas providing operational criteria for headship~ thedistributional equivalent and the obligatory element,the other one representing the head concept of rulerused in dependency grammar--are completely newconcepts that do not harmonize with the other five.In conclusion, a head is not only superfluous, but itwould be a completely different additional categorywhose use for a grammar model is doubtful.Hybr id  const i tuency /  dependency  ap-proaches.
In a reply to (Zwicky, 1985), (Hudson,1987) arrives at the opposite conclusion.
He arguesfor a different analysis of Zwicky's sample construc-tions which reveals that 'head' can be considered auni~'ing category of most of the head-like notionsbrought forth by Zwick):As all additional head-like notion Hudson putsforward the semantic functor--rather than the se-mantic argument--because it is the semantic func-tor, ill his view, that must be taken as 'semanticallycharacterizing' (Hudson, 1987, 115).
The semanticargument is thus taken away from the list of can-didate heads; and also the determinant of concordis removed because there is no dependency im-olvedin concord, as Hudson maintains.
On the basis ofthese a priori alterations, Hudson argues that if allthe remaining head-like notions were either identicalwith the semantic functor or not applying, then onecould claim that most of the head-like notions aretile same category; and that therefore, a generaliz-ing super-category 'head' could be established thatembraces them all.The critical points in (Zwicky, 1985) are removedby Hudson's analysis with no contradictions remain-ing and he concludes that 'head' is a grammaticalcategory on a par with grammatical functions butmore general, allowing generalizations that can oth-iiNPSheVPV NP/ \Det NI Ileft the possum onPPP NP/ \Det NI Ithe deckFigure 2: A constituency structureerwise not be made (cf.
(Hudson, 1987, 131)).What (Zwicky.
1985) does not realize with hisstarting point and analysis results is that the con-vergence of semantic functor, subcategorizand, andgovernor can already be of adrantage.
Creating thesuper-category of head for these converging notionscan provide a general category which can actually beused as an anchor for both valence (subcategoriza-tion) and government, as well as for semantic roleassignment, hus providing a straightforward way" ofinterfacing semantics and syntax.The identity of semantic functor, subcategorizandand governor is actually what underlies the notionof head both in MT.XI's as proposed by Meaning TextTheory (.XITT) (.Mel'~uk.
1988).
a dependency nmdel.and I-IPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1987), a hybrid model.Ill MT.M'S.
governn~ent patterns are associated withlexemes that are considered heads in the syntacticzone of the lexicon, covering subcategorization a dcase government, and act as constraint on syntac-tic structure.
Similarly, in HPSG, SUBCAT lists areassociated with lexemes that are heads and the sub-categorization principle takes care of the 'projection'of that information in a phrasal unit.The concepts of head and dependency had actu-ally been taken up already in early TransformationalGrammar, e.g., by (Hays, 1964; Robinson, 1970; An-derson, 1971), and incorporated in the deep struc-ture representation.
Most clearly, however, a con-cept of head received a special status in X-bar syn-tax (Chomsk3, 1970" Jackendoff, 1977), which hasbecome the phrase structure model underlying man)"current grammar aproaches.
For example, in Gov-ernment and Binding (GB) theory, X-bar theory isa subtheory on a par with Binding Theory, ThetaTheory', etc., in LFG, c-structure representations arebased on X-bar.
and also HPSG'S syntactic structurerepresentations conform to the X-bar scheme.
Fora sample X-bar structure see Figure 3.
Similar todependency grammars, X-bar goes together with astrong notion of lexicalization, where syntactic on-straints are primarily associated with lexemes or lex-ical classes and projected to syntactic structure.Subcategorization a d government are surely twoessential aspects of a grammatical description onthe syntagmatic plane.
There are other aspects tocover, however; two other kinds of syntagrnatic pat-tenting that need to be considered in an exhaus-tive treatment of syntagrnatic relations are agree-ment and word order.
Also, what has not beenconsidered in the Zwicky-Hudson debate are com-plex syntactic units, such as for example coordinatest1~tctures.
These potentially present problems forhierarchical representations such as dependency andconstituency, as we will see below in Section 3.Coordinate structures are in fact a notoriousprol)lem for both dependency and constituency ap-proaches, and there are numerous proposals of howto treat them.
Word order, in particular word or-der x~riation attributed to information distributionis another notorious problem.
Agreement, while be-ing a well-understood phenomenon, can be a prob-lem for a dependency-only analysis.Looking at the ~ariety of treatments uggestedin these areas, it seems that constituency is hardpressed to accommodate information structure, thatthe representation of coordinate structure is prob-lematic for both constituency and dependency, andthat agreement cannot be described as involvinga dependency relation in the strict sense (see Sec-tion 3 below).
In the next section these observa-tions are illustrated iscussing coordinate structurein Word Grammar (WG) (Hudson, 1984), informa-tion structure in Combinatory Categorial Grammar(CCG) (Steedman, 1991) and agreement in Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar (HPSG) (Pollardand Sag, 1994).41IIIIIIIIIIlIIIIIIIIS / \NP V'"IV"V NP PPShe left the possum on the deckFigure 3: An X-bar structure3 L imi ts  o f  dependency  andconst i tuency :  Coord inates t ructure ,  in fo rmat ion  s t ructureand  agreementIn this section I illustrate tile problematic natureof hierarchical representations, such as constituencyand dependency, for the representation f coordi-nate structure, infornmtion structure and syntacticagreement.
More particularly.
I discuss?
why coordinate structure is a problem for a de-pendency granunar like WG (Section 3.1),?
why CCG.
as an example of constituency-onlyapproaches, works quite well with informationstructure (Section 3.2), and?
why HPSG, a hybrid model, works well for agree-ment (Section 3.3).3.1 Coord inate  st ructure:  the l imit ofdependency  in WGWord grammar (Hudson, 1984; Fraser and Hudson,1992) strives to account for all grammatical relationsby head-dependent relations.
However, there is onetype of construction where Hudson concedes the ne-cessity of constituency: this is the coordinate struc-ture, including incomplete conjuncts 1 as in gapping,reduced conjunct and right-node raising construc-tions.While the problem for the ma-jority of constituency-based approaches i how toaccommodate he conjunction in the phrase struc-ture representation a d how to deal with phrasallyincomplete conjuncts, in a dependency grammar theIA conjunct is a component part of a coordinate structure(Hudson, 1984).42problem is that there is no unit acknowledged withwhich a coordinate structure can be referred to, sinceconjuncts (and, but, etc) cannot be considered theheads (or dependents) of these constructions.
Forcoordinate structures, constituency has to be intro-duced to wc, so that bracketings uch as I l i ke( ( red apples) and (green plums)) become pos-sible (el.
(Hudson, 1984, 218)).
Hudson thus hasto single out the representation of coordinate struc-ture from the rest of the representational pparatus:Dependency is not a possible kind of representation.3.2 Informat ion structure in CCGInformation structuring is a problem for traditionalconstituent- approaches because units of informa-tion structure often do not coincide with the unitsestablished by phrase structure.
For example, a tra-ditional phrase structure for Fred ate the beans wouldreflect tile following bracketing: (Fred) (ate  thebeans), which coincides only with one possible in-formation structuring, where Fred is the Given ele-ment, but not with an information structure whereFred ate is the Given element (of.
(Steedman, 1991,274-275)).
The definition of 'Given' used here is thatof (Halliday, 1985).
It is that element in clause struc-ture that represents he cotextually or contextuallyknown information.
2 See Figure 4 illustrating thesetwo kinds of information structuring.Fled ate the beans.
(1) What about the beans?
Who ate them?
(Fred) (ate tile beans)(2) What about Fred?
What did he eat?
(Fred ate) (the beans)Figure 4: Two information structure readings forFred ate the beansAs (Steedman, 1991) points out, proposals for in-tonation structure, which is the reflex of informa-tion distribution in spoken mode, that try to dealwith this divergence either come up with very com-plex derivations of intonational structure from a sur-face syntactic structure or they stipulate two au-tonomous levels of representation.
These have tocommunicate, however, and the representation is2Another term that  has been used for Given is Topic - -however, the notion of Topic is often a conflation of Givenand Theme, which in Halliday's view is distinct from Given:While Given represents that part of an utterance that  is pre-sented as known, Theme is that part which is taken to be thepoint of departure of a message, whether that  is given or newinformation.
In English, Theme is said to occupy the firstposition in the clause; Gi~en can be coexistent with Theme,but can also be part of Rheme, or cover more const ituentsthau Theme.thus considerably complicated (cf.
(Steedman, 1991,261)).In Categorial Grammar, constituency groupingsother than the ones of traditional PS-markers arepossible - including those that are coexistent withinformation structuring, as shown in the proposalof (Steedman.
1991) using Combinatory CategorialGrammar (CCG).
In CCG a constituent groupingof Fred ate the beans as (Fred ate)  (the beans) isthus possible, opening up the possibility of a uni-fied treatment of information structure and syntac-tic structure.Traditional constituency inhibits a fornmlation ofinformation structuring, in which information struc-ture, and consequently intonation structure, andsyntactic structure are isomorphic, because it sub-scribes to one particular kind of constituent group-ing.3.3 Syntact ic  agreement  in HPSGSyntactic agreemeut can be described as involvingthe sharing of grammatical features across some oftile component parts of a syntactic unit.
While forsyntactic agreement tile domains of agreement axeoften coexistent with head-dependent domains, it isnot necessarily the case that tile head is the deter-minant of concord, nor is it true that it is one setof features that is 'shared' across all the componentparts.
Thus.
heads cmmot simply be equated withdeterminants of concord.However, as just pointed out, the domain of agree-ment is often coexistent with head-dependent group-ings.
and agreement can be described based on head-dependent structures.
One such proposal for theGerman nonfinal group is made in (Pollard and Sag,1994).In terms of agreement relations, tile German nom-inal group (NG) can be briefly characterized asfollows: German nouns carr.v grammatical gender,number and case.
Adjectives are said to carry thesefeatures, too.
and exhibit three inflectional patterns:weak, strong and mixed.
The choice of inflectionalclass depends on whether the nominal group con-tains a definite determiner, a nonspecific or zero de-ternfiner, or an indefinite deternfiner.
Determinersare roughly either definite or indefinite, and they re-flect gender, number and case as well.
Agreement istherefore not attributable to the head noun as tilesource of agreement constraints, but rather, thereare several determinants ofagreement that affect dif-ferent grammatical features.In (Pollard and Sag, 1994), agreement in the Ger-man NG is described in the following way.Case agreement is accounted for by feature (orstructure) sharing between a head (the noun, ofwhich CASE is an attribute) and its dependents.Here, the determinant of concord is coexistent withthe head.
This is specified by structure sharing oftile CASE attribute between head and dependents,e.g., between the head noun and the determiner:\[HEADno~n oun\[CASE #i\]SUBCAT <DetP \[CASE #I\] >\]Adjectives are described as having GENDER andNUMBER attributes in the CONTENTIINDEX slot andthey are structure-shared with the index of the nounthat the adjective modifies.
This is accounted forby the general scheme for head-adjunct structures,where the adjunct's MOD ~alue is shared with thehead's SYNSEM x-alue.
Furthermore, adjectives, ormore precisely adjectix~l forms, are described as im-posing restrictions on the kind of determiner theycan combine with, e.g., forms belonging to the weakinflectional class restrict he determiners they com-bine with to be of type strong whereas adjectix~lforms of the strong class require the determiner inthe nominal group to be weak or absent.
The signrepresenting kluge M~dchen (smart girl)\[HEADnounnoun\[CASE #1nora V acc\]SUBCAT <DetP \[strong,CASE #1\] \[,ing.neut}>\](cf.
(Pollard and Sag, 1994, 87)) can thus only com-bine with the determiner das (definite determiner),but not with ein (indefinite determiner).This description of agreement in the German nom-inal group acknowledges several determinants ofcon-cord, which conforms to the linguistic observationsmade about the phenomenon.
The determinant ofconcord for case is the head noun, for gender andnumber it is also the head noun; and agreementbetween adjective and determiner (the relation be-tween selection of type of determiner and type ofadjectival form) is interpreted as the type of inflec-tional class of the adjective selecting the type of de-terminer, i.e., the adjective is taken as determinantof concord.4 A diversified view of syntagmaticrelations: SFGIll the preceding section I have tried to illustrate thatsome kinds of syntagrnatic patternings are hard to fitinto dependency and constituency representations.The approaches that do work - like CCG for infor-mation structure, and HPSG for agreement, make useof all mltraditional notion of phrase structure and arather flexible notion of dependency, respectively.Abstracting away from the particular epresenta-tional means that have been discussed here, con-stituency and dependency, I now want to point toanother way of looking at syntagmatic relations thatis not a priori committed to a strict notion of de-pendency or a traditional notion of phrase structureand is therefore unlikely to encounter the problemsdicussed ill the preceding section.
This is Systemic43IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIFunctional Grammar (SFG; (Hallida), 1973; Halli-day, 1985)) which is known in computational lin-guistics foremostl.v by application ill Natural Lan-guage Generation (NLG) (e.g., (Matthiessen andBateman, 1991; Fawcett and Tucker, 1989; Bate-man et al, 1991; Teich and Bateman, 1994)).
Therepresentational aspect of SFC, that is most promi-nent is the system network.
System networks aredescriptions of paradignlatic ga'ammatical relationsintended as declarative statements of grammaticalfeatures and the coocurrence constraints betweenthem.
System networks are like the type hierar-chies used in HPS(J ill this regard (cf.
also (Bateman,1991: Bateman et al, 1992; Henschel, 1995; Teich, inpress)): the grammatical types in SI:G, however, arefunctionally rather than surface-syntactically moti-vated.
Also.
constraints on syntactic structure aretied to grammatical t.vpes, so that one could speakof a 'grammaticized" grammar~as opposed to lexi-calized grammars.
Ill SFG, it is not lexical, but gram-marital classes that exhibit constraints on syntacticstructure.Because syntactic structure is one of the lessprominent opics in NLG and because SF6 is pri-marily a classification-based approach to gramnmr.SFG's representation f syntagmatic structure is lessknown.SFG maintains that there are four different kindsof syntagmatic patterning (Halliday, 1979).P rosod ic  s t ructure .
Agreement is a syntag-matic phenomenon that is ptvsodic in nature, in thesense that a particular ealizational effect spreadsover more than one constituent, similar to prosodicfeatures that are strung throughout an intonationalunit (see Figure 5 displaying Subject-Finite agree-lnellt).MoodSubject3,.,}.~:~ Finite3,.a.,~Site left ...Figure 5: Prosodic aspect of syntagmatic structurePer iod ic  s t ructure .
Information structure be-longs to a class of structure that is said to be pe-riodic.
It reflects one of the points of prvminencewe find ill clauses: informational prominence, whichshows ill the distribution of Given and New, wherein spoken mode.
the intonation focus, which fallsinto the New part of the utterance, marks the in-formational pronfinence by carrying the major pitchchange.
Another point of prominence is thematicprominence: the structuring of a clause in themeand rheme (see Figure 6).In terdependency  structure.
Coordinatestructures belong to a class of structure called in-Given NewTheme RhemeShe left the possum on the deckFiga\]re 6: Periodic aspect of syntagmatic structurete~rlependency structure.
Coordinate structures areparatactic structures and are opposed to hypotac-tic, i.e., subordinate, structures.
While a depen-dency representation can handle the latter becausethere is an identifiable head element, there is nohead element in paratactic structures: its elementsare rather mutually dependent.
The term interde-pendency is used to cover both hypotactically andparatactically related syntactic units, s For an ex-ample see Figure 7.
(1) Paratactic structure:1 2(Extended) (Coordinator) (Extension)Lucy stood inside and Fred waited(2) Hypotactic structure:(Euhanced) (Enhancement) ..He might have come if you had called himFigure 7: Interdependency aspect of syntagmaticstructureIll SFG, the notation for the elements of paratacticstructures is 1, 2, etc.
and for those of hypotacticstuctures it is ta, 8, ~" etc.
Paratactic structures aresaid not to have heads, whereas in hypotactic struc-tures, n is considered the head.
The additional label-ing (Extender, Extension, Enhanced, Enhancement)marks the semantic-rhetorical relation between thedements of the structure: In (1) in Figure 7 the 1element is said to be extended (by the 2 element);ill (2), tile a element is said to be enhanced by the'3 element.Const i tuency  st ructure.
The fourth kind ofsyntagmatic patterning SF6 finds is one that hasunique elements uch as Subject, Object, Predi-cate or Actor, Goal, Process.
4 Here, constituencyis considered an appropriate means of representa-tion.
The categorial values (S, NP, PP etc) are sim-ply attributes associated with these functional con-stituents.
See Figure 8 for an example.3See (Hjelmslev, 1961) for a similar distinction in the de-termination and interdependence subtypes of dependency.4This is similar to LFG'S f-structures.I 44ISubject,vp Finitev ObjectN/, Adjunct/,/,Actor Process Goal LocationShe on the deck teft the possumFigure 8: Constituency aspect of syntagrnatic struc-tureA unif ied view: the  funct ion s t ructure .
Arepresentation f syntagmatic structure in SFG com-prises all of these aspects.
The distinction of syn-tagmatic patterning into these four aspects stemsfrom the conception of fimction in SFG.
The func-tional nmtivation of categories in the system net-work, i.e., tile granunatical type hierarchy, is four-fold: paradigmatic gramnmtical types are exper/-entially, logically, interpersonally or textually moti-vated.
Each of these describes the grammar of alanguage from a different angle and goes togetherwith a particular mode of expression in syntag-matic structure.
The experiential aspect of syntag-matic structuring is elemental, reflecting part-wholerelations--tiffs aspect can be suitably represented byconstituency: the logical aspect can be representedby a special kind of dependency structure, the in-terdependency structure, which represents part-partrelations; the interpersonal nd tile textual aspects,however, prosodic and periodic structure, are diffi-cult to press into these schemes because they cancut across constituency boundaries or nmy contra-dict constituency groupings.
Therefore, if all ofthese aspects of syntagmatic patterning are to beuniformly described in one representation, the cola-stituency representation part should be as little com-mitted to a particular kind of grouping as possible.so as to avoid conflicts with other groupings as re-quired for instance by information distribution.
Infact, the kind of constituency SFG subscribes to isa nmltiple-branching structure, where the nodes arefunctionally annotated, reflecting a minimal brack-eting strategy (see below).A syntagmatic representation at clause level ofFred ate the beans, for example, where in terms ofinfornmtion structure Fred is Given would look asfollows: '~ActorThemeGivenSubjectFredProcess I GoalRhemeNewFinite \ [Objectate the beansSin a feature structure notation (here: including informa-tion about categorial and lexical realization) this is:\[ac$or: II\[NP \[lex: Frcd\]\], subject: 81, theme:goal:  12\[NP \[ lex:  bean~\] ,  object: $2,process: $3\[V \ [ lex:  ate\]\], f in i te :  #3,theme: <#2,#3>,hey: <#2,#3>\]Ill,And for the interpretation with Fred ate as Given,'Given' can be conflated with both Actor and Pro-cess (Subject and Finite):Actor Process GoalTheme RhemeGiven NewSubject Finite ObjectFred ate the beansHere.
a constituent is codescribed from severalperspectives, taking into account the different as-pects of syntagmatic patterning sketched above,each creating a separate "layer" in the representa-tion.
or in other words, each coming with a particu-lar set of attributes, like Theme and Rheme/Givenanti New for the textual mode, Actor, Process, Goalfor the experiential mode and Subject, Finite, Ob-ject for the interpersonal modefiA function structure like this implies a very fiatconstituency, where the constituent boundaries donot necessarily match one-to-one.
Thus, both of theinterpretations of information distribution of Fredate the beans are compatible with the rest of thest ructure .The representation f coordinate structure in SFGbenefits imilarly from the minimal bracketing strat-egy: The coordinating conjunction itself is an im-mediate constituent of a coordinate structure, e.g.,for red apples and green plums, the function struc-ture implies a bracketing as (red apples)  (and)(green plums) :1 2Extended Coordinator ExtensionTed apples and green plumsHere, none of the elements has to be attributedhead status and the conjunction itself is a con-stituent.In terms of agreement interpreted as prosodicstructure, the HPSG representation f agreement inthe German nominal group by structure sharing isactually a possible realization of this view.
However,with the current representational means employed incomputational implementations of SFC, such as theNIGEL grammar in KPML (Bateman, 1997), such aformulation is not readily possible.
This has tworeasons, one being of a theoretical nature, the otherone being a matter of computational representation.The theoretical problem is that features in the gram-marital system network have to be unique and fea-ture sharing among constituents i thus not allowed.As a consequence, there is no mechanism in the~There are no logical attributes here, because logical struc-turing only pertains to complex syntactic units, such as parat-actic and hypotactic structures.45IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIKPML implementation for feature sharing.
In uni-fication and constraint-based feature structure rep-resentations of NIGEL (Kasper, 1987; Henschel, 1994:Henschel, 1995) , feature sharing is possible, but stillthe feature uniqueness postulate would have to berelaxed in order to nmke use of this mechanism.5 Conc lus ionsIn this paper I have tried to raise the often discussedquestion of constituency vs. dependent" for syn-tactic representation to a more general level askingwhether constituency and dependency are sufficientat all for the representation f syntagmatic relations.After reviewing some of the main issues in the dis-cussion 'constituency vs. dependency', I have pre-sented some kinds of syntagmatic patternings thatcan be problematic for det)endency/constituencyrepresentations: coordinate structure, infornmtionstructure and syntactit" aga'eement: also, I have givenfurther evidence of these obserx~ltions by presentingexamples of granlular models that do work for someof the problems discussed, if a more unconventionalapproach is l)ursued, such as e.g., COG for informa-tion strcture.I have then questioned the primacy of con-stituency and del)endenc.v for the representation fsyntactic structure and sketched the more diver-sifted, fimctionally-based view of Systemic Func-tional Grammar.
in which only minimal constituentgrotlpillgs are used and Solne of the represeuta-tional l~rol)lems encountered with true del)endencyapl)ronches ~llld traditional constituency approachesdo not arise.There are two caveats in place here, one concern-ing the .~F(; approach to syntagmatic structure itself.the other one conceruing SFG'S computational ppli-cation more generally.The st-c; view of syntagmatic structure inextri-cably goes together with a classification-based ap-proach to grammar in which grammatical classesarc fimctionally motivated.
The kernel of an SI:G isthe grammatical classification hierarchy, represent-ing the paradigmatic relations that characterize thegramnmr of a language.
It is important o notethat the SFG approach to the representation f syn-tagmatic structure by itself is therefore not a fullmodel of grammar--just like itPSG would not be afull nmdel of ga'ammar without its hierarchy of lex-ical and phrasal types.
However, the insight thatSFG has to offer is the acknowledgment of the di-versity of syntagmatic patterning and pointing tothe limits of the l)art-whole (constituency) and part-part (depeudency) representations comnmnly em-ployed in syntactic modeling.
Recent developmentsin constraint-based fornmlations of SFG (Henschel,1994: Henschel, 1995) may introduce new methodsof representation to SFG (sudl as feature or structure46sharing; cf.
Section 4).
However, the typed featurestructures Henschel has experimented with all showparticular weaknesses when faced with large classifi-cation hierarchies, as they are commonly employedin implementations of Systemic Functional Gram-nmr, such as the KPML system.The second caveat concerns the computationalprocessing of sFc's in Natural Language Under-standing.
SF6 is widely used in Natural LanguageGeneration and has inspired a number of generationgrmnmars.
However, sr'c is hardly used in parsing.For NL generation, the major attraction of SFC liesin the centrality of functional grammatical c assifica-tion, whid~ draws distinctions that are relevant forgeneration, sFc's flat structures work fine for gen-eration, where the functional labeling and the an-notation with interpersonal nd textual informationis andmred in the functional, paradigmatic descrip-tion.
i.e.. the grammatical system network.
The fewattempts that have been made in parsing with SFG:notably (Kasper, 1988).
have shown that SFG func-tional structures are just not informative nough.Kasper had to add a set of phrase structure rules,so that possible patterns for each major constituentcategory could be more easily recognized.
The suit-ability of a model of syntactic structure for computa-tiomd application can thus also depend on the kindof computational pplication--NL understanding orNL generation.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank Erich Steiner andthe reviewers of this paper for comments and sug-gestions for improvements.Re ferencesJohn M. Anderson.
1971.
Dependency and gram-matical functions.
Foundations o\] Language,7:30-37.John A. Bateman, Elisabeth A. Maier, Elke Te-ich.
and Leo Wanner.
1991.
Towards an archi-wcture for situated text generation.
In Interna-tion.al Conference on Current Issues in Computa-tional Linguistics, Penang, Malaysia.
Also a~Tlil-able as technical report of GMD/Institut Ftir In-tegrierte Publikations- und Informationssysteme,Darmstadt, Germany.John A. Bateman, Martin Emele, and StefanMomma.
1992.
The nondirectional representationof Systemic Functional Grammars and Semanticsas Typed Feature Structures.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-92, Nantes, France, July.John A. Bateman.
1991.
Language as con-straint and language as resource: a com'er-gence of metaphors in systemic-functional gram-mar.
Technical report, Gesellschaft fftir Mathe-matik und Datenverarbeitung - Institut fiir In-=t:tegrierte Publikations- und Informationssysteme,Darmstadt, Germany.
Written version of pa-per l)resented at the International Workshop onConstraint-based Formalisms for Natural Lan-guage Generation, November 27-30, 1990, BadTeinach.John A. Bateman, 1997.
KPML Development Envi-ronment: multilingual linguistic resource develop-meat and sentence gevcration.
German NationalCenter for hffornmtion Technology (GMD), Insti-tute for Integrated Publication and InformationSystems (IPSI), Darmstadt.
Germany, March.
(Release 1.0).Klaus Baumg/irtner.
1970.
Konstituenz und De-pendenz.
Zur Integration tier beiden Prinzipien.In Steger H., editor, Vorschl@e f~r eine struktu-rale Gramamtik des Deutschen, pages 52-77.
Wis-sensdmftliche Buchgesellschaft, Darmstadt.Noam Chomsky 1970.
Remarks on nominalization.In R. 3acobs and P.S.
Rosenbaum, editors, Read-ings in Evglish Transformational Grammar.
Ginnand Co.. V~sdtham..Massachusetts.Robin P. Fawcett and Gordon H. Tucker.
1989.Prot,type generators 1 and 2.
Technical ReportCOMMUNAL Report Number 10, ComputationalLinguistics Unit, University of Wales College ofCardift.Norman M. Fraser and Richard A. Hudson.
1992.Inheritance in Word Grammar.
ComputationalLinguistics, 18(2).H.
Gaifinan.
1965.
Dependency systems and phrasestructure systems, lnfo~Tnation and Control,8:304-337.Michael A.K.
Hallida.v.
1973.
Explorations in theFunctions of Language.
Edward Arnold.
London..Michael A.K.
Halliday.
1979.
Modes of meaningand modes of saying: types of grammatical struc-ture and their determination by different seman-tic functions.
In In D.J.
Allerton, E. Carney.and D. Holdcroft, editors.
Function and Contextin Linguistic Analysis.
Essays offered to WilliamHaas.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Michael A.K.
Halliday.
1985.
An Introduction toFunctioval Grammar.
Edward Arnold, London.D.
G. Hays.
1964.
Del)endency theory: a formalismand some observations.
Language, 40(4):511-525.Renate Henschel.
1994.
Declarative representationand l)rocessing of systemic grammars.
In CarlosMartin-Vide.
editor, Current Issues in Mathemat-ical Linguistics, l)ages 363-371, Amsterdam.
Else-vier Science Publisher B.V.Renate Henschel.
1995.
Traversing the Labyrinthof Feature Logics for a Declarative Implementa-tion of Large Scale Systemic Grammars.
In SureshManandhar, editor, Proceedings of the CLNLP 95.April 1995, South Queensferry.47Louis Hjelmslev.
1961.
Prolegomena to a Theory ofLanguage.
University of Wisconsin Press, Madi-son, Wisconsin.Richard A. Hudson.
1980.
Constituency and depen-dency.
Linguistics, 18:179-198.Richard A. Hudson.
1984.
Word Grammar.
BasilBlackwell, Oxford.Richard A. Hudson.
1987.
Zwicky on heads.
Jour-nal of Linguistics, 23:109-132.Richard A. Hudson.
1989.
Gapping and grammati-cal relations.
Journal of Linguistics, 25(1):57-94.Ray Jackendoff.
1977.
X Syntax: a study of phrasestructure.
The M.I.T.
Press, Cambridge, MA.Robert T. Kasper.
1987.
Systemic grammar andfunctional unification grammar.
In James D.Benson and William S. Greaves, editors, Sys-temic Perspectives on Discourse, Volume 1.Ablex, Norwood, New Jersey.
Also available asUSC/Information Sciences Institute, Reprint Re-port ISI\[RS-87-179, I987.Robert T. Kasper.
1988.
An Experimental Parserfor Systemic Grammars.
In Proceedings of the12th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, August I988.
Budapest, Hungar):Association for Computational Linguistics.
Alsoavailable as Information Sciences Institute Tech-nical Report No.
ISI/RS-88-212, .Marina del Re),,CA.P.
H. Matthews.
1981.
Syntax.
Cambridge Univer-sit)" Press, Cambridge.Christian M.I.M.
Matthiessen and John A. Bate~nmn.
1991.
Text generation and systemic-functional inguistics: experiences from Englishand ,hqmnese.
Frances Pinter Publishers and St.Martin's Press, London and New York.Christian M.I.M.
Matthiessen.
1995.
Lezicogram-marital cartography: English systems.
Interna-tional Language Science Publishers, Tokyo, Taipeiand Dallas.Igor A..Mei'~uk.
1988.
Dependency Syntax: Theoryand Practice.
State University of New York Press,Albany.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1987.
Information.based syntax and semantics: volume 1.
ChicagoUniversity Press, Chicago.
Center for the Study ofLanguage and Information; Lecture Notes Num-ber 13.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
University ofChicago Press and CSLI Publications, Chicago,Illinois.Jane J. Robinson.
1970.
Dependency structures andtransformational rules.
Language, 46(2):259-285.M.
Steedman.
1985.
Dependency and coordinationin the grammar of dutch and english.
Language,61(2):523-568..M. Steedman.
1987.
CombinatoD" grammars andparasitic gaps.
Natural language and linguistictheol.
5(2):403-439.M.
Steedmau.
1991.
Structure and intonation.
Lan-guage, 67(2):260-296.Elke Teich and Jolm A. Bateman.
1994.
Towardsan application of text generation in an inte-grated publication system.
In Proceedings o/theSeventh b~ternational Workshop on Natural Lan-guage Generation, KennebunkTort, Maine, USA,June 21-'24, 1994, Kennebunkport, Maine, USA.Elke Teidl.
in press.
Systemic Functional Gram-mar in Natural Language Generation: Linguis-tic DescT~ption and Computational Representa-tion.
Cassell Academic, London.Lucien Tesniere.
1959.
Elements de syntaxe st~c-turale.
Klincksieck.
Pads.Hans Uszkoreit.
1986.
Categorial unification gram-mars.
In Proceedings o/ COLING-86.
Also ap-pears as Center for the Study of Language and In-formation Report No.
CSLI-86-66.
Stanford.
CA.Arnold 3I.
Zwicky.
1985.
Heads.
Journal o/Lin-guistics, 21:1-30.48
