Encoding Linguistic CorporaNancy IDEDepartment of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie, New York 12604-0520ide@cs.vassar.eduAbstractThis paper describes the motivation anddesign of the Corpus Encoding Standard(CES) (Ide, et al, (1996); Ide, 1998), anencoding standard for linguistic corporaintended to meet the need for thedevelopment of standardized encodingpractices for linguistic corpora.
The CESidentifies a minimal encoding level thatcorpora must achieve to be consideredstandardized in terms of descriptiverepresentation (marking of structural andlinguistic information).
It also providesencoding conventions for more extensiveencoding and for linguistic annotation, aswell as general architecture for representingcorpora annotated for linguistic features.
TheCES has been developed taking into accountseveral practical realities surrounding theencoding of corpora intended for use inlanguage engineering research andapplications.
Full documentation of thestandard is available on the World Wide Webat http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/.IntroductionToday, corpora are considered to beindispensable to NLP work: they provideinformation for the creation of other resources(e.g., lexicons), enable the gathering ofstatistics on real-language use to informtheories and algorithms, and provide the rawmaterials for testing and training.
Theirimportance is widely acknowledged: thecreation of the Linguistic Data Consortium(LDC) in the United States and the EuropeanLanguage Resources Association (ELRA) inEurope shows the commitment of fundingagencies on both sides of the Atlantic togathering and distributing corpora for researchuse .In addition to creating large-scale corpora, it isalso necessary to develop standards for theirencoding, in order to ensure their usability and,most importantly, reusability in corpus-basedNLP work.
Many freely available tools forlanguage-related tasks such as segmentation,part of speech tagging, etc., exist, and evenmore in-house tools exist in labs and researchcenters.
Input and output formats for thesetools are rarely, if ever, compatible with eachother, nor with the encoding formats inavailable corpora.
Translation among formatsis not a matter of simple transduction:sometimes the information needed by a tooldoes not exist in the data; sometimes it is notunambiguously translatable; sometimes thetool cannot retain information present in theoriginal data and it is lost in processing.
As aresult, enormous amounts of research time andeffort are currently spent massaging data andtools for compatibility.
This in itself motivatesestablishing common encoding formats, toavoid redundant effort.
This need has beenacknowledged in Europe for several years,through efforts such as EAGLES.
Recently,recognizing the amount of time and effortinvolved in creating and annotating corpora,this need has gained the attention of NorthAmerican researchers and funders as well (see,in particular, the conclusions of an NSF-sponsored international workshop on thefuture directions of NLP research \[Hovy andIre, 1998\]).Designing a coherent encoding scheme is byno means trivial.
It demands, first, thedevelopment of a sound model of the data tobe represented and all its relevant features andattributes, as well as their structural, logical,linguistic, etc.
relationships; together withconsideration of processing needs).
The formatshould provide for incremental encoding,allowing for enhancement of data with variouskinds of annotation.
Very few encodingformats have been designed with suchconsiderations in view, resulting in theproliferation of a variety of encoding schemes(even within a common SGML/XMLframework) which are, all too often, poorlydesigned and ultimately unsuitable forextensive use.This paper describes the motivation and designof the Corpus Encoding Standard (CES) (Ide,et al, (1996); Ide, 1998), an enccdingstandard for linguistic corpora intended tomeet the need for the principled developmentof standardized encoding practices forlinguistic orpora.
The CES was initiated withinthe European projects EAGLES (in particular,the EAGLES Text Representation subgroup)and Multext (EU-LRE), together with theVassar/CNRS collaboration (supported by theU.S.
National Science Foundation).
The CEShas so far been used in several pan-Europeancorpus encoding projects, including PAROLE ~and TELRI ~, as well as numerous smallerprojects in both Europe and North America,and it has recently been adopted as a basis forthe TIPSTER document attributes andannotation s .1 Goa lsThe CES is an application of SGML ~ (ISO8879:1986, Information Processing--Text andOffice Systems--Standard Generalized MarkupLanguage), conformant to the TEl Guidelinesfor Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange(Sperberg-McQueen a d Burnard, 1994).
TheCES is designed for encoding corpora used asa resource across a broad range of languageprocessing applications, including machinetranslation, information retrieval andextraction, lexicography, etc.
Corpora are usedprimarily in these applications to gather reallanguage evidence, both qualitative andquantitative; therefore the CES is designed toenable the common operations such asextraction of sub-corpora; sophisticated searchand retrieval (e.g., collocation extraction,concordance generation, generation of lists oflingui.stic elements, etc.
); and the generation ofstatistics (frequency information, averages,mutual information scores, etc.
).The design of the CES is motivated by threeoverall goals:?
to provide encoding specifications thatinclude elements relevant to languageprocessing work and reflect best practice inthe field, and that are both flexible enoughto accommodate he range of current useand precise enough to provide clearguidelines for encoders and annotators;?
to minimize the costs of corpus creation,annotation, and use;i <http://www2.echo.lu/langeng/en/le2/le-parole/le-parole, html>.z <htt p://www.ids-mannheim.de/telfi/telfi.html>.s http://crl.nmsu.edu/twg.annotation/4 The CES is currently being updated for conformanceto XML (The Extensible Markup Language).?
to provide specifications that ensure themaximum of usability and reusability withcorpus-processing software and inintegrated platforms.Each of these goals is discussed more fullybelow.
A full treatment of the CES encodingprinciples and goals can be found in Ide andV6ronis (1993)and in the CES documentation(Ide, et al, 1996).1.1 Meet ing  the  needs  o f  corpus -based  work1.1.1 Adaptation of the TEl GuidelinesThe CES uses the TEI scheme as a startingpoint.
However, the TEl Guidelines aredesigned to be applicable across a broad rangeof applications and disciplines and thereforetreat a vast array of textual phenomena beyondwhat is needed for a particular application.Therefore, the CES limits the TEl scheme toinclude only the sub-set of the TEl tagsetrelevant for corpus-based work.
The CES alsomakes choices among TEl encoding options,constraining or simplifying the TElspecifications as appropriate; for example:?
element content models are substantiallysimplified, in order to maximize the abilityto validate 5 encoded ocuments;?
attributes and attribute values areconstrained or extended to serve the needsof corpus-based applications;?
the TEl element and attribute class strategyis  adopted, but the classes are simplified toform a shallow hierarchy with no overlaps;?
the TEl Guidelines are extended to meetthe specific needs of corpus-based work; inparticular:addition of elements and DTDfragments for areas not covered by theTEl (e.g., detailed encoding ofmorpho-syntactic annotation)specification of precise values for someattributesspecification of required,recommended, and optional elementsto be markeddetailed semantics for elements relevantto language ngineering (e.g., sentence,word, etc.
)10s Validation is the process by which software checksthat the formal specifications of a Document TypeDefinition (DTD), which is a BNF description of legaltag syntaxare adhered toin a document's markup (e.g.,tags are properly nested, appear in the correct order,contain all required tags; attributes appear when andonly when they should, have valid values; etc.
).Beyond this common basis, the CES divergesfrom the TEI in two major ways: first, in itsdata architecture and supporting set of DTDs(as opposed to the single, encompassing TElDTD); and second, in its overall designphilosophy.
The TEl began development overten years ago, when very few encoded textsexisted; as a result, the TEl Guidelines weredeveloped in large part in the absence of priorexperience and practice.
Given the benefit ofthe TEl experience and the initiation of manycorpus-encoding projects over the past tenyears, the CES can approach the developmentof a standard for encoding linguistic corporafrom a different perspective.
In particular, theCES is being developed incrementally,evolving as consensus and best practice emergewithin the community.
Accordingly, the CESso far includes specifications for basicdocument structure, sentences, words, andseveral other sub-paragraph elements, as well asencoding conventions for incorporating part ofspeech and alignment information.
We areworking on extending the CES for additionalkinds of markup (terminology, speech,discourse, lexicons, etc.
), but we rely on userinput and established practice for continueddevelopment of the scheme.1.1.2 Guidelines for encoding legacy dataMost data encoded for NLP work is adaptedfrom legacy data, that is, pre-existing electronicdata encoded in some arbitrary format(typically, word processor, typesetter, etc.formats intended for printing).
This process,called up-translation, involves translatingexisting encoding, that describes the printedpresentation of the text (e.g., font shifts, pagebreaks, etc.)
into an encoding which is suitableas a basis for general use.
The resultingencoding uses descriptive markup to identifythe logical and structural parts of a text.Because up-translation is common and costly,the CES provides guidelines for the process.In general, it is descriptive markup that isimportant for corpus-based research, andinformation about rendition in a printedoriginal can or even must be ignored.
Forexample, if the abbreviation for "number"(No.)
is rendered sometimes with asuperscripted "o" and sometimes not, a searchon a document that retains the text in itsoriginal rendition will not identify the two asinstances of the same linguistic element.However, for some applications it is necessaryto retain certain information about printedrendering (e.g., in machine translation, wherethe resulting translated text must be renderedin the same fonts, etc.--but obviously not withthe same line breaks--as the original).Therefore, the CES recommends retainingrendition information when it is cost-free orwhen it is required, but provides means toretain it while appropriately representing thecontent for the purposes of search andretrieval.1.2 M in imiz ing  costs1.2.1 Minimizing creation costsThe minimization of the costs of corpuscreation is a primary goal of the CES.
The vastquantities of data involved and the difficulty(and cost) of up-translation i to usable formatsdictate that the CES be designed in such a waythat this translation does not requireprohibitively large amounts of manualintervention to achieve minimum conformanceto the standard.
However, the markup that ismost desirable for the linguist is not achievableby fully automatic means.
Therefore, a majorfeature of the CES is the provision for a seriesof increasingly refined encodings of text,beyond the minimum requirements.The first level of encoding is the minimumlevel required to make the corpus (re)usableacross all possible language processingapplications.
Encoding at this level includeselements often signalled by typography in theoriginal (e.g., paragraph breaks) and istherefore achievable by fairly inexpensive,automated means.
Successive ncoding levelsprovide for increasing enhancement in theamount of encoded information and increasingprecision in the identification of text elements.Automatic methods to achieve markup at eachlevel are for the most part increasinglycomplex, and therefore more costly; thesequence is designed to accommodate a seriesof increasingly information-rich instantiationsof the text at a minimum of cost.
Section 3outlines the precise requirements for each levelof encoding defined by the CES.1.2.2 Minimizing processing costsThe CES is also designed based on processingconsiderations and needs, such as the overheadof use of SGML mechanisms (e.g., entityreplacement, use of optional features), as wellas more complex textual phenomena such aslinkage among elements and relatedinformation (for example, annotation, phoneticgloss, etc.
), which can have more seriousimplications for processing (e.g., the use ofinter-textual pointers demands that the entirecorpus be available at all times for processing).It also considers processing demands of end-11use, such as the ability to (efficiently) selecttexts according to user-specified criteria, etc.1.2.3 A data architecture for corpusrepresentationThere are additional problems involved inallowing for the simultaneous representationof, and selected access to, multiple views of adocument, whereby it may be seen as a logicalstructure, a rhetorical structure, a linguisticobject, a document database, etc., all of whichare potentially conflicting in terms of well-formed, hierarchical markup.
The CESaddresses this problem as well as several othersby defining a data architecture for corpora inwhich annotation information is not mergedwith the original, but rather retained in separateSGML documents (with different DTDs) andlinked to the original or other annotationdocuments.
This is opposed to the classicalview of a document prepared for use incorpus-based research, in which annotation isadded incrementally to the original as it isgenerated.
The separation of original data andannotation is consistent with other recentlydeveloped ata architecture models, such as theTIPSTER model.The separate markup strategy is in essence afinely linked hypertext format where the linkssignify a semantic role rather than navigationaloptions.
That is, the links signify the locationswhere markup contained in a given annotationdocument would appear in the document owhich it is linked.
As such the annotationinformation comprises remote markup which isvirtually added to the document o which it islinked.
In principle, the two documents couldbe merged to form a single documentcontaining all the markup in each.
Thisapproach has several advantages for corpus-based research:?
the base document may be read-onlyand/or very large, so copying it tointroduce markup may be unacceptablei?
the markup may include multiple.overlapping hierarchies; 6?
~t may be desirable to associate alternativeannotations (e.g., part-of-speechannotation using several different schemes,or representing different phases ofanalysis) with the base document;?
it avoids the creation of  potentiallyunwieldy documents;6 For example, lines and sentences in ~rty ,transcriptions of multi-party dialogues, multi-mediacorpora, etc.distribution of the base document may becontrolled, but the markup is freelyavailable.2 CES  Overv iewThe development of the CES involves thefollowing steps: (1) analysis of the needs ofcorpus-based NLP research, both in terms ofthe kinds and degree of annotation requiredand the requirements for efficient processing,accessibility, etc.
; and (2) analysis of generalproperties and configuration of corpora, therelevant structural and logical features ofcomponent text types, and the design ofencoding mechanisms that can represent allrequired elements and features whileaccommodating the requirements determinedi n ( l ) .The CES applies to monolingual corporaincluding texts from a variety of western andeastern European languages, as well as multi-lingual corpora and parallel corporacomprising texts in any of these languages.The term "corpus" here refers to any collectionof linguistic data, whether or not it is selectedor structured according to some design criteria.According to this definition, a corpus canpotentially contain any text type, including notonly prose, newspapers, as well as poetry,drama, etc., but also word lists, dictionaries, etc.The CES is also intended to cover transcribedspoken data.The CES distinguishes primary data, which is"unannotated" data in electronic form, mostoften originally created for non-linguisticpurposes uch as publishing, broadcasting, etc.
;and linguistic annotation, which comprisesinformation generated and added to theprimary data as a result of some linguisticanalysis.
The CES covers the encoding ofobjects in the primary data that are seen to berelevant to corpus-based work in languageengineering research and applications,including:(1) Document-wide markup:bibliographic description of thedocument, encoding description, etc.
(2) Gross structural markup:- structural units of text, such as volume,chapter, etc., down to the level ofparagraph; also footnotes, titles, headings,tables, figures, etc.- normalization to recommended charactersets and entities(3) Markup for sub-paragraph structures:- sentence.s, quotations- words12- abbreviations, names, dates, terms, citedwords, etc.In addition, the CES covers encodingconventions for linguistic annotation of textand speech, currently including morpho-syntactic tagging and parallel text alignment.We intend to extend the CES in the near futureto cover speech annotation, including prosody,phonetic transcription, alignment of levels ofspeech analysis, etc.
; discourse elements;terminology; and lexicon encoding.Markup types (2) and (3) above include textelements down to the level of paragraph, whichis the smallest unit that can be identifiedlanguage-independently, as well as sub-paragraph structures which are usually signaled(sometimes ambiguously) by typography inthe text and which are language-dependent.Document-wide markup and markup forlinguistic annotation provide "extra-textual"information: the former provides informationabout the provenance, form, content andencoding of the text, and the latter enriches thetext with the results of some linguistic analysis.As such, both add information about the textrather than identify constituent elements.The CES is intended to cover those areas ofcorpus encoding on which there existsconsensus among the language engineeringcommunity, or on which consensus can beeasily achieved.
Areas where no consensus canbe reached (for example, sense tagging) arenot treated at this time.3 Leve ls  of  C o n f o r m a n c eThe CES provides a TEI-conformantDocument Type Definition (DTD) for threelevels of encoding for primary data togetherwith its documentation (the "cesDoc DTD"):Level 1 : the minimum encoding levelrequired for CES conformance, requiringmarkup for gross document structure (majortext divisions), down to the level o f  theparagraph.
Specifically, the following must befulfilled:?
The document validates against he cesDocDTD, using an SGML parser such as sgmls.?
The header provides a full description ofall encoding formats utilized in thedocument.?
The document does not contain foreignmarkup.?
CES-conformant encoding to theparagraph level is included.
However, notethat for Level 1 CES conformance,paragraph-level markup need not berefined.
For example, via automatic meansall carriage returns may be changed to <p>(paragraph) tags; identification of instanceswhere the carriage return signals a list, along quote, etc.
is not required.It is also recommended that there should be noinformation loss for sub-paragraph elements.Sub-paragraph elements identified in theoriginal by special typography not directlyrepresentable in the SGML encoded version(e.g., distinction by font such as italics, vs.distinction by capital letters or quote marks,which is directly representable in the encodedversion) should be marked, typically using a<hi> ("highlighted") tag.Leve l  2 : requires that paragraph level elementsare correctly marked, and (where possible) thefunction of rendition information at the sub-paragraph level is determined and elementsmarked accordingly.
Specific requirementsare:?
The requirements for a Level 1 documentare satisfied.?
If a sub-paragraph element is marked,every occurrence of that element has beenidentified and marked in the text.?
SGML entities replace all special characters(e.g., &mdash;, &pound;, etc.).?
Quotation marks are removed and eitherreplaced by appropriate standard SGMLentities, or represented in a rend attributeon a <q> or <quote> tag.?
The document validates against he cesDocDTD, using an SGML parser such as sgmls.It is further recommended that all paragraphlevel elements (lists, quotes, etc.)
are correctlyidentified, and, where possible, <hi> tags areresolved to more precise tags (foreign, term,etc.
)Level 3 : the most restrictive and refined levelof markup for primary data.
It placesadditional constraints on the encoding of s-units and quoted dialogue, and demands moresub-paragraph level tagging.
Conformance tothis level demands:?
Requirements for a Level 2 document aresatisfied.?
All paragraph level elements (lists, quotes,etc.)
are correctly identified?
Where possible, <hi> tags are resolved tomore precise tags (foreign, term, etc.)?
The following sub-paragraph elementshave been identified and marked (eitherwith explicit tags such as <abbr>, <num.>,etc.
or with user-defined morpho-syntactictags.- abbreviations- numbers- names- foreign words and phrases13?
Where s-units and dialogue are tagged:, the<p> - <s> - <q> hierarchy mus~t befollowed.?
The encoding for all elements includingand below the level of the paragraph hasbeen validated for a I0 percent sample ofthe text.
Note: this does not includemorpho-syntactic agging, if present.?
The document validates against he cesDocDTD, using an SGML parser such as sgmls.4 Data ArchitectureThe CES adopts a strategy whereby annotationinformation is not merg.ed with the original,but rather retained m separate SGMLdocuments (with different DTDs) and linked tothe original or other annotation documents.Linkage between original and annotationdocuments is accomplished using the TEladdressing mechanisms for element linkage.The CES linkage specifications are currentlybeing updated to conform to XML (Mater &DeRose, 1998).The hyper-document comprising each text inthe corpus and its annotations consists Ofseveral documents.
The base or "hub"document is the unannotated documentcontaining only primary data markup.
Thehub document is "read only" and is notmodified in the annotation process.
Eachannotation document is a proper SGMLdocument with a DTD, containing annotationinformation linked to its appropriate locationin the hub document or another annotationdocument.All annotation documents are linked to theSGML original (containing the primary data)or other annotation documents using one-waylinks.
The exception is output of the alignerfor parallel texts, which consists of an SGMLdocument containing only two-way linksassociating locations in two documents indifferent languages.
The two linked documentsare two documents containing the relevantstructural information, such as sentence orword boundaries.
The overall architecture isgiven in Figure 1.5 The  CES DTDsBecause the CES is an application of SGML,document structure is defined using a contextfree grammar in a document ype definition(DTD).
At present, the CES provides threedifferent TEI customizafions, each instantiatedusing the TEI.2 DTD and the appropriate TEIcustomization files, for use with differentdocuments.
For convenience, a version of eachof these three TEI instanfiations i provided asa stand-alone DTD, together with a means tobrowse the element tree as a hypertextdocument.English ~segmentation ~ POS annotation hub ,j ARomanianhubI alignment \]~ segmentationI alignmentspeech signal~---1 POSannotaUon&i AIternative--~"i AlternativeannotationsFigure 1.
CES data architectureS .1  The cesDoc DTDThe cesDoc DTD is used to encode primarydocuments, including texts with gross structuralmarkup only to texts heavily and consistentlymarked for elements of relevance for corpus-based work.
It defines the required structurefor marking Level 1 conformant documentsdown to the paragraph level.
It also definesadditional elements at the sub-paragraph levelwhich may appear, but are not required, in aLevel 1 encoding, and which are used in Level2 and Level 3 encodings.There are five mare categories of sub-paragraph elements:?
linguistic elements;?
elements indicating editorial changes to theoriginal text;?
the <.h.i> element for markingtypographically distinct words or phrases,especially when the purpose of thehighlighting is not yet determined;?
elements for identifying s-units (typicallyorthographic sentences) and quoteddialogue;?
elements for pointing and reference.There have been two main defining forcesbehind the choice of linguistic elements:(1) the needs of corpus-annotation tools, suchas morpho-syntactic taggers, whoseperformance can often be improved bypre-identification of elements such as14names, addresses, title, dates, measures,foreign words and phrases, etc.
(2) the need to identify objects which haveintrinsic linguistic interest, or are oftenuseful for the purposes of translation, textalignment, etc., such as abbreviations,names, terms, linguistically distinct wordsand phrases, etc.The CES documentation provides an informalsemantics for tags used in the cesDoc DTD,especially sub-paragraph linguistic elements.For example, the CES provides precisedescription of the textual phenomena thatshould be marked with <name> tags (e.g., do nottag laws named after people, etc.).
Thedocumentation also includes specifications forthe format of such encoding.
For example,titles and roles (e.g., "President" in "PresidentClinton) should not be included inside the<name> tag, punctuation not a part of the nameis not enclosed in the <name> tag (e.g.,"President <name type=person>Clinton</name>,"), etc.
In addition, precise rulesfor handling punctuation in abbreviations,sentences, quotations, as well as apostrophes,etc., are provided, as well as a hierarchicalreferencing system used to generate distinctidentifiers (SGML id's) for structural elementssuch as chapters, paragraphs, sentences, andwords.In general, the rules for encoding sub-paragraph elements are driven by twoconsiderations:(1) Retrieval: it is essential that items markedwith like tags in a document represent the samekind of object.
Therefore, while "Clinton" in aphrase such as "President Clinton today said..."is marked as a name, it is not marked as a namein the phrase "the Clinton doctrine".
(2) Processing needs: There is a small class oftags which mark the presence of tokens thathave been isolated and classified by theencoder, e.g., abbreviations, names, dates,numbers, terms, etc.
For many languageprocessing tools, when such an element isidentified in the input stream, it is not desirableto further tokenize the string inside the tag;rather, the string inside the tag can be regardedas a single token (possibly with the typeindicated by the tag name).
For example, insome languages it may be possible for lexicallookup routines and morpho-syntactic taggersto assume that an element with the tag <name> isa single token with the grammatical categoryPROPER NOUN.
Therefore, adjectival forms inEnglish (e.g., "Estonian") are not marked asnames; generally, for any language, onlynouns or noun phrases are marked as names.Similarly, for language processing purposes"Big Brother" can be regarded as a single tokeninstead of two distinct tokens; if marked with a<name> tag, processing software may opt toavoid further tokenization of the markedentity.
Based on this possibility, punctuationthat is not a part of the token is not includedinside the tag; in English, possessives aremarked by placing the "%" outside the tag, etc.The CES recommends that linguisticannotation be encoded in a separate SGMLdocument with its own DTD, which is linked tothe primary data.
However, for someapplications it is still desirable to retainmorpho-syntactic annotation in the sameSGML document as the primary data.Therefore, the CES provides means toaccomplish this in-file tagging.
To implementit, a pre-defined module containing all therequired definitions for the morpho-syntacticinformation is brought in at the beginning ofthe document.5 .2  The  cesAna DTDThe cesAna DTD is used for segmentation a dgrammatical nnotation, including:?
sentence boundary markup?
tokens, each of which consists of thefollowing:?
the orthographic form of the token as itappears in the corpus?
grammatical nnotation, comprising one ormore sets of the following:?
the base form (lemma)?
a morpho-syntactic specification?
acorpus tagAllowing more than one possible set ofgrammatical annotation enables representingdata for which lexical lookup or some othermorpho-syntactic analysis has been performed,but which has not been disambiguated.
Whendisambiguation has been accomplished, anoptional element can be included containingthe disambiguated form.The structure of the DTD constituents i  basedon the overall principle that one or more"chunks" of a text may be included in theannotation document.
These chunks maycorrespond to parts of the document extractedat different imes for annotation, or simply tosome subset of the text that has been extractedfor analysis.
For example, it is likely that withinany text, only the paragraph content willundergo morpho-syntactic analysis, and rifles,footnotes, captions, long quotations, etc.
will beomitted or analyzed separately.The following example, which shows theannotation for the first word ("le" in .French) of15a primary data document stored in a file called"MyTextl", shows the use of many of theoptions provided in the cesAna DTD.
This setof annotation data could be the final resultafter tokenization, segmentation, lexical lookupor morpho-syntactic analysis, and part ofspeech disambiguation.
All the original optionsfor morpho-syntactic lass are retained here,and the disambiguated tag is provided in the<ais~b> element.< ldoctype cesAnaPUBLIC "-//CES//DTD cesAna//EN'><cesAna version=" 1.5"type="SENT TOK LEX DISAMB"doc=MyText I><oesHeader version=" 2.3">,oo</cesHeader><chunkList><chunk doo="MyTextl" from=' 1.2\1 '><s ><tok class='tok' from=' 1.2\1'><orth>Les</orth><disamb><ct ag>DMP</crag></disamb><lex><base>le</base><msd>Da- fp--d</msd><ctag>DFP</ctag></lex><lex><base>is</base><msd>Da-mp--d</msd><ctag>DMP</ctag></lex><lax><base>le</base><msd>Pp3 fpj-</msd><ctag>PPJ</ctag></lex><lex><base> is</base><msd>Pp3mpj-</msd><otag>PPJ</ctag></lex></tok>.5.3  The  cesA l ign  DTDThe cesAlign DTD defines the annotationdocument containing alignment informationfor parallel texts.
It consists entirely of llinksbetween the documents that have been aligned.Alignment may be between primary datadocuments or between annotation documentscontaining segmentation information for thealigned-units (paragraphs, sentences, tokensetc.).
Alignment may be between two or more16such documents, which are identified in theheader of the alignment document.The most common situation in aligningparallel translations is to align data thatcomprises the content of an entire SGMLelement, such as an <s>, <par>, or <tok>element.
Especially when the aligned data isnot in the SGML original document, it is likelythat the elements to be associated will have idattributes by which they can be referenced inthe alignment document, in order to specifythe elements to be aligned or "linked".Note that when the SGML ID and IDrefmechanism is used to point from one elementto another in the same SGML document, theSGML parser will validate the references toensure that every IDREF points to a valid ID.In the CES, all alignment documents areseparate from the documents that are beingaligned, and therefore this validation of IDrefsby the SGML parser is lost.
However, othersoftware may be used to validate cross-document references, if necessary.The CES provides a simple means to point toSGML elements in other SGML documents byreferring to IDs or any other uniqueidentifying attribute on those elements, usingthe xtargets attribute on the <\].ink> element.Here is a simple example:DOCi: <s id=plsl>According to our survey,1988 sales of mineral water and softdrinks were much higher than in1987, ref lect ing the growingpopularity of these products.</s><s id=pls2>Cola drink manufacturersin part icular achieved above-averagegrowth rates.
</s><I-- ... -->DOC2: <s id=plsl>Quant aux eaux min6raleset aux limonades, elles rencontrenttoujours plus d'adeptes.</s><s id=pls2>En effet, notre sondage fairressort ir  des ventes nettementsup6rieures ~ celles de 1987, pourles boissons ~ base de colanotamment.</s>ALIGN DOC :<l inkGrp targType=" s'><link xtargets="plsl  ; plsl"><link xtargets='pls2 ; pls2"></l inkGrp>sWhen the data to be linked does not includeIDs on relevant elements (or for some reason itis not desired to use IDrefs for alignment), orwhen the data to be linked is not the entirecontent of an SGML element, it is necessary toreference locations in the documents using theCES notation, which consists of a combinationof ESIS tree location and character offset.Conc lus ionBy far the greatest need for the development oflinguistic corpora is to ensure their usabilityand reusability in integrated platforms.
Thisdemands (at least):?
the development and use of consistent andcoherent encoding formats for datarepresentation, as well as standardizedschemes for annotation of linguisticinformation;?
the development of reusable, integratedsystems and tool architectures for languageprocessing and analysis, including thecorresponding development of a dataarchitecture tobest suit research needs.It is imperative that these activities beundertaken i  collaboration.
For example, anencoding format that maximizes processabilityand retrievability must be devised in view ofthe capabilities and architecture of the toolsthat will handle them; similarly, reusable tooldesign must be informed by full knowledge ofthe nature and representation of linguisticinformation, desired processes, etc.The development of the CES is an attempt oachieve this kind of integration between thedevelopment of encoding schemes and corpusprocessing and use.
Very little study has beenmade to date of the relation between encodingconventions and the demands of processingand retrieval, despite the fact that with thedevelopment of digital libraries and web-baseddocument delivery, consideration of theserelationships i critical.
The CES is in somesense an experiment to develop a principledbasis for further work on this topic; it is in noway intended to be the complete and finalanswer to the problem.
Rather, the CES isbeing developed from the bottom-up, bystarting with a relatively minimal set ofencoding conventions and successivelyincorporating feedback to enlarge the standardas needed by the language processingcommunity, and as processing and retrievalneeds become better understood.
Testing ofthe current CES specifications and feedbackare both invited and encouraged, as well inputand suggestions concerning the treatment ofother areas of corpus encoding.AcknowledgementsThe present research as been partially fundedby US NSF RUI grant IRI-9413451, and EUfunding through the EAGLES and MULTEXTprojects.
The author would like toacknowledge the contribution of Greg Priest-Dorman to the preparation of the web versionof the documentation a d DTDs.
I would alsolike to acknowledge the input of the manypeople who have so far contributed to the CES,and in particular the partners of the Multext-East project.ReferencesHovy, E., and Ide, N.
(eds.)
(1998).
Proceedings ofthe Work.shop on Translingual InformationManagement: Current Levels and Future Abilities.Held in conjunction with the First InternationalLanguage Resources and Evaluation Conference(LREC), May 31-June I, 1998, Gran~cla~ Spain.Ide, N., and V~ronis, J.
(1993).
Background andcontext for the development of a Corpus EncodingStandard, EAGLES Working Paper, 30p.
Availableat <http:/Iwww.cs.
vassar.edu/CES/CES3.ps.gz>.Ide, N. (1998).
Corpus Encoding Standard: SGMLGuidelines for Encoding Linguistic Corpora.Proceedings of the First International LanguageResources and Evaluation Conference (LREC),Gra~z,ta Spain, pp.
463-470.Ide, N., Priest-Dorman, G., and V~ronis, J.
(1996).Corpus Encoding Standard.
Available at<http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/>.International Organization For Standards (1986) ISO8879: Information Processing--Text and OfficeSystems--Standard Generalized Markup Language(SGML), ISO, Geneva.Maler, E. & DeRose S. (1998).
XML PointerLanguage (Xpointer), WWW Consortium WorkingDraft, Working Draft, 3 March 1998,http://www.w3c.org/TR/WD-xptr.Sperberg-McQueen, C.M., Bumard, L.
(eds.)
(1994)Guidelines for Electronic Text Encoding andInterchange, Text Encoding Initiative, Chicago andOxford.17
