Automatic Collection and Analysis of GermanCompoundsJohn GoldsmithThe University of ChicagoSummary: In this paper we report on anexploration of noun-noun compounds in a largeGerman corpus.
The morphological parsingproviding the analysis of words into stems andsuffixes was entirely data-driven, in that noknowledge of Ge:man was used to determinewhat the correct set of stems and suffixes was,nor how to break any given word into itscomponent morphemes.
To discovercompounds, however, we used our priorknowledge of the structure of German nominalcompounds, in a way that we will describe ingreater length below.The interest of this case derives from the factthat German compounds (unlike Englishcompounds, but like those in many otherlanguages, especially in the Indo-Europeanfamily) include a linking element (Fugenelementin German) placed between the two stems.Traditional grammars report nine possible linkerelements: e, es, en, er, n, ens, ns, s, and zero (seeDuden 1995), and report as well that the LeftElement determines which choice of linkingelement is appropriate for a given nominalcompound.'1.
IntroductionThis project began with both a general and avery specific goalJ One of the authors iscurrently developing a morphological analyzerthat takes a large corpus as its input and returnsa morphological analysis based on that corpus(see Goldsmith (in prep.)).
Most of.
themorphological activity in European languagesI This paper was written while Goldsmith was avisitor at Microsoft Research.
The authors may becontacted at ja-goldsmith @ uchicago.edu ortreutter@microsoft.cora.
We would like to thank themembers of the World Languages Research group atMicrosoft Research for their contributions.
Specialthanks go to Michael Gamon for his comments andreview of this report.Tom Reut terMicrosoft Researchinvolves suffix-attachment o stems, butlanguages uch as German and Dutch requirethat serious attention be paid to the prefixsystem, and an even wider range of languages(including both German and Dutch, but alsosuch varied languages as English and Finnish)require an analysis of compounds.The general goal, then, was to implement acompound-analyzer in the context of theunsupervised acquisition of morphology.
Thespecific goal was to use this analysis todetermine the linking element (see below) usedby each member of the German lexicon thatengages in compound formation as a LeftElement.2.
The challenge of compoundsIn general, the analyst cannot know whether agiven language forms its compounds with fullyinflected words or with stems (that is, inflectedwords minus the inflectional suffix), but thelatter is by far the most common pattern.
Thechallenge, then, is to determine whether ananalysis of the non-compound words in a corpuswill give rise to a sufficient inventory of stems(in the correct surface form, so to speak) so thatactual compounds found in the corpus can beidentified as concatenation of two such stems,possibly separated by a linker element chosenfrom a very small inventory.
At the same time, itis critical that the analysis not Over-recognizecompounds, that is, that it not "recognize"compounds that are not there - an error that willtypically arise if there exist true stems that arehomographs of suffixes, or of subparts ofsuffixes.
We have labelled this problem theSchweinerei problem (from Schweinerei "mess"\[lit., pig + erei nominal derivational suffix\])because the word can be misanalyzed as acompound incorporating the linker er and theRight Element Ei "egg".In addition, the challenge of identifyingcompounds raises the question as to whetherthere is a clear distinction to be drawn (in61German, and in other languages as well)between a (prefix + stem) structure and acompound (stem + stem) structure.
Duden 1995,for example, characterizes one use of Haupt"head" as a prefix (e.g., in Hauptstadt "capital"),based, presumably, on the semantic bleachingthat often accompanies long-time use of a wordin various compounds.
English has similar usesof the stem head, with cases ranging from headteacher, written with a space and in which theelement head contributes a very clear semanticseven though it has almost nothing to do with theoriginal sense of head, all the way to headline,where the meaning of the word is barely, if atall, decomposable into two parts.
In our work wehave employed the definition of affix that isintegrated into our automatic morphologicalanalyzer, which is the following: afterestablishing a tentative set of candidate affixes,a set of affixes is identified which occurs witheach given stem (a distinct set of prefixes andsuffixes).
If exactly the same set (of two ormore suffixes) is used by two or more stems,then that set of affixes is "approved", and theaffixes are definitively identified as affixes(rather than as compounds, for example).3.
The challenge of GermancompoundsCompounding in German is common, rangingfrom the v~ry frequent formation of compoundnouns to the less common but also productiveformation of compound verbs and adjectives)Multisegmented compounds, such asAnwendungsprogrammschnittstelle "app icationsprogram interface", can be viewed as recursivelyapplied binary compounds( \[ \[Anwendung "application" + Programm"program"\] + Schnittstelle "interface"\] ).
Wewill refer to the element on the left of such abinary structure as the Left Element, the elementon the right as the Right Element, and thesequence of linking characters used to join theLeft Element and Right Element as the LinkerP2 See Duden 19953 We use this linguistically neutral terminology inorder to emphasize the automatic, concatenativenature of the text processing described here.
Ingeneral, for noun-noun compounds, Left Element,In our example, the Linker s joins Anwendungand Programm, whilst the null Linker joinsAnwendungsprogramm andSchnittstelle.In German, the Linkers are e, es, en, er, n, ens,ns, s, and the zero morpheme nu//.
In general,the Left Element, Linker, and Right Element aresimply concatenated (Bewegung "movement" +s + Achse "axis" = Bewegungsachse "axis ofrotation"), although the Left Element isoccasionally umlauted.
(Huhn "hen" + er + ei"egg" = Hiihnerei "hen's egg")?A hyphen can be used to emphasize thepoint of linkage between the LeftElement+Lhlker and the Right Element.
Thiseffectively doubles the number of Linkers weconsider, i.e.
we add (e- es- en- er- n- ens- ns- s-and -) to our list.
Duden 1995 reports that thehyphen is prescribed if the Left Element is anabbreviation and generally present if the LeftElement is a proper name, and otherwise, it isgenerally employed to improve readability or toemphasize the individual components of thecompound.
Our actual results confirm some ofthese guidelines but also yield data that seem notto be covered by the guidelines.
The leadinghyphenated Left Elements in our data, forexample, are (in order): US-, Tang-, and Ballett-.Ballett is neither an abbreviation or a propername, nor does it seem that it leads to especiallyunreadable compounds; nevertheless, it is nearthe top of the list.If the Left Element ends in the suffix -e or -en,this suffix is sometimes dropped (Schule"school" + Kind "child" = Schulkind "school-age child") 5.
But there is another view ofcompounding in which no subtraction occurs.Rather, the form without the -e o r -en  (e.g.Linker, and Right Element correspond to the Germanterms Bestimmungsworr, Fugenelement, andGrundwort, or to the English terms determinant,connecting morpheme, and head.4 Umlauting of the Left Element (e.g.Land+Spiel=LA'nderspiel) can occur in conjunctionwith the null linker, the Linker e, and the Linker er.In these cases, the resulting form coincidesorthographically with the plural form, but is notnecessarily semantically motivated as a plural; seee.g.
Duden 1995.5 Zepi6 1970, borrowing from Charles Hockett, refersto these as subtractive morphs.62schul) is the stem: Our corpus processingreturns uch suffixless tems.
Furthermore, thestems returned by corpus processing can containumlauts.
In our task at hand of automaticallyassigning a linker distribution to lexicalizednouns, we simply have to add the -e o r -ensuffix and/or deumlaut he suffix to find thelexicalized noun for which we wish to determinea distribution of Linkers (schul -> schule; l~ind -> land).In general, the choice of a Linker (as well asumlauting and desuffixing) is determined by theLeft Element:Part-of-speech ombinations of the Left Elementand Right Element include noun-noun, noun-verb, verb-noun, adjective-noun, noun-adjective,etc.
In this paper we are only concerned withnoun-noun compounds, i.e.
ones whose LeftElement and Right Element are both lexicalizednouns.
Non-nominal Left Elements exhibitfairly trivial Linker distributions:Previous studies of automatic treatment ofGerman compounds have not dealt with thetreatment of the Linker element.
Geutner 1995describes the effect on a speech recognitionsystem of the recognition of compounding inGerman as a productive and significant process.He notes that treatment of compounds decreasesa substantial part of the nagging out-of-vocabulary problem, a major part of the causefor OOV being more significant in German thanin English.
Berton et al 1996 also describe work6 This view is strongly linguistically motivated.Recognizing schul as a stem, for example, illustratesthe relationship between Schule and schulen.Similarly, treating fried as a stem motivates Frieden,friedlich, befriedigen, etc.7 Some Left Elements govern multiple linkingsequences.
Consider, for example, Tag-e-buch "day+ book = diary" vs. Tag-es-themen "day + topics =news items", which share the Left Element Tag"day".
This is why we wish to calculate a Linkerdistribution, not just a single Linker, for each nounused as a Left Element.s For verbs, the bare stem, i.e.
the form without theinfinitival -(e)n suffix is used with the null Linker,e.g.
sprechen + Stunde = Sprechstunde.
Adjectivesare generally used as Left Elements in theiruninflected positive form (Rotkehlchen) andoccasionally in the superlative form (see e.g.
Duden1995).aimed at improving OOV responses of a speechrecognition system by allowing the language-model to include compounds.
Results of thatexperiment showed that in the context of speechrecognition, the addition of compounding (alongwith the removal of the compounds from thelexicon) could decrease the performance of thesystem, especially in the case where thecompound was of high frequency, and the casewhere one of the compounds was phonologicallyshort.Our goals were formulated in the context of asystem which must be equally robust in thecontext of analysis and generation; furthermore,we set out to obtain information that could beplaced in our lexicon, but the analysis ofcompounds that we used did not need to beperformed in real-time together with a user'sspeech or keyboard input.
On the other hand, weset quite stringent targets for the correctness ofthe materials that we obtain.4.
Linker distributionsTo overcome the out-of-vocabulary problem,German natural language processing systemsmust accommodate compounds.
Encoding inthe lexicon for each noun a statisticaldistribution of Linkers governed by that nounwhen it is used as a Left Element provides therequisite lexical support.
9 This information iscritical for the generation of compound wordsand can increase the precision of compoundanalysis.
We believe that this lexical approach ispreferable to a rule-driven one both forcomputational efficiency and because the rulesgoverning the selection of a Linker are temperedby such wide-ranging factors as gender, word-length, phonology, diachrony, ~and dialectalvariation ~o and are fraught with exceptions.Our broad-coverage German natural languageprocessing system includes a lexicon with over140,000 entries, including approximately100,000 nouns, none of which contained Linkerdistribution information prior to our9 For example, if in an examined corpus, the nounStaat were used 96 times with the Linker s, and 12times with the Linker en, we would calculate thedistribution ( p(-s)=0.89; p(-en)=0.11 ).1o See, for example, ~epid 197063undertaking.
Our goal was to identify stems andsuffixes in a large German corpus, then post-process the results to yield Linker distributionsfor a large number of nouns in our lexicon.
Thisgoal was largely met.
Both the stem/suffixidentification and the subsequent post-processing were implemented to run fullyautomatically, so that the process can be appliedto an arbitrarily large corpus, yieldingdistributions for a maximal number oflexicalized nouns.5.
ProceduresWe now summarize the steps involved in firstmorphologically processing a corpus to detectstems and suffix, then using the stem/suffixinformation to find compounds, and finally post-processing the compound list to calculate Linkerdistributions for the nouns used as LeftElements.Since the object of our inquiry has been noun-noun compounds, and since German nouns arecapitalized, we restricted our processing towords in the corpus beginning with a capitalletter.
We therefore fii-st applied our automaticmorphological analyzer to the first 300,000capitalized words in Microsoft's Encarta, anencyclopedia, to establish a list of 8,426 nounstems.
These are identified by first automaticallyextracting the productive suffixes in the corpus;74 were identified, in frequency dominated bythe top si,g suffixes (en, e, er, s, ung, n); seeTable 1) 1When the algorithm identifies two distinct wordsas composed of the same stem followed bydifferent suffixes, it accepts that stern aslegitimate.
For example, the string beobacht-(stem for "watch") is identified as a stembecause it appears in the corpus with thefollowing five suffixes: -e re ' -e r / -e rs / -ung/ -tmgen.
In addition, if a potential stem occurs as afree-standing word, we consider that to count asan appearance of the stem with a null suffix.
Forexample, the stem Alaska "Alaska" appears withl, We note that four "suffixes" identified by thisprocedure are in fact from compounds: -land, -szentrum, -produktion, and -sgebiet.
Given ouralgorithm for determing suffixes, it follows that sucherrors will occur less often as we move to largercorpora.
In addition, these spurious uffixes are alsoclassified as stems.three "suffixes": -s, -n, and Null.
Thus anyfreestanding word which also appears with atleast one(independently determined) suffixcounts as a stem for our purposes.
See Table 2.Table 2 illustrates the fact that this procedureincludes in our list of stems noun compoundsthat are found in the corpus with more than onesuffix.
This is not a problem, and in fact is agood thing, because, as we noted above,compounds are frequently recursively composedout of pieces which are themselves compounds.With this list of stems in hand, we revisit theoriginal corpus, checking each entry now for thepossibility of one or more parses as compounds.Given the set of linkers (established in advance,as we have noted), we can very simply revieweach word to see if it can be parsed as theconcatenation f an item from the list of stems +one of the linkers + another item from the list ofstems + one of the 74 recognized suffixes.
Allforms that can be so parsed are added to a list ofcompounds found; in our corpus, we found 5522compounds, based on 3866 distinct FirstElement stems.
For each distinct FirstElementstem, we produce a record of the form:( Left Stem, Linker { Exemplart,Exemplar, .
.
.
.
.
Exemplar, } )where each Exemplar is the Right Element of acompound, and is i:self of the form (Stem +Suffix ).Next, the compounds are filtered so that theyonly include unambiguous noun-nouncompounds.
This filtering processed isdescribed in the following section.
Finally, thefiltered set of data is used to calculate adistribution of Linker governance for eachsurviving Left Stem.6.
FilteringIn a compound such as Anwendungsprograrnme(anwendung + s + programm + e), we call a(Left Stem + Suffix) pair such as (anwendung +s) a candidate, while a (Right Stem + Suffix)pair like (programm + e) is called an exemplar.Thus, our set of compounds is logically of theform:( Candidate, { Exemplart, Exemplar,_,... ,Exemplar, } )For example, if the corpus containsAnwendungsprogramm "applications program"64and Anwendungsprograrame, "applicationsG ~ , l  proorams , then we would have the item( (anwendung + s), { (programm + null),(programra + e) ... })Since our specific goal is to produce Linkerdistribution information for nouns used as theLeft Element in noun-noun compounds, we mustnow filter this raw data so that we end up withcandidates and associated exemplars that areunambiguously involved in noun-nouncompounding.
This filtering process is nowdescribed.In order to calculate meaningful inkerdistributions, the raw data must first be passedthrough aseries of simple filters.Step 1 Left stems which are not the stems oflexicalized nouns are excluded.
The stem andthe lexicalized words may differ with regard toumlauting, and in addition the lexicalized wordmay contain the -e/-en suffL~.
For example, theleft stems schul and land correspond to thelexical entries Schule and Land, and are thus notexcluded.
But this step does properly excludee.g.
the candidate ab+null since ab is not a noun,obviating compounds like Abzug and Abbildung.Step 2.
Left stems with multiple parts ofspeech are excluded.
For example, gut can be anadjective ("good") or a noun ("property").
SinceGerman compounds can be built with e.g.
a verbor adjective as the Left Element, we cannotautomatically determine whether a compoundstarting with the Left Element gut is combiningthe adjective or the noun.
We thereforeeliminate the candidate gut + null.
12A special instance of excluding multiple parts ofspeech is the case of verb stems.
When a verb isused as the Left Element of a compound, theverb stem, i.e.
the infinitive without the final(e)n, is used.
This leads to a number ofambiguous Left Elements such as bhtt (nounBhtt = "blood"; verb bluten = "bleed") and block(noun Block = "block"; verb blocken = "block"),which are excluded, since it cannot beautomatically determined whether thecompounding is based upon the verb stem or thehomographic noun.Step 3.
Cases in which the division betweenthe Left Stem and the Linker is ambiguous are12 These, and other ambiguous cases, are logged to afile for possible later manual review.excluded.
For example, the candidate mark"mark" + en, with exemplars such asWeltmeister+schafi "world championship" andnam+e "name", is excluded, since there is analternate division: marke "brand"+n.
13Step 4.
Combinations of Left Stem andLinker in which the final character of the LeftStem and the initial character of the Linker areidentical are excluded.This is for phonological reasons, and appliesboth to vowels and consonants.
Thus, thecandidate boden with the exemplar es+ter isproperly rejected, as is industrie "industry" + er,with exemplars like (zeugnisse, null).
14These first four filters remove invalid and/orambiguous candidates; next, a few more filtersare applied to remove invalid and/or ambiguousexemplars.
If this filtering of exemplars resultsin a candidate being left with no validexemplars, then the candidate is of courseremoved from the list.Step 5.
Exemplars whose stem is not alexicalized noun are excluded.
This is areasonable filtering step, since we are interestedin noun-noun compounds.
The exemplar bella +null (associated with the candidate Ara "parrot"+ null), derived from the compound Arabella,for example, is excluded in this step.Step 6.
Exemplars in which the divisionbetween the Stem and the Suffix is ambiguousare excluded.
For example, the exemplar kamm"comb" + er (associated e.g.
with the candidatearchitekt "architect" +en) is ambiguous with theexemplar kammer "chamber" + null, and istherefore xcluded.Step 7.
Cases in which the division betweenthe Linker and the Suffix is ambiguous areexcluded.
Consider the candidate Abfall "trash"+ er, associated with the exemplar fassung13 In this example, the alternate division is thelinguistically motivated one.14 The proper parse of the compoundIndustr~eerzeugnisse  Industrie+null+erzeugnis+se"industry products", not Industrie+er+zeugnis+se"*industry certificates".
Similarily, Bodennester isparsed Boden+null+nest+er "ground nests", notBoden+n+ester+null "ground ester".
Note thatexcluding the candidates industrie+er and boden+ndoes not affect the candidates industrie+null andboden+null.65"fixture" + null.
The exemplar is excluded,since there is an alternate division of linker andstem: abfall "trash" +mdl,  with the exemplarerfassung "acquisition" + null.
Anotherexample of this kind of ambiguity is Blut-s-tauvs.
Blut-stau, -- that is, Bhtt "blood"+sassociated with Tart "dew" + null over againstBlut "blood" + null associated with Stau"congestion" +null.Step 8.
Cases in which the entire compound,i.e.
candidate plus exemplar, is lexicalized areexcluded.
For example, there is a candidate Ara"parrot" + null associated with the exemplar Rat"council" + null.
The exemplar is excluded,however, since the candidate plus the exemplaryields Ararat "Ararat", which is lexicalized.A small amount of noise survives the filteringprocess.
For example, the Linker ns isimproperly included in the linker distribution ofthe noun Ar, based on the proper noun Arnsberg,which resembles a compound noun: Ar-ns-berg.This minimal amount of noise is further educedby thresholding: Any candidate (Left Element+ Linker) for which there is only one remainingexemplar does not contribute to the distribution.After this final filtering, the surviving (LeftElement + Linker) candidates and theirassociated surviving exemplars are used tocalculate linker distributions for each LeftElement.Of the 8,49_6 candidates entering the filteringand thresholding process, 1361 of them survive.Of these, 20 share a common Left Element withanother candidatetS; thus we are able to calculatea Linker distribution for 1341 lexicalized nouns.7.
Linker DistributionsThe filtering described in the previous sectionyields a set of reliable candidates and exemplarsfor noun-noun compounding.
For example,( (anwendung + s), { (programm + null),(programm + e) ... }) survives the filteringprocess.Based on these vetted candidates and exemplars,we now calculate a Linker governancedistribution for lexicalized nouns used as theLeft Element of a noun-noun compound.t5 For example, the candidates Stand+null andStand+es share the Left Stem Stand.First, from each set of exemplars associated witha given candidate, we squeeze out the exemplarswith a common stem.
In our example, theexemplar (prograram + e) is removed, since theexemplar (prograrnm + mdl) is also associatedwith the candidate (anwendung +s).Next, for each Left Stem, we simply tally thetotal number T of exemplars associated with thatLeft Stem.
Then, for each Linker associatedwith Left Stem, we calculate its probability bytallying the number of exemplars associatedwith the candidate (Left Stem + Linker), thendividing by T.We wish to incorporate this data into our lexiconas follows.
For each noun entry N, derive thedistribution D(N) of Linkers governed by N ~6.For example, for the entry Staat, the distribution( en = 0.I I; s = 0.89 ) is calculated.8.
ConclusionsOur goal in this effort has been to evaluate and,ultimately, to use for practical ends the analysisof large-scale German corpora in order todetermine a morphological property ofindividual German noun stems -- the choice ofLinker element used in compounding.Our results support he strategy of using large-scale natural language corpora as a source forautomatic processing and as a means to gatherspecific lexical information.
While linkerinformation is sparsely distributed across thecorpora we have studied, the largely automaticcharacter of our search allows us to haveincreasingly certain information about thisproperty.16 The number of noun entries for which anydistribution is calculated is, of course, dependentupon the corpus processed.
Every step of processingdescribed in this paper is fully automated, so that anarbitrarily large corpus can be processed, limited onlyby computational resources.66ReferencesBerton, Andre, Pablo Fetter and Peter Regel-Brietzmann.
1996.
Compound Words in Large-Vocabulary GermanSpeech Recognition Systems.
Proceedings of the 1996 International Conference on Spoken LanguageProcessing, ICLSP.
Part 2.DUDEN Grarnmatik der deutschen Sprache, pp.
465 ff.
1995.
Der Duden in 12 Bdnden.
Vol.
4.
Dudenverlag.Mannheim.Geutner, P. 1995.
Using Morphology towards better large-vocabulary speech recognition systems.
Proceedings ofthe 1995 International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing.
Vol.
1Goldsmith, John.
In preparation.
Unsupervised Learning of the Morphology of a Natural Language.Hockett, Charles.
1957.
Two Models of Linguistic Description.
In Martin Joos (ed.)
Readings in Linguistics.University of Chicago Press.Horacek, Helmut.
1996.
On Expressing Metonymic Relations in Multiple Languages.
Machine Translation, vol.11: 109-158.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.
The Netherlands.Leser, Martin.
1990.
Das Problem der 'Zusammenbildungen': ine lexikalistische Studie, Wissenschaftlicher VerlagTrier.
Trier.Meyer, Ralf.
1993.
Compound comprehension i isolation and in context: the contribution of conceptual anddiscourse knowledge to the comprehension of German novel noun-noun compounds.
Max NiemeyerVerlag.
T0bingea.Rufener, John.
1971.
Studies in the motivation of English and German compounds, Juris Druck Verlag.
Z/.irich.Shaw, J. Howard.
1979.
Motivierte Komposita in der deutschen und englischen Gegenwartssprache, Gunter Nan"Verlag.
Ti.ibingen.Trost, Harold.
1991.
Recognition and generation of word forms for natural anguage understanding systems:Integrating two-level morphology and feature unification.
Applied Artificial Intelligence, VoL 5.~epi6, Stanko.
1970.
Morphologie und Semantik der deutschen Nominalkomposita.
Philosophische Fakultat derUniversitat Zagreb.671234567891011122021222324252627Suffix Words 'Tokens 28 de~th Ithis 29 ilsu~x' 30 nten 2022:5382 31 landie 1377 4762 J 32 aler 843 '3102 I 33 uss 1097 2628 I 34 '  "tionung 774 2163 35 s'chaftn 535 1599 36 eia 441 975 37 chenie 244 877 38 it&tr 235 784 39 ischem 234 762 40 ases 415 753 41 turch ,149 739 42 ur13 ten 395 728 43 ismus14 te 312 681 44 ia15 on 240 628 45 erung16 el 230 613 46 ischen17 i : 214 551 " 47 ation18 in i 198 535 48 ers19 't~ ungen i 271 534 49 endi 0 i 2S6' 50S 50 reich: se j 219 491 51 ien186 425 Y : 52 ensik 133 413 53 i iuman 132 371 54 t mi~elern 213 358 55 i, sen' ter 188 328 56 i lichum 115 325 57 J os155 31959 30497 30265 286139 275151 26387 25776 23950 23395 21756 190ilO5 18678 16238 14256 14269 13967 138106 12858 12077 10772 10217 9724 8424 7959 7342 7224 6921 4725 4619 35758 ner I 17 I 35159 ii L2~93 ,t 3460 nen 15 I 3261 szentru 11 28m62 den 13 23-63 schen 11 2264 sgebiet 13 1565  ons 15 1566 ierung 12 1467 isten 9 1068 's 9 1069 isch 4 1070 der 7 971 shire 7' 972 see 5 873 produkti I 6 8Oni ,74 lii i 5i75 nischenl 1i ,76 nische !
1Table 1: German suffixes,determined automatically1251 becket NULL/  -s.1252 beckett  NULL/  -s.1253 beck ford  NULL/  -s.1254 beda NULL/  -s.1255 bedarf  NULL/  -s.1256 bedecktsamer  NULL/  -n.1257 bedeutend1258 bedeutung1259 bed ingung1260 bedroh1261 bed~rfn isNULL/  -e.NULL/  -en.NULL/  -en.re/ zung.NULL/  -se/ -sen.1262 bee in t r~cht igung NULL/  -en.1263 beer NULL/  -e/ -en.1264 beerbohm NULL/  -s.1265 beethoven NULL/  -s.1266 befeh!
NULL/  -e/ -en.1267 befeh lshaber  NULL/  -n/ -s.1268 befest igung NULL/  -en/ -s.1269 befes t igungsan lage:NULL / -n .1270 befes t igungsbau NULL/-er .1271 befes t igungstechn ikNULL/  -en.1272 befo lg  en/ -ung.1273 befrei  er/ -ung/ -ungen.1274 bef re iungstheo log  en/ -ie.1275bef re iungstheo log ie  NULL/  -n.Table 2 Sample stems with suffixes found.68\[32\] **Mittel <Noun Adv > land punkt ~igypdsch indien asien albanien westen lauf china fellengland spanien franken satz frankreich italien makedonien reich schottland chile portugal ohraustralien afrika finnland raum fr, mzSsisch gruppe ghana grad figur guinea\[32\] Familie n namen tradition gr/iber chronik recht besitz leben einkommen sitz angelegenheitstruktur planung bild gerr~lde oberhaupt altar kult hund geschichte unternehmen gesellschaftverbindung gericht ag form phase inheit epos unterhalt alltag gemeinschaft kreis\[35\] Land es w/ihrung natur teil bank sprache mitte politik geschichte verteidigung kirche namemeister ebene verfassung partei gruppe regierung parlament museum gesetz ftihrer planungfestung namen mittel herrn herrschaft planer ordnung kunde aufnahme presse herr fiihrungmeisterschaft\[35\] Milit~.__ posten hochschule stral3e befehlshaber berater ftihrer adel rat netzwerk revolutionabkommen lager hafen technik museum expedition haushalt baumeister komitee system einheitrevoke bereich siedlung ftihrung kolonie flrte verwaltung ausbildung ebrauch organisationverbrechen geschichte standort provinz\[37\] Ost  afghanistan igeria indien frank.reich grenze alpen ufer angeln sibirien berlinaustralien spanien bayern mitteleuropa wald west fassade bereich kaiser china eisenbahn frankenabfall pazifik arm atlantik ttirkei siedlung kanada senegal schweiz ml31and thessalien makedonienschottland guinea spalte\[40\] **Ei_n_<Noun Ij > ordnung mischung ang klang fiJhmng satz schtitzung wirkung teilungdruck siedler stellung fall gliederung beziehung bruch wanderung richtung reise steuer gangeslauf stein bau fahrt samen spielen lage 16sung master mal horn fassung bindung band wandkreuzung lesen ehe schulung\[40\] Bund_es staat land gericht kanzler besitz regierung ebiet parlament amt ebene dist.rikt hafen ratbezirk bank armee verfassung minister haus traBe universitgt richter innenminister versammlung politikvereinigung theater unternehmung post heer verwaltung organisation fi anzminister verteidigungsministerhaushalt aul3enminister b/J ger territorium justizminister finanz\[47\] Kirche_n vater strafe recht spaltung arnt gut fest politik musik lehrer geschichtegemeinschaft architektur raum sprache geb/iude delegation musiker versamrnlung form reformftihrung reformer besitz ordnung vertreter buBe verwaltung eigentum land verfassung provinzwesen schriftsteller bund tag feste ftihrer mann kritik streit rechtswissenschaft dichtung dienstdogma lehren leben\[48\] S/.idb rand mexiko bayern australien ende grenze italien reich abfall ufer spanienamerikanische westeuropa england pazifik kalifornien jemen atlantik china wanderung inselsommer winter land wales baden nigeria rul31and london uganda albanien chile schottlandkontinent kanada schweiz israel europ/ier argentinien belgien kette westseite fall finnland alpenschule brasilien anden\[48\] West  ende ufer pazifik sudan nigeria kenia bank australien virginia alpen asien alaskafrank.reich birma syrien grenze winde ausl/iufer england fassade florida berlin afghanistan burundimakedonien reich schweiz kirche spanien kalifornien china italien port bindung besucher beamtekamerun rul31and tiirkei land provinz preul3en sibirien schottland bau giebel franken kanada\[51 \] Nord  schweizer schottland argentinien i dien afrikaner winde reich italien mark atlantikwestaffika spanien doff ende wales madagaskar england alaska kanada sien grenze pazifik inselb/Shmen syrien nigeria brasilien rul31and ttire algerien griechenland wanderung mexiko schiff armperu feldzug bund australien portugal belgien kalifornien albanien israel arrnee kenia finnland ful3alpen abschnitt iranTable 3 Most common Left Elements in German corpusNote: elements marked with ** were automatically filtered out since they did not meet he strictrequirements for unambiguous noun-noun compounds.69
