Visualization by People without VisionVladimir BULATOVDept.
of Physics and Science Access ProjectOregon State UniversityCorvallis, OR 97331-6507 USAbulatov@dots.physics.orst.eduJohn GARDNERDept.
of Physics and Science Access ProjectOregon State UniversityCorvallis, OR 97331-6507 USAgardner@physics.orst.edu103AbstractPrototypes of two direct audio/tactile accessmethods are demonstrated that allow peoplewith print disabilities to "see" diagrams, maps,charts, and other graphically-displayedinformation.
All methods require that labels orother identifying information be available foreach important object in a figure.
In webapplications, this additional information isaccessed by exercising a link associated with anobject.
People with severe visual disabilitiesmay need a tactile image mounted on a touchscreen to access object-related information.
It isexpected that recently-introduced forcefeedback "haptic mice" may soon provide asyhaptic access to the objects as well.
The criticalfactor that ensures accessibility is availability ofinformation about all important objects, sincethere is currently no way to transform any butthe simplest purely visual graphic informationinto audio or tactile/haptic information that iseasily understandable.
These requirements,which also ensure good searchability, shouldinfluence development of future data structuresand visualization displays.IntroductionThe mission of the Science Access Project(SAP) is to develop technologies that permitnon-visual access to more complex electronicinformation.
Until recently this research hasconcentrated largely on access to tables, mathequations and other character-basedinformation.
Access is possible if thisinformation is presented in some good mark-uplanguage such as SGML and difficult toimpossible when presented as bit-mappedimages or visually-formatted text.More recently the SAP has begun exploringpossible methods that permit good non-visualaccess to information conventionally presentedas graphics.1 Methods for Non-Visual Access toGraphical InformationThere are a number of audio technologies thatare useful as substitutes or enhancements forvisual presentation of graphical information.Many of these technologies rely on feedbackfrom the computer to identify and displayinformation about the important objects in thefigure.Blind people have good access to manycomputer applications through use of screenreader software and either a speech synthesizeror a braille display.
Speech technologies haveproven to be useful to many people who are notblind.
Many people suffer from visual dyslexiasufficiently that they can understand virtuallynothing in prrint even though they may haveperfect vision.
It is also well understood that asubstantial fraction of people are "audiolearners" who understand what they hear betterthan what they see.
All these people benefitfrom availability of speech and other audiooutput instead of or in addition to the normalvisual display.However speech or other alternate access ispresently limited largely to unformatted text.It is found, for example, that blind people can"read" maps rather well by using a touch screenand running their fingers along a road orrailroad track, interrogating cross streets as theyare encountered, etc.
(Jacobson, in press).
This"map-reading" method requires two things:1.
The computer must have some means ofdisclosing to the viewer the objects at any givenlocation, and2.
the blind person must be capable ofassimilating a spatial image of where variousobjects lie on this map.A common technique used to make assimilationof the figure easier is through use of a tactileimage.
Unfortunately there are no technologiesfor displaying refreshable tactile images on-line,104but it has recently become possible to print atactile figure, place this figure on a touch screenor other digitizing tablet, feel the tactile images,and receive audio feedback from the computerabout hose images.The most convenient tactile printing technologyis the TIGER Tactile Graphics EmbosseR(TIGER) developed in the SAP group.
One canalso print or copy a black and white image on"swell paper" (Swell), heat this special paper ina radiant heater, and obtain a tactile copy whenthe black areas well.Off-line printing is time-consuming and makesit very difficult for a blind person to takeadvantage of features like zoom views.
Anumber of on-line haptic technologies are beingexplored motivated by various virtual realityuses.
One such technology, the haptic mouse,has already been introduced or announced forimminent release by several companies(Immersion, Canada 1, Canada2).
These devicesshould soon permit blind people to exploregraphics on-line.Another audio technology is use of non-speechaudio to display visual images and other data(ICAD).
The TRIANGLE application(TRIANGLE) and a new Windows 95Accessible Graphing Calculator (ACG) bothdeveloped by the SAP uses tone plots torepresent x-y graphs.
The x axis is mapped totime and the y axis to a tone that is high forlarge y and low for small y.
This provides agood qualitative overview of a graph.
The SAPis currently investigating audio enhancements toprovide more quantitative non-speech audioinformation such as beats with frequencyproportional to the slope or second erivative ofy with respect to x (Audio).People with only moderate visual disabilities orpeople with good vision but various visualprocessing disorders (e.g.
dyslexia) can achievevery good access by the combination of visualimages reinforced by audio, and many areexpected to find the haptic mouse useful as well.The critical necessity for any of these methodsto work is a well-structured data format thatincludes labels and permits other informationabout objects and the location of these objects inthe figure.2 Accessibility of bit mapped graphicson the WWWA bit map image is essentially inaccessible,because the visual appearance can seldom betranslated into an audio or a tactile image that iseasily recognized by a person with a severe printdisability.The SAP has recently developed a relativelysimple method that permits authors or editors to"make bit maps accessible" by addingidentifying information related to objects in thefigure.
This procedure requires a currentgeneration 4 Netscape or Internet Explorerbrowser and a screen reader that works withthose browsers.
An example (Example) is acampus map of Oregon State University.
If theuser clicks on the "accessibility link" adjacent tothe bit map picture, the image is moved to thetop frame of a double frame window.
As themouse pointer is moved from object to object,the label is displayed in the bottom frame.
Thescreen reader automatically triggers on anychange and reads the labels as they appear.
Theuser may freeze the label by clicking on theobject.
This permits long or confusing labels tobe browsed by the screen reader.
Additionalinformation may be linked from this window ofcourse .A blind user can explore the image with a touchscreen instead of a mouse.
Ideally she/he willhave a tactile image on a digitizing pad.
In thefuture it should be possible for a blind user tobrowse the picture on line with a haptic mouse.This access method works for a blind user evenif the internet browser is set not to showpictures.
With "no picture" enabled, the imagewill not appear in the top frame visually, but the105labels still appear when the mouse pointer isplaced where a particular object would be if itwere visible.Preparation of the information necessary towork in the accessibility link is relativelystraightforward.
The author or an editor mustoutline each object and write its labelinformation.
The only caveat is that authorsmust use the correct order for listing objects thatoverlap to be sure that the right one is on top.The author/editor tools will be tested by OregonState University faculty and staff and will beused to make a number of local and distanceeducation courses more accessible beginning inFall 1998.
If these do prove very useful we willencourage their use in education more broadly.3 VRML as a Graphics LanguageThe requirements that make information directlyaccessible in principle by blind people arebasically the same as those that makeinformation most usable by search engines,visualization routines, etc.Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML) isa high-level well-structured language permittingvery flexible modeling of three dimensionaltime-dependent i eractive graphics.
There areseveral research efforts aimed at making VRMLmore accessible by non-visualmeans (Toronto,NIST).VRML may not be intrinsically fully accessiblebut it is a language capable of representinggraphical information in a fully accessible form.To our knowledge there is no other commongraphical language with this capability availableat this time.We have constructed several VRML examples(VRML) to illustrate graphical informationcommon in physics education.
We discuss theaccessibility of each and how futuredevelopments could increase accessibility.One example is an interactive display of electricpotential along a line containing electriccharges.
The sign, magnitude, and position ofthe charges may be changed by the user.Another example is a familiar picture from anelementary physics textbook illustrating frictionon a block sliding down a tilted plane.
Thisexample is highly interactive, allowing the userto change the coefficients of friction, control theangle of tilt, etc.The initial static pictures are quite accessibleusing technologies that are available today.Sighted viewers who want to see the labels canclick on any object, and a dialogue box pops upand displays any information that the author hasincluded about that object.
The labels areincluded in nodes using a procedure similar tothat used by Ressler et al (NIST).
If the user isalso running a speech screen reader, it willnormally speak the contents of this dialoguewindow, so the label will be both seen andheard.A totally blind reader can print a tactile copy ofthe figure, place it on a digitizing pad, and thenuse her/his finger as the mouse to call up andhear the dialogue box provide information aboutobjects.
A deaf blind user can access thedialogue box with an on-line braille display.We anticipate that haptic mouse developmentsare likely to make possible direct haptic accessto these figures within a year or two.
Acombination of a static tactile picture and ahaptic mouse could provide really excellentaccess to these examples.
Feeling out a picturewith a haptic mouse is tedious, so the tactilefigure is good for a general overview.
Then themouse can be used to examine changes in thepotential for example, or to detect he momentthe block begins to slide as one changes omeparameter.The important information in the electricpotential example could also be displayed inaudio by the same technique used in the SAPAccessible Graphing Calculator (AGC).
The106advantage of an audio display is that the usercan easily change something and then listenagain.
It would be tedious at best to readdifferent figures by making tactile copies Ofeach.
This type of simple tone plot can also bedisplayed as a moving icon on a braille displayfor a deaf blind user.
This technique is used inparallel with the tone plot in the TRIANGLEprogram.The SAP is making several tools that permitaudio display to be used conveniently withVRML figures.
These tools include a user-controllable method for choosing objects to bedisplayed in a tone plot.
The SAP is alsomaking a simple authoring tool for x-y graphs inVRML.
These data could be displayed in audioand examined quantitatively in the same displayroutine developed for the SAP AccessibleGraphing Calculator.
This plot browserprovides excellent on-line audio or braille/hapticaccess to graphs.
It can search for maxima,minima, inflection points, etc., and can speakthe data values at any point.It would not be difficult to extend this simplegraphing tool to an almost arbitrarily rich andcomplex graph authoring environment withdata, functional forms, and other types ofinformation available to the viewer in bothvisual and alternate form.VRML is a three dimensional modelinglanguage, but at present there is no fullysatisfactory way that a blind person can view 3Dimages.
Commercial interests are likely to drivedevelopment of technologies for feeling virtualobjects however.
These could bring excellentaccess by people who are blind or dyslexic toproperly prepared VRML graphics.
We suspectthat clever audio methods are possible thatprovide some degree of access even in absenceof tactile hardware.
There is much interest inspatially localized sound, and audio access tothree dimensional displays by blind peoplecould also become possible as a result.However all these access methods require thatimportant objects be labeled.ConclusionWe have demonstrated a "band-aid" approach tomaking current bit-mapped graphics filesaccessible.
This method requires adding anobject list to the original bit mapped image thatrelates the position of objects to their labels.These labels may be accessed in standard webbrowsers and spoken or displayed in braille by astandard screen reader.We have also demonstrated several examples ofaccessible VRML graphics.We intend to make authoring and editing toolsavailable that allow others to produce labelnodes for VRML objects and to create certainkinds of graphics (e.g.
x-y VRML graphicaldata displays) that will automatically include allnecessary information.Most general VRML images can be madeaccessible in principle if the author takes thetime to label objects so that they are accessibleto the audio browser.Full access to simple graphics (i.e.
twodimensional time-independent displays) ispossible now.
Good access to more complexdisplays is possible in some cases with difficultybut requires development of better tactile orhaptic hardware to permit really good access.Even in absence of such hardware however, wehave demonstrated that clever users can achievea degree of access that is almost beyond theimagination of most people today.The major lesson of this research for computerscientists is that data visualization by peoplewithout vision is possible only if the datastructures are high level and include adequateinformation.
Visual appearance is generallyinadequate to permit full identification of anobject by people with visual disabilities, soexplanatory labels are required.
In addition thedata structure and data display routines must107relate the object to its position and vice versa.These properties are desirable in any case,because they greatly facilitate classification andsearch methods both present and future.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported in part by theNational Science Foundation under grantHRD9452881.ReferencesSAP, The Oregon State University Science AccessProject, http://dots.physics.orst.eduJacobson, R.D.
and Kitchin, R.M (in press, due 1998)Geographical information systems and people withvisual impairments or blindness: Exploring thepotential for education, orientation and navigation.Transactions inGeographical Information Systems.TIGER., The TIGER Tactile Graphics EmbosseR:,http://dots.physics.orst.edu/tiger._.proj ct.ht nlSwell, Major manufacturer of swell paper in the USis Repro-Tronics, Inc., 75 Carter Ave., Westwood,NJ 07675 http://www.repro-tronics.comImmersion, Immersion Corporation, San Jose, CA,http://www, force-feedback.com.Canada I, Control Advancements, Kitchener, Ontario,CANADA, http://www.controladv.comCanada:, VisuAide, Longuauil, Quebec, CANADAICAD, International Conferences on Audio Display,http://www.santafe.edu/-kramer/icad/TRIANGLE, TRIANGLE, a computer applicationenabling blind people to do math and science,http://dots.physics.orst.edu/triangle.htmlAGC, Windows 95 Accessible Graphing Calculatorhttp://dots.physies.orst.edu/age.htmlAudio, Audio graph research in the Science AccessProjecthttp://dots.physics.orst.edu/audiodisplay.htrnlExample, Making WWW bit map graphics accessiblehttp://dots.physics.orst.edu/graphics bitmap.htmlToronto, Christopher Serflek, Jutta Treviranus, -VRML: Shouldn't Virtual Ramps be Easier to Buildhttp://www.utoronto.ca/atrc/rd/library/papers/vrml.htmlNIST, Sandy Ressler, Qirning Wang, MakingVRML Accessible for People with Disabilitieshttp://ovrt.nist.gov/projects/VRMLaccess/VRML, Accessible Graphics with VRMLhttp://dots.physics.orst.edu/graphics_vrml.htrnl108
