Lexical Marking and the Recovery of Discourse StructureKathleen DahlgrenInQuizit Technologies, Inc.725 Arizona Avenue, Suite 204Santa Monica, California 90401email- kd@inquizit.comIntroductionIn the theory presented here, discourse rela-tions are equated with coherence relations.The relata are taken to be sets of events orentities introduced into the discourse, as inSDRT (Asher, 1993).
Our empirical stud-ies of commentary, narrative and news textshave shown that coherence relations are fre-quently signaled syntactically or semanti-cally rather than lexically.
In a full naturallanguage understanding design, this muchdiscourse structure can be recognized com-putationally.
However, there remain dis-courses in which the coherence relations areunmarked even by syntax, tense or aspect.Some of these relations cannot be recognizedcomputationally because they require exten-sive world knowledge.
Ultimately any re-lation between events or objects which iscommon knowledge among discourse partic-ipants can form the basis for a felicitousrequest for an unmarked coherence infer-ence.
In order to recognize all coherence re-lations, a computational system needs fullworld knowledge.Theory of Discourse StructureOther theories have defined the relata in dis-course structure as clauses (Trabasso andSperry, 1985), pieces of text (Hobbs, 1985,Mann and Thompson, 1987), pieces of textplus connectives ( Cohen, 1984, Reichman,1985), propositions (Van Dijk and Kintsch,1983, Polanyi, 1988), plans (Lochbaum,Grosz and Sidner, 1990) and segmented dis-course representation structures, the SDRTtheory (Asher, 1993).The theory that we adopt here proposesthat the relata in discourse structure aresets of events, states or entities introducedinto the discourse, along the lines of SDRT.The reader builds a "cognitive model" ofthe text content.
In the cognitive model or"situation model", the events in a discourseare connected by inferences concerning thesurrounding events (causes, goals, parts ofevents, enabling conditions, and so on), asshown in many studies by Graesser and col-leagues, such as Graesser and Zwaan, 1995.In narrative, the cognitive model forms acausal chain of events (Trabasso and Sperry,1985).
A discourse is coherent o the extentthat a cognitive model of the discourse con-tent can be built by a qualified reader, tha~is one with the requisite background knowl-edge.In our theory, coherence inferences areadded to the discourse representation aspredications added to the DRS (Dahlgren,1996).
A discourse segment is a set of dis-course events and entities that cohere amongthemselves, and share a single coherence re-lation to another discourse segment (whichcould consist of just one event or entity,such as the discourse topic).
In this the-ory the same set of coherence relations re-late the events introduced by individual sen-tences and also by sets of sentences (seg-ments), because it was found that the samenaive theories of the relatedness of thingsand events explained both local and globalcoherence.
Surface rhetorical relations suchas "turning to" were not considered in thistheory.65The theory of coherence informing the em-pirical studies ummarized below claims thatthe basis of coherence relations and discoursestructure is the naive view (or naive the-ory) of events and the relatedness of objectsin the real world.
It is supposed that co-herence inferences during discourse under-standing are made according to the samenaive theories people use to understand realevents.
A coherent discourse is then one forwhich a cognitive model of events can bebuilt in which events and things relate inways people naively expect them to relate.By "naive" we mean non-scientific and non-truth-conditional (Hayes, 1985).
The cog-nitive model is built by the reader is againa naive theory--a belief structure about theway the world would be if the writers' storywere true.The set of coherence relations in Table Iare justified from the above philosophicalpoint of view and also by noticing that eachof them can be grounded in a known psycho-logical process, and that each of them canbe marked by an overt lexical cue phrase, assummarized in Table I.Studies of Coherence,Discourse Structure andAnaphora ResolutionPreliminary studies were conducted in or-der to facilitate the design of a computationtext understanding system.
We examinedtexts in three genres: 1) commentary text(13000 and 20000 words), narrative ( thenovel Wheels by Alex Halley), and wire ser-vice reports (MUC-3 terrorism texts).
Thecommentary corpus was drawn from WallStreet Journal articles which might be called"news", but in every case there was a keysection that had commentary or evaluationof events, and the discourse structure dif-fered from that of the terrorism news re-ports.
The discourse segment boundaries,the coherence (discourse) relations and theanaphoric expressions throughout he com-mentary and narrative corpora were labeledand analyzed by two individuals (the authorand another linguist).The purpose of investigation was to dis-cover:1. human mechanisms for coherence rela-tion assignment (including between seg-ments of discourse) during interpreta-tion2.
human mechanisms for discourse seg-mentation during interpretation3.
constraints on resolution of anaphoricexpressions during interpretationThe goal was to clearly define the mecha-nisms so that they could be imitated by com-putational algorithms.
These studies and re-sults are fully described in (Dahlgren, 1996,Lord and Dahlgren, 1997, and Iwanska, etall, 1991).Lexical Marking of CoherenceRelationsIn our theory, as in Knott and Dale (1994),it is not possible to have a coherence re-lation which is NEVER signaled lexically.Membership in the set of relations is jus-tified first by having some overt marker inEnglish.
If coherence relations which neverhave an overt marker are allowed into thetheory, a hopeless multiplication of invisiblerelations could ensue.
Thus the theory triv-ial.ly answers the symposium question, "Arethere any that are never lex.ical_ly signaled?
"As for the other part of that question, "Arethere discourse relations that are always lexi-cally signaled?"
our study replies in the neg-ative.
Any of the coherence relations in Ta-ble I can occur without overt lex.ical cues, asillustrated in the examples in Figure I.The two-sentence examples in Figure I arereplicated with discourse segments in thestudy corpora.Non-lexical Marking ofDiscourse StructureOur corpus studies directly answer one ofthe symposium questions, "What non-lexical66(i.e., syntactic or prosodic) means are usedCoherenceRelationcauseTable I: Evidence for Coherence RelationsCognitive Capacitynaive theories of causationConnectivebecause, as a result, consequentlybackgroundgoalenablementconstituencycontrastelaborationevaluationperception of figure/groundand saliencenaive theories of intentionalitynaive theories of causationrecognition of part/wholerecognition of similarityperception of spatio-temporalcontiguitypreference (goodness ratings)when, whilein order to, so thatbecausein summary, for example, first, secondsimilarly, fikewise, in contrastthen, next, that is to sayevidently, that means, modality,negationCauseBackgroundGoalEnablementConstituencyContrastElaborationEvaluationFigure I: Coherence Relations without Lexical CuesFred died.
Harry stabbed him.It was raining outside.
Fred rushed in the front door.Fred bought at book.
He read it.Fred was well-heeled.
He invested heavily.Fred was tried for murder.
The prosecution opened the case with a diatribe.Fred loves rain.
Mary hates it.Fred rushed in the front door.
He threw off his raincoat.The networks are losing money.
They should cut back on the ads.to signal a relation?"
In our study of seg-ments, coherence relations, and pronouns inWheels, there was a cue phrase at only 41%of the segment boundaries.
Other indicatorswere non-lexical (see Table II).
In our studyof 13000 words of commentary genre text,cue phrases signaled segment boundary atonly 16% of the segment boundaries.Table II: Lexical and Non-LexicalDiscourse Markers in Wheelschange of coherence relation 88%change of sentence subject 72%segmenting cue phrase 41%change in tense or aspect 58%By non-lexical discourse marker we meanan indicator of a structural boundary in thediscourse, one that requires the reader to be-gin a new segment, and also find a plausibleattachment point for the new segment in the67discourse structure tree built so far (Asher,1993).
Examples of lex_ical discourse mark-ers would be "while" (indicating the begin-ning of a background segment), "then" (in-dicating the continuation of the same seg-ment with a constituent of the larger eventdescribed in the segment), and so on.The non-lexical discourse markers foundin all three genres are shown in Table III.In the study of Wheels it was noted thatchange of sentence subject marked 72% ofthe new segments.
This relates as well to thepattern of pronoun use.
There is a complexrelation between personal pronouns and dis-course structure in Wheels.
Antecedents ofpersonal pronouns were found either in thesame segment, in a dominating segment, orin an unclosed prior segment for which theuse of the pronoun signals that the prior seg-ment should be reopened (popped).
Infre-quently, the antecedent could be found in anTable III: Non-lexical Discourse MarkersChange of sentence subject (change of local topic)and consequently, absence of personal pronoun reference to prior sentenceEvent anaphoraChange of coherence relationChange of timeChange of placeTenseAspectimmediately adjacent closed sister segmentin the discourse tree.Event anaphora refers to the use of ad-verbs like "so" and demonstratives like"this" to close a segment and then refer tothe summation of all of the events in thesegment proaominally.
An example is froma Wall Street Journal article about Brazil(shortened), where "this" refers to the sumof the events in the prior segment :Brazil suspended debt payments.Mexico followed suit.
Chile threat-ened to cancel all of its foreigndebt.
This caught internationalbankers unprepared.Computational Recovery ofDiscourse StructureThe symposium organizers ask, "In analy-sis, is it possible to reliably infer discourserelations from surface cues?"
Superficially,the answer is "no", because as describedabove, frequently there are no surface cuephrases at segment boundaries.
Even para-graph boundaries in highly edited text arenot reliable cues of segment boundaries.But at a deeper level, the answer is con-ditional.
If by "surface cues" we mean allof the syntactic and semantic informationavailable in the sentences of the discourse, itis conceivable to somewhat reliably (at leastas reliably as humans can) infer discourserelations from that information.
This taskrequires a full linguistic interpretive modulethat parses and disambiguates the discourse,producing a logical form.
The logical form isinput to a formal semantic module (such asan SDRT module).
In the resulting SDRSfor the discourse, along with the meaningrepresentations of the word senses in the dis-course (naive semantics), all of the informa-tion required to recover the discourse rela-tions is available.In this design, world knowledge is encodedin a "naive semantic" lexicon, which reflectsa shallow layer of knowledge, just enoughto interpret he text.
"Just enough" meansenough to disambiguate the word meaningsand the syntactic structure, and enough torecover the antecedents of anaphoric expres-sions (Dahlgren, 1991).Naive semantic representations capturesome of the naive theories of the world whichpeople associate with word sense meaningsin a given culture (Dahlgren, 1988).
Naivesemantics is a lexical theory which equatesthe meaning of a word sense with a con-cept, so that concept representations andword sense meaning representations have thesame form.
In the contrasting classical tra-dition, word meanings are conjunctions ofprimitives which form conditions for being inthe extension (or class of objects) named bya word sense (Katz and Fodor, 1963).
Themeaning of "water" is a formulawater(X).
: :.
c lear (X)&co lor less (X)& l iqu id (X)The classical theory doesn't work because:1) true scientific theories of the nature of cat-egories are not necessarily known by speak-ers of a language; 2) the categories Conceptsname are gradient, with some members bet-ter examples than others; and 3) typical68properties of objects aren't necessary prop-erties.
For example, muddy water is still wa-ter.Naive semantics posits that word mean-ings are shallow, limited naive theories ofobjects and events.
The meaning of "wa-ter" has naive propositions equivalent to thefollowing:Water is a clear, tasteless liquid;you find it in rivers, you find it atthe tap; you drink it; you wash withit.The features in the representation are psy-cholinguistically justified.
These are thetypes of propositions subjects hst whenasked to give the "characteristics" of nouns.
(In our computational lexicon, features arerepresented in a first-order logic form withtemporal markings.
)In naive semantics, the content of verbconcepts is based upon psycholingnisticstudies of story comprehension (Graesserand Clark, 1985).
A verb is understoodand recalled in terms of other events andstates which typical surround the event ypeit names (rather than being understood asa metaphor for motion, as in other theo-ries).
For example, the verb "stab" is as-sociated with the goal of harming someone,the goal of killing someone, the constituentevent of piercing someone with a sharp in-strument, the consequence of killing some-one, the consequence of someone bleeding,the enabling state of having a knife and soon.
These surrounding events are elicited bythe wh-questions such as "What caused X?
"and "What was the goal of X?".
The cor-responding features are those employed inour computational naive semantic lexicon,namely "cause", "goal", "what_next", con-sequence", "time", "location", and "how",along with selectional restrictions.Lexical naive theories arise in a culture orsubculture, and are limited to those prop-erties and propositions hared among themembers of the subculture.
In addition tothe shared naive theory of an object or event,speakers of a dialect may hold individual be-liefs which are at odds with the shared naivetheory, but they have to use the shared the-ory in order to communicate.
In other words,a scientist may know that an object whichappears to be failing is not (such as the Sun),but must still understand such statementsas "The Sun is setting" in terms of the in-correct naive theory underlying the use of"set" in the context.
While naive seman-tic representations contain far more infor-mation than meaning representations i  theclassical theory, they are hmited as well tothat knowledge which is very closely associ-ated with a word sense, and used to recoverthe interpretation of sentence structure andmeaning while listening or reading.
Includedare the most typical propositions describ-ing an object or event, those which informword sense disambiguation, structural dis-ambiguation and anaphora resolution pro-cessing, but not the elements which are usedin deep inferencing or recollection of personalepisodes.The shallowness of naive semantic repre-sentations is particularly important in ex-plaining the use of lexical markers in dis-course.
Writers tend to employ markerswhen they cannot assume that the readerwill easily and readily draw coherence in-ferences without them.
Readers will beable to do so if the shared naive theory ofevents includes enough information.
If thenaive theory says that an event E1 typicallycauses an event E2, then it is felicitous towrite two sentences describing just the twoevents, with no discourse markers relatingthe events, i.e., E1 E2 or E2 El.
But if thenaive semantics of the events does not pro-vide the connection, writers tend to makeit explicit at some point, in order to aidthe reader in building the intended cognitivemodel.The surrounding events in naive seman-tic verb representations are precisely the in-formation required to trigger unmarked co-herence inferences.
A causal relation can beinferred by inspection of lexical informationalone when no other cue is available as in thediscourse below which has no cue phrase, nochange in tense or aspect, and the reverse oftemporal order.69Fred died.
Harry stabbed him.Humans know to make the required co-herence inference (required because all fe-licitous literal discourses must cohere), andthey infer that the cause of Fred's deathwas the stabbing.
The naive semantic in-formation associated with senses of "stab"and "die" enable a computational inferenceof the same kind to be made.
This is re-flected by adding to the DRS below a coher-ence predicate cause e2,el).ul,el,u2,e2rl,r2,helr l  < nowfred(ul)el die(ul)el included in rlharry(u2)e2 stab(u2,himl)r l  < r2e2 included in r2After assignment of the coherence re-lation the segmented DRS (or cognitiveDRS) has an added coherence predicate"cause(e2,el)", which indicates that thecause of dying was stabbing.
Also, theanaphoric expression "him1" is resolved tothe same entity as Fred, namely ul in theec uation ul = u2 in the cognitive DRS.ul,el,u2,e2rl,r2r l  < nowfred(ul)el die(u1)el included in r lharry(u2)e2 stab(u2,ul)r l  < r2e2 included in r2u2=ulcause(e2,el)In another example, the precursor of ourcurrent implementation was able to builda shallow, topic-related iscourse structuretree for MUC-3 message number 99 by notic-ing change of time, change of place, or seg-menting cue phrase (Iwanska et al 1991).However, events and individuals in theworld relate in indefinitely many ways.
Nomatter how large the naive semantic lex-icon would get, no matter how detailedthe knowledge would become, a naturallanguage understanding system would en-counter discourses which required additionalknowledge.
The gap would prevent thesystem from drawing a coherence inferencewhich would be easy for humans to draw.When they do have difficulty building thecognitive model, humans have a huge store ofknowledge, and they dig deeper (while tak-ing more time).
Even in simple secular textswhich require no knowledge of jargon, it ispossible to find many segments related by co-herence inferences which could not be drawnusing a shallow naive semantic lexicon.The problem lies in the fact that coher-ence inferences are based upon naive theo-ries of the relatedness of events and objectsin the world.
Until a computer system canbe taught the complete system of naive the-ories of the world, it can't form the full cog-nitive model of all discourses.
It can onlyguarantee the derivation of the structure inthose cases where lexical marking, change insentence subject, event anaphora, change intime or place, tense or aspect are presentas indicators.
Nevertheless, a capability toderive that much of the structure is usefulfor many computational goals, including im-proved anaphora resolution, temporal rea-soning and locative reasoning.ConclusionDiscourse relations are often not marked lex-ically.
However, other indicators, includingsyntax, semantics and world knowledge, areavailable in commentary, narrative and newsgenre texts.
These can be used by a compu-tational system that has a full syntax, for-mal semantics and a naive semantic lexi-con, to recover much of the discourse struc-ture.
Complete recovery of discourse struc-ture computationally awaits machine learn-ing systems which can teach computers ex-tensive knowledge about objects, events andtheir relations in the world.70ReferencesAsher, N. 1993.
Reference to Abstract Ob-jects in English.
Boston, MA: KluwerAcademic Publishers.Britton, B. and J.
Black (Eds.)
1985.Understanding ezpository tezt.
Hillsdale,NK: Erlbaum.Cohen, R. 1984.
A computational theory ofthe function of clue words in argument un-derstanding.
Proceedings off COLING-84,251-258.Dahlgren, K. 1988.
Naive Semantics forNatural Language Understanding.
Boston,MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Dahlgren, K. 1991.
The autonomy of shal-low lexical knowledge.
In J. Pustejovskyand S. Bergler (Eds.
), Lezical Seman-tics and Knowledge Representation.
NewYork: Springer Verlag.Dahlgren, K. 1996.
Discourse coherence andsegmentation.
In E. Hovy and D.
Scott(Eds.
), Burning Issues in Discourse Hills-dale, N J: Erlbaum.Graesser, A., and L. Clark.
1985.
Struc-tures and Procedures of Implicit Knowl-edge.
Norwood, NJ: Ablex.Graesser, A., and G.H.
Bower 1990.
In-ferences and Tezt Comprehension.
SanDiego, CA: Academic Press.Graesser, A., and R.A. Zwaan.
1995.
In-ference Generation and the Constructionof Situation Models.
In Weaver, C.A.,S.
Mannes and C.R.
Fletcher DiscourseComprehension HJllsdale, N J: Erlbaum.Grosz, B. and C. Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, Intensions and the Structure of Dis-course: A Review.
Computational Lin-guistics 7:85-98; 12:175-204.Hayes, P.J.
1985.
The Second Naive PhysicsManifesto.
In J.R. Hobbs and R.C.
Moore(Eds.)
Formal Theories of the Common-sense World.
Norwood, N J: Ablex.Hobbs, J.R. 1985.
On the Coherence andStructure of Discourse.
CSLI ReportCSLI-85-37.Iwanska, L., D. Appelt, D. Ayuso,K.
Dahlgren, B. Stalls, R. Grishman,G.
Krupka, C. Montgomery, and E. Riloff.1991.
Computational spects of discoursein the context of MUC-3.
Proc.
of theThird Message Understanding Conference(MUC-3), 256-282.Katz, J.J. and J.A.
Fodor.
1963.
TheStructure of Semantic Theory.
Language39:170-210.Knott, A. and R. Dale.
1994.
Using Lin-guistic Phenomena to Motivate a Set ofRhetorical Relations.
Discourse Processes18(1):35-62.Lochbaum, K.E., B.J.
Grosz and C.L.
Sid-ner.
1990.
Models of plans to supportcommunication: an initial report.
Proc.AAAI: 485-490.Lord, C. and K. Dahlgren.
1997.
Partic-ipant and event anaphora in newspaperarticles.
In J. Bybee et al (Eds.)
Essayson Language Function and Language TypeDedicated to T. Givon.
Amsterdam: JohnBenjamins.Mann, W. and S. Thompson.
1987.
Rhetor-ical Structure Theory: A Theory of TeztOrganization.
ISI Reprint Series: ISI-RS-87-190.Morrow, D.G.i S.L.
Greenspan, andG.H.
Bower.
1987.
Accessibility and situ-ation models in narrative comprehension.Journal of Memory and Language 26:165-87.Polanyi, L. 1988.
A formal model of thestructure of discourse.
Journal of Prag-matics 12:601-638.Reichman, R. 1985.
Getting Computers toTalk Like You and Me.
Cambridge, MA:MIT Press.Trabasso, T. and L.L.
Sperry.
1985.
Causalrelatedness and the importance of storyevents.
Journal of Memory and Language24:595-611.van den Broek, P., P.J.
Bauer, andT.
Bourg (Eds.)
1997.
DevelopmentalSpans in Event Comprehension and Rep-resentation: Bridging Fictional and Ac-tual Events.
Mahwah, N J: Lawrence Erl-baum.Van Dijk, T. and W. Kintsch.
1983.
Strate-gies of Discourse Comprehension.
NewYork: Academic Press.71
