SIMPLEX NPS CLUSTERED BY HEAD:A METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING SIGNIFICANT TOPICSWITHIN A DOCL~IENTNina Wacholder tCenter for Research on Information AccessColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027nina@cs.columbia.eduAbstractThis paper discusses 'head clustering', a novel,linguistically-motivated method for representingthe aboutness of a document.
First, a list ofcandidate significant topics consisting all simplexNPs is extracted from the document.
Next, theseNPs are clustered by head.
Finally, a significancemeasure is obtained by ranking frequency ofheads: those NPs with heads that occur withgreater frequency in the document are moresignificant than NPs whose head occurs lessfrequently.
An important strength of this techniqueis that it is  in principle domain-general.Furthermore, the output can be filtered in a varietyof ways, both for automatic processing and forpresentation tousers.In order to evaluate the head clusteringmethod, an experiment was conducted in whichjudges were asked to rate three lists as to whetherthey conveyed a sense of the content of the article.The judges agreed that the list of simplex NPswith repeated heads was more helpful inrepresenting the content of the full document thana list of keywords with a frequency of greater thanone or than a list of repeated word sequences.IntroductionThis paper describes a methodology foridentifying significant topics in edited documentssuch as newspaper articles.
For the purposes ofthis paper, a 'topic' is any event or entityexplicitly referred to in the document, and a'significant opic' is a topic central to what issometimes called the aboutness of a document.The notion 'significant', like the notion'relevant', is both task and user dependent.
Whatis significant for an application that answersspecific questions is different from what issignificant for an application that conveys thesense of particular documents; what is significantin a domain for a naive user may be quite differentfrom what is significant to an expert.
The goal ofthis work is to develop a general technique foridentifying the topics referred to in a documentand for ranking these topics in terms of theirsignificance.
The list can then be filtered in avariety of ways, depending on the requirements ofthe application.A fundamental hypothesis of this researchis that the head of a common NP makes more ofcontribution to the document as a whole than domodifiers and should therefore be treated in a waythat gives it particular prominence.
The intuitivejustification for sorting simplex NPs by head isbased on the fundamental distinction betweenheads and modifiers: if, as a practiral matter, it isnecessary to rank the contribution to the wholemade by the set of words constituting an NP, thehead is obviously the most important word, bothfrom the point of view of syntax and semantics.lThis research was partly supported by NSF grant IRI-9712069, "Automatic Identification of SignificantTopics in Domain Independent Full Text", Judith Klavans, PI; Nina Wacholder, co-PI.The author extends thanks to Judith Klavans, Yael Ravin, David K. Evans, Luis Gravano and Eleazar Eskinfor their thoughtful comments and suggestions.70The methodology described in this paperinvolves collecting a complete list of nominalelements which together constitute a simplifiedrepresentation f the content of the document.These nominal elements are called simplex NPs.For common NPs (NPs whose head is a commonnoun (N)), a simplex NP is a maximal NP thatincludes premodifiers uch as determiners andpossessives but not post-nominal constituents suchas prepositions or relativizers.
Examples areasbestos fiber and 9.8 billion Kent cigarettes.Simplex NPs can be contrasted with complex NPssuch as 9.8 billion Kent cigarette with asbestosfilters where the head of the NP is followed by apreposition, or 9.8 billion Kent cigarettes old bythe company, where the head is followed by aparticipial verb.
An important property of these(English-language) simplex NPs is that the phrasalhead is the last element.This technique can be used in IRapplications at indexing time.
In addition, thismethod is useful for applications which requireshallow language understanding in order toproduce output hat users will find satisfactory.Examples include:?
summarization or other techniques forconveying the content of a document.?
advanced information extraction whereimportant entities in the document mustbe identified and linked so thatinformation about the entity fromdifferent parts of the document can bemerged.?
second stage information retrieval, wherea subset of a larger corpus has beendetermined to be potentially relevant,perhaps by a statistically based system.The subset can then be further filtered inorder to identify documents which arelikely to be of interest for a particularquery or which may provide the answer toa specific question.?
automatic or semi-automatic 'back-of-the-book' indexing of print and electronictexts.In the next section, related work onmethods for determining topic significance isreviewed.
Then the problem of choosingcandidate significant opics in the context of aparticular document is addressed and the choice ofsimplex NPs as the unit of representation isjustified.
The method by which LinkIT, a softwaretool developed at Columbia Uniersity to identifysignificant topics in domain-independent full text,uses head clustering to identify significant topicsis explained in some detail, using a samplenewpaper article.
2Finally, the head clustering method isevaluated.
Judges were asked to evaluate thehelpfulness in conveying the content of adocument of three lists: 1) a list of simplex NPsextracted from a document by LinkIT; 2) a list ofstems which occur in the document more thanonce; and 3) a list of repeated sequences of wordsin the sample document.
Judges agreed that theLinkIT output was superior.Related workIn order to identify significant topics in adocument, a significance measure is needed, i.e.,a method for determining which concepts in thedocument are relatively important.
In the absenceof reliable full-scale syntactic parsing, frequencymeasures are often used to determine significance.One of the earliest statistical techniques foridentifying significant topics in a document for usein creating automatic abstracts was proposed byLuhn (1958) who developed a method of makinga list of stems and/or words, sometimes calledkeywords, removing keywords on a stoplist, andthen calculating the frequency of the remainingkeywords.
This method, which is based on theintuition that frequency of reference to a conceptis significant, can be usefully used to locate atleast some important concepts in full text,especially when frequency of a keyword in adocument is calculated relative to its frequency ina large corpus, as in standard information retrieval(IR) techniques (Salton 1989).
However, theambiguity of stems (trad might refer to trader ortradition) and of isolated words (state might be apolitical entity or a mode of  being) means that listsof keywords have not usually been used torepresent the aboutness of a document to humanbeings.
Instead, techniques such as identifyingsentences with multiple keywords have been usedsince Luhn for automatic reation of abstractsZrhe LinkIT software is written by David K.Evans..71(Paice 1990).Recently, the effort to develop techniquesfor domain-independent content characterizationhas been addressed by Boguraev and Kennedy(1997).
They take as a starting point the questionof the applicability to document characterizationof the approach of.lusteson and Katz (1995) toidentifying technical terms in a corpus.
Justesonand Katz developed a well-defined algorithm foridentifying technical terminology, repeated multi-word phrases uch as central processing unit inthe computer domain or word sense in the lexicalsemantic domain.
This algorithm identifiescandidate technical terms in a corpus by locatingNPs consisting of nouns, adjectives, andsometimes prepositional phrases.
Technical termsare defined as those NPs, or their" subparts, whichoccur above some frequency threshold in a corpus.However, as Boguraev and Kennedyobserve, the technical term technique is not simplyadaptable to the task of content characterization fdocuments.
For an open-ended set of documentsand document types, there is no domain to restrictthe technical terms.
Moreover, patterns oflexicalization of technical terms in a corpus do notnecessarily apply to individual documents,especially short ones.
Boguraev and Kennedytherefore propose relaxing the notion of atechnical term to include an exhaustive list of"discourse referents" in a wide variety of textdocuments, and determining which referents areimportant by some measure of discourseprominence.With this approach, the concept oftechnical terms is greatly attenuated.
Even in atechnical document, technical terms do notconstitute a complete list of all of the phrases in adocument that contribute to its content, especiallysince technical terms are by definition multi-word.Moreover, a truly domain-general method shouldapply to both technical and.
non-technicaldocuments.
The relevant difference betweentechnical and non-technical documents i that intechnical documents, many of the topics which aresignificant to the document as a whole may be alsotechnical terms.Like the keyword and repeated wordsequence methods for measuring topicsignificance, head clustering is statistical in that itrelies on a frequency measure to provide anapproximation of topic significance.
However,instead of counting frequency of stems orrepetition of word sequences, this method countsfrequency of a relatively easily identifiedgrammatical element, heads of simplex NPs.In what follows, the head clusteringmethodology is described.
First, simplex NPs arepresented as a practical unit for 'gisting'.
Next,these NPs are clustered by head.
NPs whoseheads have a greater frequency are ranked as beingmore important than NPs whose heads occur lessfrequently.
In the evaluation of this method,discussed below, the head sorting method ofdetermining topic significance is compared to thepurely statistical keyword method and to therepeated word sequence.Simplex NPsOn the simplifying assumption thatnominal elements can be used to convey the gist ofa document, simplex NPs, which are semanticallyand syntactically coherent, appear to be at theright level for content representation ofexpressions out of the context of the document.For common NPs (as mentioned above), a simplexNP is a maximal NPs that includes premodifierssuch as determiners and possessives but not post-nominal constituents uch as prepositions orrelativizers.
For proper names, a simplex NP is aname that refers to a single entity.
For example,Museum of the City of New York, the name of anorganization, is a simplex NP even though theorganizational name incorporates a city name.When a word is presented in isolation,the structural information provided by the orderedjuxtaposition of the words that combine with it toform a meaningful unit is lost, as in the distinctionbetween unit and central processing unit.
Thisinformation may not be important in large scaleinformation retrieval systems, but it is important topeople.On the other hand, a list of all of thenominals in a document is impractical because itis bulky and repetitive, in part because ofembedding.
For example, in the 115 word excerptin Figure 1 (Wall Street Journal 0003, PennTreebank) 37 Ns are italicized, and 43 NPs and 5pronouns are bracketed.
33The full text of this article is inAppendix A.72\[\[\[A form\] of \[asbestos\]\] once used to make\[Kent cigarette filters\]\] has caused \[Ilia highpercentage\] of \[cancer deaths\]\] among \[\[a group\] of\[workers\]\]\] exposed to \[it\] more than \[30 years\]\] ago,\[researchers\] eported.\[\[The asbestos fiber\], \[crocidolite\]\], isunusually resilient once \[it\] enters \[the lung\], with\[\[even brief exposures\] to \[it\]\] causing \[\[symptoms\]that show up \[decades\] later\], \[researchers\] said.\[\[Lorillard Inc.\], \[\[the unit\] of \[New York-basedLoews Corp.\]\] that makes \[cigarettes\]\], stopped using\[crocidolite\] in \[\[its\] Micronite cigarette filters\] in1956.Although \[preliminary findings\] werereported more than \[a year\] ago, \[the latest results\]appear in today's \[\[\[New England Journal ofMedicine\], \[\[a forum\] likely to bring \[new attention\]to \[the problem\]\]\].Figure 1Compared to simplex NPs, complex NPs(e.g., symptoms that crop up decades later) aredifficult to identify by automatic means and arealso difficult for people to interpret, especially outof context.
For example, the expressioninformation about medicine for babies isambiguous: in \[\[information about medicine\] [forinfants\]\], the information is for infants; in\[information about \[medicine for infants\]\], themedicine is for infants.In contrast, simplex NPs form a coherentunit, with less structural ambiguity.
Furthermore,simplex NPs can be relatively reliably extracted bya finite state grammar from text that has beentagged with part-of-speech by a state-of-the-artsystem.
Figure 2 shows the simplex NPs extractedby LinkIT from the excerpt in Figure I.S1 I-2 (I) A formS 1 4-4 (2) asbestosS1 9-II (3) Kent cigarette filtersSI 14-16 (4) a high percentageSi 18-19 (5) cancer deathsS 1 21-22 (6) a groupS 1 24-24 (7) workersS 1 30-31 (9) 30 yearsS 1 33-33 (10) researchers$2 35-37 (11) The asbestos fiber$2 38-38 (12) crocidolite$2 45-46 (14) the lungs$2 48-50 (15) even brief exposures$2 54-54 (17) symptoms 73$2 56-56 (18) show$2 58-58 (19) decades$2 60-60 (20) researchers$3 62-63 (21) Lorillard Inc.$3 64-65 (22) the unit$3 67-71 (23) New York-based Loews Corp.$3 74-75 (24) Kent cigarettes$3 78-78 (25) crocidolite$3 81-83 (27) Micronite cigarette filters$3 87-88 (28) preliminary findings$3 93-94 (29) a year$3 96-98 (30) the latest results$3 i01-101 (31) today's$3 102-106 (32) New England .Journal of Medicine$3 107-108 (33) a forum$3 112-113 (34) new attention$3 115-116 (35) the problemFigure 2The list of simplex NPs in Figure 2 was created byLinkIT, a tool developed at Columbia Universityto identify significant topics in domain-independent full text.
The input to LinkIT is textwhich has been pre-processed and tagged withpart-of-speech by Mitre's publicly availableAlembic Workbecn (Aberdeen et al 1995).
One ofLinkIT's components is a finite state grammarwhich extracts simplex NPs.
As it processes thetext, LinkIT stores the sentence number and tokenspan of simplex NP, and assigns it a uniqueidentifier eflecting the order in which it appearedin the document.However, identifying all of the simplexNPs in a document is still not adequate forconveying the gist of a document because not allcandidate significant opics are in fact significant.An assumption underlying Justeson and Katz'notion of technical terms is that technical termshave distinguished usage in some domain.
This isdistinctly not the case for the complete list ofsimplex NPs in a document.
For a list to beuseful, additional filtering is needed.Head clusteringThe intuitive justification for sorting simplex NPsby head is based on the fundamental linguisticdistinction between head and modifier: a headmakes a greater contribution to the syntax andsemantics of a grammatical constituent than doesa modifier.
This linguistic insight can be extendedto the document level: if, as a practical matter, it isnecessary to rank the contribution to a wholedocument made by the sequence of wordsconstituting an NP, the head is more importantthan the other words in the phrase.
A variation ofthis observation has been recognized byStrzalkowski (1997) and others, who have usedthe distinction between heads and modifiers forquery expansion.
In this section, we proposeusing the head-modifier distinction to determineconcept significance.Since simplex NPs have been defined sothat the head is always the last element, the firststep in LinkIT's processing of the list of simplexNPs is to rank them by frequency of head.
The Nsthat occur as heads of simplex NPs three times ormore in wsj_0003 are listed in Figure 3.workers (9) asbestos (8) filter(s) (8)researchers (8) fiber (5) crocidolite (5)factory(4) years (4)Talcott (4)deaths (3) diseases(3) cigarettes (3)Figure 3By itself, Figure 3 is a simple representation fthe content of the document.
To allow the readerto make an independent judgement, he full text ofthis article appears in Appendix A.
This list, incombination with the structural informationdiscussed above, can be used at indexing time forIR applications.The document as a contained worldThe challenge in preparing an abbreviatedrepresentation f an article is to identify heuristicswhich make it possible to represent to the user thesense in which in which an author used anexpression in the document, without performingfull sense disambiguation.
I  an important sense,every document can be viewed as forming its own'self-contained' world.
A document is written toget across a particular idea or set of ideas.
Thetask of the author, at least in documents intendedfor public distribution, is to convey to the readerwhat general knowledge is assumed and to informthe reader of the context so that ambiguousexpressions can be easily identified.
Thesereferences are governed by certain standardconventions.For example, in an edited document suchas a newspaper article, the first reference to anamed entity such as a person, place or74organization typically uses a relatively full form ofthe name in a version which is sufficient todisambiguate the reference for the expectedaudience.
Later in the document, he same entityis usually referred to by a shorter, more ambiguousform of the name (Wacholder and Ravin 1997).An article might first refer to Columbia Universityor, (more formally) Columbia University in theCity of New York, and later refer only toColumbia.
Without the initial disambiguatingreference, Columbia by itself is quite ambiguous.It might be a city (Columbia, MD), a bank(Columbia Savings and Loan) or one of manyother entities.
Nominator, a module whichidentifies proper names developed at the IBM TJWatson Research categorizes them, and linksexpressions in the same document which refer tothe same entity successfully exploited thisproperty of documents (Wacholder et al 1997).Nominator first builds a list of proper names ineach document and then applies heuristics in orderto link names which refer to the same entity (e.g.,Hillary Clinton and Ms. Clinton, but not BillClinton).
This technique produces reliable linksbetween references to the same entity in adocument.Common NPs also manifest a pattern ofreferential linking in documents, although it ismore subtle and complicated than the proper namebehavior.
Any article of more than minimal engthcontains repeated references to importantconcepts.
In general, when a word appears as ahead of an NP in a document, it is used in thesame sense throughout the document, especially inarticles of newspaper length.
Some of thereferences to the head are elliptical and thereforevery ambiguous, at least out of context, but someof the references are usually fuller and thereforemore specific and more informative.
For example,in the Wall Street Journal article that is used as theprimary example throughout most of this paper,the most frequent head of simplex NPs is theworkers.
Six of the nine references to workers arenot preceded by an adjective or noun whichdelimits the intended sense of workers; however,one of these references i  to the more specificasbestos workers.
The different references to aconcept implicitly or explicitly refer to each otherand collectively form an abstract construct hatconveys the sense that the author (presumably)intended to convey.
(See Kameyama (1997) for adiscussion of the importance of establishing allreferential links within a document for informationextraction applications, o that information aboutthese ntities can be merged.)
When simplex NPsare clustered by head, NPs with the same head arelikely to refer to the same concept, if not to thesame entity.
For example, in the sentence "Thoseworker got a pay raise but the other workers didnot", the same sense of worker is used in bothNPs, but the workers referred to are different.Sorting by final word of the name is asimplification for proper names which, in contrastto common NPs, do not have a head in the sensethat there is a single word which is semanticallyand semantically the most important.
However,clustering proper names by the Final word, as if itwere the head, is satisfactory for certain kinds ofproper names, including human ones.
Forexample, Talcott can reasonably be considered thehead of both James Talcott and Dr. Talcott.
Weare currently in the process of  refining the headclustering procedure to handle organizations andother categories of proper names that havedifferent naming conventions (Wacholder et al1997).
In contrast o common NPs and properNPs, reference to concepts in the form ofpronominal naphors contribute no references tonew entities and therefore will not be discussed inthis paper.The head clustering technique provides away to situate the entities referred to in thedocument in the context of related entities o theirsense is comprehensible to users who have notactually read a document.
The full list of simplexNPs which have these heads appears in Figure 4.Examination of this list suggests that it provides amore explicit representation f the content of thearticle than does the list in Figure 3.
(48) the workers(83) workers(100) the workers(104) any asbestos workers(144) 160 workers(152) Workers(161) Workers(169) those workers(2) asbestos(41) asbestos(43) no asbestos(67) asbestos(I 15) asbestos 75(118) asbestos(141) asbestos(143) cancer-causing asbestos(3) Kent cigarette filters(27) Micronite cigarette filters(70) the filters(72) filter(74) the filters(I 12) the cigarette filters(147) the Kent filters(160) filters(10) researchers(20) researchers(47) the researchers(61) researchers(92) the researchers(I) The asbestos fiber(28) needle-like fibers(35) More common chrysotile fibers(57) acetate fibers(58) the dry fibers(12) crocidolite(25) crocidolite(116) crocidolite(129) crocidolite(151) the crocidolite(103) paper factory(145) a factory(150) the factory(165) the factory(9) 30 years(29) a year(39) years(178) 35 years(56) James A. Talcott(59) Dr. Talcott(97) Dr. Talcott(122) Dr. Talcott(5) cancer deaths(88) 18 deaths(99) lung cancer deaths(84) asbestos-related diseases(96) asbestos-related diseases(17 I) asbestos-related diseases(24) Kent cigarettes(51) the Kent cigarettes(73) 9.8 billion Kent cigarettesFigure 4For example, filter is the head of eight simplexNPs.
Four of these have adjective and nominalpremodifiers: Micronite cigarette filters, Kentcigarette filters, the cigarette filters and Kentfilters.
In the absence of other references tospecifc kinds of filters, the correct and accurategeneralization is that the kinds of filters discussedin this document are cigarette filters, rather thancoffee filters or oil filters.
Asbestos workers andcancer-causing asbestos, the most specific NPswith the head workers and asbestos respectively,as measured by number of content wordspreceding the head, accurately characterizes theproperty of the workers and of asbestos that ismost important for this document.
Similarly, themost specific simplex NP suggests that the type offactory under discussion is a paper factory.For the headfiber, there are five differentpremodifiers.
While it is impossible to determinefrom the list here which of these types of fiber arethe same and which are different, the variety ofpremodifiers suggests that types of fibers are beingdiscussed in this document.For researchers and crocidolite, thistechnique provides no further specification ofinformation, but merely does the same thing thata count of the occurrence of these strings in thedocument would yield, along with the additionalinformation that these words are repeatedly usedas heads in the document and therefore are morelikely to be candidate significant opics than aword like Kent which is used five times, but onlyas a modifier.EvaluationThe technique proposed in this paper is ageneral purpose one that can be used in a varietyof ways to identify significant topics in adocument.
In the long run, the practical value ofthis technique will be judged by its utility in NLPapplications such as run-time indexing forinformation retrieval, automatic summarizationand back-of-the-book indexing.However, an initial evaluation, as well asuseful suggestions for refining the technique, hasbeen obtained from human users.
In theevaluation, three articles were presented to five76individuals; none had any experience in NLP(though one was a professional librarian andindexer).
The judges uniformly ranked the list ofclustered NPs was ranked most highly, with anaverage rating of 3.15; the keyword list wasranked second, with an average rating of 2.45, andthe list of word sequences was ranked last, with anaverage rating of 1.92.The evaluation was conducted as follows.In order to determine whether the list ofsignificant topics output by the headed clusteringtechnique conveys the sense of a document, judgeswere asked to compare it to two other kinds ofoutput: a list of keywords of frequency of morethan one and a list of repeated sequences ofwords.
The keyword list was chosen because ithasbecome a standard in many NLP applications.
Ittherefore stablishes a baseline for comparison,even though lists of keywords are not generallyused to represent document aboutness.
The list ofrepeated word sequences i similar in its use ofrepeated phrases, except hat it uses a variation ofrelies notions of technical terms and technicalprominence rather than on repeated heads.The evaluation was conducted as follows.A list of simplex NPs clustered by head wasoutput by LinkIT for each of the three articles.
Thelist included all clusters whose head occurred inthe document as a head of more than one simplexNP; duplicates were removed.
For wsj~3003, 10 ofthe 32 simplex NPs considered significant becausetheir heads occurred more than once are shown inFigure 5.
The number in brackets is the freciuencyof occurrence.workers \[4\]the workers \[2\]any asbestos workers \[1\]160 workers \[1\]those workers \[I\]asbestos \[7\]no asbestos \[1\]cancer-causing asbestos \[1\]Kent cigarette filters \[1\]Micronite cigarette filters \[1\]the filters \[2\]filter \[1\]the cigarette filters \[I\]the Kent filters \[1\]filters \[1\]Figure 5The keyword list was produced from thelist of term frequency produced for wsj_0003 bythe SMART system; keywords that occurred in thedocument only once were removed.
The ten mostfrequent keywords (out of a total of 32) are shownin Figure 6.asbesto \[14\]work \[11\]fllt \[8\]canc \[7\]research \[6\]cigaret \[6\]make \[5\]iorillard \[5\]kent \[5\]fibe \[5\]Figure 6The list of repeated sequences of wordswas output by termer, an implementation by MinYen-Kan of Katz and Justeson's technical termalgorithm.
All word sequences which occurredmore than once in the document were listed andcapitalization was added where appropriate.There were six repeated word pairs in thisdocument, all of which are listed in Figure 7.Kent cigarette \[4\]cigarette filter \[3\]Dr. Talcott \[3\]cancer death \[2\]lung cancer \[2\]u.s. \[21Figure 7Although care was taken to make the listsas equivalent as possible, not all the differencescould be balanced out while maintainingfaithfulness to the reliability of the method.
Forexample, the repeated sequence methodconsistently produces a shorter list than does theclustered NP technique, and keyword techniqueproduces the longest list.The judges were asked to study the threelists, compare them to each other and to the text ofthe article and then rank each one on a scale of ito 5, where 1 indicated that the list provided noidea of the content of the article and 5 indicated77that the list provided an excellent idea of thearticle content.
The results of the evaluation areshown in Figure 8.AVERAGE LIST RANKINGSClustered Keywords Repeatedarticle NPs sequenceswsj_0003 3.45 2.49 1.8wsj_0013 2.85 2.2 1.9wsj_0015 3.15 2.65 2.05summary 3.15 2.45 1.92Figure 8The judges' preference for keywords overtechnical terms was surprising, given the claimmade above that phrases are more informativethan keywords.
However, in informal discussion,judges confirmed that the coherent expressions inthe clustered NP list and the repeated wordsequence list were more meaningful than thestems and isolated words in the keyword list.However, the fact that the repeated sequence listwas significantly shorter than the other two madeit less helpful than the other two and wasresponsible for the relatively low scores that thislist received.
This suggests that better resultsmight be obtained from a list in which the list ofclustered NPs is further filtered to include onlysimplex NPs with content-beating modifiers; forexample, instead of the simplex NPs whose headis workers shown in Figure 7, only hsbestosworkers would be listed.This evaluation suggests.that the headclustering method does in fact produce a set ofplausible signficant topics.SummaryIn conclusion, it appears that the head clusteringtechnique is a promising one for a variety ofapplications.
Moreover, since head clustering hasa grammatical basis, the method iscussed in thispaper is in principle domain general.
In fact, thecode for recognizing simplex NPs in Wall StreetJournal articles did not have to be modified inorder to handle abstracts of National ScienceFoundation grant applications, a quite differentgenre and domain than newspaper articles.
Themethod described in this paper therefore meritsfurther study.We plan to take this research in severaldirections.
First we are exploring the applicabilityof head clustering to other types of documents andto documents that are longer than newspaperarticles or proposal abstracts.
Second, we areundertaking qualitative and quantitative analysisof the significant topics identified by the methoddescribed in this paper and evaluation of theirusefulness, in comparison with other techniquesfor identifying significant topics.
Finally, LinkIToutput is being used in a variety of researchapplications.REFERENCESAberdeen, J., J. Burger, D. Day, L. Hirschman, and M.Vilain (1995) "Description of the Alembicsystem used for MUC-6".
In Proceedings ofMUC-6, Morgan Kaufmann.
Also, AlembicWorkbench,http://www.mitre.orJresources/centers/advanced_info/g041h/workbench.html.Boguraev, Branimir and Christopher Kennedy (1997)"Technical terminology for domainspecification and document characterization".In Information e.~traction: A multidisciplinaryapproach to an emerging informationtechnology, edited by Maria Teresa Pazienza,pp.
73-96.
Lecture Notes in ComputerScience Series, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Hirschman, Lynette and Marc Vilain (1995)"Extracting Information from the MUC",ACL 95 tutorial.Justeson, John S. and Slava M. Katz (1995) "Technicalterminology: some linguistic properties and analgorithm for identification i text", NaturalLanguage Engineering 1(I):9-27.Karneyama, Megumi "Recognizing referential links: aninformation extraction perspective" cmp--1g/9707009.Kennedy, Christopher and Branimir Boguraev (1996)"Anaphora for everyone: pronominalanaphora resolution without a parser".
InProceedings of COLING-96, Copenhagen,Denmark.Luhn, H.P.
(1958) ''The automatic creation of literatureabstracts", IBM Journal of Research andDevelopment, 2(2): 159-165.Mani, Inderjeet, T. Richard Macmillan, Susann Luper-foy, Elaine P. Lusher and Sharon J. Laskow-ski (1995) "Identifying unknown propernames in newswire text", Corptts Processingfor Lexical Acquisition, MIT Press,78Cambridge, MA.Paice, Chris D. (1990) "Constructing literature abstractsby computer: techniques and prospects".Information Processing & Management26(1):171-186.Palmer, David D. and David S. Day (1997) "Astatistical profile of the Named Entity Task".In Proceedings of the FiSh Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing,pp.
194-202, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.Penn Treebank.
Wall Street Journal, 1988.
Treebank,Linguistic Data Consortium, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Radev, Dragomir and Kathleen R. McKeown (1997)"Building a generation knowledge sourceusing Internet-accessible newswire",Proceedings of the ANLP, ACL, Washington,DC.Salton, Gerald (1989) Automatic Text Processing: TheTransformation, Analysis and Retrieval ofInformation by Computer.
Addison-Wesley,Reading, MA.Strzalkowski, Thomas (1997) "Building effectivequeries in natural language informationretrieval", Proceedings of the ANLP, ACL,Washington, DC., pp.299-306.Wacholder, Nina, Yael Ravin and Misook Choi (1997)"Disambiguation of proper names in text",Proceedings of the ANLP, ACL, Washington,DC., pp.
202-208.Appendix A:Complete text of wsj 0003A form of asbestos once used to make Kentcigarette filters has caused ahigh percentage ofcancerdeaths among a group of workers exposed to it morethan 30 years ago, researchers eported.The asbestos fiber, crocidolite, is unusuallyresilient once it enters the lung, with even briefexposures toit causing symptoms that show up decadeslater, researchers said.
Lonllard Inc., the unit of NewYork-based Loews Corp. that makes Kent cigarettes,stopped using crocidolite in its Micronite cigarettefilters in 1956.Although preliminary findings were reportedmore than a year ago, the latest results appear in today'sNew England Journal of Medicine, a forum likely tobring new attention to the problem.A Lorillard spokeswoman said, "This is an oldstory.
We're talking about years ago before anyoneheard of asbestos having any questionable properties.There is no asbestos in our products now.
"Neither LoriUard nor the researchers whostudied the workers were aware of any research onsmokers of the Kent cigarettes.
"We have no usefulinformation on whether users are at risk," said James A.Talcott of Boston's Dana-Farberr Cancer Institute.
Dr.Talcott led a team of researchers from the NationalCancer Institute and the medical schools of Harvard?
University and Boston University.The Lorillard spokeswoman said asbestos wasused in "very modest amounts" in making paper for thefalters in the early 1950s and replaced with a differenttype of filter in 1956.
From 1953 to 1955, 9.8 billionKent cigarettes with the f'dters were sold, the companysaid.Among 33 men who worked closely with thesubstance, 28 have died - more than three times theexpected number.
Four of the five surviving workershave asbestos-related diseases, including three withrecently diagnosed cancer.
The total of 18 deaths frommalignant mesothelioma, lung cancer and asbestosiswas far higher than expected, the researchers said.
"The morbidity rate is a stoking findingamong those of us who study asbestos-relateddiseases," said Dr. Talcott.
The percentage of lungcancer deaths among the workers at the West Groton,Mass., paper factory appears to be the highest for anyasbestos workers studied in Western industrializedcountries, he said.The finding probably will support hose whoargue that the U.S. should regulate the class of asbestosincluding crocidolite more stringently than the commonkind of asbestos, chrysotile, found in most schools andother buildings, Dr. Talcott said.The U.S. is one of the few industrializednations that doesn't have a higher standard of regulationfor the smooth, needle-like fibers such as crocidolitethat are classified as amphobiles, according to BrookeT.
Mossman, aprofessor of pathlogy at the Universityof Vermont College of Medicine.
More commonchrysotile fibers arc curly and are more easily rejectedby the body, Dr. Mossman explained.In July, the Environmental Protection Agencyimposed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos.By 1997, almost all remaining uses of cancer-causingasbestos will be outlawed.About 160 workers at a factory that madepaper for the Kent filters were exposed to asbestos inthe 1950s.
Areas of the factory were particularly dustywhere the crocidolite was used.Workers dumped large burlap sacks of theimported material into a huge bin, poured in cotton andacetate fibers and mechanically mixed the dry fibers ina process used to make filters.
Workers described"clouds of blue dust" that hung over parts of thefactory, even though exhaust fans ventilated the area.
"There's no question that some of thoseworkers and managers contracted asbestos-related79diseases," said Darrell Phillips, vice president of humanresources for Hollingsworth & Vose.
"But you have torecognize that these events took place 35 years ago.
Ithas no bearing on our work force today."
