ROMVOX-  EXPERIMENTS REGARDING UNRESTRICTED TEXT-TO-SPEECH SYNTHESIS FOR THE ROMANLAN LANGUAGEATTILA FERENCZ*, TEODORA RATIU* , MARIA FERENCZ*,TONDE-CSILLA KOVACS*, ISTVAN NAGY*, DIANA ZAIU*** Software 1TC, 109 Republicii street, 3400 Cluj-Napoca, Romania,tel: +40-64-197681, fax: +40-64-196787, e-mail: Attila.Ferencz@sitcl.dntcj.ro** Technical University of Cluj-Napoca, 26 Gh.
Baritiu street, 3400 Cluj-Napoca, RomaniaAbstract.
The ROMVOX Text-toaSpeech synthesis ystem developed by our team is the first one thatallowed the synthesis of any unrestricted Romanian text with intonation facilities on 1BM-PC compatiblecomputers.
During the last years of research several version of text-to-speech systems were achieved,trying to enhance their facilities.
Our paper describes the present stage of our experiments performed inorder to improve the naturalness of the generated voice.1.
IntroductionSpeech synthesis ystems are expected to play important roles in advanced user-friendly human-machineinterfaces.
Wishing to realize an as good as possible text-to-speech system for the Romanian language theresearch started with the ?development of the software for monotonous peech synthesis, which simplyconcatenated the elements of the speech database.
Prosodic aspects need to impose a correspondentmodification of the synthesized speech signal, modification performed in the second version based onLPC.
The experimental results using the classical LPC synthesis method proved that the quality of thesynthesized signal is limited and it cannot be considerably improved by rising the prediction order, thesampling frequency or the parameters' refreshing frequency.
The following chapters present the languagespecific aspects of the ROMVOX system and our last approach regarding the used synthesis technique.2.
The Building Elements of the?
?ROMVOX Text-to-Speech System2.1 Text-preprocessing.
We need a text-preprocessing module on the grapheme level in order to convertthe incoming orthography into some linguistically reasonable s~andard forms.
There are many phenomenaencountered in normal orthography like: underlining, the occurrence of capitals, abbreviation containingperiods, abbreviations containing no vowels, numbers, fractions, Roman numerals, dates, times, formulasand a wide variety, of  punctuation i cluding periods, commas, question marks, parentheses, quotation marksand hyphens.
In our system the abbreviations are stored in a vocabulary, which can be extended by the user,so field specific abbreviation can be built into the system.2.2 Speech sound set.
We used a set of 31 phonemes for Romanian language.
As internal representation forspecial Romanian sounds we used the following symbols: gl (in ge, gi), g (in ghe, ghi), c (in ce,ei), k (inthe, ehi),al (for Romanian letter ~), il (for7 and $) sl (for ~), tl (for t).2.3 Conversion of graphemes.
In our system the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion rules are alphabetizedaccording to the first letter of the sequence.
Each letter of the alphabet represents a separate rule block in the304II!:1I!1I.IiiI1II!1IIItable.
One such block has the longest rule at the top and the shortest rule at the bottom; i.el the last ruleconsists of only one letter.Examples:The e sound rule block the e sound block rule As result of the grapheme-to:phoneme conversioneslti=_jlesltjl._ coop=ko_op  algorithm, the desired string of diphones iseste=_jleste_ cea=ca obtained.
For example, the string corresponding toexa=egza eio=co the word 'floare' is: _ffl 1o oa ar re e_.eio=ej lo chi=ki .ca= jla_.
che=ke In future versions of ROMVOX, a second levelel=__yjlel_ ci=ci processing of sound codes will be experimented.ei=ej 1_ ce=ce So, timing modifications could be made accordinge=e c=k to the rules of the prosody preparation module.Where _ means pause, j I means pecial short i.2.4 Word accent.
For Romanian language the word accent is free, choosing between the last two syllablesof the word, and there are many words with other place of accent.
Semantically different words have thesame orthography.
For example:cfirele (cure -plural) currle (belt -plural)vrsel~ (gay -feminine, plural) vesrl~ (dishes)We are thinking of the possibility to formalize these kinds of problems.2.5 Intonation.
For obtaining acceptable intonation for unrestricted texts, a set of rules has to be formulatedwhich produces natural sounding pitch contours for utterances that may have never been spoken.In sentence intonation, one serious problem is to find such rules that make the monotonous speech morenatural, so that listening to long texts would not be uncomfortable.
We studied experimentally the pitchcontour for different kinds of sentences (declaratives, questions, and exclamations).
For declarativesentences, the fundamental fi-equency raises for the first word (from 100% to 140% of its value and slowsdown to 125% for the last part of this word), and slows down until the end of the sentence, xcept he lastword: Here it falls at 70% and remains Constant.Questions can be with Q-word (specific word for interrogation) orwithout.
For the former, the fundamentalfrequency raises on this word from 100% to 160% and comes down to 100%.
For the last type of questionswe adopted aconventional pitch contour, but very subtle intonation effects cannot be handled.3.
Signal processingOur last experiments in order to improve the quality of the synthesized signal are based on a hybridtimedomain-LPC approach.
This approach takes into consideration the behavior of the glottal pulse (forvoiced sounds) which can be described using the Liljencrants-Fant (LF) model, \[Veldhuis 96\].Figure 1.a.
presents the time domain waveforms of the Romanian vowel o, the corespondent source signal(Figure 1.b.).
As it can be seen, during the opened phase of the glottis in which the source signal containsvalues which are different from zero (also positive and negative values), the source signal assures theexcitation of the filter, resulting a generated waveform which depends on the resonance characteristics of305Figure 1.
Waveforms of the Romanian vowelo, uttered by a male (3 pitch periods)the vocal tract.
During the closed phase of the glottis (nopressure wave) the vocal tract respectively the filterdoesn't get energy anymore, so the generated waveformresults in this phase as combination of damped oscillations.If the source signal would consist of a single opened phaseof the glottis followed by a long closed phase, thegenerated waveform would be damped, ending with nooscillations.
Because in reality the next opened phasefollows immediately after a relatively short previous closedphase, the generated waveform will contain the effects ofboth the effects of the previous tate and the effect of thenew excitation.
Taking into account that the above modelis a linear model, the two effects are combined by simpleaddition, in concordance with the theorem ofsuperposition.
This is equivalent to considering that thesource signal consists of a few individual signals(waveforms c, d, and e) corresponding each to anindividual opened-closed phase of the glottis, and eachsuch individual source Signal will excite the filter resultingalso individual output signals (waveforms f, g ,  and h).From the superposition of these output signals results theinitial, whole output signal.
The waveforms presented inFigure I. present such a case for three pitch periods.Pitch modification means the modification of the distancesbetween two consecutive opened-closed cycles, in whichthe effect of the previous cycle will be combined with the effect of the new excitation in a differentmanner but exactly in concordance with the theorem of superposition.
This means that it is necessary (in aprevious analysis phase) to decompose the original signal in pitch-synchronous individual signals as thosepresented in Figure 1., signals f, g, h. In the synthesis phase we have only to superimpose this individualsignalsat new distances in concordance with the desired new pitch.Figure 2.
Waveform of vowel o, re-synthesized withmodified pitchFigure 2. presents uch a case in which oneindividual pitch-synchronous signal is used togenerate a longer output signal with modifiedpitch.
The signal starts with a lower fundamentalfrequency (one octave lower), which increases tothe initial value of the pitch (at the middle of thesignal), continuing to increase to higher values(one octave higher).The main problem is the decomposition f the initial signal into individual, pith-synchronous signalS.This implies two aspects.
First of all it is necessary todetermine the evolution of damped regime for eachindividual signal.
As presented before this damped signal is due to the accumulated energy in the filter,and is determined by the resonance characteristics of the filter.
We used the LPC analysis method, whichis one of the most used methods for the determination f the filter characteristics of the vocal tract.
If theparameters of the filter are determined and if the filter is placed in the initial state from the beginning ofthe closed phase of the glottis, it will generate automatically the desired amped signal which can last306!i|gIIIiBI!IIII|l!lllItlIl!!
!Iover 2-3 other pitch periods.
The other task is to eliminate the effect of this new determined dampedsignal upon the next pitch-synchronous individual signal (signals).
This can be done by simplysubtracting the current determined individual signal from the initial one.These two operations will be performed consecutively for the whole signal, and each intermediateindividual signal is saved in a database (sound inventory).
Because the sound inventory containsdiphones, the above procedure must be applied for each diphone.4.
Conclusions?
As  ~resented before, the aim of our research was to develop an improved synthesis technique that shouldassure a better quality of the generated signal.
The improvement concerns the signal processing part and itpresents the following aspects and advantages with respect to our previous developments, respectively toother synthesis techniques.The TD-PSOLA (Time Domain Pitch Synchronous Overlap-add) developed by CNET is a very simplebut ingenious method which assures high voice quality, the only disadvantage is that it is based on a time:domain windowing technique which can introduce some spectral distortions during the pitchmodification.
The result of these spectrum distortions can be interpreted as a reverberation f the desiredpitch-modified signal.
TD-PSOLA requires at the same time a very exact pitch synchronous framing; any70 ~ IS(J~)l \[dB\]60 : = .4030  "2O10500 !
000 1500 f \[H z\]I t, IS(J~)l \ [dB\]  ?0605040302010500 1000 1500 f \[H z\]bFigure 3.
Power spectn~ of vowel o:?continuos line: i n i t ia l  pitch?dotted line: modified pitchframing error may cause the unpleasant increaseof this reverberation effect.
The first disadvantagewas solved by CNET through adopting the LP-PSOLA technique.Our approach doesn't use any windowingtechnique, so this source of spectral distortion iseliminated.
Figure 3. presents the spectralbehavior o f  a generated signal with k=0.66fundamental frequency modification (decreasingfundamental frequency)respectively with k=l.5(increasing fundamental frequency), both cases incomparison with the spectrum of the initialsignal.
As both figures show, the peaks of themodified harmonics are situated almost on theideal imaginary spectrum envelope.5.
References\[Ferencz etal.
961 Ferencz, A., et al 1996.
Experimental Implementation of the LPC-MPE Synthesis Method for theROMVOX Text-to-Speech Synthesis System.
Proceedings of SPECOM'96 International Workshop, St-Petersburg, 159-164.
.\[Ferencz etal.
97\] Ferencz, A., et al 1997.
The Evolution of the ROMVOX Text-to Speech Synthesis System fromMonotonous to Enhanced, DSP-based Version.
Proceedings of SPECOM'97 International Workshop, Cluj-Napoca, 179-184.\[Olaszy et al 91\] Olaszy G., and G. Nrmeth.
1991.
Multilingual Text-to-Speech Converter.
In Journal onCommunications No.
2, 1991.\[Veldhuis 96\] Veldhuis, R.N.J.1996.
An alternative for the LF model.
In IPO Annual Progress Report 31,Eindhoven, 100-108.307
