Towards a linguistically motivated computational grammar for HebrewShuly WintnerSeminar ftir Sprachwissenschaft, Universitiit TtibingenK1.
Wilhelmstr.
113, 72074 Ttibingen, Germanyshuly~sf s. nphil, uni-tuebingen, deAbst ractWhile the morphology of Modem Hebrew is wellaccounted for computationally, there are few com-putational grammars describing the syntax of thelanguage.
Existing grammars are scarcely based onsolid linguistic grounds: they do not conform to anyparticular linguistic theory and do not provide a lin-guistically plausible analysis for the data they cover.This paper presents a first attempt towards the con-struction of a formal grammar for a fragment of He-brew that is both linguistically motivated and com-putationaUy implementable.
The grammar, concen-trating on the structure of noun phrases, is designedin accordance with HPSG, a linguistic theory thatlends itself most naturally to computational imple-mentation.
It is the first application of HPSG to anySemitic language.
Several theoretical issues are ad-dressed, including the status of the definite article,the application of the DP hypothesis to Hebrew, def-initeness agreement in the noun phrase as well asdefiniteness inheritance in constructs.
All the analy-ses presented in the paper were tested and their pre-dictions were verified.
This is a work in progress,and the results described herein are preliminary.1 In t roduct ionModem Hebrew (MH) poses some interesting prob-lems for the grammar designer.
The Hebrew scriptis highly ambiguous, a fact that results in manypart-of-speech tags for almost every word (Ornan,1994).
Short prepositions, articles and conjunctionsare usually attached to the words that immediatelysucceed them.
In addition, Hebrew morphology isvery rich: a noun base might have over fifteen dif-ferent derivations, and a verb - over thirty.
In spiteof the difficulties, disambiguation of the script, aswell as morphological nalysis, were covered by avariety of works (Bentur et al, 1992; Choueka ndNe'eman, 1995; Oman and Katz, 1995).
From apractical point of view, Hebrew morphology is wellaccounted for.The syntax of the language, however, remainsan open problem.
The first syntactic analyzerfor Hebrew is described in (Cohen, 1984), but itsgrammar is implicit in a software system.
Niren-burg and Ben-Asher (1984) describe a small-scaleATN for Hebrew, capable of recognizing very lim-ited structures.
Unification-based formalisms wereused for developing Hebrew grammars only re-cently.
A limited experiment using PATR-II is de-scribed in (Wintner, 1992); it is extended (Wint-ner and Oman, 1996) to a reasonable subset ofthe language, on a different platform: Tomita's LRParser/Compiler, which is based on LFG.
The gram-mar recognizes sentences of wide variety and com-plexity, but the analyses it provides are not con-veyed in the framework of any particular linguis-tic theory.
A different work along the same linesis (Yizhar, 1993): using the same framework, itcon-centrates on the syntax of noun phrases, employingideas from different linguistic theories.Works related to the syntax of Hebrew, and inparticular to noun phrases, are abundant in the the-oretical linguistics literature (Borer, 1984; Ritter,1991; Siloni, 1994).
All of them are carded outin Chomskian frameworks; none can be directlyimplemented computationally, and their predictionscannot be verified on the basis of existing on-linecorpora.
The practical contribution of these worksis thus limited.This paper describes the first stages of an attemptto bridge the gap between linguistically theoreticanalyses and computational implementations.
Us-ing HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994) as the linguis-tic theory in which analyses are conveyed, gram-mars earl be directly implemented and their pre-dictions verified.
HPSG is used for formally de-scribing the structure of a variety of languages, butthis is the first time the theory is applied to anySemitic language.
While some ideas of existing82Hebrew grammars, in particular (Wintrier and Or-nan, 1996) and (Yizhar, 1993), are incorporatedinto the work described here, the starting point isnew: we present an account of several aspects ofthe Hebrew noun phrase, aligned with the generalprinciples of HPSG.
All the analyses described inthe paper were computationally implemented us-ing AMALIA (Wintner, 1997a) as the developmentframework.
The phenomena we address include thestatus of the definite article, the application of theDP hypothesis to Hebrew, definiteness agreementin noun phrases as well as definiteness inheritancein constructs.
This is a work in progress, and theresults described here are preliminary.
The gram-mar is not intended to have a broad coverage, butrather to provide explanatory structures to linguisti-cally interesting phenomena.
However, we hope toextend the coverage of the grammar in the future,maintaining its linguistic rigor.2 The  f rameworkHPSG is formulated as a set of constraints on typed (1)feature structures (TFSs) that are used to modellinguistic information in all levels: from the lex-icon, through grammatical principles, to complete (2)analyses.
HPSG "rules" are organized as princi-ples that set constraints on the properties of well-formed phrases, along with ID schemata that licensecertain phrase structures.
The schemata re inde-pendent of the categories of the involved phrases;they state general conditions for the constructionof larger phrases out of smaller ones, according tothe function of the sub-phrases (e.g., subject-head, (3)head-complement, specifier-head etc.)
ID schemataonly license certain phrase combinations.
They donot specify all the constraints imposed on the in-volved sub-phrases, as these are articulated by theprinciples.Like other current linguistic theories, HPSG ishighly lexical: most of the information is encodedin highly articulated lexical entries associated with (4) words.
The constraints on the grammar are usu-ally few and very general.
An elaborate set of lexi-cat rules relates lexical entries, either to account formorphology or to introduce changes in the TFSs as-sociated with the basic entries.3 The structure of  noun phrases3.1 The dataHebrew has one definite article, ha-, which attachesto words (nouns, adjectives, numerals and demon-stratives, bencefotl_h nominals), not phrases.
Manyelements in the noun phrase are marked for, andmust agree on, definiteness (1).
MH provides twomajor ways of forming genitive relations: free gen-itives (FG), in which the genitive phrase is intro-duced by the preposition Sell 'of' (2); and con-structs (CS), in which the head noun is morphologi-cally marked (and is said to be in the construct state,cs) and the genitive phrase must immediately followit, preceding any other modifiers (3).
In FG the def-initeness of the possessor is independent of that ofthe head, allowing for four different combinationsof definiteness (both the head and the possessor caneach be either definite or indefinite) (2); in CS, thedefiniteness of the phrase is inherited from the pos-sessor, allowing only two combinations: either bothare definite, or both are not (3).
The definite articlenever combines with cs-nouns.
A poorly studied yetclosely related phenomenon is cs-adjectives, whichexhibit he same definiteness behavior (4).ha- sepr ha- gadol ha- ze/$1iSithe book the big the this/third'this big book / the third big book'(ha-) sparim Sell mSorer(the) books of poet'(the) books of a poet'(ha-) sparim Sell ha- mSorer(the) books of the poet'(the) books of the poet'siprei mSorer xdaSimbooks-cs poet new'new books of a poet'siprei ha- mSorer ha- xdaSimbooks-cs the poet the new'the new books of the poet'yruqqat (ha-) &einaymgreen-cs (the) eyes'a/(th?)
green eyed"3.2 Are noun phrases NPs or DPs?Following Abney (1987), analyses carried out inChomskian frameworks view noun phrases as DPs,headed by the functional category D. The DP hy-pothesis (DPH) has been applied to a variety of lan-guages and is incorporated into most existing ac-counts for Modem Hebrew.
Originally motivated83by the English '-ing' gerunds, that possess imul-taneously properties of both sentences and nounphrases, the importance of the DPH is that it assignsparallel structures to clauses and noun phrases; inparticular, both are headed by functional categories.In HPSG, however, functional categories are dis-couraged: English noun phrases are viewed as NPs,headed by the noun, and determiners - as subcate-gorized specifiers of nouns (Pollard and Sag, 1994,section 9.4).
HPSG analyses for other languages,notably German, consider article-noun combina-tions to be DPs (Netter, 1994).
Preferring eitherof the two analyses, in the context of HPSG, boilsdown to deciding whether it is the determiner o  thenoun that heads a nominal phrase.
Applying the cri-teria of (Zwicky, 1985) we show that in Hebrew it isthe noun that heads the noun phrases.
Netter (1994)lists several considerations in favor of each of the al-ternatives.
In German, all the morphosyntactic fea-tures that must be transferred to the maximal pro-jection of a nominal phrase (for agreement or gov-ernment purposes) are manifested equally well bothon the article and on the noun.
Determinerless nounphrases require, in German, disjunctive subcatego-rization frames for nouns under an NP analyses, andempty categories in a DP analysis.
Finally, it is thedeclension phenomenon that causes Netter 0994)to favor a DP analysis.
When applied to MH, theseconsiderations yield a different result: informationthat is relevant for agr~ment, such as number andgender, is expressed on the noun only; determiner-less phrases are always grammatical; and there areno declensions.Nevertheless, most existing analyses of MH nounphrases apply the DPH, with the definite article asthe D head (Ritter, 1988; Ritter, 1991; Siloni, 1991;Siloni, 1994).
For lack of space we cannot sur-vey the motivation for such analyses here; the argu-mentation relies on derived (deverbal) nouns, espe-cially in CS noun phrases, including the followingobservations: the inability of cs-nouns to be ren-dered definite directly (i.e., the fact that ha- neverattaches to them); the impossibility of direct modifi-cation of such nouns (i.e., the fact the any adjectivesmust follow the genitive complement in CS); andthe inheritance of definiteness from the complementin CS.
These, along with theory-internal considera-tions, yield an analysis by which noun phrases areDPs, headed by the functional, possibly phonologi-cally null, category D, and necessitating a compul-sory movement of the head noun.
FG noun phrasesrequire yet another functional (and empty) category.We show in (Wintrier, 1998) that there is no theory-independent reason to apply the DPH to Hebrew; onthe contrary, such accounts miss generalizations andyield wrong predictions.
We show below that an NPanalysis is not only possible but also plausible, ac-counting for a body of data, traditionally believed torequire functional categories and compulsory headraising in noun phrases.Many of the limitations of the analyses men-tioned above are listed by Borer (1994), suggestingthat definiteness i a feature of nouns, base gener-ated on the N stem.
An affixal view of the MH defi-nite article is established in (Wintrier, 1997b), and isthe starting point for the analysis we propose here.We first account for the fact that cs-nouns must havean immediate complement.
We then explain whythe article does not combine with cs-nominals.
Wejustify a treatment of possessives as complements,and finally present an analysis for both FG and CSnoun phrases as NPs.3.3 Prosodic dependencyMost subcategorized complements are optional inHebrew: objectless VPs are grammatical in manycontexts, as are subjectless clauses.
But compul-sory, immediate complementation is not unique tocs-nouns only; it is required in cs-adjectives and car-dinals, as well as in prepositions and some quanti-tiers.
In spite of the differences among these ele-merits, there are some striking similarities: they cannever occur without a complement, which cannot beextracted, or 'moved', but which can be replaced bya pronominal pronoun, which is always realized asa clitic (Borer, 1984, chapter 2).
The data are sum-marized in (5).
(5) siprei ha- m$or.rim / sipreihembooks-cs the poets / books-l-3rd-pl-m'the poets' books I their books'$1o$t ha- m$or_rim / $1oStamthree-cs the poets / three+3rd-pl-m'the three poets / the three of them'Sell ha- m$or_rim / $ellahemof the poets / of?3rd-pl-m'of the poets / of them''et ha- mSor_rim / 'otamACC the poets / ACC?3rd-pl-m'the poets (ACC) / them (ACC)'84&al yad ha- m$or.rim / &al yadamnear the poets / near+3rd-pbm'near the poets / near them'koll ha- mSor_rim / kullamall the poets / all+3rd-pbm'all the poets / all of them'The need for an immediate complement is a result ofthese elements being prosodically weak.
We do notsuggest a theory of prosody in I-IPSG; rather, tak-ing advantage of the observation that the discussedconstituents correlate well with phrases in MH, weaccount for them in the following way: we add aDEpendency feature to the lexical entries of words.The value of this feature can either be an empty list,or a list of one element, in which case the elementmust be reentrant with some element in some va-lence list of the word (in other words, DEP pointsto some element on the ARG_S value of the word).As the only relations between prosodically depen-dent words and their obligatory complements, inHebrew, are those of head-complement or specifier-head, the obligatory complement is bound to be amember of the ARG_S of  those words.
In addition,we introduce the prosodic dependency principle, bywhich words that are specified as prosodically de-pendent must first combine with the obligatory com-plement they depend on; only then can the obtainedphrases combine with other modifiers:In a headed phrase, in which one of thedaughters i a word, either the DEP of thisdaughter is empty, or it is reentrant with(the SYNSEM value of) some other daugh-ter.3.4 The morphological nature of definitenessWhy doesn't he definite article combine with cs-nouns?
Not only nouns have construct states: ad-jectives (4) and numerals do, too, and ha- does notcombine with the other cs-nominals either.
Therules that govern the combination of ha- with nom-inals are simple, when the article is viewed as anaffix (W'mtner, 1997b): (i) ha- attaches to words,not to phrases; (ii) it attaches only to nominals, andto all kinds of nominals; (iii) it only combines withindefinite words.
An additional (boolean) feature,DEFiniteness, is required for encoding the value ofdefiniteness in nominals.
As definiteness agreementin Hebrew is not a semantic process, we add thisfeature to the CATegory of nominals (rather than totheir CONTent).
Since definiteness i a feature ofphrases, inherited from the lexical head, DEF is ahead feature, appropriate for all nominals.
Viewingdefiniteness as a lexical process, we introduce theDefinite Lexical Rule (DLR, 6).
It operates on allnominal words whose DEFiniteness feature is '--'.In all categories its effect on the phonology is deter-mined by the same phonological rules, abstractedover by the function definite.
The DLR changesthe value of the path SYNSEMILOC\[CATIHEADIDEFfrom ' - '  to '+'.
Adjuncts pecify the heads theyselect as the value of the MOD feature in their lex-ical entries.
Like any other nominal, they have aDEFiniteness feature, whose value is shared with thevalue of the path MODILOCICAT\]HEADIDEF.
Whenthe DLR operates on adjuncts, it results in a spec-ification of a '+' value for both paths.
Thus it isguaranteed that definite adjectives, for example, arenot only specified as definite but also select definiteheads.
As for cs-nominals, these are not indefinite;we show below that they are unspecified for defi-niteness, and hence the DLR cannot apply to them.
(6)wordL synsem : cat : ead: \ [noml~\]  \ [de f : -  Jword: cat \[nominal\] L s~nsem : cat head :3.5 Possessives as complementsIn standard I-IPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994, section9.4.5) possessives are specifiers: they combine withan N's to form complete NPs through the specifier-head schema, and they express the expectation ofan N' as the value of the SPECified feature in theirHEADS, just like other determiners do.
As Pollardand Sag (1994, p. 375) note, this analysis is validfor German and English, but other languages mightrequire different accounts.
We advocate a positionby which possessives of all kinds are complementsin MH.
First, possessives differ from other deter-miners in their distribution.
While most determin-ers precede the noun, possessives follow it (7).
Sec-ond, possessives can regularly co-occur with otherdeterminers (8).
Thus, if determiners occupy thespecifier position in NPs, possessives cannot fill thesame function.
Third, MH exhibits also eases of85clitic doubled constructions (Borer, 1984), where agenitive pronoun cliticizes onto the head noun andmust agree with a doubled possessive on number,gender and person.
Agreement isusually associatedwith complements (including subjects) and not withspecifiers.
(7) koll seprevery book'every book'koll / $1o$t ha- sparimall / three the books'all books / the three books'ha- sparim $selli / Sell danthe books my / of Dan'my/Dan's book'(8) koll sepr $selli / Sell danevery book my / of Dan'each of my/Dan's books'koll ha- sparim $selli / Sell danall the books my / of Dan'all my/Dan's books'$1o$t ha- sparim $selli / Sell danthree the books my / of Dan'my/Dan's three books'Other arguments for viewing possessives as com-plements, in two languages that show many similar-ities to Hebrew, namely Welsh and Arabic, are givenin (Borsley, 1995).
We therefore view possessors as(most oblique) complements of nouns.
When thenoun has additional arguments, they are listed in itsvalence feature preceding the possessor.
Thus, inthe lexical entry of sept ('book'), the value of theCOMPlement list has two members, an agent andan optional I possessor.
When two possessives arepresent, the structure depicted in (9) is obtained.3.6 The structure of CSAs cs-nominals are words, their lexical entries ex-press an expectation for an immediate complement;that is, an indication (the SYNSEM value) of thecompulsory complement of cs-nominals is presentin the lexical entry of the nominal.
It is thus possibleto share, in the lexicon, the values of the definiteness1Recall that most subeategorized elements are optional inHebrew.feature in both the nominal and its complement.This results in only two possibilities of definitenesscombinations for constructs, as opposed to the fourpossible combinations of free genitives.
The con-struct form is generated from the absolute form bymeans of a morphological process, modelled by alexical rule (10).
Apart from modifying the phonol-ogy 2 of the nominal, this process has a double ef-fect.
First, the rule picks a genitive complementfrom the COMP list, replaces itby a nominative nounphrase and unifies the values of the DEr: feature ofthe nominal and the complement it depends on.
Inaddition, the rule sets the value of 'DEP' to this com-plement, to indicate that cs-nominals are prosodi-cally dependent.
When the nominal is combinedwith its complement, he resulting phrase inheritsthe definiteness from the latter.
Notice that the re-sults of this process, i.e., the lexical entries of cs-nouns, are not specified as 'DEF --' (in fact, theyare not specified for definiteness at all), and hencethe DLR cannot apply to them.
The fact that cs-nominals cannot be rendered efinite directly is nat-urally obtained.Noun-noun constructs are thus constructed bythe head-complement schema.
An independent cs-noun, with no immediate complement, cannot bepromoted to the status of a phrase, as the depen-dency principle prohibits its combination with otherphrases until its DEP requirements axe discharged.Since the DEF value of the construct head and itscomplement are shared, and since DEF is a headfeature, it is also shared by the mother; thus, theDEF feature of the phrase is inherited from thecomplement, as required.
This process is depictedin (11); notice in particular how the definiteness ofthe phrase is inherited from the complement using areentrancy in the head.The similar properties noun-noun and adjective-noun constructs suggest that they are actually onlytwo instances of one process: any analysis thatwould suggest two different mechanisms toaccountfor both phenomena is bound to be redundant.
Wesimply extend the analysis of noun-noun constructsto cs-adjectives: uch adjectives are lexically speci-fied to subcategorize for nouns.
They cannot occurindependently, with no immediate complement, andhence are marked as dependent; he phrase is con-structed through the head-complement schema (12).We thus obtain a uniform, principled account for the2The function phon_reduce computes the phonology oftheconstruct noun.86(9)\[- \[: phor~ : septcat  : ad : nounLCOmp8 :Ldep : 0H /I = \] sepe' Sell Hem;nlpvay L.o,, \[:':-: t~\]L ~? '
' "  : Y-~.J/J \?L -  .
.
.
.
.
K~.o.
J t',, .
.
.
.
.
\[~o.J( lO)r word/-, F,-, r=-I 1Ldep : 0"wordphon : phon .
red .ce~ \[" ~.
, :  ~.o', \ [ ; :m\]L~o.,.
:(D?~\[~.,:~..,,\[,,,-~I\].~>dep : (~(11)I wortlphon :/ ,g-,.,Ldep ..i phrue 1 phon : p;rxei ha-pnn?1| 11101111l word., ..... mro, r .
.
\[~.,~\]I. kcomps : (PP\[o0)L~,v : 0two phenomena, maintaining an NP view of nounphrases and requiring neither functional nor emptycategories.ReferencesSteven Abney.
1987.
The English Noun Phrase in ItsSentential Aspect.
Ph.D. thesis, Massachusettes In ti-tute of Technology, Cambridge.Esther Bentur, Aviella Angel, and Danit Segev.
1992.Computerized analysis of Hebrew words.
HebrewLinguistics, 36:33-38, December.
(in Hebrew).Hagit Borer.
1984.
Parametric Syntax - Case Studies inSemitic and Romance Languages, volume 13 of Stud-ies in Generative Grammar.
Foris Publications, Dor-drecht- Holland.Hagit Borer.
1994.
The construct in review.
In Jacque-line Lecarrne and Ur Shlonsky, editors, Proceedingsof the Second Conference on Afroasiatic Linguistics,Sophia Anfipolis, France, June.
(to appear in Studiesin Afroasiatic Grammar).Robert D. Borsley.
1995.
On some similarities and dif-ferences between Welsh and Syrian Arabic.
Linguis-87(12)woedphon : gd~tr \]"O,n~phon : gdo~t  &eim~rm?at : head  : symgm ~t  "\[\[ t- l rood  cat  : head  : d,9":L.comp.
: 0/r-7i: pkon : &~mI .
L compa :L~ev : 0tics, 33:99-122.Yaacov Choueka nd Yoni Ne'eman.
1995.
"Nakdan-T", a text vocalizer for modern Hebrew.
In Proceed-ings of the Fourth Bar-llan Symposium on Founda-tions of Artificial Intelligence, June.Daniel Cohen.
1984.
Mechanical Syntactic Analysis ofa Hebrew Sentence.
Ph.D. thesis, Hebrew Universityof Jerusalem.
(In Hebrew).Klaus Netter.
1994.
Towards a theory of functionalheads.
In John Nerbonne, Klaus Netter, and Carl Pol-lard, editors, German in Head-Driven Phrase Struc-ture Grammar, volume 46 of CSLI Lecture Notes,chapter 9, pages 297-340.
CSLI, Stanford, CA.Sergei Nirenburg and Yosef Ben-Asher.
1984.
HUHU- the Hebrew University Hebrew understander.
Com-puter Languages, 9(3/4).Uzzi Ornan and Michael Katz.
1995.
A new program forHebrew index based on the Phonemic Script.
Techni-cal Report LCL 94-7, Laboratory for ComputationalLinguistics, Technion, Haifa, Israel, July.Uzzi Ornan.
1994.
Basic concepts in "romanization" ofscripts.
Technical Report LCL 94-5, Laboratory forComputational Linguistics, Technion, Haifa, Israel,March.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
University of ChicagoPress and CSLI Publications.Elizabeth Ritter.
1988.
A head-movement approach toconstruct-state noun phrases.
Linguistics, 26(6):909-929.Elizabeth Ritter.
1991.
Two functional categories innoun phrases: evidence from Modern Hebrew.
InSusan D. Rothstein, editor, Perspectives on PhraseStructure: Heads and Licensing, volume 25 of Syn-tax and Semantics, pages 37-62.
Academic Press.Tali Siloni.
1991.
Noun raising and the structure of nounphrases.
In Jonathan David Bobaljik and Tony Bu-res, editors, Papers from the third Student Conferencein Linguistics, volume 14 of MIT Working Papers inLinguistics, pages 255-270.
Department of Linguis-tics and Philosophy, MIT, Cambridge, MA 02139.Tali Siloni.
1994.
Noun Phrases and Nominalizations.Ph.D.
thesis, D6partment de linguistique g6n&ale,Universit6 De Gen~ve.Shuly Wintrier and Uzzi Ornan.
1996.
Syntactic analysisof Hebrew sentences.
Natural Language Engineering,1(3):261-288, September.Shuly Wintner.
1992.
Syntactic analysis of Hebrew sen-tences using PATR.
In Uzzi Ornan, Gideon Ariel),,and Edit Doron, editors, Hebrew Computational Lin-guistics, chapter 4, pages 105-115.
Ministry of Sci-ence and Technology.
(In Hebrew).Shuly Wintner.
1997a.
An Abstract Machine for Unifi-cation Grammars.
Ph.D. thesis, Technion - Israel In-stitute of Technology, Haifa, Israel, January.Shuly Wintner.
1997b.
The affixal nature of the Hebrewdefinite article.
Presented in Computational Linguis-tics in the Netherlands (CLIN-97), University of Ni-jmegen, December.Shuly Wintner.
1998.
Noun phrases as NPs - thecase of Hebrew.
In Gosse Bouma, Geert-Jan Krui-jff, and Richard Oehrle, editors, Proceedings of the4th conference on Formal Grammar and the 5th con-ference on Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar(FHCG'98), Saarhrticken, Germany, August.Dana Yizhar.
1993.
Computational grammar for Hebrewnoun phrases.
Master's thesis, Computer Science De-partment, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel, June.
(In Hebrew).ArnoldM.
Zwicky.
1985.
Heads.
Journal of Linguistics,21:1-29.88
