Optimal MorphologyJ ochen TrommerInst i tut  fuer L inguist ik /Al lgemeine SprachwissenschaftUnivers i taet  Potsdam Postfach 601553 D-14415 PotsdamAbstract/Optimal morphology (OM) is a finite state for-malism that unifies concepts from OptimalityTheory (OT, Prince ~: Smolensky, 1993) andDeclarative Phonology (DP, Scobbie, ColemanBird, 1996) to describe morphophonologicalalternations in inflectional morphology.
Can-didate sets are formalized by inviolable lexi-cal constraints which map abstract morphemesignatures to allomorphs.
Phonology is imple-mented as violable rankable constraints elect-ing optimal candidates from these.
Both typesof constraints are realized by finite state trans-ducers.
Using phonological data from Albanianit is shown that given a finite state lexicaliza-tion of candidate outputs for word forms OMallows more natural analyses than unviolable fi-nite state constraints do.
Two possible evalu-ation strategies for OM grammars are consid-ered: the global evaluation procedure from E1-lisou (1994) and a simple strategy of local con-straint evaluation.
While the OM-specific lex-icalization of candidate sets allows straightfor-ward generation and a simple method of mor-phological parsing even under global evaluation,local constraint evaluation is shown to be prefer-able empirically and to be formally more re-strictive.
The first point is illustrated by anaccount of directionality effects in some classi-cal Mende data.
A procedure is given that gen-erates a finite state transducer simulating theeffects of local constraint evaluation.
Thus localas opposed to global evaluation (Frank & Satta,1998) seems to guarantee the finite-stateness ofthe input-output-mapping.1 C/O-Alternations in Alba-nian VerbsIn many cases C/O-alternations in the Albanianverb paradigm are triggered by the tendency toavoid sequences of vowels (VV, hiatus) or con-sonants (CC), e.g.
(1)(a) (b) (c) (d)p~,je *pie hape *hapjeCVCV CVV CVCV CVCCV'drink it!'
'open it!
'(b) and (d) seem to be out because theycontain illicit sequences of VV and CC respec-tively 1.
For illustration of a declarative accountI implement the morphological candidate set foreach form and the phonological constraint asregular expressions The corrrect forms are thenobtained by intersecting the two expressions:(2)Morpho logy :2  (pil hap) (j)ePhonology:(CV)*, for C = (p\]hlj) and V = (ilale)1 Alternatively these alternations can be viewed as astrategy for arriving at "perfect" syllable structures, i.e.syllables with onsets and without codas.
This probablymore adequate view can be formalized using the samemethods, but for expositional ease I will ignore syllablestructure and assume the simpler analysis above.~A more adequate morphological characterization f l-lows in (2')26In tersect ion(Morpho logy ,  Phonology):(pije\]hape)Intriguing as this simple model is; it runs intodifficulties with occuring CC and VV sequencesin Albanian verbs:(3)(a) (b)bie hapjeCVV CVCCV'he falls' 'you opened'Since hapje is ungrammatical sV+OBJ butgrammatical as V+IMF:2SG there seems nopurely phonological way to predict the ob-served contrasts.By lexicalizing the alternationsthough, say by stating that OBJ is -je after vow-els and -e after consonants we lose the insightthat the process is motivated by the perfectlynatural and crosslinguistically observable avoid-ance of of CC and VV (cf.
Prince & Smolensky,199:3).
The solution I propose to this dilemmais the following:(4)a.
Replace the CV-constraint by a softconstraint marking CC and VV as con-straint violations.b.
Annotate the candidate set withindependently needed morphoseman-tic interpretation and choose as thecorrect form for certain morphologicalfeatures (e.g.PI+OBJ)  the phonolog-ically optimal form annotated with it.3More concretely (2) is replaced by (2'):3The idea to use optimality to decide between allo-morphs with respect o an morphological characteriza-tion can also be found in Kager (1995) See Russel (1995)for some discussion of morpheme signatures.
(2')Morphology:(P I  IHAP~ (OBJIOBJIIMF~pi I hap \] \ e I je I je /Phonology:?1 (oCC' ) ) I  ( :V  *)?The phonological constraint following Elli-son (1994) has the form of a regular relationmapping phonological strings into sequences ofconstraint violation marks ('1') and 'O's whichstand for no violation.
The effect of the con-straint can best be seen in tableau form familiarfrom OT:(5)PI+OBJ *CC/VVpijepie ,tHAP+OBJhapehapje *vPI+IMFpijeHAP+IMFhapje *Differently from OT optimal forms are notcomputed with respect o an underlying phono-logical form, but directly referring to a morpho-logical characterization of the generated wordform.2 Formal i smAn OM grammar is a quintuple {MA,PA,M,P,(0,1}} where MA and PA are sets ofsymbols, the morphological nd the phonologi-cal alphabets.
M is a finite set of regular rela-tions, each mapping MA into PA, while P is afinite sequence of regular elations mapping MPinto {0, 1}.273 Generat ion  Morpho logySpecific word forms are characterized as stringsof abstract morphems, e.g.
PI+OBJ 4.
Specificcandidate sets are obtained by the crossoverproduct of word forms 5 with the candidate rela-tion.
For ease of exposition I give the algorithmfor finite state automata nd transducers whichare formally equivalent o regular expressionsand binary regular relations respectively.
For atransducer T and an automaton A the crossoverproduct AxT is generated in the following way.IT and Ih are the initial, FT and FA the finalstates:(6) Crossover  p roduct (A ,T )  61 make (IA,IT) initial in AxT2 make (FA,FT) final in AxT3 for each arc from z to t in T labeled M2/P4 for each arc from x to y in A labeled M15 if h~I1 = h'I26 then  add to AxT an arc7 from (x,z) to (y,t) labeled P.Obviously, the resulting automaton containsall and only the phonological output candidatesfor the given morphological input.
(7) shows theapplication of the algorithm to PI+OBJ and thecandidate set from (2'):(7)I nputIn i t ia l  State: 0F ina l  State:  2Trans i t ions :  (0, 1, PI), (1, 2, OBJ)4 For sake of readability concatenation f morpholog-ical symbols is represented by '+'.5Strings are a trivial case of regular expressions.GCrossover product(A, T) is equivalent to the imageof A under T (Kaplan & Kay, 1994:340-42), defined asthe range of the composition Id(A) o R, where Id(A)is the identity relation that carries every member of Ainto itself.
See Frank & Satta (1998:5-6) for the sameconcepts under different terminology.Initial State: AFinal State: CTransitions:( i ,  B, PI/pi), ( i ,  B, HAP/hap),(B, C, OBJ/ je),(S, C, OBJ/e),(B, C, IMF/je)Resulting CandidatesIn i t ia l  State:  (0, A)F inal  State:  (2, C)Trans i t ions:((0, A), (1, B) pi), ((1, B), (2, C), e)((1, B), (2, C), je)Since the candidate set and the constraint in(2') are regular Ellisons (1994) algorithms forgetting an automaton containing only optimalcandidates, as long as candidate set and evalu-ation transducer are regular, can be used.
Fordetails I refer the interested reader to Ellisonspaper.4 ParsingThe candidate transducer constitutes a kind ofbackbone for parsing phonological strings intostrings of abstract morphemes.
For example thecandidate transducer in (2') will allow correctparsing of hape into HAP+OBJ.
A complica-tion arises when the transducer maps phonolog-ical forms to more than one morphological form,possibly including incorrect ones.
E.g.
the ex-ample transducer will map hapje onto (correct)HAP+IMF and (incorrect) HAP+OBJ.
Thengiven the generation procedure above for everyobtained morphological string it can be checkedif it generates the input phonological form.
Aspecial case of this are not existing word forms.For example we will get P I+OBJ  as the onlypossible parse for pie.
But since the optimaloutput for PI+OBJ isn't pie but pije there isno actual parse.285 Comparison with other ap-proaches6 Regular phonological pro-cessesOptimal Morphology clearly is a hybrid.
Can-didate sets are given by lexicalized monotonicconstraints as in DP.
Phonological constraintson the other side are violable and ranked as inOT z.Looking at constraint based formalisms astentatives to restrict the rather rich theoreticalinventory of generative SPE theory (Chomsky& Halle, 1968) it becomes obvious that OM in-deed fills a conceptual gap:(s)SPE OT DP OMarbitrary rule/ yes yes no yesconstraint orderlanguage specific yes no yes yesrules/constraintsunderlying yes yes no norepresentationsNeglecting here the difference between rulesand constraints, OT has chosen to eliminatelanguage specific constraints s while maintain-ing underlying representations.
It is not a prioriclear that this is favorable to eliminating arbi-trary rule (constraint) ordering or underlyingrepresentations, and indeed this last choice iswhat happens in OM, while DP has eliminatedtwo of SPEs theoretical instruments.
In this re-spect it is the most restrictive framework, butwe have seen empirical and conceptual problemswith its assumptions in the preceeding section.Consider the following: Lexicalized candidatesets in both DP and OM are given by language-specific constraints, thus this point makes nodifference.
Now, when the toy example aboveproves to be representative, OM (like OT) al-lows to maintain universal constraints where DPcannot.7See section 6 for an example of ranking.SNote that the OT-claim to use only language-specific constraints is crucially weakened by the familyof alignment-constraints that can be instantiated in alanguage-specific way.It might seem that OM can handle regularphonological processes only by stipulation ofallomorphs with a high degree of redundancy.Thus for the case of German final devoicingwe would have to assume two allomorphs foreach morpheme showing the alternation, e.g.
{Tod, Tot} 9 as in Tot, 'death(sig)' and Tod-e,'death-plu'.
The choice between these allo-morphs could be accomplished by the two con-straints !DEVOICE that marks voiced obstru-ents in coda position and !VOICE that marksunvoiced obstruents generally.
The ranking 1?
!DEVOICE ~> !VOICE will make 'Tot'- the op-timal candidate in Tot and 'Tod-' in Tode.
Tot,'dead' with an "underlying" t will remain thesame in every context, assuming that this isthe only allomorph.
Though this works tech-nically it seems highly undesirable to have twoallomorphs for Tod one of which can be pre-dicted.But he regular expression (Tod \[ Tot)can equally well be written as To(d\[t) or even asTo\[-continuant -sonorant +coronal\] since regu-lar languages can be enriched straightforwardlyby bundles of finite-valued features (KaplanKayi 1994:349-351).
Thus allomorphy in thisand comparable cases reduces to underspecifi-cation.
117 Locality of Constraint Eval-uationEllisons (1994) algorithms offer a way of glob-ally finding optimal candidates out of regu-lar candidate sets.
This however is not the9 German orthography is used except for the phonemicwriting of voiceless 't')1?Ranking can be implemented along the lines of Elli-son (1994).nlt might be argued that this move doesn't explainthe nonexistence of voiced Coda-obstruents in German,since nonaiternating voiced obstruents could be accom-plished by fully specifying them as voiced in morphology.But there are languages like Turkish (Inkelas:1994:3),where certain morphemes resist otherwise regular finaldevoicing and this descriptive possibility thus seems to29be well motivated.only possible method to generate word formsgiven a particular OM-grammar.
In the exam-ple above the optimal word form can also befound in a much more local way: by traversingat once the candidate automaton and the eval-uation transducer and choosing at each statethe '0'-transition, when possible.
The readercan check this by constructing finite state au-tomata out of the regular relations in (2').Though this is a case of extreme locality, proba-bly not representative for phonological phenom-ena in general, it seems promising to study, howfar constraint evaluation can work locally.
Anargument hat constraint evaluation not onlycan but SHOULD happen locally can be con-structed out of the following well known datafrom Mendel2:(9)H: k5 'war' pdld 'house'L: @d, 'debt' b~l~ 'trousersHL: mb~ 'owl' ngihl 'dog'LH: mbd 'rice' fhndd 'cotton'LHL: rob5 'companion' nyhhti woman'are the following logical possibilities of tonal re-alization:(lO) 14mbu:  mbfife lama: f~ldrnh, fdldrnf,fdlhmtl, fdhlmh, fdldmdnyaha:  nydhtl, nyhh5, nydh5The problem of selecting out of these the cor-rect for is solved by Goldsmith (1976) throughthe following mapping procedure:(11)Tone mapp inga.
Associate the first tone with thefirst syllable, the second tone with thesecond syllable and so on.b.
Tones or syllables, not associatedas a result of (a) are subject to thewellformedness condition.We l l -Formedness  Cond i t ionH: hdwdmd 'waistline'L: kphkSl~ 'tripod chair'HL: fdldmh ' junction'LH: ndhvSld 'sling'LHL: n~ki'l~ 'groundnut'Ill Mende nouns have one of five specific tonepatterns (indicated in the left column).
Notethat atoms of tone patterns like L in HL canbe realized as sequences of high tone syllablesas in fe:lhmtl or as part of contour tones 13 as inmb?
Hence for tabu, nyaha and felama, there12The ideas presented here owe much to the concept ofincremental optimization developed in Walther (1997).Locality in Constraint evaluation is also invoked in Tesar(1995}, but there it isn't conceived as empirically differ-ent from global evaluation.
For an interesting hybridof directional rule application/constraint evaluation seeKager (1993)13Contour tones are the falling tone (mbfi) the ris-ing tone(tubal) and the falling rising tone (mbd).
Acutestands for H, grave for L tone.
As Leben, I analyze con-tours as sequences of Hs and Ls.a.
Every tone is associated with somesyllable.b.
Every syllable is associated withsome tone.c.
Association lines may not cross.This mapping procedure is (apart from its usein a wealth of other phenomena) stipulation.I will sketch how the same effects can be de-rived from plausible constraints on phonologicalwellformedness and locality of constraint evalu-ation.Let's suppose that the candidate sets in (10)are given by lexical constraints realized as trans-ducers 1S.
It's natural to assume that contourtones are a marked case in human language, vi-olating the constraint *Contour and that there'sa ban on adjacent syllables with the same tone,14In Goldsmiths ystem these possibilities would cor-respond to the possible noncrossing exhaustive associa-tions of the stems with their respective tone pattern.
Fordetails see Trommer (1998).lSFor an implementation see Wrommer (1998).3Oan instance of the Obligatory Contour Principle(!OCP(Tone)).
(12)*Contour  16,where C stands for contour tones and S forsimple tones.!OCP(Tone)?
(0 - - ), where L = Low Tone, H = High Tonembfi violates *Contour, but being the onlycandidate for tabu its optimal.
For felamafilSmh and fdldmd will be excluded since theyviolate both constraints and the other candi-dates only one.
But 1~ fdldmh, fdl~rnfi andfdh~mh for that reason are all on a par.
Nydhdis out because it violates two times *Contour,but there's no way to decide between ydhh andnyfh5 that violate it only once.However once locality of constraint evaluationis taken seriously only the correct candidates re-main: Suppose we are following the candidateautomaton for felama, for 'e' 'e" will be cho-sen since the word has to start with H and acontour tone would violate *Contour.
Next, 'h'will be selected since 'd' violates !OCP(Tone)and 'd' again *Contour.
For the same reason'd' would be best for the next 'a'.
But now ac-cording to the unviolable lexical constraint thatrequires the tone pattern for this noun, only'd' is possible, even if it violates !OCP(Tone).a~Obviously H and L in (12) have to be spelled out seg-mentally, i.a.
in their shape as contour tones.
In Trom-mer (1998) I present a procedure to convert constraintson tones in constraints on corresponding segments.
Amore autosegmental reatment following the lines of Eis-ner (1997) is also considered there and shown to be com-patible with the results presented here.
Consonants areommitted for ease of exposition.17For simplicity I ignore possible results out of rank-ing the constraints and treat them like one complex con-straintMore or less the same story can be told aboutnyaha.
Hence the left to r ight-assymmetry inthe mapping convention emerges out of localityor, put in a more placative way, the tendency tochoose marked options as late as possible.
Notethat the use of violable constraints i necessaryin this account to get contour tones and toneplateaus at all, but only when necessary.For ex-ample an unviolable constraint prohibiting con-tours would exclude correct forms as rnb~i andnyhhd.8 Locality and DirectionalityIn Mende tone patterns marked (tonal) struc-ture appears as far to the right as possible.
Al-though this seems to be the unmarked case intone languages the mirror image too seems toexist (e.g.
Kannakuru, Odden, 1995:460).
Todescribe such cases it's sufficient o use candi-date automata that are interpreted from rightto left.Directionality effects like the ones found intone mapping are also typical in many otherphonological domains, e.g.
foot construction(Hayes, 1985; Kager, 1995), root and patternmorphology (McCarthy, 1979), and syllabifica-tion ( I to 1988).
Even if a locality-based reanal-ysis isn't possible in all of these cases tradition-ally handled by derivational mapping and pars-ing devices, this is a promising area for furtherresearch on locality and markedness.9 Locality and GenerativePowerFrank & Satta (1998) show that input-outputmapping in OT isn't regular in the general caseeven if GEN and the constraints are imple-mented as finite state transducers.
This resultcarries over immediately to OM under globalconstraint evaluation.
However if local evalua-tion is used there seems to be an algorithm toconstruct an equivalent finite state transducer.Since the complete algorithm requires a moreelaborate representation f morpheme structure3than I can give here I illustrate only the basicidea.
is Let's first consider a slightly modifiedversion of (2') and the corresponding transduc-erslg:(2")Morpho logy:(13) 23-product (A ,O)  2?1 make (IA,Io) initial in Ax2aO2 make (FA,F?)
final in Ax2303 for each arc from z to t in A labeled M/P14 for each arc from x to y in O labeled P2/N5 if P1 = P26 then  add to Ax230 an arc7 from (x,z) to (y,t)labeled M/P1/N.Applied to the transducers in (2") we get:As Transducer: (14) 23-product  (Morphology,  Phono logy)Init ial  State:  0Final  State:  6Transit ions:(0,1,hl), (1,3,a1), (3,4,pl), (0,2@2),(2,4,i2),(4,5, j3),(5,6, e3), (4,6,e3)Phonology:Init ial  State: AFinal States: C,VTransit ions:(a, C, C/0), (V, C, C/0),(C, C, C/0)(A, \7, V/0), (C, V, V/0),(V, V, V/0)For convenience abstract morphemes are rep-resented by numbers that are repeated for eachsegment realizing the respective morpheme.The following algorithm yields from a candi-date transducer and an evaluation transducer atransducer with three tapes integrating caMPdate generation and their mapping to marked-ness values.
The first tape of this new trans-ducer (Kx23C) corresponds to the candidate set,the second one to the morphological signaturesand the third one to the evaluation under theconstraint:XSproblems for the described method arise with recur-sivity since '33' mapped to 'aa' is ambiguous betweentwo aomorpemes and one aa-morpheme.
Further s tatesthat can be reached and left by transitions of the samemorphological index would need a seperate treatment inthe procedure described on p. 9.19the regular expression for the phonological part isexactly as in (2').Initial State: AoFinal State: V6Transitions:(Ao,Cl,hl/0), (Ao,C2,p2/0), (C1,V3,al/0),(C2,V4,i2/0), (V3, C4, pl /O),  (C4, C5,j3/1),(C4, V6, e3/0),  (V4,C5,j3/O), (V4,V6, e3/1),(C5,V6, e3/0)Again we can find the optimal output for acertain morphological input in a local way.
E.g.traversing (14) and the automaton correspond-ing to '1+3+' (HAP+OBJ) at once we will ar-rive without choice at , C4 ('111').
There wechoose locally to go to V6 over e30 since this isless marked than the transition over j3/1 to C5.We get 1113/hape.Alternatively we can also dispense with theevaluation tape altogether: We delete ach tran-sition from every state S if there is another tran-sition from S with the same morphemic indexand a smaller number on the third tape.
For(14) this means that we remove the transitionfrom V4 to V6 over e3/1 since there is a "bet-ter" transition namely over j3/0 to C5.
Simi-larly the transition from C4 to Cs over j3/1 iseliminated in favour of the transition over e3/0to V6.
Since for each state and every index thereremains only one transition the third tape be-comes uperfluous and is removed.
The result isan input/output transducer mapping '1113' (i.e.HAP+OBJ) to hape and '2233' (i.e.
PI+OBJ)to pije:~?A is mnemonic for candidate, O for constraint trans-ducer.
IA, Io and FA, Fo are the initial and final s ta tes3,~f A and O respectively(15)Initial State: AoFinal State: V6Transitions:(Ao,Cl,hl), (ho,C2,P2), (Cl,V3,al), (C2,V4,i2),(V3, C4, p,), (C4, V6, e3)(V4,C5,j3), (C5,V6,e3)10 Final Remarks and Conclu-sionsIt's quite probable that locality as developed inthe preceeding three sections is too simple toaccount for phonological data that require val-uation of segments at a certain distance fromeach other.
But the point was to show that lo-cality of constraint evaluation i  the introducedframework even in this form is empirically sup-ported and preferable on theoretical grounds.A promising extension would be to evaluate lo-cally in lnultiple phonological domains using au-toseglnental representations along the lines ofEisner (1997), but the technical realization ofthis still has to be worked out.
As the Albaniandata the tonal patterns in Mende reveal the ad-vantages of using OM's violable constraints inthe context of lexicalized candidate sets.
Onthe other hand this lexicalization allows a sim-ple generation procedure.
Parsing phonologi-cal output forms onto morphological signaturesin OM is relatively straightforward while thequestion is not even adressed seriously in finitestate formalizations of OT.
(Ellison, 1994; Eis-ner, 1997).
Both parsing and generation areeven simpler if OM is interpreted asa finite statetransducer under local constraint evaluation.
Itremains to be seen, if the specific mixture ofOM borrowing from DP AND OT will give riseto further linguistically worthwhile analyses andto efficient computation ofmorphophonology.ReferencesCHOMSKY, N. & Halle, M. (1968) The SoundPattern of English.
New York: Harper &Row.EISNER, J.
(1997) Efficient generation inPrimitive Optimality Theory.
Ms., Univer-sity of Pensylvania.ELLISON, M. (1994) Phonological Derivationin OT.
In: COLING'94 Vol.
II, 1007-1013,Kyoto, Japan.FRANK, R. & SATTA, G. (1998) Optimal-ity theory and the generative complexity ofconstraint violability.
Computational Lin-guistics (forthcoming).GOLDSMITH, J.A.
(1976) AutosegmentalPhonology.
Doctoral Dissertation.
Mas-sachussets Institute of Technology.HAYES,B.
(1985) Iambic and trochaic rhythmin stress rules.
BLS 11,429-446.ITO, J.
(1988) Syllable Theory in ProsodicPhonology, Garland Publishing, New York.KAGER, R. (1993) Alternatives to the Iambic-Trochaic Law.
Linguistic Inquiry 11, 381-432.KAGER, R. (1995) On Affix Allomorphy andSyllable Counting.
Paper presented atConference on Interfaces in Phonology,Berlin.KAPLAN, R. & KAY, M. (1994) Regular mod-els of phonological rule systems.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 20(3), 331-378.LEBEN, W. R. (1978) The Representation fTone.
In: FROMKIN, V.A.
(ED.)
Tone-A Linguistic Survey, 177- 219.
AccademicPress.ODDEN, D. (1995) Tone: African Languages.In: Goldsmith, J.
(ed.)
The Handbookof Phonological Theory, 444-475.
Oxford:Basil Blackwell.33PRINCE, A.
& SMOLENSKY, P. (1993) Op-timality Theory: Constraint Interaction iGenerative Grammar.
RuCCs TR-2, Rut-gers University.RUSSEL, K. (1995) Morphemes and candi-dates in Optimality Theory.
Ms., Univer-sity of Manitoba.SCOBBIE, J.M., COLEMAN, J.S.
& BIRD, S.(1996) Key Aspects of Declarative Phonol-ogy.
Ill: DURAND, J.
& LAKS, B.
(Eds.
)Current Trends in Phonology: Models andMethods (= Proceedings ofthe Royaumontmeeting 1995), vol.
II, 685-710.
EuropeanStudies Research Institute, University ofSalford Publications.TESAR, B.
(1995) Computational OptimalityTheory.
PH.D. thesis, University of Col-orado, Boulder, CO.TROMMER, J.
(1998) Mende tone patternsrevisited: Two finite state implementa-tions.
Ms.,University of Potsdam.\VALTHER, M. (1997) Deklarative ProsodiS-che Morphologie.
Doctoral Dissertation,Universit~t Dfisseldorf.34
