Temporal Discourse Markers and the Flow of EventsFrank  Sch i lderComputer  Sc ience Depar tmentUn ivers i ty  of HamburgVogt-K~511n-Str.
30D-22527 HamburgGermanysch i lder@in format ik ,  un i -hamburg ,  de .1 Introduction?
Temporal discourse markers uch as after, before or whileare commonly described as triggers for discourse rela-tions expressing a temporal relation (Mann and Thomp-son, 1987; Knott, 1996).
However, only little researchhas been done regarding the interaction of such discoursemarkers with the context within a multi-sentence dis-course.Lascarides & Oberlander (1993), for instance, notethat sentences containing temporal connectives express-ing the same temporal structure may not describe a co-herent discourse in certain contexts.
Along these linesa similar theory was developed by de Swart (1994)wrt.
temporal adverbials and also applied to temporalclauses.
She points out that the topic/focus tructure hasto be taken into account, especially when apreposed syn-tactic structure as in (1) is read:(1) John had always been rather shy.
But after he metH61%ne, his behavior changed quickly.
He was veryself-assured now.According to her proposal, the after-clause only adds fur-ther temporal information to the event structure of thediscourse, since it is in the topic position of the sentenceproviding 'old' information.
A sentence with a so-calledpostponed after-clause as in (2), on the other hand, re-quires a connection to the preceding context via a rhetor-ical relation (i.e.
background):(2) Ty and John were good friends, and they often wentto the movies together.
But John's behavior changedquickly after he met H%l~ne.
Ty said she bewitchedhim.Previous work seems do indicate that the syntacticvariations of after-clauses play an important rule for theorganisation of discourse.
The purpose of this paper is toshed some light on the usage of the German translationof after (i.e.
nachdem).
First, an analysis is undertakenwith respect to this tempora!
connective in a German cor-pus.
Differences regarding the syntactic variations ascompared to English are pointed out.
Secondly, the ques-tion is raised what kind of rhetorical relation is expressedby this discourse marker and how this discourse markerinteracts with the preceding discourse.One important outcome of these investigations is thatthe discourse marker nachdem does not only indicate arhetorical relation (i.e.
narration).
I will suggest that thenachdem-clause rves a crucial function regarding dis-course organisati0n.
Generally speaking, the temporalinformation conveyed by this clause provides the clue toreturn to a previously mentioned thread in the discourse.This function of a temporal clause is not discussed byLascarides & Oberlander or by de Swart.The remaining part of the paper is organised as fol-lows: Section 2 contains the corpora nalysis regardingsyntactic variations.Section 3 provides a closer look atthe data from a semantic angle.
Example sequences areanalysed regarding their discourse structure.
The lastsection summarises the results and concludes.2 Nachdem in wr i t ten  text2.1 CorporaGerman The online corpora maintained by the Insti-tutfiJir deutsche Sprache (IDS) in Mannheim were usedto collect the German data.
I The corpus chosen for thisstudy (i.e.
Mannheimer Korpus t) contains novels as wellas newspaper articles.
After a selection process, 80 sen-tences were analysed in more detail.English A first investigation of the British NationalCorpus (BNC) 2 was carried out to compare to the ob-servation obtained for German.
Two simple searches forthe English discourse marker after were initiated.
Spo-ken language data were excluded from the list of samplesto be considered.
The number of example sentences leftwas 30.2.1.1 AnalysisThe selected sentences (N=80; N=30) were read andanalysed regarding the following criteria:Syntax Five different structures were distinguished:postponed The main clause occurs before the comple-ment clause (e.g.
Seidler selbst machte auf, nachdemich geklingelt hatte.
\[BT, p. 396\] or he was removed fromoffice (...) after he had openly burned his certificate ofmembership (...) \[B2W 694\]).tThe URL for the COSMAS-system is ht~p://www, ids-mannheim, de/ldv/cosmas/,~intro, html.2The URL  for this corpus is ht tp : / / in fo.
ox.
ac.
uk/bnc/./58topicalised A temporal adverbial or a clause describinga salient situation is topicalised (e.g.
Schon am Abendjenes ersten Tages.
nachdem ich den Sonnenunterganggefilmt hatte, spielten wir Pingpong \[HF, p.89\]).noun-first A Noun (or Noun Phrase) is followed by thecomplement clause and the verb phrase.
This construc-tion, however, can only be found within another comple-ment clause (e.g .
.
.
.
.
wo die Gitarrensanger, nachderasie vor den Touristen-Restaurants gebettelt haben, ihrePizza essen und Chianti per Glas trinken; \[HF, p. 150\]).verb-first The complement clause interjects the mainclause between the verb and the objects or complements(e.g.
Matzerath war im Laden und dekorierte, nachderaer das Geschirr vom Mittagessen abgewaschen hatte, dasSchaufenster.
\[BT, 245\]).preposed The complement clause succeeds the mainclause (e.g.
Nachdem er in diesem Ort die Grundschulehinter sich gebracht hatte, ging er zuru'ck in die Grofl-stadt zu seinem Vater (.
.
.)
\[DBA, p. 172\] or After I madethe cut l folded back the turf(... ) \[AOR 2942\]).Aspeetual Classes The main and complement clauseswere categorised according to the four aspectual classesby Vendler (1967):State to love, to know, to costActivity to run, to walk, to laughAccomplishment to destroy, to createAchievement to notice, to winThe classification of a situation regarding theses classeswas tested using linguistic tests (e.g.
John was happy for3 hours vs. *John was happy in 3 hours).2.2 Statistical resultsMost naturally one would expect hat the syntactic sur-face reflects the actual ordering between the two situa-tions such as in (3):(3) After Peter had left, he went o the cinema.Lever (1989, p. 380), for instance, claims exactly thisby saying that information to be expressed should bearranged according to the "natural ordering of its con-tent."
But the corpus investigation did not confirm thisclaim.
Instead, a variation of different syntactic struc-tures were found.
Surprisingly enough, although the pre-posed structure was the most common one, it was defi-nitely not as dominating as one would expect.
This struc-ture was found in only 33.75% of the studied cases.The verb-first structure, where the complement clauseis inserted immediately after the verb of the mainclause, occurred almost as often as the preposed struc-ture (i.e.
32.5 %).
And even the postponed constructionwas found in 21.25% of the cases investigated.
The top-icalised structure was found in 11.25% of the sentences(s. Figure 1).Assuming that the verb denotes the situation, we findin more than fifty percent of the cases a syntactic varia-tion that does not reflect he natural order of the describedsituations (i.e.
the postponed and verb-first structure rep-resent 53.75% of all cases).The next section investigates in more detail how thesyntactical structure correlates with the aspectual classesof the complement clause.v ~b- fTst : 31.2~: 21 .2~Figure 1: The syntactical variants in German2.3 Comparison with after2.3.1 Differences in numberThe assumption that the preposed structure would occurmost often in the corpus was not confirmed.
In fact, aneven higher distribution of the reverse syntactic structurewas found compared to German, namely 60% (s. Figure2).Cases of the verb-first and noun-first structure did notoccur at all in the English corpus which is not surprising,since these syntactic structures are not grammatical inEnglish.toOie..,al'is~: 6 .6"~Figure 2: The syntactical variants in English2.3.2 Differences in structureAt first sight the high number of the postponed syntac-tic structure would seem to be unexpected, although ahigh number of cases were found for the German data.However, bear in mind that more than half of the sen-tence in German were postponed or verb-first structures59(i.e.
53.75%) which are constellations not reflecting theactual ordering of the described situations.
32.4 Intermediate resultsThe corpora analysis showed that a variety of syntac-tic structures can be found in written text.
The datadisproved Levelt's claim that information should be ex-pressed according to a natural order.A brief investigation of an English corpus showed sim-ilar results regarding the syntactic variation.
Differencesbetween the languages could be explained by the differ-ent word order regarding temporal adverbials.The next section focuses on the discourse structure andwhat kind of effects can be observed between the nach-dem-clause and the preceding discourse.3 Nachdem in written discourseThe following section gives a brief overview of how tem-poral connectives such as after are treated in discoursegrammars.
With de Swart's approach in mind, the pre-ceding context of a nachdem-clause in the 80 sentencesof the German corpus investigation were studied wrt.
thecriteria concerning the aspectual classes.
First of all, theaspectual class of the immediately preceding sentencewas determined.
Inspired by these data the discoursestructure for several example discourse sequences i pre-sented and discussed.In section 3.3 the outcome of these investigations iused to gain a better view of how the discourse struc-ture was constructed with the help of temporal discoursemarkers.I argue that a nachdem-clause is used to provide di-rections through the discourse structure.
The temporalinformation expressed can be seen as a reference backin time and discourse structure.
These clues have to begiven from the writer so that the reader will not lose thethread of the story.3.1 Temporal connect ivesDe Swart proposes an analysis of temporal adverbialsand temporal clauses within Segmented DRT (SDRT)(Asher, 1993).
As mentioned in the introduction, a dif-ference in discourse structure can be observed for the twodiscourses ((1)=(5a), (2)=(5b)):(5) a. John had always been rather shy.
But after hemet H~l~ne, his behavior changed quickly.
Hewas very self-assured now.3Furthermore.
an analysis of a German sentence accordingto the to~uology approach to word order yields the followingVorfeld link?
Kl.
Mittelfeld rechte Kl.schema: Peter u'ank heute zwei Bier.
Temporaladverbials can be most often found in the Mittelfeld according to thisanalysis.
In English, however, temporal information is normally pre-sented at the end of a sentence.
(4) Peter drank two beers today.Hence I will consider nachdem occurring inthis construction as a tern-poral adverbial nd not as a discourse marker.b.
Ty and John were good friends, and they oftenwent to the movies together.
But John's behav-ior changed quickly after he met Hrl~ne.
Tysaid she bewitched him.The discourse in (5a) contains a preposed temporalclause that according to de Swart's account only adds fur-ther temporal information to the existing event structure.No further hetorical information is supposedly derived.The main clause in (5b), she argues on the other hand,is connected with the preceding discourse via the rhetor-ical relation background.One question comes to mind after reading this expla-nation for the two discourses: why does de Swart not usethe discourse marker bur in (5a) to derive the rhetoricalrelation contrast?
Note that the discourse marker but isactually required to establish a coherent discourse.
It isalso necessary to derive this rhetorical relation, becauseotherwise the temporal relation between John's shynessand his change of behavior cannot be derived.
Bear inmind that temporal relations a.re by-products of rhetori-cal relations within the SDRT framework.Lascarides & Oberlander (t994) propose an accountthat takes more into account the interaction betweenworld knowledge and the underlying rhetorical relations.However, they do not consider the effect different syntac-tic variants may have, but provide a sound formal expla-nation for the example sentences discussed above.
Theirstarting-point is a discourse that contains a state as thefirst sentence fo!~owed by a sentence containing a after-(or before-) clause.
A similar example discourse theydiscuss is presented in the following:(6) Mary was cross with John,a.
She was pacified after John gave her the ticketsfor the concert.b.
?John gave her the tickets for the concert beforeshe was pacified.They show how the after-clause in (6a) interacts withthe state described in (6).
A rhetorical relation is derivedbetween the situations described by these two clauses(i.e.
Background).
In addition, a Result relation betweenthe after-clause and the main clause in (6a) can be estab-lished due to our world knowledge.The contrast between (6a) and (6b) is explained byLascarides & Oberlander as follows.
They point out thattemporal connectives are presuppositional.
The situationdescribed by the temporal clause is assumed to have oc-curred for the entire sentence to have a truth-value (cf.
(Heinam~iki, 1972)).
If this is not the case, the situa-tion has to be accommodated into the reader's currentdiscourse model.
But this can't be satisfactorily done forthe situation described by the before-clause in (6b).The example discourses discussed show that severalfactors have to be considered.
Rhetorical relations hold-ing between the situation described by the after-sentence60and the situations described by the preceding contexthave to be derived.In order to get a better understanding of what kind ofrelations between an after-clause and the context can bederived, I examined in more detail what context such aclause is normally embedded in in the following section.3.2 The preceding contextThe data extracted for the corpus investigation i section2.2 were analysed a second time.
The preceding sentencewas classified according to its aspectual class.
Interest-ingly enough, a high number of homogeneous a pectualclasses were found (i.e.
65%).
Consider (7): 4(7) (a) Peter schol~ seinen dreizehnten Spatz an diesemNachmittag.
(b) Er war sehr zufrieden mit seiner Aus-beute.
(c) Nachdem er den dreizehnten zu den an-deren Spatzen gelegt hatte, (d) ginger nach Hause.
(Peter shot his thirteenth sparrow at this afternoon.He was quite happy with this result.
After he hadlaid the thirteenth beside the other sparrows, he wenthome.
)This example sequence shows that the situation de-scribed by the after-.clause (i.e.
(Tc)) refers back to a sit-uation mentioned in (7a).
This example also shows thatnachdem does not only add temporal relation to the eventstructure.
The previous discourse structure has to betaken into account as well.3.3 Discourse structure and discourse guidanceI agree with de Swart's observation that apreposed struc-ture triggers a break in the narration.
But the connectionhas to be made wrt.
the discourse structure derived to thatpoint.
Only adding a temporal constraint is not enough tocover the meaning and function of a nachdem-sentence.I suggest hat nachdem's function in a written dis-course is to connect discourse segments.
The differencein the syntactic position can explain how this connectionis to be made.
A preposed structure triggers a searchin the discourse structure for a position where the situa-tion described by the main clause is to be connected to.A postponed structure, on the other hand, adds temporalinformation to the main clause situation and incorporatesit with the discourse structure derived before-hand.
Butbear in mind that a rhetorical relation has to be estab-lished between the main clause and the preceding con-text.Consider a slightly altered version of (7):(8) Peter schol3 seinen dreizehnten Spatz an diesem Nach-mittag.
(b) Er war sehr zufneden mit seiner Aus-beute.
(d) ?Er ging nach Hause, (c) nachdem er dendreizehnten zu den anderen Spatzen gelegt hatte.The main clause can be connected to the shootingvia narration.
But, the nachdem-sentence cannot ini-tiate a search for a connecting situation then, since the"~This is a modified iscourse found in \[BT, p. 448\].narration relation has closed off this discourse segment.Hence the discourse structure has to be reorganised and(8c) is inserted in the already generated structure.4 Conc lus ionsI have shown how a corpus analysis ofnachdem can shedsome light on the usage of the temporal connective nach-dem in real text.
The claim by Levelt that information isexpressed according to a natural order was disproved bythe data presented.Moreover, I have discussed the different discoursefunctions of nachdem wrt.
the postponed and preposedstructure.
It was shown that de Swart's account of tem-poral clauses was not sufficient o explain the data dis-cussed.
Lascarides & Oberlander's theory, on the otherhand, is limited to a specific construction shown in (6).Discourse phenomena such as returning to an earlierthread in the discourse are not covered by their approach.Ongoing research is being carried out with the focuson the reading time of the two different syntactic vari-ants.
Psychological experiments will provide more evi-dence that there is a difference between the variations.A Work  o f  F i c t ion\[AC\] Ansichten eines Clowns ('The Clown') by Hein-rich BSII, \[BT\] Die Blechtrommel ('The Tin Drum') byGtinter Grass, \[HF\] Homo Faber ('Homo Faber') by MaxFrischReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to abstract Objects inDiscourse, volume 50 of Studies in Linguistics andPhilosophy.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.Henri6tte de Swart.
1994.
Time adverbials in sentenceand discourse.
In Peter Bosch and Rob vander Sandt,editors, Focus and Natural Language Processing, vol-ume 2, pages 415-424.
IBM Deutschland Informa-tionssysteme GmbH.Orvokki Heintimtiki.
1972.
"before".
In Papers from theEighth Regional Meeting of the Chicago LinguisticsSociety, pages 139-151, Chicago, Illinois, USA.Alistair Knott.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodology forMotivating a Set of Coherence Relations.
Ph.d. the-sis, Department of Artificial Intelligence, Universityof Edinburgh.Alex Lascarides and Jon Oberlander.
1994.
Temporalconnectives in a discourse context.
In Proc.
of the 7 thEACL, pages 260-268, Dublin, Ireland.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.W.J.M.
Levelt.
1989.
Speaking: From Intention to Ar-ticulation.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1987.
Rhetoricalstructure theory: A theory of text organisation.
Tech-nical Report ISI\]RS-87-190, USC/ISI, June.Zeno Vendler, 1967.
Linguistics in Philosophy, chap-ter 4, pages 97-121.
Cornell University Press, IthacaNY.61
