What  is coreference, andwhat should coreference annotat ion be?Kees  van  Deemter  and  Rodger  K ibb leITRI,  University of BrightonLewes RoadBrighton BN2 4GJUnited K ingdomKees.
van.
Deemt er@itri, brighton, ac.
ukRodger.
Kibble@itri.
brighton, a?.
ukAbst rac tIn this paper, it is argued that 'coreference an-notation', as currently performed in the MUCcommunity, goes well beyond annotation of therelation of coreference as it is commonly under-stood.
As a result, it is not always clear whatsemantic relation these annotations are actuallyencoding.
The paper discusses a number of in-terrelated problems with coreference annotationand concludes that rethinking of the coreferencetask is needed before the task can be expanded(e.g., to cover part/whole relations) as has re-cently been advocated.
As a step towards so-lution of the problems with coreference anno-tation, one possible simplification of the anno-tation task is suggested.
This strategy can besummed up by the phrase "Coreference annota-tion should annotate coreference r lations, andcoreference r lations only".1 In t roduct ion :  Core ferenceAnnotat ionVarious practical tasks requiring language tech-nology including, for example, information ex-traction and text summarization, can be donemore reliably if it is possible to automaticallyfind parts of the text containing informationabout a given topic.
For example, if a text sum-marizer has to select the most important infor-mation, in a given text, about the 1984 WallStreet crash, then the summarization task isgreatly helped if a program can automaticallyspot all the clauses in the text that contain in-formation about this crash.
To 'train' a pro-gram of this kind, extensive language corporahave been prepared in which human readershave annotated what has been called the coref-erence relation.
These annotated corpora arethen used as a 'gold standard' against whichthe program's achievements can be compared.The relation of coreference has been defined asholding between two noun phrases 1 if they 're-fer to the same entity' (Hirschman et al 1997).More precisely, let us assume that cq and c~2 areoccurrences ofnoun phrases (NPs) and let us as-sume that both have a unique reference in thecontext in which they occur (i.e., their contextin the corpus makes them unambiguous).
Un-der these assumptions we can use a functionalnotation, e.g.
Reference(a), as short for 'theentity referred to by a' and define (suppressingthe role of context):Definition: ~1 and O~ 2 corefer if andonly if Reference(a1) = Reference(a2).Coreference annotation has been one' focus ofthe 6th and 7th Message Understanding Con-ference (MUC-6, MUC-7) and various other an-notation exercises (e.g.
Davies et al 1998),and it has been the topic of a number of sep-arate workshops.
We will limit the discussionto coreference annotations for information ex-traction.
Because the MUC project is the best-known example of this type of coreference an-notation, and because of the public availabilityof the MUC Task Definition (TD, MUC 1997), wewill focus on coreference annotations in MUC.It is clear that anaphoric relations are also of po-tential relevance for any task that requires textinterpretation.
It follows from the definition ofcoreference, however, that anaphora does notequal coreference.
Coreference, for example, is asymmetrical nd transitive relation, leading to al In  some cases, a restriction to noun phrases andnouns  is advocated (e.g.
Hirschman et al 1997) butit seems that, in practice, the annotat ion can be viewedas limited to noun phrases.
If all common nouns (e.g.
'person', 'share price', etc.)
were included, the notion ofcoreference would become even more difficult.90simple partitioning of a set of NPs.
2 Anaphora,by contrast, is a nonsymmetrical and nontransi-tive relation: if NP1 is anaphoric to NP2 then,usually, NP2 is not anaphoric to NP1, for ex-ample.
Secondly, anaphora involves context-sensitivity of interpretation (an anaphoric pro-noun, for example, cannot be interpreted with-out information about where it occurs), whereasa name (W.J.Clinton) and a description (Mrs.H.Clinton's husband) can corefer without anyof the two depending on the other for its inter-pretation.
Anaphoric and coreferential relationscan coincide, as is the case with 'pragmatic' pro-nouns such as he in W.J.
Clinton took the oath;then he took a deep breath.
The point is just thatnot all coreferential relations are anaphoric, norare all anaphoric relations coreferential.The problems that will be pointed out in Section2 suggest that coreference and anaphora re notproperly distinguished in MUC and that this hasled to a TD that is difficult to understand andapply.
Four criteria are listed (MUC 97) for theMUC TD, in order of priority:1.
The MUC task should be supported by theannotations2.
Good (defined as 95%) inter-annotatoragreement should be achievable3.
It should be possible to annotate textsquickly and cheaply4.
A corpus should be created that can beused as a tool for linguists not working onthe MUC information extraction taskThe TD makes it clear that the annotationtask has been simplified in a number of ways.In particular, only Noun Phrases were anno-tated (thereby circumventing problems of nullanaphora, summation, abstraction, etc., see e.g.Kamp & Reyle 1993).
Such eminently sensiblesimplifications notwithstanding, we will arguethat the above-mentioned criteria are extremelydifficult to achieve.
We shall argue that this isdue to fundamental unclarities in the TD and2The somewhat confusing use of the REF feature, inSGML-based MUC annotations, which records the 'an-tecedent' of a 'referring expression' (MUC 1997) could betaken to imply that the notion of coreference r levant forMUC is nonsymmetrical, but the explanations elsewhere(see e.g.
Hirschman et al 1997, and MtJC 1997, Section8) make it clear that an equivalence relation is intended.we'will suggest hat a rethinking of the coref-erence annotation enterprise is in order beforeit ventures into new domains involving speech,noisy data, etc., (see e.g.
Bagga et al 1999),or before it extends the relation of coreferenceto cover whole/part and class/instance r lations(e.g.
Popescu-Belis 1998, MUC 1997), as hasbeen proposed recently.2 P rob lemsIn this section, we will discuss what we viewas some of the most fundamental obstacles forcoreference annotation.
We will explore the im-plications of the observation that many NPs donot refer (Section 2.1), after which we will moveon to problems of intensionality (Section 2.2)and the issue of determining the 'markables' ina corpus (Section 2.3).
Some conclusions willbe drawn in the final section (Section 2.4).2.1 Non-referr ing NPsWhen a speaker/writer uses an NP to refer toan entity (i:e., either an object of some sort ora set of objects), he or she tries to single outthe entity uniquely.
Thus, when someone saysThe owner of this wig is bald, the speaker usesthe NP The owner of this wig to enable his orher audience to determine what person, say Mr.X, they are ascribing the property of baldnessto.
Like everything in language, the notion ofreferring is not entirely unproblematic.
For ex-ample, the speaker's belief that Mr. X ownsthe wig may be mistaken; worse even, nobodymight own the wig.
But, as is recognized in vir-tually any semantic theory (for elaboration, seee.g.
Gamut 1982, Chapter 1), as well as in theMUC TD itself, reference is a relatively clear no-tion.
Especially in the very factual text genrestargeted in Information Extraction (see the Ap-pendix of the present paper for an example), fewproblems are likely to occur.
In an annotationexercise that has been carried out separate fromMUC and that will be reported on elsewhere (e.g.Poesio et al 1999 for a preliminary report), ithas been found that the question whether anNP refers (based on definitions in Lyons 1977)can be answered by annotators with very highinter-annotator agreement.One thing that is clear about reference is thatmany NPs do not refer.
When someone says91la.
No solution emerged from our con-versations, orlb.
A few solutions may emerge fromour conversationsthe subject NPs do not refer to any single solu-tion, nor to any definite set of solutions.
Theyhave no reference.
3 As a result, the coreferencerelation as defined in Section 1 is inapplicable.Nonreferring NPs can stand in various seman-tic relations to each other including anaphoricrelations.
For example, the NPa  few solu-tions can be embedded in a conditional, sayingWhenever afew solutions emerged, we embracedthem.
The anaphoric relation between afew so-lutions and them cannot be modeled by a theoryof reference.
Instead, a variable binding accountmay be employed to reflect that two sets of en-tities must co-vary: the set of any solutions thatemerged at a given moment and the set of anysolutions that we embraced at that moment.
Ofcourse, it would be possible to ask annotators toannotate anaphoric relations, in which case onewould need to explain what anaphora is.
Thiswould be a substantial task which would requirethe writing of a new TD 4.For the reasons ketched above, NPs of the fol-lowing types do not refer:?
Quantifying NPs (e.g.
'Every man', 'Mostcomputational linguists' (MUC 97))?
Most occurrences of Indefinite NPs (e.g., '/don't have a machete' (MUC 97), 'Do youown a machete?~?
Predicative NPs ('... became (presidentof Dreamy Detergents)', (MUC 97, see alsoaOf course, an NP like 'no solution' has a meaning,but 'having the same meaning' is different from corefer-ence.
For example, in Mary is married to a nice manand Sue is also married to a nice man, both occurrencesof a nice man have the same meaning, but one wouldexpect hem to refer to different individuals.4Sometimes the term 'co-specification' has been usedto replace coreference by a wider notion which subsumesat least some types of anaphora including, specifically,the use of pragmatic pronouns (e.g.
Sidner 1983).
Co-specification, however, is not  an intuitively clear notioneither - what does it mean for an expression to 'specify'something?
- and no definition of it that would be usefulto annotators i known to us.
In particular, it is unclearwhether a bound anaphor and its antecedent co-specify,or how the notion should be applied to intensional con-structions (see Section 2.2).Section 2.2))A 'substitution' test can be used to confirm thatNPs that stand in anaphoric relations to NPs ofthese types do not corefer with them.
For in-stance~ one may observe that Every man loveshis mother does not mean the same as Everyman loves every man's mother, contrasting withreferring NPs, which do allow such substitutions(e.g., John loves his mother equals John lovesJohn's mother).
5So, substantial classes of NPs do not refer, andconsequently they cannot corefer.
Yet, MUC'Sannotators have been asked to mark NPs ofeach of the above-mentioned categories and tolet them 'corefer' with other NPs.
So clearly,the relation annotated in MUC - let's call itthe IDENT relation, following (MUC 97) - differssharply from the coreference relation.
The TDadmits that certain instructions may be incom-patible with the definition of coreference but noreason is given for these incompatibilities andno intuitive motivation for the relation IDENT isoffered.
The annotator is left with a long seriesof instructions which fail to be held together bya common rationale.2.2 Intensionality (and text-assertedidentity)The coreference annotation community is wellaware of some of the problems with the TD.
Theproblem that has received most of their atten-tion is the problem of intensionality (Hirschmanet al 1997).
This awareness has led to consid-erable complexities in the relevant parts of theTD.
For example, in Section 1.3 of MUC (1997),where the implications of 'change over time' areconsidered, where the example the stock pricefell from $4.
OP to $3.85 is discussed, the instruc-tions tell annotators to consider the stock priceas standing in the IDENT relation with $3.85 butnot with $4.02, for the reason that $3.85 is 'themore recent value'.
Quite reasonably, $4.02 isnot considered to stand in the IDENT relationwith the stock price because transitivity wouldlead to the conclusion that $4.02 and $3.85 areequal.
The first question this raises is, whatSTests of this kind could be offered to annotators tosimplify their task.
Space does not allow their exactformulation, since qualifications are needed to accountfor NPs in attitude contexts and for specifically usedindefinites.92happens if the next sentence asserts that, lateron, the price fell even lower?2.
(a) The stock price fell from $3.0Pto $3.85; (b) Later that day, it fell toan even lower value, at $3.82.Does the annotator have to go back to (a), de-ciding that $3.82 is an even more recent valueand the stock price does not stand in the IDENTrelation with $3.85 after all?Later parts of the TD contradict what is saidin Section 1.3.
Section 6.4 tells annotators that'Two markables hould be recorded as corefer-ential if the text asserts them to be coreferentialat any time'.
Accordingly, in3.
Henry Higgins, who was formerlysales director of Sudsy Soaps, becamepresident of Dreamy Detergents,annotators are asked to mark (1) Henry Hig-gins, (2) sales director of Sudsy Soaps, and (3)president of Dreamy Detergents as standing inthe IDENT relation.
But, by the same reason-ing as above, this implies that Henry Higginsis presently the sales director of Sudsy Soapsas well as the president of Dreamy Detergents,which is not what the text asserts.
Clearly, thisis not a sensible instruction either.As in the case of non-referring NPs (Section2.1), the root of the trouble lies in the factthat the relatively clear (but limited) notion ofcoreference is extendedto ne that aims to beapplicable in a wider class of cases, but whichis no longer clear.
On linguistic grounds, Twostrategies could be used to solve the problem.One would be to exclude predicatively usedNPs from entering coreference relations and toleave their analysis to other MUC tasks.
Theother, more sophisticated strategy, consistentwith Dowty et al (1981), would be to say that,in cases like this, The stock price refers, notto a number (such as the number $3.85) butto a Montague-type individual concept (Dowtyet al 1981), that is, a function from timesto numbers.
It would have followed that Thestock price does not corefer with either $4.02 or$3.85 and no problem would have arisen.
Anal-ogously, president of Dreamy Detergents, in thecontext cited above, would denote an individualconcept rather than an individual.
If the nextsentence goes on the say He died within a week,he would be marked as coreferential with HenryHiggins; if, instead, the text proceeds ayingThis is an influential position, but the pay islousy, then this would be marked as coreferen-tial with president of Dreamy Detergents.
It ispossible that this second strategy would be ask-ing rather too much from annotators, in whichcase the first strategy would be preferable.2.3 Markab lesExperience with the coreference task has shownthat it is surprisingly difficult, and this has beentackled by breaking it down into more manage-able subtasks.
The emerging practice (recom-mended by Hirschman et al 1997) is to sep-arate annotation into a two-stage process: an-notation of markables is to be carried out be-fore linking coreferring elements.
This meansthat the coreference task becomes a matter ofpartitioning the set of markables into equiva-lence classes, which may be interpreted as cor-responding to 'discourse referents' (cf.
Popescu-Belis and Robba 1998).
It turns out, however,that the distinction between marking up andlinking is not strictly followed even in the MUC-7specification.
Certain elements are only markedup if they corefer with an existing mark, able:these include conjuncts and prenominal modi-fiers.
In the following example, the first occur-rence of aluminum is markable as it 'corefers'with the occurrence of this noun as a bare NPin the second clause.4.
The price of aluminum siding hassteadily increased, as the market foraluminum reacts to the strike in Chile.Bare nouns in modifier position are not said tobe marl(able unless there is a coreference rela-tion of this type.There are various ways one could address thesedifficulties.
One possibility is to explicitly sep-arate out the task of marking up all elementswhich might participate in coreference.
How-ever, this approach will increase the complexityof the task, which is likely to become unmanage-able if the scheme is extended to cover "discon-tinuous elements, including conjoined elements"as suggested in Section 1.4.
Consider the exam-ple (emphasis added):935.
Oestradiol is a form o-f oestrogen;norethisterone acetate is a progesto-gen.They belong to a group of medicinesknown as Hormone ReplacementTherapy (HRT).
(ABPI 1997)The problem here is that the antecedent of Theyis the conjunction of Oestradiol and norethis-terone acetate, which doesn't appear as a con-tiguous sequence in the text.
This relation canbe annotated by adding new tags for compositereferring expressions, but it is obviously unde-sirable to encode these tags in advance for everypossible combination ofreferents in a text, sincethe number would increase xponentially withthe number of "basic" referring expressions.An extreme alternative is to have a first passwhere only referring expressions which look likeanaphors are marked up, such as pronouns, def-inite NPs and reduced forms of proper names.Subsequent passes would look for antecedentsfor these expressions and link coreferring ele-ments.
An intermediate approach would be tomark up a "core" set of referring expressions onthe first pass, allowing for further eferring ex-pressions to be identified on subsequent passesif this is necessary to resolve coreference.
Theextent to which each of these strategies wouldcontribute to accuracy and speed of annotationremains to be determined, but it seems unreal-istic to expect great benefits from any of them.Beyond the noun phrase.
It has been sug-gested above that the scope of the coreferencetask might better be restricted to cases of 'strict'coreference involving NPs.
This would be com-patible in the longer term with extending thedomain of the task to cover abstract objectssuch as events, when they are not describedusing an NP.
When analysing naturally occur-ring text one often finds pronouns and full NPswhich refer back in some way to the content ofa clause, as in the following example:6.
Bates had crashed an F-14 into thePacific during a routine training flightin April.
Navy o\]:~cials blamed him -forcausing the accident...This is a clear case of coreference, where twoexpressions refer to a well-defined event.
Caseslike this are currently excluded from the MUCcoreference task, which limits itself to relationsbetween NPs.
On the other hand, they are onthe "wish list" in Section 1.4, "Future Direc-tions" and, from the point of view of Informa-tion Extraction, it is obviously desirable to in-corporate reference to events.
If and when thisis done, the problems that were noted above willbe exacerbated.
In particular, difficulties arise ifthe strategy of identifying markables in advanceis maintained, since it is difficult to determinewhich types of elements can serve as antecedents(ABPI 1997):7.
Be careful not to get the gel in youreyesI-f this happens, rinse your eyes withclean water and tell your doctor.8.
The label will tell you how much touse and how often.This will usually be two or three timesa day.To sum up, the news from this quarter is bothgood and bad.
There are clear cases of eventcoreference which can be incorporated into thecoreference task.
On the other hand, exist-ing problems with annotation of NPs will bemade worse since annotators will be confrontedwith some difficult problems both in identifyingmarkables and deciding on coreference links.3 Conc lus ionBased on the above, we would like to arguethat current 'coreference annotation' practice,as exemplified by MUC, has over-extended itself,mixing elements of coreference with element?
ofanaphora in unclear ways.
As a result, the anno-tated corpus that is likely to emerge from MUCmay not be very useful for the research com-munity outside MUC (Criterion 4), the more sobecause generalization to other subject domainsis likely to make problems worse.
For example,in many domains, there axe other sources of in-tensionality than just change over time.Let us briefly return to the other success crite-ria mentioned in MUC (1997).
It would seemthat the current MUC Task Definition is al-ready rather complex, to the point where it be-comes doubtful that it can be applied quicklyand cheaply (Criterion 3).
Indeed, one has toask whether it can be applied with a sufficient94degree of accuracy, even given plenty of time.Hirschberg et al (1997), when discussing thisquestion, note that inter-annotator agreement(Criterion 2) at the time of writing, was in thelow eighties.
The material in Section 2 suggeststhat this relative lack of success is no accidentand that unclarities and internal inconsistenciesstand in the way of success.A separate issue that has been discussed in Sec-tion 2.3 is the identification of 'markables'.
Aclear separation between (1) the task of mark-ing all the markables and (2) that of annotat-ing coreference r lations between markables ap-pears to be difficult to uphold.
Consequently,one has to ask whether the coreference task canbe made easier by finding a more effective sepa-ration of subtasks.
This becomes even more ur-gent if generalization to other phenomena thanrelations between NPs, as has recently been ad-vocated, are contemplated.Given this situation, we suggest that coreferenceannotation might do well to restrict itself to an-notation of the coreference r lation, as definedin MUC (1997) and Hirschman et a1.
(1997) (Seeour Section 1).
Instead of the IDENT relationpracticed in MUC, annotation of the coreferencerelation promises better chances for success.
Ifthis strategy were adopted, annotation wouldbecome a more modest enterprise, which wouldprovide its consumers with information that issmaller in volume but more reliable in quality.
(For an example, see Appendix.
)In conclusion, it appears that there is scopefor new collaboration between the coreferenceannotation community and the computationalsemantics community.
The present paper at-tempts to be a small step in this direction.APPENDIXTo show that, in the text genre targeted byMUC, not much is lost if annotation is lim-ited to coreference as defined in Section 1, wetook an excerpt of a MUC-6 Wall Street Jour-nal article, precisely as it was rendered and an-notated in MUC (1997), Appendix A, where itwas used as an extended 'sample annotation'of non-dialogue annotation.
Reflecting the 'offi-cial' view (see Section 1), according to whichonly the partitioning into equivalence classesmatters, we simplify the notation by printinga number following the NP that it annotates.Thus, NPs that are followed by the same num-ber stand in the IDENT relation (Section 2.1):Ocean Drilling & Exploration Co.(l) willsell its(l) contract-drilling business(2),and took a $50.9 million loss from discon-tinued operations in the third quarter(3)because of the planned sale.The New Orleans oil and gas explorationand diving operations company(l) addedthat it(l) doesn't expect any further ad-verse financial impact from the restructur-ing.In the third quarter(3), the company(l),which is 61%-owned by Murphy Oil Corp.of Arkansas, had a net loss of(4) $46.9 mil-lion(4), or 91 cents a share(4).It has long been rumored that OceanDrilling(l) would sell the unit(2) to con-centrate on its(l) core oil and gas business.The annotation shows a partitioning into fournon-singleton sets of NPs: 7 NPs in class (1)(the company), 2 in class (2) (the contract-drilling business, 2 in class (3) (the third quar-ter), and 3 in class (4) (the loss).It is easy to see how the text would be anno-tated using the notion of ('strict') coherence ad-vocated in Section 2.
Each of the above-definedclasses except (4) are coreference r lations, andconsequently they would be annotated in theexact same way if only coreference were anno-tated.
The only difference is class (4), and thisclass exemplifies the problems discussed in sec-tion 2.2.
We conclude that, for this text, theonly MUC annotations that are not inherited by'strict' coreference are questionable.In addition, it may be noted that the most im-portant links that are missed by both annota-tion schemes concern the use of which, whichrefers to the company, and various referencesto the selling/restructuring of the division (e.g.,the planned sale, the restructuring).
Both arecoreferential relationships that could be coveredby extensions of an annotation scheme based on'strict' coreference (see Section 2.3).AcknowledgementsThe authors wish to thank the following forhelpful feedback on earlier drafts of this pa-95per: Adam Kilgarriff, Richard Power, Paul Pi-wek and colleagues in the GNOME project.Kibble's work was funded by the UK EPSRCas part of this project under grant referenceGR/L51126.L i te ra tureABPI (1997).
1996-1997 ABPI Compendium ofPatient Information Leaflets.
Association ofthe British Pharmaceutical Industry.BAGGA i .
ET AL.
(1999).
Coreference andits Applications.
Call for papers for workshopassociated with ACL'99.
Seewww.
ca.
duke.
edu/~amit/ac199-wkshp, htmlMUC (1997).
MUC-7 Coreference Task Defini-tion, 13 July 1997.
See www.muc.saic.comDAVIES S. ET AL.
(1998).
Anno-tating Coreference in Dialogues: Pro-posal for a scheme for MATE.
Seewww.
cogsci, ed.
ac.
uk/-,~poesio/MATE/anno_man-ual.
htmlDOWTY D. ET AL.
(1981).
DoTty, D., Wall,R.
& Peters, S. Introduction to MontagueSemantics.
Dordrecht: Kluwer.GAMUT L. T. F. (1991).
Logic, Languageand Meaning Volume 2.
Chicago and London:University of Chicago Press.HIRSCHMAN L., ROBINSON P., BURGER J.& VILAIN M. (1997).
Automating Corefer-ence: The Role of Annotated Training Data.In Proceedings of AAAI Spring Symposiumon Applying Machine Learning to Discourse?
Processing.KAMP H. & REYLE U.
(1993).
From Dis-course to Logic.
Dordrecht: Kluwer AcademicPublishers.
?LYONS J.
(1977).
Semantics.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.POESIO, M., R. HENSCHEL, J. HITZEMAN,R.
KIBBLE, S. MONTAGUE, AND K. VANDEEMTER.
(1999).
Towards an AnnotationScheme for Noun Phrase Generation.
Toappear in H. Uszkoreit et al (eds), EACL-99Workshop on Linguistically Interpreted Cor-pora, Bergen.POPESCU-BELIS A.
(1998).
How Corpora withAnnotated Coreference Links Improve Refer-ence Resolution.
In R. ANTONIO ET AL., Eds.,First Int.
Conf.
on Language Resources andEvaluation, p. 567-572.
Granada: EuropeanLanguage Resources Association.POPESCU-BELIS A.
& ROBBA I.
(1998).
ThreeNew Methods for Evaluating Reference Reso-lution.
In First International Conference onLanguage Resources 8J Evaluation: Workshopon Linguistic Coreference.
Granada: EuropeanLanguage Resources Association.SIDNER C. (1983).
Focusing in the com-prehension of definite anaphora.
InM.Bradyand R.Berwick eds.
Computational Models ofDiscourse.
Cambridge, Mass:MIT Press.96
