Reference HashedFrank SchilderDepartment for lnformaticsUniversity of HamburgVogt-K611n-Str.
3022527 Hamburg, Germanysch i  Ider@ in fo rmat ik ,  un i  - hamburg ,  deAbstractThis paper argues for a novel data structure for therepresentation f discourse referents.
A so-calledhashing list is employed to store discourse referentsaccording to their grammatical features.
The ac-count proposed combines insights from several the-odes of discourse comprehension.
Segmented Dis-course Representation Theory (Asher, 1993) is en-riched by the ranking system developed in center-ing theory (Grosz et al, 1995).
In addition, a treelogic is used to represent underspecification withinthe discourse structure (Schilder, 1998).1 IntroductionDiscourse referents are represented quite differentlyby current diso~urse theories.
Discourse Represen-tation Theory (DRT), for example, mploys aratherunstructured data structure for the domain of dis-course referents: a set (Kamp and Reyle, 1993).A DRT-implementation byAsherand Wada (1988),however, employs amore complex data type: a treerepresentation.
I  further work by Asher (i 993) ref-erents are grouped together into segments depend-ing on Ihe discourse structure.
His Segmented DRT(SDRT) uses a tree-like representation for the dis-course sUuctui~ ICentering Theory (CD proposes a//st structurefor the entities one preferably refers to in subse-quent sentences.
In order to cover coreference overdiscourse segments the centering model was ex-tended by a stack mechanism (Grosz and Sidner,1986).
Recently, these data structures have beencriticized by Walker (1998), because they seem tobe too restrictive.
She proposes acache storage forthe referenis in the focus of attention.!
propose instead a novel data structure for therepresentation of discourse referents.
A/rushing listtSimilarly, Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) makes use ofa tree representation (Mann et aL,1988).100is used to distinguish between the different typesof referents according to their grammatical featureswrt.
number or gender.
This list structure is further-more combined with a hierarchical tree structure.The remaining pan of the paper is organised asfollows.
Section 2 introduces the main claims madeby past theories.
Focusing on SDRT and CT, Iwill highlight the (dis.-...) advantages of these two ap-proaches.
Section 3 provides the reader with anintroduction to hashing lists and how they can beused for linguistic dam.
Section 4 discusses howthe different advantages of former approaches canbe combined.
First, DRT will be amended by us-ing a hashing list for the discourse referents insteadof a simple set.
Second, the centering model willbe applied to the representation gained.
Finally, theshortcomings of a flat representation are presentedand the introduction of discourse segments i dis-cussed.
Subsequently, section 5describes a detailedformalisation ofone example sequences by the rep-resentation proposed, before section 6concludes.2 BackgroundIt has been commonly agreed that a discourse ishierarchically organised.
However.
this is alreadythe lowest common denominator among current ap-proaches to discourse grammars and text compre-hension.
There is a wide range of views of whata formal representation of a discourse should looklike.
The following sections give a short introduc-tion to two suands of research concerned with dis-course processing.
The first one, DRT and follow-ers, is a linguistically-oriented approach that.
gen-erally speaking, captures the hierarchical structureof a discourse by a tree-like representation.
Thesecond strand, based on CT, is motivated by psy-chological experiments and models the structure ofa discourse as a list representation f possible dis-course referents.
Further developments of CT haveemployed a stack structure or a cache storage.0t0000000Q000000000000002.1 Hierarchical discourse grammarsSDRT (and RST) assume that so-called iscourse(or rhetorical) relations are the links between dis-course segments.
A discourse relation has to be de-rived in order to achieve acoherent discourse.
Moreimportantly, the choice of this relation has a crucialinfluence on possible antecedents for anaphoric ex-pressions, z Asher (i 993) defines in SDRT the termssubordination a d openness that specify where openattachment si es are in a discourse structure.
A tree-like representation illustrates the hierarchical struc-ture of the discourse.
Basically, the nodes on theso-called "right frontier" of the discourse structureare assumed to be available for further attachment(Webber.
199 i ).Generally speaking, all nodes which dominate thecurrent node of the newly processed sentence areopen (i.e.D.Subordination).
However, a restrictionis introduced by the term D.Freedom which appliesto all nodes that are directly dominated by a topic(i.e.
~ ~/3), unless it is the current node (see fig-ure 1).
An informal definition for possible attach-ment sites looks like the following:I.
The last clause represented as a Discourse Rep-resentation Structure (DRS) K.2.
Any DRSs that are embedded in K.3.
Any DRSs that dominate the DRSs in I. and 2.through Explanation, Elaboration or ~\[K 0 : a ~  d-freeKt s :~ Kto :&KlOl :~K I0 l l :~  KI010:~Rgure i: Openness and D-FreedomSDgr exploits discourse relations to establish ahierachical ordering of discourse segments.
A so-called constituent graph indicates the dependenciesZl will concentrate onhow SORT deals xvith this i.,~ue in thefolltm, ing.
A study that .shows how RST can be u.~d to makepredictions regarding anaphora resolution i a text can be foundin Fox (1987).between ~cgments,e.,~pecially highlighting the ()penattachment pt>h\]ls.SDRT has been sucessful whet) phenomena areconsidered thai are explainable because of the hier-archical structure of the discourse.
This approach istoo restrictive when an anaphoric reference isdrawnover .~egment.
boundaries:(I) (a) Mary once organised a party..(b) Tqmbought he beer.
(c) Pete~" was in charge ofthe food.
(d) Years later Mary still com-plained that it was too spicy.The sentence (Id) continues at the top level of thediscourse, but the antecedent of it (i.e.
food) is stillavailable ven though it is deeply embedded in anElaboruzirm segmenr(i.e.
(!
a-c)).Other shortcomings concern formal, features.First," SDRT is not capable Of expressing under-specification for ambiguous sequences.
Second, thederivation of the di~'~turse tructure is not mono-tonic.
Once derived, SDRSs are overwritten by anuLulate.2.2 CenteringCT proposed by Grosz et al (1995) offers a textcomprehension model that describes the relation be-tween the focus of attention and the choices of re-ferring expressions within a discourse segment.
Themain idea of this theory is that a sentence possessesa center arid that normally one Continues to write(or talk) about this center.
Each utterance 0~ gets alist of forward-looking centers C/(U~) assigned toit.
Basically, all the entities mentioned by the sen-tence are ranked according to their degree of beingin the center of the utterance.
Each sentence also hasa unique backward.looking center C'b(Ui).
A mainclaim by the theory is that the most likely C6(Ui+t)is the most highly ranked Cl(\[/i)~ Hence, the cri-teria for ranking the entities on the forward-lookingcenter list are crucial for the predicative power ofthis theory.
No tm~ly, the grammatical relationssubject, object etc.
determine the preferred Cp(Ui)(i.e.
the first entity on the Cl(Ui ) list).As mentioned earlier in this section, the initial ac-count o centering isonly concerned with the choiceof referring expressions within a discourse segment.Since a more general theory to referring expressionsis needed, an extension is presented by Grosz andSidner (1986).
They use a stack mechanism for rep-resenting the different discourse segments.
If onesegment is closed off.
the information regarding the101forward- and backward looking centers is poppedoff the stack.
The new top clement of the stackcontains the centering information from the old seg-ment hat the subsequent discourse continues with.This simple stack mechanism has been criticised.In particular Walker (1998) points out that (i) a longintervening discourse segment Can make it difficultto return back to earlier mentioned discourse refer-ents and (ii) discourse referents introduced in a sub-ordinated segment can easily be carded over to ahigher segment (e.g.
(I)).
Note that a stack modelwould discard the information of a closed-off dis-course segment.
Walker proposes acache storagethat keeps often-used iscourse referents within astorage.
If reference is made to an antecedent men-tioned earlier in the discourse the information is re-stored from long term memory.Unfortunately, it is not quite clear how this re-trieval operation can be fonnalised.
In addition, itshould be acknowledged that there are structuredconstraints of the discourse structure that do not al-low the choosing of a recently mentioned referent.Data discussed within DRT, such as the sentence be-low, have been presented as evidence for a notion of(in-)accesibility.
3 Negation is a standard examplethat does not allow a reference to a discourse ntityin the prevous entence:(2) No man walks in the park.
#He whistles.In the given example sequences the pronoun hecannot refer back to the discourse refett~ts intro-duced inthe previous entence.
Another examplecan be found in (3) that involves aconditional:(3) If a farmer owns a donkey, he beats it.
#Hehates it.Again, neither a pronominal reference by he norby it is possible.
It may be concluded from thesedata that a cache approach is not restrictive enough.The discussion so far has shown that the datastructures used for discourse processing are eithertoo restrictive or not restrictive nough.
The nextSection presents a novel way of representing dis:course referents introduced by a text.
The datastructure pre.sented is called a hashing list and al-lows for an efficient way to access tored informa-tion.
"Gordon et al (1998), for example, blend DRT with CT.1023 Hashing listsThe following section describes how a hashing listworks before the subsequent section shows how thisdata structure can be used for discourse processing.3.1 Data hashedOne of the main problems for the de~,;ign of com-puter systems is the question of how data is storedand efficiently accessed.
Hashing lists are oftenused for this purpose since this data structure isspecifically designed for easy retrieval of storeddata.I will first describe the data structure in more de-tail and then I will give an example of how data canbe retrieved from a hashing list.Hashing lists.
The basic data structure for a hash-ing list is an array A\[min..max\] (i.e.
an indexed?
list A that has a preset length of n elements).
Anarray with the name year  could be defined as fol-lows:TYPE hash = ARRAY\[0..99\] ofinteger;The random access tructure of this data type al-lows the programmer to assig n a single cell of thearray directly (e.g.
hash  \[99 \] : = 9; ).
This is anadvantage over other data structures such as trees.Hashing functions.
A function has to be designedthat tells us how to store data on the hashing list.This function takes the item to be stored and givesback an appropriate key k. The item can now bestored at the fight place on the list.Suppose we want the program to store the inte-ger 2000 on the hashing list year  defined earlier.A hashing function H ( i ) has to be be chosen suchthat this function gives back an index k. With thisinformation the assignment hash  \[k\] : =2000;can take place.
A hashing function for integers maybe the Modulo function.
For the given example thekey k would be 2 0 (i.e.
2000 rood 99 = 20).The hashing function can also give back an in-dex k for a new item that has already been taken byanother item (e.g.
119 has the same key).
For thecase of a-collision a special treatment is required.The most common one is the administration of anoverflow area.
The single places on the hashing listare lists that Would handle colliding ?
items.
Figure 2shows a pan of the hash list hash  \[ 19 .
.
21 \] withtwo items 2000 and 119 inserted.0Q000000000000000000000000000000000\[19\]l'J\ [20 \ ]2o'oo119?\ [ l\ [21 \ ]6Figure 2: hash \[ 19 .
.
21\] with collision resolu-tion for two items3.2 Discourse hashedI now show how a hashing list can be employed asa data structure for linguistic data.
This may notbe obvious after using only integers for storing on ahashing list.Domains of referents.
Natural anguage process-ing requires a richer data structure than storing in-tegers.
However, in the end a hashing function forlinguistic data will also consist of an array.Considering the different types of discourse refer-ents, we can assume at least he following list of mr.erents to be relevant: singular male, singular female,singular neuter, plural and event referents.
4 We nowtake these conceivable r ferents and reserve ach ofthem a slot in the domain  array:domain\[sgM, sgF, sON, pl, ev\]Note that this way of writing the hashing list isactually only syntactic sugar for a normal definitionsuch as domain  \[ 1 .
.
5 \].Referent function.
A function is needed thatcan assign a cell on the array domin  to a newlyintroduced iscourse referent.
The semantic andsyntactic information that comes with the a dis-course referent gives us the key for this.
Takefor example a proper name such as Peter.
Theinformation that comes with it could be encodedas a feature value matrix such as proposed byDale (1992) (see figure 3).
The hashing functionINDEX: ;CI\['AT pnSYN.
\[NUM.
sing" AGR:LGEND: maleSEM: NAMED: peler\]Figure 3: The representation for PeterThe function rezums gM (or 1) as key for the arraydomain  in the example given.Summing up, a hashing list was proposed to storediscourse referents while processirlg natural lan-guage discourse.
This kind of list contains everal"slots" that await discourse referents described by adiscourse.
The grammatical features of gender andnumber distinguish the different referents.The following section discusses how this datastructure is embedded into a discourse grammar.4 Referents in d iscourseThe linguistic data presented earlier demonstratesthe need for hierarchical constraints on anaphoraresolution.
But the data also show that previousapproaches such as SDRT overemphasise this re-striction.
A refusal of any discourse structure con-suaints, on the other hand, also does not seem tobe appropriate.
A cache storage that stores the fre-quently used discourse referents does not accountfor the data that were explainableby (S)DRT.This section describes how a hashing list can beused for the storage of discourse referents.
The listis integrated into an SDRT framework.
The infor-mation about he discourse segments i  kept in orderto cover data that is explainable by thehierarchicaidiscourse structure.
In addition, the insight that atakes the information under the agreement feature sentence has a center as proposed by CT is also re-AGR and checks for the values regarding number' :  flected by the theow proposed.
The discourse refer-and gender, ents are ordered according to centering preference.NUM: ,nng \]~F.JqO: nude\]*This is only a first list of very fundamental referents.
But .the list can easily he extended .by more differentiated pluraltypes, speech acts or types of referents.The following sections describe in more detailhow the different concepts are integrated in the sys-tem proposed by this paper.
First, the way discoursereferents are stored via a hashing list is explained.Second, the ordering regarding the centering prefer-ence is imposed on the slots of the hashing list.
Andfinally, a tree structure is presented that binds all thecomponents ogether.1034.1 Referents hashedIn the system proposed, a hashing list stores therel'ercnts introduced by the discourse.
The hashinglist contains at least the following slots: sc j l ,sgF,  sgN, p l ,  ev.
Since the basic formalismis DRT, we need to incorporate the hashing listinto the formalism.
In DRT, a DRS consists ofthe domain of discourse referents and the set ofconditions, imposed on the referents.
A sentencesuch as Peter sighs is represented by the boxnotation as follows:4.2 Referents re-centeredAlter blending a I)RT representation with a hash-ing list lor a structured representation of discoursereferents.
1 will introduce the centering I'~ature intothe formalism.
The different slots already containthe ordering of the referents regarding the centeringpreference.
An apparent advantage over the center-ing approach should become clear: the referents arealready separated from each other.A discourse such as (4) without any competingantecedents for the pronoun she is formalised by aHDRS as follows:Xl elp~ter( x Dez : sigh(xz)A hashing list substitutes, for the set of discoursereferents offering ~ffezcnt slots for the discoursereferents to be stored in:Peter(x z )el : sigh(xl)The representation f a more complex sentencesuch as Peter gave John a book containing severaldiscourse referents i  in the following DRS:?
::1 I: '11 "'p~.er(xl)john(z2)book(zs)ez : give(:l, : : ,  :a)This Hashed DRS (HDRS) contains a complexdomain sub-box.
'\['he slot for male and singulardiscourse referents is filled with the two items xtand zz.
The two referents are on a collision list asdescribed earlier.
Additionally, the list reflects theordering for the centering list.
The subject NP Pe-ter was processed before the object NP John "and?
is therefore the first entry on the preferred center-ing list.
Note that only referents that share the samegrammatical features are listed in the same slot.104(4) (a) Peter gave Mary a book.
(b) It was aboutsailboats.
(c) She was thrilled.xz x2 Fz elS2S3peter(xl)mary(x2)book(y\] )et:give(xz,x2,!/I)s2:about(yz; s_boats)ss:thrilled(x2)CT would predict for (4.b) that the book is thepreferred forward looking center Cp.
The back-ward looking center of (4c) is Mary.
This is calleda rough slu'ft in CT. A continuation of the center(Cp(Ui) = Cs(Ui+t)) is the preferred and most co-herent constellation according to this theory.
How-ever, contrary to what CT would predict, it is noproblem to read(4).The HDRS format seems to work fine withpronominal references to persons or objects.
Butwe run into problems when the slot regarding thedescihed events and states is considez~l.
The fol-lowing example (5) illustrates that a simple flat listrepresentation as indicated above by et, a2, ss is notsufficient for more complex anaphori?
expressionssuch as event anaphora (Allen 1995):(5) (a) When Jack entered the room, everyonethrew balloons at him.
(b) In retaliation,he picked up the ladle and started throwingpunch at everyone.
(c) Just then; the chair-.man walked into the room.
(d) Jack hithim.with a ladleful, right in the face.
(e) Every-one talked about it for years afterwards.00000000000000000000000000000000QmIIIIIIIOOOOOOOOOOOOO@OOOOO@@@OOOOO@OOOOOOOOOKIIKm:  ehzh(Ktt~t.
K;~t;S2Figure 4: The discourse structure for EluboruthmThe pronoun h in (5e) may refer to the entire sit-uation described by (5a) through (5d).
BUt this isnot the only conceivable antecedent for it.
The sit-uation described by (5d) may be referred to by it aswell, if we consider an alternation of (5e) as in thefollowing:(Se') It was a foolish thing to do.Note that the situation in (5d) is the only situationavailable from the sequence (5a-d).
The list struc-ture for the evene  slot does not reflect he structureof the discourse.
A segmented discourse structure isneeded here.4.3 Discourse segmentsThe derivation of discourse structure used in thisaccount is that.proposed by SDRT.
This discoursegrammar, as well as others, claims that discourse?
segments originate from the derivation of so-calleddiscourse relations (e.g.
Narration, Elaborationetc.)
due to our background or world knowledge.The account proposed by this paper assumes thatHDRSs are grouped together wrt their discoursesegment.
Consider now the following sequence (6)with the possible continuation (6e) with a male andfemale pronoun (depending on whether a male orfemale protagonist was introduced by the first sen-tence).
(6) (a) Mary/Mark once organised a party.
(b)Tom wrote the invitation cards.
(c)Peterbought he booze.
(re) She/He was glad that everything workedout so nicely.The first continuation does not cause any prob-lems.
although the antecedent for she was intro-thlced by the iirst sentence of the sequence.
Sinceno odler COml~.
'ting discourse refcrellls have beenmenlioned, the resolulion process works withoutproblem.
However; .substituting a male protagonistcalled Mark for the female protagonist in the firstsentence does cause problems for the understandingof 16).
In this case, it is unclear who was meantby he.
Note furthermore thai only two antecedentsare available, even though three male antecedentshave been introduced.
Only the one in the last sen-tence (i.e.
Peter), or the one introduced by the firstsentence (i.e.
Mark) are conceivable antecedents.
Adifferent continuation does not show this ambiguity:(6e') He decided just to buy beer.The continuation i (6?')
is an elaboration of thelast sentence.
Hence Peter, who was responsible forthe booze, is the only possible antecedent.The following sentence is the last piece of evi-dence that the discourse segment allows only an-tecedents that are available on the so..ealled rightfrontier.
The following sentence shows that it is notpossible to refer to Tom, who wrote the cards, withthe last sentence:(6?")
#He decided to use thick blue paper.5 FormalisationThis section is an introduction to the formalismused.
The formalism consists oftbe following parts:DRT The standard DRT theory is used to obtaina semantic representation for the meaning ofa clau~ (Kamp and Reyle, "i993).
However,the set of discourse referents i more structuredthan in the standard approach.
It also goes be-yond the approach by Asher and Wada (1988)(see below for further details).Hashing lists The data structure of hashing lists isused to divide the set of discourse referents upinto different slots.
Each slot contains only ref-erents of the same type, as there are singularmale, female, or neuter eferents, plural enti-ties and events.SDRT A hierarchical discourse structure is neededto explain anaphoric expressions that referback over segments boundaries.
In addition, atheory is needed that takes into account worldknowledge for the derivation of discourse rela-tions (Asher.
1993).105Ixl ly, !
\]elmary(zz)party( I / t )et : organise(zz, Z/z)KT"I ~, l y, \] z, l elmary(a:z)party(z/z)ez : organise(zz, gz)el _3/?
;~l-eZl = zl ~ ~2 ?
X~l.ZIKRI : elab(K~l.
K~I)82 :iitom(z2)invitation_cards(Z2)e2 "wri~z2, ~)Figure 5: The Segmented HDRS for (6a-b)Underspecified Tree Structure Data have beendiscussed thatshow an ambiguity regarding thedis?oune structm~ In order to express the am-biguity formally an underspecification mecha-nism is employed (Schilder, 1998).?
I will now present the derivation of the sequencein (6).$.1 ElaberationFirst, a HDRS representation is to be de~ved for thefirst sentence.
The HDRS for (6a)looks like a nor-real DRS, the only difference is the hashing list thatcontains the discourse referents in different slots.Second, aHDRS for the second sentence isderived ~and, in addition, adiscourse r lation is inferred fromour world knowledge.
An elaboration relation linksthe two HDRSs inthe given case.
Within an under-specified version of SDRT this discourse structureis represented asshown in figure 4.106The nodes in the tree are labels for (Segmented)HDRSs.
The two labels t and a~ denote the seman-tic content of the two first sentences, respectively.The label KRt refers to the derived relation dab-oration that holds between the two segments K~xand K~t.
Note that the left daughter node of theK~ is already deiermined by setting K~t equal toat.
The right daughter node, however, is left open.This is indicated by ~the dotted line between K,~ land s2.
This fine expr~ses graphically the domi-nance relation between tree nodes (<Z') in contrastto the straight line that indicates an immediate dom-inance relation (<l).
sThe underspecification f the tree structure al-lows us to define where possible attachment pointsare on the right frontier of the discourse structure.The tree structure in figure 4 possesses two attach-Sl follow here the description of a tree logic such as thatused by Kallmeyer ( 1996} or Muskens (1995).
@0000000@@0000000@00000@00000@@000@000@@0e \] '(T .
.
"K : " KTI "r I le,e / ?
.
K ' :0 l'.i z21 I IZ21e2 / "~e / \tom(z2)invitadon_cards(~2)e2 :write(z~, Z2)82 :..." f ' J...-?
?~xsl i y31 103peter(z2)s3 : booze(z/s)es : buy(z2, Y3)Figure 6: The third sentence (6c) addedment points: one is between K~ ~ and s:~ and theother one is between/CT and K~ x.
This latter nodedenotes .the topic of the current discourse segmentwhich is the situation described by sz for (6a-b).Two further emarks are to be made regarding therepresentation in figure 5 before continuing with thesequence.
First, an additional condition is added tothe topic node.
The information about he temporalrelation between the situation-et and the subordi-nated situation was added on this level of the dis-course tree.
Note that it is still open which event ewill finally show up !n the node referred to by K~x.
~Only afterclosing off this discourse segment will itbe clear which event(s) elaborated the situation ez.Second, aplural entity Zl is stored in K~z.. Thisentity combines the singular entities into a pluralone.
A more elaborate mechanism is needed herein order to combine only entities of the same type(e.g.
persons).
For the time being, all plural entitiess/C'~z.g can be described as a pointer to the plural slot ofK,~t.are stored in this one slot.5.2 Continuing the threadA//st relation can be derived for the sentences (6b)and (6c) (see figure 6).
The semantic content sa isadded to the discourse tree linked by the discourserelation and furthermore a common topic is addedat KTR2.
The topic information has to be an abstractrepresentation f the two HDRSs a2 and as.
In or-der to achieve that, two new discourse referents amintroduced: a plural entity Z4 comprising za.and zs(i.e.
Tom and Peter) and a complex situation e4 tem-porally covering ea and e4.5.3 Looking backAfter the third sentence has been processed, the nextsentence contains apronoun.
In case of she the pro-noun looks for a female singular-antecedent.
Theappropriate discourse referent is found on the rightfrontier in the appropriate slot.
Alternatively, ifsequence (6) contains the male protagonist namedMark in the first sentence instead of Ma~., the107 ?Ixzrsonal Pronoun he could I?1v?
two Posnll~lc ;m-l?cCdc:nts: I~'ler or MCar/,'.
How can Ihal be L'x-plaincd by the formalism?Figure 7 depicts the formalisation of the dis-coupe (6a-c) cmly showing the hashing lists on theright frontier.
The dotted arrows indicate the hash-ing list as it is distributed over the right frontier ofthe discourse structure.
There is only one entry for afemale singular antecedent over the levels of nodeson the right frontier.
However, if there were a maleprotagonist, he hashing list for the referents in node/x'~o would contain a discourse referent in the firstslot.
The list of possible antecedents for he wouldbe xa and x t.The separation of different reference types alsoallows us to explain sequences such as ( I ).
The dis-course continues on the highest level, but it is possi-ble to refer to discourse referents that got introducedon a lower level of the discourse structure.
The linkbetween two situations can be made via a rhetoricalrela6on, and at the same time the slots for the otherreferents at the right frontier are still accessible.The hashing list also models a hashed right fron-tier.
Past approaches always collapsed iscourse at-tachment with the restriction regarding possible an-tecedents for anaphora (cf.
the stack mechanism inCT or the tree representation for (S)DRT).The formalisation can also provide an explana-tion of why competing antecedents can cause anambiguity for the pronoun resolution.
The acces-sibility of hashifig lists on different levels of the dis-course structure xplains why, in this example, a fe-male antecedent can be used as an antecedent evenover several intervening sentences.
It is importantto highlight the difference of the account presentedhere to past approaches: The discourse referents aregrouped together according to their agreement fea-tures.
The DRT account by Asher and Wada, forinstance, stores the discourse referents in a tree ac-cording to the accessibility conditions imposed byDRT and singles out the appropriate antecedents ac-cording to number and gender information as wellas other criteria.
There the agreement informationis used to "weed out" possible antecedents, whereaswithin a HDRS the discourse referents are alreadyaccordingly stored.It should also be clear that an embedded dis-course cannot be extended infinitively, as shown bythe cache approach.
A restriction has to be imposedon the number of levels where an antecedent can belooked \['or.
Future research, however, has to clarify108this is.~uc Iurlhcr.Nt)t?
thai Ihis I'ormali.~atio.
c:q~itahzcs on the in-sight gained From the cache al)proacli.
An elabo-ration cannot be continued for too long.
since theworking memory of the reader might lose track ofthe protagonist(s)introduced on the highest level.On the other hand, this fonnalisation also cov-ers mor~ data than the cache approach.
A textcomprehension theory that employs a cache stor-age cannot account for a discou~e such as (6)with a non-competing female protagonist.
The dis-course referent for Mary would have been storedin long term memory, because no differentiation ismade betwee n the grammatical types of possible an-tecedents according to the cache approach.6 ConclusionI have proposed a new data structure for the process-ing of coreference in a discourse.
A hashbzg listwas employed to store referents according to theirgrammatical features uch as number or gender.
Be-cause of this, better accessibility to non-competingantecedents can be modelled by the approach pre-sented.The discourse grammar used combined insightsfrom different approaches to discourse processing:(S)DRT and CT.
In addition, a tree logic was usedto allow underspecification in the representation ofambiguous.
~quences.Future research has to focus on the evaluation of.
. '
- .
.
.?
the proposed theory to anaphora resolution.
Co-pora investigation and psychological experimentswill provide more evidence.
In addition, an imple-mentation of hashed DRT is being programmed.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank the two annomynous reviewersto their comments and feedback.
Special thanks toChristie Manning for providing me with all her help.References : ,Allen.
James.
1995.
Natural I.zmguage Under-standing.
The Benjamin/Cummings PublishingCompany, Redwood City.
California.Asher, Nicholas.
1993.
Reference #J abstract Ob-je?
'ls in Discour.ve, volume 50 of 5uulie.v in Lin-gui,'tic.v mul Philosophy.
Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers.
Dordrecht.Asber, Nichola~ and Hajime Wada.
1988.
A com-putational account of syntactic, semantic and dis-00000000000000000000000000000000000000DOOOOOOOeOOOeOeOOOOOOeOeOeOeOOeOOO?K~R1 "~ a l,.l(~r" o .,: "-,Kl~l : elab(K~l, Net'},.i , Ilis *r r'l K" ~'" "" ~zl'R2, R21 "., ?t tK~ ~ s2 "., ""?
.
!Figure 7: The entries of the hashing list on the right frontiercourse principles for anaphora resolution.
Jour-nal of Semantics, 6:309-344.Dale., Robert.
1992.
Generating Referring Expres-sions.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Fox, Barbara.
1987.
Discourse structure andanaphora.
Cambridge University Press.Gordon, Peter and Randall Hendrick.
1998.
Therepresentation a d processing of comferenC?
indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 22(4):389-424.Grosz, Barbara L, Aravind Joshi, and Scott Wein-stein.
1995.
Contusing: A framework for mod-elling the local cohe~nc?
of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 21(2):203-225.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candac?
L. Sidnex.
1986.
At..tentien, intention, and the structure of discourse.Compataaonal Linguistics, 12(3): 175-.-204.Kallmcycr, Laura.
1996.
Undenp~ification iTree Descri#on Grammars.
Arbeitspapiem desSouderfonchungsbereichs 34081, University ofTtibingen, T(lbingen, December.Kamp, Hans and Uwe Reyl?.
1993.
From Dis-course to Logic: lmroduction to ModeltheoreticSemantics of Natural Language, volume 42 ofStudies in Linguistics and Philosophy.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordmcht.Mann, William and Sandm Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functionaltheory of text organisationn.
Text.
80):243-28 I.Muskens, R. 1995.
Order-independence and under-specification.
In J. Groenendijk, editor, Ellipsis,Underspecification, Events and more in DynamicSemantics, number R.2.2.C in DYANA Deliver-able.
ILLC/Department ofPhilosophy, Universityof Amsmrdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands,pages 15--34.Schilder, Frank.
1998.
An underspacified seg-meated discourse representation theory (US-DR'I').
In Proceedings of th e 17 ~ International.
Conference on Computational Linguistics (COL-ING "98) and of the 36 th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL"98), pages !
188-1192, Universit6 de Moutr6al,Montr~,al, Qu6bec, Canada.Walker, Marilyn.
1998.
Centering, anaphora res,olution, and discourse structure.
In MarilynWalker, Aravind Joshi, and Ellen Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse.
Clarendon Press,Oxford, pages 401-435.Wcbber, B. L. 1991.
Structure and ostension in theinterpmtatiou of discourse deixis.
Language andCognitive Processes, 6(2): 107-135.109
