Text-Translation Alignment:Three Languages Are Better Than Two *Miche l  S imardLaboratoire de recherche appliqu4e n linguistique informatique (RALI)Universit4 de Montr6alS imardM?IRO.
UMontreal.
CAAbst rac tIn this article, we show how a bilingual text-translation alignment method can be adaptedto deal with more than two versions of a text.Experiments on a trilingual corpus demonstratethat this method yields better bilingual align-ments than can be obtained with bilingual text-alignment methods.
Moreover, for a given num-ber of texts, the computational complexity ofthe multilingual method is the same as for bilin-gual alignment.IntroductionWhile bilingual text corpora have been part ofthe computational linguistics cene for over tenyears now, we have recently witnessed the ap-pearance of text corpora containing versions oftexts in three or more languages, uch as thosedeveloped within the CRATER (McEnery etal., 1997), MULTEXT (Ide and V4ronis, 1994)and MULTEXT-EAST (Erjavec and Ide, 1998)projects.
Access to this type of corpora raisesa number of questions: Do they make new ap-plications possible?
Can methods developed forhandling bilingual texts be applied to multilin-gual texts?
More generally: is there anything togain in viewing multilingual documents as morethan just multiple pairs of translations?Bilingual alignments have so far shown thatthey can play multiple roles in a wide rangeof linguistic applications, uch as computer as-sisted translation (Isabelle et al, 1993; Brownet al, 1990), terminology (Dagan and Church,1994) lexicography (Langlois, 1996; Klavansand Tzoukermann, 1995; Melamed, 1996), andcross-language information retrieval (Nie et al,* This research was funded by the Canadian De-partment of Foreign Affairs and International Trade(h t tp : / /~ .d fa i t -maec i .gc .ca / ) ,  via the Agence dela francophonie (h t tp : / /~ .
franeophonie, orE)1998).
However, the case for trilingual and mul-tilingual alignments i not as clear.
True multi-lingual resources uch as multilingual glossariesare not widely used, and most of the time, whensuch resources exist, the real purpose is usuallyto provide bilingual resources for multiple pairsof languages in a compact way.What we intend to show here is that whilemultilingual correspondences may not be inter-esting in themselves, multilingual text align-ment techniques can be useful as a means ofextracting information on bilingual correspon-dences.
Our idea is that each additional versionof a text should be viewed as valuable informa-tion that can be used to produce better align-ments.
In other words: whatever the intendedapplication, three languages are better than two(and, more generally: the more languages, themerrier!
).After going through some definitions and pre-liminary material (Section 1), we present a gen-eral method for aligning three versions of a text(Section 2).
We then describe some experimentsthat were carried out to evaluate this approach(Section 3) and various possible optimizations(Section 4).
Finally, we report on some disturb-ing experiments (Section 5), and conclude withdirections for future work.1 T r i l ingua l  A l ignmentsThere are various ways in which the concept ofalignment can be formalized.
Here, we chooseto view alignments as mathematical relationsbetween linguistic entities:Given two texts, A and B, seen as sets oflinguistic units: A = {al,a2,...,am} and B ={bl, b2, ...,bn}, we define a binary alignmentXAB as a relation on A tj B:XAB={(al,bl),(a2,b2),(a2,b3),...}2The interpretation of XAB is: (a, b) belongs toXAB if and only if some translation equivalenceexists between a and b, total or partial.This definition of alignment, inspired fromKay and RSscheisen (1993), can be naturally ex-tended to accommodate any number of versionsof a text.
In general, we will say that, givenN versions of a text A1,...,AN, a N- l ingualalignment XA~ is a relation on UiN=iAi.Clearly, a N-lingual alignment can be ob-tained by combining pairwise bilingual align-ments.
For example, with three texts A, B andC, and three alignments XAB, XBC and XCA,one can easily obtain the trilingual alignmentXABC as XAB U XBC U XCA.
In fact, in allthat follows, we indifferently refer to trilingualalignments as unique relations or as triples ofbilingual alignments.
Conversely, any smaller-degree alignment can be extracted as a subsetof a N-lingual alignment, by projecting the re-lation onto a given "plane".Another thing that becomes apparent as soonas more than two languages are involved is thattext-translation alignments appear to be equiva-lence relations, which means that they generallydisplay the properties of reflexivity, symmetryand transitivity:?
reflexivity: Any word or sequence ofwords aligns with itself-  which is natural,insofar as we extend the notion of "transla-tion", so as to include the translation fromone language to itself...?
symmetry :  if a in language A is alignedwith b in language B, then we expect b toalign with a.
In other words, alignment isnot "directional".?
t ransi t iv i ty:  if a aligns with b, and if bitself aligns with c, then a aligns with c.Although there are limits to the applicability ofthese mathematical properties to real-life trans-lations, the case of transitivity is particularlyinteresting, as we will see later on.Translation equivalences can be viewed at dif-ferent levels of resolution, from the level of docu-ments to those of structural divisions (chapters,sections, etc.
), paragraphs, sentences, words,morphemes and eventually, characters.
In gen-eral, it seems quite clear that the smaller theunits, the more interesting an alignment is likelyto be (although we can question the interest of acharacter-level alignment).
However, in the ex-periments described here, we focus on alignmentat the level of sentences, this for a number ofreasons: First, sentence alignments have so farproven their usefulness in a number of appli-cations, e.g.
bilingual exicography (Langlois,1996; Klavans and Tzoukermann, 1995; Da-gan and Church, 1994), automatic translationverification (Macklovitch, 1995; Macklovitch,1996) and the automatic acquisition of knowl-edge about translation (Brown et al, 1993).Also, the sentence alignment problem has beenwidely studied, and we could even say that atthis point in time, a certain consensus exists re-garding how the problem should be approached.On the other hand, not only is the com-putation of finer-resolution alignments, suchas phrase- or word-level alignments, a muchmore complex operation, it also raises a num-ber of difficult problems related to evaluation(Melamed, 1998), which we wanted to avoid, atleast at this point.
Finally, we believe that theconcepts, methods and results discussed herecan be applied just as well to alignments atother levels of resolution.2 A General Method for AligningMul t ip le  Vers ions  o f  a TextExisting alignment Mgorithms that rely on theoptimality principle and dynamic programmingto find the best possible sentence alignment,such as those of Gale and Church (1991), Brownet al (1991), Simard et al (1992), Chen (1993),Langlais and E1-B~ze (1997), Simard and Pla-mondon (1998), etc.
can be naturally extendedto deal with three texts instead of two, or moregenerally to deal with N texts.
While the res-olution of the bilingual problem is analogous tofinding an optimal path in a rectangular ma-trix, aligning N texts is analogous to the sameproblem, this time in a N-dimensional matrix.Normally, these methods produce alignments inthe form of parallel segmentations of the textsinto equal numbers of segments.
These segmen-tations are such that 1) segmentation points co-incide with sentence boundaries and 2) the k thsegment of one text and the k th segment of allothers are mutual translations.
We refer to suchalignments as non-crossing alignments ( ee Fig-ure 1 for an example).3La vraie question posde par cet te  controverse est la suivante: ?qu'est ce que la pensde?
?Elle mystifie l'humanitd (seule, apparemment, k pouvoir penser)depuis des milldnalres.
?Des ordinateurs qui ne pensent pas ont cependant  rdorientd laquestion et ~limin~ diverses rdponses.
?La vraie rdponse reste eependant  inconnue.
?L'esprit est-il un programme d'ordinateur?
?JOHN SEARLE ?Non : 1"un programme manipule seulement  des symboles, mais lecerveau leur donne un sens.
?Behind this debate lies the question, What does it 'mean tothink?
?The issue has intr igued peop le  (the only entities known tothink) for millennia.
?Computers  that  so far do not think have given the question anew slant and struck clown many candidate answers.
?A definitive one remains to be found.
?Is the brain's Mind a Computer Program??
?NO.A program merely manipulates ymbols, whereas a brain at-taches meaning to them.
?by John It.
Searle ?Figure 1: Bilingual Non-crossing Sentence Alignment - "?"
's denote sentence boundaries; horizontallines represent segmentation points.This definition covers a subset of alignmentsas defined in Section 1.
It is therefore alwayspossible to represent a non-crossing alignmentas an equivalence relation.
However, the con-verse is not true: in particular, and as theirname suggests, one cannot explicitly representinversions with such alignments, i.e.
situationswhere the order of sentences i  not preservedacross translation.
In spite of this limitation,these alignments cover the vast majority of sit-uations encountered in real-life texts, at least atthe level of sentences (Gale and Church, 1991).There is a problem with extending this classof alignment algorithms to deal with the gen-eral N-dimensional case, however: the compu-tational complexity of the algorithm increasesmultiplicatively with each new language.
Forinstance, the space and time complexity of thetrilingual version of the Gale and Church (1991)program would be O(N3).
The use of such analgorithm quickly becomes prohibitive (for ex-ample: 1,000,000 computation steps for textsof 100 sentences each).
Of course, in the caseof bilingual alignment, it is common practiceto restrict the search, for instance to a narrowcorridor along the main "diagonal" (see Simardand Plamondon (1998), for example).
But evenwith such heuristics, it is quite clear that in gen-eral, the search-space will grow multiplicativelywith each new language.Nevertheless, the idea of aligning multipleversions of a text simultaneously is intuitivelyappealing: while the alignment operation willno doubt be more complex than with two lan-guages, every new version brings some addi-tional information, which we should be able tomake good use of (see Figure 2).
Therefore, wewill want to find a way to overcome the com-plexity issues.We know that the multilingual alignmentproblem is related to a number of other sequencea2 / " J  c2Figure 2: Three texts are easier to align thantwo - In the face of an uncertainty regardingcorrespondences between b2, Cl and c2: the ab-sence of evidence for (a2,cl) or (al, b2) corre-spondences suggests rejecting (b2, cl), while asimilar reasoning supports (b2, c~).comparison problems, with applications in var-ious domains.
In particular, molecular biolo-gists are concerned with relating sequences ofnucleotides (in DNA or RNA molecules) andof amino acids (in proteins) (Sternberg, 1996).The methods used to attack these problemsare very similar to those used in translationalignment, and rely largely on dynamic pro-gramming.
In practice, researchers in molec-ular biology have observed that, insofar as theinput sequences axe not excessively dissimilar,the greater the number of sequences, the betterthe alignments obtained.
Therefore, numerousstrategies have been proposed to alleviate thecomplexity issues related to multiple sequencecomparison (Chan et al, 1992).
One commonheuristic approach is to reduce the search-space,either in width (i.e.
by concentrating the searcharound the "diagonal"), or in depth (i.e.
by4first segmenting the input sequences atjudiciouspoints, and then aligning the subsequences).
Ofcourse, these strategies are also widely used intext-translation alignment.However, the most widespread approach isto construct multiple alignments by iterativelycombining smaller-degree alignments.
Whilethese methods are not generally optimal, theystill produce good results in most situations.More importantly, for a given number of se-quences, they usually work in quadratic timeand space.
The general idea is to first com-pare sequences two-by-two, so as to measuretheir pairwise similarity; based on the result ofthis operation, an order of alignment is deter-mined - -  typically, the most similar pairs will bealigned first; the final multiple alignment is pro-duced by gradually combining alignments (see,for example, Barton and Sternberg (1987)).This approach can be directly adapted to thetrilingual text alignment problem.
The idea issimple: given three versions of a text A, B andC, in three different languages, we first deter-mine which of the three pairs AB, BC or ACis the most "similar".
Let us suppose that thisis the AB pair.
We then align this pair, usingwhatever bilingual alignment program we haveat hand, producing XAB; we then align text Cwith this alignment, hus producing XABC.To implement this idea, we need to answertwo questions: First, how to measure the simi-larity between different versions of a text?
Andsecond, what does it mean to align a text withan alignment?There are certainly numerous possible an-swers to the first question.
But actually, statis-tical alignment methods uch as those derivedfrom Gale and Church (1991) provide us witha simple solution: to find the best alignment,these methods explore different alignment hy-potheses, and select the one with the highestprobability with regard to a certain statisticalmodel of translation.
Therefore, at the end ofthe operation, a statistical alignment programhas at its disposal an overall score for the bestalignment, in the form of a global probability.In practice, we observe that this score is a goodindicator of the similarity between two texts.For instance, Gale and Church used this scoreto identify dubious regions in their alignments 1.1Also recall that the dynamic programming approachTherefore, to determine the most similar pairof texts, we propose to compute the bilingualalignments XAB, XBC and XAC, and to com-pare the final alignment scores.
Of course, forthis exercise to be meaningful, we must makesure that the scores associated with the bilin-gual alignments are indeed comparable.
In gen-eral, if the same alignment method is used withcomparable translation models for all pairs oflanguages, this should not be a problem.Once the most similar pair of versions hasbeen identified, say A and B, and we have com-puted a bilingual alignment for that pair, weare ready to tackle the problem of aligning theremaining text C with the XAB alignment.
Inpractice, this will amount to aligning the ele-ments of C (in our case, sentences) with indi-vidual "couples" of the XAB relation: wheneverwe align some sentence c E C with a sentencea E A, then this implies that c must also bealigned with all other sentences to which a isrelated within the transitive closure of XAB.
Inother words, this alignment method is "inher-ently transitive".In practice, the alignment of XAB and Cis dealt with just like a bilingual alignment:the XAB alignment is viewed as a sequence ofitems, and dynamic programming is used tofind the best alignment with the sentences ofC.
The only real difference lies in how individ-ual "triples" are scored.
Here again, we turnto molecular biology, where experience seemsto show that the "joint similarity" of multipleitems can be measured as the linear combina-tion of all pairwise comparisons:s(al,...,aN) = Z s(ai, aj)i<jThis sort of combination supposes that all bi-nary scoring functions (ai, aj) are comparable(Carillo and Lipman, 1988).
Once again, thiswill not be a problem if we plan to use analo-gous translation models for all language pairs.To sum up, given three versions of a text A,B and C, we propose the following trilingualalignment method:1.
Compute initial bilingual alignments XAB,to text alignment actually derives from a classic algo-rithm to measure the "edit distance" between two strings(Wagner and Fischer, 1974)5XBC and XAC;2.
Using the final alignment score, identify themost similar pair (say, AB);3.
Align the remaining text (C) with the ini-tial alignment of the retained pair (XAB);the result is a trilingual alignment XABC;The computational complexity of this methodis essentially the same as that of the underlyingbilingual alignment method, both in terms oftime and space.
In practice, aligning three textsthis way takes about the same amount of mem-ory as aligning one pair, and about four timesas much computation time.3 Eva luat ionWe have implemented a trilingual sentence-alignment program called trial, based on the ap-proach presented in Section 2 and on a bilingualsentence-alignment program called sfial, whichimplements a modified version of the method ofSimard et al (1992).
In sfial, we essentiallycombine into a statistical framework two crite-ria: the length-similarity criterion proposed byGale and Church (1991) and a "graphemic re-semblance" criterion based on the existence ofcognate words between languages.
This methodwas chosen because it is simple, it requires aminimum of language-specific knowledge, andbecause it is representative of the kind of ap-proaches that are typically used for this task,at least for aligning between closely-related lan-guages uch as German, English, French, Span-ish, etc.
Furthermore, in a recent sentence-alignment "competition" held within the AR-CADE project (Langlais et al, 1998), the threetop-ranking systems relied at least partially oncognates, and two of them were derived irectlyfrom the Simard et al (1992) method.To test the performance of the trial pro-gram, we needed a performance metric and atest corpus.
Following the work of the AR-CADE project, we decided to measure perfor-mance in terms of alignment recall, precisionand F-measure, computed on the basis of sen-tence lengths (measured in terms of characters).In our experience, this set of metrics is the mostgenerally useful.Our test corpus was The Gospel Accord-ing to John, in English (New InternationalVersion), French (Louis Segond translation)LanguagesSpanish precision-French recallFFrench precision-English recallFEnglish-SpanishprecisionrecallFsfial0.9970.9890.9930.9560.9410.9480.9520.9360.944trial0.9970.9890.9930.9620.9410.9510.9500.9430.947Table 1: Precision, recall and F-measure ofalignments produced by sfial and trial, on TheGospel According to John, French, English andSpanish versions.and Spanish (Reina Valera version).
All ver-sions were obtained via the Bible Gateway(http: / /uvw.gospelcom.net) .
For the needsof the evaluation, we manually segmented allthree versions of the text into sentences, andthen produced reference sentence alignments,using the Manual system (Simard, 1998c).
Thiscorpus and its preparation axe described in moredetails in Simard (1998a).The test-corpus was submitted to both sfialand trial; the results of this experiment are re-produced in Table 1.
The Spanish-French pairwas identified by trial as being the most similar(not surprisingly, English-Spanish was the mostdissimilar).
Since the alignment of the mostsimilar pair is used as the basis of the trilingualalignment, he results obtained by sfial and trialfor this pair are identical.
On the other hand,for the two other pairs, the trial method seemsto improve the quality of the alignments, butthe gains are minimal.A close examination of the results quicklyreveals what is going on here: As mentionedearlier, our trilingual alignment method is "in-herently transitive"; in fact, it naturally pro-duces alignments which are transitively closed.In doing so, it sometimes run into some naturallimitations of the applicability of transitivity toreal-life translations.
Take the following exam-ple: suppose that the word weak in an Englishtext is rendered in French as sans force ("with-out strength") and in Spanish as sin fortaleza.A transitively closed trilingual alignment willcontain the correct correspondences (sans, sin)and (force, fortaleza), but also the correspon-6LanguagesFrench precision-English recallFEnglish precision-Spanish recallFbefore after0.962 0.9790.941 0.9380.951 0.9580.950 0.9700.943 0.9380.947 0.954Table 2: Impact of re-segmenting couples in-volving more than a single pair of sentences inthe alignment produced by trial.dences (sans, fortaleza) and (force, sin), whichare superfluous.
Such contractions and expan-sions happen all the time in real-life transla-tions, not only at the level of words, but at thelevel of sentences as well.
As a result, transi-tively closed alignments of three texts or morewill usually display a lower precision than bilin-gual alignments.To compensate for this "transitivity noise",we decided to apply a final post-processing step:for each pair of languages, whenever the trilin-gual alignment produced by trial connects twopairs of sentences or more, we evaluate the im-pact of re-segmenting the corresponding regionof text (in other words, we perform a local bilin-gual alignment).
Typically, this operation canbe carried out in near-linear time and space.Table 2 shows the impact of this procedure onthe trial alignments of The Gospel According to?
John (the initial bilingual alignment is not sub-mitted to re-alignment, and so the results forthe French-Spanish pair is not reproduced here).What we observe is a significant improvement ofprecision, and a slight decrease in recall.
Com-pared to the sfial bilingual alignment, he over-all improvement (F-measure) is approximately1%: all figures being in the 0.95 area, this cor-responds to a 20% reduction in the total error.Therefore, it would indeed seem that our finalpost-processing is effective, and that in the end,"three languages are better than two".4 OptimizationsIn addition to all the usual optimizations tobilingual alignment methods, various things canbe done to reduce computation times in thetrilingual alignment method of Section 2: forinstance, individual bilingual scores from step1 can be recorded in memory, to be later re-used in step 3.
Also, if multiple processors areavailable, the three initial alignments of step 1can be done in parallel.
By combining theseoptimizations, it is possible to align three textsin less than twice the time necessary to align asingle pair.Another possible optimization is to initiallysegment the three texts in parallel, so as to per-form step 3 on smaller pieces.
Of course, thisidea is not new, but what makes it particularilyappealing for trilingual alignment, in additionto the usual reduction in the needed time andspace, is the potential for further improvementsin the quality of the resulting alignments: Inthe method outlined above, we have chosen tobase the re-alignment on the initial alignmentthat connected the two most similar versions ofthe text.
In reality, nothing proves that thissimilarity is "evenly distributed" on the total-ity of the texts.
In fact, if we segmented theinput texts at arbitrary points, we might verywell discover that the most similar pair of lan-guages is not always the same.
If this is the case,then we could improve our results by doing there-alignment in small chunks, each time basingthe re-alignment on the pair of languages thatlocally displays the best similarity.On the other hand, this approach also carriesits own risks.
Indeed, by pre-segmenting thethree texts in parallel, we will be fixing pointsin the alignment a priori, namely those pointsat the boundaries between segments.
This iswhy it is crucially important to select segmenta-tion points judiciously: we will want these to liein areas where all three initial alignments agreeand each display a high level of confidence.In practice, such "points of agreement" be-tween the initial bilingual alignments can befound by computing their transitive closure, i.e.by adding to the union of the three alignmentsall couples whose existence is predicted by tran-sitivity (a simple procedure for this can be foundin Hopcroft and Ullman (1979)).
From suchtransitively closed trilingual alignments emerge"islands of correspondence", i.e.
groups of sen-tences that are all related to one another.
Inbetween these islands lie natural segmentationpoints, that can be viewed as points of agree-ment between the three initial alignments.We also found that to obtain the best possi-ble segmentation f the texts, it was necessary7to select among such points of agreement onlythose lying between pairs of islands of corre-spondence for which we have a high degree ofconfidence.
To measure this "confidence", wecurrently use two criteria: first, the number ofsentences ofeach language in the surrounding is-lands; and second, the alignment program's ownscoring function.
The first criterium is based onthe simple observation that most alignment er-rors happen when the translation diverges fromthe usual pattern of "one sentence translates toone sentence" (Simard, 1998b); so we only con-sider points of agreement lying between "l-to-1-to-l" islands.
The second criterium is basedon the observation by Gale and Church (1991)that good alignments usually coincide with highscoring regions of text.To sum up, our optimized trilingual align-ment method follows these lines:Given three versions of a text A, B and C,1.
Compute initial bilingual alignments XAB,XBC and XAC;2.
Segment the texts:(a) Identify points of agreement betweenXAS, XBC and XAC, by computingthe transitive closure X~B C of XAB UXBC U XAC;(b) Among these points, select thosepoints that lie between pairs of 1-1-1triples within which individual bilin-gual alignment scores do not exceedsome threshold T;(c) Segment A, B and C at these points,thus producing sub-segments A1...An,B1...Bn and C1...C n.3.
Jointly align each triple of segments(Ai, Bi, Ci) as with the trial method (Sec-tion 2), and obtain the final trilingual align-ment as the union of all partial alignmentsXAB C = UXAiBiCi ;This optimization was implemented into thetrial program, thus producing a program wecall trial++.
The Gospel According to John, inFrench, English and Spanish was then submit-ted to this new program.
To a certain degree,the results of this experiment were a disappoint-ment, since they turned out to be virtually iden-tical to those obtained with the trial program.step trial trial++bilingual alignment 113 113pre-segmentation - 12re-alignment 69 18Total 182 143Table 3: Execution times in seconds for indi-vidual computation steps of trial and trial++(French, Spanish and English versions of TheGospel According to John).A closer examination reveals what is going on:in 201 out of the 279 segments produced by thepre-segmentation procedure, trial++ chose tobase the re-alignment on the same alignment astrial, i.e.
the Spanish-French.
No differencescould therefore be expected between the twoprograms on these segments.
Of the 78 remain-ing segments, 60 contained exactly one sentenceper language, so not much improvement couldbe expected for those either.
In the end, only 18segments remained where trial and trial+ + hadthe potential to produce different alignments;but even here, both programs produced birtu-ally identical results.The main difference between trial andtrial++ was execution times.
Table 3 showsthe times required for each of the computationsteps of the two programs.
What we observe isthat pre-segmentation reduces execution timessignificantly, without hampering the quality ofthe alignments.
We can therefore consider thatthis is a useful step, especially if we are dealingwith long texts 2.5 A D is turb ing  Exper iment .
.
.We mentioned earlier that to compute trilin-gual alignments, directly extending dynamicprogramming bilingual alignment methods wasnot a realistic approach from the point of viewof computational complexity.
However, it seemsthat the optimization described in Section 4 forpre-segmenting the three texts into small seg-ments before performing the trilingual align-ment could actually help resolve the problem:if we manage to segment he input texts intosmall enough chunks, then a cubic-order algo-~Also worth noting here is that pre-segmentation iscurrently carried out by a Perl script.
With a properC implementation, execution times for this step wouldprobably become negligible.8LanguagesSpanish-FrenchFrench-EnglishEnglish-SpanishprecisionrecallFprecisionrecallFprecisionrecallFsfial trial tr ia l - -0.997 0.997 0.9920.989 0.989 0.9840.993:0.993 0.9880.956 0.979 0.9590.941 0.938 0.9190.948 0.958 0.9380.952 0.970 0.9520.936 0.938 0.9140.944 0.954 0.933Table 4: Precision, recall and F-measure of s.fial,trial and t r ia l - -rithm may not be so problematic after all.To test this conjecture, we implemented thefollowing method into a program called t r ia l - -(the origin of the name will become clear in amoment ):Given three versions of a text A, B and C,1.
Compute initial bilingual alignments XAB,XBe and XAC;2.
Pre-segment the texts, as in Section 4;3.
Align each triple of sub-segments(Ai, Bi, Ci), using dynamic program-ming to find the optimal alignmentXAiBiCl in the Ai x Bi x Ci space;4.
Obtain the final trilingual alignment as theunion of all partial alignments XAB c ----Ui = 1...nXAiBiCi;Once again, and as in the trial and trial++methods, we finish up with a final bilingualalignment pass to compensate for "transitivitynoise".This new program was succesful in aligningThe Gospel According to John , using amountsof time and memory comparable to the trial++program.
However, the resulting alignmentswere quite different, as can be seen in the per-formance figures in Table 4.The performance of this new program on TheGospel According to John turns out to be notonly poorer than that of the trial program,but also poorer than that of the sfial program!What is going on, here?
After all, we wouldexpect t r ia l - -  to be The optimal method, ofwhich all others are heuristic approximations.Although we have no definitive answer to thisquestion, we see two different lines of explana-tion.The first and most obvious possibility is thatour initial assumption, namely that three lan-guages are better than two, is false.
In otherwords: aligning three texts is at least as hardas aligning two, and possibly harder.
Of course,this would also imply that the results obtainedwith the trial and trial++ methods were mereaccidents.
Although this explanation for thefailure of the t r ia l - -  approach clearly contra-dicts our initial intuitions, we cannot entirelyreject it.
We do not, however, pursue this lineany further.
(Besides, it doesn't go any further!
)The second line of explanation leads usstraight o the scoring function of our alignmentmethods.
As in the trial and trial++ meth-ods, the scoring function used in t r ia l - -  is thesum of all pairwise (bilingual) alignment scores.It could simply be that this way of measuring"trilingual fit" is inadequate.However, we believe that our problems rundeeper.
To begin with, it could be arguedthat what a trilingual alignment program re-ally needs is a true "trilingual translation mod-el"; it is not at all clear that three bilingualtranslation models are an adequate substitutefor this.
Even if it were, we know that thereare numerous problems with the "length" and"cognate" stochastic models on which the s fialscoring function is based.
For instance, we knowthat while these models usually describe thephenomena observed in translations adequately,they are not necessarily as good when it comesto things that are not translations.While these weaknesses do not appear tocause too many problems when computing bilin-gual alignments, it would not be surprising thata third language is all it takes for incoherencesto creep out and performance to degrade.
If thisis indeed the case, then this is one more argu-ment in favor of the trial approach: by treatingmultilingual alignments the same way as bilin-gual alignments, this approach may let us getaway with poor translation models, at least un-til we come up with something better!Conc lus ion  and  Future  WorkWe have showed how an existing bilingual textalignment method could be adapted to alignthree versions of a text simultaneously.
The9computational complexity of the resulting trilin-gual alignment method is the same as that ofthe underlying bilingual method, and variousoptimizations are possible.
In experiments onEnglish, French and Spanish versions of TheGospel According to John, this approach pro-duced sentence alignments ignificantly betterthan those obtained using a bilingual alignmentprogram.All tests reported here were conducted on asingle, relatively small corpus of text.
The con-tradictory results reported in Section 5 highlightthe need for more work with regard to evalua-tion.
Such an evaluation exercise would nor-mally imply putting together a much larger andmore varied test corpus, segmented and alignedby hand, a process which is known to be costly.However, since the goal is to measure improve-ments relative to existing bilingual alignmentmethods, an interesting alternative would be toperform a relative evaluation instead: the pro-grams could then be tested on a much largertest-corpus, and the performance of each sys-tem would be measured on only those portionsof text where the alignments differ.
The detailsof such an evaluation eed to be worked out.Also, it remains to be seen how the trialapproach would adapt to the general multi-lingual case (three languages or more) on theone hand, and to the more challenging prob-lem of finer-grained alignments on the otherhand.
Here again, we will likely encounter nu-merous complications, most notably regardingquestions of evaluation.
Ongoing work in theword-alignment track of the ARCADE projectis likely to bring interesting results regardingthis question (Langlals et al, 1998).Finally, and probably more importantly,working with more than two languages has high-lighted weaknesses in the modeling of trans-lation that underlies our alignment methods.Much work remains to be done in this direction.AcknowledgementsMany of the ideas expressed here emerged frominformal exchanges with Fathi Debili and PierreIsabelle; I am greatly indebted to both for theirconstant support hroughout this project.
I alsowish to thank the anonymous reviewers for theirconstructive comments on the paper.Re ferences1991.
Proceedings ofthe 29th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguis-tics (A CL), Berkeley, California, June.1996.
Proceedings of the Second Conference ofthe Association for Machine Translation inthe Americas (AMTA), Montr@al, Canada.Geoffrey J Barton and Michael J E Sternberg.1987.
A Strategy for the Rapid MultipleAlignment of Proteine Sequences.
Journal ofMolecular Biology, 198:327-337.Peter F. Brown, John Cocke, Stephen A. DellaPietra, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Fredrick Je-linek, John D. Lafferty, Robert L. Mercer,and Paul S. Roossin.
1990.
A statisticalapproach to machine translation.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 16(2):79-85, June.Peter Brown, Jennifer C. Lai, and Robert Mer-cer.
1991.
Aligning Sentences in Parallel Cor-pora.
In ACL-29 (ACL, 1991).Peter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vin-cent J. Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.1993.
The Mathematics of Machine Transla-tion: Parameter Estimation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(2).Humberto Carillo and David Lipman.
1988.The Multiple Sequence Alignment Problemin Biology.
SIAM Journal of Applied Mathe-matics, 48(5).S.C.
Chan, A.K.C.
Wong, and D.K.U.
Chiu.1992.
A Survey Of Multiple Sequence Com-parison Methods.
Bulletin of MathematicalBiology, 54(4):563-598.Stanley F. Chen.
1993.
Aligning Sentences inBilingual Corpora Using Lexical Information.In Proceedings of the 31st Annual Meeting ofthe Association /or Computational Linguis-tics (A CL), Columbus, Ohio, June.Ido Dagan and Ken W. Church.
1994.
TER-MIGHT: Identifying and Translating Tech-nical Terminology.
In Proceedings off the$th Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing (ANLP).Toma~ Erjavec and Nancy Ide.
1998.
TheMULTEXT-East Corpus.
In LREC-1 (LRE,1998).William A. Gale and Kenneth W. Church.
1991.A Program for Aligning Sentences in Bilin-gual Corpora.
In ACL-29 (ACL, 1991).John E. Hopcroft and Jeffrey D. Ullman.1979.
Introduction to Automata Theory, Lan-10guages and Computation.
Computer Science.Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.Nancy Ide and Jean V~ronis.
1994.
MULTEXT(Multilingual Text Tools and Corpora).In Proceedings of the International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COL-ING) 1994, Kyoto, Japan, August.Pierre Isabelle, Marc Dymetman, George Fos-ter, Jean-Marc Jutras, Elliott Macklovitch,Francois Perrault, Xiaobo Ren, and MichelSimard.
1993.
Translation Analysis andTranslation Automation.
In Proceedingsof the 5th Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation(TMI), Kyoto, Japan.Martin Kay and Martin RSscheisen.
1993.Text-translation Alignment.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(1).Judith Klavans.
and Evelyne Tzoukermann.1995.
Combining Corpus and Machine-readable Dictionary Data for Building Bilin-gual Lexicons.
Machine Translation, 10(3).Philippe Langlais and Marc E1-B~ze.
1997.Alignement de corpus bilingues : algo-rithmes et dvaluation.
In Proceedings ofl~res Journdes Scientifiques et Techniquesdu Rdseau Francophone de l'Ingdnierie dela Langue de I'AUPELF-UREF (JST), Avi-gnon, April.Philippe Langlais, Michel Simard, Jean Vdronis,Susan Armstrong, Patrice Bonhomme, FathiDebili, Pierre Isabelle, Emna Souissi, andP.
Th~ron.
1998.
ARCADE: A CooperativeResearch Project on Parallel Text AlignmentEvaluation.
In LREC-1 (LRE, 1998).Lucie Langlois.
1996.
Bilingual Concordances:A New Tool for Bilingual Lexicographers.
InAMTA-2 (AMT, 1996).1998.
Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources ~ Eval-uation (LREC), Granada, Spain.Elliott Macklovitch.
1995.
TransCheck - -  orthe Automatic Validation of Human Trans-lations.
In Proceedings of the Fifth MachineTranslation Summit, Luxembourg.Elliott Macklovitch.
1996.
Peut-on vdrifier au-tomatiquement la coherence t rminologique?META, 41(3).A.M.
McEnery, A. Wilson, F. S?nchez-Leon,and A. Nieto-Serrano.
1997.
MultilingualRe-sources for European Languages: Contribu-tions of the CRATER Project.
Literary andLinguistic Computing, 12(4).I.
Dan Melamed.
1996.
Automatic Construc-tion of Clean Broad-coverage TranslationLexicons.
In AMTA-2 (AMT, 1996).I.
Dan Melamed.
1998.
Manual Annotationof Translational Equivalence: The BlinkerProject.
Technical Report 98-06, IRCS,Philadelphia PA.Jian-Yun Nie, Pierre Isabelle, Pierre Plam-ondon, and George Foster.
1998.
Using aProbabilistic Translation Model for Cross-language Information Retrieval.
In Proceed-ings of the 6th A CL Workshop on Very LargeCorpora (WVLC), Montrdal, Canada.Michel Simard and Pierre Plamondon.
1998.Bilingual Sentence Alignment: Balancing Ro-bustness and Accuracy.
Machine Translation,13(1):59-80.Michel Simard, George Foster, and Pierre Is-abelle.
1992.
Using Cognates to Align Sen-tences in Bilingual Corpora.
In Proceedingsof the 4th Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation(TMI), MontrEal, QuEbec.Michel Simard.
1998a.
Projet TRIAL :Appariement de texte trilingue.
URL:http ://www-rali.
iro.
umontreal, ca/Trial.Michel Simard.
1998b.
RALI-ARCADE :Analyse des erreurs d'alignement commisespar Salign sur les corpus BAF et JOC.URL: http ://www-rali.
iro.umontreal, ca/-at c-a2/analyse-erreur s.Michel Simard.
1998c.
The BAF: A Corpusof English-French Bitext.
In LREC-1 (LRE,1998).M.
J. E. Sternberg, editor.
1996.
Protein Struc-ture Prediction - A Practical Approach.
Ox-ford University Press, Oxford.Robert A. Wagner and Michael J. Fischer.1974.
The String-to-string Correction Prob-lem.
Journal of the ACM, 21(1):168-173.11
