Dual Use of Linguistic Resources:Evaluation of MT Systems and Language LearnersLisa DecrozantUniversity of Maryland andArmy Research LaboratoryAMSRL-IS-CI2800 Powder Mill RoadAdelphi, USA 20852decrozan@arl.milClare R. VossArmy Research LaboratoryAMSRL-IS-CI2800 Powder Mill RoadAdelphi, USA 20852voss@arl.milIntroductionHuman translators working with"embedded machine translation (MT)systems"1 on the task of filtering textdocuments in a foreign language oftenhave limited training in the foreignlanguage they encounter.
For our MTsystem users who are also languagelearners, we are developing a suite oflinguistic tools that enable them, on thesame laptop platform, to perform theirforeign language filtering tasks using acombination of Optical CharacterRecognition (OCR), Machine Translation(MT), Information Retrieval (IR) andlanguage sustainment tools.
2 Thus wehave begun constructing linguistic testsuites that can serve the dual needs wehave for the evaluation of MT systems andlanguage learning.
3In this paper, we present our pilot work(i) defining and constructing a semanticdomain of spatial expressions as a testsuite, (ii) testing our MT system on the~The term embedded MT system, adopted fromVoss and Reeder (1998), refers to a computersystem with several software components,including an MT engine.2 We are creating a single interface for the MTsystem and the language sustainment tools thatenables users to guide their own learning duringMT-aided tasks, such as filtering, in contrast tosingle-purpose tutoring systems (e.g., Holland etal., 1995)3 For others addressing multiple uses of linguisticresources, see NLP-IA (1998).translations of these expressions, and (iii)testing language learners' ability totranslate these expressions.
Our resultsshow that, for English-to-Frenchtranslation of a small set of spatialexpressions, neither acommercially viableMT system nor intermediate-level studentsare adequately trained to identify explicitand implicit (ambiguous) paths of motion.1.
Identifying Linguistic Issues forEvaluationEnglish and French are known to"diverge" 4in their expression of spatialrelations: that is, given a spatial expressionin one of these languages, the process oftranslating it will fail if a simple word-for-word replacement strategy is used,whether translated by an MT system or bylanguage learners.1.1 Directional Particles & PrepositionsKlipple (1992) documents a divergencebetween English and French in thesemantics of direction.
In English,directional particles, such as up and down,may appear following a verb of motion,giving the verb's event a directed motionreading.
In French, however, there are noequivalent lexical items corresponding tothese English directional particles.
Instead,the semantics of direction is expressedelsewhere.
Klipple also observes moregenerally, following Talmy (1983), that4 We use the term divergence as in Dorr (1994).32directions are typically incorporatedwithin the French motion verb.
Example 1below shows one such case, where theEnglish verb-plus-preposition went uptranslates into the French verb est montdwithout a preposition.1.
E: 5 The child went up the stairs.F: L'enfant est mont6 l'escalier.g: The child ascended the stairs.1.2 Loeational PrepositionsEnglish and French also diverge in theirexpression of spatial relations with respectto a second group of prepositions.
Asnoted by Jackendoff (1983), Englishlocational (or Place-type) prepositionsmay be ambiguous because they may alsohave a directional (or Path-type) reading.
6For example, sentence 2 below, isambiguous in English.
In the 2a reading,the bottle moves along a path as it floats,starting away from the bridge and endingup under the bridge.
In the 2b reading, thebottle remains under the bridge as it floats:no path is specified, only the generallocation where the floating took place.
InFrench, however, the equivalentpreposition typically has only the 2blocational reading, not the 2a directionalreading.2.
E: The bottle floated under the bridge.2a.
p: the bottle floated to a place under the bridge.2b.
p: the bottle floated while under the bridge.F: La bouteille a flott6 sous le pont.
(sense 2b)g: The bottle floated under the bridge.We selected the domain of spatialexpressions for evaluation in part because,as example 3 shows, the ambiguity ofEnglish spatial prepositions maysignificantly interfere with the task ofaccurate message understanding--whetherby MT systems or second languagelearners.
As Taylor and White (1998)point out, in a real-world, task-basedevaluation of MT systems or languagelearners, the measure of interest is thecorrect and incorrect consequences of ourusers' actions based on their understandingof a foreign language text document.
Suchmeasures of effectiveness are difficult toobtain, and researchers, outside of thefield, must rely instead on linguisticallybased measures of performance.
Thus, ourapproach as been to build our test suiterelying on extensive pre-existing,linguistically motivated spatial anguageresearch (e.g., Bloom et al, 1996,Herskovits, 1986; Jackendoff, 1983;Lindstromberg, 1998; Olivier and Gapp,1998; Vandeloise, 1992).Example 3 is a linguistically simplevariation on example 2: both have mannerof motion verbs (float, march) andlocational prepositions (under, in).
In eachcase, the prepositional phrase (PP) may bean argument to the verb (the 2a and 3aparaphrases) or an adjunct (the 2b and 3bparaphrases).
Notice that, if the exactlocation of the troops were mission-criticalinformation, this ambiguity should not goundetected.
In one case, the troops havechanged locations by moving into thecanyon, while in the other, the troops areremaining in the canyon.5 In the examples, E = English, F = French,g = Gloss (word-for-word eplacement),~= paraphraseIn a pilot study, three native English speakerswhom we tested consistently identified 35locational prepositions in English with this formof ambiguity.3.
E: The troops marched in the canyon.3a.
p: The troops entered the canyon marching.3b.
p: The troops were marching aboutin the canyon.332.
Developing LinguisticResources for EvaluationIn order to assess how accurately andconsistently MT systems handle spatiallanguage and how effectively secondlanguage learners are being taught aboutspatial language, we followed these stepsin constructing a spatial expressionsevaluation dataset.
We first built a masterlist of English prepositions from severalsources (Lindstromberg, 1998; Websters,website) and then created asublist of onlyspatial prepositions, based on thejudgments of three native Englishspeakers, two of whom were linguisticallytrained and one who was not.Second, we constructed Englishsentences where the spatial PP wassystematically composed into differentsyntactic positions, as shown in Figure 1.This enabled us to examine the range ofPath/Place-type ambiguity in the resultingspatial expressions.
The spatialprepositions were placed in contexts whereonly one place or path interpretation wasfeasible, as well as in contexts where thereading was ambiguous.
For example,PP's with the preposition across werecomposed in (i) a verb's subcategorizedargument for the verbs live and dance, asin 'he lived/danced \[PP across the street\]',(ii) as a verb's non-subcategorizedargument for the verbs scare and sneeze,as in 'he scared the child \[PP across thestreet\]' and 'he sneezed the cards \[PPacross the table\]', and (iii) as an adjunctoutside the VP for the verb eat, as in 'heate dinner \[PP across the street\]'.subcat Arg - nonsubcat Arg adjunct"He lives "He sneezed the "He ateacross the cards across the dinnerstreet."
table."
across the"He danced "He scared the child street.
"across the street."
across the street.
"F igure 1, a row of ESE data set, with preposition acrossOnce this English Spatial Expression(ESE) dataset was constructed, our thirdstep was to elicit translations of a subset ofthese sentences into French.
Ourtranslator was a native French speaker,fluent in English, with a PhD in linguisticsfrom a university in the U.S. Ourtranslator's extensive training inlinguistics made it possible for us to bequite specific about he Englishambiguities present in the sentences thatwe needed him to translate.Our efforts have yielded the followingdatasets: an English preposition list, anEnglish spatial preposition list, a dataset ofEnglish spatial expressions sorted by theirspatial preposition and syntactic structure,and a dataset of high-quality Frenchtranslations of a proper subset of the ESEdataset.3.
Using Linguistic Resources toEvaluate an MT SystemOne of the objectives of our work is tosupport users of the embedded MTsystems that our laboratory has beeninvolved in developing.
These systemswere designed to be 'good enough' forfiltering or relevance analysis of hard-copy, open-source t xt documents.
7 TheESE dataset was developed as part of anongoing effort to expand our evaluationtest suites.
Here we report on apreliminary test that explored thefeasibility of using sentences from theESE dataset with their human translationinto French, to evaluate one MT enginethat we know is being used in the field.Eight Sentences from the ESE datasetwere selected and run through the MTengine from English to French.
Theresults of these automatic translations werethen compared to the human translator's7 Church and Hovy (1993) spelled out this notionof 'good enough' MT, and Resnik (1997) hasintroduced a clever method to test his.34translations.
Two groups of prepositions,corresponding to the two types ofdivergences discussed above, were ofinterest to us.3.1 Default Place ReadingsFirst, we were curious about howambiguous path/place r adings werehandled, given that the MT engine wewere working with was designed toproduce only one preferred translation perinput sentence, as is common forcommercial MT products.
We predictedthat only the place reading would appearin the French MT results.
We knew fromdiscussions with MT developers that theyrely heavily on hand-coded dictionaries increating their on-line lexicons.
SinceEnglish and English-French dictionarieslist locational prepositions, uch as thosein examples 2 and 3, with only a placereading, not a path reading, it seemed mostlikely that only the place reading wouldappear in the French MT results.Another eason we expected placereadings for the ambiguous phrases wasthat they are the direct result of theshortest path through an MT system, thatis, via simple word replacements.
Ourpredictions proved correct.
Five sentenceswere ambiguous with both place and pathreadings, but all received only a placereading in the MT translations:Test Sentences MT Output1.
He danced behind 1.11 a dans6 derriere l'6eran.the screen.2.
He carried his luggage 2.
I1 a port6 son bagage dansin the airplane, l'avion.3.
He carried his luggage 3.
I1 a port6 son bagage ~tinside the restaurant, l'int6fieur du restaurant.4.
He jumped on the bed.
4.
I1 a saut6 sur le lit.5.
They danced in the 5. lls ont darts6 dans laroom.
chambre.These results led us to predict hat in oursentence 'The troops marched in thecanyon', the MT engine would produceonly the translation that meant he troopswere marching while remaining in thecanyon.
This was indeed what the engineproduced when we tested it.3.2 True Path ReadingsSecond, we wanted to see whathappened to the unambiguous pathreadings, given that the MT engine neededonly a lexical pattern recognition to detectthe English verb-preposition combinationand then follow the well-documentedconversion to French (Dorr, 1994).
Asshown in example 4, the English spatialsemantics i redistributed: the manner ofmotion in the main verb is moved out to anadjunct in the French (en marchant), whilethe motion of going into the canyon islexicalized in the main French verb andpreposition (entrer and dans).4.
E: The  t roops  marched i n to  the canyon.F: Les  so ldats  sont  entr6s dans  la gorge  enmarchant .g: The t roops  entered  in the canyon march ing .We suspected however that theunambiguous path readings might not beproperly detected, given the English-French divergence with respect todirectional particles and prepositionsdiscussed above.
The results are givenbelow:Test Sentences1.
He carried his luggageacross the street.2.
He climbed own themountain.3.
The woman jumped outof the cake.MT Output1.
II a port6 son bagage ~ttravers la rue.2.
I1 s'est 61ev6 en bas de lamontagne.3.
La femme a saut6 dug~.teau, sOur suspicions were correct; the MTengine did not correctly translate the threeunambiguous path-only readings we8 Although technically correct, his translation isthe result of a "simple word replacement"strategy on the part of the MT system, and not asophisticated ranslation using semanticinterpretation.35tested.
Surprisingly, the actual MT-generated translations failed to captureany path interpretation at all.
Example 5below shows that the MT system againproduced the direct result of the shortestpath through an MT system, with simpleword replacements.
Since the English intotranslated todans, the overall result wasincorrect: he translation produced theunambiguous French place-only reading.5.
E: The troops marched into the canyon.MT-F output:Les soldats ont march6 dans la gorge.g: The troops marched in the canyon.The results of the MT experiment allow usto conclude that for 'true-path' patternsentences, the MT system will most likelyfail to output an accurate translation.Our predictions for the behavior of theMT engine on the first group ofprepositions proved correct.
On the secondgroup of prepositions, we predictedaccurately that the MT engine would notproduce the correct ranslation; however,we failed to predict he specifictranslations that were output.
The MTengine that we are working with allowsusers to create their own lexicon entriesthat supercede those of the built-ingeneral-purpose system lexicon.
Our nextsteps will be to test other prepositions andto examine how the lexicon entries wecreate will alter the translations.4.
Using Linguistic Resources toEvaluate Language LearnersWe are interested in the idea thatlearners can benefit from viewing parallelsentence-aligned t xt, as has beenexplored for cross-training ofFrenchspeakers learning Haitian Creole (Rincher,1986).
We would expect hat divergencesare readily understood by languagelearners when presented with parallel text.Our first step, however, before exploringthis possibility for teaching, has been touse the ESE dataset to evaluate secondlanguage l arners to determine if theyencounter the problems with spatiallanguage that the MT system did.Fourteen intermediate-level Frenchlanguage l arners were given the samesentences from the data set used in the MTpilot experiment and were asked totranslate into French.
They were toldexplicitly that some of the sentences mightbe ambiguous.
They were also given aspatial expression that was ambiguous asan example and the two interpretations ofthat expression were explained withparaphrases.Student True-Path Default-Place#1 1/3 0/5#2 1/3 015#3 1/3 0/5#4 1/3 3/5#5 1/3 2/5#6 1/3 0/5#7 013 4/5#8 0/3 0/5#9 2/3 2/5#10 1/3 2/5#11 1/3 2/5#12 2/3 2/5#13 1/3 5/5#14 1/3 515Because their level of French was nothigh, the college students were not alwaysaware of the divergence in the expressionof spatial paths.
When faced withunambiguous path sentences ("true path"column in data table), the majority gave asimple word replacement translation, justas we had found in the MT system output.None of the students were able to correctlytranslate all three test sentences.In contrast to this, when translating intoFrench the English sentences with defaultplace-type prepositions ("default place"column in data table), a few students wereable to consistently incorporate he spatialmeaning of the English preposition i tothe French verb and properly disambiguate36the test sentences.
Nonetheless, thesestudents were not able to use thisknowledge in their translations of the "truepath" sentences.This pilot experiment has given us apreliminary look at learners'understanding of cross-linguisticdivergences in spatial expressions.Further testing of this domain with othersentences and with more advancedstudents i still needed.ConclusionsWe have developed a test suite ofspatial expressions as part of our ongoingsupport work evaluating the embeddedMT system prototypes and the languagesustainment tools being developed in-house.
The French language xamplesdiscussed above show how problematicthe domain of spatial language is for bothMT and for language l arners.AcknowledgementsSpecial thanks to Dr. Herv6Campangne's class: French 303,Practicum in Translation II, Universityof Maryland, College Park.ReferencesBloom P. et al, editors (1996) Languageand Space.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,597 pp.Church, K. and Hovy, E. (1993) GoodApplications for Crummy MachineTranslation.
Machine Translation, 8,239-258.Dorr, B.
(1994) Machine TranslationDivergences: A Formal Description andProposed Solution, ComputationalLinguistics, 20(4), 597--633.Herskovits, A.
(1986) Language andSpatial Cognition.
CambridgeUniversity Press, England.Holland, M. et al (1995) IntelligentLanguage Tutors: Theory ShapingTechnology.
Lawrence Erlbaum Assoc.,Mahwah, NJ.Jackendoff, R. (1983) Semantics andCognition.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Klipple, E. (1997) Prepositions andVariation.
In Di Sciullo (ed.)
Projectionsand Interface Conditions, Oxford U. Press,NY, pp.
74-108.Lindstromberg, S. (1998) English PrepositionsExplained.
John Benjamins Publishing Co.,Philadelphia, PA.NLP+IA (1998) Proceedings of the NaturalLanguage Processing and IndustrialApplications Conference, Moncton, NewBrunswick, Canada.Decrozant, L. and Voss, C.R.
Cross-LinguisticResources for MT Evaluation and LanguageTrainingDfaz de Ilarraza, A. et al Integration of NLP tools inan Intelligent Computer-Assisted Language LearningEnvironment for Basque: IDAZKIDE"Moghrabi, C. Preliminary Study for Minori-Fra, ASoftware for Teaching French in a Minority Setting.Olivier, P. and Gapp, K-P, eds.
(1998)Representation a d Processing of SpatialExpressions.
LEA Publishers, Mahwah, NJ.Resnik, P. (1997) Evaluating MultilingualGisting of Web Pages.
In Working Notesof the AAAI Spring Symposium onNatural Language Processing forthe WWW, Palo Alto, CA.Rincher, D. (1986) Franse ak Angle SanTraka e San Dlo Nan Je: Nou Pr" alPotoprens.
Rincher and Associates,Forest Hills, NYTalmy, L. (1985) Lexicalization Patterns:Semantic Structure in Lexical Forms.
InT.
Shopen (ed.)
Language Typology &Syntactic Description.
Cambridge U. PressEngland, pp.
57-149.37Taylor, K. and White, J.
(1998) PredictingWhat MT is Good for: User Judgements andTask Performance.
In Proceedings oftheConference of the Association for MachineTranslation i  the Americas (AMTA-98).Langhorne, PA.Vandeloise, C. ( 1991) Spatial Prepositions.U.
of Chicago Press, Chicago, ILWebsters, http://www.mw.comVoss, C.R.
and Reeder, F. eds.
(1998)Workshop on Embedded MT Systems:Design, Construction and Evaluation ofSystems with an MT Component.
Held inconjunction with of the Conference of theAssociation for Machine Translation i  theAmericas (AMTA-98).
Langhorne, PA38
