What's Happened Since the First SIGDATKenneth  Ward  ChurchAT&T Labs-Research180 Park AveF lorham Park, NJ 07932-0971kwc@research.att .comMeeting?Abst rac tThe first workshop on Very Large Corpora was heldjust before the 1993 ACL meeting in Columbus,Ohio.
The turnout was even greater than anyonecould have predicted (or else we would have calledthe meeting a conference rather than a workshop).We knew that corpus-based language processing wasa "hot area," but we didn't appreciate just how hotit would turn out to be.The 1990s were: witnessing a resurgence ofinterestin 1950s-style mpirical and statistical methods oflanguage analysis, Empiricism was at its peak in the1950s, dominating a broad set of fields ranging frompsychology (behaviorism) to electrical engineering(information theory).
At that time, it was commonpractice in linguistics to classify words not only onthe basis of their meanings but also on the basisof their co-occurrence with other words.
Firth, aleading figure in British linguistics during the 1950s,summarized the approach with the memorable ine:"You shall know a word by the company it keeps.
"Regrettably, interest in empiricism faded in the late1950s and early 1960s with a number of significantevents including Chomsky's criticism of n-grams inSyntactic Structures (Chomsky, 1957) and Minskyand Papert's criticism of neural networks in Pereep-trons (Minsky and Papert, 1969).Perhaps the most immediate r ason for this empir-ical renaissance is the availability of massive quanti-ties of data: text is available like never before.
Justten years earlier, the one-million word Brown Corpus(Francis and Kucera, 1982) was considered large, butthese days, everyone has access to the web.
Exper-iments are routinely carried out on many gigabytesof text.
Some researchers are even working with ter-abytes.The big difference since the first SIGDAT meetingin 1993 is that large corpora re now having a big im-pact on ordinary users.
Web search engines/portalsare an obvious example.
Managing igabytes i notonly the title of a popular book that recently cameout with a second edition (Moffat, Bell and Witten,1999), but it is something that ordinary users are be-ginning to take for granted.
Recent progress in Infor-mation Retrieval and Digital Libraries is worth a for-tune (according to the stockmarket).
Speech Recog-nition and Machine Translation are also changingthe world.
If you walk into any software store thesedays, you will find a shelf full of speech recognitionand machine translation products.
And it is gettingso you can't use the telephone these days withouttalking to a computer.Re ferencesChomsky, N. 1957.
Syntactic Structures, The Hague:Mouton & Co.Firth, J.
1957.
A Synopsis of Linguistic Theory 1930-1955.
In Studies in Linguistic Analysis, Philologi-cal Society, Oxford; reprinted in Palmer, F.
(ed.
),1968, Selected Papers of J. R. Firth, Longman,Harlow.Francis, W., and Kucera, H. 1982.
Frequency Analy-sis of English Usage, Houghton Mifflin Company,Boston.Minsky, M. and Papert, S. 1969.
Perceptrons; AnIntroduction to Computational Geometry, MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Moffat, A, Bell, T., and Witten, I.
1999.
ManagingGigabytes: Compressing and Indexing Documentsand Images, Academic Press/Morgan Kaufmann.
