Modeling User Language Proficiency in a Writing Tutor for DeafLearners of EnglishL isa  N.  M ichaud and  Kath leen  F.  McCoy{m?chaud, mccoy}?c?s, ude l .
eduComputer  and Information Sciences DepartmentUniversity of Delaware Newark, DE 19716Abst rac tIn this paper we discuss a proposed user knowl-edge modeling architecture for the ICICLE sys-tem, a language tutoring application for deaflearners of written English.
The model will rep-resent he language proficiency of the user andis designed to be referenced during both writinganalysis and feedback production.
We motivateour model design by citing relevant research onsecond language and cognitive skill acquisition,and briefly discuss preliminary empirical evi-dence supporting the design.
We conclude byshowing how our design can provide a rich androbust information base to a language assess-ment / correction application by modeling userproficiency at a high level of granularity andspecificity.1 In t roduct ionIn order for any human language tutor to beeffective, he or she must have an accurate pic-ture of the student's language acquisition sta-tus.
This "picture" is used for selecting targetfeatures for tutoring and for shaping and tai-loring the tutorial instruction.
Automated tu-toring systems emulate this desirable practiceby constructing and maintaining a model of theuser's knowledge, consulted at many levels ofthe tutorial production process.
In this paperwe will discuss the proposed knowledge mod-eling architecture of ICICLE (Interactive Com-puter Identification and Correction of LanguageErrors), a system under development (McCoyand Masterman (Michaud), 1997) whose goal isto provide deaf students with constructive tu-toring on their written English.The target learner group for ICICLE is nativeor near-native users of American Sign Language(ASL).
This population poses unique challengesfor a writing instruction program: their writ-ing contains many errors which are not madeby native users of English, and students varywidely across levels of language ability, withsome college-age writers producing near-native-like English and others struggling with gram-matical basics.
Because of these characteris-tics of the learner population, it is integral toICICLE's goal of user-tailored instruction thatit account for user differences o that the in-struction it provides is appropriate for a learnerat any level.
Since ASL is a distinct andvastly different language from English (Bakerand Cokely, 1980), we view the acquisition ofwritten English skills to be a task in second lan-guage acquisition for these learners (Michaudand McCoy, 1998).
We are therefore proposinga user model design which incorporates a rep-resentation of the language acquisition process,and we have based our design upon current re-search in language acquisition and in the acqui-sition of cognitive skills.
ICICLE will consultthis model to obtain specific information aboutthe user's current language knowledge, as wellas about what knowledge is likely to be learn-able by the user at the current ime.In the following sections, we overview the ICI-CLE system architecture in order to explainhow the user model will be utilized in systemoperation; we then discuss our design for mod-eling the second language acquisition process,and overview issues involved in implementingthe model within our system.2 IC ICLE  Overv iewICICLE interacts with its user through a cy-cle of user input and system response.
Theuser begins this cycle by supplying the systemwith a multi-sentential piece of writing for anal-ysis.
An error identification component usesan English grammar augmented with rules to47cover grammatical errors commonly producedby our learner population to process the user'swriting, tagging the grammatical errors it finds(Suri and McCoy, 1993; Schneider and McCoy,1998).
In the current implementation f ICI-CLE, the identified errors are highlighted in awindow-based interface using colors which indi-cate the class of error; for example, all subject-verb agreement errors are highlighted in blue.The user may then explore particular sentencescontaining errors by clicking on them, causingan editing window to appear with a simple one-sentence "canned" response xplaining the er-ror.
The user may then edit the sentence, haveit reanalyzed by the system, and paste the re-sults back into the original text.In the completed system, errors identified bythe system will be passed to a response gen-eration component which will construct one ormore natural language xplanations to discussthe nature of the error(s) with the student, whowill then be prompted to make corrections andrequest a new analysis as in the current imple-mentation.Both of the active processes in the ICICLEarchitecture (error identification and responsegeneration) will access the user language acqui-sition model, which is currently under devel-opment.
The error identification module willuse the model to determine between multipleinterpretations of a sentence which may corre-spond to different perceived errors in the text(McCoy et al, 1996).
The essence of this de-termination is discerning the cause of the er-ror.
For instance, if the phrase "My brotherlike to go... "1 has occurred in the writing ofa student, there are several possible situationsthat could have led to this mistake: the studentcould be entirely unaware of the English rulefor subject/verb agreement; he student couldknow of the rule, but has applied it incorrectly;or the student has simply mistyped.
To deter-mine which of these possibilities i  correct, it isnecessary for the error analysis component tohave at its disposal a model of the student'slanguage knowledge which indicates his or hermastery of such language features as the con-cept of subject/verb agreement.
(In the presentsystem the choice between multiple interpreta-IThis example has been taken from our corpus of deafwriting samples.tions is not yet made on a principled basis.
)We also wish for ICICLE to give instructiononly on those language features which are at theuser's current level of acquisition; errors on fea-tures above this level are likely to be beyond theuser's understanding, while errors on featureswhich are well-established are likely to be sim-ple mistakes which do not require instruction.The user model will therefore be consulted atthe point where the error identification modulepasses the list of errors to the response genera-tion module, tr imming off those errors outsidethe current level.
The motivation for this actionis discussed further in Section 3.Lastly, the user model will be consulted ur-ing the planning of the system response.
Inorder to structure xplanations of a given lan-guage feature, the text planner needs to knowthe user's depth of related knowledge, includ-ing whether or not the user knows the conceptswhich are mentioned in the explanation.
In thefinal stages of response generation, the surfacegenerator will also need to consult he model ofacquisition in order to determine which gram-matical constructs are known and thus under-standable to the user, and which he or she mayobtain the most benefit from viewing as positiveexamples.We have therefore established that a usermodel which contains a representation of sec-ond language proficiency, specific to the detailof individual anguage features and the user'smastery of them, is essential to the envisionedoperation of the ICICLE system.
We will nowdiscuss our proposed esign for this model andoverview some of the issues we face in imple-menting this design.3 Mode l ing  Theor ies  o f  Cogn i t iveSkill and Second LanguageAcqu is i t ionWe see our model as representing the user's lo-cation along the path toward acquiring writtenEnglish as a second language.
To design thismodel, we have looked into the interlanguagetheory of second language acquisition (Selinker,1972; Ellis, 1994; Cook, 1993).
In this theory,a learner generates in the L2 using a grammarwhich is his or her hypothesis of the target lan-guage.
The learner systematically revises thisinternal representation as the language is ac-48quired.
We espouse the view that the initialinterlanguage model formed by the learner isbased largely on knowledge from his or her na-tive language (Schwartz, 1998; Schwartz andSprouse, 1996), and that as the learner pro-gresses, more of the interlanguage is a correctmodel of the target language, and less reflectsthe native language or incorrect assumptions.As the interlanguage grammar progresses to-ward a target-like form, portions of the gram-mar become the focus of hypothesis testing andthus are somewhat in "flux" between an  incor-rect form and a target-like form.
Each "revi-sion" of the interlanguage r sults in an increasein target-like features in the grammar.
It is ourgoal to create a model whose contents will re-veal the status of these features as a snapshotof the learner's current interlanguage state.Research in second language acquisition andeducation indicates that as a learner masters asubject, there is always some subset of that ma-terial that is currently within his or her grasp toacquire.
Intuitively, it is this area that he or sheis currently in the process of learning.
This sub-set has been termed the Zone of Proximal Devel-opment (ZPD) (Vygotsky, 1986).
The generalidea has been applied to assessment and writ-ing instruction by (Rueda, 1990), and to sec-ond language acquisition by (Krashen, 1981).
Inour model, the ZPD corresponds to the portionof the interlanguage currently "in flux" and inthe process of making a transition to the targetgrammar.
The identification of the ZPD for agiven second language learner would be an idealindication of the next language features he orshe will acquire, or those features on which in-struction would be most beneficial because theyare neither well-established nor beyond his orher ability to learn at this time.The goal of identifying the ZPD is aided bythe suggestion made by other researchers infirst and second language acquisition that thelanguage errors committed by a learner sys-tematically change over time (Dulay and Burt,1974), and furthermore that there may be aspecific sequence of acquisition a learner fol-lows in acquiring language features that maybe relatively fixed regardless of the native lan-guage (Krashen, 1981; Ingram, 1989; Dulay andBurt, 1975; Bailey et al, 1974).
If the learner isfollowing this sequence, identifying the currentstage of the process would have implications forwhich features have been learned, and which aresoon to be acquired.In order to be able to determine the learner'splacement in an order of acquisition of mor-phosyntactic features, we will examine theuser's performance in the target language, andcompare it against what we know of the perfor-mance of learned cognitive skills.
(O'Malley andChamot, 1990) list the stages cognitive, associa-tive, and autonomous to explain the progressionof a learner through levels of competency.
Weexpect he "in flux" portion of our learner's in-terlanguage to go through similar stages.
Atthe initial cognitive stage, a language featurehas just entered the learner's ZPD.
At thispoint, the learner is aware of the features butthe knowledge of how to use them is impover-ished or incomplete, so he or she is incapable ofperformance with consistent skill.
This knowl-edge is thus termed "declarative."
At the nextstage, the associative stage, the errors in theoriginal declarative representation are system-atically deleted while the learner improves hisor her understanding.
The declarative knowl-edge develops into "procedural" form, or a formwhich can be used to successfully utilize the fea-ture.
At the final autonomous stage, the perfor-mance is fine-tuned, and the skill becomes vir-tually automatic while errors disappear.
Thisfunctional knowledge distinction is also similarto that represented in the user model of TAI-LOR, another tutoring system (Paris, 1987),and is supported by psychological studies suchas (Chi et al, 1981).The fact that declarative knowledge is shal-low and results in the production of errors tiesthese views into the ZPD theory, where theZone is the area in which one should expect hemost errors to occur (Vygotsky, 1986).
To applythese theories to second language performance,the errors produced by a learner should predom-inantly represent the morphosyntactic featuresin his or her ZPD.
Features that have been ac-quired previously should occur without signif-icant variation or error, and features beyondthe ZPD should be absent from his or her lan-guage production because they are beyond thelearner's knowledge.We will represent these observations and the-ories in an overlay model which is an instan-49tiation of a knowledge base of morphosyntac-tic features, tagged to indicate each feature'splacement within a given user's knowledge - "ac-quired" or "ZPD," depending on the user's per-formance on each feature.
In the next section,we address how we expect to assign these tagsin the initial state of the model.
After initia-tion, it would be our expectation that over timethose features indicated as being part of theZPD would be tagged as "acquired" once theyare used with consistent correctness, and fea-tures that had no tags previously (because theywere absent in the learner's language produc-tion) would move into the ZPD once the learneris ready to begin acquiring them.
The "feature"units in this knowledge base will be those fea-tures represented by the augmented grammarwhich ICICLE uses to parse its input, since thatis the granularity of its error analysis capacityand of the feedback the system presents.This design answers the needs of both activemodules of the ICICLE architecture.
The erroridentification phase could use it when selectinga parse for a given portion of text.
Because ofthe relationship between the granularity of themodel and the grammar, the action of indicat-ing the ZPD in the model could be mirroredin the grammar, with special notation givento those grammatical rules covering ZPD con-cepts.
The parser can assume that structurestagged as "acquired" in the model representingthis user will be used correctly with consistency,while those within the ZPD are most likely tooccur with error, and those which are beyondthe user's knowledge will be absent from his orher writing.
When choosing a parse, the sys-tem should favor one using "correct" Englishgrammar ules from the "acquired" range, and"incorrect" rules from the ZPD range.
Thusthe correct parse and source of error can be de-termined by comparing the possibilities againstwhat constructions the user is expected to usecorrectly or incorrectly according to the model.A model of this type would also provide vi-tal information eeded for transforming a listof errors into the tutorial response.
Instructionand corrective feedback on aspects of the knowl-edge within the ZPD may be beneficial, whileinstruction dealing with that outside of the Zoneis likely to be ineffective or even detrimental.Tutoring on material outside the ZPD which hasSLALOMComplexSimple+s verb detN SVO0?
ted past+s poss adjN SVO+s pluralN S V +ing prog, prop-N S or V iA B C DFeature HierarchyFigure 1: SLALOM: Steps of Language Acqui-sition in a Layered Organization Model.already been mastered by the student is likelyto bore them; tutoring on material beyond thegrasp of the student at this time is likely to pro-duce confusion or frustration.
When passing theerror list to the response module, the error iden-tification module can use the user's placementin the model to prune the errors so that the tu-torial responses are focused only on those errorsat the user's current level of language acquisi-tion.The actual construction of the system re-sponse can also reference this model, using itto determine the user's depth of knowledge onthe features being discussed so that appropri-ate background information and definitions ofterms being used can be provided.
The full in-teraction between the text planner and the usermodel is a topic of current exploration.In formalizing our user model design, wetherefore need to capture three aspects of lan-guage competence: the past, the present, andthe future.
The model must be able to indi-cate which features of language the user has al-ready mastered, those features he is presentlyattempting to acquire, and those features thatare above his current level.
The next sectiondiscusses how we propose to structure this in-formation in the model, and overviews our ap-proach for building and maintaining it.4 SLALOM:  A P roposed  Mode lArch i tec tureOur proposed architecture for capturing thetheories expressed in the previous section isSLALOM (Steps off Language Acquisition in aLayered Organization Model).
A very simplifiedrepresentation f SLALOM can be found in Fig-50ure 1.
SLALOM captures the stereotypic linearorder of acquisition within certain categories ofmorphological nd/or syntactic features of lan-guage, such as NP or relative clause formation.Within a category, depicted as a stack of fea-tures in the figure, a given morphosyntactic fea-ture is expected to be acquired subsequent tothose below it, and prior to those above it.
Lat-eral connections between the categories indicatefeatures which we expect o be acquired concur-rently.
As mentioned in the previous section,an instantiation of this model would representa given user by tagging the features as acquiredor within the ZPD according to observations ofthe user's language performance on texts ana-lyzed by the system.
Once such observationshave been noted, inferring additional informa-tion about non-tagged elements would be possi-ble through exploiting the lateral connections toinfer a concurrent relationship or exploiting theorders within hierarchies to infer whether a fea-ture is likely to have been acquired by this user.The explicitly-marked tags may be revised overtime as the learner's proficiency develops, withthose features tagged as within the ZPD movingto acquired status, and new features from thenot-yet-acquired (untagged) area moving intothe ZPD.
Because the SLALOM architecturerepresents an expected order of acquisition, thelikely path of the ZPD would be to move "up"in the stacks.Since previous studies to identify orders oflanguage feature acquisition such as (Bailey etal., 1974) and (Dulay and Burt, 1975) focus pri-marily on morpheme usage and not the higher-order grammatical constructs we also need forour system, identifying a morphosyntactic orderof acquisition is an area of current work in whichwe have preliminary empirical results.
A statis-tical analysis of a corpus of 101 writing sam-ples from deaf students 2 has revealed groupingsof morphosyntactic errors exhibiting apparentcorrelation to a general (and currently subjec-tive) estimate of  writing proficiency.
This indi-cates a relationship between the proficiency ofthe learner and the errors he or she commits.These findings are informal and we are plan-ning further exploration with a larger corpusand more objective judging, but they indicate a2These were performed by undergraduate assistantLitza Stark.basis for the ordered organization of SLALOM.Additional analysis has shown statistically sig-nificant relationships of co-occurrence betweencertain errors among learners of similar profi-ciency levels, supporting the existence of lateralrelationships of concurrent development.
Thiswork is ongoing and will hopefully yield moreconcrete results soon.5 Imp lementat ion  I ssuesIn this section, we address some of the issuesinvolved in making use of a SLALOM-basedmodel within our evaluation/feedback applica-tion, including: establishing a user's placementwithin the model; referencing the model once ithas been established; and updating the modelover time.5.1 Estab l i sh ing  and  Referenc ing  theMode lMost natural anguage systems which referencea user model are more concerned with usingthe model than building it or  updating it overtime (Ringle and Bruce, 1981; Woolf, 1984;Paris, 1987; Moore and Paris, 1992; Careniniand Moore, 1993).
However, since ICICLE'suser model needs to capture fine details of userknowledge derived from individual user perfor-mance, and ICICLE Will be used by a learnerover time and across the development of newskills, the system must concern itself with bothestablishing and updating its model of userknowledge.We wish to base ICiCLE's techniques forbuilding and updating an instantiation of itsuser model on the sources of user informationproposed by (Wahlster and Kobsa, 1986), in-cluding:?
Init ial individual models stored from previ-ous sessions?
Assumpt ions  based on user input whichprovide explicit (direct) or implicit (indi-rect) inferences?
Default  assumptions from stereotypic nfor-mation.The initiation of the user model in a given ses-sion will depend on whether a user has accessedthe system in the past; the models of previoususers will, of course, be restored from earlier51sessions.
New users will require the system toinitialize the model according to the input theyprovide in the first sample of writing they en-ter 3 .In the list of information sources above, wemention both explicit and implicit informationprovided to the model by user input.
In thedirect sense, a user's writing is a uniquely richsource of language proficiency information.
Incomparison to the techniques other systems useto determine user knowledge such as polling,where one question is only likely to reveal onepoint of data (either the user understands ordoes not understand the concept in question),even a short multi-sentential piece is going tooffer many points of data per utterance.
Ev-ery grammatical construct successfully or un-successfully used, from determiner choice toword order, provides information about theuser.
These points can be correlated to pro-vide a map of those constructs consistentlyused, those which are experiencing variation,and those which are absent; therefore, ven dur-ing the initial tutorial session, we are providedwith a fairly rich source of explicitly-deriveddata about this individual, compared to whatwe could obtain from questioning the student.Relying on a subjective categorization of lan-guage ability from a teacher would also be lessaccurate, as it is difficult o classify discrete lev-els of achievement in this domain, judgmentsare likely to vary between instructors, and cat-egories would translate roughly at best to tagson the myriad individual language features.Once the user placement and initial notationhas occurred, implicit information can also beobtained; if a given feature is highlighted aswithin the ZPD for a student, this implies in-directly that features indicated as adjacent bylateral inks to the other hierarchies are also inthe ZPD, and that features above or below theZPD are unknown or well-known respectively.In the absence of direct evidence to contradictthese conclusions, the user model allows for thisinferencing to produce reasonably certain con-clusions.
This is how we plan to exploit the"stereotypic reasoning" suggested by (WahlsterSUnfortunately, the first session of error identificationhas to proceed without the assistance of a user model,but it will be aided by other data such as the expectedco-occurrence of certain errors mentioned earlier.and Kobsa, 1986), since the feature organizationin SLALOM is based on a stereotypic acquisi-tion order.Note that we do not recommend explicitlymarking the inferred knowledge in the model;following the lead of other explanation systems,implicit information in the user model can bederived at any time through inferencing, andthus should not be marked in the model sothat it may be distinguished from explicit andconfirmed information.
Stereotypic nformationmay not hold true for every individual, and wewish to distinguish between that informationwhich we know from actual user performanceand that which we infer from our profile of atypical earner.When the system makes reference to thismodel during tutorial response generation, itmust take note of whether it is drawing from anexplicit or implicit source; the implicit informa-tion is less reliable, and our planner will againfollow the conventions of similar systems andmark such inferences directly in its text planfor the purposes of recovery should they turnout false.
It is hoped that the use of implicituser model information will be constrained tothe early sessions with a given user only, sinceas argued above the ICICLE user model shouldbe rich with explicit information and should bewell-filled with direct information from user in-put in very few sessions.
However, with revisionof the representation ver time, some tags maybecome less certain and the ability to infer ad-ditional information may be useful.5.2 Updat ing  the  Mode lIn ICICLE, the responsibility for updating themodel of a user lies with the error identificationmodule, since that facet of the system processesall of the major parts of user performance.
Eachnew analysis provides new (and potentially dif-ferent) information that should be directed tothe model.
Because the user's knowledge is ex-pected to change over time, so must the model.There is also the possibility that the user modelis incorrect; even a rich model such as the oneproposed for ICICLE may contain faulty data,so the system must be capable of revising earliernotations.A model that can be overwritten over timegives rise to the question of whether new datashould always champion over the old.
The out-52line given thus far of what observations affectthe model is fairly vague: features used "consis-tently correctly" are mastered concepts, thoseused "consistently incorrectly" are at the cur-rent level, and those which are rare or absentfrom the student's writing are above his or herlevel.
The judgment of whether something isat or below a student's level may change whenthe amount of data increases as the system goesthrough more than one piece of the student'swork, particularly if one or more of the piecesis too short to contain several instances of thefeature.
Therefore, it makes ense for the modelto track certain figures (the number of times afeature is attempted, and the number of times itis executed without error) across more than onepiece of writing and to make distinctions be-tween figures collected within the most recentpiece of writing and those collected across oth-ers in the past (since the user's proficiency willnot change within a given piece, but there maybe change across a selection of them).
This willallow the system to examine as much data aspossible, strengthening its ability to make thesejudgments.
In this view, the user's writing isseen as a continuum of performance events overtime from the first session to the most recent.But since the user's proficiency is also changing,the system should not always compute perfor-mance statistics which include events stretch-ing back to the beginning of his or her use ofthe system, when the performance l vels mayhave been different.
Therefore, we recommendthat the system maintain a "sliding window"of performance history across writing samplesfrom which to update the user model at eachnew analysis.
Ideally, this window would in-clude enough data to be robust, and yet be smallenough to capture only the "current" statistics.This latter requirement is particularly impor-tant for the system's elf-evaluation and decid-ing whether ecent explanatory attempts havesucceeded.
Determining what size such a win-dow should be is a realm of future research.
Re-lated issues are whether or not it should adjustits size according to the circumstance, and whatstatistics of successful execution would be suffi-cient for judging a feature to be "consistent" inits use.6 Conc lus ionsIn this paper, we have discussed a proposed ar-chitecture for a model of user second languageproficiency for use in a second language learn-ing system.
Our design is based on theories ofsecond language acquisition research, particu-larly those involving interlanguage progressionand concepts of orders of acquisition.
We havealso based the design on theories of cognitiveskill acquisition by Vygotsky and others.
Thearchitecture we propose consists of hierarchiesrepresenting linear progressions of language fea-ture acquisition, connected by lateral relation-ships of concurrent learning.
Finally, we haveshown that  such a model, supported by prelim-inary empirical findings, can provide a rich androbust information base to a language assess-ment / correction application by modeling userproficiency at a high level of granularity andspecificity.Re ferencesN.
Bailey, C. Madden, and S. D. Krashen.
1974.Is there a 'natural sequence' in adult sec-ond language learning?
Language Learning,24(2):235-243.C.
Baker and D. Cokely.
1980.
American SignLanguage: A Teacher's Resource Text onGrammar and Culture.
TJ Publishers, SilverSpring, MD.Giuseppe Carenini and Johanna D. Moore.1993.
Generating explanations in context.
InWayne D. Gray, William E. Hefley, and Di-anne Murray, editors, Proceedings of the In-ternational Workshop on Intelligent User In-terlaces, pages 175-182, Orlando, Florida,January 4-7.
ACM Press.Michelene T. H. Chi, Robert Glaser, and ErnestRees.
1981.
Expertise in problem solving.
InAdvances in the Psychology off Human Intel-ligence, chapter 1, pages 7-76.
Lawrence Erl-baum, Hillsdale, NJ.Vivian Cook.
1993.
Linguistics and SecondLanguage Acquisition.
Macmillan Press Ltd,London.Heidi C. Dulay and Marina K. Butt.
1974.
Er-rors and strategies in child second languageacquisition.
TESOL Quarterly, 8(2):129-136,June.53Heidi C. Dulay and Marina K. Burt.
1975.
Nat-ural sequences in child second language acqui-sition.
Language Learning, 24(1).Rod Ellis.
1994.
The Study of Second Lan-guage Acquisition.
Oxford University Press,Oxford.David Ingrain.
1989.
First Language Acquisi-tion: Method, Description, and Explanation.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge andNew York.Stephen Krashen.
1981.
Second LanguageAcquisition and Second Language Learning.Pergamon Press, Oxford.Kathleen F. McCoy and Lisa N. Master-man (Michaud).
1997.
A tutor for teachingEnglish as a second language for deaf usersof American Sign Language.
In Proceedingsof Natural Language Processing .for Commu-nication Aids, an A CL/EA CL97 Workshop,pages 160-164, Madrid, Spain, July.Kathleen F. McCoy, Christopher A. Penning-ton, and Linda Z. Suri.
1996.
English errorcorrection: A syntactic user model based onprincipled mal-rule scoring.
In Proceedings ofthe Fifth International Conference on UserModeling, pages 59-66, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii,January 2-5.
UM96, User Modeling, Inc.Lisa N. Michaud and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1998.Planning text in a system for teaching En-glish as a second language to deaf learners.In Proceedings of Integrating Artificial Intel-ligence and Assistive Technology, an AAAI'98 Workshop, Madison, Wisconsin, July.Johanna D. Moore and Cecile L. Paris.
1992.Planning text for advisory dialogues: Cap-turing intentional nd rhetorical information.Computational Linguistics, 19(4):651-695.J.
Michael O'Malley and Anna Uhl Chamot.1990.
Learning Strategies in Second LanguageAcquisition.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Cecile Laurence Paris.
1987.
The Use of Ex-plicit User Models in Text Generation.
Ph.D.thesis, Columbia University.Martin H. Ringle and Bertram C. Bruce.
1981.Conversation failure.
In W. G. Lehnert andM.
H. Ringle, editors, Knowledge Representa-tion and Natural Language Processing, chap-ter 7, pages 203-221.
Lawrence Erlbaum As-sociates, Hillsdale, New Jersey.Robert Rueda.
1990.
Assisted performancein writing instruction with learning-disabledstudents.
In Luis C. Moll, editor, Vygot-sky and Education: Instructional Implica-tions and Applications of Sociohistorical Psy-chology, pages 403-426.
CUP, Cambridge.David Schneider and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1998.Recognizing syntactic errors in the writing ofsecond language learners.
In Proceedings ofthe Thirty-Sixth Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics andthe Seventeenth International Conference onComputational Linguistics, volume 2, pages1198-1204, Universite de Montreal, Montreal,Quebec, Canada, August 10-14.
COLING-ACL, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers.Bonnie D. Schwartz and Rex A. Sprouse.
1996.L2 cognitive states and the Full Transfer/FullAccess model.
Second Language Research,12(1):40-72.Bonnie D. Schwartz.
1998.
On two hypothesesof "transfer" in L2A: Minimal Trees and Ab-solute L1 Influence.
In S. Flynn, G. Marto-hardjono, and W. O'Neil, editors, The Gener-ative Study of Second Language Acquisition,chapter 3, pages 35-59.
Lawrence Erlbaum,Mahwah, NJ.L.
Selinker.
1972.
Interlanguage.
InternationalReview of Applied Linguistics, 10:209-231.Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1993.
Amethodology for developing an error taxon-omy for a computer assisted language learn-ing tool for second language learners.
Tech-nical Repor t TR=93-16, Dept.
of CIS, Univer-sity of Delaware.Lev Semenovich Vygotsky.
1986.
Thought andLanguage.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Wolfgang Wahlster and Alfred Kobsa.
1986.Dialog-based user models.
In Giacomo Fer-rari, editor, Proceedings of the IEEE, SpecialIssue on Natural Language Processing, Febru-ary.Beverly P. Woolf.
1984.
Context dependentplanning in a machine tutor.
Technical Re-port COINS Technical Report 84-21, Dept.of Computer and Information Science, Uni-versity of Massachusetts at Amherst, May.54
