Resolution of Indirect Anaphorain Japanese SentencesUsing Examples "X no Y (Y of X)"Masaki Murata Hitoshi IsaharaCommunications Research Laboratory588-2, Iwaoka, Nishi-ku, Kobe, 651-2401, Japan{murat a, i sahara}?crl, go.
j pTEL: +81-78-969-2181, FAX: +81-78-969-2189Makoto NagaoKyoto UniversitySakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japannagao~pine, kuee.
kyot o-u.
ac.
j pAbstractA noun phrase can indirectly refer to an entity thathas already been mentioned.
For example, " I  wentinto an old house last night.
The roof was leakingbadly and ..." indicates that "the roof' is asso-ciated with "an old house", which was mentionedin the previous sentence.
This kind of reference(indirect anaphora) has not been studied well innatural language processing, but is important forcoherence resolution, language understanding, andmachine translation.
In order to analyze indirectanaphora, we need a case frame dictionary for nounsthat contains knowledge of the relationships betweentwo nouns but no such dictionary presently exists.Therefore, we are forced to use examples of "X noY" (Y of X) and a verb case frame dictionary in-stead.
We tried estimating indirect anaphora usingthis information and obtained a recall rate of 63%and a precision rate of 68% on test sentences.
Thisindicates that the information of "X no Y" is use-ful to a certain extent when we cannot make useof a noun case frame dictionary.
We estimated theresults that would be given by a noun case framedictionary, and obtained recall and precision ratesof 71% and 82% respectively.
Finally, we proposeda way to construct a noun case frame dictionary byusing examples of "X no Y.
"1 IntroductionA noun phrase can indirectly refer to an entity thathas already been mentioned.
For example, " I  wentinto an old house last night.
The roof was leakingbadly and ..." indicates that "The roof' is associatedwith "an old house," which has already been men-tioned.
This kind of reference (indirect anaphora)has not been thoroughly studied in natural anguageprocessing, but is important for coherence resolu-tion, language understanding, and machine trans-lation.
We propose a method that will resolve theindirect anaphora in Japanese nouns by using therelationship between two nouns.When we analyze indirect anaphora, we need acase frame dictionary for nouns that contains infor-mation about the relationship between two nouns.For instance, in the above example, the knowledgethat "roof" is a part of a "house" is required to an-alyze the indirect anaphora.
But no such noun caseframe dictionary exists at present.
We consideredusing the example-based method to solve this prob-lem.
In this case, the knowledge that "roof" is a partof "house" is analogous to "house of roofi" There-fore, we use examples of the form "X of Y" instead.In the above example, we use linguistic data such as"the roof of a house."
In the case of verbal nouns,we do not use "X of Y" but a verb case frame dictio-nary.
This is because a noun case frame is similar toa verb case frame and a verb case frame dictionarydoes exist.The next section describes a method for resolvingindirect anaphora.2 How to Resolve Indirect AnaphoraAnaphors and antecedents in indirect anaphorahave a certain relationship.
For example, "yane(roof)" and "hurui ie (old house)" are in an indi-rect anaphoric relationship which is a part-of rela-tionship.sakuban aru hurui ie-ni itta.
(last night) (a certain) (old) (house) (go)(I went into an old house last night.
)yane-wa hidoi amamoride ...(roof) (badly) (be leaking)(.The roof was leaking badly and ... )(1)When we analyze indirect anaphora, we need a dic-tionary containing information about relationshipsbetween anaphors and their antecedents.We show examples of the relationships betweenanaphors and antecedents in Table 1.
The form ofTable 1 is similar to the form of a verb case frame dic-tionary.
We would call a dictionary containing therelationships between two nouns a noun case framedictionary but no noun case frame dictionary hasyet been created.
Therefore, we substitute it withexamples of "X no Y" (Y of X) and with a verb caseframe dictionary.
"X no Y" is a Japanese xpression.It means "Y of X," "Y in X," "Y for X," etc.31Table 1: RelationshiAnaphor...kazoku (family)kokumin (nation)genshu (the head of state)yane (roof)mokei (model)gyouji (event)jinkaku (personality)kyouiku (education)'kenkyuu (research)kaiseki (analysis))s between anaphors and their antecedentsPossible antecedentshito (human)kuni (country)kuni (country)tatemono (building)seisanbutsu (product)\[ex.
hikouki (air plain), hune (ship)\]Relationshipbelongbelongbelongpart ofobjectsoshiki (organization) agenthito (human) possessivehito (human) agenthito (human) recipientnouryoku (ability) object\[ex.
suugaku (mathematics)\]hito (human), soshiki (organization)gakumon bun'ya (field of study)hito (human), kikai (machine)de-ta (data)agentobjectagentobjectTable 2: Case frame of verb "kaiseki-suru (analyze)"Surface casega-case (subject)wo-case (object)Semantic onstrainthumanabstract, productExamplesseito (student), kate (he)atai (value), de-ta (data)We resolve the indirect anaphora" using the follow-ing steps:1.
We detect some elements which could be ana-lyzed by indirect anaphora resolution using "Xno Y" and a verb case frame dictionary.
Whena noun was a verbal noun, we use a verb caseframe dictionary.
Otherwise, we use examplesof "X no V."For example, in the following example sentenceskaiseki (analysis) is a verbal noun, and we usea case frame of a verb kaiseki-surn (analyze)for the indirect anaphora resolution of kaiseki(analysis).
The case frame is shown in Table2.
In this table there are two case components,the ga-case (subject) and the wo-case (object).These two case components are elements whichwill be analyzed in indirect anaphora resolution.denkishingou-no riyouni-ni yotte(electronic detectors) (use) (by)(By using electronic detectors.
)Butsurigakusha-wa t iryou-no deeta-wo(physicist) (a large amount) (data)shuushuudekiru-youni-natta.
(collect)(physicists had been able to collect largeamounts of data.
)(2)sokode subayai kaiseki-no houhou-ga hitsuyouni-natta.
(then) (quick) (analysis) (method) (require)(Then, they required a method of quick analysis.)2.
We take possible antecedents from topics or lociin the previous sentences.
We assign them acertain weight based on the plausibility thatthey are antecedents.
The topics/foci and theirweights are defined in Table 3 and Table 4.For example, in the case of "I went into an oldhouse last night.
The roof was leaking badly and..., .... an old house" becomes a candidate of thedesired antecedent.
In the case of "analysis"in example sentence 2, "electronic detectors,""physicists," and "large amounts of data" be-come candidates of the two desired antecedentsof "analysis."
In Table 3 and Table 4 such can-didates are given certain weights which indicatepreference.3.
We determine the antecedent by combining theweight of topics and foci mentioned in step 2,the weight of semantic similarity in "X no Y" orin a verb case frame dictionary, and the weightof the distance between an anaphor and its pos-sible antecedent.For example, when we want to clarify the an-tecedent of vane (roof) in example sentence1, we gather examples of "Noun X no vane(roof)" (roof of Noun X), and select a possi-32Table 3: The weight as topicSurface expressionPronoun/zero-pronoun ga/waNoun wa/niwaExample I WeightEDIml ,Table 4: The weight as focusSurface expression (Not including "wa")Pronoun/zero-pronoun wo (object)/ni ( to) /kara (from)Noun ga (subject)/mo/ da/nara/kosoNoun wo (object)/ni/, /.Noun he (to)/de (in)/kara (from)/yor/Example\[John ni (to)\] shita (done)John ga (subject) shita (done)John ni (object) shita (done)gakkou (school) he (to) iku (go)I Weight16151413ble noun which is semantically similar to NounX as its antecedent.
In example sentence 2,when we want to have an antecedent of kaiseki(analysis) we select as its antecedent a possi-ble noun which satisfies the semantic onstraintin the case frame of kuichigau (differ) in Ta-ble 2 or is semantically similar to examples ofcomponents in the case frame.
In the ga-case(subject), of three candidates, "electronic de-tectors," "physicists," and "large amounts ofdata," only "physicists" satisfies the semanticconstraint, human, in the case frame of the verbkaiseki-suru in Table 2.
So "physicists" is se-lected as the desired antecedent o f the ga-case.In the wo-case (object), two phrases, "electronicdetectors" and "large amounts of data" satisfythe semantic onstraints, abstract and product.By using the examples "value" and "data" inthe case frame, the phrase "large amounts ofdata," which is semantically similar to "data"in the examples of the case frame, is selected asthe desired antecedent of the wo-case.We think that errors made by the substitution ofa verb case frame for a noun case frame are rare, butmany errors occur when we substitute "X no Y" fora noun case frame.
This is because "X no Y" (Y ofX) has many semantic relationships, in particular afeature relationship (ex.
"a man of ability"), whichcannot be an indirect anaphoric relationship.
Toreduce the errors, we use the following procedures.1.
We do not use an example of the form "Noun Xno Noun ?"
(Y of X), when noun X is an adjec-tive noun \[ex.
HONTOU (reality)\], a numeral,or a temporal noun.
For example, we do notuse honton (reality) no (of) hannin (criminal)(a real criminal).2.
We do not use an example of the form "NounX no Noun Y" (Y of X), when noun Y is anoun that cannot be an anaphor of an indirectanaphora.
For example, we do not use "Noun Xno tsurn (crane)," or "Noun X no ningen (hu-man being).
"We cannot completely avoid errors by introducingthe above procedure, but we can reduce them to acertain extent.Nouns such as ichibu (part), tonari (neighbor) andbetsu (other) need further consideration.
When sucha noun is a case component of a verb, we use infor-mation on the semantic onstraints of the verb.
Weuse a verb case frame dictionary as shown in Table5.takusan-no kuruma-ga kouen-ni tomatte,ita.
(many) (car) (in the park) (there were)(There were many cars in the park.
)ichibu-wa kith-hi mukatta\[A part (of them)\] (to the north) (went)(A part of them went to the north.)
(3)In this example, since ichibu (part) is a ga-case (sub-ject) of a verb mukau(go),  we consult the ga-case(subject) of the case frame of mukau (go).
Somenoun phrases which can also be used in the casecomponent are written in the ga-case (subject) ofthe case frame.
In this case, kate (he) and hune(ship) are written as examples of things which canbe used in the case component.
This indicates thatthe antecedent is semantically similar to kare (he)and hune (ship).
Since takusan no kuruma (manycars) is semantically similar to hune (ship) in themeaning of vehicles, it is judged to be the properantecedent.When such a noun as tonari (neighbor or next)modifies a noun X as tonari no X, we consider theantecedent to be a noun which is similar to noun X33Table 5: Case frame of verb "mukad' (go to)Surface case Semantic onstraint Examplesga-case (subject) concrete kare (he), hune (ship)n/-case (object) place kouen (park), minato (port)in meaning.ojiisan-wa ooyorokobi-wo-shite ie-ni kaerimashita.
(the old man) (in great joy) (house) (returned)\[The old man returned home (house) in great joy,\]okotta koto-wo hitobito-ni hanashimashita(happened to him) (all things) (everybody) (told) (4)(and told everybody all that had happened to him.
)tonari-no ie-ni ojiisan-ga mouhitori sunde-orimashita.
(next) (house) (old man) (another) (llve)(There lived in the next house another old man.
)For example, when tonari (neighbor or next) modi-fies ie (house), we judge that the antecedent of tonari(neighbor or next) is ie (house) in the first sentence.3 Anaphora Resolution System3.1 P rocedureBefore starting the anaphora resolution process, thesyntactic structure analyzer transforms entencesinto dependency structures (Kurohashi and Nagao,1994).
Antecedents are determined by heuristic rulesfor each noun from left to right in the sentences.Using these rules, our system gives possible an-tecedents points, and it determines that the possibleantecedent having the maximum total score is thedesired antecedent.
This is because a several typesof information are combined in anaphora resolution.An increase in the points of a possible antecedentcorresponds to an increase of the plausibility of thepossible antecedent.The heuristic rules are given in the following form:Condition ~ { Proposal, Proposal, ... }Proposal := ( Possible-Antecedent, Point )Surface xpressions, emantic onstraints, referentialproperties, for example, are written as conditions inthe Condition part.
A possible antecedent is writtenin the Possible-Antecedent part.
Point refers to theplausibility of the possible antecedent.To implement the method mentioned in Section 2,we use the weights W of topics and foci, the distanceD, the definiteness P, and the semantic similarityS (in R4 of Section 3.2) to determine points.
Theweights W oftopics and foci are given in Table 3 andTable 4 respectively in Section 2, and represent thepreferability of the desired antecedent.
In this work,a topic is defined as a theme which is described, anda focus is defined as a word which is stressed by thespeaker (or the writer).
But we cannot detect opicsand foci correctly.
Therefore we approximated themas shown in Table 3 and Table 4.
The distance D isthe number of the topics (foci) between the anaphorand a possible antecedent which is a topic (focus).The value P is given by the score of the definitenessin referential property analysis (Murata and Nagao,1993).
This is because it is easier for a definite nounphrase to have an antecedent than for an indefinitenoun phrase to have one.
The value S is the semanticsimilarity between a possible antecedent and NounX of "Noun X no Noun Y."
Semantic similarity isshown by level in Bunrui Goi Hyou (NLRI, 1964).3.2 Heur ist ics for determin ing  antecedentsWe wrote 15 heuristic rules for noun phraseanaphora resolution.
Some of the rules are givenbelow:R1 When the referential property of a noun phrase(an anaphor) is definite, and the same nounphrase A has already appeared, =?,{ (the noun phrase A, 30)}A referential property is estimated by thismethod (Murata and Naga~, 1993).
This is arule for direct anaphora.R2 When the referential property of a noun phraseis generic, =?,{ (generic, 10)}R3 When the referential property of a noun phraseis indefinite,{ (indefinite, 10)}R4 When a noun phrase Y is not a verbal noun, ==~{ (A topic which has the weight W and the dis-tanceD, W-D+P+S) ,(A focus which has the weight W and the dis-tanceD, W-D+P+S) ,(A subject in a subordinate clause or a mainclause of the clause, 23 -t- P + S)where the values W, D, P, and S are as theywere defined in Section 3.1.R5 When a noun phrase is a verbal noun, =~{ (A  topic which satisfies the semantic con-straint in a verb case frame and has the weightW and the distance D, W-D+P+S) ,(A focus which satisfies the semantic onstraintand has the weight W and the distance D,W-D+P+S) ,34kono dorudaka-wa kyoulyou-wo gikushaku saseteiru.
(The dollar's surge) (cooperation) (is straining)(The dollar's surge is straining the cooperation.
)jikokutuuka-wo mamorouto nisidoku-ga kouleibuai-wo(own currency) (to protect) (West Germany) (official rate)(West Germany raised (its) official rate to protect he mark.
)hikiagela.
(raised)Indefinite nisidoku jikokutuuka kyoutyou dorudakaWest Germany own currency cooperation dollar's surgeR3 10R4 25 -23 -24 -1723 SubjectTopic Focus (W)Distance (D)Definiteness (P)Similarity (S)Total Score 10-572514-2-5-30-2314-3-5-30-2420-2-5-30-17Examples of "noun X no kouteibuai (official rate)""nihon (Japan) no kouteibuai (official rate)","beikoku (USA) no kouteibuai (official rate)"Figure 1: Example of indirect anaphora resolution(A subject in a subordinate clause or a mainclause of the clause, 23 + P + S)R6 When a noun phrase is a noun such as ichibu,tonari, and it modifies a noun X, =~{ (the same noun as the noun X, 30)}3.3 Example of analysisAn example of the resolution of an indirect anaphorais shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1 shows that the nounkoutei buai (official rate) is analyzed well.
This isexplained as follows:The system estimated the referential propertyof koutei buai (official rate) to be indefinite inthe method (Murata and Nagao, 1993).
Follow-ing rule R3 (ection 3.2) the system took a candi-date "Indefinite," which means that the candidateis an indefinite noun phrase that does not havean indirect anaphoric referent.
Following R4 (Sec-tion 3.2) the system took four possible antecedents,nisidoku (West Germany), jikokutuuka (own cur-rency), kyoutyou (cooperation), dorudaka (dollar'ssurge).
The possible antecedents were given pointsbased on the weight of topics and foci, the distancefrom the anaphor, and so on.
The system properlyjudged that nisidoku (West Germany), which hadthe best score, was the desired antecedent.4 Exper iment  and  D iscuss ionBefore the antecedents in indirect anaphora weredetermined, sentences were transformed into a casestructure by the case analyzer (Kurohashi and Na-gao, 1994).
The errors made by the analyzer werecorrected by hand.
We used the IPAL dictionary(IPAL, 1987) as a verb case frame dictionary.
Weused the Japanese Co-occurrence Dictionary (EDR,1995) as a source of examples for "X no Y.
"We show the result of anaphora resolution usingboth "X no Y" and a verb case frame dictionaryin Table 6.
We obtained a recall rate of 63% anda precision rate of 68% when we estimated indirectanaphora in test sentences.
This indicates that theinformation of "X no Y" is useful to a certain extenteven though we cannot make use of a noun frame dic-tionary.
We also tested the system when it did nothave any semantic information.
The precision andthe recall were lower.
This indicates that semanticinformation is necessary.
The experiment was per-formed by fixing all the semantic similarity values Sto 0.We also estimated the results for the hypotheticaluse of a noun case frame dictionary.
We estimatedthese results in the following manner: We lookedover the errors that had occured when we used "Xno Y" and a verb case frame dictionary.
We regardederrors made for one of the following three reasons asright answers:35Table 6: ResultsNon-verbal noun I Verbal noun TotalRecall I Precisi?n I Recall I Precision Recall \] PrecisionExperiment made when the system does not use any semantic information85%(56/66) 67%(56/83) 40%(14/35) 44%(14/32) 69%(70/101) 61%(70/115)42%(15/36) (35/70) 1 46% (35/76) 50%(20/40) 47%(15/32)Experiment using "X no Y" and verb case frame91%(60/66) 86%(60/70) 66%(23/35) 79%(23/29) 82%(83/101) 84%(83/99)83%(24/29) (44/70) 168% 56%(20/36) (44/65)Estimation for the hypothetical use of a noun case frame dictionary91%(60/66) 88%(60/68) 69%(24/35) 89%(24/27) 83%(84/101) 88%(84/95)79%(30/38) 186%(30/35)63%(20/32)177%(20/26) I  (50/70) I 82% 71% (50/61)The upper row and the lower row of this table show rates on training sentences and test sentencesrespectively.The training sentences are used to set the values given in the rules (Section 3.2) by hand.Training sentences {example sentences (Walker et al, 1994) (43 sentences), a folk tale Kobutori jiisan(Nakao, 1985) (93 sentences), an essay in Tenseijingo (26 sentences), an editorial (26 sentences)}Test sentences {a folk tale Tsuru no ongaeshi (Nakao, 1985) (91 sentences), two essays in Tenseijingo (50sentences), an editorial (30 sentences)}Precision is the fraction of the noun phrases which were judged to have the indirect anaphora s an-tecedents.
Recall is the fraction of the noun phrases which have the antecedents of indirect anaphora.We use precision and recall to evaluate because the system judges that a noun which is not an antecedentof indirect anaphora is an antecedent of indirect anaphora, and we check these errors thoroughly.1.
Proper examples do not exist in examples of "Xno Y" or in the verb case frame dictionary.2.
Wrong examples exist in examples of "X no Y"or in the verb case frame dictionary.3.
A noun case frame is different from a verb caseframe.If we were to make a noun case frame dictionary, itwould have some errors, and the success ratio wouldbe lower than the ratio shown in Table 6.Discussion o f  E r rorsEven if we had a noun case frame dictionary, thereare certain pairs of nouns in indirect anaphoric rela-tionship that could not be resolved using our frame-work.kon'na hidoi hubuki-no naka-wo ittai dare-ga kita-no-ka-to ibukarinagara, obaasan-wa iimashita.
(Wondering who could have come in such a heavysnowstorm, the old woman said:)"donata-jana"("Who is it?
")to-wo aketemiruto, soko-niwa zenshin yuki-de masshi-roni natta musume-ga t tte orimashita.
(She opened the door, and there stood before hera girl all covered with snow.
)(5)The underlined mnsnme has two main meanings: adaughter or a girl.
In the above example, mnsnmemeans "girl" and has no indirect anaphora rela-tion but the system incorrectly judged that it isthe daughter of obaasan (the old woman).
This isa problem of noun role ambiguity and is very diffi-cult to solve.The following example also presents a difficultproblem:shushou-wa teikou-no tsuyoi(prime minister) (resistance) (very hard)senkyoku-no kaishou-wo miokutta.
(electoral district) (modification) (give up)(The prime minister gave up the modification ofsome electoral districts where the resistance was veryhard.
)(6)On the surface, the underlined leikou (resistance)appears to refer indirectly to senkyoku (electoraldistrict).
But actually teikou (resistance) refers tothe candidates of senkyokn (electoral district) notto senkyoku (electoral district) itself.
To arrive atthis conclusion, in other words, to connect senkyoku(electoral district) and ~eikou (resistance), it is nec-essary to use a two-step relation, "an electoral dis-trict =?, candidates," candidates :=?, resist" in se-quence.
It is not easy, however, to change our systemso it can deal with two-step relationships.
If we ap-ply the use of two-step relationships to nouns, manynouns which are not in an indirect anaphoric rela-36Table 7: Examples of arranged "X no Y"Noun Ykokumin (nation)genshu (the head ofstate)yane (roof)mokei (model)gyouji (event)jinkaku(personality)Arranged noun X<Human> aite (partner) <Organization> kuni (country), senshinkoku (an ad-vanced country), vyoukoku (the two countries), naichi (inland), zenkoku (the wholecountry), nihon (Japan), soren (the Soviet Union), eikoku (England), amerika(America), suisu (Switzerland), denmaaku (Denmark), sekai (the world)<Human> raihin (visitor) <Organization> gaikoku (a foreign country), kakkoku(each country), poorando (Poland)<Organization> hokkaido (Hokkaido), sekai (the world), gakkou (school), kou-jou (factory), gasorinsutando (gas station), suupaa (supermarket), jilaku (one'shome), honbu (the head office) <Product> kuruma (car), juutaku (housing), ie(house), shinden (temple), genkan (entrance), shinsha (new car) <Phenomenon>midori (green) <Action> kawarabuki (tile-roofed) <Mental> houshiki (method)<Character> keishiki (form)<Animal> zou (elephant) <Nature> fujisan (Mt.
Fuji) <Product> imono (anarticle of cast metal), manshon (an apartment house), kapuseru (capsule), den-sha (train), hunt (ship), gunkan (warship), hikouki (airplane), jettoki (jet plane)<Action> zousen (shipbuilding) <Mental> puran (plan) <Character> unkou(movement)<Human> koushitsu (the Imperial Household), oushilsu (a Royal family), iemoto(the head of a school) <Organization> nouson (an agricultural village), ken (pre-fecture), nihon (Japan), soren (the Soviet Union), tera (temple), gakkou (school)<Action> shuunin (take up one's post), matsuri (festival), iwai (celebration), jun-rei (pilgrimage) <Mental> kourei (an established custom), koushiki (formal)<Human> watashi (myself), ningen (human), seishounen (young people), seijika(statesman)tion will be incorrectly judged as indirect anaphora.A new method is required in order to infer two rela-tionships in sequence.5 Consideration of Construction ofNoun Case Frame DictionaryWe used "X no Y" (Y of X) to resolve indirectanaphora.
But we would achieve get a higher accu-racy rate if we could utilize a good noun case framedictionary.
Therefore we have to consider how toconstruct a noun case frame dictionary.
A key is toget the detailed meaning of "no (of)" in "X no Y.
"If it is automatically obtainable, a noun case framedictionary could be constructed automatically.
Evenif the semantic analysis of "X no Y" is not done well,we think that it is still possible to construct the dic-tionary using "X no Y."
For example, we arrange"noun X no noun Y" by the meaning of "noun Y,"arrange them by the meaning of "noun X", deletethose where "noun X" is an adjective noun, and ob-tain the results hown in Table 7.
In this case, we usethe thesaurus dictionary "Bunrui Goi Hyou" (NLRI,1964) to learn the meanings of nouns.
It should notbe difficult to construct a noun case frame dictio-nary by hand using Table 7.
We will make a nouncase frame dictionary by removing aite (partner) inthe line of kokumin (nation), raihin (visitor) in theline of genshu (the head of state), and noun phraseswhich mean characters and features.
When we lookover the noun phrases for kokumin (nation), we no-tice that almost all of them refer to countries.
Sowe will also make the semantic onstraint (or the se-mantic preference) that countries can be connectedto kokumin (nation).
When we make a noun caseframe dictionary, we must remember that examplesof "X no Y" are insufficient and we must add exam-ples.
For example, in the line of genshu (the head ofstate) there are few nouns that mean countries.
Inthis case, it is good to add examples by from the ar-ranged nouns for kokumin (nation), which is similarto genshu (the head of state).
Since in this methodexamples are arranged by meaning in this method,it will not be very difficult to add examples.6 ConclusionWe presented how to resolve indirect anaphora inJapanese nouns.
We need a noun case frame dic-tionary containing information about noun relationsto analyze indirect anaphora, but no such dictionaryexists at present.
Therefore, we used examples of "Xno Y" (Y of X) and a verb case frame dictionary.
Weestimated indirect anaphora by using this informa-tion, and obtained a recall rate of 63% and a pre-cision rate of 68% on test sentences.
This indicates37that information about "X no Y" is useful when wecannot make use of a noun case frame dictionary.We estimated the results that would be given by anoun case frame dictionary, and obtained recall andprecision rates of 71% and 82% respectively.
Finally,we proposed a way to construct a noun case framedictionary by using examples of "X no Y.
"ReferencesCarterl D. 1987.
Interpreting Anaphors in NaturalLanguage Texts.
Halsted Press.Electronic Dictionary Research Institute, LTD.1995.
EDR Electronic Dictionary, Japanese Co-occurrence Dictionary, Version 1.5, (in Japanese).Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan.1987.
IPA Lexicon of the Japanese Language forComputers IPAL (Basic Verbs), (in Japanese).Kurohashi, S., Nagao, M. 1994.
A Method of CaseStructure Analysis for Japanese Sentences basedon Examples in Case Frame Dictionary.
The In-stitute of Electronics, Information and Commu-nication Engineers Transactions on Informationand Systems E77-D (2), pages 227-239.Murata, M., Nagao, M. 1993.
Determination ofreferential property and number of nouns inJapanese sentences for machine translation intoEnglish.
In Proceedings of the 5th TMI, pages218-225, Kyoto, Japan, July.Murata, M., Nagao, M. 1995.
An Estimate of Ref-erents of Pronouns in Japanese Sentences usingExamples and Surface Expressions, (in Japanese)IPSJ 95-NL-108, I-Iukuoka, Japan, July.Nakao, K. 1985.
The Old Man with a Wen.
EiyakuNihon Mukashibanashi Series, Vol.
7, Nihon EigoKyouiku Kyoukai (in Japanese).National Language Research Institute (1964) WordList by Semantic Principles.
Syuei Syuppan (inJapanese).Walker, M., Iida, M., Cote, S. 1994.
Japanese Dis-course and the Process of Centering Computa-tional Linguistics, Vol.
20, No.
2, pages 193-232.Watanabe, Y., Kurohashi, S., Nagao, M. 1992.
Con-struction of semantic dictionary by IPAL dictio-nary and a thesaurus (in Japanese).
In Proceed-ings of the 45th Convention of 1PSJ, pages 213-214, Tokushima, Japan, July.
:38
