Web Access to Corpora: the W3Corpora  Project*Doug ArnoldDepar tment  of  Language and  L ingu is t ics ,Un ivers i ty  of  Essex,Wivenhoe Park ,Co lchester ,  Essex,CO4 3SQ, U .K .emai l :  doug@essex ,  ac .
uk1 I n t roduct ionIn this day an age, some corpus linguistics houldbe part of every course to do with language.
Butlearning about corpus linguistics - -  its possibili-ties and limitations - -  is not just a matter of ac-quiring information.
The best way to learn aboutcorpus linguistics is to do it, and the best wayto teach corpus linguistics is to put students intoa position where they can do it ((Leech, 1997),(Fligelstone, 1993)).
This requires corpora, andtools, in addition to teaching materials.For a number of reasons, the World Wide Weboffers a good method for delivering this (see be-low).
This paper will present a resource that en-ables students to get a general introduction to cor-pus linguistics via the Web.
The resource is cur-rently available for general use.
See Table 1 forURLs.No very great claims will be made for the re-source in terms of being highly original or vision-ary in style of interaction or implementation.
Onthe contrary, the model of learning is rather tra-ditional, and the approach taken was very sim-ple and straightforward.
However, this in itselfmay be interesting as providing a baseline againstwhich more visionary approaches can be compared- -  this is probably the simplest way one couldgo about providing Internet based education.
Inaddition, some of the design decisions and lessonlearned may be of interest.Section 2 presents the motivation for the projectthat produced the resource.
Section 3 will give anTile project was the joint work of Ylva Berglund,Natalia Brines-Moya, Martin Rondell and the authorin the period 1996-8.
The results can be seen at:http:/ /c lwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/.
The project wasfunded by JISC (the Joint Information Systems Com-mittee of the UK Higher Education Funding Coun-cils), as part of JTAP, the JISC Technonology Ap-plication Programme.
Thanks also to the anonymousworkshop referees for valuable comments.
None of thisshifts responsibility for errors and other imperfectionsf ron l  Inc.overview of the resource.
Section 4 describes andcompares ome similar resources that are avail-able.
Section 5 describes some problems andlessons that can be learned, and notes some openquestions.2 Motivation, Design CriteriaThe motivation for the project was the observa-tion that the up-take of corpus linguistics is notwhat it should be - -  in this day and age somecorpus linguistics should be part of every courseto do with language.
The problem is that learn-ing about corpus linguistics involves doing it, andthat the overheads involved in getting started indoing or teaching corpus linguistics are consider-able.
Corpora in many languages are now easilyavailable, but to use them requires a significant in-vestment in hardware (e.g.
disk space), software(tools need to be downloaded and installed), andtime and effort (the tools have to be understoodand techniques mastered).
All this is hard enoughfor the individual researcher.
In a teaching con-text, all these problems will typically be magnifiedby the need to deal with differences in the envi-ronment available to students (architecture, oper-ating system, software: if something can differ, itwill differ; if a difference can matter, it will mat-ter).Corpus linguistics should be a part of everyscheme of study, and it may have a role in al-most every piece of research.
But it need not bea central theme, certainly not central enough tojustify the effort involved.
It would be nice to beable have (say) three sessions on corpus linguis-tics in a course with a wider focus, and in thattime give students a real feeling for what can begained, and what are the limitations.
It would benice for a researcher to be able to find out whethercorpora can provide any useful data about somephenomenon without having to actually become acorpus linguist.There are surely many areas of linguistics, evencomputational linguistics, that are like this: assubjects develop, it becomes impossible for stu-dents or researchers to master the full range ofideas and techniques, and there is an increasingneed for the provision of knowledge of subject ar-eas at a 'contextual' rather than specialist level.It is important to be able convey something abouta wide range of areas very briefly, but (hopefully)without trivialization.So, the goal of the project was to provide in-stant, and instantly usable, access to corpora, in-cluding tools to manipulate them, as well as gen-eral information and tutorial information abouthow and why One might manipulate them.Of course, the World Wide Web is excellent forthis.
In principle, all the user needs is a Webconnection and a browser.
Beyond this, no in-vestment of money, and little investment of ef-fort should be needed: there should be no need toobtain and install corpora, or download and in-stall software, and the interface to the corpus ma-nipulating tools should already be familiar (sinceit would be based closely on their web browser).Moreover, from a teaching perspective, problemsof different architecture (etc) are minimized - -  allthat is necessary is the browser and the Web con-nection.Given these aims and motivation, a number ofdesign decisions are rather natural:?
The system should be immediately usableby anyone with WWW access and a WebBrowser, for example:- it, should be usable without the need toinstall or download any programs;- it should be usable with essentially anygenerally available browser;- it should be usable without the need toregister and get authorization.?
The interface should be as 'friendly' and easyto use as possible; it should be supported byextensive on-line help, and backed up by de-tailed information about corpus linguistics ingeneral, and how to 'do' corpus linguistics ina.
practical way, using a tool such as this.?
It is typical of novice users that they makemistakes with queries; thus, there should besome method for users to correct and 'refine'their queries very easily (this lead to the ideaof an editable 'search history').?
It should be possible for a user to search theirown Corpora - -  in this way a user can explorenot only what is possible in general, but whatis possible in relation to the kinds of materialthey are interested in or have to deal with.A major problem with Web delivery is thenetwork overhead.
Thus the source codeshould be freely available (in GNU 'Copyleft'style), which should allow the system to be in-stalled and run locally over the Web at othersites.3 Imp lementat ion ,  Overv iew o f  theW3Corpora  Web-S i teThis section will give an overview ofW3Corpora web-site.
See Table 1 for URLs.The site is divided into three main parts:theGenera l  In fo rmat ion  where the user can learnabout corpus linguistics in general (e.g.
gen-eral discussions: 'What is a corpus?'
issues ofcorpus design and annotation, research areas,bibliography, etc).
This is the kind and levelof information one might expect in an intro-ductory text book, e.g.
(Barnbrook, 1996) or(Kennedy, 1998).Tutor ia l  where the user can find out how to usethe tools provided, and where some areas aredescribed where corpus techniques are useful.A variety of tasks are described in some de-tail with practical examples (e.g.
how to in-vestigate the meaning of word, compare twosimilar words, how a word is used in differentcontexts, investigating spelling, and choice ofpreposition in a context like an explanationof/for something).
Here an elsewhere, theemphasis is on classical corpus linguistics, ne-glecting e.g.
statistical techniques that can bebuilt on top.Here the key aim is to answer, as quickly andeasily as possible the two questions: 'How canI use this thing?'
and 'What can I use itfor?'
It does not pretend to be a complete,stand-alone tutorial in Corpus Linguistics; itdoes not go to the length of (say) (Aston andBurnard, 1997), nor does it go into the samelevel of detail.
The primary aim is to takethe user to the point where they can answerthe question 'Is Corpus Linguistics useful inmy study and research?
', and in case of anaffirmative answer, give a basis for proceed-ing (perhaps, in fact most likely, with otherresources and tools, installed locally to avoidnetwork overheads).Search Eng ine  where the user can carry outcorpus searches.
'Top level':General Information:TutoriahSearch Engine:http://clwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/http://clwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/corpusling/content/introduction.htmlhttp://clwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/help/intro/start~age.htmlhttp://clwww.essex.ac.uk/w3c/corpusling/content/search~ngine.htmlTable 1: Web Addresses for W3Corpora ResourcesApart from the Search Engine, the implementa-tion is rather straightforward: text marked up ashtml, there is extensive use of frames o that usersare able to maintain an overview of documents aswell pursuing detail.The implementation of the Search Engine mer-its more discussion, but it is also based on ratherstandard techniques, using cgi-bin scripts writtenin Perl, and fairly standard indexing techniques tospeed up searching.When a user arrives at the top-level searchpage, she is invited to select a corpus and froma menu, and to speciI) a search string and searchtype (e.g.
regular expression, exact match, wholewords, etc).
Confirming these selection generatesa 'session file' which records the selections.
Alsogenerated is a file recording various default valuesfor options dictating inter alia what sort of re-sults should be displayed first (frequency, or KeyWord In Context - -  KWIC),  for KWIC results,how many results should be displayed at one time,how much context should be displayed, etc.
etc.The user can modify these options interactivelyvia a form, which is generated in response to click-ing the 'Options' button at the top of the screen.Currently, some 19,000,000 words (321) texts fromthe Gutenberg Project corpora can be searched.
1A flavour of the interface to the Search En-gine can be gained from Figure 1, which showsthe results of searching for the regular expression/ \[Nn\] i ce /  over a subset of the Gutenberg texts,and clicking on one of the results to view the widercontext.
An early stage in the project defined alist of properties that a corpus searching inter-face should have (Brines-Moya nd Hartill, 1998).This interface satisfies ahnost all.A large amount of on-line help is available (viathe 'Help') button (the information supplied issomewhat sensitive to the particular screen beingviewed).
'Frequency' and 'Display' buttons generate dif-ferent views of the search results:?
The 'Frequency' button generates frequencyinformation for a search (total number of hits,l l Million words of the LOB corpus, tagged anduntagged can also be searched, after a user has regis-tered and re(:eived a password.hits per-subcorpus, and lexical information- -  e.g.
how many of the hits for / \[Nn\] i ce /arise from the the word nice, how many fromnicer, nicest, Venice, cornice, etc).
* The 'Display' button generates a KWIC dis-play of search results (see Figure 1).
KWICresults are editable - -  the user can delete cer-tain results, and can also call up wider con-text by clicking on a key word.The 'Search' button allows the user to (i) carryout a totally new search, (ii) 'refine' the existingsearch, or (iii) view, and modify the search history.Refining a search returns a subset of the cur-rent search: the user supplies a regular expres-sion which potential hits must satisfy in addi-tion to the original pattern.
Thus, one might re-fine /\[Nn\] i ce /  to /^ \[Nn\]/ to eliminate Veniceand cornice as hits, a further refinement to /e$ /would eliminate nicer and nicest.
A sequence ofrefinements constitutes a search history: users canview, and edit a search history - -  moving back-wards and forwards through the different stagesof a search.
The user can also delete stages (e.g.to leave just an initial and a final stage).An aspect of the system that may be particu-larly useful to teachers is the ability to up- loadcorpora for searching.
When a user up-loads a(plain text) corpus to the Web-site (by anony-mous ftp), it becomes selectable for searching.When so selected, it is indexed and prepared forsearching in the normal way.
This may be par-ticularly useful to teachers who want students tocarry out exercises on particular corpora that arenot already provided at the site.The site has been used and positively evaluatedby 'expert users' (i.e.
with a background in cor-pus linguistics), and by students at Essex and else-where, but there are many open questions abouthow it can or should best be used in the context ofdifferent courses and learning situations (see Sec-tion 5).
22The webpage of the course atEssex which used the resources ishttp ://privatewww.
essex, ac.
uk/- s cholp/ig478cs, htm.It is taught by my colleague Dr. Phil Scholfield,whom I hereby thank for his advice and feedback.On this course, Corpus Linguistics is covered inFile Edit View GO Communicator HelpKWIC FRAME ~_~1.10/~)shorp I We, n done, Carat  I Oood dog I ~=.
old fello'w I Now behove pzetty I "Aad DELETEage to get mmied ,~irh a M_,  ?e~sible ~ that could ~preci~:e ~ DELETEforlitde voraeam dJfficul~.u .A ~ liole, whexe allrhelicdewomen D\]:~LET/~a most disc, ngmslied m~uex.
"All,  how ~.
.
of you, my deer sexless tI DELETEon in the world.
Oh, a ~ lot alley e~e t "Vandeuw~ did his DELIFTEheart !
Oh,  it would be too ~ if we could always five to geexh~r DELE'I~~gre.~,becaus~itwouldbeso ~ forchem~threeto  ~ty  ~EI.J~TEof e.n.noyance.
They had choa~, a ~ d~,  cecrte~y, ~ ~ Hi~aess on DELE'I"~d,.e couat : "You'll see, sho'e vexy ~ i Slie.
'l going to kiss you I" But DELETEf ollovyiag crude,~izv.cism about E~telle : "A  ~ broomsdck ~et to shove iato a DELETEKEYThe Gutenberg Project, a collec~on of eleca'onic texts.Tomorrow by los~h Comad.CONTEXT FRAMEHany would be one-~d - ~hir ty next July, he d~l~red.
Prop~ age to get married u4th ?
nice, sensible ~ifl chat: could appreciate ago od home.
H e was a very high-spirked b oy.
Hi~h-spirked husbands were ~t  e.~sieet to manage.
These me~m, soft chap s,  ~hatyou would d~.r& buyer wouldn't melt in ~hoir moues ,  ~eze the ones to make a worn-en ~oxou~ly s i s  arable.
And dlexe wu norkinglike a home - - a fireside - - a good roof : no rcaung out o~ your w~rm bed in rill sons of weadRx.
"Eh ,  my deex ?
"Figure 1: KW!C Display of search Results: the user has selected options which allow results to bedeleted and which indicate which sub-corpus each hit comes from.
At the bottom of the page the widercontext of one of the hits is displayed (the user has clicked on one of the individual hits to obtain this).4 Existing Work, ComparisonsThere are a large number of tools and systems thatoffer something similar to what the W3Corporasite seeks to provide.
They range from simpleUnix command-l ine style programs like Ptx, tosophisticated GUI interfaces.
For local installa-tion, on a Macintosh one has Conc 1.7, andParaConc ;  for DOS/Windows, one has ICEUP(ii"om ICE), LEXA (from ICAME), M ic ro -OCP,  Mu l t i concord ,  LDB (from Nijmegen),Wordsmi th  Tools, TACT,  and Sara  (for theBNC); for Unix, there many standard utilities, aswell as ptx ,  and Xkwic  (from Stuttgart).As regards Web-accessible resources, the fol-lowing should me mentioned:BNC The BNC site provides access to a subsetfour 2-hour sessions , two of which are descriptive,two practical; in the latter two the students use theW3Corpora search engine, under supervision.
Apractical corpus investigation, using tools such as theW3Corpora search engine, is one of the options forcourse assessment .of the British National Corpus on a trial ba-sis.
This permits simple searches on-line, butwith limited number of hits, and limited in-formation about the hits.
Registration for atrial account (20 days) is required.
Full ac-cess requires downloading (Windows) clientprogram (available for Windows95, and Win-dows3.x only), and payment of an annual reg-istration fee.
It is restricted to users withinthe EC.Canad ian  Hansard  This site permits access tothe proceedings of the Canadian Parliamentin English and French.
These are paraiielcorpora (English and French), searches maybe mono- or bi-lingual (in either case, theresults returned are bi-lingual - -  i.e.
theuser sees both the context where the searchterm appears, and translation).
In the mono-lingual case one can see how an expressionis used and translated.
The bi-lingual caseallows one to see, e.g.
where English com-mi tment  is translated as French attachement.In addition to verbatim (case independent)searches, it is also possible to perform a dic-tionary search, e.g.
the query: pu l l+ theplug will match pull the plug, pulling the plug,pulls the plug, etc, and to search for wordsthat do not appear contiguously (e.g.
make... arraugements).
No frequency informationis provided.CobuUd This site gives limited access to theCobuild Corpora: the "Bank of English"(over 50million words), giving an idea of thekinds of search possible with the full system.It, is possible to search for regular expressions(including a special character which matchesinflectional endings), combinations of words,and part of speech tags.
Only 40 lines ofconcordance are returned, and no informa-tion about frequency, or wider context is ac-cessible.
It is also possible to search for collo-cates of words, based on either of two statisti-cal scores (mutual information and T-score).The site does not provide much in the way ofhelp pages, and there is no tutorial.TACTWeb a pilot version of the TACTWebsoftware can be used on the Bergen Corpus ofLondon Teenager Language (TACTWeb is in-tended to make a TACT style text databaseaccessible over the WWW).
This is close inintention to the present project.
At the timeof writing, it is still under development.LDC/Brown Corpus  Text Corpora, andSpeech Corpora, are accessible via the Lin-guistic Data Consortium.
After registration,it is possible to access the Brown Corpus.For individuals who are not (affiliated to)members of the LDC it is possible to registeras a guest, and access corpora with thepassword that is sent to the user by email.Frequency information is available, and awide variety of searches is supported, concor-dances can be generated, and collocationalintbrmation retrieved.
Access to the T IMITSpeech Corpus is similar.It is obvious that some of these sites pro-vide functionality that is not available at theW3Corpora site - -  notably (i) multi-l ingualsearching and searching over parallel corpora,(ii) collocational information, and (iii) 'dictionarystyle searching' - -  and several provide access tofar more extensive corpus resources.On the other hand none of these sites dupli-cates what is available at the W3Corpora site.In particular, none of them provides the balanceof easy (immediate) access to usable quantities ofcorpus material, with easy, customizable function-ality, and extensive user support and tutorial facil-ities.
So far as I know, in no case is the source codefreely available.
Where they do provide semi-introductory access (e.g.
by means of free regis-tration and/or a guest account), there is generallyvery little in the way of of tutorial material.
35 Conclusion: some Problems,Lessons and Open QuestionsBy far the most serious problem that the projectfaced was the difficulty of getting corpus resourcesthat could be made freely available (i.e.
withoutregistration) over the Web.The whole system took about two years (threeperson years) to complete.
This is a considerableeffort, and one that is only worthwhile for a rel-atively stable area like corpus linguistics, wherethere one can reasonably expect several years ofuse for a resource.The finished system is very large: the searchengine and interface involves over 12,000 lines ofcode, much of it very straightforward (Perl com-mands to generate the html forms that providethe interface).
It is hard to resist the sense thatthere should be an easier way to do this.Using html forms brings some problems.
In par-ticular, the lack of any kind of ' interactive' formsmeans that the interface is more complicated thanit might otherwise need be (a form must be com-pleted in toto and then submitted - -  it cannot bepartially completed and updated on the fly).The Perl-cgi-bin combination is powerful andexcellent for small applications, but there is a se-vere lack of good debugging tools.It had originally been hoped to make the re-source both 'future proof' and 'past proof'.
Theformer is not too problematic - -  the technologyinvolved is likely to be supported for many yearsto come.
But the latter - -  the intention to makethe resource usable with essentially any kind ofbrowser - -  quickly proved impossible, because ofthe need to use frames in serving the search engineinterface.The resource is now fully operational and avail-able.
While it has been evaluated by a number ofdifferent kinds of users in a number of contexts,there are still many open questions about how itcan or should best be used.In designing the resources, we had in mind acasual, novice user, either an individual studentor researcher with an interest in, but no strongaSee (Arnold et al, 1999) for a fuller discussion ofalternatives.comnfitment to, Corpus Linguistics, or a studenton a course where Corpus Linguistics has a mi-nor place (in the order of, say, three two hoursessions).
See (Arnold and Berglund, 1998) for alittle more discussion of this.
(We took the viewthat committed users would invest the effort in in-stalling corpora and corpus searching tools locally,and would find the overheads of WWW access un-acceptable).
Similarly, the resource was intendedto be 'stand-alone' - -  this was intended to make itas generally usable as possible.
This means it doesnot form part of a larger suite of materials, andthere are open questions about how it should bestbe integrated into schemes of study, and aboutwhat sorts of teaching method are appropriate.At one extreme, a teacher may simply note the re-sources as one among many resources available forfurther investigation, at another, one could imag-ine entire classes trying to access the resources atthe same time, with similar queries, under the di-rect supervision of a teacher.
Apart from obviousremarks about the machine and network loadingimplications of the latter, I have nothing to offerhere.
But these are important issues, and sincethis range of possibilities exist in principle for anyWeb-Based resource, quite general.The resources and tools were designed forWWW based access.
But many of the advan-tages (and a few other benefits) can be gained bya local area (LAN) installation.
The cost is thatthe tools and corpora must be installed and main-tained locally, the advantage is that one eliminatesthe WWW network overhead, and no longer hasto rely on a remote site to provide the resource.
4Again, this is a general question for WWW basedteaching, but one on which it is hard to say any-thing general.
From a users point of view, the keyquestions are obviously the reliability of the re-mote site, compared to the reliability of local sys-tems, and the inconvenience of the network over-head.
These are matters which will vary greatlyfrom one place to another, and will depend onthe resources being provided - -  in the case of theW3Corpora, there is still insufficient experience inpractice to do much more than raise the questions.Re ferencesDoug Arnold and Y1va Berglund.
1998.
WWWaccess to corpora: a tool for teachingand learning about corpora.
In TALC-4Of course, once one has decided to go for a lo-cal installation, there are many alternatives to theW3Corpora resources, and one is not tied to a Webbrowser style interface.98 (Third International Conference onTeaching and Language Corpora), KeebleCollege, Oxford, 24-27 July.
HumanitiesComputing Unit, Oxford University, Oxford.http ://clwww.
essex, ac.
uk/w3c/corpusling/TALC, html.Doug Arnold, Bas Aarts, Justin Buck-ley, Ylva Berglund, Gerald Nelson, andMartin Rondell.
1999.
Corpora andgrammars on the web: the W3Corpora-IGE Project, final report JTAP-2/247.http ://clwww.
essex, ac.
uk/w3c-ige/FinalReport/,February.D.J.
Arnold.
1997.
WWW- IGE:  World WideWeb access to Corpora and the Internet Gram-mar of English.
In Proceedings of DRH-97 (Dig-ital Resources in the Humanities), pages 711-716, St. Anne's College Oxford, Sept. (abstract:http ://users.
ox.
ac.
uk/"talc98/arnold, htm).Guy Aston and Lou Burnard.
1997.
The BNCHandbook: Exploring the British National Cor-pus with SARA.
Edinburgh University Press,Edinburgh.Geoff Barnbrook.
1996.
Language and Comput-ers: a practical introduction to the computeranalysis of language.
Edinburgh Textbooksin Empirical Linguistics.
Edinburgh UniversityPress, Edinburgh.Natalia Brines-Moya nd Julie Hartill.
1998.
Cri-teria for user-oriented evaluation of monolin-gual text corpora interfaces.
In Proceedings o/the First International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, volume 2, pages 893-898, Granada, Spain, 28-30 May.Steve Fligelstone.
1993.
Some reflections on thequestion of teaching, from a corpus linguisticperspective.
ICAME Journal, 17:97-109.Graeme Kennedy.
1998.
An Introduction to Cor-pus Linguistics.
Studies in Language and Lin-guistics.
Addison Wesley Longman Ltd, Lon-don.Geoffrey Leech.
1997.
Teaching and languagecorpora: a convergence.
In Ann Wichmann,Steven Fligelstone, Tony McEnery, and GerryKnowles, editors, Teaching and Language Cor-pora, pages 1-23.
Addison Wesley Longman,Harlow.
