Pronoun Resolution in Japanese SentencesUsing Surface Expressions and ExamplesMasaki Murata  Hitoshi IsaharaCommunications Research Laboratory588-2, Iwaoka, Nishi-ku, Kobe, 651-2401, Japan{murat a, i sahara}@crl, go.
j pTEL: +81-78-969-2181, FAX: +81-78-969-2189Makoto NagaoKyoto UniversitySakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, JapannagaoOpine, kuee.
kyot o-u.
ac.
jpAbstractIn this paper, we present a method of estimating ref-erents of demonstrative pronouns, personal pronouns,and zero pronouns in Japanese sentences using exam-pies, surface xpressions, topics and loci.
Unlike conven-tional work which was semantic markers for semanticconstraints, we used examples for semantic onstraintsand showed in our experiments that examples are asuseful as semantic markers.
We also propose many newmethods for estimating referents of'pronouns.
For exam-ple, we use the form "X of Y" for estimating referents ofdemonstrative adjectives.
In addition to our new meth-ods, we used many conventional methods.
As a result,experiments using these methods obtained a precisionrate of 87% in estimating referents of demonstrative pro-nouns, personal pronouns, and zero pronouns for trainingsentences, and obtained a precision rate of 78% for testsentences.1 OverviewThis paper describes how to resolve the referents of pro-nouns: demonstrative pronouns, personal pronouns, andzero pronouns.
Pronoun resolution is especially impor-tant for machine translation.
For example, if the sys-tem cannot resolve zero pronouns 1, it cannot translatesentences containing them from Japanese into English.When the word order of sentences i changed and thepronominalized words are changed in translation intoEnglish, the system must detect he referents of the pro-nouns.A lot of work has been done in Japanese pronoun reso-lution (Kameyama 86) (Yamamuraet al 92) (Walkeret al 94) (Takada & Doi 94) (Nakaiwa & Ikehara 95).The main distinguishing features of our work are as fol-lows:?
In conventional pronoun resolution methods, se-mantic markers have been used for semantic on-straints.
On the other hand, we use examples forsemantic onstraints and show in our experimentsthat examples are as useful as semantic markers.This is an important result because the cost of con-structing the case frame using semantic markers isgenerally higher than the cost of constructing thecase frame using examples.?
We use examples in the form "X no Y" (Y of X) forestimating referents of demonstrative adjectives.1 Omitted noun phrases are called zero pronouns.Condition :*, {Proposal Proposal ..}Proposal := (Possible-Antecedent Points)Figure 1: Form of Candidate enumerating ruleCondition =~ (Points)Figure 2: Form of Candidate judging rule?
We deal with the case when a demonstrative refersto elements that appear later.?
We resolve a personal pronoun in a quotation bydetermining who is the speaker and who is the lis-tener.In this work, we used almost all the potentials of con-ventional methods and also propose a new method.2 The  F ramework  for  Es t imat ing  theReferentPrior to the pronoun resolution process, sentences aretransformed into a case structure by a case structureanalyzer (Kurohashi & Nagao 94).
The antecedents ofpronouns are determined by heuristic rules from left toright.
Using these rules, our system assigns points topossible antecedents, and judges that the one having themaximum total score is the desired antecedent.Heuristic rules are classified into two kinds: Candi-date enumerating rules and Candidate judging rules.
Can-didate enumerating rules are used in enumerating can-didate antecedents and giving them points (which rep-resent he plausibility of being the correct antecedent).Candidate judging rules are used in giving points to thecandidate antecedents selected by Candidate numeratingrules.
These rules are shown in Figures 1 and 2.
Surfaceexpressions, emantic onstraints, referential properties,etc.
are written as conditions in the Cond i t ion  part.
Pos-sible antecedents are written in the Poss ib le -Antecedentpart.
Po in ts  means the plausibility of the possible an-tecedent.An estimation of the referent is performed using thetotal scores of possible antecedents given by Candidateenumerating rules and Candidate judging rules.
First, thesystem applies all Candidate numerating rules to theanaphor and enumerates candidate antecedents havingpoints.
Next, the system applies aLl Candidate judg-ing rules to all the candidate antecedents and sums thescores of all the candidate antecedents.
Consequently,39Table 1: The weight in the case of topicSurface expression Example WeightPronoun/zero-pronoun ga/wa (John ga (subject)) shita (done) 21Noun wa/niwa Johnwa (subject) ,hita (do) 20Table 2: The weight in the case of focusSurface expression ExamplePronoun/zero-pronoun wo (object)/ ni (to)/kara (from) (John ni (to)) shita (done)Noun ga (subject)/mo/da/nara John gg (subject) shita (do)Noun wo (object) /n i / , / .
John ni (object) shita (do)Noun he (to)/de (in)/kara (from) g '~ou (school) he (to) iku (go)Weight16151413the system judges the candidate antecedent having thebest score to be the proper antecedent.
If several can-didate referents have the best score, the candidate ref-erent selected first in order 2 is judged to be the correctantecedent.We made 50 Candidate numerating rules and 10 Can-didate judging rules for analyzing demonstratives, 4 Can-didate enumerating rules and 6 Candidate judging rules foranalyzing personal pronouns, and 19 Candidate numer-ating rules and 4 Candidate judging rules for analyzingzero pronouns.
Some of the rules are described in thefollowing sections.3 Heur is t i c  Rules for  Demonst ra t ivesWe made heuristic rules for demonstratives by consultingthe papers (NLRI 81) (Hayashi 83) (Takahashi et al 90)(Kinsui & Takubo 92) and by examining Japanese sen-tences by hand.
Demonstratives have three categories:demonstrat ive pronouns, demonstrat ive adjectives, anddemonstrat ive adverbs.
In the following sections, we ex-plain the rules for analyzing demonstratives.3 .1  Ru le  for  Demonst ra t ive  P ronounsRu le  in the  case  when the  re ferent  is a nounphraseCandidate numerating rule 1When a pronoun is a demonstrative pronoun or "8ono(of it) / k0no (of this) \] an0 (of that)",{(A topic which has weight W and distance D,W-D-2)(A focus which has weight W and distance D, W -D + 4)}This bracketed expression represents the lists of pro-posals in Figure 1.
The definition and weight W ofthe topic and focus are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
Thedistance (D) is the number of topics and loci betweenthe demonstrative and the possible referent.
Since ademonstrative more often refers to loci than a zero pro-noun does, we add the coefficient -2  or +4 as comparedwith the heuristic rules in zero pronoun resolution.The score (in other words, the certification value) of acandidate referent depends on the weight of topics/fociand the physical distance between the demonstrat ive andthe candidate referent.Rule when the referent is a verb phraseCandidate numerating rule 22 The order is based on order applying rules.Table 3: Points given in the case of demonstrativepronounsSim.
0111 21 3 5 6 , Jo,o,- O,-lOl- X - o1- olSire.
= Slmlarity levelWhen a pronoun is "kore/sore/are" or a demonstrativeadjective,{( The previous entence (or the verb phrase which is aconditional form containing a conjunctive particle suchas "ga (but)", " daga (but)", and "keredo (but)" if theverb phrase is in the same sentence), 15))The following is an example of a pronoun referring tothe verb phrase in the previous sentence.tengu-wa maenoban-noyouni utattari odottari shihajimeta.
(tengu) (the previous night) (sing) (dance) (begin to do)(Tengus began singing and dancingjnst as they had donethe previous night.
)ojiisan-wa sore-wo mite, kon'nahuuni utai-hajimeta.
(the old man) (it) (see) (as follows) (begin to sing)(When the old man saw this, he began to sing as follows.
)(1)In these sentences, a demonstrat ive pronoun "sore (it)"refers to the event "tengutachi-ga utattari  odottari shi-hajirnemashita (tengus began singing and dancing justas they had done the previous night.)
"3.Rule using the feature that demonstrat ivepronouns  usua l ly  do  not  re fe r  to  peop leCandidate judging rule 1When a pronoun is a demonstrative pronoun and a can-didate referent has a semantic marker HUM (human),it is given -10.
We used the Noun Semantic MarkerDictionary (Watanabe t al.
92) as a semantic markerdictionary 4 .Candidate judging rule 2When a pronoun is a demonstrative pronoun, a candi-date referent is given the points in Table 3 by using thehighest semantic similarity between the candidate refer-ent and the codes {5200003010 5201002060 52020010205202006115 241002150 5244002100) in "Bunrui GoiHyou (BGH)" (NLRI 64) 5 which signify human beings.3A tengu is a kind of monster.4 This dictionary includes emantic ategories shown in Ta.ble 4.Sin BGH, each word has a number called a category num-ber.
In an electrical version of BGH, each word has a 10-digit40Table  4: Modi f icat ion of  category  number  of  "bunruigoi hyou"Semantic marker Original Modifiedcode codeAN l(auimal)H U M (human)ORG(organization)PLA(plant)PAR(part of living thing)NAT(natural)PRO(products)LOC(location)P H E (phenomenon)ACT(action)MEN (mental)ellA(character)REL(relation)LIN (linguistic products)OthersTIM(time)QUA(quantity)1561210-4\]1215-8\]1551571521410-9\]117,125,126150,1511313-81130II\[2-58\],158III131,13211011611951152\[0-415315-s\]61162163164\[0-91651,652,653711,7128113-8\]S213\[2-58\],839841851,852861a l lb l l"125" and "126" are given two category numbers.When we calculate the semantic similarity, we use themodified code table in Table 4.
The reason for thismodification is that some codes in BGH (NLRI 64) arenot suitable for semantic onstraints.These rules use the feature that a demonstrative pro-noun rarely refers to people.
This reduces the num-ber of candidates of the referent.
For example, we find"sore (it)" in the following sentences refers to "konpyuuta(computer)",  because "sore (it)" can only refer to onlya thing which is not human and the only noun which isnear "sore (it)" and which is not human is "konpyuuta(computer)".taroo-wa saishin-no konpyuuta-wo kaimashita.
(Taroo) (new) (computer) (buy)(Taroo bought a new computer.
)ion-hi sassoku sore-wo misemashita.
(John) (at once) (it) (show)(\[He\] showed it at once to John.
)Ru le  w i th  feature  that  "koko" and "soko"(2)of ten  re fer  to  locat ionsCandidate judging rule 3When a pronoun is "koko (here) / soko (there) \] asoko(over there)" and a candidate referent has a semanticmarker LOC (location), the candidate referent is given10 points.Candidate judging rule 4When a pronoun is "koko/soko/asoko ", a candidate ref-erent is given the points in Table 5 based on the seman-tic similarity between the candidate referent and thecategory number.
This 10-digit category number indicatesseven levels of an is-a hierarchy.
The top five levels are ex-pressed by the first five digits "of a category number.
Thesixth level is expressed by the following two digits of a cat-egory number.
The last level is expressed by the last threedigits of a category number.Table 5: Points given demonstrative pronouns whichrefer to places~Sim.
0 1 2 4 5 6 lO Icodes {6563006010 6559005020 9113301090 91133020106471001030 6314020130) which signify locations inBGH (NLRI 64).
"soko (there)" commonly refers to location.
For ex-ample, "soko" in the following sentences refers to "baiten(shop)" which signifies location.koora-wo kaini baiten-ni hairimashita.
(cola) (buy) (shop) (enter)(Taroo entered a shop to buy a cola.
)jiroo-wa so\[co-de guuzen dekuwashimashita.
(Jiroo) (there) (by chance) (meet)(Jiroo met Taroo there by chance.
)Ru le  when "kokode" or  "sokode" is used  as a(3)cor t junct ionCandidate enumerating rule 3When a pronoun is "kokode" or "sokode",{(the pronoun is used as a conjunction, 11)}This rule is for when "kokode (here or then)" or"sokode (there or then)" is used as a conjunction.
Ifa word that signifies location is not found near "kokode"or "sokode", the candidate listed by this rule has thehighest score, and "kokode" or "sokode" is judged to bea conjunction.
By using this rule, "sokode" in the fol-lowing sentences i  judged to be a conjunction.ojiisan-wa fenen-ea kowakunakunatte-imashita.
(old man) (tengu) (lose all fear of)(The old man lost all fear of the tengns.
)sokode ojiisan-wa kakure~eita ana-kara detekimashita.
(so) (old man) (be hiding) (hole) (leave)(So, he left the hole where he had been hiding.
)(4)This rule is necessary when the system translates"sokode" into English, judges whether it is used as ademonstrat ive or as a conjunction, and translates it into"there" or "then.
"Ru le  when an  anaphor  does  not  have  i tsantecedentCandidate enumerating rule 5When a pronoun is a demonstrative pronoun, a demon-strative adverb, or a demonstrative adjective,{(Introduce an individual, 10)}This rule is used when there is no referent of a pro-noun in the sentences.
This rule makes the system in-troduce a certain individual.3 .2  Ru le  for  Demonst ra t ive  Ad jec t ivesDemonstrat ive pronouns such as "kono (this)", "sono(the)", "ano (that)",  "kon'na (like this)", and "son'na(like it)" are classified into two reference categories:gentei-reference and daikou-reference.41In a Gentei-reference although a demonstrative adjec-tive does not refer to an entity by itself, the phrase of"demonstrative adjective + noun phrase" refers to theantecedent.
For example "kono ojiisan (this old man)"in the following sentences:Table 6: Points given to so-series demonstrative ad-jectiveI Sim.
0 1 2  oiot l 01' 11 1 ?
3 I Exactojiisan-wa ten#utachi-no-mdeni deteitte odori-hajimemashita(old man) (before the tengus) (appear) (begin to dance)(He appeared before the tengus, and began to dance.
)keredomo kono ojiisan-wa ufa-mo odori-mo hetakuso-deshita(but) (this oldman) (sing) (dance) (poor)(But the old man was a poor singer, and his dancing wasno better.
)(s)In this example, although the demonstrative "kono(this)" does not refer to "ojiisan (old man)" in the firstsentence, the noun phrase "kono ojiisan (this old man)"refers to "ojiisan (old man)" in the first sentence.Daikou-reference is a demonstrative adjective thatrefers to an entity.
In this case, we can analyze "sono(the)" as well as "sore-no (of it)".
In the following sen-tences, "sono" refers to "tengu" (tengus).
It is an exam-pie of daikou-reference.mata karasu-no-youna kao-wo-shita tengu-mo imashita(also) (like crows) (with face) (tengu) (exist)(There were also some tengus with faces like those of crows.
)sono kuchi-wa torino-kuchibashi-noyouni togatte-imashita(their mouths) (like the beaks of birds) (be pointed)(Their mouths were pointed like the beaks of birds.
)(6)Rules for gentei-reference and daikou-reference are asfollows:Candidate enumerating rule IWhen a pronoun is "demonstrative adjective + noun{ (the noun phrase containing a noun ~, 45)(the topic which is a subordinate of noun c~ and whichhas weight W" and distance D, W - D + 30)(the focus which is a subordinate of noun ~ and whichhas weight W and distance D, W - D + 30))The relationships between a super-ordinate word anda subordinate word are detected by judging the last wordin the definition of the word c~ in EDR Japanese worddictionary (EDR 95a) to be the super-ordinate of theword a.Because of this rule, when a pronoun is "demon-strative adjective + noun phrase a" and there is thesame noun phrase a near it, it is judged to be "gentei-reference" and is selected as a candidate of the refer-ent.
When there is a subordinate of a noun phrasenear it, it is also selected as a candidate of the referent.These rules give higher points to a candidate referentthan other rules do.
The following is an example of the"demonstrative adjective + noun phrase a" referring toTable 7: Examples of the form "the mouth of NounX"Examples of Noun X Ihukuro (sack), ruporaitg (documentary writer) iin (mem-ber), akachan (baby), kate (he)the subordinate of noun phrase a.ojiisan-wa toonoiteiku tsuru-ao sugata-wo miokurimashita.
(old man) (recede) (crane) (figure) (watch)(The old man watched the receding figure of the crane.
)"ano tori-wo tasukete yokatta" to iimashita.
(that bird) (save) (glad) (say)("I'm glad I saved that bird," said the old man to himself.
)(7)In this example, the underlined "ano tori (that bird)"refers to a subordinate "tsuru (crane)" in the previoussentence.Rules for daikou-referenee of so-seriesdemonst ra t ive  adject iveCandidate judging rule 5When a pronoun is a so-series demonstrative adjective,the system consults examples of the form 'h~oun X n0noun Y" whose noun Y is modified by the pronoun,and gives a candidate referent he points in Table 6according to the similarity between the candidate ref-erent and noun X in "Bunnfi Goi Hyou" (NLRI 64).The Japanese Co-occurrence Dictionary (EDR 95c) isused as a source of examples of "X no Y".This rule is for checking the semantic constraint (For adaikou-reference, candidates of the referent are selected .by Candidate numerating rule 1 in Section 3.1.
).We explain how to use the rule in the underlined "sono(the)" in the sentences (6).
First, the system gathers ex-amples of the form "Noun X no kuchi (mouth of NounX)' .
Table 7 shows some examples of "Noun X no kuchi(mouth of Noun X)" in the Japanese Co-occurrence Dic-tionary (EDR 95c).
Next, the system checks the seman-tic similarity between candidate referents and Noun X,and judges the candidate referent having a higher sim-ilarity to be a better candidate referent.
In this exam-ple, "tcngu" is semantically similar to Noun X in thatthey are both living things.
Finally, the system selects"teng~' as the proper referent.Rules  when non-so-ser ies demonst ra t ive  hasdaikou-referenceCandidate judging rule 6When a pronoun is a non-so-series demonstrative adjec-tive, the system consults examples of the form "NounX no (of) Noun Y (Y of X)" whose Noun Y is modi-fied by the pronoun, and gives candidate referents thepoints in Table 8 according to the similarity betweenthe candidate referent and noun X in "Bunrul Goi42Table 8: Points given in the case of non-so-seriesdemonstrat ive adject ive\]Sim.
I 0 \ [ -31 \ [  2 \ [ _31-1014 5 \ ] _~ lExact  \[Points t -30  -30 -5  0Table 9: Results of investigating whether "kon'nanoun" (noun like this) refers to the previous or nextsent( ncesPostpositional particlewa (topic)wa-naini (indirect object)ni-moni-wade (place)de-wano (possessive)suraga (subject)wo (obj, ct),no (,,.Is,)de-wa-naiprevioussentence171152743Total 137nextsentence0000000?
I o 224153Hyou" (NLRI 64).
Since a non-so-series demonstrativeadjective rarely is a daikou reference (NLRI 81) (Yama-mura et al 92), the number of points is footnotesizeerthan in the case of the s0-series.Ru le  when a pronoun refers to a verb  phraseLike a demonstrative pronoun, a demonstrative adjec-tive can refer to the meaning of the verb phrase in theprevious sentence.
This case is resolved by Candidateenumerating rule 2 in Section 3.1.Ru le  for "kon'na noun"  (noun l ike this)"kon'na noun" can also refer to the next sentences inaddition to a noun phrase and the previous entences.ojiisan-wa odorinagara kon'na uta-wo utaimashita.
(old man) (dance) (song like this) (sing)(As he danced, he sang the following song: )"tengu tengu hachl tengu.
(tengu) (tengu) (eight engu)("'Tengu,' 'tengu,' eight 'tengus."
')(s)In the above example, "kon'na uta (song like this)" refersto the next sentence "tengu, tengu, hachi tengu.
"But we cannot decide whether "kon'na noun" (nounlike this) refers to the previous or next sentences onlyby the expression of "kon'na noun" (noun like this) it-self.
To make the decision, we gathered 317 sentencescontaining "kon'na" (like this) from about 60,000 sen-tences in Japanese essays and editorials, and countedthe total frequency of cases in which "kon'na" refers tothe previous and next sentences.
The results are shownin Table 9.
This table indicates that "kon'na noun"followed by other particles, specifically "ga" and "wo,"which are used when representing new information, veryoften refers to the previous entence.
Therefore, the sys-tem judges that the desired antecedent is the previoussentence.
When "kon'na noun" is followed by the parti-cles "ga" or "wo," the proper referent is determined bythe expression in quotation marks (",").3.3 Ru le  for  Demonst ra t ive  AdverbsRu le  when so-series demonst ra t ive  adverbrefers to the  prev ious  sentencesCandidate numerating rule 9When an anaphor is a so-series demonstrative adverbsuch as "sou (so),"{(the previous entences, 30)}The following is an example.
"tengu tengu hachi tengu.
"(tengu) (tengu) (eight tengu)("'Tengu,' 'tengu,' eight 'tengus."
')so.._.~u utatta-nowa sokoni hachihiki-no tengu-ga itakara-desu.
(sing so) (there) (eight) (tengu) (exist)(He sang s._oo because he counted eight of them there.
)(9)"sou (so)" refers to the previous entence "tengu tenguhachi tengu".Rule  when so-series demonst ra t ive  adverbcataphor ica l ly  Refers  to  the  Verb  Phrasein the  Same SentenceCandidate numerating rule 10When an anaphor is "sou/soushite/sonoyouni" and isin the subordinate clause which has a conjunctive par-ticle such as "9a", "daga ", and "keredo "or an adjectiveconjunction such as "youni",{(the main clause, 45)}4 Heur i s t i c  Ru le  fo r  Persona l  P ronounsCandidate numerating rule 1When an anaphor is a first personal pronoun,{(the first person (the speaker) in the context, 25)}Candidate enumerating rule 2When an anaphor is a second personal pronoun,{(the second person (the hearer) in the context, 25)}A first or second personal pronoun is often presentedin quotations, and can be resolved by estimating thefirst person (speaker) or the second person (hearer) inadvance.
The estimation of the first person and the sec-ond person is performed by regarding the ga-case (sub-jective) and n/-case (objective) components of the verbphase representing the speaking action of the quotationas the first and second persons, respectively.
The detec-tion of the verb phase representing the speaking actionis performed as follows.
If the quotation is followed by aspeaking action verb phrase such as "to itta (was said),"the verb phrase is regarded as the verb phase represent-ing the speaking action.
Otherwise, the last verb phrasein the previous sentence is regarded as the verb phaserepresenting the speaking action.
For example, the sec-ond personal pronoun "omaesan (you)" in the followingsentences refers to the second person "ojiisan (the old43ojiisan-wa jimen-ni koshi-wo-oroshimashita.
(old man) (ground) (sit down)(The old man sat down on the ground.
)yagate (ojiisan-wa) nemutte-shimaimashita.
(soon) (old man) (fall asleep)(He soon fell asleep.
)Semantic MarkerHUM/ANI #a (agent) nemuru (sleep)Examplekare (he)/ inu (dog) ga (agent) nemuru (sleep)Figure 3: How to check semantic onstraintman)" in this quotation.
"aS~t, mafa mairtwtasztyo."
tO,(tomorrow) (again) (come)("I'll come again tomorrow,")ojiisan-wa yakusoku-shimashita.
(old man) (promise)(promised the old man.
)"mochiron omaesan-wo utagauwakedewanainodaga,"(of course) (you) (don't mean to doubt)("Of course, we don't mean to doubt you,")tengu-ga ojiisan-ni iimashita.
(tengu) (old man) (said)(said one of the "tengu" to the old man.
)(10)The second person in the quotation is estimated to be"ojiisan" because the n/-case component of the verbphrase "iimashita (said)" representing the speaking ac-tion of the quotation is "ojiisan'.Candidate enumerating rule 3When an anaphor is a third personal pronoun,{(a first person, --10) (a second person, -10))5 Heur i s t i c  Ru le  for  Zero  P ronounRule  propos ing cand idate  referents  of genera lzero pronounCandidate enumerating rule 1When a zero pronoun is a ga-case component,{(A topic which has weight W and distance D, W -D -2+1)(A focus which has weight W and distance D, W-D+1)(A subject of a clause coordinately connected totheclause containing the anaphor, 25)(A subject of a clause subordinately connected to theclause containing the anaphor, 23)(A subject of a main clause whose embedded clausecontains the anaphor, 22))Candidate enumerating rule 2When a zero pronoun is not.
a #a-case component,{(A topic which has weight W and distance D, W -D -2 -3)(A focus which has weight W and distance D, W - D *2+1))Table 10: Points given by a verb-noun relationshipSire.
0 1 2 4 5 6Rule  us ing semant ic  re lat ion  to verb  phraseCandidate judging rule 1When a candidate r ferent of a case component (azeropronoun) does not satisfy the semantic marker of thecase component in the case frame, it is given -5.Candidate judging rule 2A candidate referent of a case component (a zero pro-noun) is given the points in Table 10 by using the high-est semantic similarity between the candidate referentand examples of the case component in the case frame.These two rules are for checking the semantic on-straint between the candidate referent and the verbphrase which has the candidate referent in its case com-ponent.
Candidate judging rule 1 checks semantic on-straints by using semantic markers.
Candidate judgingrule 2 checks semantic onstraints by using examples.Figure 3 explains how to check semantic onstraints inthe example sentences.In the method using semantic markers, a candidatereferent is the proper referent if one of the semanticmarkers belonging to the candidate referent is equal orsubordinate to the semantic marker of the case compo-nent.
For example, with respect o the zero pronoun inFigure 3, since the ga-case component in the verb "ne-mum (sleep)" has the semantic markers HUM (humanbeing) and ANI (animal) and since "ojiisan (old man)"has the semantic marker HUM, the proper referent isjudged to be "ojiisan.
"In the example-based method, the validity of a can-didate referent is decided by the semantic similarity be-tween the candidate referent and the examples of thecase component in the verb case frame.
The higher thesemantic similarity is, the greater the validity is.
Forexample, with respect to a zero pronoun in Figure 3,since the examples of the ga-case are "kate (he)" and"inu (dog)," and since "ojiisan (old man)" is semanti-cally similar to "kate (he)", the proper referent is "off-isan (old man).
"These rules, which use semantic relationships toverbs,are also used in the estimation of the referent of demon-stratives and personal pronouns.Ru le  us ing the feature  that  it is difficult fora noun phrase to be fil led in mul t ip le  casecomponents  of the same verbCandidate enumerating rule 4When there is "Noun X" in another case component ofthe verb which has the analyzed case component ( heanalyzed zero pronoun), {(Noun X, -20)}Ru le  us ing empathyThis rule is based on empathy theory (Kameyama 86).When an anaphor is a ga-case zero pronoun whose verbis followed by an auxiliary verb such as "kureru" or "ku-dasaru," the n/-case zero pronoun is analyzed first, and44doru souba-wa kitai-kara 130-yen-dai-ni joushoushita.
(dollar) (the expectations) (130 yen) (surge)(The dollar has since rebounded to about 130 yen because of the expectations.
)kono doru-daka-wa oushuu-tono kankei-wo gikushaku-saseteiru.the dollar's urge) (Europe) (relation) (strain)The dollar's urge is straining relations with Europe.
)RuleCandidate enumerating rule 2Candidate enumerating rule 5Candidate enumerating rule 1Candidate judging rule 6Total scoreScore of each candidate (points)the previoussentence1515new 130 yenindividual (130 yen)1017-30I0 --13kitai(expectations)15--30-15Figure 4: Example of resolving demonstrat ive "kono (this)"dorusouba(dollar)15-30-15Table 11: ResultsText demonstrative personal pronoun zero pronoun total scoreTraining 87% (41/47) 100% (9/9) 86% (177/205) 87% (227/261)Test 86% (42/49) 82% (9/11) 76% (159/208) 78% (210/26S)The points given in each nile are manually adjusted by using the training sentences.Training sentences (example sentences (43 sentences), a folk tale "kobutori j i isan" (Nakao 85) (93 sentences), an essay in"tenseijingo" (26 sentences), an editorial (26 sentences), an article in "Scientific American (in Japanese)"(16 sentences)}Test sentences {a folk tale "tsuru no ongaeshi" (Nakao 85) (91 sentences), two essays in "tenseijingo" (50 sentences), aneditorial (30 sentences), articles in "Scientific American (in Japanese)" (13 sentences)}it is filled with the noun phrase that has high empathysuch as the topic, and a ga-case zero pronoun is filledwith another noun phrase.6 Exper iment  and  D iscuss ion6.1 Exper imentBefore pronoun resolution, sentences were transformedinto a case structure by a case structure analyzer (Kuro-hashi & Nagao 94).
The errors made by the structureanalyzer were corrected by hand.
We used IPAL dictio-nary (IPAL 87) as a verb case frame dictionary.
We puttogether the case frames of the verb phrases which werenot contained in this dictionary by consulting a largeamount of linguistic data.An example of resolving the demonstrative "kono(this)" is shown in Figure 4, which shows that the ref-erent of the noun phrase "kono dorudaka (this dollar'ssurge)" was properly judged to be the previous entence.By Candidate numerating rule 2 in Section 3, the sys-tem took a candidate "the previous entence" and gaveit 15 points.
By Candidate numerating rule 5 in Sec-tion 3, the system took a candidate "new individual"and gave it 10 points.
By Candidate numerating rulelin Section 3, the system took three candidates, "130yen (130 yen)", "kitai (expectations)", and "dorusouba(dollar)", and gave them 17, 15, and 15 points, respec-tively.
The system applied Candidate judging rule 6 tothem.
This uses examples of "X no Y".
In this case,it used examples of "X no dorudaka (the dollar's surgeof X)".
The only example noun phrase X of this form"X no dorudaka" in the EDR occurrence dictionary was"saikin (recently)".
All three candidates, "130 yea (130yen)", "kitai (expectations)", and "dorusouba (dollar)",were low in similarity to "saikin (recently)" in "Bun RuiGoihyou", and were given -30 points by Table 8.
Twocandidates, "the previous entence" and "new individ-ual ' ,  so they are not noun phrases, and were not givenpoints by Candidate judging rule 6.
As a result, "the pre-vious sentence" had the highest score and was judged tobe the proper referent.We show the results of our resolution of demonstra-tives, personal pronouns, and zero pronouns in Table 11.The detailed results for demonstratives are shown in Ta-ble 12.
The precision rate of zero pronouns i in the casewhen the system knows whether the zero pronoun has areferent or not in advance.6.2 DiscussionWith respect o demonstratives, the precision rate wasover 80% even in the test sentences.
This indicates thatthe rules used in this system are effective.
But sinceJapanese demonstratives are classified into many kinds,the precision may be increased by making more detailedrules.
In this work we used the feature that "kono (this)"rarely functions as a daikou-reference.
There were fourcases analyzed correctly because of this rule.With respect to personal pronouns, since only firstand second personal pronouns appeared in the texts usedin the experiment, almost all of the personal pronounswere resolved correctly by estimating the first and secondpersons in the quotation.
The main reason for the errorsin the personal pronoun resolution is that the n/-casezero pronoun was resolved incorrectly and the secondperson was estimated incorrectly.45TextTr~ningTestTab le  12: Deta i led  resu l t s  for demonst ra t ivedemonstrative demonstrative demonstrativepronoun adjective adverb83% (15/18) 86% (19/22) 100% (7/7)82% (14/17) 88% (23/26) 83% (5/6)total score87% (41/47)86% (42/49)Table 13: Results of comMethod 1Demonstrative 87% (41/47)86% (42/49)Personal pronoun 100% (9/ 9)82% (9/11)Zero pronoun 86%(177\]205)76%(159/208))arison between semantic marker and example-baseMethod 2 Method 383% (39/47) 87% (41/47)88??
(43/49) 88% (43/49)100% (9/ 9) 100% (9/ 9)64% (7/11) 82% (9/11)83%(171/205) 86%(176/205)76%(158/208) 79%(164/208)Method 483% (39/47)84% (41/49)100% (9/ 9)55% (6/11)82%(169/205)75%(155/208)Method 579% (3r/4r)86% (42/49)89% (8/9)64% (r/11)66%(135/205)63??
(131/208)Method 1 : Using both semantic marker and exampleMethod 2 : Using semantic markerMethod 3 : Using example (using modified codes of bnnrui goi hyou)Method 4 : Using example (using original codes of bunrui goi hyou)Method 5 : Using neither semantic marker nor exampleThere are several reasons for the errors of the zero pro-noun resolution: there are errors in Japanese thesaurus"Bunrui  goi hyou",  Noun Semant ic  Marker Dictionary,and Case Frame Dictionary.6 .3  Compar i son  Exper imentAs ment ioned before, we use both  the example rule andthe semant ic  marker rule as judging rules.
To checkwhich rule is more effective, we made a comparison be-tween the example method and the semant ic  markermethod.
The results are shown in Table 13.
The  up-per and lower rows of this table show the accuracy ratesfor t ra in ing and test sentences, respectively.
The  pre-cision of the method using examples was equivalent orsuperior to that  of the method using semant ic  markers,as shown in Table 13.
This  indicates that  we can useexamples as well as semant ic  markers.
Since some codesin BGH are incorrect, we modified them.
Since the pre-cision using modified codes was higher than that  usingoriginal codes, this indicates that  the code modif icationis valid.7 SummaryIn this paper, we presented a method of est imat ing refer-ents of demonstrat ive  pronouns,  personal  pronouns,  andZero pronouns in Japanese sentences using examples, sur-face expressions, topics and foci.
Unlike convent ionalworks, which use semant ic  markers  for semant ic  con-straints,  we use examples for semant ic  constra ints  andshowed in our exper iments that  examples are as usefulas semant ic  markers.
We also proposed many new meth-ods for est imat ing referents of pronouns.
For example,we used the form "X of Y" for est imat ing referents ofdemonstrat ive  adjectives.
In addit ion to our new meth-ods, we used many convent ional  methods.
As a result,exper iments  using these methods  obta ined a precisionrate of 87~0 in est imat ing referents of demonstrat ive  pro-nouns, personal  pronouns,  and zero pronouns for t ra in ingsentences, and obtained a precision rate of 78% for testsentences.ReferencesElectronic Dictionary Research Institute, ltd.: Electronic Dictio-nary, Japanese Word Dictionary, Version 1.5, (in Japanese),1995.Electronic Dictionary Research Institute, ltd.: Electronic Dic-tionary, Japanese Cooccurrence Dictionary, Version 1.5, (inJapanese), 1995.Hayashi, S.: Daimeishi-ga Sasumono Sono Sashi-kata, (inJapanese), Unyou I, Asakura Japanese New Lecture 5,Asakura Publisher, pp: 1-45, 1983.Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan: IPA Lexiconof the Japanese Language for computers IPAL (Basic Verbs),(in Japanese), 1987.Kameyama, M. A Property-sharing Constraint in CenteringProe.
of 2~4th Annual Meeting of ACL, pp.200-206, 1986.Kinsui, B. and Takubo, Y.: Demonstrative, (in Japanese), Hit-suji Shobou, 1992.Kurohashi, S. and Nagao, M.: A Method of Case StructureAnalysis for Japanese Sentences based on Examples in CaseFrame Dictionary IEICE Transactions on Information andSystems, ETT-D(2), pp.227-239, 1994.Matsumoto.
Y, Kurohashi, S., Myoki.
Y, and Nagao, M.:Japanese Morphological Analysis System JUMAN Manual ver-sion 1.0, (in Japanese), Nagao Lab., Kyoto University, 1992.Nakaiwa, H. and Ikehara, S.: Intrasentential Resolution ofJapanese Zero Pronouns using Pragmatic and Semantic Con-straints Viewed from Ellipsis and Inter-Event Relations (inJapanese), IEICE-WGNLC 95-5, pp.33-40, 1995.Nakao, K.: The Old Man with a Wen, (in Japan-ese), EiyakuNihon Mukashibanashi Series, Vol.
7, Nihon Eigo Kyouiku Ky-oukai,' 1985.The National Language Research Institute: Bunrui Goi Hyou,(in Japanese), Shuuei Publishing, 1964.System of "KO/SO/A": (in Japanese), The National LanguageResearch Institute, 1981.Takada, S. and Doi, N.: Centering in Japanese: A Step TowardsBetter Interpretation of Pronouns and Zero-Pronouns, Proc.of 15th COLING, Vol.2, pp.1151-1156, 1994.Takahashi, T. et al: Demonstrative, (in Japanese), Nihon-gogaku, vol.
9, Meiji Shoin, 1990.Walker, M., Iida, M., and Cote, S.: Japanese Discourse and theProcess of Centering, Journal of Computational Linguistics,Vol.20, No.2, pp.193-232, 1994.Watanabe, Y., Kurohashi, S. and Nagan, M.: Construction ofsemantic dictionary by IPAL dictionary and a thesaurus, (inJapanese), Proc.
of ,~5th Convention of IPSJ, pp.213-214,1992.Yamamura, T., Ohnishi, N., and Sugie, N.: A ClassificationScheme of Anaphora in Japanese Demonstrative Pronoun, (inJapanese), IEICE Transactions on Information and Sys-tems, J75-D-I I (2) ,  pp.371-378, 1992.46
