!Hybrid Disambiguation ofPrepositional Phrase Attachment and InterpretationSven Hart rumpfApplied Computer Science VII (AI)University of Hagen58084 Hagen, GermanySven.Hartrumpf@fernuni-hagen.deAbst rac tIn this paper, a hybrid disambiguation methodfor the prepositional phrase (PP) attachmentand interpretation problem is presented.
1 Thedata needed, semantic PP interpretation rulesand an annotated corpus, is described first.Then the three major steps of the disambigua-tion method are: explained.
Cross-validatedevaluation results', for German (88.6-94.4% cor-rect for binary attachment ambiguities, 83.3-92.5% correct for interpretation ambiguities)show that disambiguation methods combin-ing interpretation!
rules and statistical methodsmight yield significantly better esults than non-hybrid disambiguation methods.1 In t roduct ionThe problem of prepositional phrase (PP) at-tachment ambigu!ty is one of the most famousproblems in natural anguage processing (NLP).In recent years, many statistical solutions havebeen proposed: lexical associations (see (Hin-dle and Rooth, 1993)); error-driven transfor-mation learning (see (Brill and Resnik, 1994),extensions by (Ye h and Vilain, 1998)); backed-off estimation (see (Collins and Brooks, 1995),extended to the multiple PP attachment prob-lem by (Merlo et al, 1997)); loglinear model(see (Franz, 1996b), (Franz, 1996a, pp.
97-108)); maximum:entropy model (see (Ratna-parkhi, 1998; Ratnaparkhi et al, 1994)).The disambiguation method in this paper hastwo key features: First, it tries to solve the1This disambiguation method was developed for anNLI in the Virtuelle Wissensfabrik ( Virtual KnowledgeFactory, see (Knoll et al, 1998)), a project funded bythe German state Nordrhein-Westfalen, which supportedthis research in part.
I would like to thank Rainer Oss-wald and the anonymous reviewers for their useful com-ments and suggestions.PP attachment problem and the PP interpre-tation problem.
Second, it is hybrid as it com-bines more traditional PP interpretation rulesand statistical methods.2 Data2.1 PP interpretation rulesOne central component for the disambigua-tion method presented in this paper are se-mantic interpretation rules for PPs.
A PPinterpretation rule consists of a premise anda conclusion.
The premise of an inter-pretation rule describes under which condi-tions the PP interpretation specified by therule's conclusion can be valid.
Two examplerules for the local and contents interpretationof 'fiber' ( 'about'/ 'above'/ 'on'/ 'over'/ 'via'/ .
.
.
)are shown in Figure 1.
As (at least) five moreinterpretations of 'fiber' are possible, the ambi-guity degree for the interpretation of such a PPis (at least) seven.The premise of a rule is a set of feature struc-ture constraints (including negated and disjunc-tive constraints and defining an underspecifiedfeature structure) that refer to the following fea-tures of the preposition's ister NP (nominalphrase) and the preposition's mother NP or V(verb).
(The features that are only refered tofor the sister NP are marked by an S.)case (S) syntactic ase: genitive, dative, andaccusative for German PPsnum (S) syntactic number: singular and plu-ral in Germansort a semantic sort value (atomic or dis-junctive value) from a predefined ontol-ogy (see (Helbig and Schulz, 1997)) com-prising 45 sorts.
The most important111id fiber.loc id fiber.mcontexplanation cl is/happens above the location of explanation cl contains information about thec2.
topic described by c2.examples 'Flugzeuge fiber Seen' ('air planes examples 'Bficher fiber Seen' ('books onabove lakes'), ... lakes'), ...premise cl (sort (dis object situation)) premise cl (sort (dis object situation))(info +)c2 (case dat) (sort concrete-object) c2 (case acc) (sort object)conclusion net (loc cl c3) (*ueber c3 c2) conclusion net (mcont cl c2)The semantic network node cl corresponds tothe mother, the node c2 to the sister, and c3 etc.
are additionalnodes.
A disjunction of feature values is introduced by dis.Figure 1: PP interpretation rules for two interpretations of 'fiber'sorts for nouns axe object and its sub-sorts con-object (concrete object, with sub-sorts dis-object (discrete object) and sub-stance) and abs-object (abstract object,with subsorts tem-abstractum (temporalabstractum), abs-situation (abstract situ-ation), attribute, etc . )
.
Verbs can belongto sort stat-situation (static situation) orsort dyn-situation (dynamic situation, withsubsorts action and event).
A disjunctivevalue represents a concept family (as intro-duced by (Bierwisch, 1983); closely relatedaxe dotted types, see for example (Buitelaax,1998)), e.g., the noun 'book' comprises aphysical object variant and an abstract in-formation variant.etype  extension type for distinguishing indi-viduals ('child', 'table'), sets of individuals('men', 'group', 'people'), etc.The rest of the features are semantic Booleanfeatures as shown in Table 1.
2The conclusion of a rule is a semantic inter-pretation of the PP, which can be valid if thepremise is satisfied by the sister and the mother.The rules' semantic representation uses a mul-tilayered extended semantic network formalism(MESNET, see for example (Helbig and Schulz,1997)), which has been successfully applied invarious areas (e. g., in the Virtual KnowledgeFactory, see (Knoll et al, 1998)).Besides the premise and the conclusion,2Of course, other sets of such features are possible;the choice was made by selecting relevant features fromthe set of semantic features in an existent German inher-itance lexicon (see (Haxtrumpf and Schulz, 1997)), whichcontains 7000 lexemes and is used by the disambiguationmethod.each rule contains a mnemonic identifier likein.loc (which consists of the preposition's ortho-graphic form followed by an abbreviation de-rived from the semantic interpretation i  theconclusion), a short explanation, and a set ofexample sentences that can be interpreted us-ing this rule.From a set of rules for 160 German preposi-tions collected by (Tjaden, 1996), all rules forsix important (i. e., frequent) prepositions weretaken as a starting point for development andevaluation of a hybrid disambiguation method.Sentences were retrieved from a developmenttest corpus to refine these rules.2.2 CorpusWhile PP interpretation rules form the rulecomponent  of the hybrid disambiguationmethod, an annotated corpus serves as thesource of the s tat i s t ica l  component .
Foreach preposition under investigation, a numberof candidate sentences that possibly show at-tachment ambiguity for this preposition wereautomatically extracted from a corpus.
Thiscorpus is based on the online version of theSfiddeutsche Zeitung, starting from August1997.
The corpus is marked up according tothe Corpus Encoding Standard (see (Ide et al,1996)) and word, sentence, and paragraph iden-tifiers are assigned.The preposition in a candidate sentenceis semiautomatically annotated with five at-tributes:s ister  The position of the right-most word ofthe preposition's ister NP.
Postnominalgenitive NPs modifying the main sister NPare included in this annotation.112feature name description of entities with positive (+) value examplesanimate (S)geogrhumaninfoinstitinstru (S)legpermentalmethodpotagan animate ntitya geographical concepta human entityan entity that carries informationan institutionan entity that can be used as an instrumenta legal persona mental state or processa methoda (potential) agent'animal', 'person', 'tree''city', 'country''child', 'president''book', 'concert''company', parliament''hammer', ladder''company', woman''fear', 'happiness''compression', 'filtering''horse', 'man'Table 1: Semantic Boolean features in PP interpretation rulesimother  The position of the syntactic headword of the mother NP or V.amother  The list: of a l te rnat ive  mothersrepresented byilthe position of the syntactichead word of an NP or V. An alternativemother is a syntactically possible motherdistinct from the (correct) mother.
All al-ternative mothers plus the (correct) motherform the set of cand idate  mothers  for PPattachment.c-id A character string that identifies the se-mantic reading of the preposition and cor-responds to the identifier in a PP interpre-tation rule (sea Figure 1).c A character string for comments and docu-mentation purposes.The preposition in corpus sentence (1) is anno-tated as shown by the SGML element in (2).The meaning of this annotation can be illus-trated as in (3): th'e PP's sister ends at 'Seite';the PP attaches to: 'gebaut', and could syntac-tically also be attached to the NP with head'Depot' or the NP ~ith head 'Museums'; the in-terpretation of the ~PP is a local one (auf.loc).
3(1) Und wieso wird das neue DepotAnd why is the new depotdes De utsch-Deutschenthe+GEN German-GermanMuseums huff bayerischer SeiteMuseum on~ Bavarian side3please note that the translations ofsentences (1) and(4) are not ambiguous:gebaut, nachdem die Planungen fiirbuilt, after the plannings fordie Thiiringer Talseite schonthe Thuringian valley-side alreadyfertig waren?ready were?
'And why is the new depot of theGerman-German Museum built on theBavarian side, after the planning for theThuringian side of the valley has alreadybeen completed?
'(2) 19971002bay_c.p3.s2.w10 (article bay_c,1997-10-02, paragraph 3, sentence 2, word10): (w c-id="auf.loc" sister=" 12"mother=" 13" amother--"6/9")auf(/w)(3) Und wieso wird das neue Depot  al desDeutsch-Deutschen Museums a2auf  auf'l?c bayerischer Seite s gebaut  m,nachdem die Planungen ffir die ThfiringerTalseite schon fertig waren?The annotation process is semiautomatic: themachine guesses the attribute values follow-ing some heuristics; these guesses have to bechecked and possibly extended or corrected bya human annotator.
This kind of annotation, ofcourse, is labor-intensive.
But due to the devel-opment of an Tcl /Tk annotation tool optimizedfor manual annotation speed, the average an-notation time per candidate sentence droppedunder 30 seconds.
Furthermore, the followingsections how that a small set of annotated sen-tences achieves promising results for PP attach-ment and interpretation.
The lexicon (see foot-note 2) had to be extended for the nouns and113verbs annotated as head words of sisters or can-didate mothers that were not in the lexicon andcould not be analyzed by a compound analysismodule.Some candidate sentences were excluded fromthe investigation because the PP involves aproblem that is supposed to be solved by otherNLP modules 4 and could disturb the evaluationof the PP disambiguation module (e. g., by pro-ducing noise for the statistical part).
All exclu-sion criteria are listed in Table 2 with percent-ages of instances of such exclusions relative tothe number of candidate sentences.
In short,sentences are excluded when their PP ambigu-ity problem?
can be solved by separate components (forsupport verb constructions and idioms) or?
can only be solved if the PP attachmentand interpretation is supported by anothercomponent (for complex named entities, el-lipsis resolution, and foreign language x-pressions).The first 120 non-excluded candidate sen-tences for each preposition were chosen and ran-domally split into eight parts for cross valida-tion.
Eight evaluations were carried out withone part being the evaluation test corpus andthe remaining seven parts being the evaluationtraining corpus.Sometimes, it makes no semantic differencewhether a PP in a sentence attaches to an NPor a V. This is known as systematic ambiguity(or systematic indeterminacy, see (Hindle andRooth, 1993, p. 112)).
Two subtypes of thisphenomenon are systematic locative ambiguity(see corpus sentence (4)) and systematic con-tents ambiguity.
(4) Bis ein Besche id  ml aus  aus'?riglUntil a notification fromKar l s ruhe  8 eintr i Jyt m2, kann esKarlsruhe comes-in, can itMonate dauern.months take.
(19971001fern_d.p3.s6.w4)'It might take months until a notificationfrom Karlsruhe comes in.
'4It should be evaluated in further research ow wellsuch modules olve these problems.The frequency of such ambiguities dependsheavily on the preposition; on the average, therewere 4.3% cases of systematic ambiguity.
5 ForEnglish, (Hindle and Rooth, 1993, p. 116) re-port that 77 out of 880 sentences (8.75%) weresystematically ambiguous.
In such sentences,an attachment can be considered correct if itis one of the two attachments connected bysystematic ambiguity; both parsing results willlead to identical results in an NLP application ifit contains ufficiently developed inference com-ponents.
Table 3 shows for the evaluation cor-pus (720 sentences 6) where the PP attaches to(columns V, NP1, NP2 (the second closest NP),NP3, NP4), how many attachments are syntac-tically possible (number of candidate mothers;columns labeled 1 to 5), and how frequent sys-tematic ambiguity is (last column).3 HYbr id  d i sambiguat ion  method?
3 .1  Bas ic  ideasPP attachment is one of the most famous prob-lems in NLP.
But where a PP attaches to, isonly half of the story of the PP's contributionto an utterance; the other half is how it is to beinterpreted.
And clearly, these two questions arenot independent.
So, why not tackle both prob-lems at once, trying to achieve for both prob-lems results that are better than the results ob-tained by an isolated PP attachment componentand an isolated PP interpretation component?As both problems depend on each other, thereis the strong hope that this is the case.
To in-vestigate this hypothesis, uch a disambiguationmethod was developed and evaluated.The input to the disambiguation method isthe feature structure p for the preposition, thefeature structure s for the parse of the preposi-tion's sister NP, and the feature structures cmifor the (trivial) parses of the syntactic headwords of all candidate mothers.
The output isthe mother the PP is to be attached to and the?
interpretation the preposition plus the sister NPcontribute to the meaning of the enclosing sen-tence.The overall structure of this disambiguationmethod comprises three steps.
First, all sets5All annotated sentences showing systematic ambi-guity contain only the two candidate mothers that arerelated by the underlying systematic ambiguity.6These annotated sentences are available for research.114short name description % of tokenscne-amother amother is a complex named entity (titles of books, etc.)
0.1cne-mother mother is a complex named entity (titles of books, etc.)
0.4cne-sister sister is a complex named entity (titles of books, etc.)
0.6ell-amother amother is elliptic 0.1ell-mother mother is elliptic 0.1ell-sister I sister is elliptic 0.5fle-amother amother is a foreign language xpression 0.1fie-mother mother is a foreign language xpression 0.1idi-amother amother is an idiom (or part of an idiom) 0.1idi-moth~r mother is an idiom 0.4idi-pp PP is an idiom 3.6idi-pp-mother PP plus mother is an idiom 0.9idi-pp-v. PP plus verb is an idiom 0.5problem unclassified problem 0.7svc PP is part of a support verb construction 0.5svc-amo~her amother of the PP is a support verb construction 0.3svc-mother mother of the PP is a support verb construction 1.0sum 10.1Table 2: Exclusion criteria for candidate sentencespreposition observed attachment % ambiguity degree % sys.
amb.
%V NP1 NP2 NP3 NP4 1 2 3 4 5auf 56.7 38.3 5.0 0.0 0.0 13.3 58.3 24.2 2.5 1.7 5.0aus 22.5 75.0 2.5 0.0 0.0 35.8 51.7 8.3 4.2 0.0 10.0bei 52.5 42.5 5.0 0.0 0.0 30.8 51.7 14.2 1.7 1.7 6.7fiber 37.1 57.1 5.0 0.8 0.0 17.5 66.7 13.3 0.8 1.7 2.5vor 41.3 52.1 5.0 1.7 0.0 23.3 61.7 13.3 1.6 0.0 0.8wegen 62.1 26.3 10.0 1.7 0.0 9.2 74.2 14.2 1.7 0.8 0.8average 45.4 48.5 5.4 0.7 0.0 21.7 60.7 14.6 2.1 1.0 4.3Table 3: Attachment data from the evaluation corpusof possible interpretations PIi of the PP plus agiven candidate mother cmi are determined byapplying the PP interpretation rules.
Second,for each set of possible interpretations PIi, oneinterpretation sii is selected using interpreta-tion statistics (on semantics).
Third, among allselected sii, one interpretation is chosen basedon attachment statistics (on semantics and syn-tax) and additional factors.
These steps will bepresented in more detail in the following threesubsections.3.2 Application of interpretation rulesStep 1 of the disambiguation method (deter-mining possible interpretations PIi) is drivenby testing the premises of PP interpretationrules.
From the set of interpretations PIt whoserule premises are satisfied, interpretations areremoved that violate adjunct constraints fromthe lexicon or constraints from the underlyingsemantic formalism 7 (see step 1 in Figure 2).~Of course, constraints from the semantic formalismcould be added to the rules.
But this would introduceredundancy which would make the rules difficult to de-velop and maintain.115n is the number of possible attachments (cml,  .
.
.
,  cram).m is the number of rules for preposition p (rl, .
.
.
,  rm).1. for each candidate mother cmi(a) PIt : {(p, 8, cmi, r j )  I 1 ~ j _< m, premise of rule rj is satisfied by sister s and cmi}(b) PIi = set of all (p, s, cmi, r) E PIt which fulfill the following conditions:?
Semantic relations in the conclusion of r are licensed by compatible relations listed inthe feature structure cmi, which come from lexical entries (or lexical defaults).?
Semantic relations in the conclusion of r do not violate the signature constraints thatare defined for these relations in the underlying semantic network formalism.2.
for each candidate mother cmi with nonempty PIi(a) sii = arg max~ rf(r ,  {rj 13(p, s, cmi, rj) e PIi}), where pi = (p, s, cmi, r) E PIi3.
for each candidate mother cmi with nonempty PIi(a) d = distance in words between candidate mother cmi and the PP (p plus s)(b) scoresi~ = rf((r ,  cat(cmi)),  {(rj, cat(cmk)) I 1 < k < n, P!k ?
~, Sik = (p, S, cmk, r j )} )+ scoredist(d), where sii = (p, s, cmi, r)si = arg maxsi~ scoresi~, where 1 < i < n, PIi ~Figure 2: Disambiguation algorithmTo simplify Figure 2, the treatment of com-plements is excluded.
Interpretations that arelicensed by lexical complement information forcandidate mothers are also determined in step 1.Experiments howed that it is a good strat-egy to prefer complement interpretations overadjunct interpretations, which are described inthe following steps, s Attachment cases whereprepositional objects as complements are in-volved are the easy ones for statistical disam-biguation techniques (see for example (Hindleand Rooth, 1993)); in a hybrid system, one canexpect such complement information to be inthe lexicon, at least in part.
The problem is al-leviated as the interpretation rules (which aredeveloped for adjuncts)produce orrect resultsfor many complements; but this topic needs fur-ther research.3.3 In terpreta t ion  d i sambiguat ionThe result of step 1 can be viewed as anattachment-interpretation matrix (aii,j) withsize n?m.
A matrix element aii,j correspondsto attaching the PP to candidate mother cmiSin the rare case of two possible complement inter-pretations, the verbal one is prefered.under interpretation rj and represents omekind of preference score.To solve the attachment and interpretationproblem (i.e., to select the right matrix ele-ment), statistics can be used.
There are numer-ous statistical approaches ( ee section 1), but inthe presented approach a statistical componentis combined with a rule component (see step 1).This rule component reduces the degree of am-biguity (i. e., marks elements in matrix (aii,j) aspossible or impossible) and delivers high-levelsemantic information (the possible semantic in-terpretations of the PP for a given candidatemother) for statistical disambiguation.The strategy adopted in this disambiguationmethod is to do the remaining disambiguationin two steps: first disambiguate he interpreta-tions for each attachment possibility, then dis-ambiguate the attachments based on the firststep's result.
So, in step 2 of the disambigua-tion method, one interpretation for each can-didate mother is chosen.
As Table 4 shows,most of the time the correct rule fires (giventhe correct mother; see recall column), but falserules fire too (see precision column) because in-terpretation rules refer only to a limited depth116preposition readings recall % precision %aufausbeifibervorwegen9 100.0 100.06 97.4 39.84 93.7 69.87 100.0 65.46 98.3 54.71 100.0 100.0Table 4: Results of PP interpretation rules for(correct) mothersrf(aus.pars, {aus:origl, aus.pars, aus.sourc}) = 1.0rf((aus.temp, np), {i(aus.cstr, v), (aus.temp, np)}) ---- 1.0Figure 3: Statistical example data for interpre-tation and attachmentof semantics, which can be delivered by realisticparsers for nontrivial domains.
Therefore, thereis the need to disambiguate for interpretation.Here statistics derived from the annotated cor-pus come into play: relative frequencies are cal-culated, which serve as estimated probabilities.As usual in statistical methods for disam-biguation, there is a trade-off between depthof learned information (e. g., number and typeof features) and non-sparseness of the resultingmatrix-like structure representing the learningresults: the deeper the information, the sparserthe matrix.
A good compromise for the prob-lem at hand is to regard only the interpretation(identified by therule id) and to establish a limitnint for the number of interpretations.
Empir-ical results showed that three is a reasonablechoice for nint.
An example of an entry in theinterpretation statistics is given in the first lineof Figure 3 and can be paraphrased as follows:The interpretation aus.pars wins in 100% of thelearned cases if the interpretations aus.origl andaus.sourc are possible too.If there are more than three possible inter-pretations, standard techniques for reducing toseveral triples can be used (backed-off estima-tion, see for example (Katz, 1987), (Collinsand Brooks, 1995)).
The relative frequency ofrule ri being the correct interpretation amongI = {rl, r2 , .
.
.
,  rn) is estimated for n > nit asin equation (5):rf(ri, c)(5) i f ( r ,  I)  .
-  c c, Ic, Iwhere Ci is the set of all subsets of I withni~t elements that contain ri.In step 2 of the disambiguation algorithm (seemiddle of Figure 2), the rule that maximizes the(estimated) relative frequency must be found foreach candidate mother.3.4 At tachment  d i sambiguat ionAfter step 2, the attachment-interpretation ma-trix (aQ,j) contains in each row (attachment)one element marked as selected.
9 What remainsto be done is to choose among all attachmentswith selected interpretation sii one interpreta-tion si.For this disambiguation task, attachmentstatistics are employed.
This time the compro-mise between depth of learned information andnon-sparseness can contain more informationthan just the interpretation id as experimentsshowed.
A three-valued syntactic-semantic fea-ture cat is added.
It describes the candidatemother with three possible values:v a verbnps an NP that describes a situation (at leastpartially), e.g., 'continuation'np an NP that does not describe a situation,e.g., 'house'The second line of Figure 3 contains an examplethat expresses the fact that if the interpretationaus.temp for a nominal candidate mother andthe interpretation aus.cstr for a verbal candi-date mother compete then the first is correct(in the training corpus) with relative frequency1.
If one adds even more information to attach-ment statistics (e. g., the position of NP candi-date mothers like np2 for the second closest NP)the attachment data for the annotations in thispaper becomes too sparse.9There might be rows where no element is markedbecause none of the rules fired and passed filtering (seesection 3.2).117As for the interpretation statistics in step 2,standard techniques can reduce tuples thatare longer than 2 (hart) to several shorterones.
The relative frequency of (ri, cat(cmi))belonging to the correct attachment amongA = {(rl, cat(cml)), .
.
.
,  (rn,cat(cmn))} is es-timated for n >natt as in equation (6):Erf ( (ri, cat(cmi) ), c)(6) rf((r,,cat(cm,)),A) := tee,where Ci is the set of all subsets of A withnatt elements that contain (ri, cat(cmi) .These relative frequencies for the selected in-terpretations sii serve as initial values for anattachment score.
Other factors can add to thisscore, so that the attachment decision shouldimprove; of course, the value is only a score, nota relative frequency any more.
Different factors(e. g., distance between candidate mother andthe PP; in this way, one can simulate the right-association principle, see (Kimball, 1973)) wereevaluated.
The following distance scoring func-tion scoredist urned out to be useful:(7) d is the number of words between thecandidate mother and the PP.
md is anupper limit for distances.
Longerdistances are reduced to md.
(10 is areasonable choice for md.
)scoredist(d) :~- {distw.
(md--min( d,md)mdfor NP mothersdistw.
(rnd--min( d.dist.,md ) )mdfor V mothersGood values for the parameters distw (weightof the distance factor) and distv (modificationfor verbal mothers) depend on the prepositionat hand and are learned by testing pairs of val-ues from the range 0.0 to 2.0 (see Table 5).
1?The last step of the disambiguation algorithmis summarized at the bottom of Figure 2.4 Eva luat ionCross validation (see section 2.2) showed thathybrid disambiguation achieves for both prob-1?The best values for these parameters probably alsodepend on text type, text domain, interpretation of thePP, etc.preposition distw distvauf, vor, wegen 0.8 0.6aus 1.2 1.0bei 1.2 0.8fiber 0.8 0.2Table 5: Good parameters for the attachmentscoring function scoredistlems, PP attachment and PP interpretation am-biguity, satisfying correctness results for all sixprepositions (see Table 6): 88.6-94.4% for bi-nary attachment ambiguities, 85.6-90.8% forall ambiguous attachments, and 75.0-84.2% forambiguity degrees above 2 (leading to the mul-tiple PP attachment problem).Comparison of the interpretation results isimpossible as these are the first cross-validatedresults for PP interpretation.
But 83.3-92.5%correctness for prepositions with more than onereading seems very promising.Comparison of the attachment results is pos-sible, but difficult.
One reason is that thebest reported isambiguation results for binaryPP attachment ambiguities (84.5%, (Collinsand Brooks, 1995); 88.0% using a seman-tic dictionary, (Stetina and Nagao, 1997)) arefor English.
Because word order is freer inGerman than in English, the frequency anddegree of attachment ambiguity is probablyhigher in German.
There are only few evalu-ation results for German: (Mehl et al, 1998)achieve 73.9% correctness for the preposition'mit' ( 'with'/ ' to' / .
.
. )
using a statistical lexi-cal association method.Of course, the evaluation corpus is not large(720 sentences); so, the results reported in thispaper must be treated with some caution.
Butas the selected prepositions show diverse num-bers of readings (1-9, see Table 4) and the re-sults are cross-validated, it is likely that the re-ported results will not deteriorate for larger cor-pora.5 Conc lus ionsIn this paper, a new hybrid disambiguationmethod which uses PP interpretation rules and118preposition correctness in percentageattachment for ambiguity degree1 2 3 4 5 _>2interpretation att.
and int._>3auf i00.0 88.6 75.9 i00.0 100.0 85.6aus I00.0 90.3 80.0 80.0 - 88.3bei i00.0 90.3 82.4 50.0 50.0 86.7fiber 100.0 88.8 81.3 100.0 100.0 87.9vor 100.0 89.2 75.0 100.0 - 87.0wegen 100.0 94.4 70.6 100.0 100.0 90.879.4 92.5 86.780.0 90.8 85.876.2 91.7 85.084.2 83.3 83.377.8 89.2 81.775.0 100.0 91.7Table 6: Results ofstatistics about attachment and interpretationin an annotated corpus was described.
It yieldsresults with competitive correctness for both thePP attachment problem and the PP interpreta-tion problem.Some questions had to be left open, e.g., anontrivial reading disambiguation 11 for candi-date mothers and sister NPs.
Questions con-cerning the requisite manual work (maintain-ing rules and some parts of annotating corpora)arise: How much!does this work pay off and howcould more of this work be automated?
Thedisambiguation method should be evaluated forlarger corpora (more sentences, more preposi-tions) in future research.
The ongoing use ofthe disambiguation method in natural anguageinterfaces will provide valuable feedback.Re ferencesManfred Bierwisch.
1983.
Semantische undkonzeptuelle Representation lexikalischerEinheiten.
In ;Rudolf Ru2iSka and WolfgangMotsch, editor, s, Untersuchungen zur Seman-tik, Studia grammatica XXII, pages 61-99.Akademie-Ver!ag , Berlin.Eric Brill and Philip Resnik.
1994.
A rule-basedapproach to prepositional phrase attachmentdisambiguation.
In Proceedings of the 15thInternational .Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING 94), pages 1198-1204.Paul Buitelaar.
!998.
CoreLex: Systematic Pol-ysemy and Underspecification.
PhD disserta-tion, Brandeis University.l lThis is closely related to the problem of word sensedisambiguation; currently, this disambiguation is basedon frequencies.hybrid disambiguationMichael Collins and James Brooks.
1995.Prepositional phrase attachment hrougha backed-off model.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd Workshop on Very Large Corpora(WVLC-3).Alexander Franz.
1996a.
Automatic AmbiguityResolution in Natural Language Processing,volume 1171 of LNAL Springer, Berlin.Alexander Franz.
1996b.
Learning PP at-tachment from corpus statistics.
In StefanWermter, Ellen Riloff, and Gabriele Scheler,editors, Connectionist, Statistical, and Sym-bolic Approaches to Learning for Natural Lan-guage Processing, volume 1040 of LNAI,pages 188-202.
Springer, Berlin.Sven Hartrumpf and Marion Schulz.
1997.
Re-ducing lexical redundancy by augmentingconceptual knowledge.
In Gerhard Brewka,Christopher Habel, and Bernhard Nebel, edi-tors, Proceedings of the 21st Annual GermanConference on Artificial Intelligence (KI-97),number 1303 in Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, pages 393-396, Berlin.
Springer.Hermann Helbig and Marion Schulz.
1997.Knowledge representation with MESNET:A multilayered extended semantic network.In Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Sympo-sium on Ontological Engineering, pages 64-72, Stanford, California.Donald Hindle and Mats Rooth.
1993.
Struc-tural ambiguity and lexical relations.
Com-putational Linguistics, 19(1):103-120, March.Nancy Ide, Creg Priest-Dorman, and JeanV~ronis, 1996.
Corpus Encoding Standard.http://www.cs.vassar.edu/CES/.Slava M. Katz.
1987.
Estimation of probabili-119ties from sparse data for the language modelcomponent of a speech recognizer.
IEEETransactions on Acoustics, Speech and SignalProcessing, ASSP-35(3):400-401, March.John Kimball.
1973.
Seven principles of surfacestructure parsing in natural anguage.
Cogni-tion, 2:15-47.A.
Knoll, C. Altenschmidt, J. Biskup, H.-M.Blfithgen, I. G15ckner, S. Hartrumpf, H. Hel-big, C. Henning, Y. Karabulut, R. Lfiling,B.
Monien, T. Noll, and N. Sensen.
1998.
Anintegrated approach to semantic evaluationand content-based retrieval of multimediadocuments.
In C. Nikolaou and C. Stephani-dis, editors, Proceedings of the 2nd EuropeanConference on Digital Libraries (ECDL'98),volume 1513 of LNCS, pages 409-428, Berlin.Springer.Stephan Mehl, Hagen Langer, and MartinVolk.
1998.
Statistische Verfahren zur Zuord-nung von Pr~positionalphrasen.
In BernhardSchrSder, Winfried Lenders, Wolfgang Hess,and Thomas Portele, editors, Proceedings ofthe ~th Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing - KONVENS-98, number 1 in Com-puters, Linguistics, and Phonetics betweenLanguage and Speech, pages 97-110, Frank-furt, Germany.
Peter Lang.Paola Merlo, Matthew W. Crocker, and CathyBerthouzoz.
1997.
Attaching multiple prepo-sitional phrases: Generalized backed-off es-timation.
In Proceedings of the 2nd Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing (EMNLP-2), pages 149-155, Providence, Rhode Island.
Brown Uni-versity.Adwait Ratnaparkhi, Jeff Reynar, and SalimRoukos.
1994.
A maximum entropy modelfor prepositional phrase attachment.
In Pro-ceedings of the ARPA Human Language Tech-nology Workshop, pages 250-255.Adwait Ratnaparkhi.
1998.
Statistical mod-els for unsupervised prepositional phrase at-tachment.
In Proceedings of the 17th Inter-national Conference on Computational Lin-guistics and 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(COLING-A CL '98), pages 1079-1085.Jiri Stetina and Makoto Nagao.
1997.
Corpus-based PP attachment ambiguity resolutionwith a semantic dictionary.
In Proceedingsof the 5th Workshop on Very Large Corpora(WVLC-5), pages 66-80.Ingo Tjaden.
1996.
Semantische Pr?positions-interpretation im Rahmen der Wortklassen-gesteuerten Analyse.
Master's thesis, Fern-Universit~it Hagen, Hagen.Alexander S. Yeh and Marc B. Vilain.
1998.Some properties of preposition and subordi-nate conjunction attachments.
In Proceed-ings of the 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics and 36th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics "COLING-A CL'98), pages 1436-1442.120
