A recognition-based meta-scheme for dialogue acts annotationClaudia Soria, Vito PirrelliCNR - Ist i tuto di Linguistica ComputazionaleVia della Faggiola 32, 1-56126 Pisa, I taly{soria, vito}@ilc, pi.
cnr.
ii;Abst rac tThe paper describes a new formal framework forcomparison, design and standardization of annota-tion schemes for dialogue acts.
The framework takesa recognition-based approach to dialogue taggingand defines four independent taxonomies of tags,one for each orthogonal dimension of linguistic andcontextual analysis assumed to have a bearing onidentification of illocutionary acts.
The advantagesand limitations of this proposal over other previousattempts are discussed and concretely exemplified.1 Introduct ionRecent years have witnessed a growing concern withthe provision of standardized formats for exchange,integration and use of shareable annotated dialogues,and the resulting development of formal frameworksintended to compare, standardize and customize an-notation schemes for dialogue acts (see (Allen andCore, 1997; Core and Allen, 1997; Larseon, 1998;Ichikawa et al, 1998).
Arguably, these fforts houldbe instrumental in speeding up progress in the field,meeting at the same time the rapidly increasing de-mands of dialogue system technology.It is important to observe that any framework ofthis kind should be able to e~plieitly characterizeboth scope and nature of the dialogue phenomenacovered by a given tag set, since they appear to varyconsiderably from scheme to scheme, as a function ofi) the analytical standpoints adopted and ii) the di-mensions of linguistic and contextual nalysis takeninto account.
We hereafter introduce some key-ideas(namely, recognition-based vs generation-based an-notation and annotation meta-scheme) that have,in our view of things, the potential of making ex-plicit in a principled and declarative way the rela-tionship between tag definitions and underlying di-mensions of analysis.
Careful consideration of thisrelationship makes it possible to conceive of a di-alogue tag as a point in an n--dimensionai space,rather than as an undecomposable conceptual unit.As we will see, this offers a number of advantagesover other existing approaches to scheme compari-75son and standardization.
1I.I Recognition-based annotationIt is useful to recognize two complementary ap-proaches to labeling utterances with dialogue acts,hereafter referred to for convenience as a generation-based and a recognition-based perspective.
The gen-eration perspective is chiefly concerned with thequestion "given a dialogue utterance, what underly-ing mental process might have produced it?".
Such amental process can be defined i) as a communicative"intention", or, alternatively, ii) in terms of a for-real characterization of the reasoning process under-lying dialogues, with specific emphasis on the effectsof speech acts on the agents' mental states (or in-formation states) and, ultimately, on dialogue plan-ning (Poesio and Traum, 1998; Poesio et al, 1999).The recognition perspective, on the other hand, ad-dresses the question: "given a dialogue utterance,on the basis of what available linguistic or contextualclues can one recognize its underlying intention(s)?
".By linguistic and contextual clues, we mean here avariety of more or less overtly available information,ranging from the surface linguistic realization of anutterance, to its propositional content and the prag-matic context where the dialogue is situated.A generation-based approach lays emphasison the (assumed) accessibility of the mentalstates/intentions of a speaker in a dialogue, eitherthrough an explicit representation f these states (asfeature-based informational structures), or througha step of abductive inference on the annotator'spart.
In the recognition-based approach, attentionis shifted to the interpretability of an utterance asconveying a certain intention, where interpretabil-ity is a function of the information available to thehearer/annotator at a certain point in time.
Ideally,the two perspectives should lead to the same anno-tated dialogue.
In practice, this is often not the case,due to the wide range of variation in the informationaccessible to the hearer/annotator.IThis work is carried out in the framework of the MATEproject.
In particular, we would like to acknowledge our debtto (Klein et al, 1998).In a generation-based approach, an utterance cansimultaneously be intended to respond, promise, re-quest, inform etc.
A recognition-based perspectivemakes use of a different notion of multifunctionalitywhereby several intentions can be recognized on thebasis of distinct dimensions of linguistic and extra-linguistic information.
For example, an utterancelike I want to go to Bo-~ton can be i) a claim, ifjudged on its linguistic declarative form only, ii) ananswer, relative to a previously uttered request, andiii) an order, if- say - addressed to a taxi--driver, Inthis perspective, it is relatively immaterial whether,e.g., the utterance was ultimately and primarily in-tended as an assert; rather, it is sufficient o observethat one could interpret I want to  go to  Bostonas an assert, on the basis of a certain type of avail-able linguistic or contextual information.It is important o emphasize at this stage thatvirtually no existing annotation scheme for dialogueacts can be said to instantiate ither perspective only.In fact, the vast majority of tag sets exhibit, to dif-ferent degrees, a combination of the two approaches.In the remainder of this paper, we will elaborate therecognition-based perspective as a basis for annota-tion scheme comparability, standardization a d cus-tomization.1.2 The notion of meta--schemeWe call an annotation recta-scheme a formal frame-work for comparing annotation schemes, which canalso be used as a practical blue--print to scheme de-sign and customization.
A crucial feature of theannotation recta-scheme illustrated here is that itis intended to make explicit the type of linguisticand contextual information relied upon in the pro-cess of tagging dialogue utterances with illocution-ary acts.
In this respect, the meta-scheme is chieflyrecognition-based.In practice, this is achieved by defining one in-dependent taxonomy of utterance tags for each ofthe orthogonal dimensions of linguistic or contex-tual analysis which have a bearing on the definitionof dialogue acts.
For example, in some cases dia-logue acts are identified on the basis of the linguisticform of an utterance only.
We thus find it conve-nient to define an autonomous typology of tags basedon purely grammatical facts such as, e.g., subject-auxiliary inversion, wh-words, a rise of intonationetc.
Surely, tags defined along this dimension willoften fail to convey the primary intention of a givenutterance: for example, an interrogative sentencemay conceal an order, and an explicit performativemay turn an assert into a request.
Yet this shouldnot worry us, as long as the relation between a tagand its supporting dimension of analysis is explicitlystated.It should be appreciated that, in existing annota-tion schemes, the relationship between linguistic andcontextual c ues on the one hand and tag definitionson the other hand is characterized only implicitly.Linguistic and contextual dimensions of analysis aresimultaneously drawn upon in tag definitions in acomplex way, so that the relationship of these di-mensions with each tag is often only indirect.
Thiswill be illustrated in more detail in the followingsections.
Suffice it to point out here that, far frombeing a methodological flaw, this practice respondsto the practical need of annotating utterances in amaximally economic way, i.e.
with the sparsest pos-sible set of tags.
Clearly, requirements of economyand ease of annotation are appropriate for labelinga dialogue text with a specific application or a spe-cific theoretical framework in mind.
However, theymay get in the way when it comes to comparing dif-ferent annotation schemes, or exporting the anno-tation scheme developed for a given application toanother domain.
In these latter cases, perspicuity ofthe linguistic and contextual content of tags shouldbe given priority over other more practical concerns.2 .P rev ious  s tandard izat ion  ef fo r tsIn this section we will sketchily overview two of themost important attempts at providing standardizeddialogue-act tags for general annotation, namelyDAMSL (Allen and Core, 1997; Core and Allen, 1997)and Larsson's (Larsson, 1998), with particular em-phasis on the assumptions underlying their method-ological approach.DAMSL is certainly the most influential effort inthe provision of standards for dialogue annotationto date (Allen and Core, 1997; Core and Allen,1997).
It is designed to offer a general, underspeci-fled scheme, potentially usable in different domains,and susceptible of further specification into finergrained domain-specific categories.
DAMSL is cred-ited for taking the issue of utterance multifunction-ality most seriously: an utterance can be tagged atthe same time along several orthogonal dimensionsof annotation, each of them defining an independentlayer of communicative intention.
Accordingly, thesame utterance can be interpreted, e.g., as giving in-formation, making a request, making a promise tc.It is important o emphasize here that, in DAMSL,multiple dimensions erve the purpose of capturingdifferent facets of an illocutionary act and are not in-tended to directly reflect he different linguistic andcontextual dimensions on the basis of which thesefacets are recognized.
In this sense, DAMSL multi-dimensionality is predominantly generation-based.Nonetheless, tag definitions are a mixed bag of gen-eration and recognition-based criteria.At the core of the DAMSL taxonomy lies a biparti-tion between the so-called forward- and backward-looking dialogue functions, a fairly faithful render-ing of Searlian speech act categories (Searle, 1969).76The assumed orthogonality of all dimensions makesvirtually any combination of DAMSL dimensions ad-missible for annotation, in a potentially combina-torial explosion of multiple tags.
Finally, althoughoriginally conceived as a recta-scheme, DAMSL hasbeen used and circulated since its conception as yetanother independent scheme in its own right, oftenproving too general to be of practical use.
Moreimportantly, the fact that it provides non-exclusivecategories seems to have a negative impact on itsreliability (Core and Allen, 1997).A different approach to standardization is taken inLarsson (Larsson, 1998), who suggests to model thecomparison of two different encoding schemes as amapping function between the two corresponding hi-erarchies of tags (taxonomies).
The correspondenceinduced by the mapping function can be one-to-one,one-to-many and one-to-none.
Two tags which arein a one-to-one relationship are taken to be synony-mous.
A one-to-many relationship is interpretedas suggesting that one tag in a taxonomy subsumesmore than one tag in another taxonomy, as illus-trated in figure 1 for the relationship between Info-request in DAMSL and the tags Check, Align, Query-yn and Query-w in the HCRC MAP TASK annota-tion scheme (Carietta et al, 1996).
One-to-manymappings (and many-to-one) hold between thosebranches in two taxonomies which are specified atdifferent levels of granularity.
Finally, a one-to-nonecorrespondence signifies that a particular taxonomyis silent on a range of phenomena which happen to beovertly marked in another taxonomy.
For instance,since MAP TASK provides no tag for the categoryof commissives, this phenomenon is understood tobe covered by tags provided in DAMSL only.
Even-tually, a more general and comprehensive hierarchysubsuming the two compared schemes i  built by a)taking the intersection set of synonymous tags, b)taking one-to-none tags from either taxonomy only,c) representing a one-to-many tag relationship asa mother-daughters hierarchy of the correspondingnodes.
For reasons that will be made clear in the fol-lowing section, this approach ends up considerablyre-definin9 scope and applicability of the tags con-sidereal.
For example, when a Reply-y of MAP TASKis classified as a daughter node of DAMSL Answer,one is in fact ignoring that, in MAP TASK, Reply-yhas a rather broader scope than the one entailed bythis correspondence.To sum up, the standardization efforts reviewedin this section are not concerned with drawing aprincipled line between a generation-based and arecognition-based perspective.
As a result, tags ofdifferent schemes are typically related to one an-other through functional synonymy, subsumption orgeneration-based multifunctionality.
As we will seein the following section, this may in some cases ob-DAMSL MAPTASKassert ~ x p l a i n"~ry - .
t '~query-wFigure 1: Many-to--one/one-to-many mappingscure the precise nature of these relations.3 Scheme Compar i sonAs already pointed out above, Larsson's approachto developing more comprehensive tag hierarchiesby mapping comparable tag sets logically presup-poses three types of correspondence b ing at work:one-to-one, one-to-many and one-to-none.
This ispictorially illustrated in figure 1, which summarizesLarseon's (Larsson, 1998) mapping function betweenDAMSL and MAP TASK, in the area of asserts and re-quests.
However, the assumption that different agsets tend to partition the same range o/ phenomenaat different levels o/ granularity, in much the sameway two taxonomies may mutually differ at the levelof depth at which (some of) their branches are spec-ified, is unwarranted.
In fact, different annotationschemes take different analytical perspectives on di-alogue phenomena, nd end up with carving themup into different categories.
This situation typicallyproduces many-to-many tag correspondences.In a pilot experiment, we used four differentdialogue-act schemes 2 to annotate a small corpus offive English task-oriented dialogues,  All dialogueswere manually tagged by two different annotatorswith all annotation schemes.
We then counted, forany pair of tags tA and tB in the tag sets A and B,how many times they are found to mark the same2The annotation schemes considered are: DA~SL (Allenand Core, 1997), DAMSL-Switchboard (Jurafsky, Shriberg,and Biasca, 1997), VZRSMOmL 2 (Alexandersson et al, 1998),and the HCKC MAP TASK annotation scheme (Carletta et al,1996).3Sources: a human-human dialogue on room furnishing,from the COCONUT corpus (di Eugenio, Jordan, and Pylkkae-hen, 1997); a human-human dialogue of appointment schedul-ing, from the VERBMOBIL corpus (Alexandersson et al, 1998);one human-human dialogue of instruction giving, from theMAP TASK corpus (Carletta st al., 1996); one human-machinedialogue containing travel information, from the TOOT corpus(see http : / /~ .
?s.
tund.
edu/users/traum/DSD/hvl ?
tml);one WOZ dialogue on interactive problem solving, fromthe TRAINS COrpUS (see ht tp: / /vvv.cs .
rochester .edu:80/ re-search/tra ins/armor at 2 on).77MAPTASKDAMSLassertreassertopen-optionoffercony-openinginfo-requestqe u qx e uP c r e1 h y ra e yi c yn k n w0.43 0.02 0.010.5 0.5 -0.2 0.17 0.420.42 0.1 0.2 0.260.5 0.5 -0.12 0.34 0.54Table 1: Many-to--many mapping Itoken utterance.
This measure is proportional tothe degree of translatability between tag sets, andprovides a firmer ground for assessing their level ofcorrespondence than sheer inspection of tag defini-tions does.
Results of the experiment show thatthe prevalent pattern of correspondence is, in fact,many-to-many.
Table 1 illustrates this point, show-ing the actual correspondences between DAMSL andMAP TASK, in the common area of asserts and re-quests.
For each slot of table 1 at the crossing ofDAMSL tag tD and MAP TASK tag tM, we report heaveraged number of times an utterance labeled astD is alSO assigned tM, divided by the total numberof utterances tagged as tD.
These figures show twothings.
First, Larsson's mappings reflect prevalentpatterns of tag correspondence only partially.
Sec-ondly, such patterns are far from being exhaustiveof the range of possible use of the tags involved.
Togive but one example, out of 10 utterances taggedas MAP TASK Explain in one of our test dialogues, 9are tagged as DAMSL Assert, 6 as DAMSL Offer, and 3as DAMSL Open-option.
We conclude that Larsson'sapproach is useful to uncover degrees of correspon-dence between tag sets, but is still too shallow toshed light on the nature of this correspondence.Let us now compare MAP TASK and VERBMOBIL.Both schemes are mono-dimensional, meaning thatthey assign only one tag per utterance.
Yet, thisdoes not seem to simplify their pattern of correspon-dence, which turns out to be, once more, many-to-many, as illustrated in table 2.
Consider, for exam-ple, the relationship between MAP TASK Neply-y andVERBMOBIL Accept and Feedback-positive.
Neply-yis almost exclusively concerned with the linguisticform of an utterance, while VERBMOBIL Accept andFeedback-positive are mainly based on the relation-ship between a reply and the propositional contentof the utterance being replied to.
This importantdifference is levelled out when one tries to representit as a mapping function from the MAP TASK tag setonto the tag set of VERBMOBIL.
A more promisinga rMAPTASK C ek pn 1I ydVERBMOBIL  g yaccept 0.77 0.23feedbck-positive 0.34 0.46backchannel 0.450.20.45Table 2: Many-to-many mapping IIkey to an understanding ofthe intricate relationshipbetween I~AP TASK and VERBMOBIL can be foundwhen things are looked at from a purely recognition-based perspective.
It turns out that the dimensionsof information implicitly called upon in the defini-tion of most existing dialogue tag sets are consider-ably varied.
To limit ourselves to some of the tags intable 2, such dimensions range from syntax (RepJy-y) to propositional content (Feedback-positive) andco-te, xt (Accept).
Many-to-many mapping can thusbe viewed as the result of the following situation: i)for each tag set, tags are defined in relation to theirrelevance to an intended goal (be it practical or the-oretical); ii) the definition calls upon a number ofrelatively independent classificatory dimensions; iii)neither all tags in the same tag set nor tags belong-ing to different schemes consistently share the samedimensions.
This situation is illustrated in more de-tall in the following sections.4 Recogn i t ion -based  comparab i l i tyThe classificatory dimensions selected in this sectionfor a recognition-based comparison are simply thosemore consistently (however implicitly) assumed fortag definition by the dialogue-acts community.
Inparticular, each dimension in the list below coversa specific level of information taken as criterial fortag-assignment i  the tag definitions overviewed inour pilot experiment:?
D1, Grammat ica l  in format ion:  tag-assignment presupposes availability of mor-phosyntactic, syntactic, prosodic and lexical in-formation (limited to grammatical words only):see, for example, wh-questions and yes-/no-questions in SWITCHBOARD?
D2 ,  In fo rmat ion  about  lexical and se-mant ic  content :  tag-assignment presupposesknowledge about he propositional content of anutterance, e.g.
in terms of its logical structure,topic representation, i ter-clausal dependencieswithin the utterance and occurrence of seman-tically full words (as opposed to grammaticalwords): see, for example, the category Assert78in DAMSL, defined as a truth-conditional claimabout the world* D3, Co-textual  information:  tag-assignment presupposes knowledge of the pre-vious/following utterance(s) (see all "backward-looking, or responsive categories).
D4~ Pragmat ic  information:  tag-assignmentrequires knowledge of the context of thedialogue: e.g.
the social relationship ofspeaker/hearer, the physical setting of the in-teraction, the specific domain talked about etc.
:this is the case of indirect speech acts, suchas I'm cold, tagged as an order when used tomean Close the window.By way of illustration, table 3 below provides arecognition-based interpretation of tags in DAMSL,SWITCHBOARD, MAP TASK and VERBMOBIL, re-lated to Searle's class of Representatives.Category & SchemeAssert (DAMSL)Statement (SWBD)Explain (MAPTASK)Inform (VERBMOBIL)D1 D2 D3 D44- -t- -t--I- -I--I- d- -t-?
-I- -t- -FTable 3: Assert Categories vs DimensionsAn Assert in DAMSL is an utterance "whose pri-mary intention is to make claims about the world,also in the weaker form of hypothesizing or suggest-ing that something might be true" (Allen and Core,1997).
A typical Assert, thus, will be realized with adeclarative clause type and a specific prosodic on-tour (D1 in table 3); moreover, an Assert is definedas an utterance whose propositional content is truth-conditional (D2) and has new informational status(D3).The general category Statement in SWITCHBOARD(Jurafsky, Shriberg, and Biasca, 1997) is mainlyidentified on the basis of lexical and grammati-cal information, more or less of the kind requiredfor Assert in DAMSL.
In particular, a Statement-non-opinion requires co-occurrence of first-personpersonal pronouns (D1), and of a personal storyas the content of the utterance (D2).
Similarly,a Statement-opinion presupposes verbs expressingopinion such as "think" and "believe" (D1) and apersonal opinion as the content of the utterance(D2).
The Explain category in MAP TASK is definedas an utterance "stating information which has notbeen elicited by the partner" (Carletta et al, 1996).Thus, recognition of an instance of Explain involves,besides lexico-grammatical lues about the linguis-tic form of an utterance (D1), also consideration ofadjacency-pairs constraints (D3).
D4 is also indi-rectly invoked to disambiguate between a true Ex-plain and a declarative utterance used as an order(Instruct).
Finally, Inform in VERBMORIL (Alexan-dersson et al, 1998) is defined as a default tag, tobe used when other tags fail to apply.
This makes itreasonable to ground Inform on "all awailable dimen-sions of analysis at the stone time.Analytical dimensions are also called upon differ-ently within the same tag set.
This is illustrated inTable 4 for the MAP TASK tags.ExplainInstruc~Query-ynQuery-wCheckAlignReply-yReply-nReply-wAcknowledgeClarifyD1 D2 D3 D4-t- -I-++ ++ -t--t- +-F + +-t- -I- -b-F -I- -}--t- -i--F -t-+ +-t-d-Table 4: Dimensions in MAPTASKRecognition of an Instruct  move is predominantlybased on grammatical factors; however, pragmaticknowledge is also invoked in case of indirect r(.~quests.
Quety-yn and Query -w moves are mainly tie-fined in terms of their grammatical form, togetherwith knowledge of the following response (hence D3).To apply a Check tag to an utterance, an annotatormust look for an interrogative form (D1), an ini-tiative value and an old informational status (D3);finally, an inference about the mental state of thespeaker (D4) is also required.
Recognition of anAlign move relies on the following clues: surfaceindicators of the utterance being a request (gener-ally prosodic fat%ors), a limited set of words such as"okay", "right" etc.
(D2), the fac% that the utterancecloses a sequence of turns whereby some informa-tion has been exchanged (D3).
All the five respon-sive categories presuppose knowledge of the previousmove(s) in a dialogue (D3).
Furthermore, identifi-cation of Replies-y, Replies-n, and Replies-w is ba-sedboth on the occurrence of specific prosodic ontoum(e.g.
a non-rising one) and on the intended proposi-tional content of the utterance (D2).
The same holdsfor Acknowledge and Clarify which, in "addition, aremore strictly defined in relation to specific lexicalitems (D2) and to the content of the utterance thesemoves respond to (D3).79To sum up, we find the projection plots of ta-bles 3 and 4 an insightful way of making explicit therange of analytical variability among tags i) of dif-ferent schemes and ii) within the same scheme.
Twotags lying close along one dimension of analysis caneasily turn out to be diametrically opposed alonganother dimension.
Only by teasing out the mul-tiple recognition-based dimensions called upon inthe definition of each tag, we can gain some insightsinto the pattern of their correspondence, and eventu-ally sharpen up scheme comparability considerably.A multidimensional recognition-based meta-schemewas designed to achieve this purpose, as detailed inthe following section.5 The  meta -schemeTo construct our meta-scheme, we took the classifi-catory dimensions D1-D4 introduced in the previoussection as a basis for the definition of four indepen-dent taxonomies of utterance tags, some of whichconsist, in their turn, of further sub-dimensions, asdetailed in the following paragraphs.D I :  Grammat ica l  In fo rmat ion  This includesthe set of morpho-syntactic, prosodic and lexicalclues, traditionally referred to as "illocutionary forceindicating devices" (Searle, 1969).
They range fromverb mood (indicative vs. imperative) and word or-der (e.g., subject inversion) to prosodic tone (risingvs.
falling) and lexico-grammatical markers (do-auxiliaries, wh-words, etc.
).The tag values specified along this dimension in-dicate the illocutionary intention of an utterance asa function of grammatical information only:?
Assert?
Request- Request-Imperative- Request-Interrogative* Request-wh* Request-y/n* Request-or* ExclamationTag values are defined as follows.Assert: if an utterance is of a declarativeclause type (with a final falling tone and an un-marked SVO order), then it should be tagged asan Assert, whose recognizable illocutionary forcecan be paraphrased as a "claim about the world(where the world includes the speaker).
Ac-cording to our definition, the following utter-ances should be tagged as D1 Asserts  (real ex-amples): I lost a chair; Not a problem withthe time; the lamp and table sound good; soI think we're done; This is the AT&T Amtraktrain schedule system; Yes, No.Request :  if an utterance instantiates an imper-ative or interrogative clause type, then it shouldbe tagged as a Request, whose typical illocutionaryforce is an attempt by the speaker to get the hearerto do something (classical Directives).
The follow-ing utterances should thus be tagged as R,equests atD1 (real examples): Do you know the time?
; Te l lme the time; Go to Corning; Turn right; Couldyou pass me the salt?.Exc lamat ion :  if an utterance iustantiates an ex-clamative chmse type, then it should be tagged asan Exclamation, whose typical illocutionary force isthe expression of a particular state of mind of thespeaker, as in the following examples: Hi!
; Sorry;Right!
(uttered with the appropriate intonation);Of  course  !.D2: Semant ic  In fo rmat ion  This dimensionserves the purpose of characterizing an utterance interms of its propositional and lexical content.
Wecan further specify three classificatory subdimen-sions, reflecting three independent aspects of seman-tic information at the utterance level.?
"D2.1: Truth-condit ional l ty The following val-ues of this attribute label an utterance as having atruth-conditionM propositiomd content or not:- truth-cond- ntruth-cond?
D2 .2 :  Po la r i ty- Pos i t i ve :  the speaker asserts omething, as inYes ,  or  I th ink  so.- Negat ive :  the speaker denies something, ~Lsin  No,  or  I don ' t  th ink  so .?
D2.3 Performative: this tag says that an ut-terance contains an explicit performative, ~ in Ipromise .
.
.
,  I suggest .
.
,  etc.D3: Co- textua l  In fo rmat ion  Co-textual infor-mation has to do with the relationship of an ut-terance with previous or following utterances in adiscourse.
This dimension is criterial for, e.g., tag-ging an utterance as a reply.
Also distinctions refer-ring to the informational status of an utterance, i.e.whether it conveys new or old information, are to bcencoded "along this dimension.
This dimension alsoincludes information about the degree of cornplian(:(:of a reply with its corresponding initiative.?
D3.1: Adjacency Pa i rs- Initiative: the utterance prompts an expec-tation- Reply: the utterance fulfills ~m expectation?
D3 .2 :  Compl iance- Compliant: the utterance fulfills the expec-tation set up by a previous utterance in theexpected way80- Non-Compliant: the utterance fulfills theexpectation set up by a previous utterance inan unexpected/dlspreferred way?
D3.3:  P resuppos i t ion-New:  the utterance provides informationwhich is new to the hearer-O ld :  the utterance provides informationwhich is old to the hearerD4:  P ragmat ic  In fo rmat ion  This dimensioncharacterizes an utterance on the basis of pragmaticinformation, i.e.
knowledge of the social relation-ship between speaker/hearer, the physical setting ofthe interaction, the topic of the dialogue tc.
Twosub-<limensions are identified here:?
D4.1:  I l l ocut ionary  Force- Representative- Directive- Commissive- ExpressiveThese represent he classical top categories ofSearle's typology of speech acts (Searle, 1969).
Thepossibility of further specify them is left open.?
D4,2:  task  vs  communicat ion- Task- CommunicationThis sub-dimension is intended to capture thetraditional distinction between utterances used toperform a task, and utterances whose main func-tion is smoothing and ensuring the communicationprocess as such.
Thus, for instance, utterancessuch as Is there a train at Avon?
or I wantto go to Boston are clearly task-related, while ut-terances such as Can you hear me?
or I don'tunderstand you are communication-based.5.1 The meta -scheme at workHow do tags in the meta-scheme relate to the tagsin DAMSL, SWITCHBOARD, MAP TASK and VERmMOBIL?
What  does this relationship tell us aboutthe degree of similarity between the annotationschemes?
An objective way of addressing these ques-tions is to use the meta-scheme itself for labelingall five dialogues in the pilot experiment of section3, to then assess the degree of scheme correspon-dence in terms of the number of utterances whichare found to be marked up with the same tags, sim-ilarly to what was done in section 3.
Note that theuse of a meta-scheme to tag a dialogue should notsuggest that the meta-scheme is, as such, an ad-equate tool for annotation.
First, tags are largelyunder-specified.
Moreover, the focus of annotationDl:req-whD2: req- in fo  D3.1 : ID4:d i rec tD l :asser tD2.1 : t ru thcondD3.1:R D3.2:ncompD4:representD l :asser tD2.1:ntruthcondD3.1:R V3.2:corapD4:representu: what t ime wouldeng ine  two and threeleave Elmira?s: ye l l  they ' re  notschedu led  yets:  but we can send themat  any t ime we rantTable 5: Sample annotationis shifted here from the identification ofprimary illo-cutionary acts to the recognizable inguistic and con-textual clues for their identification.
We will returnto this important point in the following section.
Ta-ble 5 exemplifies the annotation of a dialogue xcerpt(two turns, three utterances) with the categories inthe ineta-scheme.Table 6 reports the degree of multidimensionalsimilarity between MAP TASK Explain, on the onehand, and DAMSL Assert, Re-Assert, Open-Option,Offer and Info-Request on the other hand.
In thetable, each tag is represented as a point in the n-dimensional space staked out by the meta-scheme.The first column gives the invariant meta-schemetags which are shared by all utterances tagged asExplain.
A dash ('-') in the column signifies thattags vary along the corresponding dimension: thismeans that the dimension is not criterial for the def-inition of Explain.
This is the case of D2.2 (polar-ity), D3.2 (compliance) and D4.1 (pragmatic illocu-tionary force).
In the remaining columns, we put'=' to signify dimensional equivalence, i.e.
identityof invariant meta-scheme tags, and '~'  to expressdiversity.
Once more, a dash is used to indicate thatthe corresponding dimension is orthogonal to the in-formation conveyed by the tag.
Intuitively, the tagsmore similar to Explain are those with more '=' andfewer '~'  in the corresponding column.Note that Assert turns out to be the tag with thehighest number of matching dimensions ('='), andthe lowest number of mismatches ('~').
This ex-plains why MAP TASK Explain is the most naturalcandidate for replacing DAMSL Assert, as suggestedby Larsson.
We can now give reasons for that: As-sert differs from Explain in that the former, unlikethe latter, conveys no stable initiative force.
Notefurther, however, that Explain is not defined alongdimension D4.1, which, in turn, defines tags such asOpen-option, Offer and Info-Request.
This suggeststhat Explain is also likely to replace these tags whenthey are assigned to assertive and truth conditional81D1D2.1D2.2D3.1D3.2D3.3D4.1D4.2e r x e o i p a a P nl s s e o fs s n f oa e e o f ri r r P e en t t t r qassert ----.
= =truth-cond -- -- --Init = -- --new =taskTable 6: Multidimensional tag correspondencesutterances, that is when these utterances happen tomeet the criteria for identification of Exp la in .
Inci-dentally, it should be noted that the evidence of table6 provides a justification of the figures reported intable 1, which would otherwise remain counterintu-itive in the light of tag definitions.6 Annotat ion  and  meta-schemeAs already pointed out above, the meta-scheme pro-posed here does not per se fulfill some importantprerequisites for an annotation scheme.
It is useful,at this stage, to elaborate this point.
First, mul-tidimensionality and orthogonality of the assumedmultiple dimensions seem to be operationally cum-bersome and, in general, detract from reliability inactual tagging practice.
Furthermore, in the meta-scheme all classificatory dimensions are conceivedof as being on a par.
This means that we delib-erately make no assumption as to what dimensionof annotation ultimately provides information aboutthe primary intended illocutionary act of an utter-ance, and how information along one dimension re-lates to information encoded at another dimension.This is not very informative from the point of viewof annotation, but represents a very useful featurefor scheme customization, as it makes it possible tomodify/adapt an existing annotation scheme by col-lapsing some analytical dimensions in a controlledway.Finally, it should be appreciated that the list ofdimensions provided here is not meant to be eitherexhaustive or minimal, in the sense that every tagshould be classified along each dimension.
Otherpossible dimensions of analysis can include, for ex-ample, kinesic information, to account for dialogueacts performed through non-verbal communicativebehavior, such as nodding, smiling and pointing.As long as dimensions are rigorously defined, thisshould clarify the intended use of a scheme consid-erably.7 Conc lus ionTag sets are typically developed to respond to spe-cific applications and practical usages, without both-ering too much about how the tags themselves relateto the nature of information eeded for their assign-ment in context.
This is fine as long as tag sets areassessed in relation to the use they were originallyintended for, but much less so if one wants to eval-uate the extent o which one tag set translates intoanother tag set, or to assess the usability of a giventag set for other purposes/applications.The multi-dimensional recognition-based meta-scheme described in these pages makes it explicithow intentions relate to the linguistic and contex-tual information eeded for their identification.
Weshowed that this is extremely helpful for schemecomparison, as it sheds light on the precise nature oftag correspondences, well beyond the intuitive graspprovided by tag definitions.Preliminary experiments show that a translationof a dialogue tagged with an existing scheme into ourmeta-scheme is also a useful exercise to assess the in-ternal consistency of the annotated material.
If thisis confirmed, then use of the meta-scheme shouldimprove scheme design considerably, and should beable to provide procedural and testable guide-linesfor dialogue annotators.Re ferencesAlexandersson, J.
B. Buschbeck-Wolf, T. Fujinami,M.
Kipp, S. Koch, E. Maier, N. Reithinger,B.
Schmitz, and M. Siegel.
1998.
Dialogue Acts inVerbmobil-2, Second Edition.
Verbmobil Report226, DFKI Saarbruecken, Universitaet Stuttgart,TU Berlin, Universitaet des Saarlandes.Allen, J. and M. Core.
1997.
Draft of DAMSL: Di-alog Act Markup in Several Layers.
Technical re-port, Rochester.Carletta, J., A. Isard, S. Isard, J. Kowtko,G.
Doherty-Sneddon, and A. Anderson.
1996.HGRC Dialogue Structure Coding Manual.
Tech-nical Report HCRC TR-82, Human Communica-tion Research Centre, University of Edinburgh,Edinburgh, Scotland.Core, M. and J. Allen.
1997.
"Coding Dialogs withthe DAMSL Annotation Scheme".
In Proceedingsof the AAAI  Fall 1997 Symposium.di Eugenic, B., P. W. Jordan, and L. Pylkkaenen.1997.
The COCONUT project: dialogue annota-tion manual Technical report.Ichikawa, A., M. Araki, M. Ishizaki, S. Itabashi,T.
Itch, H. Kashioka, K. Kato, H. Kikuehi, T. Ku-magai, A. Kurematsu, H. Koiso, M. Tamoto,S.
Tutiya, S. Nakazato, Y. Horiuchi, K. Maekawa,82Y.
Yamashita, and T. Yoshimura.
1998.
"Stan-dardising Annotation Schemes for Japanese Dis-course".
In Proceedings of the First InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evalua-tion, Granada, Spain, pp.
731-736.Jurafsky, D., L. Shriberg, and D. Biasea.
1997.Switchboard SWBD-DAMSL, Shallow-Discourse-Function Annotation; Coders Manual, Drab 13.Klein, M., N. O. Bemsen, S. Davies, L. Dybkjaer,J.
Garrido, H. Kaseh, A. Mengel, V. Pirrelli,M.
Poesio, S. Quazza, and C. Sofia.
1998.
Sup-ported Coding Schemes.
Technical Report DI.1,MATE.Larsson, S. 1998.
Coding schemas \]or dialoguemoves.
Technical report, Department of Linguis-tics, Goeteborg University.Poesio, M. and D. Traum.
1998.
"Towards an Ax-iomatization of Dialogue Acts".
In Proceedingsof the Twente Workshop on the Formal Seman-tics and Pragmatics of Dialogues, Enschede, TheNetherlands, pp.
207-222.Poesio, M., Cooper, R., Larsson, S., Traum, D. andC.
Matheson.
1999.
"Annotating Conversationsfor Information State Updates".
Paper presentedat Amstelogue99.Searle, J.
1969.
Speech Acts.
Cambridge UniversityPressJ?
83
