A Two-level Approach to Coding Dialogue for DiscourseStructure: Activities of the 1998 DRI Working Group onHigher-level Structures*Dav id  R .
T raumUnivers i ty  of Mary landt raum@cs.umd.eduChr i s t ine  H .
Nakatan iBell Laborator ies ,  Lucent  Technologieschn@research.be l l - labs .comAbst ractThis paper presents a novel two-levelscheme for coding discourse structure indialogue, which was created by the au-thors for the discourse structure subgroupof the 1998 DR/meeting on dialogue tag-ging.
We discuss the theoretical motiva-tions and framework for the coding pro-posal, and then review the results of codingexercises performed by the 1998 DR/ dis-course structure subgroup using the newmanual.
Finally, we provide suggestionsfor improving the scheme arising from theworking group activities at the third DRImeeting.1 In t roduct ionA two-level scheme for coding discourse structurein dialogue has been proposed and undergone ini-tial testing within the DR/effort.
In particular, thehigher-level structures working group of the thirdDR/ was charged with the task of creating a cod-ing scheme concerned exclusively with the discoursestructure of dialogue.
Finding a good starting pointThe discourse structure working group was chairedby Christine Nakatani (Bell Laboratories, Lucent Tech-nologies) and co-chaired by David Traum (U Maryland).Pre-meeting roup participants also included Jean Car-letta (U Edinburgh), Jennifer Chu-Carroll (Bell Lab-oratories, Lucent Technologies), Peter I-Iceman (Ore-gon Graduate Institute), Juha Hirschberg (AT&T Labs),Masato Ishizaki (JAIST), Diane Litman (AT&T Labs),Owen Rainbow (Cogentex), Jennifer Venditti (OhioState U), Marilyn Walker (At&T Labs), Gregory Ward(Northwestern U).
Participants at the meeting alsoincluded Ellen Bard (U Edinburgh), Yasuo Horiuchi(Chiba U), Koichi Hoshida (ATR), Yasuhiro Katagisi(NTT), Kikuo Maekawa (NLRI), Michael Strube (UPennsylvania), Masafumi Tamato (NTT), Yuki Tateishi(Tokyo U), and Takahiro Wakao (TAO).for a consensus coding scheme for discourse struc-ture in dialogue was a non-trivial task.
Most dis-course structure schemes in fact were geared towardmonologue, and most dialogue coding schemes omit-ted the higher-level structures that were essential tothe monologue schemes, or provided only genre ordomain-specific higher-level structures.Given the limited amount of work in this area,it was impossible to attempt a comprehensive cod-ing scheme for all aspects of discourse structure illdialogue.
Instead, we were guided by an analysis ofwhat choices needed to be made in creating a codingscheme.
(Traum, 1998) identifies three dimensionsalong which discourse structure schemes can be clas-sifted: granularity, content, structuring mechanisms.?
Granularity: how much material (time, text,turns, etc.)
is covered by the units (minimum,maximum, and average)?
Granularity rangeswere divided roughly into three categories:Micro  - roughly within a single turnMeso - roughly an exchange, IR-unit, "game",or short "sub-dialogue",Macro  - coherent larger spans, related to over-all dialogue purposes.?
Content: what is this a structure of(e.g., inten-tions, accessibility, effects, etc.)??
?
Structuring mechanisms: What kinds of unitsand structuring principles are used (e.g., fiat,set inclusion, hierarchical/CFG structuring, re-lational)?
How many primitive types of unitsare allowed (one basic unit type, two or threetypes of units, or several types)?This multi-dimensional space was then used to clas-sify different extant coding schemes as to which as-pects they are concerned with.Guided by this principled survey of variousschemes, we decided on an objective of defining a101pair of coupled schemes at the meso- and macro-levels in order to create a dialogue-oriented schemefor discourse structure analysis.
We felt the micro-level of analysis was addressed by the dialogue actscoding effort of DRI, and it seemed most productiveto build meso- and macro-levels on top of that, inan independent manner, to see what synergy mightarise.
It did not seem most fruitful to code the samecontent at three different levels, or to code threetypes of content at the macro-level without makingany attempt o relate that coding to other schemesin development within the DRI initiative.Thus, for our starting point we proposed two orig-inal coding schemes within this multi-dimensionalspace.
One scheme which has as content Ground-ing (Clark and Schaefer, 1989; Traum, 1994), op-erated at a meso level of granularity, and usednon-hierarchical (and possibly discontinuous ) utter-ance sets as its structuring principle.
The secondscheme concerned intentional/informational struc-ture (Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Nakatani et al, 1995)as content, operated at a macro level of granularity,and was structured as hierarchical trees (with anno-tations for capturing discontinuities).
In addition,these two schemes were linked by using the result-ing structures from meso-level analysis as basic inputfor macro-level analysis.There were several factors motivating the decisionto use these particular facets of discourse structurefor initial analysis.
First, considering intentions, itis clear that aspects of dialogue at all levels of gran-ularity relate to the intentions of the participants.However, not all of these intentional aspects are at-tuned to well-behaved plan-like structures.
One is-sue is whose intention is under consideration: thespeaker, the hearer, or the collaborative "team" ofthe speaker and hearer together.
It is only at thelevel of grounded content hat some sort of joint orshared intentional structure is really applicable.
Be-low this level, one may only properly talk of indi-vidual intentions, even though those intentions maybe subservient to joint goals (or goals of achievingsharedness).
Thus taking grounded units (achievedat the meso-range) as a starting point for the cod-ing of intentional structure is a natural basis for thestudy of joint intentional structure.
Individual in-tentions at a lower level, especially those relatingto communication management rather than task areexpected to be captured within the dialogue act levelof the DRI coding scheme (Discourse Resource Ini-tiative, 1997; Allen and Core, Draft 1997).
Likewise,the phenomena of grounding can occur on multiplelevels.
However, since macro-level phenomena (suchas task summarization) differ from more local feed-back phenomena (including acknowledgments andrepairs), restricting the grounding-relating coding tothe meso-level allows for a more tractable ffort.While examining intentional structure at themacro range and grounding structure at a mesorange thus had independent motivations, the codingscheme used for this subgroup was designed to testa further novel and previously untested hypothesisthat the units of achieving common ground wouldserve as an appropriate type of basic unit for inten-tional analysis.
Since the phenomena of groundingand intentional task-related structure are somewhatindependent, there is reason to believe the structuresmight not align properly.
However, given the utilityof having an appropriate meso-level starting pointfor intentional structure, and lacking any compellingcounter-examples, we decided to put the hypothesisto the test in the coding exercises.2 The  cod ing  schemeThe" coding scheme used for pre-meeting cod-ing exercises is defined in (Nakatani and Traum,1999), which was distributed to the group mem-bers prior to coding assignments.
As mentionedabove, this included two levels of coding, commonground units (CGUs)  at the meso-level, and inten-tional/informational units (IUs) at the macro-level.Here we provide a brief summary of these cod-ing schemes.
Interested parties are referred to themanual (Nakatani and Traum, 1999) for detailed in-structions and examples.
There are three stages ofcoding, which must be performed in sequence.
First,a preparatory tokenization phase, in which the dia-logue is segmented into speaker turns and utterancetokens within the turns, each token being given a la-bel.
This was used as input for the coding of CGUs,in which utterance tokens were gathered together inunits of tokens which together served to add somematerial to the common ground.
Finally, the resultsof CGU coding was used as input for IU Coding,in which hierarchical intentional structure was builtfrom either CGUs or smaller IUs.
Each of these pro-cesses is briefly described in the subsections below.2.1 Common Ground Units (CGUs)A Common Ground Unit (CGU) contains all andonly the utterance tokens needed to ground (that is,make part of the common ground) some bit of con-tent.
This content will include the initial token ofthe unit, plus whatever additional content is addedby subsequent tokens in the unit and added to thecommon ground at the same time as the initiatingtoken.
The main coherence principle for CGUs is102thus not directly related to the coherence of the con-tent itself (this kind of coherence is handled at themicro and macro levels), but whether the content isadded to the common ground in the same manner(e.g., with the same acknowledgment utterance).CGUs will require at least some initiating mate-rial by one conversational participant (the initiator),presenting the new content, as well as generally somefeedback (Allwood et al, 1992), or acknowledgment,by the other participant.The following principles in (1) summarize the de-cision procedures for how to code an utterance tokenwith respect o existing or new CGUs:(1) 1..I f  the token contains new content, andthere is no accessible ungrounded CGU, thecontents of which could be acknowledgedtogether with the current okenthen create a new CGU, and add this to-ken to it.i f  there is an accessible CGU for which thecurrent oken:(a) acknowledges the content(b) repairs the content(c) cancels the CGU (in this case, also puta * before the CGU marker, to indicatethat it is canceled).
(d) continues the content, in such a fashionthat all content could be grounded to-gether (with the same acknowledgment)then add this token to the CGUotherwise, do not add this token to theCGUNote that these rules are not mutually exclusive:more than one may apply, so that a token can beadded to more than one CGU.CGUs are similar in many respects to other meso-level coding schemes, such as initiative-responsein the LINDA coding scheme (Ahrenberg et al,1990; Dahlb~ck and JSnsson, 1998), or conversa-tional games (Carletta et al, 1997).
However, thereare some important differences.
In terms of con-tent, CGUs cover only grounding, while the LINDAscheme covers initiative more generally, and theI-ICRC game structure codes achievement of dia-logue purposes.
Several authors (e.g., (Allwood etal., 1992; Clark, 1994; Dillenbourg et al, 1996),consider multiple levels of coordination i  dialogue,including roughly those of contact, perception, un-derstanding, and attitudinal reaction.
Grounding(which is what CGUs capture) is mainly concernedwith the understanding level (and also the percep-tion of messages), while there is a large part of thenotion of response that is concerned with attitudinalreaction and not strictly mutual understanding.There are also differences in the structuring mech-anisms used.
In the LINDA coding scheme, IR unitsconsist of trees, which may contain embedded IRunits as constituents.
The HCRC scheme does notrequire a strict tree structure, but also allows em-bedded games, when one game is seen as subordi-nate to the main purpose of another.
In contrast,CGUs are "fiat" structures, consisting only of a setof utterances which work together to add some ma-terial to common ground.
Moreover, a single ut-terance can be part of multiple (non-nested) CGUs.For example, except for very short reactions whichare expressed in the same locution with the feed-back signal of understanding, the grounding of thereaction itself will also constitute a separate CGU.More concretely, consider a suggestion followed by arefinement by another speaker.
The refinement indi-cates understanding of the original, and is thus partof the prior CGU, which presents the original, but italso'introduces new material (the refinement i self),and thus also initiates a new CGU, which requiresfurther signals of understanding to he added to thecommon ground.Both of these differences in content and structur-ing mechanisms can lead to differences in the kinds ofunits that would be coded for a given dialogue frag-ment.
For example, a question/answer/followup se-quence might be one IR-unit or game but two CGUs(one to ground the question, and one to ground theanswer).
Likewise, a unit including a repair mightbe coded as two (embedded) IR-units or games, butonly a single CGU.It remains an open question as to whether CGUsor one of these other meso-level units might be themost appropriate building block for macro-level in-tentional structure.
One reason to think that CGUsmight be more appropriate, though, is the use ofnon-hierarchical units, which avoids the question ofwhich level of unit to use as starting point.2.2 In tent iona l / In fo rmat iona l  Uni ts  ( IUs)Macro-level of discourse structure coding involvesreasoning about the relationships amongst the piecesof information that have been established as com-mon ground.
This is achieved by performing a topic-structure or planning-based analysis of the content ofthe CGUs, to produce a hierarchy of CGUs in a well-formed tree data structure.
Such analysis proceedsin similar fashion to the intention-based methodol-ogy outlined in (Nakatani et al, 1995), but thereare some crucial differences.
The coding schemeof (Nakatani et al, 1995) was developed for mono-103mmlogic discourse, and is not directly applicable to di-alogue.
In particular, there is the general problemin dialogue, of associating the individual intentionsof the participants with the overall structure.
Weuse CGUs as a starting point helps establish the rel-evant intentions as a kind of joint intentional struc-ture.
While CGU analysis concentrates on estab-lishing what is being said at the level of informa-tion exchange, macro-level analysis goes beyond thisto establish relationships at a higher-level, namelyrelationships amongst CGUs (instead of utterance-tokens) and relationships amongst groups of CGUs.These relationships may be both informational ndintentional.
Thus, we refer to groupings of CGUs atthe lowest level of macro-structure as I-UNITS (IUs),where 'T' stands for either informational or inten-tional.IU trees are created by identifying certain kindsof discourse relations.
Following (Grosz and Sid-ner, 1986), macro-level analysis captures two funda-mental intentional relations between I-units, thoseof domination (or parent-child) and satisfaction-precedence (or sibling) relations.
The correspond-ing informational relations are generates and en-ables (Pollack, 1986; Goldman, 1970).
More con-cretely, the domination relation can be elaboratedin a planning-based framework as holding betweena subsidiary plan and its parent, in which the com-pletion of one plan contributes to the completion ofits parent plan; the satisfaction-precedence relationcan be elaborated as the temporal dependency be-tween two plans (Lochbaum, 1994).
As is often thecase, when a temporal dependency cannot be strictlyestablished, two IUs will be placed in a sibling rela-tionship by virtue of their each being in a subsidiaryrelationship with the same dominating IU.I-unit analysis consists of identifying the higher-level intentional/informational structure of the di-alogue, where each I-unit (IU) in the macro struc-ture achieves a joint (sub)goal or conveys informa-tion necessary to achieve a joint (sub)goal.
The fol-lowing schema captures the decision process for IUcoding:?
Establish problem to be collaboratively solved,or joint goal.?
Negotiate how to achieve joint goal.This may involve:1.
Deciding which (of possibly several)recipe(s) for action to use,2.
Deciding how to implement a recipe in theparticipants' domain by instantiating oridentifying constraints and parameters ofthe recipe (e.g.
deciding which of two en-gines to move to the orange warehouse),3.
Breaking the plan down into subplans,whose own achievements can be similarlynegotiated at the subtask level.?
Confirm achievement of (or failure to achieve)joint goal.This schema explicitly accommodates the inferentialinterface between the intentional and informationallevels of analysis.
For example, intentional and in-formational relations blend as siblings at the levelof choosing and implementing a recipe and breakingdown a plan into subplans.
This reflects the simplefact that achieving a goal via action requires knowl-edge of the world (e.g.
identification of objects),knowledge of how to act in the world (i.e.
knowledgeof recipes), and knowledge of how to reason aboutcomplex relations among actions (i.e.
the ability toplan and re-plan).
In sum, the blending of inten-tional and informational relations in IU coding is anoriginal theoretical aspect of this coding scheme.3 Cod ing  exerc i sesIn order to familiarize the group members with thecoding schemes and provide some initial data fordiscussion, several coding exercises were performed,divided into two sets of two dialogues each - firstTOOT and TRAINS, second Verbmobil (IU on com-mon provided CGUs) and Maptask (only a fragment,no IU coding).
These dialogues are all roughly char-acterizable as "task-oriented", although the tasksare quite varied.The TRAINS dialogue was taken from theTRAINS-93 Corpus by the University of Rochester(Heeman and Allen, 1994; Heeman and Allen, 1995).TRAINS dialogs deal with tasks involving manufac-turing and shipping goods in a railroad freight sys-tem.
TRAINS dialogs consist of two human speak-ers, the system and the user.
The user is given aproblem to solve and a map of the world.
The systemis given a more detailed map and acts as a planningassistant to the user.
Additional online informationabout the dialogues can be found athttp ://WWl~.
cs.
ro chest or.
edu/res eazch/speech/93dia logs/and about the trains project as a wholeathl:~;p://www, cs.
rochester ,  edu/ reseaxch/ t ra ins /Toot dialogues are Human-Computer spoken dia-logues, in which the computer system (S) finds Am-mmmmmmmmmmm104trek rail schedules via internet, according to specifi-cations provided by the human user (U).
The Tootsystem is described in (Litman et el., 1998).
Thedialogue we used for coding, was provided by DianeLitman of AT&T Research.The Verbmobil project is a long term effort to de-velop a mobile translation system for spontaneousspeech in face-to-face situations.
The current do-main of focus is scheduling business meetings.
Tosupport this goal, some English human-human di-alogs were collected in this domain.
More informa-tion about the Verbmobil project can be found on-line at http://~ww, dfki.
uni-sb, do/verbmob?1/.In the dialogue we coded, the two speakers try toestablish a time and place for a meeting.The DCIEM Map Task dialogs from which theone we coded (d204), was drawn were collected inCanada and consist of pairs of Canadian army re-servists collaborating to solve a problem.
Both re-servists have a map but the maps are not identicalin terms of the landmarks present.
One participantis designated the direction giver, G and has a pathmarked on his map.
The goal is for the other partic-ipant, the direction follower, F to trace this route onhis map even though he can only communicate withG via speech; i.e., these are not face to face conversa-tions.
Only the opening portion of the dialogue wascoded, due to the length.
More information aboutthe DCIEM Map Task corpus can be found online athttp ://www.
here.
ed.
ac.
uk/Si~ o/MAPTASKD, html.A fragment taken from the Verbmobil Dialogue,along with CGU and IU coding for this fragment isshown in Figure 1.
Note that some utterances (e.g.,A.11.1) appear in multiple cgus (serving an acknowl-?
edgment function for one and a proposal function forthe other), and some utterances (e.g., B.12.2) do notappear in any.3.1 CGU Coding AnalysisThe inter-coder reliability of CGU coding was quitevariable between the different dialogues and for dif-ferent stretches within some of the dialogues.
Re-suits ranged from segments in which all coders codedidentically to a few segments (for Maptask and Toot)in which all coders coded some aspect differently.This section outlines some of the qualitative andquantitative analysis done on the CGU coding forthe four dialogues presented in the previous ection.3.1.1 Inter-coder Rel iabi l i tyIt was a bit challenging to devise a meaningfulmeasure of inter-coder reliability for the CGU cod-ing task.
While it is simple to count how manycoders chose to include a particular unit, there is noVerbmobil Dialogue r148c.
.
.It.9.2 want to have lunchB.10.1 that sounds pretty goodB.
10.2 are you available just before noonA.II.I we can meet at noonB.12.1 sounds goodB.12.2 uhhB.12.3 on campus or offA.13.1 your choice?
* .CGU and IU codingiu.
1 "plan to meet (again)"cgu7cgu8cgu9iu.
1.3cgul0"set meeting time"A.9.2, B.
10.
I "suggest lunch"B.10.2, A.II.I "suggest time"A.11.1, B.12.1 "meet at noon""select place for lunch"B.12.3, A.13.1 "on campus?
".Figure 1: Verbmobil CGU and IU codingeasy way to devise an expected agreement for such aunit.
Table 2 shows the average ratio of coders perCGU coded by any of the coders.
It is not clear howto interpret his number, however, since if a partic-ular unit was included only by a small amount ofcoders, that means that there was fairly high agree-ment among the other coders not to include it.D ia logue avg %TRAINS 0.41TOOT 0.36Verbmobil 0.30MAPTASK 0.26Table 2: Average coders per proposed CGUSimply marking down boundary points of unitswould also not work well, since CGUs are allowed tobe both overlapping and discontinuous.
Instead, apseudo-grounding acts scheme was induced, consid-ering whether an utterance token begins, continuesor completes a CGU.
This is fueled by the obser-vation that, while a token could appear in multipleCGUs, it doesn't generally perform the same func-tion in each of them.
This is not explicitly ruledout but does seem to be the case, perhaps with oneor two exceptions.
So, each token is scored as towhether or not it appeared (1) as the first token ina CGU (2) as the last token in a CGU and/or (3) ina CGU in neither the first or last position.This system seems ufficient o count as the same105APAPETRAINSB M ETOOTB M EVerbmobi lB M E0.83 0.87 0.85 0.79 0.81 0.78 0.79 0.78 0.890.50 0.65 0.51 0.50 0.52 0.50 0.57 0.51 0.580.66 0.62 0.69 0.58 0.60 0.56 0.52 0.56 0.74MaptaskB M E0.69 0.74 0.790.54 0.52 0.560.34 0.45 0.52Table 1: CGU Inter-coder Reliabilityall identified CGUs that are the same, and to assesspenalties for all codings that differ, though it is notclear that the weighting of penalties is necessarilyoptimal (e.g., leaving out a middle counts only onepoint of disagreement, but leaving out an end countsas two, since the next to last, gets counted as an endrather than a middle).From this, it was possible to compute agreementand expected agreement (by examining the relativefrequencies of these tags), and thus Kappa (Siegeland Castellan, 1988).
The numbers for the group asa whole are shown in table 1 Systematic individualpairwise agreement or cluster analysis was not per-formed, however some of the pairwise numbers areabove 0.8 for some dialogues.From this table it is clear that the ending pointsof CGUs in verbmobil has fairly high agreement, asdoes the TRAINS dialogue overall, whereas Map-task has fairly low agreement, especially for CGUbeginnings.3.2 IU Coding AnalysisIU analysis was carried out on the Toot, Trains andVerbmobil dialogues.
However, as noted, only the IUanalysis on Verbmobil was conducted starting withuniform IUs for all the coders.
Thus, the reliabilityfor IU coding could be quantitatively measured forthe Verbmobil dialogue only.
Nine coders providedIU trees starting from identical CGUs.Following the methodology in (ttirschberg andNakatani, 1996), we measured the reliability of cod-ing for a linearized version of the IU tree, by calcu-lating the reliability of coding of IU beginnings usingthe kappa metric.
We calculated the observed pair-wise agreement of CGUs marked as the beginningsof IUs, and factored out the expected agreement es-timated from the actual data, giving the pairwisekappa score.Table 3 gives the raw data on coders marking ofIU beginnings.
For each CGU, a "1" indicates thatit was marked as an IU-initial CGU by a given coder.A "0" indicates that it was not marked as IU-initial.Table 4 shows the figures on observed pairwiseagreement, orthe percentage ofthe time both codersagreed on the assignment of CGUs to IU-initial po-CoderCGU 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 TOTAL1: 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9/92: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0/93: 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 3/94: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0/95: 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 3/96: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0/97: 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 8/98: 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 3/99: 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1/910: 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9/911: 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0/912: 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 2/91"3: 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1/914: 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 7/915: 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9/9Table 3: Summary of IU coding for all coders ( I=IU-initial, 0=non-IU-initial)ID 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 91 1 .8 .73 .93 .6 .93 .93 .93 .732 1 .53 .73 .67 .73 .73 .73 .83 1 .8 .6 .8 .67 .8 .734 1 .67 1 .87 1 .85 1 .67 .67 .67 .736 1 .87 1 .87 1 .87 .678 1 .89 1Table 4: Observed agreement for IU-initial CGUssition.We calculated the expected probability of agree-ment for IU-initial CGUs to be P(E)=.375, based onthe actual Verbmobil codings.
Given P(E), kappascores can be computed.
Table 5 shows the kappascores measuring the reliability of the codings foreach pair of labelers.As the kappa scores show, there is some individ-ual variation in IU coding reliability.
On average,however, the kappa score for pairwise coding on IU-initial CGUs is .64, which is moderately reliable butshows room for improvement.By examining Table 3, it can be Seen that therewas in fact always a decisive majority label for each106ID 1 2 3 " 4 5 6 7 8 '91 .
1 .7 .57 .89 .36 .89 .89 .89 .572 1 .25 .57 .47 .57 .57 .57 .683" ' 1 .68 .38 .68 .47 .68 .574 \] .47 1 .79 1 .685 1 .47 .47 .47 .576 1 .79 1 .687 " 1 .79 .478 1 .689 1Table 5: Palrwise kappa scoresCGU, i.e.
there are no CGUs on which the coderswere split into two groups of four and five in theircoding decision for IU-initial CGUs.
A weaker elia-bility metric on the pooled data from nine coders,therefore, would provide a reliable majority cod-ing on this dialogue (see (Passonneau and Litman,1997) for discussion of how reliability is computedfor pooled coding data).
In fact, for the group ofsix coders who showed the most inter-coder agree-ment, the average palrwise kappa score is .80, whichis highly reliable.4 Summary  and  Future  WorkIn addition to the quantitative analysis of eodings,the subgroup at the 1998 DRI meeting reiteratedsome goals for the scheme in general and madeprogress on several open theoretical issues3 Firstand foremost, it was agreed upon that CGU analy-sis at the meso-level allowed coders to abstract he"messy" bits of dialogue (e.g., local repair, turn-taking, grounding) into common ground units, mak-ing the structures at both the meso- and macro-levels cleaner.
The consensus was that many NLPapplications would benefit from this abstraction,which can help separate to a large degree the pro-cessing of dialogic phenomena from the processingof intentions and informational units at the dialogueplanning level.As for theoretical issues, the subgroup laid outinitial proposals for exploring the interface betweenDamsl tagging at the dialogue act micro-level, andCGU analysis at the meso-level.
One importantopen issue was whether to modify the coding schemeto identify different types of acknowledgments sepa-rately, especially when the acknowledgment functionwas parasitic on a more direct relation, such as ananswer to a question.
It was found that alternativeproposals for placing CGU boundaries patterneda Full details of the subgroup roceedings can be foundin the DRI report of the 1998 meeting, also availablefrom the first author.with differences in backward- and forward-lookingproperties of the ambiguous tokens.
The generalprinciple that was agreed upon was that we shouldinvestigate further the situations in which dialogueact coding can serve as the basis for CGU coding de-cisions, just as CGU codings serve as the primitiveunits for constraining IU analysis in a substantialway.
A more general principle was to identify whenindependent decisions at one level could influencethe coding decisions at a second level, e.g.
whenan IU boundary resolved a difficult CGU boundarydecision.
Defining non-circular coding guidelines ap-pears feasible, if difficult.While the reliability results presented here are al-ready close to acceptable, directions for future workare clear.
In particular, extensions to include addi-tional dimensions of dialogue content would be desir-able; the current scheme considers only grounding atthe meso-range, and information/intention contentat the macro-range.
Secondly, we expect refinementand revision of the initial coding manual, (Nakataniand'Traum, 1999), will facilitate both greater elia-bility and utility of the two levels we do cover.
Wehope other researchers will explore whether a moreproductive synergy can be found between the twolevels, both in theory and in practice.
The relationwe hypothesize between the two levels, and our sup-position that important relations may be found be-tween micro-level schemes and the two-level schemeposited here, lay the groundwork for more focusedinvestigations of coding schemes for discourse struc-ture in dialogue than have previously existed withinthe DR/initiative.ReferencesLars Ahrenberg, Nils Dahlb~ick, and Arne J6nsson.1990.
Discourse representation and discoursemanagement for a natural anguage dialogue sys-tem.
In Proceedings of the Second Nordic Con-ference on Text Comprehension i Man and Ma-chine.James Allen and Mark Core.
Draft, 1997.Draft of darnsl: Dialog act markup in sev-eral layers, available through the WWW at:http:/ www.cs.rochester.edu/research\]trains/annotation.Jens Allwood, Joakim Nivre, and Elisabeth Ahlsen.1992.
On the semantics and pragmatics of linguis-tic feedback.
Journal of Semantics, 9.Jean Carletta, Amy Isard, Stephen Isard, Jacque-line C. Kowtko, Gwynewth Doherty-Sneddon, and107Anne H. Anderson.
1997.
The reliability of a di-alogue structure coding scheme.
ComputationalLinguistics, 23(1):13-31.Herbert H. Clark and Edward F. Schaefer.
1989.Contributing to discourse.
Cognitive Science,13:259-294.
Also appears as Chapter 5 in (Clark,1992).Herbert H. Clark.
1992.
Arenas of Language Use.University of Chicago Press.Herbert H. Clark.
1994.
Managing problems inspeaking.
Speech Communication, 15:243- 250.Nils DahlbKck and Arne JSnsson.
1998.
A codingmanual for the linkSping dialogue model, unpub-lished manuscript.Pierre Dillenbourg, David Traum, and DanielSchneider.
1996.
Grounding in multi-modal task-oriented collaboration.
In Proceedings of the Eu-ropean Conference on AI in Education.Discourse Resource Initiative.
1997.
Standards fordialogue coding in natural language processing.Report no.
167, Dagstuhl-Seminar.A.
I. Goldman.
1970.
A Theory of Human Action.Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
At-tention, intention, and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204.Peter A. Heeman and James Allen.
1994.
TheTRAINS 93 dialogues.
TRAINS Technical Note94-2, Department of Computer Science, Univer-sity of Rochester.Peter A. Heeman and James F. Allen.
1995.
TheTrains spoken dialog corpus.
CD-ROM, Linguis-tics Data Consortium, April.Julia Hirschberg and Christine Nakatani.
1996.A prosodic analysis of discourse segments indirection-giving monologues.
In Proceedings ofthe34th Annual Meeting of the A CL, Santa Cruz.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Diane J. Litman, Shimei Pan, and Marilyn A.Walker.
1998.
Evaluating response strategies in aweb-based spoken dialogue agent.
In ProceedingsCOLING-ACL-98.Karen Lochbaum.
1994.
Using Collaborative Plansto Model the Intentional Structure of Discourse.Ph.D.
thesis, Harvard University.
Available asTechnical Report 25-94.Christine H. Nakatani and David R. Traum.
1999.Coding discourse structure in dialogue (version1.0).
Technical Report UMIACS-TR-99-03, Uni-versity of Maryland.Christine H. Nakatani, Barbara Grosz, David Ahn,and Julia Hirschberg.
1995.
Instructions for anno-tating discourse.
Technical Report 21-95, Centerfor Research in Computing Technology, HarvardUniversity, Cambridge, MA, September.Rebecca Passonneau and Diane Litman.
1997.
Dis-course segmentation by human and automatedmeans.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1):103-140.Martha E. Pollack.
1986.
Inferring Domain Plansin Question-Answering.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Pennsylvania.S.
Siegel and N. J. Castellan.
1988.
Nonparametricstatistics for the Behavioral Sciences.
McGraw-Hill, 2nd edition.David R. Traum.
1994.
A Computational Theoryof Grounding in Natural Language Conversation.Ph.D.
thesis, Department of Computer Science,University of Rochester.
Also available as TR 545,Department of Computer Science, University ofRochester.David R. Traum.
1998.
Notes on dialogue structure.Unpublished manuscript.108
