Automat ic  S l ide  P resentat ionf rom Semant ica l ly  Annotated  DocumentsUTIYAMA MasaoShinshu Universitymutiyama@sp.shinshu-u.ac.jpHASIDA K6itiElectrotechnical Laboratoryhasida@etl.go.jpAbstractThis paper discusses how to automatically gen-erate slide shows.
The reported presenta-tion system inputs documents annotated withthe GDA tagset, an XML tagset which allowsmachines to automatically infer the semanticstructure underlying the raw documents.
Thesystem picks up important opics in the in-put document on the basis of the semantic de-pendencies and coreferences identified from thetags.
This topic selection depends also on inter-actions with the audience, leading to dynamicadaptation of the presentation.
A slide is com-posed for each topic by extracting relevant sen-tences and paraphrasing them to an itemizedsummary.
Some heuristics are employed herefor paraphrasing and layout.
Since the GDAtagset is independent of the domain and styleof documents and applicable to diverse natu-ral languages, the reported system is also do-main/style independent and easy to adapt todifferent languages.1 IntroductionA presentation of information content must be adaptedto the context.
A problem arises here because of diversetypes of contexts mainly due to the audience's idiosyn-cratic needs, backgrounds, and so forth.
Adaptation bylearning \[Perkovitz and Etzioni, 1997; 1998\] cannot pro-vide a full solution here, because individual informationseekers' profiles and contexts are unpredictable from pastexperiences.
It is essentially necessary to dynamicallycustomize a presentation through interactions with theaudience, as human presenters normally do.In the present paper we discuss how to automaticallygenerate slide shows from semantically annotated docu-ments, in such a way that the presentation can be dy-namically adapted to the audience.
The reported presen-tation system detects important topics in the input doc-ument and composes a slide for each topic by extractingand paraphrasing relevant Sentences.
This whole processtakes into consideration not only the semantic structureof the given document but also interactions with the au-dience.
So the slide show can be dynamically customizedby reflecting requests and queries from the audience dur-ing the presentation.Each slide is typically an itemized summary of a topicin the original document.
Generating such slides andcoordinating them to meet he audience's needs involvesa lot more drastic reformation of the original documentthan mere extraction of sentences in traditional sum-marization, so that accurate semantic structure of thedocument is necessary.
We hence assume that the inputdocuments come with GDA (Global Document Annota-tion) tags \[Hasida, 1997; Nagao and Hasida, 1998\] em-bedded.
The GDA tagset is an XML (eXtensible MarkupLanguage) tagset which allows machines to automati-cally infer the semantic structures (including pragmaticstructures) underlying the raw documents.Under the current state of the art, GDA-tagging canbe only semiautomatic and calls for manual correction.The cost involved here pays, because an annotated docu-ment is a generic form of information content from whichto compose diverse types of presentations, potentially in-volving summarization, narration, visualization, transla-tion, information retrieval, information extraction, andso forth.
The slide presentation system reported belowaddresses a core technology in this broad setting.
In therest of the paper, we first outline the GDA tagset, anddiscuss how to extract opics from the input documentand to generate slides for them by exploiting the tags.2 The  GDA TagsetGDA is a project to make WWW texts machine-understandable on the basis of a. linguistic tag set, andto develop applications such as content-based presenta-tion, retrieval, question-answering, summarization, andtranslation with much higher quality than before.
GDAthus proposes an integrated global platform for elec-tronic content authoring, presentation, and reuse.
TheGDA tagset 1 is based on XML, and designed as compat-ible as possible with HTML, and TEI 2, etc., incorporat-lhttp ://~w.
etl.
go.
jp/et I/nl/GDA/t agset, html2http://www.uic.edu:80/orgs/tei/25ing insights from EAGLES s, Penn TreeBank \[Marcus etal., 1993\], and so forth.Described below is a minimal outline of the GDAtagset necessary for the rest of the discussion.
Parse-tree bracketing, semantic relation, and coreference areessential for slide presentation, as with many other ap-plications uch as translation.
Further details, concern-ing coordination, scoping, illocutionary act, and so on,are omitted.2.1 Parse-Tree BracketingAs the primary purpose of GDA tagging is to encode se-mantic structure, syntactic annotation is exploited onlyas far as it contributes to semantic encoding.
Also, syn-tactic tags are designed to simplify syntactic annotationby minimizing the number of tags and accordingly thedepth of embedding among them.An example of a GDA-tagged sentence is shown inFigure 1.
<su> means sentential unit.
<np>, <v>, and<su><np rel="sbj">time</np><v>flies</v><adp>like<np>an arrow</np></adp></su>Figure 1: A GDA-tagged sentence.<adp> stand for noun phrase, verb, and adnominal oradverbial phrase.<su> and the tags whose name end with 'p' (such as<adp> and <vp>) are called phrasal tags.
In a sentence,an element (a text span enclosed in a begin tag and thecorresponding end tag) is usually a syntactic onstituent.The elements enclosed in phrasal tags are phrasal ele-ments, which cannot be the head of larger elements.
Soin Figure 1 'flies' is specified to be the head of the <su>element and 'like' the head of the <adp> element.2.2 Semant ic  RelationThe te l  attribute ncodes a relationship in which thecurrent element stands with respect o the element thatit syntactically depends on.
Its value represents a binaryrelation, which may be a grammatical function such asSUBJECT, a thematic role such as AGENT, PATIENT, RE-CIPIENT, or a rhetorical relation such as CAUSE, CONCES-SION, and ELABORATION.
Grammatical functions areused to encode semantic relation assuming that a dic-tionary is availableby which to associate grammaticalfunctions with thematic roles for lexical items such asverbs.
Thematic roles and rhetorical relations are alsoconflated, because the distinction between them is oftenvague.
For instance, CONCESSION may be both intrasen-tential and intersentential relation.3http://www.ilc.pi.cnr.it/EAGLES/home.html2.3 Core ferenceAs discussed later, coreferences play a major role in slidepresentation, id, eq, ctp, sub and sup attributes aremainly used to encode coreferences.
Each element mayhave an identifier as the value for the id attribute.
Coref-erent expression should have the eq attribute with itsantecedent's id value.
An example follows:<np id="jO">John</np> beats<adp eq="jO">his</adp> dog.When the shared semantic ontent is not the referent butthe type (kind,set,etc) of referents, the ctp attribute isused.You bought <np id="cl">a car</np>.I bought <np ctp="cl">one</np>, too.The values for the re l  attribute also function as at-tributes, called relational attributes.
A zero anaphorais encoded by a relational attribute.Tom visited <np id="ml">Mary</np>.He had <v iob="ml">brought</v> apresent.iob="ml" means that the indirect object of brought iselement ml, that is, Mary.Other relational attributes in this connection i cludesub and sup.
sub represents subset, part, or element.An example is:She has <np id="bl">many books</np>.<namep sub="bl"> ' ' Alice ~ s Adventuresin Wonderland ~ ~</namep> is herfavorite.sup is the inverse of sub, i.e., includer of any sort, whichis superset as to subset, whole as to part, or set as toelement.3 Making  S l ide  ShowWe have developed a system which generates slide showsfrom GDA-tagged ocuments.
Our method for slide pre-sentation consists of two aspects.
The first is to detecttopics in the given document.
The second aspect is togenerate slides for the topics and organize them to aslide show.
The latter employs ome language-dependentheuristics.
But neither aspect uses any heuristics de-pendent on the domain and/or style of documents.
Soour method is potentially applicable to any GDA-taggeddocuments.3.1 Top ic  Detect ionTopics are often represented by important words and/orphrases in the documents.
A traditional method fortopic identification is to use word/phrase-occurrence fre-quencies to extract such expressions.
Such a method isnot adequate for extracting topics, however, due to thefollowing reasons:1.
A word is often too short to fully reresent a topic.2.
A topic is often represented by a variety of expres-sions.26For example, if we count the frequencies of the wordsin an article of the Wall Street Journal, which is in Figure2, discard the words whose frequencies are less than two,and drop stop words, then we getPCs(6), Apple(5), PC(3), data(3), comput-ers(3), years(2), year(2), market(2), IBM(2),times(2), Gates(2), business(2),where the numbers are the frequencies.
From this list,we know the article is about PCs.
But it is doubtfulthat the list distinguishes the article from other articleswhich also describe PCs.To remedy these problems, we may extract word bi-grams in addition to word unigrams or use a stemmer tonormalize expressions.
But these are not fundamentalsolutions.Instead we use semantic dependencies and corefer-ences for identifying topics.
First we collect syntacticsubjects and classify them according to their referents,and then discard the classes consisting of less than two el-ements.
Next, we choose representative expressions fromthese classes and regard them as topics.
A representativeexpression of a class is the element which is assigned theid attribute related with the class unless the element iselaborated by another element.
If it is elaborated, thenthe elaborating expression is selected as representative.For example, we can extract the following four topicsfrom the WSJ article.?
the Apple I I ,  Commodore Pet and Tandy TRS (5)?
Apple I I  (2)?
many pioneer PC contributors (4)?
IBM (2)where the numbers are the sizes of the classes.
Notethat "the Apple I I ,  Commodore Pet and Tandy TRS"does not have an id attr ibute because it is a corefer-ence expression whose antecedent is "THREE COM-PUTERS THAT CHANGED the face of personal com-puting."
Nevertheless it is selected as a topic becauseit elaborates its antecedent.
Note also that "many pi-oneer PC contributors" is not a subject but it is se-lected as the representative expression of "William Gatesand Paul Allen," "Gates," Alan F. Shugart,"and "Den-nis Hayes and Dale Heatherington" because it has an idattribute and is pointed by the other expressions withsub relation.We believe that the expressions extracted by usingsyntactic and coreference information is much more ap-propriate for topics than the ones based on word fre-quencies.
It is, however, a future work to confirm itexperimentally.Topic  Se lect ionFrequency is not enough to distinguish the importancesof topics (words and/or phrases) because different top-ics often have the same frequency.
So we use a sort ofspreading activation \[Nagao and Hasida, 1998\] to calcu-late the importance of elements.
A GDA-tagged doc-ument is regarded as a network in which nodes corre-spond to GDA elements and links represent the syntacticDuring its centennial year, The Wall Street Journal will re-port events of the past century that stand as milestones ofAmerican business history.
THREE COMPUTERS THATCHANGED the face of personal computing were launchedin 1977.
That year the Apple II, Commodore Pet and TandyTRS came to market.
The computers were crude by today'sstandards.
Apple II owners, for example, had to use theirtelevision sets as screens and stored data on audiocassettes.But Apple II was a major advance from Apple I, which wasbuilt in a garage by Stephen Wozniak and Steven Jobs forhobbyists uch as the Homebrew Computer Club.
In addi-tion, the Apple II was an affordable $1,298.
Crude as theywere, these early PCs triggered explosive product develop-ment in desktop models for the home and office.
Big main-frame computers for business had been around for years.But the new 1977 PCs - unlike earlier built-from-kit typessuch as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI - had keyboards and couldstore about two pages of data in their memories.
CurrentPCs are more than 50 times faster and have memory capac-ity 500 times greater than their 1977 counterparts.
Therewere many pioneer PC contributors.
William Gates andPaul Allen in 1975 developed an early language-housekeepersystem for PCs, and Gates became an industry billionairesix years after IBM adapted one of these versions in 1981.Alan F. Shugart, currently chairman of Seagate Technology,led the team that developed the disk drives for PCs.
Den-nis Hayes and Dale Heatherington, two Atlanta engineers,were co-developers of the internal modems that allow PCs toshare data via the telephone.
IBM, the world leader in com-puters, didn't offer its first PC until August 1981 as manyother companies entered the market.
Today, PC shipmentsannually total some $38.3 billion world-wide.Figure 2: An article of the Wall Street Journal27dominance and semantic relationships described before.That is, this network is the tree of GDA elements pluscross-reference links among the nodes therein.
Spread-ing activation applies to this network.
It is performedrespecting the condition that two elements should havethe same activation value if either they are coreferent orone of them is a syntactic head of the other.When we apply spreading activation to the WSJ arti-cle, we get the following activation values for the topics:the Apple II , Commodore Pet and Tandy ?
(9.61)TRS?
(7.29)?
(4.67)?
(4.65)many pioneer PC contributorsIBMApple IIWe can pick up the top two as the most importanttopics which will be presented in the slide show if wediscard the topics whose activation values are smallerthan a half of that of the top topic.
We can also displaythis whole list to the audience so that he/she/they canchoose topics to be presented in the rest of the slide show.3.2  S l ide  Generat ionA slide show is created by composing a slide for eachtopic selected as discussed above.
In the current imple-mentation of the slide presentation system, each slide isbasically an itemized summary of the segment concern-ing the topic.The initial slide may be a table of contents of the wholeslide show, which is compiled by listing the topics.
Eachslide in the main body of the presentation is composedby following the steps below.
Here a topical element isanGDA element linked with the topic via the eq, ctp, sub,or sup relation.
A topical element which is the subjectof a whole sentence is called a topical subject.1.
Let the topic be the heading of the slide.2.
Extract important sentences which contain topicalsubjects.3.
Remove redundant sentences, uch as one elabo-rated by another extracted sentence, where elabo-ration is encoded by the e la relation.4.
Itemize the remaining sentences by the followingheuristics, among many others.
(a) Prune unimportant expressions such as some(typically unrestrictive) relative clauses and ap-positive phrases.
(b) Remove the topical subjects linked with thetopic through the eq or ctp relation.
(c) Pronominalize non-subject opical elementslinked with the topic through the eq or ctprelation.
(d) Emphasize the topical elements linked with thetopic through the sub or sup relation.
(e) Replace non-topical anaphoric elements withtheir antecedents.if) Move the elements preceding the removed top-ical subjects to the end of the sentences.
(g) Decompose coordinate structures whose con-junctions are and, as well as, not only ~ butalso, etc.
into separate items.Heuristics (a) through (g) are specific to English, butit is straightforward to adapt them to other languages.The above WSJ article eventually gives rise to the threeslides in Figure 3, Figure 4, and Figure 5.Contents1.
The Apple II, Commodore Pet andTandy TRS2.
Many Pioneer PC ContributorsFigure 3: The first slide.The Apple II, Commodore  Petand Tandy TRS?
came to market in 1977.?
were crude.?
triggered explosive productdevelopment.?
had keyboards.?
could store about two pages of data.Figure 4: The second slide.The first slide in Figure 3 is the table of contents.The second slide is titled by the first topic in the article,followed by a list of items.
To compose this list, initiallythe following sentences are picked up which talk aboutthe topic.1.
THREE COMPUTERS THAT CHANGED the faceof personal computing were launched in 1977.2.
That year the Apple II, Commodore Pet and TandyTRS came to market.3.
The computers were crude by today's tandards.4.
Crude as they were, these early PCs triggered ex-plosive product development in desktop models forthe home and office.28Many Pioneer PC Contributors?
Will iam Gates and Pau l  Al lenin 1975 developed an earlylanguage-housekeeper system.?
Gates became an industry billionaire.?
A lan  F. Shugar t  led the team thatdeveloped the disk drives.?
Dennis Hayes and DaleHeatherington were co-developersof the internal modems.Figure 5: The third slide.5.
But the new 1977 PCs - unlike earlier built-from-kit types such as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI - hadkeyboards and could store about two pages of datain their memories.The first sentence is abandoned because it is elabo-rated by the second.
In the other sentences, unneces-sary subexpressions are pruned off due to (a) and thereferences to the topic are replaced by ?
due to (b), asfollows:1.
That year ?
came to market.2.
?
were crude.3.
?
triggered explosive product development.4.
?
had keyboards and could store about two pagesof data.The first sentence above is then paraphrased by replacing"that year" with "in 1977" due to (e) and moving it atthe end due to (f).
The coordinate structure in the lastsentence is decomposed into two list items due to (g).The final result is the slide shown in Figure 4.The third slide is composed in essentially the sameway as the second, except that the topical subjects areemphasized ue to (d) as shown in Figure 5.
Furtherdetails are omitted.From preliminary experiments, we found that theabove heuristics work fine for many cases.
But in somecases they break down.
For example, applying heuris-tic (a) to "The Wall Street Journal will report eventsof the past century that stand as milestones of Ameri-can business history."
produces "The Wall Street Jour-nal will report events," which is not appropriate becausethe resulting sentence lacks the information ecessary todescribe what event the WSJ is going to report.
Sucha problem may be avoided if there are pragmatic tagsto encode which parts of the document somehow conveynew information.3.3 Dynamic AdaptationUnder the framework described so far, it is straightfor-ward to dynamically adapt a presentation to the audi-ence's requests.
This is done by reflecting interactionswith the audience in the evaluation of importance andtopic selection.
This adaptation of importance valua-tion and topic selection leads to reorganization of thepresentation.The current presentation system deals with a simpletype of interaction which allows the audience to issuequestions about parts of the document.
This is done intwo ways, one by clicking on the screen and the other bytyping on the keyboard.
A click on a point in a slide isto select the smallest element containing that point.
Afurther click on .the selected element is to select its par-ent element, and so forth.
Having specified a part of thedocument, whether by clicking or typing, the audiencecan then request an explanation about it.
A new slideis made and shown on the fly if the original documentcontains more information (absent in the present slide)about that phrase.
The remaining part of the presenta-tion, if any, incorporates such interaction by evaluatingthe specified phrase more importance than otherwise.For instance, suppose the audience asks about 'IBM'at some point in the slide show from Figure 3 to Fig-ure 5.
Then a slide shown in Figure 6 will be composedIBM?
adapted an earlylanguage-housekeeper system in 1981.?
did n't offer its first PC until August1981.Figure 6: An improvised slide.extempore.4 Concluding RemarksWe have discussed automatic generation of slide presen-tations from semantically annotated ocuments.
The re-ported presentation system first detects important topicsin the given document and then creates a slide for eachtopic.
Coreferences play a central role in both topic iden-tification and paraphrasing summarization.The presentation can be dynamically customized byreflecting the interaction with the audience in topic selec-tion and importance valuation.
Since the GDA tagsetis independent of the domain andsty le  of documentsand also applicable to diverse natural anguages, the re-ported system is domain/style-free and easy to adapt todifferent languages as well.There is no established formal method for evaluatinga technology such as slide presentation.
We are henceattempting to evaluate partial aspects of the reported29method, such as topic selection and paraphrasing.
Amore synthetic evaluation is a future work.There are several avenues along which to improve orextend the reported system.
First, it should be easyto incorporate figures and tables into the slides from theoriginal document.
These non-textual materials can alsobe treated as GDA elements and processed in the sameway as text elements with respect o importance valua-tion.
Second, textual materials could often be renderedvisually more perspicuous than a mere list of items.
Forinstance, some sorts of textual content could be natu-rally depicted by a graph with labeled nodes and ar-rows, on the basis of spatial metaphors.
Third, not justsubjecthood but also other grammatical functions andanaphoricity of the relevant expressions could be used toidentify topics.
The intuitions behind centering theory\[Grosz et al, 1995\] may be useful here.
Finally, moresophisticated types of interaction than described aboveare desirable and feasible, including question answering.Re ferences\[Grosz et al, 1995\] Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi,and Scott Weinstein.
Centering: A framework formodeling the local coherence of discource.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 21(2):203-225, 1995.\[Hasida, 1997\] K6iti Hasida.
Global Document Anno-tation.
In Natural Language Processing Pacific RimSymposium '97, 1997.\[Marcus et al, 1993\] Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice San-torini, and Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz.
Building a largeannotated corpus of english: the penn treebank.
Com-putational Linguistics, 19(2):313-330, 1993.\[Nagao and Hasida~ 1998\] Katasi Nagao and K6itiHasida.
Automatic text summarization based on theGlobal Document Annotation.
In COLING-ACL '98,pages 917-921, 1998.\[Perkovitz and Etzioni, 1997\] Mike Perkovitz and OrenEtzioni.
Adaptive web sites: an AI challenge.
In IJ-CAI '97, 1997.\[Perkovitz and Etzioni, 1998\] Mike Perkovitz and OrenEtzioni.
Adaptive web sites: Automatically synthesiz-ing web pages.
In AAAI  '98, 1998.30
