Coreference-oriented Interlingual Slot Structure & MachineTranslation,Jes6s Peral, Manuel Palomar and Antonio FerrdndezResearch Group on Language Processing and Information Systems.Department of Software and Computing Systems.
University of Alicante03690 San Vicente del Raspeig.
Alicante, Spain,{jperal, mpalomar, antonio}@dlsi.ua.esAbstractOne of the main problems of manycommercial Machine Translation (MT) andexperimental systems is that they do not carryout a correct pronominal naphora generation.As mentioned in Mitkov (1996), solving theanaphora nd extracting the antecedent arekey issues in a correct translation.In this paper, we propose an Interlingualmechanism that we have called lnterlingualSlot Structure (ISS) based on Slot Structure(SS) presented in Ferrfindez et al (1997).
TheSS stores the lexical, syntactic, morphologicand semantic information of every constituentof the grammar.
The mechanism 1SS allows usto translate pronouns between differentlanguages.
In this paper, we have proposedand evaluated ISS for the translation betweenSpanish and English languages.
We havecompared pronominal anaphora resolutionboth in English and Spanish to accomplish astudy of the existing discrepancies betweentwo languages.This mechanism could be added to a MTsystem such as an additional module to solveanaphora generation problem.IntroductionAccording to Mitkov (1996), the establishment ofthe antecedents of anaphora is of crucialimportance for a correct ranslation.
It is essentialto solve the anaphoric relation when a language istranslated into one that marks the pronoun gender.On the other hand, anaphora resolution is vitalwhen translating discourse rather than isolatedsentences since the anaphoric references topreceding discourse ntities have to be identified.Unfortunately, the majority of MachineTranslation (MT) systems do not deal withanaphora resolution and their successful operationusually does not go beyond the sentence l vel.Another important aspect in automatic translationof pronouns, as mentioned in Mitkov (1996),consists on the application of two possibletechniques: translation or reconstruction ofreferential expressions.In the first technique, source language pronounsare directly translated into target languagepronouns without studying their relation withother words in the text.The second technique considers that the pronounsare not autonomous in their meaning/function butdependent on other units in the text.
Then, a morenatural way to treat pronouns in MT would be thefollowing: (a) analysis has to determine thereference structure of the source text, i.e.coreference/cospecification relationships betweenanaphora nd antecedents have to be determined,(b) this is the only information that is conveyed tothe target language generator, (c) the targetlanguage generator generates the appropriatetarget language surface xpression as a function ofthe target equivalent of the source antecedentand/or according to the rules of this language.Mitkov et al (1995) adopt a similar approach.In this work, we present an Interlingual (formallanguage without' ambiguity) mechanism proposalbased on the second technique.
Basically, astructure that stores the anaphora and itsantecedent in the source language is used.
Fromthis structure, a similar one in the target languageis generated.
Using this new structure we will beable to generate the final surface structure of theoriginal sentence.I This paper has been supported by the CICYT number TIC97-0671-C02-02.69In the following section we will describe thegeneral purpose anaphora resolution system.
Thefollowing section will show the anaphoraresolution module, where we will focus on thedifferences between English and Spanish systemand we will report some evaluation results.
Afterthat, we will present our Interlingual mechanismbased on the English-Spanish discrepancyanalysis.
Finally, we will discuss the evaluation ofsome commercial MT systems with theirproblems in pronouns translation and we willstudy the solution with our proposal.1 General purpose anaphora resolutionsystemThe general purpose anaphora resolution systemwith our Interlingual module is shown inFigure 1.
It can be observed that there are twoprocesses in parallel, corresponding to anaphoraresolution in English and Spanish.
These twoprocesses are independent of each other and theyare connected by means of the Interlingualmechanism.
The input of each process is agrammar defined by means of the grammaticalformalism SUG (Slot Unification Grammar)Ferrfindez et al (1997), Ferrhndez (1998a).
Atranslator which transforms rules SUG into Prologclauses has been developed.
This translator willprovide a Prolog program that will parse eachsentence.
This system can carry out a partial orfull parsing of the text with the same parser andgrammar.
In this paper we will use a partialparsing (Slot Unification Partial Parser, SUPP).This partial parser SUPP described inMartinez-Barco et al (1998), works onunrestricted corpus that contains the words taggedwith their obtained grammatical categories fromthe output of a "part-of-speech (POS) tagger".
Inthis paper, we have" used bilingual corpus (BlueBook, English and Spanish) CRATER (1994) forthe evaluation of anaphora resolution module.The output of the parsing module will be what wehave called Slot Structure (henceforth SS) thatstores the necessary information for linguisticphenomena resolution.
This SS will be the inputfor the following module in which we deal withanaphora resolution as well as other linguisticphenomena (extraposition, ellipsis, ...).After applying the linguistic phenomenaresolution algorithm we obtain a new slotstructure (SS) that will store both the anaphoraand their antecedents.
This new structure in thesource language will be the input for theInterlingual mechanism (Interlingual SlotStructure, ISS), which will obtain thecorresponding slot structure in the targetlanguage.
Using this new structure we will be ableto generate the final surface structure of theoriginal sentence.Syntactic analysis \] Syntactic analysis module (SUPP) module (SUPP)Slot Structure(SS) I Slot Structure(SS)Anaphora resolution mdule \[ Anaphora resolution mduleSS'without~aphora \] ~ SS'withoutanaphoraFigure 1.2 The anaphora resolution moduleIn this section we will describe the anaphoraresolution module of our system.
This sectionconsists of two subsections.
In the first one weshow the algorithm for anaphora resolution.
Next,we show the evaluation of the module.2.1 The algorithmWe are going to describe an algorithm that dealswith discourse anaphora in unrestricted textsusing partial or full parsing.
It is based on theprocess described in Figure 1.
So, this processwill be applied after the parsing of a sentence.This algorithm is shown in Figure 2 and it candeal with pronominal anaphora, surface-countanaphora and one-anaphora s is shown inFerrfindez (1998a).
This algorithm will use a SlotStructure (SS) corresponding to the output of theparsing module and a list of antecedents.
This listconsists of the slot structures of all the previouslyparsed noun phrases.
For each anaphor in this SS,several constraints and preferences will beapplied.
The output of this algorithm consists on a70new SS (SS), where each anaphor has been stord~dwith its correct antecedent.Parse a sentence.
We obtain its slot structure (SS1).For each anaphor in SSI :Select he antecedents ofthe previous X sentencesdepending on the kind of  anaphor in LOApply constraints (depending on the kind of  anaphor) to LOwith a result of  L l  :Case of.
"ILl1 = 1 Then:This one will be the antecedent of  the anaphorILII > 1 Then:Apply preferences (depending on the kind of  anaphor) toLI, with a result of  L2:?
The first one  of L2 will be the selected antecedentUpdate SSI with each antecedent of each anaphor with a result of  SS2.Figure 2.The detection of the anaphors and possibleantecedents is easily carried out by means of theinformation stored in each SS, i.e.
its functor andarity.
For example, the antecedents have an SSwith np as their functor, whereas the pronounshave pron.
We have considered the previous twosentences tosearch for antecedents of a pronoun.The algorithm will apply a set of constraints(morphosyntactic agreement and c-commandconstraints) to the list of possible antecedents inorder to discount candidates.
If there is only onecandidate, this one will be the antecedent of theanaphor.
Otherwise, if there is still more than onecandidate left, a set of preferences (syntacticparallelism, lexical information, reiteration of anantecedent in the text, ...) will be applied.
Thesepreferences will sort the list of remainingantecedents, and the first one will be the selectedantecedent.
These constraints and preferences aredescribed in more detail in Ferrfindez (1998a),Ferrfindez et al (1998b).2.2 Evaluation of the anaphora resolutionmoduleAs we reported in Ferr~indez et.
al (1998b), we runour system on part of the Spanish version of TheBlue Book corpus.
We did not use semanticinformation since the tagger did not provide thisinformation, but in spite of this being lacking weobtained the following figures: it detected 100%of the pronominal anaphors, medium length .ofsentences with anaphors was 48 words and forpronominal anaphora we obtained 83% accuracy(pronouns rightly solved divided by the totalnumber of pronouns).
For The Blue Book inEnglish, we have obtained the following figures:79 pronouns (it2:41, they:29, themselves:9) withan accuracy of 87.3% (it:80,5%, they:93,1%,themselves:lO0%); on average, 22 words persentence.The reason why some of the references failed ismainly due to the lack of semantic informationand due to some weakness of the Englishgrammar that we use.
For example, in thesentence (1), our system has not selected the rightantecedent (The French term "communication"and the Spanish term "comunicaci6n') due to thesymbol "(inverted commas) has been tagged as anew word, and in our grammar we have notforeseen this in a np, so the coordination of bothnp have failed.
(1) Note 2 - The French term "communicat ion "and  theSpanish term "comunicaci6n "have the currentmeaning iven in this definition, but they also acquire amore specific meaning in telecommunication (see 0009,0010 and 0011) .With reference to the differences between Englishand Spanish pronoun resolution, we haveobserved that there is a greater number of possibleantecedents for Spanish pronouns (26) than forEnglish (11).
This fact could be due to the largersize of Spanish sentences.Another difference is that constraints (c-commandand morphologic agreement) have played a moreimportant role for Spanish texts in the detection ofthe antecedent: he total number of possibleantecedents i reduced from 733 to 222 (areduction of 70%), whereas for English texts ithas only a reduction of 37.7%.
This fact is mainlydue to the fact that Spanish language has moremorphologic nformation than English.With regard to the importance of each kind ofinformation for each language, if we apply exactlythe same set of preferences in Spanish andEnglish, we obtain a 76% accuracy in English.But we have obtained a better accuracy (87.3%) ifwe give" more importance to syntactic parallelismand less importance tostatistical information.3 Interlingual mechanism focused onMT: Discrepancy analysisIn this section, we will present he Interlingualmechanism 1SS that takes as input SS' (the final2 Pleonastic pronouns it (i.e.
non-anaphoric t) have not beenincluded in these results.71slot structure obtained after applying the anaphoraresolution module) from the source language andgenerates the slot structure in the target language.In our proposal, we will study pronominalanaphora generation exclusively.
We will dividethe section in several subsections that solve thedifferent discrepancies between English andSpanish.
In Figure 3 we can see the 1SS./ SS' in source language IINTERLINGUAL ISS p ,"SS' in target languageFigure 3.3.1 Number discrepancy resolutionOne problem is generated by the discrepancybetween words of different languages that expressthe same concept.
These words can be referred toa singular pronoun in the source language and to aplural pronoun in the target language.We construct a table with the words that refer to asingular pronoun in the source language and theyrefer to a plural pronoun in the target language inorder to be able to solve these discrepanciescorrectly.
Firstly, we consult this table in theanaphora translation.
If the pronoun and itsantecedent appear in this figure, we will carry outthe indicated transformation.Anteced Span.
Anaphor i Eng.
Anaphor AntecedPolicla l~sta ~ ~ ~ They PoliceCJente l~sta ~ i i ~ They Peoplel~ste ~ i ~ They Publicl~sta ~ : ~ They Youthl~ste ~ I ~ They Cattlel~sta ~ i ~ They FolkP6blicoJuventudGanadoCrenteFigure 4.In Figure 4, some examples of these words areshown.In Figure 5 the English-Spanish translation of asentence with number discrepancies is described.In this figure, the translation of English SS 3 intoSpanish SS is shownI Thestadiumwasfullofpeoplei.
They, w reveryangrY.
I+List of antecedents:np(conc(singular),X, "the stadium"),np(conc(plural),Y, "people")Anaphor:pron(conc(plural),Z, "they")+Final Slot Structure of the Anaphor:pron(conc(plural), np(conc(plural),Y, " ~ " )+Transintion of the SS of the Anaphor into Spanishpron(conc(singular), np(conc(feminine,singular),X, "'genre"),"~sta")El estadio estaba lleno de gentei.
I~stai estaba muy disgustada.Figure 5.This SS stores for each constituent the followinginformation: constituent name, semantic andmorphologic information (structure with functorconc), discourse marker (identifier of the entity ordiscourse object) and the SS of its subconstituents.As can be observed in Figure 5 we store in the SSof pronouns the information of the rightantecedent obtained after applying the anaphoraresolution module.It is necessary to emphasise that after carrying outthe translation, the anaphor must agree in numberand person with the verb of the sentence where itappears.3.2 Gender discrepancy resolutionIn order to solve personal pronoun genderdiscrepancies, we construct a table that translatesSpanish personal pronouns into the English onesand vice versa.In the Spanish-English translation we only haveproblems with the pronoun it.
The Spanishpronoun 61/6ste (masculine singular third person)can be translated into he or it.
If the antecedent ofthe pronoun dl/dste refers to a person, we willtranslate it into he.
If the antecedent of the3 Henceforth, we will write the simplified SS where it solelyappears the relevant information for each example.72La gata~ bebia leche.
Ella iestaba muy hambrienta.List of antecedents:np(conc(fem,sing,nonhuman),X, " la gata"),np(cone( fem,sing,drinkable),Y, "leche")Anaphor:prun(cone( fern,sing,third,animal ),Z, "ella")+Final Slot Structure ofthe Anaphor:prun(conc(fern,sing,third,animal),np(conc( fem,sing,nonhuman),X, "la gata"), "ella")Tl~mslation f the SS of the Anaphor into Englishpron(conc(_,sing,third,animal),np(conc(_,sing,nonhuman),X, "the cat"), "it")?The cat i was drinking milk.
lti was very hungry.Figure 6.pronoun is an animal or a thing we will translate itinto it.
These characteristics of the antecedent canbe obtained from the semantic information that itis stored in its SS.
This semantic information canbe incorporated to the system using IRSASmethod Moreno eta/.
(1992) or another linguisticresource, like WordNet.
A similar trouble occurswith the Spanish pronoun ellaJdsta which issolved in the same way.In the example of Figure 6 the third argument ofthe conc structures of these SS is the semantictype, according to the IRSAS ontology.
As it canbe observed, the np "the cat" has the semantictype nonhuman(animal) nd for this reason thepronoun ella is translated into the Englishpronoun it.fSPANISHYo (~rst person singular)Td (second person singular) "tUsted (second person singular)Vosotros (masculine second person plural)Vosotras (feminine second person plural)Ustedes (second person plural)El (masculine third pei'son singular)Ella (feminine third person singular)Este (masculine third person singular)\[;sta (feminine thirdperson singular)Nosotros (masculine first person plural)Nosotras (feminine first person plural) }Ellos (masculine thirdpersonplural) "1Elias (feminine third person plural) yIIIIIIIIIFigure .ENGLISH~-- !
~rst person singular)You (secondperson sing.
andpl.
)He (masculine third person singular) "1It (third person singular)She (feminine third person singular) "~It (third person singular)He (masculine third person singular) "1I t  (third person singular)She (feminine third person singular) "1It (third person singular)We (first person plural)? "
They (thirdpersonplural)The table of Figure 7 is used for the remainingpronouns and a direct conversion into English ismade.We have analysed that Spanish has moremorphologic information than English, which isextremely relevant in the English-Spanishtranslation.
In order to solve this problem and tochoose the right Spanish pronoun we must obtainthe gender and number information from theantecedent of the anaphora and carry out thetranslation.
The pronoun it involves a series ofproblems since it can be translated into fourdifferent Spanish pronouns (dl, ella, dste, dsta).These Spanish pronouns refer to both animals andthings, but normally dl/ella refers to animals anddste/dsta refers to things.
Therefore, in ourautomatic Interlingual mechanism, when theantecedent of the pronoun is an animal it istranslated into dl/ella and when it is a thing it istranslated into dste/dsta, since it is the mostcommon use in Spanish.Finally, an additional difficulty exists in thetranslation of the pronoun you.
In Spanish, thereare two pronouns for the singular second person(tzi or usted) and three pronouns for the pluralsecond person (vosotros/vosotras or ustedes).Basically, the difference lies on which thepronouns tfdvosotros/vosotras are used in an73informal language (colloquial) whereasusted/ustedes are used in a formal one.
Thisimplies that to have a specific knowledge of thesituation is necessary to be able to choose theright pronoun.
Our proposal does not carry outword sense disambiguation and, simply, thecolloquial pronouns t~/vosotros/vosotras will bechosen in these cases.3.3 Syntactic discrepancy resolutionThis discrepancy is due to the fact that the surfacestructures of the Spanish sentences are moreflexible than the English ones.
The constituents ofthe Spanish sentences can appear in any positionof the sentence.
In orde?
to carry out a correcttranslation i to English, we must firstly reorganisethe Spanish sentence.
Nevertheless, in theEnglish-Spanish translation, in general, thisreorganisation is not necessary and a directtranslation can be carried out. ~ (literally: To Peter him saw yesterday)I saw Peter yesterday?
f~ of the initial sentence in Spanish:sentencePP(pp(prep(A), np(eedro)), pron(Io), verb(vO,freeWord(ayer))SS of the verb:verb(cone( sing,firstPerson ,pas0,Z , "m ~')?Final Slot Structure of the lniti~ sentence inSpanish:sentencePP(pron(yo), verb(w'), pp(prep(A), np(Pedro)),freeWnrd(ayer))Translation of the sentence into English:sentencePP(pron(/), verb(saw), np(Peter),freeWord(yesterday))Figure 8.Let us see an example with the Spanish sentence"A Pedro 1o vi ayer" (1 saw Peter yesterday).
Inthis sentence, the object of the verb appears beforethe verb (in the position of the theoreticallysubject) and the subject is omitted.
Moreover,there is a pronoun, 1o (him) that functions ascomplement of the verb vi (saw).
This pronoun inSpanish refers to the object of the verb, Pedro(Peter), when it is moved from its theoreticalplace after the verb (as it occurs in this sentence).In this sentence, the pronominal subject has beenomitted.
We can find out the subject since theverb is in first person and singular (informationstored into its conc structure), so the subjectwould be the pronoun yo (1).
Therefore, thesolution would be a new SS in which the order ofthe constituents i  the usual in English: subject,verb, complements of the verb.In Figure 8, we can see this process graphically.In this sentence, the pp ("a Pedro ") functions as aindirect object of the verb (because it has thepreposition a (to)), and the subject of the verb hasto be in first person and singular.
Afterreorganising the sentence, we carry out thetranslation of each constituent.
The words thathave not been parsed (freeWord) are translatedinto the appropriate words in the target language.3.4 Elliptical zero-subject constructionresolutionOmitting the pronominal subject is usual inSpanish.
In these cases, we get the number andperson information from the verb to obtain thecorresponding English pronoun.Pedro gan6 el partido de tenis.
~ $61o perdi6 un set.
\]?SS of the sentencesentence(np("Pedro"), vp("gon6 el paido de tenis")sentence( , vp("Sdlo perdi6 un set")verb( eonc(past~thirdPerson,sing,animal,inorganic ) ,X,"perdi6")Omitted Anaphor:pron( conc(_,sing,third,animal),Z, "~l/ella")?Final Slot Structure of the Anaphor: \]ipron( conc(m ase,sing,third,anim al), I np( con e(masc~sin f~humen),X, "Peter"), "~1") ?Translation of the SS of the Anaphor into English \]ipron( cone( mase,sing,third,anim al), I np(conc(mase,sing,human),X, "Peter"), "he")Peter won the tennis match.
He only lost one set.
I 1IFigure 9.We can check the omission of the pronominalsubject of a sentence by means of the SS of thesentence as it is shown in Figure 9.
In this figure,we know that the subject of the sentence has beenomitted due to the Prolog variable that we find.When it is omitted in the sentence, the SS wouldhave a Prolog variable in the slot corresponding tothis noun phrase.
We can obtain the informationcorresponding to the subject from the verb of thesentence.
In this figure, it would be third person,74singular and masculine or feminine.
With theseomitted pronominal anaphors, we will apply thepreference for the subject of the previous entence(if it agrees in person and number, and if it issemantically consistent).
This information is usedto find its antecedent, in this case Pedro (Peter)with masculine gender, so the final translationwould choose amasculine pronoun (he).Sometimes, we can also obtain the genderinformation of the pronoun when the verb iscopulative.
For example, in4: Pedroi vio a Anaj enel parque, fDj Estaba muy guapa (Peteri saw Ann~in the park.
Shej was very beautiful).
In thisexample, the verb estaba (was) is copulative, soits subject has to agree in gender and number withits object.
In this way, we can obtain the genderinformation from the object, guapa (beautifulwoman), that has feminine gender, so the omittedpronoun would be she instead of he.4 Commercial MT system evaluationand discussionIn this section, we evaluate different commercialMT systems analysing their deficiencies intranslating pronominal anaphora.
We study howMT systems deal with the presenteddiscrepancies.
In this paper we evaluate 4systems: (1) Key Translator Pro Version 2.0(Softkey International), (2) Power TranslatorProfessional (Globalink, Inc.), (3) SYSTRANTranslation Software (http://babelfish.altavista.com/cgi-bin/translate) nd(4) DosAmigos version4.0 (Worldwide Sales Corp.).In Figure 10, it can be observed the translation ofan English-Spanish sentence with genderdiscrepancies.
In (1) and (2) the pronoun they iswrongly translated into ellos (masculine plural);in (3) and (4) the pronoun is omitted.
Thepronominal subject can be omitted inSpanish.However, pronominal anaphora is alwayspresented in Spanish in our automatic 1SSmechanism.The correct translation of this anaphoricexpression in our system is the pronoun elias(feminine plural).
The information related to thegender and number must be extracted from thecorrect antecedent.Source language : Women were in the duty-free shop.
They werebuying gifts for their husbands.
(1) Mujeres sido en el exento de derechos de aduana tienda.Ellos estaban regalos comprantes para sus esposos.
(2) Las mujeres estaban en la tienda libre de impuestos.
Eiloscompraban los regalos para sus esposos.
(3) Las mujeres estaban en el departamento con franquicia.0 Compraban regalos para sus maridos.
(4) Las mujeres estuvieron en ia tienda de libre-de-impuestos.0 Estuvieron comprando regalos para sus maridos.Target language: Las mujeres estaban en la tienda iibre deimpuestos.
Elias estaban comprando regalos para sus maridos.Figure lO.In figure 11, an English-Spanish translation withgender discrepancies can be observed.
TheSpanish pronoun dl is translated into he in (1) (2)(3) and (4) while the right translation is thepronoun it.
In our proposal, we solve the problemusing semantic information of the antecedent.
Inthis case, the antecedent el mono (the monkey) isan animal, therefore, the pronoun he must betranslated into it.In figure 12, a number discrepancy can beobserved.
The word police is plural in English,while it is singular in Spanish (policia).
In (1) (2)(3) and (4) we can observed wrong translationsand pronouns that do not agree with the verb.Before the translation, the number discrepancytable is consulted and if the pronoun and itsantecedent appear in this table, we will carry outthe indicated transformation.
After the translation,the anaphor must agree in number and personwith the verb of the sentence where it appears.Source language : El mono se bebi6 la leche.
Despu6s, dl salt6entre los 6rboles.
(1) The monkey was dmnk the milk.
Afterwards, he jumpedbetween the trees.
(2) The monkey was drunk the milk.
After, he jumped betweenthe trees.
(3) The monkey drank milk.
Later, he jumped between thetrees.
(4) The monkey \[bebi6\] milk her/you/it \[Despu6s\], \[61\] \[salt6\]1~he~she/you enter the \[~boles\].Target language: The monkey drank milk.
Later, it jumpedbetween the trees.Figure 11.4 The symbol ~ in a position of the sentence marks theomitted words in that position.75Source language: The police are coming.
They are just in time.
(1) La policta viene.
Ellos son solamente entiempo.
(2) Los policlas vienen.
Ellos son simplemente en l tiempo.
(3) El policia est~ viniendo.
L~I es justa en tiempo.
(4) La policia est~ viniendo.
0 Justamente son a tiempo.Target language : La polieia es~ viniendo, l~sta ilegar~ a tiempo.F igure  12.In Figure 13, an example of  Spanish-Englishsyntactic discrepancies can be observed.
Thesystems (1) (2) (3) and (4) fail in the translation.In our mechanism, we reorganise the sentence andthen, we accomplish the translation.Source language : A Pedro 1o vi ayer.
(1) To I Ask for was seen it yesterday.
(2) To Pedro I saw it yesterday.
(3) To Pedro I saw yesterday.
(4) TO/AT Pedro saw him/you/it yesterday.Target language : I saw Peter yesterday.F igure  13.Finally, we analyse the Spanish ellipticalzero-subject construction.
In Figure 14, thesystems (1) (2) and (4) fail in the translation.
Inour proposal, we obtain the informationcorresponding to the subject from the verb of thesentence.
In this example, the pronoun must befirst or third person and singular.
We extract hegender information from the correct antecedent(feminine) and we determine that the pronoun isshe (ella), feminine third person singular.Source language : La mujer tenia hambre.
~1Comia el mel6n.
(1) The woman was hungry.
OWas catting the melon.
(2) The woman were hungry.
OWas eating the melon.
(3) The woman was hungry.
She ate the melon.
(4) The woman was being hungry.
1~he./she/you waseating themelon.Target language : The woman was hungry.
She ate the melon.Figure 14.Conc lus ionAfter the evaluation, we consider that most of theMT systems do not deal with anaphora resolutionand their successful operation usually does not gobeyond the sentence level.
We propose anInterlingual mechanism that relate pronouns indifferent languages (English-Spanish) with theinformation stored of the resolution of itsantecedent allowing us a correct translationbetween both languages.The evaluation of the pronoun translation hasbeen analysed by hand, where we have obtainedthat if the pronoun resolution is correct, itstranslation as well.
However, we have obtained inpronominal anaphora resolution: 83% and 87.3%accuracy for Spanish and English respectively.ReferencesCRATER (1994) Corpus Resources and TerminologyExtraction Project.
Proyecto financiado por laComisi6n de las Comunidades Europeas (DG-XIII).Investigadores principales Marcos, F. y S(mchez, F.Laboratorio de LingOistica Inform~ltica, Facultad deFilosofia y Letras, Univ.
Aut6noma de Madrid.Ferr/mdez, A., Palomar, M. and Moreno, L. (1997) SlotUnification Grammar.
In Proceedings of the JointConf.
on Declarative Programming, APPIA-GULP-PRODE'97 (Grado, Italy, June 1997).
pp.
523-532.Ferr~dez, A.
(1998a)Aproximaci6n computacionaltratamiento de la an6fora pronominal y de tipoadjetivo mediante gram6ticas de unificaci6n dehuecos.
Ph.D. Thesis.
Dpt.
of Lenguajes y SistemasInform~iticos.
Univ.
of Alicante, Spain, July 1998.FerrAndez A., Palomar M. and Moreno L. (1998b)Anaphora resolution in unrestricted texts with partialparsing.
In Proceedings of the 36th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics and17th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING -ACL '98 (Montreal, Canada,August 1998).
pp.
385-391.Martinez-Barco, P., Peral, J., Ferrdndez, A., Moreno,L.
and Palomar, M. (1998)Analizador Partial SUPP.In Proceedings of VI biennial IberoamericanConference on Artificial Intelligence, IBERAMIA'98(Lisbon, Portugal, October 1998).
pp.
329-341.Mitkov R., Choi S.K.
and Sharp R. (1995) Anaphoraresolution in Machine Translation.
In Proceedings ofthe Sixth International Conference on Theoreticaland Methodological Issues in Machine Translation,TMI'95 (Leuven, Belgium, July 1995).Mitkov, R. (1996) Anaphora nd machine translation.Tech.
Report.
Machine Translation Review (1996).Moreno, L., Andr6s, F. and Palomar, M. (1992)Incorporar Restricciones Sem~inticas en el AndlisisSint~ictico: IRSAS.
Procesamiento del LenguajeNatural, 12 (1992).76
