IMPROVING BRILL'S POS TAGGER FOR ANAGGLUTINATIVE LANGUAGEBe~ta MegyesiStockholm UniversityDepartment of LinguisticsComputational LinguisticsS- 10691 Stockholm, Swedenbea@ling.su.seAbstractIn this paper Brill's rule-based PoStagger is tested and adapted forHungarian.
It is shown that the presentsystem does not obtain as high accuracyfor Hungarian as it does for English (andother Germanic languages) because ofthe structural difference between theselanguages.
Hungarian, unlike English,has rich morphology, is agglutinativewith some inflectional characteristicsand has fairly free word order.
Thetagger has the greatest difficulties withparts-of-speech belonging to openclasses because of their complicatedmorphological structure.
It is shown thatthe accuracy of tagging can be increasedfrom approximately 83% to 97% bysimply changing the rule generatingmechanisms, namely the lexicaltemplates in the lexical training module.1.
IntroductionIn 1992 Eric Brill presented a rule-basedtagging system which differs from otherrule-based systems because it automaticallyinfers rules from a training corpus.
Thetagger does not use hand-crafted rules orprespecified language information, nor doesthe tagger use external lexicons.
Accordingto Brill (1992) 'there is a very small amountof general linguistic knowledge built into thesystem, but no language-specificknowledge'.
The grammar is induceddirectly from the training corpus withouthuman intervention or expert knowledge.The only additional component necessary isa small, manually and correctly annotatedcorpus - the training corpus - which servesas input to the tagger.
The system is thenable to derive lexical/morphological ndcontextual information from the trainingcorpus and 'learns' how to deduce the mostlikely part of speech tag for a word.
Oncethe training is completed, the tagger can beused to annotate new, unannotated corporabased on the tag set of the training corpus.The tagger has been trained for taggingEnglish texts with an accuracy of 97%(Brill, 1994).In this study Brill's rule-based part ofspeech (PoS) tagger is tested on Hungarian,a dissimilar language, concerning bothmorphology and syntax, to English.
Themain goal is i) to find out if Brill's system isimmediately applicable to a language, whichgreatly differs in structure from English,with a high degree of accuracy and (if not)ii) to improve the training strategies to betterfit for agglutinative/inflectional languageswith a complex morphological structure.Hungarian is basically agglutinative, i.e.grammatical relations are expressed bymeans of affixes.
Hungarian is alsoinflectional; it is difficult to assign275morphemes precisely to the different parts ofthe affixes.
The morphotactics of thepossible forms is very regular.
For example,Hungarian ouns may be analyzed as a stemfollowed by three positions in whichinflectional suffixes (for number, possessorand case) can occur.
Additionally,derivational suffixes, which change the PoSof a word, are very common and productive.Verbs, nouns, adjectives and even adverbscan be further derived.
Thus, a stem can getone or more derivational and often severalinflectional suffixes.
For example, the wordtaldlataiknak 'of their hits' consists of theverb stem talrl 'find, hit', the deverbal nounsuffix -at, the possessive singular suffix -a'his', the possessive plural suffix -i 'hits',the plural suffix -k 'their', and thedative/genitive case suffix -nak.In this study it is shown that Brill'soriginal system does not work as well forHungarian as it does for English because ofthe great dissimilarity in characteristicsbetween the two languages.
By addinglexical templates, more suitable for complexmorphological structure (agglutination andinflection), to the lexical rule generatingsystem, the accuracy can be increased from82.45% up to 97%.2.
The TaggerThe general framework of Brill's corpus-based learning is so-called Transformation-based Error-driven Learning (TEL).
Thename reflects the fact that the tagger is basedon transformations or rules, and learns bydetecting errors.Roughly, the TEL (see figure 1 below)begins with an unannotated text as inputwhich passes through the 'initial stateannotator'.
It assigns tags to the input in aheuristic fashion.
The output of the initialstate annotator is a temporary corpus, whichis then compared to a goal corpus, i.e.
thecorrectly annotated training corpus.
For eachtime the temporary corpus is passed throughthe learner, the learner produces one newrule, the single rule that improves theannotation the most compared with the goalcorpus.
It replaces the temporary corpuswith the analysis that results when this ruleis applied to it.
By this process the learnerproduces an ordered list of rules.Unannotatedcorpus1annotator\[ Temporary corpus \] \[ Goal corpus \[I Le xic aL~C~nnetre x t u alRules \]Figure 1.
Error-driven learning module in Brill' stagger (data marked by thin lines)The tagger uses TEL twice: once in alexical module deriving rules for taggingunknown words, and once in a contextualmodule for deriving rules that improve theaccuracy.A rule consists of two parts: a condition(the trigger and possibly a current ag), and aresulting tag.
The rules are instantiated froma set of predefined transformation templates.They contain uninstantiated variables andare of the form 'if trigger, change the tag Xto the tag Y' or 'if trigger, change the tag to276the tag Y (regardless of the current tag)'.The triggers in the lexical module depend onthe character(s), the 'affixes', i.e.
the first orlast one to four characters of a word and onthe following/preceding word.
For example,the lexical rulekus hassuf 3 MNmeans that if the last three characters(hassuf 3) of the word are 'kus', annotate theword with tag MN (as an adjective).
Thetriggers in the contextual module, on theother hand, depend on the current worditself, the tags or the words in the context ofthe current word.
For example, thecontextual ruleDET FN NEXTTAG DETmeans that 'change the tag DET(determiner) to the tag FN (noun) if thefollowing tag is DET'.The ideal goal of the lexical module is tofind rules that can produce the most likelytag for any word in the given language, i.e.the most frequent tag for the word inquestion considering all texts in thatlanguage.
The problem is to determine themost likely tags for unknown words, giventhe most likely tag for each word in acomparatively small set of words.
This isdone by TEL using three different lists: a listconsisting of Word Tag Frequency - triplesderived from the first half of the trainingcorpus, a list of all words that are availablesorted by decreasing frequency, and a list ofall word pairs, i.e.
bigrams.
Thus, the lexicallearner module does not use running texts.Once the tagger has learned the mostlikely tag for each word found in theannotated training corpus and the rules forpredicting the most likely tag for unknownwords, contextual rules are learned fordisambiguation.
The learner discovers ruleson the basis of the particular environments(or the context) of word tokens.The contextual learning process needs aninitially annotated text.
The input to theinitial state annotator is an untagged corpus,a running text, which is the second half ofthe annotated corpus where the tagginginformation of the words has been removed.The initial state annotator also uses a list,consisting of words with a number of tagsattached to each word, found in the first halfof the annotated corpus.
The first tag is themost likely tag for the word in question andthe rest of the tags are in no particular order.With the help of this list, a list of bigrams(the same as used in the lexical learningmodule, se above) and the lexical rules, theinitial state annotator assigns to every wordin the untagged corpus the most likely tag.In other words, it tags the known words withthe most frequent tag for the word inquestion.
The tags for the unknown wordsare computed using the lexical rules: eachunknown word is first tagged with a defaulttag and then the lexical rules are applied inorder.There is one difference between thismodule and the lexical learning module,namely that the application of the rules isrestricted in the following way: if the currentword occurs in the lexicon but the new taggiven by the rule is not one of the tagsassociated to the word in the lexicon, thenthe rule does not change the tag of this word.When tagging new text, an initial stateannotator first applies the predefined efaulttags to the unknown words (i.e.
words notbeing in the lexicon).
Then, the orderedlexical rules are applied to these words.
Theknown words are tagged with the mostlikely tag.
Finally, the ordered contextualrules are applied to all words.2773.
Testing Brill's Original Systemon Hungarian3.1 Corpora and Tag SetTwo different Hungarian corpora t were usedfor training and testing Brill's tagger.
Thecorpus used for training is the novel 1984written by George Orwell.
It consists of14,034 sentences: 99,860 tokens includingpunctuation marks, 80,668 words excludingpunctuation marks.
The corpus has beenannotated for part of speech (PoS) includinginflectional properties ( ubtags).The corpus used for testing the taggerconsisted of two texts that were extractedfrom the Hungarian 'Hand' corpus: a poemand a fairy tale, both modem literary pieceswithout archaic words.
The test corpuscontains approximately 2,500 word tokens.The tag set of the training corpusconsists of 452 PoS tags includinginflectional properties of 31 different partsof speech.3.2 Training Process and RulesThe tagger was trained on the same materialtwice: once with PoS and subtags and oncewith only PoS tags.The threshold value, required by thelexical learning module, was set to 300,meaning that the lexical learner only usedbigram contexts among the 300 mostfrequent words.
Two non-terminal tags wereused for annotating unknown words initially,depending on whether the initial letter was acapital or not.The lexical earner, used to tag unknownwords, has derived 326 rules based on 31PoS tags while it has derived 457 rulesbased on the much larger tag set, consistingof 452 PoS and subtag combinations.
NoteJ The corpora were annotated by the ResearchInstitute for Linguistics at the Hungarian Academy ofSciences (Pajzs, 1996).that if the tag set consists of a large numberof frequently occurring tags, the lexicallearner necessarily generates more rulessimply to be able to produce all these tags.On the other hand, if only PoS tags(excluding subtags) are used the first rulesscore very high, in comparison with thescores of the first rules based on PoS andsubtags.
Another difference is that the scoredecreases faster in the beginning and slowerin the end, compared to the rules based onPoS and subtags, resulting in a largeramount of rules, relative to the size of thetag set.The contextual learner, used to improvethe accuracy, derived approximately threetimes more rules based on 31 PoS tags thanit derived from the text annotated with bothPoS and subtags.
This is somewhat harder tointerpret since the output of the contextuallearner does not contain scores.
It seemsreasonable that the contextual rule learnereasier find 'globally good' rules, i.e.
rulesthat are better in the long run, since thesubtags contain important extra information,for instance about agreement.The conclusion that can be drawn fromthese facts together with the fact that the teston the training corpus achieved slightlyhigher precision using subtags, is that it isprobably more difficult to deriveinformation from words, which areannotated with only PoS tags, than fromwords whose tags include information aboutthe inflectional categories.3.3 Results and Evaluation of Brill'sOriginal TaggerThe tagger was tested both on new test textswith approximately 2500 words and on thetraining corpus.
Precision was calculated forall test texts, and recall and precision forspecific part of speech tags.
Testing on thetraining set, i.e.
using the same corpus fortraining and testing, gave the best result278(98.6% and 98.8%), as would be expected.Due to the fact that the tagger learned ruleson the same corpus as the test corpus, theoutcome of the testing is much better than itis for the other types of test texts.
The resultsdo not give a valid statement about theperformance of the system, but indicate howgood or bad the rules the system derivedfrom the training set are.
These results meanthat the tagger could not correctly orcompletely annotate approximately one inevery hundred words.In order to get a picture of the tagger'sperformance the tagger was tested on twodifferent samples other than the training set.The accuracy (i.e.
precision) of the test textswas 85.12% for PoS tags only, 82.45% forPoS tags with correct and complete subtags,and 84.44% for PoS tags with correct butnot necessarily complete subtags, see Table1 below.Since one of the test texts containedthree frequently occurring foreign propernames divergent from Hungarian morpho-phonological structure, the tagger' sperformance was also tested bypreannotation 2 of these proper names asnouns before the tagging.
Hence, the taggingperformance increased: 86.48% for PoS tagsonly, 85.98% for PoS tags with correct andcomplete subtags, and 88.06% for PoS tagswith correct but not necessarily completesubtags.
The reason for the higher accuracyin this case is that these words are unknownand have atypical Hungarian morpho-phonological structure why the tagger cannot guess their correct PoS tag by theapplication of the rules, derived fromHungarian words.
Therefore, for achievinghigher accuracy it is a good idea to handleforeign proper names before the taggingoccurs, either by preannotation or by listing2 The preannotation was done by placing two slashes(//) between the word and its tag (instead of oneslash), meaning that the tagger does not change thespecific tag.the words in the lexicon together with theircorrect ag.The accuracy can be further increased ifwe do not consider the correctness of thesubtags but only the annotation of the PoStags in the evaluation.
The accuracy in thiscase is 90.61%.Table 1.
Precision for the test corpora with andwithout he preannotation of foreign proper names inthe tests.Testcorpuscorrect agsin per centOriginaltestTest withpre-annotatednamesPoS PoS tags PoS tagstags with withonly correct i correct but!
and notcomplete necessarilysubtags completesubta~s85.12% 82.45% 84.44%86.48% 85.98% 88.06%Withoutconside-ration ofthecorrectnessof subtags87.55%90.61%In order to know which categories thetagger failed to identify, precision and recallwere calculated for each part of speechcategory of the test corpus (Megyesi, 1998).The results are given in the table below.Table 2.
Precision (correct_found/retrieved_total)and recall (correct_found~intended_total)for PoScategories of both test textsPoS tagsDET (Determiner)NM (Pronoun)FN (Noun)MN (Adjective)i IGE (Verb)INF (Infinitive)IK (Verbal Particle)HA (Adverb)SZN (Numeral)NU (Postposition)KOT (Conjunction)ISZ (Interjection)Precision Recall1.0 1.00.94 0.800.83 0.780.70 0.750.70 0.830.90 0.960.740.850.840.740.73 0.890.83 0.970.91 0.961.0 0.20To sum up the results, the tagger hasgreatest difficulties with categoriesbelonging to the open classes because of279their morphological structure andhomonymy, while grammatical categoriesare easier to detect and correctly annotate.Complex and highly developedmorphological structure and fairly free wordorder, i.e.
making positional relationshipsless important, lead to lower accuracycompared to English when using Brill'stagger on Hungarian.These results are not very promisingwhen compared with Brill's results ofEnglish test corpora which have an accuracyof 96.5% trained on 88200 words (Brill,1995:11).
The difference in accuracy mightdepend on i) the type of the training corpus,ii) the type and the size of the test corpus,and iii) the type of language structure, suchas morphology and syntax.
The corpuswhich was used to train the tagger onHungarian consisted of only one text, afiction with 'inventive' language, while Brillused a training corpus consisting of severaltypes of texts (Brill, 1995).
Also, there is adifference between the types and the sizes ofthe test corpora.
In this work, small samples,which greatly differ in type from the trainingcorpus, have been used while Brill's testcorpus was larger and probably did notdiffer from the training corpus as much as inthis study.
Nevertheless, the most significantdifference between the results lies in thetype of the: language structure, as will beshown later in this paper.I argue that the low tagging accuracy forHungarian mostly depends on the fact thatthe templates of the learner modules of thetagger are predefined in such a way that theyinclude strong language specific informationwhich does not fit Hungarian or otheragglutinative/inflectional l nguages withcomplex morphology.
The predefinedtemplates are principally based on thestructure of English and, perhaps, otherGermanic languages.The contextual templates are not asimportant for Hungarian as for English sinceHungarian has free, pragmatically orientedword order.
Also, Hungarian is a pro-droplanguage, i.e., the subject position of theverb can be left empty, which implies alarger number of contextual rules forHungarian than for English because of theparadigmatic and/or syntagmatic differencebetween personal pronouns and nouns.
Thecontextual templates however are necessaryand fit as well for Hungarian as for English.The lexical templates are, on the otherhand, of greater importance for Hungarianthan for English because of the structuraldifferences on the word level between theselanguages.
In Hungarian, the number offorms that a word can have is much greaterthan in English.
Hungarian has a greatnumber of common and productivederivational and inflectional suffixes thatcan be combined in many ways.
The majorproblem is that Hungarian is partlyinflective, i.e.
one suffix can have severalanalyses depending on the type ofgrammatical relation it expresses.Sometimes the PoS tag of the stem indicateswhich properties the particular suffix hasand sometimes the surrounding suffixesdoes the same.
When a particular suffix iscombined with the stem together with othersuffixes there are often no alternate analysis,i.e.
tag combinations for the word.
Forinstance, in the training corpus only 1.78%of the words have more than one possiblePoS tag, and 1.98% of the words have morethan one possible PoS and subtag.
On theother hand, according to Pajzs' examination(1996), more than 30% of the Hungarianlexical morphemes are homographs.For the above mentioned reasons thelexical templates are much more importantfor Hungarian than the contextual templates.Those lexical templates whose triggersdepend on the affixes of a word examinesonly the first or last four characters of aword.
In other words, defining that a lexicaltrigger is280'delete/add the suffix x where Ixl < 5'is to assert hat it is only important to look atthe last or first four letters in a word whichis often not enough for correct annotation inHungarian.
For example, the wordsiessu2nk 3 'hurry up' was annotated by thetagger as IGE_tl, i.e.
as a verb in presentindicative first person plural with indefiniteobject.
The correct annotation should beIGE_Ptl, i.e.
as a verb in the imperative (P)first person plural with the indefinite object.Because the tagger was only looking at thelast four characters -u2nk, it missed thenecessary information about the imperative -s-.Another example concerns derivationalsuffixes giving important information aboutthe PoS tag because they often change thecategory of the word.
They follow the stemof the word and may be followed bydifferent inflectional suffixes.
For example,the word f~rtatlansfigfit, in English somethinglike 'his harmlessness'alrt:atlan:salg:altharm:less:Deadjectival_noun:ACCis wrongly annotated by the tagger becauseinformation about the two derivationalsuffixes is missed if the word alrtatlansalgdoes not exist in the lexicon.
Thus, if thetagger had looked at more than fourcharacters, it would have been possible toreduce the total number of words in thelexicon.
Also, it would have been able tocreate better and more efficient rulesconcerning the morphological structure ofHungarian words.
This is especially true inthe case of the corpora used in this work,since the encoding of accentuation of thevowels is done with extra characters(numbers) which reduces the effectivelength of the affixes.
In the example above,3 The character 2 in the word annotates theaccentuation f a preceding vowel in the corpus.281siessu2nk (siesstink), at most three of the lastletters are actually examined.For Hungarian, the triggers of templatesseem to be unsuccessful because of theHungarian suffix structure of the openclasses, such as the categories noun, verband adjective.
A possible solution istherefore to change the predefined languagespecific templates to more suitable ones forthe particular language.4.
Testing Brilrs System withExtended Lexical TemplatesTo get higher performance, lexical templateshave been added to the lexical learnermodule.
These templates look at the six firstor last letters in a word.
Thus, the maximumlength of Ixl has been changed from four tosix.
The lexical templates, which have beenused for Hungarian, are the following:* Change the most likely tag (from tag X) toY if the character Z appears anywhere inthe word.
* Change the most likely tag (from tag X) toY if the current word has prefix/suffix x,Ixl < 7.
* Change the most likely tag (from tag X) toY if deleting/adding the prefix/suffix x,Ixl < 7, results in a word.
* Change the most likely tag (from tag X) toY if word W ever appears immediately tothe left/right of the word.4.1 Results and Evaluation of SystemEfficiencyAfter the changes of the lexical templatesthe tagger was trained and tested on thesame corpus and with the same tag set in thesame way as before the changes were done.Thus, all test corpora were annotated withboth PoS tags, and PoS together withsubtags.
The performance of the wholesystem has been evaluated against a total ofthree types of texts from different domains.Precision was calculated for the entire texts,both for PoS tags and PoS with subtags,based on all the tags and the individual PoStags.Testing on the training corpus gave thebest result as could be expected.
Theprecision rate increased from 98.6% to98.9% in the case of PoS annotation only,while the result with PoS and subtags wasunchanged (98.8% correct) compared to theoriginal test.In the case of the test corpus, whereforeign proper names were preannotated asnouns, the accuracy increased considerably;from 86.48% to 95.53% for PoS tags only,from 85.98% to 91.94% for PoS tags withcorrect and complete subtags, and from88.06% to 94.32% for PoS tags with correctbut not complete subtags.
Note that theprecision is highest (97%), when notconsidering the correctness of the subtags inthe evaluation.
The results are also given inTable 3 below.Table 3.
Precision for the test corpora before andafter the addition of the extra lexical templates withforeign proper names preannotated as nouns.Testcorpuscorrect agsin per centOriginaltestExtendedlexicaltemplatesPoS PoS tagstags withonly correct: andcompletesubtags86.48% 85.98%95.53% 91.94%PoS tags Withoutwith correct conside-but not ration ofnecessarily thecomplete correct-subtags ness ofsubtags88.06% 90.61%94.32% 97%Thus, we have shown that by changing thelexical templates in the lexical trainingmodule, specifically the maximum length ofthe first and last characters of a word thatthe tagger examines, the taggingperformance is greatly improved.We can assume that the extended lexicaltemplates, used in this study, also fit forother highly agglutinative languages, uch asTurkish, Finnish, Estonian, Japanese andSwahili.
In these languages, words are builtup of a long sequence of affixes similarly toHungarian.
The maximum length of thecharacters in the lexical templates should bechanged for these languages, too, in order tohandle the chain of grammaticalmorphemes.Since Hungarian also has highlyinflectional characteristics 4, it can beassumed, that Brill's tagger together withthe extended lexical templates and a largetag set would be applicable for inflectionallanguages with a higher degree of accuracy,too.
For example, in Hungarian thegrammatical morpheme -k may express firstperson singular present ense of the verb orplural of the noun.
In order to know whichtag the word should get it is essential to lookat the surrounding morphemes.However, concerning the results, it hasto be pointed out that they are based on asmall test corpus consisting ofapproximately 2500 running words.Therefore, it would be necessary to test thetagger on a larger and more balanced corpuswith different types of texts, includingfiction, poetry, non-fiction, articles fromdifferent newspapers, trade journals, etc.Additionally, since the training and thetest corpus are of different text types, itwould be very interesting to find out theaccuracy results when the tagger isevaluated on the same text type as thetraining corpus.Furthermore, for a higher accuracy itwould be necessary to train the tagger on alarger corpus with different ypes of texts oreven on several corpora because the4 Grammatical relationships are expressed bychanging the internal structure of the words by use ofinflectional suffixes which express severalgrammatical meanings at once.282likelihood of higher accuracy increases withthe size of the training corpus.
It is howeverstill difficult to find correctly annotatedbalanced Hungarian corpora.5.
Further Development of theTaggerFor higher tagging performance it wouldalso be advantageous to create a very largedictionary of the type Word Tag1 Tag2...TagN, (where the first tag is the mostfrequent tag for that word), listing allpossible tags for each word.
By using thislexicon, accuracy would be improved in twoways.
First, the number of unknown words,i.e.
words not in the training corpus, wouldbe reduced.
However, no matter how muchtext the tagger looks at there will always bea number of words that appear only a fewtimes, according to Zipf's law (frequency isroughly proportional to inverse rank).Secondly, the large dictionary wouldgive more accurate knowledge about the setof possible part of speech tags for aparticular word.
For example, the templateof the type 'Change the most likely tag fromX to Y, if...' the template would only changetag X to tag Y, if tag Y exists with aparticular word in the training corpus.
Thus,a large dictionary would reduce the errors ofthe annotation by applying better rules andincrease the speed of the contextuallearning.6.
ConclusionThis work has shown how Eric Brill's rule-based PoS tagger can be applied for highlyagglutinative languages with a high degreeof accuracy.
The results presented in thiswork show that tagging performance forlanguages with complex morphologicalstructure can be greatly improved bychanging the maximum length of thefirst/last character of a word from four to sixin the lexical templates of the lexical learnermodule.Also, it is shown that using a large tagset marking inflectional properties of a wordin the training and tagging process improvesthe accuracy, when not considering thecorrectness of the subtags at the evaluation.AcknowledgementsAbove all, I would like to thank my advisor,Prof.
Gunnel K~illgren, who always helpedand encouraged me.
Unfortunately, she wasnot able to see the fruit of this work becauseof her tragic death.Also, a thousand of thanks to NikolajLindberg for his encouragement and for hismany valuable suggestions concerning thepreparation of this work and to Sara Rydinfor reading and comments.
Thanks also tothe Hungarian Academy of Sciences forproviding me with the Hungarian corpora.ReferencesBrill, E. 1992.
A Simple Rule-Based Part ofSpeech Tagger.
In Proceedings of theDARPA Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop.
pp.
112-116.
MorganKauffman.
San Mateo, California.Brill, E. 1994.
A Report of Recent Progressin Transformation-Based Error-DrivenLearning.
ARPA-94.Brill, E. 1995.
Transformation-Based Error-Driven Learning and Natural LanguageProcessing: A Case Study in Part ofspeech Tagging.
In ComputationalLinguistics.
21:4.283Brill, E. & Marcus, M. 1992.
Tagging anUnfamiliar Text with Minimal HumanSupervision.
In Proceedings of the FallSymposium on Probabilistic Approachesto Natural Language.
1992.Megyesi, B.
1998.
Brill's Rule-Based PoSTagger for Hungarian.
Master's DegreeThesis in Computational Linguistics.Department of Linguistics, StockholmUniversity, Sweden.Megyesi, B.
1999.
Brill's Rule-Based PoSTagger with Extended Lexical Templatesfor Hungarian.
To Appear in TechnicalReport of ACAI'99Pajzs, J.
1996.
Disambiguation of suffixalstructure of Hungarian words usinginformation about part of speech andsuffixal structure of words in the context.COPERNICUS Project 621 GRAMLEX,Work package 3 - Task 3E2.
ResearchInstitute for Linguistics, HungarianAcademy of Sciences.284
