Coreference resolution in dialogues in English and PortugueseMarco RochaUniversidade Federal de Santa CatarmaDepartamento deLingua e Literatura VemficulasCentro de Comunicac,~o e Expressao88040-900 Florian6polis - Brazilmarcor@cce.ufsc.brAbstractThis paper introduces a methodology toanalyse and resolve cases of coreference indialogues in English and Portuguese.
Afour-attribute annotation to analyse cases ofanaphora was used to analyse a sample ofaround three thousand cases in eachlanguage collected in dialogue corpora.
Theinformation thus gathered was analysed bymeans of exploratory and model-buildingstatistical procedures.
A probabilistic modelwas then built on the basis of aggregatecombinations of categories across the fourattributes.
This model, in combination withdirect observation of cases, was used tobuild an antecedentqikelihood theory, whichis at present being organised as a decisiontree for the purpose of testing with a viewfor automatic annotation and subsequentresolution of coreference cases in dialoguesin both languages.
It is thought hat thefindings could be extended to Spanish,Italian and possibly French.IntroductionThe problem of anaphora resolution has receiveda great deal of attention in theoretical linguistics,psycholinguistics and also in natural anguageprocessing.
Perhaps as an inevitableconsequence of such a large body of workrelated to the subject, the term anaphora hasbeen used to mean a varying range ofphenomena.Approaches that build on the concept ofcohesion ties (Halliday and Hasan 1976) analyseanaphoric relations within a broad framework ofdiscourse or textual cohesion.
As a result, thenotion of anaphora, which had been initiallylinked quite closely to the older concept ofpronominalisation, has been expanded to includeall referring expressions with some form ofantecedent either explicitly introduced inthe textor inferable from it.In an earlier study, Webber (1979) had alreadywidened the scope of anaphoric relations, byincluding nonpronominal noun phrases whichrefer back to antecedents in the discourse; theso-called one-anaphora; and verb-phrasedeletions.
Gradually, the distinction betweenanaphoric and coreference r lations became lessand less relevant in approaches concerned withrobust implementation of systems with acapacity for anaphora resolution.
The presentstudy follows the same sort of approach.Therefore, the term coreference in the presentstudy is used to refer to all pronominal forms,anaphoric nonpronominal noun phrases, oneanaphora, numerals when used as heads of nounphrases, prepositional phrases used as responsesto questions or statements, responses toquestions in general (including yes, no and shortanswers using auxiliaries), so anaphora, do-phrase anaphora nd whatever other elements indialogues were thought to be referringexpressions with an identifiable antecedent.The next section describes the annotationscheme used to analyse the coreference cases.The third section presents the antecedent-likelihood (henceforth, AL) theory, which is theway information collected by means of theannotation was organised so as to be used toresolve new cases of coreference in otherdialogues.
The decision trees which are to bebuilt on the basis of the AL theory are explainedin the subsequent section, whereas the final53section concludes with a discussion of resultsobtained so far and an analysis of futuredevelopments.2 The annotation of coreference casesThe operational routine of data collection wassimply to search manually for tokens whichcoreferred in dialogue samples.
Samplesconsisted of full dialogues for Portuguese butnot for English, as a result of the samplingtechnique used in the English corpus (theLondon-Lund).
Whenever a case of coreferencewas found, it was classified, according to fourattributes, namely: type of anaphor; type ofantecedent; topical role of the antecedent; andprocessing strategy.The first a~ibute refers to the word or phrasewhich triggers the anaphoric link, that is, thevisible item that requires the retrieval of anotherelement in the text for semantic interpretation.Concepts such as zero pronouns or emptycategories are not used in the classification.Thus, the anaphor is invariably a phoneticallyrealised item, and a verb without a phoneticallyrealised subject is classified as an anaphoricverb.
Although such verbal forms are rare inEnglish, they are fairly common in spokenPortuguese.
The same approach is used fortransitive verbs without a phonetically realisedobject, which are also frequent.The type of antecedent concerns primarily theimplicit/explicit dichotomy.
Typically anaphoricwords, such as it and that, may occur innonreferential uses - for instance, the 'prop' it(Quirk et al 1985).
Thus, a third category,nonreferentiai, was used to classify these cases.Although these are not cases of coreferencestrictu sensu, it was thought important to includethem, so that they could be identified when itcame to implementation.
Some tokens ofpronouns with a vague antecedent identifiableby means of inference based on discourseinformation were classified as discourseimplicit antecedents.The attribute named as the topical role of theantecedent classifies the antecedent of a givencoreference case according to categories whichassign a saliency status to discourse entities(typically noun phrases) in a dialogue.
Thesecategories include a discourse topic for thedialogue; a segment opic for every stretch ofdialogue in which the topic is considered to hethe same, according to specific procedures; asubsegment topic, if further division within asegment is needed for the appropriate modellingof topicality; and both global and local thematicelements, which are salient discourse entitiesrelated to the topics above mentioned.
Asantecedents may also be discourse chunks ofvarying length, these same categories were usedto classify such antecedents a predicates of agiven topical role thought o be the dominantentity within the discourse chunk.The aim of this attribute is to use the oftenmentioned relationship between topicality andcoreference (see Grosz and Sidner 1986) foroperational purposes.
This classification doesnot claim to be the actual key for the modellingof topicality in dialogues from apsycholinguistic point of view.
It does claim,however, to be a useful tool for the resolution ofparticularly hard cases of coreference, in whichthe antecedent is not the nearest syntacticallyappropriate candidate, as will be shown insection 3.
The topical roles are assigned on thebasis of frequency, distribution and order ofappearance.
This information is used inconjunction with an adaptation for dialogues ofHoey's method (Hoey 1991) to establishpatterns of lexis.
Procedures were thus definedfor the assignment of the topical roles abovementioned to the various discourse ntities in adialogue.The fourth attribute is the processing strategy,which is an attempt o classify the resolutionpath according to informational demands seen asthe most essential for the processing at hand.The processing strategy was included in theannotation scheme as a way of enriching theclassification model, uncovering distinctionswhich, might remain unnoticed if only the typeof anaphor were to be specified.
The plainassignment of a type of anaphor based on wordclasses would ignore distinctions in theprocessing required for the resolution ofanaphors of the same type.
On the other hand,54subsuming processing information in theclassification used for the type of anaphor woulddisrupt the intended link of the latter tophonetically realised forms in a strict way.The annotation is entered between brackets inthe order previously presented, beginning withthe type of anaphor and ending with theprocessing strategy.
The code for each one &theproperties is delimited by semicolons.
Anexample of annotated text is shown below.
(i)B: we l l  I th ink  probab lywhat  Capta in  Kay  (ENP;ex 222; dthel; LR;)must  have sa id  was a wi l l  islegal  if i t 's  ~P; ex 224;dthel; FtC;) witnessed  on theback  of an enve lopeThe first token of coreference is the anaphoricnonpronominal noun phrase Captain Kay, whichhas been previously introduced in the dialogue.The type of anaphor is classified as FNP, forfull noun phrase; the next slot defines the typeof antecedent as explicit (ex__) and assigns anumber for the referent according to order ofappearance in the dialogue (222).
The topicalrole of the antecedent is considered to be of adiscourse thematic element.
This means, thus,that Captain Kay is a fairly frequent discourseentity not only in a specific stretch of discourse,but throughout the dialogue, being, therefore,closely associated tothe discourse topic.
As thereference to Captain Kay is identified by meansof verbatim repetition of the noun form underwhich it appeared for the first time in thedialogue, the processing strategy is defined aslexical repetition (LR).The subsequent anaphoric it refers to the firstsyntactically appropriate candidate lookingbackwards.
Having Hobbs' (1986) naivealgorithm as a reference, a primary first-candidate processing strategy was establishedunder the code FtC.
An extension of thisprimary strategy is the first-candidate chain(FtCCh), for cases in which Hohbs' naivealgorithm finds another anaphor for antecedent.This sort of chain is crucially important indialogues, as demonstrated by Biber (1992).
Anexample isgiven below 1.
(2)B: and I went  down thismorn ing  to ta lk  to theAmer ican  Embassy  on the offchance that  the StateDepar tment  might  be you knowable to f inance a b i t  oft rave l l ing  in the States  andthey can' t  they 've  (SP; ex_13;st; FtCCh;) got pr io r i ty  onv ice -chance l lo rs  and uhEng l i sh  schoo l teachersThe second token of they refers to the firstone, which, eventually, links both anaphorsto the referent State Department.
The twofirst-candidate processing strategies,together with resolutions relying onsyntactic parallelism, were grouped underthe umbrella category named syntacticprocesses.As the analysis of anaphora cases found inthe corpus proceeded, a number of othercategories for the classification of theprocessing strategy came up.
Theseincluded, for instance, coilocationalknowledge (CK), for cases in which thebasic information required for processingwas thought to derive from the use ofanaphors within crystallised phrases, such asthat is to say.
Example (3) is one of thosecases.
(3)B: the  b ib l iography  has  goneabout  as far as I can takeit on my own that  (De;ex_lO; p_st; CK;) is to sayer in order  to complete  it Iw i l l  have to v i s i t  the majorresources  in the Un i tedStates  and uh severa l  inEuropet Annotation for other cases of coreferencc isomitted.55By collecting these phrases in associationwith each type of anaphor, a collocation listof anaphoric terms was built for each one ofthe types, with a resolution procedureattached, which was designed on the basis ofcorpus data observation.
This list wassubsequently used as an ancillary routine inthe AL theory, as will be shown later.Several forms of lexicai knowledge,assigned to cases in which the antecedentswere identified chiefly by means of semanticinformation contained in the anaphor, werealso identified, such as part-wholerelationshps.
In example (4), monies refersto finances by means of informationconveyed by the lexieal semantics containedin the lexical item itself, but not by means ofplain repetition.
Thus, the classification usedis lexical signalling (LS), one of thecategories within the umbrella categoryiexical knowledge, along with lexicalrepetition.
(4)B:A"B:A:and uh - you know my ownpersona l  f inances  arewel l  surei t 's  just  outbut  you have app l ied  erfor monies (FNP; im_12; st;LS;) I keep hear ingwherever  I goFinally, a category named as discourseknowledge was used to classify cases inwhich the resolution required full processingof combined bits of discourse information.These four broader categories, including theessentially syntactic information required forthe first-candidate strategies, grouped morefine-grained subclassifications in all cases,except for collocational knowledge.
Thus,the umbrella categories were used toperform a statistical analysis using the datacollected by means of manual annotation.However, the more detailed classificationwas retained in the actual annotation of thesample.
The same approach was used in theother attributes.Frequencies for each category were thenused in three different statistical procedures:a chi-square test; a measure of association;and the model-building variety of loglinearanalysis.
Chi-square tests with the attributesconsidered two by two showed statisticalsignificance in all measurements (p <0.00005) in both languages.
The Goodmanand Kruskal tau was used to measureassociation between attributes two by two.Association was shown to be high (over0.30) between the processing strategy andthe other three attributes, but relatively low(under 0.30) between these three attributesmeasured two by two.
The loglinear analysisrevealed that interactions considering threeof the attributes were significant wheneverthe processing strategy was one of the three.The opposite was true when it was not.These results were true for both languageswith minor variations.The statistical analysis showed thus that theclassification model was adequate to representthe anaphora world.
Moreover, it became clearthat the attribute named as processing strategyyielded the highest information gain, acting as alink between the type of anaphor and the othertwo attributes which classify the antecedent.Therefore, the type of anaphor in itself, whichcould be mapped from POS tags or, in somecases, skeleton parsing (see Mitkov 1997), onlybecame truly useful information for theresolution of the anaphoric reference whenassociated to the definition of a processingstrategy.
This made of course psycholinguisticsense, as it is not difficult to infer from corpusdata that the same anaphor (such as it or that)may appear in contexts that lead to distinctprocessing demands for their resolution.3 The antecedent-likelihood theoryThe AL theory is made up of a series of entriesfor each type of anaphor.
Entries contain56instructions organised in an algorithm-like formto check the applicability of all possibleprocessing strategies, relying on informationtaken from the training set.
The initialinformation considered is the probability ofoccurrence for each processing strategy and thetwo other attributes.
As a result, some categoriesincluded in the general classification model arenever checked because there are no tokens in thetraining set associating them to the type ofanaphor in question.
The subject pronoun entryis shown below.Subject pronounglobal probability = 0.247Category probabilitiesprocess, strat, type antec, topical roleFtCCh = 0.458 explicit=0.886 dthel= 0.341FtC = 0.232 implicit=0.058 st= 0.188CK = 0.155 NR= 0.049 sst = 0.156DK = 0.090 dim=0.008 dt = 0.055SeRf = 0.047 thel = 0.110PI = 0.012 fdv = 0.056Dx ' = 0.003 p_st = 0.038SK = 0.001 p_sst= 0.024SetMb = 0.001 p_dthel=0.014SetCr = 0.001 p_dt = 0.005p_thel= 0.005sithel= 0.004The table with the category probabilities 2defines the likelihood of categories in the threeother variables being assigned to tokens of theanaphor type described in the entry, having thetotal number of tokens for the type of anaphor -not the full sample - as a reference.
The firstcolumn specifies the probabilities for thecategories which define the processing strategy,while the second column shows the figures forthe type of antecedent, and the third column liststhe topical roles of antecedents with therespective numbers.
In order to make the tablevisually compact, most of the categories arelisted using the code specified for the annotationof the sample.2 Categories cannot be fully described in this paperfor reasons of space.
The essential features have beenpresented though.Some processing information can be directlyderived from the table of  category probabilities.Categories which are not listed in the columns ofthe variables they belong to were not used toclassify any tokens of the anaphor type, and thuscan be left out of the processing.
This maymean, for instance, that the processing need notbe concerned with implicit antecedents for agiven type of anaphor, because there are notokens classified as such.
Another possibility isthat no tokens have been classified as beingprocessed on the basis of collocationalknowledge, and thus there is no point inchecking the collocation list in search ofmatches.The header in AL theory entries is followed by aset of  instructions organised in algorithm-likeform.
These instructions rely on the taxonomyemployed to analyse processing strategies.
Thechoice is based both on the results of theloglinear analysis and on the nature of thevariable, which is in fact a description of theway a given anaphor token is resolved.
Thetypical instruction appears as check ps, ps beingany category included in the list of possibleclassifications of processing strategy for the typeof anaphor.
This means that the processingtowards resolution of an anaphor of the typedescribed in the entry should check, at this point,whether the processing strategy specified is apossible way to identify the correct antecedent.The typical check ps instruction is usuallyfollowed by a set of attached probabilitiesspecific to the  processing strategy beingchecked.
These probabilities concern categoriesin the remaining two variables.
Otherinformation, such as the probability of predicatetopical roles, may be added whenever this is feltto be useful.
The subsequent i ems in a typicalcheck ps instruction are recognition andresolution path.
The first item containsinformation about features of the token itself andthe immediate context in which it occurs, basedon the observation of corpus data.
The purposeis to guide the processing in the attempt orecognise the need for a certain type ofprocessing strategy in order to resolve theanaphoric reference.
The second item contains57information related to the actual identification ofthe correct antecedent.The amount and complexity of informationincluded in each one of the items varies with thetype of anaphor and the processing strategy.
Insome cases, the recognition requires carefulanalysis, involving a number of details andcheck-ups.
In other cases, recognising that acertain processing strategy is the adequate one isnot as difficult as identifying the antecedent, asin some cases of  discourse-implicit antecedents.The AL theory is built so as to permit theexpansion or reduction of  guidelines included asinstructions or items within instructions.In case a given processing strategy presentssufficient diversity of recognition and/orresolution patterns, the instructions may bedivided into subtypes of recognition andresolution.
This approach to the form of entriesapplies generally but not always, that is, theremay be check ps instructions which do notinclude one or more of the items describedabove.
There may also be instructions whichspecify actions of an unique nature for the typeof anaphor or processing strategy under scrutiny.The extract of the subject pronoun entry shownbelow illustrates this flexibility.
The headershown above is followed by two instructionswhich break with the general check ps norm,only to return to it in the third instruction, asshown below.check i fPOS tag is Q-tag item)~ if not, go to instruction 2; if yesgo to tag-question entry in collocationlist)~ follow resolution path in entryidentify pronounpronoun is he, she or they)" go to instruction 5pronoun is it)" go to instruction 4pronoun is first or second persongo to instruction 3check secondary reference?
attached probabilities?
type of antecedent?
explicit = 0.889?
implicit = 0.111implicit antecedents are in a chainultimate resolution by shared knowledgetopical roles?
dthel = 0.750?
st = 0.250recognition?
separate from endophoric usage?
previous move?
verbs say; ask; answer; explain?
subject a third person pronoun orpersonal name?
simultaneous tense andshift between utterances?
if it is a second person pronoun?
check identifying vocativeutteranceresolution pathpersonin theselect first human candidate searchingbackwards?
check lexical cluesif there is an identifying vocative?
select it as the antecedentverbs say; ask; answer; explain?
subject a third person pronoun orpersonal name?
simultaneous tense and person shiftbetween utterances?
check collocation listThe AL theory was manually tested on apreviously analysed ialogue used as a test bed.There were 804 cases of anaphora in the testingset for English.
The AL theory predicted thecorrect antecedent in 98.4% of the cases, whichis evidently a satisfactory result.
Results werealso satisfactory, although not quite as good(93.5%), for Portuguese.
However, the scorewas only obtained on the assumption that thedialogue had been POS-tagged, parsed andsegmented according to topicality, using theprocedures defined for each category in theattribute named as topical role of theantecedent.
These are not minor assumptions,particularly if it is taken into account hat, inreal-life processing situations, these tasks would58have to be carried out during an ongoingconversation.Nevertheless, the approach seems worthpursuing as a promising way to solve a difficultproblem in the actual implementation ofdialogue interfaces and in NLP in general.
Thus,the attempt to transform the AL theory into anautomatic procedure may be a useful wayforward.4 The decision trees for coreferenceresolutionThe general procedure for the resolution of anyanaphora case is then to cheek the processingstrategy with the highest probability first.
Ifanaphors classified as determinativepossessives in the English sample are taken asan example, this strategy would be the onenamed as first-candidate chain, in which thefirst appropriate candidate - in syntactic terms -searching backwards is selected, although it isalso an anaphor.
It may be safely assumed thatthis anaphor has already been dealt with, as itprecedes the one being resolved.Checking a processing strategy for adequacyinvolves a recognition procedure specified in theentry, which, in the example considered above,would be to check the appropriateness of thefirst candidate.
However, the probabilitiesindicate that there were cases in the training setin which this type of anaphor was resolved bymeans of discourse knowledge.
This means thatthere were tokens in which the use of syntacticinformation only - as in Hobbs' "naive"algorithm - would lead to the identification ofan incorrect antecedent.Therefore, ways of checking whether the firstappropriate candidate is actually the correctantecedent had to be devised.
Two basic routineswere used: selectional restrictions andassociation history.
As formalised in Katz andFodor (1963), selectional restrictions aresemantic onstraints which the sense of a givenword imposes on those syntactically related to it.Thus, whenever an anaphor is linked to a verb asa complement, i  is useful to check if a candidateantecedent is a good fit by using selectionalrestrictions.There were cases in the training set, however, inwhich selectional restrictions would not detectthe incorrectness of a syntactically appropriatecandidate.
A second kind of lexical clue wasthen included as a checking routine: theassociation history.
It is unusual - although notimpossible of course - that pronoun reference isused in the first instance of an associationbetween a verb and a referent.
This is even lesslikely in situations in which there is anestablished competitor with a record of tokensrepeatedly associated tothe verb in question.These checking routines may signal that it isadvisable to consider bypassing the firstcandidate on the basis of discourse information.Checking the possibility of a resolution bymeans of discourse knowledge usually involvesa recognition procedure, which relies ontopica!ity information.
If the alternativecandidate selected is one of the highly salientdiscourse ntities, the chances that the speakerfelt the listener would successfully process thereference are much higher, making the bypass ofthe first candidate far more likely.The entry for determinative possessives is arelatively simple one, however, if compared tothose for subject pronouns or anaphoriedemonstratives in English or anaphoric verbsin Portuguese.
Moreover, entries for other typesof anaphor may require various forms ofchecking routines, which are specific to the typeof anaphor in question.
In spite of this highlycomplex and broad set of required information,it seems possible to organise it into decisiontrees for operational use.
The notion of decisiontree (as in Quinlan 1993) may have to besomewhat expanded in order to accommodatethe various bits of specific information related toeach type of anaphor.At present, several different algorithms andadaptations of these algorithms are being testedin order to establish their adequacy to the task,including the well-known C4.5.
A hybridapproach, in which an example-based altemativeprocess would choose the most closely related59case in the training set and use it to resolve anew case of anaphora, is also being considered,having the TiMBL package (Tilbury 1999) as aprimary reference.
It is expected that initial testswill be run soon, yielding results which will bethen used to gradually improve the approach andits implementation.
The GATE structure(Cunnigham et al 1995) is likely to be used as away to organise the various required elements oflinguistic information as an integrated system.At the present stage, however, the softwarementioned are quoted as reference rather thanfirm choice.5.
Conclusion and future developmentsThe process of building solutions for naturallanguage processing on the basis of corpusinformation may rely simply on a classificationmodel of any kind that would enable decisiontrees to be created inductively.
However, thedirect observation of corpus tokens allows thesort of refinement that may prove crucial for theactual operational success of the model in real-life processing situations.
The approachdescribed in this paper is an attempt to find anappropriate balance between the practicality ofautomatically inducing decision trees out of atraining set and the thoroughness that thecontrastive analysis of the various cases in thecorpus is likely to accomplish.The systematisation f observed regularities incombination with statistical evidence provedvery successful in dealing with the testing set ofcases previously analysed for the purpose.
It isalso true, nevertheless, that the complexityintroduced by the inclusion of a large amount ofinformation to be taken into account during theprocessing makes actual implementationextremely hard.
Therefore, the high score of themanual test must be seen cautiously.
Futuredevelopments of the.
approach described in thepresent paper aim at testing the actual gain ofdealing with a thorough account of anaphoricrelations in dialogues as compared to theincreased ifficulty of implementation, of whichthe inclusion of topicality and segmentation ithe model are obvious examples.
It is expectedthat the above mentioned balance will beeventually reached, preserving the satisfactoryresults to an extent hat offsets the undesirableprocessing complexity.ReferencesBiber, D. (1992)Using computer-based t xt oanalyse the referential strategies of spoken andwritten texts.
In: Jan Svartvik, editor, Directions incorpus linguistics, pages 215-252, Mouton deGruyter, Berlin.Cunningham, H., Gaizauskas, R. and Wilks, Y.(1995).
A General Architecture for Text Engineering(GATE) - a new approach to Language EngineeringR & D. Department ofComputer Science, Universityof Sheffield, CS-95-21.Daelemans, W., Zavrel, J., van der Sleet, K., and vanden Bosch, K. (1999).
TiMBL: TilburgMemoryBased Learner, version 2.0, Reference Guide.
ILKTechnical Report 99-01.
Tilburg University.Grosz, B. and Sidner, C. (1986).
Attentions,intentions and the structure of discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12:175-204.HaUiday, M.K.
and Hasan, R. (1976).
Cohesion inEnglish.
Longman, London.Hobbs, J.
(1986).
Resolving pronoun references.
InB.L.
Webber, Barbara Grosz, and K. Jones, editors,Readings in natural anguage processing.
MorganKaufmann, Pale Alto, CA.Hoey, M. (1991).
Pattexns of lexis in text.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford.Katz, J.J. and Fodor, J.A.
(1963).
The structure of asemantic theory.
Language, 39:170-210.Mitkov, R. (1997) How far are we from (semi-)automatic annotation fanaphoric links in corpora ?In: Ruslan Mitkov and Branimir Boguraev, editors,Workshop on operational factors in practical, robustanaphora resolution for unrestricted texts, pages110-115, Madrid, July 1997, ACL/EACL.Quinlan, JR (1987).
C4.
5 : Programs for MachineLearning.
Morgan Kaufmaun, Palo Alto, CA.Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Svarvik, J. and I_~ech, G.(1985) A comprehensive grammar of the Englishlanguage.
Longman, London.Webbcr, B.L.
(1979).
Aformal approach to discourseanaphora.
Academic Press, New York.60
