Tagging of Speech Acts and Dialogue Games inSpanish Call HomeLori Levin, Klaus Ries, Ann Thym6-Gobbel, Alon LavieLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityInternet: ls l?cs, cmu.eduAbstractThe Clarity project is devoted to automatic de-tection and classification of discourse structures incasual, non-task-oriented conversation using shal-low, corpus-based methods of analysis.
For theClarity project, we have tagged speech acts anddialogue games in the Call Home Spanish corpus.We have done preliminary cross-level experimentson the relationship of word and speech act n-gramsto dialogue games.
Our results show that the la-bel of a game cannot be predicted from n-gramsof words it contains.
We get better than base-line results for predicting the label of a game fromthe sequence of speech acts it contains, but onlywhen the speech acts are hand tagged, and notwhen they are automatically detected.
Our fu-ture research will focus on finding linguistic cuesthat are more predictive of game labels.
The au-tomatic classification of speech acts and games iscarried out in a multi-level architecture that in-tegrates classification at multiple discourse levelsinstead of performing them sequentially.IntroductionThe Clarity project is devoted to automatic de-tection and classification of discourse structures incasual, non-task-oriented conversation using shal-low, corpus-based methods of analysis.
The mainapplication of the Clarity discourse classifiers willbe automatic detection of what discourse partici-pants are doing.
This includes identifying genres(e.g., lecture vs. casual conversation) \[1\], func-tional activities (e.g., planning vs. gossiping), anddiscourse phases (e.g., opening vs. closing of anegotiation) among other things \[3\].
1l In the work that we are reporting here we donot, however, study the notion of genre or register asbrought forth in functional systemic theory.
We willsay more about his below.42The first stage of the Clarity project involveddeveloping an architecture for a multi-level dis-course classifier to be trained and tested on threediscourse levels: speech acts, dialogue games, andfunctional activities.
Tagging, training, and test-ing was carried out on the Call Home Spauish(CHS) corpus of casual, non-task oriented con-versation between family members.
The codingscheme for speech acts and games is described in\[6, 9\].
The automatic lassification of speech actsand games is carried out in a multi-level architec-ture that integrates classification at multiple dis-course levels instead of performing them sequen-tially.
The multi-level classifier is described in \[7\].The focus of this paper is on the cross-levelclassification of speech acts and dialogue gamesas it is carried out by the multi-level classifier.Results of a preliminary experiment show thatthe type or label of a game cannot be predictedfrom n-grams of the words it contains.
Predictinggame labels from the sequences of speech acts theycontain yields slightly better results (better thanbaseline), but only when the speech acts are handtagged, not when they are automatically detected.This is very preliminary research, and we plan inthe future to experiment with linguistic featuresthat are more predictive of game and functionalactivity labels.In the course of discussing our tagging schemeand classification results, we will comment on thespecific adaptations of our coding scheme for non-task oriented dialogue and for its intended appli-cation to functional activity detection.The coding schemes for speech acts and di-alogue games along with the adaptations for di-alogue type and application are summarized inSections 2 and 3.
Section 4 describes the multi-level classification architecture and our experi-ments with cross-level classification of speech actsand games.
Finally we will discuss the implica-tions of our experiment for predicting higher levelsof discourse structure from lower levels.Speech Act TagsOur speech act coding is based on the SWBD-DAMSL tag set from the Johns Hopkins LVCSRSummer Workshop 1997 \[5\].
Modifications weremade in the tag set for four reasons.
First, wemade some changes to improve inter-coder agree-ment.
After two taggers tagged CHS, we calcu-lated intercoder agreement (79%).
(See \[6\] for adescription of how this was computed) and ex-amined confusion matrices howing the tags thatthey disagreed on most.
We eliminated the tagsv for statement of opinion because taggers didnot distinguish reliably between sv and s, plainstatement.
To account for some aspects of opin-ions that we felt could be tagged, reliably, we haveadded features uch as val +/-  (positive or nega-tive value judgement) o the category s.The second reason for changes to the codingscheme was breaking up large categories.
Lan-guage models for large categories are thought obe mixed bags of diverse information that are notsufficiently distinct from language models of othercategories.
Smaller categories hould yield moredistinct language models.
In our first pass taggingof CHS, statements ( } accounted for around 40per cent of the tags.
We broke up the s categoryby adding semantic feature tags (certainty, hypo-theticality, expresses peakers mental state, posi-tive/negative alue judgement, obligation, past vsnon-past tense, joke/sarcasm).
In the revised cod-ing scheme, unmarked s accounts for 26% per centof the tags.Unfortunately, this subdivision of s did notwork as we expected.
When our automatic speechact classifier was trained on the subcategories of s,we found that the marked subcategories could bereliably distinguished from each other, but couldnot reliabiy be distinguished from unmarked s.We feel that this may be because the languagemodel for unmarked s still characterizes too muchdiverse information which overlaps with the char-acteristics of the marked subcategories of s.The third reason for revisions of the codingscheme was to support he task of functional activ-ity identification.
We hypothesized that semanticfeatures uch as hypotheticality and uncertainty,might characterize planning-type activities in con-trast to gossip-type activities.
The correlation be-tween our semantic features and functional activ-ities remains to be tested.The fourth reason for revising the codingscheme was to account for types of utterances thatwere very prominent in CHS, but not so prominentin SWBD.
One tag that we added for this reasonwas atd (attention directive) for cue phrases uchas oye (listen) and mira  (look).Our speech act tags fall into the categoriesQuestions, Answers, Agreement/Disagreement,Discourse Markers (including Backchannels), For-ward Functions, Control Acts, Statements, andOther.
The greatest changes with respect toSWBD-DAMSL involve an expansion of controlacts, the addition of coarse emotional tags tobackchannels, a collapse of statements and opin-ions, and the addition of semantic features tostatements.
The complete speech act tag set islisted in \[6, 9\].The entire CHS corpus was re-tagged by onehuman tagger using this revised tag set.
Intra-coder agreement of over 90% was tested by hav-ing the tagger e-tag three dialogues everal weeksafter first tagging them.
(Again, see \[6\] for howagreement was calculated.
)Dialogue Game Tags forNon-Task-Oriented DialogueWe use the following characterization of dia-logue games given by Carletta at al.
\[2\]:"a set of utterances tarting with an initiationand encompassing all utterances up until thepurpose of the game has been either fulfilled(e.g.
the requested information has been trans-ferred) or abandoned."
However, our inven-tory of games differs from those used for theMap Task because we are dealing with non-taskoriented dialogue.
Our system contains eightmain types of games plus eight modifiers.
Thegame types are seeking informa'~ion, g iv inginformation, giving directive, actioncommit, giving opinion, expressive, seekingconfirmation, and communication filler.
Theeight modifiers of game tags are sup (supportprevious statement), elab (elaborated answer toquestion), spec (speculation), wk (weak direc-tive or commit), s t  (strong directive or commit),n (nested game), inc (incomplete game), aband(abandoned game).
Taggers label turns within agame as Initiative, Response, and Feedback.Figure 1 shows a fragment of a CHS dialoguetagged with speech acts and games.43#Game:Info<I> s A: Llevan una lavadora,they bring a washing machine<I> s A: llevan una no se' que',they bring I don't know what<I> s A: llevan una cosa de cada cosathey bring one of each#Game:Quest'Aband<I> qw B: pero como,but how#Game:quest<I> qy B: pero pagan impuestos,but are they taxed<I> s^cert -B: pero se supone clue el menaje no pagabut household items are not supposedto be taxed<R> ny A: si'yes#Game:Info'Elab<I> s'e A: no si' paga impuestos,no yes it is taxed<I> s'cert+A: paga el quince por ciento, si' sen-orit's taxed fifteen per cent, yes sir<R> b B: ah si'oh yes<R> s'm B: paga quince por ciento de impuestoit's taxed fifteen percentFigure h A Fragment of a Tagged DialogueGames may overlap, either as nested gamesor as interleaved games.
Game boundaries are de-termined by changes in who has the initiative andchanges in speaker intention, for example changingfrom informing to questioning.The  Mu l t i - Leve l  C lass i f ie rArch i tec tureThe detection of speech acts from words has re-ceived a substantial amount of attention in therecent past.
Most of the recent literature (e.g.see \[8, 4\] and their references) describes classifiersthat are based on n-gram modeling.
This tech-nology has proven to give reasonable results in avariety of domains, although some recent papersindicate shortcomings of this approach \[10, 7\].The classifiers based on ngram modeling are aspecial instance of (higher-order) ecursive hiddenmarkov models.
Recursive hidden markov modelsare used widely in speech recognition.
We decidedto built the incremental lattice construction frame-work \[7\] which allows us to account for the over-lap problem (multiple speakers at the same timeon different channels), the application of morecomplex classifiers (currently we are evaluatingbackoff-ngram odels, neural networks and sup-port vector machines) and the higher order struc-ture.
In this section we try to motivate the model-ing of dialogue games by adding one more level tothe speech act detection structure and show thatthis framework can be applied to the game detec-tion task .Detect ion  f rom the  word  level: It is not ob-vious from the outset how n-gram-based classifiersshould be applied to the detection of discoursegames.
One could try to do segmentation and la-beling of discourse gaines directly from the wordlevel just as in the speech act task.
This approachcan be characterized as:G" = argmaxcp(G lW ) = argmaxGp(W\[G)p(G )Assuming that we can model p(G) reasonably wellby an n-gram model, the remaining task is to finda good estimate for p (WIG ).
Assuming that thewords in a game segment (given the game type)do not depend on other games or words this canbe simplified to the more local rule:P (WIG) - -  1-X P(Wil Gi)i.=l,...,nFurthermore - to make the model tractable -wewould like to model these probabilities with n-gram models.
However, it is highly questionablethat p(Wi lGi  ) can adequately be modeled usingstandard n-gram models, because:?
it appears that a much smaller portion of n-grams have discriminative distributions for dia-logue games in comparison with the speech actcase?
the interaction between the speakers is lost us-ing word level bigram or trigram statisticsDetect ion  f rom the  speech act level: Forthese reasons, we have been pursuing a sec-ond possible modeling approach, which estimatesp(WilGi)  with a probability model that usesspeech-acts as an intermediate discourse level:p(W lG,) = p(W, lS,, G,)p(S, IG,)s44Using similar independence assumptions as abovewe can rewrite this asp(w, IG,) =  p(S, IG,)S j=l,...,rniIn this setup potential speech act constraints ofdialogue games are enforced explicitly.
The dis-tributions of p(Wi,j ISi,j, Gi) are also likely to besharper since they are shorter and do not mix un-related grammatical information.
To make thismodel more tractable we can use a Viterbi ap-proximation (which finds and uses the most likelyspeech act sequence rather than summing over allpossible such sequences).
Another simplificationis to assume that the word probabilities are notdependent on the dialogue game they occur in, aslong as the speech act is known:p(Wi,j IS/j, Gi) = p(Wi,j IS/j)This assumption can in fact be partially removedfor frequent speech acts (for example, one couldhave separate statement types for different dia-logue games).
The overall estimate for p(Wi\]Gi)would therefore be:argmaxs 1-~ p(SilGi) 1~ P(Wi,jlSl,j)i=l,...,n j=l, .
.
.
,miIncrementa l  Lattice Construction: Bothmodels (almost) fulfill the form of a recursiveHMM, and a dynamic programming solution isknown for finding the Viterbi speech-act path,However the algorithm is complex, especially ifhigher order models are used.
Additionally, thismodel ignores the problem of modeling the over-lap between speakers, which, when attacked, fur-ther complicates the algorithm.
It would also benice to be able to use more complex models fordialogue game detection, especially models thatwould allow us to transcend the usual n-gramconstraints and that could be trained discrimina-tively 2.
Given these complications, we had previ-ously proposed an incremental lattice constructionapproach \[7\] (see Fig.
2), that does the following:1. generate a lattice from the words2.
generate a lattice of all likely segments from thelattice of the previous level2The models mentioned above can easily be trainedwith the maximum likelihood criterion.
However -since we have many irrelevant n-grams - it might beadvantageous to train these models just to attain agood discrimination performance, see \[7, 113\].3. label all segments in the new lattice wi~h theirtag and likelihood4.
goto step 2 (next discourse level) or continue tostep 55. search the most likely path in the complete lat-tice given a language model and the likelihoodsin the latticeThe input to the discourse classifier can be alattice of words, e.g.
produced by a speech recog-nizer.
A lattice of segments i  produced by an A*search over the input lattice that can hypothesizesegment boundaries and inserts every segment hy-pothesis into the segment lattice.
The speech actlattice is generated by replacing each segment bythe set of all possible speech act labels and assign-ing a likelihood for each segment given the speechact.
This lattice can then be segmented again andannotated with dialogue games.
A Viterbi searchcan then find the best combined speech act andg~me sequence.Exper iments  We have conducted experimentsfor dialogue game detection where we assumedthat the boundaries of the games were known 3We used the seven primary game tags info,quest, seek_conf, opinion, direct, express andUNDEFINED.
Since the primary tag info was fre-quently combined with the orthogonal tag e labwe split the in fo  category along that secondarytag.
We used 22 dialogues for training and test-ing, applying a 7-fold cross-validation.
No inter-coder agreement tests have been conducted so far(Table 1).Game Label DetectionInputchancemanual speech actswordsspeech acts detected from wordsAccuracy40.7%55.0%40.7%46.5%Table 1: Dialogue game detection results for agiven dialogue game segmentationDiscussion and Future DirectionsThe results of our dialogue game detection exper-iment (Table 1) indicate a number of interesting3The main problem is that one has to deal withoverlap in a slightly different way than in the speechact case.45Viterbi search using a?
Speech act and game discourse gamesegmentation a d labeling ~ labeling and segmentation modelSpeaker A: Enhance segments ~ 1by speech act ~, ISegmentation output distribitions ~ IWords ~ Segments ~ Speech Acts ~ ~ , ,~ /Enhance segments " ~  ~ Speech Acts on |by speech act /'?
two channels |Segmentation output distribitions / JWords '- Segments ~ Speech Acts / / \]Speaker B: / J/Viterbi search includinga speech act language modelSpeech actsegmentation a d labelingFigure 2: Incremental lattice construction (reproduced from \[7\])conclusions.
First, game tags cannot be predictedfrom n-grams of words - -  at least not taking allwords into account equally.
This does not elimi-nate the possibility that there may be discrimina-tive n-grams of words hidden in various positionsin the game, and this is a research direction thatwe would like to explore.
Our second observationis that speech acts help a little in predicting amelabels, although current speech act classificationtechnology does not yield good enough results forthis purpose.
The reason that speech acts helpas an intermediate l vel between words and gamesmay be because the speech acts already encodesome of the discriminating words that are neces-sary for game detection.
Finally, we are left withthe observation that we have not yet identified thelinguistic ues that are relevant o game classifica-tion.
Our future plans include experimenting witha variety of linguistic cues of the sort discussedby \[3, 1\] in the hope of finding some predictive fea-tures that are not captured by our current speechact tag set.Another line of research is to question the rel-evance of the discourse units we are using - -  dia-logue games in particular - -  to the tasks of iden-tifying functional activities, genres, or phases ofa discourse.
On the one hand, dialogue gamesprovide potentially important information aboutwhich utterances are initiatives and which are re-sponses, thus helping to identify which speakersare dominant at different points in the conversa-tion.
On the other hand, dialogue games may notidentify initiative in the most useful way.
If thefirst speaker is providing a recount of all eventthe second speaker may often ask a question withthe sole purpose of displaying his/her attention tothe story being told.
Our current tagging schemewould identify such a question as an initiating ut-terance of a question/answer game that is initiatedby the second speaker with the first speaker in aresponding role.
Clearly this does not reflect theactual discourse situation in this case: The f i rstspeaker is in charge and the second speaker merelydisplays attention.For reasons uch as this, we have begun to in-vestigate different ypes of discourse units basedon the idea of genres from system functional in-guistics.
However, in contrast to the traditionalwork on genre (see \[3\] for a review) we have foundthat in our corpus, distinctions that are based onfixed patterns are hard to describe and we aretherefore actively working on a new annotationscheme for something similar to genres.
Our pro-posal is to identify genre units which consist of ut-terances having genre-specific functions.
A genreunit might, for example, be a piece of a conversa-tion that contains gossip.
Utterances in this gos-sip unit might have gossip-specific functions uch46as introducing a topic of gossip, summarizing thestory (which would consist of non-evaluative state-ments in the middle of the gossip unit), giving themain value judgement, etc.
Another genre unitmight be a story and one of the genre specific func-tions of a question might be to encourage the storyteller.Our multi-level classification architecture willhelp us explore alternative tagging schemes formultiple levels of discourse structure and the in-teraction between them.Other Applications of theMulti-level ClassifierWe are currently also using the multi-level clas-sifter architecture described above for the task ofdetecting dialogue acts in the context of a spo-ken language translation system for the travel do-main \[11\].
In this system, dialogue acts, parame-terized with arguments and their values, serve asa shallow interlingua representation for translat-ing spoken utterances into other target languages.To detect dialogue acts, we use a two-level modelof discourse structure where the lowest level ofstructure consists of semantic argument categories(such as time and date expressions, location ex-pressions, and other descriptions of travel domainentities).
These semantic argument categories aredetected from the utterance using word n-grammodels.
Speech acts serve as the second level ofdiscourse structure in this system, and are mod-eled via n-grams of semantic argument categories.The combination of speech act and semantic ar-gument categories are then mapped into a com-plete dialogue act.
Statistical dialogue act detec-tion is intended to serve as robust alternative to amore traditional grammar based analysis compo-nent.
This indicates that the multi-level classifierarchitecture described here is useful for a varietyof applications involving classification of complexlanguage and discourse structures.\[1\]\[2\]ReferencesDouglas Biber, Susan Conrad, and RandiReppen.
Corpus Lingusitics: InvestigatingLanguage Structure and Use.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, 1998.Jean Carletta, Amy Isard, Stephen Isard,Jacqueline C. Kowtko, Gwyneth Doherty-Sneddon, and Anne H. Anderson.
Thereliability of a dialogue structure codingscheme.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1): 13-31, March 1997.\[3\] Suzanne Eggins and Diana Slade.
Analysing?
Casual Conversation.
Cassell, 1997.\[4\] Michael Finke, Maria Lapata, Alon Lavie,Lori Levin, Laura Mayfield Tomokiyo,Thomas Polzin, Klaus Ries, Alex Waibel, andKlaus Zechner.
Clarity: Automatic discourseand dialogue analysis for a speech and naturallanguage processing system.
In AAAI SpringSymposium on Applying Machine Learning toDiscourse Processing, March 1998.\[5\] Dan Jurafsky, Liz Shriberg, and D. Biasca.Switchboard-damsl labeling project coder'smanual.
Technical report, Institute of Cogni-tive Science, University of Colorado, Boulder,USA, 1997,\[6\] Lori Levin, Ann Thym~-Gobbel, Klaus Ries,Alon Lavie, and Monika Woszczyna.
A dis-course coding scheme for conversational span-ish.
In ICSLP, 1998.\[7\] Klaus Ries.
Hmm and neural network basedspeech act detection.
In ICASSP, 1999.\[8\] Andreas Stolcke, Elizabeth Shriberg, Re-becca Bates, Noah Coccaro, Daniel Jurafsky,Rachel Martin, Marie Meteer, Klaus Ries,Paul Taylor, and Carol Van Ess-Dykema.
Di-alog act modeling for conversational speech.In AAAI Spring Symposium on ApplyingMachine Learning to Discourse Processing,March 1998.\[9\] Ann Thym~-Gobbel and Lori Levin.
DialogueActivity Tagging Manual for Spanish Conver-sational Speech.http ://wwW ?
cnbc.
cmu.
edu/'gobbel/clar ity/manual intro, html, 1998.\[10\] V. Warnke, S. Harbeck, H. Niemann, andE.
NSth.
Discriminative estimation of inter-polation parameters for language model clas-sifters.
In ICASSP, 1999.\[11\] M. Woszczyna, M. Broadhead, D. Gates,M.
GavaldA, A. Lavie, L. Levin, andA.
Waibel.
A modular approach to spokenlanguage translation for large domains.
InAMTA-98, 1998.47
