Corpus-Based Approach for Nominal Compound Analysis forKorean Based on Linguistic and Statistical InformationJ untae  Yoon*j tyoon@l inc .c i s .upenn.eduIRCSUn iv .
o f  Pennsy lvan iaPh i l l ade lph ia ,  PA  19104~ USAKey-Sun  Cho ikschoi@world.kaist.ac.krKORTERMDept.
of Computer ScienceKAIST~ Taejon 305-701~ KoreaMansuk  Songmssong@december.yonsei.ac.krDept.
of Computer ScienceYonsei Univ.Seoul 120-749, KoreaAbst rac tAccurate nominal compound analysis is cru-cial for in application of natural language pro-cessing such as information retrieval and ex-traction as well as nominal compound inter-pretation.
I,n the nominal compound analysisarea, some corpus-based approaches have re-ported successful results by using statistal co-occurrences of nouns.
But a nominal compoundoften has the similar structure to a simple sen-tence, e.g.
the complement-predicate structure,as well as representing compound meaning withseveral nouns combined.
Due to the grammar-ical characteristics of nominal compounds, thefi'amework based only on statistcal associationbetween ouns often fails to analyze their struc-tures accurately, especially in Korean.
This pc-per presents a new model for Korean nominalcompound analysis on the basis of linguistic andstatistical knowledge.
The syntactic relationsoften have an effect on determining the struc-ture of nominal compounds, and we analyzed40 million word corpus in order to acquire syn-tactic and s-tatistical knowledge.
The structureof a nominal compound is analyzed based onthe linguistic lexical information extracted.
Byexperiments, it is shown that our method is ef-fective for accurate analysis of Korean nominalcompounds.1 In t roduct ionNominal compound analysis is one of crucialissues that have been continuously studied bycomputational nd theoretical linguists.
Manylinguists have dealt with nonlinal compoundsin view of semantic interpretation, and tried toexplain how nominal compounds are semanti-This work was partially supported by a KOSEF's post-doctoral fellowship grant.cally interpreted (Levi, 1978; Selkirk, 1982).
Inthe field of natural anguage processing, variouscomputational models have been established forsyntactic analysis and semantic interpretationof nominal compounds (Finin, 1980; McDon-ald, 1982; Arens ct al.
, 1987; Pustejovskyet al , 1993; Kobayasi et al , 1994; Van-derwerde, 1994; Lauer, 1995).
Recently it hasbeen shown that noun phrase analysis is effec-rive for the improvement of the application ofnatural anguage processing such as informationretrieval (Zhai, 1997).Parsing nominal compound is a basic stepfor ~11 problems related to it.
From a brack-eting point of view, structural ambiguity is alsoa main problem in nominal compomld analysislike in other parsing problems.
Re(:ent workshave shown that the corpus-b;~sed approach fornominal compound analysis makes a good re-sult to resolve the ambiguities (Fustcjovsky etal.
, 1993; Kobayasi et al , 1994; Lauer, 1995;Zhai, 1997).Lauer (1995) has compared two diffbrentmodels of corpus-based approaches fbr nomi-nal compound analysis.
One was called as theadjacency model which was inspired by (Puste-jovsky et al , 1993), and the other was re-ferred to as the dependency model which waspresented by Kobayasi ~t al.
(1994) 2 andLauer (t995).
Given a nominal compound ofthree nouns n~'-.2'a:~, let A.s. t)e a metric used toevaluate the association of two nouns.
In theadjacency model, if A.~(',,l:',J.2) > A.s(n2,n3),then the structure is determined as (('hi 'n2) n3).Otherwise, ('nl (',l,~ 'n:,)).
On the other hand, in2In their work, the structure is determined l)y com-paring the multiplication of the ~ssociations between alltwo nOuns, that is, by comImring A,s('..t, 'n2)A.s(n2, n3)and AS(nl, n3) As (n2, ',l.:~).
It m~tkes similar results to thedependency model.292tim dClmn(h,,ncy model, the decision is det)en-dent on the association strength of nt for 'rt2 and',,::.
That is.
the left branching tree ((at 'n2) ha)is constructed it" A.s(nt,'u2) > As(at ,ha) ,  andI:he right branching tree ('nL (n2 'ha)) is made,~M,,,rwise.
Lauer (1995) has claimed that the~h',lmndency model makes intuitive sense andi)r~)duces t)(,,tter results.In this paper, we propose a new model tbr~)minal comt)ound analysis on the basis ofw()rd (:o-()(:cui'ren(;(?s and grannnatical rela-ti(mshil)s ilnmanent in nominal (:ompounds.Tim grammatical relation can sometimesma,k(,, the (tisnmbiguation more precise aswo, ll as it gives a clue of the nonfinal in-l.(Ul)r('Iation.
For example, in the nominal(:~nnl)ound "KYEONG JAENG (competition)YUBALa(bringing about) CHEJE(system)"whi(:h meallS system to bring about competition,tim nominal conlpound "KYEONGJAENGCl-tEJE((:oml)etition system)" co-occurs muchmore fl'equently titan "KYEONGJAENGYUBAL(bringing about competition)".
How-o.w;r, its structure is selected to be \[\[KYEONG-.IAENG YUBAL\] CHEJE\].
Why it is analyzedin such a way can be shown easily by trans-li)rming the nominal compound to the clause.Because "YUBAL(bringing about)" is thepredicatiw,, noun that derives the verb with the1)redicative suffix attached, the modifying nounphrase can be transformed to the correspondingVP which has the meaning of "to bring aboutcompetition" (Figure 1).
The verb "YUBAL-HA-NEUN(to bring about)" in VP takes the"KYEONG,lAENG(competit ion)" as the ob-.iect.
The predicative noun "YUBAL(bringingabout)" also subcategorizes a noun phrase"KYEONGJAENG(competit ion)" in the samerammer as the verb.
In the right syntactictree of Figure 1, it should be noted that theobject of a verb does not have the dependency,elation to the noun outside the maximal1)rojection of its head, VP.
Likewise, the object"KYE()NGJAENG(competit ion)" does nothave a,ny dependency with the other nounover the predicative noun "YUBAL(bringinga,t)out)".
:WUBAL is a noun in Korean which means to causet,o bring about something2 St ructure  o f  Nomina l  CompoundThere is not any adjective derivation in Ko-rean.
Rather, a noun itself plays an adverbialor adjective role ill a nominal compound, ormodifies other noun with possessive postposi-tion attached.
Table 1 shows various relationsoccurred in nominal compounds.As shown in the example, there is a rela-tionship between two nouns which have de-pendency relation in a nominal compound.For instance, the first nominal compoundin the example expresses compound mean-ing of individual nouns, i.e.
the attributethat a .file has.
On the other hand, inthe example (c) of the example, the noun"GAENYEOM(concept)" is the object of thepredicative noun "GUBUN(discrimination)".
Anominal compound, as such, often has thesimilar structure to a simple sentence, e.g.complement-predicate structure, as well asrepresenting compound meaning with severalnouns combined.Many researchers have tried to explain con-straints given in tile process of word combi-nation and the principle of semantic compo-sition.
Levi (1978) has tried to find the se-mantic constraints which govern the combina-tion of each noun in a nominal compound.Sproat (1985) has taken into consideration thepredicate-argument relation of nominals on thebasis of generative syntax.
He explained thatthe nominalization suffix nominalizes the syn-tactic category of a verb, but 0 role of the verbis percolated into its parent node.We claim that the nominalization is the phe-nomenon occurred at the syntactic level, andhence the syntactic relations hould be reflectedin nominal parsing.
Namely, tbr accurate nomi-nal compound parsing, we need syntactic knowl-edge about nominal compound in addition tolexical information about lexical selection.
Wepropose a nominal parsing model based on tworelations, which can be immediately applied tonominal interpretation.
We classi(y the syntac-tic relations in a nominal compound as tbllows:modifier-head re la t ion  One noun (adnomi-nal, adjective) adds n certain meaning tothe other noun (head) producing a com-pound meaning (1, 2 in Table 1).complement-predicate r la t ion  One is the293NP NPNP NP ," .
.
.
.
- _ _ .
VP NP_ ~ _  CHFF.JE ,' ~ CHEJE- .
(system) . '
' - -  - .
(system) - - .
.," NP(obj) NP .
-~  .
.
.
.
.
.
~4 P(obj\] .
.
.
.
V- " - :'?2z-z.~t /' KYEONGJAENG YUBAL I t q0 KYEONGJAENG YUBAL ,~ (competition) (bringing about) / ' .
subj (competition) (bringing about) ,'Figure 1: Example shows that syntactic relations have influence on deternfining the structure of anominal compoundnominal compound meaningPA'IL(file) SOGSEONG(attr ibule)GIBON(basis) GAENYEOM(concept)GAENYEOM(concept)  GUBUN (discrimination)DAETONGRYEONG(president)  DANGSEON(being elected)GONGDONG (working together) BEONYEOG(translat ion)file attr ibutebasic conceptdiscrimination of conceptbeing elected to presidentto translate togetherTable 1: Role of modifying noun in nominal compomMcomplement (subject, object, adverb) ofthe other noun (predicative noun) in anominalcompound (3, 4, 5 in Table 1).When considering the complement-predicate relation, we can figure outsome syntactic constraints imposed onnonfinal compounds.
For example,in "PA'.IL(file) SOGSEONG(attr ibute)BYEONKYEONG (change)","SOGSEONG(attr ibute)" is the object of thepredicative noun "BYEONKYEONG (change)".It can be expanded to a sentence like "X changesthe .file attribute".
In other words, the syntacticlewfls of two phrases "PA'IL SOGSEONG(fi le~ttribute)" and "BYEONKYEONG(change)"in the compound noun are different, whereone is NP and the other is VP.
That thesyntactic levels (i.e.
syntactic categories) ofnominal compounds are different means thatthe different method is required for the propera,nalysis of their structures.Next, a predicative noun does not subcate-gorize more than two nominals with the samegranunatical cases.
For instance, a predicativenorm in a nominal compound governs either asubject or an object at most.
The situation isw-~ry sinfilar to that occurred in a sentence.
Inthis paper, this is called one case per sentence,which means that a predicative noun cannotsubcategorize two nouns of the same grammat-ical cases when the relations of nominals can beexpanded to a sentence.3 Acqu i r ing  Lex ica l  KnowledgeWe collect lexical co-occurrence instances fromcorpus in order to get knowledge tor nomi-nal compound analysis.
The text material iscomposed of 40 million (:ojeols of Yonsei Lex-icographical Center corpus a.mt KAIST corpus(330M bytes).
The Korean morphoh)gi(:al ana-lyzer, the POS tagger and the partial parser areused to obtain co-occurreu(:es.In order to construct linguistic lexicaldata tbr nominals, we first, extracted verb-noun CO-OCcur rence  ( |a ta  f i ' on l  ( ; ( ) rpus  usingthe partial parser.
A noun is c(mnectedto a verb with a synta(:ti(: relation, andthe co-occurrences are re,1)rescnted t)y triples(verb, nou'n,, syntactic rda, t'io'H,).
The postpo-sitions are reposited in tit(,, syntactic relationfeld in order to represent the syntacti(: relationswhich might o(:cur tmtween two nouns.
Nom-inal pairs with (:omplenmnt-predi(:ate relationare derived fl'om the data extracted.Predicative nomls l)e(:()me vexbs withthe verbalization suffix such as '-HA-' at-tached.
For exampl(,,, the predicative noun'KEOMSAEK(retrieva.1)' is verbalized to'KEOMSAEK-HA(retrieve)'  1)y addingthe suffix '-HA-'.
Theretbr(~, we (:an get294c~mq)lement-predicate relations by reducingw;rl)s to predicative nouns with cutting, if;my, the verbalization suffix.
Table 2 showss(Hne llOun-nouIl co-occurrence xamples of,omplement-predicate relation derived in thatway.Second, co-occur rences  co lnposed  of  only two1,orals (complete nominal compound) were ob-rained.
In Korean, complete nominal com-IT(rends arc extracted in the tbllowing way.
Letus suplmse that N, NA,  NP  be the set of nouns,the set of nouns with tile possessive postposi-,:ion, and the set of nouns with a postposition~xcept he possessive postposition, respectively.?
For eojeols et,e2,e3, where el ?
N UNA,  e2 E NUNA,  e3 E NP ,  count (n2, ha),where 'r~,2 and n3 are tile nouns that belongto e~ and e:~ respectively.The data could contain two relations e.g.modifier-head relation and complement-head re-lation.
Therefbre, we manually divide them intotwo classes by hand according to the relation.Many erroneous pairs could be removed by thema,nual process.
Furthermore, we manually as-sign to each nominal pair syntactic relationssuch as SUB J, OBJ and ADV since the syn-ta(:tic relation does not explicitly appear fromIra.its obtained in the second (Table 3), Actually,there is it() immanent syntactic relation betweentwo nouns of modifier-head relation.
On theother hand, some syntactic relation such as casemarker and adverbial relation can be given totwo nouns with complement-predicate relation.Some examples are given in Table 3.
The dataof complement-head relation are merged withthose established with the partial parser, whichare complement-head co-occurrences.
The restof the data have modifier-head co-occurrences.Consequently, the complement-predicate co-occurrence is represented with a triple {comp-',,o'wn,, pred-noun, syn-rel) as shown in Table 2.Syntactic relation is described with postpositiontbr case mark or ADV in Korean.
The syntacticrelation is not given to the modifier-head co-occurrence.In the corpus based approach for natural an-guage processing, we should take into consider-ation the data sparseness problem because thedata do not contain whole phenomena of thelanguage in most cases.
Ma~W researchers haveproposed conceptual asso(:iation to ba(:k off thelexical association on the assumption that wordswithin a (;lass behave similarly (Resnik, 1993;Kobayasi et al , 1994; Lauer, 1995).
Namely,word classes were stored instead of word co-occurrences.Here, we must note that predicates doesnot act according to their semantic category.Predicates tend to have wholly different caseframes ti'om each other.
Thus, we storedindividual predicative nouns and semanticclasses of their arguments instead of eachsemantic lass tor two nouns: In effect, givena word co-occurrence pair ('nl,'n2) and, if any,a syntactic relation s, it is transfbrmed andcounted in the fbllowing way.1.
Let ci be the thesaurus class which ni belongs to.2.
I f  (nl ,n2) are a pair in eo-occurrences ofcomplement-predicate relation3.
Then4.
For each ci which nl belongs to,5.
Increase the \]~'equency of (ci, 'n2, s) with the countof (~1, n~).
(Here, ,s is an immanent syntactic relation)6.
Else7.
For" each class ci and c i to which 'n~ and n2 belongsrespectively,8.
Increase the .#'equency of (ci, cj) with the count of(n~,,~)Consequently, we built two knowledge sourceswith different properties, so that we needed tomake the method to deal with them.
In the nextsection, we will explain the effective method ofanalysis based on that different lexical knowl-edge.4 Nominal Compound AnalysisIn order to make tile process efficient, the ana-lyzer identifies the relations in a nominal com-pound, if any, which can be the guideline ofphrase structuring, and then analyzes the struc-tures based on the relations.Figure 2 shows an example of the phrasestructure of a nominal compound to include thecomplement-predicate relation.
We showed thatthe nominal compound with the complement-predicate relation can be expanded to a sim-ple sentence which contains NPs and VP.
Thismeans again that the nonfinal compound with295argument predicative noun syntactic relationGAENYEOM(concept) YEONGU(study) OBJGYEONJEHAG(eeonomics) YEONGU(study) OBJGWAHAGJA(scientist) YEONGU(study) SUBJTable 2: Noun-noun co-occurrence xamples derived from lexical data of predicate YEONGU-HA(research)first noun second noun immanet syntactic relation (meaning)DAMBAE(tobacco) GAGE(store)CHARYANG (car) GAGYEOG(price)GEUMSOG(meta l ) .
GAGONG(process) OBJ(process metal)WANJEON(wholeness) GADONG(operation) ADV(operate wholly)Table 3: Examplesthe complement-predicate relation can be di-vided into one or more phrasal units which we(:all inside phruse.The nonfihal compound in Figure 2 has threeinside phrases - NPsuBJ,  NPoBJ and V. Somenonfinal compounds may not have any insidephrase.
Besides, the structure in each insidephrase can be determined by the word co-occurrence based method presented by Lauer(1995) and.
(Kobayasi et al , 1994), i.e.
onlystatistical association.4.1  Assoc ia t ion  between nounsInside phrases can be detected based on theassociation, since two nouns associated withthe complement-predicate relation indicate exis-tence of an inside phrase.
We distinguish the as-sociation relation by discriminating knowledgesource.
Thus  the associations are calculated ina different way as follows.
Here, ambi(n) isthe number of thesaurus classes in which n ap-pears, and Nc'p and NMH are the total numberof the complement-predicate nd the modifier-head co-occurrences- respectively.. Complement-PredicateThe association can be computed based(m the complement-predicate r lationsobtained from complement-predicate co-occurrence data.
It measures the strengthof statistical association between a noun,'At, and a predicative noun, n.2, with a givensyntactii~ relation s which is the syntacticrelation like subject, object, adverb.
Let ci1)e categories to which nl belongs.
Then,the degree that nl is associated with n2 asof two nouns  analyzed.the complement of n2 is defined as tbllows:Assoccp (?t,1, n2)  -.~ 1 freq(ci, 'n2) (1) ?iModifier-HeadThe association of two nouns is estimatedby the co-occurrences wlfich were collectedfor the modifier-head relation.
In the sim-ilar way to the above, let ci and qj be thecategories to which 'n, and 'n2 belongs re-spectively.
Then, the association degree ofnl and n2 is defined as tbllows:ASSOCMH(ni,n2)-- 1 ?Z freq(ci,cj)NMH .
a'm, bi(nl )ambi(n2)(2)The syntactic relation is deternfined by theassociation.
If' the association between twonouns can be computed by the t'ornnfla 1,the complement-t)redicate relation is given tothe nouns.
If not, the relation of two nounsis simply concluded with the modifier-headrelation.
We can recognize the syntacticrelation inside a nominal (:Oml)OmM by theassociation involved.
In order to distinguishthe associations in accordance with the rela-tions, the association is expressed by a triple(relation, (sy'n-'re, l, v.,l'u,e.)}.
Tim relation ischosen with CP or MH a~:c:ording to the fi)rmulaused to estimate the a.ssocia.tion.
If 'relation isCP, the syn-'rc, l has a,s its va.lue SUB J, OBJ,ADV etc., which arc given by co-oc~:urrencedata acquired.
()therwise, (/) is assigned.
Lastly,the value is computed by the tbrnnfla.
Theassociation is estimated in the tbllowing way,296I !
s\] _~- VP/ -  -t f~_-~ ~_i NPsuBJ NPoB J VINPNPsuBa NPom NP v,,'" SAYONGJA-YI", ,.
"'FILE SOKSEONG",, ,'" BYEONKYEONG'"".. (of user) ./" "- .
(file) (attribute).." ".. (change) ..'Figure 2: Example of the phrase structure of a nominal compoundl,h(:r(:fl)re:ff A.~,~o(:c.,p(, l,"~,'2) > 0As.s,,(:(.,,.,, , ..2) = (CP,(.W,,n-rel, Assoecp (n,, ,,.2)))( './,,'i ( ',.4.s.so(:(,,,,, ",'2) = (MH,(?, ASSOeMH(nl, n2)))If no co-occurrence data for a nominal(:Oml)ound are fbund in both databases, themodifier-head relations is assumed and the leftassociation is favored tbr unseen data.
Thelm;ti-wence of left association is reasonable tbrI)ra.cketing of nonfinal compounds since the leftassociations occupy the bracketing patternslnuch more than the right associations as shownin Ta,l)le 6.4.2  Pars ingSince the head always tbllows its complement inKorean, the ith noun in the nominal compoundconsisting of n nouns has head candidates of,,,- i that it might be depend on, and the parserselects the most probable one from them.
Theparser determines the head of a complement bya,n association degree of head candidates for thecomplement.The easiest way is to have the head candi-date list sorted on the association, and selectmost strongly associative one.
In the process ofselection, the tbllowing constraints are imposedif the relation of two nouns is complement-predicate(CP).
Given a nominal compound ofthree nouns  (?~, 1., '//,2, ha),?
If (n2, ha) are related with CP and the syn-tactic relation of (",2, ",:3) is the same as thatof (nl, ha), then "~,l is not dependent on n3.This is called one case per sentence con-straint.If nl has an association with n2 by CP rela-tion, it does not have dependency relationwith ha.
See Figure 1I f  n2 plays an adverbial role tbr ha, then n,is not linked with rt,2.Cross dependency is not allowed.
It meansthat dependent-head relations do not crosseach other.As an example, given the nominal compound"iDAEJUNG(public) ~MUNHWA(culture)aBIPAN(criticism)", we can get the associationtable as shown in Table 4.
According tothe table, the first and second noun can belinked with the modifier-head relation andthe association degree of 0.00021.
The secondnoun can depend on the third noun withthe complement-predicate relation, and theassociation degree is 0.00018.
Furthermore,the argument is inihrred to the object of thepredicate, which can be easily recognized bythe co-occurrence data extracted.The table is sorted on the association so thatthe parser can easily search tbr the probablecandidate for head.
In order to effectively de-tect inside phrases and check the constraints,the syntactic relation should be checked prior tothe comparison of the association value.
Thatis, the first key is the rdal: ion and the second,associat ion value.
Thus, CP > MH, and the2972 3(MH,  (?, 0.00021)) (CP, (OBJ, 0.00014))(CP, (OBJ,  0.00018))Table 4: Association table(AT) for the example nominal compound "DAEJUNG MUNHWA BI-PAN"association values are compared in case of thesanle rvlation value.As a consequence, the association table isactually implemented to the association list asfollows:\ [DAE JUNG (public)\]- (3,OBJ, ( CP, O.O0014))(2,?,(MH,0.00021))\ [MUNHWA (culture)\]- (3,OBJ, (CP,0.00018))From the list we know it is probablethat the noun "DAEJUNG(public)" is depen-dent on "BIPAN(criticism)" with OBJ  rela-tion.
On the other hand, two words "DAE-JUNG(public)" and "MUNHWA(culture)" aretbund in modifier-head co-occurrences and thusassociated with the modifier-head relation.Then, the parsing process can be defined as fol-lows:h, ead( n,: ) = 'at (3)l = index( max (Assoc(ni, nj)))j= i+ l,...,kHere index returns the index of noun nlwhose association with ni is the maximum.Namely, the parser tries to find the followingcandidate tbr the head of each noun ni in a nom-inal compound consisting of k nouns, and maken link between them.
If constraints are violatedwhile parsing, the next candidate of the list isconsidered by the parser.
According to the al-gorithm, the given example is parsed as follows:.
There is only one candidate for"MUNHWA".
"MUNHWA(culture)" hasthe dependency on "BIPAN(criticism)"with object relation.
The fact that thereis tim complement-predicate relationlmtween two nouns indicates that thoseare the elements of inside phrases, whereone belongs to NP and the other has theproperty of VP.
The inside phrases aredetected by the syntactic relation.2.
The most probable candidate of"DAEJUNG(public)" is also "BI-PAN(criticism)", but it violates onecase per sentence since the predicativenoun already took the object.
Thus,another candidate is taken.3.
The next head candidate"MUNHWA(culture)" is satisfactoryto the constraints as the modifier-headrelation, and "DAEJUNG(publ ic)" islinked to "MUNHWA(culture)" with therelation.5 Exper imenta l  Resu l t sFor experiments, we collected 387 nominal com-pounds fronl a million word corpus.
Nominalcompounds conlposed of more.
than tbur nouns(a series of 5 nouns or more) are excluded be-cause the number of them is too small to eval-uate our system.Some examples of analysis are shown in Table5.
In the table, the modifier-head relation isrepresented with MH, and the complement-predicate is described with OBJ  and SUBJthat means object and subject respectively.
Nodepedency between nouns is marked with '-'For instance, the modifier-head relation is as-signed to "MUSOG SINANG" which have themeaning of the religion o.f private society thatis traditional and s'alJerstitio'as.
However, wedon't know about the semantic relation hiddenin the results analyzed.
In addition, the nom-inal compound "JISIK'IN-YI(intellex:tual's)CHAEK' IM (responsibility) HOIPI(evasion)"means that the intellectual evades h, is responsi-bility.
Actually, its structure is determined as\[JISIK'IN-YI,s,,t~./ \[CHAEK'IMot~./ HOIPIv\]\]which can be ext)anded to a, siml)le sentence.Bracketed patterns of the example uonfinalconlpounds are shown in %tble 6.
According tothe table, the baseline a.ccm'acy of the defaultsystem is at least 73.6%.
As shown in Table 7,the precision fi)r nnalysis of nominal comt)ounds298nominal compounds(n1, n2, ha) structure R.(n,.,'n,2) iI~(v,,,'n:~) /~('n2,na)MUSOG SIN'ANG JEONTONG ((nl n2) n3) MH MH(private society, religion,tradition)DAEJUNG MUNHWA BIPAN ((nl n2) n3) MH OBJ(public, culture, criticism)FRANCE KEUNDAE MUNHAG (nl (n2 n3)) MH MH(France, modern, literature).I\[SIK'IN-YI CHAEK'IM HOIPI (nl (n2 n3)) SUB.I OBJ(intelh;(:tual's, responsibility, evasion)Ta.lfle 5: Examples of some nominal compound analyses, R(n,z, ',,~) is the, synta.ctic relation between", i  a,n(1%; identifiedif- of n(mns in NP pattern fl'eq(nl-YI (n2 n3))((n>Y~ n2) n3)((nl n2) n3)(nl (n2 ha))(nl-YI (n2 (n3 n4)))((nl-YI (n2 n3)) n4)(((nl-YI n2) n3) n4)(nl-YI ((n2 n3) n4)((nl ng.)
(ha n4))(((nl n2) n3)n4)(nl ((n2 n3) n4))((nl (n2 n3)) n4)(nl (n2 (n3 n4)))54311894121046932Ta,lfle 6: the patterns of nominal compounds(;ru(;t;uresot' the length three and four is about 88.3% and66.3%.
The result is fairly good in that nomi-~m.1 compounds of length three occur much moret'requently than those of length four.
OverallI~recision of analysis is about 84.2%.In addition, we compared three different mod-els to evaluate our system - default model by thedominant pattern, dependency model presentedby Kobayasi et al (1994) and Lauer (1995),a.nd our model.
In the default analysis, nomi-ha.1 compounds were bracketed by the dominantpa,tterns hown in Table 6.
For the dependencymodel, we used the method presented by Lauer(1995).Table 8 shows the comparison of the resultsproduced by our algorithm and the other twomethods.
Our system made a better resultin the disambiguation process.
The resultsshow that the syntactic information in nomi-hal phrases plays an important role in decidingtheir structures.However, there are still errors produced.Some nouns has the word sense ambiguity, andare used as both predict~tive noun and com-mon noun.
Because of the sense ambiguity,some modifier-head relations are misrecognizedto complement-predicate.
Other errors containthe same kind of results as (Latter, 1995).
Toovercome the errors, we think that semantic re-lations immanent in two nouns are considered.6 Conc lus ionMany statistical parsers have not taken care ofanalysis of nominal compounds.
Furthermore,many researches which dealt with nominal com-pound parsing seemed not to have computa-tional approaches tbr linguistic phenomenon inominal compounds.We proposed Korean nominM compoundanalysis based on linguistic statstical knowl-edge.
Actually, immanent syntactic relationslike subject and object as well as structuresof nominal compounds arc identified using ournominal compound analyzer and knowledge ac-quisition method.
Syntactic relations identi-fied can be effectively used in semantic inter-pretation of nominal compound.
Moreover, theparser was more accurate by using linguisticknowledge such as structural information andsyntactic relation immanent in nouns.It is expected that our parsing results in-cluding identification of syntactic relations areuseful for the application system such as infor-mation extraction because many nominal com-pounds are contained in Korean document bod-ies and titles, which often represent some events.However, the system still has some difficul-299# of nominal compounds # of success I precision3 nouns 315 278 88.34 nouns 72 48 \[ 66.3total 387 326 84.2Table 7: Overall results of nominal compound analysistotal# of success precision3 nounsprecision4 nounsprecision(1) 285 73.6 77.1 58.3(2) 315 81.4 85.4 63.9(3) 326 84.2 88.3 66.3Table 8: Results of nominal compound analysis (1) default analysis by pattern (2) results using thedependency model (3) results using our algorithmties, which caused erroneous results.
In the fu-ture work, we feel it is necessary that lexicalI)arameters be transformed into conceptual pa-rameters with large size of semantic knowledge,and filrther studies on linguistic properties ofnominals be made.ReferencesArens, Y., Granacki, J. J., and Parker, A. C.1987.
Phrasal Analysis of Long Noun Se-quences In Proceedings o.f the 25th AnnualMeeting of A CLChoi, K. S., Han, Y. S., Han, Y. G., and Kwon,O.
W. 1994.
KAIST Tree Bank Project forKorean: Present and Future Development.
InP'mceedings of the International Workshop onSharable Natural Language Resources.Finin, T. W. 1980.
The semantic interpreta-tion of compound nominals.
University of Illi-nois at Urbana-Champaign.
University Mi-crofilms Iilternational.Hindle, D., and Rooth, M. 1993.
StructuralAmbiguity and Lexical Relations.
In Com-putational.Linguistics Vol.
19(1).Isabelle, P, 1984.
Another Look at NominalCompomlds In Proceedings of COLING 8~Kobayasi, Y:, Takenobu, T., and Hozumi, T.,1994.
Analysis of Japanese Compound NounsUsing Collocational hlformation.
In Proceed-i'ags of COLING 94Lauer, M. 1995.
Corpus Statistics Meet theNoun Compound: Some Empirical Results.In P'mceedings of the 33'rd Annual Meeting (tfACLLevi, J.
1978.
The Syntax and Semantics ofComplex Nominals.
AcademicMarcus, M. 1980.
A Theory of Synta(:tic Recog-nition fbr Natural Language.
Cambridge andLondon: MIT PressMcDonald, D. B.
1982.
Understanding NounCompounds.
Carnegie-Mellon University.Pustejovsky, J. and Anick, P. G. 1988.
On theSemantic Interpretation of Nominals In Pro-ceedings of COLING 88Pustejovsky, J., Bergler, S., and Anick, P.1993.
Lexical Semanti(: Te(:hni(tues fbr Cor-pus Analysis.
In Computational LinguisticsVol.
19(2).Resnik, P. 1993.
Selection and hdbrmation: AClass-Based Al)t)roa(:h to Lexi(:al Relation-ships.
Ph.D. dissertation.
University of Penn-sylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Selkirk, E. 1982.
The Syntax of Words.
MITPressSproat, R. W. 1985.
()n Deriving the Lexicon.Doctoral Dissertation, MIT.Sproat, R. W. and Lil)erman M. Y.
1987.
To-ward Treating English Nominals C()rrectly.In Proceedings of the 25th, An'n, ual Meeting ofA CLVanderwerde, L. 1994.
Algorithm tbr Auto-marie Intert)retation of Noun Sequences InProceedings of COLING 94Zhai, C. 1997.
Fast Statisti(:nl Parsing ()f NounPhrases tbr Documenting Indexing.
In PTv-ceedings of the 5th, Co'nf, re,nce on AppliedNat'a~nl Langv, age P'mcc, s.sing300
