Comprehension ofCoreferential ExpressionsPeter C. GordonDepartment of PsychologyUniversity of North CarolinaChapel Hill, NC 27599-3270pcg@email.unc.eduAbstractThe ways in which the form of referringexpressions interacts with the structure oflanguage are reviewed.
Evidence from anumber of different methods - quantitativelyanalyzed judgements of acceptablecoreference, reading time, and corpusfrequency of different types of coreferenfialexpressions - converges on a fairly simpledescription of patterns of coreference.- Amodel is presented which integratesimportant aspects of DiscourseRepresentation Theory and of CenteringTheory in order to provide an account ofhow referential expressions are interpretedas part of constructing a discourse universefrom a series of utterances.IntroductionThe study of coreference in generativelinguistics has led to a very strong emphasis onhow the hierarchical structure of sentencesinteracts with the form of referring expressionsto constrain coreference (Chomsky, 1986;Reinhart, 1976).
The resulting principles,embodied in the Binding Theory, provide rulesthat are of some use to researchers in natural-language processing because they provideinformation about disjoint reference - what anexpression cannot refer to in certaincircumstances.
However, beyond that usetheoretical work on the Binding Theory does notdirectly bear on questions central to languageprocessing.
Questions o f  how to resolvepotentially ambiguous expression such aspronouns, or how meaning more generally isbuilt up incrementally from linguisticexpressions incontext, are beyond its scope.Randall  Hendr ickDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of North CarolinaChapel Hill, NC 27599-3155hendrick@email.unc.eduWe (Gordon & Hendrick, 1997; 1999) have usedthe basic methods of experimental psychology totake a close look at the phenomena ofcoreference and disjoint reference involving fullexpressions (names and descriptions) that havebeen cited in support of Principle C of theBinding Theory.
I The results show that theinteraction of form of referring expression andlanguage structure is far simpler than it has beentaken to be in the Binding Theory.
Further,results on the judged acceptability of differentconfigurations of referential expressions areconsistent with the results of experiments hatuse reading time as ~ano nline measure oflanguage comprehension (Gordon, Grosz &Gilliom, 1993; Gordon, Hendricl~ Ledoux &Yang, 1999).
Further, those results are consistentwith the frequency of different types ofcoreferentiai configurations in corpora ofnaturally-occurring language (Ariel, 1994;Carden, 1982; van Hock, 1997).
The pattern of"coreference that is observed with these threetypes of measures (intuitive judgments, readingtime, and frequency in a corpus) is accounted forby a model (Gordon & Hendricl~ 1998) thatincorporates aspects of Centering Theory(Grosz, Joshi, & Weinstein, 1995) intoDiscourse Representation Theory (Kamp &Reyle, 1993).?
'.
Principle C of the Binding Theory states that an r-expression cannot have a c-commanding antecedent.A constituent ct is said to "c-command anotherconstituent 13if the first branching node thatdominates a dominates 13as well.820@0@00@@0@000000000000@@@00000000000@00000@01 Core ference  and  the  Form ofExpressionsResearch in psycholinguistics, both ours and thatof others, supports a fairly simple generalizationconcerning the ease of establishing coreferencein sequences of different forms of referringexpressions.
Coreference is most easilyestablished in ?name-pronoun sequences, less-easily established in name-name s quences, andleast easily established in pronoun-namesequences.
An example of these types ofsequences taken from Gordon and Hendrick(1997) is shown below along with the proportionof naive subjects (college students at theUniversity of North Carolina) who judged that itwas grammatically acceptable for theexpressions in bold-face to refer to the sameperson.John's roommates met him at the shop.
.94John's roommates met John at the shop.
.37His roommates met John at the shop.
.23It should be noted that according to the BindingTheory coreference ought o be acceptable in allthesentences shown above; for both the name-name and pronoun-name s quence the secondreferring expression does not  have a c-commanding antecedent and therefore should befree to corefer with the first referringexpression?
This is one example of consistentdifferences that we found between the acceptedempirical predictions of the Binding Theory andthe quantitatively analyzed judgments ofcompetent native speakers who were naive tolinguistic theory.In Gordon and Hcudrick (1997; 1999) we findthat his pattern of relative acceptabifity betweenthe different ypes of sequences i shown forcategorical judgments, for ratings ofgrammaticality, for isolated sentences, forsentences in discourse context, and for differenttypes of unreduced expressions including names,2 Attempts like that of Kayne (1994) to reformulatethe definition of c-command to account for theunacceptability of his roomates met John at the shoodo not explain the improved status of John's momatesmet John at the shun.definite NPs and quantified NPs.
3 This pattern isalso supported by on-line measures of readingtime which show that under certain conditionssentences with repeated names are read moreslowly than matched sentences with pronouns(Gordon, et al 1993; Kennison & Gordon,1997); similar patterns of this reading elevationare observed within sentences and betweensentences (Gordon, Hendrick.
Ledoux & Yang,1999), The similarity of results that we observewith judgments of coreference and with on-linemeasures of reading time suggest that judgmentsof acceptable coreference reflect the ease interms of mental processing with which asentence can be understood.
The similarity ofresults that we observe in the factors thatinfluence the ease of establishing coreferencewithin and between sentences suggests that thesame mechanisms may be used for the two types?
of coreferential processing.
The finding by Ariel(1994) that repeated-name coreference is far less?
common than pronominal coreference in anaturally occurring corpus suggests that ourconjecture about the relative ease in terms ofcognitive processes of establishing coreferencefor different types of sequences helps tounderstand how people use different forms of.coreferential expressions.For name-pronoun a d name-name sequences,the pattern of acceptable coreference is modifiedby the structural pro_minence of  the antecedent(first) referring expression.
Here, we takestmcturai prominence to mean the inverse ofdepth of syntactic embeddedness.
An example,again from Gordon and Hendrick (1997), isshown below along with the proportion ofsubjects who judged that it was grammaticallyacceptable for the expressions in bold-face torefer to the same person.John's roommates met him at the shop.
.94John met his roommates atthe shop.
.97John's roommates met John at the shop.
.37John met John's roommates atthe shop.
.24For name-pronoun sequences, coreference ismore acceptable when the antecedent is .moreOur findings make English look more similar to thesurvey of crosslinguistic variation in pronoun-quantified NP sequences in Bresnan (1998).83prominent (e.g., a subject) than when it is lessprominent (a possessive), while for name-namesequences the opposite is ti'ue.
Gordon andHendrick (I 997) found that this pattern holds fora number of manipulations of prominence:subject NP versus object NP, subject NP versusa component NP of a pair of conjoined NPs, andsubject NP versus an NP in a relative clause.Gordon, et al (1999) showed similar patterns inrelative reading times for cases of bothintersentential and intrasentential coreference.Our studies of coreference have mostly focusedon understanding contrasts in the comprehensionof full and reduced referring expressions.
Theresults that we have obtained in thosecomparisons are consistent with other theoreticaland methodological approaches.
Research onpsychological heuristics for interpretingambiguous pronouns has provided support for asubject-assignment strategy, where a pronoun ispreferentially interpreted as coreferential withthe subject of the preceding clause (Crawley,Stevenson, & Kleinman, 1990; Frederick.sen,1981); in our framework, the subject of asentence has the most structural prominence.Research on the success of algorithms forpronoun resolution (Lappin & Leass, 1994)shows that syntactic factors (such as being asubject, being a direct object, and not beingcontained within another noun phrase)contribute to the likelihood that an expression isthe antecedent of a subsequent pronoun.2 DPT: An Account of BasicCorefereneeWe have developed a model of coreferencecalled Discourse Prominence Theory or DPT(Gordon & Hendrick, 1998).
I t  adapts theformalism provided by Kamp and Reyle's (1993)Discourse Representation Theory (DRT).
In thisapproach, construction rules (CRs) maplinguistic expressions onto universes o fdiscourse.
In DPT the construction rules andrepresentation f DRT are modified so that theycan account for the basic facts of coreferencedescribed above.
The principle modificationsare: (1) The construction rules for proper namesand definite descriptions introduce ntities intothe discourse model as they do in Kamp andReyle (1993), but the construction rule forpronouns interprets pronouns as referringdirectly to entities in the discourse model whichis not how the rule works in Kamp and Reyle(1993); (2) Discourse ntities in the model areranked in terms of prominence (an idea thatderives from the set of forward-looking centersin Centering Theory, Grosz, et al 1995) whichinfluences the way in which coreference isestablished.
Discourse Prominence Theoryincludes three construction rules for the majortypes of reference and coreference, those forproper names, pronouns, and equivalence asshown below.
We explain these rules byshowing how they account for the differences inthe ease of establishing coreference in sequencesof different types of referring expressions.
Thenwe discuss how this process is influenced bysyntactic prominence.CR.PN (Construction Rule for Proper Names)iTriggering Condition:\[__... ~ b,,_\]\]...\]Insm~ctions?
Introduce a new discourse referent u intothe universe of the DRS, Uk.?
Introduce a new condition _(u) into thecondition set of the DRS.?
Substitute u for \[Jo L,~ -\]\].cR.PRO (Const~ction Rule for Pronouns)I ITrigguring Condition:~ b._J\]Inslructions?
Chose an antecedent vj,after consideringevery vi i<j such that vl and vj exist in theordered set of discourse referents in theDRS and are suitable antecedents, andsubstitute vj for \[co ~ \] in thetriggering condition.?
ffno suitable antecedent vj is present,introduceinto he universe of the DRS anew discourse referent u.?
Substitute u for \[s~ \[too -\] \].
"111 I84000000000000000000000000000000000000000000CR.EQ (Construction Rule for Equivalence)Triggering Condition:\[_...x... y .... \]such that (x) and__(y)Instructions:?
Identify the discourse referent x in theordered list of discourse referents va...voby checking vi after v l where i<j.
* Introduce the new condition x - y?
Remove ~e condition _(y)2.1 Name-Pronoun CoreferenceThe example below involves a sentence with aname-pronoun sequence.
The occurrence of thename triggers the construction rule for propernames (CR.PN) which posits a new entity (hereshown as x) in the universe of the discourse andwhich introduces a condition in the universeconsisting of the name predicated on this newentity.
The occunence of the pronoun triggersthe construction rule for pronouns (CR.Pro)which searches the discourse universe for a*'suitable antecedent" (one that matches ongrammatically encoded features).
For theexample sentence below this leads fairly directlyto a discourse universe that successfullyrepresents he coreferential interpretation f thename and the pronoun?E,x: Jane thinks she is sick.Construction Rules1.
CR.PN2.
CR.ProI X?
Jane(x)x ,thinks x is sick2.2 Name*Name CoreferenceThe next example involves a sentence with aname-name sequence.
The first occurrence of4 The nature of the  appropriate predicaterepresentation is an important question but one thatwe believe can be tackled independently of themechanisms for establishing reference andcoreference.the name triggers the construction rule forproper names as does the second occurrence ofthe name.
In the example, this leads to asituation where there are two entities (x and y),both with the name Jane predicated on them,where one entity thinks the other is sick.
Thus,the construction rules triggered by the name-name sequence naturally leads to a state ofdisjoint reference as shown by the intermediatediscourse universe shown below.
Coreference isonly established through the construction rule?
for equivalence which is triggered by thepresence in the discourse universe of the samename predicated on two distinct entities.
Thisrule introduces a condition that equates the twoentities thereby establishing coreference asshown in the second discourse universe below.The fact that coreference in name-namesequences requires an additional constructionrule and involves an intermediate r presentationwith disjoint reference explains why coreferenceis more difficult to achieve in name-namesequences than in name-pronoun sequences.Ex: Jane thinks Jane is sick.Construction RulesI.
CILPN2, CR.PNi l l  iJane(x)Jane (y)x thinks y is sick3.
C'R.EQxyJane(x)Jane (3')x=y, x thinks y is, sick2.3 Pronoun-Name SequencesThe final example involves a sentence with apronoun-name s quence, First.
the occurrence ofthe pronoun triggers the construction rule forpronouns.
Because the discourse universe doesnot contain a suitable antecedent, a new entity isintroduced.
The occurrence of  the name85subsequently triggers the construction rule forproper names which introduces a second entityupon which the name is predicated.
Thus, adiscourse universe is created with two distinctentities but without he identifying informationthat could trigger the construction rule forequivalence.
Because there is no direct way ofestablishing coreference it is comparativelydifficult to establish coreference in pronoun-name sequences.Ex: She thinks Jane is sick.Construction Rules!.
CR.Pro2.
CR.PNxyJane (y)x thinks }, is sick2.4 Effects of  Prominence ..As discussed above, the syntactic prominence ofthe antecedent influences the ease ofestablishing coreference: Greater prominencefacilitates coreference in name-pronounsequences while it inhibits coreference in name-name sequences.
DPT accounts for this effect byadopting the notion, from Centering Theory, thatentities in the discourse representation areranked in terms of prominence.
Based on ourpsycholinguistic results, it is clear that thesyntactic status of an antecedent expression is amajor determinant of its "rank.
The twoconstruction roles that establish coreference usethis ranking in different ways.
The constructionrule for pronouns searches for a suitableantecedent s arting with the most prominentdiscourse ntity, thus a prominent antecedentfacilitates coreference with a pronoun.
Incontrast, the construction rule for equivalenceinvolves an evaluation that begins with the leastprominent entity, thus having a pmrm'nent entityinhibits coreference with a repeated name.3 Backwards AnaphoraBackwards anaphora involves coreference inpronoun-name s quences, omething that wesaid that naive subjects do not accept.
In fact, ina number of experiments (Gordon & Hendrick,1997) we found that naive subjects do not acceptcoreference in the kind of pronoun-namesequences that played a critical role inmotivating the construct of c-command.However, naive subjects do accept coreferencein pronoun-name s quences when the pronoun isin a fronted adjunct, as shown by the proportionof acceptable coreference judgments for thesample sentence below:Before she began to sing, Susan stood up.
.88In Gordon and Hendrick (I997) we found thatcoreference was acceptable for pronouns infronted adjuncts that were subordinate clauses orprepositional phrases.
This restricted range ofacceptable backwards anaphora is in factconsistent with what is observed in corpusstudies.
Carden (1982) found that in over'95% ofthe naturally-occurring instances of backwardsanaphora that he observed, the pronoun was in afronted adjunct.
Carden's finding is bolstered byrecent work by van Hoek (1997), whichprovides clear support for the idea that inbackwards anaphora the pronoun isoverwhelmingly present in a fronted adjunct.An additional important fact about coreferenceand fronted adjuncts emerged in our studies ofreading time in sentences with intersententialcoreference (Gordon, et al 1993).
Our researchhas shown a consistent effect (the .
"repeated-name penalty") where a sentence with a repeatedname is read more slowly than a matchedsentence with a pronoun.
However, this effect isnot observed when the repetition occurs in afronted adjunct as shown in the example below:Susan gave Fred a pet hamster .In h is /Fred's  opinion, she-shouldn't have.Giving a pet as a gift is somewhat of animposition.The second sentence is read equally fast when itContains a repeated name as when it contains apronoun.In Gordon and Hendrick (1998) we account forthese two important facts about coreference infronted adjuncts - that they enable backwardsanaphora nd that there is no reading timepenalty for names compared to pronouns - by?
considering the semantic function of adjuncts.8600000000000000000@0@00000000000000000000Adjuncts serve to semantically modify the mainclause to which they arc attached.
Accordingly,a fronted adjunct causes a departure from thenormal incremental construction of a discoursemodel where linguistic expressions are added tothe existing discourse model so as to elaborateits semantic ontent.
This is because a frontedadjunct must be processed in relation to theclause to which it is attached and therefore mustawait processing of that clause when the adjunctappears first.
In our model, this break ininereinental processing is formulated as a(possibly temporary) partitioning of thediscourse universe that is triggeyed bY a frontedadjunct.
Because a pronoun in a just begundiscourse segment cannot possibly have areferent, it is held in an un-interpreted state andtherefore can be subsequently equated with afollowing name.
The two construction rulesgiven below detail the partitioning of thediscourse segment and the possibleestablishment of coreference for an entity insuch a segment.
The (temporary) semanticpartitioning of the discourse universe provides aunified account of the possibility of backwardsanaphora in fronted adjuncts and the absence ofa penalty for names over pronouns in a frontedadjunct.CR.FRQNTED.AdjunctTriggering Condition: " '\[c, \[xP\] cp...\]Instructions: "?
Begin a new DRS Ut,z?
Introduce a new condition K~ _ \[ }into Uk, i.?
For any \[ps _ \] within XP, introducea new discourse referent u intothe universe of the DRS Uk?l.?
For any other ~_  \] withinXP, introduce a new discoursereferent u into K,.?
Introduce a new condition _(u)into Ut.i?
Substitute u forL _\] XF .
,,CR.EQ:Adjunct .
.
.
.Triggering Condition -:the condition set _(u) within --Ki where _ is apronounInstructions:?
Equate u with a discourse referent v that iswithin the universe K~.I that c_ontains K~.ConclusionThe.
work reported here argues that allowablecoreference merges from how constructionrules for interpreting different ypes of nounphrases interact dynamically with a structurerepresenting the meaning of a discourse.
Further,it is argued that interpretation of coreferentialexpressions within and between sentences idone in a uniform manner, making use of thesame construction rules and .principles ofdiscourse representation.
This manner favors theuse of pronouns compa~d to proper names forreference to prominent entities in a discourse.The model that is developed - DiscourseProminence Theory (DPT) - integrates andelaborates on three theoretical sources:Discourse Representation Theory (DRT, Kamp& Reyle, 1993), Centering Theory (Grosz, et al1995), and the Binding Theory (Chomsky,1986).DRT is adopted as a formalism because itprovides explicit mechanisms for mappinglinguistic input onto semantic representations.Further, syntactic forms play an important rolein the characterization f the linguistic input tothe DRT construction rules and syntax clearlyplays an important role in coreference.
Finally,DRT describes emantic interpretation as anincremental process in which the interpretationof an utterance involves a dynamic interaction ofthe characteristics of  the utterance with thediscourse universe that represents the meaningscreated from the earlier utterances in thediscourse.
Beyond its usefulness in providing asatisfactory semantics, of discourse, this dynamicview of language processing makes DRTattractive as a framework for characterizing thepsychological  processes of  .
languagecomprehension which are generally regarded asdynamic and incremental.87Centering Theory provides key theoreticalnotions for understanding how reference and theform of referring expressions contribute todiscourse coherence.
DPT directly incorporatesthe idea of a set of forward-looking centers (Cf)in order to explain how structural prominenceaffects the interpretation of pronouns andrepeated full expressions.
This incorporationextends the role of the Cf so that it plays a rolein the interpretation of referential expressionswithin an utterance as well as betweenutterances in a discourse segment.
The idea of abackward-looking center (Cb) is not directlyincorporated into the representation f discoursewithin DPT.
Instead, thc characteristics of theCb emerge from how the model integrates anutterance into the current discourse universe andthereby linking it to the current discoursesegment.
The preference for realizing the Cb asa pronoun occurs because the construction rulefor pronouns (CR.Pro) interprets a pronoun asreferring to an entity in the current discourserepresentation a d therefore forces integration ofthe utterance into the current discourserepresentation.
Absent a clear cue forintegration, such as a pronoun, there is alwaysthe possibility that the utterance is the beginningof a new discourse segment and should not beintegrated into the current discourse universe.The existence of only a single Cb in an utteranceoccurs because a single pronominal reference issufficient o force the integration of an entireutterance into the current discourse universe.The Binding Theory contributes to DPT throughits emphasis on how the syntactic haracteristicsof the antecedent influence patterns ofcoreference.
While this is the case, it is obviousthat the work that we have reviewed is notconsistent empirically with the generalizationstypically modeled by the binding theorists.Coreference phenomena appear to be simplerthan.
the binding theorists have taken them to be,and accordingly the effects of syntactic factorson allowable coreference merge from thenature of the mechanisms posited in DPT forachieving coreferential interpretations.The discrepancies that we observed between theempirical characterizations of the BindingTheory and those obtained using moresystematic experimental techniques deservesome comment given the current emphasis incomputational linguistics on appropriateempirical methods.
We (Gordon & Hendrick,1997) found that there were striking differencesbetween what was seen as acceptablecoreference in the linguistics literature and whatemerged from quantitative analysis of judgmentsthat were systematically obtained from subjectswho were naive to syntactic theory.
Further, theview of coreferenc?
that emerged from thejudgments of naive subjects was consistent withonline measures of language comprehension a dwith analysis of corpus data.
We believe that thisconsistency points to the usefulness ofconsidering the kinds of intuitive judgments thathave traditionally been used in trying to developtheories of linguistic ompetence.
However, wealso believe that it demonstrates the need forcareful methodology in collecting intuitivejudgments.
Because of substantial variation in"i ~-' judgmentsabout coreference, and because of thecentrality of the theoretical issues at stake,claims about the favored or acceptableinterpretations of linguistic expressions indiscourse need to be supported by quantitativelyanalyzed ata obtained from subjects who arenaive to the hypotheses being investigated.
Dataon such intuitive judgments can only provide astable, cumulative basis for theoreticaldevelopment if they are collected with suchmethods.AcknowledgementsPreparation of this report was supported by NSFgrants SBR-98(YT0"28 and IIS-9811129.ReferencesAriel, M. (1994).
Interpreting anaphoric expressions:a cognitive versus a pragmatic approach.
Journalof Linguist, s, 30, 3-42.Bresnan.
J.
(1998).
Morphology competes withsyntax: Explaining typological variation in weakcrossover effects.
In P. Barbosa, D. Fox, P.Hagstrom, M. McGinnis, and D. Pesetsky, (Eds.
),Is the Best Good Enough?
Optimality andcompetition ht syntax.
Pages 59-92.
Cambridge,MA: lVtlT Press.Carden, G. (1982).
Backwards anaphora anddiscourse context.
Journal of Linguistics, 18, 361-387.88O@., ,'.- O000000000000000000@0@00O000000000000@00000000000@00000@000Chomsky, N. (1986).
Knowledge of Language: ItsNature, Origin and Use.
New York.
Praeger.Crawley, R.A., Stevenson, R.J., & Kieinman, D.(1990).
The use of heuristic strategies in theinterpretation of pronouns.
Journal ofPsycholinguistic Research, 19, 245-264.Frederiksen, J.R. (!
98 I).
Understanding anaphora:Rules used by readers in assigning pronominalreferents.
Discourse Processes, 4 323-347.Gordon, P.C., Hendrick, R., Ledoux, K., & Yang,C.L.. (1999).
Processing of reference and thestructure of language: An analysis of complex nounphrases.
Language and Cognitive Processes.Gordon, P.C., & Henclrick, R. (1999).
Non definitelqP anaphora: A reappraisal.
Chicago LinguisticsSociety 34.
Chicago, IL: University of.Chicago.Gordon, P.C., & Hendrick, R. (1997).
Intuitiveknowledge of linguistic co-referenc~ Cognition,62, 325-370.Gordon, P.C., & Hendrick.
R. (1998).
Therepresentation a d processing of coreference indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 22, 389-424,Gordon, P.C., Grosz, B.J., & Gilliom, L.A. 0993).Pronouns, names, and the centering of attention indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 17, 311-347.Grosz, B.J., Joshi, A.IC, & Weinstein, S. (1995).Centering: A framework for modelling the localcoherence ofdiscourse, Computational Linguistics,21,203-226.Kamp, H., & Reyle, U.
(1993).
From Discourse toLogic.
Introduction to Model Theoretic Semanticsof Natural Language, Formal Logic and DiscourseRepresentation Theory.
Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publishers.Kayne, R.$.
(1994).
The antisymmetry of syntax.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Kennison, $.M., & Gordon, P.C.
(1997).Comprehending referential expressions duringreading: Evidence from eye tracking.
DiscourseProcesse~, 24, 229-~2,Lappin, $.
& Leass, H. 0994).
An algorithm forpronominal naphom resolution.
ComputationalLingu/atics, 20, 535-561.Reinhan, T. (1976).
The Syntactic Domain ofAnaphora.
MIT.Van Hock, K. (1997).
Anaphora nd conceptualstructure.
Chicago, IL: University of ChicagoPress.a l  k89
