TIPSTER PROGRAM HISTORYThomas H. CrystalAdvanced Research Projects Agency3701 N. Faiffax DriveArlington, VA 22203crystal@arpa.milThe history of the TIPSTER Text program has multiplethreads.
And, as preparation of this report marks the end ofPhase I of a two-phase lxogram, part of the history is plan-ning for Phase II, maintaining the successful threads.One of the threads is the close cooperation of six govern-ment organizations in formulating and implementing theprogram.
This included not only sharing in the program for-mulation and funding, but also sharing in the definition ofthe tasks, in the preparation of large text corpora used fordevelopment, and in the development and implementationof evaluation methodologies.The second thread is the cooperation of the contractors insharing ideas and resources while pursuing different, com-petitive approaches tothe problems of text processing.The third thread is the sponsorship of the internationalMessage Understanding Conferences (MUC's) and TextRetrieval Conferences (TREC's).
These conferences, whichevaluated the state of the art and promoted text-processingR&D outside of the TIPSTER Text contracts, were orga-nized by NRaD and NIST.
MUC-1 and MUC-2 precededand set the stage for TIPSTER, before the sponsorship ofthese conferences became part of the program.Formulat ion  of  the Program.The concept of the TIPSTER Text program was developedat ARPA beginning in June 1989, following the end ofMUC-2.
The promising results of that conference, alongwith an appreciation of the need for automated handling oflarge volumes of text, led to the formulation of a text-pro-cessing technology-development plan.
ARPA approvedfunding for the program which, in taking some risks indeveloping the technology, could result in substantial bene-fits for facing the government's ever-growing need for sort-ing and analyzing large volumes of text.Beginning in January 1990, a succession of meetings wereheld among government agencies interested in the develop-ment and use of text-processing technology.
From thiscame the agreement for sharing the planning, funding, andexecution of the progran~Significant decisions included having a program with (1)two-phases: two years of R&D into advanced algorithms,followed by two-years of development ofprototype/dem-onstration systems; (2) separate focuses on detection(retrieval and routing) and on extraction (understanding);(3) emphasis on domain and language portability; (4) peri-odic evaluation of complete systems; (5) development bythe government of large corpora for training and testing ofcorpus-based techniques and system development and eval-uation.In June of 1990, a BAA was published soliciting proposalsfor participation i  the program.
This led to the selection ofthree contractors for investigating different approaches todetection and another three for extraction.
Clarification ofthe proposals, election of sources and negotiating the con-tracts took most of fiscal 1991.Phase I of the ProgramPrior to the beginning of the contractors' work, the govern-ment began an intensive, two-year effort into the acquisi-tion and preparation of annotated corpora for the project, asdescribed in the separate sections on detection and extrac-tion.The virtual start of TIPSTER Text Phase I occurred at akickoff workshop held in September of 1992.
The govern-ment reviewed the framework, objectives and plans for thefollowing two years of work.
The contractors describedtheir specific approaches todetection and extraction andlaid the groundwork for the future sharing of ideas and ofsoftware and data resources.
The workshop included paral-lel working sessions for discussion of specific issues in thedifferent areas of research, including details for addressingthe different domains and different languages and the gov-ernment's preparation of the data.The workshops were repeated at 6-month intervals for theduration of Phase I.
Selected researchers from other ARPAHuman Language Technology (HLT) programs were alsoinvited.
In connection with the 12-month, 18-month and24-month (final) meeting, uniform evaluations of systemperformance were conducted and reported at the meetings.Between meetings, there were frequent exchanges of infor-3mation among the government and the contractors (withheavy use of electronic mail) and, by the end of the twoyears, a sizable catalog of shareable resources had beendeveloped.The availability of dual-use funding permitted the additionof an additional detection and an additional extraction con-tractor for the final year of Phase I.TIPSTER Text contractors were required to participate inMUC or TREC.
MUC-5 and TREC-2, using TIPSTERevaluation techniques, were held to coincide with the finalPhase I evaluation so as to provide a measure of the state ofthe art and identify good performers.
Phase I of the TIP-STER program concluded with the 24-month workshop.Phase I I  P lann ingDuring the last year of Phase I, the government began plan-ning Phase II.
Scenarios were developed to indicate thevariety of actual applications of the systems to be devel-oped.
A two-tiered program of (1) continued algorithmdevelopment and (2) transfer of technology into demonstra-tion projects was definedThe management of Phase II will follow the successfulthreads of Phase I.
There will be close cooperation amongthe government agencies and the contractors.
There will beregular workshops, corpora for development and testingand periodic evaluations.
MUC and TREC will be contin-ued and there will be increased interaction with the ARPAHLT community.
Contractors will share software using alicense developed by that community.The design of the Phase I systems and analysis of the sce-narios indicated the complementary nature of detection andextraction operations and the desirability of supporting bothcapabilities within a single system.
There also appeared tobe many similar modules in the diverse systems.
From this,it was determined that an initial activity of Phase II will bethe development of a common, open software architecturefor the implementation f text-processing systems.
Thisarchitecture will also facilitate sharing of the developmenttasks, transferring technology toactual applications, futureR&D into improved algorithms and continuous upgradingof systems which use the architecture.
The architecture willstress functional and knowledge-based modularity and willuse an SGML-Iike language for tagging text transferredbetween the modules.This architecture will be developed as part of Phase II R&Dthrough the cooperative efforts of multiple contractors,coordinated by an independent Systems Engineering/Con-figuration Management contractor.
The R&D contractorswill then be tasked to fit their system modules into thearchitecture they have designed.
Phase II R&D will alsoinclude improvement of algorithms and research into com-bining the results of the application of diverse xtractionand detection techniques.A BAA soliciting proposals for participation i Phase IIR&D was issued in August 1993, with responses due fromthe bidders in October.
Selection and negotiation isplannedto be completed so that work may begin early in the springof 1994.
Bidders will also be judged as potential sources forthe demonstration projects.
Individual agencies will issueseparate RFP's for each such project.
For each project, ademonstration system based on the architecture and mod-ules developed in the R&D tier will be developed, installedand evaluated inthe processing of actual "operational" data.Needs for architecture and algorithm improvements or a ci~ii-tional research will be fed back to the R&D projects.Procurement and award of the demonstration projects willbe coordinated with the development ofthe architecture.4
