THE TEXT RETRIEVAL CONFERENCESDonna HarmanNational Institute of Standards.Gaithersburg, MD 20899harman@magi.ncsl.nist.govThere have been two Text REtrieval conferences frRECs);TREC-1 in November 1992, with 28 participants, andTREC-2 in August 1993, with 31 participants.
This confer-ence was inspired by the very successful MUC effort, andby the availability of the new large English test collectionbuilt for TIPSTER.
Whereas an important goal for ARPAwas to investigate a broad range of detection (retrieval)techniques, one of the other goals of the conference was toencourage the use of this collection by many experimentersin the information retrieval community.
It was hoped thatby providing a very large test collection, and encouraginginteraction with other groups in a friendly evaluationforum, a new thrust in information retrieval would occur.
Itwas also hoped that increased interaction between commer-cial and academic groups would result in a transfer of newretrieval techniques into the commercial setting, enablingbetter products in the long-term for ARIA cfients.The test design and test collection used for document detec-tion in TIPSTER (and described in a later section of thisproceedings) was the same used in the TREC conferences.The test collection consists of over 1 million documentsfrom diverse full-text sources, 150 topics, and the set of rel-evant documents or "fight answers" to those topics.
Theparticipants in TREC ran the same evaluation tasks as inTIPSTER, sent results into NIST for evaluation, and pre-sented the evaluation results at the conferences.There was a large variety of retrieval techniques reportedon.
including methods using automatic thesaurii, sophisti-cated term weighting, natural language techniques, rele-vance feedback, and advanced pattern matching.
As resultshad been run through a common evaluation package,groups were able to compare the effectiveness of differenttechniques, and discuss how differences among the systemsaffected performance.
Proceedings with papers from allparticipating roups have been published.
\[1,2\].The TREC conferences have proved to be very successful,allowing broad participation i  the overall ARPA TIP-STER effort, and causing widespread use of a very largetest collection.
Both conferences have had very open, hon-est discussions of technical issues, and there have beenlarge amounts of "cross-fertilization" of ideas.
This will bea continuing effort, with a TREC-3 conference scheduledfor November 1994.
The format will be similar to that ofthe first two conferences, but it is expected that even moreuniversities and companies will participate, and that someof the tasks will be changed slightly to increase the amountof scientific knowledge that can be gained from theresearch going into these conferences.
It is highly likelythat a second language (Spanish) will also be used inretrieval.\[ 1\] Harman D.
(Ed.).
"The First Text REtrieval Conference(TREC-1).
National Institute of Standards and TechnologySpecial Publication 500-207, 1993\[2\] Harman D.
(Ed.).
"The Second Text REtrieval Confer-ence (TREC-1).
National Institute of Standards and Tech-nology Special Publication 500-215, in press.7
