THE MESSAGE UNDERSTANDING CONFERENCESBeth M. SundheimNaval Command, Control, and Ocean Surveillance CenterRDT&E Division (NRaD)Decision Support and AI Technology BranchSan Diego, CA 92152-7420sundheim@nosc.milThe Message Understanding Conferences (MUCs) providea forum for assessing and discussing progress in the field ofnatural language processing.
Each conference is precededby a formal evaluation of text analysis ystems that havebeen developed to perform ashared task, as designed by theGovernment in consultation with evaluation participantsfrom the research community.The evaluations and conferences bring research groups thatare supported by major ARPA contracts together with otherresearch groups, who are attracted by the opportunity towork on a well-defined task with Government-furnishedmaterials, to meet with their peers, and to attract attentionto their research and development program.
Proceezlings ofthe last three conferences have been published in the openliterature; two of those conferences were held in the periodcovered by Tipster Phase I \[1,2\].A wide variety of system architectures, processing tech-niques, and tools have been tried, tested, and refined in thecontext of the evaluations, purring progress in the robustprocessing of naturally, occurring text.
To a large extent, itwas the promise shown by the technology in the periodbetween 1987 and 1991 that led the Government toincludeinformation extraction technology in the Tipster program.The task orientation and evaluation format for MUC wereadopted by the TIPSTER prokram.Over the years since the first MUC in 1987, the text pro-cessing requirements of the evaluation have evolved fromanalyzing a small number of paragraph-length naval mes-sage narratives in a very restricted subject area (MUC-1 in1987 and MUC-2 in 1989) to analyzing a large number offull-length news articles in much broader areas.
MUC-3(1991) and MUC-4 (1992) required processing of Englishnewswire articles about Latin American terrorism.
TheMUC-5 evaluation, which ended in July.
1993, was basedon the 'Iipster articles in ~n~lish and Japanese on joint ven-tures and microelectrouics.The application which serves as the basis for evaluating thetext analysis ystems i  primarily information extraction,i.e., the identification and formatting of information con-tained in the news articles.
(A secondary task is documentdetection, since some articles contain o pertinent iaforma-tioga whatsoever.)
The MUC-5 application tasks were thosethat had been defined for the Tipster program.
The systemsdeveloped by the Tipster-funded contractors (BBN, GElCMU/NMSU/Brandeis, UMass/Hughes) were evaluatedon the basis of their performance in English in both thejoint ventures and microelectronics domains; all but theUMass/Hughes system were also evaluated in Japanese inboth domains,\[1\] Proceedings of the Fourth Message UnderstandingConference (MUC-4).
June 1992.
Morgan Kaufmann Pub-lishers.\[2\] Proceedings of the Fifth Message Understanding Con-ference (MUC-5), August 1993, Morgan Kanfmann Pub-lishers.
