TIPSTER PROGRAM OVERVIEWRoberta H. MerchantUS Department of DefenseFt.
Meade, MD 20755rhmerch@ afterlife.ncsc.mil1.
TIPSTER PHASE IThe task of TIPSTER Phase I was to advance the state ofthe art in two language technologies, Document Detectionand Information Extraction.Document Detection includes two subtasks, routing (run-ning static queries against a stream of new data), andretrieval (running ad hoc queries against archival data).Information Extraction is a technology in which pre-specified types of information are located within free text,extracted, and placed within a database.2.
THE STATE OF THE ART IN DOCUMENTDETECTION BEFORE TIPSTERBefore TIPSTER users searching large volumes of data andusing many queries had few information retrieval tools touse other than the boolean keyword search systems whichhad been developed more than a decade arlier.
The charac-teristics of these boolean systems are:?
low recall (the user loses an unknown quantity ofuseful information because the system is unable toretrieve many of the relevant documents)?
low precision (the user has to read a very large num-ber of irrelevant documents which the system hasmistakenly retrieved)?
no ranking or prioritization (the user must scan theentire list of retrieved ocuments because a gooddocument isjust as likely to be at the end of the listof retrieved ocuments as at the hesinning)?
exact matches (the user must generate by hand vari-ant spellings or alternate word choices because thereare no built-in rules for adding variants)?
hand built queries (the user has to understand howthe system works and the syntax of queries in orderto use the system)3.
DOCUMENT DETECTION DELIVERABLES INPHASE HAs a result of algorithm development in Phase I, duringTIPSTER Phase lI.
prototype systems will be built, givingthe user Document Detection tools which feature the tech-nology developed inPhase I:?
improved recall (comparative evaluation of systemsin TIPSTER and TREC \[1\] has demonstrated higherrecall of relevant documents)?
improved precisica (the user will read fewer uselessdocuments inorder to find the ones he wants)?
ranked retrievals (the user reviews documents statis-tically ranked according to how well they match thequery, thus improving the chances that he most use-ful documents will be near the top of the queue)?
query expansion (the system, not the user, automati-cally expands queries to draw in more relevant doc-uments by using concept based tools such astbesauri)?
automatic query generation (the system uses a natu-ral language description of the subject supplied bythe user to generate queries)4.
THE STATE OF THE ART IN INFORMATIONEXTRACTION BEFORE TIPSTERNotwithstanding ARPA and commercial support for thedevelopment of information extraction technology and thepositive impact of the series of Message UnderstandingConferences, before TIPSTER, information extraction hadbeen applied to the database update task as largely a man-ual procedure.
Manual extraction ischaracterized by:?
wide variance in the accuracy and consistency of thedatabase content?
heavy labor commilanent?
continuing cost expenditure and training demand?
difficulty of porting to new domains?
difficulty of extending within current domainThe deployment ofinformation extraction systems was rarefor both commercial nd Government applications.
Suchsystems have been characterized by?
lack of extensibifity within dcanaint?
lack of portability to new domains?
language dependency (English only)?
task dependency, solving a single problem with littlereusability?
high development cost with only system developermaintenance5.
INFORMATION EXTRACTION DELIVERABLESIN PHASE HAs a result of algorithm development i  Phase I, duringTIPSTER Phase H. prototype systems will be built with thefollowing characteristics:?
increased extensibility within domain with reduceduser involvement?
greater ease of portability to new different domains?
language independence, portability to new languages?
task independence, solving multiple problems withreusable components?
user f~useed maintenance with minimal systemdeveloper involvementThese systems provide the user with extraction tools whichfeature:?
accurate and consistent database content results?
minimal user intervention i reviewing extractionresults?
initial cost expenditure with little maintenance ost?
flexibility in managing the amount of informatien tobe ex~acted?
appficability o new tasks, such as indications/warn-ings, text tagging, and document detection support\[1\] The Text REtrieval Conferences (TREC's) are describedin the Document Detecfien section.2
