AN ANALYSIS OF THE 3OINT VENTURE JAPANESE TEXT PROTOTYPEAND ITS EFFECT ON SYSTEM PERFORMANCESteve MoioranoOffice of Research & DevelopmentWashington, D.C. 2@5@5email: maiorono@cr1.nmsu.eduBACKGROUNDThe TIPSTER Data Extraction andFifth Message UnderstandingConference (MUC-5) tasks focused onthe process of dataextraction.
Thisis a procedure in which pre-specified types of information areidentified within free text,extracted, and insertedautomatically within a template.Three TIPSTER contractors -- BBN,GE/CMU, NMSU/Brandeis --participated in the August '93 MUC-5evaluation for both the Englishjoint venture (EJV) and Englishmicroelectronics (EME) domains andtheir Japanese-languagecounterparts, the \]3V and 3MEapplications.
Two other contractors-- SRI and SRA -- participated inthe EJV and 33V domains alone.
CMU'sTextract system took part in the3apanese-language domains only.
Ofthe five systems that tested in bothEnglish and Japanese, al l  but onescored higher in the Japanese-language applications according toboth the summary error-based scoresand reca11/precision-based metrics.This overall result has lead someparticipants and observers tosuggest that Japanese is an "easier"language than English.Japanese-language usage in the total1297-article \]3V corpus exhibits thesame degree of ellipsis-generatedvagueness and ambiguity as in otherdomains and genres of Japanesewriting.
On the other hand,however, in matters of informationpresentation JJV articles are veryformulistic.
This paper argues thatthe stereotypical structure of thetopic sentence in the J3V corpustogether with the "default" patternof certain template f i l l s  gives theJapanese systems o ready basis forextracting information and insertingi t  into a template.
The result isbetter overall systems' performancein 33V than EJV as indicated by thescoring metrics.METHODOLOGYThe argument outlined in this paperis based upon a discourse anaZysisof two portions of the entire 1297-a r t i c le  3JV corpus: the 15e-article33V test set and 1~ randomlyselected development-set art ic les.In addition, a descriptive anaZysiswas performed on approximately 50JJV test art ic les and correspondingtemplate results for varyingcombinations of the six systems thatparticipated in MUC-5; a l l  sixsystems, however, were analyzed on asubset of 12 selected art ic les ,  or atotal of 72 individual templateresults.
The entire descriptiveexamination is motivated by a desireto understand better the varioussystems' capabil i t ies in order tomake the numerical results moretangible to potential users.
Theassumption is that one can constructa composite performance-baseddescription for each system derivedfrom the analysis of individualtemplates, and that the resultingsnapshot -- what the system actuallydoes -- wi l l  be more comprehensibleto users than the theoretical modelof a system outlined in a technicalsummary -- what i t  should do.165Although the discourse anaZysis hasnot yielded o fult-btown discoursestructure for the JJV corpus, themost essential element of theevolving top-down paradigm, thetopic sentence, is identified.
Anyattempt to formulate o completediscourse paradigm for JJV mustf i rs t  deal with this sentence.
I tcontains much informationsignificant in its own right and --more to the point for dataextraction -- relevant to templateinsertion.
In fact, most of thetime the topic sentence contains a11the minimally required data forinstantiating and tracking a tie-uprelationship.This paper f i rs t  examines thestereotypical nature of this topicsentence -- hereafter referred to asan article's ~Impact Line" -- beforemoving onto o discussion of the"default" mechanism.
The Impact Lineprototype operating in conjunctionwith the instantiation of certainhigh-percentage star f i l l s("defaults") provides a proficientextraction heuristic andcorresponding salubriousquantitative effect upon systemperformance.JJV DOMAIN AND THE IMPACT LINEThe JV application focuses ontracking tie-ups between at leasttwo entities.
I t  is necessary,therefore, to I )  identify theentities engaged in some businessactivity or development project and2) to confirm that the arrangementbetween them is a tie-uprelationship.
Therefore, for theImpact Line to hove any "impact" atal i  in this application, itsprototype should at least containthe information necessary infu l f i l l ing  the above criteria.Two definitions of the prototypicatImpact Line, version i and version2, ore presented below.
Version Idiscusses the data items necessaryto meet the above-mentioned criteriafor generating o tie-up: twoentities and the indication of otie-up.
In order to show how thestructure of this version-1 ImpactL ine  facilitates the identificationand extractionof these data items,moreover, the f i rs t  definitiondiscusses the grammatical role ofthe Japanese topic marker (~ "wo,"its importance in marking relevantproper nouns in the JJV corpus, andthe Impact Line's verbal element.By this definition, 81% of the JJVtest set is Impact Lineprototypica1.Version 2 is a more restrictivedefinition requiring the presence oftwo more extractable data elementsin the Impact Line in addition tothe criteria of version I. Thesecond definition, therefore,discusses the types and distributionof Impact Line data items.
Thisversion of the prototype occurs 65%of the time.DEFINITION OF THE PROTOTYPICALIMPACT LINE (VERSION 1)Cl) IMPACT LINE TOPIC MARKER(GRAMMATICAL FORCE)In the same way that the Impact Lineis crucial to developing a completediscourse paradigm for JJV, orperhaps any domain of Japanesenewspaper articles, I any discussionabout what constitutes aprototypical Impact Line must startwith the Japanese topic marker(<TM) =wa" whose role as designatorof the Impact Line's grammtical1 I am just beginning to analyze newspaper=announcement" articles in other domains, such asJME, to see if the Impact Line prototype has validityand can form the basis for a rnetarnodel that is notdomain specific.166subject is  predominant in the 33Vtest  corpus.
The =wo"-designatedsubject sets the tone for the ImpactLine as the Impact Line does for the33V ar t i c le .In 3apanese discourse generally,"wo" is o particle that indicatesthe theme or topic of o sentence andas such often, but not always,corresponds to the subject of thesentence.
Perhaps just  as often=wa" serves to h ighl ight  ortop icg l ize  other pieces ofinformation, while the par t ic le  "go"marks the subject.
For example:Kono hon waken go yonda.
(Speaking of th is  book, Ken has readi t .
)Eigo wa Ken ~ umai desu.
(With regards to English, Ken issk i l l fu l .
)The subject Ken is  designated by goand the topic by wa.
However, whenthe subject or agent of the actionis  also the sentence topic,  womarks the grammatical subject.
Forexample:Ken wa kono hon o yondo.
(Speaking of Ken, he read th isbook.
)I t  is  th is  la t te r  grammaticalfunction of "wa" as the sentencetopic and agent-of-actiondesignator that predominates in theJJV test  a r t i c les .
Example 1below is  #2638 from the 33V testset:?
~ l t _E '~ (~t -I-~ BPN-Subject <'1"t4 Numeral+NTokyo Marine & Fire 17thN Prt NPEnglish b ig /gen ' l / insurN PNcamp.
Commercial UnionN N PN Prtcamp.
hqs.
London withVP Prt VPbusiness/t ie-up/did announcem' t /d idTranslation:Tokyo Har ine & F i re  \ [ InsuranceCo.\] announced on the 17th that ithas concluded a business t ie-up witho large English general insurancecompany, Commercial Union(headquarters London).Given the grammatical importance of"wa" in indicat ing the subject ofthe Impact Line, th is  function takeson added signif icance in the 3Vdomain where the ident i f i ca t ion  oft ie-up ent i t ies  in a t ie-uprelat ionship t r iggers the extractionprocess.
The Impact Line topicmarker in 33V articles is o reliabledesignator of proper nouns that areva l id  t ie-up partners to beextracted and inserted into thetemplate.
In fact,  in 117 ImpactLines out of 145 z 33V test -seta r t i c les  (81%), "wa" marks at leastone t ie-up partner; 3 andth is  t ie-up partner is  not simplythe Impact Line topic,  but the agentof action as welt.Furthermore, in 19 instances out ofthose 117, the topic marker isz Five of the 150 test-set articles produced atemplate but not any tie-ups because they were abouteither sister-city relationships or talks that werebroken off.
Therefore, the baseline figure that will beused hereafter in discussing the JJV test set is 145.3 There was a similar high percentage of 79% for100 randomly selected JJV development set articles.167preceded immediately by two propernouns designating two principal t ie-up partners.
Typically the structurewi l l  look l ike Example Z below:(Ex .Z)  B~TY ?
~'-- ?
z ~PN ConjJapan/IBM andPN <TMSum~tomo ElectricThe conjunction ~ ("to") binds thetwo entities IBM Japan and SumitomoElectric as co-subjects.
Alternatelythis paradigm altows for modifiersbefore either or both of theentit ies (Exc Iptes  3 - -  S):(Ex .3 )  I ,~  ~ ~l~I~IToyota and US car-.~ ~ ~b -GM (~tmaker GM <TM(Ex.4) B ~ 8 |,bI,,Y, ~ -Japanese carmakerToyota and GM <TM(Ex.S)Japanese carmaker Toyota andUS carmaker GM <T~Thus far, the prototypical ImpactLine can be encapsulated in thefollowing short notation:.
.
.
.
.
Xwhere X is a principat t ie-upent i ty and the e l l ips i s  marks allowinclusion of multiple subjects asshown in Examptes 2 - -  5.
I t  isimportant to note, moreover, thatwhether modifiers precede an ENTITY-designate or not, or whether aconjunction is present or not, thetopic marker =wo~ is precededimmediately -- in the grammaticalsense -- by an ent i ty  that is aprincipal t~e-up partner.
Twenty-one of the 117 "wo"-designatedent i t ies  are preceded immediately byinformation about the ent i ty  --  suchas location --  enclosed ~nparentheses, rather than the ent i tyname ~tself .
For exampte:Nikko Securities (hqs.
Tokyo) <TMOrthographically this  may bemisleading, but grammatically thetopic marker indicates the ent i ty,not i t s  headquarters location.Therefore, such cases retain the i rprototypical va l id i ty .
(2) IMPACT LINE TOPIC MARKER(PRACTICAL FORCE)The Impact Line topic marker exertsa force that extends beyond thescope of a JJV a r t i c le ' s  f i r s tsentence.
In instances of e l l ips i s ,which occurs frequently throughoutthe JJV corpus, the appropriatesubject can be supplied by insertingthe Impact Line "wa"-designatedsubject.
Art icte #1747 is a classicexample of Japanese presentation:|~t -  ~'~:~  ~ ~ ~ .
.
.
.~ .
~)  ~ ~Literat transtation ( \ [  \] indicateszero anaphora):-1) On the 6th Joyo Bank announced168that \[ \] hod concluded ocomprehensive business tie-up withNomuro Securities.
Z) In thesecurities area, \[ \] already has otie-up arrangement with NikkoSecurities, but in order to meet thediverse needs of \[ \] regionalcustomers, \[ \] is making up for thelock of securities-related servicesthrough tie-ups with severalcompanies .
.
.
.
4) As far as the t ie-up with Nomura is concerned, M & A(company mergers and acquisitions)business is included, and Joyo ispoised to move aggressively intothis area.Note that the Impact Line subject,Joyo Bank, does not appear againuntil the fourth sentence, which isthe last line of the article.
Untili t  reappears as the subject, i t  isomitted and one needs to supply apronoun or proper name -- ~it"," i ts  ", "Joyo" -- in order to readthe passage understandabty inEnglish.
In other words, theheuristic, which states thate11ipsis can be f i l led  by thesubject marked by the Impact Linetopic marker, works quite wet1 here.Admittedly this is an easy casebecause sty l ist ical ly  Japaneseallows ell ipsis in a sentence thatfollows one in which the subject wasintroduced originally.
In fact,using the term heuristic qua aconvention with grammatical andstyl ist ic  acceptability may beinappropriate.
However, in numerousother instances when conveniencedominates and ell ipsis is propagatedthroughout a text beyond the decentbounds of style, assigning theproper subject is less clear-cut.Particularly troublesome are thosecases in which ell ipsis continuesfor several sentences before theintroduction of a new subjectappropriately designated by anothertopic marker.
Thereafter, thesubject -- which one?
-- is againomitted, and one must decide betweencalling upon the proximate "wa Y-designated subject or the originalImpact Line "wa"-designated agent.When coding or checking 1@@ of the15@ test-set art ic les ,  I noted onlyone instance (#2111) in whichcontext demanded that the subject ofa part icu lar ly  complex sentence wasnot the default Impact Line Uwa m-designated one.
I t  is ,  therefore, apowerful heurist ic,  especially inthe JJV corpus where the art ic lesore on overage short and the~protogonist" principal t ie-upent i ty  is highlighted at the outsetby the Impact Line "wa.
~ Theprotagonist ent i ty usually announcesthe tie-up to the public, and inthis  sense, ~has the action ~throughout the remainder of thetext.
In short, when in doubt oneshould revert to the in i t ia l  topicsubject.INVALID USES OF uWA"Before turning to the Impact Lineverbal element and f inishing theprototype version-1 def in i t ion,  thetwo types of occurrences below helpillustrate further the legitimateuses of ~wo" by showing what doesnot qualify as prototypical:1.
In the JJV test set, there arethree instances in which the ImpactLine topic marker is not preceded byan ENTITY but by a PERSON who isannouncing a tie-up.
The ent ity nameis present as a modifier, e.g.,Japan Development Bank's TakahashiHajime president <'\[14Such instances ore eliminated fromconsideration as a prototype becausethe in i t ia l  "wo ~ is not preceded bya principal t ie-up partner.1692.
In one instance the in i t iat  "wa"marks a valid entity for extraction,however, i t  is not o principal t ie-up partner; i t  is the PARENT of oneof the principals.
(3 )  IMPACT LINE: OTHER :REQUISITE ELEMENTSAs mentioned above under GRAMMATICALFORCE, the JV application trackstie-up relationships between two ormore entities.
And, i t  has alreadybeen demonstrated that the ImpactLine topic marker is a reliableindicator (81% of the JJV test set)of at least one of those entities.The next question is: Does theprototypical Impact Line alsocontain the other elements requiredfor instantiating a tie-up?
Thatis: I )  Is the name of the other t ie-up entity(ties) present in theImpact Line, and 2) is there anyexplicit indication that thearrangement between the two entitiesis in fact a tie-up relationship?i )  Remarkably, there are only seveninstances -- over and above thepreviously cited 117 -- in which anImpact Line would otherwise beconsidered prototypical except thatthe other tie-up partner name(s) isnot specified until later in thetext.
In other words, 81% of JJVtest-set Impact Lines indicateclearly not only by virtue of thetopic marker at least one tie-upentity, but atso introduce the nameof the other principal partner aswell.2) In order to confirm that any twoor more entities present in theImpact Line are in a tie-uprelationship, the Impact Line muststate specifically that this is thecase.
The verbal elements at the endof the Impact Line are important olook at, therefore, in determiningwhether there is a tie-up or not.Typically, Japanese text wi l lstipulate ~teikei," which is themost frequent erm for tie-up, butwi l l  also use other phrases that areeither synonymous or describe anarrangement or activity thatpresupposes a tie-up, such as:(agreed to join)(z ~ED C, 7a(signed contract to establish JVcompany)(announced the formalization of anR&D contract)A11 of the previously judged 117prototypical instance meet thisstandard, and not surprisingly,given the formulistic nature of theImpact Line, 96 out of those 117(82%) employ the word ~teikei.
"(Example 7 later discusses anImpact Line in which "teikei ~ doesnot appear.
)(4 )  VERSION-1 REVIEWExample 1:PN-Subject <llW Numeral+NTokyo Marine & Fire 17th<~',J~ ~ X~-~.~(~N Prt NPEnglish big/wen' 1/insurN PNcamp.
Commercial UnionN N PN Prtcamp.
hqs.
London with170VP Prt VPbusiness/tie-up/did announcem't/didExample I is reprised above toreview the elements of aprototypical Impact Line.
I t  mustcontain all the elements required bya valid tie-up.
Therefore, theImpact line must state that there isa tie-up (or, was, in the case ofdissolution) between at least twoentities who are named; more i f  thepartnership so stipulates.
4Furthermore, at least one of thenamed tie-up entities -- the"protagonist" -- must be followedimmediately by the topic markerVersion-1 Cr i te r ia :?
Two Entities: Tokyo Marine & Fireand Commercial Union?
"Wa-Designated Protagonist Tie-UpEntity: Tokyo Marine & Fire?
Existence of Tie-Up Relationship:indicated by keyword ~i~" te ike i "At f i rs t  glance this seems like anonerous burden for a prototypicalstructure to bear.
But i t  is thediscourse nature of Impact Lines inthe 3JV domain to be replete withpertinent information, much of i tsuitable for extraction.
In view ofthe fact that the Impact Lineintroduces much data at the outsetof an article, a more restrictivedefinition (version 2) requiring theImpact Line to contain additionalextractable data items is presentedbelow.DEFINITION OF PROTOTYPICALIMPACT LINE (VERSION Z)The definition of version 2 requires4 Two articles vAth 3 tie-up partnem and one ~th4 are included in the 117 prototypical cases.the presence of two extractable dataitems in the Impact Line in additionto the minimum criteria of version1.
As the Impact Line in Example1 above shows, a valid tie-uprelationship exists between TokyoMarine & Fire and Commercial Union.Moreover, the statement presents twoadditional pieces of informationthat are relevant for extraction:Commercial Union is  an Engl ishcompany (NATIONALITY) and i t sheadquarters is  in London (ENTITYLOCATION).
One is  also to ld  thatCommercial Union is ,  indeed, acompany (ENTITY TYPE), but th i s  isconsidered less an item that isextracted discretely than one thatfollows automatically from theidentification of the entity itself .This slot wi l l  be discussed later asa =default ~ f i l l .The types of extractable data itemsthat  occur in the 117 prototypica lImpact Lines are l i s ted ,  with theSLOT NAME followed by instances ofoccurrence enclosed in parentheses:ENTITY LOCATION (79)*,  INDUSTRY TYPE(88), PRODUCT/SERVICE (88),NATIONALITY (56)*,  PERSON NAME(44)*, PERSON POSITION (40)*, PERSONENTITY AFFILIATION (44)*, ALIAS(25), START TIME (12), END TIME ( I ) ,CHILD COMPANY ( I I ) ,  ECONOMICACTIVITY SITE (9), INVESTMENT (1),FACILITY NAME ( i ) ,  FACILITY LOCATION( I ) ,  and JV COMPANY ( i ) .The *-marked s lots indicate thatwhen these par t i cu la r  data itemsappear in a 33V tes t -set  a r t i c le ,they ore more opt to appear in theImpact Line than in the remainder o fthe text .
For example, ENTITYLOCATION information occurs in theImpact Line in 79 cases out of ato ta l  of  118 ins tant ia t ions  in theJJV test  set, or 67% for  the JJVtest  corpus; the percentages forPERSON NAME, PERSON ENTITYAFFILIATION, PERSON POSITION, ANDNATIONALITY ore 59%, 53%, 53%, and44% respectively.
There ore,171moreover, orthographic consistenciesin the textual presentation ofcertain information that should benoted: A11 but three of the 79ENTITY LOCATION items are enctosedin parens; o11 but six for theALIAS; and o11 of the PERSON NAME,POSITION, ENTITY AFFILIATION data.Viewed another way, out of 117version-I prototypical Impact Lines,eight hove no additional data items;15 have just one; 27 hove two; 19hove three; 17 hove four; and 31Impact Lines have five or more dataitems.
In other words, i f  theversion-2 definition of oprototypicot Impact Line were torequire the presence of twoadditional data elements, such asNATIONALITY and ENTITY LOCATION asin the case of Example I above,then there ore 94 (117 minus the 23that hove less than two additionalitems) instances out of the 145 33Vtest corpus that quotify, or 65% ofthe \]\]V test corpus.
Viewed fromeither version of the Impact Lineprototype, articles in the 33V testcorpus possess at the outset awealth of potential information forthe extraction task -- 81% in itsmost lenient interpretation and 65%in its more restrictive.Two Impact Line examples from theJJV test corpus ore given below tohighlight the requirements of theversion-2 definition of the ImpactLine prototype:Exampte 6:B ~z~@~ ~ ~B~PN- Subj <ll4 N+Prt(Ad j )Hitachi/manuf./ptoce American~ t ~  -~  -NPlarge/computer/maker=~b~ F .
/~-  F~ (HP)PNHewlett Packard Co. (HP)Conj Prt N Prtwith  tie-up <DO markerVPformal/announcement/didTranslation:Hitachi Manufacturing formollyannounced a tie-up with the largeAmerican computer maker, HewlettPackard.Vers ion -Z  Cr i te r io?
Two Entities: Hitachi Manufacturingand Hewlett Packard?
"Protagonist" Tie-up Entity Markedby "wo': Hitachi Manufacturing?
Tie-up Relationship: indicated bykeyword ~11~ "teikei"?
Two Data Items: Nationality(American)Alias (HP)Example 7:PN-Subj <TM NAsohi/beer 21st?
\[\] ~ ~E~JU~~N Prt NPAmerican draft/beer/maker7 F ju~ ?
9 7 -~ '~PNAdotph Coors Co.PN Prt N Prt(Colorado) beer <DO markerAdj Prt VPdomestic license/production/do172.~-~ ~ ~ (~ ~ ~ ~-c ~V+Nom(N) VP Prtselling was decided that~ ~oVPannouncement/didTranslation:On the 21st, Asahi Beer announcedthe decision that i t  wi l l  dothe licensed production and sellingof Adotph Coors' beer domestically;Adotph Coors (Colorado) is anAmerican draft beer maker.Version-2 Cr i te r ia?
Two Entities: Asahi Beer and AdolphCoors?
"Protagonist" Entity Marked by"wa": Asahi Beer?
Tie-up Relationship: indicated byphrases =produce" and "sell" thatdescribe activities whichpresuppose tie-up?
Two Data Items (minimum):Nationality (American)Entity Location (Colorado)oAdditionat Data Items Present:Industry Type (Production)Product/Service ("beer")Industry Type (Sates)Product/Service (=beer")Economic Activity Agent (AsahiBeer)e(Acceptable Additional Item:Economic Activity Site(inference that "domestic" =Japan)TEMPLATE DEFAULTSGiven the fact that the topic 3JVsentence is stereotypicat in boththe amount of data contained(magnitude) and the way in which i tis presented (Impact Lineprototype), how this  discoursestructure might jump-start a systemby providing top-level informationwhich can be propagated throughoutthe template is examined next.
Oneneeds to discuss f i rs t ,  however, thenotion of template "default" f i l l s .Default f i l l s  can be classified aseither de jure, de facto, orlogical.
De jure defaults includethe top-level or TEMPLATE OBJECTf i l l s ,  such as the DOC-NR, DOC-DATEand DOC-SOURCE, whose slots oref i l led  by SGML-togged data items.They ore, what one might call,"gimmes" by design and, therefore,are not incorporated in the scoringalgorithm that measures systemperformance.
The de facto andlogical defaults need someexplanation.De facto defaults correspond tothose set f i l l s  instantiated with avery high percentage of one type ofdata.
Judging by actual systems'output and the patterns of certainanswer-key template f i l l s ,  no onewi l l  dispute that, in the end, datafet l  out of text into some set f i l l sat a much higher frequency than wasintuited originottywhen thetemplate was being designed, sBelow is o snapshot of high-percentage 33V test-set set f i l l s .
(The second figure representspercentages for 100 randomlyselected development-set articles.
)5 Some of the distinctions that were made atdesign time over the course of pr(x~essingapproximately 50 articles became blurred unavoidablyas the fill rules evolved.
Therefore, the initial randomdistribution between, e.g., the ENTITY TYPE set fillsof COMPANY, GOVERNMENT, INDIVIDUAL, andOTHER became lopsided in favor of COMPANY.173SLOTNAMEFILL TEST- DEV-SET%SET%TIE-UPSTATUSENTITYTYPEREL-'ENT2-TO-ElENT RELSTATUSEXISTING 95% 91.50%COMPANY 98.30% 96.60%PARTNER 82.60% 84.50%CURRENT 94.50% 95.50%Given these percentages, how did thesystems actually perform?
Is thereany indication that these de factodefault f i l l s  were instantiated?The figures below seem to offerevidence for this.
Every systemevaluated on the TIPSTER JJV testcorpus for MUC-S showedsubstantially lower error rates foreach of the above set f i l l s  versustheir overall (A11-Objects) errorscores.SYS- TIE- ENTI- REL- ER OVER-TEM UP TY 2-TO- STAT- ALLSTAT- TYPE i US ERRORUSI 28 28 35 33 542 47 42 51 49 723 40 37 46 45 634 47 48 45 45 70S 56 46 53 51 706 25 26 35 31 S@The descriptive analysis of the 12templates mentioned above inMETHODOLOGY shows a similarlydistinctive trend in actuaI systems'output.
The 12 templates were notrandomly selected: All of them meetthe version-1 definition for theImpact Line prototype, and only fourdo not meet the restrictive one; sixarticles are short -- six lines orless in length; one articlespecifies three principal tie-uppartners in the Impact Line ratherthan the usual two; two articlescontain multiple tie-ups rather thanthe usual (84% of JJV test corpus)one tie-up; one article specificallymentions the formation of a 3Vcompany in the Impact Line; twoImpact Lines introduce a principaltie-up entity marked by the topicmarker "wa" that is clausallymodified by the name of i ts parentcompany; and one article's ImpactLine marks two tie-up entities.
Inshort, whenever a correct ENTITY wasinstantiated by any system, theabove-mentioned efault f i l l scascaded throughout he template,even i f  -- practically speaking --the resulting f i l l s  indicated that alone COMPANY was in o CURRENTPARTNER relationship with i tsel f .The discussion of article 1528 belowshows such an instance of this.Other template fills con be regardedas logical defaults, or those thatore o logical consequence of thetemplate object-oriented design.
Ifthe keyword ~teikei" confirms thatthere is a t ie -up and i t s  status is ,as mentioned above EXISTING, thenobviously the template has o t ie -upevent; i .e .
,  a TIE-UP OBJECT must beinstant iated to accommodate theextract ion of such information asTIE-UP STATUS, ENTITY, etc.S imi la r ly ,  i f  there is  a t ie -upevent and two entities are in arelationship defined as PARTNER,then obviously there is an ENTITYRELATIONSHIP.
I f  there is anINDUSTRY TYPE identified, there mustbe on ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OBJECT toaccommodate the INDUSTRY OBJECT,which in turn accommodates theINDUSTRY TYPE.
The templatestructure and other logical effectsfor inserting extracted data itemsinto i t  wi l l  be outlined furtherbelow in the discussion of #1528.174, t ,THE COMBINED EFFECTS OFPROTOTYPICAL DISCOURSE AND THEDEFAULT MECHANISMTo i11ustrate the potential effectsthat stereotypical 33V discoursestructure has on template f i l l s  andoverall performance when the defacto defaults are considered aswet1, the example of article #1528is submitted betow.%528 Impact L~ne:PN <TM PNShi seido ophthatmi c/phorm./co.PN N PNSenju Pharm'tical (hqs.
OsakaN PNpres./Yoshida/Shoj i/Mr.
)NP PNorthopedic/phorm./co.
MaruhoN PN(ditto, Yamamoto/Hi deo/Mr)ConjandNP Prt Nmedical/supplies sales~ ~ ~G~o o oPrt VP Prttie-up/did announcement/didTranslation:Shiseido announced that i t  had\[concluded\] a medical suppliessales tie-up with SenjuPharmaceutical (headquarters Osaka,Mr.
Shoji Yoshida, president), aophthalmic pharmaceutical company,and Maruho (ditto, Mr. Hide,Yamamoto), an orthopedicpharmaceutical compony...(remainderomitted)Number 1528 is a short six-linearticle with o version-2prototypical Impact Line containingthe following data items:?
Existence of Tie-up Relationship:indicated by keyword "teikei"?
=Protagonist" Tie-up Partnerindicated by topic marker "wa":Shiseido?
Tie-up Partner: SenjuPharmaceutical?
Entity Location (specificotlynamed): Osaka?
Person Name: Shoji Yoshido?
Person Position: President?
Entity Aff i l iat ion (info foltowsentity i t  describes): Senju?
Tie-up Partner: Maruho?
Entity Location (inferred from"d i t toS) :  Osaka?
Person Name: Hide,  Ycmw~moto?
Person Pos i t ion:  (unclear  whether"d i t to  ~ ind icates  pres ident )?
Ent i ty  A f f i l i a t ion :  Moruho?
Indust ry  Type: Soles?
Product/Service S t r ing :  =medicalsuppl ies ~Data items from remainder of text:?
Alternate Product/Service Stringfor Sales?
Another Industry Type: Production?
Product/Service String forProduction?
Alternate Product/Service Stringfor Production?
Economic Activity Agents: Shiseido,Senju, Maruho?
Start Time for Production?
Revenue for Soles?
Start Time for Revenue?
Revenue Type?
Revenue RateAdding the logicat and de factodefault stats -- such as TIE-UP,TIE-UP STATUS, ENTITY TYPE, ENTITYRELATIONSHIP, REL-ENTZ-TO-ENTi,175ENTITY RELATIONSHIP STATUS, ECONOMICACTIVITY, etc., there are a total of47 possible f i l l s  that are scored.SYSTEM I :  MINIMUM CASESCENARIOGiven the plethora of data items inthe Impact Line and its prototypicalstructure, minimally o system shouldbe able to identify and extract onENTITY NAME (Shiseido) by the topicmarker =wo" because this element ofthe Impact Line is the mostconsistent port of the prototype.Suppose, moreover, o systemconfirms the existence of a tie-upevent (CONTENT) by identifying thekeyword =teikei, ~ which is anotherconsistent element of the Impactline prototype, and one other dataitem from the Impact Line such asthe INDUSTRY TYPE SALES, which alsohas a keyword associated with i t"hanbai."
This system would have ineffect identified and extractedthree data items from the ImpactLine.
The default instantiationsassociated with the extraction ofthese items would be: TIE-UP STATUS(EXISTING), the named ENTITY (is aconstituent of the TIE-UP), ENTITYTYPE (COMPANY), on ENTITYRELATIONSHIP, the named ENTITY (is aconstituent of the ER), an ECONOMICACTIVITY (accommodates INDUSTRY),INDUSTRY (accommodates INDUSTRYTYPE), REL-ENTZ-TO-ENTI (PARTNER),and ENTITY RELATIONSHIP STATUS(CURRENT), for a total of 12template f i l l s .This can also be viewed belowschematically in template fashion.
(The bold lettering indicates thethree data items extracted from theImpact Line to highlight their placeof insertion into the template andthe embedding described above;i tal icized print indicates de factodefault f i l l s ;  plain text designateslogical defaults; the <TEMPLATEOBJECT> de jure default f i l l s  arenot scored except for CONTENT; andthe numbers ( I )  - (12) represent thetotal correct f i l l s .
)<TEMPLATE-I>:=Doc Number: 1528Doc Date: 9@@227News Source: Nikkei ShimbunContent: <TIE-UP-I> (1)<TIE-UP-l>:=Tie-up Status: Existing (2)Entity: <ENTITY-l> (3)Econ Activity:<ECON ACTIVITY-l> (4)<ENTITY>:=Entity Name: Shiseido (5)Entity Type: Company C6)ER:<ER-I>(7)<ER-I>:=Entl: <ENTITY-I> (8)ReI-Ent1-To-Ent2: Partner (9)Status: Current C10)<ECON ACTIVITY-l>:=Industry: <INDUSTRY-I> ( i i )<INDUSTRY-l>:=Industry Type:Sales C1Z)To review the logic outIined above:An entity name is correctlyidentif ied by the topic-markerheuristic; in order to place thename within the template, an ENTITYOB3ECT must be generated toaccommodate i t ;  this is accomptishedthrough the generation of a TIE-UPOBJECT which, in turn, is generatedby the CONTENT pointer; CONTENT isconfirmed by the keyword =teikei;"the third data item "sales" con beinserted into the template once onECON ACTIVITY OBJECT is generated inorder to accommodate the INDUSTRYOBJECT needed to instontiote theINDUSTRY TYPE data; i f  a namedENTITY is inserted as above, i t ,  bydefinition, must be a constituentpart -- or principal partner -- of aTIE-UP, and also, by definition,must be in an ENTITY RELATIONSHIPwith another entity (not identifiedhere); the rest of the slots are de176facto default f i l l s .The results of identifying andextracting successfully three dataitems from the Impact Line would beas follows:?
12 slots are f i l led  out of apossible total of 47?
Al l  12 are cor rect?
Recal l  = 26?
P rec i s ion  = I@@?
Error = 74?
Undergenerat ion  = 74This means that what the systemdidcapture, i t  did so accurately; andi t  did so through the identificationof only o small percentage of thedata items available to i t  in theImpact Line.
Through the =default"mechanism, three discrete elementsproliferated into a template with 12correct f i l l s .SYSTEM 2: BETTER CASE SCENARIOSuppose, however, another system,System 2, extracts successfully thesame three data items as System iand, in addition, identifies otherImpact Line information such asENTITY LOCATION (Osaka), PERSON NAME(Shoji Yoshida), PERSON POSITION(President), ENTITY AFFILIATION(Shiseido), and another named ENTITY(Senju).
System 2, moreover,successfully recognizes a START TIMEwhich appears in text after theImpact Line.
Finally, this systemincorrectly extracts a secondINDUSTRY TYPE (RESEARCH rather thanPRODUCTION), and l ists only two ECONACTIVITY AGENTS (Shiseido and Senju)rather than three (Shiseido, Senju,and Maruho) because i t  failed toidentify the third entity name inthe Impact Line.
System 2, inshort, has done a better job thanSystem I in making use of the top-level Impact Line data available toi t .
However, i t  s t i l l  missesseveral Impact Line items andmisidentifies (undergenerates) twoothers, but coupled with theinstantiation of the same defaultsoutlined in the schematic above theresults would look more impressive:?
Out of 47 total possible scoredslots, 29 are f i l led;  26 correctly.?
Recoil = SS?
Precision = 9eeError  = 46?
Undergenerat ion  = 40SYSTEM 3: BETTER STILLFinal ly, suppose yet another system,System 3, does an even more thoroughjob of extracting data from theImpact Line.
In addition to whatSystem 2 recognizes, this systemident i f ies the third ent i ty(Maruho), a second PERSON (HideoYanmmoto) with ENTITY AFFILIATION(Maruho) and POSITION ( infers"President" from =ditto" which isscored as acceptable), and thePRODUCT/SERVICE str ing associatedwith SALES.
Like System 2 above,System 3 recognizes a START TIMEfrom the body of the text andmisidentif ies a second INDUSTRY TYPEas RESEARCH.
Since th is  system hasmanaged to extract every piece ofImpact Line information and inserti t  into the template along with thedefault f i l l s ,  not surprisingly i t sresults would look impressiveindeed.oOut of 47 possible scored slots, 38are f i l led; 37 correct ly .?
Recal l  = 8@ePrec is ion  = 99eError  = 2@oUndergenerat ion  = 19CONCLUSIONThis paper has shown that JJVart ic les  possess o stereotypicalpattern of introducing muchsignif icant information amenable tothe data extraction task.
Thisstereotypical pattern is embodied inwhat has been outlined here as the177Impact Line prototype.
Furthermore,the "mining ~ of the Impact Line to ominimal degree by extracting thetopic marker-designated ENTITY is,one could say, o l i t t le  that goes olong way.
This is due in large portto that ENTITY's strategic place inthe template and the way in whichdefault f i l l s  associated with i t  orepropagated throughout he template.Hence, higher scores result for JJVthan EJV.A system, such as System 3 above,that takes fu l l  advantage of theImpact Line prototype and theplethora of information availabletherein can maximize its capabilityand show a quantum leap instatistical performance.
Obviously,the formulation of a complete JJVdiscourse structure would raiseperformance to another level.Discourse analysis alone, however,w i l l  not resolve a l l  the problemsendemic to Japanese, such ase11ipsis.
I f  the formulistic natureof Japanese discourse in the JJVdomain is o boon to data extraction,then its penchant for omittingsentence topics altogether is apotentiat minefield.
Discrete dataitems that have been easilyidentified at the outset need to becorrectly referenced to otheractivities that follow or theresulting template f i l l s  well painta total ly misleading picture as towho is doing what to whom.
Thispaper has discussed a heuristic fortopic-marker substitution that mighthelp in this regard, but i t  is onlyo small port of the equation formaking Japanese more explicit.178
