THE MULTILINGUAL ENTITY TASKA DESCRIPTIVE ANALYSIS OF ENAMEX IN SPANISHDon D. AndersonDepartment of DefenseFort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000dondande@romulus.ncsc.mil(301) 688-61491.
Introduction.
The task involved identifying andtyping all named entity expressions (ENAMEX),numerical entity expressions (NUMEX), and temporalentity expressions (TIMEX) in Spanish news articles.The analysis of the data suggests hat focusing on thehigh frequency expressions results in a higher payoff.This report looks primarily at ENAMEX expressionsbecause they accounted for nearly three-quarters of thetaggable data, and because they involved some of themore difficult tagging decisions.Since ENAMEX accounts for so many of the tagga-ble expressions, it makes ense that one can maximizeperformance by perfecting ENAMEX identification.
Asample analysis of test results for recall (REC) illus-trates how this works.
REC, in this context, is the num-ber of correct ags divided by the number of possibletags.
In the test results, the average REC for NUMEXexpressions was 91, that for TIMEX expressions 94,while that for ENAMEX was 88.
These scores repre-sent he average of all the participants' cores for correcttags divided by the total possible tags.
Similarly, thetotal overall REC for all taggable xpressions -- 89.6 --would be found by dividing the total correct ags --2,977 -- by the total possible tags -- 3,320.
On the otherhand, ff ENAMEX identification were improved enoughto obtain a REC of 93 with no change in NUMEX andTIMEX RECs, then the overall average REC wouldjump to 94.8, an increase of roughly 5 percentagepoints.
The example shows that a relatively smallimprovement in an area that accounts for a large per-centage of the data (73%+ in the case of ENAMEX forSpanish) will result in a relatively large overall improve-ment.
If the improvement had been only in NUMEX(which accounts for only about 9% of the overall data),for example, the overall improvement would have beenalmost negligible.2.
LOCATION data.
ENAMEX expressions con-sisted of three types: LOCATION, PERSON, andORGANIZATION.
The analysis of the Spanish datashowed that close to half (43%) of ENAMEX wereLOCATION.
A closer, more detailed, look at theLOCATION data suggests that he high payoff indicatedby the average REC and precision (PRE) scores wasachieved because most of the data were listable.
Overthree-quarters (76%) of the LOCATION type entitieswere country aggregates, countries, or capital cities.The list of these names is fairly small -- around 400 --and is comprised of the 187 independent country nameswith their capital cities plus about 20-30 country aggre-gate names.
States, provinces, and major citiesaccounted for 9% of the LOCATION data.
When thesenames are added, the list is still relatively small but nowaccounts for about 85% of the LOCATION data in thecorpus.
Some of the remaining 15% of the LOCATIONdata is pattemable asit contains key words such as cerro'hill', rio 'fiver', provincia 'province', and lago 'lake'.The following examples are fairly representative ofLOCATION data:?
Aggregates, countries, capital cities(1) America Latina 'Latin America'(2) Alemania 'Germany'(3) Mosctl 'Moscow'?
States, provinces, major cities(1) Nueva York 'New York'(2) laprovincia de Rfo Negro 'the province of BlackRiver(3) Ginebra 'Geneva'?
Other(1) la banda de Gaza 'the Gaza strip'(2) la Casa Blanca 'the White House'(3) el cerro San Cristtbal 'San Cfisttbal hill'It is interesting to note that a simple list of the Span-ish equivalents of the country aggregates, countries, and457major dries is not sufficient to account for all thelistable LOCATION data.
The news articles also con-tained country abbreviations such as EEUU (EstadosUnidos 'United States'), EAU (Emiratos Arabes Unidos'United Arab ~mirates'), and GB (Gran Bretaaa 'GreatBritain')3.
PERSON data.
High REC and PRE scores wereachieved in this area beecause the data were eitherlistable or patternable.
Since the corpus is made up ofnews articles, it is not surprising that chiefs of state andmembers of governent account for 37% of the PERSONdata.
The other categones include known figures fromfields such as sports, entertainment, the military, andreligion.Although less than 10% of PERSON namesappeared with a title, around 30% were preceded or fol-lowed by an explanatory phrase regarding the professionor nationality of the person amed.
Thus, to a certainextent hey are patternable.
A large majority of names,on the other hand, must be identified by means of a list.As would be expected, many of these names willinclude alternate short forms.
Thus, for example, all ref-erences to Salmon Rushdie after the first one are simplyRushdie in the Spanish news article about he novelist.The following are representative examples of PER-SON names in the corpus:Chiefs of state and members of governement(1) el presidente francds Jacques Chirac'the French president Jacques Chirac'(2) el presidente uruguayo Luis Alberto Lacalle'the Uruguayan president Luis Alberto Lacalle'(3) el Secretario de Trabajo Robert Reich'the Secretary of Labor Robert Reich'Other names(1) el escritor brit6nico de origen indio SalmonRushdie'the British writor of Indian origin Salmon Rush-die'(2) el l\[der ebelde angoleao Jonas Savimbi'the Angolan rebel eader Jonas Savimbi'(3) la actriz francesa Carole Bouquet'the French actress Carole Bouquet'4.
ORGANIZATION data.
Acronyms or acronym-like names accounted for 57% of the ORGANIZATIONdata.
Another 27% occurred with some kind of organi-zational designator and were therefore patternable,while the remaining 16% were listable.
The averageREC and PRE scores for ORGANIZATION data wereabout 8 points lower than those for PERSON andLOCATION.
While these scores do not necessarilymean that the systems had problems with acronyms, itseems logical to start focusing development energieshere because acronyms account for such a high percent-age of the data.At first glance, it appears that the high percentage ofacronyms coupled with their complexity will present areal challenge to the developer.The problem with acronyms and acronym-likenames is how to determine whether or not a word is anacronym.
Acronyms in the Spanish data ressembleEnglish acronyms and are of at least hree differenttypes: (1) the first letters of key words in the ORGANI-ZATION name (such as AFA, the A sociaci6n del F_utb6lArgentino); (2) the initial syllables of key words or amixture of first letters and initial syllables (such asMINUHA, Misi6n de la ONU en Haitf 'United Nationsmission in Haiti'); or (3) ad hoc (such as G7, where theG stands for grupo and 7 for siete in grupo de sietepa\[ses m6s industrializadosCompounding the problem are foreign loan acro-nyms such as NLRB (National Labor Relations Board)and acronyms that are never expanded in the article --such as AFP (Agence France Presse).Closer analysis hows that virtually all acronyms areof the ORGANIZATION type.
Furthermore, nearly allacronyms are in uppercase and so are fairly easy to iden-tify.
Abbreviations such as EEUU, EAU, and GB men-rioned previously can be filtered out and once theacronym is identified, an attempt can be made to matchit to an occurrence in the all uppercase header area com-mon to all the news articles.Over a quarter of the ORGAN/ZATION names arepattemable toa degree since they include an organiza-tional designator such as banco 'bank', grupo 'group',organizac/6n 'organization', and asociaci6n 'associa-tion'.
The problem is that even though the majority ofORGANIZATION names with desi?nators occurredwith the designator in initial position, it is not clear howto identify where the organi~arional name ends.
The fol-lowing examples will illustrate:(1) Banco Mundial(2) banco First Albany(3) Comitd de Familiares de Detenidos Desapareci-dos458(4) Comit?
nacional de la lucha contra las epi-demias de Kikwit(5) Organizaci6n de Cooperaci6n y DesarrolloEcon6mico(6)Organizaci6n Mundial de la Salud5.
Summary.
In s~jmmary, the analysis of the Span-ish data shows that as a general rule, most of theENAMEX occurrences are listablc or easily identifiableby non-linguistic means.
Identification ofpattemableENAMEX is, on the other hand, not straightforward dueto the difiqculty of determining precise patterns.
Com-parison of this analysis with average REC and PREscores uggests that here is a correlation between highscores and a high frequency of occurrence of data thatarc mostly listable or easily determined by means ofwell-defined patterns.459
