AN INTERPRETATIVE DATA ANALYSIS OF CHINESE NAMED ENTITYSUBTYPESThomas A. KeenanDepartment of  Defense,9800 Savage Road,Fort Meade,  Md.
20755tomkeena@romulus.ncsc.mi l1.
MOTIVAT IONS FOR AN INTERPRE-TAT IVE  DATA ANALYS IS"In assessing the performance of information extractionsystems, we are interested in knowing the classes oferrors made and the circumstances in which they aremade.
"\[1\] However, to date the Tipster scoring cate-gories (correct, partial, incorrect, spurious, missing,and noncommittal) have not been applied to classes ofdata based on structural distinctions in the language, oron semantic subclasses more finely differentiated thanthe NE types (person, location, organization, time, date,money, and percent).
For example, there has been noattempt to score the extraction of transliterated foreignperson ames, or of short-form aliases of corporationnames, or of Julian dates as opposed to Gregorian datesas opposed to dates of the Chinese lunar calendar.There are obvious practical reasons for this.
The scot-hag criteria re limited to those that can be measuredwithout access to anything more than the annotationsthe systems generate \[2\], and those applied by humantaggers to the answer keys.
Moreover, any new annota-tions that might become available represent a limitedsubset of the infinite number of ways that NE datamight be subcategorized, in accordance with particularinterests, applications, and capabilities.Yet, from among these innumerable possible subcatego-ties of entity names, afew would seem likely to emergeas more well-motivated than the rest.
Note that anappendix on "VIP Names" or "Country and Capital CityNames" is more likely to appear in a desk-top dictio-nary than a list called "Ethnic Surnames in their NativeScripts and Common Anglicized English Renderings.
"One would expect observant end-users of informationextraction systems to notice rather quickly that certainhigh frequency, hard-to-get, or thematically significantcategories of names are missing or incorrect in the out-put.
And one might desire, at some point in the systemdevelopment loop, to capture these observations system-atically, so as to direct efforts at system improvement.This would be especially desirable if system develop-meat includes relatively labor-intensive linguistic anal-ysis.Doing this "systematically" is not the same as measur-ing errors scientifically.
To count he number of taggedVIP person ames, for example, presupposes some-body's interpretation f whether "VIP" includes onlychiefs-of-state, or chiefs-of-state and cabinet ministers,or these plus nobel prize winning scientists, novelists,peace activists, etc.
So, the following observations areat best an interpretative error analysis, informed byknowledge of the language and of likely user expecta-tions.
However, we try to define this as a series of stepsthat reasonably approximates a cientific discovery pro-cedure.2.
A PROCEDURE FOR INTERPRETA-T IVE  DATA ANALYS ISThe following steps were taken to analyze the MET Chi-nese test data.- Step I: Scan the Input Data for Salient SubtypesThe MET Chinese named-entity data tagged in the testkeys was scanned for sub-classes ofnames appearing tomeet one or more of the following criteria:- they are frequently-occurring semantic subtypes (forexample itwas apparent that country names comprised alarge subclass within the LOCATION-tagged ata);- they are readily listable, high-interest ubtypes (forexample, "chiefs-of-state" comprise aclass smallenongh to be readily listable by a human analyst; inaddition, we might expect their activities to be morenewsworthy than those of the newspaper reporters orofficial government spokespersons whose names alsoappear frequently in the data).453- they are readily patternable subtypes (for example,many taggable organization names begin with a locationname and end with a unit designator, as in the name"Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Corporation".Other organization names, such as "Hamas," had noobviously specifiable morphological features in com-mon with large numbers of other names.This scanning process identified asmall number of datasubtypes, which were individually describable in termsof the meaning, forms or distributions ofnames, andwhich collectively seemed to comprise alarge percent-age of all names extracted \[3\].
The resulting inventoryof subtypes can be thought of as an hypothesis that heNE data is describable in a certain interpretative y t sys-tematic way.- Step 2: Count NE Occurrences by SubtypeTagged names were searched by NE "type" (person /location / organization) using a concordance tool(NMSU's "XConcord"), then copied to files represent-ing each of the posited subtype classes, or to a catch-all"residual" class.
The number of names in each file wasthen counted to arrive at an overall profile of the datadistribution.
This step can be thought of as a test of thedata distribution hypothesis.- Step 3: Chart the Distribution of NE DataTable 1 (following the tex0 provides asummary of the"test" results.- Step 4: Check for Inconsistencies in the Data Dis-tributionThe numbers in the boxes of Table 1 were tallied andanalyzed for internal consistency and non-conformity toour original expectations, that is, to show that he"hypothesis" was not invalidated.
If no inconsistencieswere found and an acceptably high percentage of thedata had been accounted for, then the descriptive cate-gory set might have appeared adequate.
Note, however,that he ratio of "residual" person ames, 40%, is con-siderably higher than the ratios of residual location andorganization names.
This suggested that he initialdescription was leaving a significant portion of the dataunaccounted for.- Step 5: Loop Back to Step 1 (or stop when anacceptably high percentage of the data is accountedfor, and inconsistencies are resolved)Re-examination f the data revealed that, among the 2-3syllable, non-VIE "residual" personnames, 40% \[4\] are directly preceded on the left by a"title" (e.g.
"Representative so-and-so").
This stillleaves 24% \[5\] of person ames unaccounted for.
Somehigh percentage of this 24% presumably could beaccounted for by an adequate structural description ofChinese "surname pins given name" patterns.
Thisdescription, and measurement of he data it would cover,was not attempted, ue to time constraints and the com-plexity of the problem.3.
APPL ICAT IONS OF  THE INTERPRE-TAT IVE  DATA ANALYS ISAs suggested above, variations of the above procedurecan be used to generate profiles of the data in order todirect efforts at system improvement.
This may or maynot be worth the cost of analysis if system improvementis driven solely by pipingmore and more massiveamounts of development data into a statistical learningengine.
If sufficiently massive and varied developmentdata is available, presumably the system eventually willtrain upon something approaching all of the relevantdata subtypes, without any need to know and describewhat those subtypes are.
However, when the approachinvolves labor-intensive pattern development based onlinguistic structures, future language-analytic develop-ment could be focused by applying in advance some-thing like the foregoing procedure, supported bytailored versions of concordance tools and other on-lineanalytic aids.4.
FOR FURTHER ANALYS ISUnder what circumstances would this approach be use-ful?
Above it was observed, "we are interested inknowing the classes of errors made and the circum-stances in which they are made."
We might also beinterested inknowing the significance of differentclasses of errors, or of data correctly handled comparedto data incorrectly handled.
Apparently only a smallpercentage of taggable NE's fall into the "residual" sub-classes (see Table 1), and these tend to correspond todata that is "hard to get" for the MET participants \[6\].Although the percentage may seem small, the signifi-454cance of a 10% or even 5% error rate ultimately dependson the usefulness of the unexploited data to the end-user.If"hard-m-getY "residual;' low-frequency data tends tocorrespond to certain semantic subclasses and not oth-ers, then the possibility arises that hese classes of NE'sassume some non-random thematic significance inthetexts.
That is, obscure, low-frequency proper names (ornames not conforming to prevailing patterns and types)might be expected to crop up in newspaper texts onlywhen they become highly newsworthy, and yet be pre-cisely the kinds of names that some systems tend tomiss.
It remain~ for further analysis to test and measurefor these possibilities by observing system perfor-mances on specific subclasses of data selected for tex-tual significance.5.
REFERENCES\[1\] Sundheim, Beth M. "Tipster/MUC-5Information Extraction System Evaluation"in Proceedings of the Tioster Text Programw(Phase D, p. 149.
September 1993.
MorganKaufmann Publishers, Inc. San Francisco.~\] i~d.\[3\] Zipf's Law predicts that a relatively smallnumber of high-frequency words willaccount for a disproportionately large num-ber of token occurrences in a text corpus.
Asimilar generalization appears to governlanguage patterns as well as words, that is, asmall number of high-frequency patternsapparently can account for a disproportion-ately large share of types uch as organiTa-fion names, with the specification ofnewpatterns eventually reaching a point of ever-diminishing returns.\[4\] i.e.
40% X 40% = 16% of all person ames\[5\] 40% - 16%\[6\] This finding is based on the author's pre-liminary, unpublished analysis.
In general,MET participant programs appear to bemost successful in tagging subclasses ofdata covered under the "listable" colnmn ofthe following chart, and least successfulagainst the "residtml" subclasses.All NE's: 3100 "LISTABLE"s "PATIERNABLE"s "RESIDUAL"All LOC's:1700 (50%)All ORG's:700 (25%)All PER's:700 (25%)unabbreviated Country/Major City Names:80% of LOCs (45% ofNEs)Major International &Chinese ORGs:35% of ORGs (10% ofNEs)VIPs (Chiefs of State,etc.
):15% of all PERs (5% ofNEs)abbreviated Country/Major Citynanles:15% of LOCs (10% ofNEs)LOC... "UNIT" pattern:50% of ORGs a (10% ofNEs)3+ syllable non-VIP for-eign PERs:40% of PERs (10% ofNEs)2-3 syl., non-VIPs,bound by punctuation& "said":5% of PERs(-0% of NEs)"obscure" LOCs(not country/major citynames).
"5% of LOCs (-0% ofNEs)other not readily pat-ternable ORGs:5% of ORGs (-0% ofNEs)2-3 syl., non-VlP,"unbound" PERs:<40% of PERs (10% ofNEs)** about40% of the abovecategory are bound onthe left by a "title" (e.g.
"Representative so-and-SO')TOTAL  60% "listable" 30% "pattemable" 10% "residual"Table 1: Chinese NE Data Distribution (figures rounded to nearest 5%)a.
Approximately 10% of all ORGs appear to fall into small istable/pattemable classes not indicated455
