CRL's APPROACH TO METJim Cowiejcowie@nmsu.eduComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State University, Box 30001/3CRL, as Cruces, NM, 88003SummaryFrom February to April CRL carried out investiga-tions into the modification of our l~n~Hsh name recogni-tion software developed for MUC-6 \[1\] to Chinese andSpanish.
In addition aJapanese system, developed underTipster Phase I \[2\], was modified to comply with theMET task.
Finally learning methods developed forMUC-6 were adapted to handle Chinese.
All systemsperformed with good levels of accuracy and it is clearthat further Dining and refinement, for which there wasno time or resources, would lead to even higher levels ofpe~forma.nc?.A Pattern Based ApproachThree pattern based systems were produced forSpanish, lapanese, and Chinese.
The basic operation ofeach is the same, although in the case of Chinese veryfew patterns were produced ue to time and resourceconstraints.
The data for each system was derived fromtralnin~ texts plus additional data derived from cor-pora and other CRL data developed for machine transla-tion.
No attempt was made to segment the texts used inthe Chinese system.
The Japanese system used informa-tion produced by the Juman segmentor, from KyotoUniversity.It is important to have basic tools for handling twobyte character sets.
A lookup program and a sort have tobe able to handle character order based on two bytes.These had already been developed as part of CRL's Tip-ster phase I work.
Given these and a tool to be used forhuman tagging and a program to extract agged text ofdifferent ypes and place it in files it is possible todevelop a naive system which recognizes previouslytagged names very rapidiy.Thus -HUMAN + TEXTS + TEXT TAGGING TOOL -> TAGGED TEXTSTAGGED TEXTS + EXTRACTION PROGRAM-> KNOWN L ISTSKNOWN L ISTS  + SORT - > UP L ISTSand  f ina l lyLOOKUP L ISTS  + TEXT + LOOKUP PRO-GRAM -> TAGGED TEXTSThe obvious problems here are that new names willappear and short forms will be recxL~nized in contextswhere they are incorrect.
For Chinese, however, thisapproach already gave reasonably high performanceboth on test and evaluation data.The next stage is to develop lexicons containingsemantic tags for component parts of names, and alsofor indicators that occur in the surrounding text.
Forexample beginning organization words in CRL's Span-ish system include the following - ASOCIACION,BANCO, BANKHAUS, BOLSA.
These too can bepartly derived from the training data and then extendedmanually.
Lists of proper names, locations, titles, pro-fessions and known words in the language are also used.For personal names in Spanish the English name fistswhich were partitioned into unambiguous names (inEnglish e.g.
CHARLES) and ambiguous names (e.g.BAKER) were repartitioned to fists of ambiguous andunambiguous names in Spanish using a morphologicalanalyzer and a Spanish dictionary (CHAI~I.FS is nowambiguous and BAKER not).
The Japanese system wasaheady constructed in this manner and similar develop-ments on a lesser scale carried out for Chinese.
Sets ofpatterns which recognize the basic semantic tags arenow developed and coded up as 'lex' pattern recogniz-ers.
So our system now looks like -LOOKUP L ISTS  + TEXT + LOOKUP PRO-GRAM -> PART IALLY  TAGGED TEXTS(PTT)SEMANTIC  L ISTS  + P T T + LOOKUPPROGRAM - > MARKED TEXTMARKED TEXTS + PATTERN RECOGNIZERS-> TAGGED TEXTS467At this point it is possible to further develop at-terns and data by scoring system performance againstsome, unseen, set of pre-tagged texts.
Some short formsof names are, however, particularly difficult o identifyin isolation and certain segments of the text, in particu-lar capitalized headlines in Spanish, are also difficult ifthe system uses capitalization.
This is most easily han-dled by a post tag stage which takes names discovered inthe text and generates a list of names which are thenconverted to appropriate short forms.
A final passthrough the whole texts using the lookup tool and thelist of full and abbreviated names catches many of theshort forms.There is obviously some point at which the recogni-tion and classification gets difficult.
The rules for METmade a distinction between an organization name andthe same name used to indicate alocations; this can be avery vague distinction and one probably better handledby other stage in the system.
Also a wide range of enti-ties were allowed as organizations, typical patterns forpop group names can be a lot more eccentric than com-puny names, a grainier division would separate somedifficult ypes from more conventionally usages.
Finallythere are some forms where a great deal of context and/.or world knowledge are needed to arrive at a CO~TeCtclassification.
These fortunately are only a few percentof the total cases in the type of texts used for MET.Dates and numbers were also recognized using pat-terns of semantic types.
These performed extremelyaccurately with high precision and recall.P rob lemsThe main problems were lack of time and people towork on the task.
An estimated two man months ofeffort was put into all three systems.
An additional prob-lem lies in the original design of our systems which donot allow multiple semantic tags on words or phrase.Thus a word might be a part of a person name and alocation but it is tagged as a location due to the orderingof the tagging process.
This in turn requires more com-plex and less accurate patterns to he used, which allowlocations as part of peoples names and so on.
Clearly amore complicated lexical structure would allow simplerpatterns.
Given the short development time for the METevaluation it was not possible to develop the necessaryinfrastructure to support this more complex lexicon.A Learning Based ApproachOur learning system has already been described inthe MUC-6 Proceedings \[2\].
It is based on automaticallycreating decision trees using Q,,inlan's ID3 algorithm.These decision trees use a limited context of text in thecase of Chinese four pairs of characters before and fourpairs after a point in the text to decide ff a name starts(or ends) at this position.
High precision, and low recallresults were possible using the extremely small amountof training data available for MET.
CRL extended thisdata by hand tagging all the texts provided for MET.Additional data was then generated by tagging knownnames in XinHua newswire and extracting these andtheir contexts to provide further training data.
Thisincrease in positive examples increased both precisionand recall significantly.
The final problem with adaptingthe method to Chinese was finding nnmatched bracketsand fixing them.
One decision tree finds the start of anorganization, but the other fails to identify the end.
InEnglish, once the missing bracket is identified, a simpleheuristic based on capitalization, conjunction and someother common words (e.g.
of) was used to fix the miss-ing bracket.
For Chinese we developed a frequency listof characters occurring before and after each name type.This was used to compute the most likely insertion pointfor the missing bracket.
This approach needs furtheranalysis to determine its success.The adaptation of the English learning system toChinese took around one and a half man months.References1.
Cowie, J, "Description of the CRL/NMSU Sys-tems Used for MUC-6" in Proceedings of the Sixth Mes-sage Understanding Conference (MUC-6), Morgan-Kaufman, 1996.2.
Cowie, J., Guthrie, L.,et al "The DIDEROT Sys-tem" in Proceeding of the Tipster Text Program (PhaseI), 223-235, Morgan-Kaufman,1993.468
