Message HandlerDr.
Steven FlankAdvanced Research Projects  Agency3701 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22203Email: sflank@arpa.milPhone: (703) 696-2309The Message Handler extracts critical intelligenceinformation from the free-text of military messagesto merge with the data'parsed from fixed-fields.
Inthe third of four project phases, the current fo-cus is on developing stand-alone capabilities demon-strating the viability of natural language process-ing in Advance Concept Technology Demonstrations(ACTDs), and to operational users at military com-mands.
E-Systems' engineers address the overallmilitary message traffic processing problem, whileSRI Interation~l's computational linguists adapttheir Finite State Automaton Text UnderstandingSystem (FASTUS) technology to the domain of mil-itary message free-text.In previous phases, the Message Handler pro-cessed over 180 types of messages while establish-ing the feasiblity of trainlng the FASTUS technol-ogy to process the free-text of military messages.The previous efforts demonstrated that combiningthe FASTUS syntactical approach to processing free-text using finite-state automata with conventionalparsing of fixed fields can yield results approximat-ing human performance working under similar op-erational conditions.
At the end of Phase II of theproject, the Message Handler was able to process4000 military messages per day.
The automaticallyscored and manually validated results for messageswithout tables were 75% recall, 31% overgeneration,and 64% precision.
The goals of the Message Han-dler project is to process 10,000 military messagesper day at a performance l vel of 80information ex-tracted from the messages includes facilities, units,equipment, locations, times, coordinates, unit asso-ciations, events, event relationships, and parametricmeasures.The message handling problem involves nuisancessuch as the structure and organization of both theoverall message and the free-text.
Another signif-icant message handling issue is the processing ofunique ad-hoc tables which commonly appear withinthe free-text portion of messages.
The Message Han-dler development reflects the evaluation of thou-sands of real world messages from the military the-aters.The voluminous and constantly changing flow ofmilitary messages necessitates an on-going review ofthe message corpus received by military commandsto support the Message Handler development.
Inanalyzing how the Message Handler functions matchintelligence production environments, the system en-gineers established that the Message Handler shouldproduce multiple interpretations of messages whichprecludes the denial of vital information to down-stream systems that would correlate and fuse Mes-sage Handler outputs with data from other sources.The Message Handler effort includes initiatives formaking natural language processing a viable toolfor the military user.
Previous phases focused ondeveloping extraction technology allowing minimalhuman intervention.
The current phase assesses theappropriate l vel of human intervention and the ap-propriate interface tools.
There is an on-going re-assessment of what military-related language main-tenance is amenable to execution by military users,and what maintenance must be reserved for linguis-tic specialists.
The user tools will permit easy mod-ification for lexicon or gazetteer and as much capa-bility as possible for modifying domain-based gram-mars.The Message Handler program has a collaborativeengineering initiative between developer and poten-tial users employing Internet and Intellink capabil-ities in the design and maintenance of the MessageHandler.83
