SPOT: TRW'S MULTI-LINGUAl, TEXT SEARCH TOOLPeggy OtsuboTRW Systems Deve lopment  DivisionR2/2162One Space ParkRedondo Beach,  CA 90278peggy@wilbur.coyote.trw.comABSTRACTTRW has developed a text search tool thatallows users to enter a query in foreign lan-guages and retrieve documents hat match thequery.
A single query can contain words andphrases in a mix of different languages, with theforeign-language terms entered using the nativescript.
The browser also displays the originaldocument in its native script.
Key terms in thebrowser display are highlighted.
The interface istargeted for the non-native speaker and includesa variety of tools to help formulate foreign-lan-guage queries.
Spot has been designed to inter-face to multiple search engines through anobject-oriented search engine abstraction layer.It currently supports Paracers Fast Data Findersearch engine, with support for Excalibur'sRetrievalWare currently being developed.1.0.
INTRODUCTION1.1.
Des ign  Object ivesTRW has developed a text search tool thatallows users to enter a query in a number of lan-guages and retrieve documents hat match thequery.
This text search tool is called Spot.
Thefollowing subsections describe the design objec-tives and goals of Spot.1.1.1.
Support multiple search enginesOur government users currently use a variety oftools for different purposes.
For example, anarchival database is only available through alegacy text search system that  performs itssearches very quickly, but lacks a great deal insearch functionality.
Other users use Paracel'sFast Data Finder search engine due to its power-ful search capabilities and are only able to accessits power through the FDF search tool user inter-face.One of our design objectives was to handle multi-ple search engines within the same user interfacetool.
This provides users with a single user inter-face tool to learn, while providing them with achoice of search engines.
Users might choose toperform a natural  anguage query using theExcalibur/ConQuest search engine's conceptquery and switch to the Fast Data Finder tosearch Chinese text.We also nimed to provide the users with the fullfunctionality of each of the search engines.
Thisapproach necessitates a more generic approach tomany functions to ensure that the same userinterface can be tailored to differing searchengine technologies.1.1.2.
Support multi-lingual dataInternationalized support is fairly easy to obtaincommercially for a number of commonly-sup-ported languages.
The commercial products forinternationalization are designed to support hemarketing of a tool in a specific set of foreigncountries, where the menus, buttons, error mes-sages, and text all need to be displayed in theappropriate foreign language.
For example, if aspecific product needs to be marketed to the Jap-anese, it might be running under Sun's JapaneseLanguage Environment, with JLE providing sup-port for entering and displaying Japanese text.Multi-lingual support, however, is very difficultto obtain commercially.
Our user community con-sists of native-English speakers, who want themenus and buttons to appear in English, butrequire support for viewing foreign-language doc-uments in their native scripts, as well as enteringforeign-language query terms in their native57scripts.
For this functionality, internationalizedsupport is inadequate.1.1.3.
Support query generation toolsUsers who are not native speakers of the foreignlanguage in which they are submitting a querywould like tools to assist in building queries.
Forexample, we located a large Japanese-to-Englishthesaurus that was available in electronic for~LIt would be very useful for native-English speak-ers to look up relevant words in the Japanesethesaurus for assistance in building their que-ries.In addition, words that are of a foreign origin areoften transl i terated in a number of differentways.
For example, the name "Kadafi" is oftenspelled "Khadafi" or "Gadam'.
Query generationtools that allow users to enter "Kadafi" and findthe other possible spellings are designed intoSpot.1.2.
Max imize  per fo rmanceSpot was designed to be the user interface for alarge archival database of hundreds of gigabytesof data.
It needs to provide hundreds of userswith access to this database.An archival  database using the Fast  DataFinder was implemented using Paracers BatchSearch Server (BSS) product.
Spot currentlyinterfaces to this FDF archival database.
Devel-opment is currently proceeding to interface Spotto an Excalibur/ConQuest archival database.Our objective in developing functionality, includ-ing multi-l ingual query generation tools andquery functionality, has emphasized solutionsthat work very quickly, usually by exploiting thefeatures of a specific search engine.Speed and throughput of searches through theFDF hardware search engine was measuredusing a commercial FDF-3 system.A single FDF-3 produced a search rate of around 3.5 MB/s,which could be obtained while searching 20 to 40average queries simultaneously.
A system ofmultiple FDFs can linearly expand the searchrate.1.3.
User  In ter face  H igh l ightsSome of the highlights of our current user inter-face system include the following:?
Multi-lingual query entry?
Multiple languages in a single query?
Queries can be saved, loaded, edited,printed?
Customizable fill-in-the-boxes query form?
Query generation tools?
Highlights query terms when browsingsearch results?
Display of search results in native script?
Copy-and-paste from Browser into a Query?
Search using Paracers Fast Data Finder?
Search using Excalibur/ConQuest'sRetrievalWare2.0.
KEY  INNOVATIONSWe have developed a multi-lingual text searchtool that is being enthusiastically embraced byusers.
Some of our key innovations include:?
Search and retrieval of multi-lingual data,using queries pecifying search terms indifferent languages and encoding sets.?
Display of search results in native scriptsincluding Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Ara-bic, Cyrillic, ThAi, and Vietnamese.?
Multi-lingual query entry using NMSU'smulti-lingual text widget (MUTT).?
Multiple languages in a single query.?
Multiple encoding sets in a single query.?
Query generation tools to help non-nativespeakers build queries in different lan-guages.?
Allow users to perform external processeson portions of browsed text.?
Fill-in-the-box, customizable query entryforms.?
Easy-to-use date-oriented database selec-tion screen.?
Allow users to select heir desired searchengine.58
