APPROACHES IN MET (MULT I -L INGUAL ENT ITY  TASK)Damaris Ayuso, Daniel Bikel, Tasha Hall ErikPeterson, Ralph WeischedelBBN Systems and Technologies70 Fawcett  Street, Cambridge,  MA 02138weischedel  @bbn.com617-873-3496Patrick JostFinancial Cr imes Enforcement  Network(F inCEN)2070 Chain Br idge RoadVienna, VA  22182703-905-36481.
TWO APPROACHESBBN and FinCEN participated jointly in the Spanishlanguage task for MET.
BBN also participated inChinese.
We also fielded two approaches.
The firstapproach is pattern based and has an architecture asshown in Figure 1.
This approach was applied to bothChinese and Spanish.
The algorithms (rectangles in theFigure) were used in the two languages; the onlycomponent difference was the New Mexico StateUniversity segmenter, used to find the word boundariesin Chinese.
The components common to bothlanguages are the message reader, which dealt with theinput format and SGML conventions via a declarativeformat description; the part-of-speech tagger (BBNPOST); a lexical pattern matcher driven by knowledgebases of patterns and lexicons pecific to each language;and the SGML annotation generator.
While not shownin Figure 1, an alias prediction algorithm was shared byboth languages, using patterns unique to each language.A second approach based on statistical learning wasused to create a learned Spanish namefinder.
Onecomponent is a training module that learns to recognizethe MET categories from examples.
The understandingmodule uses the model developed from training topredict he MET categories in new input sentences.Data annotated with the correct answers was provided bythe government in its training materials.
In addition,we annotated some additional data.
The currentprobability model is a hidden Markov model (HMM)which is more complex than is typically used in part-of-speech tagging and is therefore more general.2.
CHALLENGES AND STRENGTHSIN OUR APPROACH TO CHINESEOne of the challenges in processing Chinese is thedifficulty of word segmentation.
Segmentation inChinese seems more difficult than in Japanese.
WithJapanese, changes in the character sets used in runningtext can be used to detect many of the word boundaries.The use of the part-of-speech tagger was both astrength and a weakness in Chinese.
The part-of-speechlabels proved useful in finding boundaries such as thosebetween organization ames and text which is not oneof the MET categories.
However, part-of-speechlabeling in Chinese is more of a challenge than in theother languages because of two factors:?
Chinese has very little inflection and nocapitalization, thereby offering less evidence topredict the category of an unknown word.Ap~t ion  Feat~es~MessageMessage Reader IMorphological Analyzer \[Lexical Pattern Matcher \[SGMI./Annotation Generator \[OAtFormat & SGML HandlingIdentification of EntitiesOutput EntitiesFigure 1: IdentiFinder System Architecture: Rectangles represent domain-independent, language-independent algorithms; ovals represent knowledge bases465Given that there was not a large dictionary ofChinese words with parts-of-speech, a highpercentage of words in the text were unknown.Another strength and challenge in Chinese is the factthat several of the categories are interrelated.
Forinstance, locations often mark the start of anorganization name and persons may start anorganization name.
In addition, different categories willoccur contiguously, so that correctly recognizing acategory is needed to locate the others.
For example,, alocation name, a title of a person, and a person nameoften will co-occur.
This creates a challenge in gettingstarted since several of the patterns look for distributedcategories.
The strength is that once significantprogress is made in one, such as location names, it cancontribute to improved performance in the othercategories.The final general challenge is represented by the lackof available linguistics resources for Chinese.3.
CHALLENGES AND STRENGTHSIN SPANISH3.1 Using manually constructedpatternsOne of the challenges was self-imposed: because wewere interested in seeing how far the technology couldgo without purchased linguistics resources, we restrictedourselves to using only prelinguistics resources.
Someof the techniques we used are therefore applicable in alllanguages where significant amounts of online text areavailable.
Patrick Jost was very effective in miningavailable online data to find very large lists of personnames, critical vocabulary items, and organizationnames.
A second challenge was that we had very littleeffort to devote to the manual system in Spanish; infact, after a certain point there was insufficient effortavailable to track the evolving set of guidelines forSpanish.
One strength in the effort was that thepresence of lower case words in Spanish names (and thegenerally unreliable use of capitalization i the names)was straightforwardly handled by the patterns and did notpose a difficulty as we would have anticipated.3.2 Using a Learned SystemThere are several pleasant surprises corresponding tostrengths in the learned system as applied to Spanish.First the learned system could be retrained in a matter offive or ten minutes.
Therefore, changes to the modelcould be quickly tested.
The fact that the governmentreleased the revised training data very late in the cycleof MET did not pose a problem, since the system couldbe retrained so quickly with the updated training data.The learned system and model we used proved to behighly portable to a new language.
The originaltraining and understanding modules were not completeduntil the first half of March.
Results were very positivein English.
When we first trained and tested the samemodel in Spanish, the results were so encouraging thatwe decided in April to enter the learned system in MET.The third strength we found was the use of contextualprobabilities to predict from the previous word andprevious category the likelihood of the next word andthe next category.The major challenge is to make the resulting largestatistical model more understandable by humans, sothat intuitions can be used to improve it.4.
LESSONS LEARNEDWe learned the following lessons:?
High performances are possible using one approachacross everal languages.?
Text can be mined using simple techniques ( uch asregular expression patterns) to effectively findcritical vocabulary items.?
The gap between manually constructed systemsusing patterns and learned systems is shrinkingdramatically.?
Probabilistic, learned approaches can be developedin a short amount of time.?
Probabilistic finite state models, which had beenpreviously successful in continuous speechrecognition and in part-of-speech tagging, can beapplied successfully to multilingual entity finding.5.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe work reported here was supported in part by theDefense Advanced Research Projects Agency; technicalagents for part of the work were Rome Laboratory undercontract number F30602-95-C-0111 and FortHuachucha under contract number DABT63-94-C-0062.The views and conclusions contained in this documentare those of the authors and should not be interpreted asnecessarily representing the official policies eitherexpressed or implied, of the Defense Advanced ResearchProjects Agency or the United States Government.Sarah Law and Rusty Bobrow contributed to the workon Spanish, Scott Miller and Richard Schwartzcontributed to the ideas of the learned approach.466
