T IPSTER PHASE I I I  GOALSF.
Ruth GeeOff ice of  Research and Deve lopmentWashington,  D. C. 20505ruthg@ord.govThe primary goal of TIPSTER Phase III isto promote advancements in text processingtechnologies.
To accomplish this goal, theTIPSTER Program will continue to encouragethe cooperation of researchers and developers ingovernment, industry and academia to achieve abalanced overall program.
The Phase IIIframework is modeled on that of Phase II andwill consist of four basic components: (1)Advanced Research, (2) Architecture andCapabilities Platform Development, (3) Metrics-based Evaluations and (4) Demonstration andImplementation Projects.Research Goals?
Develop methods and algorithms toproduce, in reasonable English, a summaryfor each document of interest or a singlesummary of multiple documents inacollection of interest?
Develop the means to merge results fromdifferent search algorithms whilemaintaining a relevance ranking for theretrieved information or fuse the retrievedinformation with other items?
Develop algorithms to resolve textreferences tosame or different entities inautomatically extracting relationshipsamong entities mentioned in a document?
Develop effective ways for a systemadministrator  end-user to port tools andtechniques shown to work in one languageor domain to other languages or domains?
Enhance multilingual capabilities for bothretrieval and extraction?
Improve natural language processingcapabilities?
Increase recall and precision?
Improve usability testing and interfacedesigns for demonstration a dimplementation projectsI This material has been reviewed by the CIA.
That reviewlneither constitutes CIA authentication of information norimplies CIA endorsement of the author s views.Architecture Goals?
Build an Architecture Capabilities Platform(ACP)?
Implement architecture-complianceevaluation and testing procedures for theACP?
Provide ACP interoperability for softwaredevelopers?
Incorporate r levant industry standardsEvaluation Goals?
Continue to support MUC and TREC?
Enhance the data set?
Improve querying and scoring techniques?
Foster"cross-pollination" of ideas betweenthe two evaluation forumsDemonstrationGoalsand Imp lementat ionDevelop applications toexpand the softwarearchitecture.
Apply research results to pilot systems?
Implement robust capabilities in theoperational environment?
Reduce development costs and time throughsoftware sharingThe TIPSTER Program sponsors haveselected 16 projects to help meet the Phase IIIgoals.
Status reports for these projects and theother components of the program will bepresented at the regularly scheduled TIPSTERworkshops.
These sessions will start with thePhase III kick-off meeting in October 1996 andsubsequently continue at six- month intervals.Information about the dates and places of theworkshops and other general programinformation can be found on the TIPSTERProgram web site, http://www.tipster.org, assoon as it becomes operational.41
