THE NYU T IPSTER II PROJECTDr.
Sarah M. TaylorOffice of  Research and DevelopmentWashington,  DC 20505E-mail: sarah@ucia.govTelephone: 703-351-2565IntroductionNYU supported the TIPSTER Phase II effort in thedevelopment of the TIPSTER Architecture, withenhancements to both their Detection and Extractionsystems, and with experiments in the combined useof Extraction and Detection for document retrieval.Architecture EffortDr.
Ralph Grishman steered the Architecture WorkingGroup, and led its subset, the Contractors'Architecture Working Group (CAWG), in thedevelopment of the Architecture Design and theimplementation f that design in the two Architecturedemonstrations, the first shown at the TIPSTERPhase II 6-Month Workshop in November 1994, andthe second at the 12-Month Workshop in May 1995.He continues to lead these two groups through theperiod of revisions to the Architecture as a result ofits use in TIPSTER demonstration projects andelsewhere.Enhancements to ExtractionNYU's Proteus extraction system was modified to usecombined syntactic and semantic pattern basedmethods.
The results were demonstrated in MUC-6,where the modified system achieved excellent results,particularly in the Coreference Task.
The results ofthis work, which incorporates much that has beenlearned from other TIPSTER participants using thismethod, increase our understanding of the role ofsyntax in Information Extraction and will be used tofurther our progress toward the goal of an extractionsystem which can be configured for a task by theuser.I This material has been reviewed by the CIA.
That review Ineither constitutes CIA authentication finformation or implies I CIA endorsement ofthe author's views.Enhancements to DetectionTIPSTER Detection research at NYU has been guidedby Dr. Tomek Strzalkowski, who began at NYU, butmoved to GE Corporate Research and Development inJanuary 1995.
NYU uses a modified version ofNIST's Prise engine in its experiments.
The NYUsystem has been modified to be TIPSTERArchitecture compliant and has participated in TREC-3 and TREC-4 under the TIPSTER contract.
TRECPerformance of this system, which uses a NLPmodule to enhance the Prise statistical core, hassteadily improved, not only measured against itself,but in relation to other participating systems.
TheNLP module is used to identify appropriate multi-word phrases for use in indexing and in processing theuser's natural language search requests.Experiments in Combined Detectionand ExtractionIn the final six months of TIPSTER Phase II, thecombined NYU system, using the TIPSTERArchitecture to enable integration of the Detection andExtraction systems, will be used to experiment withways of using Extraction to improve Detection.
Thiswork will be focussed on improving the user's abilityto identify news articles which contain informationsuch as: what a certain person has said about a certaintopic, who of significance has travelled to specificplaces, who has specified kinds of relationships withcertain kinds of companies.
TREC data will be usedin these experiments.
One goal of the experiments isto contribute to the on-going TIPSTER work in theuse of combined Detection and Extraction systems.Another goal is to understand better what our usersneed from their retrieval systems and demonstrate anability to provide retrieval improvements which aremeaningful to them.51
