TUIT :  A TOOLKIT  FOR CONSTRUCTING MULT IL INGUAL T IPSTER USERINTERFACESWilliam C. OgdenThe Comput ing  Research LaboratoryNew Mex ico  State Univers i tyogden@cr l .nmsu.edu1.0 IntroductionThe TIPSTER Architecture has been designed toenable a variety of different text applications to use a setof common text processing modules.
Since user inter-faces work best when customized for particular applica-tions, it is appropriator that no particular user interfacestyles or conventions are described in the TIPSTERArchitecture specification.
However, the ComputingResearch Laboratory (CRL) has constructed severalTIPSTER applications that use a common set of config-urable Graphical User Interface (GUI) functions.
TheseGUIs were constructed using CRL's TIPSTER UserInterface Toolkit (TUIT).
TUIT is a software librarythat can be used to construct multilingual TIPSTER userinterfaces for a set of common user tasks.
CRL devel-oped TUIT to support their work to integrate TIPSTERmodules for the 6 and 12 month TIPSTER II demonstra-tions as well as their Oleada and Temple demonstrationprojects.
This paper briefly describes TUIT and itscapabilities.2.0 Document Editing and BrowsingThe TUIT Application Programming Interface(API) and software library supports document editingand browsing.
The TUIT Editor (TED) is a GUI thatcan be used to view and edit multilingual texts.
TEDtakes advantage of the Computing Research Labora-tory's X-multi-attributed-text (Xmat) widget.
The GUIis unique in that it provides methods for input, edit, anddisplay of text in multiple languages.
TED is being usedin several government sponsored projects at CRL, and isUser Applicationappropriate for other projects that require multilingualtext display and edit capabilities.
Before TUIT, TIP-STER applications that needed multilingual text displayand edit capabilities required developers to use theMotif API and Xmat API, and write all TIPSTER docu-ment browsing functions using the Motif and Xmatlibraries.
Ease of incorporating and configuring newapplications improve significantly with the TUITlibrary with its own API as shown in Figure 1.
Applica-tions are able to call Xmat library functions on the cre-ated widgets as well.The TUIT API supports the creation of windows,menus, and dialogs.
This functionality includes:?
Dialogs for loading TIPSTER collection documents?
Creating and configuring document display and editwindows?
Configuring/adding function menus to browser win-dows?
Dialogs for search and replace, spell check, or otheruser defined procedures?
Dialogs for TIPSTER Extraction modules?
Language Input method selection?
Language and code set selection?
Font selection?
Print multilingual documents?
Import/Export Unix filesAn application can include all of this functionalitywith a single TUIT API function call.
A documentTU IT  LibraryXmat  L ibraryMot i f  L ibraryX WindowsT IPSTERL ibraryFIGURE 1.
TUIT Library Integrates XWindows with TIPSTER Documents219, joke.031 i i ii, iiiFIGURE 2.
A typical document browser window showing annotation highlights (proper names)browser window such as that shown in Figure 2 wouldbe created with this single function call.3.0 Attribute and Annotation supportIn applications that incorporate a TIPSTER compli-ant document manager, the TUIT API also supportsTIPSTER document attribute and annotation browsingand editingAnnotation and attribute browsing and editingallows users to show, create, or delete documentattributes, annotations and annotation attributes.
Thereare also interfaces for grouping annotations by type orattribute values and for hiding or showing these annota-tions groups.
Annotated text can be displayed with colorhighlighting, or with different font styles.
Users can alsocreate their own text annotations tobe stored with docu-ments.4.0 Document Manager GUIAnother TUIT API function creates window, dia-logs and menus for managing TIPSTER collections anddocuments.
It provides an interface that enables users to:?
Read/Save documents o TIPSTER Document Col-lections?
Create/Delete documents?
Rename collection documents?
Edit document attributes?
Launch a new TU1T editor with a document?
Create/Delete collections?
Add Unix files to collection based on a path andwildcard?
Edit collection attributes?
Copy and move documents between and among col-lections Document5.0 Extraction and Detection SupportTIPSTER compliant extraction modules can be eas-ily integrated with the TUIT GUI.
For example Japa-nese/Chinese interactive segmentation f documents ipossible in the current system using CRL's Chinese seg-mentation system and a TIPSTER front end to JUMAN.The segmentation is preserved as document annotations.6.0 Configuration supportTUIT is configurable at run time on a number ofdimensions through a standard configuration formatusing TCL-style syntax.7.0 StatusTUIT has been fully tested in the Oleada and Tem-ple demonstration projects for SunOS 4.x and 5.x(Solaris).
Contact the author for availability or moreinformation.220
