FOCUS OF TIPSTER PHASES I and IIPatrick J. AltomariPatricia A. CurrierU.S.
Department ofDefenseFt.
George Meade, MD 20755Background of Phase IThe TIPSTER Program began in June 1989just after the conclusion of the second MessageUnderstanding Conference (MUC-2).
The conceptwhich the Advanced Research Projects Agency(ARPA) put forward at that time was based on thepromising results of that conference and on the beliefthat the technologies being demonstrated at MUC forthe automated handling of large volumes of textwould be of great benefit o a variety of Governmentagencies.Following a series of meetings, agreementwas reached for sharing the planning, funding, andexecution of the program.
Several major conceptswere also outlined and accepted as central toTIPSTER's progress.
Initially two phases wereplanned: two years of research and development intoadvanced algorithms, followed by two years ofdevelopment ofprototype/demonstration systems.Within these two phases, there would be separatefocus on detection (retrieval and routing) and onextraction (understanding).
Portability with regard todomain and language would be emphasized;evaluation of complete systems would be encouragedand scheduled periodically; and, as part of thebaseline for these evaluations, the Government woulddevelop a large corpora for the training and testing ofcorpus-based techniques as well as for systemdevelopment and evaluation.
Proposals weresolicited in June of 1990, and eventually threecontractors were selected to investigate differentapproaches todetection and another three wereselected for extraction research.The Pre-Existing State Of The ArtThe two language technologies whichARPA initially hoped to advance through theTIPSTER Program were Document Detection andInformation Extraction.Document Detection includes both routing,which involves running static queries against astream of new data, and retrieval, which involvesrunning ad hoc queries against archival data.
Prior toTIPSTER, most analysts faced with fmding essentialinformation from large volumes of data used searchsystems based on Boolean keywords.
These systemshad been developed more than a decade arlier andtypically had the following characteristics:?
the user loses an unknown quantity of usefulinformation because the system is unable toretrieve many of the relevant documents (= lowrecall);?
the user must read a very large number ofirrelevant documents which the systemmistakenly retrieved (= low precision);?
the user must scan the entire list of retrieveddocuments because a good document isjust aslikely to be at the end of the list as at thebeginning (= no ranking or prioritization);?
the user must generate by hand all variantspellings or alternate word choices because thereare no built-in rules for adding variants;?
the user has to understand how the system worksand the syntax of queries in order to use thesystem (= hand built queries).Information Extraction is a technology inwhich pre-specified types of information are locatedwithin free text, extracted, and placed within adatabase.
Notwithstanding prior ARPA andcommercial support for the development ofinformation extraction technology and MUC'spositive impact, information extraction had beenapplied to the database update task as largely amanual procedure.
This procedure was costly interms of labor commitment and the training requiredand there was wide variance in the accuracy andconsistency of the database content.
The techniquestypically only worked for English, and were difficultto port to new domains or even to extend within thecurrent domains.
Although a few automatedinformation extraction systems had been deployed,they tended to be expensive both in terms ofdevelopment and ongoing maintenance and weretask specific with little reusability.Review of Phase IThe TIPSTER Program officially began at akickoffworkshop held in September of 1991.
Thegovernment reviewed the framework, objectives andplans for the following two years of work.
Thecontractors described their specific approaches todetection and extraction and laid the groundwork forthe future sharing of ideas and of software and dataresources.
The workshop included parallel workingsessions for discussion of specific issues in thedifferent areas of research, including details foraddressing the different domains and differentlanguages and the government's preparation of thedata.The workshops were repeated at 6-monthintervals for the duration of Phase I. Selectedresearchers from other ARPA Human LanguageTechnology (HLT) programs were also invited.
Inconnection with each of the workshops, uniformevaluations of system performance were conductedand were reported uring the meetings.
There werefrequent exchanges of information among thegovernment and contractors (with heavy use of e-mail) and, by the end of the two years, a sizablecatalog of shareable resources had been developed.Both the Message UnderstandingConferences (MUC's), which preceded TIPSTER,and the Text REtrieval Conferences (TREC's)evaluated the state of the art and provided amajoradditional benefit in promoting text-processingresearch and development outside of the TIPSTERText contracts, ince they were organized by NRaDand NIST and advertised to a wider community.
Allof the TIPSTER Text contractors were required toparticipate in MUC or TREC, and MUC-5 andTREC-2, using TIPSTER evaluation techniques,were intentionally timed to coincide with the end ofPhase I (the 24-month workshop) so as to provide ameasure of the state of the art and identify goodperformers.TIPSTER Phase IIDuring the last year of Phase I, theGovernment began planning Phase II.
Scenarioswere developed to indicate the variety of actualapplications of the systems to be developed.
A two-tiered program of (1) continued algorithmdevelopment and (2) transfer of technology intodemonstration projects was defined.
The successfulconcepts of Phase I were continued, with closecooperation among the government agencies and thecontractors; regular workshops; and corpora fordevelopment and testing.
Based on a variety oflessons learned and encouraged by the results ofTIPSTER Phase I, a four part program began toinformally take shape.
While continuing itstraditional focus on advanced research and metrics-based evaluation, the need for a supportingarchitecture was recognized, along with therealization that many of the techniques developedwere now sufficiently stable to be applied in anoperational environment asdemonstration projects.1.
ResearchDocument Detection.
The TIPSTER Phase IIprototype systems gave the user Document Detectiontools which feature the algorithms and technologydeveloped in Phase I.
There has been improvedrecall (higher ecall of relevant documents) andimproved precision (the user reads fewer uselessdocuments in fmding the ones he wants).
Moreover,the system, not the user, can now automaticallyexpand the queries to draw in more relevantdocuments (using concept based tools such asthesauri, or using a natural language description ofthe subject supplied by the user), and the documentsare statistically rard~ed according to how well theymatch the query, thus improving the chances that themost useful documents will be near the top of thequeue.Information Extraction.
As a result of algorithmdevelopment in Phase I, TIPSTER Phase II prototypesystems were built with the following characteristics:?
increased extensibility within domain withreduced user involvement?
greater ease of portability to different domains?
language independence and portability to newlanguages?
task independence, solving multiple problemswith reusable components?
user-focused maintenance with minimal systemdeveloper involvementThese systems provide the user with extraction toolswhich feature:?
accurate and consistent database content results?
minimal user intervention i reviewingextraction results10?
initial cost expenditure with little maintenancecost?
flexibility in managing the amount ofinformation to be extracted?
applicability to new tasks, such asindications/warnings, text tagging, and documentdetection support2.
Architecture ConceptThe design of the Phase I systems andanalysis of the scenarios indicated thecomplementary nature of detection and extractionoperations and the desirability of supporting bothcapabilities within a single system.
There alsoappeared to be many similar modules in the diversesystems.
From this, it was determined that an initialactivity of Phase II would be the development ofacommon, open software architecture for theimplementation f text-processing systems.
Thisarchitecture was to facilitate sharing of thedevelopment tasks, transferring technology to actualapplications, future R&D into improved algorithms,and continuous upgrading of systems which use thearchitecture.
The architecture stresses functional andknowledge-based modularity and uses an SGML-Iikelanguage for tagging text transferred between themodules.This architecture was developed as part ofPhase II R&D through the cooperative efforts ofmultiple contractors, coordinated by an independentSystems Engineering / Configuration Managementcontractor.
The R&D included improvement ofalgorithms and research into combining the results ofthe application of diverse xtraction and detectiontechniques.3.
Continuing EvaluationDuring Phase II, TIPSTER became primarysponsor for both the Message UnderstandingConferences and the Text Retrieval Conferences,based on the belief that these forums for evaluationof text-processing technologies are essential tocontinued success in TIPSTER research anddevelopment.4.
Demonstration ProjectsA Broad Agency Announcement solicitingproposals for participation i Phase II R&D wasissued in August 1993.
Bidders were judged basedon their ideas for research as well as their beingpotential sources for the demonstration projects.Individual agencies issued separate Requests forProposals for each such project.
For each project, ademonstration system based on the architecture andmodules developed in the R&D tier was developed,installed and evaluated in the processing of actual"operational" data.
Needs for architecture andalgorithm improvements or additional research werefed back to the R&D projects.A Successful PartnershipThe continued close cooperation of multiplegovernment organizations in formulating andimplementing the TIPSTER program has been amajor ingredient in its success.
By regularlyproviding aforum for discussion, the Program hasalso fostered cooperation among an ever-expandinggroup of academic institutions and industry vendors,who have shared ideas and resources while pursuingdifferent approaches tothe problems of textprocessing.
The use of these technologies willundoubtedly expand well beyond the prototypes andoperational systems built during TIPSTER Phase IIfor a small number of Government agencies, as theworld at large recognizes the need for documentdetection and information extraction.Conclusion of Phase HThe 24-Month Workshop which concludedTIPSTER Phase II brought together a large numberof researchers and developers todiscuss their resultsand describe their progress ince 1994 and to presenttheir findings to a variety of potential customers.The papers ummarizing the efforts sponsored by theTIPSTER Program are included in this volume.AcknowledgmentsPortions of the information above wereoriginally in papers prepared by Roberta H. Merchantand Thomas H. Crystal and published in theTIPSTER Phase I Proceedings.We also wish to thank Wiley Harris andSharon Kaufmann for their suggestions andassistance in assembling and organizing all of thematerials presented in this summary book forTIPSTER Phase II.11
