AN OVERVIEW OF THE PROTOTYPE INFORMATION DISSEMINATIONSYSTEM (PRIDES)Virginia CevascoLogicon, Operating Systems Division2100 Washington Blvd.Arlington, VA 22204gcevasco@logicon.com(703) 486-3500INTRODUCTIONThe Prototype Information DisseminationSystem (PRIDES) is a TIPSTER technologyinsertion project sponsored by the Office of Researchand Development (ORD).
PRIDES applies a portionof the TIPSTER detection architecture and severalTIPSTER components to the problem of timelydissemination of Foreign Broadcast InformationService (FBIS) articles.
When PRIDES beginsoperation in July 1996, it will provide one of the firstproduction tests of the TIPSTER architecture.PRIDES FUNCTIONSFBIS collects, translates, and disseminatesselected foreign media content, including newspaperand magazine articles and television and radiobroadcasts.
In addition, FBIS analysts publishanalyses of trends and patterns across articles.
Thisinformation is available in hard copy on a daily basis,or on CD ROM on a quarterly basis.
The hard copyformat is timely, but difficult to work with.
The CDROMs are easy to search and process, but not timely.PRIDES seeks to provide both timely dissemination,customized to a user's particular interests, andcomprehensive retrospective s arch support.A user describes his dissemination eed inan interest profile.
Then, as new articles are receiveddaily, each is compared to the interest profile.
If thedocument scores above the threshold for the profile, itis added to the user's mail folder.
Then the user canbrowse all the articles relevant to their profile.
Eachuser may have any number of profiles coveringdifferent topics.PRIDES provides a robust, easy to userretrospective search capability against a corpus ofFBIS articles accumulated since May, 1995.
The usermay write queries in natural language or Booleansyntax.
The user may also query by example,selecting articles which contain the sort ofinformation they are interested in and allowing thesystem to build a query to locate similar articles.
Theuser may also search within certain fields identifiedby the FBIS users as particularly content rich.
Thesefields include date fields, which support date ranging.Search results are stored in hit folders.The user may create private collections,called save folders, storing articles from other folders.Save folders allow the user to collect articles fromboth dissemination results and query results for anopen ended amount of time.
Save Folders can also bedownloaded to the user's local disk for additionalprocessing.The user can list their mail, hit, and savefolders, and then open any folder to see a list of thefolder contents.
This list includes a one linesummary for each article, containing the articleheadline, relevance score, and date.
The user has avariety of options for sorting and segmenting thefolder contents list.
Each headline is linked to itsarticle.
The article is displayed in its entirety.
Again,the user can customize the display format o suit theirpersonal work style.PRIDES provides a World Wide Webinterface, suitable for deployment on the Intemet or anintelligence community intranet.
This providesPRIDES to the maximum possible user community,while simultaneously eliminating the need forPRIDES-specific client side software.
Any forms-compatible web browser can be used to accessPRIDES.PRIDES SYSTEM ARCHITECTURETo fulfill the requirements for the PRIDESpilot system and simultaneously lay the foundationfor the future system, the PRIDES architecture iscomprised of three layers.
Each layer has a unique set91of responsibilities, and communicates only with itsadjacent layer(s) via a well-def'med API.
This three-layered architecture offers plug-and-play design.Software can be inserted into any layer with minimalimpact on the other layers.
This architecturepromotes PRIDES evolution, because older userinterfaces can stay in operation while new userinterfaces are gradually tested and fielded to replacethem, and new versions, or even different ypes, ofTIPSTER-compliant search engines and routingengines can be tested without changes to the userinterface.The PRIDES User Interface Layer (PUI) isresponsible for creating and managing the screendisplays that comprise the PRIDES user interface.The User Interface is implemented using a WorldWide Web Browser, a Web Server, and theHypertext Markup Language (HTML) to providecustom screens.
In this way PRIDES supports themost modern lnternet access technology.
PUI callsthe PRIDES Application Layer (PA) to servicerequests and collects and formats that data for easyuse.
PA is responsible for performing any PRIDES-specific activity that is not provided by ourTIPSTER components.
PA is also responsible formaintaining and validating access privileges andcollecting, storing and analyzing MIS data.
PAprovides an external message interface to theincoming FBIS documents.
PA interfaces with theTIPSTER Data Access (TDA) layer to store, index,search and retrieve PRIDES data via API calls.The TDA consists of a set of TIPSTER-compliant search engines and database managementsoftware.
The Document Manager software stores andindexes documents coming into PRIDES.
ThePRIDES Document Manager is fully TIPSTERcompliant and available for use in other TIPSTERsystems.
The routing engine and Document Managerprocess user profiles and route these incomingdocuments to mail folders.
Similarly, the searchengine and the Document Manager process userqueries and build hit folders.
TDA satisfies requestsfor retrieval of a PRIDES document, given either aninternal or external document ID.To fulfill the PRIDES requirements,Logicon has selected technology products that adhereto the TIPSTER architecture, that are consistent withan open design, and that can be scaled up toaccommodate larger volumes of input and more users.Where custom software was necessary for thePRIDES system, it was designed within the layeredarchitecture approach described above, in order toguarantee maximum flexibility, scalability andextensibility.For the PRIDES detection engines, PRIDESuses the ACSIOM products INQUERY and InRoute.INQUERY is an information retrieval system basedupon a Bayesian inference network model ofinformation retrieval.
Inference networks are ideallysuited for the uncertainties encountered whenmatching aperson's tatement of an information eedwith a document expressed in natural anguage.
Inaddition to using inference networks, INQUERYincorporates several different methods of combiningevidence, enabling arich query language in which toexpress information needs.
In accordance withPRIDES requirements, the INQUERY product wasmodified to:Optimize retrieval algorithms.Optimize concurrency control to allow frequentupdates of the document index.Upgrade the API for robustness in an integrationenvironment.Develop natural-language to query-languagetransformations.Extend the API to support "query by example"and "cancel search.
"Collect resource consumption data.InRoute is an inference network systemtailored for document filtering.
Both InRoute andINQUERY return identical scores for a givendocument/query pair.
While INQUERY is optimizedfor quickly searching one or more multi-gigabytedocument collections, InRoute is optimized forquickly comparing a steady stream of documents to alarge number of profiles.
In accordance with PRIDESrequirements, he InRoute product was modified to:Convert SGML in FBIS articles into TIPSTERannotations.Develop algorithms for incremental relevancefeedback to replace the existing batch-orientedfeedback.Upgrade the API for robustness in an integrationenvironment.Collect resource consumption data.Standard COTS Web Server productsprovided the capabilities needed to define thePRIDES user interface.
A Web Server package,augmented by a set of PRIDES-specific CommonGateway Interfaces (CGIs), communicates with theclient via Hypertext Transport Protocol (HTTP).
ACGI is a standalone script or program invoked by aWeb Server to provide services beyond thoseincluded in its suite.
In the case of PRIDES, CGIsprovide access to all PRIDES services and data,subject o user access privileges.
PRIDES end usersuse a Web Browser to communicate with the WebServer.
The Web Browser software may be Mosaic,92Netscape Navigator, or any other browser which canprocess HTML forms.
No special PRIDES softwareis needed in the end user's workstation.
These webbrowsers also provide a user-friendly interface to theother protocols of the Internet, such as File TransferProtocol (FTP) and Network News Transfer Protocol(NNTP), and allow printing of text and graphics onthe user's local printer.PR IDES DEVELOPMENT AND P ILOTOPERATIONSPRIDES was designed and developed byLogicon and ACSIOM from June 1995 through April1996.
After installation at the customer's site and anacceptance t st period, PRIDES will begin servingproduction users in July 1996.PRIDES is a pilot effort which will serveusers operationally for six months, between July1996 and January 1997.
Volunteer pilot users will beselected from among the FBIS analysts andconsumers.
During pilot operations, an extensiveevaluation program will gather quantitative andqualitative data about how users work with PRIDES.The analysis of this data will attempt to evaluate theuser acceptance of the new features in PRIDES, suchas the Internet delivery mechanism, relevanceranking, and automatic query refmement.
The resultsof the evaluation effort will provide input to therequirements of the final FBIS softcopy disseminationsystem.93
