CERVANTES - A SYSTEM SUPPORTING TEXT ANALYS ISJim CowieComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State University, Box 30001/3CRL, Las Cruces, NM, 88003COTR: Lynne Rich, DoD, larich~afterlife.ncsc.milPrincipal Investigators: Jim Cowie,jcowie@umsu.edu (505) 646-5181, W'dliam Ogden,ogden@umsu.edu (505) 646 6222, Ted ~mnlng (Nowat HNC)SummaryCRL is engaged in the development of documentmanagement software and user interfaces to supportgovernment analysts in their information analysis tasks.It is also continuing to develop language t chnologies tosupport document detection and information extractionin a variety of languages.
It has also been responsible forthe integration and delivery of both the six and twelvemonth Tipster demonstration systems and the develop-ment of the first Tipster document manager.ApproachCRL has provided general purpose nabling tech-nology for several aspects of the Tipster Phase H pro-gram.
This work has been carried out in closecompliance with the decisions of the Architecture Work-ing Group.
The software developed at CRL is based onCRL's extensive xperience ofuser interface support forgovernment analysts developed uring Phase I of Tip-ster.
In addition we have developed a large scale docu-ment management system, which allows documentsused in a Tipster compliant system to be handled in anniform manner.CRL has investigated the problem of informationretrieval against collections of text written in multiplelanguages.
This multilingual information retrieval capa-bility is being designed so that it can be integrated intoany statistical information retrieval system.AchievementsCRL has been heavily involved in the design of theTipster Architecture.
Prototype document managerssupporting the architecture were implemented and usedto support he Tipster 6 and 12 month damonstrationsystems.
A mature version of the document managersoftware has now been developed and distributed.
CRLhas also developed a Tipster Architecture ValidationSuite which allows the testing of Tipster CompliantDocument Managers.
Both these products will now besubject to an engineering review board.The CRL has provided mulfilingual Human-Com-puter Interface software, which conforms to the Tipsterarchitecture.
This includes a sophisticated ditor whichallows the display and editing of annotations on docu-ments.
A user can work with annotations produced byany Tipster compliant language processing software (e.gnama recognizers, phrase spotters).
The editor supportsmultiple languages, including Arabic, Japanese, Span-ish, Chinese and Russian.
All the CRL graphical userinterface tools are now available to government agenciesand to other research groups (see paper on GraphicalUser Interfaces).CRL has used the architecture as the foundation forother DoD programs - Oleada nd Temple (see separates-mmaries).CRL has also made significant progress in itsresearch in multi-lingual query generation.
Methodshave been developed to 'translate' Engfish queries intoSpanish (see research papers)CRL has developed systems for recognizing propernames in English, Spanish, Japanese, and Chinese texts(see Multilingual Named Entity Task)Software PackagesThe following packages are available from CRL - aTipster compliant document manager and user docu-mentafious, a Tipster document manager validationsuite, a graphical user interface toolkit to support devel-opment of multi-lingual Tipster applications, andEnglish name recognition software and data.49
