TIPSTER II ACTIVITIES AT HNCMarc R. llgen, David A. RushallHNC Software,  Inc., 5930 Cornerstone Court  West,  San Diego,  CA 92121 USAemail: mr i@hnc .com,  dar@hnc .comThe arrival of the information age hasbrought with it new challenges for handling the vastquantities of electronically available information.
TheARPA and Intelligence Community sponsoredTIPSTER program has risen to this challenge.
Newtechnologies have been developed for attackingproblems in information retrieval, informationextraction, and multilingual information processing.As a premier developer of neural network basedtechnologies, HNC has played an important role insuccessfully bringing innovative approaches to theproblem of information retrieval, includingmultilingual information retrieval.
The purpose of thisbrief paper is to summarize HNC's researchaccomplishments and to make recommendations forfurther study.The HNC approach to information retrieval isbased on context vectors, which are unit vectors in ahigh dimensional vector space.
The relative directionsof these vectors encode the meaning and context ofinformation that is to be retrieved.
Neural networkbased training laws are used to adjust he componentsof these vectors in an iterative fashion.
The basiccontext vector methodology has been implemented ina system called MatchPlus, which serves as a stand-alone information retrieval application as well as thetechnological core upon which additional contextvector applications have been built.One problem with the MatchPlus ystem hasbeen the large computation requirements of thelearning law.
In order to reduce the severity of thisproblem, HNC has developed a one step learning lawthat approximates the behavior of the original earninglaw at a fraction of the computational cost.Preliminary performance r sults with this learning lawhave been quite encouraging.
More completeperformance r sults can be generated when additionalfunding becomes available.HNC has also developed a preliminaryprototype of an English-Spanish MatchPlus system.This system uses redundant hash table addressing tostore context vectors for a multilingual vocabulary.This system can easily be extended to additionallanguages, such as Japanese, Russian, Chinese, etc.The multilingual MatchPlus approach is able toperform information retrieval in multiple languageswithout the necessity of specifying any grammaticalinformation about the language, thereby greatlyreducing system development time.HNC's context vector technology has alsobeen extended to the problem of information routingand filtering, resulting in a COTS product known asCONVECTIS.
CONVECTIS is currently being usedby DataTimes (a large commercial informationprovider) as the core technology for routinginformation to customers based on customer specified"interest profiles."
The use of context vectors resultsin a natural method for specifying degree ofrelationship between incoming news feeds andcustomer interests.
It is also a natural mechanism fordetecting novel information themes, a fact that couldbe advantageously used by the IntelligenceCommunity.HNC has also responded to the explosion ofinformation available on the Internet by developing asystem of autonomous retrieval agents based upon theMatchPlus technology.
These retrieval agents can bescheduled by the user to access information atspecified, possibly repeated times, thereby removingthe requirement that the user actually be present duringthe retrieval operation.
This system is currently beingextended to handle multiple Internet and for-feedatabase protocols, resulting in a useful system forinformation retrieval from heterogeneous informationsources.Since the context vector methodologyrequires only that a finite vocabulary of entities bedefined for the domain of information, this technologyhas been extended to other media, images inparticular.
The ICARS system is being developed tosolve the difficult problem of image retrieval andimage content characterization.
This system attachescontext vectors to cluster centroids of feature vectorscomposed of Gabor features and color information.45Preliminary tests have demonstrated that this system isable to retrieve relevant images without he need forcomplex image understanding algorithms.All these applications have demonstrated thetremendous versatility of the context vector technique.Context vectors allow information to be represented ina universal meaning space, opening up the possibilitythat text, images, and information i  other media canbe represented in a unified fashion.
This technologyhas also been transitioned to the commercial sector,thereby satisfying a major objective of the fundingagencies.
In summary, HNC's context vectormethodology has spawned a wide variety of solutionsfor government and commercial customers and holdsconsiderable promise for serving as the technologicalfoundation for future information retrieval andinformation management projects.46
