SRA PROJECT FOR ARPA / USACOMDavid OppenheimerSRA International, Inc.4300 Fair Lakes CourtFairfax, VA 22033david_oppenheimer@sra.com(703) 803-2412I.
INTRODUCTIONThe USACOM project is part of the largerSAIC/BBN Advanced Joint Planning (AJP)Advanced Concepts Technology Demonstration(ACTD).
The primary objective of the project is todemonstrate the effectiveness of Tipster-sponsoreddata extraction technologies.
Although this project isjust now getting underway, we plan to investigate heapplicability of data extraction technologies in anumber of scenarios, including:Improved accuracy of text filteringbased on integrating natural-language based extraction withdetection (text retrieval)Using data extraction technology toautomatically categorize incomingtexts into predelrmed foldersIntegrated structured informationextracted from texts as anadditional source of input o theplanning processEnabling the collection ofaggregate information derived fromtexts for information presentationMethods of displaying text to focuson area of interest explicitlyI I .
NAMETAG OVERVIEWNameTag consists of a software ngine that appliesname recognition rules to text, supported by lexicalresources and limited lists of proper names.
Usersimplement an application driver that invokes theengine and configures the processing.
NameTag caneither generate a document that has the namesannotated with SGML (Standardized GeneralizedMarkup Language), or provide a table of the nameswith indices (offsets) to the text -- "annotation"mode.
A name recognition rule consists of a patternand an action.
The pattern is similar to a regularexpression and consists of special operators andoperands that match portions of text.
Typically,patters recognize structural or contextual indicatorsof names and thus perform dynamic recognition.The action performs operations on the text, such astagging aname with a classification.
The rules arepartitioned to form processing phases that primarilyrecognize one class of name.
For example, NameTaghas separate phases for recognizing personal namesand organizational names.
This feature allows for therecognition of certain classes of names to impact herecognition of other names.
The lexical resourcescontain information about words, such as their part-of-speech and their meaning.I I I .
PROJECT PLANSThis project will integrate with two community-developed reference architectures.
These are theJoint Task Force (JTF) Reference Architecture andthe Tipster Architecture.
With respect to the JTFReference Architecture, SRA's core data extractionproduct (NameTag) will be integrated into theGeneric Server layer, with a customized dataextraction prototype integrated into the ApplicationLayer.
With respect to the Tipster Architecture, aTipster-compliant version of NameTag will be used.Additional portions of the developing architecturewill be evaluated for the appropriateness of insertioninto the demonstration (for example, the documentmanager or text annotator).
The entire project will beevaluated by the Tipster Engineering Review Board(ERB) for documentation a d certification asappropriate.107
