THE HOOKAH INFORMATION EXTRACTION SYSTEMChris Barclay, Sean Boisen, Clinton Hyde, and Ralph WeischedelBBN Systems and Technolog ies70 Fawcett  StreetCambridge,  MA 02138sbo isen@bbn.com617-873-43090.
ABSTRACTThis paper describes Project HOOKAH, a TIPSTERImplementation Project with the Drug EnforcementAdministration to extract information from the DFFA-6field report.
The paper overviews Project HOOKAH,describes the system architecture and modules, anddiscusses everal essons that have been learned fromthis application of TIPSTER technology.1.
PROJECT HOOKAH1.1 OverviewProject HOOKAH is a TIPSTER ImplementationProject with the Drug Enforcement Administration toextract information from DEA field reports in supportof populating a database.
Its goal is the partialautomation of DEA operations by moving informationextraction technology into the DEA fileroom, wherethese reports are currently manually processed.HOOKAH has been supported by Congressional"Dual Use" funding for transferring TIPSTERtechnology to civilian agencies.
The prototypedevelopment effort has been managed by Mary EllenOkurowski and Boyan Onyshkevych of the Departmentof Defense.
The deployment effort is being jointlymanaged by DoD and DEA, with DEA responsible forlife cycle maintenance.1.2 Domain: DEA-6sThe focus of Project HOOKAH is to improve theprocessing of the DEA-6 report, a semi-formatted reportgenerated primarily by field agents, as well as legalstaff, analysts, and others.
DEA-6s are organized intocase files, and are composed of multiple sections withvarying amounts of formatting.
Header fields arenormally highly formatted, and indicate the subject,case, date, time, etc.
There is a semi-formatted index,which contains references to most subjects to beto the database and some information about hem.
Thereis also unformatted text, where much of the usefulinformation is found.1.3 Current DEA OperationProject HOOKAH will augment an existing workflow that depends on substantial manual data extraction.Currently, DEA personnel read hardcopy DEA-6s andother forms to manually identify extractable data.
Usingthis information, they then attempt to uniquely identifythe subject in the NADDIS database, which containsmillions of subjects and is widely used throughout thelaw enforcement community.
Once the subject isidentified, the data extracted from the document isretyped into NADDIS.
Quality control is provided by anindependent group of analysts who review the extractionand database update.The manual extraction of information from DEA-6documents represents a major expense, which iscontracted out to more than 100 analysts working intwo shifts.
Thousands of documents are processed perweek by these personnel, a substantial volume of data.DEA is in the initial stages of converting to softcopyreport dissemination.Several factors make this an ideal task for theapplication of TIPSTER information extractiontechnology:?
a constrained domain makes informationextraction feasible?
high traffic volume increases the payoff forreducing manual processing?
an established base of analysts are available tosupport system development and performtesting?
the NADDIS database already exists and hashigh value to the customer?
the need for timely database update is anappropriate match for state-of-the-art TIPSTERtechnologies1 .4  Concept  o f  OperationsThe envisioned configuration for HOOKAH wouldgive each analyst a HOOKAH "workstation", for mostsimply an X-terminal or comparable X-based display.DEA-6s in softcopy form will arrive daily over thenetwork, and will be automatically grouped by case orfile number.79The HOOKAH system will analyze ach DEA-6 off-line, doing an initial match of DEA-6 subjects againstNADDIS records, extracting information for eachsubject, and performing a provisional merge against anyexisting NADDIS information to provide an initial setof suggested database updates.The analyst will then verify the system's NADDISmatch, and review the proposed database updates,correcting them as required and entering any additionalinformation.
An audit trail mechanism will track thestatus of each DEA-6 in the system.
Completed DEA-6s and their associated NADDIS updates will go toQuality Control for review.2.
ARCHITECTUREThe HOOKAH architecture is presented inFigure 1.2.1  HOOKAH Modu lesPreprocessor The HOOKAH preprocessor convertsincoming electronic DEA-6s in a specially-coded formatto SGML markup.
It also adds markup for certain sub-fields in the text which are not encoded in the originalformat.Extraction Processor The bulk of HOOKAHprocessing is done off-line by the extraction processor,which is responsible for processing of the indexingsection of the document to determine which subjectsshould be processed, automatic (non-interactive)matching of subjects against NADDIS, and extractinginformation from the body of the text.
This isperformed during off-hours to increase user productivityand maximize use of machine resources.NADDIS (Database) Interface Allcommunication with the NADDIS database proceedsthrough the NADDIS interface.
Since a programinterface to NADDIS has not been provided, allinteractions take place through a screen-oriented formsinterface.
Queries from HOOKAH are translated intocommands to this interface, and the resulting displayscreens are parsed by the NADDIS interface module intonormalized ata structures.
This module also transmitsupdates to NADDIS, and handles certain database m3rI Field Division II ~'-I Resident \[OfficePre-processorOff-line HOOKAHInformation ExtractionUserInterfaceMatch DEA-6Subject toNADDISSubjectAnalystDatabaseInterfaceInteractive HOOKAHNADDISFigure 1: HOOKAH architecture.80conditions.User Interface Once data is prepared off-line, it isavailable for user review.
In addition to supportingdisplaying and editing information, the user interfacealso supports manual browsing of NADDIS in case adifferent subject match is required.
All systemprocessing results, including user corrections, are storedas annotations once the document is complete.3.
LESSONS LEARNEDThe project has completed an operational prototype,and the next phase will deploy the system operationallyon a small-scale.
Several lessons for transitioningTIPSTER technology have emerged from the project sofar.3.1 Database IntegrationA crucial component of the HOOKAH problem iscomparing extracted information to a legacy database(NADDIS).
This aspect has not been addressed in theTIPSTER program or the Message UnderstandingConference (MUC) evaluations, o there is only limitedprevious experience to draw on for this aspect of theproject.In particular, interfacing with a database has requiredseveral new technology components:* matching information exlracted from textagainst existing database records, anddetermining when no suitable match exists anda new database r cord must be created?
once a match is made, extracted informationmust be fused with database records to isolatenew information.
Since the databaseinformation is normalized according to differentstandards than are used in preparing the reports,this aspect is challenging.?
updating the database with the new informationIn the HOOKAH application, interfacing with theNADDIS database has been a difficult systemsengineenng problem.
In addition, the fact that muchinformation in the text already exists in the database,and that the text and database can disagree, providesadditional challenge.3.2 User InterfaceProject HOOKAH has provided considerableexperience in the importance of the user interface forextraction systems.
There are both generic requirementsfor the interface (for example, viewing extraction resultsand correcting them) and application-specific ones(providing a database browser, and a tool for manualsubject matching): we therefore spent significant effortin designing the interface to match the needs of theDEA analyst.
In particular, the analyst's focus isupdating the database, and extraction output is merely atool to support hat activity.
For this reason, the userinterface displays proposed NADDIS updates, nottemplates or other d~ect representations of extractionresults.Our experience so far indicates that the user interfacecan affect analyst throughput and performance venmore than the quality of the extraction itself.
No matterhow good the extraction system performs, a poorinterface can make the entire system unusable.
Thissuggests a implementation strategy of spending earlyeffort on interface design, and incrementally improvingthe quality of the extraction engine over time, a strategywe have pursued for HOOKAH.Another lesson learned from the user interface pertainsto the tradeoff between recall and precision.
We havefound that users are readily able to correct erroneousproposals from the system (improving precision), butthey are less likely to skim the document forthemselves toensure no important information has beenomitted (improving recall).
Mechanisms to help usersin supervising system recall are still an open area ofinvestigation i the HOOKAH system.3.3 User InvolvementFor Project HOOKAH, user involvement has beenessential for getting the information extractionapplication done correctly.
As development hasproceeded, it has become clear that HOOKAH willchange the job description for the analyst.
Previously,analysts hared both an analytical role and a data entryrole: HOOKAH substantially reduces the data entry taskand shifts the balance toward "supervising" andcorrecting the extraction system.
Retraining analysts forthis new job function may prove to be costly.We have also learned that unforeseen technologymismatches can arise, complicating user involvement intesting and development.
For example, the HOOKAHuser interface relies on the now-standard features ofwindow-based systems: scroll bars, buttons, and mouseoperations.
However, the existing analyst interfacerelies on character-based " umb" terminals: for thoseanalysts who are not familiar with window-basedsystems, the transition to using a mouse rather thancursor movement commands may be a more significantchange than using an information extraction system.3.4 Other IssuesWe are still investigating ways to evaluate theperformance impact of HOOKAH on the DEA analyst.One obvious metric is to measure the change in81productivity, though it is harder to then determinewhether that change results from the use of extraction,or simply from a different user interface design.
Wewould also like to be able to measure the effort ~equiredto correct extraction results, which relates more directlyto the performance ofextraction technology per  se.In general, our experience suggests there is still asignificant gap between laboratory-grade extractionsoftware and operational applications.
There are stillnumerous issues to address in integrating extractiontechnology into useful operational systems: in general,extraction has not been the hardest problem forHOOKAH.4.
PROJECT STATUSAn operational prototype currently exists and isundergoing testing at DEA.
In addition, DEA ispreparing for initial operational implementation on asmall-scale to test the feasibility of the system.82
