Oleada: User-Centered TIPSTER Technology for Language InstructionWilliam C. Ogden and Philip BernickThe Comput ing  Research Laboratory  at New Mex ico  State Univers i tyBox  30001, Depar tment  3CRL,  Las Cruces,  New Mex ico  88003email:  ogden I pbemick@cr l .nmsu.eduphone: 505.646.54661.0 AbstractTIPSTER is an ARPA sponsored program thatseeks to develop methods and tools that support analystsin their efforts to filter, process, and analyze everincreasing quantities of text-based information.
To thisend, government sponsors, contractors, and developersare working to design an architecture specification thatmakes it possible for natural anguage processing tech-niques and tools, from a variety sources, to be inte-grated, shared, and configured by end-users.
TheComputing Research Laboratory (CRL) is a longtimecontributor to TIPSTER.
A significant portion of CRL'sresearch involves work on a variety of natural languageprocessing problems, human-computer interaction, andproblems associated with getting technology into thehands of end-users.
CRL is using TIPSTER technologyto develop OLEADA, which is an integrated set of com-puter tools designed to support language learners, andinstructors.
Further, OLEADA has been developedusing a task-oriented user-centered design methodology.This paper describes the methodology used to developOLEADA and the current system's capabilities.2.0 TIPSTER and the ComputingResearch LaboratoryInformation extraction is a relatively new applica-tion of natural language processing techniques in whichbasic information and relationships are found andextracted from text.
TIPSTER I was an effort to findelectronic methods for information retrieval and infor-mation extraction.TIPSTER uses texts from a variety ofsources including newspaper articles and wire servicereports.
The information TIPSTER I extracts resemblesa completed form.
The contents of a form is intended tobe used to automatically generate specialized atabasesfor information analysts.
The components developed forTIPSTER I enabled it to function in two languages (Jap-anese and English).TIPSTER II is a joint effort among many sites todevelop working systems that integrate informationretrieval and information extraction.
The core of theproject is a joint government/contractor committeewhose goal is to specify an architecture for TIPSTER II.TIPSTER developers work to provide a variety of spe-cialized software subsystems that support TIPSTERdevelopment.
These include:?
Document managers that provide multi-source docu-ment compatibilities.?
Translation subsystems that support retrieval of doc-uments in many languages, based on a query in onelanguage.?
Libraries of procedures for user interface supportwith embedded functionality for InformationRetrieval and Information Extraction.?
Advanced Motif-based multi-lingual user interfacecapabilities, upporting Chinese, Japanese, Korean,Arabic and other writing systems.?
Plug-and-play to integrate various kinds of softwareinside TIPSTER.The TIPSTER II architecture makes it possible tointegrate a variety of information retrieval, extraction,and text processing systems in ways that help analystsaddress more complex problems.2.1 OLEADA:  Task-Or iented User-Centered Design in Natural  LanguageProcess ingResearchers with the Computing Research Labora-tory (CRL) at New Mexico State University are inter-ested not only in theoretical spects of natural languageprocessing, but methods for getting the results of thisresearch into the hands of actual users.
OLEADA, aproject at CRL that seeks to develop computer tools thatsupport language learners and instructors, has beendeveloped with this goal in mind.
OLEADA uses TIP-STER technology to provide users with access to perti-nent and authentic text, and tools for manipulating thistext.
It is based, in part, on Cibola, a system that sup-ports human translators by providing them with toolsthat directly support he translation task.
Although task-oriented user-centered design is not new method for85application development, it has not previously beenapplied to natural language processing tasks.Working translators use a variety of resources thatlend themselves to electronic storage and retrieval.These include monolingual and bilingual dictionariesand glossaries, large collections of source and target lan-guage text, and other lexical information.
Languageinstructors search through large amounts of text to findauthentic examples of language use in particular con-texts.
Both user groups can benefit from the languageanalysis tools being developed under the TIPSTER pro-gram.Storage and retrieval of information in electronicdatabases can be more efficient than equivalent searchesin their paper-based counterparts.
Tobe useful for work-ing translators, methods for searching, retrieving, andpresenting information must be done in ways that arefamiliar.
Further, the current state-of-the-art in tradi-tional machine translation and programmed instructionprovide inadequate support for language translators,learners, and instructors.
Although TIPSTER technol-ogy does not immediately address these issues, it doesprovide the basis for new systems that can supporthumans working with language, and resources that canaid them in their work.3.0 Development MethodologyThere are many problems associated with develop-ing new technology to help with tasks previously solvedwith old technology.
Often, new technology is not deliv-ered in a conveniently usable manner, and systems maynot provide functions that are immediately useful to pro-fessionals.
Usability or usefulness may not be the pri-mary concern of developers of new technology whoseattention and creative nergies are rightly focused on themechanisms of the software.
Research in human-com-puter interaction suggests that a user-centered task-ori-ented approach is the most appropriate method fordeveloping interfaces that deliver new technology to anexisting workforce.CRL has employed a task--oriented user-centeredapproach to apply natural anguage technology to thedesign of interface software that supports working trans-lators, language learners, and instructors.
The result ofthis work are the collection of tools OLEADA.
Becausethe goal has been to get technology into the hands ofusers in ways that meet heir needs, CRL has focused onuser testing that motivates feature development and sys-tem enhancements.3.1 Iterative Des ign and Part ic ipatoryPrototyp ingThe design methodology used for developing OLE-ADA, and its precursor Cibola, is one of iterativedesign, and the first step in this process is to understandthe user through user-protocol task-analysis.
User-proto-col task-analysis involves an empirical analysis of work-ers at their jobs, and has three goals.
The first goal is todetermine worker goals and their strategies for accom-plishing them.
The second is to characterize workerstasks.
The third is to identify cognitive bottlenecks.Participatory prototyping again focuses on usersand their tasks.
Here, designers observe users working,and involve users in the stem design process by havingthem work with early prototypes.
User/designer discus-sions focus on real problems users are having workingwith the prototypes to accomplish real goals.
A processof iterative refinement (user observation, participative-prototyping, and formative evaluations) ultimatelyshapes useful systems.Formative valuations are short, empirical designevaluation studies that focus on system improvement,not system validation.
Here, users and developers canidentify system problems and enhancements hat, ifimplemented, can significantly improve system usabil-ity.
Fixing 'details' often leads to expected productivitygains.3.2 Exist ing ToolsMany software tools already exist that could be use-ful to language translators, instructors, and learners.
Butbecause they are cumbersome and awkward to learn anduse they often go unused by all except computer pro-grammers and developers.
Examples include UNIX pro-grams like grep, editors like emacs that can supportmultilingual text, and programming languages like perland, lisp, and prolog that can be used to manipulate textdata.
Most advanced language analysis tools, e.g.
namerecognizers/taggers, part-of-speech taggers, etc., alsodemand similar skills.
To bring the power of these toolsand others to language translators, instructors, andlearners requires usable user interfaces that help usersaccomplish their tasks.4.0 Four PhasesThis section describes three iterations of the fourstep iterative design process used to develop OLEADA.These steps consist of user observations, task analysis,interface design, and participative prototyping thatincludes formative evaluations.
Typically, researchobjectives drive research in natural language processing86(NLP).
In the context of CRL's work in NLP, however,user observations and task analysis combine to definedirections for additional NLP and user interfaceresearch and objectives.
This is particularly true in thecase of OLEADA.4.1 Phase OnePhase one began with a study (user observation) ofDoD analysts engaged in paper and pencil translationtasks.
It was observed that translators working with pen-cil and paper tend to work with a source text alongsidethe translation i  progress rather than above or below it.During task analysis, it was noted that translatorsoften use a variety of paper-based tools and resourceslike mono- and bilingual dictionaries, specialized glos-saries, and thesauri to aid them in the translation task.These translators would also spend significant amountsof time marking hardcopy, comparing source and targetlanguage texts, and consulting reference material.The initial interface design focused on methods fordisplaying, editing, and marking-up multilingual text,and the identification of tools and methods for accessingelectronic equivalents of paper-based resources.
Theseresources included dictionaries, glossaries, thesauri, andother data including translation memory (parallel-aligned source and target language text).The first prototype focused on Spanish and Englishtext.
The system's user interface technology included a'bookmark' tool so that users could keep track ofsearches in reference material, and an annotation toolthat enabled users to highlight and attach comments totext.
The need to have TIPSTER-style document man-agement for annotations and attributes became apparentearly in the user/task analysis.
CRL's multi-attributedtext widget was used to provide users with facilities forediting and displaying text.
NLP technology included aCRL developed Spanish morphology tool to enablesophisticated searches of on-line resources, and usedlexical indexing for electronic dictionaries and thesauri.The system also contained a prototype translation mem-ory tool.4.2 Second PhaseUser observation for phase two consisted of usersworking with the prototype system on example tasks.Task analysis demonstrated that the system lacked func-tionality and resources.
The Spanish morphology com-ponent was enhanced, and the alignment algorithm fortranslation memory was improved.
Further improve-ments were made to the components for multilingualdisplay and edit.The second prototype contained more resources,had improved ocument management, and was changedto a client/server a chitecture.
More mono- and bilingualdictionaries were added, as was the CIA Chiefs-of-Statedatabase and a world gazetteer.
Fuzzy matching wasadded to aid users in searches.4.3 Third PhaseThe users observed during the third phase wereinstructors who used the system to develop instructionalmaterial.
Task analysis of their work showed that a largepart of their effort consisted of gathering, retrieving, andanalyzing text in context, and current, authentic textswere extremely useful.Changes to the system included the addition ofCRL's concordance tool (X-Concord), improved multi-lingual information retrieval, and enhanced Chinese/Japanese word identification and segmentation.5.0 OLEADACurrently, OLEADA provides a multi-windowedside-by-side presentation of source and target languagetexts (as opposed, for example, to the top-bottom pre-sentation of texts on some PC's) with editing capabili-ties in the target ext window.
To support editing of textdisplayed in multiple languages, OLEADA utilizesCRL's multi-attributed text widget.
This makes it possi-ble for OLEADA users to display and edit multilingualtexts.
Languages include those using Latin characters,Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, and Russian.
OLEADA alsouses TUIT, CRL's TIPSTER user interface toolkit, andTDM, CRL's TIPSTER document manager.5.1 Text Display, Edit, and AnnotationsThe OLEADA text editor makes it possible forusers to display, edit, and annotate multilingual text.During the design process it was discovered that transla-tors often like to make notes on documents they areworking on, either in the margins, on the lines them-selves, or by attaching notes to the document.
To accom-modate this a TIPSTER annotation and documentmanagement feature was added to the system.
Anno-tated text in Figure 1 appears as colored highlights onthe computer screen, or as grayed text here.
This featureenables users to make notes or annotations to a docu-ment on-line.
Annotated text is color-highlighted, hasattributes associated with it (such as 'author' or 'type',and can be categorized into groups.
Annotations on doc-87uments automatically added by TIPSTER languageanalysis modules can also be viewed and changedthrough the same annotation tool.to text in another document.
This feature is shown inFigure 2.Anno~ted\] " ~  ce~o" de lt~ precio~ e~ febreroi~.
,~ i~ i~ Espalta =elifftaincltuo por delmjo d e l ,~ infled6n de !o= ~tim= 12 mese= ml~ra el 4%.FIGURE 1.
Annotated TextHighlighted text in an OLEADA document is simi-lar to highlighting text with a marker on paper.
It drawsattention to particular passages.
Like writing in the mar-gin of a paper document, OLEADA has an annotationlist interface that can be used to associate other text,either as input by the user, or by linking the annotationF IGURE 2.
The Annotation List Window withAnnotation Text5.2 XconcordThe XConcord program is a concordance tool thatallows KWIC (Key Word In Context) searches to bedone in text in as many as 17 languages.
It is designed tobe easy to work with so that teachers and students canuse XConcord in the classroom to identify relevant texts: ~ -  (p) 15 : 30  4 -6~E.~, .
.
.
.T .
_ , , , .
_ .~~ 26B (=.
:) (p) ~ET_t,,/b (/TEXT) (/DO0(DO0 (DATE) Aug 20 1995 22:18 ,(/DA?E) (HL) ~ r ~_~{:~i~,_.J ~--~:~\[~l~ j j :~))\[~\]l~._,~-~ diiL) (TEXT)(/IlL) (TEXT) (p) ~',~..~..,fftf~'~2 0 Bf~~'~;~bt: r~.~__..~t:\[~T~'~~J~i~j ,.
::,~:I~,~E, i~j:,x~,!=sJC(.3: r~LTJA.E~:-}E~,..~uB I - .
'~d~9l~ 37111.
0 F :~._ .~E j~ j~:~ $~_m:.,~j:o)~..~._j~-~ 37109FIGURE 3.
The Annotation List Window with Annotation Text88by viewing words and expressions in context.
Searchingis quick and the size of the corpus is limited only byavailable disk space.
Using an implementation of theBoyer-Moore search algorithm specially adapted forwide characters, X-Concord can search at over 1MB persecond, eliminating the need for pre-indexing on manymoderate scale corpora.Searching is very flexible.
Users can match anystring with any part of a word or phrase.
Users can alsolimit the search to only those concordances ither con-taining or missing specified strings in the context o theleft or right of the keyword.Xconcord shows the results in a KWIC display andalso, as seen in the smaller bottom window in Figure 3,the complete sentence for the selected KWIC line.
Thecomplete document is displayed in yet another window.Easy methods for saving individual sentences or com-plete documents o new text files are provided.
The userscan then edit these files or use Xconcord to print theresults.5.3 The D ic t ionary  Inter faceThe interface to the OLEADA Dictionary resourceincludes multilingual access to headwords and their def-initions, and also provides users with examples of usage,part-of-speech information, etc.
Further, translatorsoften find valuable information by looking at the entriesthat are close to the target entry.
Figure 4 shows theOLEADA Dictionary interface.Search Word DictionaryList List EntryFIGURE 4.
The Dictionary InterfaceCRL's Dictionary tool provides users with an inte-grated and easily accessed interface to a wide variety ofon-line fixed reference material.
Our multilingual,multi-attribute X-Window text capability is used to for-mat this material to capture and reflect the originalprinted form, complete with all of the lexicographicmarkup, which makes these on-line resources at least asuseful as their printed counterparts.
The result is thatlanguage translators and learners can use their existingknowledge of how to use these dictionaries.
Further, textis fully integrated with the windowing software so it iseasy to copy and paste words and phases found in theseresources directly into the user's target documents.A limited view of the headword list is provided.Headword lists consist primarily of the root form of aword, however searches can be performed using mor-phological variants.
OLEADA has morphological naly-sis component hat enables the system to returninformation on morphological variants of a search term.In cases where similar spelling or morphological vari-ants are available, a fuzzy match list is provided thatusers can select from.The Dictionary tool's usability is also enhanced byits sophisticated lexical search capability.
Word stem-ming, Spanish morphology, Chinese and Japanese wordsegmentation a d multiple codeset indexing all help toensure that every lexical form related to the search termis found.
The searches are fast, and all dictionaries aresearched each time.
This enables users to see whichresources have relevant entries.
Searches are automati-cally expanded by a fuzzy matching scheme if the initialsearch fails.
Fuzzy expansion can be helpful in caseswhere the exact form of a search term is not known, orwhere you may not recall the spelling of term.
A wild-card matching capability is also available.Dictionary resources in OLEADA are indexedalphabetically by word like their paper counterparts.There are several on-line dictionaries available.
Duringa search all dictionaries are searched.
If a match cannotbe made in the current dictionary, but occurs in anotherdictionary that entry will be displayed.
The dictionariesare easily-accessible and entries can be retrieved by sim-ply clicking on the dictionary button corresponding tothe desired ictionary.OLEADA's Dictionary interface also provides analternate word list in addition to the headword list forwords with multiple entries that match the morphologi-cal form of the search word, such as accented words orwords with alternate spellings.
Dictionary entries can beretrieved for one of these words by clicking on the wordin the list.Unlike paper dictionaries, OLEADA's on-line dic-tionaries can be searched using partial words and/orwildcards.
A wildcard character is one that can signifyany letter and is represented by an asterisk (*).
For89example, entries for words beginning with ma but end-ing with any letter could be found by entering ma*.
Theinformation returned consists of a fuzzy match list con-taining all of the words beginning with ma.5.4 BookmarksWhen using paper-based resources, translators willoften make references back to information they havepreviously found.
To accommodate this OLEADA has a'Bookmark' feature that keeps a list of lexical items pre-viously found.
Figure 5 shows the interface for this fea-ture.?
.
: , .
, .
: - .
.
.
,  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
-  , : .
: :  : : : .
: : .
.
.
.
.
.
.
: : ,  .
.
:  .
.
.
,  f - -FIGURE 5.
The OLEADA Bookmark WindowBy selecting a resource and clicking on any of theentries in the search list a user can quickly return to pre-viously retrieved information.5.5 Word Frequency ToolCRL's Word Frequency tool provides users with asimple interface for viewing word statistics for individ-ual documents or large collections of documents.
Inaddition, word frequencies in individual documents orsmaller sub-collections can be automatically comparedto larger collections to identify 'distinctive' words in thedocument that are significant with respect o the largercollection.
This feature can be used to identify important"domain specific" words.
By looking at the these fre-quency lists, a language analyst or instructor canimprove their coverage and avoid missing prominentwords.The word frequency tool also works with TIPSTERdocuments and collections and takes advantage of wordsegmentation a notations tocount Chinese and Japanesewords.
Documents and collections are processedquickly and results can be re-accessed though collectionattributes.6.0 ConclusionThe benefits of OLEADA are numerous.
TIPSTERtechnology is being transferred in ways that give realusers access to technology in useful ways.
Machines areexcellent tools for quickly searching for, retrieving, andstoring information.
Humans are good at using lan-guage.
Through a process of task-oriented user-centereddesign and iterative refinement, computer tools havebeen developed that take advantage of the strengths ofmachines to support he strengths of humans.
OLEADAprovides users with a consistent, networked medium forworking with multilingual text and integrates analysistools using the TIPSTER architecture.More importantly, OLEADA offers an informa-tional technology alternative to traditional anguageinstruction.
It enables adult professionals, all of whomuse informational technology on the job, to access perti-nent and authentic materials, perform motivated tasks,and select a range of performance support ools.
Learn-ers proceed like researchers as they direct and managetheir own training, not only in the classroom but also onthe job.
Instructors can use OLEADA to support allphases of language training.7.0 AcknowledgmentCRL's work on OLEADA has been funded by DoDcontract #MDA 904-94-C-E086.90
