TIPSTER Phase III AccomplishmentsF.
Ruth GeeOff ice o f  Advanced Analyt ic  Too lsWash ington ,  D. C. 20505E-mai l :  ru th fg@uc ia .govPhone Number :  (703) 613-8759INTRODUCTIONThe TIPSTER Text Program Phase III continuedthe sponsorship of research and development toadvance state-of-the-art technologies for text handlingand facilitation of cooperation among research anddevelopment components from industrial, academicand the U.S. Government.The TIPSTER Phase III formally started with aKick-off Workshop held in October 1996.
SpecificPhase III goals were to:?
Sustain the successes of Phase I and II indetection, information extraction, architecture,and formal evaluation;?
Push research in text processing technologies;?
Expand the architecture;?
Increase participation with Government agencies,researchers, developers, and the academiccommunity in general;?
Expand multilingual and summarization efforts.The overall purpose was to field a system for usewithin the operational elements of the Intelligencecommunity and other Government agencies.
PhaseIII Government participants included the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), theCentral Intelligence Agency (CIA), the NationalSecurity Agency (NSA), the National Institute ofStandards and Technology (NIST), the NavalResearch Lab (NRL), the Air Force Research Lab(AFRL), the Space and Naval Warfare SystemsCommand (SPAWAR) and the Defense IntelligenceAgency (DIA)RESEARCHThe 15 research projects sponsored by theGovernment for TIPSTER Phase III l built on theadvances made in information extraction anddetection, but also initiated research in textsummarization.
Furthermore, cross-technology issuesplayed a bigger role among the research efforts ofmany Phase III participants.
Short descriptions of the15 research projects can be found in Figure 1.Additional details on most of these projects can befound in the Phase III papers included in thisvolume.Participant research in extraction centered,in general, on three areas: accuracy, usability, andportability.
In order to advance the state of the art,extraction researchers focused core technologicalefforts on developing algorithms to, for exampleresolve coreference and use machine learning orrelated techniques to acquire patterns semi-automatically.
The ultimate goal was to pushprecision and recall in the scenario task tooperationally usable levels.The common pattern specification language(CPSL) was to be used to facilitate the porting ofextraction systems or modules to new domains andlanguages.
Although, , this objective was not fullyrealized, due to funding constraints, SRI implementedl The 15 research projects referenced in Figure I donot include two projects that were selected but notfunded by DARPA initially.
The two projects,"Cross-Language Document Retrieval with LatentSemantic Indexing (University of Colorado) and "Multilingual Interactive Document Summarization(MINDS)" (New Mexico State University) werefunded by ORD after TIPSTER Phase III began.7CPSL to develop a new extraction system calledTextPro \[1\].For the usability focus, some work focusedon determining the optimal role of the user duringoperational deployment of the technology.Detection research focused onadvancements in the technology and usability.
On thetechnology side, researchers pursued such topics asthe appropriate role for Natural Language Processing(NLP) in detection, the usefulness of shallowextraction in indexing and retrieval, foreign languageretrieval, combining different retrieval engines, andthe use of machine learning and case-based reasoning.On the usability side, Phase III detectionparticipants investigated optimal query buildingapproaches to capitalize on the role of the human inthe concept of operations.Usability issues also figured prominently intext summarization, the newest area of TIPSTER-sponsored research that had its beginning in Phase III.While the focus was on transitioning "enabling"technologies from detection and extraction,researchers exploring different strategies foridentifying applicable analytic tasks, and assessingthe near-term usability of various strategies for user-centric summarization.Using both statistical and natural anguageprocessing techniques, summarization provides asystematic means to reduce the volume of a full textdocument without losing relevant content.
Thistechnology could be applied to a variety of tasks inorder to assist an information searcher.
In TIPSTERPhase III, the Government sponsored several researchand development efforts, each with differentapproaches and potential uses for automaticallyproduced text summaries.Summarization, due to the multifacetednature of its output and fluidity of definition, quitenaturally employed a cross-technology approach.Phase III participants leveraged their entity-centeredextraction and sentence-level detectionmethodologies in developing core summarizationsystems.We witnessed other cross-technololgyadvances.
Detection research involved a morepronounced role for NLP, such as shallow extractionin indexing.
In a similar fashion, extractionresearchers explored the use of detection techniques,such as filtering to improve accuracy.
We projectedthat, had the Architecture Capabilities Platformreached a sufficient level of maturity, the cross-technology approach would have garnered additionaladvances through the interchange of intermediateresults between multiple engines and technologies.ARCHITECTURE DEVELOPMENTThe Architecture Capability Platform.The Architecture Capabilities Platform(ACP) was a TIPSTER Phase III effort to support heevaluation, extension, and exploration of the evolvingTIPSTER Architecture.
The TIPSTER Programgoal was that the ACP would provide an Internet-based toolbox of components for researchers anddevelopers, and a test-bed for proposed Architecturechanges.
In addition, the ACP was to:Promote reuse of components and datadeveloped during previous TIPSTER efforts,making research and demonstration projects, andevaluation efforts like TREC and MUC easier toobtain and integrate.?
Increase the viability of the TIPSTERArchitecture beyond the current community.Provide a way to create distributed systems,without requiring changes to existingcomponents.
The ACP approach employs theCommon Object Request Broker Architecture(CORBA), a commercial standard fordistributing object oriented systems like theTIPSTER demonstration systems.Facilitate data exchange between TIPSTERsystems and other Information Retrieval (IR)systems.
The ACP pursued this goal byimplementing software to allow TIPSTER andZ39.50 interoperability.Provide a platform for examining and evaluatingproposed Architecture changes in a real-worldsetting.Architecture Working Groups.At the beginning of Phase III, there are manyissues which needed resolution to refine and extendthe TIPSTER Architecture to meet the needs of thegrowing range of applications.
To address these8Merging & Anaphoric ResolutionMaximal Marginal RelevanceDuplicate Document Detection,;ummarizationAdvanced NLP for Accurate and FlexiblendexinCoreference, TimeTool, and DocumentntentMultilingual IREn~ng User IE CustomizationChinese IR & Evidence CombinationMultiple Information Seeking StrategiesExt ra - -on  & Customization by MachineOpen Domains, Learning by Example,2oreferenceCombination RetrievalMerging, Routing, Filtering, and TopicCoreference Engine SummarizationSummarizationCapabilities Platformtstem Engineering and ConfigurationFigure 1.
TIPSTER Phase III R&D Projectsissues, the Architecture Committee (AC) created anumber of Technical Working Groups (TWGs) whichincluded representatives of the Government,TIPSTER contractors and others involved in Tipsterdevelopment.
Four new working groups joined thePattern Specification TWG, formed under Phase II ofTIPSTER.
Goals of the five TWGs are summarizedbelow.Pattern Specification: This TWG sought o developa common notation to exchange information aboutpatterns among information extraction developers.9Most information extraction systems operate througha process of pattern matching: successive stages ofpatterns are used to identify successively largerlinguistic units.
In the past, each contractor had usedtheir own notation for these patterns and provideddifferent pattern-matching capabilities which made itharder to achieve a "plug and play" architecture goal.A paper on the findings of this TWG can be found inthis volume \[2\].Annotation Standardization: The primary means bywhich text analysis components communicate in theTIPSTER Architecture is through annotations ondocuments.
The Annotation Standardization TWGaims to define standard annotationsfor document structure (title, source, author, date,body, etc.
), for tagging names in documents, and forencoding information extraction templates asannotations.Linking/Tagging: This TWG considered themechanisms for linking together the copies of adocument and for propagating particular attributesonto all the copies-- attributes needed for securityclassification or copyright, for example.
This effortwas eventually folded into the AnnotationStandardization TWG.Document Management: The architecture designdeveloped under TIPSTER Phase II defined thefunctionality needed for document managementin single-user, single-process environments.
Whenthe Architecture was used in multi-process or multi-user applications, local extensions were made in suchareas as protection and concurrency control.
Thedocument management TWG attempted tostandardize these extensions.negating factors were compounded by the fact that thearchitecture was not fully developed and the earlierversions were not fully supported by thedevelopmental efforts.
At the premature nd ofTIPSTER Phase III, the ACP was not sufficientlydeveloped to truly test interoperability of softwaremodules.
In addition, the Government did not alwaysinsist on the TIPSTER architecture beingimplemented in the demonstration system.
In somecases, it was not feasible to do so, especially for thoseprojects that had begun before the architecture wassufficiently completed.A notable success indicated that anarchitecture like TIPSTER's is workable, despite thesetbacks.
The University of Sheffield designed andimplemented the General Architecture for TextEngineering (GATE) and used the TIPSTERarchitecture for its foundation.
GATE is now in useextensively Europe.
It was also used in the ACP sothat the ACP could be delivered in a useful form atthe end of Phase III, given the fact that TIPSTERended early.
GATE represents a success story forTIPSTER and illustrates one of the many examples ofthe program's impact on the commercial world.A major lesson learned concerns that of theinability of a small Government-sponsored effort toinfluence industry standards.
The focus should lie notin formally establishing architectures but inestablishing Government business drivers andworking with industry and commercial focus groups,where possible, to steer development in directions ofbenefit o the Government.
See \[3\] in this volume forother lessons learned from TIPSTER architectureefforts.Detection: This TWG sought o address capabilitiesthat needed to be added to the detection part of theArchitecture, such as the ability to view queriescreated by relevance feedback and automatic querygeneration, it also addressed new issues associatedwith the extension of the Architecture to use theZ39.50 standard for client-server communication iretrieval systems.Architecture Mixed ResultsThe TIPSTER architecture in general andthe ACP in particular did not achieve its intendedgoals.
Part of this was due to the early demise of theTIPSTER Program and part was due to theGovernment's inability to enforce standards imposedby the TIPSTER software architecture.
TheseEVALUATIONThe Text Retrieval ConferencesSince the beginning of the TIPSTERprogram, there have been seven Text REtrievalConferences (TRECs).
The number of participatingsystems has grown significantly since TREC-1 andhas, across the years, included many of the major textretrieval software companies and most of theuniversities doing research in text.
A combinedTREC roster from the seven past conferencescontains participants from several foreign countries.The TIPSTER sponsors encouraged this internationalparticipation and worked toward the continuation of10the TREC resources, despite the formal end of theTIPSTER program.
The diversity of the participatinggroups has ensured that TREC represents manydifferent approaches to text retrieval, while theemphasis on individual experiments evaluated in acommon setting has proven to be a major strength ofTREC.The test designs for the various TRECs havebeen similar.
The participants ran the various tasks,sent results into National Institute of Standards andTechnology (NIST) for evaluation, presented theresults at the TREC conferences, and submittedpapers for proceedings.
The main test collectioncurrently consists of over 1.6 million documents fromdiverse full-text sources, 300 topics and the set ofrelevant documents or "right answers" to those topics.This test collection supports the main TREC tasks ofrouting and ad hoc retrieval.In addition to the main test collection, there aresmaller test collections in Spanish and in Chinese.Also, TREC has sponsored several focused researchtasks, called tracks.
In TIPSTER Phase III, thesehave included?
Filtering Track?
Cross Language Information Retrieval (CLIR)Track?
High Precision Track?
Interactive Track?
Very Large Corpora (VLC) Track?
Spoken Document Retrieval (SDR) Track.TREC has proven to be very successful, allowingbroad participation in the overall DARPA TIPSTEReffort, and causing widespread use of very large testcollections.
All conferences have had very open,honest discussions of technical issues, and there havebeen large amounts of "cross-fertilization" of ideas.TREC has received world-wide recognition as anevaluation resource for information retrieval systems.DARPA, NIST and other Government partners havecontinued their sponsorship beyond TIPSTER.
See\[4\] for details of TREC-7, the last TREC sponsoredby the TIPSTER program.
2The Message Understanding ConferenceThe goal of the Message UnderstandingConferences (MUCs) was to push informationextraction systems toward improved accuracy andgreater portability to new domains and to encouragebasic research by providing evaluations of some basiclanguage analysis technologies.
There was a set offive evaluation tasks:Named Entity Task (NE): Recognition of entitynames for people and organizations, placenames, temporal expressions, and certain types ofnumerical expressions.?
Coreference Task (CO): Identification ofcoreference r lationships among noun phrases..Template Element Task (TE): Informationextraction about specified class of objects andfilling of template for each instance of each suchobject.Template Relationship Task (TR): Informationextraction about specified class of relationshipsbetween template elements and filling oftemplate for each instance of each suchrelationship with pointers to template lements.Scenario Task (ST): This task combines theelements of the other four tasks and focuses onevent-centered information extraction in aspecific domain.The first four tasks are independent of anyparticular domain.
The last is equivalent totraditional information extraction.
The NE and COtasks entailed Standard Generalized MarkupLanguage (SGML) annotation of texts.
The templateelement, template relations, and scenario template areinformation extraction tasks where template slots arefilled with extracted, categorized, or normalizedinformation that might go into a database.
See \[5\] fordetails on MUC-7, the last MUC sponsored by theTIPSTER Program.
An Internet web site atwww.muc.saic.com contains additional details onMUC-7.2 TREC, however, is continuing beyond the TIPSTERProgram with TREC-8 scheduled for November1999.Multilingual Evaluation TaskThe Government sponsors of the secondMultilingual Entity Task (MET) collected Chinese11and Japanese data for MET-2 Named Entity task.Each collection contained over 300 articles (includingrevised versions of MET-1 data) tagged appropriatelyfor training data.
Unfortunately, the Governmentgroup did not have sufficient staff to support imelydata collection and preparation to continue theSpanish language thrust from MET-1 but some Thaidata was provided for initial experimentation .
See\[5\] for discussion of MET procedures and MET-1results and \[6\] for details on MET-2.MET-2 represented a somewhat richervariety of language patterns than the MET-1 data,which was collected from only a single newswiresource in each language.
The training collectionincluded data from three Chinese and two Japanesesources.
Whereas MET-1 training, dry run, andformal test data was retrieved using a single set ofkeywords, MET-2 used different keywords to selecteach data set.
Consequently, participant systemswere challenged to demonstrate greater portability incovering multiple text sources and domains.Although the multilingual task was confined,as in MET-I, to Named Entity extraction, texts wereselected according to their suitability for futureTemplate Element and Scenario Templateapplications.The Government component of TIPSTERbegan a campaign to acquire newly availableresources for the community in support of themultilingual information extraction tasks.
Inparticular, since MET-1 the Government group hasacquired two online part-of-speech tagged Chineselexicons, the larger of which differentiates 39morpho-syntactic ategories in glosses of over100,000 terms.Because segmentation (finding word-boundary) has proven to be a bottleneck problem forIE tasks in various non-Roman languages, theGovernment group developed a second segmentationtool to help identify proper names, technical terms,newly coined words, etc., that may be missing fromthe lexicon.
This tool utilizes a core lexicon of only5000 terms, selected for their high-frequencyoccurrence in newspaper text.In addition, TIPSTER industrial andacademic partners contributed generously to helpimprove the existing capabilities of tools that supportthe labor-intensive process of data collection andmark-up.
For example, a revised version of theNMSU Chinese segmenter was made available.The Government group played a key role inadvancing participants' technical capabilities byserving as a clearing-house for basic multilingual textprocessing resources uch as segmenters, dictionaries,and tagging tools and by encouraging participants toshare basic techniques, tools, and data to support hemultilingual extraction effort.Summarization Analysis ConferenceThe first Government sponsorship ofsummarization evaluation occurred in Phase III andtook the form of the Summarization AnalysisConference (SUMMAC).
SUMMAC includedseveral tasks intended to judge the utility andappropriateness of the generated summaries and toprovide a way to measure improvement consistently.The tasks focused on the relevancy of user-directedsummaries, as compared to similar relevancejudgments using the full text of a document.The growth in the Internet and in WorldWide Web use has resulted in a dramatic increase inelectronically available information.
This sameinformation explosion is duplicated in officeenvironments.
The sheer magnitude of theinformation overload has forced informationmanagers to investigate alternative means of datapresentation.
Summarization technology, applied atdifferent steps in a traditional text processing flow,has the potential to effectively and accurately reducethe volume of information presented to a user by asmuch as 60-80%.If summarization evaluation continuesbeyond TIPSTER, additional tasks are needed toaddress the ability of systems to extract specific itemsof information in a "question and answer" scenario.DEMONSTRATION SYSTEMSTIPSTER Phase III participants deliveredmany R&D systems that have been used by theGovernment sponsors to showcase advances in thedetection, extraction and summarization technologies.Many Government agencies, building on thesuccesses and lessons learned from Phase II and III,now have TIPSTER-enhanced systems deployed in anoperational environment.
See Section C of this12volume for discussion on a few of these systems fromthe Government's perspective.
Other papers in thisproceedings also will contain information onTIPSTER -sponsored systems for Phase III.THE PROGRAM ENDSThe formal sponsorship of TIPSTER endedwith the final program workshop on 15 October 1998but collaboration continues among many of theGovernment, industrial and academic partners.Beyond the end of the program, we will continue totrack the impact of TIPSTER by documenting thecommercial products and Government deliverablesthat have roots in the TIPSTER Program research anddevelopment.The work started in TIPSTER has recentlyexpanded to an increased multilingual focus in thenew DARPA sponsored program, TranslingualInformation Detection, Extraction and Summarization(TIDES).ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe thank the TIPSTER program foundersfor their foresight in addressing the informationoverload problem through the sponsorship of thisprogram.
We thank the many Government, industrialand academic participants who made all phases ofthis program a success.
Despite the early end ofTIPSTER Phase III, the R&D efforts exemplified bythe papers in the remainder of these proceedings--andthe contributions by participants o the advancementsin the state-of-the art in text processing--are legaciesin which all the TIPSTER Government, industry andacademic partners can take great pride.REFERENCES:\[1\] Steven Maiorano, "The SRI TIPSTER IIIProject", Proceedings TIPSTER Phase III, 1999(this volume).\[21 Douglas E. Appelt and Boyan Onyshkevych, "ACommon Pattern Specification Language",Proceedings TIPSTER Phase III, 1999 (thisvolume).\[31 Harold Corbin and Aaron Ternin, "TIPSTERLessons Learned: The SE/CM Perspective",Proceedings TIPSTER Phase III, 1999 (thisvolume).\[4\] Ellen M. Voorhees and Donna Harman, "TheText Retrieval Conferences ?
(TRECs)",Proceedings TIPSTER Phase III, 1999 (thisvolume).\[5\] "Multi-lingual Entity Task", Section H,Proceedings TIPSTER Text Program (Phase II),September 1996.\[6\] Elaine March, "TIPSTER Information ExtractionEvaluation: The MUC-7 Workshop",Proceedings TIPSTER Phase III, 1999 (thisvolume).\[7\] TIPSTER Spring 1997 Brochure13
