THE SRI TIPSTER III PROJECTSteven MaioranoOffice of Advanced Analytic ToolsWashington, D.C. 20505E-mail: stevejm@ucia.govTelephone: 703-613-8755Introduction'The SRI TIPSTER Phase III research programfocused on improving information extraction (IE)accuracy by further extending their Phase II \[1\]research into linguistic approaches to data extraction.At the same time, SRI's efforts emphasizedportability, and the moving away from hand-craftingcomplicated rules toward enabling nonexpert users togenerate automatically new domain patterns.CPSLOne step towards ease-of-use by nonexperts was thedevelopment reported in Phase II \[1\] of SRI'sFastSpec language which enabled greater facility ingenerating and modifying the syntactic and semanticpatterns necessary for identifying pertinent data.
Thiswas a motivating factor for the establishment of theCommon Pattern Specification Language (CPSL)Working Group devoted to formulating a CPSL inorder that different IE systems could share patternlibraries .2Open Domain SystemA central goal of SRI's open domain work was toallow users to develop their own customized IEsystems called Fastlets for different opics of interest.SRI analyzed a large corpus of business news anddeveloped a basic ontology of concepts.
Thisontology provides the basis for specifying patterns ina wide range of business news applications.
Overall,the concepts and patterns cover 150 most commonverbs and nominalizations in the Wall Street Journal.The patterns are currently being implemented inSRI's IE system, FASTUS.'
This material has been reviewed by the CIA.
Thatreview neither constitutes CIA authentication finformation or implies CIA endorsement of theauthor's views.
"~ SRI's Doug Appelt has proven the feasibility ofCPSL by developing TextPro, a Mac-based IE systemwritten in CPSL.
(www.ai.sri.com/-appelt)39As part of a collateral effort, SRI built Fastlets for 23of the 47 TREC-6 \[2\] topics which were used in twojoint TREC-6 submissions with GE.
In the first, SRIre-ranked the top 2000 documents returned by the GErouting query.
In the second submission GE used thetopic-relevant text identified by the SRI Fastlets forquery expansion.
The results were encouraging andindicate that the Fastlet approach to documentdetection is feasible.MergingThe previous FASTUS merging algorithm was simplein that it merged newly extracted atastructures froma document with earlier extracted ones starting withthe most recent.
The results were~go0d, but erroranalysis showed that improving this process wouldhelp increase overall system accuracy.
SRI'sapproach was to apply machine learning (ML)techniques in order to learn merging strategiesautomatically -- an essential capability for enablingnonexperts o port the system to a new domain.SRI employed two supervised learning techniques --decision tree and maximum entropy.
Both approacheswere highly successful at classifying merges, butneither technique improved the overall accuracy ofthe end-to-end system.
It is thought hat this is due tothe fact that correct merges improve the system'sscore much more than bad merges hurt it.
Therefore,although the supervised-learning-based m rges mademore correct decisions than before, the incorrectblocking of a few correct merges reducedperformance.
SRI also experimented withunsupervised and weakly supervised learning ofmerging strategies.
These results were reported atAAAI-98.
\[3\]Coreference ResolutionSRI's coreference module in FASTUS at the start ofTIPSTER III performed close to the best publishedresults for handling third person pronouns andreflexives.
SRI worked on porting coreferenceimprovements to the TIPSTER III system, and, at thesame time, began work on coreferential elements tobe  handled for the first time; bare nominals,possessed nominals, and indefinites.
It was thoughtthat overall system degradation corresponds to thelack of semantic and discourse information availableto the FASTUS processing modules and thatWordNet might be a possible source knowledge toprovide this information.WordNetIn another related effort, SRI performed experimentsin utilizing WordNet (WN) as a knowledge source forIE.
SRI developed mechanisms for automaticallyadding relations on top of WN with respect tonominalizations.
There are nominalizations in WNbut they are not linked to the word sense of the verbthat they nominalize.
Because information such as"manager" is an AGENT nominalization f "manage"is useful to the open domain approach, SRI developedroutines to identify the appropriate word sense.
Theyalso analyzed how WN might improve coreferenceresolution.
Although the potential payoff of using WNis still unclear, it is clear that utilization of WN is nota simple matter of plug-and-play.References\[1\] Hobbs, J. R., Appelt, D., Bear, J., Israel, D.,Kameyama, M., Kehler, A., Stickel, M., Tyson, M.;"SRI's TIPSTER H Project," in Proceedings TipsterText Program (Phase II) September 1996; MorganKaufman Publishers, Inc.; San Francisco, CA.\[2\] Bear, J., Israel, D., Petit, D., Martin, D.;"UsingInformation Extraction to Improve DocumentRetrieval," in Voorhees, E. and Harman, D. editors,The Sixth Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-6);NIST Special Publication 500-240, 1998.\[3\] Kehler, A.; "Learning Embedded DiscourseMechanisms for Information Extraction," in ApplyingMachine Learning to Discourse Processing (Papersfrom the 1998 AAAI Spring Symposium, TechnicalReport SS-98-01); AAAI Press; Menlo Park, CA;1998.40
