The Cornell T IPSTER Phase III ProjectF.
Ruth GeeOffice of Advanced Analytic ToolsWashington, D. C. 20505E-mail: ruthfg@ucia.govPhone Number: (703) 613-8759INTRODUCTION lThe overall objective of the Cornell UniversityTIPSTER Project was to improve end-userefficiency in information retrieval systems byreducing the amount of text that the user mustprocess \[1\].
The project focuses on highprecision IR, near-duplicate detection andcontext-dependent summarization.
The two mainfoundations of the research are the latest versionof the Smart system for information Retrievaland the Empire system for natural languageprocessing.
Smart is an implementation f thevector-space model of information retrieval (IR).Its earlier purpose was to provide a framework toconduct IR research but current developmentswill make the system easier to use by non-researcher.
Empire is a research-oriented systemthat uses machine learning methods to quicklyperform partial parsing of sentences.option, the system will attempt to retrieve fewerdocuments than it would in a normal search butwithin the returned hits list, most of thedocuments hould be useful.
Emphasis on highprecision, however, extracts a penalty in terms ofrecall.
That is, some of the relevant documentsor passages that are available in the stored textcollection might not be returned to the user sincethe system will retrieve fewer documents overall.The high-precision option is optimized forusers who have a specific information eed and alimited amount of time.
This option wouldprovide the user with a few piece of highlyrelevant data quickly but would not necessarilyprovide all the data.
Alternatively, the user mayopt to de-emphasize high precision in favor ofimproved recall but might suffer theconsequences that arise from having to processan increased number of irrelevant documents.Cornell's integrated approach uses bothstatistical and linguistic sources to first identifyrelationships among important terms in the queryor in the text.
The integrated system then usesthe extracted relationships to (1) discard orreorder retrieved texts (for high-precision IR);(2) locate redundant information (for near-duplicate document detection); or (3) generatesummaries.
A more detailed technicaldescription about the research can be found inthe Cornell University technical paper \[2\].H IGH PRECIS ION INFORMATIONRETRIEVALThe goal of this effort is to give the usersthe capability of conducting a high-precisionsearch.
If the user selects the high-precision1 This material has been reviewed by the CIA.That review neither constitutes CIAauthentication f information or implies CIAendorsement of the author's views.NEAR-DUPL ICATE DETECT IONThe goal of the research in this area is todevise a system that will reduce the amount ofduplicated information that the user sees.
Currentretrieval system may return several versions of adocument in which the differences results fromchanges made to the metafile, word deviations inthe body (e.g.
multiple authors using differentwords to describe the same event) or an updatewith new information added.
While otherretrieval-enhancement algorithms have beendeveloped to identify exact and near duplicates,this research effort investigates methods forprocessing documents that are similar but do notnecessarily contain the same terms.
Forexample:If a user has seen document X and the firsttwo paragraphs of unseen document Y onlycontain information that is the same as orsimilar to information in X, the systemwould process Y to "hide" the duplicated37data showing the user only the uniqueparagraphs.
An operational version of thissystem could be integrated with an agency'sretrieval system to remove exact and almostduplicates from the retrieval system's hitslist.
This application probably would benefitmost Intelligence Community analysts.Other types of users may be interested incapturing all duplicates, near-duplicates andsimilar documents.
In this scenario a usertasked to process a collection of documentconsistently would want to identify allduplicate and similar documents forprocessing in the same or a similar manner.If the near-duplicate detection effort issuccessful, the resulting system wouldprovide the user with this identificationcapability.CONTEXT-DEPENDENTSUMMARIZATIONThe third research area continues theobjective of reducing the amount of text that theuser must read by presenting summaries of longdocuments in lieu of the full documents.
Thesummarization software will either provide ashort summary for each document in a collectionor one summary for an entire group of relateddocuments.
If the collection contains disparatedocument, the Cornell approach uses apreliminary step to group related documents andthen applies the summarization algorithms toeach group.Summarization will be done in the contextof the query.
The Cornell system will captureonly those features relevant to the user'sinformation eed.
This is distinguishable from ageneric summary that would capture the salientitems for the entire document without regard toany particular search query or information eed.For example:Suppose the target document containsinformation on political profiles, militarystatus, weapons proliferation issues andeconomic changes about a country ofinterest.
A good generic summary wouldcontain the essential elements on all fourtopics.
If the user's only interest is thesecond topic, as would be reflected in theuser-defined query, then a good context-dependent summary would contain onlythose elements that are relevant o militarystatus.In a combined approach to summarization, theusers will have the options of generic summariesor query-based summaries for each document ina collection or a cross-document summary for theentire collection.
(See \[3\] for details on genericsummarization.
)DEMONSTRATION SYSTEMSThe Cornell TIPSTER efforts will result inseveral proof-of-concept demonstration systems,one for each of the three major tasks.
Thesedemonstration systems for high-precisioninformation retrieval, near-duplicate detection,and summarization will be sufficiently developedto allow the sponsor to evaluate theirperformance against real or simulated user data.Further development will be needed, particularlyin the area of human to computer interfaces, todemonstrate he systems' utility to end users inan operational environment.REFERENCES\[1\] Cardie, Claire and Buckley, Chris,"Improving End-User efficiency in aTIPSTER-Compliant IR System,"Proposal to the Defense Advanced\[2\]\[31Research Program Agency, 1996.Buckley, Chris, C. Cardie, J. Walz, S.Mardis, M. Mitra, D. Pierce, and K.Wagstaff, "The Smart/Empire TIPSTERIR System," in Proceedings TIPSTERText Program (Phase III), 1999, thisvolume.Strzalkowski, T., Stein, G., and Wise, G.B., "A Text-Extraction BasedSummarizer," in Proceedings TIPSTERText Program (Phase III), 1999, thisvolume.38
