The TIPSTER Text Program OverviewF.
Ruth GeeOff ice o f  Advanced Analyt ic  Too lsWash ington,  D. C. 20505E-mai l :  ru th fg@uc ia .govPhone Number :  (703) 613-8759INTRODUCTIONThese TIPSTER Phase III Proceedings bringto a close a program that had significant impact oninformation technology.
Since 1991, the TIPSTERText program has fostered the advancement of state-of-the-art technologies for text handling through theefforts of researchers and developers in the U.S.Government, industry and academia.
The resultingcapabilities are being deployed throughout theintelligence community to provide analysts withimproved information processing tools.The TIPSTER Program focused on researchand development in three technology areas:Document detection, information extraction and textsummarization.
In addition, the development ofmultilingual or cross-lingual capabilities in each ofthese areas became a vital component of the program.Metrics-based evaluations also constituted a criticalprogram element.
For example, the Text RetrievalConference (TREC), TIPSTER's metrics-basedevaluation for document detection is now recognizedas the premier source of ground-truth data uponwhich information retrieval developers can test theirsystems.
The TREC collection is a sizable one andprovides the foundation for developers to testscalability of retrieval systems.
The MessageUnderstanding Conference (MUC), the MultilingualEntity Task (MET) and the Summarization AnalysisConference (SUMAC) also are TIPSTER evaluationmechanisms to help the Government gaugetechnology progress in relevant areas.A summary of the accomplishments for thefirst two phases of the TIPSTER program is providedin the sections below.
For more details, please seethe proceedings for TIPSTER Phase I \[1\] andTIPSTER Phase II \[2\], respectively.
The next articlein this volume \[3\] provides the highlights from PhaseIII, the last phase of the TIPSTER program.PHASE I ACCOMPL ISHMENTSThe focus of TIPSTER Phase I was toadvance the state of the art in two text-processingtechnologies, Document Detection and InformationExtraction.
Document detection included twosubtasks: Routing (running static queries against atext stream) and ad hoc retrieval (running ad hocqueries against archival data).
Information Extractionis a technology in which pre-specified types ofinformation are located within free text, extracted andplaced within such structured forms as templateswhich can be considered as pseudo-databases.The algorithm development in detection andextraction during Phase I resulted in improvements inthe technologies.
As a result of TIPSTER advances,detection users had:?
Improved recall (the system retrieves more of therelevant documents available in the applicabledocument collection)?
Improved precision (the system returns to theuser a higher percentage of relevant documentsin the "hits" list, meaning that the user will readfewer documents in order to find the one hewants)?
Ranked retrievals (the user reviews documentsstatistically ranked according to how well theymatched the query, thus improving the chancesthat the most relevant documents will be at thetop of the hits list)?
Query expansion (the system would attempt oautomatically expand queries to draw in morerelevant documents by using concept based toolssuch as thesauri)?
Automatic query generation (the system uses anatural language description of the subject3supplied by the user, including example text, togenerate queries)The TIPSTER Program continued Governmentsponsorship of information extraction research.
Theextraction efforts, begun with the DARPA-sponsoredMUC in 1987. sought o reduce the burden of taskslargely characterized by manual procedures and largeresource investments both in terms of people andcorresponding dollars.
As a result of extractionalgorithm development in Phase I, systems could bedeveloped with:?
Increased scalability within a domain withreduced user involvement?
Increased ease of portability to new domains andlanguages (Phase I focused on two domains andtwo languages.)?
Greater task independence, solving multipleproblems with reusable components.In addition, the advances improved the ability ofsystems to users with?
Accurate and consistent database content results?
Minimal user intervention in reviewingextraction results?
Initial cost expenditures with reducedmaintenance osts?
Flexibility in managing the amount ofinformation to be extracted?
Applicability to new tasks such as text taggingand document detection support.PHASE I I  ACCOMPL ISHMENTSThe Government continued its sponsorshipof information technology in TIPSTER Phase II.
Theparticipating agencies defined a two-tiered programof continued algorithm development and transfer oftechnology into demonstration projects.
TheGovernment, industry and academia continued theirclose cooperation and, based on Phase I experiences,crafted a four-part program.
(See Figure 1.)
Whilecontinuing the traditional focus on advanced researchand metrics-based valuation, the program supportedthe development of a common software architectureand applications of the technologies to help solveoperational problems.While advances were continuing in thetechnology areas, there was a growing need forinteroperability among the diverse systems.
Theimpetus for the architecture came from an analysis ofthe designs of Phase I systems and analysis ofoperational scenarios that indicated thecomplementary nature of detection and extractionoperations.
The Government sponsors wanted anarchitecture that would support both technologyTECHNOLOGY RESEARCHResearch on the two underlying technology areas:- Document detection (and the more generalcategory of information retrieval)- Text extractionFor Phase III of the program, 15 research contracts wereexecuted.T IPSTER ARCHITECTUREA framework to enable sharing and interchangeability ofsoftware modules developed under the TIPSTERprogram.
The architecture documents provided standardsfor basic software components and specifications forinterfaces between two components.METRIC-BASED EVALUATIONSDevelopment of evaluation methodologies and creation ofdata collections, with ground truth, to serve as the testbedfor software systems in the three technology areas.
Theevaluations forums were:- Text Retrieval Conference (TREC)- Message Understanding Conference (MUC)- Multilingual Entity Task (MET)DEMONSTRATION PROJECTSProjects funded independently b  various partner agenciesto evaluate the technologies for transfer into the workplace.A total of 15 projects were executed in Phase II and severalcontinued into Phase III.F igure  1: Four  Parts o f  the T IPSTER Program.)4areas.
An architecture working group (AWG),consisting of TIPSTER Phase II R&D contractors,was formed to address the issues of developing acommon, open architecture.
This architecture wouldprovide the framework for interoperability betweendetection and extraction systems and for plug-and-play flexibility.
The AWG, with the support of anindependent System Engineering/ConfigurationManagement contractor, drafted initial versions of aTIPSTER architecture.To test the feasibility of applying theTIPSTER-developed algorithms to operationalenvironments, individual Government agenciessponsored separate development projects.
For eachof these projects, a demonstration system based onthe architecture and modules developed in the R&Dtier was developed.
Some 15 systems weredeveloped and tested in operational environments atseveral Government agencies as a result of this effort.Identified needs for architecture and algorithmimprovements or additional research were fed back tothe R&D projects.The research and development efforts of theTIPSTER Program Phase II included improvementsof algorithms and research into combining the resultsof the application of diverse extraction and detectiontechniques.
There were improvements in detectionrecall and precision.
Automatic query generation andrelevance ranking spread beyond the TIPSTERProgram and began to be common features incommercial search engines.
Extraction technologyadvanced to the point that for at least one task, namedentity extraction, machine performance was nearly thesame as human performance.
Extraction robustnesshad improved to allow operational users to testsystems on real-world problems to determine thatautomatic population of databases was indeedpossible with this technology.The program continued its primarysponsorship of both the Message UnderstandingConferences and the Text Retrieval Conferences.This sponsorship was based on the belief that theseforums for evaluation are essential to technologyadvances, synergistic interactions of conferenceparticipants and the continued success in TIPSTERresearch and development.
The combined efforts ofTIPSTER Phase I and Phase II effectively set thescene for the third--and final--phase of theTIPSTER Text Program.REFERENCES:\[ 1 \] "Proceedings, TIPSTER TEXT PROGRAM(PHASE I)", Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc.,September 1993\[2\] "Proceedings, Advances in Text Processing,TIPSTER PROGRAM PHASE II April 1994 -September 1996", Morgan Kaufmann Publishers,Inc., September 1996.\[31 F. Ruth Gee, "TIPSTER Phase IIIAccomplishments", Proceedings TIPSTER TextProgram (Phase III), 1999, this volume.5
