Reflections of Accomplishments in Natural Language Based Detectionand SummarizationSusan R. ViscusoOff ice o f  Advanced Analyt ic  ToolsWashington,  D.C., 20505E-mail :  susanrv@ucia.govTelephone: 703-613-8749INTRODUCTION 1In Phase III, the GE team focused on accuratecontext indexing of text documents, generationof effective search queries, extended statisticalretrieval with constraints, and documentabstracting and summarizationThe common tie among these lines of research isthat natural language processing techniques offera way of overcoming the weaknesses inherent topurely statistical pproaches.
GE pioneered thelarge-scale use of natural language processingtechniques in information retrieval.
Standardstatistical search methods use words, wordfragments, and simple collocations to indexdocuments.
The GE work is unique in that itindexes texts using meaningfial linguistic unitssuch as phrases, relations, entities, and events.Another area of strength was the creation andvalidation of new tools for automatic and user-assisted evelopment ofeffective search queriesas well as the rapid review of search resultsthrough automatically produced shortinformative summaries.
The GE work tookadvantage of the growing supply of naturallanguage processing tools (taggers, parsers,extractors)---many of which were developedunder the Tipster Text Program.TEXT RETRIEVALThe GE natural language Information RetrievalSystem indexes and retrieves free texti This material has been reviewed by the CIA.That review neither constitutes C1Aauthentication f information nor implies CIAendorsement of the author's views.documents using advanced natural languageprocessing techniques coupled with a state-of-the-art vector-space model (Cornell's SMARTsearch engine).
The retrieval system consists ofmultiple text-processing steps which are linkedtogether into a Stream Model architecture---inother words, information from multiple sourcesflows into the system and is the combined to getthe most accurate results.The processing and indexing steps include apart-of-speech tagger, aphrase xtractor, aproper name extractor, and a fast syntactic parserthat extracts concept like head-modifier relationsfrom the text.
The system also includes anautomatic query expansion system which formsqueries from the user's initial request.
Finally,another unique aspect of the retrieval work isthat GE researchers incorporated summaries ofdocuments retrieved in initial searches intosubsequent queries against the same documentcollection.
Including summaries improvedretrieval accuracy.S INGLE DOCUMENTSUMMARIZAT IONThe GE team developed a robust flexible textsummarization system that produced highlyreadable abstracts of various types of documents.The user can choose from two types ofsummaries.
Short indicative summaries give themain points of a document, while longerinformative summaries include more informationand could substitute for the original document.The summarizer also can produce asummarytailored to a user's query (topical summary).The single document summarizer performed well41in the Tipster Text Program sponsoredSummarization Evaluation effort and has beenwell received by a number of Government users.Both the summarizer and the query expansiontool have been transferred within GE to anumber of commercial pplications.
Forexample, GE Capital Services uses the system aspart of the experimental "Five-Minute Briefing"internet sales and marketing support toolkit.
Thesystem tracks the latest news and derivessummaries from documents of interest to theuser.CROSS DOCUMENTSUMMARIZATIONAt the end of Phase III, the GE team beganworking on cross document summarization.Cross-document summarization means asummary produced across topically relateddocuments.
In other words, one summary isproduced from a number of documents whichincorporates all of the themes in the documentcollection.
This work is continuing outside theumbrella of the Tipster Test Program throughGovernment sponsorship.The GE approach to cross-documentsummarization is that any system developedmust be flexible and allow user interaction.
Thisis because there is no "best" cross-documentsummary because the right summary depends onthe task, the user, and the type and number ofdocuments.The current system provides one summary for allthe documents (currently 20 to 30) in a group.The sources of information for the facts includedin the summary can be traced.
Information is notduplicated and similar issues are presentedtogether in the cross-document summary.The basic algorithm is as follows:summarize ach document, cluster likesummaries together and then choose arepresentative summary for each group, orderthe representative summaries to form the finalsummary.Currently, the cross-document summarizerproduces topical indicative summaries fromnews texts from any number of documents.
Thesimilarity of document clusters can be changedinteractively by the user.
The user can alsoexamine similar documents in a grouping andalso view the source documents from whichvarious parts of the summary were constructed.Currently, the Government is conducting aninformal user-evaluation f the initial system.Some of the changes we expect o recommendwill be improved clustering using cross-document coreferences, performing the initialclustering using full-text documents, clusteringusing geographic and temporal information aswell as improved source selection andorganization of the final summary.
We also planto extend the system to agency-specificdocuments as the next step in preparing thesystem for operational deployment.OPERATIONAL USES OFSUMMARIZATIONOperationally, text summarization is an aid forpeople who deal with large amounts of text andwant a tool that will allow them to determinewhat information exists in a text or a textcollection and whether they have to read theentire document.
Also, succinctly representingsimilarities and differences across a group ofdocuments i useful because sometimes theanalyst wants to focus on facts mentioned inonly one or a few sources.
For example, itmaybe that one article may contain a key fact that isnot contained in the other documents in thecollection.
Interviews of analysts have shownthat often the presence of a fact in only one or afew sources may be significant.REFERENCESStrzalkowski, T., Stein, G., and Wise, G.B.,1999.
"Enhancing Detection through LinguisticIndexing and Topic Expansion", ProceedingsTipster Text Program (Phase III), this volume.Strzalkowski, T., Stein, G., and Wise, G.B.,1999.
"A Text-Extraction Based Summarizer,Proceedings Tipster Text Program (Phase III)",this volume.42
