Project Underl ine - A Government PerspectiveMichael J. ChrzanowskiDepar tment  o f  Defense9800 Savage Road, Fort  Meade,  MD 20755mjchrza@ romulus.ncsc.mi l(301) 688-9131The purpose of the TIPSTER contract with Carn-egie Group, Inc. (CGI) of Pittsburgh, PA is to promoteand further develop automatic Text Summarizationusing a Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) metric togenerate summaries of documents hat are directly rele-vant to the information eed of an individual user.
CGIsubcontracts with Carnegie Mellon University to per-form most of its linguistic research.CGI extended the MMR metric and its use in re-ranking documents and subdocuments according to thecombined criteria of query relevance and maximal novelinformation from previously selected ocuments or sub-documents.
MMR refinement included: 1) parametricanalysis, 2) testing in the context of a functioning namedIR system, and 3) modification or extension of the met-ric as appropriate.
CGI also adapted the MMR metricto support sub-document MMR ranking, where the sub-documents are all parts of one source document.
Finally,CGI provided two prototypes of the MMR-based textsummarization system.
: a developmental prototype andan operational prototype.The developmental prototype (Scout DP-1) pro-vided the ability to query using specific free text oranother document, provided a list of documents meet-ing that query from the IR system, and summarized doc-uments linking the selected sentences back to theoriginal text.
The delivery of the operational prototype(Scout OP-1) in late August 1998 which extended thecapabilities of DP-1, improved the user interface andadded a keyword in context index feature offered thefirst real opportunity for end users to interact with theautomatic text summarization system and provide com-ment.Carnegie Group Inc. participated in both the dry runand SUMMAC evaluations.
CGI's performance wasencouraging and relied not only on the MMR metric buton traditional sentence selection methods, such as,always select he first sentence of a document.The MMR metric has proven to be extremely flexi-ble and has application in many facets of retrieval andsummarization.
MMR is expected to prove most usefulin the summarization fmultiple documents.35
