 Does Chemical Lightening Affect the Structure of Human Hair?
Does your hair go crazy when the weather turns damp?
Did you know that strands of hair can relax and lengthen when the humidity increases and then contract again when the humidity decreases?
In fact, hair strands can be used as the basis for a hygrometer, a device which measures the humidity level in the air.
Can a human hair hygrometer also detect changes in hair structure caused by chemical lightening?
This project shows you how to find out.
In order to understand how the process of chemically lightening hair works, it is important to understand the structure of a shaft of human hair.
Figure 1 (Tobin, 2006), illustrates the microscopic structure of a human hair.
The left-hand panel of the illustration (Figure 1a), is a cartoon of a human hair shaft with a cut-away view to show the inner structure.
Each strand of hair has an outer layer of flattened cuticle cells (Cu), which surround the fibrous cortical cells (Co).
The medulla (Md) is a central core of cells in the hair shaft.
Also shown is a microfibril (MF) within a cortical cell.
The middle panel (Figure1b), shows an actual hair shaft under the microscope.
You can see how the flattened cuticle cells (Cu) have a scale-like appearance when magnified.
The dark central medulla (Md) is also visible.
The right-hand panel (Figure1c), shows a cross-section of a fine human hair.
Here you can see that the cuticle cells (Cu) are highly flattened, and wrap around the cortical cells (Co) in many layers.
The cortical cells contain the dark pigment granules that give each hair strand its natural color.Figure 1.
Microscopic structure of a human hair shaft.
Part (a) shows a cutaway cartoon of a single hair shaft.
The labels show cuticle cells (Cu), cortical cells (Co), the medulla (Md), and a microfibril (MF) within a cortical cell.
Part (b) shows a transmitted light micrograph of a single hair strand.
The scale-like layer of cuticle cells (Cu) is clearly visible, as is the central medulla (Md).
Part (c) shows a cross-section of a fine hair strand.
The flattened cuticle cells (Cu) wrap tightly around the cortical cells (Co), which contain many dark pigment granules (Tobin, 2006).The predominant proteins in hair are from the family of keratins, the same family of proteins that make your fingernails.
Protein molecules are built from amino acids.
In a hair strand, the keratin molecules contain a large number of a particular amino acid called cysteine.
Each cysteine in the keratin molecule is a potential attachment point, where the keratin molecule can be tightly connected to another cysteine, forming a chemical bond called a cross-link.
The keratins in hair have many such cross-links, making a hair strand strong and flexible.
If you are interested in finding out about how hair grows, you should do research on hair follicles, the specialized structure in the skin that produces each individual hair strand.The cuticle cells also have a coating of specialized molecules that repel water.
These molecules are called lipids.
By repelling water, the lipid molecules help to protect the hair strand.
In order for bleaching chemicals to reach the pigment molecules in the cortical cells, the cuticle layer (including its protective lipid coating) must first be opened up.
In chemical lightening solutions, this opening is accomplished by making the solution basic.
You should do background research on the pH scale, to learn about basic, neutral, and acidic solutions.
See the Bibliography for resources to get started.The hair pigment goes through different stages of changing color as it lightens.
The amount of change depends on how much pigment the hair has and the length of time the hair is exposed to the lightening chemicals.
Lightening can be divided into roughly seven stages from the darkest to the lightest.
A natural head of black hair will go from black to brown, to red, to red-gold, to gold, to yellow, and finally to pale yellow (almost white).Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is an oxidizing chemical that bleaches the natural pigments in human hair.
For hair treatment, the concentration of hydrogen peroxide is often expressed in volumes, referring to the total volume of oxygen (at standard temperature and pressure) that can be produced from the hydrogen peroxide.
A "10 volume" solution is equivalent to 3% hydrogen peroxide in water (weight/volume, i.e., 3grams of H2O2 plus enough water to make a total volume of 100ml).
A "20volume" solution is equivalent to 6% hydrogen peroxide, etc.
(Wikipedia contributors, 2006).
The higher the concentration of peroxide used the greater the breakdown of melanin (tiny grains of pigment which create natural hair color) resulting in a lighter color.Does the chemical process of hair lightening permanently alter the structure of the hair strands?
One feature of the hair structure that you can readily investigate is how the hair strand changes with varying humidity.
A strand of hair under slight, steady tension will change in length when the humidity changes.
The hair will contract when the air is drier, and stretch out when the air is wetter.
"A single lock will stretch about two and a half percent as the humidity goes from 0 to 100percent.
While that's only a smidgen of length, the rate of this change is very dependable, so it's possible to obtain highly accurate humidity readings by measuring these tiny shifts.
Hair hygrometers are best suited for keeping track of humidity in closed settings such as office buildings, where the variations are small and the goal is to keep humidity constant."
(Weather Notebook, 2005)In this project, you'll learn how to make a hair hygrometer to test the structure of both untreated and chemically lightened hair.
The goal of this project is to determine whether chemical lightening treatments affect the natural elasticity of human hair.
Another idea for testing the hygrometers is to use them to monitor changes in humidity as a storm system moves through your area.
Place the hygrometers together outdoors, but in a sheltered location where they are out of the rain.
Compare their responses.
Do all of the hygrometers change length at the same rate?
Do they all reach the same reading?
How do their readings compare to an electronic hygrometer (e.g., Radio Shack part #63-1032 or 63-1089).
Does blow-drying hair affect its structure?
Try blow-drying sample hair strands for varying periods of time.
Use the same heat setting, and hold the dryer the same distance away.
Label the hair strands with the amount of time they were exposed to heat.
Make a hygrometer with each hair strand.
Are there any differences?
Do hairs exposed to heat for longer times expand more when exposed to higher humidity?
You can also measure the strength of the hair strands (see below).
Here is an alternative hygrometer design that wraps the hair around a needle.
The needle turns as the hair expands or contracts, moving a dial indicator.
Is there any difference in the accuracy of measurements using this design?ALLStar Network, 2004.
"Making a Hair Hygrometer," Aeronautics Learning Laboratory for Science Technology and Research Network, Florida International University.
Retrieved on January 23, 2007 from  http://www.allstar.fiu.edu/aero/Experiment15.htm.
Measure the strength of the hair strands before and after chemical lightening treatment.
How much weight can a hair strand support before breaking?
Hang a small cup from a single strand of hair and add pennies to the cup until the hair strand breaks.
Count the number of pennies the hair strand could support before breaking.
Test at least 10 separate untreated strands and at least 10 separate treated strands.
[Advanced.]
Hair strands can stretch a bit before breaking.
The stretching is called elasticity, and is measured as the change in length divided by the initial length.
Can you think of a way to measure elasticity of hair strands?
Can you think of other ways to examine the structure of treated and untreated hair?
For a related experiment on the chemistry of hair coloring, see the Science Buddies project The Chemistry of Hair Highlights.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Human hair strand, structure, composition, how it grows Cuticle Cortex Pigments: eumelanin, phaeomelanin Keratin Hair follicle Understanding the pH scale is helpful for this project Hydrogen peroxide (H Helative humidity
