 Creating a Kidney: How Stem Cells Might Be Used to Bioengineer a Vital Organ  The human kidney is the most commonly transplanted organ in the United States, numbering more than 17,000 transplants in 2010 alone!
But kidney transplantation technology faces a lot of challenges, including a shortage of kidney donors and the need for recipients to take immunosuppressant drugs to keep their bodies from rejecting a transplanted kidney.
In this science project, with the help of bioinformatics databases, you will explore how a kidney could be bioengineered using stem cells, potentially overcoming these problems.
The demand for kidney transplants is high, but human donors are limited.
And even when transplants are successful, to keep the body from rejecting the transplanted organ, the recipient must take long-term immunosuppressant drugs that can cause a number of undesirable side-effects.
Ideally, a recipient should receive a patient-specific kidney, made from the recipient's own cells, which would therefore require neither a donor nor immunosuppressant drugs.
But how could such a patient-specific kidney be made?Bioengineering has had some success at creating and transplanting organs into patients.
Bioengineering focuses on how tissues and organs can be made, or engineered, to replace damaged or lost tissues and organs.
It is just one part of the larger field of regenerative medicine, a fast-growing field focused on creating ways to replace or heal damaged tissues or organs.
In 2008, bioengineers achieved the first successful transplant using an organ engineered with a patient's own stem cells, which are cells that can turn into a number of different cell types and can proliferate (multiply in numbers).
Specifically, a patient-specific bronchus (an airway tube that goes to a lung) was bioengineered using the patient's stem cells and a trachea from a cadaver (deceased donor).
Some other organs (such as urethras) and tissues have been bioengineered using a patient's cells and a synthetic scaffold.
A synthetic scaffold is a structure that can be synthesized and supports the growth of cells.
If a synthetic scaffold is used instead of cadaver tissue, it makes donors unnecessary.
Watch this video to learn more about some efforts to bioengineer tissues and organs.
This video gives an introduction to research focused on bioengineering tissues and organs at the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine.
(YouTube)  This video gives an introduction to research focused on bioengineering tissues and organs at the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine.
(YouTube)  http://www.wakehealth.edu/Research/WFIRM/Our-Story/Our-Story.htm Overall, efforts to bioengineer entire organs have been limited; bioengineering an organ such as the kidney would be a huge undertaking.
The kidney is a complex organ, with approximately 18 different cell types.
Instead of bioengineering the entire organ, a more feasible goal may be to bioengineer the kidney's nephrons, the main functional units of the kidney.
Every kidney contains approximately 0.5 million to 1 million nephrons, and they filter waste from the blood, expel that waste in the form of urine, and return clean fluid to the bloodstream.
Every nephron is made up of two main parts, the renal corpuscle and the renal tubule, as shown in Figure 1.
The renal corpuscle receives unfiltered blood through the glomerulus and filters it through the Bowman's capsule, which sends the waste liquid to the renal tubule, from which it is sent on to be expelled eventually as urine.
Figure 1.
A nephron is made up of two main parts: the renal corpuscle and the renal tubule.
In the renal corpuscle, the glomerulus receives unfiltered blood, which is filtered through the Bowman's capsule.
From there, the blood goes through the renal tubule (colored blue in this diagram), which consists of the proximal tubule, loop of Henle, and distal tubule.
The waste liquid is then transported to the collecting duct, from which it goes to the bladder and is expelled as urine.
(Adapted from Yosi I (2007, December 25), Wikimedia.
)While commonly used to bioengineer organs, stem cells come in many varieties and some work better in certain situations than others.
Some stem cells have been found in the adult kidney, but they are limited; they are thought to be dormant unless a minor repair is needed, and if the nephrons in an adult human kidney are damaged or lost, it is thought they cannot be regenerated.
However, embryonic stem cells (or ESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (or iPSCs) have been found able to transform, or differentiate, into different kidney cell types.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are isolated from early-stage embryos that have only about 150 cells.
(To read more about hESCs, see the related Project Idea, Taking Short Cuts: How Direct Reprogramming Can Transform One Type of Cell Straight into Another.)
Because hESCs are isolated at such an early stage during development, they can multiply and become any cell type in the human body, whether bone, hair, heart, etc.
Cells such as hESCs that can give rise to any cell type in the body are referred to as pluripotent (from the Latin words plurimus, meaning "very many," and potens, meaning "having power").
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) are cells that were mature, adult human cells but that have been "reprogrammed" to behave as hESCs.
Consequently, not only are hiPSCs pluripotent, like hESCs, but hiPSCs can also be patient specific.
This means that a patient could have some of his or her cells removed, such as skin or blood cells, reprogrammed into hiPSCs, and then have those cells turned into whatever types the patient needs, such as kidney cells for bioengineering a new kidney.
Making patient-specific cells like this may avoid some potential complications that can occur with tissue and organ transplants, such as immune rejection, where the recipient's immune system tries to prevent the transplanted organ or tissue from surviving.Although iPSCs have proved capable of differentiating into different kidney cell types, current techniques are inefficient and have not been thoroughly tested with hiPSCs (they have been used primarily with mouse iPSCs).
Specifically, the techniques usually lead to a mixture of cells, not a purified population of a certain kidney cell type, and the techniques are generally slow.
How can these techniques be improved?
One way is by intelligently altering the cells' growing conditions, also called the cells' microenvironment.
In a laboratory, the hiPSCs' microenvironment is defined by two key factors: the liquid the cells are grown in, called the cell media, and the substrate the cells are grown on, which can include other cells called "feeder" cells.
Altering these two factors can affect how well the hiPSCs differentiate and what cell type they differentiate into.
Nutrients and growth factors (substances the cells need to grow) are supplied to the hiPSCs from their cell media, while the cells grab onto the substrate to stay in place.
Watch this video to learn more about how hiPSCs are cultured.
This videogives an introduction to how human induced pluripotent stem cells are grown in a laboratory.
In this video the cell media is pink and Sravanti Kusuma, the speaker, explains that the substrate the cells grow on are "feeder" cells.
(YouTube)  This videogives an introduction to how human induced pluripotent stem cells are grown in a laboratory.
In this video the cell media is pink and Sravanti Kusuma, the speaker, explains that the substrate the cells grow on are "feeder" cells.
(YouTube)  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BqNbBDVbx5U To differentiate hiPSCs into a certain cell type, researchers often try to manipulate the cells' microenvironment so that it mimics what the cell would normally be exposed to in the human body.
This means that if you want to make kidney cells, the hiPSC media may include soluble growth factors (or "soluble factors") that the cells might encounter during normal kidney development.
Likewise, the substrate on which the hiPSCs are differentiating may be made to mimic the structural part of the microenvironment that the kidney cells would encounter in the human body.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a mesh-like network of proteins that surrounds cells in the body, giving structural support to the cells and promoting communication among them.
Some of the proteins that make up the ECM include laminins, collagens, vitronectin, and fibronectin.
To interact with any one of these proteins, the hiPSCs need specific cell receptors on the surface of their cells.
Consequently, by looking at which cell receptors certain cells have, such as developing kidney cells, researchers can obtain data on what kinds of ECM proteins these cells need as a substrate.
What microenvironment will be the best one for turning hiPSCs into kidney cells?
How can this knowledge be applied to bioengineer patient-specific nephrons, and eventually kidneys?
In this bioengineering science project, you will be using online bioinformatics databases (collections of biological data) to explore how researchers select soluble factors and suitable ECM proteins to guide hiPSCs into differentiating into nephron cells, and how this could lead ultimately to bioengineering a kidney.
Use bioinformatics databases to determine the best protein environment for bioengineering a kidney.
When this project was written, scientific papers had not been published on differentiating pluripotent stem cells into Bowman's capsule cells, an essential type of nephron cell.
Try doing a literature search for recent papers that have described this, investigate what soluble factors they used, and then repeat this project using your findings.
For help searching the literature, read the guide to Resources for Finding and Accessing Scientific Papers.
You may also find you need some help from someone experienced with stem cells to understand How to Read a Scientific Paper.
This science project focused on bioengineering a kidney, but many other organs would make good targets for bioengineering efforts.
Pick a different organ that is needed for transplants and repeat this project.
To find what soluble factors researchers have tested, as shown in Table 1, you may need to search the literature, as described in the first variation.During development, cells that are next to each other, or neighboring cells, influence the differentiation of each other by secreting soluble factors and ECM proteins.
This is why in Table 1 a study used conditioned media.
(A definition of conditioned media is given immediately following Table 1.)
Design a method for culturing hiPSCs with cells that would be neighboring kidney cells during development, aiming to differentiate hiPSCs into kidney cells.
How is this approach similar to or different from the one used in this science project, and how do you think one would be better than the other?
Could the methods be used in combination?ECM proteins can be used to differentiate hiPSCs, but these proteins are usually isolated from other animals, such as mice and rats.
Because our bodies' immune systems may reject foreign proteins, kidneys bioengineered with proteins from mice or rats may be rejected after transplant.
An alternative is to use peptides, which are short amino acid sequences in the ECM proteins that are shown to have functional activity.
These short sequences can be synthesized in a laboratory, so they are not from mice or rats, and some may be able to interact with cells just as the normal-length protein does.
You can learn more about ECM protein peptides and conduct a literature search, as described in the first variation, to find out what ECM peptides may work well for developing a synthetic scaffold for bioengineering a kidney.
This can be based on the ECM proteins you selected in "Using the Extracellular Matrix to Drive Kidney Cell Differentiation" in step 6.
ECM peptides can be specific for an ECM protein or common among many ECM proteins.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  CelesteMolina26 said:  2016-12-01 11:44:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
research is hard What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    mathematician said:  2015-07-18 09:29:28 What was the most important thing you learned?
Soluble factors needed to create the neural progenitors and nephron cells and the ECM proteins made by the alpha and beta subunits.
What problems did you encounter?
Amazonia was not working for me so if you could fix that perhaps.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    suchsciencemuchwow said:  2015-01-11 14:05:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
how to bioengineer a human kidney What problems did you encounter?
I had some problems filling out the soluble factor table, because the databases given didn't tell me everything I needed to know about the genes.
And had a lot of trouble understanding what I was doing in the beginning, but as I went along by the end of the project I was able to fully understand the bioengineering process of creating a microenviornment for growing a kidney.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
More background information, what was given is very vague and a little off topic compared to the actual experiment.
Specifically more on the genes, integrins, and proteins we researched.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     gfarias64 said:  2014-03-18 15:54:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned the importance that bioformatics is posing for biology research projects today, which are not exactly considered to use the scientific method or engineering process therefore it is potentially de-valued in comparison to other projects when no experiment could be undertaken.
Also, I became very good at communicating my ideas and learning effectively by using my visual capabilities to my advantage.
Without a doubt, I loved this project mainly because of my interest in medicine and the "bio-revolution."
I really want to thank science buddies c:  What problems did you encounter?
I encounter problems with the way data tables should be built.
For example, for integrins the averages of the subunits must be combined to get the average of the unit but it is difficult to demonstrate in one table.
Also, during the Amazonia!
part of the procedure, details began to really lack some neccessary information.
In addition, more background information is needed besides what is provided, such as IPS cells and cell culturing, basically how bioengineering a kidney would look like.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Adding more details to the last sections of the procedure.
Also, providing more resources to the student scientists on how an experiment would take place.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    zoebowiedowie said:  2013-06-12 16:27:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that making body parts were hard.
What problems did you encounter?
Finding the right website.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Medical biotechnology science project, stem cells, growth factors, organ transplants, bioengineering, bioinformatics, regenerative medicine, science project, stem cell treatment, what can stem cells cure, what is a stem cell, what are stem cells, pluripotent stem cells, stem cell Patient-specific Bioengineering Regenerative medicine Stem cells Synthetic scaffold Nephrons Renal corpuscle Glomerulus Bowman's capsule Renal tubule Differentiate Human embryonic stem cells Pluripotent Human induced pluripotent stem cells Immune rejection Microenvironment Cell media Substrate Growth factors Soluble factors Extracellular matrix (ECM) Cell receptors Bioinformatics Signaling pathways Apoptosis Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) Precursor cells Integrins Microarray
