 Distance and Constant Acceleration  Have you ever dropped something and wondered how fast it was moving while falling?
If it was something fragile, like a cell phone, you might not have been thinking about this at the time  you may have been too busy trying to grab the phone!
But you probably wanted to find out just how hard it hit the ground afterwards.
We know that gravity forces an object to fall, but how does this affect how quickly something falls and how hard it hits the ground?
For example, did the phone move faster right after leaving your hand, or just before hitting the ground?
In this science project, you will explore the relation between time and the distance an object travels while it is being constantly accelerated because of gravity.
You know from experience that when you ride your bike down a hill, it is easy to go fast.
Gravity is giving you an extra push, so you do not have to do all the work with the pedals.
You also know from experience that the longer the hill, the faster you go.
The longer you feel that push from gravity, the faster it makes you go.
Finally, you also know that the steeper the hill, the faster you go.
This can make some steep hills, like the one in Figure 1, below, rather dangerous to bike down.
The maximum steepness is a sheer vertical drop  when objects go into free fall, and when gravity gives the biggest push of all.
You certainly would not want to try that on your bicycle!
Figure 1.
The steeper the hill, the faster a person can bike down it, making it dangerous to bike down some hills.
(Image credits: Debbie Turner, Wikimedia Commons, 2007)  In free fall, gravity constantly accelerates an object (increases its velocity).
Specifically, gravity increases a falling object's velocity by 9.8 meters per second (m/s) with every passing second the object falls.
(While velocity is measured in m/s, acceleration is measured in meters per second squared [m/s2].)
So after one second, the object would be falling at a velocity of 9.8 m/s.
After two seconds, the object would be falling at a velocity of 19.6 m/s.
After three seconds, the object would be falling at a velocity of 29.4 m/s, and so on.Measuring the speed of objects in free fall is not easy, because they fall so quickly.
There is another way to make measurements of objects in motion under constant acceleration: use an inclined plane.
An inclined plane is simply a ramp.
You are making a hill with a constant, known slope.
With a shallower slope, the acceleration due to gravity is small, and the object will move at a speed that is more easily measured.In this science project, you will scientifically measure the "push" from gravity, using a marble rolling down an inclined plane and a metronome to track time.
Determine the relation between elapsed time and distance traveled when a moving object is under the constant acceleration of gravity.
You could try repeating this science project with the metronome set to a different speed, such as 120 bpm (or two ticks every second).
How does changing the metronome speed affect your results?
Another way to see the relationship between time and distance traveled with constant acceleration is to use the distance traveled during the first "tick" as the distance unit instead of centimeters.
How many of these distance units does the marble travel by the second tick?
By the third?
By the fourth and fifth?
Does the mass of the marble affect its acceleration?
Try the experiment with marbles of different masses.
Or, even better, compare a steel marble (e.g., a pinball or a large ball bearing) with a glass marble of the same diameter.
Use a digital scale such as the Fast Weigh MS-500-BLK Digital Pocket Scale to weigh each marble.
Is the acceleration the same or different for the marbles with different masses?
For another method of measuring distance traveled and velocity of an object rolling down an inclined plane, see the Science Buddies project, Distance and Speed of Rolling Objects Measured from Video Recordings.
Use your measurements to calculate the approximate velocity of the marble at each tick.
As an example, to calculate the average velocity at the second metronome tick, take the distance the marble has traveled by the second tick, and subtract the distance the marble traveled by the previous tick.
Divide the result by the amount of time per tick.
Repeat this calculation for several successive time points to see how velocity changes as the marble rolls down the ramp.
Make a graph of velocity (y-axis) vs. time (x-axis).
Does this graph look more like the distance vs. time or the distance vs. time squared graph?
One reason a marble was chosen for this experiment was to minimize the frictional forces which counteract the acceleration of gravity.
Try repeating the experiment with other rolling objects (e.g., a toy car with the same mass as the marble) or different surface treatments (e.g., smooth, waxed surface, vs. rough, sandpapered surface).
Can you detect a decrease in acceleration due to increased friction?
For more advanced students:      If you have studied trigonometry, you should be able to derive a formula that describes the acceleration, a, of the marble as function of the angle, , of the inclined plane (see Henderson, 2004).
If you have studied calculus, you should be able to explain both velocity and acceleration as the first and second derivatives, respectively, of distance traveled with respect to time.
Conversely, you should be able to explain velocity and distance traveled at a given time as the first and second integrals, respectively, of acceleration with respect to time.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  mellisac said:  2013-05-11 19:06:50 What was the most important thing you learned?
ff What problems did you encounter?
f Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment gravity, physics, science project, velocity, acceleration, inclined planes, free fall, forces Gravity Free fall Acceleration Velocity Inclined plane
