 Staying Healthy with Personal Medicine Apps  The benefits of Western medicine have evolved tremendously, with a wealth of tests and medications to treat many conditions.
But remembering to take medication or perform a test regularly, consistently, and at specific times can be difficult for elderly people with short-term memory loss, or teenagers absorbed in activities.
With mobile devices becoming our constant companions, could a smartphone or tablet offer a solution?
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has created a simple tool making it possible for anyone who has a computer and Internet access to create a reminder app.
It is easy, quick, and powerful.
In this project, you will build a medicine-reminder app that employs a phone or tablet to remind its user to take action.
It is up to you to customize the app and make it work for the user(s) of your choice.
Tired of hearing comments about the downside of electronic devices?
What about an app  that could help you manage your health?
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) has developed programming language enabling anyone to create an app on a computer with Internet access.
And you don't need a computer programming background.
In this science project, you will build a medicine-reminder app.
Once you get comfortable with the program, you can build many more apps that facilitate a healthier lifestyle.
Only your imagination sets the limit!Being young and healthy, you might wonder why people would need a reminder to take their medicines.
But the truth is many elderly and chronically ill people have several medications to take, each on a different schedule.
This is an increasing problem as the population of elderly adults rises in many countries.
Data gathered by researchers (see the chapter by Marek and Antle in the Bibliography suggests that inability to take the right medications at the right time and at the right dose is one of the major reasons an elderly person enters a nursing home.
Researchers also conclude that improperly taking medications is the cause of a significant percentage of hospitalizations for elderly patients.
The medicine box shown in Figure 1 shows how difficult it can be to keep track of all the medications that patients on multiple medications need to take.
Figure 1.
Medicine reminder boxes, with compartments for various days and times, can help patients keep track of all the medications they need to take.
Why is it such a big deal if someone does not take their medications as prescribed?
Let's zoom into a couple of cases and explore the consequences of not following prescribed medical treatment.
For diabetic patients, it is essential to check insulin levels several times a day, as frequent low insulin levels can lead to nerve damage, damaged eyesight, and kidney damage, among a host of other ailments.
High blood pressure or high cholesterol levels are other examples that, if not treated regularly, can drastically reduce life expectancy.
On the other hand, low blood pressure can put the patient in instant danger, because  falls can occur when blood pressure drops below a threshold.
While this is bad enough for the patient, not taking medications as directed also puts the wider population at risk.
For example, a patient who doesn't follow the prescribed times and doses of antibiotic treatments can increase exposure to others of the number of drug-resistant germs.
The resulting infections are difficult to treat.
In short, a medicine reminder could help increase the quality of life of patients, shorten illnesses, reduce doctor visits or hospital stays, and reduce the need for more expensive (and toxic) medications.
Convinced?
Before you start building a medicine-reminder app, let's see what an app is and what it can do.App is the abbreviation for application software.
It refers to a self-contained computer program designed to run on a mobile device like a smartphone or tablet.
As the use of mobile devices has exploded, it has created a new field of science called mobile computing.
It focuses on human-computer interactions with  mobile devices.
Creating apps is a big part of mobile computing.You may already be familiar with a variety of apps.
To name a few possibilities, apps can be programmed to be aware of the location of the device's user, send and receive text messages, give directions to a destination, connect to the Internet, and much more.
You might notice that apps can be divided into two main categories: ones that entertain (like games) and ones that fulfill a human need (like informing you where the closest recycling center is).
In this computer science project, your challenge is to build an app with App Inventor that reminds an individual to take medications or check blood pressure or blood-sugar level.App Inventor is MIT's programming language to create apps for Google's Android mobile devices.
Android is a type of mobile operating system popular on many smartphones and tablets (its main counterpart is Apple's iOS).
The settings of your device can inform you which operating system your device uses.
App Inventor apps only run on Android devices.
You do not need an Android device to create an app with App Inventor.
You can use any computer to create and the emulator to test your app.
The user of the app, on the other hand, will need to have an Android device to run the app.
Before you start coding, you need to have an idea of how your app will work and what it is supposed to do.
Computer software engineers  call this set of descriptions the user requirements.
Do you have an idea what the user requirements of your medicine reminder app will be?
Imagine being your intended user.
What would you want from a medicine reminder app, and how can your app fill this need?To get quick results, you will use an incremental approach to build and refine your app.
The Procedure of this computer science project will guide you through building the core of your app.
You can then pursue several rounds of improvements or changes with the medicine reminder app you have envisioned.Finally, always keep the user in mind as you build your app.
Think of who, how, and when the user will use the app.
The better it fits their needs and lifestyle, the more successful your app will be.
Use MIT App Inventor to create a personalized medicine-reminder app.
Can you find other medical uses of apps?
Here are some examples to get your imagination going:An app that tracks your allergy symptoms so you can map it against the historical pollen index for your area and find out what exactly you are allergic to.
As a reminder to take action, you can create an app that displays a Web page with the UV index or allergy information on the phone.
For a more challenging project, can your app provide a warning whenever a heat alert is in effect for your region?
You can use an API  (application programming interface) to retrieve information like weather alerts from sites on the Web supporting APIs.
The Weather API designer is just one of them.
You will need to ask for an "API key," which then provides a unique URL that you can point your program to for accessing the information supported by the site.Create a game for a phone or tablet that increases awareness of health-related issues or prompts users to live a more healthy lifestyle.
Create an app that checks on users and sends a distress text message to an emergency contact.
This could be useful for an elderly person living alone or a person going on an adventure.
The app could ask at a preset time if you are still OK.
If left unanswered, the app could then send a distress message including GPS location to one or a list of emergency contacts.
Hints: Locations can be retrieved using the LocationSensor component  listed under the Sensor  components in the Palette; a text message can be set up using the texting component listed under the social components.Can you create phone apps for other areas in life where one could be useful, like increasing environmental awareness, apps helping researchers collect data, or apps enhancing your social life?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science, projects, computer sciences, programming applications, Phone Apps, MIT App Inventor, personal health, healthy lifestyle, medications, insulin, medicine reminder, mobile app App Mobile computing App Inventor Android User requirements Behavior User interface Variables List Executable Source
