 Cosmetic Science: Testing Lip Balm Recipes  Did you know that cosmetics companies employ teams of specialized scientists to develop and test each new line of makeup, perfume, lotion, or soap?
This science project lets you be the cosmetics scientist.
You will create your own lip balm right in your kitchen using a short list of ingredients, then test it, and follow up with some creative cosmetics science of your own!
Believe it or not, the glamorous world of cosmetics and beauty products is actually based on serious science.
Cosmetics companies employ teams of specialized scientists to develop and test each line of makeup, perfume, lotion, and soap.
Their research leads to top-secret formulas that are carefully analyzed for safety, stability, performance, and customer appeal.
Watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org  Watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org http://pbskids.org/dragonflytv/show/makeup.html   Cosmetics chemists choose from thousands of ingredients when they create new products, but they are always careful to select ones with chemical properties that enhance the look, feel, and use of the product they are making.
For instance, no one wants lip balm to be too hard, which is why most homemade lip balm recipes call for some type of oil or butter.
Oils are generally thick, viscous liquids at room temperature and are usually emollients, meaning that they soften and smoothen the skin.
Butters are another kind of emollient; they are soft, but not liquid, at room temperature.
On the other hand, a super soft, runny lip balm would be too messy, so waxes, like beeswax, which are solids at room temperature, are added to thicken the recipe.
The "perfect" product means getting just the right ratio of emollients to waxes.
Oils, butters, and waxes are excellent ingredients for lip balms because they are occlusive agents, which means they create a physical barrier between the moisture in the lips and the outside environment.
A "good" product creates a protective barrier with just one or two swipes across your lips.
No one wants to go over their lips again and again before there is enough to adequately protect their lips!
What other properties do you like your lip balm to have?
How about a fragrance?
But be carefulno one wants a lip gloss that smells good, but tastes awful!
This is another case where the chemist making the product needs to think about the properties (in this case, fragrance and flavor) of the ingredients they are using.
Also, should the balm be stable and functional under cold and hot circumstances?
What if people take it on a ski trip, or leave it in their car on a sunny day?
The slipperiness and stickiness of a balm when applied with a specific pressure and speed is yet another parameter; scientists use machines to test these.
Are you curious about how you can replicate the process of creating and testing lip balm at home?
Follow the Procedure  in this science project and create four different lip balms, then put them to some rigorous quality tests.
Maybe you would even like to call in a test panel to evaluate their preferences, and from there, who knows?
You might come up with a recipe so good that you can use it for birthday and holiday gifts!
Create your own homemade lip balms, test your products quantitatively, and (optionally) evaluate costumer preferences.
This project lists four recipes.
Search online for other recipes to test and try, or make your own recipe.
You can also switch ingredients to different products from the same category, like switching almond oil to coconut oil.
Use the things you learned from your background research to make your new recipes complete.
Perform the quantitative tests on commercial lip balms and see how these compare to your lip balms.
Also compare the ingredient lists.
Which ingredients are commonly added to commercial lip balms that are not in your lip balms?
What is the function of these ingredients?
How could you replace it in a homemade lip balm if you wish to do so?
Analyze the "shelf life," or stability, of your lip balms.
After testing is completed, leave the lip balm samples out at room temperature, with their lids securely fastened.
Carefully observe your lip balms each week and watch for signs of spoiling, such as changes in color, texture, or smell.
Record your observations and note how long each sample remains stable.
Research the preservatives and stabilizers used in commercial lip balms or cosmetics.
Are there similar ingredients in your balms?Research the typical shelf life of cosmetics.
Ask your friends and family how long they usually keep their makeup, soaps, or lotions.
How many of them know or follow the manufacturer's guidelines?
This project studied the yield of the lip balm sticks when applied with one particular pressure and at one particular speed.
Could you extend this study and see how yield changes with pressure and/or speed?
You can also keep the pressure and speed constant, but study how the yield changes with roughness of surface by applying the test on paper with increasing roughness, or you can study how the yield changes with changing temperature.
Do research on rheology (the science of flow and deformation) and biotribology (the science of friction and lubrication related to humans or animals) and how these are used in skincare products.
Can you reproduce scientific tests used in these disciplines on your products at home?
If you would like to test the moisturizing effect of the balms, check out the following project to get ideas of how this can be done: The Skinny on Moisturizers: Which Works Best to Keep Skin Moist?.
Create a different product like hand lotion or soap.
Do some research to find how commercial products of this category are tested.
Perform an at-home version of the tests on your products and/or do a customer preferences test.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   Childofthe1trueKing said:  2015-02-23 22:27:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
That you can make lip gloss at home instead of spending a bunch of money just to buy one.
What problems did you encounter?
The Aloe Vera gel did not melt completely in the Vanilla Lip Gloss.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I think you should use less beeswax in the lip glosses, and you could also add 2-3 drops of food coloring.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    jasmynezu said:  2014-04-10 13:50:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
idk What problems did you encounter?
idk Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
idk Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sushisushi said:  2013-03-03 11:47:53 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that the scent of the Lip Balm played a big role on the choices of the testers.
What problems did you encounter?
C. did not need an emulsifier (Vitamin E).
In B. there was coconut oil and aloe vera (which is water-based) and they do not mix, and they remained separate layers in my experiment.
It is also possible that A. also required an emulsifier because it contained oil and honey (which is water-based).
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No suggestions Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     zaymaniac said:  2012-12-04 19:33:36 What was the most important thing you learned?
people really love pina-colada What problems did you encounter?
well for one they never clearly stated an independent variable so i had to use commercial products also the measurements were not accurate they were way more than necessary.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
just make sure that you hit all the points in a science fair project when posting like independents and dependents etc.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Alliah said:  2011-05-26 18:53:28 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing I learned was that when these materials are put together they can make a lip gloss which is good for you.
They contain Vitamin E, emulsifiers, emollients, surfactants,antioxidants, and solvents!
What problems did you encounter?
Some of the materials were hard to find.
It took 2-3 weeks to get all of the ,materials together.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
20                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    labrat said:  2011-02-10 06:12:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
This project requires attention to detail and patience.
Testing can be done at a low level or a higher level with larger sample size, more options, more complicated analysis.
The video from Dragonfly TV is a good addition to the project, makes it much more interesting.
Project is written in a way that would make me want to do it if I were a student.
What problems did you encounter?
None-I did online searches on common drug stores (CVS etc) and found most of the materials are easily obtainable.
Beeswax can be purchased online-8oz for $5 and a pound for $7.50, in convenient blocks.
The various oils can be purchased online or in natural/health food stores.
-The 5-8 difficulty range is correct.
Project requires attention to detail and patience.
Testing can be done at a low level or a higher level with larger sample size, more options, more complicated analysis.
-the video is also really helpful in understanding the main concepts of the project.
I didn't actually do the project, as per Amy's suggestion regarding a "survey type" project, but based on my reading I think the appropriate time would be "About one week."
PI currently says several days--not realistic.
PI data: $50-100 My evaluation: Hard to decide what price range is best-I think the project could be done for less than $50 if students planned well and didn't make a lot of batches of their products.
$20-50 is a low estimation but $50-100 is a high estimation.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Broken biblio link:  cosmetic "Info Center" containing useful cosmetic definitions, examples of typical ingredients in cosmetics, and their functions:USFDA, 1994.
"Chemical Ingredients Found in Cosmetics," US FDA Consumer website [accessed May 5, 2007] http://vm.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/cos-chem.htmlCould not find same page, but found "Home Page" for Cosmetics with a lot of available information.
Link: http://www.fda.gov/cosmetics/default.htm Other broken link: American Chemical Society  http://www.chemistry.org/portal/a/c/s/1/feature_ent.html?id=17d5f7b2644a11d6e8056ed9fe800100Searched for alternative link/new page and could not find anything.
May have come from an article that was only hosted temporarily.
Current variations are all great.
Overall, I think this is a really neat project because it has two important components-making your own product AND learning how to conduct consumer research and analyze raw data.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
2                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, cosmetic chemistry, lip balm, homemade, natural, lip gloss, emollient, beeswax, wax, almond oil, shea butter, potions, lotions, viscosity, tribology, lubrication, rheology Oil Emollient Butter Wax Ratio Occlusive agent Fragrance Bain-marie Qualitative data Quantitative data Random order
