 She Shoots, She Scores!
How Does Hockey Stick Flex Affect Accuracy and Speed?
While watching an ice hockey game, have you ever wondered what differentiates a good player from a great player?
For sure, the great player is athletically superior to the good player.
But maybe it is a combination of athleticism and equipment.
Maybe a great player knows which hockey stick is best for him or her.
Hockey players can choose to play with hockey sticks with different flexibilities or "flex."
In this science fair project, investigate how stick flex affects shot accuracy and speed.
Who knows, if you figure this problem out, you could move from being a good ice hockey player to a great ice hockey player!
Historians are not sure when or where the game of ice hockey started, but the modern version of ice hockey was developed in Canada by J.G.A.
Creighton, and the first game was played in Montreal, Canada in 1875.
The first ice hockey rink was built in London in 1876.
Hockey is a game that requires balance, agility, strength, and hand-eye coordination.
Good hand-eye coordination skills are necessary in order to shoot the puck into the 4-ft. x 6-ft. goal.
Click here to check out the video "Hockey by Tess, Alison, and Christina."
This video was produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.Another thing that helps players play hockey is the equipment.
The most important piece of equipment is the hockey stick.
The hockey stick has two components: the blade and the shaft.
Hockey sticks used to be predominantly made from wood.
However, hockey sticks are now made from a variety of materials, including carbon, carbon-graphite, and aluminum.
Some players like their hockey sticks to be long and straight, while others like a curve in the blade.
Properties of hockey sticks include: lie, blade pattern, and flex.
Flex is defined as the amount of weight required to bend the stick 3 inches.
The higher the flex number, the stiffer the hockey stick.
Flex has a lot to do with how fast a player's slap shot is.
In the act of making a slap shot, the player will scrape the blade on the ice a few inches behind the puck.
This pulls the blade back so that when the blade contacts the puck, it acts like a spring.
This, in combination with the player transferring his or her weight from the back leg through to the stick, can transfer a lot of power to the puck and give it tremendous speed.
You might think that all players should play will a high-flex stick but that's not quite so.
Different positions (forwards, defensemen, and goaltenders) require sticks with different flex.
Players also vary in physical strength.
A weaker player might not be able to play effectively with a high-flex stick.
Flex also affects shot accuracy.In this science fair project, you will look at how flex affects shot accuracy and shot speed.
This project is based on a DragonflyTV project called "Hockey by Tess, Alison, and Christina."
Click the link on the right to watch how they investigated hockey stick flex.
Now it's time to do your own investigation with wood hockey sticks and see if you get similar results as Tess, Alison, and Christina.
If people ask why you're headed to the skating rink when you should be doing your science fair research, tell them that's exactly what you're doing!
To investigate how hockey stick flexibility affects shot accuracy and puck speed.
Is flex the same?
Extend your investigation by comparing hockey sticks of different materials.
How does the weight of the stick affect the shooting accuracy and speed?
How does the weight and strength of the player affect shooting accuracy and speed?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  joshua1870 said:  2012-11-03 14:27:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
Flex does hel What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
try all different types of shots (snap,wrist,etc) Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     Hockeygirl9 said:  2012-03-11 17:00:30 What was the most important thing you learned?
That stick flex actually does affect the way a player shoots and scores!
What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
14                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment    burbachgurl said:  2012-02-27 15:19:10 What was the most important thing you learned?
That flex really does matter.
What problems did you encounter?
Finding the different flexed hockey sticks.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Letting people use whatever 3 flexed hockeysticks they want to in the future.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
13                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment Sports science fair project, hockey, accuracy, speed, flex Lie Blade pattern Flex Stiffness Slap shot
