 Cold Pack Chemistry: Where Does the Heat Go?
Instant cold packs are popular with coaches and parents for treating minor bumps and bruises.
The instant cold packs are not pre-cooledyou just squeeze the cold pack and its starts to get cold.
So how does it work?
In this chemistry science fair project, you will investigate the chemical reaction that occurs in instant cold packs.
Have you ever used a hot pack to warm your hands or a cold pack on an injury?
How can something produce heat or cold without any microwaving or refrigeration involved?
The answer is: chemistry.
Chemical reactions that produce heat are called exothermic.
The burning of gasoline in a car engine is an example of an exothermic reaction.
Reactions that are accompanied by the absorption of heat are called endothermic.
As an example of an endothermic reaction, when the chemical ammonium nitrate is dissolved in water, the resulting solution is colder than either of the starting materials.
This kind of endothermic process is used in instant cold packs.
These cold packs have a strong outer plastic layer that holds a bag of water and a chemical, or mixture of chemicals, that result in an endothermic reaction when dissolved in water.
When the cold pack is squeezed, the inner bag of water breaks and the water mixes with the chemicals.
The cold pack starts to cool as soon as the inner bag is broken, and stays cold for over an hour.
Many instant cold packs contain ammonium nitrate.
Ammonium nitrate is a white crystalline substance.
When it is dissolved in water, it splits into positive ammonium ions and negative nitrate ions.
In the process of dissolving the crystal, the water molecules "donate" some of their energy.
As a result, the water cools down.
How much heat energy is "lost" when ammonium nitrate dissolves in water?
You can measure the amount of heat that is involved using Equation 1.Equation 1:    q =    c m (T2 -T1)            q  = energy lost (or gained), measured in joules (J)      c = heat capacity, measured in joules per gram per degree Celsius, J/(gC)      m = mass of solution, measured in grams (g)      J = joules (J), unit of energy      g = grams (g) of water      C = degrees Celsius      T1 = starting temperature, in degrees Celsius      T2 = lower temperature after ammonium nitrate has dissolved, in degrees Celsius    Equation 1 states that "the amount of heat energy that is lost when water changes from temperature T1 to the lower temperature, T2, equals the difference in the two temperatures (also called T), times the heat capacity, times the mass of the solution."
The heat capacity of a substance tells you how much the temperature will change for a given amount of energy exchanged.
For water at 25C, the heat capacity is 4.18 J/(gC).
Equation 2:    c (water) =    4.18 J(gC)            c  = heat capacity, measured in joules per gram per degrees Celsius, (J/gC)      J  = joules (J), unit of energy      g  = grams (g) of water      C = degrees Celsius    Equation 2 says that "the heat capacity of water is 4.18 joules per gram of water per degree Celsius."
What this means is that if you add 4.18 J of heat energy to 1 g of water, its temperature will increase by 1.0C.
Substances other than water have different heat capacities.In this chemistry science fair project, you will determine how the amount of ammonium nitrate that is dissolved in water affects the magnitude of the temperature change that occurs.
In the procedure, you will dissolve different amounts of ammonium nitrate in water and measure the before and after temperatures, then graph the temperature change vs. grams of ammonium acetate added.
The objective of this chemistry science fair project is to determine how the temperature of a mixture of water and ammonium nitrate changes with the amount of ammonium nitrate dissolved in the water.
Use different amounts of ammonium nitrate.
What happens when the solution becomes saturated (that is, no more ammonium nitrate can be dissolved)?Graph the temperature vs. time for each sample.
Look at the slope of the graphs.
Do they all have the same initial rate of change, or does the initial rate of change increase as the amount of crystal increases?Calculate q/gram for each sample.
Graph the results.What are some sources of error in the procedure?
Devise a new procedure that reduces or eliminates the sources of error you identified.
Devise a procedure to determine how varying the starting temperature affects the size of the temperature change.Compare ammonium nitrate with other chemicals, such as ammonium chloride, calcium chloride (exothermic), and sodium chloride.Research the thermodynamics of the ammonium nitrate dissolution and calculate the enthalpy and entropy changes that occur.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Augustus660 said:  2017-03-16 19:26:40 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing I learnt was that Endothermic reactions are also spontaneous only at different temperatures.
I also enjoyed examining the chemical reaction that occurs in an instant cold pack.
I found it fascinating to learn exactly what happens when I use an instant cold pack.
What problems did you encounter?
The major problem I encountered was getting accurate readings from the thermometer.
Another problem was also losing energy to the surroundings like the beaker.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Use a temperature probe instead of a thermometer.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    beckley9 said:  2015-10-25 10:09:34 What was the most important thing you learned?
The more ammonium nitrate added, the colder the water will get.
Sometimes the temperature would drop 20 degrees.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lillysimms said:  2014-02-16 18:00:56 What was the most important thing you learned?
The more ammonium nitrate that was added to the water the lower the temperature the water got.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    smallunicorn said:  2011-10-24 12:35:03 What was the most important thing you learned?
I  learned what is  chemical reaction, ions, energy.
I  start to learn soldering and electricity to  make sensors  for my next projects.
What problems did you encounter?
I  do not always  stirred solution  and do not have same  speed of reaction.
It is impossible doing solution , measure temperature with termometer and  write date in same time.
I need  help  from  my parent.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I used  the infrared thermometer but  better to soldered thermosensor with USB cable to  more easy and fast  read date.
I will use calorimeter to avoid  lost of the  heat  of reaction.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
19                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment chemistry science fair project, endothermic, thermodynamics.
entropy, energy, temperature, cold pack, ammonium nitrate Exothermic Endothermic Ammonium nitrate Ion Heat energy Heat capacity Joule (J) Entropy
