 The Tree of Life  II (advanced)  Imagine that a biologist arrived at your big family reunion and had no idea who were sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles, etc., but tried to sort it out by how all of you look.
Just based on how you look, would s/he be able to guess whether the kid standing next to you is your sister or your cousin?
The biologist might be able to make some good guesses this way, but by using samples of your family's DNA, s/he could construct your whole family tree.
In this project, you'll use Web-based computer programs and some background research to make your own evolutionary tree for a group of your choice.
(For a more basic project, see The Tree of Life  I (basic) Note:  The first part of this introduction is same as for the The Tree of Life  I (basic); however, you will find that the rest of this project idea is much more advanced.Think about or draw out your family tree adding aunts, uncles, and cousins.
(If you don't have siblings or cousins just draw a big family tree from your imagination.)
Based on your family tree, you can see that you are more closely related to your sister (or brother) than you are to your cousin; that is there are fewer "branches" separating you from your sister than there are separating you and your cousin.
Now imagine that a biologist arrived at a big family reunion and had no idea who were sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles, etc.
but tried to sort it out by how all of you look.
Just based on how you look, would s/he be able to guess which of the two kids standing next to you is your sister and which is your cousin?
In many families, the biologist may be able to make a pretty good guess based on your visible features (called your morphology), like number of arms/legs/eyes, hair color, nose shape, etc.
(Notice that some of these morphological features are shared by all humans but that other features can be used to distinguish you from one another.)
But this is not a fail-safe approach to determining familial relationshipsas some people look more like their cousin than their sister, right?
You could just use morphology to make a good guess.So what is the best way to determine how related you are to one another (besides just askingbut stick with me here)?
The biologist would have to look at your DNA!
You get half of your DNA from your mother and half from your father.
Both of those "halves" are very similar to one anotherwith one difference about every 1000 base pairs (but out of three billion total lettersthat's three million differences!).
And your mother and father got their DNA from their parents and so on up the family tree.
Your DNA should be MUCH more similar to your sister's than your cousin's because you and your sister both got your DNA from the same parents, whereas there are many more branches in the tree (and thus many more matings and DNA base pair differences entering the tree) between you and your cousin.
That is, you are much more similar genetically to your sister because you have more recent common ancestors than you and your cousin.Family Trees In BiologySo how does all of this apply to biology?
For centuries, scientists have been trying to draw the family tree that reflects the history and evolution of all animals on the earth.
This tree would show which species are more closely related to one another, like the case where you are "closer" to your sister on your family tree than you are to your cousin.
For example, humans are more closely related to chimpanzees than to dolphins, so chimps and humans would have fewer branches between them on the "animal family tree."
How do scientists make this family tree?
For many years, scientists relied on comparisons of morphological characteristics (like hair, teeth, limbs, fins, hearts, livers, eyes, etc.)
to try to figure out who was more closely related to whom.
These kinds of comparisons are often accurate, but as you saw in the example of a human family, these physical characteristics can sometimes be misleading.
Evidence of this concept is that different scientists would come up with different trees/relationships by using different sets of morphological information!
So which tree is "right?
"To think about how to identify the "right" tree, we have to think about how these animals became different from one another throughout evolution.
All heritable morphological changes (those changes that can be passed down to the next generation) are a result of changes (mutations) in an organism's DNA.
This mutation can lead to a change in a protein sequence or a change in when, where or how much of the protein gets made.
That's it!
One or a couple of these changes can lead to big a difference in morphology and/or the way a single cell in the organism can function.
So over billions of years of evolution, a slow accumulation of DNA sequence (and thus some protein sequence) changes has led to the existence of all of the earth's different specieswith some more closely related to one another than others.
This whole process is called molecular evolution.So, as we saw with the family reunion example, the best way to see how related two organisms are is to compare their DNA or protein sequences.
(Remember that a protein's sequence is encoded in its gene's DNAso the only way to get a protein sequence change is to get a change in the DNA that codes for it.)
Those organisms with the most similar DNA/protein sequence are almost surely more closely related than those with less similar DNA/protein sequences.Why didn't scientists use DNA sequences to build the trees 100 years ago?
First, it has only been about 50 years since the discovery that DNA is actually the genetic material that gets passed on through generations.
Second, DNA and protein sequencing technologies have only recently gotten efficient enough that DNA/protein sequence data is available from many different kinds of animals.
With all of this new information, scientists are working hard to build the "true" animal family tree.
And there have been cases where the tree built using DNA sequence data differs from those built using morphological data!
(Can you explain for your project why DNA sequence is the "gold standard" for determining relatedness between animals?)
Note:  Even though sequence comparison is the gold standard, it is not perfect.
Sometimes comparisons of different proteins will yield different trees.
Which one is right?
Why might this happen?Your Project Your goal in this project is to locate an "old" evolutionary tree (what we've been calling the animal family tree) that was built based on morphological (or non-DNA sequence based) data.
You may be able to find this kind of tree in an older biology textbook or possibly online.
You can then use this tree to form a hypothesis about what you expect to find if you compare a particular protein's sequence between some species on the tree.
Do you think you will confirm the relationships/relatedness implied by the old tree or do you think the sequence-based comparison will yield different relationships?
Why did you form this hypothesis?
(A really good project would follow this protocol for at least a few different proteins and see if you get the same results for each.
)First, you can find a protein in humans that interests you.
(It is a little simpler to do protein comparisons for tree building than DNA sequences, but you are welcome to try either one.)
Then you can go to a public database called "Genbank" where scientists from all over the world deposit DNA and protein sequences that they discover.
From Genbank, you can find the human sequence of the protein you have chosen.
Next, you can ask a computer program called BLAST to search all of the protein sequence databases available to find the most similar protein sequence in other organisms (the same gene or protein found in a different species is called a homolog).
Finally, you can compare the amino acid sequences of the protein from the different species you found to draw your own version of the animal family tree (containing only the animals used in your study).
This comparison is done by making an "alignment" of all of the proteins you are comparing and then "counting" the differences.
Do the relationships shown in your tree agree with where your animals appear on the old tree?
Can you think of an explanation for whatever outcome you get?Keys: Start with lots of proteins of interest.
You will need to be able to locate protein sequence information from multiple other species (this is not available for all proteins!).
Most of the databases are very "messy" and hard to sort through.
Thus, it is hard to be sure you have found exactly what you are looking for.
Ask your advisor to check with you!
The same is true for many of the online analysis tools.Since most of your "experiments" are done on the computer with computational tools found at biology related websites, it is VERY important that  you understand (at least in very general terms) WHAT the programs do and what you learn from using them.
The goal of this science project is to compare a protein's amino acid sequence in a couple of animals to infer how closely related they are to one another.
You have access to the same online genomics databases and software that scientists use every day.
You can select a few animals you are interested in and find a protein common to all of them using information you can find online.
Then you can use an online software tool to line those proteins up and compare the sequences.
The more similar the amino acid sequence of the protein, the more closely related the two species are!
In doing this project, you will learn about making use of the tremendous amounts of DNA and protein sequence data that is available online and using publicly available software to analyze and study these sequences.
You will also learn about using DNA or protein sequences to understand evolution and how different organisms are related to one another.
You may want to explore using different "types" of proteins and thus different "parts" of the evolutionary tree for this study.
That is, some gene/protein types are found in almost all living eukaryotes (what does this mean?
), such as a protein involved in respiration or glycolysis.
Therefore, you could get the protein sequence for a glycolysis gene from animals across the animal kingdom from yeast to humans.
On the other hand, a protein involved in red blood cell function (like hemoglobin) will probably only be found in animals with red blood cells; therefore, a comparison across the whole animal kingdom would be unsuccessful.
Both types of studies are equally valuable, and maybe you could choose a couple of each type of protein.Which species are "good" for which types of comparisons?
That is, which species would be good to use if you were studying the evolution of proteins involved in the development of a spinal cord?You can use mRNA and/or DNA sequences to ask similar questions.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  ramr2geeky said:  2011-11-28 18:08:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
Nothing made sense, there wasn't enough information, and not enough help resources Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Everything Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
7                        13                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, bioinformatics project, genomics, gene, DNA, RNA, protein, gene function, evolution, phylogenetics, phylogenetic tree DNA, gene mRNA Amino acid, protein sequence Protein, translation Coding sequence Sequence/protein/molecular evolution Homolog/homology Sequence alignment, distance matrix Eukaryote, prokaryote Phylogenetic/evolutionary tree
