 Skunk Attack!
Test Different Remedies to Remove Skunk Odor  Have you or one of your pets ever been sprayed by a skunk?
Hopefully not, but if you have, you probably know that the smell can be very unpleasant and hard to get rid of.
There are many "folk remedies" for getting rid of skunk scent, but if you ever do get sprayed by a skunk, how will you know which one to try?
In this science project, you will test the ability of various mixtures to remove the bad scent from rags that have been contaminated with bottled skunk scent, and determine which one works the best.
Hopefully you (or your pets) have never had the unpleasant experience of being sprayed by a skunk (Figure 1).
The scent of a skunk can be very strong and hard to get rid of.
You may have heard of various remediessuch as washing your dog with lemon or tomato juicebut do you know if it is a scientifically tested treatment, or just an old folk tale with no scientific evidence to back it up?
In this science project, you will do an experiment to test the ability of different mixtures to remove skunk odor from test rags.
Before you do this, it will help to understand the chemistry of skunk odor.
Figure 1.
A striped skunk.
Skunks can spray a very smelly odor when they feel threatened, and the scent can be quite difficult to get rid of.
Skunk odor smells so bad to us because it contains thiols.
Thiols are chemical compounds that contain sulfur and hydrogen.
There are many different types of thiols and some of them have strong, unpleasant odors (for example, rotten eggs and flatulence).
Although we usually do not like them, one positive use for thiols is as an additive to natural gas (which is odorless), because the unpleasant odor warns people of gas leaks.
There are also thiols that smell good to most people, like those in grapefruit and roasted coffee.One way that the thiol odor can be destroyed is by changing the thiol chemical compound into a different chemical compound, which may not smell at all.
This can be done using a chemical process called oxidation.
Oxidation happens when an oxidizing agent interacts with a chemical compound (such as a thiol) and steals electrons from that compound.
As their name implies, oxidizing agents often contain oxygen, and some examples include oxygen itself (O2) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2).
Oxidation can change the chemical structure of a chemical compound, thus lessening or removing a thiol's bad smell.
In this chemistry science project, you will test the ability of four different mixtures, each common home remedies, to remove skunk odor from a material: Dish soap and water:  The combination of dish soap and water is not a notable oxidizing agent, but it is a common cleaning solution called a surfactant.
Soap molecules help surround dirt and stain molecules and carry them into the water, which can then be rinsed out of the material.
Tomato juice: Tomato juice is a mild oxidizing agent because it contains small amounts of malic and citric acids.
Acids usually (but not always) act as oxidizing agents.
To learn more about acids, check out the Science Buddies resource on Acids, Bases & the pH Scale.
Vinegar: Vinegar is a mild oxidizing agent that contains acetic acid.
Hydrogen peroxide, baking soda, and dish soap: This combination contains two different oxidizing agents (hydrogen peroxide and baking soda) and a surfactant (dish soap), and is a popular remedy developed by a chemist in the 1990s (see the Bibliography section to learn more).
Which one do you think will be the most successful at removing skunk odor?
Investigate the ability of various mixtures to remove skunk odor from test rags.
Can you think of additional treatments to test besides the ones listed in this science project?The combination of hydrogen peroxide, baking soda, and dish soap is a popular remedy.
You already tested dish soap (mixed in water) by itself; what happens if you test hydrogen peroxide alone, or baking soda mixed in water?
Are these ingredients just as effective on their own?Can you think of another scent source besides skunk odor?
The Introduction mentioned that some things contain thiols, but smell good.
Test those and find out if the same remedies still work.What happens if you change the amount of time the rags soak in each mixture?
Does it work better if you leave them overnight?
Pick your best working remedy and test it at lower concentrations (meaning, use more water or less of the cleaning material).
Does it still work at lower concentrations?
What is the minimum concentration required to effectively remove the smell?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
skunk odor, skunk, skunk scent, thiol, thiols, chemistry, chemistry project, chemistry science project, oxidize, oxidizer, oxidizing, oxidizing agent, mixture Thiol Chemical compound Oxidation Oxidizing agent Surfactant Acid
