 How Does LED Brightness Vary with Current?
LEDs (light-emitting diodes) are electronic components that convert a portion of the electrical energy flowing through them into light.
How does the intensity of the light produced vary with the current flowing through the LED?
To find out, you'll build some simple circuits to vary the current flowing an LED.
You'll also build a simple light-to-voltage converter circuit to measure LED output.
Today's electronic devices such as computers, handheld video games, and MP3 players are all based on components made of materials called semiconductors.
Semiconductors have properties that are intermediate between conductors and insulators.
Diodes, for example, are a semiconductor device that allow current to flow in only one direction.
In the forward direction, diodes act like a conductor.
In the reverse direction, diodes act like an insulator.An LED (light-emitting diode) is a special kind of diode that produces light (see Figure1).
Figure 1.
A red LED (top).
The longer lead is the anode (+) and the shorter lead is the cathode ().
In the schematic symbol for an LED (bottom), the anode is on the left and the cathode is on the right (Hewes, 2006).
When current flows through the diode in the forward direction, some of the electrical energy is converted into light of a specific color (i.e., wavelength).
The color of the light depends on the material from which the semiconductor is made.
LEDs are available in many different colors.As the current through the LED increases, the brightness also increases.
Typically, the recommended current for an LED is 20 milliamperes (mA) or less.
Above this value, the lifetime of the LED will be decreased significantly.
Far above this value, the LED will fail catastrophically.
Catastrophic failure can be defined as when the LED no longer emits light.To keep the LED current at or below the recommended operating current level, LEDs are typically connected in series with a current-limiting resistor, as shown in Figure 2.
In this circuit, the positive terminal of the battery is connected to the resistor.
The resistor is connected in series with the anode of the LED.
The cathode of the LED is connected to the negative terminal of the battery.
In this case, the battery is providing 9 V to the series combination of the resistor and the LED.Figure 2.
Schematic diagram of an LED in series with a 1k resistor and a 9 volt battery.
(Hewes, 2006).The voltage drop across an LED is about 2 V (except for blue or white LEDs, where the voltage drop is about 4 V).
This means that 2 V is required for the LED to turn on and conduct or create a path for current.
Voltage drop is defined as a loss in voltage across components in an electrical circuit.
Of the 9 V available, 2 V is required to turn on the LED.
That leaves 7 V to drop across the resistor.
Think of the circuit as a waterfall loop.
There is 9 V available at the top of the waterfall.
Seven volts fall across the resistor, and 2 V fall across the LED.
The current then proceeds in a loop.
Using Ohm's law, the current, I, through the resistor will be V/R=7V/1k=7mA.Figure3 shows you how to use Ohm's Law  to calculate what size resistor you need to limit the current through the LED to the desired value.
The voltage drop across the resistor will equal the supply voltage minus the voltage drop across the LED (or, VSVL).
You can then use Ohm's Law to calculate the resistance, R, needed to produce a desired current, I:R=(VSVL)/I.So, if the supply voltage is 9V, what resistor would you need for a 20mA current?
R=(92)/0.02A=350.
For more details, and a set of online calculators, see the LED references in the Bibliography section (Hewes, 2006; Ngineering, 2003).
You can also read more general background information about electricity in the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.
Figure 3.
Schematic diagram showing how to use Ohm's Law to calculate the correct value for the current-limiting resistor (Hewes, 2006).In this project you will make two circuits: an LED circuit and a light-to-voltage converter circuit.
You will use a variety of different resistors in series with an LED to make LED circuits with smaller and larger currents.
You'll use a simple light-to-voltage converter circuit to measure the output of the LED.
How will LED output change with current?
The goal of this project is to measure the light output of an LED as a function of current through the LED.
An LED can easily be powered by 2 AA batteries instead of 3.
With two batteries, the supply voltage will be 3.0V instead of 4.5V.
If you were to use a 3V supply for the LED circuit, can you figure out the value of the resistor you would need in order to limit the LED current to 20mA?
Which additional resistors would you need in order to replicate this experiment using a 3V supply for the LED circuit?
Try it out!
What happens if you increase the LED current beyond 20mA?
Calculate the resistor value you would need to limit the LED current to 40mA.
Design an experiment to find out if the LED intensity at 40mA is twice the intensity at 20mA.
For an experiment that investigates LED current in circuits powered by solar cells, see the Science Buddies project: How Does Solar Cell Output Vary with Incident Light Intensity?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project idea, electricity project, LED, light-emitting diode, current, light intensity, circuit, Ohm's law semiconductor diode light emitting diode (LED) anode cathode voltage ( current ( resistance ( resistor series voltage drop Ohm's law ( circuit short circuit
