 Use DNA Sequencing to Trace the Blue Whale's Evolutionary Tree  The first land animals took their tentative steps out of the ocean and onto solid ground around 365 million years ago.
Over millions of years, these early ancestors developed into tetrapods, including amphibians, reptiles, dinosaurs, birds, and mammals.
Then, around 50 million years ago, the reverse process occurred: the mammalian ancestor of today's whales returned to the ocean.
In this genomics science fair project, you will use mitochondrial protein sequencing to trace the evolution of whales and identify their closest living relatives that still have four legs.
The evolutionary story of the whales is dramatic.
An ancient land mammal returned to the sea, about 50 million years ago, to become the forerunner of today's whales.
In doing so, it lost its legs, and all of its internal organs became adapted to a marine existence.
This ocean invasion by mammals is the reverse of what happened millions of years previously, when the first animals crawled out of the sea onto land.
Figure 1.
The blue whale (Balaenoptera musculus) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales (called Mysticeti).
At up to 110 feet in length, it is believed to be the largest animal ever to have existed.
(Wikipedia, 2008.
)What did the first whales look like, and what gave rise to them?
For a long time, scientists could only speculate, for the oldest fossils anyone knew of had already assumed the basic appearance of whales.
Charles Darwin speculated in the first edition of The Origin of Species that bears might be the precursors of whales: "In North America the black bear was seen ... swimming for hours with widely open mouth, thus catching, like a whale, insects in the water.
Even in so extreme a case as this, if the supply of insects were constant, and if better adapted competitors did not already exist in the country, I can see no difficulty in a race of bears being rendered, by natural selection, more and more aquatic in their structure and habits, with larger and larger mouths, till a creature was produced as monstrous as a whale."
Today we have much better information about the evolution of whales than was available to Darwin.
The new information comes primarily from two sources.
The first source is an abundance of intermediate fossils that have been uncovered over the past two decades that allow paleontologists to trace the development of modern whales, step by step, back to their beginnings early in the Eocene epoch.
This time period is often referred to as the dawn of the age of mammals, and lasted from about 55 million to 34 million years ago.
The second source of new insights into whale evolution comes from analysis of DNA samples.
DNA acquires mutations over time.
The longer two species have been separated, the greater will be the number of different mutations that will accumulate in each species' genome.
A phylogenetic tree can be built based on the accumulated changes between genes in different organisms: fewer genetic changes implies a relatively recent divergence.
Based on pair-wise comparisons of a set of genes from different organisms, it is possible to construct a tree that reflects the genetic distances between the organisms.
This sort of tree-building was done in the past, solely by comparing the bones, anatomy, behavior, etc., of many animals.
With genomics tools, it can be done online from your computer, and it can include animals that don't even have bones, provided there is sequence data available.
The focus of this genomics science fair project is to explore the evolutionary tree of the whales using DNA sequences available in GenBank, a free database of sequences derived from hundreds of different organisms.
Since new sequences are always being added, the tree you make will reflect the newest genomic information available.Although this is a genomics science fair project, it is also about whales.
To build the tree of the whale family, you will need to spend some time getting familiar with the scientific names and key features of about 25 whale and dolphin species.
You will also learn about the blue whale's closest relatives that did not make the transition to a marine habitat.
The process you will use to generate an evolutionary tree for the whales is outlined as follows:        Obtain the protein sequence for a whale mitochondrial protein.
A mitochondrial sequence is very useful for studying evolution because it does not recombine and it accumulates mutations at a faster rate than chromosomal DNA.
For the purposes of this science fair project, you will use the cytochrome c oxidase 1 protein (cox1) from the blue whale.
This will be the query sequence.
Other genes or other whales can be used as variations on this science fair project.
Use the bioinformatics search tool, BLAST, to identify sequences from other organisms that are related to the query sequence.
BLAST will find genes that are related to the query.
The more related the genes are to each other, the closer the organisms they are derived from are to each other on the evolutionary tree.
Use a simple tree-building tool to generate an evolutionary tree based on the BLAST output.
There are more-sophisticated tools available, but the BLAST tool will suffice for this science fair project.
The key issues the tree will address are:          What are the nearest relatives of the blue whale, determined by DNA analysis?
What is the identity of the closest blue whale relative that still has four legs?
(It is not a bear!)
The tools involved in this science fair project are simple to use and very powerful.
The evolutionary trees that you make from your BLAST analysis will be based on molecular data for hundreds of species derived from samples collected from all over the globe.
In the short time it takes to build a BLAST tree, you can see evidence for relationships between animals that would be difficult or impossible to obtain by traditional methods that are based on fossils.
In this genomics science fair project, you will trace the blue whale's family tree using genomic sequences in the GenBank database and the BLAST search tool.
Repeat the procedure with a different protein sequence from the blue whale mitochondrial genome.
Do you get the same tree?
Is the apparent mutation rate the same for different proteins?
Repeat the procedure using the DNA sequence for the genes.
This allows you to use genetic changes that occurred in the DNA, but that did not affect the protein sequence.
Increase the number of BLAShits to include species that are less related (Increase "Max target sequences" under "Algorithm parameters").
What is the % difference between blue whale and Homo sapiens' cox1 protein sequences?
Living cetaceans are subdivided into two highly distinct suborders, Odontoceti (the echolocating toothed whales) and Mysticeti (the filter-feeding baleen whales).
Are there specific mutations that distinguish the Odontoceti from the Mysticeti in your BLASTs?
Download the protein sequences of the BLAShits using the "Get selected sequences" button, then use tools at the European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI), such as Clustalw, to make an evolutionary tree.
ClustalW compares every sequence to all of the others.
Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, genomics, blue whale, whales, mitochondrial DNA, evolution, BLAST, GenBank, protein sequence, evolutionary tree Eocene epoch Genome Phylogenetic tree Pair-wise comparisons Evolutionary tree GenBank Mitochondria Recombine Cytochrome c oxidase 1 protein (cox1) Query sequence Bioinformatics BLAST Accession number Base pair Tetrapod Mitochondrial DNA Mutation Mutation rate
