 Yeast Reproduction in Sugar Substitutes  There is nothing quite like the smell of fresh-baked bread to make your mouth water!
As any baker can tell you, you cannot bake bread without yeast.
Yeast actually eat sugar so that they can reproduce and make more yeast, and make bread dough rise.
But can they use sugar substitutes to do this?
In this science project you will get to investigate how well yeast grow with sugar substitutes as a food source.
Pass the butter, please!
Did you ever wonder how bread gets its "spongy" structure?
If you have ever baked homemade bread yourself, you know that you need yeast to make the bread dough rise.
Yeasts are single-celled fungi.
Like the cells in your body, they can derive energy from sugar.
They can also break down larger carbohydrates (like starches present in flour) into simple sugars, which are then digested further.Yeast can extract more energy from sugar when oxygen is present in their environment.
In the absence of oxygen, yeast switch to a process called fermentation.
With fermentation, yeast can still get energy from sugar, but less energy is derived from each sugar molecule.
In addition to deriving less energy with fermentation, the end products of sugar metabolism in yeast are also different.
When oxygen is present, the sugar molecules are broken down into carbon dioxide and water (plus energy that the yeast uses to grow and reproduce).
In the absence of oxygen, the sugar molecules are not broken down completely.
The end products are alcohol (with two carbon atoms), carbon dioxide (one carbon atom), and water.
Less energy is extracted from each sugar molecule: the energy that could be extracted from the alcohol molecule if oxygen were present.As you know, carbon dioxide is a gas (at least at room temperature and atmospheric pressure, for you gas law aficionados).
In bread dough, carbon dioxide produced by yeast forms bubbles that make the dough rise, and give bread its spongy texture.OK, so yeast can derive energy from simple sugars and complex starches.
What about sugar substitutes?
Can the yeast use sugar substitutes to grow and reproduce?
In this science project, you will find out by preparing different yeast solutions, and "feeding" some with sugar, others with sugar substitutes, and still others with only warm water.
To measure the reproduction of the yeast under the different conditions, you will collect the carbon dioxide gas from each solution.
Investigate whether yeast will reproduce using various sugar substitutes.
For another method of measuring the products of yeast fermentation, see the Science Buddies project: Rise to the Occasion: Investigating Requirements for Yeast Fermentation.
You could use the method described in "Rise to the Occasion" to test yeast's ability to use sugar substitutes as a food source.
The procedure for making your yeast solutions is very similar to what many bakers do when making homemade bread.
It is called "proofing" the yeast.
Before the yeast is added to the dough, it is suspended in warm sugar water.
If the yeast foams after a few minutes, it is added to the dough.
If not, the baker tries another packet of yeast.
If one of your sugar substitutes fails to produce CO2 during the allotted time, is the problem the food or the yeast?
To test if the yeast is the problem, you could try adding sugar to the solution.
If the yeast starts to foam after a few minutes, you've proved that the yeast was not the problem.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  egay14 said:  2014-02-02 12:08:23 What was the most important thing you learned?
The calculated value of the Spearman rank correlation coefficient is 0.963 (3sf).
The closer the value is to 1+ or 1- the stronger the negative or positive correlation between the variables used in this experiment which were glucose against time (???).
In this case there is a positive correlation shown by the r_s which indicates that there is a positive correlation and this backs up the hypothesis that changing the mass of glucose added to a yeast suspension will affect growth rate of yeast.
The way each data set was worked out was by taking the gradient between the 25 hour and the 30 hour which was in the exponential growth phase.
However, this calculated value must be compared against the critical value corresponding to the sample size of 21 in order to test the significance of the relationship.
In biology a result is accepted as significant if it could occur by chance once out 20 times, as a probability of 0.05 or a 95% certainty.
The critical value of rs with n = 21 must be 0.436 at the 5 % significance level.
The calculated value rs lies above the critical value.
This means that the chance of this correlation occurring due to random circumstances (i.e.
not a genuine relationship is less than 5%.
The positive correlation found between the independent variable and the dependant variable is significant What problems did you encounter?
The trial method affected the final method in a few ways.
YOU HAVTO CHANGTHFINAL METHOD AFTER THTRIAL!!!
?I discovered how to use the colorimeter?I discovered that you had to shake and swirl?I discovered that I had to vary the concentrations of glucose more!!!
?I discovered I needed to do it for a longer period of time?I discovered the lag phase  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
non Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Shakila said:  2013-03-30 20:16:10 What was the most important thing you learned?
That sugar has an affect on yeast but I dont think the sugar substitutes did.
What problems did you encounter?
The yeast would burst out and i had to silicone the inside as well.
Iwas really confusing when i had to be the cylinder (which i substituted with a water bottle ) was in the bucket and we had to connect the tube.
i think that my tube was inserted properly or something like that because the fluid wasnt going down.
I think you guys should be more specific on the backgorund of the realation of sugar yeast and the C02.
I had to so much more extra research on a topic I didnt understand.
I was really excited to do this project i just think you have to be a little less confusing in the directions :) Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Yes I think you guys can be more specific or give us an idea of what the results were supposed to be so we no we didnt mess up.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    zsaab2012 said:  2013-03-13 19:59:56 What was the most important thing you learned?
fermentation can produce either lactic acid or ethol alcohol What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    searent said:  2012-02-14 21:05:08 What was the most important thing you learned?
i learned something What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
8                        14                Report Inappropriate Comment    lovemicrobes said:  2011-02-10 23:11:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that yeast needs real sugar, and not just a substitute, to grow.
What problems did you encounter?
An image of the apparatus would be helpful.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
This project isn't as difficult as a "6."
(Maybe a 5.)
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, science project, microbiology, yeast, sugar substitutes, gas collection Yeast Fungus (plural: fungi) Sugar Carbohydrates Fermentation Yeast metabolism Carbon dioxide
