 Build Your Own Crystal Radio  Have you ever wondered how a radio can grab signals that are transmitted through the air and convert them into sound?
In this science project, you will build your own AM radio receiver from scratch and use it to listen to AM radio broadcasts.
With your crystal radio you will be able to experiment with the circuit and the antenna to get the best reception.
Before the 1950s and the dawn of television, people would gather in their homes with family and friends around the radiojust as we do with our TVs todayto listen to sports, music, news, and entertainment programs.
Then, as now, the radio acted as a gateway to the world.
But what exactly is a radio and how does it work?A radio is an electrical device that receives an invisible signal, or radio wave, from a radio station and converts the signal into sound that we hear and understand.
A radio wave is a type of electromagnetic radiation that can be used to convey audio information.
Radio waves have energy associated with them.
Using a transmitter and an antenna, radio stations transmit waves like the ones in Figure 1, which shows both a 1-cycle wave and a 3-cycle wave, each occurring in the span of 1second(s).
The number of cycles per second is called frequency.
The unit for frequency is the hertz (Hz).
A 1-cycle wave per second is a 1Hz wave, and a 3-cycle wave per second is a 3Hz wave.
Every AM radio station transmits its signal at a given frequency, and the frequency band for AM radio stations in the United States is from 530,000Hz to 1,710,000Hz.
So a radio station transmitting at 1,590,000Hz (expressed in kilohertz as 1,590kHz) is sending out a signal that is 1,590,000 cycles per second.
Figure 1.
(Top) A 1-cycle wave, and (bottom) a 3-cycle wave.Radio stations send out waves, and the radios in our homes receive those waves.
But how do our radios turn these waves into sounds and how do stations transmit different sounds?
Waves have both a frequency and an amplitude, which is the height of the wave.
If someone yells at you from across a room, the amplitude of the sound wave is high.
But if someone whispers to you from across the room, the amplitude of that sound wave is very low.
It is important to note that a sound wave is different from an electromagnetic wave; radio stations send electromagnetic waves, which are then converted into sound waves by your radio.
When radio stations transmit electromagnetic waves, they can vary or modulate the amplitude of the wave and that is one way we hear the different levels and frequencies of sound.
Stations that transmit signals via amplitude modulation are called AM radio stations (as opposed to FM stations, which use frequency modulation, but these will not be discussed in this science project).
Figure 2.
A diagram of the various parts of an early crystal radio.
In the early days of radio, the detector was literally a "crystal."
Modern radios use a diode instead of a crystal.A crystal radio is a very simple radio that was popular in the early history of radios.
It is an electrical circuit that can pick up and play sound from AM radio stations.
Rather than rely on outside electrical sources, like a batteries or plugs, crystal radios get their power directly from the radio waves.
The diagram in Figure 2, shows the parts of a crystal radio: antenna, tuning coil, diode (labeled as "detector"), earphones, and a connection to an electrical "ground."
You can learn more about some of the concepts listed below at the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.The antenna picks up AM radio waves, which create an alternating current (AC) in the antenna wire.
An alternating current is one with a voltage that oscillates between positive and negative.
See Figure 3A.
A diode (or "detector") is an electrical component that allows current to flow in only one direction (positive or negative).
Think of a diode like a "door" for electrical current that only opens in one direction.
Consequently, when a diode is in a circuit with an alternating current (positive and negative), it blocks either the positive or the negative half of the radio wave.
The other half of the radio wave passes through unchanged.
This process is called rectification, and it results in alternating current being changed to direct current or DC.
In Figure 3B, the rectified wave only has the positive portion of the original AC wave.
When crystal radios were first made, the diode was composed of a thin wire that scratched against the surface of a crystal of semiconductive material, thus imparting the name "crystal" radio.
The earphones convert the direct current to sound.
The electrical current is converted into vibration, and that vibration generates sound waves.
The sound waves are not very strong though, which is why earphones that fit close to the ear drum, as opposed to a speaker, are required to hear the sound (the Science Buddies kit for this science project includes a speaker powered by a separate battery, which will make the radio stations you tune in to easier to hear).
The tuner allows you to select the AM frequency for the crystal radio to zone in on.
The tuner has many coils of wire.
By changing how much coil is used, you change the tuner's resonant frequency.
This allows you to "tune" in to a specific station (remember that each station broadcasts at one frequency), by matching the tuner's resonant frequency to the station's broadcast frequency.
The electrical ground allows current to flow through the circuit.
All circuits need a ground to work properly.
Figure 3.
AM radio stations transmit signals via amplitude-modulated (AM) waves.
The antenna of the crystal radio converts these waves to alternating current (shown in A).
In order for the current to be converted into sound, the current is rectified by the diode so that only the positive halves of the waves get through.
This rectified current (shown in B) is known as direct current.
In this science project, you will build your own crystal radio from scratch, and make adjustments to tune in to as many stations as possible.
Technical NoteThe circuit you will build in this science project also includes a capacitor.
A capacitor is a circuit component that can store electrical charge.
The old-fashioned crystal radio in Figure 2 just relied on the capacitance of the antenna itself, but adding a separate capacitor allows for better tuning.
The tuner coil in the circuit is also called an inductor.
When a capacitor and an inductor are combined in a circuit, it is called an LC circuit for short.
This is because L is the mathematical symbol for inductance, which has units of henries (H), and C is the mathematical symbol for capacitance, which has units of farads (F).
An LC circuit has a resonant frequency, f, defined by the following equation:Equation 1: f=12LC f = \frac{1}{2 \pi \sqrt{LC}}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] f is the resonant frequency in hertz (Hz).L is the coil inductance in henries (H).C is the capacitance in farads (F).In the circuit you will build, the capacitor has a fixed value, but when you move the tuner along the receiver coil, you change the inductance of the coil, and thus the resonant frequency of the circuit.
This is what allows you to tune into a certain station.
Figure 4 shows the circuit diagram for the radio.
The capacitor and adjustable coil act as a tuner, and the diode acts as a rectifier.
Figure 4.
The circuit diagram for the radio you will build in this science project.
Build a simple crystal radio receiver and experiment to improve your reception.
Test your radio with different-sized ceramic capacitors.
How does this affect the resonant frequency range of your radio, and your ability to tune in to different stations?What about changing the size of your radio's coil (the diameter, length, or number of turns)?
Does this affect the radio's reception?What happens if you use a different gauge of wire for the antenna?
How does changing the shape and orientation of your antenna affect your radio's reception?
Check out the Science Buddies project Make Your Own Low-Power AM Radio Transmitter.
Can you build your own transmitter and use it in conjunction with your AM radio?
Can you build a radio from scratch using scrap materials instead of a kit?
Historically, some prisoners of war had to be resourceful and do just that.
For more information, see http://bizarrelabs.com/foxhole.htm.
Try building one of these radios and comparing its performance to the radio from your kit.
Can you use a multimeter to measure the current and voltage delivered to your audio amplifier from the radio circuit, and use them to calculate the electrical power of each radio station you receive?
Do stations that sound clearer also have a higher power?
Hint: this might be more difficult than it sounds at first.
You will need to hook the multimeter up in series with the amplifier to measure the current, and in parallel with the amplifier to measure the voltage.
If you need help using a multimeter, refer to the Science Buddies reference How to Use a Multimeter.
Note that this method is not completely accurate.
Remember that the signal from your radio circuit is AC (alternating current).
Many consumer multimeters can only make DC (direct current) measurements.
However, you may still be able to get an "average" reading for both current and voltage, which will allow you to calculate an average power, and compare the relative power levels of two or more different stations.
It may be easier to do this using an analog multimeter (the kind with a needle gauge instead of a digital display).
Just remember that what you are doing is an approximation, and not a true measurement of the amplitude (or average value) of the AC signal.
If you have access to an oscilloscope, use it to visualize the signals at different points in your crystal radio circuit.
Depending on the type of oscilloscope, you may also be able to use it to measure more accurate average AC values than you can with a multimeter.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  janet101 said:  2016-01-06 13:45:53 What was the most important thing you learned?
to be careful.
What problems did you encounter?
none.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
focus more.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, electricity and electronics science project, electricity and electronics, radio, AM radio, crystal radio, antenna  Radio wave Electromagnetic radiation Frequency Hertz (Hz) Amplitude Modulate Crystal radio Electrical circuit Antenna Alternating current (AC) Diode Rectification Direct current (DC) Earphones Tuner Resonant frequency Electrical ground Capacitor Inductor Henries (H) Farads (F)
