 Enzyme-Catalyzed Reactions What Affects Their Rates?
Enzymes speed up chemical reactions by factors of at least a million.
Now that's acceleration!
This project investigates how temperature affects how fast these enzymatic reactions occur.
A by-product of many chemical reactions that take place in living cells is hydrogen peroxide (H2O2).
For example, when some amino acids or fatty acids are broken down into other useful molecules, hydrogen peroxide is produced as a by-product.
But hydrogen peroxide is extremely toxic to cells.
Because hydrogen peroxide is so toxic - it can damage DNA, protein, and lipid membranes, and may even be a causative factor in cancer - organisms have developed ways to get rid of hydrogen peroxide.
Catalase is an enzyme made by most aerobic organisms that helps break down hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen, as shown in Figure 1 below.
Figure 1.
As shown in this reaction, catalase is an enzyme that helps turn potentially harmful hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen.Enzymes, like catalase, are proteins that speed up chemical reactions by reducing the amount of energy the reaction needs to take place.
Specifically, an enzyme reduces the activation energy needed to convert a certain substrate into a particular product.
For example, in the catalase reaction in Figure 1 above, hydrogen peroxide is the substrate and there are two products, water and oxygen.
The study of how enzymes change the speed at which a chemical reaction occurs is called enzyme kinetics.
Because enzymes are proteins, they are somewhat fragile, and their activity is often dependent on their temperature.
For example, heating an enzyme a little might increase its activity, but heating a protein a lot can cause it to change shape and stop working (a process called denaturing).
On the other hand, cooling an enzyme down might make it less active.
Additionally, proteins can easily be broken down when the cells that contain them are opened (such as by crushing the cells).
When cells are broken open, enzymes called proteases are the culprits responsible for breaking down proteins like catalase.
Consequently, to protect proteins from the proteases released when cells are broken open, it is important to keep the cells cool, such as by putting them on ice.
When proteases are cold, they become less active.
The catalase enzyme is found in animal and plant tissues; it is especially abundant in plant storage organs such as potato tubers, corn, and in the fleshy parts of fruits.
In this biochemistry science project, you will isolate catalase from potato tubers and investigate how temperature affects its activity.
You will measure such activity indirectly by determining how much oxygen it produces when it reacts with hydrogen peroxide (based on the reaction shown in Figure 1).
After blending potato pieces to create a catalase solution, you will soak a piece of filter paper with catalase, place the filter paper in a container with hydrogen peroxide kept at a certain temperature, and time how long it takes the filter paper to sink and then rise to the surface of the hydrogen peroxide.
At first, as the paper is saturated with hydrogen peroxide and becomes heavier, it will sink.
Then, the oxygen produced from the reaction between the catalase and hydrogen peroxide will become trapped in the filter paper and will make it rise to the surface.
The time measured from the moment the filter paper touches the hydrogen peroxide and sinks to the time it floats back up to the surface of the hydrogen peroxide is an indirect, but easily quantifiable, measure of the enzyme's activity.
Investigate how temperature affects the activity of an enzyme, specifically an enzyme called catalase, which can be extracted from potatoes.
How does the concentration of the enzyme affect its activity?
To investigate this, make dilutions using cold distilled water and the catalase enzyme solution you made in this project, such as 75%, 50%, and 25% dilutions.
(100% would be the undiluted solution, and 0% would be cold distilled water.)
Test the enzyme activity of the different dilutions at room temperature and graph your results.
How does the activity of the enzyme change as it becomes more and more dilute?
Design and carry out an experiment to measure enzyme activity as a function of substrate (hydrogen peroxide) concentration.
Graph your results.
How does the concentration of the substrate appear to affect enzyme activity?Investigate what happens to enzyme activity if the catalase enzyme solution is subjected to conditions that denature proteins (e.g., boiling for five minutes).
Does this completely stop the enzyme's activity?
For other Science Buddies projects involving enzymes, see:   Liver Stinks!,     Which Fruits Can Ruin Your Dessert?,    and   A Juicy Project: Extracting Apple Juice with Pectinase.For a hands-on look at how enzymes are used in the real world, try the   Turn Plants into Biofuel with the Power of Enzymesproject which uses Bio-Rad's Biofuel Enzyme Kit.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
biochemistry project, science project, enzyme, catalase, potato, protease, hydrogen peroxide, enzyme kinetics Chemical reactions Hydrogen peroxide Catalase Enzymes Activation energy Substrate Product Enzyme kinetics Denaturing Proteases
