 Measuring the Speed of 'Light' with a Microwave Oven  Did you know that you can measure the speed of light using a microwave oven, some egg white, and a ruler?
Find out how with this cool kitchen science project thanks to Mr. Nick Hood, a science teacher in Fife, Scotland.
Microwaves, like light, are an example of electromagnetic waves.
Electromagnetic waves can travel through the vacuum of interstellar space.
They do not depend on an external medium-unlike a mechanical wave such as a sound wave which must travel through air, water, or some solid medium.
Electromagnetic waves cover a huge range of frequencies, from high-frequency gamma rays and x-rays, to ultraviolet light, visible light, and infrared light, and on into microwaves and radio waves.
As the frequency decreases, so does the energy.
The wavelength of an electromagnetic wave is inversely proportional to its frequency.
So waves with high frequency have short wavelengths, and waves with low frequency have long wavelengths.Electromagnetic waves interact with materials in different ways, depending on the nature of the material and the frequency of the electromagnetic wave.
Microwaves work well for cooking because their energy can be efficiently absorbed by molecules commonly found in food, including water, sugars, and fats.
The absorbed microwave energy heats these molecules and cooks the food.
As you can see in Figure 1 below, the range of microwave wavelengths is from 0.01 cm to 10 cm.Figure 1.
The electromagnetic spectrum.
Electromagnetic radiation covers a huge range of wavelengths.
Light (the part of the electromagnetic spectrum that we can detect with our eyes) is only a small portion of this range.
X-rays, light, and microwaves are all examples of electromagnetic waves.
(Illustration from Abrisa Glass & Coatings, 2005)In this project you will take advantage of some physical properties of waves in order to estimate the speed of light.
These properties are interference and the relationship between a wave's speed, its frequency, and its wavelength.
Interference is what happens when multiple waves interact.
For example, at the beach, the incoming waves from the ocean and the outgoing waves from the surf drawing back from the beach interfere with one another.
When two wave crests coincide, they combine to make an even higher crest.
When two wave troughs coincide, they combine to make an even lower trough.
When a wave crest and a wave trough coincide, they tend to cancel each other out.
Interference is the name physicists use for this kind of combination of waves.In a microwave oven, interference occurs between waves that are reflected from the inside surfaces of the oven.
The interference patterns can create "hot" and "cold" spots in the oven-areas where the microwave energy is higher or lower than average.
This is why many microwave ovens have rotating platters to promote more even cooking of the food.
In the experiment described below, you'll remove the rotating platter (if your oven has one) in order to see the effects of the interference pattern on your cooking.
You'll cook an egg white just long enough for some parts of the egg to solidify, while the rest remains partially cooked.
The egg white will cook fastest at the hot spots in the oven.
The distance between the hot spots will be equal to half of the wavelength of the microwaves.
You will be able to measure the distance between the hot spots by measuring the distance between the cooked portions of the egg.So measurements from your cooking will give you the wavelength of the microwaves.
With one more piece of information, the frequency of the waves, you will be able to calculate the speed of light.
You should be able to find the frequency of the microwaves on a label on the back of the oven.
The frequency (f), wavelength (, and wave speed (v) are related by the equation: v = f.The Experimental Procedure section has all the details for doing the experiment.
Do your background research and then go cook some eggs and see what they can tell you about the speed of light.
The goal of this project is to measure the speed of electromagnetic waves in the microwave portion of the spectrum by measuring the spacing between hot spots in a microwave oven.
The Science Buddies project Using a Laser to Measure the Speed of Light in Gelatin has another method for measuring the speed of light in your kitchen.
For another experiment on standing waves, see the Science Buddies project How to Make a Guitar Sing.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  charlibrown said:  2017-03-08 14:44:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
its very difficult to do a science project What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
maybe try other ingridients as well Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Dtr2808 said:  2016-02-24 19:34:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
i did not know how to do the second to last ste Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     zuurii41 said:  2014-11-16 23:12:23 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that frequency and wavelength are connected by the speed they produce.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Not only could you use an egg white, but chocolate or a slice of cheese pretty much anything that melts.
Great project.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    SierraMist98 said:  2011-03-13 14:29:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
That a household appliance could help me with physics What problems did you encounter?
There was no example of how to write the data Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
show example of data Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
6                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    Script said:  2011-02-28 17:33:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
That i shouldnt wait till the last minute and try to find a cool but easy project for my grade level What problems did you encounter?
The thing is is that the egg white didnt work at all because it didnt look anything like yours, it would just all combine, and the worse thing is is that the abstract is so hard to do with a 250 word minimum i answered everything in 54 word.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes, please remove the project, it was very hard to do and i couldnt even follow it, and i know my science Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment  Waves Frequency Wavelength Speed Standing waves Interference Electromagnetic spectrum Microwaves Microwave oven Magnetron
