 Tail Wagging and Brain Lateralization  You have probably heard about left-brain and right-brain differences in people.
The left brain is supposed to be better at language, and organizing sequential actions, the right brain is supposed to be better at visualizing orientations in space, making and listening to music, and deciphering the emotions of others.
Is there evidence for left/right brain specialization in other animals?
This project examines tail-wagging in dogs.
Does tail-wagging show any evidence of left/right brain differences in man's best friend?
There is a large body of evidence indicating that, in most people, the two halves of the human brain are specialized for different functions.
In other words, there is evidence for lateralization (sidedness) of brain function.
The goal of this project is to look for evidence of lateralization in another animal, man's best friend.
By studying the behavior of animals besides humans, we can hope to gain an understanding of when and how lateralization of brain function evolved.
This broad approach is called comparative neuroscience, because comparisons are made between the brains and behavior of different species.
The remainder of the Introduction is a brief synopsis of the evidence for brain lateralization in people, and a general description of the tail-wagging experiment for dogs.The earliest evidence for lateralization of brain function in humans came from studies of people who had brain damage on one side of the brain due to injury or stroke.
The most obvious finding was that each side of the brain controlled the opposite side of the body.
Damage to the left side of the brain can cause loss of sensation, weakness, or paralysis in body parts on the right side of the body.
Conversely, damage to the right side of the brain can cause loss of sensation, weakness, or paralysis in body parts on the left side of the body.Another finding was that damage to the left hemisphere of the brain frequently caused the injured person to experience difficulty in producing or understanding language.
Some patients might be able to understand language (as evidenced by their ability to act in response to a question or request), but be unable to give a spoken response.
Other patients might be able to speak, but when they did, the grammar was so garbled that they could not be understood.
Collectively, these different types of problems with language production, comprehension, or both are called aphasia.
In the majority of people, the brain areas specialized for language are in the left side of the brain.
Some people (anywhere from 5 to 40% of the population) have a right-hemisphere specialization for language, or both hemispheres involved in language production and comprehension (Chudler et al., date unknown, Brain Australia, 2003).Damage to the right side of the brain tended to cause problems with spatial perception.
For example, patients with damage to the right hemisphere might ignore sensory stimulation that occurred on their left side.
When asked to draw a clock face, they might draw a complete circle, but then put all of the clock numbers on the right-hand half of the clock face.
The symptoms could even extend to the patient's perception of their own body.
For example, they might neglect to shave the left side of the face, or to dress the left side of the body.
They might not even recognize the limbs on the left side of the body as their own.
Patients with right hemisphere strokes may also lack awareness of or insight into their condition (Brain Australia, 2003).The finding of brain lateralization in humans leads curious scientists to wonder how and why such specialization of the two brain hemispheres evolved.
Comparative neuroscience can be used to try to answer these types of questions.
One place to look is in other mammals, which are fairly closely related to humans.
In this project you'll measure one behavior of dogstail-wagging to see if there are left-right biases that might indicate some degree of brain lateralization in dogs.If you've been a good observer of your pet dog, you've no doubt noticed that it behaves differently in different situations.
For example, when you come in the door, your dog recognizes you and welcomes you.
When a stranger rings the doorbell, on the other hand, the reaction may be quite different.
Many dogs will bark warningly in this situation.
Recently, researchers in Italy found that dogs wagged their tails further to the right when they could see their master, and less far when presented with a stranger.
Do you think their findings are a fluke, or do you think it is possible to measure lateralization in tail-wagging behavior in different situations?
You can try it for yourself and find out!
The goal of this project is to determine whether dogs' tail-wagging behavior shows left/right biases depending on the stimuli presented to the dog.
For a more basic experiment in brain lateralization in pets, see the Science Buddies project, Paw Preference in Pets.
For an experiment on brain lateralization in lizards, see the Science Buddies project Where Do Lizards Go for Lunch?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Brain lateralization (i.e., left-brain, right-brain specialization) Comparative neuroscience Canine behavior Behavioral testing in dogs
