 The Pixel Puzzle: Why Video Game Characters Look Better Today  When you picture video games, you probably picture realistic figures, a lot of color, and a lot of detail, right?
Those descriptions do not really describe video games from the early 1980's.
So why do video games today look better than video games from the 80's?
One major change between then and now is the number of pixels, or dots on the screen, used to represent video game objects.
When Nintendo first introduced the Super Mario Bros game for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) in 1985, Mario was no more than 16 pixels tall and 12 pixels wide.
Decades later, the Mario in Super Paper Mario Wii has more than 15 times as many pixels!
Could the increase in pixels explain why Mario looks better on the Wii than he did on the NES?
Put your artistic talent to use and discover the answer in this science fair project.
Have you ever seen an old computer, video, or arcade game and thought "Those characters look terrible!
They are really blocky, and I can barely figure out what they are supposed to be!"?
It is true that video game art has come a long way from what it looked like in the 1980's.
By comparison, today's characters are much more detailed.
But why?
What has changed between then and now?There have been many advances in the technology from the early days of video games to today's games, including the ability to store and display more data (information) on the screen.
This means that the art in video games today can use more pixels than it did in the 1980's.
Pixels are the smallest unit of data in a picture.
If you were able to magnify your TV screen or computer monitor many times, you'd see that the entire screen is arranged with thousands of small dots or squares, like a piece of graph paper.
Each dot or square is a pixel.
To make a picture, each pixel is filled in with a single color, and many pixels are placed next to one another to form an image.
Look at the example in Figure 1, below.
When you look at the whole image you see a picture of a house.
But if you zoom in on one area of the house, like in the boxed-in section, you can see that the picture is made up of individual squares of colorthese are the pixels.
Figure 1.
This example shows an image of a house.
The boxed-in area has been enlarged so that you can see the individual pixels.
The first home video game consoles, like the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), could not store or display much data, so only a few pixels could be shown on the screen at a time.
Because of this, the video game characters and other video game art only used a few pixels.
For example, Mario in the original Super Mario Bros. game had a resolution of 12x16, as in Figure 2.
Resolution refers to the number of pixels wide (12 in the case of the NES Mario) and the number of pixels high (16 in the case of the NES Mario) an image is.
But today's video game consoles can store much more data and the characters are higher resolution.
For example, the Mario in Figure 2 from the Nintendo WiiTM game Super Paper Mario has a resolution of 50x67 (50 pixels wide and 67 pixels high).
Figure 2.
On the left is the 1985 Mario from the original Super Mario Brothers game on the NES and on the right is the 2007 Mario from Super Paper Mario on the Nintendo Wii.
The 2007 Mario is at a much higher resolution.In addition to increasing the total number of pixels, modern video games also use smaller pixels.
This means that more pixels can fit in the same amount of space.
You can see this in Figure 2, where the two Marios are the same height, but the Wii Mario's height is made up of four times as many pixels.
How does this combination of more and smaller pixels change the level of detail possible in today's video game art?
You can discover the answer in this science fair project by making high- and low-resolution drawings of your own characters.
Sharpen those pencils and get your drawing arm ready!
Determine if increasing the number of pixels makes a video game character look better.
How does adding even more pixels affect the level of detail in your picture?
Try the experiment again, adding additional pictures of the characters at resolutions of 64-by-64 pixels and 128-by-128 pixels.
Are certain shapes easier than others to make, using just a few pixels?
Compare the minimum number of pixels it takes to make different shapes.
Some shapes you can try are triangles, diamonds, stars, circles, and hexagons.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Heminglu said:  2015-03-31 21:55:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
That design matters.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    madisongrant said:  2015-02-10 15:43:19 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
everything Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    bluefirekit said:  2014-03-18 18:54:24 What was the most important thing you learned?
more pixels prove to make more realistic characters.
What problems did you encounter?
none.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    dkittell said:  2014-03-01 08:51:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
The difference in the graphics in the 80's and now What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    SebastianScience said:  2014-01-05 17:54:47 What was the most important thing you learned?
the most important thing that I learned is that im really good with computers and will be successful in life  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    rahaskell1012 said:  2013-12-01 14:44:14 What was the most important thing you learned?
Pixels  What problems did you encounter?
The graph  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Yes, explain more about th e graphs and stuff  like that cuz i got confuzed alot.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    bjbrat15 said:  2013-10-08 11:20:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned more about tv's and pixels What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, video game project, computer game project, pixel, resolution, video game art ,Kindergarten, 1st grade, first grade, 2nd grade, second grade Technology Data Pixel Resolution
