 Which Stars Can You Use for Navigation in Different Parts of the World?
Do you ever wonder how pirates sailed the seven seas?
The two most important things a pirate could have (besides a parrot and big hat) were a compass and an accurate watch.
Ancient navigators didn't know about compasses, so how did they know where they were going?
Could they have used the stars to know which way to go?
Does your new family car have a global positioning system, or GPS unit?
This amazing device can tell you where you are going while traveling by car, airplane, boat or train.
Most modern navigation is done using GPS, which uses information from satellites to tell you where you are and how to get to a particular destination.
The information from a GPS is so accurate that it can be used to program an autopilot to conduct routine navigation.
A GPS will tell you a location based upon latitude and longitude.
The latitude tells you how far north or south you are, while longitude tells you how far east or west you are.How did people navigate before modern technology?Polynesians: By far, the most exceptional ancient navigation was by the Polynesians, who navigated thousands of miles throughout the Pacific Islands.
They did not use any instrumentation to navigate.
They used a type of celestial navigation called Wayfaring, which means that they used information about the stars, sun, moon, planets, ocean and tradewinds to know which way to go.
They built boats with a system of rungs that would line up with key stars on the horizon for the navigator to tell direction.
It took many years to train a navigator.
The Hawaiian Star Compass was an incredibly accurate way to navigate.
By developing this navigation system, the ancient Polynesians were way ahead of their time.Vikings: The Vikings primarily used coastal navigation, which means that they kept land in sight and knew to travel in one particular direction along the coast.
Occasionally they would navigate long distances across the Atlantic Ocean in the summer.
During these voyages they could not have used stars to navigate because at such northern latitudes the sun never sets during the summer months.
Instead they used a sun compass, which could tell them direction by casting a curved shadow onto a disk with notches carved on it.
Ancient Greeks: The ancient Greeks learned to voyage around Europe and the Mediterranean Sea.
Two major advances in navigation were made by Ptolemy, a famous Greek astronomer.
Ptolemy was the first to make maps using stories from travelers and sailors.
He also was the first to use latitude and longitude to tell position on a map.Europeans: Eventually, Europeans learned to navigate using a magnetic compass and an accurate clock.
How did they navigate before the discovery of the compass?
They had the advantage of using Ptolemy's maps to show them where to go and primarily used coastal navigation.
To orient themselves they used basic celestial navigation, which means that they used information from the stars and from the sun to orient themselves.
The rising and setting of the sun could orient them East or West.
The positions of navigational stars could orient them North and South.Which stars are important for navigation?
There are several, but the most famous navigational stars are the North Star, called Polaris, and the Southern Cross.
The North Star (Polaris) is a part of the constellation Ursa Minor, commonly known as the Little Dipper.
The Southern Cross is a constellation of four stars called Crixa, two of which point towards the celestial south pole.Depending on where you are in the world and where you want to go, one navigational star will be more important than the other.
In this experiment you can use the internet to find a star chart from anywhere in the world.
You can look for the North Star and the Southern Cross from different locations around the world to see which star to use for navigation.
In this experiment you can determine which stars to use to navigate in each hemisphere of the globe.
Which is more accurate, a star compass or a real compass?
Print out a star chart for your city and take it to your back yard along with a compass at night.
Compare the direction of the celestial North Pole or South Pole to the reading on your compass.
Do the magnetic poles align with the celestial poles?
You might notice that there are other stars in your star chart that are in the North or South direction.
Why aren't these stars considered to be navigational stars?
Try to change the date or time of your star chart.
What happens to the location of those stars?
Can you explain why some stars are good for navigation and others are not?
You can find directions on how to make an ancient navigational tool like an astrolabe, sun compass, or cross staff.
How do these instruments compare to a compass?
Do some tools work better than others?
Can you calculate the error for each tool?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  bileti99 said:  2016-10-29 05:38:58 What was the most important thing you learned?
In the different hemisphears of Earth people see the sky differently and can use different stars to oriented  What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  navigation latitude longitude North Star (Polaris) Little Dipper (Ursa Minor) Southern Cross (Crixa) Northern Hemisphere Equator Southern Hemisphere
