 Growing a Soil Menagerie  Everything on our planet is connected together, linked by a giant recycling system called the biogeochemical cycle.
It is an amazing process.
You can actually investigate how our planet recycles and reuses everything needed to support life by making a small model of the biosphere.
What will be important to include in your miniature system so that it can support different types of life?
Did you know that nature reuses and recycles?
To live and grow, organisms need specific nutrients (which are chemicals) nearby for them to eat.
How do the nutrients end up there?
Most of the nutrients that organisms need in the living part of the earth, or biosphere, get there by being moved along through a biogeochemical cycle.
A biogeochemical cycle is a pathway that moves nutrients and other chemicals through the living and nonliving parts of the Earth (which are called the biotic and abiotic parts, respectively).
The biogeochemical cycle is also what is known as a closed system, which means that these nutrients are not lost or created, but are constantly being reused and recycled.
Basically, all organisms depend on nutrients from other living creatures and from nonliving components of the planet, and these nutrients are constantly being moved around.
Knowing this, you can probably see how biogeochemical cycles are important for both ecology and earth science.
A given ecosystem (which is a system with living and nonliving parts that interact together) may have several biogeochemical cycles going on within it.
Nutrients (and other chemicals) move through the living parts of an ecosystem by being part of organisms.
Nutrients also move through nonliving parts of ecosystems, like water, land, and the air.
(These parts make up the hydrosphere, lithosphere, and atmosphere, respectively.)
Some important nutrients that are recycled through an ecosystem are phosphorus, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon, and sulfur.
Some examples of biogeochemical cycles are the water cycle, the carbon cycle, and the nitrogen cycle.
Figure 1, below, shows the nitrogen cycle.
You can see how nitrogen is recycled through the production of different nitrogen-based compounds, such as ammonium (NH4+) and nitrates (NO3-).
These different compounds are used by different organisms, such as different types of bacteria.
Figure 1.
Here you can see how one important nutrient, nitrogen, is cycled through the environment in a biogeochemical cycle.
(EPA)One of the pioneers of the "Cycle of Life" concept was a Ukrainian-Russian microbiologist named Sergei Winogradsky.
By studying the unique microbes that live in different soil conditions, he discovered how nitrogen was recycled in a process called nitrification.
He went on to study different soil microbes that each recycle different nutrients in the biosphere, like nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur, carbon, and oxygen.
Sound familiar?
These are all important nutrients in the Earth's biosphere, recycled by biogeochemical cycles.
Now you know why those soil-dwelling microbes are all so important!
One of the tools that Sergei invented to study these processes was a long, sealed column of muddy soil, now called a Winogradsky column, after his important discoveries.
Figure 2 below shows an example of a Winogradsky column.
Within a Winogradsky column, different gradients are formed.
For example, over time, there is more oxygen at the top of the column, next to the air, than at the bottom.
Similarly, if sunlight is shining more on the top of the column than the bottom, then there can also be a sunlight gradient from the top to the bottom.
Figure 2.
This is an example of a Winogradsky column.
Although Winogradsky columns can come in different sizes and shapes (some are even flat), all of them have mud and water inside that is allowed to sit for weeks.
Over time, different layers and patches of color may appear, which are made up of different types of bacteria.
)The gradients of oxygen and sunlight in a Winogradsky column affect where different microbes can live in it.
For example, it might sound strange to us, but a lot of bacteria actually cannot live in the presence of free oxygen.
They are called anaerobic bacteria.
There are several different types of anaerobic bacteria, and they usually live further down in the column.
Bacteria that need oxygen, or make oxygen, such as cyanobacteria, usually live near the top of the column.
Bacteria that need free oxygen are called aerobic bacteria.
Similarly, several different types of bacteria need sunlight so they can get energy (through photosynthesis or a similar process).
Those bacteria will want to be where they can get sunlight in the column.
An interesting interaction that can happen in a Winogradsky column involves a gradient of hydrogen sulfide.
It has to do with a common type of anaerobic bacteria called sulfate reducing bacteria.
This bacteria actually eats sulfur and turns it into hydrogen sulfide.
Hydrogen sulfide is a poisonous gas that is responsible for the characteristic smell of rotten eggs.
The sulfate reducing bacteria sometimes live at the bottom of Winogradsky columns, making a hydrogen sulfide gradient in the column with high amounts at the bottom and low amounts near the top.
The hydrogen sulfide, while toxic to humans (but not in the quantities in your Winogradsky column), is actually eaten by other types of anaerobic bacteria, such as green sulfur bacteria and purple sulfur bacteria.
To thrive, these bacteria need energy from sunlight in addition to the hydrogen sulfide.
In this science project, you will make your own Winogradsky columns to study soil samples and investigate how including different nutrients affects the bacteria that grow in it.
Each column will model the biosphere.
By adding a source of sulfur or carbon to each column, you will test how each nutrient affects bacterial life in your miniature biosphere.
Including carbon may affect a group of anaerobic bacteria called purple non-sulfur bacteria, which are bacteria that need sunlight and a carbon source.
To help you identify the bacteria, Table 1, below, shows the main groups of bacteria that you may find in a Winogradsky column, along with the general order in which they appear (from the top to the bottom of the column) and what color they usually are.
Note that some types of bacteria, such as the purple non-sulfur bacteria, can come in many different colors (there are many different species).
How will adding sulfur or carbon cause the populations of soil-dwelling microbes to change?
Will some of the bacteria be unable to grow?
Will some grow even better?
Get ready to load some bottles with mud to make your own Winogradsky columns and find out!
Column Position    Bacteria    Color                  Top                                                Bottom        Cyanobacteria    Green          Purple non-sulfur bacteria    Red, purple, orange, or brown          Purple sulfur bacteria    Red/purple          Green sulfur bacteria    Green          Sulfate reducing bacteria    Black    Table 1.
To help you identify them, this table lists the main groups of bacteria that you may see in a Winogradsky column along with their general position within a column and their usual coloring.
Make a miniature biosphere, called a Winogradsky column, to test how including different nutrients affect which soil microorganisms grow in it.
Test several different sources of mud or soil to see if the microbial growth will be different from location to location.
You could even do something like include beach sand.
What do you think this says about the soil quality and microbes that live at each site?Test different kinds of additives to look for microbes that live in unique and challenging environments:Salt Lovers (Halophiles) - You can test for salt tolerance in different microbes by increasing the amount of salt added to a series of bottles.Acid Lovers (Acidophiles) - You can test for differences in pH tolerance by changing the pH of each bottle by adding an acid (vinegar) or a base (baking soda).Heat Lovers (Thermophiles) - You can place the bottles at different temperatures to find organisms that like heat (near a heat vent) or cold (in the refrigerator).Sun Lovers - Test how the microbes respond to light or dark by placing one bottle in a window and the other under a box.Do further research on Winogradsky columns and what types of additives people sometimes include.
For example, sometimes powdered chalk is included as a source of calcium sulfate, or blood meal (which is available from nurseries or garden centers) is included as a nitrogen source.
Try making columns with these different additives and compare the microbial communities that grow in each.
You could even try combining multiple additives and varying the ratios of each.
What types of microbes grow with the addition of the different additives?
Can you find the best conditions for growing a certain type of soil bacteria?Test how the color of light affects the types of microbes that grow in the Winogradsky column.
Do the microbes grow better with some light colors compared to others?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, geology, soil, biogeochemical cycle, microorganisms, Winogradsky column, microbes, bacteria, water, oxygen Nutrients Biosphere Biogeochemical cycle Closed system Ecosystem Oxygen Carbon Sulfur Winogradsky column Gradients Anaerobic bacteria Cyanobacteria Aerobic bacteria Photosynthesis Hydrogen sulfide Sulfate reducing bacteria Green sulfur bacteria Purple sulfur bacteria Purple non-sulfur bacteria
