 Magnetic Levitation: Experiments with 'Anti-magnets'  What happens if you hold a magnet next to water?
You might think that water is not affected by magnetism, but in fact, the water  slightly repelled.
Believe it or not, if the magnet is strong enough, you can use this effect to levitate objects that contain water, including insects and even small frogs!
In this science project, you will learn about diamagnetism.
Materials that are repelled by both poles of a magnet are called diamagnetic.
The magnets you will use are not strong enough to float a frog, but they are strong enough to explore this fascinating form of "anti-magnetism."
If you were asked to describe a material in detail, how many properties would you list?
Here are a few properties that you might include: hardness, density, electrical and thermal conductivity, flammability, melting point, corrosion resistance, color, and magnetism.
In this science project, you will focus on the last property in this list: magnetism.
Why are some materials magnetic, while other materials are not?
To understand why, it is helpful to think about the materials as collections of atoms.
In the case of iron, each of the atoms that make up the material is, itself, a very tiny magnet.
If all of the atoms are lined up in one direction, they work together to produce a large magnetic field.
But what makes the atoms line up?
In the case of iron, and other ferromagnetic materials, the atoms tend to align spontaneously.
Ferromagnetic materials can be made into permanent magnets, like the ones holding up artwork and pictures on your refrigerator.
Because the atoms tend to spontaneously align with each other in ferromagnetic materials, you can find naturally occurring magnets made of ferromagnetic material, such as iron.
You can also make iron magnets in a lab or factory.
If you melt iron in a magnetic field, the iron atoms in the liquid metal will tend to align with the magnetic field.
If the liquid is allowed to cool, the atoms are trapped in this aligned orientation as the material solidifies (you don't have to actually melt the iron for this to occur; just heating it to the point that the atoms can re-align will work).
Materials can also be classified as paramagnetic and diamagnetic.
In the case of paramagnetic materials, the atoms that make up the material are also tiny magnets, similar to the atoms in iron.
The atoms in paramagnetic materials will align with a magnetic field.
When the atoms in the paramagnetic material align, their tiny magnetic fields combine to produce a magnetic field that becomes a measurable physical characteristic of the object.
But unlike the atoms in a ferromagnetic material, the atoms in a paramagnetic material become randomly oriented when the external magnetic field is removed.
Paramagnetic materials become weakly magnetic when they are near other magnets, but lose this property when away from the magnetic field.
Liquid oxygen is an example of a paramagnetic material.
Diamagnetic materials are repelled by both poles of a magnet.
Water and graphite are examples of diamagnetic materials.
In the case of diamagnetic materials, the atoms that make up the material respond to a magnetic field by aligning in such a way as to weakly counter, or repel, the external field.
To be precise, all materials are diamagnetic, since the formation of a repulsive force in the presence of an external magnet occurs in all materials.
But in ferromagnets and paramagnets the magnetic field is much stronger than the "anti-magnetic" field due to diamagnetism.
Diamagnetic materials have the interesting characteristic that they make magnetic levitation possible.
As it turns out, it is not possible to levitate a magnet just using other magnets.
This was proven by a scientist named Samuel Earnshaw in the appropriately named Earnshaw's theorem.
Putting it more precisely, he proved that it is not possible to achieve static levitation using any combination of fixed magnets and electric charges.
Static levitation means stable suspension of an object against gravity.
No matter how cleverly you arrange the magnets, the magnet you are trying to levitate will always escape.
But if you add an "anti-magnetic" force, supplied by a diamagnetic material, for example, it is possible to achieve static levitation.
The device shown in Figure 1, below, can be used to experiment with static levitation.
Two small plates of graphite are permanently glued to the wood above and below the floater magnet (not visible in this picture).
Figure 1.
Shown is a device for measuring diamagnetism in various materials.
It has a "lifter magnet," which is attached to a screw that allows it to be moved up and down.
The "floater magnet" rests on a platform.
There are two pieces of graphite permanently attached to the device, above and below the floater magnet.
A third piece of graphite, the test material in this case, has been placed below the floater.
Graphite is strongly diamagnetic.
As the lifting magnet is lowered, the floater magnet is attracted to the lifter magnet.
The distance the lifter magnet is moved is measured by counting the number of times the threaded height adjuster is turned (the mark on the wooden adjustment knob is used to help count the number of revolutions).
At a certain distance, the floater magnet starts to levitate, since the attractive force of the lifter magnet equals the weight of the floater.
The floater magnet also experiences repulsive forces from the graphite above and below it.
These repulsive forces are required to achieve magnetic levitation.Diamagnetic materials placed below the floater will push it upward, so that the lifter magnet can be slightly farther away before the floater flies toward the lifter magnet and rests against the upper graphite plate on the wooden arm.
If the lifter magnet is lowered further, the floater magnet flies up to the upper piece of wood.
The endpoint for the test is the number of turns before the floater magnet flies up.
A square piece of graphite, the test material in this instance, has been placed beneath the floater magnet.The goal of this science project is to measure the diamagnetic repulsion produced by various materials.
To do this, the test materials are placed beneath the floater magnet, as shown in Figure 1.
If the test material is strongly diamagnetic, it will produce an upward force on the floater magnet.
The lifter magnet will be lowered from its maximum height and the distance it moved will be measured by counting the number of times the screw is turned.
The lifter magnet will be lowered until the floater magnet flies up and hits the wooden piece above it.
All of the test materials must have equal thickness.
The material that repels the floater magnet the most will be the one that requires the least number of turns of the height-adjustment screw.
This science project will involve some creative problem solving on your part.
The procedure lists several materials for testing, but feel free to test others.
The actual forces acting on the magnets are complex, so it is difficult to give a complete description of them, but the device is easy to use and opens up many avenues for exploring magnetism!
Measure the diamagnetic effects of pyrolytic graphite and other materials.
Try other test materials.
Bismuth, for example, has strong diamagnetic properties.
You can obtain bismuth from hobby shops that have casting material.Try other sizes of lifter or floater magnets.Try different thicknesses or sizes of graphite plates.
How does this affect the upward force on the floater magnet?What happens if you place 1 mm of paper between the 1-mm-thick piece of graphite and the floater magnet?
Try other thicknesses and graph the results.Make a rough numerical estimate of the relative diamagnetic strengths of the materials.
Assume that the attractive force between the lifter and floater magnets varies as the inverse fourth power of their separation.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Flamr11 said:  2013-10-03 21:13:12 What was the most important thing you learned?
what diamagnetism is What problems did you encounter?
i thought the jig was bigger, i miss read the summary and thought it was testing the strength/height of levitation not diamagnetism.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
bigger jig, more descriptive summary Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, diamagnetic, ferromagnetic, paramagnetic, magnet, anti-magnet, graphite, sticky note, neodymium Magnetism Atom Iron Permanent magnet Ferromagnet Paramagnet Diamagnet Earnshaw's theorem Static levitation Electron
