 Popping an Ollie: How Skateboarders + Physics = A Really Cool Trick  Have you ever seen a skateboarder jump over an obstacle or slide down a railing?
It looks like they are defying the laws of physics when they perform these tricks.
It looks like it, but that's not the case.
Physics describes the motion of objects and it is a skateboarder's best friend!
All of these tricks can be explained by physics.
In this sports science fair project, you will learn how speed affects "popping an ollie."
The ollie is a basic skateboarding trick, and it's the first step to more complicated tricks.
Now, overcoming the fear of twirling and spinning in midair, on the other hand, is something that can't be explained by physics!
Skateboarding is a sport that requires skill, fearlessness, and years of practice.
Many skateboarders are passionate about their sport and consider it an art form.
The skateboard is a simple piece of equipment.
It is composed of three parts: (1) the board, (2) the wheels, and (3) the trucks, which connect the wheels to the board.
It is amazing to see a skateboarder riding down the street without running into things and jumping over obstacles, such as sidewalks and staircases.
What is really cool to watch is when they jump over obstaclesthe board seems to stick to the skater's feet in midair.
This trick is called an ollie (after Alan "Ollie" Gelfand) and it is the basis of more-complicated skateboarding tricks.
But how does a skater perform this trick?
Shouldn't the board fall to the ground, along with the skater?
Isn't that how gravity works?
Let's learn more about this trick.
Watch Jonathan Perez from Circle-A Skateboards ollie over a city structure.
Watch Jonathan Perez from Circle-A Skateboards ollie over a city structure  on this YouTube video  http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=eHJoHLUV0aUThere are three forces that come into play as the skateboarder rides forward on his or her skateboard.
These forces are the weight of the rider pressing down on the board, the effect of gravity pulling down on the rider, and the forces of the ground pushing up.
When a skateboarder decides to perform an ollie, the first step is to crouch down slightly.
This helps the skateboarder jump and accelerate upward.
Then the skateboarder presses down with his or her rear foot, sharply, on the tail of skateboard.
This causes the skateboard to flip up counterclockwise or clockwise, depending on in which direction the skateboarder is travelling.
The ground pushes back against the board and causes it to rotate clockwise or counterclockwise.
As the board is rotating, the skater drags his or her forward foot up along the board.
This pulls the board higher up.
The skater then pushes down with his or her forward foot on the front of the board, while pulling up on his or her rear foot to get out of the way of the rotating board.
The skater and the board are level at this point and look stuck together.
Finally, gravity takes over and pulls the skater and the board back to the ground.In this sports science fair project, you will investigate whether a skateboarder's initial speed affects the length and height of the ollie.
See how high the experienced skateboarder (you, or someone you know) can go, and how far he or she can jump!
Maybe over a soda can or over a curb?
Who knows?
Once you've figured out the physics of skateboarding, and with a few years of practice, maybe you could be the next Tony Hawk or Danny Wayexecuting 900s, 360 flips, and jumping over the Great Wall of China!
The goal of this sports science fair project is to investigate the effect of speed on the distance and height of the skateboarding trick "the ollie."
Can you improve upon the procedure?
Are there other variables that are affected by speed?Using a timer function in the digital camera, record the time that you are in flight during an ollie.
Is the time of flight dependent on speed?How does the shape of the skateboard affect ollie length and height?
Do the experiment and find out.Add a kick flip to the ollie.
How does this affect the height and length of the trick?If you are really into skateboarding, try another Science Buddies skateboarding science fair project,  Skateboard Extremes: Which Wheels are Best for Speed & Turns?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Sports science fair project, physics, skateboard, ollie Ollie Gravity Force Acceleration Speed
