 BLAST into the Past to Identify T. Rex's Closest Living Relative  Believe it or not, scientists were recently able to recover tissue from a 68-million-year-old Tyrannosaurus rex fossil!
Not only were they able to purify non-mineralized tissue, but they also succeeded in obtaining partial sequence information for protein molecules in the T. rex tissue.
In this genomics science fair project, you will use the T. rex's protein sequence to search sequence databases for the its closest living relatives.
Have you ever noticed that birds have scales on their feet?
The reason they have scales is that, technically speaking, they are reptiles, and reptiles have scales.
What about the feathers?
Feathers are produced by tissues similar to those that produce scales.
Also, birds lay eggs like other reptiles.
Not only are birds considered reptiles, but scientists now generally agree that birds are, in fact, dinosaurs.
Specifically, birds are members of the clade Maniraptora (a clade is a group of animals related by descent from a common ancestor).
Maniraptorans all have shared skeletal features, including bone structures in the wrist and forelimb that were first used for grasping, but that were modified into wings during the evolution of birds.
The Maniraptora is the group of theropod dinosaurs.
The major Maniraptoran groups include:    Aves: The birds, living dinosaurs.
Dromaeosaurs: The "raptors," including velociraptor, made famous in the movie Jurassic Park.
Troodontids: Non-avian dinosaurs thought by some to be particularly intelligent.
Therizinosaurs: Plant-eating theropods.
Oviraptors: The fossil record contains evidence that these dinosaurs were devoted parents.
It is important to note that birds are not descended from velociraptors or any of the other maniraptorans.
They are all derived from a common ancestor.
Birds split from the other members of the group about 150 or so million years ago, in the Jurassic period.
The non-avian dinosaurs became extinct over 65 million years ago, but the birds have flourished.The evidence that birds are dinosaurs is based on detailed studies of fossils, as well as the biology of modern birds.
Recently, a new avenue of analysis became available with the extraction of tissue from dinosaur bones.
Dr. John Asura, and other scientists, published an account of their analysis of collagen proteins purified from bones of a Tyrannosaurus rex (T. rex) in the journal Science, which you can find in the Bibliography, below.
They were able to obtain partial sequence information from the T. rex collagen proteins.
Although the protein sequence they obtained is not complete (see the Experimental Procedure, below, for the actual sequence), it is has enough information to allow searching of sequence databases.
Figure 1.
T. rex head reconstruction at the Oxford University Museum of Natural History.
(Wikipedia, 2006.
)BLAST is a program used to search databases of sequence information.
For this science fair project, you will search SwissProt, a database of protein sequences.
Each record has the protein sequence, as well as the authors who submitted the sequence, the article associated with the sequence, and other information.
In the Experimental Procedure, you will use BLAST to search the SwissProt protein database for sequences related to the T. rex sequence.
If two organisms are descended from a recent common ancestor, their protein sequences will be similar.
For example, the collagen genes in two species that split 1 million years ago will have fewer differences than two species that split 10 million years ago.
This is because DNA accumulates mutations over time.
If the rate at which mutations accumulates is constant, the number of mutations is proportional to the time since the species split.
In other words, you can use protein or DNA sequence comparisons to establish how animals are related to each other.
Using BLAST, and publicly available databases, you can perform your own genomics science fair project, studying the evolutionary relationships of various animals.
Now that the database contains sequence information for T. rex, you have the tools needed to investigate which of the organisms represented in the SwissProt database is most related to this extinct dinosaur.
The objective of this genomics science fair project is to determine the closest living relative to the mighty Tyrannosaurus rex, using simple bioinformatics tools.
Build a phylogenetic tree based on the sequences used in the original paper by Asara, et al.
First, download the sequences for the collagen genes that were used in the Asara paper, from http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/project_ideas/Genom_p018_Tyrannosaurus_Genomics_Supplementary_Data.pdf.
Open the ClustalW2 tool at the EBI Bioinformatics site (also referenced in the Bibliography): http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/clustalw2/index.html.
Paste the sequences into the entry box and click "Run."
After the alignment is complete, click on "Jalview" for a set of tools for making various trees.
Add pictures of the animals to the appropriate branches of the phylogenetic tree.
Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Tyrannosaurus rex, genomics, evolution, relative, bioinformatics, T. rex, BLAST Clade Maniraptora Evolution Therapod Ave Dromaeosaur Troodontid Therizinosaur Oviraptors Collagen proteins BLAST Mutation Query Fasta format Phylogenetic tree Evolution
