 Water to Fuel to Water: The Fuel Cycle of the Future  Solar cells are popping up on rooftops everywhere these days and are a model for clean, renewable energy.
Did you ever look at those solar panels and wonder how we can get electricity produced by solar cells when the sun is not shining?
It is a great question because solar panels do not produce electricity when it is dark outside.
One strategy to overcome this challenge is to store the energy produced by solar cells during the day in the form of a fuel that can be used at a later time.
In this science project, you will explore a cutting-edge method for storing renewable energy by breaking up water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen.
The hydrogen and oxygen are fuels that can be burned in devices such as fuel cells to produce clean electricity when it is dark!
The sun is setting on a brisk fall evening, and all of a sudden your TV turns off right in the middle  of your favorite show!
Without the sun, the solar cells on your roof cannot generate electricity to run  your appliances.
That is not a good scenario!
Many forms of renewable energy, such as solar energy and  wind energy, are not available at all times of the day and night.
These renewable energies are  intermittent sources of energy.
We, as a society, however, need energy to be available at all times.
For this reason, renewable energy sources like solar energy pose particular challenges to engineers if  they are to be used by power plants that generate electrical energy for your house, or for your car in  the place of gasoline.
Currently, power plants that supply energy to your house run on coal, natural  gas, or gasoline as a fuel source and can do so 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
However, these fuels are  carbon-based, meaning that they can generate pollutants.
Additionally, fossil fuels are unsustainable,  meaning that they will eventually run out.
Using clean, renewable energy would be a solution to these  problems.
Sunlight is a form of renewable energy that is virtually limitless: more solar energy strikes the earth  each hour than the entire world uses in a year!
However, for solar energy to become practical, we  need a cheap and efficient method of storing the solar energy for when the sun does not shine.
One  method to achieve efficient storage of solar energy is in chemical bonds.
Specifically, what  scientists and engineers seek to do is use the energy from the sun to rearrange low energy bonds to  form high energy bonds.
The high energy bonds can be used later to deliver the energy back to us when  we need it.
This concept is comparable to when you charge a reusable battery.
You get electricity  from the wall socket, store it in the battery, and when you need to run your phone or computer, the  energy is available.
To learn more about electricity, check out the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.
In fact, society is already familiar with this concept of energy storage in chemical bonds in the form  of fossil fuels (like gasoline and natural gas).
By burning these fuels, energy contained within those  high-energy bonds is released (and used by humans) along with carbon dioxide (CO) (which is  not used by humans).
The bonds between the carbon and oxygen in the carbon dioxide molecules have  lower energy than the high energy bonds between the carbon and hydrogen in the fossil fuels.
In this  instance, the process is irreversibleonce the carbon dioxide is created, it is released and cannot be easily converted back to fuel.
A primary goal for renewable energy research is to develop fuel storage methods that are scalable, sustainable, and do not used carbon-based fuels.
The ideal energy cycle would be a fully renewable one where the fuels can be utilized (burned to extract the energy from the high-energy bonds) and the waste products (low energy bonds) can be captured and reused to form the same fuel again.
One attractive approach for renewable energy storage is to use solar energy to drive the rearrangement  of water (low-energy bonds) into molecular hydrogen gas and oxygen gas (high-energy bonds), as shown in  Equation 1 below.
This transformation, often called water splitting, provides attractive alternatives  to hydrocarbon fuels.
The hydrogen and oxygen gas can be stored separately, and later brought together  as fuel in what is called a fuel cell.
The combustion of hydrogen fuel (which is really the  "burning" of hydrogen fuel, H, by letting it react with oxygen, O) releases water instead of  carbon-based molecules, such as carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide.
The water that is formed upon  combustion of the hydrogen can be collected and "split" again to remake the fuel.
In this way, the  cycle is sustainable.Equation 1:2H2O+light2H2+O2 2H_{2}O + light \longleftrightarrow  2H_{2} +  O_{2}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]            HO is water.
H is molecular hydrogen gas.
O is molecular oxygen gas        However, achieving efficient "splitting" of water requires a catalyst that assists oxygen-oxygen bond formation between two oxygen atoms derived from water to create oxygen gas.
A catalyst is a material or molecule that increases the rate of a reaction between other starting materials, but is not used up in the reaction.
Because the catalyst both increases the reaction rate and reduces the energy required to produce the product, the desired product can be made more quickly and with less total energy  is more energy efficient.Equation 2: A+B+energyC A + B + energy \longrightarrow C  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]  Consider the reaction in Equation 2 above.
With a catalyst present, we do not need as much energy to make C as we would have needed if the catalyst was absent, and with a catalyst present, we can make C much more quickly.
One example to help explain this is to consider that A is a taxi driver and B is a person at the airport.
The goal of the "reaction" is to get A and B together so that the taxi driver can take the passenger to a desired location called C. Without a catalyst, both the taxi driver and the person would wander around the airport, requiring a large amount of energy (through walking or driving) and time to bump into each other.
However, if there is a taxi stand, acting as the catalyst, the taxi driver and the person would be able to find each faster with less energy wasted.
Going back to Equation 1, as mentioned above, catalysts are needed to efficiently split water because all water-splitting schemes require the inefficient step of producing oxygen.
When water-splitting naturally occurs during photosynthesis inside the leaves of plants, chlorophyll acts as a catalyst for this reaction as protons and electrons are extracted from water.
Because producing oxygen from splitting water is a barrier to using artificial photosynthesis (the splitting of water into H and O as a renewable energy, many research programs focus on designing catalysts that assist with this oxygen-producing step.
In this video chemists Dr. Nocera and Dr. Kanan explain how they discovered the Co-Pi catalyst, and what it might mean for the future of renewable energy.
In this video chemists Dr. Nocera and Dr. Kanan explain how they discovered the Co-Pi catalyst, and what it might mean for the future of renewable energy.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4-M9VU_36NQ   To split water, electrons and protons are removed from water to produce the O.
The energy needed to  drive this reaction is provided by changing the potential energy (or simply potential) of the  electrons that are removed.
If too high of a potential is used, the extra energy, known as  overpotential, which does not get stored in O is wasted as heat and makes the process inefficient.
Thus, the goal of research is to reduce the overpotential required while increasing the rate of the  reaction.
A catalyst formed from cobalt ions (Co) in a phosphate (Pi) buffered solution (Co-Pi) has  recently been discovered, in Dr. Nocera's lab at MIT, that is capable of water oxidation to O at  low overpotentials and high rates.
The catalyst is comprised of inexpensive, earth-abundant elements,  and its formation is robust under a host of conditions.
See the video above for more details about  the discovery of the Co-Pi catalyst.
In this chemistry and environmental engineering science project, you will construct an experimental  set-up that will allow you to synthesize this cutting-edge cobalt-based catalyst.
You will perform  measurements to determine how much the catalyst reduces the energy needed for the water-splitting  reaction to form oxygen.
Does it sound too challenging?
If you watch the video below you will see  that setting up the experiment really is not that hard.
Especially if you follow all the steps in  the Experimental Procedure!
Once you get the hang of it, you can use your set-up to try to discover  your own new and improved catalysts!
Maybe you will find the one that we will all be using someday to  power the planet.
Watch this videofrom MIT researchers Yogesh Surendranath, ThomasTeets, and Dr. Elizabeth R. Young to see how you can perform water splittingexperiments with just a few simple materials.
Watch this videofrom MIT researchers Yogesh Surendranath, ThomasTeets, and Dr. Elizabeth R. Young to see how you can perform water splittingexperiments with just a few simple materials.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nrJhJ-ReqJ8 Examine water's usefulness as a renewable energy source by observing how efficient a cobalt-based catalyst can be at helping to form molecular oxygen.
Consider adding a different resistor to your galvanostatic cell.
Based on Technical Note #1, calculate the current that would pass through your cell.
Add that resistor.
What is the voltage now read by the voltmeter?
You should stay within a range of 3mA to 30 A (i.e.
you should only use larger resisters than the 10K Ohms).
Using a range of different resistors, you can determine the voltage required to run the electrochemical cell at each current delivered by the galvanostatic circuit.
More information about this is provided in Technical Note #3.Can the water oxidation catalyst be made from metals other than cobalt?
How well do these other metals work?
You can purchase different metal salt compounds such as ones containing nickel, iron or manganese and try to add those for the electroplating procedure.
You can compare the efficiencies of the electrochemical cells with various metal-based catalysts.
How do they compare to the cobalt-based catalyst?In the Experimental Procedure, electricity from batteries is used to split water.
How would you change the setup to get the energy from sunlight instead of batteries?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Co-Pi, renewable energy, cobalt catalyst, solar energy, water splitting, molecular oxygen, molecular hydrogen, photosynthesis, artificial photosynthesis, catalyst, high energy bonds, voltage, chemistry, cobalt-phosphate, electrochemical cell, galvanostat, fuel cells, circuit Renewable energy Fossil fuels Solar energy Low energy bonds High energy bonds Water splitting Fuel cell Catalyst Potential energy Overpotential Electroplating Electrochemical cell Baseline
