 Tracking Geomagnetic Storms in the Ionosphere  The Sun is the ultimate source of the energy that powers weather systems on Earth.
Geomagnetic storms are sun-powered storms in the upper atmosphere, arising from energized particles that are periodically ejected by the Sun.
Among other effects, geomagnetic storms can wreak havoc with earth-orbiting satellites, and disrupt satellite communications.
The global positioning system (GPS) is a network of 24 earth-orbiting satellites that constantly sends radio signals through the earth's atmosphere.
GPS receivers use these signals to determine their position on Earth.
Can you use errors in GPS signals to identify geomagnetic storm activity?
Before You Start: The sun has periods of increased, solarmaximum, and decreased, solar minimum, sunspot activity.
This11-year cycle has effects on many types of space weather.
Before starting thisexperiment you should read a bit about the sunspot cycle and determine where wecurrently are in the cycle.
You can do this project anytime during the solarcycle, but the frequency and intensity of space weather will be highest during  the solar maximum.A GPS (global positioning system) receiver works by monitoring radio-frequency (RF) signals from Earth-orbiting satellites.
There are 24 of these satellites orbiting the globe, with control stations on the ground.
The position in space of each of the satellites is known at all times.
By measuring the relative time delays between signals from the different satellites, the GPS receiver can calculate its position on earth.
If the receiver can lock onto signals from three of the satellites, it can determine its position in two dimensions (latitude and longitude).
If the receiver can lock onto signals from four of the satellites, it can determine its position in all three dimensions (latitude, longitude, and altitude).
One place you can read more details about how the system works is in the "GPS Guide for Beginners" (Garmin, Ltd., 2000).When the GPS receiver determines its position, there are many possible sources for error, including:  Ionosphere and troposphere delays  The satellite signal slows as it passes through the atmosphere.
The GPS uses a built-in model that calculates an average amount of delay to partially correct for this type of error.
Signal multi-path  This occurs when the GPS signal is reflected off objects, such as tall buildings or large rock surfaces, before it reaches the receiver.
This increases the travel time of the signal, thereby causing errors.
Receiver clock errors  A receiver's built-in clock is not as accurate as the atomic clocks onboard the GPS satellites.
Therefore, it may have very slight timing errors.
Orbital errors  Also known as ephemeris errors, these are inaccuracies of the satellite's reported location.
Number of satellites visible  The more satellites a GPS receiver can "see," the better the accuracy.
Buildings, terrain, electronic interference, or sometimes even dense foliage can block signal reception, causing position errors or possibly no position reading at all.
GPS units typically will not work indoors, underwater, or underground.
Satellite geometry/shading  This refers to the relative position of the satellites at any given time.
Ideal satellite geometry exists when the satellites are located at wide angles, relative to each other.
Poor geometry results when the satellites are located in a line or in a tight grouping.
Intentional degradation of the satellite signal  Selective Availability (SA) was an intentional degradation of the signal that used to be imposed by the U.S. Department of Defense.
SA was intended to prevent military adversaries from using the highly accurate GPS signals.
The government turned off SA in May 2000, which significantly improved the accuracy of civilian GPS receivers (Garmin, Ltd., 2006a).The first source of error, ionosphere and troposphere delays, is affected by the level of geomagnetic storm activity.
Check out the Space Environment Center links in the Bibliography section to learn more about what causes geomagnetic storms, and to see how these storms are monitored and reported.Many GPS receivers sold in North America are "WAAS-enabled," meaning that they take advantage of a second set of signals (the Wide Area Augmentation System, or WAAS) to calculate their position more accurately.
"WAAS consists of approximately 25 ground reference stations positioned across the United States that monitor GPS satellite data.
Two master stations, located on either coast, collect data from the reference stations and create a GPS correction message.
This correction accounts for GPS satellite orbit and clock drift, plus signal delays caused by the atmosphere and ionosphere.
The corrected differential message is then broadcast through one of two geostationary satellites, or satellites with a fixed position over the equator.
The information is compatible with the basic GPS signal structure, which means any WAAS-enabled GPS receiver can read the signal" (Garmin, 2006b).The WAAS correction feature of the GPS receiver can be turned on or off, allowing you to see the calculated position with or without the WAAS correction.
In this science fair project, you will take regular position readings with a GPS receiver using both the uncorrected mode (WAAS off) and the corrected mode (WAAS on).
You will keep track of the difference between the two readingswe will refer to this difference as the error signal.
How will the error signal vary over time?
Will there be a strong correlation between high-error values and ionospheric storms?
You'll find out by comparing your readings to daily space weather reports.
You'll see if you can use the error signal to identify times when there is increased geomagnetic storm activity.
The goal of this science fair project is to test whether errors in GPS (global positioning system) signals are correlated with geomagnetic storm activity in the ionosphere.
Can you use the error signal to identify times when there is increased geomagnetic storm activity?
Make observations with your GPS receiver, as before, and determine the magnitude of the error signal.
Record the observations in your lab notebook, including the date, time, and position information both with and without WAAS correction.
Calculate the magnitude of the error signal.
Use your graph to identify whether or not geomagnetic storm activity is likely to be occurring.
Then check the Space Environment Center website to see if your prediction was correct.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   amandabeucler12 said:  2011-09-20 19:57:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
That "its all connected".
I did this project in addition to testing the effects of geomagnetism on the annual birth rate of the North Atlantic Right Whale.
In doing this project, I realized my passion (geophysics/meteorology), and I am planning on majoring in that in college!
I enjoyed this project so much, that as a junior I tested the effects of geomagnetism on the rate of cyclosis in Amoeba Proetus.
In doing these projects I have concluded that something as immense as the sun can have adverse effects on technology, and even on the most basic biological functions-cellular processes.
What problems did you encounter?
Living only 5 miles from Boston, I felt that I was at a wee bit of a disadvantage in that (though I did state this in my conclusion!)
there were several elements that could have affected my results such as cars, rock/rock-like surfaces, etc... Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Links to info to start on...granted there is ALOof information out there, it seemed overwhelming, so having a "Start here" type set-up would help to make it more encouraging to students to do this fascinating project!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
24                        5                Report Inappropriate Comment weather science fair project idea, weather, atmosphere, geomagnetic storms, gps, global positioning system, waas, wide area augmentation system Ionosphere Magnetosphere Sunspot Solar flare Solar cycle Coronal mass ejection Geomagnetic storm Planetary K-index
