 Do String Players Have Longer Left Fingers?
Physical activity is needed for maintaining normal bone strength and mass.
Can physical stress on finger bones during development lead to an increase in finger length?
Check out this project to see how violin players are an example of a "natural experiment" that you can use to answer this question.
You know from experience that animal bones are hard, strong, and durable.
If you've handled bones from a dead animal, you've seen for yourself the hard matrix of hyrdoxyapatite (crystalized calcium salts) and secreted proteins that living bone cells leave behind.
It may be hard to imagine, but in living bone, cells called osteoblasts and osteoclasts are continually building and breaking down bone tissue, in a constant process of remodelling.
In juvenile animals, the bones are growing to support the growth of the animal, but in adults, the constant breakdown and rebuilding process still continues.Bone development can be influenced by nutrition, exercise, hormones, and exposure to sunlight.
Sunlight is important for the production of vitaminD, which is needed for calcium absorption.
"In long bones, the growth and elongation (lengthening) continue from birth through adolescence.
Elongation is achieved by the activity of two cartilage plates, called epiphyseal plates, located between the shaft (the diaphysis) and the heads (epiphyses) of the bones (Figure 1).
These plates expand, forming new cells, and increasing the length of the shaft.
In this manner, the length of the shaft increases at both ends, and each head of the bone moves progressively apart.
As growth proceeds, the thickness of the epiphyseal plates gradually decreases and this bone lengthening process ends.
In humans, different bones stop lengthening at different ages, but ossification is fully complete by about age 25.
During this lengthening period, the stresses of physical activity result in the strengthening of bone tissue."
(Lujan and White, date unknown)  Figure 1.
Long bones continue to grow and elongate (lengthen) through adolescence.
This process is called ossification.
(Lujan and White, date unknown)  "In contrast to the lengthening of bone, the thickness and strength of bone must continually be maintained by the body.
That is, old bone must be replaced by new bone all the time.
This is accomplished as bone is continually deposited by osteoblasts, while at the same time, it is continually being reabsorbed (broken down and digested by the body)  by osteoclasts.
Osteoblasts are found on the outer surfaces of the bones and in the bone cavities.
A small amount of osteoblastic activity occurs continually in all living bones (on about 4% of all surfaces at any given time) so that at least some new bone is being formed constantly.
Normally, in fact, except in growing bones, the rates of bone deposition and absorption are equal to each other so that the total mass of bone remains constant."
(Lujan and White, date unknown)This project takes advantage of a "natural experiment" on stress and bone development.
Violinists (and other string players) exert stress on the fingers of their left hands as they finger the strings to produce different notes.
Does this increased stress result in increased bone growth in the fingers of the left hand?
The goal of this project is to determine if stress exerted on fingers when playing a stringed musical instrument can result in an increase in length of the finger bones.
How about other string players: e.g., violists, cellists, guitarists?
Is there a difference in the length of the finger bones between the two hands?
You could also investigate the effects of age.
The lengthening process ends for different bones at different ages, but is generally complete by age 25 (Lujan and White, date unknown).
Ask your doctor when finger bones stop growing.
See if you can find a group of string players who took up their instruments in adulthood.
Do they show a difference in finger length between their two hands?
If stress from fingering the strings stimulates bone elongation, then you might expect to find a correlation between hours practiced and finger length.
Do you find such a correlation?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
osteoblasts, osteoclasts, hydroxyapatite, collagen, matrix.
