 How Far Can You Stretcha the Mozzarella: The Science of Making Cheese!
Oooey gooey cheese...yum!
Who doesn't like a slice of warm pizza straight from the oven?
There's nothing quite like a slice of pizza and a glass of milk, so what makes pizza so great?
The cheese!
But did you know that making cheese is all about science and chemistry?
In this science fair project, you will learn more about the science of cheese making and what kind of milk works best.
Try this science fair project and you'll learn about science and get something yummy to eat afterward!
What makes a pizza so delicious?
Is it the crust?
The toppings?
The sauce?
A pizza just wouldn't be a pizza without ooey, gooey, melted cheese.
There is a great variety of cheeses available.
Cheese can taste buttery, bland, rich, creamy, sharp, or salty.
Cheese can be hard, like Mimolette, or soft, like Brillat Savarin.
Some cheeses are so soft that you need a spoon to eat them.
Some cheeses are stinky, and some are aromatic.
Whatever your taste is, there is a cheese that can satisfy it.
Figure 1.
These are examples of cheeses.
(Freedigitalphotos.net, 2008.
)We don't know when humans started making cheese, but we do know that cheese making is one of the most ancient forms of manufactured foods.
There is evidence that humans in Egypt and Europe were making cheese in 3000 BC.
For ancient man, cheese was a way to preserve and store milk.
Milk spoils if it's left out too long, but some cheeses, like Mimolette, can keep for more than a year!
Since cows and sheep usually give milk in the spring and summer months, cheese was a way for ancient humans to eat dairy in the winter months.Cheese making is thought to have originated in the Middle East by Arab nomads.
Legend has it that an Arab nomad stored some milk in a container made from the stomach of an animal.
As he traveled, the galloping of the horse, the hot sun, and the rennet from the stomach served to separate the milk into curds and whey.
Rennet is a natural complex of enzymes found in mammalian stomachs that is used to digest mother's milk.
Imagine the nomad's surprise when he discovered his milk had changed to nutritious curds and refreshing whey!
Figure 2.
Grated cheese, just right for pizza!
(Freedigitalphotos.net, 2008.
)Milk is a biological product made up of proteins, as well as fats and other minor ingredients.
Milk proteins are 80 percent casein (pronounced "kay-sin") and 20 percent whey protein.
The casein protein is dispersed through the milk.
Cheese is coagulated casein protein.
Making cheese requires an agent to collect and coagulate the casein protein.
One way to collect the casein is to acidify the milk with an acid, like lemon juice or vinegar.
Once the milk has been acidified, cheese makers use rennin, the active enzyme in rennet, to accelerate the coagulation.
Rennin causes the milk to change without changing itself; rennin is a catalyst.
To make cheese with rennet requires that the temperature of the milk be a constant temperature.
If the milk is too hot or too cold, the reaction will not take place.
The kind of milk used will also affect the end product.
Sheep's milk, cow's milk, and goat's milk all result in different cheeses.
The fat content in the milk affects how the cheese feels in your mouth as you eat it.In this science fair project, you will make your own mozzarella cheese!
You will investigate how different milks (ultra-pasteurized, low-fat, and homogenized whole) affect cheese making.
It's amazing to think that a food product we are all familiar with can have serious chemistry behind it.
Enjoy this science fair project and be sure to share the cheese you make with friends and family!
Figure 3.
This image shows a dish made from the Indian cheese paneer.
(Feastguru.com, 2008.)
To investigate how different kinds of milk affect the resulting cheese.
Experiment with the amount of time you spend stretching the cheese and see if longer stretching times make for better melting.
Make pizzas with your cheeses to determine which cheese has the best melting characteristics.
You can also refrigerate the cheese and see if varying the time in the refrigerator affects the melting characteristics.
Using a gallon of whole milk, experiment with how much citric acid is required to acidify milk properly.
Can you get away with using 1/2 teaspoon of citric acid?
Can you use 1 teaspoon of citric acid?
Use pH paper to check the acidity of the milk.
Is it easier or harder to make cheese if the acidity is too high or too low?
Can you make crazy cheese from chocolate milk or strawberry milk?
What does the resulting cheese taste like?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  nguyen123 said:  2012-08-16 17:19:38 What was the most important thing you learned?
Cheese taste bad without salt What problems did you encounter?
i amount of test said was less than i needed Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes add more testing Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
10                        16                Report Inappropriate Comment    agrelle said:  2011-11-23 20:13:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
How easy Mozarella cheese is to make!
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
None...I won my sciend fair with this project!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
16                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment cooking and food science fair project, cheese, cheese making, milk, rennet, mozzarella Rennet Curd Whey Enzyme Protein Coagulate Acid Catalyst
