 Lactose, Sucrose, and Glucose: How Many Sugars are in Your Smoothie?
Do you enjoy drinking smoothies packed full of berries and other tasty fruits?
Or maybe you like drinking a creamy milkshake with peanut butter, chocolate, and bananas.
Smoothies and milkshakes are often tasty to us because of the sugar in them.
But did you know there are different kinds of sugar?
Some ingredients in a smoothie can have more than one kind of sugar in them, and our bodies process each kind of sugar differently.
In this science project, you will measure the concentration of three sugars (glucose, sucrose, and lactose) in common smoothie and milkshake ingredients by investigating how sucrose and lactose are converted into glucose with the help of digestive enzymes in your body.
Do you like smoothies packed full of fruit, or tasty chocolate milkshakes?
Smoothies and milkshakes are often appealing because of their sweetness, which is due, of course, to the sugar in them.
If you ever look up the nutritional information on some of the ingredients that go into a homemade smoothie or milkshake, you may be surprised to find that some of them have a lot of sugar: a tablespoon of honey can have 17 grams (g) of sugar and a whole banana has around 15 g of sugar!
But other ingredients have a lot less sugar; for instance, a tablespoon of ice cream often has less than 2 g of sugar, and the same amount of whole milk has nearly 0 g of sugar.
There are actually several different kinds of sugars, which are all technically carbohydrates (chemical compounds that only have carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and are mostly made by plants).
Figure 1.
Your taste buds care about which ingredients go in to your smoothie, but your body cares more about what nutrients and sugars the smoothie contains.
(Photo taken by Ralf Kabelitz and used under CC 3.0 Unported license)The sugar you probably see most often is sucrose, the white granules of sugar used for baking cookies or making lemonade.
Sucrose is extracted from sugar cane or sugar beets.
In the human body, sucrose is broken down to create two different kinds of sugar: glucose and fructose.
Both glucose and fructose are also commonly found in foods.
Glucose and fructose are the most basic type of carbohydrates (called monosaccharides) and, during digestion, are absorbed directly in the intestines.
The process of breaking down sucrose into glucose is catalyzed, or made faster, by a digestive enzyme.
Enzymes are proteins that help speed up many different chemical reactions.
In the human body, the digestive enzyme that catalyzes the reaction turning sucrose into glucose and fructose is called sucrase.
Researchers who want to study this reaction often use similar proteins and enzymes made by other organisms because it can be expensive to use human proteins and enzymes.
For example, in plants and yeast, an enzyme called invertase catalyzes the same reaction as sucrase does in humans.
This reaction is shown in Equation 1.Equation 1:Sucrose+WaterGlucose+FructoseSucrose + \:Water\: \rightarrow Glucose + Fructose [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]C12H22O11+H20C6H12O6+C6H12O6C_{12}H_{22}O_{11} + H_{2}0\: \rightarrow C_{6}H_{12}O_{6} + C_{6}H_{12}O_{6}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] But sucrose is not the only sugar that our bodies break down into different, more "simple" sugars.
The sugar lactose can be broken down to create glucose and galactose (another sugar that is easily absorbed directly in the intestines because it is a monosaccharide).
This reaction is shown in Equation 2.
Lactose is a key constituent of breast milk, so it is essential that babies are able to digest it, and they do.
Babies are able to digest lactose from breast milk because they make lactase, which is a digestive enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of lactose into glucose and galactose.
For reasons that are unclear, most people in the world stop producing lactase after about age 2.
Once the production of lactase stops, drinking milk or eating milk products, such as cheese, can cause uncomfortable digestive problems because the lactose passes through the digestive system undigested or partially digested.
This inability to digest lactose is called lactose intolerance.
Overall, if someone is lactose intolerant, a very unpleasant reaction can take place in response to the presence of lactose in the digestive system, characterized by cramps, bloating, gas, and diarrhea.
Equation 2:Lactose+WaterGalactose+GlucoseLactose + \:Water\: \rightarrow Galactose + Glucose [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]C12H22O11+H20C6H12O6+C6H12O6 C_{12}H_{22}O_{11} + \:H_{2}0 \rightarrow C_{6}H_{12}O_{6}+C_{6}H_{12}O_{6} [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] However, some people are lactose tolerant, meaning they can digest dairy products.
Though it might surprise you, a minority of the world's population are lactose tolerant due to a genetic change that occurred a few thousand years ago in Europe and resulted in maintaining lactase production into adulthood.
Consequently, lactose tolerance is associated primarily with people whose ancestry is derived from certain parts of Europe.
Most people in the United States are lactose tolerant, with 3050 million people being lactose intolerant (of about 317 million people total).
Something you may have noticed that sucrose and lactose have in common is that they can both be broken down in the body to create glucose.
Glucose is a simple sugar that is important, biologically, because it is the primary energy source used by cells, such as brain cells, muscle cells, and cells in other tissues of the body.
In addition to being made by the breakdown of sucrose and lactose, glucose is also made in the body by the breakdown of other carbohydrates, such as starch (foods that are rich in starch include bread, cereals, pasta, etcetera).
Because sucrose, lactose, and carbohydrates are broken down to form glucose, the level of glucose in a person's blood (commonly referred to as the blood glucose level) usually goes up after he or she eats.Like most of the chemicals in your blood, glucose must be tightly controlled.
The level of glucose in your blood is regulated by insulin, a hormone made by the pancreas.
When blood glucose levels rise after eating a meal, the pancreas releases insulin, which causes cells in the body (such as liver, muscle, and fat cells) to take up glucose, removing it from the bloodstream and storing it to use for energy.
When the blood glucose levels start falling, the pancreas stops releasing insulin, and the stored glucose is used for energy.Dangerous medical conditions can develop if there is either too little or too much glucose in a person's bloodstream.
If there is too little, the brain and other organs will not have the energy they need to function, a condition called hypoglycemia.
This can be a serious, life-threatening condition; to treat it, a person with hypoglycemia must raise his or her blood glucose levels, usually by eating large amounts of foods rich in glucose or carbohydrates.
If there is too much glucose in the blood (hyperglycemia), it can be a sign of diabetes, which is a serious and incurableand growinghealth problem.
If a person's pancreas does not make enough insulin, or his or her body does not respond to insulin (called insulin resistance), this can result in high blood glucose levels and diabetes.
This is why a person with diabetes may need daily insulin injections.
However, a complication of treating diabetes is that it can actually cause hypoglycemia in certain circumstances.
Watch this video to see how glucose is normally taken up from the bloodstream by cells, and how problems with this process define the two main types of diabetes: type I and type II.
This video shows  how glucose is normally taken up from the bloodstream by cells, and how problems with this process can cause diabetes.
This video shows  how glucose is normally taken up from the bloodstream by cells, and how problems with this process can cause diabetes.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rPLjSY00JlE  In this food science project, you will investigate the concentration of glucose, sucrose, and lactose in different foods commonly used in smoothies and milkshakes, and how the conversion of sucrose and lactose to glucose (using the enzymes invertase and lactase, respectively) changes how much glucose we actually digest from these drinks.
If someone has hypoglycemia and needs a fast glucose boost, you will figure out what would be the best drink to make using the ingredients you test.
Which foods should be avoided?
(Hint: While sucrose and lactase can be converted to glucose, this takes some time to happen, so they probably are not good to use if a fast glucose boost is needed.)
If someone has type II diabetes, which foods should be eaten in moderation, not only because they are high in glucose, but also because they are high in sucrose and/or lactose?
On the other hand, which foods may be safe for someone with type II diabetes to eat since they do not change blood glucose levels much?
To measure glucose concentrations, you will use glucose test strips.
These strips were developed to help people with diabetes monitor their glucose levels (by measuring the amount of glucose in their urine).
When you dip the test strip into a liquid, such as orange juice, it will change color if glucose is present.
The degree of color change depends on the concentration of glucose.
After you treat each food item with invertase, and then with lactase, you will be able to use the glucose test strips to figure out relatively how much glucose, sucrose, and lactose is in each ingredient and how much glucose may end up in our bodies.What ingredients do you think could be combined to make a tasty milkshake or smoothie that does not change someone's blood levels much, if at all?
What about making a delicious drink that gives someone an immediate glucose boost, or, alternatively, does not give a quick glucose boost but instead gives a glucose boost over time?
Get ready to test some ingredients and design some delicious milkshake or smoothie recipes to answer these questions!
Investigate how digestive enzymes convert sucrose and lactose into glucose, and use this information to evaluate the glucose content of your own smoothie recipes.
In this science project you determined the relative concentration of sucrose and lactose in each ingredient you tested.
You could also try to calculate the actual concentrations, but this is more challenging.
If you want to figure out how to do this, see the Procedure of the science project Sucrose & Glucose & Fructose, Oh My!
Uncovering Hidden Sugar in Your Food.
Specifically, read about the linear time point (discussed around Figure 4) and then go to the section on "Analyzing Your Results" and look at step 2.
The most accurate way to calculate product concentrations based on enzyme activity is using the linear time point, as discussed in that science project idea, but in the current science project idea you can get a rough idea of the actual sucrose and lactose concentrations in your ingredients by using the time points you arrived at to take the glucose measurements.
Keep in mind that this should be when the enzyme has reached a plateau of converting the sugars (sucrose or lactose) to glucose (not when only half is converted).
Are the actual concentrations of sucrose and lactose what you would expect for the different ingredients?When a person with diabetes has low blood glucose, he or she needs to eat or drink something with glucose in it right away.
How much of the different ingredients you tested would need to be consumed to provide 4 g of glucose quickly?
How much longer would it take for a food with relatively more sucrose or lactose to be converted into 4 g of glucose?
Tip: Keep in mind that since 2 g of glucose in 100 mL of water would give a 2% glucose reading, 0.3 g in 15 mL would likewise give a 2% reading.
You can find out more about blood sugar levels after eating a meal by watching this video: Blood sugar levels.
Enzyme activity can be significantly affected by pH.
Pick an ingredient you tested that had a lot of sucrose or lactose, or just use a sucrose or lactose solution, and add an acid or a base to make it more acidic or more basic.
Check the pH of the solutions using pH test strips and then test the invertase or lactase (or both, as you did in this science project) activity in each.
At which pH did the enzyme(s) work best?
Which pH was worst?
How might this have affected your results in this science project?
For more information on acids, bases, and pH, see Acids, Bases, & the pH Scale.
Alternatively, you could try varying the temperature, which can also affect enzyme activity.In this science project you tried to mimic one type of chemical reaction that occurs in the human digestive system, but it can be very difficult to mimic an entire biological system.
How could you make this science project more similar to what happens in the human digestive system?
Do some research on foods that people who are lactose intolerant should avoid, and then compare them with your results.
Based on your results, can you figure out how little lactose is needed to trigger an unpleasant digestive response in most people who are lactose intolerant?
Are you surprised by your results?
In other words, is more or less lactose than you expected needed for such a response?
Can you make the smoothie and/or milkshake recipes you devised at the end of this science project healthier, perhaps with less fat and/or fewer calories?For similar science projects on glucose, sucrose, and/or lactose, see:Sucrose & Glucose & Fructose, Oh My!
Uncovering Hidden Sugar in Your Food.For a less-advanced science project, see I Love Ice Cream, But It Doesn't Love Me: Understanding Lactose Intolerance.For a less-advanced science project, see How Sweet It Is!
Measuring Glucose in Your Food.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  570thanh said:  2014-12-29 17:40:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned about a tiny section of chemistry since I am not at that part yet.
I also learned about the differences of these sugars.
What problems did you encounter?
The problem I encounter the most was understanding the instructions especially in the third part where you test your selected ingredients.
The second part was trying to match up with the solutions shown in the first part where you test the glucose test strips.
I did not use red dyed glucose tablets since they were out of stock.
I use orange ones which were harder to match up to the example in the picture.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
My only suggestion is to be clearer on the instructions especially in the third part where you test your selected ingredients.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, human biology, health, cooking, food science, glucose, lactose, lactase, invertase, sucrose, diabetes, sugar, smoothies, milkshakes, recipes, digestive enzymes Sugar Carbohydrates Sucrose Glucose Monosaccharides Catalyst Enzymes Sucrase Invertase Lactose Lactase Lactose intolerant Lactose tolerant Blood glucose level Insulin Hypoglycemia Hyperglycemia Insulin resistance Control Positive control Negative control Dilution series
