 Go Wild!
Try a Wildcard  Everybody's favorite card in UNO is the wildcardwhy?
Because it can stand for any card you want!
Your computer uses the same idea.
A wildcard on your computer can stand for anything you want when you search.
Do this science project to find out if using wildcards to conduct a search can help you find more of what you're looking for.
When you search on a computer, you type in special words called search terms.
Search terms are orders for the computer to find matches for what you want from a database.
A computer database contains information, such as things that people can buy or books that students can check out.
Search terms help find what you want in a database.
Sometimes search terms can have different spellings and ways they can be changed, such as adding a suffix.
Instead of typing all of these possibilities, you can use wildcards as symbols to get the computer to look for all the spellings and changes to the search term.
An (*), which is called an asterisk, is the most common wildcard symbol.A search term can have a wildcard in any position that is normally a letter.
The (*) acts as a substitute for any number of letters.
It can appear in any position of a word, either at the beginning, middle, or end of a word.
See Table 1 for examples.
Databases often have different rules about using wildcards.
Almost all databases allow wildcards in the middle of a search term (as in La*ra) or the end of a word (as in run*).
However, not all databases allow wildcards at the beginning of a search term (as in *ball) or in between words (as in three * mice).
You will have to experiment with the database you choose to see what is allowed and what is not.
Search Term   Some Matches           humo*r   humor, humour       La*ra   Laura, Lara       run*   run, runner, runners, running       doll*   doll, dolls, dollhouse, dolly       rocket*    rocket, rockets, rocketry, rocketman, rocketeer        *ball   baseball, basketball, football       three * mice   three blind mice, three clever mice, three kind mice       Table 1.This table shows that you can put a wildcard in many different places in a word.
You can put it in front of letters, between letters, or at the end of a group of letters.
Or you can even put it between other whole words.
You can use wildcards as a way to retrieve more information when searching for something in a database.
An example of a database is an online library catalog.
For example, if you wanted to search for a book about females in history you could run two keyword searches, one for "women history" and the other for "woman history."
However, it would be easier and faster to do a single search using a wildcard: "wom*n history."
Similarly, a wildcard is useful if the search term can be spelled in different ways like color (American spelling) and colour (British spelling).
In this case, you could search using "colo*r" to find entries with both spellings.
Wildcards should collect more results faster.In this science project, you will search for a topic using an online library catalog.
By using wildcards in different places, you can test whether using a wildcard will get better results from your search.
Find out whether wildcards help you get more results from a computer search.
For another Science Buddies science project on using search engines, try Ready, Set, Search!
Race to the Right Answer.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  webmastersss said:  2013-07-21 03:46:03 What was the most important thing you learned?
projeyi yapabilirim kendime inan?yorum What problems did you encounter?
projeyi yapabilirim kendime inan?yorum Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
projeyi yapabilirim kendime inan?yorum Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment wildcard, computer search, search term, how to search, search tricks, search results, database, computer, library catalog Search term Database Wildcard Keyword Conclusions
