 Watch Out!
That Wild Animal Might Be Rabid!
The word rabid often makes people think of an animal that is extremely violent, crazy, and maybe even foaming at the mouth.
But not all animals infected with the rabies disease fit that description.
Nevertheless, it is important to avoid animals that have rabies so that you don't get infected.
So which wild animals are likely to carry rabies?
This science fair project will help you discover the answer!
Watch out for animals that are behaving strangelythey might have rabies!
What is rabies anyway?
It's a disease caused by a virus, the smallest type of germ, that attacks the nervous system of  mammals.
The nervous system, which includes the brain, spinal cord, and all the nerves in an animal's body, controls the movements and actions of an animal.
When the rabies virus attacks an animal's nervous system, it damages it and changes the animal's behavior.
Sometimes the animal becomes violent, sometimes it becomes paralyzed, and sometimes it just acts strangely.
For example, a rabid (which means infected with rabies) raccoon might be active during the daytime, which would be odd since raccoons are normally active at night.
If left untreated, rabies will eventually cause so much damage to the nervous system that the animal dies.
However, if the disease is discovered early enough, rabies is treatable, which is why very few humans in the United States die of rabies.How does a mammal get rabies?
Well, rabies is usually spread when bodily fluid from a rabid mammal gets into the body of an uninfected mammal.
Some of the virus gets into the healthy mammal's body, then the virus multiplies and travels throughout the nervous system, causing symptoms to appear.
When people and domestic animals, like cats, dogs, and farm animals, get rabies it is usually because of a bite from a wild animal.
For that reason, it's a good idea to know which wild animals are most likely to carry the rabies virus.
Do you think the wild animal most likely to be infected with rabies changes from one region of the United States to another?
You can discover the answer to this and other questions by doing this science fair project.
You'll use the data collected by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to make a map of the United States and color-code each state according to the type of wild animal that is most likely to carry the rabies virus in that state.
Once you've made the map, you'll be able to quickly identify patterns in the data.
Figure 1.
Bats (Jeffdelonge, 2005) and raccoons (Darkone, 2005) are two types of wild animals that are more likely to carry the rabies virus.
Determine which wild animals are most likely to be infected with rabies and whether the answer changes in different parts of the United States.
Do some areas of the United States have more diagnosed cases of rabies in wild animals than other areas?
Use the same procedure as above to find out; this time have your colors represent the total number of rabies cases reported in wild animals.
Hint: you'll need to have each color represent a range of numbers; for example, red would be 0-50 cases, orange would be 51-100 cases, and so forth.
How frequent are rabies cases in domestic animals in different parts of the United States?
To find out, try the Experimental Procedure outlined above with the CDC data for domestic animals.
Have the types of wild animals carrying rabies changed over time?
Compare the map you made above with one made from 2009 data.
You can find 2009 data in this rabies report from the CDC.
Explore More!Interested in the science behind viral outbreaks?
Check out Zika Virus.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Mammalian Biology Project, rabies, science fair project idea, rabid, disease, virus, mammal, wild animal, domestic animal Rabies Virus Mammal Nervous system Domestic animal
