 Column Chromatography: Can you Separate the Dyes in Grape Soda Using Space Sand?
What color is grape soda?
If you pour it into a clear glass you can easily see it is purple, but that is usually not its natural color.
Manufacturers add red and blue dye to the soda.
The dyes mix together and you get purple soda.
What if you wanted to un-mix the dyes, could you?
Yes!
In a chemistry laboratory, using a technique called column chromatography, you could separate the two dyes again.
But what about at home, can you use low-tech supplies to do the same thing?
In this science project you will try to do just that using some interesting materials including a toy/craft product called Space Sand.
Grape soda usually looks purple, not because of grapes, but because of the two different food colorings in it, blue 1 and red 40.
While you cannot tell that those two different food colorings are in it just by looking at the purple soda, you may be able to use a do it yourself version of a chemistry technique called column chromatography to separate the two food colorings and see them for yourself.
Chromatography is a group of techniques that are used to separate different chemicals in a mixture based on certain characteristics, or chemical properties, they have.
For example, if a scientist wants to study a specific protein that is in a sample of human blood, they might be able to use chromatography to isolate it from everything else that is in the blood.
Column chromatography is a chromatography technique that typically uses a long, vertical, transparent tube, or column.
It is filled with small particles (in the form of a dry powder or a wet slurry) that are tightly packed.
A mixture of chemicals is poured in the top of the column, and at the bottom, the different chemicals should come out separately.
See Figure 1 for a diagram of this process.
Here are details on the key components that a typical column chromatography setup has:Stationary phase: The stationary phase is made up of the small particles that the column is filled with.
The particles remain stationary, or do not move, while liquids flow through the column.
The particles are typically some kind of modified silica, also known as silicon dioxide, that interacts differently with the different chemicals in the mixture.
Sand is commonly made of silica.
The mixture to be separated: This is typically a mixture of different chemicals.
For example, it could be a sample of human blood.
Often, a researcher wants to isolate one of the chemicals, separating it from everything else in the mixture.
The chemicals are separated based on their different chemical properties, and how they interact with the stationary phase and the mobile phase.
We will talk about this more in a moment.
Mobile phase: The mobile phase is a liquid that is also called the eluent.
The purpose of the mobile phase is to separate the different chemicals in the mixture.
To do this, the mobile phase is poured into the column and moves down through the column, flowing with or without the different chemicals in the mixture.
It selectively moves the chemicals because the mobile phase is a solvent, or a type of liquid that dissolves specific chemicals.Collection containers: Underneath the column, a collection containersuch as a cup or test tubeis placed to collect the chemicals as they flow out of the column.
All of the liquid that comes out the bottom is called the eluate (including what was formerly the mobile phase and the mixture to be separated).
Usually, several containers are used over time.
Figure 1.
In a column chromatography setup, the column is first filled with a stationary phase (often similar to sand).
(Sometimes the stationary phase is then equilibrated, which prepares the column for adding the mixture, by adding some of the mobile phase.)
The mixture that will be separated (like grape soda or human blood) is then added at the top, and the mobile phase (or eluent) is added to wash the mixture through the column.
The different chemicals should separate in the column and come out at different times through the bottom of the column, as the eluate, into a collection container.
The chemicals should become separated in the column and flow out the bottom at different times, allowing you to collect each one in a different container.
Each different container of collected eluate is called a fraction.
The result is several containers that each have a different, isolated chemical from the mixture.
Researchers can then use the cup (or cups) that has their chemical of interest.
Watch this video to see how column chromatography is commonly done in a laboratory.
Note: The column chromatography method in this science project is much simpler than how it is done in this video, but many basic principles of how it is done are the same.
This video shows how column chromatography is commonly done in a laboratory.
Note that the stationary phase is prepared with some mobile phase to equilibrate the column.
Keep in mind that how you will do column chromatography in this science project is much simpler than what is shown in the video.Watch this column chromatography YouTube video.
Note that the stationary phase is prepared with some mobile phase to equilibrate the column.
Keep in mind that how you will do column chromatography in this science project is much simpler than what is shown in the video.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=EytuRMS1154  Figure 2 shows a diagram of the general column chromatography process, as was described in detail in the video.
In Figure 2, you can see that after the stationary phase (gray) is added, the mobile phase (light blue) is added to equilibrate the column.
Next, the mixture to be separated (purple) is added, followed by additional mobile phase to wash the mixture through the column.
The components of the mixture (blue and red) are separated in the column and end up in different collection cups underneath the column.
Figure 2.
Ideally, in column chromatography, the different chemicals in the mixture become separated in the column and come out the bottom at different times.
For example, in this diagram, the red chemical travels faster through the column and comes out before, and separately from, the blue chemical (as they are washed through the column with the light blue mobile phase).
Different containers are used to collect the eluate so that the chemicals are separated.
So what makes the chemicals separate in the column?
In other words, why do some chemicals flow faster through the column than others?
As previously mentioned, the chemicals can be separated by their chemical properties.
One chemical property that is often used for this is chemical polarity, which refers to how the negative and positive charges are separated in a chemical.
For example, water is a polar chemical because it has slightly different charges on different places; its oxygen has a slight negative charge and its two hydrogens have a slight positive charge, as shown in Figure 3.
On the other hand, a chemical can be nonpolar if its charges are spread equally throughout the chemical.
Oil and ethane are both good examples of nonpolar chemicals.
Figure 3.
Water (H2O) is a polar chemical because its negative and positive charges are separated.
Ethane (C2H6) is a nonpolar chemical because its charges are spread out equally.A chemical's polarity can affect its solubility, or how well it dissolves in different solvents.
Generally, nonpolar molecules are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve well in water (think of how water and oil do not mix), while polar molecules are hydrophilic, meaning they do dissolve well in water.
Overall, this means that a given mobile phase may dissolve a certain chemical and make it flow quickly through a column, along with the mobile phase itself, but that same mobile phase may not dissolve another chemical, leaving it stuck (or moving slower) in the column.
This is how chemical polarity can be used to separate two different chemicals in a mixture.Let us get back to the question of whether you can use column chromatography to separate some common mixtures, such as artificially colored beverages like grape soda.
As mentioned, grape soda contains two different food colorings, blue 1 and red 40.
(Typical grape soda contains many other ingredients, too, but these are harder to see; if you could separate the dyes, it would be much easier to see if your efforts were successful.)
Food coloring, or food dye, is made up of dye molecules.
(You can confirm that a food has these dyes by looking at the ingredients lists on the packaging, often listed as "FD&C" followed by a color and number, such as "FD&C Blue No.
1," or sometimes just listed as "blue 1.")
Blue 1 and red 40 are both relatively nonpolar.
However, red is slightly more polar than blue.
This slight difference is enough for a chromatography column in a research laboratory to separate the different dyes, but could you do this with a homemade setup?In this science project, you will make your own homemade column chromatography setup and determine whether your setup can separate the blue and red food colorings from a sample of grape soda.
To do this, you will be making a complex, powerful piece of laboratory equipment at home, using relatively inexpensive parts!
You will use a nonpolar stationary phase, which should interact with, and grab onto, other chemicals that are nonpolar, like blue 1 and red 40.
But how well it grabs them depends on how nonpolar they are, so it should hold onto the blue 1 slightly better than the red 40.
You will use a specific product called Space Sand as your stationary phase.
This will be packed into a plastic syringe, serving as your column.
Space SandTM (also known as Magic Sand) is silica that has been modified with a nonpolar coating, making it hydrophobic (specifically, it has had chains of carbon and hydrogen added to it).
To see just how hydrophobic Space Sand is, see Figure 4 which shows a picture of a water droplet on some of this sand.
It is commercially sold as a toy because it is fun and it is fascinating to watch how it interacts with water.
Space Sand is similar to nonpolar stationary phases used in laboratoriesboth are silica that has been modified to be hydrophobicbut Space Sand is not quite as hydrophobic as the modified silica usually used in laboratories.
Will the Space Sand be hydrophobic enough to separate the blue 1 and red 40?
For your mobile phase, you will use 70% isopropyl alcohol, which is more nonpolar than pure water and can act as a nonpolar solvent, so it should dissolve nonpolar chemicals that are in the stationary phase, letting them flow through the column.
Figure 4.
A water droplet on Space Sand balls up because the sand is very hydrophobic.Pop open a can of grape soda and get ready to find out whether your homemade column chromatography setup can separate the food colorings inside!
Investigate whether a homemade column chromatography setup can be used to separate and isolate the different food colorings that are in grape soda.
Many different artificial beverages, dry beverage mixes, and other foods contain different food colorings.
Use your column chromatography setup to separate food coloring mixtures in other beverages or food.
Do you need to change the stationary and/or mobile phase(s) for it to work?
In this science project, you created a homemade column chromatography setup that may have worked well, but can you make it work even better?
For example, could changing the amount of grape soda, type of mobile phase, number of collection cups used, or amount of sand in the column improve your results?
(Important: If you use a different mobile phase, be sure to take the proper safety precautions for using any of the chemicals).
What about trying different concentrations of your mobile phase?
You could check out the resources in the Bibliography in the Background for more information on column chromatography and to get ideas of how to improve your setup.Make a column chromatography setup that is even easier for people to make at home.
For example, you probably had to order syringes to do this science project.
Could you replace them with something that is more common, such as plastic water bottles that have their bottoms cut off and are flipped upside down?
If you do this, how can you prevent the sand from leaking out?
Since the bottle is probably larger than the syringe, will you need to increase the amount of materials (e.g., sand, grape soda, isopropyl alcohol, etc.)
that you use?
Can you let the mobile phase flow out just by using gravity?
There can be a lot of challenges, but making a technique like this available to more people can be very rewarding!You can make your own hydrophobic sand at home and then compare how it works in your homemade column chromatography setup to how the Space Sand worked.
To make hydrophobic sand, make a thin one- to two-grain-thick layer of sand on a cookie sheet and spray the sand with a spray-on water repellent.
Be sure to work in a well-ventilated area, follow all safety precautions, and use a cookie sheet that can be discarded afterwards (you should not use it with food).
You will want to repeat this process several times to thoroughly coat the sand: Mix the sand after spraying it to spread around the spray, let the sand dry, turn the sand over and spray it again.
Let the sand completely dry before testing it with a drop of water to see if it is hydrophobic (if it is, it should look similar to Figure 4 in the Introduction).
Does it work as well, or better than, the Space Sand?For other science projects on chromatography see:Paper Chromatography: Is Black Ink Really Black?Candy Chromatography: What Makes Those Colors?Paper Chromatography: Advanced Version 1Paper Chromatography: Advanced Version 2Reveal the Red: Exploring the Chemistry of Red Flower PigmentsSizing It Up!
How Scientists Separate ProteinsFor other science projects on food coloring dyes see:Candy Chromatography: What Makes Those Colors?Forensic Science: Building Your Own Tool for Identifying DNAWhat Makes Candies So Colorful?
Investigate How Gel Electrophoresis Unlocks the Color Code!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  da15yb0rja said:  2016-12-30 15:37:35 What was the most important thing you learned?
That you can do many cool and amazing things throughout science.
What problems did you encounter?
I had the same information for all trials but that was because I used the same materials for every procedure Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Sook said:  2014-11-07 22:04:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
What column chromatography is and that the colors of sodas are not natural.
What problems did you encounter?
The project was a little lenghty.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    tcookiemons said:  2014-11-06 14:20:47 What was the most important thing you learned?
You can make your own hydrophobic sand at home and then compare how it works in your homemade column chromatography setup to how the Space Sand worked What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Chhavi123 said:  2014-03-09 12:09:08 What was the most important thing you learned?
1.
Column Chromatography2.
TIme management What problems did you encounter?
1.
Finding Space Sand Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    mrmanman said:  2013-12-10 22:23:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that not everything is naturally colored.
What problems did you encounter?
Getting syringes.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, biotechnology techniques, lab techniques, food science, chemistry, column chromatography, eluate, solvent, eluent, hydrophobic, nonpolar, chromatography, about chromatography Chromatography Column chromatography Stationary phase Silica, or silicon dioxide Mobile phase, or eluent Solvent Eluate Column chromatography fractions Chemical polarity Charges Polar Nonpolar Solubility Hydrophobic Hydrophilic Food coloring
