 LED Traffic Glove: Build a Safety Device to Direct Traffic  From traffic safety lights to neon signs, lights have a way of getting peoples' attention.
So it makes sense that if a person wants to get attention, wearing clothing with built-in lights might help.
These types of clothing, called electronic textiles (or e-textiles for short) already exist.
Instead of using hard surfaces for circuits (like inside your computer or cell phone), e-textiles weave electrical parts like batteries, wires, and lights directly into wearable clothing so it can do fun, interesting things like light up or respond to sound.
While sometimes e-textiles are purely for decorative or fashion purposes, you can also use them to make useful tools, from traffic control devices to medical instruments.
In this science project you will build a traffic control glove that has red and green LEDs to indicate "stop" and "go" signals to motorists and pedestrians.
How much attention will your glove get?
Clothing that lights up might sound like something out of a science-fiction movie, but electronic textiles (or e-textiles for short)  also called "wearable electronics"  are actually used in the real world for both decorative and practical purposes.
For example, some T-shirts contain strings of lights that light up in response to sound (you can find them online by searching for "LED shirt").
Some police officers use traffic control gloves that flash with built-in red and green lights to give stop-and-go signals to traffic:A promotional video for light-up traffic control gloves.
There are several types of gloves made by different companies, but the general concept is that the wearer's hand motions control red and green lights on the glove, indicating "stop" and "go" respectively.Watch this  promotional video for light-up traffic control gloves.
There are several types of gloves made by different companies, but the general concept is that the wearer's hand motions control red and green lights on the glove, indicating "stop" and "go" respectively.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=zYwut0_CrvE  In this science project, you will design and build your own light-up traffic control glove using the engineering design process, with our directions as a guide to get you started.
(Note: The engineering design process is different from the scientific method that you may be more familiar with  we will provide more details in the Procedure section and you can get an overview from our Comparing the Engineering Design Process and Scientific Method page.)
But before you begin, you will need to know some basics about electrical circuits.
An electrical circuit is a path through which electricity flows via  conductors, or materials that conduct electricity.
Electrical circuits usually also have insulators, or materials that do not conduct electricity, in order to prevent electricity from flowing to the wrong places, such as outside of the circuit.
For example, wires used in electrical circuits, like the ones shown in Figure 1, are usually made  of a thin copper wire surrounded by rubber.
The copper in the middle conducts electricity and the rubber acts as an insulator.
Before continuing this project, you should also be familiar with the concepts of voltage, current, and resistance.
You can read more about these concepts in the Science Buddies Electronics Primer: Introduction.
You can also read more general bacground information about electricity in the Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.
In this project, you will build a circuit that uses four main components:A battery is the power supply for your circuit.
Batteries have a positive terminal and a negative terminal.
When they are connected with wires and other conductors, electrical current flows from the positive terminal to the negative terminal.Light-emitting diodes, or LEDs for short, are the lights in your circuit.
A diode is like a one-way valve for electricity that lets current flow only in one direction.
LEDs have two wires sticking out of them called leads (pronounced "leeds"), one positive and one negative.
When current flows through LEDs from the positive lead to the negative lead, they light up.
Resistors resist the flow of electrical current.
They are important to use because too much current flowing through an LED can cause it to burn out.
Resistors also have two leads sticking out of them, but unlike LEDs, current can flow through a resistor in either direction.A switch is used to turn parts of a circuit on or off (we will talk more about switches).To do this science project, it will be helpful for you to know how to read a circuit diagram, which is a drawing that engineers and electricians use to represent electrical circuits.
Circuit diagrams use different symbols for real-world circuit components.
Figure 1 shows three representations of a simple circuit with a battery, resistor, and LED: a photograph, a computer drawing, and a circuit diagram.
Figure 1.
Three different representations of the same simple circuit with a battery, resistor, and LED.
On the left is a photograph of the actual circuit with the real components.
In the middle is a computer drawing of the same circuit, except each component is drawn to look like the object in the photograph of the real circuit.
On the right is the circuit diagram, which uses symbols to represent real-world objects.
Notice how the symbols do not look exactly like the real world object.
This might seem confusing at first, but it is useful because not all batteries (or resistors or LEDs) look the same.
For example, "coin cell" batteries that power wrist watches look significantly different from AAA batteries.
A traffic control glove requires green LEDs to give a "go" signal and red LEDs for a "stop" signal, just like a real traffic light.
You want to control when the right LEDs are on or off, so you must use a switch.
Electrical switches come in many varieties  you are probably most familiar with the light switches in your house.
Switches can be used to control whether a circuit is open or closed.
In an open circuit, electricity cannot flow in a complete (or "closed") loop, so the LEDs will not light up.
In a closed circuit, the electricity follows an unbroken path, so the LEDs will light up.
Figure 2 shows a circuit that uses two different switches to control sets of red and green LEDs independently.
If one path is closed and the other open, the LEDs on the closed path will light up while the ones on the open path will not.
If both paths are closed, both sets of LEDs will light up, and if both paths are open, none of the LEDs will light up.
In this science project, you will have to build switches into your traffic glove that let you  control the LEDs by pinching your fingers together.
Figure 2.
Each circuit diagram depicted in the animation shows eight LEDs (four red and four green) powered by a single battery.
Two independent switches control whether all eight LEDs, only red LEDs, only green LEDs, or no LEDs are turned on at any given time.
Many electrical circuits are built inside hard plastic or metal cases: for example, cell phones, TVs, and computers.
However, in this science project you will design an electrical circuit that literally has to fit like a glove.
You must place the circuit directly on the flexible fabric of a glove so that it is comfortable to wear and easy to use.
This means that you need to consider ergonomics when you design your glove.
Ergonomics is the study of how devices and products comfortably fit the human body, something design engineers take into consideration when developing many of the products you use every day.
For example, the ergonomics of office chairs and computer keyboards is vitally important for office workers who might spend eight hours a day sitting at a desk.
Consumer electronics devices like cell phones, MP3 players, and video game controllers must be ergonomic and fit easily into the human hand.
For example, in Figure 3, can you see the differences in the design of three successive generations of Nintendo video game controllers?
Figure 3.
Three generations of video game controllers from the original Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES), and Nintendo 64 (N64).
Can you see how the controllers evolved to be more ergonomic and fit the human hand better?
(Wikimedia Commons user Evan-Amos, 2010)  Can you think of other products you use every day that were designed to be ergonomic?
What important design criteria do you think you will use for your traffic glove that involve ergonomics?
Design and build an LED traffic glove with red and green LEDs for stop and go signals.
If you search for "LilyPad" on    SparkFun's website or browse the LilyPad homepage, there are many other parts, including sensors, designed to be used with e-textiles.
Can you think of new things to include in your LED glove circuit that would improve its functionality?
Can you make a more advanced LED glove with a blinking array of LEDs, or LEDs that light up in different patterns (like an "X" or "> > >" symbol")?LilyPad Arduino accessories are designed to be used with conductive thread (various types are available from SparkFun Electronics), so they can be sewn directly into fabric and not require wires.
If you know how to sew (or have an adult helper who knows how to sew), can you make the connections in this project by sewing them in instead of using wires?
The directions for this turn signal bike jacket might help you get started.
If you enjoyed this project, you might also like the Science Buddies LED Dance Glove project.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  mattmulder said:  2014-05-21 16:28:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
How to solder What problems did you encounter?
Copper tape wasn't available on SparkFun, the website the creator recommended.
That change made me make my glove w/ 8 red LEDs on the palm side.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
TOTALLY!
I could not move my hand in the glove because the wires were very strong.
USCONDUCTIVTHREAD!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    jolandajacobs said:  2014-02-16 08:21:47 What was the most important thing you learned?
i need to submit a question.
What problems did you encounter?
looking for why i am doing this project.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Electronic textiles E-textiles Electrical circuit Conductor Insulator Voltage Current Resistance Battery Positive Negative Light Emitting Diode (LED) Leads Resistor Switch Circuit diagram Symbols Open circuit Closed circuit Ergonomics Prototype Parallel circuit Series circuit Ground
