 Heart Rate Recovery Times  Over an average lifetime, the human heart beats more than 2.5 billion times, supplying blood to the entire body.
When a person exercises, the heart has to work harder than usual.
Have you ever wondered how quickly your heart beats when you exercise, or how long it takes to recover back to its normal rate after you are done exercising?
Is the heart rate recovery time faster for people who get regular exercise compared to people who do not?
Try out this science project to find out!
An average-sized adult has about 5.5 liters of blood, which the heart circulates about three times every minute.
Your heart is constantly beatingeven before birth!to keep the blood circulating.
The heart of an average 65-year-old person has contracted more than 2.5 billion times.
That is a lot of heartbeats!
You can see a picture of a real human heart in Figure 1, below.
Figure 1.
A human heart.
Experts on cardiac health tell us that the best way to keep our hearts healthy are through a balanced diet, avoiding smoking, and exercising regularly.
Exercise that is good for your heart should elevate your heart rate.
Heart rate is a measure of how many times a person's heart beats in a minute (technically measured in beats per minute, or bpm.)
The American Heart Association recommends that you do exercise that increases your heart rate to your target heart rate zone for at least 30 minutes most days, or a total of about 150 minutes a week.
Your target heart rate zone is 50 to 85% of your maximum heart rate, which is 220 bpm minus your age.
For example, if you are 30 years old, your maximum heart rate would be 190 bpm (since 220 minus 30 equals 190), and your target heart rate zone would be 95 to 143 bpm (since this is 50 to 85% of 190 bpm).
After exercise, your heart needs some time to recover, or go back down to its normal resting heart rate.
How long it takes for the heart to return to its resting heart rate is referred to as the heart rate recovery time.
What do you think your heart rate recovery time is?
In this human biology science project, you will determine whether athletes (who regularly exercise and therefore likely have healthier hearts) have faster heart rate recovery times than non-athletes.
So round up some volunteers who want to get a little exercise and get your stopwatch ready!
To determine whether athletes have faster heart rate recovery times than non-athletes.
Do heart rate recovery times increase with age?
Design an experiment to find out.
Try to think of ways to address the issue of activity levels changing with age.
Can you separate the two variables of age and activity level?Do smokers have increased heart rate recovery times compared to non-smokers?
Design an experiment to find out.
Again, it is possible that differences in activity levels might be part of the difference, so see if you can think of a way to separate the two variables of smoking history and activity level.For related Science Buddies science project ideas, seeHeart Health: How Does Heart Rate Change with Exercise?Breath of Life: Does Exercise Increase Vital Capacity?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
human biology, science project, heart, heart rate, pulse rate, cardiovascular, beats per minute, exercise, heart rate recovery, resting heart rate Heart rate Target heart rate zone Maximum heart rate Resting heart rate Heart rate recovery The cardiovascular system
