 Go Fish!
Creating an Ocean-Friendly Fishing Video Game  Video games are entertainment, but like other such media (say Oscar-winning movies or award-winning books), they can also point out challenges facing people.
In this science project, you will design and create a fishing video game that teaches the player about which fish are plentiful enough to catch and which fish are not because their population is declining.
Maybe your game can help solve the problem of over-fishing and help sustain healthy fish populations.
All while having fun of course!
Do you fish?
Many people see fishing as a fun hobby, whether they do it off the side of a dock, from the deck of a sport-fishing boat, or even from the comfort of their couch with a fishing video game.
But for others, fishing is not just a hobby  it is a job and a way to put food on tables across the world.
The problem is some fish populations are declining quickly worldwide, and reports suggest that these changes are affecting the jobs of fishermen, the health of the oceans, and even the hobby of a weekend fisher.
Part of the solution may lie in changing, at least temporarily, what fish humans eat in order to give the endangered fish populations time to recover.
Marine research and education organizations like aquariums are strong advocates of this approach.
But the question is: How do you get the message out about which fish are environmentally responsible to eat and which are not?
The answer may lie in another form of entertainment  video games!In this video and computer game project, you will educate your players about the fragility of ocean life by making a computer fishing game.
You will use an easy-to-learn programming software called GameMaker to create your video game.
The great thing about GameMaker is that you can download the lite version from the Internet and it's free.
The Procedure will point you to several tutorials and help documents available online that will introduce you to GameMaker and assist you in making a successful game even if you have never programmed before.
You can join the effort to save the oceans by teaching your friends and family about the kinds of fish that are plentiful enough to eat and others that are declining and would be better left alone.
Before you dive into creating your video game, however, you might want to know a little more about what is happening to the fish under the ocean surface.
Scientists estimate that human activity has led to the removal of 90% of the world's predatory fish, including sharks, swordfish, and codfish.
According to the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch, factors that affect ocean life, specifically fish species, are overfishing, illegal fishing, habitat damage, bycatch, and lack of management.
Let us look at overfishing, illegal fishing, and bycatch.
Overfishing is the act of catching fish faster than they can replace themselves.
Fish like orange roughy (see Figure 1, which shows a trawler net of the fish) and rockfish don't reach breeding age for several decades and are vulnerable to overfishing.
Rockfish, a species that inhabits waters along the West Coast of the United States and can live to be 100 years old, has been severely depleted due to overfishing.
In 1992, the codfish population in Canada collapsed due to overfishing.
Approximately 40,000 people lost their jobs, and the codfish population has not recovered.
Figure 1.
This trawler net is full of orange roughy and bycatch caught in international waters in the Tasman Sea.
Orange roughy can live up to 150  years.
( Greenpeace/Roger Grace) Some desperate pirate fishermen are willing to break the law to make an income.
Unfortunately, this affects worldwide fish populations.
Pirate fishermen take undersized fish illegally, fish in closed areas, take more fish than allocated to them, or use illegal gear.
Illegal fishing puts unsustainable pressure on fish stocks and habitats because the fish needed to build the next generation are lost.Bycatch occurs when fishermen use less selective equipment, like bottom trawls and longlines, to catch fish, and instead of just catching the fish they want, also catch fish that they don't want.
The fishermen often throw the bycatch back into the water either dead or dying.
Longlines are hooked and baited lines that can reach lengths of 50 miles.
These devices catch anything that wanders into its path.
Bottom trawls drag along the bottom of the ocean floor catching anything in its wake.
Bycatch isn't just unwanted fish; it can also include sea turtles, whales, dolphins, sharks, and even seabirds.
These practices have left some fish populations severly reduced.
In order to give them the chance to breed and recover, marine biologists are recommending they be fished minimally or not at all.
For that to work, consumers need to get the message so they can make informed choices when buying groceries or dining out.
Your video game can help spread the message in a fun and memorable way.
To design and create a fishing video game in which the player scores points for catching sustainable, or "Best Choice," fish but scores nothing for catching "Avoid" fish.
Make additional rooms in your game based on the region where the player is based.
The player can then choose which room they enter.
If your player is from the Southeast region of the United States, use the regional Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch Pocket Guide from that part of the United States.Experiment with changing the speed of the fish as the game progresses.Indicate to the player when they have caught a good fish or a bad fish.
This will help educate the player about life in the oceans.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  EvanKlugDotCom said:  2011-12-09 11:13:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
sumtin smeellsh fishy i duunno anyway um here my frens What problems did you encounter?
freeeens um space bar      yay um ow munkys Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
MUNKY TURKY DOGGY KITTPONEUM CKICKEN WHAT Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        18                Report Inappropriate Comment    candyshake said:  2011-09-20 17:32:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
that it is fun making a fishing video game What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
16                        10                Report Inappropriate Comment Video and computer games project, GameMaker, video games, computer games, Seafood Watch guide, fishing Predatory Overfishing Illegal fishing Habitat damage Bycatch Breeding age Bottom trawl Longline Flowchart
