 Sweating the Score: Can Video Games Be a Form of Exercise?
Have you ever played a video game that made you break a sweat?
Or pant a little bit?
The majority of video games are sedentary, meaning done in one position, but there is an increasing trend toward video games where the players are physically active.
Do you think these video games can be considered exercise?
This science fair project will help you find out!
Do you ever hear people complaining that they hate to exercise?
Maybe it's even something you say!
But we all know that exercise is good for us.
Physical activity burns calories, strengthens muscles, improves our blood flow, and generally helps our bodies stay healthy.
It can be hard to do something you don't enjoy though, even if you know it's good for you.
That's why doctors often recommend trying to find a sport or other physical activity that you like, because if you enjoy it, you're more likely to continue and get the exercise you need.
Many people play and enjoy video games.
In 2007, almost 30 million video game consoles were bought in the United States and Americans spent over $17 billion on video games (Boyer).
What do you get when you combine people's love of video games with their need to exercise?
The answer is: exercise video games, also known as exergames!
Exergames are electronic games that require the player to be physically active in order to control the on-screen action.
The genre includes a wide list of games, such as dancing games like Dance Dance Revolution and In the Groove, sports games like WiiTM Sport and Eye Toy: Kinetic Combat, and exercise games like Wii Fitness.
But do these exergames actually qualify as exercise?
Figure 1.
Dance Dance Revolution is one of the most popular exergames ever made.
Pictured here is the original arcade  version (Poiuyt Man, 2005).One way to measure whether an activity results in exercise is to measure a person's heart rate, either during or immediately after the activity.
Exercising requires the body to expend energy.
In order to do this, the body uses oxygen.
The more energy that is needed, the more oxygen the body uses.
The heart is responsible for pumping the oxygenated blood throughout the body, so the higher the demand for oxygen, the faster the heart has to beat.
This means that the number of heartbeats per minute, called heart rate, is directly correlated with exercise.
The greater your heart rate, the more you must be exercising.
Everyone has a normal heart rate, which is called your resting heart rate.
It is the number of times your heart beats when you are sitting down or doing other sedentary activities.
People also have maximum heart rates.
What that actual number is depends on a number of factors, including age and genetics.
But generally, a child's maximum heart rate is around 200 beats per minute (bpm).
For people over the age of 20, maximum heart rate is approximated by subtracting their age from 220, as in Equation 1.
Equation 1:    maximum heart rate = 220  person's age in yearsSo, a 30-year-old would have an approximate maximum heart rate of 190 bpm.
Any physical activity that raises a person's heart rate from resting up to at least half (50% or more) of their maximum heart rate, qualifies as exercise.
In this science fair project, you'll measure people's heart rates before and immediately after playing an exergame.
To measure the heart rate, you'll take each person's pulse.
Every time the heart beats, it sends a wave of blood through the blood vessels.
When you put your fingers over a major blood vessel you can feel the waves of blood, and by counting those pulses you can figure out a person's heart rate.
The picture in Figure 2 shows two of the most common places for taking a person's pulse.
Once you've gathered your volunteers' pulse information before and after gaming, you can use that data to calculate whether the volunteers' heart rates increase during game play, and if so, whether the increase is enough to qualify as exercise.
Ready, set, go exergame!
Figure 2.
The carotid artery in the neck, and the radial artery in the wrist, are the two most common places used for measuring someone's pulse.
Notice how the people in these pictures use their index and pointer fingers to gently press the skin until they find the pulse.
In this science fair project you will determine if a physically active video game can increase your heart rate enough to be considered exercise.
Do some exergames alter heart rate more or less than others?
Follow the same procedure as in the experiment above, but do several trials with at least three different exergames.
How do heart rates after 10 minutes of exergaming compare to heart rates after 10 minutes of other physical activities, like jogging in one place, jumping rope, dribbling a ball, or any other activity you can think of?
How many calories do you burn playing regular "sit-down" video games compared to an exergame?
To find out you can use the calorie-counter option on a digital heart monitor while gaming.
Heart monitors are available at most stores that carry exercise and sports equipment.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Elon2000 said:  2012-03-03 12:11:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that not only exercise and stress can affect heart rate.
Also I learned that the video games do not make them go much up but also can make it go down if you are not having fun or board.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
5                        12                Report Inappropriate Comment    brendanbrooks said:  2012-01-10 01:25:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
that the wii is the one that makes you move alot and that the more you move the more you sweat What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
8                        17                Report Inappropriate Comment    EvanKlugDotCom said:  2011-12-09 11:03:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
Video games are cool What problems did you encounter?
Noper Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Make more monkeys yay monkeys Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        18                Report Inappropriate Comment Science fair project idea, Video game project, exergame, exercise, heart rate, pulse, physical activity Calorie Exergame Heart rate Resting heart rate Maximum heart rate Pulse Blood vessel Carotid artery Radial artery Target heart rate
