 Speleology: Counting Formations in a Local Cave  Caves have been used for much more than just exploring throughout Earth's history.
Caves have been used for shelter, for religious purposes, and for burial sites.
They were even used for food storage, before refrigeration, because they are cool and have constant high humidity.
But how are caves formed?
What causes those fantastic formations in caves?
How do cave formations change as you go deeper in the cave?
Get ready for an adventure as you visit a local cave and learn more in this science fair project!
What do you think about when you hear the word cave?
Do you think about a large, dark, scary place like Batman's Batcave?
Caves are actually places of geological wonder and they are a variety of sizes.
A cave is defined as an underground void large enough for a human to enter.
There are four major causes of cave formation: rainfall, lava, waves, and microbes.
There are several kinds of caves, including solution caves, primary caves, sea caves, and glacier caves.
Solution caves are formed by dissolution in limestone or in other kinds of soluble rock, caused by rainfall, along with groundwater mixed with carbonic acid (H2CO3) trickling down through limestone to the water table and dissolving the limestone over time.
Solution caves are usually formed when the area is under the water table.
The solution cave comes to light once the water tables falls.
When the water table falls, secondary mineral deposits, known as speleothems, start to grow.
As rainwater trickles through the limestone ceiling, it picks up carbon dioxide (CO2) and minerals, such as calcium carbonate.
Calcium carbonate is also known as calcite, the main ingredient of limestone, and is derived from marine shells.
Water carries the dissolved calcium carbonate through the rock where it hits the air in the cave and hardens.
The hardened material collects and forms the speleothem.
Stalactites, stalagmites, and helictites are all examples of speleothems.
Figure 1.
These are examples of helictites in Jenolan Caves in Australia.
Helictites seem to defy gravity because of the way they twist around.
(Wikipedia, 2008.)
Primary caves are caves that are formed at the same time as the surrounding rock.
An example of this is a lava tube.
Instead of dissolving rock, a lava flow will slowly solidify over itself and create a tube.
Once the lava flow stops, the lava in the tube drains out, leaving behind the tube.
Sea caves are formed by ocean waves hitting a weakened area of rock.
Salt water is not as erosive as freshwater so the sea cave is formed by the mechanical process of the wave hitting a weakened cliffside rock.Glacier caves are formed within a glacier.
Water finds its way inside a glacier and melts the ice from within.
Air movement can then help enlarge the glacier cave.
Another way that glacier caves are formed is through geothermal heat from volcanic vents.
An example of this is the Kverkfjoll glacier cave in Iceland.
Glaciologists can study glaciers by exploring glacier caves.
Click here   to check out the video "Caves by Marie and Michelle" as they explore the California Cavern.
This video was produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.
Caves do not have direct contact with sunlight.
This affects the kind of food found within caves and thus, the kinds of animals you find inside.
The variety of animals found in caves can be surprising.
Everyone is familiar with bats, but there are also snakes that live in the caves and feed on unsuspecting bats.
On the floor in some caves, cockroaches feed on the bat feces, called guano.
Troglobites are animals that have evolved to live in darkness.
These animals have lost the pigment in their skins and in some cases have also lost their eyes.
Then there are bacteria called extremeophiles that can survive in the harsh conditions of certain caves.In this science fair project, you will investigate your nearest cave system and count the number of speleothems you see in different rooms.
Do the numbers and colors change as you move into the cave?
What about sizes?
This science fair project is based on a DragonflyTV episode, "Caves by Marie and Michelle."
Click on the link to the right to see what they discovered in their local cave system.
Be prepared to be amazed by the speleothems you see!
Figure 2.
This shows the Giant Crystal Cave in the Naica Caves in Mexico.
Note the man standing in the middle!
These giant crystals are made of gypsum.
(Javier Trueba/Madrid Scientific Films.)
To learn more about speleology, and to count the number of speleothems versus distance into a cave.
Take along a set of colored pencils on your next cave trip.
In addition to counting and categorizing the speleothems, draw and record the color of the formations.
Then research the cause of the colors in the formations.
Keep your eyes open for the different kinds of animals that call the cave you are visiting home.
Did the variety of animals change as you moved into the cave?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
speleology, caves, speleothems, temperature, humidity, stalactites, stalagmites, science fair project, geology Dissolution Soluble Water table Speleothem Stalactite Stalagmite Helictite Lava Glaciologist Troglobite Hygrometer
