 Learning Your A, G, C's (and T, too)  This is a project about the "molecular alphabet" of DNA.
With just four "letters," it manages to keep track of the plan for an entire person, and keep a complete copy in nearly every cell.
This project will help you start learning this new alphabet.
DNA is double stranded (a double helix) and made up of base PAIRS.
Adenine on one strand (represented with an "A") always pairs with thymine (represented with a "T") on the other strand.
These are called A~T pairs regardless of which strand has the "A" and which the "T."  Similarly, cytosine on one strand (represented with a "C") always pairs with guanine (represented with a "G") on the other strand, creating G~C pairs.Scientists often represent DNA strands with a string of letters like this:ATATTTGAAAGCTGTGTCTGTAAACTGATGGCTAACAAAACTAGThis string of letters represents only one strand, or one half of the DNA molecule.
There is no need to write down the other strand because as we just described above, a "G" in one strand means there is automatically a "C" in the other strand, just as a "C" in one strand implies that the other contains a "G".Now think of the human genome and all of the genes in it as a VERY large set of blueprints.
Each blueprint is an instruction set for assembling one part or piece of a cell.
Almost every cell in your body carries the same set of blueprints -- so what makes a cell in your brain different from a cell in your stomach?
A neuron and a stomach lining cell are very different in their morphologies (how they look) and their functions (what job they do).
The different shapes and functions are a result of the fact that those two cells use different portions of the complete blueprint set to construct themselves.
The neuron uses the blueprints for parts involved in brain signaling, while the stomach cell does not.
The stomach cell makes parts for secreting stomach enzymes to help in food digestion, while the brain cell does not.
These kinds of blueprints (or genes) are often called "tissue specific" because they are used in some body parts and not in others.
However, there are also some blueprints that are used in every cell in the body because the parts they represent are needed in every cell (like pieces used during cell division or making energy).
These kinds of blueprints (or genes) are often called "housekeeping" because they represent a basic need of every cell and they "keep up" the basic functions of the cell.How does the cell know which blueprints to use?
Each gene (or blueprint) is has its own control panel that acts as a group of switches affecting when (during an organism's development), where (in the body) and how much a particular blueprint is used.
Scientists are still working hard at being able to identify all of the pieces of a gene's control panel.
One important part of the control panel that we know a lot about is the "promoter."
The number and pattern of As, Ts, Gs and Cs in a promoter is important in determining whether the switch will act like a "housekeeping" switch or a "tissue specific" switch.
As of today, scientists are just beginning to understand why this is true.
The goal of this project is to learn the basics about DNA sequences by examining some simple differences between groups of genes.
For the leptin and bone morphogenetic protein 7 genes you have data for different species.
How would you describe the % G~C content for the same gene, but in different animals?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  jenni061298 said:  2015-01-27 19:07:11 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that the slightest mutation in a DNA sequence can drastically alter the phenotype of that particular individual.
For example, mutations that involve disorders such as colorblindness and cystic fibrosis.
What problems did you encounter?
I did this project as a freshman and was disqualified from the science fair.
The feedback given to my teacher was that the project itself was too advanced for a basic level biology student to accomplish and understand.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    caraskl said:  2014-08-14 20:58:37 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that the GC content for housekeeping genes was higher than in tissue promoter genes.
I also learned that the GC content for genes regulating bone growth was similar across species.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    aleeusatx said:  2014-02-02 22:16:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
How to find the gc content and the different genes their are in the body and how dna is actually different for every gene.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
For the BMP7 genes and leptin if you can find the same species for each one for example: horse lep- horse BMP7 not horse lep-human bmp7 make it all the same but some differnce is good Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lovemicrobes said:  2011-02-07 22:32:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that housekeeping promoters have a different GC content than other genes.
What problems did you encounter?
None.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, genomics, genome, genetics, DNA sequence, promoters DNA, gene Nucleotide bases (adenine, thymine, guanine, cytosine)
