 Comparing Vocal Ranges: How High and Low Can You Go?
What is the highest note you can sing?
How about the lowest?
Do you think males and females can reach the same notes?
How about children and adults?
Find out the answers to all these questions in this "note"-worthy science fair project!
Have you ever started singing a song, and then realized a little way into the melody that the notes were either too high or too low for you to sing?
If so, the song was outside of your vocal range.
A person's vocal range is the lowest and highest notes (along with all the notes in between) that a person can comfortably sing.
To understand what might determine a person's vocal range, it is important to first understand what is happening when a person sings.
First, the air is expelled (breathed out) from the lungs.
It is carried out of the body through a tube called the trachea, which is part of the throat.
On its route through the trachea and out of the mouth, the air passes through the larynx, often also called the voice box.
The larynx contains folds of tissue, called the vocal cords.
The vocal cords vibrate as air passes through them, and this vibration creates sound.
If you place your fingers at the base of your throat and sing or talk, you might be able to faintly feel these vibrations.
Figure 1.
In this diagram you can see the path that air travels during singing.
The air is pushed out of the lungs, up through the trachea, over the larynx and vocal chords, and then out through the mouth.The pitch of the sound a person makes is determined by several factors, including the size and tension of the vocal cords, and how fast they vibrate.
By changing some of these factors, people can produce different pitches, which means they can sing a variety of notes.
But one thing a person can not control is the length of his or her vocal cords.
Vocal cord size is similar in young males and females.
As children go through puberty, however, their vocal cords grow longer.
By the time they are adults, most females have vocal cords that are between 12.5 millimeters (mm) and 17.5 mm long; adult males usually have longer vocal cords, between 17 mm and 25 mm in length (Titze, 2008).
Do you think the difference in vocal cord length between adults and children, and between people of different genders, might affect the vocal range of each group of people?
You can find out the answer in this science fair project by comparing the vocal ranges of four different groups of people: male adults, female adults, male children, and female children.
Since puberty is a period of time when a person's vocal range may be changing, you will need to make sure all the people you examine in this science fair project are either done with puberty, or have not entered puberty yet.
For this reason, only gather data from children age 9 or younger, and adults age 21 or older.
Who has the highest vocal range?
How about the lowest?
Get ready to take "note" of the answer!
Compare the vocal ranges of people to determine if puberty and gender affect vocal range.
On average, how many notes are in a person's vocal range?
Does gender or puberty affect the magnitude of a person's vocal range?
Do trained singers have larger vocal ranges than non-trained singers?
Modify the Experimental Procedure to answer these questions.
How does the human vocal range compare to the musical range of other instruments?
Design an experiment to find out.Which choral parts (soprano, alto, baritone, etc.)
are easiest to fill?
Which are hardest to fill?
Determine the choral range of each of your participants to find out the answer!
Note: More information about choral ranges can be found in this Wikipedia entry about vocal range.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   lydieglover said:  2015-05-19 18:37:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
That adult men had the lowest vocal range and adult women had the highest vocal range.
What problems did you encounter?
The young children were scared to sing.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    littlegamr said:  2011-11-28 14:35:59 What was the most important thing you learned?
That the vocal ranges varryed the most in guys ages, because younger boys start with very high voices that drop during puberty.
Girls voices varried in only the fact that there vocal ranges grow on both ends.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
you probably want to have like 15 volenteers (school is a good place to do this) Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment    JessiSean said:  2011-10-27 06:15:06 What was the most important thing you learned?
Males generally can reach to a lower pitch than girls but some girls can reach an even lower pitch than boys.
If you have taken vocal lessons, it will affect the ranges that you can sing to.
Because you train yourself to reach either a higher pitch or lower pitch to improve your vocal range.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
18                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, music project, vocal range, larynx, vocal cords, gender, puberty, singing, middle C, piano, keyboard Vocal range Expel Lungs Trachea Larynx or voice box Vocal cords Pitch Puberty Gender Middle C Magnitude
