 Sounds Like RFID: Using a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) Reader to Make Musical Instruments  Passports, identification cards, bus passes, and even some credit cards contain RFID tags.
An RFID (adio-requency entification) tag allows a card to be read by a computer from a short distance away.
While this is very useful in everyday life, would you believe you can make music with it?
RFID + sampled music sounds + a little crafting = a fun musical instrument that is limited only by your imagination.
In this science project, you will make handbells out of paper cups that play real sounds, thanks to a little RFID magic.
Why is some of the best technology wasted on boring stuff?
What if you could take a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and turn it into a fun musical instrument?RFID is an increasingly popular way for people to pass information to a computerized system.
It is often in the form of a card that you might have received as a school ID or a bus pass, but can also be found in the windshield transponder device that lets your parents drive through a tollbooth on their daily commute without stopping.
Unlike magnetic stripe cards that require you to slide the card through a slot, an RFID reader can simply recognize the card from a distance away and get the information that is stored on it.
It is also a great technology for warehouses; for instance, a commercial RFID reader mounted on a forklift can read an RFID tag from 100 or more feet away and help the operator identify what might be inside a box.
RFID can be controversial as well (it raises privacy issues), but it can also be a lot of fun.
You are going to use a small hobbyist RFID reader to make a musical instrument that sounds just like the real thing.
Nothing controversial about that!RFID tags and a reader can turn a stack of paper cups into a playable musical instrumentSeveral companies sell small RFID readers that are meant for experiments and fun applications.
For example, you could mount one on a robot, and as the robot moves about the room it could figure out its location by reading RFID tags you have left for it to find.
You could use one on the door of your roomgive your friends an RFID card and then you can tell if that knock on your door is a friend or a bothersome sibling.
Or in this science project, use the RFID reader as part of a music synthesizer.
The way RFID systems usually operate is that the reader stays still while the tags come and go.
The reader requires a power source of some kind and a connection to the computer.
The tags are simply inexpensive plastic cards or fobs.
One reader can usually handle a large number of tags.
If the reader is going to stay put and a number of tags will come and go, it makes sense that the instrument you make should mimic something where you wave a number of objects around.
That sounds a lot like handbells.
Figure 1.
You will use an RFID reader and paper cups to make a synthesized set of handbells.You have probably seen handbells at some time in your life.
Perhaps your religious group uses them in a service.
Or you have heard them played during the holidays at a shopping mall.
Your school might have a set that they use to help teach rhythm.
Figure 2.
A handbell choir practicing.
The bells range in size from a few inches to well over a foot in diameter, and some can weigh 8 pounds.
(Image Credit: Wikimedia Commons user Jeff Muceus)Handbells have a sound all their own.
Music synthesizers often take advantage of such unique sounds and store digitized copies of the sound that you can then play with the touch of a button.
While you might not recognize it by that name, you have encountered a music synthesizer if you have ever played an electronic keyboard that looks like a piano, but can sound like an organ, a trumpet, guitar, or any other instrument.
You can do the same thing with the very computer you use to surf the Internet or to read Science Buddies project ideas.
All you need are sound files of digitized handbells and a way to play each note in the order you want, and before you know it, you will be playing music.
RFID readers have come a long way from the big warehouse readers; now they are small devices about the size of a credit card.
To work, the reader sends out a radio signal.
The tag uses the energy in that signal to power up a little computer and transmitter of its own, and transmits back some coded data that it has stored.
The reader picks up that information and then shuts off.
The tag then loses power.
Now that the reader knows what data is in the tag, it can do whatever the system designer intended.
For example, if the tag is in your school ID, the data on the reader can sign you into school for the day.
In this science project, each tag will represent a musical note.
The computer will play the associated sound file, you will create a simple handbell design, and voila!
Instant handbells!
To use an inexpensive RFID reader to build a simulation of professional handbells.
As shown in Figure 17, try putting your tags inside something else, like an animal shape that corresponds with an animal sound, or make up your own instrument.
Consider making a video of your performance, posting it online, and sharing the link with us at scibuddy@sciencebuddies.org.
Figure 17.
No one said that these have to look like handbells.
If they sound like cats, they can look like cats!
Simply tape the tag to the back of a wooden or cardboard cutout.There are quite a few different ways to play a handbell.
Change your design to include the sounds of some of these.The RFID reader is quite small and runs off of USB power.
If you have a small laptop and your parents or the school (depending on whose computer it is) gives you permission, what would happen if you laid the tags out on the floor and put the laptop on a small cart?
As you pulled the cart past the tags, would it make a sound depending on the position?
A musical train perhaps?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, RFID, radio, frequency, identification, bells, handbells, musical instrument, RFID reader Radio frequency identification (RFID) Handbells Synthesizer
