 Watching Nuclear Particles: See Background Radiation Zoom Through A Cloud Chamber  Do you realize that you are constantly bombarded by particles?
You do not feel them, you cannot see, hear, or smell them, but they are always there!
These particles  collectively called background radiation  might  even travel through you without ever interacting with the molecules in your body.
In this science project, you will build your own cloud chamber to prove the existence of background radiation.
You will then use your cloud chamber to determine if the background radiation in your environment appears to be random.
Are you tricking me?
Particles going through my body without my feeling it?
Something zooming past my ear without any audible sound, flying under my nose without a trace of smell?
What is this mysterious thing called background radiation?
Where does it come from?
Is it everywhere?
Is it safe?
A little review before we tackle these questions.
Atoms are extremely small particles that we, and everything around us, are made of.
As shown in Figure 1, atoms consist of a tiny area called the nucleus and a cloud of electrons that surrounds the nucleus.
Electrons are negatively charged, and they balance the positive charge of the nucleus, which results in the atom being electrically neutral.
Figure 1.
Representation of an atom with its nucleus and an electron cloud around it.
Note that in this drawing, the nucleus shown is disproportionately large.Atoms can both gain and lose electrons.
The process of gaining or losing an electron is called  ionizing.
An atom that has lost or gained one or more electrons is called an ion.
How this relates to background radiation will be explained, but first let us explore the term "radiation."
Radiation  is energy that travels through space either as high-speed particles or as waves.
We encounter radiation around us all the time.
For example, light bulbs radiate visible light; microwaves radiate waves that cook our food; an x-ray machine emits (or releases) x-rays.
All these are examples of electromagnetic radiation.
Watch the video to learn more intriguing facts about electromagnetic radiation, insights that will help you understand this science project.
This video gives an introduction to light and electromagnetic radiation.
We can see, feel, or hear other types of radiated particles or waves, but we cannot actually sense most radiation.
Background radiation, unsurprisingly, is made up of radiated particles.
Now that you know a little about radiation, can you come up with a definition of background radiation?
Background radiation is the term used to describe all ionizing radiation that we encounter in our environment on Earth.
Did you notice the term ionizing in the definition, the term we explained before?
In other words, background radiation is made up of particles or waves in our environment that are so energetic that they ionize the matter around them, making the matter gain or lose an electron.
So what are these particles, so energetic that they cause ionizing radiation?
We will not go into great detail here, as it would involve the fascinating subject of elementary particles.
But maybe you have heard of some particles involved, such as photons, electrons, muons, protons, neutrons, alpha particles, or neutrinos.
All these are tiny particles that, when colliding with an atom, can cause the atom to lose or gain electrons.
Have you heard of any others?
Do not worry if all these names sound new.
This Introduction will provide you with all the information necessary to understand your observations in this science project as well as links (in the Bibliography) to explore these concepts further.
You now know that background radiation is due to energetic particles found all around us, but where do those particles come from?
There are two primary sources of background radiation: cosmic (from space beyond Earth's atmosphere) and from the materials on Earth itself.
Cosmic radiation is the radiation that Earth is constantly bombarded with from outside the solar system, in addition to high-energy ion radiation emitted by the Sun during solar flares.
This radiation consists primarily of particles with extremely high energy.
They interact in Earth's atmosphere to create secondary, lower-energy background radiation, some of which travels to Earth's surface.
On Earth, radioactive material (material that emits ionizing particles) is present all around us.
In the soil, radioactive materials like potassium, uranium, thorium, and radon are present throughout the world in varying concentrations.
Some radioactive materials (such as carbon 14) are present in any living being as part of the building blocks of life.
Human beings have learned to use radioactive materials in a number of applications (such as in nuclear power plants and in some types of medical treatments).
Radioactive materials send out particles randomly in all directions.
Knowing its origin, do you expect background radiation to come mainly from the sky (radiation particles coming down from Earth's atmosphere), from the surface (radioactive material released from particles in the soil), or from all directions equally?
Figure 2 might give you some hints.Figure 2.
Secondary radiation formed in the atmosphere as ionizing cosmic particles collides with atoms in the atmosphere (part A) and background radiation formed from radioactive material on earth (part B).
(Note that objects in the graphics are drawn disproportionate to their real size.
)In this science project, you will categorize the particles you see into three groups, based on their position relative to Earth: vertical (from the sky down or from Earth straight up); more or less horizontal; and at an angle.
Do you expect one group to be more prevalent than another?
If  background radiation cannot be seen, felt, or heard, how do we know it is there?
How can we study it?
Scientists build cloud chambers, also known as Wilson chambers, to study background radiation particles.
Much as you would study the wind by looking at the movement of leaves, scientists study background radiation by looking at tracks in cloud chambers left by the passage of radiation particles.
You cannot see the wind, but you can study its presence, direction, and strength by seeing how the leaves on trees move.
In this science project, you will not "see" the background radiation particles, but you will show that they exist and study them by observing the tracks they create in your cloud chamber.
Before we explore how a cloud chamber works, let us review some theory about vapor and condensation.
When we heat a liquid, it converts into a vapor; when we cool a vapor, it condenses into a liquid.
A saturated  vapor is a vapor ready to condense.
Tiny solid or liquid particles (like dust or tiny droplets) must be present to produce the transition from vapor to liquid.
Those particles are called condensation nuclei.
A supersaturated vapor is ready to condense into a liquid, but it lacks the condensation nuclei to make that possible.So where is the link with a cloud chamber?
A cloud chamber is nothing more than a sealed environment containing a supersaturated vapor of water or alcohol.
When ionizing particles from background radiation (like muons or electrons) travel through the chamber, they collide with the surrounding molecules, creating ions (charged atoms) along the way.
These ions leave a trail of condensation nuclei, giving the supersaturated vapor something on which to condense.
At this stage, tiny condensation droplets form on ions left by background radiation particles.
A bright light will bounce off the droplets and there you have it  a visible track!
In short, you see droplets of alcohol form on ion trails left by a particle of background radiation passing through the cloud chamber.Did you note that only muons and electrons were listed in the explanation?
Why?
Would the other background radiation particles not provide a track in the cloud chamber?
Different particles have different capacities to penetrate material and interact with the atoms in the chamber.
Some are not able to penetrate through a layer of plastic (like alpha particles) and others can fly through Earth without any interaction (like neutrinos).
The muon and some high-energy electrons can penetrate easily through the chamber's plastic walls and interact enough with material to show tracks in the chamber.
In short, in the cloud chamber you are about to build, you will most probably see only muons, and maybe some electrons.
Any idea where these originate?
Note: Although you might like to see what happens in your chamber when you place it near a radioactive source, we do not advise that you spend time in the vicinity of the source (unless it is specifically marked low dose  for student experiments).In this physics science project, you will build a cloud chamber and use it to study the background radiation present in your environment and see if any patterns in the radiation are present.
In this physics science project, the student will create a cloud chamber to visualize background radiation and determine if the radiation particles appear randomly.
You can repeat this science project at a higher or lower altitude (for instance, at sea level and/or on a hill or mountaintop with an elevation of 1,000 feet or more).
Does altitude affect how much background radiation you observe?
What other factors cause certain locations to have more background radiation than others?
Research background radiation a little more in-depth, finding out where background radiation exists more than in other places.
What factors are important?
Can you safely test any of these factors using your cloud chamber?See if observations inside your home or outside your home or in different rooms of your home make a difference.
If you have a basement or multiple floors in your house, see if your observations differ on different floors.
Do you expect to see a difference?
(Think about the origin of the radiation you observe, the type of particles and how well they penetration material).Do you believe some materials (like plastic, cloth, paper, aluminum foil, cardboard, or wood) can block the background radiation you detect in your chamber?
Test it by covering part of your cloud chamber with different materials.
Be sure to leave an opening in the material big enough for you to watch the chamber and to shine a flashlight through it.
If you are interested in observing radiation from a radioactive source, look at the Science Buddies Project Idea Particles in the Mist: See Radioactive Particles Decay with Your Own Cloud Chamber!
to get ideas on where to find safe appropriate sources.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  MitchellK said:  2015-02-19 18:05:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
That background radiation exists.
What problems did you encounter?
Modeling clay did not hold up the felt for entire test.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Use duct tape instead of using modeling clay to hold the felt up.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    benfrank said:  2015-02-02 19:44:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned about the Radiation difference through different lenses  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ColinDG said:  2014-12-14 09:14:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
This project has a 99% fail rate What problems did you encounter?
Could not get vapor to form, and cloud chamber was defective Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Either make several improvements to the project or remove it Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    hemantrtk980 said:  2014-06-29 00:13:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
Background radiation  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    ChunkyCheeks said:  2013-12-05 21:16:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned not to trust this site, but mostly regular radiation stuff.
What problems did you encounter?
No results, no cloud, no particle movement.
I've repeated the experiment 6 times with no results.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Don't do this project if you are not patient.
Screw you, Thomson Rees Wilson.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Physics science project, background radiation, cosmic radiation, radioactive decay, cloud chamber, Wilson chamber, solar radiation, radioactivity, electrons, ionization, ionizing radiation, science project Atoms Electrons Ionizing Ion Radiation Electromagnetic radiation Background radiation Ionizing radiation Cosmic radiation Radioactive material Cloud chamber or Wilson chamber Vapor Condensation Saturated Condensation nuclei Supersaturated
