 Kimchi Chemistry  You're probably familiar with sauerkraut, a German dish of cabbage that is fermented in a brine made of its own juice and salt.
Have you heard of another cabbage dish, called kimchi?
Kimchi is a traditional fermented cabbage dish from Korea.
Koreans eat kimchi year round, enjoying its spicy taste and the fact that it contains loads of vitamins B and C. In this cooking and food science fair project, you will make kimchi from scratch and investigate changes in pH and glucose as the kimchi ferments.
Fermentation is used in the preparation of food for a variety of reasons, such as to produce complex flavors, to protect food from spoiling, and to make dough rise.
Fermentation refers to the biochemical changes brought about by the action of microorganisms.
These can be bacterial or fungal organisms.
Bacteria are key agents in the development of the characteristic smell and flavor of certain cheeses.
And yeast, a single-celled fungus, is widely used in baking and in the production of ethanol-containing beverages.
The objective of this cooking and food science fair project is to investigate the chemical changes that occur in the process of making kimchi, a traditional Korean dish made from cabbage and a variety of other vegetables and spices.
Kimchi is very popular in Korea.
In fact, the Korea Aerospace Research Institute even developed "space kimchi" to accompany the first Korean astronaut to the Russian-manned space ship Soyuz.The first step in making kimchi is typically to wet the cabbage and coat it with salt.
The salt draws out the liquids in the cabbage cells, causing the cabbage to lose its firmness.
The liquid is drawn from the cells by osmosis.
Osmosis is defined as the diffusion of water molecules through a semipermeable membrane, from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration.
As the water moves out of the cells, the cell structure collapses, making the cabbage ready for the subsequent steps in the preparation of kimchi.
This step in the process takes about 6 hours in this science fair project.The salt is then washed off, and a mixture of vegetables, fresh salt, sugar, and spices are added.
The spices help give the final product its distinct flavor.
The next step is where the real action takes place, chemically speaking.
The mixture of cabbage and the other ingredients starts to change due to the activity of microorganisms.
There are dozens, perhaps hundreds, of different kinds of microorganisms in the mix at this phase of the process, all carried in on the different ingredients.
One of the most important organisms for the unique flavors of kimchi is Lactobacillus plantarum, which has the common name lactic acid bacteria.
You do not need to add Lactobacillus.
There is enough of this organism on the cabbage to carry out the fermentation.
Lactobacillus grows best in anaerobic conditions; that is, in low-oxygen conditions.
Thus, the kimchi is fermented in a closed container to keep out air.One process that occurs as a result of microbial activity is the breakdown of carbohydrates into simple sugars.
These sugars, such as glucose, are then further metabolized to produce smaller products, including lactic acid.
You will monitor the amount of glucose produced as the kimchi ferments, using glucose test strips that are available at most drug stores.
The factors controlling the concentration of glucose are complex.
Its concentration depends on both how fast it is being made by the breakdown of more complex sugars, and how fast it is being broken down into simpler molecules.The biological processes carried out by Lactobacillus and other microorganisms in the kimchi result in the formation of lactic acid.
As the amount of lactic acid increases, the pH of the kimchi decreases.
In other words, the kimchi becomes acidic due to the increasing amounts of lactic acid.
The pH scale measures how acidic or basic a solution is.
Values for the pH of less than 7 indicate an acidic solution.
Values for the pH that are greater than 7 indicate that the solution is basic.
If the solution is neutral, then the pH is 7.0.
You can monitor the synthesis of lactic acid by tracking the pH over time.
For more information, visit the Science Buddies page Acids, Bases, & the pH Scale.
As a variation on this science fair project, you can investigate how changing the amount of sugar affects lactic acid and glucose concentration.
No matter how you do this science fair project, you will end up with a delicious and spicy batch of kimchi to enjoy!
The objective of this cooking and food science fair project is to investigate the chemical changes that occur in a batch of kimchi as it ferments.
Try different starting amounts of sugar.
How does this affect the changes that occur in pH and glucose?Instead of fermenting the kimchi at room temperature for the first three days, ferment it in the refrigerator.
How does this affect its fermentation?Vary the ingredients, using a different kimchi recipe.
Do you get the same results?How does aeration affect the change in pH and glucose levels?
Keep the top ajar for the first three days.
Mix the kimchi up with a spoon several times per day to aerate it.What happens if you briefly heat the ingredients prior to starting fermentation?
For example, to 60C for 5 minutes.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
cooking and food science fair project, science fair project, kimchi, cabbage, spicy, fermentation, anaerobic, lactobacillus, pH, lactose, glucose, osmosis Fermentation Microorganism Bacteria Fungus Kimchi Cell Osmosis Diffusion Semi-permeable membrane Lactic acid bacteria Anaerobic condition Metabolize Lactic acid Glucose test strips pH Acid Base
