 Perfecting Pastries: The Role of Fats in Making a Delicious Pastry  Apple pie is one of America's traditional desserts.
It can be enjoyed on its own or with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.
The cool sweetness of the ice cream combines with the warm apples and flaky pastry to create a taste sensation.
However, if the pastry that surrounds the apples is heavy or chewy then that can really affect how much you enjoy this treat.
But how do you make a pastry that is light and flaky?
In this cooking and food science fair project, you will find out by experimenting with different fats and temperatures to see which factors affect pastry texture and taste.
Going to the bakery can be like a day in paradise.
There is usually a display of delicious sweets and pastries to tempt the palate and the eyes.
Many of these treats are made using wheat flour.
Wheat flour is an interesting substance.
When you mix water with other powdery substances, you just get a paste.
But when you mix water with wheat flour, you get a very different material, and one that is the base for so many wonderful and tasty treats, such as breads, pasta, and pastries, including pie crusts.
Pie crusts (also called pastry shells), like the one shown in Figure 1, below,  were developed in the Middle Ages, but not for fruits.
They were actually first used to contain and preserve meat preparations, resulting in dishes like the Cornish pasty.
Figure 1.
A homemade pie crust, also called a pastry shell, that has been freshly baked.The taste and texture of breads, pasta, and pastries depends upon the makeup of the batter or dough.
Batters and doughs are made up of water, gluten proteins, and starch granules.
Glutens are chains of proteins, and when they are dry, the gluten protein chains do not react or move.
When the gluten protein chains come in contact with water, however, they work together and can change their shape, either forming longer chains or breaking into smaller chains.
This results in a substance that is both plastic (can change its shape) and elastic (bounces back and returns to its original shape).
So though the dough can change its shape, it resists the change and tries to move back to its original shape.
Gluten and water forms the network that gives bread its shape.
Starch is also very important when making bread, for several reasons.
It holds onto water and gives volume and structure to bread.
It also makes its way through the bread and breaks up the gluten network, tenderizing it and giving it that light, delicate texture.
To make bread, you add water to flour to create a cohesive mixture of gluten and starch.
In the case of a pastry, however, you add large amounts of fat to coat and separate the flour particles from each other, but you then add just enough water to make a dough.
Since much of the starch in the flour is not in contact with any of the water, the resulting cooked dough is crumbly and flaky.
The role of the fat in making a pastry is to give texture to the final product.
Depending on the kind of fat used, the pastry will also have a certain flavor.
Pastry chefs use various types of fats, like vegetable shortening, butter, or lard.
Though they are all are fats, they have major differences.
Vegetable shortening, such as Crisco, is a blend of partially hydrogenated cottonseed and soybean oil, fully hydrogenated cottonseed oil, and soybean oil.
The result of hydrogenation is an oil that is solid at room temperature.
The "working" temperature range of vegetable shortening is 53F85F.
This means that it can be worked (kneaded or mixed) without getting too soft within this temperature range.
The working range for butter, an animal-based dairy product, is 58F68F.
The working range for lard (which comes from the fat of a pig), is 58F75F.
Outside of the working range, the fat does not hold its shape, leaks oil, and just sticks to the dough.To make a pastry shell, the water and fat are incorporated into the flour; the resulting dough is chilled, and then it is rolled out.
Rolling allows the gluten to develop, and the pieces of fat and flour to flatten and create layers.
Whether or not a pastry or a pie shell becomes flaky and tender depends on the kind of fat used, and the temperature at which it is incorporated into the flour.
In this cooking and food science fair project, you will determine which type and temperature of fat produces the flakiest and most-tender pastry shell.
You will make pastry shells using vegetable shortening, cold butter, and melted butter; then you will compare the textures.
Who knows, once you have figured out the best recipe, you might become your family's pie master!
To investigate the effect that fat and its temperature have on the taste and texture of pastry shells.
Using a microscope, investigate the physical differences between the four pastry shells.
Can you see any differences looking through the microscope?
Does using lard make a good pastry shell?
How does a lard-based pastry shell compare to the shells made from shortening and butter?Remove the chilling the dough step from the procedure.
Is chilling the dough required to make a good pastry shell?Experiment with how baking temperature affects the pastry.What happens to the texture of the pastry shell if you knead and work the dough by hand?
How is the texture affected if, instead of blending the fat and the flour by hand, you use a food processor?For another Science Buddies science fair project about gluten, try Great Globs of Gluten!
Which Wheat Flour Has The Most?.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  babyblue132 said:  2012-12-29 13:27:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
that science canbe fun,and that butter at room temperature makes the best pastry  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
use different fats instead of butter at three different temperatures(that is what i did)i used butter, shortening, and margarine (i modified the project) Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Cooking and Food Science fair project, gluten, starch, fat, pastry, pastry shell Wheat flour Gluten Protein Plastic deformation Elastic deformation Starch Fat Hydrogenate
