 Solar-Powered Water Desalination  How can seawater from the oceans be turned into fresh water that is suitable for people to drink?
Through a process called solar desalination!
In this science project, you will make a solar desalination apparatus using readily available materials, and a power source that is free.
How much water can the device produce, and is it still salty at all?
What factors affect how effectively saltwater is turned into fresh water?
Nicholas Kinsman is interested in inventing solar-powered devices to reduce our dependence on other energy sources.
He is also a winner of a Science Buddies Clever Scientist award for his 2007 California State Science Fair project (Kinsman, 2007).
Nicholas set out to build a simple, inexpensive device to desalinate seawater, using readily available materials and easy construction methods.
Typical seawater contains dissolved salts at concentrations between 32 and 37.5 parts per thousand.
That means that if you started with one kilogram of seawater (which is approximately one liter of seawater) and then you allowed all of the water to evaporate, you would be left with between 32 and 37.5 grams of salts (also called "total dissolved solids").
With all of that salt, seawater is not suitable for drinking nor for watering most plants.
The fluid circulating in your body (blood plasma) contains much less salt than seawater (on the order of 9 grams of total dissolved solids).
If you were to drink seawater, your body would actually lose water, because the high salt concentration of the seawater causes an osmotic pressure gradient which drives water out of your cells.
Desalination is the process of removing the dissolved salts from water, making it pure enough for drinking or irrigation.
Nicholas's first design for a desalination device is shown in Figure 1 below.
There are eight small bottles surrounding the large collection jug.
Each of the small bottles is filled with seawater.
The small bottles have holes in their caps.
One end of a flexible straw is inserted into the hole, and the other connects to the large collection jug at the center.
When the entire device is set out in the sunlight, the seawater in the small bottles heats up, which causes the water to evaporate and fill the small bottles with water vapor.
The idea was that as the water vapor increased, it would condense in the straws and flow down into the collection jug.
Unfortunately, the idea did not work.
You can see in the picture that there is condensation on the inside of the top of the bottles, but there was very little condensation in the straws.
Figure 1.
This is Nicholas's first try at a solar-powered desalination device.
The idea was to add saltwater to the eight small bottles.
The condensation was supposed to drip down from the straws into the large collection jug.
Unfortunately, this design did not work.
(Photo from Nicholas Kinsman's display board at the fair.
)Like any good inventor, Nicholas did not let an initial setback discourage him.
He analyzed what was wrong with the design and set out to improve it.
His second design, shown in Figure 2 below, still follows the same principles of using readily available materials and easy construction methods, but also includes some important improvements.
One important change is that this time Nicholas's design uses a container with a larger surface area to hold the seawater.
Figure 2.
Here are two examples of Nicholas's second design for a solar-powered desalination device.
The large jug, laying on its side, holds the seawater.
The top side of the jug has been cut out with a utility knife.
Plastic cling wrap seals the top side, and a quarter is used as a weight to make a low point in the center.
Beneath that low point, Nicholas placed a collector, made from the top of a small water bottle with a flexible straw inserted into a hole in the cap.
The other end of the straw passes through the side of the large jug, and then to a plastic cup where the condensate collects.
The device on the left has an aluminum foil reflector covering the back side and bottom of the large jug while the device on the right has no reflector.
(Science Buddies photo of Nicholas Kinsman's display board at the fair.
)Why is it important that in the improved design a large jug is used to hold the saltwater?
The jug, which is laid on one side, lets the saltwater cover a relatively large area.
Because water molecules can only evaporate from the surface of water, a body of water with a large surface area will have a greater rate of evaporation than a body of water with a smaller surface area (assuming all other conditions are the same).
The top side of the jug is cut out, using a utility knife, and covered tightly with plastic cling wrap.
The cling wrap covering the large opening provides a large surface area on which condensation can form, which is another reason why using a larger container is an important change in this design.
A quarter is used as a weight to make a low point at the center of the cling wrap.
When the device is heated up in the sunlight, the condensation that forms on the cling wrap eventually flows down to this low point and drips into a "funnel."
In Nicholas's design, the funnel is simply the cut-off top of a small water bottle, which has a flexible straw inserted into a hole cut in the cap.
The other end of the straw passes through a small hole in the large jug, and then to a plastic cup (tightly covered with cling wrap using a rubber band to prevent evaporation).
For his science fair project, Nicholas tested the desalination devices based on his second, improved design with and without aluminum foil reflectors (you can see examples of each type in Figure 2 above).
For each device, he made several measurements so that he could compare the performance, including the amount of condensate collected, or his condensate yield, and the conductivity of the saltwater and condensate.
The yield measurements told him how efficient his devices were at heating the saltwater and producing desalinated water.
The conductivity measurements (which can be taken using a handheld meter) told him how well the condensed water had been purified of dissolved salt because water that contains dissolved salt can conduct electricity, and the more salt that is dissolved in the water, the higher the conductivity of the water.
In this environmental engineering science project, you will build desalination devices similar to Nicholas's second design and see how the design can be improved even more.
Specifically, you will investigate how the color of the bottom of the device affects its efficiency.
You will compare a device with a white-colored bottom to a device with a black-colored bottom.
Something that is light-colored reflects more light than something that is dark-colored, which absorbs a lot of the light that hits it.
Light is a form of energy and energy can be transferred to nearby objects (such as a body of water) in the form of heat, in a process known as heat transfer.
Which colored bottom do you think will result in a more efficient desalination device?
Build and test a solar-powered device for desalinating water and investigate how the color of the bottom of the device affects its efficiency.
In this science project you compared the performance of desalination devices with a black-colored bottom and a white-colored bottom.
What do you think would happen if you used an aluminum foil reflector, as Nicholas Kinsman did (as discussed in the Background)?
How do you think you could set up such a reflector so that it heats up the water in the device as much as possible?
Hint: research parabolic reflectors.How does the temperature of saltwater affect the rate of evaporation?
You can try this science project again but this time fill one desalination device with ice-cold water and the other with hot water.
Is one device much more efficient than the other?Surface area is a factor that affects the rate of evaporation.
Think of a way to modify one of your desalination devices so that the same volume of saltwater takes up only half of the surface area of the bottom of the jug or container, such as by attaching a plastic divider to the bottom.
Test the two desalination devices again, using the same volume of saltwater in each.
Does the change in surface area correlate with a change in condensate yield?Saltwater has a higher boiling point than freshwater.
Does this mean that you would get a higher condensation yield using freshwater than you did using saltwater?
To find out, you can try this science project again but this time use saltwater in one desalination device and freshwater in the other.
To make sure you are collecting "pure" water, you can add some food coloring to the initial water in each device.
Are the condensate yields very different between the two devices?
If you try even saltier saltwater than was used in this science project, is there a greater difference?How does the collection rate change during the course of the day?
To investigate this, it would be a good idea to have your collection container marked with graduated volumes.
That way you can measure collection volumes easily without disturbing the collection system.In what other ways do you think you could change your desalination device to improve its efficiency?
Find out what factors affect the rate of evaporation and how other desalination devices are designed.
Figure out how you can use this information to modify your device, or design a completely new device, to improve efficiency.You can build other useful devices that use solar power.
For example, the Science Buddies project Now You're Cooking!
Building a Simple Solar Ovenshows how to build a solar oven.
Can you adapt a solar oven to make a solar-powered desalination device?
Is it more or less efficient than the plastic bottle desalination device from this project?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  SophieM20 said:  2015-02-12 17:32:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
HEATRANSFER What problems did you encounter?
it was a little too cold for the devices to work well, but it still worked.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
you should add "has to be warm to work very well" to description Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    elanisevilla said:  2014-05-13 12:52:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
Everything What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    katiephoto said:  2014-03-18 18:06:52 What was the most important thing you learned?
how water desalination works and how it can be used in everyday life, like to help people in California who were in the middle of loosing water.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     amssokomar said:  2013-12-18 09:21:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
Saltwater has a higher boiling point than freshwater What problems did you encounter?
i had to buy many things Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    natdogo said:  2013-07-29 01:12:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
not much What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ShubhenduShekharChhand said:  2013-07-17 08:09:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
i learned that, how to purify and use the salty water?
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    serapeace said:  2012-01-15 16:36:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
That people can use solar power to desalinate saltwater What problems did you encounter?
The experimental procedute was the fail one that nick did Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Change the experimwntal procidure Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
8                        9                Report Inappropriate Comment Keywords: science fair project, science project, environmental engineering project, environmental engineering, desalination, salt water, solar-powered desalination, evaporation, water purity, water, condensation, water vapor, distillation Solar-powered devices Desalination Water purity Evaporation Water vapor Condensation Surface area Yield Reflection of light Absorption of light Heat transfer
