 Up, Up, and Away in Your Own Hot-air Balloon!
Have you ever looked up into the sky and seen not a bird, not a plane, but a hot-air balloon?
They are definitely amazing and fun to watch!
Do you think they are all the same size?
Does size affect how long the hot-air balloon can fly?
In this science fair project, you will launch hot-air balloons, powered by a toaster, and see how the size of the balloon affects its flight.
Figure 1.
A hot-air balloon uses a fabric bag, called a  lifting envelope, with an opening at the bottom, called the mouth.
Attached to the envelope is a basket, or gondola, for carrying passengers.
A burner is mounted below the mouth of the balloon, and injects a flame into the envelope, heating the air within.Hot-air balloons are fun to watch.
There is something magical about how they rise up into the sky and drift with the wind.
But how does a hot-air balloon work?
Hot-air balloons are able to fly because air expands (grows larger so that it takes up more room) when it is heated.
This is similar to the way popcorn kernels expand when you heat them.
But instead of "popping open" like the popcorn kernels, some of the air in the hot-air balloon is pushed out of the opening in the bottom of the balloon as the air expands.
In the end, there is less air inside of the balloon (because some has been pushed out), but it still takes up all of the space in the balloon because it has expanded (grown larger).
This makes the air inside the balloon lighter than the surrounding air on the outside of it.
The balloon has a buoyancy (a lifting force) equal to the weight of air that has been pushed out of the balloon as the air expands.
The balloon is able to leave the ground when the weight of air that has been pushed out of the balloon equals the weight of the balloon itself, plus the expanded air inside of the balloon.The buoyancy of the balloon is an example of Archimedes' principle.
Archimedes was a mathematician and an inventor who lived in ancient Syracuse in Sicily, a region of Italy.
His principle states that an object (in this science fair project, the balloon) immersed in a fluid (the surrounding air), is buoyed up by a force that is equal to the weight of the fluid that is replaced by the object.
According to a tale, Archimedes discovered the principle (also called a law) that explained buoyancy while he was taking a bath.
He observed that the more his body sank into the tub, the more water ran out over the tub.
He is said to have been so pleased with his discovery that he leapt out of his bathtub and ran through the streets of Syracuse, naked, shouting "Eureka!
"In this science fair project, you will launch your own hot-air balloons made from dry-cleaning bags, using a toaster as a source of hot air.
You will start with a full-length dress-sized dry-cleaning bag.
To determine how the size of the balloon affects its flight, the size of the balloon will be decreased by trimming off some of the material at the bottom.
The goal is to determine how the size affects the length of time that the balloon can fly.
Watch this Science Buddies hot-air balloon video.
Watch this Science Buddies hot-air balloon video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ncq9-Sqn0H4 The objective of this science fair project is to create your own hot-air balloons and use them to determine how the size of the balloon affects how long it can fly.
Measure the maximum height of each balloon flight.
To set up a vertical "ruler," use a helium balloon with a 15-foot-long string.
Tie ribbons onto the string at 1-foot intervals.
Use different colors for different heights to make it easier to tell how high the balloon reached.
Alternatively, use a heavy-duty metal tape measure.Try toasters rated with different wattages.
How does the wattage affect the time it takes for the balloon to lift off?Try a popcorn popper as a heat source.
Compare it to the toaster.Devise a way to determine the maximum lift of the balloons.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   LEGO_Fanatic06 said:  2014-05-06 20:07:10 What was the most important thing you learned?
About the importance of buoancy What problems did you encounter?
At first, we had trouble launching the balloon, but it was fixed later on.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Try using white garbage bags as an alternative...they work just as well as the dry cleaning bags.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lvthomas said:  2013-10-18 22:35:12 What was the most important thing you learned?
The bigger the bag the higher and longer it flies.
What problems did you encounter?
Finding thin plastic bags Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    arlys said:  2013-07-23 19:20:53 What was the most important thing you learned?
Hot air from the toaster did make the dry cleaner bag rise.
I learned that balance is important for the balloon to fly straight.
What problems did you encounter?
Melting bags.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I would like to see someone's results to compare mine to.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, hot-air balloon, dry cleaner, flight, balloon Lifting envelope Mouth Burner Expand Buoyancy Archimedes' principle Force
