 How Old Is That Rock?
Roll the Dice & Use Radiometric Dating to Find Out  What do rocks and clocks have in common?
Both keep track of time.
Yes, radioactive isotopes present in rocks and other ancient material decay atom by atom at a steady rate, much as clocks tick time away.
Geologists use those radioactive isotopes to date volcanic ash or granite formations like the giant Half Dome in Yosemite National Park.
Anthropologists, archeologists, and paleontologists also use radioactive isotopes to date mummies, pottery, and dinosaur fossils.
Does this sound abstract and complicated?
It is no more complicated than playing a dice game!
In this science project you will see for yourself by modeling radioisotope dating with a few rolls of the dice.
As humans, it seems easy for us to keep track of time lapses, as long as they range from a couple of seconds to a number of years.
That is what we encounter in our daily lives, right?
The Earth orbits the Sun in about one year's time, the Earth rotates on its axis every 24 hours, 60 ticks of the second hand on a clock indicates 1 minute has passed.
Geologists have a much harder job keeping track of time.
Studying the Earth and its evolution, they work with time scales of thousands to billions of years.
Where can they find a clock  to measure these huge time periods?
Or on a slightly smaller scale, where can paleontologists find a clock to tell the age of fossils, or how can archeologists determine how old ancient pottery and buried artifacts are?Geologists (along with paleontologists, archeologists, and anthropologists) actually turn to the elements for answers to their geological time questions.
We and everything around us are made of atoms.
Atoms are tiny.
They are mostly empty space with a denser tiny area called the nucleus and a cloud of  electrons  surrounding the nucleus.
The nucleus itself is made of protons and neutrons, collectively called nucleons.
Figure 1 provides a visual representation of an atom.
Figure 1.
Representation of an atom with its nucleus and an electron cloud around it.
Note that, in this drawing, the nucleus is shown disproportionately large.The number of protons within an atom's nucleus is called the atomic number.
It determines the identity of the atom.
The atomic number is important for locating an element on the periodic table, shown in Figure 2.
You might have seen the periodic table in your science textbook or displayed on a poster in the classroom.
What do you know about it?
Figure 2.
Periodic table showing elements with their atomic symbol and atomic numbers.In the periodic table, each entry represents an element.
The element is listed by its atomic symbol, a one-, two- or three-letter long label.
For example, gold's atomic symbol is Au.
Above the atomic symbol, each entry lists the element's atomic number; e.g., the element gold (Au) has an atomic number of 79.
While an element always has the same atomic number, meaning it has the same number of protons in its nucleus, it can have a different number of total nucleons in its nucleus.
Scientists call these different variations of the same element isotopes of each other.
For example, the element potassium (which always has 19 protons in its nucleus) occurs in nature in three forms: an isotope with 39 nucleons (19 protons and 20 neutrons), one with 40 nucleons (19 protons and 21 neutrons), and one with 41 nucleons (19 protons and 22 neutrons) .
Some isotopes are radioactive.
Any idea what the word  radioactive  means?
Radioactive refers to the characteristic that these isotopes are unstable and tend to fall apart.
They emit, or radiate, particles in their conversion to stability.
We call this process  radioactive decay.
Isotopes exhibit a range of radioactive decay processes.
Resources provided in the Bibliography enable you to research this topic in more detail.
We will explore only the decay processes of interest to geologists.Geologists who want to date objects are interested in the isotopes that change identity as they undergo radioactive decay.
In other words, they change their number of protons  during radioactive decay and turn into a different element.
As an example, the potassium-40 isotope (which contains 19 protons, 40 nucleons, and is represented by the atomic symbol K) will change into the argon-40 isotope (which contains 18 protons, 40 nucleons, and is represented by the symbol Ar).
When this happens, potassium-40, which is emitting particles in its conversion to a more stable form, is called the  parent isotope.
The isotope that is created during the process (here argon-40) is called the  daughter isotope.
The particles emitted in the process are what we call radiation.
It is now time to explore why geologists are so interested in these radioactive decay processes as a means of dating objects.
But before we do, can you list some characteristics a good clock should have?
Predictable, reliable... but what do these words mean?
Can you describe them in more detail?
Now, try to link the clock characteristics you just listed to the characteristics of radioactive decay that appeal to geologists:Radioactive decay processes happen at a stable measurable rate characterized by the  half-life time.
The half-life time is the time period after which the remainder of the parent isotopes is half of what you start out with.
Do not worry if this sounds confusing; the following example will help clarify.
The steady, atom-by-atom transformation of one isotope to another is not affected by any influence of the environment outside the nucleus.Nature offers a number of unstable isotopes with half-life times ranging from several billion years to only a ten-thousandth of a second, allowing for "clocks" that can tell wide ranges of time.
Could you link these to your list of characteristics of a good clock?This example might help clarify the processes and terms just introduced: Looking at the parent isotope potassium-40 (abbreviated as K-40) that decays into the daughter isotope argon-40 (abbreviated as Ar-40), scientists measured the half-life time to be 1.25 billion years.
This means that half of the K-40 atoms existing today will have made the transformation to Ar-40 at some point during the next 1.25 billion years, no matter what weather they experience, pressure they undergo, or any other outside circumstances.
Science cannot predict which particular K-40 atom in this sample will decay and which will not during the next 1.25 billion years, but that is OK.
It can predict what happens on average.
It is like flipping a huge amount of coins: you know that the likelihood, or probability, is that you will end up with half of them heads up, but you have no idea which particular one will end up heads, or if even half of them will be heads for sure.
So, can radioactive isotopes be used as a clock?
Can geologists say that once the amount of K-40 isotopes in the sample has reduced to half its original amount, 1.25 billion years will have gone by?
Yes  as long as they use a big enough sample so statistical fluctuations  average out.
To take it a step further, once only 1/4 of the original amount of K-40 isotopes are left (half of the half left over after 1.25 billion years), geologists can say that 2.5 billion years (double the half-life time) have gone by.
Now, can you predict how much time has gone by if only 1/8 is left?
You can probably see now that as the sample ages, fewer and fewer parent isotopes will be present in the rock, so the rock will be less and less radioactive.
Figure 3 shows a graphical representation of this example.
Figure 3.
Representation of an aging rock.
The radioactivity levels are indicated by wiggly arrows; green dots represent parent isotopes (here, K-40) and yellow dots represent daughter isotopes present in the rock at the indicated time after the formation of the rock.
Snapshots of the rock are taken after multiples of 1.25 billion years (the half-life time of the parent isotope K-40).So, how do geologists use radioactive decay as clocks to measure the age of a sample?
Using a technique called radiometric dating, geologists take a sample of the material and measure the number of parent and daughter isotopes present in the sample.
Adding these two values gives the original amount of parent isotopes in the sample.
Geologists can then use Equation 1, referred to as the radioactive decay formula, to determine the age of a sample.
Specifically, by dividing the number of parent isotopes currently left in the sample (NN[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]) by the original amount of parent isotopes in the sample (N0N_{0}[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]), the geologists calculate a ratio termed N/N0{N}/{N_{0}}[Please enable JavaScript to view equation].
They can then use this ratio (N/N0{N}/{N_{0}}[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]) in Equation 1 to calculate the time since formation of the sample (TT[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]) to determine the age of the sample.
Equation 1:  N/N0=(12)T/T1/2 {N}/{N_{0}} =  ( \frac{1}{2} )^{T/T_{1/2}}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] NN[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]: number of parent isotope currently left in the sampleN0N_{0}[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]: original number of parent isotope in the sampleTT[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]: time since formationT1/2T_{1/2}[Please enable JavaScript to view equation]:  half life time of the parent isotopeIs this radioactive decay formula intimidating?
If so, try not to worry: This science project will only use its graphical representation, known as the decay curve .
Coming back to our example, Figure 4 shows the decay curve for the potassium (K-40) isotope.
Can you figure out that the half-life time of K-40 is 1.25 billion years from the graph?
Can you also figure out that 1/4 of the K-40 parent isotopes in the sample are left after 2.5 billion years, and only 1/8 of the K-40 parent isotopes remain after 3.75 billion years?
How long before all of the K-40 parent isotopes decay?Figure 4.
An example of the decay curve of potassium (K-40).
This figure also illustrates how to use a decay curve to figure the time since formation, if the fraction of parent isotope remaining in the sample is known.
The red lines show how to obtain the half-life time, or the time after which half of the parent isotopes have decayed.
The green and pink lines guide you to the time after which only 1/4 and 1/8, respectively, of the parent isotopes remain.
The arrows indicate how to read the graph, starting from a fraction of parent isotope remaining via a horizontal line to a point on the curve, and then vertically down to a time on the time axis.Does this still seem a bit abstract?
This geology science project will guide you through the process of radiometric dating, enabling you to explore and fill in the blanks.
It explains how to create a model of radioactive decay using dice.
The model will behave the same way as isotopes in nature in important ways.
You will create a decay curve for your hypothetical rare isotope, and use it to estimate the time since formation of hypothetical samples created by a friend.
Create a model of radioactive decay using dice and test its predictive power on dating the age of a hypothetical rock or artifact.
Use different dice (five-sided, eight-sided, ten-sided, etc.)
or a coin to set up your model.
Would you expect any differences in the decay probability, the decay curve, the half-life time, the accuracy of time estimations, etc.?
Glue stickers on additional sides of your six-sided dice to set up your model, but be consistent with all of the dice (e.g., put stickers on  three sides of all of your dice).
Would you expect any differences in the decay probability, the decay curve, the half-life time, the accuracy of time estimations, etc.?
This science project used a sample size of 100 dice.
As a variation, do the experiment again with a different sample size (e.g., 200, 150, 50, or 25 dice total).
How does the sample size affect the accuracy of the decay curve and time readings?
If you use more dice, is it more or less accurate at telling time than when you used 100 dice?
What about when you use fewer dice?In this science project, you compare the half-life time read from the decay curve with the calculated half-life time.
As a variation, do the comparison for different fractions of the initial amounts of parent isotopes remaining (e.g., 1/4, 3/4, 1/8, etc.)
See if you can find and explain trends in accuracy (e.g., graph readings for smaller fractions remaining are more or less accurate).Study how sample size affects the accuracy of the estimations by allowing your partner to choose how many dice he or she likes to start out with (i.e., letting your partner choose the sample size).
In this variation, you do not change the sample size to graph the decay curve or make your probability data table, only the test sample involving a partner changes.
When trying to figure out how many rolls your partner has made, be sure to start with the number of parent isotopes that he or she decides to use in the sample size.
If radioactive decay processes intrigue you, the following two project ideas might grab your attention: Particles in the Mist: See Radioactive Particles Decay with Your Own Cloud Chamber!
Watching Nuclear Particles: See Background Radiation Zoom Through A Cloud Chamber  Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, chemistry science project, chemistry, physics science project, geology science project, radiometric dating, radioactive isotope, isotope, radioactive decay, decay curve, half-life time, probability, carbon dating, radiocarbon dating, statistics, dating artifacts, dating rocks   Atoms Nucleons Atomic number Periodic table Element Isotopes Radioactive Unstable Radioactive decay Parent isotope Daughter isotope Half-life time Probability Statistical fluctuations Radiometric dating Decay curve
