 Bug Vacuums: Sucking up Biodiversity  Have you ever wondered what a wildlife biologist does?
Ronnie and Denise from DragonflyTV found out firsthand when they worked with a local wildlife biologist to take a survey of the fish populations in their local lake.
They wanted to determine what the biodiversity (number of different species in a habitat) was like so that they could find out how healthy the lake habitat was.
In this science fair project you can take on the role of a wildlife biologist by examining the biodiversity of insects in your own backyard using a homemade bug vacuum!
Have you ever heard the phrase "The more the merrier!"?
In ecologywhich is the study of living things and the habitats (or places) they live inthe phrase should be "The more species the healthier!".
Habitats that have lots of biodiversity are considered healthy.
Part of biodiversity is having many different types of plants and animals living in the same habitat.
The plants and animals rely on one another for their entire life cycles.
For example, let us say berries from a bush are eaten by a field mouse, then the mouse helps transport the seeds inside the berries to different locations, allowing more berry bushes to grow.
The mice are eaten by birds of prey, like hawks, and then some of the hawk eggs get stolen and eaten by a fox, and on and on the chain goes.
This web of relationships is called an ecosystem.
The greater the biodiversity, the larger the ecosystem, and the healthier the habitat.
Watch this video of a Fish Populationinvestigation, produced by  DragonflyTVand presented by pbskidsgo.org.Watch this DragonflyTV Fish Population video http://www.pbskids.org/dragonflytv/show/fishpopulation.html Wildlife biologists study and monitor the health of habitats and ecosystems.
One way they do this is to survey (identify and count) populations of plants and animals to determine how much biodiversity is in a habitat.
In this video from DragonflyTV, Ronnie and Denise help a wildlife biologist conduct a population survey of the fish in their local lake.
If they find good-sized populations of several different species of fish, they will know that their lake is a healthy habitat.
How do you think they do it?
Watch the video to find out what kind of biodiversity they observe, how they observe it, and what their findings mean about the lake!From the video you can see that surveying populations of fish is hard work that requires a lot of equipment, like boats, nets, and containers to hold the fish.
Plus, you have to live near a water habitat!
Insects, on the other hand, are easy to find in many outdoor habitats, and catching them does not require much equipment.
In this environmental science project you will do your own biodiversity survey right in your own backyard (or in a nearby park or field) by looking at how many species of insects you can find.
To conduct your survey you will build a simple bug vacuum to collect the insects.
Get ready to suck those bugs up!
Use a homemade bug vacuum to collect insects from your backyard to determine whether it is a biologically diverse habitat.
What kinds of insects do you expect to find in  your backyard?
Research which species of insects live in your area.
Then do the science fair project above, this time using insect guidebooks and websites to identify the  insects you collect.
Did your expectations match your results?
Do different locations have different insects?
Compare two or more different habitats, like a field and a forest.
Which habitat has more insect biodiversity?
Why?Does changing the conditions in your test area change the types of insects you collect?
For example, what happens to the biodiversity if you sprinkle the ground with water first?
If an area does not have much biodiversity, what do you think can be done to improve it?
Would adding things like old wood, leaves, or water improve the biodiversity?
Devise a way to test this and then try it out!
Be sure to give the insects enough time to get used to, and move into, the area after you change it.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  labrat said:  2011-02-07 10:44:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned how to make a simple apparatus for trapping and observing bugs from my yard.
This project could be completed by a K-5 student with minimal background in the sciences.
The project was "successful" I was able to collect a variety of bugs from my backyard.
What problems did you encounter?
None-The introduction does a good job of incorporating the video podcast materials.
The photos are very helpful in constructing the "vacuum."
Overall, it's a very straightforward, well-written project idea that is good as-is.
I spent less than $20 and under one day doing this project.
Safety measures are described appropriately.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Good as is.
All biblio links are functional.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
4                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, zoology project, insect, bug, biodiversity, habitat, ecosystem, ecology, wildlife biologist, population, bug vacuum ,Kindergarten, 1st grade, first grade, 2nd grade, second grade Ecology Habitat Biodiversity Ecosystem Wildlife biologist Species
