 Rad Radishes: Effects of Irradiation on Seed Germination  DNA is the "instruction manual" for the successful growth of a living thing, from a single cell to a mature adult.
When the DNA of an organism is somehow damaged, it can have an impact on the organism's development over time.
In this plant science fair project, you will track how irradiation (exposure to radiation) of radish seeds affects germination (sprouting of a seedling from a seed).
Mutations are permanent changes in the DNA sequence of an organism, and can be inherited.
If the organism is a single cell (like a bacterium), the "daughter cells" that formed when it divided, might each have the mutation, assuming that the mutation is not lethal.
If the organism is multicellular, such as a human being, the mutation can be inherited only if it occurs in the cells that form the eggs and sperm.
A mutation that occurs in one of the cells on your arm, for example, cannot be passed on to the next generation.
Mutations can be caused by a number of things.
Chemicals found in tobacco smoke, for example, cause mutations.
Mutations can also be caused by forms of electromagnetic radiation, including ultraviolet (UV) light, X-rays and gamma rays.UV light from the Sun causes DNA damage to exposed skin.
But UV light does not penetrate your skin very far.
It stops after it travels a few cell-thicknesses into the skin.
X-rays also cause DNA damage.
X-rays are more energetic and more penetrating than ultraviolet rays.
That is why they are so useful for getting a picture of your bones or teeththey pass through the soft tissues and are absorbed by the hard tissue.
On an X-ray film, the light regions form where lots of X-rays have struck the film (soft tissue).
The dark regions form where fewer X-ray photons have passed through (bones).
The X-ray you get at the dentist or when you have a chest X-ray is safe because the dose is so low.
In this plant biology science fair project, you will investigate how radish seeds are affected by gamma irradiation.
Gamma rays are even more powerful than X-rays.
For the purpose of irradiating food, the gamma rays are produced by a highly radioactive version of the element cobalt, called cobalt 60 (see the Bibliography for more about cobalt 60).
It is important to understand that the seeds in this science fair project have been "irradiated," which means they were treated with gamma rays.
The seeds are not radioactive.
Because they are so energetic, gamma rays can penetrate deeply into tissue.
Gamma rays are a form of ionizing radiation, which means that they can form ions, or charged particles, in irradiated tissue.
When gamma rays cause DNA damage, most of the damage is due to the reaction of these ions with the DNA molecule.
DNA damage caused by gamma rays can result in breakage of both strands of the DNA molecule.
The higher the dose of gamma rays, the more damage there is to the DNA.You will use gamma-irradiated WARD's Rapid RadishTM seeds in the experimental procedure.
The seeds have already been irradiated with several doses of gamma rays.
The doses were not so high that the seeds were all killed, as in food sterilization, but the doses were high enough that the growth of some of the seeds could be affected.
The unit used to measure the level of gamma irradiation is the mrad.
An mrad is a measure of how much energy has been deposited in a material by the irradiation.
A rad is equal to 1,000 mrads.
The rad is the original unit developed for expressing absorbed dose, which is the amount of energy from any type of ionizing radiation deposited in any medium (e.g., water, tissue, air).
A dose of one rad is equivalent to the absorption of 100 ergs (a small but measurable amount of energy) per gram of absorbing tissue.
The rad has been replaced by the gray in the SI system of units (1 gray = 100 rad).If the gamma rays have caused mutations in the DNA sequence of the plants that grow up from the seeds, then the plants have an altered genotype.
The genotype of the plant consists of its DNA sequence.
If the DNA damage causes a change in the observable appearance or behavior of the plant, then the plant is said to have an altered phenotype.
The phenotype you will observe is seed germination, so you will observe the part of the plant that emerges from the seed first, the embryonic root, termed a radicle, or primary root.
Let's get started!
The objective of this plant biology science fair project is to investigate how irradiation affects the germination of radish seeds.
Plant the seeds in moist soil and watch them grow.
Follow the directions that accompany the seeds for growing the plants.
Compare the heights and appearances of the plants treated with the various doses of gamma irradiation.
For more information about how to measure the growth of the plants, visit the Science Buddies page, Measuring Plant Growth.Try breeding the plants after they have grown, using the directions that came with the kit.
Do you see new phenotypes in the next generation?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Kavster1144 said:  2017-02-03 09:01:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
that you should never radiate seeds What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
use a petrie dish instead of a CD case Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment plant biology, science fair project, irradiation, gamma rays, germination, DNA damage, genotype, phenotype, radish, seed Mutation DNA sequence Electromagnetic radiation Ultraviolet (UV) light X-ray Gamma ray Dose Ionizing radiation Ion rad mrad Absorbed dose Erg Gray Genotype Phenotype Germination Radicle Primary root Photon Radio wave Visible light Electromagnetic spectrum
