 Tricks for Treats: How Long Does It Take to Train Your Pet?
Have you ever been to an animal show and seen a sea lion balance a ball on his nose, or a tiger jump through a hoop?
Or maybe you've met dogs who can sit, fetch, shake, or beg on command.
The range of tricks that you can teach animals is amazing, but how does animal training work, and how long does it take?
Find out in this trick-and-treat filled science fair project!
Start naming some animals that can be taught to do tricks.
Is your list getting pretty long?
The truth is, humans have been training animals for thousands of years to do work.
And not just animals like dogs and horses!
Falcons, a type of bird, are used in hunting; elephants are used for moving heavy objects like logs; camels are trained to allow people to ride them; and pigs are used to find truffles (a rare type of mushroom).
These are just a few examples of working animals, but there are many more.In addition to training animals to help with work, humans sometimes train animals for entertainment.
You might have seen shows where trained animals perform tricks at animal parks, aquariums, zoos, and circuses.
Often, zoos and other animal parks also train animals to perform actions, like presenting different parts of their bodies to trainers, or sitting still for several minutes.
These actions make it easier and safer for the veterinarians and animal keepers to take care of the animals, make sure they're healthy, and give them medicines when necessary.
Figure 1.
This photograph shows a circus leopard standing on a stool at the command of her animal trainer.
(Library of Congress, 1906.
)How do animal trainers teach an animal a new trick?
The most common method is a concept called operant conditioning.
In operant conditioning, the animal is allowed to interact (operate) with its environment and try different behaviors.
The trainer rewards actions that are good or useful and over time the animal learns (is conditioned) to do these behaviors.
Animal trainers use positive reinforcements, such as food, toys, affection, or praise, to encourage the animals to repeat the behaviors that the trainer wants them to learn.
The trainer also sometimes links a signal to the behavior.
For example, a dog trainer might say "sit" when his or her dog is sitting and then give the dog a treat as positive reinforcement.
Over time the trainer will say "sit" when the dog is doing other activities and if the dog sits, he or she will receive a treat.
Eventually, the word sit becomes a command that the dog recognizes as a signal to behave in a specific way and will consistently sit down when told to.
Signals don't always have to be words.
They can also be sounds, like a whistle or clap, or hand signs or other visual cues.
Click here   to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.How quickly can an animal be trained to do a behavior on command?
PJ and Courtney from DragonflyTV did a little experimenting on their own to find out the answer.
Using a piece of meat as a reward, they tested whether three different groups of crocodiles would follow their command to get into a crate.
One group of crocodiles had no previous training, the second group had some training, and the third group was fully trained adults.
How much success do you think they had with each group of crocodiles?
Watch the video and find out!
You don't need an exotic animal like a crocodile or a sea lion to practice your skills as an animal trainer!
You can teach your very own pet to perform a trick.
First you'll need to decide what kind of trick to teach him or her, and make sure it is a behavior he or she is physically capable of doing.
You'll also need to decide what kind of positive reward you are going to give your pet.
After you've made these decisions, you're ready to start training.
How long do you think it will take your pet to learn the new trick?
Ready to find out?
Good luck training!
In this science fair project you'll find out how long it takes to teach your pet a new trick using professional animal training techniques.
Do more complex tricks take longer to learn?
Try teaching your pet two tricks at once.
One trick should be fairly easy, while the other should be more complex (takes more actions).
For example, an easy trick for a dog would be learning to sit, while a complex trick would be learning to lie down, roll over, and then play dead.
Keep track of how long it takes for your pet to learn each trick.
Remember to spend equal amounts of time training with each trick per day!
Are there variations between pets as to how fast they can learn a trick?
Compare how quickly two pets (either the same type of pets, like two dogs, or two different types of pets, like a dog and a cat) take to learn the same trick.
Does past training change how fast a pet learns a trick?
See how long it takes to teach your pet its first trick.
After it has learned the first trick, teach it a second trick.
Does it learn the second one in fewer days?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project idea, mammalian biology project, animal training, reward, positive reinforcement, operant conditioning, tricks, treats, animal behavior, pet Animal training Operant conditioning Positive reinforcement Signal Trial
