 How Far Can You Throw (or Kick) a Ball?
Have you ever seen a "Hail Mary" football pass, where the quarterback tries to throw the ball as far as possible to reach the end zone and score a touchdown?
Or a last second game tying soccer goal from midfield?
How far the ball will go does not just depend on how hard a player throws or kicks it; it also depends on the angle at which the player launches the ball.
In this sports science project, you will investigate how launch angle affects the distance that a ball travels by filming volunteers who throw (or kick) a ball and analyze the videos with a motion-tracking software tool.
Note: This science project is written using football as the example, but you could do the project for any sport that involves throwing or kicking a ball.
Note: This science project is written with throwing a football as an example, but you can adapt this project to work with any sport where you throw or kick a ball.
The only exception would be if the ball is too small to easily see on a camera from a distance, like a golf ball.You might not think that a football game and your science class have anything in common.
But if you watch football, you know that the football is often launched through the air; it can be thrown, kicked, or punted (see Figure 1).
Any object that is launched through the air is called a projectile.
A football, a cannonball, a rock fired out of a slingshot, or a crumpled up wad of paper you throw across the room are all examples of projectiles.
The study of how projectiles move through the air is called projectile motion.
As the projectile moves, it is affected by the forces of gravity and air resistance.
When there is zero air resistance, a projectile moves in a path called a parabola.
When there is air resistance (which always happens here, due to Earth's atmosphere, but would not happen somewhere like the Moon, where there is no atmosphere), a projectile does not move in a perfect parabola, but its path is still very close to one.
Figure 1.
A football quarterback has to understand projectile motion in order to accurately throw the ball to a receiver (photo courtesy of U.S. Navy).Understanding projectile motion can be very important in a game like football, where, depending on the play, you might need to throw a ball into the end zone, kick it through the field goal posts, or punt it high into the air.
In this science project, you will focus on the best way to throw the ball as far as possible, like for a game-winning touchdown play.The horizontal distance a projectile travels before it hits the ground (or, more simply, how far the ball will go when you throw it) is called its range.
The range of a projectile depends on three things: its initial speed, its launch angle, and the initial height above the ground.
Initial speed is how fast the ball is going the moment it leaves the quarterback's hand.
If you throw the ball harder, it will have a higher initial speed.
Launch angle is the angle the ball is traveling relative to the ground right when it is thrown.
A launch angle of 0 means a ball is thrown straight out, parallel to the ground.
A launch angle of 90 means a ball is thrown straight up, perpendicular to the ground.
The initial height is the distance between the ball and the ground, the moment it leaves the thrower's hand.
Figure 2, illustrates range, initial speed, launch angle, and initial height.
Figure 2.
The range, initial speed, launch angle, and initial height of a projectile.Can you think about how initial speed, launch angle, and initial height will affect the range of a projectile?
The relationship between initial speed and range might seem obviousif you throw a ball harder, it will go farther.
There is also a pretty simple relationship between initial height and range  if a ball starts off higher above the ground, it will go farther.
What about launch angle?
Is it immediately obvious what launch angle will give the farthest range?
In this sports science project, you will specifically do an experiment to find out the best launch angle to give the longest possible range (while doing your best to keep the other variables constant).
Do you think there is an "ideal" launch angle that will give the longest possible range?
Throw (or kick) a football at different launch angles and measure which one results in the longest horizontal distance using a free motion-tracking software program.
Repeat the experiment using a different method of launching the same ball.
For example, compare throwing, kicking, and punting a football.
Is the best angle to achieve the longest range the same in all three cases?Do the experiment to compare two different sports; for example, kicking a soccer ball versus kicking a football.
Is the best angle to achieve the longest range always the same for each sport?Think of a way to have your volunteers keep their launch angles as constant as possible, and vary the ball's initial speed instead.
You can use Tracker to measure the ball's initial speed (read the Tracker help files to find out how).In the Introduction, you learned that the range of a projectile depends on its launch angle, initial speed, and initial height.
If you assume the initial height is the same as the final height, the range can be expressed using Equation 1 (the equation is more complicated if the initial and final height are different):Equation 1:  Latex:R=v20gsin2  Latex: R = \frac{v_0^2}{g}\sin 2\theta [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]R is the projectile's range in meters (m)v0 is the projectile's initial speed in meters per second (m/s)g is acceleration due to gravity, 9.81 meters per second squared (m/s) is the projectile's launch angle in radians (rad)  Can you use this equation to predict the football's range, based on the launch angle and initial speed you measure in your video?
How does the predicted range compare to the actual measured range, and what could account for any difference?
Can you use the equations of projectile motion to predict what launch angle should give the longest horizontal range?
Remember to account for any elevation difference between where the ball starts and where it hits the ground.
For example, the answer is different if you are kicking a football off the ground (initial height of 0m) versus throwing it (initial height of about 2m).
Can you fit a quadratic equation to the (x,y) coordinates of your trajectories?
How close are they to a perfect parabola, and what role do you think air resistance plays in the difference (if there is one)?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, physics, football, soccer, punting, kicking, throwing, projectile motion, launch angle, initial velocity, air resistance, parabola, range, tracker, motion analysis Projectile Projectile motion Gravity Air resistance Parabola Range Initial speed Launch angle Initial height
