 What is the Woolly Mammoth's Closest Living Relative?
Woolly mammoths shook the ground of ice-age tundras for millennia, living next to saber tooth tigers and prehistoric man.
Although they have been extinct for thousands of years, scientists continue to learn more and more about this mighty animal.
Some of the most exciting new research is being produced by looking at DNA extracted from the hair and bones of woolly mammoths entombed in ice.
In this genomics science fair project, you will use bioinformatics tools to determine the woolly mammoth's closest relative.
You will also estimate the rate at which the woolly mammoth's DNA accumulated mutations.
The application of molecular analysis techniques to samples retrieved from the hair and bone of extinct animals has generated excitement among paleobiologists and other scientists.
Our understanding of the woolly mammoth, for example, which used to be based on fossils and comparison with modern elephants, has been enriched by analysis of its DNA.Woolly mammoths (scientific name: Mammuthus primigenius) are extinct elephant-like animals that roamed Earth until about 10,000 years ago, when scientists believe they became extinct due to warming weather, human hunters, disease, or some combination of these factors.
Figure 1.
The woolly mammoth at the Royal BC Museum, Victoria, British Columbia.
(Wikipedia, 2008.
)There are believed to be millions of mammoths buried in Siberia's permafrost.
Only about 100 specimens have been uncovered in the sparsely populated countryside, but some of them have been remarkably well preserved.
In 1997, an entire mummified woolly mammoth was found in Siberian ice!
It was transferred in October 1999 to a frigid, underground cave where it will be carefully studied.
Scientists hope to clone this remarkable specimen.Mammoths are classified in the order Proboscidae, which includes mammoths, modern Asian elephants and African elephants, and mastodons.
In the past few years, scientists have successfully isolated mitochondrial DNA from the hair and bones of mammoths and mastodons.
A study by Nadin Rohland, from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Germany, and his colleagues, demonstrates the power of genetic data to clarify interrelationships.
The researchers used the DNA sequence information from a mastodon tooth to estimate that the time of divergence of mastodons occurred about 27 million years ago.
African elephants diverged from Asian elephants and mammoths about 7.6 million years ago.
The divergence between mammoths and Asian elephants was estimated to have taken place about 6.7 million years ago.
See Figure 2.
Figure 2.
Phylogeny and divergence times for the four proboscidean species.
Phylogenetic trees are like family trees: individuals, or species in this case, are grouped together based on shared ancestry.
The image on each of the "branches" is a representation of the animal's tooth.
"MY" stands for million years.
(Rohland, et al., 2007.
)The analysis of mitochondrial DNA is a valuable tool in evolutionary biology.
It is easier to obtain good sequences from mitochondrial DNA than it is from chromosomal DNA (because there are multiple copies in each cell), it is inherited without recombination, and it accumulates mutations that are useful in phylogenetic analysis.
You might ask, what is phylogenetic analysis and how are mutations used?
Phylogenetic analysis simply means the study of evolutionary relationships among organisms.
Mutations play a role in phylogenetic analysis because they are ideal "tags" for lines of descent.
The presence of a particular mutation within a group of animals is evidence of a common ancestor.
Most mutations are not passed down to subsequent generations, but some do become common within the population.
A mutation that is present at a significant level (over 1%) within a population is often called a polymorphism.
How do mutations allow phylogenetic analysis?
In this genomics science fair project, you will compare mitochondrial DNA from a woolly mammoth to mitochondrial DNA from a mastodon, an Asian elephant, and an African elephant.
Based on the level of similarity, you will be able to determine how closely the mammoth is related to mastodons and to modern elephants.
As outlined in the Experimental Procedure, below, you will first download the sequence for woolly mammoth mitochondrial DNA.
You will then use BLAST, a software tool available at the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) website, to search a database of DNA sequences for the best matches to the mammoth DNA.
You will be using BLAST to infer evolutionary relationships among the modern elephants and their extinct relatives.For the basic procedure, you will BLAST a portion of the woolly mammoth mitochondrial DNA against a small set of related sequences from mastodon and elephant sequences.
Once you are familiar with the tools and databases, you can expand your science fair project to include protein sequences.
You can also expand the number of organisms you search for with the BLAST tool.
The objective of this genomics science fair project is to use the BLAST bioinformatics tool to identify the closest living relative of the extinct woolly mammoth.
You will also estimate the mutation rate in the woolly mammoth's mitochondrial DNA.
These variations suggest ways that you can extend your analysis of the woolly mammoth's mitochondrial genome.
In the main Experimental Procedure above, you used a region of mitochondrial DNA to establish the family structure of the Proboscidea.
Extend this analysis using mitochondrial proteins.
Retrieve the record from NCBI for nucleotide sequence NC_007596.
Copy a protein sequence, for example for the protein "NADH dehydrogenase subunit 1," from the NCBI page for NC_007596.
Enter the sequence in the BLASpage, clicking this time on "Protein BLAST."
Enter the other settings, as you did for the DNA BLAST.
Compare the results of your protein BLASvs.
the eDNA BLAST.
In the paper by Rohland, referenced in the Bibliography, they excluded the D-loop region of the mitochondrial DNA because it accumulates mutations at a faster rate than the rest of the genome.
Repeat the analysis with the D-loop excluded (the NCBI page for NC_007596 indicates the D-loop boundaries).
Extend the number of organisms that you are comparing with the mammoth.
You can do this by selecting a larger set of animals in the "Organisms" box.
(Mammoths are classed as follows: Eukaryota, Metazoa, Chordata, Craniata, Vertebrata, Euteleostomi, Mammalia, Eutheria, Afrotheria, Proboscidea).
Download the DNA or protein sequences from the BLASresults and generate a tree using the tools at the European Bioinformatics Institute.
Repeat this analysis with a set of primate genomes.
As noted in the paper by Rohland, the rate at which mutations accumulate in the primate line is dramatically different than it is in the elephant line.
The reason is unknown.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  JosefZimola said:  2013-08-01 17:35:04 What was the most important thing you learned?
working with the ncbi database What problems did you encounter?
ncbi as a new programm Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
a comparing the other animal species Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, genomics, bioinformatics, BLAST, woolly mammoth, mitochondrial DNA, relative, extinct, DNA Paleobiologist Woolly mammoth ( Proboscidian Asian elephant ( African elephant ( Mastodon ( Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) Recombination Phylogenetic analysis Mutation Polymorphism BLAST Genome Molecular clock Base pairs Query
