 The Cat's Meow: Designing an Enrichment Toy  Do you love animals and want to help keep them healthy?
Well, here's your chance to design and tailor a toy that will bring out your pet's most playful nature.
In this science fair project, you'll evaluate the skills and activities of your pet and determine what kinds of toys most excite your pet and make him or her lively and curious.
So call your furry or feathered friend, and let the frolicking begin!
What helps keep your pet healthy?
Just like people, animals need the right food, clean water, grooming, rest, and exercise.
The exercise is best when it uses the animal's natural skills and instincts like climbing, swimming, hunting, fetching, or digging, because exercise in this form conditions the animal's brain, as well as its body.
Figure 1.
These photos show pets at play using their natural instincts, like pouncing and fetching.
Click here   to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.orgAnimals kept in zoos have special challenges staying healthy, even if their environments are kept as close to their natural habitat as possible.
Many zoo animals don't have to work for their food since it is given to them by the zookeepers.
Without the challenges of finding food, guarding territory, or avoiding predators, some zoo animals may become bored and even depressed.
Zoos try to combat this boredom with enrichment toys.
Enrichment means making something richer, fuller, or more interesting.
The goal of an enrichment toy is to provide a stimulating activity that exercises both the brain and the body of the animal.
If you want to see how two kids got involved with enrichment activities at their local zoo, visit DragonflyTV by clicking the link on the right and join Chelsea and Camille as they learned how to design and evaluate enrichment toys for the zoo's tigers and otters.You don't need to go to a zoo, though, to design and evaluate an enrichment toy.
You can do it right in your own home, with your own pet, by thinking about and observing your animal's skills and behaviors.
First, think about your pet's senses.
Does your pet have a good sense of vision?
Hearing?
Smell?
If his or her hearing is good, what frequencies does he or she hear best?
High pitches or low?
If the sense of smell is sharp, what kinds of odors get your pet very excited?
Your enrichment toy should appeal to one or more of your pet's strongest senses.
Second, observe and list the common natural skills and activities your pet has.
For example, when your pet is awake, can you frequently find your pet running, digging, kneading, nesting, jumping, swimming, sniffing, climbing, marking, pouncing, vocalizing, or hiding?
Think about what kinds of toys can encourage those skills or activities.
A pet store is one place to start looking for toy ideas that you can modify and test to see what appeals to your special animal.
Or, you can see what your pet plays with naturally around the home.
Shoes, for example, are frequently loved by dogs and cats because of their odor, chewy texture, and flicking laces.
Finally, you must always think about safety.
You certainly don't want a toy to hurt or injure your pet, so when you design a toy, you must think about what would happen if the toy broke, or if your pet ate a piece of it.
Toys must always be designed from non-toxic materials.
You must always supervise your pet when he or she is playing with a toy, as well.
Possible materials for enrichment toys are unlimited and can be found all around the house and yard.
Examples include paper bags; boxes; balls; sticks; shoelaces; pieces of fur or wool; different thicknesses of string or rope with and without knots; clean, empty, plastic containers; cardboard tubes; marbles;  mirrors; full-size photos of other pets; crumpled paper; old, clean socks; bells; and dry kibble or treats make great, enticing stuffers for socks and containers for some pets!Is it possible that an enrichment toy might captivate one pet, but not another of the same breed or species?
Yes, absolutely.
Just like people, animals have their own personalities, even within the same species or breed.
So, what makes a good enrichment toy for your German shepherd, for example, might not make the best enrichment toy for someone else's.
Your animal is unique.
Whether old or young, shy or social, you will find out what kind of toy captures and holds his or her interest.
So, go call your pet!
It's time to watch Fluffy or Fido get frisky!
To design and test different versions of an enrichment toy to determine which version most excites a pet both physically and mentally.
Compare responses to an enrichment toy among three or more pets of the same breed or species.
Compare variations on an enrichment toy that focuses on one of the senses, such as touch.
Determine what types of textures your pet prefers to play or chew on.
Or create enrichment toy variations that focus on sound.
What frequencies attract your pet?
If your focus is vision, what colors of toys interest your pet the most?
How about shiny or dull toy surfaces?
Try repeating your tests at different times of the day.
What times of the day (or night) is your pet most interested in play?
Evaluate whether your pet prefers playing with enrichment toys solo or with a human involved.
If you'd like to test various dog toys to find the most appealing for your dog, see this Science Buddies science fair project:  Dog Toys: What Makes One a Favorite or a Flop to Fido?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  debbieemailagain said:  2016-01-13 22:23:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
a What problems did you encounter?
bb Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
cc Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, animal, pet, enrichment toy, zoo Instinct Predator Enrichment Frequency Knead Nest Mark Pounce Vocalize Non-toxic Breed Species Nocturnal
