 Ocean Currents: Modeling the 'Global Conveyor Belt' in Your Kitchen  Ocean currents have profound effects on the climates of the continents, especially those regions bordering on the ocean.
For example, the Gulf Stream (a warm current that goes around the North Atlantic Ocean) is thought to make northwest Europe much warmer than it would otherwise be.
Similarly, the California Current is thought to keep Hawaii cooler than other land masses at the same latitude as it.
In this ocean science fair project, you will model the behavior of these "rivers" of hot and cold water within the ocean to find out how temperature affects the speed and direction of the currents.
Ocean currents profoundly affect the weather, marine transportation, and the cycling of nutrients.
Deep-ocean currents are driven by differences in the water's density.
The water's density is controlled by temperature (cold water is denser than warm water) and salinity (salty water is denser than fresh water).
How does the varying density of the oceans waters create the global currents?
To understand the deep-ocean currents, it is easiest to look first at Earth's polar regions.
Water flowing into the polar regions becomes cold, which increases its density.
As ice is formed when the water freezes, freshwater is removed from the ocean (it has turned into ice), making the ocean water saltier.
The cold water is now denser, due to the added salts, thus it sinks toward the ocean bottom.
Surface water then moves in to replace the sinking water, thus creating a current.
This movement within a fluid created by hotter (and therefore less dense) materials rising, and colder (and therefore denser) materials sinking, is called convection.A global "conveyor belt" is set in motion when deep water forms in the North Atlantic, sinks, moves south, circulates around Antarctica, and then moves northward to the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic basins.
A simplified version of the global conveyor belt is shown in Figure 1, below.
The global conveyor belt moves water slowly, 10 centimeters (cm) per second (sec) at most, so it can take 1,000 years for water from the North Atlantic to find its way into the North Pacific!
But the global conveyor belt moves a lot of water  around 100 times the amount of water that is in the Amazon River is transported by this huge, slow circulation pattern.
Figure 1.
This is a simplified version of the global conveyor belt.
(Image credits: US Global Change Research Program, Thomas Splettstoesser)The water moves mainly because of differences in relative density, which you will explore in this science fair project.
In this science project, you will model ocean currents, with particular focus on the role of heat in the currents' direction and velocity.
To make a model of ocean currents and measure how the heat input affects velocity of the currents.
Add an "island" made from a can or other object.
Sketch the current flow around the island.
Can you think of a way to add a "polar region" to the model, perhaps using a bag of ice?
How does the current change with the polar region in place?
Caution: Do not add the polar region to a heated setup, as the rapid change in temperature could be dangerous.
Instead, add the polar region to a room-temperature setup (i.e., room-temperature vegetable oil prepared with thyme flakes in the dish) and then heat up the setup using the candles as described in the Procedure.
Try a larger heat-resistant glass dish, like a lasagna pan.
Place the candles in different regions and sketch the current flow.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  stupper said:  2012-12-29 14:04:41 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned more about velocity What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    istronglydislikescience said:  2011-11-13 14:25:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
none What problems did you encounter?
project exploded and erupted into flmes when trying the variations Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
don't use sterno cans or pyrex (glass dish) i tried doing the variation of this projet and it exploded when i put the polar region in.
it blew up andlass went everywhere then the oil from the pan went into the flames and made three foot flame erupt.
and btter yet, my results got burned and saturated in oil and could not read and the whole project is due tuesday!!
i am so dead Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
24                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment ocean currents, convection, density, heat transfer, science fair project, velocity Deep-ocean currents Density Salinity Convection Global conveyor belt Velocity Convection cells
