 Go with the Flow: Model Rivers with Cornmeal, Sand, & Water  Have you ever had fun playing with sand and water, observing how little rivers you create carve their way down to the lowest point of the sandbox, backyard or beach?
Some meander, others braid, and some carve a path straight down.
Hyrdologists  (or scientists who study water) do very much the same thing!
Only they set up the model in a particular way, so observing their mini-rivers helps them answer questions about how water flow affects the environment.
In this geology science project, you will create your own question, set up a model with sand, cornmeal, and water to help you study your question, and learn from your observations just like a real hydrologist.
Have you ever played in the terrain of your backyard, pouring water over dirt and rocks to create little rivers that eventually flow into a gully or gutter?
You might know that water is a major element shaping the landscape around us.
Think of the devastation after a flood or the destructive power of a tsunami.
Water also shapes and reshapes the landscape in a  much  slower way, gradually over long periods of time.
Take the Grand Canyon in Arizona.
For millions of years, the Colorado River has carried crushed rock across a  plateau, carving into it a steep valley more than a mile deep!
Figure 1 shows two other examples where water has shaped the landscape.Figure 1.
Two pictures illustrate how water shapes and reshapes the land over time.
Left: the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone in Wyoming, Right: Jim River Canyon near Kanuti National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska.Water comes from rainfall and snowmelt.
Some water soaks into the ground.
The rest flows across the land as runoff  into rivers, streams, and lakes.
On its way, water  erodes  the land and drags  sediment  and  debris  with it.
Not all sediments are equal.
Scientists classify sediment based on its grain size, all the way from giant boulders to pebbles, gravel, sand, silt, clay, and colloid.
In a colloid, the grain size is microscopically small; if you are interested in learning more about colloids check out the science project Making Mixtures: How Do Colloids Size Up.
The composition of the sediment is also important.
Figure 2.
These pictures illustrate three classes of sediments: pebbles (left),  sand (middle), and clay (right).
Why is this classification of sediments important?
One reason is that water with more speed, or fast-running water, has more energy and can carry bigger, heavier sediments with it.
Some of the sediment sinks and  settles out  on the ground.
This can leave self-organized structures behind like ripples or dunes on the beach or on riverbeds.
Figure 3 shows an example of sand ripples on a beach.
Figure 3.
Ripples on a beach are an example of self-organizing structures left behind when sediment settles out of flowing water.
When water from rainfall and snowmelt accumulates too quickly for the ground to absorb or the rivers to carry away, flooding happens.
This type of flooding is called alluvial flooding, or river-based flooding.
The flooded water retreats slowly or is absorbed by the ground, leaving sediments behind.
Figure 4 shows sediment-rich runoff after a flood and the sediment left behind.
Figure 4.
Illustration of sediment left after alluvial flooding.
(Photo by Tim McCabe, USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service [1983])  Although water tends to accumulate at the lowest point, it does not always take a straight path there.
Some water will  meander, as shown at left in Figure 5.
The picture on the right is an example of what scientists call a braided river.
Braided rivers have several small channels separated by often temporary islands.
Figure 5.
This illustration shows a meander in a river (left) and a braided river (right).
(Left photo courtesy of Google earth @2013 Google; right photo courtesy of Map data @2013 Google.
)Hydrologists use models in addition to outdoor observation to gather information.
Models are simplified representations of an object in the real world.
Some models exist on the computer, others are physical replicas.
Both are handy tools to study rivers.
In this geology science project, you will build a model that represents a river in the real world.
Your model will act the same as a river in nature in important ways.
You will change the speed at which water runs in your river and observe how this affects other characteristics like the width of the riverbed, if and where deposits are formed or whether or not flooding occurs.Now take some sand, cornmeal, and water and go with the flow!
Model rivers using cornmeal, sand, and water to observe how varying water speed changes the riverbed.
You can add more objects to your river model  e.g., pebbles to represent huge boulders in real rivers.
Do different locations of the pebbles affect the river flow differently?
See how plant growth influences erosion by planting tooth picks along the river banks.
The toothpicks represent trees in nature.
Study how pollution will be distributed in the rivers.
A piece of paper towel or cotton ball soaked with food coloring represent pollution sources in nature.
Use only cornmeal (without a base of sand) and study the depth of the rivers.Hold the jug with the water at a height of 1 inch above the riverbed model to study the effects of a waterfall.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Geology science project, hydrologist, meander, river, water, model, stream, erosion, deposit, riverbed Plateau Erode Sediment Debris Speed Settle out Alluvial flooding Meander Braided river Hydrologists Model
