 How Far Will It Fly?
Build & Test Paper Planes with Different Drag  Just one sheet of paper can lead to a whole lot of fun.
How?
Paper planes!
All you have to know is how to fold and you can have a simple plane in a matter of minutes!
But what design should you use to build the best plane?
In this aerodynamics science project, you will change the basic design of a paper plane and see how this affects its flight.
Specifically, you will increase how much drag the plane experiences and see if this changes how far the paper plane flies.
There is a lot of cool science in this project, such as how the different forces allow a plane to fly, so get ready to start folding!
Paper airplanes are fun and easy to make.
Just fold a piece of paper into a simple plane and send it soaring into the sky with a flick of your wrist.
Watching it float and glide in the air gives you a very satisfying and happy feeling.
But what allows the paper plane to glide through the air?
And why does a paper plane finally land?
To find out, we will talk about the science behind flying a paper plane and the different forces that get a paper plane to fly and land.
These same forces apply to real airplanes, too.
A force is something that pushes or pulls on something else.
When you throw a paper plane in the air, you are giving the plane a push to move forward.
That push is a type of force called thrust.
While the plane is flying forward, air is moving over and under the wings and is providing a force called lift  to the plane.
If the paper plane has enough thrust and the wings are properly designed, the plane will have a nice long flight.
But there is more than lack of thrust and poor wing design that gets a paper plane to come back to Earth.
As a paper plane moves through the air, the air pushes against the plane, slowing it down.
This force is called drag.
To think about drag, imagine you are in a moving car and you put your hand outside of the window.
The force of the air pushing your hand back as you move forward is drag.
Finally, the weight of the paper plane affects its flight and brings it to a landing.
Weight is the force of Earth's gravity acting on the paper plane.
Figure 1 below shows how all four of these forces, thrust, lift, drag, and weight, act upon a paper plane.
Figure 1.
When a paper plane is flying, the four forces of thrust, lift, drag, and weight are acting upon the plane, affecting how well its journey through the air goes.
Well, what do you think?
Would you like to start experimenting with these forces?
In this aerodynamics science project, you will make a basic paper plane and then slightly alter its shape to increase how much drag is acting on it.
You will investigate how far the basic paper plane flies and compare that to how far it flies when the drag is increased.
How will adding drag affect your plane's flight?
You can answer this question with just a flick of your wrist.
Determine whether the distance a paper plane flies is affected by increasing how much drag it experiences.
Does size matter?
Make planes of different sizes but keep the design and the type of paper you use the same.
Do bigger planes fly further?Do more complicated planes fly further?
In order words, does the number of folds that you use to make a paper plane affect the distance that it flies?
Try this out using the same size and type of paper.Does the type of paper you use affect how far the paper plane flies?
Try making paper planes out of different types of paper, such as printer paper, construction paper, and newspaper.
Make all of the planes using the same design and fly them as similarly as you can.
Does one type of paper seem to work best for making paper planes?
Does one type work the worst?
You may need to do several trials to see a trend.Some people like to add paperclips to their paper planes to make them fly better.
But where should the paper clips be placed for the best flight?
Try adding paperclips to the back, the front, the middle, or the wings.
You can add one paper clip or several, but try to be consistent with how many you use.
Take notes in your lab notebook so you know what you tested.
Does adding paperclips somewhere make the paper plane's flight better, worse, or have no effect at all?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Anumunu said:  2017-02-14 20:39:14 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned about what it takes to make an airplane fly.
That includes lift, weight, drag, and thrust.
Also we won the science fair, an added +!
What problems did you encounter?
Sometimes the airplanes would hit the wall.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    jodysmith said:  2016-01-28 12:25:20 What was the most important thing you learned?
That the bending up of the wings created thrust, lifting the plane and causing it to fly farther with the added drag.
This experiment as written does not test only the drag force.
What problems did you encounter?
1.
The drag caused the plane to fly further because bending the wings up increased the lift.
2.
With the recommended 2.5 cm fold (procedure step 11), the plane rises sharply, stalls and then crashes to the ground.
We bent the wings up 0.5 cm, but lift is still created.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
If equal parts of each wing are bent up and down, this will create drag, but hopefully not any upward or downward forces.
So, the experiment as written would appear to prove that drag causes the plane to fly only a short distance when the plane actually climbs too much vertically, stalls and then crashes.
To me, that is not flying, but while it is caused by drag it is because only bending the wings up creates lift.
I loved the whole idea and thought the procedure, references, everything was great except the actual experiment doesn't seem right to me.
I tried bending the wings at 2.5 cm, 1/2 of the wing up and 1/2 of the wing down, symmetrically on both sides.
It works great.
I also recommend throwing the plane hard to get the most difference between drag/no drag cases.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    miss8302 said:  2015-03-09 16:13:35 What was the most important thing you learned?
Drag has a very drastic effect on paper airplane flight What problems did you encounter?
None.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    DLASHOMB said:  2015-01-10 17:48:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
It was a fun project that was not too hard for a 3rd grader.
What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Rana83812 said:  2014-12-06 18:33:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
All paper airplanes that are made of different types of paper fly different distances.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     Blujays said:  2014-05-06 16:12:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
air drag and thrust What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
new models for planes Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Username12 said:  2014-04-05 10:17:14 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that added drag greatly decreases the planes' flight and cuts off momentum.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Add different amounts of drag, maybe?
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    mastermind1010 said:  2011-04-01 14:22:42 What was the most important thing you learned?
That wight, aerodynamics, and sturdiness make a good paper airplane What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
4                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, science project, aerodynamics project, aerodynamics, paper plane, plane, drag, forces, air resistance Force Thrust Lift Drag Weight Gravity Data Vertical Accurate Wind Tunnel Computer Simulation Turbulence Streamlines
