 How Much DNA Can You Pack into a Cell?
Have you ever tried to pack a suitcase?
If so, you know that no matter how hard you try, there is a limit to the amount you can cram in, which means if you have more stuff, you need a bigger suitcase!
Do you think the same principle applies to DNA in a cell?
Does an animal with a bigger genome need a larger cell nucleus to store its DNA?
Try this science project and find out!
Every living organism, whether it's a rose, a bacterium, a fly, or an elephant, has a set of blueprints telling its cells how to form the organism, how to make all the proteins it needs, and how to function.
These blueprints are stored as deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in the organism's cells.
There are four different DNA units, or nucleotide bases: adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C).
A nearly infinite number of combinations can be made from repeating these four bases in sequences of different lengths, leading to very precise instructions on how to build organisms as different as a human and a jellyfish.
It takes a lot of nucleotide bases to set out all the instructions an organism needs.
The total set of instructions for a human is over 3 billion nucleotides and would stretch almost 6 feet in length if you lined up all the bases!
Yet all this DNA has to fit into a cell-almost every single cell in an organism contains the same set of DNA.
To make it all fit, the DNA is tightly wound into structures called chromosomes and packaged into a membrane-bound compartment in the cell, called the nucleus.
Many organisms are diploid, meaning they have two copies of every chromosome-one from their mother and one from their father.
A single copy of all the chromosomes is referred to as the genome.
For example, humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes (for a total of 46 individual chromosomes) and the human genome consists of a single copy of each of those 23 chromosomes.Genome size is measured in terms of weight.
The more DNA there is, the greater the weight, and the larger the genome.
Genome size is often reported in a tiny unit of measurement called picograms (pg)-that's a trillionth of 1 gram.
Picogram measurements of genome size are also referred to as an organism's C-value, and are used to compare the size of genomes across different species.There is a large variation in genome size among different animals.
However, genome size is not correlated with the complexity of the animal or even with the number of genes it has.
Much of the variation in genome size is from sequences of DNA that do not code for proteins.
Scientists are still trying to figure out why genome size varies so much.
To give you an idea of the range in genome size, the smallest animal genome, belonging to the plant-parasitic nematode Pratylenchus coffeae, is 0.02 pg, while the largest animal genome, from the marble lungfish Protopterus aethiopicus, is just over 132 pg.
That's more than a 6,000-fold difference in DNA content!
That means the lungfish has to fit a lot more DNA into its nuclei than the nematode does.
Does this lead to a change in the size of the nucleus?
Is there a correlation between genome size and nucleus size?
In this science project you'll use two databases to determine the answer.
You'll record both the C-value, from the Animal Genome Size Database, and the nucleus size from the Cell Size Database, of different amphibians, birds, and fish, then graph the data to see if there is a relationship between genome size and nucleus size.
You won't be able to include mammals in this comparison because the Cell Size Database uses erythrocyte (red blood cell) measurements, and mammals are an exception because their erythrocytes don't have nuclei.
But the rest of the animal kingdom does, so let's get graphing!
Figure 1.
The light brown cells shown here are avian erythrocytes.
Notice the dark oval in the middle of each erythrocyte-this is the nucleus where the genome is stored.
(G. Kaufman, 2000.)
In this science project  you will determine whether there is a correlation between an animal's genome size and cell nucleus size.
In the science project above you looked for a correlation between nucleus size and genome size.
If you use cell area rather than nucleus area, do you get the same result?
What does this tell you about the relationship between cell size and nucleus size?
Can you use data from the Cell Size Database to directly test your hypothesis about the relationship between nucleus size and cell size?
Mammal erythrocytes do not have nuclei, but is there still a relationship between the size of the erythrocytes and the genome size?
Mean corpuscular volume (MCV), is a measurement of the volume of a cell.
Use the MCV data for mammals, amphibians, and fish from the Cell Size Database to determine if cell size and genome size follow the same trend in mammals as they do in other vertebrates.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
genomics science project, science fair project idea, genome size, DNA, C-value, cell size, nucleus size, erythrocyte Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) Nucleotide base (also called Adenine (A) Thymine (T) Guanine (G) Cytosine (C) Chromosome Nucleus Diploid Genome Picogram (pg) C-value Correlation Erythrocyte
