 Moss is Boss: Using Plants to Determine Direction  Have you ever gone camping, looked up at the stars, and found the Big Dipper?
Two stars in the dipper part of this constellation point to Polaris, the north star, which people have used for thousands of years to help them find their way.
In this plant biology science fair project, you'll investigate whether plants, like moss, can help you find your way, too.
Can plants talk?
No, but they can still tell you things, like whether spring or fall is coming, if there's a drought, if there's enough nitrogen in the soil, or if a plant has an infection.
That's a lot of communication for something that doesn't have a mouth!
People have used the signs and signals of nature for thousands of years to make calendars and to figure out the best time to plant crops, to migrate, or to hunt.
Following nature was a matter of survival.Paying attention to natural signs has also been critical to people as they travel.
Before the development of the compass, sailors and land voyagers used stars and plants to figure out their cardinal direction (north, south, east, or west) and their latitude (distance from the equator) as they moved from place to place.
Perhaps the best-known star for ancient travelers in the northern hemisphere of Earth was Polaris, the north star, which can be found using a star constellation called the Big Dipper (also known as the Drinking Gourd to people who were trying to escape slavery by fleeing north).
Stars are fine to use by night, but during the day, people needed another method to figure out their direction.
The Sun, of course, can give a general sense of east and west, since it rises in the east and sets in the west, but it's helpful to have more information, especially on cloudy days!
The plant that people have turned to most to help them find their way are the lowly mosses.
Figure 1.
This photo shows an example of a type of moss.
(A. Lin, Wikipedia, 2006.
)Jewel-green, soft, and carpet-like, mosses love to grow where there is low light and moisture.
You'll often find them along the edges of streams in the woods, or poking up through cracks in city sidewalks.
Moisture is very important to mosses since they are very thin plants, so have no waxy coating to protect them from drying out, and need water to reproduce.
So how does moss relate to cardinal direction?
Earth is a sphere and spins on a tilted axis.
The result of this arrangement is that in the northern hemisphere, the southern side of any fixed object gets more sunlight than the northern side.
The opposite is true in the southern hemisphere.
As you can see in the drawings below, the southern side of the tree in the northern hemisphere gets more sunlight, whether it's summer or winter (the Sun is just higher in the sky and has more direct, or straight-on, rays in the summer).
Figure 2.
These drawings show that the southern side of objects, like trees in the northern hemisphere, get more sunlight than the northern side, whether it's summer or winter.So, if you have a lone tree in the northern hemisphere (that is not shaded by any other trees), on which side of the tree do you think moss would like to grow?
In this science fair project, you're going to find three such trees and photograph their trunks to see if you really can tell the cardinal direction from the growth of moss on trees.
To determine whether the location of moss growth on trees is a good way to determine cardinal direction.
Try using mushroom growth around trees, instead of moss.
Be careful not to touch the mushrooms, as they could be poisonous.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  reter said:  2012-11-28 16:28:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned a lot of things in this project, and all of them were meaningful.
I guess the most important thing was that you should never EVER underestimate what plants can do, because they can do quite a lot of things...... What problems did you encounter?
Well, it was a bit hard looking for three trees that weren't shaded and then finding the ones that looked just right.
that WERN'shaded because  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No, not much, except to don't live where i live where old, broken trees pretty much rule!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    searent said:  2012-03-03 12:47:58 What was the most important thing you learned?
i discovered that you can use the moss to tell sirections What problems did you encounter?
i messed up 2 times.this project took 2 months too do.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
nope,none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment plant biology science fair project, moss, compass, tree, direction, northern exposure, southern exposure, north, south, east, west Compass Cardinal direction Moss Parallel Perpendicular
