 Primary Productivity and Plankton  Have you seen plankton?
I am not talking about the evil villain trying to steal the Krabby Patty recipe from Mr. Krab.
I am talking about plankton that live in the ocean.
In this experiment you can learn how to collect your own plankton samples and see the wonderful diversity in shape and form of planktonic organisms.
The oceans contain both the earth's largest and smallest organisms.
Interestingly they share a delicate relationship linked together by what they eat.
The largest of the ocean's inhabitants, the Blue Whale, eats very small plankton, which themselves eat even smaller phytoplankton.
All of the linkages between predators, grazers, and primary producers in the ocean make up an enormously complicated food web.The base of this food web depends upon phytoplankton, very small photosynthetic organisms which can make their own energy by using energy from the sun.
These phytoplankton provide the primary source of the essential nutrients that cycle through our ocean's many food webs.
This is called primary productivity, and it is a very good way of measuring the health and abundance of our fisheries.There are many different kinds of phytoplankton in our oceans.
(Photo by Jerry Prezioso, NOAA) One way to study plankton is to collect the plankton using a plankton net to collect samples of macroscopic and microscopic plankton organisms.
The net is cast out into the water or trolled behind a boat for a given distance then retrieved.
Upon retrieving the net, the contents of the collecting bottle can be removed and the captured plankton can be observed with a microscope.
The plankton net will collect both phytoplankton (photosynthetic plankton) and zooplankton (non-photosynthetic plankton and larvae) for observation.In this experiment you will make your own plankton net and use it to collect samples of plankton from different marine or aquatic locations in your local area.
You can observe both the abundance (total number of organisms) and diversity (number of different kinds of organisms) of planktonic forms to make conclusions about the productivity and health of each location.
In this experiment you will make a plankton net to collect samples of plankton from different locations as an indicator of primary productivity.
You can also count the number of phytoplankton (which appear green or brown) compared to zooplankton (which are mostly marine larval forms) and compare.
Do the numbers balance, or is there more of one type than the other?
What effect do you think this has on productivity cycles?
Food chains are very complex.
Find out what types of predators and grazers you have in your area.
You can find this information from a field guide or from your local Department of Fish and Game.
Can you use this information to construct a food web for your local area?
Some blooms of phytoplankton can be harmful and create an anoxic environment that can suffocate the ecosystem and leave a "Dead Zone" behind.
Did you find an excess of brown algae or diatoms?
These can be indicators of a harmful algal bloom.
Re-visit this location over several weeks to report on an increase or decrease of these types of phytoplankton.
Do you think that a harmful algal bloom could be forming in your area?
For an experiment that studies the relationship between water quality and algal bloom events, see the Science Buddies project Harmful Algal Blooms in the Chesapeake Bay.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
primary productivity plankton plankton net diversity abundance
