 Tough Beans: Which Cooking Liquids Slow Softening the Most?
OK, spill the beans, what's your favorite bean-rich food?
Burritos?
Chili?
Or maybe you prefer the spicy Indian stew of lentils, known as dal?
But what about fried tofu?
Soymilk?
Or peanut butter and jelly sandwiches?
Did you know those foods come from beans as well?
Beans are important to the diets of many people, and in this cooking and food science fair project, you'll learn how the liquid that beans are cooked in affects how quickly or slowly they soften.
Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches...classic!
If you love this food, you might not realize it, but you're not actually eating tree nuts (like almonds or walnuts) at all!
You're eating a bean, also known as a legume.
Legumes are small, but powerful sources of nutrition.
After the grains, like wheat and rice (from the grass family of plants), legumes are the second most important family of plants in human diets.
Their special contribution to human nutrition is protein, which they are able to make thanks to a clever bacteria known as rhizobium.
These bacteria get into the roots of the plant and change the nitrogen in the air into a form that the plants can use to make amino acids, the basic building blocks of protein.
The protein content in legumes is 2-3 times as great as the protein content in the grasses.Having a reliable source of protein has been critical to the development of human civilizations.
Animal protein is often hard to obtain and can be expensive, and protein from grasses is too limited to survive on over the long-term, so legumes have filled that human need for protein in many cultures throughout the world, especially in Asia, Central and South America, and the Mediterranean.
They may be small and humble looking, but beans are held in high standing in many societies.
For example, some cultures, like those near New Orleans, Malta, Nicaragua, and Italy, believe eating beans on New Year's Day will bring you good luck, and the Romans named powerful families after the names of legumes in the Mediterranean: Fabius was named after the fava bean, Lentulus after the lentil, Piso after the pea, and Cicero comes from the word for chickpea.Legumes provide people not only with protein, but also with B vitamins, iron, some starch (complex carbohydrate), and, in the case of soybeans and peanuts, rich, healthy oils.
Their seed coats are indigestible, which means that they are a good source of fiber, and colorful, which means they are full of antioxidants, which help prevent diseases.Legumes are also high in defensive compounds, which are substances that the plant makes to protect itself.
If dried beans are fed to people or cattle raw, or not fully cooked, the beans can make them sick.
Cooking removes or disables these defensive compounds, and makes them safe to eat.How are legumes cooked?
It depends on the type of legume.
A few legumes, like peas and bean sprouts, can be eaten safely fresh (without any cooking).
Others with high oil content, like peanuts and soybeans, are safer cooked.
Fresh, moist, shell beans in their pods (like green beans) should be simmered, sauted, or steamed, but only for a few minutes, as they cook fairly quickly.
It is the dried, mature bean seeds that require a lengthy cooking time, and these will be the focus of your science fair project.Most beans, with the exception of soybeans and peanuts, are made up primarily of protein and starch.
The nutrients are stored inside the bean seed in a part of the bean called the cotyledon, as shown in Figure 1.
The two cotyledons are completely surrounded by a tough seed coat, except for the point at which the bean has a little dimple.
That is where there is a break in the seed coat and you'll find a little hole or pore called the hilum.
The hilum is where the bean seed was attached to the living plant before it was picked and dried.
Initially, when placed in water, the dried bean seeds can only absorb water through their hilums.
After about 30-60 minutes, though, the seed coats expand and become hydrated.
At that point, water can move into the bean through the hilum and the entire seed coat surface.
Figure 1.
This photo shows the anatomy of a dried bean seed.Cooking dried bean seeds in a liquid is necessary to soften the cotyledon cell walls and the starchy granules within them.
Dried bean seeds are best cooked in just enough cooking liquid to barely cover them.
If you use too much liquid, then the flavor will be weak.
Also, it is best not to hard-boil them because the turbulence from the hard boil can damage the seed coats and cause the beans to break up into pieces.
A slow simmer (180-200F) is a better and gentler cooking treatment.Food scientists have learned that several substances added to the cooking liquid can impact the softening of beans.
Sometimes, slow softening over several hours is desirable, if, for example, you have a dish that needs hours of cooking to develop flavors and you don't want the beans to fall apart into mush.
Other times, faster softening is desired, such as if you need the finished cooked beans more quickly, or if you want a more pureed-like end product.
Softening can be slowed by the addition of these substances to the cooking liquid:    Acids    Sugar    Calcium  Acids work by making structures called hemicelluloses in the cell wall of the bean seed more stable and less inclined to dissolve in water.
Sugars work in two ways: they strengthen the cell walls and slow the swelling of the starch granules within the cotyledons.
Calcium also works on the cells walls, cross-linking and strengthening their pectins.
So, for example, if you live in an area with "hard water," with high levels of calcium and magnesium, and you use that water for your cooking liquid, you will slow the softening of your beans, and may even prevent them from softening fully.
Or, if you add a substance like molasses to your cooking water (molasses is slightly acidic, and rich in sugar and calcium), the molasses will work to slow the softening of beans in four different ways: stabilizing hemicelluloses, strengthening cells walls, slowing the swelling of starch granules, and cross-linking pectins.Softening can be sped up by making the water more alkaline.
For example, adding 1 teaspoon (tsp.)
of baking soda for every 1 quart (qt.)
of water can decrease the cooking time by nearly 75 percent!
Baking soda works by helping the hemicelluloses dissolve in water, and it contains sodium, which kicks out the magnesium from the pectins in the cell walls and makes them more readily dissolvable.
The disadvantage, though, is that baking soda can give the finished product a slippery or soapy feel and taste.Table salt can also speed up softening, although many cookbooks suggest otherwise.
It does initially slow the rate of water absorption, but once that happens, plain salt (in amounts of 2 tsp.
per qt.)
will speed cooking greatly.Finally, cooking times can be reduced, not by the addition of a substance to the cooking liquid, but by simply presoaking the beans overnight in water.
This reduces cooking time by 25 percent or more so that time cooking isn't spent just getting water to the center of the bean.So now you're ready to put some cooking liquids to the test and see which ones result in beans that are tough or tender.
To determine which cooking liquids slow bean softening and which cooking liquids hasten bean softening.
Simmer 2 cups of beans, which have not been presoaked, in enough water to cover them.
Every 10 minutes, take three beans out of the saucepan, label their total cooking time, and set them aside.
After 2 hours have passed, test the 36 beans with the cheese slicer and coins.
Repeat this entire process again, but this time, add a cooking substance like molasses to the water.
Plot how the beans soften with time, with and without a test substance.
Is there a linear relationship between cooking time and softening?
How does the test substance impact the relationship?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  fear123 said:  2011-12-29 14:04:34 What was the most important thing you learned?
a lot of things.
i won 1st place What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        18                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, cooking and food science, cooking, bean, legume, seed Legume Nutrition Protein Rhizobium Amino acid Starch Complex carbohydrate Indigestible Fiber Antioxidant Defensive compound Cotyledon Hilum Granule Turbulence Acid Calcium Hemicellulose Pectin Magnesium Molasses Alkaline Control
