 Egg Substitutes  Have any of your friends or family members ever had an allergic reaction to eggs?
In this science project idea, you'll investigate how to modify recipes so that even egg-allergic friends and family members can enjoy them.
Egg allergy affects up to 2 percent of all children and is second only to milk protein as the top allergen in children.
Reactions to eggs can be mild to severe.
Some children outgrow their allergy by the time they reach elementary school, but in the past two decades, allergists have reported that greater numbers of children are experiencing egg allergy into their high school years and beyond.
If you, a friend, or a family member has experienced egg allergy, then you know how difficult it is to eat out in restaurants, or to find processed foods from grocery stores without eggs.
Egg proteins are hidden under many different chemical names in foods.
You can find egg proteins in:  Batters for meats and fish  Many desserts and baked goods  Marshmallows and nougats  Some pastas and breads  Many dressings and sauces  Soups using clear broths, and  Even the foam on special hot drinks.For safety, families who experience egg allergies must prepare many foods from scratch at home.
In this science project, you'll explore how to modify recipes so that foods that require eggs are safe to eat for egg-allergic friends and family members.
Eggs are used in baking and cooking in three key ways:  As a binder (to hold other ingredients together)  As a leavening agent (to make a food rise)  As a thickener (to make a food or sauce thicker)  How can you tell the purpose of an egg in your recipe?
By looking at the other ingredients.
If, for example, there is little other liquid in the recipe, then you know the egg is being used to add moisture.
If there is no baking powder or baking soda, but there is an acid (like lemon juice, orange juice, or vinegar), then you know the egg is being used as a leavening agent.
If there is nothing else in the recipe to act as a "glue," such as flour or nuts or bread crumbs, then you know the egg is likely serving as a binder.For this science project, you'll investigate egg substitutes-ingredients that mimic the function of egg.
Table 1 shows some common egg substitutes for the three functions of egg that you'll be focusing on: binding, leavening, or thickening.
BinderLeavening AgentThickener      Ground flax seedBaking powder + Extra oilApplesauce    GelatinVinegarTapioca flour    BananaLemon juice + Baking sodaBanana    Silken tofuOrange juice + Baking sodaTofu    Arrowroot powderButtermilk + Baking sodaFruit puree    Agar powderCorn starch  Table 1.
Common substitutes for egg, based on the function of egg in a recipe.
The substitute you choose to try for your recipe will depend upon the egg function you are trying to replace, and the taste you are trying to achieve (for example, would a fruity tasting substitute be a good combination with the other ingredients, or would a bland, neutral-tasting substitute work better?).
Let's get cooking!
In this science fair project, you will evaluate the ability of egg substitutes to mimic the binding, leavening, or thickening properties of eggs in baking and cooking.
In addition to conducting the substitute performance tests described in the experimental procedure, conduct taste tests and then score ease of preparation for each of your trials.
Then create a composite score for each trial that includes taste, ease of preparation, and performance.
For example, score taste tests and ease of preparation from 1 (worst) to 5 (best) and record your scores in data tables like the ones below:                Taste scoreEggSubstitute 1Substitute 2Substitute 3              Trial 1      Trial 2      Trial 3      Sum of Trials      Average of Trials                      Ease of PreparationEggSubstitute 1Substitute 2Substitute 3              1 (easy) to 5 (difficult)                Give each of these results a 20 percent weight in your composite score so they contribute (at most) 1 point to the total composite score.
Then compute a performance ratio that compares the average binding, leavening, or thickening performance of each substitute to the performance of egg in a ratio:            For binding, the ratios are the average number of crumbs for the recipe with egg divided by the average number of crumbs for the recipe with egg substitutes.
For leavening, the ratios are the average height of the recipe with egg substitutes divided by the average height of the recipe with egg.
For thickening, the ratios are the average drip length for the recipe with egg divided by the average drip length for the recipe with egg substitutes.
Create your composite score for each trial:        Composite Score = 0.20 x (Taste test score) + 0.20 x (Ease of preparation score) + Performance ratio            Think of a way to measure the moisturizing and glazing functions of egg so that egg substitutes for those (shown below) can be tested, too.
Adding MoistureGlazing              ApplesauceButter      BananaMargarine      Fruit juiceFruit juice      Soy milkWater      Milk             Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  desti631 said:  2011-08-22 16:20:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
just because you substitute egg when making something doesnt mean it doesnt taste good What problems did you encounter?
cooking part because we didnt at my friends kitchen and it is not big Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
5                        20                Report Inappropriate Comment    dyami said:  2011-02-28 03:01:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
you should have patience in making the experiment What problems did you encounter?
getting the ratio Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
4                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, food science, egg substitutes, food allergy, cooking, baking Egg allergy Allergen Allergist Egg substitute
