 What Are You Blubbering About?
Baby Beluga may swim in the deep blue sea, but the song does not mention how cold it is out there!
Find out in this science project how a bit of blubber can be a useful adaptation when the water is ice cold.
Brrrr!
Do you ever wonder what makes each species of animal unique?
Where does all of the diversity of life on this planet come from?
The key to this puzzle is called evolution, which is the process by which groups of organisms change over time, from generation to generation, leading to the development of new species.
The key to evolution is a process called natural selection, sometimes referred to as "survival of the fittest."
Natural selection presents a challenge to all the different types in a population, allowing those who overcome the challenge and reproduce, to pass on useful traits to their descendants, which increases that population's fitness and survival.
Evolution and natural selection were first proposed by Charles Darwin.
While on a long voyage on a ship named the HMS Beagle, he was able to observe and document many useful traits, called adaptations, of animals he saw.
An adaptation is a trait that comes in handy when an organism has to deal with a challenge.
Adaptations take many generations to appear in a population, but the results are worth it.
Many of the changes that lead to an adaptation are random, but natural selection picks through and determines which adaptations will continue from generation to generation.
To experience some adaptations that have increased the fitness of an organism, act out the three behaviors below:  Flap your arms like wings - The wings of birds are an adaptation for flight.
When the bones of the wing are spread out, they create a skeleton with a large surface area for an aerodynamically shaped wing, which means it is shaped for flight.
When covered with feathers, the wing produces lift and can also be used to glide.
Birds also have hollow bones that keep their body weight low, large chest muscles for flapping, and a large breast plate where the chest muscles attach.
As you flap your arms, you may notice that your chest muscles begin to feel tired.
Umm, you can stop now...don't overdo it!
Walk straight and tall - Walking upright, or being bipedal, is a special adaptation of hominids, a special group of primates that includes humans (Homo sapiens) and their close relatives (like Neanderthals or Australopithecus).
Other primates, like chimpanzees and gorillas, must use their forearms when walking, and do not walk upright.
This adaptation gave hominids an advantage in interacting with the environment, and might have led to the development of larger brain sizes in our hominid ancestors.
Scientists believe that walking upright was an adaptive trait that allowed hominids eventually to become better hunters and gatherers, and to develop tools to use for these activities.
As you walk around, notice that your arms are free to move, how quickly you can observe your environment, and how quickly and easily you can move and change direction.
Fold your arms and shiver - Shivering is an adaptation shared by other mammals to stay warm when temperatures become cooler.
Mammals are warm-blooded, meaning our metabolism makes up a lot of our body heat, and we do not get most of our warmth from the environment.
However, the environment can still affect us.
Sometimes we get chilly, so shivering produces body movements, which briefly speeds up our metabolism, warming us up.
It is also a good signal to the brain to find a warmer place to go!
Now go grab a blanket, silly!Adaptations are all around you, and once you start to notice them, you just can't stop!
In this science project, you will investigate an important adaptation for marine mammals, called blubber, a layer of fat beneath the skin that is used as insulation and keeps the body warm in cold temperatures.
Blubber is commonly found in mammals that have adapted to life in a cold-water environment, like whales, seals, sea lions, and polar bears.
Blubber is a thick layer of fat (adipose) tissue.
Animals store extra digested food in the form of adipose tissue.
Because adipose tissue does not transfer heat as well as other tissues and materials, it can insulate an animal's body.
For example, Styrofoam is another material that does not transfer heat relatively well, while metals, for example, transfer heat very well.
This is why hot drinks are often served in Styrofoam, as it keeps the heat inside the cup, preventing your hands from being burned.
You will use a layer of shortening on your skin to model the adaptation of blubber.
Will the extra layer of fat help you stay in the cold longer?
Test whether or not a layer of blubber is a helpful adaptation for cold-water environments.
Can you model other types of adaptations to show how they increase fitness?
Here are some ideas: Plants - Some plants have waxy leaves, and some have regular leaves.
Waxy leaves are common in plants that live in dry environments, and keep the plant from losing water.
You can model the waxy coating of a leaf by covering a moist sponge with a layer of shortening.
Will an uncovered sponge dry out before a covered sponge?
Do waxy leaves resist drying out better than regular leaves?
Long tails - animals with long tails often use them for balance.
Make a model of a rat, monkey or other animal with a long tail.
Can you use a balance test on your model to find out if the tail adds stability?
Big ears - Animals that are nocturnal, or spend most of their wake hours at night, often have big ears.
Can you do an experiment with ear cones to show how this adaptation can increase hearing ability?
Why would this be useful for an animal that hunts at night?
Webbed feet - Try the Science Buddies Experiment The Swimming Secrets of Duck Feet to see if duck feet can help you swim faster.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  wrightke0808 said:  2013-05-15 14:40:08 What was the most important thing you learned?
animal fat can last longer in cold water because they have more of it than humans do What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
keep your finger in the water as long as you can but make sure you dont keep it in so long that you dont get sick Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, zoology, blubber, cold water, diversity, evolution, adaptation, metabolism, adipose tissue Diversity Evolution Generation Natural selection Descendant Adaptation Metabolism Blubber Adipose tissue Heat transfer
