 Heart Health: How Does Heart Rate Change with Exercise?
Your heart starts beating before you are born and keeps right on going through your whole life.
Over an average lifetime, the human heart beats more than 2.5billion times.
Keeping your heart healthy means eating right, not smoking, and getting regular exercise.
Which of your favorite physical activities give your heart the best workout and help keep it fit?
In this science project, you will use Google's Science Journal app with your smartphone or tablet to visualize your heart rate and find out which activity makes your heart tick faster!
An average-sized adult has about 5.5 liters of blood in their body, which the heart circulates about three times every minute.
Your heart is constantly beatingeven before birth!to keep the blood circulating.
The heart of an average 65-year-old person has contracted more than 2.5 billion times.
That is a lot of heartbeats!
You can see a picture of a real human heart in Figure 1, below.
Figure 1.
A human heart.Experts on cardiac health tell us that the best ways to keep our hearts healthy are through a balanced diet, avoiding smoking, and regular exercise.
Exercise that is good for your heart should elevate your heart rate.
Heart rate is a measure of how many times a person's heart beats in a minute (technically measured in beats per minute, or bpm).
But by how much, for how long, and how often should your heart rate be elevated?
This has to do with how fit you are and your maximum heart rate, which is 220 bpm minus your age.
For example, if you are 30 years old, your maximum heart rate would be 190 bpm (since 220 minus 30 equals 190).
The American Heart Association recommends that you do exercise that increases your heart rate to between 50 and 85% of your maximum heart rate.
This range is your target heart rate zone.
They recommend getting at least 30 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise most days (or a total of about 150 minutes a week).
What is your resting heart rate?
What types of exercises work to elevate your heart rate?
How do you feel when your heart is working at 50% of its maximum rate?
How about when it is working at 75% of its maximum rate?
This science project will help you answer all of these questions, and help you find fun activities that are good for your heart.
To record your heart rate during different types of physical activities.
How does heart rate change with body position?
Measure your heart rate while lying down, while sitting down, and while standing.
What happens to your heart rate when standing on your hands?!
(Rest your feet against a wall for balance, and have a helper find your pulse and measure your heart rate.
)Repeat this experiment with more volunteers.
How much variation is there among heart rates of different people?
How do their heart rates generally change with different types of exercise?How does your heart rate change when you vary the intensity of your exercise?
For this study, you will need to figure out ways to measure the intensity of your workout for the different activities.
For many activities, you could use a helper with a timer to count your exercise rate.
For example, your helper could count the number of jumps (or lifts, or steps) per minute (a metronome, if you have one, could also help you to keep time).
If your bike has a speedometer, you can keep track of your speed.
If you have access to a gym, most aerobic fitness equipment has a readout of intensity in either kcal/hour or watts, and indicators to let you see how much effort you are making as you work out.
Pick two or three different levels (easy, medium, and challenging) and measure your heart rate after 5, 10, and 15 minutes of working out at that level.
Do not exceed your recommended target heart rate zone while exercising (nearly 85% of your maximum heart rate).
What intensity level elevates your heart rate to 50% of its maximum heart rate for each type of exercise?
What intensity level elevates your heart rate to 85% of maximum?For another Science Buddies project on exercise physiology, see: Effects of Exercise: Changes in Carbon Dioxide Output.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  mmyang0525 said:  2012-02-16 20:23:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
Not all the samples have the same hearte rate What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
15                        5                Report Inappropriate Comment    Dancergurl101 said:  2012-01-22 13:15:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
about your heart What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        12                Report Inappropriate Comment sports, heart, exercise, science, health, heart rate, anaerobic, aerobic Heart rate Maximum heart rate Target heart rate zone Pulse Resting heart rate
