 Which Animals Have Genome Projects?
All animals have a genome, but do they all have genome projects?
Find out which animals are currently having their genomes sequenced and how much we know already.
Whose genomes are already finished?
Whose genomes are just getting started?
Find out by doing some simple bioinformatics data digging!
All living things come with a set of instructions stored in their DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid.
Whether you are a human, rat, tomato, or bacteria, each cell will have DNA inside of it.
DNA is the blueprint for everything that happens inside the cell of an organism, and each cell has an entire copy of the same set of instructions.
The entire set of instructions is called the genome and the information is stored in a code of nucleotides (A, T, C, and G) called bases.
Here is an example of a DNA sequence that is 12 base pairs long:  The information stored in the DNA is coded into sets of nucleotide sequences called genes.
Each gene is a set of instructions for making a specific protein.
The protein has a certain job to do, called a function.
Since different cells in your body have different jobs to do, many of the genes will be turned on in some cells, but not others.
For example, some genes code for proteins specific to your blood cells, like hemoglobin.
Other genes code for proteins specific to your pancreas, like insulin.
Even though different genes are turned on in different cells, your cells and organs all work together in a coordinated way so that your body can function properly.
Every individual has its own DNA code, but how can a code with only four letters be unique?
It is hard to imagine how a code with so few parts can hold so much information.
The key is that the longer the code is, the more unique sequences there can be.
For example, the human genome is approximately 3 billion base pairs long and has approximately 20,000-25,000 genes!
Bigger genomes take more time to sequence and are more expensive, so scientists often choose organisms with smaller genomes to sequence.
In this experiment you will access an online bioinformatics database to find out which animals currently have genome projects, which projects are complete, and which projects are still in progress.
You will also be able to find out the scientific name and common name of different kinds of animals.
Which animals are on the genome list?
Will they be the animals that you expect?
In this experiment you will use an online bioinformatics database to find out which animals currently have genome projects, which projects are complete, and which projects are still in progress.
In this experiment we focused on the genomes of different kinds of animals.
Try expanding your project by focusing on another group of organisms, like:  Plants (agricultural crops, trees, grasses)  Fungi (mushrooms, yeasts, and molds)  Germs (bacteria and viruses)  There are many, many more!
You may have noticed that different genome projects are hosted by different organizations, like the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Department of Energy (DOE), or maybe a private organization.
Think about the purpose of each animal genome project.
Are some groups more popular for different reasons?
Think about how different industries affect the number of genome projects for certain types of animals.
Some industries to think about are: scientific research, health and medicine, agriculture, ecology, and biodiversity.
Do you see a correlation of the number of projects suited to these different industries?
How big is a genome?
Are different genomes different sizes?
Try the Science Buddies experiment Who Has the Biggest Genome to find out.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  caraskl said:  2014-08-05 15:03:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned how to find the NCBI Entrez Genome Project.
What problems did you encounter?
The link to NCBI Entrez Genome Project did not work.
The actual site is located at http://www.bioinfo.pte.hu/f2/GenPro/entrez.htm.
Also, the link to the overview page doesn't work on the website.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
None Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    andrea105582 said:  2013-09-23 18:42:03 What was the most important thing you learned?
That animals are different than humans What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Genome DNA sequence Bioinformatics Organism
