 Green Technology: Build an Electronic Soil Moisture Sensor to Conserve Water  Water is a valuable resource, and water shortages are a serious problem in many parts of the world.
The problem can be made worse by people who waste water; for example, by watering a garden or using sprinklers on their lawn (or a farmer taking care of an entire field) when it has rained recently or the soil is already moist.
How can you help conserve water and prevent such waste?
One way is to build an electronic soil moisture sensor.
This project will show you how to build a circuit that indicates whether soil is wet or dry, but the circuit itself is unprotected.
It will be up to you to engineer a solution, like a waterproof carrying case that turns the basic circuit into a useful, portable soil moisture sensor.
Do you live in an area that experiences droughts?
If so, you might have to cut back on your water consumption, for example by taking shorter showers.
What about watering your garden?
Irrigation, or the artificial application of water to plants and landscaping, accounts for over two-thirds of the world's freshwater consumption (U.S. Geological Survey, 2016)!
While that total includes farms, in the United States landscape irrigation (Figure 1) still accounts for almost one-third of home water use.
As much as half of that water is wasted due to inefficient watering methods (WaterSense, 2016), like watering when the soil is already wet, or watering too much at once, resulting in soil that becomes saturated; excess water then flows away as runoff.
Figure 1.
Lawn sprinklers like these account for a huge amount of residential water use in the United States.
Image credit Wikimedia Commons user Ildar Sagdejev, 2003.One way to combat this wasteful over-watering is through the use of a soil moisture sensor.
Most sprinkler systems run on timers that tell them to run at a certain time every day.
A soil moisture sensor can electronically detect whether the soil is already wet and tell the sprinkler system not to run.
If it has rained recently, or if it has been cloudy and cool since the last time the sprinkler ran and not much water has evaporated, it will prevent the sprinkler from running unnecessarily, which saves water.
The same concept applies to someone who uses a hose to water a garden manually.
For example, the sensor can use a light to indicate whether or not you need to water your garden.
There are many different types of soil moisture sensors.
Some are intended for agricultural use, and can be distributed in many locations over large fields.
Some can be hooked up to home sprinkler systems, and some are simple handheld devices that you can use to check the soil moisture in potted plants.
In general, they work by using two metal probes to measure the electrical resistance of the soil, or how difficult it is for electricity to flow through the soil.
This is the opposite of electrical conductivity, which is how easy it is for electricity to flow through soil.
Wet soil has a much lower resistance (or a much higher conductivity) than dry soil.
The resistance depends on how wet the soil is, and the surface area of the probes and the distance between them.
In this project, we will give you a design for a simple soil moisture sensor circuit that you can build on a breadboard.
The circuit will have two probes that you insert into soil.
It will turn on a small light (called a light-emitting diode (LED)) if the soil is too dry, and the light will stay off if the soil is wet (for a detailed explanation of how the circuit works, see the Help section).
Then, when the light is on, you will know it is time to water your plants or lawn.
However, the circuit by itself is not very portable or durable.
It has loose wires that can easily come apart if you do not handle it gently, and it is not waterproof at all.
What if you want to easily pick up and move the circuit so you can check the soil moisture on a dozen different potted plants?
What if you want to leave it outside so you can monitor the soil moisture level of your lawn or garden?
You will need to do some work to design a safe, durable, and portable enclosure for your circuit.
To do this, you will need to follow the engineering design process.
Are you ready to help conserve water and save the planet?
Move on to the Materials section to get started!
Design a portable, weatherproof case for a soil moisture sensor circuit.
There are many possible variations of this project.
Some might use parts solely from your kit, and others may require purchasing additional parts.
Note: Some of these variations are for advanced students who have more experience with circuits.Can you use your sensor on real plants?
How much water does the sensor help you save?
How does using the sensor to determine when to water the plants, as opposed to watering on a regular schedule, affect water consumption and plant growth?
See the Abbreviated Project Idea  Monitor Your Plants with a Soil Moisture Sensor  for more information.
For outdoor plants exposed to direct sunlight, does watering at different times of day affect how long the soil takes to dry out?
Your kit comes with an LM7805 voltage regulator, which will convert the voltage from the 9V battery (which decreases slowly as the battery drains) to a fixed 5V.
Does using the voltage regulator affect the battery life of the circuit?
Can you find a way to reliably measure the battery life?
You can learn how to connect the voltage regulator from its    datasheet.
The voltage regulator is also used in the project    Measuring Magnetic Fields.
Your kit comes with a 1M potentiometer.
Use it to replace the fixed 10M resistor to make the threshold at which the LED turns on or off adjustable (you may find that the 1M potentiometer only lets you make coarse adjustments and that smaller potentiometers would be useful.
You can purchase additional potentiometers separately, for example the 10k at  Jameco and the 100k at Jameco.
Look up "soil moisture content" and how it is measured and defined.
Prepare samples of soil with different moisture contents by completely drying some soil in an oven, then measuring known amounts of soil and adding measured amounts of water to it (for example, adding 10mL of water to 100mL of soil gives 10% soil moisture content by volume).
For each soil sample, insert the probes and then adjust the potentiometer until you find the threshold where the LED turns on/off.
Use the multimeter included in your kit to measure the resistance of the potentiometer.
Can you use this data to create a calibration curve of resistance vs. soil moisture content?
This would allow you to tune your sensor to a desired soil moisture content for certain plants or environmental conditions.
You may also need to experiment with different resistor values (or no resistor at all) for the two probes to see what works best.
Your kit comes with 220, 470, 100k and 10M resistors.
Note that, after you have completed your calibration curve, you could also use this circuit to measure the moisture content of an unknown sample of soil.
How, if at all, do the surface area, depth, distance between, or material of your soil probes affect the performance of the circuit?
Can you "calibrate" the circuit (as described in the previous point) by changing the probe geometry instead of using a potentiometer?
The 4011 chip in your circuit contains four individual NAND gates.
This means that you could connect up to four separate LEDs and sets of probes to the chip; for example, to monitor four different potted plants or four different areas in a garden.
See the chip's datasheet for a pin diagram.
Note that your kit only comes with four alligator clips, so you would need to purchase more if you are using them for the probes.
Additional alligator clips are available from Jameco Electronics.How long does the battery last if you leave the circuit on continuously?
(Note: The circuit will always draw a small amount of power, even when the LED is off).
Can you improve the battery life by only turning the circuit on when you want to check the soil, instead of leaving it on all the time?
If so, can you add an external power switch to your circuit so you do not have to manually disconnect a battery pack wire from the breadboard each time?
A variety of switches are available from Jameco Electronics.Changing the battery could get annoying if you want to leave the circuit outside for long periods of time.
Can you modify the circuit so it is powered directly from a solar panel, or a combination of a solar panel and rechargeable battery?
A variety of solar panels are available from Jameco Electronics.Solderless breadboards are great when you are first learning electronics, and useful for quickly prototyping a circuit; however, they are not very good for permanent long-term devices since the components can fall out.
Use a soldering iron to create a permanent version of the circuit on a protoboard (also called "perfboard").
A variety of protoboards are available from Jameco Electronics.The circuit in this project uses an LED as in indicator for whether or not you should manually water plants.
This works fine if you normally water with a garden hose or watering can, but what if you want to connect to an automated sprinkler system?
Do research on solenoid valves, a type of electronically controlled valve that can be opened and closed by an electrical signal.
While the output of the 4011 chip is strong enough to drive an LED directly, it is not powerful enough to drive a solenoid valve.
You will need to research how to use a transistor and an external power supply to drive a larger electrical load by controlling the transistor with the output of your circuit.
For more projects about water conservation, see:  How Can Your Faucet Save Water?
Water from Air: Experimenting with Dew Traps   Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  rinisha said:  2016-04-27 07:34:37 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learnt that with determination and the ardent desire to make a project, I could do it with flying colours What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, electronics, water, moisture, rain, precipitation, soil, sensor, detector, drought, conservation, green, technology, circuit, breadboard Irrigation Saturated Runoff Soil moisture sensor Electrical resistance Electrical conductivity Surface area Circuit Breadboard Light-emitting diode (LED) Engineering design process Prototype Iterate
