 The Tree of Life  I (basic)  Imagine that a biologist arrived at your big family reunion and had no idea who were sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles, etc., but tried to sort it out by how all of you look.
Just based on how you look, would s/he be able to guess whether the kid standing next to you is your sister or your cousin?
The biologist might be able to make some good guesses this way, but by using samples of your family's DNA, s/he could construct your whole family tree.
In this project, you'll use a Web-based computer program to help make a "human family tree."
(For a more advanced project, see The Tree of Life  II (advanced).)
Think about or draw out your family tree adding aunts, uncles, and cousins.
(If you don't have siblings or cousins just draw a big family tree from your imagination.)
Based on your family tree, you can see that you are more closely related to your sister (or brother) than you are to your cousin; that is there are fewer "branches" separating you from your sister than there are separating you and your cousin.
Now imagine that a biologist arrived at a big family reunion and had no idea who were sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles, etc.
but tried to sort it out by how all of you look.
Just based on how you look, would s/he be able to guess which of the two kids standing next to you is your sister and which is your cousin?
In many families, the biologist may be able to make a pretty good guess based on your visible features (called your morphology), like number of arms/legs/eyes, hair color, nose shape, etc.
(Notice that some of these morphological features are shared by all humans but that other features can be used to distinguish you from one another.)
But this is not a fail-safe approach to determining familial relationshipsas some people look more like their cousin than their sister, right?
You could just use morphology to make a good guess.So what is the best way to determine how related you are to one another (besides just asking -- but stick with me here)?
The biologist would have to look at your DNA!
You get half of your DNA from your mother and half from your father.
Both of those "halves" are very similar to one anotherwith one difference about every 1000 base pairs (but out of three billion total lettersthat's three million differences!).
And your mother and father got their DNA from their parents and so on up the family tree.
Your DNA should be MUCH more similar to your sister's than your cousin's because you and your sister both got your DNA from the same parents, whereas there are many more branches in the tree (and thus many more matings and DNA base pair differences entering the tree) between you and your cousin.
That is, you are much more similar genetically to your sister because you have more recent common ancestors than you and your cousin.Family Trees In BiologySo how does all of this apply to biology?
For centuries, scientists have been trying to draw the family tree that reflects the history and evolution of all animals on the earth.
This tree would show which species are more closely related to one another, like the case where you are "closer" to your sister on your family tree than you are to your cousin.
For example, humans are more closely related to chimpanzees than to dolphins, so chimps and humans would have fewer branches between them on the "animal family tree."
How do scientists make this family tree?
For many years, scientists relied on comparisons of morphological characteristics (like hair, teeth, limbs, fins, hearts, livers, eyes, etc.)
to try to figure out who was more closely related to whom.
These kinds of comparisons are often accurate, but as you saw in the example of a human family, these physical characteristics can sometimes be misleading.
Evidence of this concept is that different scientists would come up with different trees/relationships by using different sets of morphological information!
So which tree is "right?
"To think about how to identify the "right" tree, we have to think about how these animals became different from one another throughout evolution.
All heritable morphological changes (those changes that can be passed down to the next generation) are a result of changes (mutations) in an organism's DNA.
This mutation can lead to a change in a protein sequence or a change in when, where or how much of the protein gets made.
That's it!
One or a couple of these changes can lead to big a difference in morphology and/or the way a single cell in the organism can function.
So over billions of years of evolution, a slow accumulation of DNA sequence (and thus some protein sequence) changes has led to the existence of all of the earth's different species -- with some more closely related to one another than others.
This whole process is called molecular evolution.So, as we saw with the family reunion example, the best way to see how related two organisms are is to compare their DNA or protein sequences.
(Remember that a protein's sequence is encoded in its gene's DNA - so the only way to get a protein sequence change is to get a change in the DNA that codes for it.)
Those organisms with the most similar DNA/protein sequence are almost surely more closely related than those with less similar DNA/protein sequences.Why didn't scientists use DNA sequences to build the trees 100 years ago?
First, it has only been about 50 years since the discovery that DNA is actually the genetic material that gets passed on through generations.
Second, DNA and protein sequencing technologies have only recently gotten efficient enough that DNA/protein sequence data is available from many different kinds of animals.
With all of this new information, scientists are working hard to build the "true" animal family tree.
And there have been cases where the tree built using DNA sequence data differs from those built using morphological data!
(Can you explain for your project why DNA sequence is the "gold standard" for determining relatedness between animals?)
Note:  Even though sequence comparison is the gold standard, it is not perfect.
Sometimes comparisons of different proteins will yield different trees.
Which one is right?
Why might this happen?
The goal of this project is to use a computer program on the Web to compare a DNA sequence from several human genes with the corresponding genes in other animals.
This will allow us to infer how closely related we are to those animals.
This is easier than you think, and this project is good preparation for more advanced experiments you might want to do later in your studies.
You can also use a multiple sequence alignment program (like T-Coffee or CLUSTAL W) instead of BLASto do a "multiple sequence alignment," comparing sequences from multiple species all at one time.
Your input file should be a list of FASTA formatted sequences representing the same gene in different organisms (the same format as the genes above).
Here are two multiple sequence (DNA/RNA/protein) alignment tools:T-coffee: http://tcoffee.crg.cat/apps/tcoffee/index.html Has useful colored output (click "html" under Scores column of results page).
Note that sequences must be in FASTA format (see help file).ClustalW: http://www.clustal.org/clustal2/  Don't worry about all the optional parameterssimply paste in all of your sequences in FASTA format.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  234124mn said:  2015-01-18 23:51:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
the most important thing that I learned is that there are many different animals who has parts of our DNA from different parts of our bodies.
What problems did you encounter?
problems that I encountered was writing down the results and getting background research because my project was web based and there were so many different genes that needed to be tested that it was hard to record them as results.
another problem would be doing the lab notebook since I have never done it before.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
improvements on this project would be just testing one part of the body and picking only a few animals that you think would be close to us humans.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lasagnalover0909 said:  2015-01-12 22:59:43 What was the most important thing you learned?
That genetically I'm related to creatures that you hear about everyday.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lovemicrobes said:  2011-02-05 20:29:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that the DNA of humans is most closely related to that of chimpanzees.
What problems did you encounter?
No problems, but this project doesn't take as long as it says!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
There's no "Materials" section listed.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Genomics, bioinformatics, DNA, nucleotide, sequence alignment, BLAST, nBLAST, align DNA, gene, homology DNA, gene DNA sequence (a, t, g, c) mRNA Protein, translation Sequence/protein/molecular evolution Homolog/homology Sequence alignment
