 Exploring DNA Damage: What Effect Do Ultraviolet Rays Have on Yeast Colony Growth?
Though the Sun provides heat and light, which are essential for life on Earth, ultraviolet (UV) rays in sunlight can cause damage to DNA.
In this science fair project, you will experiment with a strain of yeast that is super-sensitive to UV light.
This project will demonstrate the lethal effects of UV light when DNA damage is not repaired.
Baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) is used extensively by bakers and brewers around the world.
This little eukaryote is also used in many laboratories as a model organism.
As a eukaryote, S. cerevisiae has a nucleus, mitochondria, and other internal structures not found in bacteria.
Some of the factors that make them attractive as model organisms are their small size, short generation time, common availability and well-studied genetics.
As a single-celled organism, S. cerevisiae can be easily cultured on agar plates.
Under favorable growing conditions, the population size can double every two hours or so.
Because they grow quickly, a single cell can grow into a visible colony in 2448 hours.
Yeast cultures can be grown at room temperature, although they will grow faster if they are in an incubator at 30 degrees Celsius.
In addition to the features mentioned above, another advantage of working with yeast is that methods have been developed that allow researchers to knock out genes of interest.
In a knockout strain of yeast, a particular gene has been removed from the organism's genome.
Knocking out a gene is a straightforward way to learn what role the gene product is playing in the life of the organism.
For this biotechnology science fair project, you will be working with a strain of yeast that is genetically engineered to be DNA-repair-deficient.
In other words, DNA damage caused by the Sun is lethal to the yeast cell in which it occurs if it is not repaired.
Normal yeast (and human) cells have enzymes that quickly repair DNA damage.
In the DNA-repair-deficient yeast, however, some of these DNA repair enzymes have been knocked out, making the yeast super sensitive to UV light.
In conditions that are easily tolerated by normal (wild type) yeast, such as exposure to light from the Sun for several minutes, many repair-deficient yeast are killed.
This biotechnology science fair project is based on a kit that contains everything you will need to grow yeast colonies on agar plates, as well as the special DNA-repair-deficient strain of yeast.
Though the kit contains everything you need and has detailed instructions, as well as background information, this is an advanced biotechnology science fair project, which will require creative problem solving and independent research on your part, for successful completion.
Measure the lethal DNA effects of sunlight on UV-sensitive yeast.
Use the procedure above to make plates with diluted yeast cultures and expose the yeast to sunlight at various times of day; for example, at 10:00 AM, noon, and 2:00 PM.
Use the same duration of exposure.Expose the yeast for various durations at the same time of day, for example 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8 minutes at noon.Compare wild-type and DNA-repair-deficient yeast strains for UV sensitivity.
Obtain wild-type S. cerevisiae from a science supply company; for example, Carolina Biological, item # 898900.
Culture this strain and plate out dilutions, as described in the procedure.
Compare the sensitivity of the wild-type and DNA-repair-deficient strains to ultraviolet light from the sun.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  EllaDancer said:  2011-09-17 10:51:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
This is difficult, but a very good topic that helps you understand more about skin cancer.
What problems did you encounter?
It was actually very hard and you will need your parents to help you with this.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I used a light bulb that gave off ultraviolet rays instead of leaving the petri dishes outside.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
18                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment Biotechnology science fair project, UV, ultraviolet, yeast, DNA damage, DNA repair, mutations, skin cancer Baker's yeast ( Eukaryote Model organism Nucleus Mitochondria Agar plate Knockout gene Genetic engineering DNA-repair-deficient DNA damage Enzyme Wild type Serial dilution Culture medium
