 Weather and Climate in Your Neighborhood  Do you live in an area where the weather changes a lot from season to season throughout the year?
Or do you live in a place where the weather stays pretty much the same all year long?
How dynamic is the weather, and how does it compare to climate?
In this experiment you can use the Internet to conduct your own investigation about how climate and weather in your local area change over time.
What is the difference between climate and weather?Weather is very dynamic, and may change many times from day to day or from season to season.
Changes in weather take place over a relatively short period of time, like hours or days.
A sudden thunderstorm, a blizzard, or a hot day are all examples of weather.
Climate, on the other hand, is historically very stable, and describes weather patterns of many years in a particular region.
Climatic change takes place over long periods of time, like several years or decades.
Some types of climatic changes occur over even longer periods of time, like hundreds, thousands, or even millions of years.
In fact the Great Ice Age is one example of a period of climatic change.In this experiment you will investigate the difference between weather and climate by using a historical weather database.
How are changes in weather and climate measured?
By tracking changes in temperature from month-to-month and year-to-year, you can test for patterns in weather and climate.
Which is the most dynamic?
Which is the most stable?
In this experiment you will investigate patterns and variations of weather and climate in your local area by comparing historical weather data for your city.
Try using your data to identify the four seasons.
Do the different season's show different temperature variations in your local area?
Which seasons are more stable, and which seasons fluctuate?
What historical trends do you see?
Are the cycles of the season's more similar to weather or to climate?
This experiment relies on the accuracy of your local weather station, and the reliability of data posted on the Internet.
How do you think that temperature data you collect on your own would compare to your local weather station?
Try collecting data for one month using a thermometer posted in your back yard, and compare it to daily weather data you collect from the Internet.Have you ever lived somewhere else, or does someone you know live far away from you?
Try comparing weather data from two different places on the same dates.
How do the local climates compare?
Do the two locations have the same weather patterns and seasons?Did this year seem unusually rainy, or snowy, or dry?
Sometimes, weather can be unusual compared to the average, or normal, weather history and can set a historical record.
Use the Internet to research unusual weather history in your area.
What year was there a drought, record rainfall with flooding, or a severe blizzard?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  annap03 said:  2013-01-24 10:12:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
The temperatures fluctuated.
What problems did you encounter?
None.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
For the graphs, can do a tutorial how to use Excel.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  climate weather temperature season degrees Fahrenheit (F) degrees Celsius (C) weather station
