 Make a Greeting Card Come to Life!
A singing monkey?
An elderly couple doing the chicken dance?
What kind of funny electronic cards do you like to email people?
Feel free to dream up your coolest and funniest card ideas, because in this science project, you'll create your own animated greeting card with a simple-to-use programming language called Scratch.
Scratch is a programming language that makes it easy to create interactive stories, games, music, and art.
When the program you have written is complete, you can even share it online!
Note: This Science Buddies project idea was written using Scratch version 1.4.
A new version, Scratch 2, is now available.
You can use an online version of Scratch 2 in your web browser at scratch.mit.edu, or you can download an offline version.
While Scratch 2 offers improvements over Scratch 1.4, the layout and some features have changed slightly.
This means that the procedure below will not exactly match the new features of Scratch 2.
If you need help using Scratch 2, you should go to the official Scratch help page.
If you would like to follow our directions exactly, you can still download Scratch 1.4 here.
Who doesn't like to get a greeting card?
Getting a card lets you know that someone took time out of their day to think of you.
But more and more these days, people are sending and receiving electronic greeting cards.
These "e-cards" have the advantage of being easy to send, quickly received (now it doesn't matter if I don't remember my grandmother's birthday until the day of!
), and more fun because of their interactive nature.
For example, you could design a card where the recipient gets to interact with the card by clicking on it, answering a question, or pressing buttons, and these interactions trigger animations.
See the Bibliography section for an example of a "Happy Birthday" card made with Scratch, or do a web search for "Scratch greeting card" to find more examples.
But what is an electronic card, and how does it work?
The electronic greeting card is actually a computer program.
Any time you are using a computer, you are interacting with a computer program.
The program tells the computer what to do.
When you type something with a keyboard, for example, computer programs translate the sequence of keys you hit into a list of letters on the screen.
Other programs allow you to upload pictures and send them to friends online.
In this computer science project, you won't just use programs written by someone else, you will write your own interactive computer program with an easy-to-use program called Scratch.
Do not worry, it is easy!
Scratch is built for kids with no programming experience at all.
It has lots of easy-to-understand blocks (code) that you snap together to give the computer its instructions.
Also, this science project has lots of advice, tips, and help to get you started.
Plus, it's fun and gives you the power to create almost anything you can dream up!In this computer science project, you will get to make your own animated greeting card.
You will decide what the card will say and which pictures you want to add.
In Scratch, the pictures are called sprites.
You will write scripts to make your sprites do all sorts of things.
For example, you could write scripts that make a character jump, a hat spin, or a word rock back-and-forth.
Once you get started with programming, you'll find there are limitless possibilities for what you can create.
In this computer science project, you will get to make your own animated greeting card.
You will decide what the card will say and which pictures you want to add.
In Scratch, the pictures are called sprites.
You will write scripts to make your sprites do all sorts of things.
For example, you could write scripts that make a character jump, a hat spin, or a word rock back-and-forth.
Once you get started with programming, you'll find there are limitless possibilities for what you can do.
Use the Scratch programming language to make an interactive greeting card.
Create other greeting cards with new themes.Add more interactive elements to your card.Create new scripts to make your sprites move.
For example, how would you make a sprite hop across the card?Add music to your card.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Scratch, programming language, computer programming, computer graphics, animation, greeting card Animation Computer program Scratch programming language Code Sprite
