 Do Oranges Lose or Gain Vitamin C After Being Picked?
Are oranges highest in vitamin C when they are fresh from the tree (or, in a pinch, the grocery shelf)?
Does the amount of vitamin C in an orange change over time, after it has been picked?
In this science project, you will find answers to these questions by measuring the amount of vitamin C in a solution using an iodine titration method.
In this science project, you will learn an interesting method for determining the amount of vitamin C in a solution.
The technique you will be using is called titration.Titration is used to determine the unknown concentration of a chemical in a solution.
In a titration, a carefully measured amount of a second chemical is gradually added to the solution.
The added chemical reacts with the original chemical, whose concentration is unknown.
The original chemical is called the titrand, and the added chemical whose concentration is known is called the titrant, or titration solution.
The titration solution reacts with the titrand, and the progress of this reaction is carefully monitored.
When 100% of the original compound has reacted with the added chemical, the titration is complete.
Now the concentration of the original chemical can be determined from the amount of titration solution that was added.
So you can better understand how a titration works, let us look at the specific example of determining the concentration of vitamin C. Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is the titrand in this case (because its concentration is unknown).
You start with a measured volume of the titrand.
The titrating solution that will added to the titrand is iodine.
You will start out by using your iodine solution to titrate a known amount of vitamin C, using a solution prepared from a vitamin C tablet.
You will carefully measure the amount of iodine solution needed to titrate the known amount of vitamin C. You will know when the titration is complete because you will add a third chemicalsoluble starchto the solution.
The starch acts as an indicator: the starch changes the color of the solution when the iodine/vitamin C reaction is complete.
As soon as the solution changes color, you will stop adding iodine solution.
Once you have calibrated your iodine solution with a known amount of vitamin C, you can then repeat the procedure to determine how much vitamin C there is in samples of fresh-squeezed orange juice.
The chemical reaction of iodine with vitamin C is called an oxidation-reduction reaction (chemists often use the shorthand 'redox reaction' to refer to this type of reaction).
The ascorbic acid is oxidized to dehydroascorbic acid, and the iodine is reduced to iodide ions.
Oxidation-reduction reactions always occur in pairs like this.
The molecule that loses electrons is oxidized, and the molecule that accepts the electrons is reduced.In this chemistry science project, you will investigate how different storage times affect the amount of vitamin C in fresh-squeezed orange juice.
How do you think the amount of vitamin C will change over time, if it changes at all?
Get ready to do some titrations to find out for yourself.
To determine whether the amount of vitamin C in oranges (or other citrus fruit) decreases after the fruit is picked.
You can extend the experiment to compare different storage methods for juice oranges.
What effect does refrigerated storage have on vitamin C levels?
Is refrigeration better at preserving vitamin C than room-temperature storage?
Design an experiment to find out.
Measure the amount of vitamin C in other fruits and vegetables.
Which ones have the highest vitamin C content?
Which ones have the lowest?
Puree a 100 g sample of the fruit or vegetable, and strain it through cheesecloth with   about 50 mL of distilled water.
Add distilled water to bring the total volume up to 100 mL.
From your measurement,   you can figure out how much vitamin C there is per 100 g of the fruit or vegetable you sampled.
You can use typical   weights of the fruit or vegetable to calculate how much total vitamin C there is in each fruit or vegetable you test.
Measure the vitamin C content in fruit juices.
Do the amounts correspond to what is on the label?
Design an experiment to find out.
Does the amount of vitamin C in fruit juice decrease during refrigerated storage?
Does the type of container   (e.g., glass bottle, or paperboard carton) matter?
Design an experiment to find out.
For an experiment on investigating the amount of vitamin C in orange juice from frozen concentrate compared   to the amount of vitamin C in not-from-concentrate juice, see the Science Buddies project  Which Orange Juice Has the Most Vitamin C?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  ashleycny said:  2012-02-14 06:49:43 What was the most important thing you learned?
It is very hard to titrate a solution, but it's even harder to turn oranges into pure juice.
What problems did you encounter?
The juicer can not fully juice the oranges.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
For control variables, the part that are tested should be added.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
12                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment chemistry project, food science project, science project, picking oranges, vitamin C, titration, starch solution, iodine, stoichiometry, nutrition Titration Ascorbic acid Iodine Indicator Oxidation-reduction reaction
