 Slip Sliding Away: Experimenting with Friction  As you headed up the mountain to enjoy your last ski trip, you may have noticed a sign reading: Hazard!
Icy Roads AheadPut On Your Chains.
Putting chains on car tires increases the resistance between the tires and the road allowing the car to "grip" the road.
This resistance to sliding is called friction.
In this experiment, you will be investigating how to increase and decrease the friction between two surfaces.
When driving a car down a road, the friction that allows the car to move is between the car's tires and the road.
Friction is the resistance to motion when two objects rub together.
Friction normally allows a car to "grip" the road.
However, when the road is icy, the friction between the two surfaces decreases and this may allow the car to slip.
To understand the difference between situations where there is high friction or low friction, think about whether it would be easier to ride your sled down an icy snow-covered hillside or down a rough gravel driveway.
It is easier to ride your sled down the icy hillside because both the runners on your sled and the icy hillside are smooth and slide past one another with little resistance.
This is an example of low friction.
On the other hand, riding your sled down the gravel driveway is difficult due to the rough surface of the driveway resisting the motion of the sled.
This is an example of high friction.As you can imagine, friction partly happens when the rough parts of an object catch the rough parts on another object as they rub together.
The friction that occurs depends on a value called the coefficient of friction.
This is a measure of how much two objects interact with each other when rubbing together, and this depends on what the material the two objects are made of.
The friction that takes place also depends on the mass of the moving object (and gravity).
In other words, the heavier the object, the greater the friction.
All of these factors play a role in determining the friction that takes place between two rubbing objects.
In this science project, you will investigate how friction affects how well an object moves down an icy surface compared to a dry surface.
Compare friction between dry and icy surfaces by measuring slip angle and slip height.
Conduct the same experiment with two dry wooden boards and increase the friction of one of the boards by covering it with sandpaper.
How does the increased friction on the board affect how well the tub slides down it?Cover the surface of one piece of wood with oil or foil to decrease the friction.
How does this change how the tub slides down the wood compared to sliding down wood that is not covered with oil or foil?Instead of changing the surface of the wood, you can try changing the bottom of the tub by rubbing it with oil or covering it with sandpaper.
How does this change how well the tub slides down the ramp compared to a tub that has not been changed?If you want an advanced challenge, you can try to calculate the angle of the ramp.
If you know the height of the ramp and the length of the ramp, you do not actually need a protractor to figure out the angle of the ramp.
All you need is to do some math.
The equation used to solve the angle of the ramp is sin(theta)=opposite/hypotenuse.
"Theta" is the angle, "opposite" is the ramp height, and "hypotenuse" is the ramp length.
Find out more about how to do this calculation at Finding an Angle in a Right Angled Triangle from Math is Fun Advanced.
Does the calculated angle match the one you measured with your protractor?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  simafire76 said:  2011-06-25 07:05:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
ABout friction What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
not really Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
8                        14                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, friction, resistance, motion, coefficient of friction, mass, gravity, slippery, icy roads Friction Resistance Motion Coefficient of friction Mass Gravity
