 How Much Worm Is a Worm?
Worms are slimy, wiggly, and gross.
But did you know that they have many unique abilities?
One of the neatest things that worms can do is regenerate, or re-grow, parts of their body.
After a piece of a worm is cut off, it can grow back with all of the necessary new parts.
How much of a worm can you cut off and still get regeneration?
Is one end of the worm better at regenerating than the other?
See if you can make heads or tails of this wiggly problem!
Worms are one of the most overlooked biologically important animals.
We are most familiar with worms we find while digging up dirt in our back yard.
Worms do a lot of the planets dirty work, and are vitally important to decomposing and returning important nutrients to the soil.
In addition to terrestrial, (land-living) worms, there are many other kinds of worms who live in water called aquatic worms.
These aquatic worms are important in habitats like streams, lakes, seas, and oceans.Worms are part of a group of animals called annelids.
Annelids come in many shapes and forms, but share many common characteristics.
They have segmented bodies with a left and right side, with a front end and back end.
They are soft bodied, and do not have a skeleton.
They secrete mucus, which is why they are so slimy, and have many muscles that make them very wiggly!One of the neat things that worms can do with their bodies is regenerate, or re-grow, parts of their body that they have lost.
This comes in handy when an earthworm has an unfortunate run in with your garden shovel or a hungry robin!
If a part of the worm gets cut off, the pieces left behind will grow new parts.Scientists who study regeneration try to understand how the process is regulated, and how the body of the worm turns regeneration on and off.
How does a worm know when to start regenerating?
When does is stop?
How much of a worm can be left to regenerate, or will small pieces of worm die and fail to regenerate?
Is one end of the worm better at regenerating than the other?
In this experiment you will cut worms in different places and in different sized pieces to find out if there is a relationship between regeneration and size or orientation of the body.
In this experiment you will investigate worm anatomy and regeneration to find out how much of a worm can be left to regenerate a new worm or if one end is better at regenerating than the other.
Try different soil conditions for an effect on regeneration.
Cut several worms in half and place into different types of soil: clay, sand, compost, manure, loam, bark, etc.
Which soil conditions were best for regeneration?Earthworms can be used to break down materials in the soil.
Many people place kitchen scraps in a worm box so that the worms will consume the material and turn it into soil.
Will a regenerating worm still eat?
Try placing kitchen scraps into containers of whole or regenerating worms.
Which ones consume the most material?Earthworms are one type of "bioindicator" for healthy soil, which means that the number of worms can be counted and used to measure the quality of the soil.
Poor soils have very low numbers of earthworms, and are not good for growing crops.
Good quality soil contains many earthworms, and makes excellent rich soil for growing healthy crops.
Dig up soil samples from different areas in your yard and count the numbers of earthworms present.
Is your soil healthy?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   science_labs said:  2015-02-03 17:30:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
What problems did you encounter?
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    wellshorsegirl said:  2011-05-17 18:17:37 What was the most important thing you learned?
The different parts of a worm.
What problems did you encounter?
One of the worms died.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
7                        11                Report Inappropriate Comment  annelid growth regeneration body length healing injury
