 How Old Is the Universe?
Would it surprise you to learn that no one knows the exact age of the universe?
Astronomers have estimates, and as they gather increasingly precise data and measurements, they continue to refine those estimates to come up with more accurate estimates.
In this project, you can look at data about stars in dense groups called globular clusters and come up with your own estimate for the minimum age of the universe.
How closely will your estimate match those of other astronomers?
If you want to know how old someone is, you could probably just ask them.
But what if they could not, or would not, tell you?
You could probably figure out a couple of different ways to estimate their age.
For example, you could use the average age of their classmates as an estimate.
Or, if you knew they had a younger brother who was 10 and an older sister who was 13 you could conclude that their age was between 10 and 13 years old.
Similarly, astronomers can use a number of methods to estimate the age of the universe.
One method of figuring out the minimum age of the universe is to calculate the ages of some of the oldest stars in the universe.
To understand the merits of this method, you need to know something about the history of the universe.
Data suggests that the universe was born with an event known as the Big Bang; in a single moment all the heat, matter, and energy that makes up the universe exploded into being.
Since that moment, the universe has continued to evolvethe temperatures have cooled, and some of the matter has redistributed and formed stars, planets, and other celestial bodies.
This means that even the oldest stars were formed after the universe was first created.
So, if you figure out the age of the oldest stars, you know the minimum age of the universe.
Just like you know, from the example above, that the person's age is, at minimum, 10 years old since their brother, who is younger, is already 10 years old.Astronomers have discovered that some of the oldest stars are often found in globular clusters.
Globular clusters are tightly bound groups of stars.
In fact, as you can see by looking at the M80 globular cluster in Figure 1, there are so many stars in one place that in the center of the cluster it can be hard to distinguish one star from another!
The stars within a globular cluster are all approximately the same age because they all developed at the same time from the same gas cloud.
This is similar to a litter of puppies because they all developed at the same time from the same mother, theyre the same approximate age.
But just like the puppies in a litter can be very different from one another in looks and behavior, so can the stars in a globular cluster.
In fact, a globular cluster can have many different types of stars.
To understand more about star types, you first need to know a little bit about the evolution of stars.
Figure 1.
The M80 globular cluster is composed of more than half a million stars.
(Image courtesy of NASA) All stars start off with the same evolutionary path: they form from a stellar gas cloud, spend billions of years as main-sequence stars, burning their fuel and giving off light, then, as they die, they turn into either red giants or red supergiants.
As seen in Figure 2, their death sequence from a red giant or supergiant can end in several different forms, including either white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole.
In this astronomy project, you will mainly be interested in the time a star spends as a main-sequence star.
This is the majority of the star's lifetime, when it is actively burning fuel.
Main-sequence stars are further characterized by their mass (size), temperature, luminosity (brightness), color, and other characteristics.
These characteristics are used to split the stars into seven spectral (star) classifications, as seen in Table 1.
In general, the more massive the star, the faster it burns through its fuel.
This means that it "turns off" the main sequence and moves on to being a red giant or supergiant sooner.
In Table 1, this is called the turnoff age.
For example, an O class star will turn off the main sequence after less than 40 million years, whereas the smaller G-class stars, like our Sun, live much longer and stay on the main sequence for at least 9.3 billion years, and, depending on the star's exact characteristics, up to 15.6 billion years.
In general, larger stars burn brighter, hotter, look bluer, and live shorter lives, while smaller stars burn for a longer period of time, at a cooler temperature, give off less light, and look redder.
Figure 2.
This graphic shows how stars evolve from a stellar cloud, to a star, then a red giant or supergiant before their death sequence as a nebula or supernova.
(Images courtesy of NASA/CXC/SAO) Spectral ClassificationApparent ColorG-R ColorLuminosity*Temperature**Turnoff AgeOBlue-1.0 to -0.5> 30,000> 30,000< 40 million yearsBLight blue -0.5 to -0.325,00030,00010,00030,00040 million2.3 billion yearsAWhite-0.2 to 0.25257,50010,0002.35.1 billion yearsFLight yellow0.2 to 0.31.556,0007,5005.19.3 billion yearsGYellow0.3 to 0.60.61.55,2006,0009.315.6 billion yearsKOrange0.6 to 1.40.080.63,7005,20015.649.4 billion yearsMRed1.4 to 2.0< 0.082,4003,700>49.4 billion yearsTable 1.
Characteristics of stars in the seven spectral classes.
*The number of times brighter than the Sun**In degrees Kelvin (= Celsius + 273)The lowest mass, reddish stars will be on the main sequence for longer than the current age of the universe.To figure out how old a globular cluster is, you can take a look at the stars in the cluster and figure out which class of stars is currently leaving the main sequence.
If B-class stars are currently leaving, then you know, from Table 1, that the globular cluster is between 40 million and 2.3 billion years old; if F-class stars are leaving the main sequence, you know the globular cluster is between 5.1 and 9.3 billion years old.
To identify the class of stars currently leaving the main sequence, you start by creating a Hertzsprung-Russell diagram, or H-R diagram, for the globular cluster.
H-R diagrams are created by plotting a group of stars' brightness (also called luminosity) versus their color.
Figure 3 shows an example of an H-R diagram.
The diagonal strip on the H-R diagram is where the main-sequence stars are found.
Looking at the main sequence on an H-R diagram, you can see the turnoff point, highlighted in green in Figure 3, where stars turn off the main sequence and transition to red giants or supergiants.
The luminosity and G-R color of the stars at the turnoff point allow you to determine the stars' class.
An important note is that if a globular cluster is very young, the stars may not have had time to leave the main sequence yet!
This would result in an indistinct or completely missing turnoff point.
Figure 3.
Example of an H-R diagram.
Note that the turnoff points have been marked with green curved lines.
(Image adapted from a European Southern Observatory diagram.)
In this science project, you will create H-R diagrams for several globular clusters, determine their turnoff points, and use that information to estimate the age of each globular cluster.
Do you think the clusters will have similar or different ages?
What is the age of the oldest globular cluster in your sample?
What does this suggest about the minimum age of the universe?
How does this compare to other astronomers' estimates of the universe's age?
Use information about the stars found in globular clusters to determine the ages of the clusters and, in turn, estimate the minimum age of the universe.
Try this project using additional globular clusters.
You can find a list of star clusters in this paper.
How does the additional data change your estimate of the minimum age of the universe?
Does the data tell you anything about when most globular clusters formed?If you are interested in learning more about globular clusters and what they teach astronomers about the universe, you may want to try one or both of these projects:  The Milky Way and Beyond: Globular Clusters and  Finding the Center of the Milky Way Galaxy Using Globular Star Clusters.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Universe, age, globular clusters, H-R diagrams, main sequence stars, stars, stellar evolution, red giants, red supergiants, star color, star brightness, luminosity , Hertzsprung- Russell diagrams, astronomy, science project Big Bang theory Globular clusters Main sequence Hertzsprung-Russell diagram (also known as an H-R diagram) Turnoff point Right ascension Declination
