 Set Your Table for a Sweet and Sticky Earthquake Shake  Have you ever been in an earthquake?
What did it feel like?
Did you jiggle back and forth?
Up and down?
Was there a jolt?
Or a rolling motion?
Come build a house Hansel and Gretel would love to eat, a special table to shake it on, and see how different soil types can amplify shaking.
Watch a video of this earthquake investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.
Watch a video of this earthquake investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.
http://pbskids.org/dragonflytv/show/earthquakes.html Have you ever seen someone cover a boiling pot with a plate, rather than with a lid?
Did the plate start to rattle and move around a bit from the steam pressure below it?
A similar process is happening all the time to the Earth.
Heat deep inside the Earth causes tectonic plates at the surface to move.
Slow movement of one plate past another over many years is called fault creep.
Sudden movement of the plates is called an earthquake.
Earthquakes happen when the two plates get "stuck" for a time as they are sliding past each other, and then suddenly they become "unstuck," releasing energy.
It's similar to a window that's stuck.
You lift and lift to try and open the window, and then finally there is sudden, fast movement.Did you know you can see evidence of fault creep and earthquakes all around the San Francisco Bay area?
Watch this DragonflyTV video and follow Claire and Nisha as they discover signs of fault creep and earthquakes in the roads, buildings, and ground all around their neighborhood.When an earthquake occurs there is a sudden release of energy in the form of waves, called seismic waves.
There are two main types of seismic waves: body waves, which can travel through the inner layers of the earth, and surface waves, which can only travel on the surface.
Body waves are the fastest and have the highest frequency.The first type of body wave is called the primary or P-wave.
It pushes and pulls the solid rock or liquid matter that it is moving through and people feel it as back-and-forth or side-to-side motion.
If you imagine two people holding the ends of a stretched-out slinky, with a piece of tape in the middle, and then one person squeezes some coils together on one end and lets it go, you will see a longitudinal wave go down the length of the slinky and the piece of tape will get pushed forward, and then come back to its starting position.
This is how a P-wave pushes a particle of matter and creates motion (shown in Figure 1).
Figure 1.
This animation shows the particle motion created by a P-wave.
(Michigan Technical University, 2007.
)The second type of body wave that you feel in an earthquake is called the secondary or S-wave.
S-waves cannot move through liquids, only through solid rock.
They move rock particles perpendicular to the direction the wave is traveling in.
Don't miss wave animations, referenced in the Bibliography, where you can see body waves and surface waves in action!In this science fair project you will focus on the pushing and pulling P-waves.
You will see what happens when the waves shake houses that are sitting on different types of soil models: bedrock, gravel, alluvium, and sand.
Engineers and seismologists create special shake hazard maps, which show where these different soil types are located.
The type of soil affects how much shaking a house experiences.
Soft soils amplify ground shaking more than hard soils do.
Take a look at these seisomograms (pictures of earthquake signals) from the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake.
The graph on the left shows how much ground motion was experienced on soft sand or landfill, while the graph on the right shows how much ground motion was experienced on hard bedrock, over the same time period less than a quarter of a mile away.
Figure 2.
These graphs show recorded ground motion in San Francisco, California, from two different locations during the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake.
The motion on the left is from a location at which the soil type is sand or landfill, while the signal on the right is from a location at which the soil type is bedrock.
(Exploratorium, n.d.)In addition to being soft in nature, sand or landfill can also undergo a liquefaction process where it changes from a wet solid into a dense liquid, which further amplifies shaking.Now it is time to build some sweet and sticky test houses, a shake table to imitate P-waves, and some soil models on which to test the houses.
When you shake the table and simulate P-waves, which types of soil do you think will make your test houses crumble the most?
In this science fair project, you will determine which type of soil amplifies side-to-side earthquake shaking motion the most.
The experiment described in this science fair project keeps the test house a constant and changes the soil type.
As a variation, try keeping the soil type a constant and changing the test house.
Choose one soil type-bedrock, gravel, alluvium, or sand-and test the ability of differently shaped structures to withstand shaking.
For example, build, test, and compare structures shaped like an "L," a "T," an "O," a rectangle, and a square when all shaken on gravel.
Build a different kind of shake table that can imitate the motion of another type of seismic wave, such as a surface wave.
The sources in the credits will show you how.
Test the ability of identical houses to withstand surface-wave shaking on different type of soils.
Build two different kinds of shake tables, one that generates P-waves or S-waves, and one that generates surface waves.
Choose one type of soil and compare the response of identical houses to different types of motion.
The test houses in this project simulated masonry (brick and mortar).
As a variation, use the Bibliography to build and test houses that simulate wooden or steel frame structures.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  mandy0928 said:  2011-09-20 21:21:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
It taught you a lot about earthquakes and the structure of houses.
What problems did you encounter?
When you shock the tray you weren't sure if you were shaking the tray equal each time.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
To put the tray on some kind of machine or device that would shake the tray equal each time.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
24                        4                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, environmental engineering, earthquakes, soil, shake table, seismic waves Tectonic plate Fault creep Earthquake Energy Seismic wave Body wave Surface wave Frequency Primary wave (P-wave) Longitudinal wave Secondary wave (S-wave) Bedrock Gravel Alluvium Sand Seismologist Amplify Liquefaction Model
