 Satellite Science: How Does Speed Affect Orbiting Altitude?
The movement of satellites is intriguing, but how do they orbit the way they do?
Aerospace engineers run calculations and set up computer models to help them predict how satellites move in space, but in this astronomy science project, you will create a physical model with marbles, clay, and a cookie sheet to help you study how satellites move in space and learn from your observations.
Have you ever wondered what keeps the Moon from crashing into Earth?
Or what keeps the International Space Station in space?
Aerospace engineers use their knowledge of mathematics and physics to calculate the path, ortrajectory, of these orbiting objects, which are called satellites.
Satellites are bodies that revolve around a planet.
The trajectory a satellite follows is called its orbit.
In this science project, you will use a physical model you can build yourself to study the trajectory of satellites.
You will be able to change the speed of the satellite, and even the mass of the planet that your satellite orbits.
Before we explain the model, a basic introduction into satellite movement is helpful.
It will help you make educated choices for speeds and planets.
Figure 1.
The International Space Station is an example of a large man-made satellite orbiting EarthTo understand why satellites move the way they do, we must look at a force called the gravitational force, often referred to as gravity.
Isaac Newton stated in his masterwork, the Principia, that a gravitational pull or gravitational force exists between any two objects in the universe.
This is called universal gravitation.
If it were not for this pull, the concept of "falling" would not exist, as "falling" is nothing but gravity working on an object.
This same gravitational force keeps a satellite in orbit near a planet.
In a way, the satellite is continuously falling toward the massive planet.Looking a little closer, we see that the gravitational force is always attractive, proportional to the mass of the objects (more massive objects create a stronger pull) and that it decreases quickly as the distance between the objects increases.
In this science project, the objects you will study are a planet and a satellite, as illustrated in Figures 2 and 3.
Figure 2.
The gravitational force pulls the satellite and the heavy planet toward each other.
A satellite farther away from the planet feels a much weaker pull than a satellite closer to the planet.
Figure 3.
The gravitational pull felt by a satellite is stronger when it orbits a very massive planet than when it orbits a planet of smaller mass.
Note that what counts is the mass of the planetnot its radiusas the distance is measured to the center of the planet.If  it were not for this gravitational pull, objects like satellites would follow a straight line through space.
The strong gravitational pull created by a nearby planet deflects the satellite from a straight trajectory toward the center of the planet, as shown in Figure 4.
Figure 4.
The gravitational force of a nearby planet pulls a satellite away from its straight trajectory into a curved trajectory.
Another factor to consider in an orbiting satellite is speed.
Looking at Figure 5, you will see how gravitational pull has a large effect on the orbit of slow satellites.
Slow satellites might eventually crash into the planet.
Gravitational pull has a smaller effect on fast-moving satellites; some fast-moving satellites might even escape the planet's gravitational pull and shoot off into space.
Figure 5.
A satellite that moves faster will get less deflected by the gravitational pull than a slower satellite.
This figure shows a range from slow (light blue) to faster satellites with increasing darkness in color.
When the gravitational pull on the satellite (its tendency to fall toward the heavy planet) just balances the satellite's tendency to keep going in a straight line, the resulting orbit is either a circle or an ellipse (a shape that looks like a squashed circle).
This happens at a specific speed.
Astronomers call this speed the orbital velocity of the satellite.So, in essence, a satellite's ability to maintain a closed orbit results from a balance between two factors: its speed (at which it would travel in a straight line), and the gravitational pull between the satellite and the planet it is orbiting.
This balance will be different at different altitudes.
The higher the orbit (larger distance between the planet and the satellite), the less speed is required to prevent the satellite from falling out of its orbit and crashing into the planet.
The nearer the orbit, the faster it must move to ensure that it does not crash into the planet.In summary, three parameters determine the ability of a satellite to maintain a closed orbit around a planet: the mass of the planet, the distance between the center of the planet and the satellite, and the speed of the satellite.
Sounds great, right?
Well...reality provides a couple more challenges.
The gravitational pull of other nearby objects and the mass distribution within the planet are just a couple of factors that are left out of the picture.
Astronomers refer to these deviations as perturbations.
Nevertheless, studying the relationship created by the gravitational pull between a planet and a satellite provides a remarkably good approximation of the satellite's orbit.
Technical Note:The possible trajectories resulting from the mathematical problem explored above (an object like a satellite in the vicinity of a planet) are a perfect circular orbit, an elliptical orbit, a trajectory following a parabola, and a trajectory following a hyperbola.
These trajectories are illustrated in Figure 6.
Figure 6.
Looking only at the gravitational pull of a nearby planet on a satellite, mathematicians can conclude the satellite will move along a path in the shape of a circle (shown in black), an ellipse (shown in red), a parabola (shown in green), or a hyperbola (shown in blue) .When doing your research, you might notice astronomers often express the shape of the orbit in terms of the eccentricity (e) of the orbit.
e=0 refers to a circular orbit0<e<1 refers to an elliptical orbit e=1 refers to trajectory in the shape of a parabolae>1 refers to trajectory in the shape of a hyperbola While high school-level mathematics and physics would allow you to calculate the orbital velocity given the mass of the planet and distance between the satellite and the planet for circular orbits, do not worry; you do not need these mathematical skills to get a fundamental understanding of how satellites orbit planets.
In this science project, you will use a simple, homemade  model  to study the relationship.
It will allow you to answer questions like "Can we take a satellite like Cassinicreated to orbit Saturnand let it orbit Jupiter?
If so, could it orbit Jupiter with the same speed?
Or could it orbit Jupiter at the same altitude?".
Models are simplified representations of an object or a system in the real world.
Some models exist on the computer, while others are physical replicas.
Computer models are used by  aerospace engineers.
In this astronomy science project, you will use a physical model to study the satellite movement.
You will build a model that studies the satellite's deflection due to gravity of a nearby planet.
Your model will act the same as a satellite in space in important ways.
You will be able to change the gravitational pull on and the speed of your satellite and observe the effect these changes have on the satellite's trajectory by observing the deviation from a straight-line trajectory.
Before you start building, it will be helpful to do some research on the planets you would like to study.
Since gravitational pull is proportional to the mass of the planet, comparing the masses will inform you of how the gravitational pull of these planets compare to each other.
Looking at Saturn and Jupiterthe two planets chosen for this science projectyou find that as the mass of Jupiter is about 3.34 times the mass of Saturn, the gravitational pull at a given distance from the center of Jupiter will be 3.34 times stronger than the gravitational pull at the same distance from the center of Saturn.
Keep this number in mind as you build your model following the instructions provided in the Procedure.
Technical NoteWhen comparing the gravitational pull on satellites that are revolving around planets, be sure to compare the gravitational pull at a given distance from the center of the planet.
This is very different from comparing the gravitational pull at the surface of the planet (also called surface gravity), because the radius of the planets can be very different and the gravitational pull weakens rapidly as the distance to the center of the planet increases.
For example, Saturn has approximately the same surface gravity as Earth, even though the mass of Saturn is about 95 times the mass of Earth.
However, for a satellite traveling at the same distance from the center of those planets, the gravitational pull caused by Saturn is still 95 times larger than the one created by Earth, not 1.07 times, as you might mistakenly conclude when comparing surface gravity of both planets.
Earth SaturnJupiterMass 1 Earth mass95 Earth masses318 Earth massesSurface Gravity 1 Earth surface gravity1.07 Earth surface gravity2.53 Earth surface gravityMean Radius6,371 km58,232 km69,911 kmTable 1.
Table listing major physical characteristics of Earth, Saturn, and Jupiter.
Now you are ready to build your model with a marble, some clay, and a cookie sheet.
Observe what happens when you increase the gravitational pull or the speed of the satellite.
Model the gravitational pull of a planet on satellites to observe how varying the speed of the satellite influences the altitude at which the satellite orbits.
This science project used Saturn and Jupiter as example planets.
Choose a different set of planets and see how their gravitational pulls compare.
Can you use your model to study satellites orbiting these planets?
This science project studies how the altitude of a satellite's orbit changes with changing velocity.
Could this model be used to prove that a satellite orbiting Saturn at a given altitude can be placed in orbit around Jupiter at the same altitude?
In this case, you keep the curvature or the track (deviation from a straight line) constant and try to find a speed so the deviation from the straight line when high gravitational pull is present (like Jupiter) equals the deviation from the straight line for a different speed and lower gravitational pull (like the one created by Saturn).
How do those speeds compare?
In this science project, you measured the deviation from a straight line to identify the shape of the trajectory.
You can also measure the curvature of the track by measuring its radius, assuming the first section of the trajectory is perfectly circular.
The radius represents the distance from the satellite to the center of the planet it orbits.
To do this:Draw a vertical line down from the end of your tube, just to where the trajectories of the satellites start.Take a piece of yarn that is about 15cm long.Lay your piece of yarn on the line, vertically, from the start of the trajectories down.Place your thumb somewhere on the yarn to hold that point fixed, as shown in Figure 18.
You will test if that point would be the center of a trajectory on your paper.Move the other end of the yarn to the right and observe if the end of the yarn follows a trajectory on your paper.
If so, your thumb is at the center of this trajectory and the distance from your thumb to the end of your launch tube (or start of the trajectories) is the radius of this trajectory.
Figure 18.
Figure illustrating how to measure the radius of curvature of a trajectory.If you are familiar with the physics of circular motion and universal gravitation, you can calculate the theoretical formula for the orbit, assuming the satellite follows a circular orbit.
Knowledge of potential and kinetic energy will allow you to calculate how the speeds for different elevation gains over the launch tube compare.
You could see if the data obtained from your model follow your theoretical expectations, and maybe find areas where you could improve your model.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  lrivas said:  2015-01-14 21:02:44 What was the most important thing you learned?
That if a satellite goes too fast or too slow, it will crash on what it is orbiting, or fly out of orbit.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
You could use paint instead of food coloring and/or use cups or bowls instead of plastic lids.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, satellite orbits, gravity, gravitational force, gravitational pull, universal gravitation, orbital velocity, Jupiter, Saturn, astronomy Trajectory Satellite Orbit Gravitational pull Gravitational force Universal gravitation Orbital velocity Model
