 M&M Geometry  Have your parents ever found you munching on candy and asked you, "How much candy did you eat?"
Instead of saying, "I do not know?"
and getting in trouble, maybe you would rather say, "I ate precisely 10.7 cubic centimeters of candy, Mom."
Make your parents proud of their candy-eating genius child (you) with this simple science project.
Geometry is the study of how to use math to describe and investigate different points, lines, and shapes.
The way that a shape is described in geometry is with a formula, which is simply a mathematical way to calculate different properties of a shape like size, area, or volume.
Volume is a unique property of three-dimensional shapes because three-dimensional shapes take up space in three different directions.
Most real-world objects are three dimensional: balls, cars, food, etc.
The problem with geometric formulas is that they describe "perfect" or "ideal" shapes.
A sphere is an "ideal" three-dimensional shape that is perfectly circular in all directions.
Even though a ball is spherical in shape, it is not a perfect sphere.
If geometric formulas describe "ideal" shapes and not "real" shapes, then how are they useful in the "real" world?
Most real-world shapes are not simple shapes and use complex geometry to be calculated.
The properties of real-world shapes can also be approximated, or estimated, to the best possible measure with a geometric formula.
This is called making a geometric model, and the most important part of making a good geometric model is choosing the formula that best describes the object.
Even the most irregular objects can be modeled by using geometry: cars, airplanes, electronics, plastics, food, etc.
Geometric modeling is very important for manufacturing because a product needs to have the same shape, made the same way, every time.
In this mathematics science project you will use geometry to produce a mathematical model of an M&M'S candy.
If you look closely, you will see that the volume of an M&M'S candy is a bit irregular - it is not quite perfectly round.
It looks like a ball shape (sphere) that has been squished on one side, as shown in Figure 1 below.
You will test three different formulas (one for a sphere, one for a cylinder, and one for an ellipsoid) to see which formula makes the best geometric model of an M&M'S candy.
You will test each formula by using it to calculate the volume of an M&M'S candy and then you will compare your result to the actual volume of a single piece of candy.
Figure 1.
An M&M'S candy looks like a sphere that has been flattened on one side.
The blue M&M'S; on the left is shown from the top, while the orange M&M'S; on the right is shown from the side.
Investigate which formula is the most accurate for estimating the volume of an M&M'S candy.
Another way to look at your data is to calculate the difference between each calculation and the actual volume measurement.
You can do this by subtracting the actual volume from the calculated volume for each formula.
A bigger number is more different from the actual volume than a smaller number.
You can also calculate something called the percent difference by dividing your answer by the actual volume.
If you make another graph comparing the percent difference of each method, what does it show?You can use this same experiment to find the best formula to calculate any other volume.
Try using it for an egg, a football, an apple, a bar of soap, or any other irregular shaped object.
Just make sure that you choose an object that can safely be submerged in water!
Which formula is the best?For a more advanced science project, you can try to investigate how the shape of a candy affects how well many of those candies pack together.
Use the water displacement test on a couple differently shaped candies to determine the actual volume of a single candy.
Then fill a measuring glass with a certain amount of each type of candy, one type at a time (without water).
See how high this filled the glass and divide this total volume by the number of candies to determine how much space one candy took, on average, when taking packing into account.
How much space does each type of candy take up in the measuring glass (when packing is taken into account) compared to the actual volume of one candy?
In other words, which types of candies pack together the best?
How do you think their shape affects this?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  arnav1231 said:  2016-11-24 18:24:12 What was the most important thing you learned?
the most important thing is i learned the volume of a m&m and that it's not a proper ellipsoid so you will not get the exact volume so it is hard to know the actual volume but at least not impossible to do the experiment.
people should know it is not a proper ellipsoid.
but anyway it is hard to prove that it  isn't a proper ellipsoid.
but the most important thing is that you know the formula for the shapes it can be a good thing to know even if you do not like math, some people think math is fun and easy while others think it is hard and boring.
wel let your dreams be true ( forever but just maybe it will always be true) I think everyone should like math( because math is fun, duh, almost everyone likes math [and if dont like math you should!!!!!!!!!!!
math is fun duh!!!
these formulas are are also nice to learn:4/3)x(3.14)x(axis a)x(axis b)x(axis c) or (3.14)x(r)^3 or(3.14)x(r)^2!!!!!!!!!!!!!
i mean like everyone should know these formulas.... What problems did you encounter?
broken m&ms so i could not use those so i ate them also the formulas like (4/3)x(3.14)x(axis a)x(axis b)x(axis c) or (3.14)x(r)^3 or(3.14)x(r)^2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
but i learned a lot with this experiment Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
maybe make it not so confusing(especially the procedure) we can use something stronger than play-doh like something made out of wood...................................
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sayyamshaha said:  2013-11-21 13:47:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
nothing Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    scibuddy08C08 said:  2011-09-12 17:42:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that even the most simple things on the planet can be very hard to measure What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
16                        5                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, science project, mathematics, math, mathematics project, math project, geometry, ellipsoid, shapes, volume, formulas, calculations Geometry Formula Volume Model Radius Diameter Height Sphere Cylinder Ellipsoid
