 Is There Such a Thing as Too Much Gaming?
Have you ever heard someone described as a video game addict?
Do you think video game addicts actually exist?
You can determine that for yourself in this science fair project by examining real data from a California research scientist for over 3,000 video game players!
Do you love to play video games?
Do you find it hard to stop sometimes?
That's usually a normal reaction!
When you're having fun, you want the fun to keep on going, right?
But what if you couldn't make yourself stop, even when you wanted to.
Or if you stopped hanging out with your friends, doing your homework, and participating in other activities just so you could play more video games?
Then you might have what psychologists call an addiction.There are two types of addiction: physical addiction and psychological addiction.
Both involve the uncontrollable desire to take part in an action that is not healthy for the individual.
In the case of physical addiction, the action is the use of drugs or alcohol.
Usually these substances temporarily change a person's mood.
While many people can handle that temporary change, an addict (person who is addicted) is different in that over time and with regular use, the quantity of the drugs or alcohol that is required to achieve the same mood change, increases.
When addicts try to give up the drugs or alcohol, they suffer from physical and emotional reactions called withdrawal symptoms.
The exact type of withdrawal symptoms vary, depending on the substance being abused, but they can include things like nausea, loss of appetite, shaking, rapid heart rate, anxiety, depression, and not thinking clearly.
Withdrawal symptoms make a person feel sick and miserable, so addicts often give up on quitting the drugs or alcohol once they feel these symptoms and the cycle repeats itself.
This is part of what makes an addiction so difficult to stop.
Psychological addiction usually takes the form of participating in a particular behavior to the extent that it takes over the addict's life.
Examples include, but are not limited to, compulsive gambling, shopping, and eating.
Trying to quit the behavior doesn't usually result in the physical symptoms of withdrawal, but it can result in emotional symptoms, which means that like physical addictions, psychological addictions are also very difficult to overcome.
Can playing video games become a psychological addiction?
Some psychologists have suggested that there is a subset of people who can become so obsessed with playing video games that they have trouble stopping, think about it all the time, and play so much that their job or school performance suffers, as do their personal relationships with friends and family.
These researchers think that the actual number of people at risk for developing a video game addiction is small, but that the people who do become addicted are most attracted to playing games called massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs).
MMORPGs are a type of computer game played simultaneously by thousands of people.
Each person assumes an in-game identity and acts out his or her character's personality as he or she lives and has adventures in the game's fictional world.
World of Warcraft, City of Heroes, and EVE Online are all examples of MMORPGs.
Researchers working on the topic of video game addiction have hypothesized that part of the addiction to MMORPGs is an effort to escape reality by finding happiness in a virtual life.
But not all psychologists agree that video games can be addictive.
It will take many more years of scientific research before the experts agree one way or another.How about you?
Do you think that some people can become addicted to video games?
In this science fair project, you'll examine real data collected by Dr. Nick Yee, research scientist at the Palo Alto Research Center in California, as part of the Daedalus Project.
By analyzing the data, you can come to your own conclusions about what percentage, if any, of MMORPG players are addicted to video games.
In this science fair project, you'll determine whether there is a subset of the game-playing population who is addicted to video games.
Are males and females equally likely to be video game addicts?
If your data indicates that video game addicts do exist, calculate what percentage are male versus female.
Hint: Remember to correct for gender bias in the data set by dividing each of your answers by the total number of males and females who took the survey.
Does a person's video game addiction score correlate with the number of hours he or she spends playing MMORPGs?
Use the video game addiction score you calculated above for each player and the number of weekly game play hours per player found in the data spreadsheet to find out.
Note: for help understanding correlation, consult the Which Team Batting Statistics Predicts Run Production Best?
science fair project.
Does your background research suggest that there are other questions on this survey that could also be used to assess addiction?
What are they?
How does your analysis change if you include those questions, too?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Akai said:  2016-03-13 03:13:41 What was the most important thing you learned?
a lot What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Minm6 said:  2016-02-22 18:43:05 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that science can be about what your passionate about.
This project showed me that I can incorporate my love for video gaming into my science project and not have a boring project.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Mine varied a little where I used the data to determine whether males or females were more friendly.
That is an idea for the "make it your own" tab.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    iiWorldofShadows said:  2015-10-23 08:05:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
Gaming can be addictive sometimes, but that's if you do it for an extended amount of time.
What problems did you encounter?
None.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Find a few video game players in your area and interview them if they're addicted to gaming.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    natalieh said:  2015-04-20 01:11:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
Psychological addiction is strikingly similar to physical addiction by its symptoms, causes and effect.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    HockeyStar4016 said:  2014-11-17 16:24:13 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that some people may be addicted to video games, even without knowing it.
What problems did you encounter?
The .zip files were somewhat hard to open.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Maybe, for future research, try to add even more test subjects and more questions about each individual game.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science fair project, video and computer game project, video game addiction, MMORPG, addiction, addict, psychological addiction, video game Addiction Physical addiction Psychological addiction Addict Withdrawal symptoms Compulsive Massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG)
