 Blood Clotting to the Rescue: How to Stop Too Much Blood from Flowing  Have you ever had a cut or a bloody nose that seemed like it would bleed forever?
Though it might have seemed like a long time, it probably did stop pretty quickly.
This is because different factors in a person's blood normally work together to plug the opening caused by the cut in a process called blood clotting or coagulation.
However, some people have a genetic disorder called hemophilia that causes them to bleed excessively.
If a person has hemophilia, he or she is usually missing some of these clotting factors, so it is much more difficult for an opening caused by a cut to be plugged.
In this science project, you will investigate how blood clotting normally works, and how it can be affected by an anticoagulant.
When most people get a small cut on their skin, it bleeds for a little while and then it stops bleeding.
The entire process by which the bleeding stops is called hemostasis.
Hemostasis is important because losing too much blood can be dangerous, and the bleeding needs to stop in order for the wound to heal.
An essential part of hemostasis is coagulation of the blood.
When a liquid, like blood, turns into a solid or semisolid substance, the process is called coagulation.
For blood, this process is specifically called blood clotting.So how does coagulation, or blood clotting, cause bleeding to stop?
To answer this question, we have to look at four key players in hemostasis that are normally found in the blood: platelets, clotting factors, fibrin, and some specific cell types.
As you might already know, your blood is transported throughout your body in small tubes called blood vessels.
When a blood vessel is damaged and broken open, such as by getting a cut, you bleed.
As soon as this happens, platelets typically rush to the site of the open wound.
Platelets are small fragments of cells that stick to the opening in the blood vessel, and when many platelets stick together in the opening, they can temporarily plug the opening.
However, the platelets alone do not form a very stable plug, or clot.
To reinforce the clot and to better stop the bleeding, clotting factors from the blood join the platelets in the clot.
But the clot needs to be stronger yet.
To do this, some clotting factors make fibrin, which is a string-like protein that forms a mesh throughout the clot, holding the other factors in place.
Cells flowing in the bloodspecifically red and white blood cellsalso join the clot.
Talk about teamwork!
Once the cells around the clot have healed and closed the wound, the clot is naturally dissolved by the body.
Watch the video to see hemostasis and blood coagulation in action.This video gives an introduction to how blood clotting works to heal a wound.
Watch this NeoK12 Bacteria video http://www.neok12.com/php/watch.php?v=zX020b007271626a7e001a45&t=Circulatory-SystemYou can probably imagine just how important coagulation is for keeping our bodies healthy and strong, so it should not be surprising to find that when it does not work correctly, it can cause serious bleeding disorders, also known as blood disorders.
One such disorder is hemophilia (or haemophilia), which is specifically a genetic disorder where the body has difficulty clotting blood; thus, individuals with hemophilia can bleed excessively.
This bleeding is often internal, such as in joints (which consequently can swell and become painful), and can be caused by a minor injury (like falling or being hit by something).
People with hemophilia may also notice excessive bruising on their skin, or blood in their urine.
Excessive bleeding can also happen at the site of external injuries (like cuts) or at minor surgery sites.
About 1 in 5,000 males have hemophilia (hemophilia, because of how it is inherited, is rare in females), and it is thought that about 75% of people with hemophilia are not properly diagnosed, so they are not receiving the right treatment (Novo Nordisk Haemophilia Foundation, 2011).
Hemophilia occurs when a person has a decreased number of clotting factors (or defective clotting factors).
There are about a dozen different clotting factors that work together during coagulation, and people with hemophilia usually have one of two specific factors that are decreased in numbers.
As a result, the coagulation process does not happen correctly, and cuts can excessively bleed.
Treating a person with hemophilia often involves injecting him or her with some of the clotting factors that they are missing.Now, here is a challenging question.
Can you think of a situation where people would want to prevent blood from clotting?
There are actually a few situations where this is important.
Some people are at risk of having the blood that is flowing through a blood vessel get blocked by a clot, perhaps because they have been bedridden and their muscles are not properly pushing the blood through their body anymore, or because their blood vessels have narrowed due to a buildup of plaque.
If a person develops an unwanted blood clot, it can stop blood from flowing to major organs like the heart or the brain, and can cause a heart attack or stroke.
These people are prescribed drugs called anticoagulants (a type of blood thinner) to help prevent this from happening.
Scientists and medical practitioners also use anticoagulants in blood samplessuch as those taken for blood donationso that the samples do not coagulate.
A commonly used anticoagulant is trisodium citrate.
In this human biology and health science project, you will investigate how an anticoagulant affects coagulation and how disrupting the coagulation process can cause blood disorders, such as hemophilia.
The anticoagulant you will use is sodium citrate, which functions similarly to trisodium citrate but is more readily available, and is completely safe to use.
So how do trisodium citrate and sodium citrate act as anticoagulants?
It actually has to do with calcium.
It is a complex process, but basically, during blood clotting, the platelets increase the amount of calcium that is around the wound, which affects how different proteins interact with the clotting factors.
In a chemical reaction, trisodium citrate grabs the calcium.
It does this by breaking apart into sodium and citrate, and the citrate technically chelates (pronounced CHEE-lates), or binds to, the calcium, thus forming calcium citrate.
This means there is no longer an increased amount of calcium present, and the coagulation process stops.
Similarly, the sodium citrate you will use in this science project can also chelate, or bind to, calcium.
It is important to note that in this science project, you will not use real blood (due to potential health hazards), but will instead use a few chemicals that can also coagulate like blood.
Specifically, you will use solutions of sodium alginate and calcium chloride.
A solution is when one substance is completely dissolved in another, such as when sugar is dissolved in hot water.
Alginates, like sodium alginate, are made from seaweed and can form gel-like substances under the right conditions.
For example, when a drop of sodium alginate solution is put into a calcium chloride solution, the drop actually coagulates and turns into a semisolid ball!
Figure 1 shows examples of this.
Just like blood needs calcium to coagulate, the sodium alginate needs calcium (from the calcium chloride solution) to form the semisolid balls.
In this chemical reaction, the chemicals rearrange so that alginate is bound to calcium, forming calcium alginate, which is a gelatinous substance.
For the chemistry-savvy student, the chemical reaction is shown in Equation 1.
Figure 1.
When a solution of sodium alginate is dropped into a calcium chloride solution, semisolid, transparent balls form (which are made of calcium alginate).
The balls shown here were made using green food coloring.
Each ball is about the size of a drop of water.
This technique is actually commonly used in molecular gastronomy, which is an area of food science that explores the chemical changes that go on during cooking.
Using this technique, people can make little spheres of tasty food, such as fruit juice!
Equation 1: Sodium alginate (NaC6H7O6) can react with calcium chloride (CaCl2) to make calcium alginate (C12H14CaO12), which is a gelatinous substance.2NaC6H7O6+CaCl22NaCl+C12H14CaO12  2 NaC_{6}H_{7}O_{6} + CaCl_{2} \rightarrow 2 NaCl + C_{12}H_{14}CaO_{12} [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] Did you lose track of all the chemicals introduced?
Table 1, will help summarize the important information presented here.What it is in the human bodyWhat you will use in thisscience projectSubstance that requires calcium to coagulateBloodSodium alginate solutionSource of calcium for coagulationPlatelets that increase the amount of calcium around the woundCalcium chloride solutionEnd product of the coagulation processBlood clotSemisolid ball of calcium alginateAnticoagulant (that works by chelating the calcium)Trisodium citrate Sodium citrateTable 1.
This table lists the substances and chemicals in the human body, and what the similar components are that you will use in this science project.
Do you think the balls of calcium alginate (representing blood clots) will still be able to form if sodium citrate (representing the anticoagulant) is added, or will it actually prevent coagulation?
If coagulation is prevented, what do you think will happen to the sodium alginate solution (representing blood) that is dropped into the calcium chloride solution (representing an increase in calcium from the platelets)?
Will the balls still form just like they did without the sodium citrate, or will they be changed somehow?
Get ready to answer these questions and investigate how blood clotting works!
Create a blood simulation to investigate how an anticoagulant affects coagulation, and how disrupting coagulation can cause blood disorders, such as hemophilia.
You could try this science project again, but this time use solutions with slightly more or less sodium citrate, such as 0.5% or 2%.
How does changing the amount of sodium citrate affect the formation of the balls?
What is the smallest amount of sodium citrate needed to see a change compared to having no sodium citrate in the solution?
Alternatively, if you take a calcium alginate ball and put it in a solution with more sodium citrate (than the solution it formed in), what happens to the ball?
This science project uses calcium chloride as a source of calcium to form the alginate balls (which are made of calcium alginate).
Would other sources of calcium work instead of the calcium chloride?
For example, you could try dissolving antacid calcium tablets that are used to relieve an upset stomach.
Such tablets usually contain calcium carbonate.
Does this calcium source work just as well?
Is it affected by the sodium citrate anticoagulant?You created calcium alginate balls by letting them sit in the calcium chloride solution for 60 sec, but what happens if you let them sit in the solution for more or less time?
For example, how does 5 sec compare to 30 minutes (min)?
What does this tell you about the coagulation process?Some animals, such as leeches, actually secrete anticoagulants.
Can you think of a way to use leeches in a science project to investigate coagulation and blood disorders?
You can order leeches from Carolina Biological.
Be sure to check with your science fair's Scientific Review Committee before starting this science project to make sure your science project complies with all local rules regarding using biological materials.
For more information on this, you can visit these Science Buddies resources: Projects Involving Potentially Hazardous Biological Agents and Scientific Review Committee.
Also, many science fairs follow ISEF Rules & Guidelines.
"Spherification"the molecular gastronomy technique you used in this science projectcan be affected by pH, or how acidic or basic the solutions are.
Try changing the pH of your sodium alginate solution (by adding acids or bases to make it more acidic or basic) and see how it affects the formation of the balls.
You can try this both with and without sodium citrate.
For more background information, visit Science Buddies resource Acids, Bases, & the pH Scale.
Be sure to always follow the proper safety precautions when using different chemicals.
To confirm the pH of your solutions, you can use pH test strips, which are available from Amazon.com.Can you think of another way to model blood clotting and blood disorders?
For example, maybe you could model a blood vessel by using a plastic tube, and you could model blood clotting by blocking the tube or an opening in the tube with something like modeling clay and/or marbles.
Can you make an accurate hands-on model of coagulation?
What about a model showing blood disorders?
Tip: You may want to do further research on blood vessels, coagulation, and blood disorders to do this variation and to model some of these processes.Hemophilia is a genetic blood disorder.
What exactly are the genetics behind hemophilia?
To answer this, you could use the Science Buddies Project Idea From Genes to Genetic Diseases: What Kinds of Mutations Matter?, which uses bioinformatics databases, and focus on investigating hemophilia.
You may even want to think about how genetic disorders can be treated using gene therapy.
Here are some helpful articles on gene therapy: Gene Therapy Arrives in Europe and    Targeting DNA.You could devise a way to investigate blood clotting by using real (but non-human) blood, but you will need to be sure to follow all of your science fair's safety rules and guidelines.
Also, most blood you can purchase is already treated with anticoagulants, so you may want to find a safe source that has not been treated yet.
For more information, visit the Science Buddies resources on Projects Involving Potentially Hazardous Biological Agents and the Scientific Review Committee.
Also, many science fairs follow ISEF Rules & Guidelines.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Sunni2003 said:  2016-12-05 21:07:35 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing I learned was to carefully and meticulously follow through with instructions.
However, with the difficulties and trials of failure, I gained a deeper feeling of resiliency.
What problems did you encounter?
One problem I had was creating a brief and concise procedure that had just the important information.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
One improvement would be to provide an extra 4-5 step procedure that has the overall view of the steps in the project and can be easily looked to for reference or a refresher.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    dragonmaster122 said:  2016-04-18 19:24:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
About blood clots What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sevierlr said:  2016-04-03 13:12:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
that even a small amount of an anticoagulant can have a large effect on the size of a clot or even prevent blood from clotting.
A little goes a long way.
What problems did you encounter?
even with only 1% sodiun citrate there were no balls formed, they were just blobs.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no, none come to mind right at this moment.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    MALROXLOL123 said:  2016-02-16 22:13:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
that our blood is very high tech What problems did you encounter?
the 1% sodium citrate mixture and the 1.5% mixture would not coagulate Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes plz tell us the actual results so if u did it wrong at least u know what u did wrong Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    heycaylie said:  2013-12-07 17:11:15 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
the balls didnt coagulate Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, human biology, health, blood, blood clotting, blood disorders, clotting factors, coagulation factors, blood coagulation, hemostasis, hemophilia, anticoagulants, molecular gastronomy, spherification, trisodium citrate Hemostasis Blood Coagulation Blood clotting Blood vessel Platelet Clotting factors Fibrin Red and white blood cells Hemophilia, or haemophilia Anticoagulant Trisodium citrate Chelation Solution Controls
