 Roller Coaster Marbles: Converting Potential Energy to Kinetic Energy  If you'd like to investigate the physics of amusement park rides, then this project is for you.
You'll build a roller coaster track for marbles using foam pipe insulation and masking tape, and see how much the marble's potential energy at the beginning of the track is converted to kinetic energy at various points along the track.
Slow and clanking, the string of cars is pulled up to the crest of the tallest point on the roller coaster.
One by one, the cars start downhill on the other side, until gravity takes over and the full weight of the train is careening down into curves, twists, and turns.
The roller coaster is a great example of conversions between potential energy (stored energy) and kinetic energy (the energy of motion).
As the cars are being pulled up to the top of the first hill, they are acquiring potential energy.
The chain that pulls them up the hill works against the force of gravity.
At the top of the hill, the cars' potential energy is at it's maximum.
When the cars start down the other side, this potential energy is converted to kinetic energy.
The cars pick up speed as they go downhill.
As the cars go through the next uphill section, they slow down.
Some of the kinetic energy is now being converted to potential energy, which will be be released when the cars go down the other side.Potential energy comes in many forms.
For example, chemical energy can be stored and later converted into heat or electricity.
In the case of a roller coaster, the stored energy is called "gravitational potential energy," since it is the force of gravity that will convert the potential energy into other forms.
The amount of gravitational energy can be calculated from the mass of the object (m, in kg), the height of the object (h, in m), and the gravitational constant (g=9.8m/s2).
The equation is simply: gravitational potential energy=mgh.Kinetic energy is the energy of motion.
The amount of kinetic energy an object has is determined by both the mass of the object and the velocity at which it is moving.
The equation for calculating kinetic energy is: kinetic energy=1/2mv2, where m is the mass of the object (in kg) and v is the velocity of the object (in m/s).You've probably noticed that the first hill on the roller coaster is always the highest (unless the coaster is given another "boost" of energy along the way).
This is because not all of the potential energy is converted to kinetic energy.
Some of the potential energy is "lost" in other energy conversion processes.
For example, the friction of the wheels and other moving parts converts some of the energy to heat.
The cars also make noise as they move on the tracks, so some of the energy is dissipated as sound.
The cars also cause the supporting structure to flex, bend, and vibrate.
This is motion, so it is kinetic energy, but of the track, not the cars.
Because some of the potential energy is dissipated to friction, sound, and vibration of the track, the cars cannot possibly have enough kinetic energy to climb back up a hill that is equal in height to the first one.
The way that physicists describe this situation is to say that energy is conserved in a closed system like a roller coaster.
That is, energy is neither created nor destroyed; there is a balance between energy inputs to the system (raising the train to the top of the initial hill) and energy outputs from the system (the motion of the train, its sound, frictional heating of moving parts, flexing and bending of the track structure, and so on).You can investigate the conversion of potential energy to kinetic energy with this project.
You'll use foam pipe insulation (available at your local hardware store) to make a roller coaster track.
For the roller coaster itself, you'll use marbles.
By interrupting the track and allowing the marble to continue on a smooth, level surface, you'll measure the velocity of the marble at different points along the track.
From the velocity and the mass of the marble, you'll be able to calculate the marble's kinetic energy at the different track locations.
For each track configuration, you should try at least 10separate tests with the marble to measure the kinetic energy.
How much of the marble's gravitational potential energy will be converted to kinetic energy?
A foam roller coaster for marbles is easy to build, so try it for yourself and find out!
The goal of this project is to build a roller coaster for marbles using foam pipe insulation and to investigate how much of the gravitational potential energy of a marble at the starting point is converted to the kinetic energy of the marble at various points along the track.
Here are just a few of many possible variations on this project.
Perhaps these will stimulate your thoughts about other experiments you could try:  How much kinetic energy is required for various track features?
For example, how much kinetic energy is required for a marble to successfully navigate a loop in the track?
You can expand the experiment by building a set of roller coaster tracks with various loop sizes.
How does the kinetic energy requirement change when the loop diameter increases?
How does the kinetic energy requirement change when the loop diameter decreases?
If you can find spheres that have equal diameter but made from different materials, you could investigate how the mass of the sphere affects how well it travels along the track.
Maybe you noticed that your loop wobbles a bit as your marble passes through it.
The energy to move the track comes from the marble.
The energy that the marble loses to make the track move means less energy is available to make the marble itself move.
Can you think of a way to stabilize the loop so that it doesn't wobble?
Does the marble have more kinetic energy after exiting the stabilized loop?
Design an experiment to find out!
Try using different lengths of roller coaster track so that you can adjust the initial slope of the track.
Keep the starting height the same, but change the slope by adding additional track length.
(Remember, slope is rise/run, so you'll be holding the "rise" constant, and gradually increasing the "run.")
How do you think the kinetic energy of the marble will change as you change the slope of the track?
For a more basic version of this experiment, see the Science Buddies project Roller Coaster Marbles: How Much Height to Loop the Loop?.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Sam1234_ said:  2015-09-25 12:44:55 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that potential energy is converted into kinetic energy when any marble either starts moving or stays in place.
What problems did you encounter?
Well I had trouble seeing when the marble left the tube so I needed to download I Movie and try my best to narrow the time down to a tenth of a millisecond.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Potential energy (stored energy) Kinetic energy (energy of motion) Conservation of energy (basic law of physics) Gravity Velocity Friction Slope (rise/run)
