 Plants on the Move!
Experiments with Phototropism  Plants movenot very quickly compared to animals, but they do move.
Their roots grow downward in response to gravity, and their stems grow upward toward the Sun.
In this plant biology science fair project, you will investigate how young plants respond through movement to light.
Did you know that plants can move?
They do it all the time, but so slowly that we often don't notice it.
Plants respond to a number of different cues in their environment with movement.
These movements are called tropisms.
Some examples of tropisms include gravitropism (response to gravity), hydrotropism (response to water), thigmotropism (response to touch), and phototropism (response to light).
These tropisms are vital to plants' survival.
Roots respond to the direction of gravity by growing downward, an example of gravitropism.
Roots also grow toward a water source, displaying hydrotropism.
The wrapping of a vine's tendrils around a solid support is an example of thigmotropism.
You can see lots of examples of phototropism in the plants around youbranches in trees grow toward openings that have the most light, and the stems of young plants bend toward a source of light.
Watch this time-lapse video to see corn seedlings display phototropism.
This time-lapse video shows corn seedlings display phototropism by bending toward a source of light.
This time-lapse video shows corn seedlings display phototropism by bending toward a source of light.
http://plantsinmotion.bio.indiana.edu/plantmotion/movements/tropism/phototropism/corn/cornworship.htmlWhen a seed germinates, the roots grow downward, and the stem grows upward.
If you expose the growing stems to light from one direction, they start to grow in that direction.
In 1809, Swiss botanist Augustin Pyrame de Candolle studied the growth of plants toward a light source and stated that it was caused by an unequal growth on only one part of the plant.
Later, in 1880, Charles Darwin (the father of the theory of evolution), discovered that it was actually the tips of the sprouting seedlings that were influenced by the direction of the light source.
He discovered that when he covered the tips of growing seedlings, they no longer responded to the light.
When he covered the part of the stem below the tip, but not the tip itself, the stems responded normally to light.
Examine Figure 1, below.
Figure 1.This diagram depicts early experiments with phototropism.
Darwin showed that the phototropic response was lost when the tip of the emerging plant was cut off or covered with an opaque cap.
Covering the base of the stem did not block phototropic bending.
Dutch plant physiologist Boysen-Jensen showed in 1913 that placing a block of gelatin between the tip and the base did not block the response, showing that something was able to diffuse from the tip, through the gel, and into the base.
When the tip was separated from the base with a piece of mica, which blocks anything from flowing through, the response is blocked.
Note that there is more auxin growth hormone on the shaded side (green color in the small picture insert).
(Wikispaces, 2008.
)The Dutch botanist Frits W. Went established a connection between phototropism and a plant hormone, called auxin, in the 1920s.
He discovered that plants make a chemical in their tips that stimulates growth.
Usually this growth hormone spreads evenly around the stem, so the stem grows upward.
But if light hits the plant from one direction, the growth hormone is distributed unevenly.
In fact, more auxin flows down the "shady" side, causing it to grow faster than the "sunny" side of the plant.
This unequal concentration of auxin results in differential growth and the curving of the plant toward the light source.
In summary, the stem bends toward the light because the side of the stem that is away from the light grows faster than the side of the stem facing the light.
This uneven growth pushes the tip toward the light source.
The growth of new plant cells is stimulated by the plant chemical auxin.
The growing stem responds to light from a certain direction by decreasing the amount of auxin on the side of the stem facing the light, relative to the opposite "shady" side.
In this plant biology science fair project, you will study how the amount of light affects the degree of bending in young plant stems.
The objective of this plant biology science fair project is to determine how the amount of light affects a plant's phototropic response.
Keep the number of holes the same and vary the time of light exposure.
For example, use a carton with four holes and expose the plant to light for 1/2, 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours per day for three days.
What is the minimum amount of time required to observe initial growth toward the light?The holes in the carton let in both light and air.
It is theoretically possible the air from the holes is affecting the growth of the plants.
Alter the procedure to block air (but not light) from entering through the holes.Devise a way to determine if the color of the light affects the phototropic effect.Try different kinds of lamps.
For example, a grow lamp, a fluorescent lamp, and an incandescent lamp.Which is more effective for producing the phototropic response: a bright light with a short exposure, or a dim light with a long exposure?
For example, try comparing eight holes for 1 hour, and one hole for 8 hours.Cut off the tips of the growing stems before you expose them to light.
What is the minimum size you need to cut off to block the phototropic response?Use a light meter, such as the Light Meter LX1010B,50,000 Lux Luxmeter with lcd display, available at  Amazon.com, to measure the amount of light to which the plant is exposed.
Graph the stem angle vs. lux.Add growth hormone to the cut surfaces of three stems that have had their tops cut off.
Place a small piece of gelatin that contains growth hormone (available from a plant nursery) on top of the stem.
What if the piece of gelatin with the hormone is placed on an edge of the cut?
What happens if you put one hole on one side of the carton, and two holes on the opposite side?
Or two holes each on opposite sides?
Keep the surrounding light uniform.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  searent said:  2012-03-07 20:50:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
The light always determines how it responds exept for a few plants.
What problems did you encounter?
I didn't really have any problems,but pretty good!!!!!!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Yeah,do the experiement on more plants!!!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment phototropism, plant biology science fair project, plants, light, growth, stem Tropism Gravitropism Hydrotropism Thigmotropism Phototropism Germination Auxin Plant cell
