 Movie Music  Have you ever seen a great movie and then rushed out and bought its soundtrack?
Did the soundtrack bring back the thrill of an action chase?
Or the sadness one of the movie's characters felt?
Music is a big part of the movie experience.
It intensifies the emotions in scenes so that you do not just jump when that hairy spider comes around the corner, you scream!
In this music science fair project, you will find out if happy, sad, scary, and action scenes in movies use music with the same qualities.
Do you love to watch scary movies at Halloween?
Or holiday films in December?
Or maybe you enjoy the thrill of fast summer action films?
Whatever type of movie you love, music is an important part of the movie experience.
Music adds layers of richness to the visual experience of a movie, and it enhances the storytelling by increasing emotions or by increasing tension in a scene.
Scary things feel scarier with the right music!
Happier things feel happier, too.
Music is also highly structured in time, so it can help keep the audience feeling the same things at the same time, or convey the passage of time.
Sometimes music is central to a movie, becoming almost as big as another character, as in the science fiction film   2001: A Space Odyssey, or in the children's animated feature film The Lion King.
Other times, the music falls into the background, and simply becomes another element of the movie experience.
Either way, music has an influence on how you experience the story, action, drama, setting, characters and emotions of the movie.There are several different musical components that affect how a piece of music sounds to us overall and that can be readily analyzed by the attentive listener.
The musical instruments involved can play a key role.
For example, percussion instruments (such as drums or cymbals) make a very different sound than string instruments (such as violins or cellos, like the ones shown in Figure 1, below), horns (such as trumpets), or people singing.
The pitch of the melody  whether it is high-pitched (like the songs of birds) or low-pitched and deep sounding  can also affect how the music makes the listener feel.
The music's key (such as if it is minor or major), tempo (or speed of the music), and volume are other musical components that can each convey different messages to the listener.
Figure 1.
Musical pieces that mostly use string instruments, like the ones shown in this orchestra picture, can give the listener a different experience than musical pieces that primarily use other musical instruments.
(Columbiamusicartist, Wikimedia commons, 2014)In this music science fair project, you will investigate if filmmakers consistently use the same musical characteristics, like musical instruments, pitch, key, or tempo, to accompany scenes that are of the same type.
Does minor-key music often accompany sad scenes?
Does music with a fast beat often accompany action scenes?
Try this science fair project to find out!
To determine if movie scenes of the same type are accompanied by music with similar characteristics.
Test some volunteers.
Play short segments of music from different types of movie scenes for volunteers and ask them what type of scene they think the music accompanies.
How accurate were your volunteers?
Is there any overlap between types of scenes?
For example, did some of your volunteers think sample music from happy scenes belonged to an action scene?
Or that sample music from a sad scene belonged to a scary scene?You could repeat this science project but try analyzing different types of classical music instead of movie soundtracks specifically.
For some ideas on how to do this, check out the Science Buddies post "Sounds Like Halloween."
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  sebeas said:  2016-03-29 16:54:10 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that music in movies has a lot more to it than you think and that all different types of scenes have some things in common.
What problems did you encounter?
Since I used four examples for four different scene types, I had to do something else to reach the minumum of five trials.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Chasu said:  2015-03-12 19:20:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
Music really does matter, but original score doesn't.
What problems did you encounter?
I think I needed more volunteers Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Use at least 20 people.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ScienceLover893 said:  2014-10-21 14:54:40 What was the most important thing you learned?
Everything about it was or seemed to be important What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I don't think anything needs to be improved.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ScienceRules32 said:  2014-01-07 12:26:20 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that each type of movie scene had similar characteristics in it's music.
Also, similar types of scenes had similar musical characteristics because the emotions that were trying to be expressed were similar.
What problems did you encounter?
One problem that I had was that not all of my movie scenes that I used for my project had actual instruments, so I just didn't do the part where you had to record what the majority of the instruments were.
One thing that I changed was that I chose 7 different scenes of each scene type to investigate so that I had more examples.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    zmccarth000 said:  2013-05-18 11:25:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
That music in movies are about the same for each scene.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sgarc1123 said:  2012-11-15 18:45:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
The different pitchs and melodies of music What problems did you encounter?
surveying people Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
doing a different way of surrveying Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, music, movie, film, instrumental, classical, action film, thriller Emotion Tension Tempo Drama Setting Musical instruments Pitch Melody Key Tempo Volume Scales
