 Who Has the Biggest Genome?
Humans are complex creatures, but do we have the biggest genome?
All living things, from humans to worms to bacteria have genomes.
In this experiment you will compare the genome sizes of different organisms to find out who has the smallest and the largest genomes.
Where will we fit in?
All living things come with a set of instructions stored in their DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid.
Whether you are a human, rat, tomato, or bacteria, each cell will have DNA inside of it.
DNA is the blueprint for everything that happens inside the cell of an organism, and each cell has an entire copy of the same set of instructions.
The entire set of instructions is called the genome and the information is stored in a code of nucleotides (A, T, C, and G) called bases.
Here is an example of a DNA sequence that is 12base pairs long:  The information stored in the DNA is coded into sets of nucleotide sequences called genes.
Each gene is a set of instructions for making a specific protein.
The protein has a certain job to do, called a function.
Since different cells in your body have different jobs to do, many of the genes will be turned on in some cells, but not others.
For example, some genes code for proteins specific to your blood cells, like hemoglobin.
Other genes code for proteins specific to your pancreas, like insulin.
Even though different genes are turned on in different cells, your cells and organs all work together in a coordinated way so that your body can function properly.
Every individual has its own DNA code, but how can a code with only four letters be unique?
It is hard to imagine how a code with so few parts can hold so much information.
The key is that the longer the code is, the more unique sequences there can be.
For example, the human genome is approximately 3billion base pairs long and has approximately 20,00025,000 genes!
In this experiment, you will look up the genome sizes of different types of animals to find out how big they are.
But, how is the size of a genome measured?
The size of the genome can be measured by quantifying how much DNA is in the nucleus of the cells of an animal.
The larger the genome is, the more DNA will be in the nucleus.
The nuclear DNA is measured in picograms (pg), which is a very small, microscopic measurement.
One picogram is equal to one trillionth of a gram!
The size of a genome in picograms is called the C-value, and is used to compare the relative sizes of genomes from different species.
You will use the online Animal Genome Size Database at http://www.genomesize.com to look up the C-value of different species.
Since this database uses the scientific name, and not the common name for each species, you can use the Animal Diversity Web at http://animaldiversity.org to get more information about the species you choose.
After collecting the genome sizes of different animals, who will have the biggest genome?
In this experiment you will find out how big the genomes of different organisms are and determine which organisms have the largest and smallest genomes.
There are many other genomes, besides the genomes of animals.
Try comparing the genome sizes of other organisms: Plants  Fungi (yeasts, molds, and mushrooms)  Protists (single celled eukaryotes) Bacteria (prokaryotes) Archaebacteria (ancient prokaryotes)  What organisms have complete genome projects?
Which organisms are in the process of being sequenced?
Try the Science Buddies experiment Which Animals Have Genome Projects?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  lovemicrobes said:  2011-02-01 08:36:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
Pandas are my favorite animals and I learned their genome size is almost the same size as people's!
And genome size doesn't necessarily match up to physical size.
What problems did you encounter?
This project is really easy.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Offer some variations to make it a bit more interesting and challenging.
Suggestion: Why do you think organisms like "chordates" and "sea sponges" have such low C-values when compared to mammals and amphibians?
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, genome, genomics, genome size, organism, c-value, base pairs, organism Organism Genome DNA Sequence Base Pairs C-value Picograms (pg)
