 Earthworm Castings  The Ideal Proportion in Soil for Young Garden Plants  Everybody knows that worms are good for the soil, but not everybody knows why.
Here's a project that investigates just one of the ways earthworms improve the earth.
Would earthworm castings (or earthworm manure) help your plants prosper and flourish?
If so, how much should you use?
Earthworms play an important role in soil fertility; they are actually often used as a quick indicator of soil fertility.
While their burrowing improves soil structure, the worm castings (or worm manure) enrich the soil by converting dead plant or other organic material back into nutrients.
Getting worms to feel at home in your soil is not as easy as it sounds.
Worms have their preferences and store-bought earthworms might quickly migrate to other places when released in your garden.
Would earthworm castings also called vermicompostbe enough to improve the soil and help improve plant growth?
Figure 1.
Enrich your soil with worm castings before potting the plant.In addition to air, water and sunlight, young plants need nutrients from the soillike nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassiumto grow and prosper.
Some gardeners add animal manure or chemical fertilizers to improve the nutrient content of the soil.
Adding earthworm castings is an environmentally friendly alternative that is safe for pets and children.
Using vermicompost has some important benefits.
The worm's gut converts nutrients that available in organic matter they eat into a form that is readily taken up by plants.
In addition, the nutrients in vermicompost are released slowly over time.
Worm castings also improve the soil texture, soil aeration, and water retention.
You might wonder about the amount of worm castings you should add to your soil to get optimal plant growth.
The answer will depend on the quality of your soil, the type of plants you would like to grow, and the particular worm castings used.
Note that the nutrient content of worm castings depends on the food the worms consumed.
Can you figure out a general guideline?
Is it possible to mix too many castings into the soil?
In this project, you will grow plants in pots containing various amounts of earthworm castings mixed into the potting soil, and evaluate their growth and health.
You will limit your study to one type of soil (store-bought potting soil), one type of castings (store-bought or from the same harvest of a worm farm) and 23 types of plants.
Will your plants flourish in a particular mixture of soil and castings?
Find the ideal proportion of earthworm castings to soil for young garden plants.
Instead of earthworm castings, you could try adding other additives to potting soil and investigate how the additives affect plant growth.
Some additives you could try include bone meal, blood meal, compost, fish meal, kelp, livestock manure, and wood ash.
You will want to do some research into the additives you pick so you can make a hypothesis about how they might affect plant growth.
In a similar way as explained in this project, you can test germination rate, or how well plants develop from seeds in different mixtures of potting soil with earthworm castings.
Some claim that earthworm castings increase moisture retention in soil.
This video can help you set up an experiment to test the water retention in different mixtures of earthworm castings with potting soil or dirt from your garden.
For related project ideas, see:   Feeding Earthworms: Do Different Diets Affect Them and the Soil They Enrich?
May the Best Plant Win!
Experiment with Genetically Modified Seeds Recycling Greywater: Can Plants Tolerate It?
Are Soil Microorganisms Important for Plant Health?
Growing, Growing, Gone!
An Experiment on Nitrogen Fertilizers    Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Earthworms, plant biology, science project, earthworm castings, plant additives, plant nutrients,  vermicompost, soil, compost, bone meal, blood meal, ash, fertilizer Soil fertility Worm castings Vermicompost Plant nutrients Soil productivity
