 Take a Candle Carousel for a Spin  Have you ever ridden on a carousel, or a merry-go-round, at an amusement park?
On a carousel, you usually get to take a seat on a wooden horse or other animal that spins around and around as the carousel is turned on and powered by electricity.
Another smaller type of carousel that people can have in their homes is a candle carousel, which is powered by heat from candles.
In this science project, you will get to make your own candle carousel and investigate how the spinning speed of the carousel is related to the number of candles you use to power it.
You can even record the number of rotations your carousel makes using Google's Science Journal app.
How fast can you make it spin?
A candle carousel spins around like an electricity-powered carousel, or merry-go-round, that you might have ridden at an amusement park.
But a candle carousel is much smallersome can fit in the palm of your handand it is powered by heat from candles.
Figure 1 shows an example of a candle carousel.
Note how the candle carousel has several tilted blades at the top, how the blades are all attached to a central shaft, and that there are candles placed below the blades.
When the candles are lit, hot air rises above them, which makes the blades spin around.
Figure 1.
In this science project, you will make a candle carousel similar to this one.
When the candles are lit, they cause the blades at the top to spin.
Candle carousels are part of the German Christmas tradition.
Known as Christmas pyramids, or candle pyramids, these German crafts traditionally depict winter or religious themes like in Figure 2.
They were invented in the early 1800's; long before electrical power was in homes.
Figure 2.
An example of a Christmas candle pyramid.How does lighting the candles make the candle carousel spin?
The candle's flame heats up the air above the candle.
Heat is a form of energy, and it makes the air right above the candle rise above the colder air around it.
This rising hot air pushes up against the blade above it.
Because the blade is tilted, this push causes the blade to move sideways (to the right or left, depending on how the blade is tilted), and spin around the shaft.
Each blade that moves above the flame also gets "pushed" by the hot air.
The rising hot air exerts a force on the blade, which makes it move.
A force is something that pushes or pulls on something else.
The force that moves the blade sideways is called lift.
Normally, we think of lift as an upward force, such as with flying airplanes.
However, for an airplane, air is coming toward the airplane from straight in front of it, whereas with a blade on the candle carousel, the air is going upwards, hitting the blade from below.
Because lift is defined relative to which way the air is going, in a candle carousel the lift is a sideways force.
Another force acting on each blade is the force of drag, which pushes upward against the blade, in the same direction as the moving air.
Figure 3 shows a diagram of how the hot air and forces of lift and drag act on a candle carousel's blade to make it move.
(This is very similar to a wind turbine, which you can find out more about in the project idea  Unleash the Power of a Pinwheel!.)
Figure 3.
This diagram shows how hot air, drag, and lift act on a blade of a candle carousel to make the blade move (rotating around the central shaft; the shaft would be directly behind the blade [the shaft is unseen in this diagram], and the blade would rotate to the left in this diagram).
Note that this diagram is only showing the edge of the blade, as if the viewer is looking directly at the blade's edge.In this science project, you will make your own candle carousel, like the one in Figure 1, and investigate how the amount of heatgenerated by a varying number of lit candlesunder the carousel's blades affects how fast the blades spin.
You will measure the speed of the blades in rotations per minute, or rpm.
Will adding more candles make the blades spin faster, or will there be no noticeable difference?
What will the relationship be?
Get ready to make your own candle carousel to find out!
Investigate the relationship between the number of lit candles under a candle carousel, and how fast the carousel spins.
Another factor that could affect how quickly the candle carousel's blades spin is how close the blades are to the flames.
You could repeat this science project, but this time test the candle carousel using wooden skewers of different lengths (and keep the number of lit candles constant).
(Just be sure none of the skewers are so short that the blades are less than about 5cm above the flames.)
How does changing the distance between the flames and the blades affect the rotational speed of the blades?Changing the angle of the blades could also affect how quickly the candle carousel spins.
To test this, use a protractor to carefully bend the blades to different angles (other than 30, which is what is tested in the original science project idea).
When testing a certain angle, have all of the blades bent to the same angle.
What is the ideal angle of the blades?
In other words, at what angle do the blades spin fastest?
At what angles do the blades not spin?How does moving the candles affect the speed of the blades?
You could test this by moving all of the candles closer to the skewer, or farther away from it.
(You might want to use a stand that gives you more space than the aluminum pan.)
When testing a given distance, keep all of the candles the same distance from the skewer.How does friction affect how well the candle carousel spins?
To test this, make multiple windmill parts, and for each one try placing a different material within the end of the straw (where it is attached to the pie pan).
This will change the friction that the wooden skewer experiences when it is placed in the windmill's straw.
What materials work best for making the candle carousel spin?
What materials work worst, or cause it to spin the slowest?Can you design a different candle carousel based on the design in this science project?
Do some research into different types of candle carousels to get ideas, then try it out!
Be sure not to use anything flammable in your design, and only use lit candles with the help of an adult.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  cnuese said:  2015-09-24 05:13:36 What was the most important thing you learned?
Hot air rises.
What problems did you encounter?
Cutting template in pie plate produces quite sharp edges.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, heat, carousel, merry-go-round, Christmas pyramid, Swedish angel chimes, candle carousel, forces, lift, drag, wind turbines, rpm, rotations per minute, gravity, candles, friction, motion, votive candles, Germany pyramid, aerodynamic, airfoil Candle carousel Heat Force Lift Drag Wind turbine Rotations per minute (or rpm)
