 Which Team Batting Statistic Predicts Run Production Best?
Here's a sports science project that shows you how to use correlation analysis to choose the best batting statistic for predicting run-scoring ability.
You'll learn how to use a spreadsheet to measure correlations between two variables.
Baseball is an interesting combination of individual and team effort.
For example, there is the one-on-one duel of pitcher against batter.
But once the batter reaches base, he needs his teammates to follow with hits (or "productive outs") in order to move him up the bases so that he can score.
From the scientific side, an interesting aspect of baseball is the rich trove of statistics on nearly every aspect of the game.Figure 1.
Baseball game In this project, you will learn about correlation analysis, a statistical method for quantifying the relationship between two variables.
As an example, consider as our two variables the age and height of male students in an elementary school.
In general, individuals in this age range grow taller every year.
If we made a scatter plot with height as our y-axis and age as our x-axis, we would expect the data points to show a consistent upward trend, with height increasing steadily along with age.
The graph in Figure 2 shows simulated data (based on average growth charts).Figure 2.
Scatter plot of height versus age.
In this case, the two variables are strongly correlated.
As one increases, so does the other.
As a second example, suppose that we graph height as a function of birth month instead of age.
Would you expect to find a correlation?
Figure 3 shows the same simulated height data, graphed now as a function of birth month (randomly assigned).
Figure 3.
Scatter plot of height versus birth month.
Our scatter plot is now a random arrangement of dots, with no apparent relationship.
In this case, the two variables are not correlated.
To convince you that it is the same data, Figure 4 shows the same graph, with the different age groups (shown by grade level, K6) each assigned a different symbol.
You can clearly see the difference in average height of the different grade levels.
Figure 4.
Scatter plot of height versus birth month, color-coded by grade level.
The statistic that describes this relationship between two variables is the correlation coefficient, r (or, more formally, the "Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient").
It is a scale-independent measure of how two measures co-vary (change together).
The correlation coefficient ranges between 1 and+1.
What do the values of the correlation coefficient mean?
Well, the closer the correlation coefficient is to either +1 or 1, the more strongly the two variables are correlated.
If the correlation coefficient is negative, the variables are inversely correlated (when one variable increases, the other decreases).
If the correlation coefficient is positive, the variables are positively correlated (when one variable increases, the other increases also).
How close to +1 or 1 does the correlation coefficient need to be in order for us to consider the correlation to be "strong"?
A good method for deciding this is to calculate the square of the correlation coefficient (r 2) and then multiply by 100.
This gives you the percent variance in common between the two variables (Rummel, 1976).
Let's see what this means by calculating r 2 over the range from 0 to+1.
(Note: for the corresponding values of r between 0 and 1, r 2 will be the same, since squaring a negative number results in a positive number.)
Interpreting the Correlation Coefficienct Using r 2        r    r 2          % variance      in common                1.00    1.00    100          0.90    0.81    81          0.80    0.64    64          0.70    0.49    49          0.60    0.36    36          0.50    0.25    25          0.40    0.16    16          0.30    0.09    9          0.20    0.04    4          0.10    0.01    1          0.00    0.00    0    As you can see from the table, r 2 decreases much more rapidly than r.  When r=0.9, r 2=0.81, and the variables have 81% of their variance in common.
When r=0.7, that might seem like a fairly strong correlation, but r 2 has fallen to 0.49.
The variables now have just less than half of their variance in common.
By the time r 2 has fallen to 0.5, r 2=0.25, so the variables have only one-fourth of their variance in common.For our simulated height data, the correlation coefficient for height vs. age was 0.88, indicating that age and height share 77% of their variance in common.
In other words, 77% of the "spread" (variance) of the height data is shared with the "spread" of the age data.
For height vs. birth month, the correlation coefficient was 0.03, so, to two decimal places, r 2=0.00.
There is no correlation between the variables (as we suspected).
It is important to remember that correlation does not imply that one variable causes the other to vary.
Correlation between two variables is a way of measuring the relationship between the variables, but correlation is silent about the cause of the relationship.If the correlation coefficient is exactly 1, then the two variables are perfectly correlated.
This means that their relationship can be described by a linear equation, of the form: y=mx+b.
You've probably seen this equation before, and you may remember that m is the slope of the line, and b is the y-intercept of the line (where the line crosses the y-axis).
If two variables are strongly correlated, it is sometimes valuable to use the linear equation as a method for predicting the value of the independent variable when we know the value of the dependent variable.
This method is called linear regression.
Let's look again at the scatter plot of simulated height vs. age for elementary school students.
If we draw a "best fit" line through the points, our scatter plot looks like the one shown in Figure 5: Figure 5.
Scatter plot of height versus age with a best fit line.A "best fit" line means the line that minimizes the distance between the line and all of the data points in the scatter plot.
If you wanted to predict a boy's height, and all you knew was his age, using this line to make a prediction would be your best guess.
A spreadsheet program (like Excel) can do this "best fit" calculation for you, and help you get started with making a graph of the data and the regression line.
You can also make a graph of the "residuals," which shows the distance of each data point from the regression line.
Figure 6 shows an example of a residuals graph, again using our simulated height vs. age data: Figure 6.
Residuals plot using height versus age data.
The residuals plot makes it easier to compare how the data points are distributed around the regression line.
It is easier to make the comparisons when the regression line has a slope of zero.
The vertical scale can also be expanded, since the data is now centered within the area of the graph.
If you see patterns in the residuals plot, these are features of the data that are not explained by correlation between the two variables.This project will use correlation analysis to determine which team batting statistic is the best predictor of a baseball team's run-scoring ability (Albert, 20003).
In addition to standard batting statistics, you'll also use batter's runs average (BRA), total average (TA), and runs created (RC).
Each of these is defined in the Experimental Procedure section, where you can learn how to program them in to a spreadsheet with a formula.There are many possible variations to this project that could apply similar methods, or extend them further for a more advanced project.
See the Variations section for some ideas.
No doubt you can also come up with your own.
You can also check out the book on which this project is based, Teaching Statistics Using Baseball, by Jim Albert.
The objective of this experiment is to use correlation analysis to determine which team batting statistic is the best predictor of a baseball team's run-scoring ability.
Many variations of this project are possible.
We're sure that you can think of more yourself, but here are a few ideas to get you started.
Do you get the same results if you run this analysis for a different year?
For a different baseball era?
Can you think of reasons to explain any differences you find?
Are there other derived statistics (besides RC, TA, and BRA) that might do a better job at predicting runs scored?
You have to score at least one run to win a baseball game, so we expect teams that score more runs to win more games.
However, you also have to keep the other team from scoring more runs than you do.
So how well does a team's run-scoring ability correlate with winning percentage?
Investigate correlations between team pitching statistics and winning percentage.
Which pitching statistic is the best predictor of success?Baseball Economics  How well do player salaries correlate with offensive performance?
In baseball it is generally expected that the three outfielders and the first and third basemen will produce runs for the team by being skilled with the bat.
Assemble the individual batting and salary statistics for this group of players for a single season.
How well does salary correlate with the various batting statistics used above?
You can take this further by expanding your sample to multiple seasons.
How well does team payroll correlate with winning percentage?More Advanced Project Ideas  Baseball and Athletic Longevity.
History tells us that, over a human lifetime, the trajectory for most individual accomplishments is an arc.
We all start off pretty much helpless as infants, grow in physical and mental skill through childhood, teenage years and young adulthood.
If we are fortunate enough to live into old age, we also, inevitably, start to notice a decline in those same skills as the body and mind age.
Baseball statistics provide a way to measure the trajectory of athletic ability for large numbers of individuals.
There are many, many questions you could explore along these lines.
What is the "average" age for peak performance?
How much variance is there in this age?
Does it differ for pitchers and batters?
Which position has the greatest longevity?
The shortest?
Has peak performance age changed over time?
Use year-by-year career statistics for individual players to identify their peak years by some measure that you devise.
Compile and analyze tables of peak performance data for groups of players to answer one of the questions above, or a similar question that interests you.
For more ideas, see Teaching Baseball Using Statistics, by Jim Albert (listed in the Bibliography).Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
baseball batting statistics: runs scored (R) hits (H) doubles (2B) triples (3B) walks  (BB) strikeouts (SO) batting average (BA) on-base percentage (OBP) slugging percentage (SLG) batter's runs average (BRA) total average (TA) runs created (RC) correlation coefficient (or Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient) linear regression
