 Which Orange Juice Has the Most Vitamin C?
Which type of orange juice has the most vitamin C?
In this science project, you will learn how to measure the amount of vitamin C in a solution using an iodine titration method.
You will compare the amount of vitamin C in three different types of orange juice: homemade, premium not-from-concentrate, and orange juice made from frozen concentrate.
Which do you think will have the most vitamin C?
In this science project, you will determine the amount of vitamin C in various types of orange juice.
You will use a method called titration, which is a common technique in chemistry.
Titration is a way to measure the unknown amount of a chemical in a solution (the titrant) by adding a measured amount of a chemical with a known concentration (the titrating solution).
The titrating solution reacts with the titrant, and the endpoint of the reaction is monitored in some way.
The concentration of the titrant can now be calculated from the amount of titrating solution added and the ratio of the two chemicals in the chemical equation for the reaction.Let us go through the titration process with a specific example: the titration of vitamin C by iodine.
The chemical name for vitamin C is ascorbic acid.
When iodine and ascorbic acid are combined in solution, a chemical reaction takes place.
In this chemical reaction, the ascorbic acid molecule loses electrons, which are transferred to the iodine molecule.
Chemists call this type of reaction an oxidation/reduction reaction (or redox reaction for short).
The ascorbic acid is oxidized to dehydroascorbic acid, and the iodine is reduced to iodide ions.
Oxidation-reduction reactions always occur in pairs like this.
The molecule that loses electrons is oxidized, and the molecule that accepts the electrons is reduced.So how can you use the iodine-ascorbic acid reaction to determine the amount of ascorbic acid (vitamin C)?
If you start with a known concentration of iodine, and carefully measure the amount of the iodine solution that you add, you can calculate how much ascorbic acid was present.
How do you know when the iodine-ascorbic acid reaction is complete?
You add an indicator to the solution.
In this case, the indicator is soluble starch.
When iodine reacts with starch, it turns the solution a blue-black color.
If ascorbic acid is present in the solution, iodine will react with it, and not with the starch, so the solution will not change color.
However, once all of the ascorbic acid has been oxidized, added iodine will be free to react with the starch, producing a distinct color change.In this chemistry science project, you will investigate which type of orange juice has more vitamin C (ascorbic acid): homemade fresh-squeezed, premium not-from-concentrate, or orange juice made from frozen concentrate.
Which do you think it will be?
You can find out for yourself with this science project!
To determine which orange juice has the most vitamin C: homemade fresh-squeezed, premium not-from-concentrate, or orange juice made from frozen concentrate.
Measure the amount of vitamin C in fresh fruits and vegetables.
Which ones have the highest vitamin C content?
Which ones have the lowest?
Puree a 100 g sample of the fruit or vegetable, and strain it through cheesecloth with about 50 mL of distilled water.
Add distilled water to bring the total volume up to 100 mL.
From your measurement, you can figure out how much vitamin C there is per 100 g of the fruit or vegetable you sampled.
You can use typical weights of the fruit or vegetable to calculate how much total vitamin C there is in each fruit or vegetable you test.
Measure the vitamin C content in fruit juices.
Do the amounts correspond to what is on the label?
Design an experiment to find out.
Does the amount of vitamin C in fruit juice decrease during refrigerated storage?
Does the type of container (e.g., glass bottle, or paperboard carton) matter?
Design an experiment to find out.
For an experiment on how storage affects the amount of vitamin C in oranges, see the Science Buddies project Do Oranges Lose or Gain Vitamin C After Being Picked?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  jazzi said:  2015-05-27 12:26:06 What was the most important thing you learned?
What problems did you encounter?
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lilyli said:  2015-05-14 18:20:56 What was the most important thing you learned?
orange What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    kevinwolf11 said:  2014-10-17 13:05:59 What was the most important thing you learned?
that you can't always know how healthy thing are just by the label.
What problems did you encounter?
well some times it was hard to know the right numbers but after that it all went well.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    kndaobr said:  2013-09-10 10:31:43 What was the most important thing you learned?
My son found that "store bought non-organic orange juice" had the highest levels of Vitamin C, followed by "Freshly squeezed organic orange juice," then "Freshly squeezed non-organic orange juice", and finally "Store bought organic orange juice, respectively.
So when buying orange juice for its Vitamin C content, store bought non-organic orange juice is the best choice.
He attributed these findings to the use of preservatives in store bought non-organic juices and to longer shelf-live for organic orange juices due to their higher price.
These findings remain to be confirmed.
He won first place in his 6th grade class!
What problems did you encounter?
There was not enough iodine in the kit for the tests he wanted to run, so he ended up ordering Lugol and used it for all of the experiments to ensure consistent results.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
2                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment chemistry project, food science project, science project, orange juice, vitamin C, titration, starch solution, iodine, stoichiometry Titration Ascorbic acid Iodine Oxidation / reduction reaction Indicator
