 A Toxic Test: Can Plants Be Genetically Resistant to Heavy Metals?
Have you ever wondered why a plant that grows well in one environment may not survive in a different environment?
For example, plants that grow well in a wet jungle would probably not do so well in a dry desert, lacking enough water.
This is because plants have adapted to their specific environment.
Some plants have even adapted to tolerate chemicals that would usually be toxic, such as various heavy metals.
In this plant biology science project, you will investigate whether different varieties of the same plant (the well-studied Arabidopsis thaliana) are more resistant to heavy metals than others.
Why do tropical jungle plants usually not grow well in a dry desert or on snowy mountains?
We know it is because the plants have adapted to their environment, or natural surroundings.
But what does this mean exactly?
It has to do with the genetics of the plants.
If plants grow well in a certain environment, they usually make more plants and pass on their genetics, or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), to the new plants.
However, if plants do not survive in an environment, they cannot make more plants, and their DNA is not passed on.
(Unlike animals, plants cannot walk away from an area where they do not live well   the plants are pretty much stuck there!)
This means that over many, many generations, a certain environment may support plants well-equipped to live there because of their genetics.
The genetics of an organism are called its genotype.
A plant's genotype  affects how it looks, grows, and responds to its environment.
The overall physical appearance of a plant based on its genotype is called the plant's phenotype.
Sometimes two plants in the same environment have different genotypes but look the same, or have the same phenotype.
However, if those two plants are put in a different environment, they may respond differently, causing them to have different phenotypes (due to their different genotypes).
For example, one of the plants could have a genotype that makes it able to withstand drought, or be drought resistant, more than the other plant, which may be susceptible to drought.
Consequently, if the plants receive much less water than normal, the drought-resistant plant may still grow well, while the drought-susceptible plant may become wilted and possibly die.Scientists often study plants to see how changes in their environment affect them.
But scientists do not study plants just to understand the plants themselves  they want to learn how the entire ecosystem (the community of plants, animals, and other organisms that all interact with each other) could be affected by the changes.
For example, we need to know how climate change and environmental changes, such as amounts of rainfall and the pollution of waters and soils, could affect farm crops, because we depend on that food to survive.
Among the pollutants scientists investigate are heavy metals, such as lead, mercury, nickel, and copper.
Heavy metals are toxic metals that can be hazardous to organisms exposed to them.
Heavy metals can be found naturally, although humans have also contaminated areas with them, such as by dumping mine waste contaminated with heavy metals.
In this plant biology science project, you will investigate whether some genotypes of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana are more resistant to heavy metals (or are less damaged from heavy metals) than other genotypes.
Arabidopsis thaliana, shown in Figure 1, is a small, well-studied flowering plant that was the first to have its whole genome sequenced.
This means that we know the entire pattern, or sequence, of its genetic material, or DNA.
Figure 1.
In this science project you will be using Arabidopsis thaliana plants, like the one shown flowering here.The Arabidopsis genotypes you will be investigating are called Col-0, Lov-1, Ws-2, and Santa Clara.
Here are some details on these genotypes:Col-0 (or Columbia) is a widely used genotype that was originally selected because it was fertile and hardy; it is commonly thought of in experiments as being the wild-type, or normal, Arabidopsis genotype.
Lov-1 (or Lovvik) is a genotype that grows in an area covered with snow for much of the year, in northern Sweden.
Ws-2 (or Wassilewskija) is a genotype that grows naturally in Wassilewskija, Russia.
Santa Clara is a genotype that was found near San Jose, in Santa Clara County, California, and it accumulates a lot of nickel in its cells.
Plants such as this that store heavy metals can help decontaminate soils.Which Arabidopsis genotype do you think will be the most resistant to heavy-metal contamination in its water?
Which do you think will be most susceptible to this contamination?
Although the Santa Clara genotype can accumulate a lot of nickel in its cells, do you think this means it will still be able to grow well when exposed to nickel or other heavy metals?
If you do not have much experience growing plants in a controlled setting, or want to learn more about some of the concepts covered here, you can watch the video, which was made by the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (or ABRC) for the Think Green module that this science project is based on.
Note: In ABRC's Think Green module, four different treatments are performed, but in this science project you will only be performing one of these treatments (heavy-metal contamination).
This video shows how to do the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center's Think Green module, on which this science project is based.
Note: In this project you will only perform one of the four treatments shown in the video.This video shows how to do the Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center's Think Green module, on which this science project is based.
Note: In this project you will only perform one of the four treatments shown in the video.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=8O5qtbQuNhQ Investigate whether some varieties of Arabidopsis thaliana are more resistant to heavy metals than others.
The Arabidopsis Biological Resource Center (ABRC) Think Green module that this science project is based on explores other genotypes and environmental conditions in three other experiments.
You could explore some of the other experiments, which are temperature stress, water stress, and salt stress.
See the resources in the Bibliography for more information on doing these other experiments.Think of some other ways to quantify your results, such as by measuring the height of the plants or the amount of time it takes the plants to flower.
Do you see differences between the genotypes (with and without heavy metal treatment) when you quantify these other aspects, or do you not see clear differences?If you clearly saw that the presence of a heavy metal affected some of the genotypes you tested, you could try figuring out what the minimum amount of heavy metals in the water would be to cause a noticeable change.
You could test this by setting up several pots with your plants and then try different, decreasing amounts of heavy metals in each pot.
How much of the heavy metal is needed to clearly affect the plants?
Similarly, if you saw that some plants were not affected by the heavy metals, you could try increasing the amounts.
Just be sure always to follow all proper safety precautions when using the heavy metals.How do heavy metals affect other plants besides Arabidopsis?
You could try repeating this experiment on other types of plants using the same heavy metals.
Are some varieties of plants more resistant than others?In this science project, you waited until the plants had been growing for four weeks after sowing them until you started testing the heavy metals on them.
You could try testing the heavy metals on the plants before this point, such as two weeks after sowing them.
Do you see a bigger difference between genotypes when you use the heavy metals earlier on the plants?You could try an adaptation experiment with other kinds of plants.
You can do some research on different types of plants you can buy at a plant nursery to see what conditions they naturally live in.
Think of some extreme conditions to expose all of your plants to, such as cold, heat, or drought, and make a hypothesis about which plants will survive the best and why.
Then try it out!
Do some additional research on heavy metals, or talk to a chemist, and try repeating this experiment testing a different heavy metal on the plants.
You will need to find forms of the heavy metals that can be dissolved in water (or are water soluble) to do this.
Be sure to follow all necessary safety precautions when handling the chemicals you use.If you want to do a similar science project based on heavy metal contamination in the environment, you can check out Science Buddies' project Heavy Metals and Aquatic Environments.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, plants, toxic, Arabidopsis, heavy metals, biology, resistant, susceptible, genetics, genotype, phenotype, house plants, Arabidopsis biological resource center, ABRC Environment Genetics Genotype Phenotype Resistant Susceptible Ecosystem Climate change Heavy metals Wild-type True leaves Germination
