 What Is Home Sweet Home to a Bug?
If you had to choose between having your favorite dessert, going to a movie, or spending the night at a friend's house, which would you choose?
This science project shows you how you can "ask" a sowbug (or pillbug) a similar question in order to learn about their preferences.
Give it a try to find out what types of microenvironments these tiny crustaceans prefer.
You can often find sowbugs and pillbugs in damp, dark places, like the soil under rocks or decaying wood.
Do you think that they are insects?
Think again!
Unlike insects, they have seven pairs of legs (insects have three pairs).
Sowbugs and pillbugs are both crustaceans (specifically a type called isopods).
Other crustaceans include shrimp, lobsters, and crabs.
This means that sowbugs and pillbugs are more closely related to lobsters and shrimp than to insects like bees and ants.
Crustaceans belong to a larger group of animals, called the arthropods, which includes insects, spiders, and others.
Sowbugs and pillbugs, which are also called woodlice, look fairly similar to each other.
Pillbugs are commonly known as "roly-polies" for their defensive behavior of rolling up into an armored ball.
Sowbugs do not roll themselves up, and also have a pair of tail-like structures on the last segment of the body.
The pictures below (Figures 1 and 2) show examples of each type of "bug."
Figure 1.
Photograph of a sowbug (Ames, 2005).
Figure 2.
Photograph of a pillbug (Eigelsreiter, 2006).
Unlike insects, sowbugs and pillbugs breathe with gills, so they need moisture in order to breathe.
But these tiny crustaceans have still had very successful lives on land, as there are now about 5,000 known species of pillbugs and sowbugs, living just about anywhere from beaches to deserts.
Wherever they go, sowbugs and pillbugs eat decaying material, like plants and even dead animals, and through this process help recycle nutrients in the soil.
In this zoology science project, you will observe how these bugs behave in an experimental habitat that you construct in order to learn about their preferred microenvironments, or small-scale environments.
Your habitat will be divided into two compartments that each have a different microenvironment, e.g., dry soil, damp soil, leaf litter, wood pieces, etc.
Which microenvironment do you think they will prefer and spend the most time in?
To investigate what types of microenvironments are preferred by sowbugs (or pillbugs).
An alternative method would be to use time-lapse photography to estimate how much time the bugs spend in each available microenvironment when given a choice.
How frequently do you need to take pictures to make this work?
Keep in mind that you will want to be able to see when any bugs dig down into the microenvironment.You could try this science project using other small, common animals, such as crickets, earwigs, ants, slugs, snails, mealworms, and waxworms.
Crickets, mealworms, and waxworms can usually be purchased at a local pet store.
The other animals may be found locally by looking under rocks, garden plants, rotting logs, and leaf litter.
What type(s) of microenvironment do these other animals prefer?
Note: Be sure to adjust the containers if needed  some of these animals, such as crickets and ants, will need lids for the containers to prevent them from escaping.For a longer-term science project, you could investigate which microenvironment the bugs best reproduce in.
Try using some of the best microenvironments from your initial experiment for this.
Start with the same number of bugs in each microenvironment.
Be sure to provide the bugs with suitable food and watch for baby bugs to appear over time.
They will look similar to the adults, but will be extremely small, so they may be difficult to see at first.For a similar science project that uses earthworms, check out Science Buddies project idea  Squirmy Wormy: Which Soil Type Do Earthworms Like Best?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  kitty2811 said:  2014-01-30 17:57:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
Pillbugs are considered crustaceans and have gills.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Perhaps more control groups for people of higher grade levels.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, sowbugs, pillbugs, zoology, pets, habitat, soil, crustaceans, isopods, damp, animals, ecosystem Crustacean Gills Habitat Microenvironments
