 Making Species Maps  How do conservation biologists know which places are important to protect?
How do nature guides know which animals can be found in which places?
In this experiment you can discover how maps can be used to show how different animals are distributed in a local environment.
Click here   to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.orgBiogeography is a branch of science that studies changes in the distribution of life forms on the planet over time.
A distribution is the area where you can find a plant or animal, and can be shown on maps by marking a geographical range where the organism is found.
Different organisms have different distributions, some are very rare while others are nearly everywhere.
Cosmopolitan species, like the common housefly, have a very broad distribution and can be found almost world-wide.
Other species are endemic, like the Giant Panda, and are very rare because they are only found in a small geographical region.
Often times, a rare endemic species may be at risk for extinction, and in need of protection.Changes in the distribution of a species can be natural or due to human impact on the environment.
Human activity and movement across the globe have allowed some species to move into new environments, and so are called exotic species.
Sometimes, an exotic species can become an invasive species, which means it spreads rapidly in new environments and competes with native species for resources.
Often, a cosmopolitan species is also an invasive species.
It can be very difficult to remove an invasive species, because usually they have no natural predators in their new environment.
Sometimes an invasive species can put a native species at risk, which can be a problem for sensitive species that are already endangered.
For example, the melaleucas tree is an invasive species in the Florida Everglades.
Originally from Australia, the melaleucas tree spreads so rapidly that it doesnt give the native plants a chance to grow.
Without the native plants, the entire ecosystem of the Everglades is changing, which puts endangered species, like the Florida panther, at even greater risk.
To try to stop the growth of the melaleucas tree and rescue the native species, wildlife officials have imported an Australian bug, called a weevil, which eats the melaleucas tree.
But Elissa and Julia from DragonflyTV wanted to know if the weevil is actually able to slow the growth of the melaleucas trees.
To find the answer, they created a species map comparing the number of weevils and melaleucas trees in several locations throughout the Everglades.
Watch their Everglade explorations in this video from DragonflyTV to find out if the weevil, a tiny bug, is really helping to rescue native species like the Florida panthers!You dont need to travel all the way to the Everglades to make species maps though!
In this science fair project, you will do some field work to make a map to describe the distribution of species in your neighborhood.
How much biodiversity exists in your local environment?
Are there areas with cosmopolitan or endemic species?
Are there areas with invasive or native species?
Can the maps you make help you identify places around your home that can be restored to provide more native habitat?
In this science fair project, you will make and use maps to investigate the distribution of different kinds of animals in your local environment.
In this experiment you have surveyed the distribution of species at one location.
For a slightly more difficult project, you could survey two or more locations and compare.
How do your local parks compare to each other?
Try comparing your yard to the yards of your friends and neighbors.
Try comparing business areas to residential areas.
If you live near the coast, you could compare the shoreline along a park to a more industrial zone.
How do the species compositions change?
How can these types of experiments tell you about the composition and health of your local environment?
Do you have a pen-pal or relative who lives in a very different environment than you?
Perhaps you live in the Arizona desert and she/he lives near the beach in Florida?
This is a perfect way to share data and compare two very different environments for species diversity.
Have your friend do the same survey, and trade data with each other.
Are there some differences in the kinds of plant and animal species you each find?
Are there some cosmopolitan species that you both saw?
Sampling for biodiversity is one way that scientists identify important regions for conservation.
Is there an area near you that is protected for conservation?
Research the area and find out what unique animals are there, and why the area is being protected.
Conduct your own biodiversity survey there to show which types of animals live there.
Remember to think about migratory or seasonal animals too.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  labrat said:  2011-02-07 10:44:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned about wildlife biology and how to make a species map for areas around my house.
This project is very easy an straightforward, can be done by any age.
What problems did you encounter?
NoneThis project is good as difficulty "1" Very simple, introduces basics of wildlife biology.
No issues with safety, materials, procedure, etc.
PI says several days/under $20- fine as is.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
All bibliography links are up to date, dragonfly TV video is good and introduction provides a lot of good information.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, maps, species ,Kindergarten, 1st grade, first grade, 2nd grade, second grade biogeography biodiversity species distribution cosmopolitan species endemic species endangered species native species exotic species invasive species extinction
