 What's in a Face?
Are Composite Faces More Attractive than Real Faces?
Psychologists have long studied why people find certain faces more attractive than others.
One interesting method used in this area of research is mixing several faces together to make a composite face.
The composite face averages the input faces, so that small, non-symmetric features tend to get lost.
In this human behavior science project, you will use an online tool to make composite faces, and determine how they compare to real faces in perceived attractiveness.
What's in a face?
One of the first scientists to ask this question was Francis Galton, a cousin of Charles Darwin.
He created photographic composite images of the faces of vegetarians and criminals to see if there was a typical facial appearance for each.
Galton overlaid multiple images of faces onto a single photographic plate so that each individual face more or less resembled one final composite face.
While the resultant "averaged-together" faces did little to identify either criminals or vegetarians, Galton observed that the composite image was more attractive than the individual faces.
This phenomenon is now known as averageness effect, where attractive faces tend to be indicative of the average traits of the population.According to researchers at FaceResearch.org, two different explanations have been put forward by researchers to explain the attractionsymmetric faces.
The evolutionary advantage theory proposes that symmetric individuals are attractive because they are particularly healthy, and the perceptual bias theory proposes that symmetric individuals are attractive because the human visual system can process symmetric stimuli of any kind more easily than it can process asymmetric stimuli.
"The Evolutionary Advantage view proposes that symmetric faces are attractive because symmetry indicates how healthy an individual is: while our genes are such that we are designed to develop symmetrically, disease and infections during physical development cause small imperfections (i.e.
asymmetries).
Thus, only individuals who are able to withstand infections (i.e.
those with strong immune systems) are successful in developing symmetric physical traits.
Indeed, some (but not all) findings from studies of health in humans and many animal species have observed such a relationship between symmetry and indicators of health, with healthier individuals being more symmetric.
For example, swallows and peacocks with symmetric tail feathers are particularly healthy and preferred by potential mates.
Under the evolutionary advantage view of symmetry preferences, symmetric individuals are considered attractive because we have evolved to prefer healthy potential mates.While the evolutionary advantage view suggests that attraction to symmetric individuals reflects attraction to healthy individuals who would be good mates (i.e.
will have healthy offspring), the perceptual bias view of symmetry preferences makes a very different claim.
Our visual system may be 'hard wired' in such a way that it is easier to process symmetric stimuli than it is to process asymmetric stimuli.
Because of this greater ease of processing symmetric stimuli, symmetric stimuli of any kind might be preferred to relatively asymmetric stimuli.
Under the perceptual bias view, preferences for symmetric faces are no different to preferences for symmetric objects of any kind.
Indeed, it has been shown that people prefer symmetric pieces of abstract art and sculpture to relatively asymmetric versions."
In this human behavior science project, you will make composite faces using software available on the Face Research website.
The figure shows three separate faces and a composite built from them.
Figure 1.
The face on the far right is a composite of the three faces to the left.
The composite was made using software available on the Face Research website.
(Faceresearch.org, 2010.
)You will ask volunteers to determine which face is more attractive after presenting various faces as pairsshowing both an individual face and a composite face.
You will record their answers and analyze the results.
The goal is to determine if the perceived attractiveness of the composite face is greater than the individual faces.
To determine if your results are statistically significant, you will analyze the data using the Chi-square test.
The Chi-square test is easy to perform and provides proof that your results are meaningful (that is, not due to chance).
Determine if composite faces are more attractive than real faces.
Devise a test to determine if the results of the procedure above depend on the gender of the respondents.Devise a test to determine if the results of the procedure above depend on the age of the respondents.Devise a test to determine if feminine features make male faces more attractive.
To learn more about this issue, visit the Face Research page for students at faceresearch.org/students/contents.ph Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  lucininom said:  2015-05-31 20:22:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
It is better to have a mix of subject to show that the results obtained are accurate.
What problems did you encounter?
The chi-squared test was odd to perform and although I did use the bibliography it did not help me to calculate the whole thing.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
A direct example of how to do the chi-squared test.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    GracieSerrano said:  2014-11-01 13:38:04 What was the most important thing you learned?
That people do in fact choose composite faces over regular faces What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Make it a little more complicated.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Kerenortegaa said:  2014-06-08 17:03:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned everything in this project and found everything important What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    mhurst123 said:  2013-12-03 10:29:50 What was the most important thing you learned?
Women tend to like the composite faces more because they look more made up.
The man on the other hand like the natural faces more.
What problems did you encounter?
Men being a little weirded out by having to judge the attractiveness of the same gender.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, face, facial symmetry, attractive, psychology, perception, beauty, health, composite, real Averageness effect Symmetry Evolutionary advantage theory Perceptual bias theory Statistically significant Chi-square test Categorical data
