 Drugs & Genetics: Why Do Some People Respond to Drugs Differently than Others?
In a survey conducted from 2007 to 2010, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that about 49% of people in the United States had taken at least one prescription drug during the past month, and about 22% of people had taken three or more prescription drugs.
People are prescribed drugs all the time, but prescriptions can be dangerous because people can have different responses to drugs.
These responses largely have to do with genetic mutations.
Why are some genetic mutations associated with a different response to a drug?
In this science project, you will explore an online drug and genetics database to identify how a genetic mutation can be associated with how a person's body processes, and responds to, a certain drug.
In a survey conducted from 2007 to 2010, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that about 49% of people in the United States had taken at least one prescription drug during the past month, and about 22% of people had taken three or more prescription drugs.
This was a significant increase from the percentage of people taking prescription drugs just over a decade earlier.
Prescription drugs serve important medical purposes, such as helping to prevent heart attacks or treat different cancers, but taking drugs can sometimes be dangerous because different people can respond differently to drugs.
These different responses largely have to do with differences in genetics.
Every person has a genome (all of the DNA in an organism) with 20,000 to 25,000 genes, and each gene contains hundreds to millions of DNA nucleotides.
People can have a single DNA mutation (change in the DNA sequence) that is associated with an increased, or decreased, response to a certain drug.
But it depends on what, and where, the mutation is.Every gene in the human body consists of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid).
DNA is a genetic code that is made up of four different types of nucleotides: adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C).
This DNA code is turned into mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) in our bodies in a process called transcription.
In mRNA, a nucleotide called uracil substitutes for every thymine.
But transcription is a bit more complicated than that.
In transcription, DNA is initially turned into pre-mRNA, and in order to turn this into the final mRNA code, a process called splicing removes certain pieces of the pre-mRNA.
Specifically, splicing removes pieces called introns, while other pieces called exons are left in and reassembled, becoming part of the final mRNA code.
The mRNA then goes through a process called translation to turn into amino acids.
During translation, every three mRNA nucleotides code for a single amino acid.
This set of three nucleotides is called a "codon," and different codons may code for the same amino acid.
In the end, a sequence of DNA has been turned into a sequence of amino acids joined together in a long chain, which is called a protein.
A protein has the same name as the gene that encodes for it, except that gene names are italicized and protein names are not.
Proteins are responsible for most of the functions of our cells.
While introns are labeled "non-coding DNA" because they do not ultimately code for a protein (since they are removed in transcription), they are still very important for the generation of a functional protein.
Inside the introns, there are instructions for how the pre-mRNA should be processed into mRNA for a given gene.
To further complicate things, multiple genes may rely on the same DNA space.
For example, an intron in one gene may be part of an exon in another gene.
Consequently, a mutation in one gene may affect a gene nearby it.
Additionally, introns are not the only "non-coding DNA."
Adjacent to where the exons in a gene start and end are DNA regions called untranslated regions (UTR).
As their name implies, these sequences are not translated into amino acids, but still have important instructions for how to process the mRNA.
Because of these processes, a mutation in one DNA nucleotide (which is called a SNP, for single-nucleotide polymorphism) can prevent a gene from turning into a protein or create a non-functional protein.
(Alternative forms of a gene that occur through mutation of the DNA are called alleles.)
In a gene's exon, if a single DNA nucleotide is mutated, for example from an adenine (A) to a guanine (G), this may cause the wrong amino acid to be made, and the resulting protein may not work.
This is because different amino acids are different in many ways, such as size and in the electric charges they have.
These different characteristics affect how they interact with each other as well as the other molecules that surround them (such as other amino acids and water).
For example, positively and negatively charged molecules prefer to interact with each other and with water, which is called being hydrophilic, whereas nonpolar molecules do not like to interact with charged molecules or with water, which is called being hydrophobic.
These seemingly small differences can have very large consequences, such as how we respond to a prescription drug.
Prescription drugs interact with signaling pathways (biochemical pathways) in our bodies in very specific ways.
Signaling pathways involve many different proteins, all affecting each other in a controlled, specific manner, to have far-reaching effects on our bodies as a whole.
If the protein that the drug interacts with has been mutated in such a way that the drug cannot interact with it or if the protein is not being made at all, the drug may not function as it should.
For example, the drug clopidogrel (also known as Plavix) is used to prevent blood clots.
The structure of clopidogrel is shown in Figures 1 and 2.
In order for clopidogrel to prevent blood clots, the intestine must first absorb the drug.
Then, clopidogrel must become active in the liver by interacting with a series of proteins.
Finally it must bind platelets, which are important in forming blood clots.
If anywhere in this process a protein is not functioning normally, clopidogrel may not have its desired effect.
For example, some individuals have a mutated form of the protein (called ABCB1) that clopidogrel initially interacts with in the intestines, and this may influence how these individuals absorb the drug.
Figure 1.The drug clopidogrel is a small molecule that interacts with signaling pathways in our body in specific ways to prevent blood clots.
Mutations in the proteins in the pathways involved can affect how a person responds to the drug.
Figure 2.This is a space-filling model of the drug clopidogrel, the basic chemical structure for which is shown in Figure 1.
In the model shown here, green is chlorine (Cl), red is oxygen (O), blue is nitrogen (N), and yellow is sulfur (S).
Consequently, when pharmaceutical companies develop a new drug, they test it on a large number of people to see whether there is a small percentage, or subpopulation, of individuals that have a different response to the drug than most people do.
Companies can then do a genetic screening of known SNPs sprinkled across the genomes of the individuals tested to see whether the subpopulation has a SNP or multiple SNPs that are not present in the genetics of the other individuals.
As discussed, the identified SNPs may affect the gene they are in, or be found in the DNA for one gene but actually be important for their role in a nearby gene.
It can even be that the SNP is linked to another unknown SNP that changes the function of another gene.
Genetic linkage means that the two SNPs are physically so close together on the strand of DNA that they are often inherited together.Once SNPs are identified that are associated with an abnormal response to the drug, doctors can screen patients for the presence or absence of these alleles so that doctors can know ahead of time how these patients will respond to a given drug.
This rapidly growing medical field is called pharmacogenomics.
In this science project, you will choose a drug that interests you and, using an online pharmacogenomics database, you will be able to determine why a genetic mutation is associated with how an individual responds to a drug and how this mutation affects the biological signaling pathway that the drug normally functions through.
Determine why some gene mutations cause people to respond differently to a drug.
Now that you can find how a gene mutation can change a patient's response to a drug and why pharmacogenomics are important for testing new drugs, repeat the procedure above for additional alleles or other drugs, such as carbamazepine, mercaptopurine, warfarin, or others listed in Table 1 above.If you investigated an allele with a mutation in non-coding DNA, try to find out how that mutation may affect how a patient with that allele responds to the drug.When looking at the SNP database page for your allele (as you did in the section titled "Identifying the Mutations" in step 5), look near the bottom of the "GeneView" section where there should be one or more horizontal green lines.This is a map showing the location of your allele SNP in the gene (both the SNP location and gene are in green) and where this gene is located relative to other nearby genes on the chromosome (the other genes are green as well).
Move your mouse over the green lines to see the gene names.
Zoom out by clicking the "-" button at the top.
Click this a few times until you can see your entire gene, in green.
Roughly where is the mutation located in the gene, on one end or in the middle?
Click the zoom out button several times until you can see about 10 genes near yours, which are all in green.
Are any of these genes involved in the pathway for your drug of interest?
In this science project you focused on looking at alleles of genes that were shown in the "Pathways" tab for a given drug on PharmGKB (as discussed in the section titled "Determining How Genetics Change Drug Responses" on step 5).
However, for some drugs there are alleles of genes listed in the "Clinical PGx" tab, but these genes are not in the "Pathways" tab.
Think about how these gene alleles may affect the function of the drug and what role they may play in its pharmacogenomics.
For some drugs you can investigate where the amino acid in the target protein is mutated relative to where the protein is bound by the drug, all in 3D space using chemistry modeling programs.
Try the steps below with the drug Erlotinib and its target protein EGFR, which have the most data available.
A mutation in the EGFR gene with the rsID of rs2227983 results in an amino acid change.
First go to http://www.bindingdb.org.Search for your drug name in the "Full Search" box.Click on its chemical structure, shown under the heading "Link to Data.
"If there are multiple results, you may need to look at multiple ones before finding one with the necessary data.Here you can view the 3D structure of the drug rotating freely.
Under the column titled "Trg + Lig Links," click on the "PDB" link.The column titled "Trg + Lig Links" gives links to structures of the target (the protein the drug binds) and the liggand (the drug) when the two are bound together.
If there are multiple entries, scroll through them until you see a link to "PDB."
On this page, scroll down and click on the title of the search result.
This title will include the drug name along with the name of the target it is interacting with.On the right side of this page click on "SimpleViewer."
Launch RCSB - Simple Viewer or save the file and open it.
You will need a current version of Java to run this program.
Here you will see a 3D model of the drug interacting with the target protein.
You can rotate the image using left click and drag.
You can zoom by holding shift while using left click and drag.
Is the drug bound on the inside or on the surface of the target protein?Hover your mouse over different parts of the protein to see which amino acid that part of the protein is made of.
This is displayed in the bottom left corner of the window.
For example, "Reside: Ser 852 Chain: A Confirmation: Helix" means that you are hovering over a serine amino acid that is at position 852 in the protein.
This amino acid is part of an alpha helix in the protein.For alleles with a mutation in an exon, the amino acid position of the mutation is listed on the allele SNP page in the "Gene Model(s)" section under "Protein," under "Position.
"Try locating the mutated amino acid in the model.
Is it close to where the drug binds, or is it far away?Can you see which amino acids are interacting with the drug the most, and can you determine what kind of bonds are being formed based on your knowledge of the drug structure?
You can repeat the above steps using other drugs to view interactions with their targets in 3D space.
Some drugs with sufficient data to view these interactions (and to track the target proteins back to the signaling pathways seen in step 5b in the section titled "Determining How Genetics Change Drug Responses" above) include: Atorvastatin, Gefitinib, and Imatinib.Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  sremon2605 said:  2017-05-01 02:28:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
SNPs , Genetics and the bioinformatic tools What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    nidoo1997 said:  2014-09-10 14:08:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
i learn that there a relationship between gentics and drugs , and there are a cryptic reason for genetic disorder that we have.
What problems did you encounter?
the different responds to the drugs that well be dangerous for human healthy.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    caraskl said:  2014-08-03 11:06:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned how to navigate the pharmacogenetics webpage.
I appreciate understanding how to find information about signaling pathways, mutations, and diseases.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Genes, pharmacogenomics, genetics, mutations, DNA, amino acids, SNP, 3D models, science project, bioinformatics, allele, protein, codon, mRNA Drugs Genome Gene Nucleotides Mutation DNA mRNA Transcription Splicing Introns Exons Translation Amino acids Codon Non-coding DNA SNP Alleles Hydrophilic Hydrophobic Signaling pathways Genetic linkage Pharmacogenomics
