 Saturated Solutions: Measuring Solubility  Many essential chemical reactions and natural biochemical processes occur in liquid solutions, so understanding the chemical properties of liquid solutions is fundamentally important.
This project asks the basic question, how much of a substance can dissolve in water, for three different substances: ordinary table salt, Epsom salts, and sugar.
A good part of the substances we deal with in daily life, such as milk, gasoline, shampoo, wood, steel and air are mixtures.
When the mixture is homogenous, that is to say, when its components are intermingled evenly, it is called a solution.
There are various types of solutions, and these can be categorized by state (gas, liquid, or solid).
The chart gives some examples of solutions in different states.
Many essential chemical reactions and natural processes occur in liquid solutions, particularly those containing water (aqueous solutions) because so many things dissolve in water.
In fact, water is sometimes referred to as the universal solvent.
The electrical charges in water molecules help dissolve different kinds of substances.
Solutions form when the force of attraction between solute and solvent is greater than the force of attraction between the particles in the solute.
Two examples of such important processes are the uptake of nutrients by plants, and the chemical weathering of minerals.
Chemical weathering begins to take place when carbon dioxide in the air dissolves in rainwater.
A solution called carbonic acid is formed.
The process is then completed as the acidic water seeps into rocks and dissolves underground limestone deposits.
Sometimes, the dissolving of soluble minerals in rocks can even lead to the formation of caves.
Types of Solutions    Example  State of Solute  State of Solvent  State of Solution      Air, natural gas  gas  gas  gas    Alcohol in water, antifreeze  liquid  liquid  liquid    Brass, steel  solid  solid  solid    Carbonated water, soda  gas  liquid  liquid    Sea water, sugar solution  solid  liquid  liquid    Hydrogen in platinum  gas  solid  solid  If one takes a moment to consider aqueous solutions, one quickly observes that they exhibit many interesting properties.
For example, the tap water in your kitchen sink does not freeze at exactly 0C.
This is because tap water is not pure water; it contains dissolved solutes.
Some tap water, commonly known as hard water, contains mineral solutes such as calcium carbonate, magnesium sulfate, calcium chloride, and iron sulfate.
Another interesting solution property is exhibited with salt and ice.
Have you ever had the chore of throwing salt on an icy sidewalk?
When the ice begins to melt, the salt dissolves in the water and forms salt water.
What happens to the freezing point of water when salt is added to it?
Even some organisms have evolved to survive freezing water temperatures with natural "antifreeze."
Certain artic fish have blood containing a high concentration of a specific protein.
This protein behaves like a solute in a solution and lowers the freezing point of the blood.
Going to the other end of the spectrum, one can also observe that the boiling point of a solution is affected by the addition of a solute.
Do eggs cook faster or slower when salt is added to the pot of water?
These two properties, namely freezing-point depression and boiling-point elevation, are called colligative properties (properties that depend on the number of molecules, but not on their chemical nature).
Exploring these properties and others of aqueous solutions are just some of the many ways that you could expand the scope of this project.Finally, if you enjoy learning about solutions or other areas of chemistry, consider a career in the physical sciences.
One example is working as an analytical chemist.
Such chemists analyze the chemical composition of substances.
They conduct many experiments to identify special characteristics of substances for a wide variety of reasons.
Perhaps they are charged with testing municipal drinking water for its purity, or perhaps they must test a forensic sample for evidence in a trial.
Whatever the reason, it is challenging work that requires precision and creative thought.In this project you will measure the aqueous solubility of some common household chemicals: table salt (NaCl), Epsom salts (MgSO4), and sugar (sucrose, C12H22O11).
How much of each chemical can dissolve in a given volume of water?
The goal of this project is to measure the solubilities of some common chemicals: table salt (NaCl), Epsom salts (MgSO4), and sugar (sucrose, C12H22O11).
Let's say that instead of starting with pure water, you tried to dissolve Epsom salts (MgSO4) in a saturated solution of NaCl.
Do you think this would work?
How much MgSO4 would you expect to dissolve?
Would it be more, less or the same amount as in an equal volume of distilled water?
Design an experiment to find out.
You could also try the experiment above with the other five pair-wise combinations of the three chemicals.
Another variation you could try is an experiment on the how fast solutes dissolve.
What can you do to increase the rate at which a solute dissolves in a solvent?
How much more quickly does the solute dissolve, compared to when the solute is simply added to the solvent?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Solution Solute Solvent Soluble vs. insoluble Chemical structure of water Polar molecule Force of attraction Concentration of a solution Dilute vs. concentrated Sodium chloride (NaCl) Magnesium sulfate (MgSO Sucrose (C
