 How Food Supplements Affect Weight Gain of Juvenile Mice  As your mom and dad always tell you, a healthy diet is important to good health.
This project is designed to see what happens to mice when they are allowed to load up on sugary snacks.
Do you think that they will gain excess weight?
Do you think that the mice will regulate their own intake and maintain a 'healthy' diet?
You can try this project and find out for yourself.
When speaking about proper nutrition, we often use the word 'balance.'
You often hear, for example, how important it is to eat a balanced diet.
Health-conscious people also strive to maintain a balance between calories consumed and calories expended, by getting regular exercise and eating regular, healthy meals.What happens when the diet is imbalanced?
Can consumption of too many simple carbohydrates lead to weight gain?
How about other types of food?
These kinds of questions can be difficult to answer with studies on humans, since it would be unethical to knowingly subject experimental subjects to unhealthy diets.
As an alternative, scientists can conduct epidemiological studies, looking at health outcomes for groups of people with different dietary habits.
Another method is to use animal models for more carefully controlled experimental studies.Mice are often used as experimental animals for many reasons.
One of the biggest reasons is the degree of control that scientists have over the genetic backgrounds of the mice they study.
Specific genes of interest can be turned off or on, or regulated more subtly.
Also, since mice grow quickly, it is easy to generate sufficient numbers of mice with similar genetic backgrounds.
Small, warm-blooded animals, such as mice, generally have much higher metabolic rates (and shorter lifespans) than larger warm-blooded animals.
Typical laboratory mice live about one and a half years.
Mice are considered infants from birth to 21 days of age.
At 21days they are weanedthey stop nursing and switch to eating solid food.
Mice are considered juvenile from 38weeks.
At 2months, mice are considered adults, and are capable of producing offspring (NIDDKD, 2005b).Even though mice have many genetic and biochemical similarities with humans, experimental outcomes with mice are certainly not guaranteed to be similar to experimental outcomes with humans.
Still, experiments with animal models can provide us with many valuable insights to help fight human diseases.
The goal of this project is to determine whether feeding juvenile mice supplements of different food types would lead to increased weight gain.
If you want to collect data on caloric intake, you can also weigh the food each day to figure out how much the mice have eaten.
In this experiment, the food supplements primarily contained simple carbohydrates.
What about other nutrients?
Design an experiment to test weight gain when the food supplement contains a high proportion of fat, or protein.
When it comes to gaining or losing weight, diet is only part of the equation.
Diet determines the number of calories on the input side, but an animal's activity determines how many of those calories are used.
Design an experiment to assess the difference in weight gain between "couch potatoes" and active mice.
What role does genetics play in weight gain?
Test different strains of mice for weight gain.
Keep diet and exercise the same for both groups.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
protein, fat, carbohydrate.
