 Pedigree Analysis: A Family Tree of Traits  Some characteristics, like the shape of your hairline or whether your earlobes are attached or detached, are inherited from your parents.
In this science project you will see how writing these characteristics onto a family tree can help you determine how they are inherited Do you have the same hair color or eye color as your mother?
Do people say you look just like your grandfather when he was your age?
When we look at members of a family it is easy to see that some physical characteristics or traits are shared, but what are the rules that govern the inheritance of these traits?
It was Gregor Mendel, an Augustinian friar and scientist, who first discovered in the 1860's that some traits are passed down from generation to generation, in very clear and predictable patterns.
Today we know that offspring inherit half of their DNA from each parent.
This results in two copies of every gene.
Many genes come in several different versions, called alleles.
Alleles are changes in the actual DNA sequence of the gene.
When you have two identical alleles you are said to be homozygous for that gene.
People with two different alleles are heterozygous for that gene.
Whatever set of alleles a person has is called their genotype.
The actual trait, such as red, black, or blond hair, which results from a combination of alleles, is referred to as the phenotype.
Mendelian traits the kind of characteristics Mendel first studied are due to a single gene.
Some of such a gene's alleles are dominant, meaning that if you have even one copy of that allele, you will display that trait.
Mendel took pea plants, which bred true, meaning for generation after generation they had the same phenotypes.
(Today we know that they bred true because they were homozygous for the traits Mendel was looking at).
He took a true-breeding purple flowered plant and crossed it to a true-breeding white flowered plant and saw that the offspring all had purple flowers.
The purple allele was dominant a single copy of that allele was sufficient.
He then took these offspring and crossed them to one another.
This crossing is shown in Figure 1 below, where the top flowers ("Aa") are these heterozygous parents.
He found that their offspring occasionally had white flowers.
That is because the white allele was recessive, which means you need two copies of that allele to display a certain trait.
The offspring that inherited the white allele from both parents displayed the white phenotype.
Figure 1.
Two heterozygous parents displaying the dominant phenotype can give rise to offspring with either the dominant or the recessive phenotype depending on which alleles the offspring inherit.Just like Mendel observed generations of related pea plants to determine the mode of inheritance  for flower color and other physical traits, scientists can examine generations within a family and discover the mode of inheritance for human traits.
To do this, scientists create family trees, called pedigrees, showing as many generations of a family as they can and marking who had which phenotype.
Two pedigree examples are shown in Figure 2 below.
In order for scientists to understand each other's pedigrees, they use a standard set of symbols and notations.
For example, males are always designated by a square and females are always designated by a circle.
Figure 2.
Here are two pedigrees showing the same three generations of a family.
A specific trait is shown as a solid black circle or square.
The pedigree on the left is an example of a dominant trait in this family.
The pedigree on the right depicts a recessive trait.In this genetics and genomics science project, you will create pedigrees for four human physical traits to determine which phenotypes are dominant and which are recessive.
While it has been recently found that these four traits may not be Mendelian traits (meaning they may be caused by more than one gene, based on more than two alleles, or affected by factors other than genetics), they are still considered to be primarily based on genetics and you can investigate them to try and determine which are dominant and which are recessive.
Here are the four traits you will investigate:  Do you have attached earlobes or detached earlobes?
See Figure 3 below for an example of each.
Figure 3.
This diagram shows the difference between detached earlobes and attached earlobes.
Some people's hairlines come to a V-shaped point above their forehead.
This is called a widow's peak.
See Figure 4 below for an example.
Do you have one or not?
Figure 4.
Here is an example of a straight hairline versus one with a widow's peak.
Take a look at your hands.
Do you have little hairs on your second joints, also called the mid-digits?
Some people have hair on their mid-digits, called mid-digit hair, and some people do not have any hair there, as shown in Figure 5 below.
Figure 5.
This photograph shows where mid-digits on a hand are.
Some people have tiny mid-digit hairs while other people have no hairs on their mid-digits.
This person has no mid-digit hair.
Make a fist with your thumb sticking up.
Is your thumb straight or curved?
A curved thumb is also known as a hitchhiker's thumb.
A slightly curved thumb is shown in Figure 6 below.
Figure 6.
This photograph shows a slightly curved thumb.
Some people have thumbs that are much more curved, while other people have straight thumbs.
Use pedigree analysis to determine how several human physical traits are inherited.
Through this science project, you recorded the phenotypes of various family members for a variety of traits, and you determined the mode of inheritance for these traits.
Now, using this information, predict your own genotype for these traits.
Depending on the genotype of your future mate, what possible phenotypes could your children have?Through your bibliographic research, did you discover any other well-known genetic traits in humans?
What are they?
Do the pedigree analysis for any of those that seem interesting.Most characteristics are multigenic, meaning that the observed phenotype is due to the action of several genes in combination.
Eye color is an example of a multigenic trait.
Do some bibliographic research to learn about how eye color is inherited.
Once you know how it is inherited, draw your family pedigree for eye color.
Can you use the pedigree and your knowledge about how eye color is inherited to determine the possible genotypes of the family members in your pedigree?Discovering the mode of inheritance of a trait can sometimes be very difficult.
For example, people have long debated whether handedness (i.e.
being left-handed or right-handed) is a genetic trait.
The resource below discusses one such scientific theory on handedness.
Read this resource and then analyze handedness and hair whorls in your pedigree.
Does your data support or refute this theory?Brodie, C. (2004).
Head in Hand.
Retrieved May 15, 2013, from http://www.americanscientist.org/issues/pub/2004/1/head-in-hand Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Xubham said:  2016-01-29 09:23:11 What was the most important thing you learned?
If you have received this mail in error, you do not need to take any action to cancel the account.
The account will not be activated, and you will not receive any further emails.If clicking the link above does not work, copy and paste the URL in a new browser window instead.For your reference, your username is: XubhamFor questions or concerns regarding your account, or to update your profile, go to:dgdffsf  festtttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt esssssssss                                      What problems did you encounter?
If you have received this mail in error, you do not need to take any action to cancel the account.
The account will not be activated, and you will not receive any further emails.If clicking the link above does not work, copy and paste the URL in a new browser window instead.For your reference, your username is: XubhamFor questions or concerns regarding your account, or to update your profile, go to: Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
If you have received this mail in error, you do not need to take any action to cancel the account.
The account will not be activated, and you will not receive any further emails.If clicking the link above does not work, copy and paste the URL in a new browser window instead.For your reference, your username is: XubhamFor questions or concerns regarding your account, or to update your profile, go to: Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sarazobel said:  2012-01-04 17:10:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned the traits that I inherited from different people in my family.
What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Try expanding outside of your intermediate family and try looking for resemblance between cousins, aunts, uncles, and even grandparents.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
19                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment    icmedina said:  2011-02-28 15:50:43 What was the most important thing you learned?
The different traits me and my family share What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        5                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, genetics and genomics science project, genetics and genomics, pedigree, family tree, recessive or dominant, recessive dominant traits, recessive genes and dominant genes, making a family tree, recessive dominant, build a family tree, traits of a family, Mendel, Mendelian traits, allele  DNA Gene Allele Homozygous Heterozygous Genotype Phenotype Mendelian trait Dominant Recessive Mode of inheritance Pedigree Attached earlobe Detached earlobe Widow's peak Mid-digit hair Hitchhiker's thumb
