 The Reasons for the Seasons  Do you live someplace where you get to experience the full glory of all four seasons?
If so, you know well the heady blossoms and dramatic skies of spring; the long, sun-drenched days of summer; the trees shaking in crimson and gold in fall; and the sparkling, brittle snows of winter.
But you might not know why we have these seasons, over and over again, in a cycle as predictable as the rising and setting of the Sun.
The reasons for the seasons are surprising and have to do with Earth's tilt and its big companion Moonboth of which have made life here on Earth possible.
Try this astronomy science fair project to find out more!
Where most people live on Earth, summers are hot and filled with many hours of strong sunlight, while winters are cold due to shortened hours of daylight and weak sunlight.
You might think that the extreme heat of summer and the icy cold of winter have something to do with how close Earth is to the Sun, but actually, Earth's orbit is almost circular around the Sun, so there is very little difference in the distance from Earth to the Sun throughout the year.
So, what are the reasons for the seasons, if it is not the distance from the Sun?
One big part of the answer is that Earth is tilted on an axis.What is an axis?
Picture an imaginary stick going through the north and south poles of Earth.
Earth makes a complete rotation about this axis every 24 hours.
However, this axis is not straight up and down as Earth goes through its orbit about the Sun.
Instead, it is tilted approximately 23 degrees.
The degree of tilt varies by about 1.5 degrees every 41,000 years, which you can read more about in the Bibliography, below.
We can thank our relatively big Moon for keeping this degree of tilt so stable.
Without the influence of our Moon's gravity, the tilt would vary dramatically, like that of a wobbling top, resulting in rapidly changing seasons that would make it difficult for life to exist on Earth.
Planetary scientists think that our relatively big Moon, and the axis tilt itself, were created by enormous collisions Earth experienced early in its formation 4.5 billion years ago.
How does the tilt of the axis create seasons?
The tilt changes how the sunlight hits Earth at a given location.
As shown in Figure 1, Earth's axis (the red line) remains fixed in space.
It always points in the same direction, as Earth goes through its orbit around the Sun.
Figure 1.
This drawing shows how Earth's axis remains fixed in space (pointing in the same direction) as Earth goes through its orbit around the Sun.When it is summer in North America, the top part of the axis (the north pole) points in the direction of the Sun, and the Sun's rays shine directly on North America; while in South America, the axis is tipped away from the Sun and the Sun's rays hit Earth on a slant.
So, when it is summer in North America, it is winter in South America.
When it is winter in North America, the north pole is tipped away from the Sun, and the Sun's rays hit the Earth on a slant there; meaning it is summer in South America, because the Sun's rays hit Earth more directly in that hemisphere.
As for the intermediate seasons, spring and fall, these are seasons when neither the top, nor the bottom, of Earth's axis are pointed in the direction of the Sun, days and nights are of equal length, and both the top half and the bottom half of Earth get equal amounts of light.Slanted rays are weaker rays because they cover a larger area and heat the air and surface less than direct rays do, as shown in Figure 2, below.
You can see this if you shine a flashlight on a large ball.
If you point the flashlight directly at the ball, it makes a bright, circular spot on the ball; however, if your point the flashlight at the edge of the ball, the light makes a duller, more oval-looking spot on the ball.
The same thing happens with Earth and the Sunimagine the ball is Earth and the flashlight is the Sun.
In this astronomy science fair project, you will investigate how tilting a surface affects how light rays hit that surface.
Figure 2.
This drawing shows the different shapes and brightness produced by rays of sunlight that hit Earth more directly (in summer), and rays that hit Earth at a slant (in winter).
To investigate how axial tilt affects how the Sun's rays strike Earth and create seasons.
Investigate the axial tilts and the presence or absence of seasons on other planets.
Can you predict which planets have seasons, based on their axial tilts?You can repeat this experiment using a light meter.
When you graph your results, put the degree of tilt on the x-axis and the illuminance (in lux), from light meter readings, on the y-axis.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Kristieu said:  2016-12-20 13:09:22 What was the most important thing you learned?
The students learned about the Seasons being created by Earths tilted axis What problems did you encounter?
I am having a hard time helping them explain their results.
Please tell me what the results were suppose to be.
kunsworth@sptsd.org Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
More information about how the graphing they do with their results explains the seasons.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     ldrinatrishaaldnza123 said:  2015-11-11 13:04:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
you have to enjoy your self  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    firedimond said:  2013-10-13 13:20:40 What was the most important thing you learned?
how the seasons work What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    askswatw260 said:  2013-01-13 14:22:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
.
What problems did you encounter?
It took a long time to count all of the squares Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
2                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    coolycool8 said:  2012-03-18 09:30:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
How the seasons change.
What problems did you encounter?
Not understanding some things.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Easier explanations.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
14                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment    gabrielito said:  2011-05-29 20:50:44 What was the most important thing you learned?
no What problems did you encounter?
how to put all the things togetherno Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
5                        16                Report Inappropriate Comment astronomy science fair project, tilt, axis, Earth, Sun, seasons, planets, Moon Orbit Axis Stable
