 Here Today, Gone Tomorrow: Saving Migratory Animals  Extinct might be a word you associate with animals that lived long ago, like the dinosaurs, but did you know that over 18,000 species are classified as "threatened" (susceptible to extinction) today?
Scientists involved in wildlife conservation have a tough job; they are in charge of determining what needs to be done to prevent a species from becoming extinct.
Habitat, food supply, and impacts of local human populations are just a few of the factors these scientists take into account.
It is a lot to keep track of for a single location, but the job becomes even harder when it is a migratory animal.
In this science project, you will get a firsthand look at their job.
You will access real data about migratory birds and use satellite images to analyze their habitats, then come up with a conservation plan to protect the species from extinction.
Did you know that the United Nations estimates that the worldwide human population will increase from 6.5 billion in 2009 to 8 billion people by 2025?
As the human population increases, so does the sheer amount of land needed to support all these people.
Existing cities grow larger, build taller, and spread into the countryside.
Transportation infrastructures like roads, railways, and shipping routes are added, and more farmland is required to feed the population.
These changes often mean taking existing wildernesslike a forest, field, or jungleand converting it into either agricultural or urban land.
But there can be environmental consequences to those actions.
For example, if you take away the only habitat that sustains a particular animal, that animal might die off if it is unable to adapt to a different habitat.
Collaborations between urban planners, environmental scientists, and wildlife biologists can be helpful in avoiding these types of consequences and determining which lands can be developed with the least impact on the animals and plants.
In this science project, you will determine which locations would need to be conserved in order to protect a specific migratory bird species.
The migration, or regular seasonal journey between two or more areas, takes birds from their breeding grounds to their wintering grounds, and then back again, every year.
Some species fly almost nonstop between their breeding and wintering grounds, while others have stopovers.
Stopovers are pit stops for a bird to rest and eat before continuing its journey.
They are analogous to stopping at a rest stop to stretch your legs, eat some lunch, and fuel up the car before continuing on a long road trip.
Migratory birdsor for that matter, all animals that migrateare harder to protect than nonmigrants.
Why?
Because you need to protect at least two major locations, the breeding and wintering grounds, as well as the migration corridor.
Since the locations can be literally thousands of miles apart, it might require international cooperation.
Figure 1.
The Kirtland's warbler ( Dendroica kirtlandii), is a critically endangered North American songbird.
It breeds in Michigan and then travels over 1,200 miles south to its wintering grounds in the Bahamas.
Saving this warbler from extinction requires cooperation from local governments in Michigan and in the Bahamas.
(Kirtland's warbler photo by Dominic Sherony, 2009.
)In order to protect migratory birds, it is important to identify and evaluate all the locations that are relevant to the birds: the breeding ground, stopover sites, and wintering grounds.
Where are these sites?
If there are stopover sites, are they unique to individual birds or are they common to the species?
Do the birds use the same habitats in both the breeding and wintering grounds?
What about the habitats of the stopover sites?
In this science project, you will use real bird tracking data to explore these questions for one bird species, and then use those answers to make a recommendation about which lands should be conserved in order to protect the species.
You will access the data through Movebank, an archive of animal movement data collected by scientists in the course of their studies.
Many scientists have agreed to share their real data with Science Buddies for you to analyze.
You will be using the same data that scientists are using in their own experiments!
Some of the most important data that scientists who focus on migratory animals collect is where the birds are, and when they are there.
This type of information is called spatio-temporal data where spatio refers to the space or location of the bird and the temporal information is the time (month, day, hour) that the bird was determined to be at that specific location.
To collect this data, scientists put tracking tags on birds.
The three most commonly used tags to track migratory birds are banding, global positioning system (GPS) tags, and Argos Doppler tags.
More information on the tags and their advantages and disadvantages can be found in the Science Buddies guide to Using Animal Tracking Data from Movebank for Science Projects.The Experimental Procedure will show you how to access the spatio-temporal data stored in Movebank and then use Google Earth Pro to map the migratory paths of individual birds.
From the map you can identify the breeding, stopover, and wintering sites, and classify the habitats at each of those locations.
Who knows, what you find out might someday help save a bird's life!
Determine the migratory path for a bird species and investigate whether the habitats in its summer and winter locations are similar or different.
Based on this information, come up with a recommendation for which locations should be conserved to protect this species.
The Experimental Procedure above relies on categorical data to draw conclusions.
Can you think of a way to convert the categorical data into quantitative data and assign a human impact value to the various locations?
Compare different migratory bird species.
Do they use similar or different habitats?
Do they have the same range of tolerance for human impact, or are some more adaptable?
Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  claplace said:  2017-03-17 20:41:11 What was the most important thing you learned?
That we can redo the storks habitat What problems did you encounter?
the slow internet Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    jacyscott said:  2016-10-12 22:35:20 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing I learned was how bird migrate throughout the year, and what areas specifically need to be protected.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    cquien said:  2011-04-15 10:38:08 What was the most important thing you learned?
Migratory paths and conservation of these animals What problems did you encounter?
none really Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
4                        9                Report Inappropriate Comment Environmental science, animal conservation, species conservation, migration, birds, habitat, wintering site, breeding site, stopover site, science project, science fair project, wildlife conservation, Movebank Habitat Migration Area Wintering grounds Breeding grounds Spatio-temporal data Animal tracking tags Boundary Wildlife conservation plant
