 Computational Exploration of Protein Function  The DNA in our cells contains our "blueprints," but it's the proteins in our cells that do most of the work.
The Human Genome Project has allowed us to start reading the blueprints, but we still don't understand what most of the proteins do.
This is a fairly advanced project that explores ways of identifying the function of unknown proteins.
Proteins are the "building blocks of life"not only are many of the physical structures of cells made of proteins, but many of the tasks that are essential to life are carried out by proteins.
Human beings have genes encoding about 30,000 proteins, yet only a small fraction of these proteins have been studied intensely enough to be well understood.
The functions of the vast majority of proteinsfound in humans and elsewhereremain entirely unknown.
The first step in figuring out the function of a protein is determining its amino acid sequence.
The human genome project (and other genome projects) has achieved this goal for a large number of proteins.
Unfortunately, the amino acid sequence alone tells you very little about the function of a protein, and the next steps in figuring out a protein's function are much less clearly defined, and very challenging.
But, because scientists stand to gain so much from understanding the functions of a larger number of proteins, a major focus of this generation's scientists has been, and continues to be, figuring out how to learn as much as possible about a protein from its amino acid sequence and its corresponding DNA sequence.One of the first steps that scientists typically take in characterizing a newly discovered protein, is to identify the parts of the protein that are essential to its function.
This way, even if they aren't able to figure out what each of those parts do, they can at least focus their future studies on the most important parts of the protein.
One way to identify important parts of a protein is to track which parts have remained relatively unchanged throughout evolution.
If a random DNA mutation changes the amino acid that it codes for, the likelihood that that particular DNA change will be passed on to future generations depends on whether or not the changed amino acid destroys the function of the protein.
If the change occurred in an important part of the protein, and destroyed that protein's function, then that mutated protein is not likely to be passed on throughout evolution.
Similarly, if the change occurred in an unimportant part of the protein, and did not affect its function, then that changed sequence is much more likely to be passed on to future generations.
Thus, when you compare DNA or protein sequences between two distantly related species, you would expect fewer differences in the "important" parts of the protein and an accumulation of more changes in less important parts.
The term "conserved" is used to describe the DNA/RNA/amino acid sequences that remain relatively unchanged throughout evolution, and it is generally assumed that such conservation is an indication of functional importance.Scientists have learned a lot about the nature of proteins by comparing the same protein across many different species.
One of the key findings has been that proteins are often modular -- that is, their major job is often accomplished by the combined action of several small functional units.
These smaller functional units are called domains.
Another key finding is that nature often recycles the same protein domain repeatedly in order to accomplish the same task in very different proteins.
Because of this, it has been possible to build databases of sequences (signatures) associated with particular functions.
These databases can in turn be used to help figure out the function of an unknown protein based only on its DNA, mRNA or amino acid (protein) sequence.
By identifying the domains that a protein contains, it is often possible to figure out what the overall job of the protein is.
For example, if a protein contains a DNA binding domain and an estrogen-response domain, it is likely that this protein's job is to control the levels of production of another protein in response to estrogen levels.
In this project you will use one set of tools to identify regions of a protein that are likely to be functionally important, and another set of tools to explore what those functions might be.
Keys:Spend some time thinking about which proteins to look at, as well as which species to compare.
It would be valuable to explore using different "types" of proteins and thus different "parts" of the evolutionary tree for this study.
That is, some gene/protein types are found in almost all living eukaryotes (what does this mean?
), such as a protein involved in respiration or glycolysis.
Therefore, you could get the protein sequence for a glycolysis gene from animals across the animal kingdom from yeast to humans.
On the other hand, a protein involved in red blood cell function (like hemoglobin) will probably only be found in animals with red blood cellstherefore a comparison across the whole animal kingdom would be unsuccessful.
Both types of studies are equally valuableand maybe you could choose a couple of each type of protein.Spend some time thinking about which species you choose to compare.
Much of your species choice will be dictated by how "fundamental" the gene is as well as how many species have published sequences for that gene (very few species have all genes sequenced).
But, if you choose a gene that exists in all living organisms, you will have a wide selection of species to choose from.
In this case, you should consider choosing a variety of species from different parts of the tree of life.
Think about which species are best for each of your proteins of interest.You can use mRNA or protein sequences to ask similar questions.
How different will the results be depending on which molecule you choose?
Do they all change at the same rate (over evolutionary time)?Most of the databases are very "messy" and hard to sort through.
Thus it is hard to be sure you have found exactly what you are looking for.
Ask your advisor to check with you!
The same is true for many of the online analysis tools.
Since most of your "experiments" are done on the computer with computational tools found at biology related websites, it is VERY important that you understand (at least in very general terms) WHAT the programs do and what you learn from using them.
The goal of this project is to learn how to uncover the functions of an unknown protein using computational methods.
In doing so, you will learn about the connection between how a protein performs its job(s) and how its corresponding DNA sequence changes throughout evolution.
You will also get a chance to explore computational methods for figuring out the specific functions of a protein, based only on its amino acid (protein) sequence.
You will choose several proteins to study, and for each of these proteins, you will generate a hypothesis about which parts of the protein are likely to be most important to its function.
This will be done by comparing the human version of the protein to other (non-human) versions of the protein.
You will then use databases that identify signatures of common functional components of proteins and assess whether or not these analyses are consistent with your hypothesis.
Run the protein through a 3D structure prediction program.Search for literature on effects of mutations in different parts of the protein.
OMIM is a good source for mutations if you have chosen a protein involved in a human disease.
PubMed is a good source for the results of experiments of scientists studying particular proteinsperhaps there are papers where someone has tried mutating your protein of interest.
How could this help you?Try translating your human mRNA sequence into the correct protein sequence using an online translator (try http://us.expasy.org/tools/dna.html).
Does your output match the human amino acid sequence that you obtained from Genbank?
If not, why might this be the case?
Can you identify the "start codon" (the place where translation begins) and the "stop codon" the place where translation ends?
What's left on the mRNA on either side is called 5' and 3' untranslated region (UTR), which can be important in regulation, transport, and processing of the mRNA.Try retrieving the DNA sequences for one or more of you proteins of interest from humans and several non-humans.
How does your DNA alignment look different from your protein and mRNA alignment?
Why might this be the case?
Hintthink about introns and exons!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, proteomics, genomics, protein, functional conservation, evolution, DNA, RNA, cDNA, genetics, gene, mRNA, bioinformatics DNA, gene mRNA Amino acid, protein sequence Protein, translation Coding sequence Protein domain Protein motif Sequence/protein/molecular evolution Homolog/homology Sequence alignment, distance matrix Eukaryote, prokaryote Phylogenetic/evolutionary tree
