 Motion Mania: Applying Physics to Hula-Hooping  Practice makes you better at most things, and knowledge makes practice so much easier!
Can you swirl a circular toy called a hula hoop around your waist or arm?
Is it hard?
What knowledge can you apply to find ways that make hula-hooping easier?
Physics!
Yes, physics will help you determine what makes one hula hoop a winner and another a flop.In this science project, you will create your own hula hoops, spin them, and draw conclusions.
The road will then be open to your becoming a hula hoop expert.
Have you ever spent time spinning a hula hoop on your waist or arm?
Have you ever wondered how hula hoops work?
This science project will not only teach you how to make a hula hoop, but it will also guide you in finding the hula hoop that is right for you and describe the physics that make a hula hoop spin.
Add a little spinning creativity and practice, and you could become a hula hoop expert!So, what is there to know about hula hoops?
How can physics help you become a winning hooper?While we can "hoop it up" on various parts of our body, we focus here on traditional waist hooping.
Once you understand this, you can extend the reasoning to arm hooping.
But before we analyze what makes the hula hoop spin, let us think about how we are going to measure the spinning motion of the hoop.
Any ideas?
Would the speed, or how fast the hula hoop spins, be a good factor to measure?
If so, how would you do it?
(In this project, the speed will be measured as the number of times the hula hoop makes a full turn per minute.
)Now, let us study what makes the hoop spin.
In any hooping, you are the source of the hoop's movement.
When you move your body to propel your hoop around you, you are actually exerting an upward force (from your hips) to keep the hoop from falling and a turning force known as torque to keep it spinning.
Torque is a twisting, outward force that is basically needed to cause something to spin (or rotate), and, once spinning, torque is needed to keep it spinning.
Here, it is interesting to note that the amount of force needed to keep up a good spinning motion depends upon the weight and mass of the hoop and the size of the hoop as well as how it fits around your waist.Weight and mass?
Are these not the same?
No, even though they are closely related, they are different.
Mass is a measure of how much "stuff" an object holds.
It is expressed in kilograms (kg) or grams (g) and is a measure of how easily the object reacts to a force.
Say we have a 2000 kg car and a 100 g (or 0.1 kg) toy car.
If you give both the same push (a scientist would say "you apply the same force to both objects") to get each to move forward, which one will react quickly and move faster?
Also, once they are both in motion, which will be easier to stop when applying the same force to both?
The one with a lot or a little mass?
You see, a lot of mass needs a lot of force to make its motion change (for instance, slow down or speed up).
How would this apply to your hoop?
Would a heavy hoop react strongly or just a little to a small push?
Would it have a greater or lesser change in speed?If mass is a measure of "the amount of stuff," what is weight?
Weight is a force, measured by how strong the planet you are on (e.g., the Earth or the Moon) "pulls" the object toward itself.
A hula hoop has the same mass here on Earth as on the Moon because it consists of the same amount of material.
The weight of the hula hoop, on the other hand, is greater on Earth than on the Moon.
Why?
Because the force of gravity is stronger on Earth than on the Moon, so the Earth pulls harder on the hula hoop than the Moon does.Of course, we can not go to the Moon or any other planet to practice with our hula hoops, but weight still plays a role.
How?
Well, do you think a hula hoop with more mass will be pulled more strongly toward Earth than a hula hoop with less mass?
Think of the car: Does a loaded toy car (loaded means more mass) feel heavier than an empty one?
The feeling of "heavy" is the Earth pulling stronger on it.
So more mass (more stuff) does mean more weight (a stronger pull of the planet) if we compare objects on the same planet.
Because a more massive hula hoop is heavier, it will tend to fall down more rapidly.
What can a hula-hooper do to prevent it from falling?
The hooper needs to give it a stronger push up to overcome its weight (or to balance the force pulling the hoop down, as a scientist would say).So far, we have the weight pulling the hoop down and our body giving it a push up to prevent it from falling, and we have torque giving the hula hoop a spin... so will it spin forever?
Is there anything slowing down the turning motion?
Think for a minute: If a ball is rolling, does it roll forever?
No, of course not, but what stops or slows the ball down?
Friction stops the ball.
The ball slows down (or decelerates) because of friction between the ball and the air surrounding it and between the ball and the surface it rolls on.
The same is true for the hula hoop.
Because of friction, you need to periodically give the hoop a little boost, or torque, to overcome the friction that stops the hoop from turning and keep it spinning.
At the same time, friction also works against gravity to help keep the hula hoop up on the hula-hooper's body.We still need to explore one important aspect, the size of the hoop and its effect on speed.
Would a big hoop (larger circumference) turn around your body slower or faster than a small hoop?
If the question seems difficult, maybe exaggerating will help provide the answer.
Would a hoop that is much bigger than your waist take more time to make a full turn around your waist than a hoop that barely fits around you?
Of course, it is easy to visualize that it will take more time for the larger hoop to make a full turn than the smaller one.
This means that the larger hoop has less speed than the smaller hoop.Now that we have explained it all, let us review what we have learned:Weight pulls the hoop down.
The hula-hooper prevents this downward pull by periodically pushing up and by pushing out, causing a turning force called torque.
Friction works to slow the hoop down, and the hula-hooper needs to prevent this by applying torque.
Friction also works to keep the hoop up.The greater the mass of the hoop, the greater the weight and the more the hula-hooper needs to push for the hoop to react and stay up.
The same force or push to a lighter object when applied to a more massive object will cause the more massive object to change its motion (speeding up or slowing down) less.The larger the hoop, the slower it will spin.Can you put it all together and make a prediction?
What would be easier: working with a hoop with more mass or less mass?
Working with a bigger or a smaller hoop?
In fact, there is no right or wrong answer to this question!
What works for one person does not always work for another.
This science project challenges you to find what works for you (or your test person).
Disappointed?
While what works well for one person may not be best for another, science does enable you to make other types of predictions!
In this physics science project, you will investigate how the size and weight of a hula hoop affects the speed at which it spins around.
Can you predict which one would turn fastest (or which has the highest speed)?
The small lightweight hula hoop?
The heavy, bigger version?
The heavy, small hula hoop?
Or the lightweight, big hula hoop?
Here, there is a right answer!
Try to find it from the explanation above.
If you still hesitate, no worries!
You will find the answer by doing the science project.
Once you have finished, try to explain your findings by reading the Introduction again.
If you still have a hard time explaining the results, do not hesitate to ask your science teacher or contact Science Buddies' Ask an Expert forum for help.Now, go and explore!
Time to spin into action!
To make hula hoops of different circumference and mass and study how these factors affect the speed at which the hula hoop spins around.
Make a bigger range of hula hoops  for example, four different sizes of hoops or four different weights  and analyze the relationship between the speed and the chosen variable (size or speed) graphically.
Analyze if different types of clothing affect the speed at which the hula hoop rotates around the waist or arm.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science fair project, physics, physics science project, science project, hula hoop, hooping, mass, hooping hula hoops, hula hoops, how to make a hula hoop, how to hula hoop, hula hoop hula hoop, hula hooping, hula hoops, how do you hula hoop, hula hoop how to, hooping Physics Speed Force Torque Mass Weight Gravity Friction Decelerate Diameter Circumference
