 Do Males and Females Play the Same Types of Games?
There are many different types, also called genres, of computer and video games, including racing, fighting, sports, adventure, and puzzle games.
Do some genres of games appeal more to males and other genres more to females?
Survey your classmates and find out in this science fair project!
What kinds of video games do you like to play?
Adventure games where you control a character who has to save the world?
Racing games where you drive fast cars?
Or what about puzzle games, like Tetris, where your fingers fly over the controls as you try to beat the computer?
There are many different genres (types) of video games.
The table below lists some of the most common genres.
Even if you are a big fan of video games, you probably don't like every genre!
Which do you think are the most popular genres?
Do you think there are some genres that males prefer and others that females prefer, or do males and females play the same types of video games?
Video Game Genre      Examples of Games in the Genre              ShootingHalo, Call of Duty    FightingStreet Fighter, Soul Caliber    RacingMario Kart, Gran Tourismo    Platform  Super Mario, Jak and Daxter    SimulationThe Sims, Sim City    AdventureZelda, Metroid    Role-Playing (RPG)Pokemon, Final Fantasy    StrategyFire Emblem, Advanced Wars    SportsMadden Football, FIFA Soccer    PuzzleTetris, Bejeweled    Music/DanceDance Dance Revolution, Guitar Hero    To discover the answers to these questions, you'll design a survey to give to your friends and classmates about if they play video or computer games and if so, what kinds of video and computer games they play.
A survey is a way of gathering information about specific questions.
In this science fair project, the questions you'll be answering are: "Are males and females equally likely to play video games?"
and "Among kids who do play video games, are there gender (males versus female) differences in what genres of games they play?".
These may seem like silly questions, but they're the kind of data that video game companies like to know in order to decide what kinds of games they are going to create and how many sales they could potentially make.
So, pretend you are a video game marketing strategist and survey your potential buyers!
Determine if males and females are equally likely to play video and computer games and if they play the same types of games.
Do people of the same gender (for example just females) but of different ages play the same genres of video games?
Design a survey to find out.
You'll want to make groups of ages; for example, females under the age of 12, females ages 13-18, females ages 19-25, and females age 26 and over.
How does age affect the number of hours per week people spend playing video games?
Design a survey to find out.
Try analyzing your data as a whole, and as just females or just males.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  EvanKlugDotCom said:  2011-12-09 11:09:12 What was the most important thing you learned?
ohchay so um girlsh do um horsey games and guys do expodey game and st000f so um so uym um um um um um ok so um um um and guys do the gunn games and the call of dooty and so um um um um um um um um oop hand on What problems did you encounter?
monkeys ate my contryoller so um i want mah controlller back so gimmegimme gimmesanta claus hates you now Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
nooooooooooooooope except no monkeys nex time thanks Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
2                        18                Report Inappropriate Comment    zorbo67 said:  2011-04-27 15:46:19 What was the most important thing you learned?
head What problems did you encounter?
shsdhdhd Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
l Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
2                        11                Report Inappropriate Comment Science fair project idea, video and computer games project, gender, males, females, video game, genre, computer game Genre Survey Gender Structured questions (also called fixed-response questions)
