 The Brain-Body Connection:  Can Exercise Really Make Our Brains Work Better?
"Use it or lose it!"
Sure, we all know physical exercise is important to keeping our bodies fit.
But how important is physical exercise to your brain?
In other words, is there any connection between an active body and increased brain power?This is an easy project where you can test the effect of exercise on a critical brain function: memory.
Image courtesy of Dean MacAdam,  2006Couch potatoes beware.
Research now suggests that a sedentary lifestyle negatively impacts our brain as well as our body.
Regular exercise appears critical for keeping our brain cells fit and functioning.
Studies show that exercise stimulates nerve cells to produce chemicals called neurotrophic factors that act like "fertilizer" for the brain.
These proteins encourage brain cells to grow and to connect with other neurons.
Other chemicals like adrenaline and noradrenaline are triggered during aerobic workouts and, at least in the short run, wake up the brain's processing systems.Scientists think active bodies could mean improved mental focus, better decision making, faster healing time for patients with nerve or brain injuries, and reduced risk of dementia as we age.
Brain scans of older volunteers, for example, indicate that the outer layer (gray matter) of certain areas of the brain, the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortexes, showed less decline in active seniors than in those who didn't exercise.
Check out the video to see an example of how two students designed an experiment to test whether exercise could improve the memory skills of their friends.
Then read on to see how you can repeat this experiment or maybe come up with a similar one of your own.
Click here to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.The video shows how Jada and Maurna designed a simple but fun way to test the effect of physical activity on memory.
They recruited eight friends to participate in their study.
Half of the friends were asked to hang out and play board games for ten minutes; this was the "Slacker" group of the study.
Meanwhile, the remaining four friends, the "Jumping Jacks," were asked to spend ten minutes completing an exercise obstacle course.
Next, all the volunteers were brought together to perform an easy memory test where they wrote down all the objects they could recall after a quick look at 25 household items Jada and Maurna had selected ahead of time.
They compared these scores to those from a similar memory test taken by the volunteers before they played games or exercised.
Once Jada and Maurna compiled their results and graphed the data, they discovered that there appeared to be a slight memory improvement in the exercise group.
If you repeated this same experiment with your friends, do you think you would get similar results?
Jada and Maurna did a great job designing a good scientific experiment.
Did you notice that they randomly assigned their friends in each group so that the groups would have people with various learning skills?
That was good thinking.
Jada and Maurna also came up with a memory test that was easy to do but challenging enough to keep the volunteers interested.
You could do the same test or think of a different one for your study.
You could also come up with a different type of exercise or perhaps make the activity times longer than ten minutes.Whether you decide to repeat this study or try to design one yourself, we've written down the basic steps of Jada's and Maurna's experimental procedure to get you started.
We've also included a short list of Terms, Concepts, and Questions to research before you start your project in order to get some background on the topic of exercise and its effect on memory.
In addition, we've added some suggestions for variations and other related projects to consider (see below).
Who knows, maybe you'll come up with some amazing results of your own.
So, good luck.
Get those friends moving (or not), and see if you discover a Brain-Body Connection!
The goal of this project is to determine the effect of exercise on a critical brain function: memory.
Repeat the experiment and have the teams  switch roles before doing a third memory test.
In other words, the "Slackers" next get to try a fresh memory test after ten minutes of exercise and the "Jumping Jacks" get to sit down and play board games  before another memory test.
Repeat the study on a second day in case some of the participants were just extra tired or not feeling too great the day they were tested.
Compare the results of the two days to see if they  are the same or different.
One of the participants in the video claimed that she didn't do as well as she could on the memory test because she was still thinking about the board game she had been playing.
How about trying a more restful or less mentally challenging  activity than playing games for the "Slacker" group.
Can you think of more calming or less strenuous things they could do for ten minutes besides playing board games?
Do you think more exercise time would have a greater impact on memory?
Try the experiment  with activity times greater than ten minutes.
How  about 20 or 30 minutes?
Is there a maximum time that exercise should be done before the memory test?
Design experiments to test these ideas.
How about an experiment to look at the effects of long-term exercise over several weeks or months?
You could chart your or your volunteers' physical activity over time and compare the results of memory tests taken every few weeks.
Are there other mental activities you could  test for besides memory?
Consider mood, math or reading skills, reaction times, video game scores,  etc.
Does the age of the volunteer make any difference?
You might try a similar study with  volunteers who are much older (55+) and then compare the results with those you obtained with your friends.
Are there other factors than exercise that might contribute to a good memory?
Would diet, hours of sleep each night, or music influence how  well someone's brain may function?
Design an  experiment to find out.
Does background noise influence how well people study and remember what they are learning?
Do students complete assignments better in a silent room or when music is playing or the TV  is on?
Design an experiment to find out.
For a related experiment on exercise and heart health, see Science Buddies project Heart Health: How Does Heart Rate Change with Exercise?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  vseifert said:  2016-11-02 22:54:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
Exercise is very beneficial for the brain What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Exercise Sedentary lifestyles Memory Brain cortex Neurotrophic factors
