 Put Some Energy Into It!
Use a Calorimeter to Measure the Heat Capacity of Water  Along with its many other interesting properties, water has the ability to absorb a lot of heat energy, while only experiencing a relatively small change in temperature.
One way this property affects us directly is that our bodies don't change temperature rapidly on hot or cold days, since we are made up of mostly water.
In this chemistry-with-an-electronics-flair science fair project, you will determine how the temperature of a small volume of water changes as you add precise amounts of heat energy to it from a heating element.
Water is a remarkable substance.
It is a universal solvent, meaning that it can dissolve many kinds of solid material.
It expands when frozen, unlike most other liquids, which is why ice floats.
It is the medium in which all of the chemical reactions that are required for life occur.
And water is also unusual in its ability to absorb heat.
If you add a given amount of heat energy (measured in joules, abbreviated as J) to equal masses of water and lead, the water's temperature will change much less than the lead's.
In other words, the water has a higher specific heat capacity than lead does.
Specific heat capacity is the measure of the heat energy required to increase the temperature of a unit quantity of a substance by unit degree.
For example, in units of grams, degrees Celsius, and joules, the specific heat capacity of water is 4.19 J/C g. This means that it takes 4.19 joules (again, a joule is a measure of energy) to cause a temperature rise of 1.0 degrees Celsius in 1.0 grams (g) of water.
How much higher is the heat capacity of water than lead?
About 33 times as much!
So if you add enough energy to raise a given mass of water by 1C, you will find that the temperature of an equal mass of lead will have increased by 33C when the same amount of energy is added.
One way to measure the heat capacity of a liquid, such as water, is to add a known amount of heat energy to a known mass of the liquid and measure the change in temperature.
The equation relating heat energy to specific heat capacity, where the unit quantity is in terms of mass, is shown in Equation 1.
Equation 1:  Q = mc (T2 - T1)            Q  is the heat energy put into the substance, in joules (J).
m  is the mass of the substance, in grams (g).
c  is the specific heat capacity (in J/C g).
T2 is the final temperature, in degrees Celsius (C).
T1  is the starting temperature, in degrees Celsius (C).
How can you add a known quantity of energy to the liquid?
In this science fair project, you will use a wire that heats up when current is passed through it to add heat energy to a known volume of water.
You can calculate the precise amount of energy that is produced by the hot wire if you know the current that is going through the wire, the voltage across the wire, and the amount of time the wire heats the water.
The equation relating the energy produced in the hot wire to voltage, current, and time is given in Equation 2, which is a form of Joule's law (see the Bibliography for more information about Joule's law).Equation 2:  E = IVt            E  is the energy generated by the current passing through the wire, in joules (J).
I  is the current, in amps.
V  is the voltage, in volts).
t  is the amount of time the current was active, in seconds (sec).
If you assume that all of the energy produced by the wire is absorbed as heat by the water, you can combine these two equations, as follows:Equation 3:  mc (T2 - T1) = IVtYou can rearrange this equation to find c, the specific heat capacity.
What about the other terms?
The mass is known because you will use a known mass of water.
The temperature change is measured using a thermometer.
The current and voltage are measured using a multimeter.
And the time is measured using a stopwatch or other timer.
The apparatus that you will use, a calorimeter, is shown below.
It has two terminals for attaching a 6-V battery, a hole for a thermometer, and a stirrer to mix the water.
The two battery terminals are attached to a wire inside the calorimeter that heats up when a current is run through it.
The interior of the calorimeter is made of StyrofoamTM to minimize heat loss.
To use it, you will fill the calorimeter with water, run a current through the wire to heat it up (a 6-V battery is used to produce the current), and measure the change in water temperature (T2 - T1).
As mentioned above, the current and voltage can be measured using a multimeter.
Multimeters are easy to use and allow you to obtain numerical data that you can plug into the equations above.As you work through the procedure, consider the flow of energy: it starts as chemical energy stored in the battery, becomes electrical energy when it a current is created, and then is converted into heat energy by the wire in the calorimeter.
Finally, the heat energy is absorbed by the water molecules, causing the temperature of the water to rise.
The calorimeter is fairly simple to use, but it allows you to perform some precise and elegant explorations into the nature of energy.
Use an electric calorimeter to measure the heat capacity of water.
This science fair project allows you to demonstrate and measure the conversion of electrical energy into thermal energy.
Devise ways to make your results more accurate.
For example, use a high-quality thermometer, measure the exact voltage of the battery with a multimeter, weigh the amount of water with a scale that is accurate to 0.1 g (such as the Fast Weigh MS-500-BLK Digital Pocket Scale, 500 by 0.1 G, available from Amazon.com), correct for the heat that is used to warm the stirrer, etc.Graph the temperature on the y-axis and the time on the x-axis for each trial.
Do you expect a straight line?Use the calorimeter to determine the specific heat capacity of aluminum.
Place the aluminum cup (30 g) inside the calorimeter.
Repeat the procedure above with a known mass of water, but add a term for the mass of the cup and the specific heat capacity of aluminum to the left side of Equation 3.
Try other metals.
Compare your results to published values.Use the calorimeter to determine the specific heat capacity of other liquids, such as salt water, vegetable oil, etc.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Calorimeter, heat capacity, specific heat capacity, Ohm's law, voltage, current, resistance, science fair project, water, energy, thermal Solvent Heat Energy Joule (J) Specific heat capacity Mass Current Voltage Joule's law Amp Volt (V) Calorimeter Ohm's law Circuit
