 How Sweet It Is!
Explore the Roles of Color and Sugar Content in Hummingbirds' Food Preferences.
Do you like to watch hummingbirds?
Have you ever wondered why there is specialty hummingbird food?
What is it about the food that makes it so appealing?
In this zoology science fair project, you will observe these remarkable creatures and learn how color and sugar concentration influence a hummingbird's selection of a food source.
Hummingbirds have intrigued and entertained people throughout the ages.
These masters of flight can fly left, right, up, down, and even backwards.
A hummingbird's average flight speed is 25 miles per hour, with wing beats up to 55 times per second.
Hummingbirds must feed about every 10 minutes or so to maintain this high level of activity.
They eat about 2/3 of their body weight every day, their food consisting mostly of nectar from flowers and from special hummingbird feeders as shown in Figure 1.
They eat small insects and spiders for protein.
Figure 1.
Hummingbird visiting feeder with sugar solution.The largest hummingbird is the Giant Hummingbird.
It is about 8 inches long and weighs 20 grams.
The smallest hummingbird is the Bee Hummingbird, at about 2 inches long and 2 grams in mass.
Most hummingbirds migrate, some of them flying thousands of miles every year.
There are approximately 330 species of hummingbirds in the world.
Surprisingly, there are no hummingbirds in Europe or Asia.
Hummingbirds live exclusively in South, Central, and North America.
The large majority are south of the United States-Mexico border; only 17 species have ventured north of Mexico into the United States and Canada.
In the wild, hummingbirds have to be very efficient in finding food.
They can not afford to waste energy returning to flowers that have low amounts of nectar.
In fact, researchers have suggested that hummingbirds have very good memories, allowing them to focus their efforts on flowers that they have learned are the most likely to be good food sources.
Hummingbirds in search of nectar look for brightly colored flowers.
In this zoology science fair project, you will test whether color or concentration of sugar is more important in a hummingbird's selection of a food source.
You will first provide four cups (white, green, blue and red) with equal sugar content to see if they have a "favorite" color.
You will then change the concentration of sugar in the cups so that one cup has nectar with a higher sugar content than the other cups.
How long do you think it will take the hummingbirds to learn which cup has the most sugar?
What will they do if the food source without any color (the white cup) has more sugar than a brightly colored food source?
Next, you will again switch the color of the cup that has the highest sugar content.
How long will it take them to change their color preference, based on the new situation?
You may find that you can add a healthy respect for their ability to learn and adapt to their environment to the list of reasons to be impressed by these remarkable birds!
The objective of this zoology science fair project is to determine whether color or sugar content is more important for a hummingbird's selection of a food source.
As a variation, explore the role of position on the hummingbird's behavior.
After the hummingbirds have "learned" which colored cup has the highest sugar content, as in Part 2, change its position.
How do the hummingbirds respond?
Because hummingbirds feed on nectar from flowers, you might expect the hummingbirds in your area to be attracted to the colors of the local flowers.
Take a survey of the colors of the flowers around your house.
Can you observe which flowers are visited by hummingbirds?
Record your observations in your lab notebook.
Can you identify the species of hummingbirds in your yard?
Ask your teacher for help in identifying the species if you need it.
How long do they stay each time?
Where do they go when they are not at the feeder?
Record your observations in your lab notebook.
Repeat the experiments using hummingbird feeders instead of cups.
Use colored tape or plastic, with a hole in the middle, to change the color of the flowers on the feeders.
This is more expensive, but has the advantage that you can measure the amount of nectar that is consumed.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
zoology, science fair project, hummingbirds, bird food, nectar, flower color, color preference, sugar Hummingbird Nectar Co-evolution
