 How Greasy Are Your Potato Chips?
One of America's favorite snacks is potato chips.
Although potato chips are very tasty, some varieties are not very healthy for you.
A typical 1-ounce (oz.)
serving of a well-known national potato chip brand contains 150 calories, 90 of which are from fat.
How greasy are your favorite potato chips?
Try this science fair project, and you'll get a visual understanding about how much oil a potato chip can hold.
Do you like to snack?
Most people enjoy having a snack between lunch and dinner.
One of the more popular snacks is potato chips.
Potato chips come in a variety of tasty flavors, including salt and vinegar, jalapeno, and barbecue.
It takes 10,000 pounds (lbs.)
of potatoes, to make 3,500 lbs.
of potato chips.
The average person eats about 6 lbs.
of potato chips a year.
It's actually pretty easy to make a potato chip from a potato.
Simply cut the potato into thin slices, fry them in a deep fryer, drain the grease, and add salt.
Some potato chips are not really potato chips at all.
PringlesTM are an example of this.
Pringles are made from potato flakes that are combined with rice flour to make potato dough.
The dough is then shaped and fried.
Since Pringles are not made only of potatoes, they are called potato crisps.
One thing that some people think about when buying potato chips and potato crisps is the amount of fat in them.
Although eating fats is necessary for your body to function, eating too much fat is not good for you.
Children older than 2 years old should get 30 percent of their daily calories from fat.
Many people get more than that, which is why there are many kinds of reduced fat potato chips and potato crisps available in stores.
In this cooking and food science fair project, you will investigate how much fat is in some typical potato chips and potato crisps products.
You will take a look at four different kinds of chips and crisps: kettle-fried potato chips, baked potato chips, Pringles Original potato crisps, and Pringles Reduced Fat potato crisps.
Have fun, but be sure not to not eat your science fair project before you are done!
To compare the greasiness of several varieties of potato chips.
Try doing this science fair project with several kinds of snack foods, such as pork cracklings, corn chips, and crackers.
With the help of an adult, try making your own potato chips.
Are they more or less greasy than the store-bought ones?
Can you find ways to make them less greasy?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  PeytonC said:  2017-01-17 07:36:54 What was the most important thing you learned?
that kettle chips are not good for you.
baked chips are better What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lilyli said:  2015-05-14 21:03:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Bell13741 said:  2014-04-14 12:24:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
Potato chips are very greasy!
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No  Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    tacha00 said:  2013-11-03 18:40:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
that my chip are greasy What problems did you encounter?
some chips i got didnt show the greasy for a long time Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    karenreyes1354 said:  2013-10-30 11:50:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
that potato chips are really greasy and that the least greasy ones are the kettle corn potato hips What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes add more potato chips and different kinds of chip  Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    laindust said:  2012-02-22 17:04:52 What was the most important thing you learned?
The chips with the highest saturated fat content registered the most grease.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Test more varieties.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment Cooking and Food science fair project, grease, fat, calories, potato chips, potato crisps Fat Calorie Estimate
