 Speed Quest  Do you like to watch the Olympics and see a new world record get set?
Have you ever wondered how fast you'd need to go to achieve that world record?
Well, in this sports science fair project, you'll find out how to compute speeds needed to achieve world records.
Not only that, but you'll learn what speed is, and how to measure it in almost anything that moves!
So head for the track, you're on a search for speed!
Click here to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.orgA world track record!
It's always exciting to watch!
You see the winning time flashed on your TV, but just how fast was that runner going, on average?
What was his or her speed?
In this science fair project, you'll learn how to find out the speed of not only world-class runners, but of other athletes and neighborhood bike and skateboard riders, too.
In fact, once you understand what speed is, you'll be able to measure the speed of just about anything that moves, including a river.
If you'd like a preview of how it's done, visit DragonflyTV and join Jenny, Simi, and Danny as they measure the speed of four classes of rapids enjoyed by kayakers.Speed is one of the most common measurements that people take.
It tells you how the position  of something is changing with respect to time.
When you hear, for example, that a car is going at a speed of 25 miles per hour, (mph) it means that if the car kept going at this same speed, in 1 hour (h) it would have gone 25 miles.
Miles per hour is a common measure of speed in the United States and is known as the English system, but in other countries and in science and engineering, the metric system is often used instead.
The units of speed in the metric system are meters per second, (m/s) or for cars, kilometers per hour (km/h).The word per in all these units tell you that you are going to use division to calculate speed.
You measure the distance something has traveled and divide it by the time it took to travel that distance.
That gives you speed.
You can then transform your speed calculation into whatever units you want to look at by using standard conversion tables.
Equation 1:  Speed = Distance Time          Speed  is in meters/second (m/s) in the metric system.
Distance  is in meters (m) in the metric system.
Time is in seconds (s) in the metric system.
Here's an example of how to calculate speed, using Equation 1.
The world record in the men's 800-m track and field is event is 1 minute (min) and 41 seconds (sec).
To get the runner's speed in miles per hour, follow these three steps:  Convert the winning time to seconds: 1 min and 41 sec is the same as 101 sec total.
Next, to calculate the speed, use Equation 1 and divide the total distance, 800 m, by 101 sec, and that gives you 7.92 m/s.
The final step (which is optional, but a way to put it in units that might be more familiar to you) is to convert meters per second into miles per hour.
To do this, find the conversion tables for seconds to hours, and meters to miles.
If you look this up, you see that there are 3600sec in 1h, and there are 1609.34m in 1mile.
You can then convert from meters per second to miles per hour using Equation 2.
Equation 2:    (    7.92 meters 1 sec    )       (    3600 sec  1 hour   )       (        1 mile    1609.34 meters    )   =    (    17.7 miles 1 hour    )   = 17.7 miles per hour  Do you see how the meters and seconds units cancel out, leaving behind miles per hour?
So, now you know, to run the 800-m track event in world record time, your speed must average 17.7 mph!Now it's time to set up your own neighborhood races with bikes, skateboards, scooters, or your own two feet.
How many miles per hour can you go at short distances?
How about over longer distances?
Can you get close to world record running speeds when you're riding your bike?
Let the racing begin!
To learn how to measure speed and to compare the speeds of athletes in different sporting events.
Compare the speeds of elite athletes, by age, for the same sporting event.
At what age do runners typically reach their peak for the event you chose to investigate?
For the same sport, does the age at which an athlete reaches his or her peak change with distance?
Compare the speeds of elite athletes by gender for different sporting events.
In what events and at what distances do men have an advantage, and in what events and distances do women have an advantage?
Compare the speeds of the fastest humans with those of several types of animals.
In general, are four legs faster than two?
Does standing upright offer any sporting advantage?
What happens at distances?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  cake54370 said:  2014-03-31 18:30:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
That gravity effects all objects eqully.
What problems did you encounter?
none  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, sports science, speed, miles per hour, meters per second, track and field, swimming, bicycling Speed Position Miles per hour (m/h) Meters per second (m/s) Kilometers per hour (km/h) Division Conversion tables Linear
