 Particles in the Mist: See Radioactive Particles Decay with Your Own Cloud Chamber!
Are you fascinated by radioactivity and the emission of particles caused by the disintegration of an atom?
This science project enables you to observe safely a spectacular display of radioactive decay.
Following the instructions in the Procedure, you will be able to isolate a safe radioactive source and build a cloud chamber to watch the radioactive decay.
Then you will use your cloud chamber to discover if a plastic lid can shield you from this type of radioactive decay particles.
Can you imagine looking at what goes on inside of an atom?
It is too tiny to see with the naked eye, but with this project you will build a cloud chamber to watch atoms and see how they fall apart.
But what are atoms?
And why do some of them fall apart?
We will explain, but let us start by reviewing the basics.Atoms are the extremely small particles that make up everything around us.
As shown in Figure 1, atoms consist of a nucleus surrounded by a cloud of electrons .
The nucleus is a very small area made of protons and neutrons, together called nucleons.
In terms of electrical charge, protons are positively charged particles, electrons are negatively charged particles, and neutrons are electrically neutral.
An atom is electrically neutral, the negative charge contributed by the electrons is counterbalanced by the positive charge contributed by the protons.
The number of protons within an atom's nucleus is called the atomic number.
In the periodic table, each element has a different atomic number.
If an atom gains or loses a proton, the atomic number changes, and the atom is transformed from one element into another.
Figure 1.
This drawing shows an atom with its nucleus and an electron cloud around it.
Note that in this figure, the nucleus is shown larger than it actually is.
While an element always has the same number of protons, it can have a different number of neutrons in its nucleus.
We call these different variations of the same element isotopes of each other.
The total number of nucleons (protons and neutrons) in the nucleus is called the mass number and is commonly written in superscript in front of the element abbreviation.
For example, the element "lead," abbreviated as Pb, contains 82 protons in its nucleus, making 82 its atomic number.
206Pb contains 206 nucleons, specifically 82 protons and 124 neutrons.
However, 204Pb,  206Pb,  207Pb, and  208Pb all exist in nature.
They are isotopes of the element Pb, because they all have 82 protons in their nucleus but the number of neutrons in the nucleus is slightly different.
Can you calculate how many neutrons are in each isotope mentioned?
To summarize, an atom converts from one element to another if the number of protons (the atomic number) changes, but not if the number of neutrons does.
How about if the number of electrons changes?
It turns out that this is a fairly common event.
Electrons can be both gained or lost without altering the atomic number.
When either of these events occurs, the total charge of the atom goes from neutral to either negative (if electrons were gained) or positive (if electrons were lost).
A non-neutrally charged atom is called an ion.
Ionization (gain or loss of an electron) does not change what element an atom is.Now you know what makes up an atom.
But what makes them fall apart?
Every atom is a balancing act between electromagnetic forces and the strong forces of its nucleus.
The electromagnetic forces bind negative electrons to the positive nucleus by attracting opposite charges but also attempt to rip the nucleus apart by repelling like charges, such as two protons.
In contrast, the strong nuclear forces act to keep the atom's nucleus intact by working to bind together nucleons.
The strong nuclear forces act on all types of nucleon pairings: proton-proton, neutron-neutron, and proton-neutron.
The balance of these forces is disrupted in ions and isotopes.
Ions can be fairly stable; however isotopes, although they can sometimes exist for a while, are unstable  or radioactive .
In their search for stability, isotopes will fall apart or decay by emitting radiation in the form of a particle or electromagnetic wave.
The released particle, or  decay particle, is most often an alpha particle ( particle), a beta particle ( particle), or a gamma ray ( ray).
Figure 2 shows the three main types of decay .
Note that although we say the nucleus "falls apart," it only sends out one or two particles at a time.
Figure 2.
Representations of the three main radioactive decays of unstable atoms: alpha, beta, and gamma decay.
An alpha particle ( particle) is made up of two protons and two neutrons bound together; it is a mini-nucleus.
It is relatively heavy and travels relatively slowly (at approximately one-twentieth the speed of light).
Its larger size means it collides relatively frequently with surrounding atoms or molecules in its way.
As it collides, it knocks electrons from the outer layers of the atom.
This process is called ionizing the atom, because what is left is an ion.
Losing energy with each collision, the alpha particle usually slows quickly.
Because it is big, it cannot easily penetrate solid material.
Alpha particles are stopped in the dead top layer of skin, causing no damage to the human body.
Can you see how emission of an alpha particle (two neutrons and two protons) from a nucleus will change the conditions in the nucleus quite drastically?
Do you see how the element will change (as the number of protons in the nucleus will be reduced by two) and how the mass number will change (as there are four nucleons emitted in this process)?A beta particle ( particle) is a high-speed electron or positron.
A positron is similar to an electron, only with a positive electric charge.
Electrons and positrons are extremely tiny, much smaller and lighter than protons or neutrons.
They interact less frequently with surrounding molecules or atoms and can travel several feet in open air.
Some lower-energy beta particles can be stopped by the dead layer of human skin causing no harm to the human body, but some need a thicker shield (like wood) to stop them.
But how can an electron or positron appear from a nucleus containing only neutrons and protons, and how would that affect the nucleus?
When the nucleus has too many neutrons, a physical transformation occurs, where a neutron changes into a proton creating an electron and a neutrino as byproducts.
Similarly, a proton can transform itself into a neutron by creating a positron and neutrino as byproducts.
What conditions do you think would prompt a nucleus to make this transformation?
Do you see that while the total number of nucleons (protons and neutrons) is not affected by this so-called beta emission, the relative number of protons and neutrons does change?
This means that the beta emissions also result in a change from one type of element to another.Because this project only deals with  and  particles, we will not discuss the  radiation any more here (but you can study them further on your own if you are curious about them).Most radioactive isotopes do not decay directly into a stable state with the emission of one particle.
Rather, they undergo a series of decays, releasing one decay particle at a time, until eventually they reach a stable state.
This series of decays is called a decay chain.
Some elements also undergo several decay options to reach stability, by seeking stability using alpha emission or via beta emission.
Some will decay fast, within seconds, while others will take years to decay.
With respect to 210Pb, which is a radioactive isotope that can be used in this science project, the nucleus of 210Pb contains 82 protons and 128 neutrons (210 minus 82).
In its progression to stability, it lowers the proton-to-neutron ratio (82/128).
Changing this ratio will change the balance of the repulsive electromagnetic force between the protons with respect to the strong force between all nucleons progressing to a more stable ratio.
This can be done by transforming a neutron into a proton (wherein the ratio becomes 83/127) or emitting an alpha particle (wherein the ratio becomes 80/126).
In nature, we see that 210Pb is mainly a beta emitter, meaning that it mainly emits beta particles, though it does emit an alpha particle in 1 out of 50 million decays.
210Pb is also a nice example of a decay chain.
Beta emission turns 210Pb into bismuth-210 (210Bi).
210Bi is unstable and mainly turns into polonium-210 (210Po) via beta emission.
210Po is a pure alpha emitter, turning itself into lead-206 (206Pb).
206Pb is a stable element at the end of this chain, with a small fraction of titanium-206 (206Ti) as a stable end product.
In 1 out of 50 million decays, 210Pb transforms into mercury (206Hg) and decays on to  206Ti.
A graphical visualization of this decay chain is shown in Figure 3.
Note that all beta particles emitted in the 210Pb chain are relatively low-energy beta particles.
Figure 3.
Decay chain of 210Pb with mainly 206Pb and some 206Ti as stable element at the end of the decay chain.
Knowing this, do you think a radioactive source labeled 210Pb contains only 210Pb?
If not, which elements will it contain?
Will it change over time?
It contains 210Pb, 210Bi, 206Po, 206Pb, 206Hg and 206Ti  all at the same time in various quantities.
As the source ages, less 210Pb  and more and more of the stable element (here 206Pb and some 206Ti) is present in the source.In addition to 210Pb, the other radioactive source recommended in this science project is retrieved from an ionizing smoke detector and contains a small amount of americium-241  (241Am).
241Am contains 95 protons.
Can you calculate the number of neutrons in this nucleus?
241Am decays directly to neptunium-237 (237Np), and 237Np is not known to naturally decay any further.
What particle, or particles, do you think are emitted when 241Am decays to 237Np?
Hint: Look  how the mass number and the atomic number change in the decay.
You will need to  look up the atomic  number of Np.Because decay particles are too tiny to reflect light, they cannot be "seen" with the naked eye.
So, how will you ever "see" radioactive decay?
Scientists build cloud chambers, also called Wilson chambers, to study decay particles.
Much as you would study the wind by looking at the movement of leaves stirred by wind, scientists study radioactive decay particles by looking at tracks caused by decay particles in cloud chambers.
You cannot see wind but you can study its presence, direction, and strength by seeing how the leaves on trees move.
In this science project, you will not see the decay particles, but you will observe that they exist and study their characteristics by observing how the tracks they create in your cloud chamber function.Before we explore how a cloud chamber works, let us review some theory around vapor and condensation.
When we heat a liquid, it transforms into a vapor; when we cool a vapor, it condensates back into a liquid.
A saturated vapor is a vapor ready to condensate.
Tiny solid or liquid particles (like dust or tiny droplets) need to be present to make the transition from vapor to liquid happen.
Those particles are called condensation nuclei.
A supersaturated vapor is ready to condense but lacking the nuclei on which to condense.So where is the link with a cloud chamber?
A cloud chamber is nothing more than a sealed environment containing a supersaturated vapor of water or alcohol.
When decay particles travel trough the chamber, they collide with the surrounding molecules.
As they collide, they strip electrons from the molecules, creating ions as they go.
The trail of ions serves as a trail of condensation nuclei giving the supersaturated vapor a place to condense.
At this stage, a trail of tiny condensation droplets forms on ions left by the passage of an ionizing decay particle.
A strong light will bounce off on the droplets and there you have it  a visible track!
In short, you see droplets of alcohol forming on ion trails left by charged particles that are shooting off the radioactive source.Different radioactive-decay particles produce different types of tracks.
Alpha particles are bigger, so their tracks are broader.
Beta particles produce more imperceptible tracks.
(Under the conditions of the Experimental Procedure, gamma particles will not be generated.)
In this science project, you will build a cloud chamber.
The chamber will enable you to visualize the decay particles of the radioactive source of your choice.
You can even experiment to see what material(s) can block the decay particles.
In this physics science project, students will create a cloud chamber to make radioactive decay visible and test if a plastic lid stops the decay particles.
Use your cloud chamber to investigate how well other materials like aluminum foil, plastic foil, paper, cloth, etc., stop the decay particles of your radioactive source.
You can try wrapping your source in these other materials and placing it back into the cloud chamber to study the absorption capacity of these materials.Charged particles are deflected in the presence of a magnetic field, making them travel most often along different, or unusual, paths.
Position a strong magnet (such as a neodymium magnet) close to the cloud chamber and observe how this affects the shape of tracks.
What happens if you turn your magnet around, bringing its other pole close to the chamber?
Compare the observations of two different sources  e.g.
210Pb decay versus 241Am decay.
Do your observations confirm your expectations knowing the decay chains of 210Pb and 241Am?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   Elemental7 said:  2017-01-08 12:36:59 What was the most important thing you learned?
That radiation is fun What problems did you encounter?
When me and my partner tried to get the Petri dish to warm up, the top and bottom were so close together to the ice that the top was not staying warm.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Buy a much larger container from hobby lobby so that your hand can fit in it, find a way to put a sponge(as your absorbent material) and hold it up with a paper clip, since alcohol dissolves most glues, and put a dish of hot water on the bottom, flipped over, where the sponge is, put the dry ice on the bottom in the container with a much higher rim and then it should work.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    IsaacC said:  2015-03-24 20:56:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
Don't procrastinate, because something always messes up with experiments.
What problems did you encounter?
Observing the tracks created by the alpha particles form am-241.
The conditions were right, there were no cracks on the petri dish, and we tried everything to troubleshoot the problem.
Alas, no luck.
However, it turns out the the radioactive source was covered by a layer of alcohol that condensed on it.
The decay particles were not strong enough to penetrate that layer of liquid, so we couldn't see it through the air.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Maybe add "wiping off the radioactive source" in the troubleshooting section of the procedure.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, physics science project, radioactivity, radiation, radioactive decay, alpha particles, beta particles, decay particles, cloud chamber, Wilson chamber, neutrons, protons, electrons Atoms Nucleus Nucleons Protons Electrons Neutrons Atomic number Element Isotopes Mass number Ion Electromagnetic force Strong nuclear force Unstable Radioactive Radiation Decay particle Alpha particle Ionizing Beta particle Positron Decay chain Cloud chambers or Wilson chambers Vapor Condensation Saturated Condensation nuclei Supersaturated
