 Ring of Fire 2: What Earthquakes Tell Us About Plate Tectonics  The theory of plate tectonics revolutionized geology in the 1960's.
In this project you can explore the connection between plate tectonics and earthquakes by mapping historical seismic data.
Today it is widely accepted that the Earth's crust consists of a series of huge plates that slowly move.
The low parts of the plates are beneath the world's oceans, and the high parts of the plates are landmasses.
New plate material is generated at deep sea ocean ridges in a process called sea-floor spreading.
Material from plates is also recycled at trenches, where dense, oceanic crust dives back (subducts) underneath an adjacent plate towards the upper mantle.
Figure 1 shows a map of the major tectonic plates.The theory of plate tectonics revolutionized geology in the 1960s.
Before this, geology had been a descriptive science.
Mechanisms for large-scale processes such as the formation of mountain ranges were put down to vague "earth forces."
Plate tectonics changed that.
A series of scientific papers by Harry Hess, Robert Dietz, Fred Vine, Drummond Matthews, and others brought together a growing body of evidence that massive pieces of the earth's surface were constantly on the move.
Subduction of one plate beneath another could provide the massive force to produce uplift of mountain ranges.
Fifty years earlier, in 1912, Alfred Wegener had proposed his theory of continental drift, and was widely ridiculed.
Wegener, like others before him, had noticed that the continents on either side of the Atlantic Ocean had complementary shapes, suggesting that they might have originated much earlier from the same landmass.
He had also noted similarities in rock formations on opposite sides of the ocean, and similarities in both living and fossil animals.
Wegener did not have a good explanation for how vast chunks of the earth's surface could move relative to one another, and the community of geologists was not ready to accept his ideas (McPhee, 1981-1998; WGBH, 1998).Figure 1.
Map of major tectonic plates of the earth.
(Tilling, date unknown).Today we still do not know the mechanism for the motion of the plates, although it is thought that convection of heat from the earth's interior is somehow involved.
The evidence that clinched the case for plate tectonics came from detailed mapping studies of paleomagnetism.
Rocks containing magnetic material reveal the history of when and where they were formed.
As the molten rock cooled, the magnetic particles aligned themselves with the earth's magnetic field.
Although the positions of the earth's magnetic poles have changed over the billions years of earth's history, geologists have been able to recreate the time line of those changes.
Armed with that information, geologists have been able to map the dates of origin of the oceanic crust, and to confirm that sea-floor spreading at suboceanic ridges and subduction at trenches is a constant process.How are earthquakes related to tectonic plates?
The following paragraph from Annals of the Former World by John McPhee, summarizes the connection quite well (McPhee, 1981-1998, 121):Almost all earthquakes are movements of the boundaries of platesshallow earthquakes at the trailing edges, where the plates are separating and new material is coming in, shallow earthquakes along the sides, where one plate is ruggedly sliding past another (the San Andreas Fault), and earthquakes of any depth down to four hundred miles below and beyond the trenches where the plates are consumed (Japan, 1923; Chile, 1960; Alaska, 1964; Mexico, 1985).The goal of this project is to collect historic earthquake data and map it.
If the plate tectonics theory of earthquake activity is true, then the great majority of earthquake activity should occur at or near boundaries between tectonic plates.
Do you think that historic earthquake data will support McPhee's statement?
The goal of this project is to map earthquake activity and relate it to the positions of the Earth's tectonic plates.
Questions to consider: What magnitude quakes are included?
How representative are the data you have collected?
Is there a correlation between earthquake depth and relative motion of the adjacent plates?
Use the Google Earth program to map your data and make illustrations for your display board.
You can download the program from: http://earth.google.com/download-earth.html.
Add volcanic activity to your map.
See the Science Buddies project Ring of Fire 1: What Volcanoes Tell Us About Plate Tectonics.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Latitude Longitude Earthquakes Earthquake magnitude Layers of the Earth Tectonic plate Subduction
