 Smarter Than Your Average Slime: Maze-solving by an Amoeboid Organism  Can a simple organism that lives off of dead trees and that grows as a mass of protoplasm actually have intelligence?
The goal of this science fair project is to test the ability of the slime mold Physarum polycephalum to solve the problem of finding the shortest path through a maze.
With a name like slime mold, it's understandable that you would expect these organisms to be ugly and disgusting.
Despite their unappealing name, slime molds are fascinating and, for some observers, beautiful organisms.
They form colorful gliding masses as they creep over decaying wood and leaves.
A particularly interesting and well-studied slime mold is called Physarum polycephalum, the many-headed slime mold.
Figure 1.
Physarum polycephalum growing in Olympic State Park.
(Wikipedia, 2009.)
In its growing stage, Physarum polycephalum looks like a giant amoeba that spreads out like a fan, enveloping and eating everything in its path.
It consumes bacteria and decaying organic matter.
In this plasmodial stage, Physarum polycephalum is a bright yellow glistening mass that can grow to more than a foot across.
If the conditions that the organism finds itself in become challengingfor example, the ground becomes dry or food becomes scarcethe plasmodium will begin to shrink and form sporangia.
The sporangia produce spores that can be spread by the wind to new regions for the organism to grow.
Germination of the spores leads to the formation of a new plasmodium.A curious variation occurs when the plasmodium encounters conditions that are too severe for it to continue growing, but not severe enough to cause it to form sporangia.
It goes into a kind of dry, dormant state, called sclerotium from which it can revive itself if it becomes moist.
The organism is sometimes shipped as a sclerotium when purchased from scientific supply companies.Physarum polycephalum  is inexpensive to obtain and it can be easily cultured on a moist surface, such as a damp piece of filter paper or an agar plate (agar plates are easier to use because they stay moist).
It can be fed rolled oats as it grows, and divided to a fresh plate when it has grown to cover the first surface.
Slime molds, like Physarum polycephalum  are part of the kingdom Protoctista.
This is probably the least understood of the five kingdoms of life; the others being animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria.
One of the most interesting things about Physarum polycephalum  is that it shows a quality that could be called primitive intelligence.
Studies done by Dr. Nagakaki and colleagues in Japan have shown that Physarum polycephalum  can find the shortest distance through a maze.
You can watch the video below to get an idea of how this can work.
This video  shows how the slime mold Physarum polycephalum can find the shortest distance through a maze.
Watch this  video  http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/video-of-the-week/2012/11/07/super-brainy-slime-mold/.
The slime mold Physarum polycephalum can find the shortest distance through a maze.If the Physarum polycephalum  organism is chopped up and dropped into a labyrinth (a maze), they put themselves back together and start to move.
At the same time, if a food source is placed at the entrance and exit to the maze, they avoid dead ends in the maze and form a connection (as a single tube) between the food sources.
In all cases, the Physarum polycephalum  chose the path that was the shortest between the two food sources.
In a way, it "solved" the puzzle of finding the shortest path through the maze!According to the abstract of the paper, here is how the authors sum up the findings:    "The plasmodium of the slime mould Physarum polycephalum  is a large amoeba-like cell consisting of a dendritic network of tube-like structures (pseudopodia).
It changes its shape as it crawls over a plain agar gel and, if food is placed at two different points, it will put out pseudopodia that connect the two food sources.
Here we show that this simple organism has the ability to find the minimum-length solution between two points in a labyrinth" (Nakagaki, et al., 2000).
The procedure, as described in the Nakagaki paper, is quoted below:    "We took a growing tip of an appropriate size from a large plasmodium in a 25 X 35 cm culture trough and divided it into small pieces.
We then positioned these in a maze created by cutting a plastic film and placing it on an agar surface.
The plasmodial pieces spread and coalesced to form a single organism that filled the maze, avoiding the dry surface of the plastic film.
At the start and end points of the maze, we placed 0.5- x 1- x 2-cm agar blocks containing nutrient (0.1 mg/g of ground oat flakes).
There were four possible routes (1,  2,  1,  2) between the start and endpoints" (Nakagaki, et al., 2000).
Figure 2.
Maze-solving by Physarum polycephalum.
2.a.
Structure of the organism before finding the shortest path.
Blue lines indicate the shortest paths between two agar blocks containing nutrients:  1 (4151 mm); 2 (3351 mm);  1 (4451 mm); and  2 (4551 mm).
2.b.
Four hours after the setting of the agar blocks (AG), the dead ends of the plasmodium shrink and the pseudopodia explore all possible connections.
2.c.
Four hours later, the shortest path has been selected.
Plasmodium wet weight, 90 +/- 10 mg. Yellow, plasmodium; black, "walls" of the maze; scale bar is 1 cm.
2.d.
Path selection.
Numbers indicate the frequency with which each pathway was selected.
"None:" no pseudopodia (tubes) were put out.
See Supplementary Information at the Nature website noted in the Bibliography for an animated versions of 2.a-c. (Nakagaki, et al., 2000.
)Quoting again for the Nakagaki paper, here is a summary of their results:     "The plasmodium pseudopodia reaching dead ends in the labyrinth shrank [Figure 2.b., above], resulting in the formation of a single thick pseudopodium spanning the minimum length between the nutrient-containing agar blocks [Figure 2.c., above].
The exact position and length of the pseudopodium was different in each experiment, but the path through  2which was about 22% shorter than that through  1was always selected [Figure 2.d., above].
About the same number of tubes formed through  1 and  2 as the difference (about 2%) in their path lengths is lost in the meandering of the tube trajectory and is within experimental error" (Nakagaki, et al., 2000).
In this advanced biology science fair project, you will attempt to repeat the research results of Nakagaki, et al.
Independent confirmation of results is a common and important practice in science.
The goal is to address the question "Does the organism Physarum polycephalum demonstrate qualities that can be termed primitive intelligence?"
The Procedure in this science project idea provides an outline for approaching this research problem, but you will have to work out many of the details independently.
There are plenty of ways to expand on Nakagaki, et al.
's findings, some of which are suggested in the Make It Your Own section at the end of the procedure, but you may be able to think of others.
Establish a culture of Physarum polycephalum and determine if it can find the shortest distance between two food sources in a maze.
Try other maze designs.
Determine the lengths between the food sources for all possible connecting routes.
What is the minimum percentage difference in length between routes that produces repeatable differences in the Physarum's choice of routes?Devise other ways of making mazes.
For example, you could try printing the maze on the filter paper directly, then coloring in the maze with crayons or other material the Physarum polycephalum will not grow over.View the Physarum polycephalum growing on an agar plate with a microscope.
Place the culture plate on the microscope stage and view at 40x magnification.
Make the diaphragm small and focus on the bright yellow veins.
Can you see the rapid fluid motion (streaming) of the cytoplasm?
Does the streaming change at various times during the course of the experiment?
Place food (moistened oats) on an agar plate in a triangle and inoculate the plate with Physarum polycephalum.
What is the final shape of the organism?
Is it the minimal distance possible to connect the food sources?
Try other patterns.
What happens if one food source has more food than the others?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  AlisaMc said:  2012-01-09 14:42:06 What was the most important thing you learned?
It was fascinating to watch.
We learned that the slime mold does better in a warmer environment.
What problems did you encounter?
We weren't really clear on what temperature to grow the slime mold.
This page seemed to indicate we'd see changes in 4 hours, but we often didn't see comparable changes for days.
I think it has to do with having the slime mold in a warmer environment, but I'm not sure.Additionally, I'm not sure if the agar plates used for the experiment should be 2% (that comes in the kit) or whether it should be plain?
I don't know a lot about agar.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Just some clarification on the time line and conditions for growing the slime mold.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
20                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment Science fair project, Physarum polycephalum, cellular computation, primitive intelligence, maze, plasmodium, slime mold, amoeba-like cell, dendritic network, pseudopodia, cytoplasm, diploid nuclei Slime mold Plasmodium Sporangia Germination Sclerotium Agar plate Protoctista Primitive intelligence Amoeba-like cell Dendritic network Pseudopodia Minimum-length solution
