 Do Migratory Birds Like It Hot?
Why do birds migrate?
Do all birds have the same reasons for migrating?
Where do they go when they migrate?
These are questions scientists have asked for centuries.
The more species for which they gather data, the more specific the answers become.
In this science project, you will choose a species to investigate, then access and evaluate real data collected by scientists to start answering those questions yourself!
Have you ever noticed that some of the bird species in your backyard disappear every winter and then reappear in the spring?
Where do they go and why?
This is a question that has intrigued people for centuries.
In fact, discussions about the fate of migratory birds can be traced all the way back to Aristotle in ancient Greece!
Aristotle proposed that the redstarts, birds that could be seen all summer, physically transformed themselves into robins during the winter.
This idea, as crazy as it seems now, was taken as fact at the time.
After all, the two species were not seen in the same area at the same time.
But today, thanks to the work of bird watchers and scientists, we know that birds that appear and disappear from a specific geographical location are not transformed into other birds, but instead, are migrating.
The migration, or regular seasonal journey between two or more areas, takes birds from their breeding grounds to their wintering grounds, and then back again every year.
For a migratory bird, life in the breeding ground centers on raising and protecting their young.
The birds arrive there to find a mate, build a nest, lay eggs, and then feed and protect the offspring from predators.
Then, as the seasons change, these migratory birds fly hundreds, or even thousands, of miles to their wintering grounds where they forage for food and store energy for the flight back to the breeding grounds.
Some species also travel to additional locations.
For example, many swans and ducks, like the common mallard, also journey to molting grounds.
The molting grounds are safe locations with few predators and an abundant supply of food, where the birds stay while they lose their old flight feathers and grow new ones.
Table 1, below, shows examples of several different migratory bird species and the journeys they undertake.
The Arctic Tern (Sterna paradisaea) makes the longest annual bird migration, traveling approximately 19,000 km (12,000 miles) each way between its Arctic breeding grounds and its Antarctic wintering grounds.
(Photo by Estormiz, 2006.)
Even tiny birds, like hummingbirds, can fly many miles.
The migration of the Ruby-throated Hummingbirds (Archilochus colubris) often includes a 500-mile nonstop flight across the Gulf of Mexico.
(Photo courtesy of U.S.
Fish & Wildlife Services.)
The Common Loon (Gavia immer) typically breeds on freshwater lakes, and winters in the ocean near the shoreline.
(Photo by Cephas, 2009.)
The Swainson's Hawk (Buteo swainsoni) migrates across the equator twice a year to breed in North America and winters in South America.
(Photo by Peter Wallack, 2007.)
Table 1.
Above are some examples of amazing migrations made every year by different bird species.Why do migratory birds undertake these journeys, and how do they find their way from one location to the next?
These are questions that scientists are actively working to answer.
To do so, they need to collect many different types of information.
The most important facts to figure out are where the birds are, and when they are there.
This type of information is called spatio-temporal data, where spatio refers to the space or location of the bird and the temporal information is the time (month, day, hour) that the bird was determined to be at that specific location.
To collect this data, scientists put tags on birds.
The three most commonly used tags to track migratory birds are: banding, global positioning system (GPS) tags, and Argos Doppler tags.
More information about the advantages and disadvantages of the different tags can be found in the Science Buddies guide to Using Animal Tracking Data from Movebank for Science Projects.
When designing a study, the scientists decide which tagging method will best enable them to answer the specific question they're studying.
All of the tags require a bird to be captured and the tag to be attached by a person for the first time.
The video below shows how scientists physically tag birds.
Watch this video to see how scientists carefully attach a tracking device to a bird's back being careful to not injure the bird.
Researchers are always careful to make sure the tag does not inhibit the animal's natural movements.
(Video courtesy of Carolina B.
Proano.
)Once scientists know the geo-spatial data, they can find out other information, like the weather, type of habitat, and food resources in the locations that are important to the birds.
Collectively, this data can be used to investigate questions about why and how specific birds migrate.In this science project, you will investigate how temperature influences a bird's migratory behavior.
Do migratory birds have a preference for a specific temperature range?
Do birds leave their breeding grounds to avoid cold temperatures?
Do the breeding and wintering grounds have similar temperature ranges or is migration completely independent of temperature?
To explore these questions, you will use real bird tracking data from Movebank.
Movebank is an archive of animal movement data collected by scientists in the course of their studies.
Many of these scientists have agreed to share their real data with Science Buddies for you to analyze.
You will be using the same data that scientists are using in their own experiments!
Determine whether there is a relationship between air temperature and where and when birds migrate.
Compare the Movebank temperature data for several species of birds.
Do different species have different temperature tolerances?
Can you draw any correlations between physical features of the birds and the temperature ranges in which they live?Extrapolate how climate change might affect the migration of your bird species.
You will need to do some research about the various climate change models that exist and use them to predict future temperatures at the birds' breeding and wintering grounds.
One place to start gathering information about climate change models is the United States Environmental Protection Agency's webpage about Future Temperature Changes.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Shorty1 said:  2013-11-10 09:58:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
BIRD MIGRATION BUI already knew that already.
What problems did you encounter?
downloading GOOGLEARTH.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
probably more "MAKIYOUR OWN" SUGGESTION because not everyone has internet.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ashlie520 said:  2011-03-03 16:23:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
What birds migrate for What problems did you encounter?
My hypothesis was incorrect Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
2                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, bird migration, breeding ground, wintering ground, weather, temperature, zoology science project, science fair project Migration Breeding grounds Wintering grounds Predators Species Spatio-temporal data Physiological
