 Measuring Your Threshold of Hearing for Sounds of Different Pitches  If you're like most people, you like listening to music.
Have you ever wondered how your ears and your brain turn the sound waves out there in the world into the experience of music in your head?
If you're interested in doing a project about how we hear, this is a good one for you.
With this project, you'll do background research and make measurements to understand how the sensitivity of your own hearing varies with the pitch of the sound.
This is an interesting experiment in the area of audio (sound) perception.
The human auditory system is sensitive to a wide range of sounds, both in terms of frequency (pitch) and intensity (loudness).
Typically, a young person is able to hear frequencies ranging from 20 to 20,000 Hz (Hz is the abbreviation for Hertz, the name for units of cycles/sec).
Humans can also detect sounds with intensities ranging over 13 orders of magnitude (powers of ten).
In other words, the loudest sound a human can perceive is 10,000,000,000,000 times as loud as the softest sound that can be perceived.When comparing sound intensities over such a wide range, it is inconvenient to keep lugging all of those zeros around, so units of decibels (dB) are commonly used instead.
A decibel is defined as 10 x log(I  Iref ), where I and Iref  are the two intensities being compared.
So if I is 10 times louder than Iref , that corresponds to an increase of:  10 x log(10  1) dB = 10 x 1 dB = 10 dB.
If I is 100 times louder than Iref , that corresponds to an increase of:  10 x log(100  1) dB = 10 x 2 dB = 20 dB.
If I is 1000 times louder than Iref , that corresponds to an increase of:  10 x log(1000  1) dB = 10 x 3 dB = 30 dB.
And so on.For each power of ten change in intensity, there is a decade change (10) in terms of dB.Our ability to detect changes in intensity (the "just noticeable difference" in loudness), is proportional to the original intensity of the sound.
If you are in a very quiet room, you can hear a whisper.
Another person whispering could also be heard: the added sound would be significant in relation to the existing sound level.
On the other hand, if you're at a basketball game with a lot of people cheering, you're not going to be able to hear someone whispering two rows down, because now the added sound is insignificant in relation to the existing sound level.
In other words, as sounds get louder, there needs to be a bigger change in intensity in order to detect it.So you can see that decibels are used not simply for reasons of convenience, but also because when we express sound levels in decibels, we get the numbers that have significance in terms of human perception.Decibels define a relative measure of sound intensity.
In other words, it will tell you how much louder or softer one sound is than another.
However, if we choose a fixed point for the reference intensity level, then we have an absolute measure of sound intensity.
A reference level that is often used in human auditory science is Sound Pressure Level (SPL), the lower limit of human hearing, which is defined as 10-12 W/m2, and is given a value of 0 dB (SPL).
As we pointed out earlier, humans can hear a wide range of intensities and also, a wide range of frequencies.
The lowest sound (in pitch) we can typically hear is about 20 Hz, and the highest sound 20,000 Hz.
However, we are not equally sensitive at all frequencies.
On average, the threshold of hearing of the human auditory system varies with frequency as shown in the following figure (ISO R226, 1961):    Figure A.
This is an example of the wind tunnel you can make,The curve shows the gain (amplification) required for tones at each frequency so that each tone is perceived at equal volume.
Think of adjusting a volume knob for each tone, so that all of the tones sound equally loud.
If the volume knobs are calibrated in dB, then reading off the volume settings for each frequency would produce this curve.
From the curve, we can see that, on average, humans are most sensitive to tones at about 3500 Hz, because these tones require the least gain.The curve shown above is an average response for a large number of human listeners.
In this project, you will measure and graph your own individual threshold of hearing as a function of frequency.
The objective of this experiment is to measure your threshold of hearing as a function of the frequency of the sound.
Does the threshold frequency response vary as a function of age?
Measure and compare the frequency responses of at least five individuals from two or more age groups.
How does the frequency range of greatest sensitivity compare to the normal frequency range of the human voice?
Do library research to find out what the normal frequency range of the human voice is, and compare this with your results.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  gamma said:  2011-05-16 09:59:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
Never had i thought about the difference of the pitches that i could hear in LIFE.What a cool experiment this is !!!!!
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
11                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment  decibels (dB) gain sound frequency (Hz) threshold of hearing auditory system psychoacoustics audio perception Weber-Fechner law Stevens' power law
