 Winglets in Wind Tunnels  Winglets are the short vertical "fins" at the wingtips of some airplanes.
Have you ever wondered why they are there?
If you have access to a wind tunnel, you can build model airfoils with and without winglets and see for yourself.
If you're really ambitious, you can also build your own wind tunnel.
The Boeing jet in the picture at right has winglets at the tips of its wings.
Why are they there?
What do they do?As an airplane moves through the air, the wings generate lift by creating an area of low pressure above the upper surface of the wing.
The higher air pressure beneath the lower surface of the wing lifts the plane.
At the tip of the wing, the high and low pressure air meet.
Figure 1.
The diagram shows the expanding wing tip vortices generated by a passenger jet.
(NASAexplores.com, date unknown)   The air forms miniature tornadoes, called wing tip vortices that spread out behind the plane  (see Figure1, right).
Wing tip vortices cause two problems:     the turbulent airflow they create can be strong enough to flip an airplane that encounters it;   they also increase the drag forces on the airplane that generates them, decreasing fuel efficiency.
Winglets break up wing tip vortices, alleviating both of these problems.The airflow around winglets is complex.
Your wind tunnel should include smoke or fog in the airflow so that you can visualize streamlines along the length of the airfoil.
Figure2, illustrates some design considerations you may wish to consider for the winglets (Hepperle, 2006).
A gradual curve transistioning from airfoil to winglet may help to reduce turbulent flow at the corner region.
Translating the winglet toward the trailing edge of the airflow can also promote laminar flow at the trailing edge of the wingtip.
Figure 2.
Three different winglet designs.
From left to right: no winglet, rounded corner, sharp corner, winglet translated toward trailing edge.
(Hepperle, 2006) In this project, you will test airfoils built both with and without winglets in a wind tunnel.
Do you see evidence for wing tip vortices when testing airfoils without winglets?
Does the addition of winglets alleviate wing tip vortices?
Do the winglets increase lift?
For winglet-related project ideas that do not require a wind tunnel, see the Variations section.
The goal of this project is to measure the changes in airfoil performance when winglets are added to the airfoil.
For a much more basic project on winglets using paper airplanes, see the Science Buddies project Why Winglets?.
The simple folded airplanes used in the project just mentioned normally lack vertical stabilizers.
Vertical stabilizers counteract imbalances in lift between the two wings, and thus resist forces that would tend to make the plane roll.
In this simple type of paper airplane, winglets can function as vertical stabilizers.
Another type of paper airplane (made with laminated construction methods) generally does include a vertical stabilizer as part of the design.
For more details, see the Science Buddies project What Makes a Good Aerodynamic Design?
Test Your Ideas with High-Performance Paper Gliders.
Do winglets improve the flight characteristics of high-performance paper gliders?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
airfoil, chord line, mean camber line, camber, aspect ratio, angle of attack, winglets, drag, lift, wing tip vortices.
