 Bioinformatics - The Perfect Marriage of Computer Science & Medicine  Find out the real explanation for why your parents are so weird!
Here is a science project that lets you explore the internet to find out why your "DNA blueprint" is so important to health and disease.
In this science project you will use methods that bioinformatics and biotech scientists perform on a daily basis to decipher the human genome in their efforts to diagnose and treat genetic diseases.
Biomedical Informatics is a broad discipline that encompasses bioinformatics and computational biology.
Online bioinformatics resources, such as the database Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man, or OMIM, allow bioscience researchers to search up-to-date information on human genes, genetic traits and disorders.
This project will take you through the step-by-step process of researching a specific disease of interest and how a single base change in one's DNA could be associated with that disease.
This project should take approximately one week to complete.Scientists are on a constant quest to improve and lengthen the quality of human life.
DNA, the blueprint of life, has hidden clues for this quest.
Identifying these clues is analogous to the clich often heard "finding a needle in a haystack."
The "haystack" for this project is the public bioinformatics databases, such as OMIM, containing a multitude of genetic information and the "needle" is the SNP, (pronounced snip), single-nucleotide polymorphism.A Single Nucleotide Polymorphism, or SNP, is a small genetic change, or variation, that can occur within a person's DNA sequence.
SNPs represent the most frequent type of DNA variation found in the human population.
These variations can be used to study and track inheritance in families.
Despite the fact that more than 99% of human DNA sequences are the same across the population, small variations in DNA sequence, such as SNPs, can have a major impact on how humans respond to disease, environmental factors, and medicines.
Interestingly, SNPs are evolutionarily stable.
This means they don't change much from generation to generation.
That being said SNPs are of great interest and value for biomedical research.
Developmental pharmaceutical products or medical diagnostics are being influenced by SNP data.The cartoon depiction of a SNP  in Figure 1, below, shows how DNA strand 1 differs from DNA strand 2 at a single base-pair location (a C/T polymorphism).
Figure 1.
Here you can see a single nucleotide polymorphism, or SNP, that results in a small genetic change between sequence 1 and 2 (Wikipedia contributors, n.d.).
DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, supplies a set of instructions for each living organism.
Every cell in each organism contains an entire copy of DNA.
Genes are sets of nucleotide sequences encoded and stored in DNA.
Each gene encodes for a certain protein.
DNA is transcribed into mRNA, messenger ribonucleic acid, and then translated into protein.
Proteins are defined by amino acid sequences.
A single amino acid is encoded by three nucleotides called a codon.
There are 64 possible codons and only 20 amino acids, as shown in Figure 2, below.
Since there are only 20 amino acids, multiple codons encode for the same amino acid.
This is known as degeneracy of the genetic code.
Because of this degeneracy in the genetic code some SNPs do not result in changes in the protein sequence.
This is called a synonymous change.
If a SNP results in a change in the protein sequence this is termed a non-synonymous change.
Finding single nucleotide changes in the human genome may be like "finding a needle in a haystack," however, bioinformatics resources make it possible to do just that.
Figure 2.
This codon table shows how the genetic code is converted into a sequence of amino acids that make up a protein (image courtesy of Schering-Plough).
Variations in the DNA sequences of humans can affect how humans develop diseases and respond to medicines.
While SNPs do not cause disease, they can help determine the likelihood that someone will develop a particular disease.
Computational Biology, the actual process of analyzing and interpreting data, combined with Bioinformatics is used to for the technology called database-mining.
With the completion of The Human Genome Project in 2003, vast amounts of genomic data have been made available for database-mining, the process of generating hypotheses regarding function or structure of a gene or protein of interest by identifying similar or dissimilar sequences in DNA.
The International HapMap Project is designed to provide information to researchers with the HapMap, a catalog of common genetic variants that occur in human beings as well as a description of the variants and where they are located in our DNA.
This catalog provided information that researchers need to link genetic variants to the risk for specific illnesses.How do scientists utilize computers for mining of biological data to study genetics and disease association?
In this science project, you will utilize the World Wide Web to access free bioinformatics resources to search for a disease of interest, identify SNP(s) associated with that disease, and make a hypothesis regarding the effect of the SNP(s).
These public databases provide a vault of information that can be searched in many ways.
We have provided one example; however, you may use your own method.
With the availability of millions of SNPs, scientists now believe that exciting advances in medicine are in our near future.
It is now your turn to mine databases for SNPs and make a hypothesis on the outcome on the human phenotype based on your research.
Use publicly available web-based bioinformatics resources to search for a disease of interest and SNPs, single-nucleotide polymorphisms, associated with that disease.
Variation 1: Environmental Factor - Gene Interaction: Identify how certain environmental factors may affect genes and their association to diseases by using Genetic Association Database (http://geneticassociationdb.nih.gov/).
NOTE: This database is open-access and allows any user to input data.
Use caution while using the data and only select data that has been endorsed by 'Gene Expert' or 'Disease Expert'.Click on 'Environmental Factor Gene Interaction' link on the left menu of the website.
On the top of the page, click on the link to see a complete list of environmental factors.Choose an environmental factor of interest (for e.g., tobacco smoke) by clicking on it.You can see entries that describe gene association with specific diseases.Are you able to identify any SNPs in this category?
Follow links to research more for each category.
Variation 2: Multi-Species Association / Conserved SNPs: Using the databases referenced in this project, try to identify gene mutations that are common to multiple species.
If a mutation is more frequent across multiple-species and if the mutation can be matched with its phenotype across species, it provides validity to your hypothesis.
Highly conserved regions (across species) have an increased likelihood of being functionally important.For similar Science Buddies science project ideas that use SNPs and genetics, check out Drugs & Genetics: Why Do Some People Respond to Drugs Differently than Others?,A Prescription for Success: Drugs & Your Genetics, andTrace Your Ancient Ancestry Through DNA.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
