 Enjoy It Now... Or Enjoy It Later?
Understanding Delayed Gratification  Have you ever thought to yourself, "I have got to have that new video game right now?"
Or maybe there's a new shirt at the store that you just have to have.
So you rush home, break into your bank, and gather all of your money, even though you have been saving to buy your mom a gift.
But wait!
Maybe if you do a few more chores and save for just a few more days, you can gather enough money to buy your mom a gift and buy what you want.
This behavior is called delayed gratification and it's what this human behavior science fair project is all about.
Learn more about delayed gratification and how rewards and attention affect the amount of delay.
Have you ever worked hard toward a goal?
For example, have you ever saved your allowance in order to buy something big, like a gift for your mom?
Saving money can be a difficult thing to do, especially when there are so many other things you can spend your money on.
Sometimes you break down and buy an item that you were not saving for and didn't think about buying until you passed by it in the store.
This human behavior is called instant gratification.Human infants are examples of instant gratification.
Whatever babies want, they want it right then, and they will often cry until they get it.
At what age does a human infant develop patience?
When do we learn how to exert self-regulation and postpone instant gratification in order to reach a more valuable goal?
For example, instead of running out and buying a video game, when do we humans realize that saving money and getting the video game and a present for mom is a better idea?
This behavior of resisting temptation is called delayed gratification and is very important to develop.
Can you imagine having a friend who demanded getting his or her way immediately, all the time?
It would be hard for that person to get along with other people and he or she would soon lose many friends.But what allows someone to delay gratification in hopes of getting a more valuable reward?
Are some people better at delaying gratification than others?
A group of psychologists in the 1970's investigated at what age kids learn how to delay gratification and the techniques they use to resist temptation.
Does it help to focus your attention on the future reward, or is it better to distract your attention?
To figure out the answers to these questions, the psychologists developed the marshmallow experiment.
In this experiment, the test subjects were told that they could eat a marshmallow right away, or if they waited for 15 minutes before eating the first marshmallow, they could have two marshmallows to eat.
In one situation, the children were exposed to the marshmallows during the wait.
In a second situation, the marshmallows were hidden from the test subjects.In this human behavior science fair project, you will investigate delayed gratification by performing the marshmallow experiment.
Gather a group of kids and investigate whether focusing attention on the goal or reward helps to delay gratification.
An added bonus to this science fair project is that at the end, you can enjoy a few of those marshmallows yourself!
To learn about the human behavior called delay of gratification, and to determine how delayed gratification depends on gender and attention.
Young children, like those in preschool, do not grasp the concept of time.
Would having a timer set to 15 minutes help the children increase their delay of gratification?How important is the reward?
How long would the average time of delay be if the reward that you offered were pretzels or carrot sticks?
How would it affect the delay of gratification if the students were allowed to pick their own reward from a tray of rewards?Further test the effect of distracting attention from the reward.
Instead of just having no marshmallows in the room, have the test subjects perform age-appropriate puzzles, like crossword puzzles or word jumbles.Investigate when humans start to develop patience.
Repeat the procedure with 20 1st graders and 20 4th graders.
What is the average time of delay for the 1st graders?
What is the time of delay for the 4th graders?
Is the average time of delay for the older students longer than the average time of delay for the preschoolers?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  swimmerswimmer said:  2011-09-05 11:01:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing that I learned while doing this project was  the difference between delayed gratification and instant gratification.
Instant gratification is when someone cannot wait for something, they must have it right then.
Delayed gratification is when someone is wiling to wait for something in order to obtain a greater reward later.
What problems did you encounter?
One problem that i encountered while doing this project was finding 20-30 test subjects that were all between 4-5.
The way that I solved this problem was by contacting my local prescool.
They were nice enough to let me use the preschoolers as test subjects.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Yes, I can.
For preschoolers it is very hard to wait for 15 minutes and it is very time consuming for you.
10 minutes is a much better interval.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
21                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment Human behavior science fair project, delayed gratification, instant gratification, attention, reward, marshmallow Instant gratification Behavior Delayed gratification Psychology The marshmallow experiment
