 Rocky Secrets: Where Does Oil Hide?
You may have heard the expression, "You can't get blood from a stone."
But what about oil?
Can you get petroleum oil from a stone?
In this geology science fair project, you'll find out what kinds of stones make the best storage rocks for oil.
You'll see which ones can soak up oil like a sponge, and which ones cannot soak up oil or let it pass through, but can act as a "cap" to contain the oil in secret underground traps.
Can a hard rock really act like a soft sponge... maybe SpongeBob SquarePants could change his name to RockBob SquarePants?
Try this science fair project and find out!
Stop, look down, and wiggle your toes.
Are you wearing shoes?
If you are, chances are good that some part of those shoes is made from petroleum oil.
Now look at the fabric of your clothes, your chair cushion, your bedspread, mattress, carpet, and drapes.
Many of these fabrics were made from oil.
Wander into the kitchen for a glass of milk or soda.
The wax in that milk carton and materials in the soda bottle were made from oil.
Open up the fridge and look at all the fruits and vegetablesthose were grown with the help of fertilizers and pesticides, which are also oil-containing products.
Check out your cupboards.
All the packaging you see is made from oil, and the canned goods have additives made from oil, too.Next, head to the bathroom and take a look at all the makeup, medicines, lotions, toothpaste, shampoos, and bandages made from oil.
The laundry room also has oil-derived detergents to keep all those oil-made fabrics clean.
And even the roof that keeps you dry needs oil to make it waterproof.
Oil products are outdoors, tooin car tires, roads, and in the fuel that powers cars and ships, and heats homes.
Seems like everywhere you look around your home, from the ink in your pen to the CD's in your player, you see something that was made from oil.Where do petroleum geologists and petroleum engineers find the petroleum oil to meet all these human needs?
As shown in Figure 1 below, they find it inside the earth, where it was made from the remains of tiny sea animals and plants, called plankton, that died millions of years ago, and settled to the floor of ancient seas.
Over millions of  years, layer after layer of sandy sediment covered up the decaying plankton.
Heat and pressure turned the plankton into source rock containing oil and gas.
Heat and pressure also turned the sandy sediment into reservoir rock.
Reservoir rock is permeable meaning oil and gas can pass or flow slowly through it.
Reservoir rock is also porousit has tiny spaces or pores where it can store oil or gas.Muddy sediments were layered on top of the reservoir rock and became cap rock.
Cap rock is impermeable, meaning it will not let oil or gas pass through.
It acts as a seal or cap and will trap any oil or gas that is below it, preventing it from making its way to the surface.
The spaces below the cap rock where oil and gas can be trapped are thought to be created by the movement of the earth's surface.
The movement causes the sandy sediments to deform or fold into dome-shaped traps.
So, after the oil is formed in the source rock, it slowly moves upward through the porous reservoir rock and then gets stuck in the traps, because the cap rock above the traps won't allow it to go any farther.Have you ever seen piles of shells along a beach?
Well, above the impermeable cap rock is another layer of rock made from these shells.
This layer is porous and permeable and will let oil and gas pass through.
If this rock happens to come into direct contact with the reservoir rock, because of the earth's movement near a fault, then the oil and gas will not get stuck in a trap.
Instead, they can pass all the way up to the surface, alerting petroleum engineers to the location of oil fields.
Figure 1.
This figure shows good places under the earth to try and find petroleum oil and natural gas.The first known oil wells to tap into the traps under the cap rock reached a depth of about 800 feet.
They were drilled in China around 347 CE (Common Era) using drill bits (cutting tools) attached to bamboo sticks.
The people used the oil recovered from these wells not to run cars, of course, or even to heat their homes, but to evaporate brine (very salty water) and make salt, which was highly prized.
Oil wells today routinely reach depths of 1 mile, and the deepest well ever drilled is in Russia and has a depth of 7.2 miles!
In spite of the ability to reach these tremendous depths, oil reserves are limited, and by the end of this century, people will have to find alternatives to petroleum oil for all their food, homes, construction materials, and transportation needs.
The remaining petroleum oil is only found in sedimentary rock, one of the three main types of rocks found on Earth.
Common types of sedimentary rock are limestone, chalk, sandstone, and shale.
In this geology science fair project, you will test three of these types of sedimentary rock, and see which ones are porous and permeable, and would make good storage or reservoir rocks, and which one is impermeable and would make a good cap rock.
This will allow you to discover which kinds of sedimentary rocks petroleum engineers explore when trying to find the last oil reserves on Earth.
To determine what types of sedimentary rock make the best storage rocks for petroleum oil.
geology science fair project, sedimentary, sandstone, limestone, shale, source rock, storage rock, petroleum oil Petroleum oil Petroleum geologist Petroleum engineer Plankton Source rock Sediment Source rock Reservoir rock Permeable Porous Pore Cap rock Impermeable Deform Fault Natural gas Sedimentary rock Limestone Sandstone Shale
