 Locating an Earthquake Using a Global Seismic Network  When an earthquake happens, how are scientists able to determine the original location of the quake?
In this project, you'll use archived data from a global network of seismometers to find out for yourself.
You will make your own seismograms using the Global Earthquake Explorer program, and then use the seismograms to determine the location of earthquake epicenters.
A fundamental principle of geology is that the features of the Earth are not fixed.
Instead, they change over time.
The time scale of most geologic changes is creepingly slow in terms of a human lifetime.
Uplift of mountain ranges may occur at 1-10 mm/year, not even a hill in a human lifetime, but when continued over millions of years it results in some spectacular peaks!An earthquake is an example of a major geologic event that occurs suddenly.
If you look at a map of historic earthquakes (USGS, 2007), you'll notice that most quakes occur near the boundaries between tectonic plates.
At boundaries where the plates oppose one another, tremendous strains can build up between between the plates.
The strains are suddenly released when one plate slips against the other.
The energy from this sudden movement travels through the earth as shock waves.Figure 1 is from a US Geological Survey publication, "The Interior of the Earth" (Robertson, date unknown).
It shows the layers of the Earth, through which the shock waves travel.Figure 1.
The layers of the Earth (Robertson, date unknown).Table 1, from the same publication, gives a brief description of each of the earth's layers (Robertson, date unknown).
Table 1.
Data on the Earth's Interior          Layer          Thickness      (km)        Density (g/cm3)    Types of Rock Found          Top    Bottom            Crust    30    2.2    2.9    Silicic rocks.
Andesite, basalt at base.
Upper mantle    720    3.4    4.4    Peridotite, eclogite, olivine, spinel, garnet, pyroxene.
Perovskite, oxides at bottom.
Lower mantle    2,171    4.4    5.6    Magnesium and silicon oxides.
Outer core    2,259    9.9    12.2    Iron+oxygen, sulfur, nickel alloy.
Inner core    1,221    12.8    13.1    Iron+oxygen, sulfur, nickel alloy.
The shock waves spreading out from an earthquake are called seismic waves (from the Greek word for earthquake).
There are two general types of seismic waves: body waves and surface waves.
Body waves travel through the Earth's interior.
Surface waves, which are analogous to water waves, travel just beneath the Earth's surface.
There are two types of body waves, P waves and S waves.
P waves (also called primary waves) are compression waves.
Like sound waves, they consist of compressions and rarefactions of the material through which they travel.
The compressions and rarefactions are in the same direction that the wave is traveling.
S waves (also called secondary waves) are transverse (or shear) waves, meaning that the ground moves perpendicularly to the direction of travel.
S waves have much higher amplitude than P waves, but travel more slowly.
They carry more destructive force than P waves.
Another difference between P waves and S waves is that S waves cannot travel through the Earth's liquid core, while P waves can.
S waves can therefore be detected by seismometers near the epicenter of an earthquake, but not by more distant seismometers.
P waves can be detected by both local and distant seismometers.Figure 2 (Robertson, date unknown) is a cross-section of the Earth, showing how P waves and S waves travel through the various layers.
Because of the varying density of the layers, the waves are refracted as they pass through the different layers.
This is analogous to the refraction of light waves when they pass from air to water, for example.Figure 2.
"Cross section of the whole Earth, showing the complexity of paths of earthquake waves.
The paths curve because the different rock types found at different depths change the speed at which the waves travel.
Solid lines marked P are compressional waves; dashed lines marked S are shear waves.
S waves do not travel through the core but may be converted to compressional waves (marked K) on entering the core (PKP, SKS).
Waves may be reflected at the surface (PP, PPP, SS)."
(Robertson, date unknown).Figure 3 is a seismometer trace that shows P waves and S waves from an example earthquake.
Since P waves travel faster than S waves, they always arrive first.
The S wave is marked by an abrupt increase in the amplitude of the disturbance on the trace.
In this project you will use a webpage interface to make similar seismograms in order to locate earthquake epicenters.Figure 3.
Example seismogram created with the Global Earthquake Explorer program (GEE, 2006).The difference in travel time between the first P wave and the first S wave can be used to measure the distance from the seismometer recording station to the epicenter of a local earthquake.
In this project you will use this method to determine the location of earthquakes using archived data accessed and displayed with the Global Earthquake Explorer program.
The goal of this project is to locate the epicenters of worldwide earthquakes using archived seismometer data from a global network.
For a more basic version of this project using seismometer data from a web interface (no program to download!)
see the Science Buddies project Locating the Epicenter of an Earthquake.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Plate tectonics Earthquake Temblor Epicenter Seismometer Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) Seismic waves: Body waves, including P-waves and S-waves (also called P and S phases) Surface waves Earth layers: Crust Upper mantle Lower mantle Outer core Inner core Travel time
