 Mix It Up: Transferring Heat by Convection in a Tank  Big, puffy, cotton-like clouds, and the bubbles in a pot of boiling water may not seem like they have much in common, but they doboth are formed by a heat-transfer process called convection.
Warmed gases and liquids rise, while cooler ones fall, creating currents and mixing things up.
Whether making processed foods in a factory or making plastic or metal parts, knowing how to mix up a big tank of hot and cold liquids or gases quickly is important.
Engineers must rely on experimentation to get the best mixing method, as will you when you build a mini mixing tank in this engineering science fair project.
Energy is the ability to cause change or do work.
Every living thing in the world has energy, and almost all energy on Earth comes from the Sun.
Some forms of energy, like light, come directly from the Sun, while other forms of energy, like the foods we eat, come indirectly from the Sun.
Food contains the energy that living things use to power their bodies.Energy can move around or be transferred from one thing to another as thermal energy.
The thermal energy of something is the total energy of all its moving atoms, or particles that make it up.
A cup of hot chocolate, for example, has more thermal energy than the same-sized cup of cold chocolate milk.
The movement of thermal energy from one place to another is called heat.
Heat always moves from a hotter object to a colder one because of the second law of thermodynamics.
If, for example, you pour some hot chocolate into a room-temperature cup, and then touch the outside of the cup, you will notice that the cup itself feels warm.
There has been a heat transfer from the hot chocolate to the cup.Heat transfer can occur in three different ways: conduction, convection, or radiation.
Which method of heat transfer occurs depends upon the physical state of the matter and which type of heat transfer is most efficient for that state.
For example, in solids, heat transfer occurs by conduction, the direct transfer of energy from one particle to another.
In liquids and gases, convectionthe movement of warmer matteris often the most efficient way to transfer heat.
During convection, warmer liquid or gas rises above cooler liquid or gas, and heat is transferred to the cooler liquid or gas during the movement.
As the warmer matter rises, cooler matter rushes in to take its place.
This sets up a circulation pattern.
You've seen this if you've ever watched a boiling pot of water.
The bubbles that rise are the hottest part of the water, and as they come up, the cooler water near the top of the pan falls to the bottom to takes its place.
This is because the hotter liquid is less dense than the cooler liquid, so the cooler liquid sinks.Natural convection is when heat transfer is allowed to occur naturally over time, driven only by temperature differences in a liquid or gas that cause density variations.
These variations make warmer parts rise and cooler parts fall, creating currents and circulation.
If, for example, you fill a bathtub with cold water, and then add a gallon of hot water on one end of the tub, the temperature of the bath water will be hot where you poured the water in, and cold at the other end of the tub.
Over time though, due to natural convection, the temperature of the entire tub of water will even out to the same (warmer) temperature, so that one end of the tub will have the same temperature as the other end, and as the middle.Forced convection is when a liquid or a gas is mixed by an outside force.
When adults make a bath for a child, they often stir the water as the tub is filling up to avoid hot spots.
Or, when you heat a cup of soup in a microwave, you often must give the soup a quick stir partway through the warming, so that it doesn't have cold and hot spots when you sit down to eat it.
This stirring of the liquid by an outside force, like a hand or a spoon, forces the heat transfer to occur more rapidly than it would if it were allowed to progress naturally.Can convection be described with math equations?
Yes, but convection is a complex process and it is difficult to put those equations on a computer and simulate how the temperature of a liquid or gas will change over time as convection occurs.
For instance, if a factory is making hundreds of cookies with a liquid batter in a large tank, it is difficult to predict the best way to mix up that tank so that all the liquid in the tank reaches the same temperature as quickly as possible when a hot or cold ingredient is added.
So instead of using computer simulations, engineers must often conduct experiments under different conditions to get empirical data (data obtained by direct observation), so that they can figure out the best way to mix up the tank.
That's exactly what you'll do, too, in this engineering science fair projectyou'll create a mini tank of your own and see how the temperature of cold water inside the tank changes when hot water is added under different mixing conditions.
To determine the mixing method in a rectangular tank that achieves a final temperature the most rapidly.
Add a food dye, or boiled beet or blueberry juice, to the boiling water before adding it to the loaf pan.
Include observations of the dye's behavior to help you explain the temperature changes during the trials.Select one forced convection method to investigate.
How does the time to reach the final temperature change when different volumes of hot mixing liquid are added to the same volume of cold tank liquid.
Plot the time to reach the final temperature on the y-axis and the ratio of the cold to hot water on the x-axis.Try this science fair project with one or more viscous liquids, such as tomato soup, rather than water.
How does viscosity impact unforced and forced convection?Investigate different shapes of mixing tanks.Investigate different types of mixing tools, such as propellers.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
engineering science fair project, heat transfer, convection, mixing tank, forced convection, liquid Energy Work Thermal energy Atom Heat Second law of thermodynamics Heat transfer Conduction Convection Radiation Physical state Matter Solid Liquid Gas Circulation Density Natural convection Forced convection Simulate Predict Empirical Overshoot Viscous
