 Flippy, the Dancing Robot  Have you ever seen a robot dance?
In this project you will build your own simple flipping, tumbling robot that can dance around on the floor or a tabletop!
If you have never made a robot before and would like to get started with a fun, easy project, this is a great place to begin.
You will follow directions to make a basic robot, and then make your own additions to make it even better!
Imagine inviting your friends over for a dance party.
You've got delicious snacks and some great music on, but when they walk in the door it's not you they see dancing around, but a dancing robot!
In this project you will build a robot, like Flippy the dancing robot, shown in Figure 1, that can dance, flip, and tumble around the floor.
The video after Figure 1 shows the robot in action.
Figure 1.
Flippy the dancing robot (Note: We decided to name this robot Flippy, but you can name your robot whatever you want).
A video demonstration of the dancing robot.
A video demonstration of the dancing robot.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRoxOY0AJXo  The robot uses two small motors in order to move.
Each motor spins around when it is turned on, and has a popsicle stick attached to it as a "leg," which pushes the robot around when it moves.
In order to power the motors, the robot also needs a battery, which provides electricity to the motors.
Electricity powers battery-operated devices that you use every day, like toys or television remotes, and also powers things that plug into wall outlets like lamps.
When you connect the motors to the battery, you complete an electrical circuit, which allows electricity to flow and make the motors spin.
Electricity cannot flow to the motor without a complete circuit.
If you want to learn more about electricity, you can read the Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.In this project, you will use a breadboard (the green rectangular piece in Figure 1) to make it easier to connect the wires in your circuit.
Breadboards make it very easy for beginners to make circuits, because the wire connections are not permanent.
You can just pull the wires out if you make a mistake.
You can learn how to use a breadboard in the Science Buddies reference How to Use a Breadboard.There is just one problemall that flipping and tumbling around can be pretty hard on the robot.
If you are not careful, it could even cause some of the pieces to fall off!
In this project, you will put your engineering skills to the test to see if you can design and build a sturdier dancing robot.
Build a dancing robot and improve its design to make it sturdier.
Investigate how the robot's movement changes if you make different attachments for the "legs."
For example, what happens if you glue multiple popsicle sticks together to form a "T" or "X" shape, instead of using a single popsicle stick on each cork?
Use a stopwatch to time how long it takes for your robot to break for each new test, and make a graph of the data.
Does the robot last longer with each new redesign?
Do you reach a point of diminishing returns, where the time does not increase much, if at all, between tests?Try building a new robot body where the motors are not lined up with each other (for example, mount them at 90degree angles to each other).
Does this change how the robot moves?Order another robot kit and try building a new robot with three or even four motors.
How does it compare to your original dancing robot?Try using different size battery holders (for example, 2xAA or 4xAA instead of 3xAA; but do not use 9volt (V) batteries with these motors, the voltage will be too high).
Do they change the speed of the motors?Reverse the connection of one motor's wires to make both motors spin in the same direction.
Instead of a dancing robot, make a racing robot.
Can you make the robot go faster by altering the popsicle stick attachments?
For example, mount the popsicle sticks so they are centered on the cork instead of sticking out, or use two popsicle sticks to make an "X.
"Add light-emitting diodes (LEDs) to your circuit, so your robot also lights up when it dances.
If you have not worked with LEDs in circuits before, check out the Squishy Circuits Kit and associated Science Buddies projects.
Note that you will also need to add resistors to this circuit to prevent the LEDs from burning out.
The Science Buddies LED Traffic Glove: Build a Safety Device to Direct Traffic and LED Dance Glove: Get the Party Started with Your Own Interactive Light Show projects explain more about LEDs and resistors.
Are you ready to build a more advanced robot?
Check out these Science Buddies robotics projects:    Build a Speedy Light-Tracking Robot (BlueBot Project #2)  Build a Zippy Line-following Robot (BlueBot Project #3)  Build a Motion-Activated Guard Robot (BlueBot Project #1)    Build an Obstacle-Avoiding Robot (BlueBot Project #4)    Explore More!Looking for more robot fun?Explore the World of Robotics with This Suite of Projects!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
engineering, robots, electronics, robotics, motor, breadboard, tumble, tumbling, flipping, dancing, circuit Robot Motor Battery Electricity Circuit Breadboard Row Column
