 What Electric Bills Can Tell You About Energy Use  This project is a great way to "bring home" the concept of energy use.
All you need to get started is a good-sized sample of monthly electric bills from households in your area.
Building from this simple beginning, you can ask questions that can take you in many different directions.
For example: How much electricity does the "average" person in your area use per month?
How much does electricity use vary among different families?
You might not think that a monthly electric bill would be terribly interesting.
However, if you collect a stack of them from different households, you'll find that you can do some very interesting analysis of the numbers.You'll be able to see how much electricity the "average" person uses per month.
Perhaps more importantly, you'll be able to see the amount of variation in usage of electricity from one household to another.
To learn more about electricity, see the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.You can also do some calculations to find out about the costs of using electricity.
Not only in terms of dollars and cents, but also in terms of resources consumed, or carbon dioxide produced.
This project is a great way to start thinking about the importance of energy efficiency and energy conservation.
The goal of this project is to estimate consequences from household electricity use using data from a survey of electric bills combined with information about electricity production.
Here are some ideas for taking the project further:        Investigate other environmental consequences of electric generation.
For example:           Burning coal produces about 1kg of CO2 per kilowatt-hour of electricity produced (plus other pollutants).
(O'Brien, 2007) Figure out how much CO2 this amounts to per person for the "average" electricity user in your study.
Heat-driven electric generation (e.g., coal, natural gas, nuclear) has only about 3035% efficiency overall, which is roughly half of the theoretical maximum efficiency (Second Law of Thermodynamics) of 64%.
(O'Brien, 2007; EIA, 2007b) Coal has a heat energy of 6.6kWh/kg, but because of the 3035% efficiency of the electric generation process, only 2.2kWh of electricity is produced per kg of coal.
Figure out much coal is required per person per year for the "average" electricity user in your study.
To give some life to your numbers, think of equivalent measures for per-person power consumption.
(O'Brien, 2007) For example:           You could figure out how many 60-watt light bulbs could be powered by one person's average monthly electric usage.
You could figure out the equivalent horsepower for a person's monthly electric usage.
You could figure out how much sunlight (in terms of area at the Earth's surface) would be required to provide one person's electric power consumption (using currently available solar electricity technology).
Learn about the mix of generation sources that produce electricity in your state.
How much of the capacity is from renewable sources?
What fraction of the generation capacity could realistically come from renewable sources in the future?
(EIA, 2005b; for states other than California, substitute the desired state name for 'california' in the link text)   Advanced.
Investigate the differences in per person energy costs that you can identify in your study.
Do some families have a more energy-efficient lifestyle?
Design a more in-depth study to find out why and how.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Energy units: kilowatt (kW) kilowatt-hour (kWh) Energy use rate Power load Energy cost: in money terms (cents/kWh) in coal equivalents (kg/month or kg/year) in carbon dioxide emissions (kg/month or kg/year)
