 Squirmy Wormy: Which Soil Type Do Earthworms Like Best?
Do you think worms are gross?
Or that they are only good for birds or fish to eat?
Well, in this zoology science project, you will find out that this lowly animal helps to put food on your table, too, by all the hard work that it does in the dirt.
In this science project, you will discover in what kind of soil it likes to do its work.
It is wiggly good fun!
Here is a riddle for you: What has five hearts, no eyes, and helps feed all the people on Earth?
The earthworm!
How does something so small help so many people?
Well, this amazing animal is important for keeping our dirt or soil healthy.
What?
Dirt can be sick?
Yes, it can.
Just as you need vitamins, like the vitamin C you get from fruits and vegetables to stay healthy, soil needs nutrients, too, so that most plants can grow well in it.
Have you ever watched a magician transform or change an object into something else, like a silk scarf into an egg?
The silk scarf does not really become an egg, it is just a trick.
Earthworms, like magicians, change things too, but their work is no trickit happens for real, right inside the earthworm's body.
The earthworm transforms dead plants and leaves (also called plant matter) into nutrients for the soil.
Earthworms make food for living plants from dead plants.
They leave this plant food (the nutrients) right in the soil where the plants can get to it.
Isn't that nice of the earthworms?
Figure 1 below shows a photo of this amazing little critter.
Figure 1.
Figure 1.
A photo of an earthworm.
(Wikipedia Commons, 2008.)
Chomp, chomp, munch, munch-each night, an earthworm can eat its entire weight in dead plant matter.
So, if you were an earthworm and weighed 70 pounds, that means you would need to eat about 70 pounds of food every day!
Earthworms prefer to eat at night, though, rather than in the day.
That is why they are also called nightcrawlers.
Besides adding nutrients to the soil, earthworms keep the soil healthy by tunneling.
Worms do not have claws or paws to make tunnels, but they do have mouths.
As they eat (and eat and eat), they create tunnels that keep the soil open and full of paths for water and air.
Without earthworms, the soil would be smashed down, making it hard.
It would be difficult for water and air to reach the roots of plants.
Without these wiggly, little creatures, it would be very hard to grow all the beautiful plants that give us oxygen and food.
In this zoology science project, you will explore in which type of soil earthworms like to do their important work.
Does sand make them smile?
Will gravel make them grin?
You can find out with a worm, a box, and some different types of soil.
Determine to which type of soil earthworms are attracted.
Do earthworms stay in the soil that they are put in?
Get four earthworms and put one in each soil type.
Put the box in a cool, dark place and see where the earthworms are the next day.Earthworms are blind, but they do have special cells that can sense light.
What kinds of light do earthworms avoid and what kinds of light do they not mind?
To find out:Set up a box with a lid.Put wet potting soil in four corners.Cut out small holes in the lid above three of the corners, just big enough to fit a flashlight part-way through.Put a small red light flashlight pointing straight down above one corner, a small blue light flashlight pointing straight down above another corner, a small white light flashlight pointing straight down above the third corner, and no flashlight above the fourth corner.Put an earthworm in the center of the box, put the lid on, and turn on all three flashlights.See which type light color the earthworm chooses and which ones it avoids.
You should repeat this several times and then make a graph with light color on the x-axis (no light, red light, blue light, white light), and the number of times the earthworms went to the soil under that color in your experiment on the y-axis.
Do earthworms try to stay away from all lights?
Or just certain colors of lights?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  ergill said:  2013-04-20 07:09:19 What was the most important thing you learned?
worms mostly chose leaves What problems did you encounter?
first worm chose sand!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    hollyandindia said:  2013-04-04 10:50:35 What was the most important thing you learned?
That the worms move very fast to their preferred soil.
I was surprised!
What problems did you encounter?
We didn't encounter any problems!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
We skipped gravel and replaced it with grass because we KNEW the worms wouldn't go to the gravel.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    subzeroflow said:  2013-01-08 19:39:55 What was the most important thing you learned?
swag What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, zoology science project, science project, worm, earthworm, night crawler, dirt, sand, gravel, soil, worms in soil, worms in the soil, soil and worms, worms soil, worm in soil, how to worm farm, soil worms Soil Vitamin Nutrient Transform Graph Bar chart
