 Minds of Their Own: A Chemical Reaction that Changes, then Changes Back!
Have you ever seen a chemical reaction that makes a solution change color?
Probably.
But what about a solution that changes color and then changes back, not only once, but many times?
Sounds pretty exotic!
Whereas most chemical reactions only move in one direction from reactants (starting chemicals) to products, in these rare oscillating reactions, the reaction products appear and disappear for a number of cycles.
Because the products are colored, the solution appears alternately blue, then yellow, then clear.
In this science project, you can even record each cycle of color change using Google's Science Journal app.
The reaction is easy to set up and fun to watchso what are you waiting for?
What do these things have in common: rust forming on an iron nail, a mixture of vinegar and baking soda producing carbon dioxide bubbles, and gasoline burning in a car's engine?
They are all examples of chemical reactions.
In each example, the starting chemicals, or reactants, combine to form the resulting chemicals, or products.
Rust (or iron oxide) forms when iron in the metal combines with oxygen in the atmosphere.
Carbon dioxide forms when the acetic acid in vinegar reacts with sodium bicarbonate in baking soda.
And water, carbon dioxide, and the energy used to make a car move result when gasoline reacts with oxygen.
These reactions all move in one direction, from reactants to products.
However, the Briggs-Rauscher (BR) reaction is different from these reactions in that it oscillates.
To start the chemical reaction, two clear solutions are mixed together.
Watch this video of Briggs-Rauscher oscillating reaction.
Watch this video of Briggs-Rauscher oscillating reaction.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EKTjxxL0kjo The resulting clear solution then turns blue, then yellow, and then clear again.
Each color is present for about 13 seconds (sec).
The cycle of color changes repeats until one or more of the chemicals are used up.
The reaction was developed by Thomas S. Briggs and Warren C. Rauscher of Galileo High School in San Francisco in 1972.Don't let the equations below scare you away!
Don't worry if you think you'll find the following chemistry explanations and chemical equations a bit intimidatingmost professional chemists would agree that the chemistry of the Briggs-Rauscher reaction is complicated!
While you will not need to use the following equations to perform the experiment below, the information is included so you can try to learn and understand the reactions taking place.
There are a lot of things going on at the molecular level to create the oscillating color changes.
However, this science project has the advantage that you can actually see changes in the reaction products (the colored ones, at least) as they form and disappear.
You can even record the color changes with a light sensor!
This science project focuses on how changing the concentration of one of the chemicals (malonic acid) affects the color changes in the reaction.
Do you think the color change will happen faster or slower if you add more chemicals?The following explanation of the chemistry involved in the reaction is based on the University of Leeds chemistry website and Shakhashiri's book (see the Bibliography).
In the BR reaction, the evolution of oxygen and carbon dioxide gases and the concentrations of iodine and iodide ions oscillate.
Here is the list of names for the chemicals in the reactions that follow:  IO3-: Iodate ion, from sodium iodate  H2O2: Hydrogen peroxide  CH2(COOH)2: Malonic acid  H+: Hydrogen ion  ICH(COOH)2: Iodomalonic acid  O2: Oxygen  H2O: Water  HIO: Hypoiodous acid  I-: Iodide ion  HIO2: Iodous acid  Mn2+: Manganese ion, from manganese sulfate  Mn(OH)2: Manganese dioxide  HOO.
: Hydroperoxyl radical   IO2.
: Iodide dioxide radical The mechanism of this reaction can be summarized by the following equations:Equation 1:    IO3-  + 2 H2O2 + CH2(COOH)2 + H+     ICH(COOH)2 + 2 O2 + 3 H2O  This transformation can be represented by two component reactions:Equation 2:    IO3-  + 2 H2O2 + H+     HIO + 2 O2 + 2 H2O  Equation 3:    HIO + CH2(COOH)2     ICH(COOH)2 + H2O    The first of these two reactions can occur by either of two different processes, a radical process and a non-radical process (radicals are atoms, molecules, or ions with unpaired electrons, represented as a dot after the name, as in HOO., the hydroperoxyl radical).
These two component reactions "compete" for dominance, and the processes that dominates is determined by the concentration of iodide ions in the solution.
When [I-] is low, the reaction proceeds primarily by the radical process; when [I-] is high, the non-radical process is the major process.
The second reaction (Equation 3) couples the two processes.
The reaction consumes HIO more slowly than HIO is produced by the radical process when that process is predominant, but it uses up HIO more rapidly than it is produced by the non-radical process.
Any HIO that does not react by Equation 3 is reduced to I- by hydrogen peroxide as one of the component steps of the non-radical process for reaction 2.When HIO is produced rapidly by the radical process, the excess forms the iodide ions, which shut off that radical process and start the slower non-radical process.
Reaction 3 then consumes the HIO so rapidly that not enough is available to produce the iodide ion necessary to keep the nonradical process going, and the radical process starts again.
Each of the processes of reaction 2 produces conditions favorable to the other process; therefore, the reaction oscillates between these two processes.Let's look at the process in a little more detail.
If iodide ions are present in sufficient concentration, the reaction follows the non-radical process, reaction 2.
The iodide ions react relatively slowly with iodate ions.Equation 4:    IO3- + I- + 2 H+   HIO2 + HIO  The iodous acid (HIO2) is further reduced to hypoiodous acid (HIO).Equation 5:    HIO2 + I-  + H+   2 HIO  The hypoiodous acid is then reduced by hydrogen peroxide.Equation 6:    HIO + H2O2  I-  + O2 + H+ + H2O  The net transformation, represented by Equation 2, is obtained by the stoichiometric addition of Equation 4 + Equation 5 + Equation 6.Because reaction  2 is slower than reaction 3 under these conditions, so much HIO is used up by reaction 3 that reaction 6 cannot replenish the I consumed in reactions 4 and 5; the [I] keeps diminishing.Once the concentration of  iodide ions falls below a certain level, the non-radical process becomes very slow, and the radical process for reaction 2 takes over.
This process involves these five steps:Equation 7:    IO3- + HIO2  + H+    2 IO2 + H2O  Equation 8:    IO2 + Mn2++ H2O  HIO2  + Mn(OH)2  Equation 9:    Mn(OH)2 +  H2 O2   Mn2+ + H2O + HOO  Equation 10:    2 HOO   H2O2  + O2  Equation 11:    2 HIO2    IO3- + HIO + H+  These steps, when combined in the stoichiometry of 2 (Equation 7) + 4 (Equation 8) + 4 (Equation 9) + 2 (Equation 10) +1 (Equation 11), have the overall result given by Equation 2.
A significant feature of this process is that, taken together, the first two steps, Equation 7 and Equation 8, are autocatalyticthey produce 2 HIO2 for each one consumed.
Therefore, the rate of these steps increases as they occur.
Because this radical process is autocatalytic, it causes a rapid increase in the concentration of HIO, which is produced by the disproportionation of HIO2 (Equation 11).
This process does not rapidly consume all the iodate in the solution, because the last step is second order in the catalytic species.
Thus, as its concentration increases because of the autocatalytic nature of the early steps, HIO2 is ever more rapidly consumed in this last step, and the sequence of the reactions quickly reaches a steady state.Equations 8 and 9 show the function of the manganese catalyst.
The manganese is oxidized in reaction 8 and reduced in reaction 9.
Its catalytic effect in the reaction is accounted for through its providing the means for reducing IO2 radicals to HIO2, thereby completing the autocatalytic cycle of equations 7 and 8.The hypoiodous acid produced by the radical process reacts with malonic acid by reaction 3.
However, the radical process is faster than reaction 3, and the excess HIO reacts with hydrogen peroxide by reaction 6 to create I-, which shuts off the radical process and returns the system to the slow nonradical process initiated by reaction 4.The dramatic color effects arise because reaction 3 does not take place in a single step, but by the sequence of reactions 12 and 13.Equation 12:    I- + HIO + H+   I2  + H2O  Equation 13:    I2  + CH2(COOH)2  ICH(COOH)2 + H+ + I-  The solution turns amber from the I2 produced through reaction 1, when the radical process maintains [HIO] greater than [I-].
The excess HIO is converted to I- through the reaction with H2O2  (Equation 6).
The solution suddenly turns dark blue when [I-] becomes greater than [HIO], and the I- can combine with I2 to form a complex with the starch.
With [I-] high, reaction 2 switches to the slow nonradical process.
The color then fades as reaction 3 consumes iodine faster than it is produced.
When the system switches back to the rapid radical process, the cycle repeats.When the solutions containing the reactants are mixed, IO3- reacts with H2O2 to produce a little HIO2.
The HIO2 reacts with IO3- in the first step of the radical process (Equation 7).
The autocatalytic radical process follows, rapidly increasing the concentration of HIO.
The HIO is reduced to I- in a reaction with H2O2 (Equation 6).
The large amount of HIO reacts with I-, producing I2 (Equation 12).
The I2 reacts slowly with malonic acid, but the concentration of HIO, I2- all increase, because reaction 2 is faster than reaction 3.
As [I-] increases, the rate of its reaction with HIO2 (Equation 5) surpasses that of the autocatalytic sequence of reactions 7 and 8.
The radical process is then shut off, and the accumulation of reduced iodine is consumed by reaction 3 operating through the sequence of reactions 12 and 13.
Eventually, [I-] is reduced to such a low value that reactions 7 and 8 become faster than reaction 5, and the radical process takes over again.
This oscillating sequence repeats until the malonic acid or IO3- is depleted.For this science project, you will buy a kit that contains all of the chemicals you need.
Wear gloves and safety goggles when working with chemicals.
The focus of the procedure is to investigate how changing the amount of malonic acid affects the color changes produced in the reaction.
Explore factors that control an oscillating chemical reaction.
Vary other chemical components and discuss your observations about what happens in each case.
What happens if there is no starch?
The reaction generates gas.
How would increasing the pressure above the reaction affect the reaction rate?
Devise a way to test your prediction.Vary the temperature; for example, 0, 10, 20, and 30C.Analyze the timing of the reaction using a digital recorder.The oscillations of the Briggs-Rauscher reaction depend on the presence of free radicals in the solution.
Adding antioxidants has been reported to change the oscillations due to their ability to "scavenge" the free radicals.
Devise a way to use the Briggs-Rauscher reaction to test a chemical's ability to function as an antioxidant.
Try another Briggs-Rauscher reaction science project, Create Your Own Chemistry Color-analysis Tools, that involves simple, but cool, computer programming tools to capture the color changes.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, Briggs-Rauscher reaction, oscillating, chemical reaction, iodine, iodide, starch, reaction mechanism, chemistry Chemical reaction Reactant Product Briggs-Rauscher (BR) reaction Oscillate Radical process Stoichiometric addition Stoichiometry Autocatalysis, autocatalytic Disproportionation Steady state Autocatalytic reaction process Catalysis
