 Rusting Out: How Acids Affect the Rate of Corrosion  Have you ever left your bike outside in the rain?
If so, you might have discovered unpleasant surprises afterwardsreddish-brown patches, known as rust, and your wheels, brakes, and gears might have stopped working so smoothly.
In this chemistry science fair project, you'll learn why rust, a type of corrosion, is a serious problem.
You'll also discover that not all rains are the same!
Find out which ones can speed up the rusting process.
Have you ever been told to bring your bike in out of the rain?
Have you ever wondered why?
After all, rain is just water, so maybe the rain could clean your bike, right?
The problem is that some parts of your bike are made of steel.
Steel sounds like a strong metal, and it is, but the main element in steel is iron, and in the presence of water, iron combines easily with another element, called oxygen, to form iron oxide, also known as that reddish-brown substance called rust.
Rust changes steel into a different material, one that is weaker than the original steel.
Rusting is a big problem because so many things people use every day are made out of steel, like cars, trucks, bridges, roofs, holding tanks, machinery, nuts, and bolts.
When these objects are unprotected and exposed to water, they rust, and this damage costs the United States and Europe a lot of moneymore than 3 percent of the value of all the things they make in a year.
Yet steel continues to be widely used because it has an excellent strength-to-weight ratiothe best of all the common building materialsand it is non-flammable, resistant to mold and termites, does not expand or contract under temperature changes, and can be made with a consistent quality.
Figure 1.
These are examples of steel machines and structures on a farm that show signs of rust (iron oxide) formation, a type of corrosion.Rusting is an example of a process called corrosion.
Corrosion means that a chemical reaction has occurred in which metal atoms have combined with oxygen to form an oxide coat.
When those metal atoms are iron, the corrosion is "bad," because it corrodes quickly, weakening the original steel material.
However, if the metal atoms are some other metal that corrodes more slowly, like zinc or chromium, then the corrosion can actually be useful, because the oxide coat that forms from the reaction with these metals can prevent the bad type of corrosion.
That's why steel is often mixed with other metals, like chromium.
As the chromium corrodes, it forms a protective chromium oxide layer on the outside of the steel that greatly slows the corrosion of the iron in the steel.
It keeps your stainless steel pots and pans looking shiny, not rusty, even when they're exposed to water every day when you cook with them or wash them.
Other ways to prevent steel from rusting are to paint it or embed it in concrete.When iron and oxygen combine to make iron oxide (rust), heat is given off, which means the reaction is exothermic (exo means "out" and therm means "heat," so heat is sent out when the reaction occurs).
With a thermometer and a timer, you can measure how fast heat is being given off (the rate), and that will give you an idea of how fast the reaction is occurring.
In this chemistry science fair project, you'll investigate how acids change the rate of rusting as you compare a model of rainwater and models for acid rain.
Acid rain is formed when sulfur and nitrogen compounds enter into the atmosphere.
Sulfur and nitrogen compounds can be released into the atmosphere as a result of either natural events, like a volcanic eruption, or human events, like burning coal to run a factory.
These compounds mix with oxygen in the atmosphere and form acids that combine with water dropletsthe result is rain that is more acidic than usual.
Normal rainwater has a pH of about 5.6; acid rain has a pH of 5.0 or lower.
Ready to see what normal and acid rainwater might do to your bike parts?
Let's get you started!
To determine how pH levels affect the rate of corrosion.
Investigate what happens to the soaked steel wool inside the test tube over a longer period of time, such as 24 hours.
What happens to the temperature over time?
Why do you think it behaves that way?
What happens to the appearance of the steel wool?
Measure the length of any changes that you see.Instead of using the pH table, shown above, to approximate the pH of the solutions that were tested, use pH paper (litmus paper) to measure the actual pH of the solutions that were tested.Try adding salt to the solutions to see if this affects the rates at which heat is released.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  kylie_ciani said:  2016-05-15 15:54:23 What was the most important thing you learned?
this wasnt fun What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    esthermamo said:  2014-02-01 15:03:19 What was the most important thing you learned?
there r different types of rust What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    rileyjazz said:  2014-01-26 13:17:11 What was the most important thing you learned?
Rust is Iron oxide What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Put some excitement into it, it was a little boring Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment chemistry science fair project, steel, iron, oxygen, iron oxide, rust, corrosion, acid, pH, acid rain Steel Element Iron Oxygen Iron oxide Rust Corrosion Atom Oxide coat Zinc Chromium Exothermic Acid Acid rain Compound pH
