 Build a Simple Electric Motor!
When you think of a motor, you may immediately think of a car, but you actually encounter other motors in your home every day.
That's right, if you put on clean clothes from the washing machine, ate food from the fridge, or used a fan, you used an electric motor.
In this electronics science project, you will make a simple electric motor with two magnets that "talk" to each other.
As they interact, they will alternate between "liking" each other (pulling together), and "disliking" each other (pushing away from one another).
All that pushing and pulling will create some serious spinning and that is exactly what a motor is, a spinning axle.
What do windshield wipers, CD players, DVD recorders, blenders, ice makers, laptops, and walking toys have in common?
They all contain electric motors.
In fact, you can walk through your house and find many electric motors hidden in electrical devices, appliances, and toys in every room.
The electric motors are not always obvious in devices, and you might need to do some background research about how the devices work to discover where their motors are hidden.
Electric motors are an important, and even vital, part of our world today.
But, you may have wondered, just how do those electric motors work?
Have you ever played with magnets?
If so, you are well on your way to understanding how simple electric motors work.
Magnets produce a magnetic field with a north pole and a south pole.
If you try to push the north poles of two magnets together, they will not want to come together.
Instead, they will repel each other.
The same thing happens if you try to push two south poles together.
If, however, you bring the north pole of one magnet close to the south pole of another, they will attract each other and stick together.
In summary, like poles (north-north or south-south) repel, opposite poles (north-south) attract.
The stronger the magnets, the more forceful the attraction / repulsion is between them.
As you've probably seen, magnets are typically black, so there is no visible way to tell which end is north and which is south.
You can detect the existence of a magnetic field and identify the north/south pole with a compass (which is basically a bar magnet mounted so that it can rotate), as shown in Figure 1, below.
Figure 1.
The top part of this diagram shows how the needle of a compass aligns in the presence of a bar magnet, revealing the poles of the magnet.
A compass needle is basically a small bar magnet, as shown in the lower diagram.
As opposite poles attract, the north pole of the needle will be attracted to the south pole of the magnet.
A permanent magnet (further explained below) is represented in this diagram.
This method to find the poles of a magnet can also be used to detect the presence and direction of a magnetic field around a temporary magnet (also further explained below).
An electric motor uses the attracting and repelling properties of magnets to create motion.
An electric motor contains two magnets; in this science project, you will use a permanent magnet (also called a fixed or static magnet) and a temporary magnet.
The temporary magnet is also called an electromagnet.
A permanent magnet is surrounded by a magnetic field (a north pole and a south pole) all the time (hence the term "permanent"), but the electromagnet creates a magnetic field (a north pole and a south pole) only when electric current  is flowing through a wire (hence the term "temporary").
The strength of the electromagnet's magnetic field can be amplified by increasing the current through the wire, or by forming the wire into multiple loops.
Such loops of electrical wire are often called a coil.
You can read more about electromagnetism in the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial.
To make an electric motor, the electromagnet (the temporary magnet) is placed on an axle so it can spin freely.
It is then positioned within the magnetic field of a permanent magnet.
This is when things get interesting!
When a current is passed through the electromagnet, the resulting temporary magnetic field (made up of a north pole and a south pole) interacts with the permanent magnetic field (made up of a north pole and a south pole) to create attractive and repelling forces.
These forces push the electromagnet, which freely spins on its axle, and an electric motor is born.
The strength of the permanent magnet and the electromagnet will play a role in the strength of the repelling or attracting forces, and thus, in the speed at which the motor is spinning.
You can actually predict in which direction the coil will be pushed (or in which direction the motor will spin) with Fleming's left-hand rule for motors.
Hold your left hand out, as shown in Figure 2 below, with the thumb, pointer, and middle fingers at right angles to each other and imagine arrows at the end of these three fingers.
Your pointer finger represents the direction of the magnetic field of the permanent magnet (from north pole, pointing toward your palm, to south pole, pointing away from your finger).
Your middle finger represents the direction of the electric current in the wire (which flows trough the wire from the positive terminal of the battery to the negative terminal of the battery).
The direction of the force or push on the wire is predicted by the direction in which your thumb is pointing.
Figure 2.
This diagram shows Fleming's left-hand rule for motors: the thumb represents the direction of the force (or push) on the wire, the pointer finger represents the direction of the magnetic field, and middle finger represents the direction of the electric current.
Note that all fingers are at right angles to each other.
Can you apply this rule to the current in the short piece of wire shown in Figure 3, below?
Hold your left hand with your middle finger pointing to the right (the direction of the current), your pointer finger pointing at a right angle to the middle finger (direction of the magnetic field, represented by the black dotted arrows in Figure 3), and your thumb at a right angle with respect to your middle and pointer fingers.
Is your thumb pointing up?
It should be, as in this configuration, where the wire will be pushed upward.
Figure 3.
Diagram showing the direction in which a current-carrying wire (electromagnet) will be pushed when placed in a permanent magnetic field, based on Fleming's left-hand rule for motors.
The direction of the permanent magnetic fieldfrom north pole to south poleis represented by black dotted arrows in this diagram.
Knowing how a current-carrying wire moves, what would happen if the wire was bent into a loop?
Figure 4, below, will help you find out.
You can (in your imagination) break the loop up into individual segments of straight wire, analyze those using Fleming's left-hand rule, and use this to determine which way the loop will move.
Figure 4 shows the loop broken up into a wire close to the south pole and one close to the north pole.
Using Fleming's left-hand rule shows that the segment closer to the south pole is pushed up, and the segment closer to the north pole is pushed down.
In other words, the two sides of the loop are pushed in opposite directions, right?
When the wire loop is placed on an axle, these pushes in opposite directions cause it to spin.
(Note, no force or push is created when the magnetic field and the current run parallel to each other.)
Figure 4.
Diagram showing the direction in which a current-carrying wire loop (electromagnet) will be pushed when placed in a permanent magnetic field, based on Fleming's left-hand rule for motors.
The direction of the permanent magnetic fieldfrom north pole to south poleis represented by black dotted arrows in this diagram.
The electromagnet is most often a coil, or a bundle of loops.
Because all loops of wire are parallel, each loop will get the same push.
Adding up all those pushes, or motions, creates the nice spinning movement of a motor.
If you are a little frustrated that you do not understand exactly how Fleming's left-hand rule works, don't worry!
Just keep it in mind as you make the motor, study it, and try to understand the physics behind it again once you have seen the motor running.
If it is still difficult to understand, ask for help from a teacher or visit  Science Buddies' Ask an Expert forums.
To make a motor, the electromagnet must spin in full circles.
Let us get a little more practice with Fleming's left-hand rule of motors and predict the direction of motion for different positions of a current-carrying coil placed in a permanent magnetic field and see what happens.
Scientists use schematic drawings (diagrams) of electric circuits.
Two such drawings can be found in Figure 5, below.
They both represent a battery-powered current-carrying coil (or electromagnet) placed in a magnetic field.
Drawing B results from Drawing A, as the electromagnet rotates over 180 degrees.
Use Fleming's left-hand rule to predict in which direction the coil will turn for Drawing A and for Drawing B.
Figure 5.
Schematic drawings are used to predict in which direction a current-carrying coil will move when placed in a permanent magnetic field.
The blue arrows indicate the magnetic field (away from the north pole), and the red arrows indicate the direction of the current (positive terminal to negative terminal of the battery).
The motion of the coil can be determined using Fleming's left-hand rule for motors.
Did you predict that the direction of rotation in Drawing A would be opposite to the direction in Drawing B?
That is correct.
These opposite forces will make the electromagnet flip forward and back, but never let it make a full turn.
To create a motor, the electromagnet needs to rotate continuously, either clockwise or counterclockwise.
Before you read on, can you think of a way to make the electromagnet spin around continuously?
There are actually several ways to make the electromagnet placed in a permanent magnetic field spin.
The solution applied in this science project uses  Newton's first law of motion , which states that an object in motion remains in motion unless acted upon by an outside force.
This means that when the electromagnet is spinning, it will continue to coast through a rotation unless something stops it.
As discussed above, if current is always flowing through the wire, the resulting pushes will oppose each other, and the coil will bounce back and forth, but not spin continuously.
However, if we can make the current flow only half of the time, all the pushes are in the same direction.
This means the coil is actively pushed one-half of each rotation while current is flowing, and "coasts" through the next half while no current is flowing, until it comes around and receives the next push.
This allows the motor to spin continuously.
If this is your first experience with electrical circuits, it is important to remember that electrical current always needs a complete path in which to flow; in this case, from the positive to the negative terminal of the battery.
If there is a gap in the circuit (for example, a disconnected or broken wire), the current will stop flowing.
This science project walks you through the process of creating your own simple electric motor.
You will start by creating an electromagnet suitable for the motor.
This temporary magnet will then be placed in a permanent magnetic field and off it goes!
Learn how to build a simple electric motor and study how simple changes affect the motor's rotation.
Evaluate different coil shapes.
Keep the total length of wire the same, but compare circular loops versus square loops, or bigger loops with respect to smaller loops.
Evaluate what happens if you move a neodymium magnet (e.g.
one of the other neodymium magnets that come in the kit) closer to and away from your motor.
Experiment with bringing the different poles of your neodymium magnet close to your spinning motor.
(Note: You might want to stack several magnets together to increase their strength.)
Can you change the motor so it can be switched on and off with a simple movement, perhaps by connecting a wire to the axle support (paperclip)?
Hint: To break the electrical circuit (with the intent to create an on [closed circuit]/off [open circuit] switch), you can mount the paperclip on one end of the battery, as shown in Figure 21, below.
Note the electrical contact between the paperclip and the battery is prevented by electrical tape.
(In the picture, the paperclip is held in place on top of the electrical tape using transparent tape; this tape is used for educational reasons only.
Electrical tape might make a more sturdy construction).
The electrical tape under the paperclip holds an electrical wire in place creating an electrical connection between the wire and the battery terminal.
Figure 21.
Picture showing how to change the motor to facilitate an on/off switch.
Evaluate what happens if you place a second battery in series into the circuit.
How will the current in your electromagnet be affected?
What effect does it have on the temporary magnetic field strength?
How does the motor react to this change?
To place the second battery in series, you will need to create a connection, as shown in Figure 21, and make some more connections using wire.
Figure 22 shows what the result might look like.
Figure 22.
A simple electric motor powered by two batteries connected in series.
A first wire (Wire 1) connects the positive terminal of the first battery with the negative terminal of the second battery.
A second wire (Wire 2) connects the positive terminal of the second battery with the axle support to create a closed loop.
Create a motor using a 9-V battery, like the batteries used to power smoke detectors.
Note that you will need to use at least one wire, as this type of battery has the positive and the negative terminals of the battery on the same side.
What other elements of the motor could you change to make your motor go faster or slower?
Remember to change one element at a time and observe its effect before changing the next element.
For a more advanced science project, use a voltage probe, a digital multimeter (set to measure frequency), or an oscilloscope to calculate the rate of motor spin for the different magnet strengths.
How to calculate the rate of motor spin using a voltage probe is described in    this Vernier source.
Use the same kit to explore how electricity is generated by following the directions in these projects:    Shed Light on Electric Generators: Do More Coils Generate More Electricity?
and    Power Move: Manipulating Magnets to Improve Generator Output.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  samiel said:  2015-11-08 19:34:40 What was the most important thing you learned?
/wrlt;lm trh;th What problems did you encounter?
tetlhjatohaithu Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
thatoijhioiatjhat Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    peterofmeh said:  2013-10-22 13:00:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
Copper is really attracted to electricity, causing the object to become magnetic.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    lakshaygarg1996 said:  2013-01-30 03:27:13 What was the most important thing you learned?
A beautiful application of electromagnets What problems did you encounter?
Coils with large number of turns are quite heavy and bend due to their own weight.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Electronics science project, electric motor, electromagnet, Beakmans motor, magnet, permanent magnet, temporary magnet, electromagnet, simple motor, science project, Flemings left-hand rule, axle Electric motor Magnet Magnetic field North pole South pole Repel Attract Permanent or static magnet Temporary magnet Electromagnet Electric current Axle Fleming's left-hand rule for motors Beakman's motor Electric circuit Electrically insulating
