 Crystal Ball Math: Predicting Population Growth with Models  When is an animal considered endangered?
When will it become extinct?
What happens when a population has reached the limits of its resources?
What happens to a population when a habitat changes?
These are some of the questions population biologists try to answer.
They use population models, created from math equations, to predict what will happen to a population over time.
If you want to see how modeling is done and make some predictions of your own, you certainly won't need a crystal balljust try this environmental science fair project!
Animal life is all around you, in beauty and abundance.
Tiny microbes thrive on your healthy, normal skin; jellyfish float like lacy parachutes through the seas; red-faced turkey vultures cruise the skies, barely flapping at all as they scavenge for carcasses; and beady-eyed rodents scurry nervously through the fields.
Such different-looking creatures, but they all have similar biological characteristics:  They do not have rigid cell walls.
They have a type of cell called eukaryotes.
Their cells are specialized into different types of tissues, like skin and muscle.
They try to keep their internal environments within a normal range (they use feedback control for homeostasis).
They eat plants or animals to get the carbon and energy needed to survive (they are heterotrophs).
Most of them move.
All of them reproduce, usually with two sets of genetic material inside each of their cells.
Figure 1.
There are many types of animals, but they have similar biological characteristics.
(Turkey vulture, Callie Bowdish, 2006; Rat, Kristin Kearns, 2009).All animals also interact with their external environments, and their ability to grow and increase in numbers is limited by the amount of resources that are available to them.
Resources include things they use to survive, things they eat and drink, and their habitat.
Natural predators also influence an animal's numbers, or population.
If an environment changes, due to human or natural factors, an animal's habitat and numbers of natural predators can be affected, and an animal's population can increase or decrease.
An oil spill is a well-known example of how a human factor can impact the environment, affect a habitat, and change the populations of certain species.
Another example in North America is the deer population.
Many natural predators of deerlike wolves, mountain lions, and coyoteshave smaller populations than they did centuries ago, due to city growth and the resulting loss of predator habitats.
Consequently, the deer population has increased.Biologists sample and model populations to see if animals are present in healthy numbers, and if those numbers will remain healthy in the future.
Modeling is a way of using math equations to predict what will happen to a population over time.
The first and simplest model was developed in the late 1700's by Thomas Malthus.
He noted that with unlimited resources, most populations will grow exponentially.
Equation 1:    P(t) =    P0ert    P(t)  is the population as a function of time, represented by a number.
P0  is the initial population, represented by a number.
e  is Euler's number, which is approximately 2.718.  r is the growth rate.
t is time, often given in years.
For example, if you start with an initial population of 25 individuals, you can see in Figure 2 what will happen to the population in later years, at growth rates of 1 and 2 percent, if the animals have unlimited resources (unlimited habitat, unlimited food, and no predators).
You can see from the curves that a 1 percent growth rate results in a doubling of the population about every 70 years.
A 2 percent growth rates results in a doubling about every 35 years.
Figure 2.
These graphs show how a population will grow, according to the simple exponential model, over a 100-year time span, starting with an initial population of 25, and with growth rates of 1 and 2 percent.If you look at even faster growth rates, like 3, 4, and 5 percent, you can see in Figure 3 how quickly the population grows, but the shape of all the curves is the same.
These exponential J-curves have been said to hold true over the short term.
However, in the real world, resources are generally limited, so over the long term, the Malthus model, which assumes unlimited resources, does not hold true.
Figure 3.
These graphs show how a population will grow, according to the simple exponential model (the Malthus model), over a 100-year time span, starting with an initial population of 25, and with growth rates of 3, 4, and 5 percent.
Note that as time increases, all the curves begin to take on a "J" shape.In the 1800's Pierre-Franois Verhulst tried to correct the model.
He refined Malthus' model to include information about the carrying capacity, which is the size of a population that a habitat can support.
The carrying capacity is the level at which the birth rate matches the death rate, resulting in a constant population over time.
It is affected by factors such as food, number of predators, and competition for resources.
Verhulst's model is given below.Equation 2:    P(t) =                            P0ert                                          K + P0 (ert - 1 )                P(t) is the population as a function of time, represented by a number.
P0  is the initial population, represented by a number.
e  is Euler's number, which is approximately 2.718.  r is the growth rate.
K  is the carrying capacity.
t is time, often given in years.
You can compare Equations 1 and 2 to see the different terms.
Verhulst modified the Malthus model to show that if the starting population is well below the carrying capacity, K, the population will initially grow rapidly (like the J-curve), but the growth will slow as the population reaches its carrying capacity.
This logistic model produces a population curve with an "S" shape, and so is called an S-curve.
The model also predicts a different kind of growth behavior if the starting population is well above the carrying capacity.
In this environmental science fair project, you will investigate what happens to a population when it is far below, at, or far above the carrying capacity of its habitat.
To learn some of the ways in which animal population growth is modeled, and then use the logistic model to determine how a population grows when it is far below, at, or far above its carrying capacity.
In the logistic model given above, the carrying capacity is staticit does not change with time.
Investigate what happens when the carrying capacity is time-varying.
A time-varying carrying capacity can model what happens seasonally to populations (due to weather changes).The Lotka-Volterra equations are a pair of differential equations used to model interactions between two species, like a predator and prey.
Implement the predator-prey equations in difference-equation form on a programmable tool and investigate what happens to two populations simultaneously.
Do the peaks and valleys in the populations occur at the same time?
Or are they shifted apart from each other in time?
If so, by how much are they shifted?
Use classic population studies of wolves and moose, done at places like Isle Royale National Park in Lake Superior, to help you in your experiment.Invasive species, such as zebra mussels in the Great Lakes, have caused extensive ecological damage.
Investigate, through a model, how an invasive species grows.Investigate, through a model, how habitat loss affects the polar bear population.Compare the population growths of a K-selected and an R-selected species.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
environmental science fair project, exponential model, logistic model, carrying capacity, population, Malthus, resource, habitat, animal, math, growth rate Resource Predator Population Sample Model Exponential model J-curve Carrying capacity Logistic model S-curve Difference equation Differential equation Variable Initial For loop Static Time-varying Lotka-Volterra model Invasive species
