 Keeping Up  Do you ever feel like you need to move your legs faster than your parents do just to keep up with them?
This could be because of the difference in leg length between you and your parents.
How many more steps do you need to take compared to your parents to walk down the block?
Can you use a walking test to determine how tall a person is?
This science project will help you find out!
You can even use your phone and Google's Science Journal app to record the steps and determine the pace.
An activity tracker or fitness tracker is an electronic device that is often used by joggers or walkers to tell them how far a distance they have traveled, how much energy was used during the activity, etc.
Its predecessor is the pedometer (Figure 1).
The name pedometer comes from the Latin words "ped," which means to walk, and "meter," which means to measure.
Pedometers measure the number of steps taken and use that to calculate the distance walked.
Figure 1.
A picture of a fitness tracker (left) and a pedometer (right).
Wondering how a pedometer works?
Pedometers detect the swinging or bouncing motion that occurs with every step you take.
They count the number of swings or bounces to obtain a number of steps.
Older pedometers used mechanical switches or swinging levers to pick up motion.
Newer electronic devices contain special measuring parts called accelerometers.
These measure changes in motion in three different directions (up/down, front/back and side-to-side).
Figure 2 shows how an accelerometer in a cellphone measures changes in motion in three directions.
Newer electronic pedometers use data from the accelerometer to measure the number of steps taken.
Figure 2.
Accelerometers in cell phones and other electronic devices measure the change in motion in three directions.
In mathematics and physics, these directions are usually labeled X, Y, and Z.How can a pedometer or fitness tracker determine how far you have walked based on how many steps you have taken?
It does this by assuming each step is the same length.
Some pedometers ask you to enter your height, or how tall you are, before you start walking, and use that to estimate the length of your step.
By multiplying the length of each step by the counted number of steps, the pedometer can calculate the total distance traveled.
This relies on an important assumption, thoughthat a person's height can be used to predict the length of their step!
Do you think this is true?
In this project, you will find out by asking people of different heights to walk a certain distance, and counting how many steps each of them takes.
Test if the height of a person is related to the length of their steps, and if this information can be used to estimate a person's height.
Make another data table for estimating the height of a person based on how many steps they take to walk a certain distance, using the best fit line from your graph.
It should have columns for the number of steps, the estimated height, and the actual height.
Now find more volunteers and try to estimate their height based upon your line of best fit and the number of steps they take to walk 20m.
How often are you close to their real height?
How accurate are your estimates?
Do you think the distance you have people walk affects the precision of your experiment and the quality of your best-fit line?
What happens if you only count steps over a short distance (5meters) or a longer distance (40meters)?
How does the speed of walking affect the number of steps required to go a certain distance?
You can do an experiment where you walk the 20meter distance slowly, moderately fast, or very fast to see if the number of steps changes with speed.
Will there be more steps for slower or faster walking?
What about running?
Would taller people take less time to walk the 20m course?
If you recorded your data with the Science Journal App, you can look back at your recorded graphs and read the duration of the walk from the graphs.
Make a new scatter plot with the height of the person on the X-axis and the duration on the Y-axis.
Do you see a clear relation?
If you did not use the Science Journal app, you can use a stopwatch to time how long it takes each volunteer to walk 20meters.
Do people of the same height all take steps of the same length?
What if two people are the same height but one of them has longer or shorter legs relative to their body?
Try to find a bunch of volunteers who are about the same height, and measure their total height and the length of their legs.
Does the ratio of leg length to body length affect how many steps they take to walk a certain distance?
If you have a video camera, you can use it to find out how exactly the graph from the Science Journal app corresponds to walking motion.
Use the camera to film a person walking from the side, and hit record on the camera at the same time someone hits record in the app.
Then, the video's timeline will be synced up with the x-axis time of the recorded data.
What point in your step (for example, when you first lift your foot up, when your foot is off the ground, when you put your foot down, etcetera) do the peaks and valleys in the graph correspond to?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
sports science project, walking, height, pace, estimation, stepping, steps, ratios, human body Activity tracker or fitness tracker Distance Pedometer Accelerometer Height Hypothesis Pattern Best fit Estimate
