 From Trash to Gas: Biomass Energy  Have you ever dreamed of a world where you could take the scraps from last night's dinner and toss them into your car's fuel tank and make gas?
Well, we're not quite in "Back to the Future" yet, but in this energy science fair project, you'll discover that food scraps, dead plants, sawdust, and other decaying organic matter, called biomass are a rich source of energy.
You can get energy out of biomass by burning it, turning it into a liquid, or by turning it into a gas called biogas.
You've probably burned biomass (like dead wood) before if you've ever built a campfire, and you've seen biogas being produced if you've ever watched cows happily munching on green grass.
The cows eat a type of biomass (grass or hay) and turn it into the biogas, methane, in their digestive tracts.
In this energy science fair project, you'll compare the amounts of biogas produced by different types of biomass.
It can be fun to take a drive through the beautiful countryside on a summer day, with the windows rolled down and your hair flying in the breeze.
If you drive past a cattle farm though, you may be inclined to roll your windows back up!
Although the smell of manure from cows and other ruminants can be strong and unpleasant, the waste is a rich source of energy that can be used to run the farm.Manure is not the only waste that is a rich source of energy.
What you might think is "just garbage," might actually be turned into energy.
Dead plants, rotting food, wood chips, sawdust, leftover crops, nut shells, and paper products are all examples of biomass, which are natural materials or organic matter that can be used to make energy.Is it hard to get energy out of biomass?
No; in fact, people have been doing it for thousands of years.
If you've ever sat around a campfire or fireplace, you've been warmed by burning biomass.
Biomass can be burned on a larger scale to create electricity.
Biomass (such as decaying plant matter, farm waste, wood waste, or industrial waste) is brought by large trucks to a huge incinerator where it is burned and the heat is used to boil water, create steam, and drive a steam generator  that can produce electricity.
Biomass energy is considered a form of renewable energy, meaning it can be replaced by nature.
Biomass energy, along with other renewable sources, like hydroelectric, solar, geothermal, and wind energy, provide 7 percent of the total energy needs of the United States, and that percentage is expected to rise.What other ways, besides burning, can you get energy out of biomass?
You can turn it into a liquid or a gas.
Turning it into a liquid involves a process called fermentation, which changes some forms of biomasslike corn, sugarcane, or switchgrassinto an alcohol-based fuel, called ethanol, which can power cars and be used as cooking fuel.
Turning it into a gas is basically what cows do naturally in their digestive system, using bacteria to change biomass into methane, which is the main component in natural gas.
Natural gas is an important fuel for heating homes; running stoves, ovens, and dryers; producing electricity and fertilizers; and running special cars and trucks.
When made from biomass, natural gas is called biogas.
In aerobic sportslike running, walking, swimming, dancing, and bicyclingoxygen is used to generate the energy needed to continue the physical activity for a long period of time.
For the creation of biogas, the opposite type of environment is needed to generate energy.
Biogas is made by special anaerobic bacteria, microorganisms that live in environments without oxygen.
The anaerobic bacteria break down the biomass into methane in a series of processes called anaerobic digestion.
Biogas can be tapped directly from landfills,where sanitation workers dump and cover up everyone's trash, or from biogas generators where farmers or engineers mix biomass with anaerobic bacteria.In this energy science fair project, you will explore what kinds of biomass are good at making biogas.
The kinds of biomass you will investigate are cow manure by itself and cow manure with vegetable peelings or with mashed banana.
You will figure out how much biogas each biomass makes by filling empty soda bottles with these different types of biomass, sealing each bottle with a balloon, and measuring the inflation of the balloons (inflated mostly by methane!)
over several days.
Which biomass makes the most biogas?
To compare the amount of biogas that is produced from different types of biomass.
Investigate how the following affect biogas production:TemperaturepHAntibiotics DetergentUsing the resources in the Bibliography, above, and with the help of an adult, devise a safe way to test whether the biogas you produced is flammable.Biogas production can be increased by delignification (removing lignin) in the biomass before putting it into the biogas generator.
One way to achieve delignification of a biomass is through white rot fungus.
For more information about white rot fungus, check out the Bibliography, above.
Compare the biogas production of the same biomass with and without an initial treatment of white rot fungus.Add negative controls to the main experiment above by including six additional test bottles.
Fill three of the bottles with 20 g of mashed banana only (add no manure), and three of the bottles with 20 g of vegetable peelings only (add no manure).
Add distilled water to the bottles, then seal and test them with the other nine bottles, as directed above.
How do your negative controls compare to the mashed banana and vegetable peelings test bottles that do contain cow manure?
What happened with the addition of the cow manure?
What component of the cow manure do you think accounts for the differences?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  64436 said:  2015-12-03 16:56:13 What was the most important thing you learned?
that bio gas can be created quickly, but also disperses quickly.
What problems did you encounter?
The balloons sprung leeks and made the testing area smell.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    HKR said:  2013-04-19 03:45:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
that science involves lots of failures What problems did you encounter?
We failed 3 times to get it to work.
The balloons kept perishing and getting holes.
Tried high quality helium balloons but still unsuccessful which was very disappointing Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Any help would be appreciated or alternates to balloons.
Maybe they just don't make balloons strong enough here Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    raintrejo said:  2012-06-18 12:07:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
about useing waste and turn it into gas!
What problems did you encounter?
the balloons did not blow u Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
for the web page to give more details Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
15                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment energy science fair project, biomass, renewable energy, biogas, methane, biogas generator, waste Manure Ruminant Energy Biomass Organic matter Steam generator Renewable energy Hydroelectric Geothermal Liquid Gas Fermentation Ethanol Methane Natural gas Fertilizer Biogas Aerobic Anaerobic bacteria Microorganism Anaerobic digestion Landfill Biogas generator Global warming Carbon-neutral Delignification Lignin Negative control
