 Spin Zone: Separating Butter with a Salad Spinner Centrifuge  Imagine that you could make an important piece of laboratory equipment in your kitchen.
With this science project idea, you can!
You will create your own centrifuge out of a salad spinner and some putty.
In science labs, centrifuges are used to separate different liquids and/or solids from each other.
You can load your homemade centrifuge with samples and see how they separate.
What do you think happens to melted butter in a centrifuge?
Have you ever dropped a rock into a river and watched it sink?
The rock sinks because it is denser than water.
Some objects do not sink in water because they are less dense than water.
For example, think of a small Styrofoam "peanut" and a rock that is the same size and shape.
If you dropped the Styrofoam and the rock in a glass of water, what do you think would happen to each?
The rock would sink while the Styrofoam would float.
This is because the rock is denser than the Styrofoam, making the rock weigh a lot more than the Styrofoam peanut.
Density is based on how heavy something is, but also on how big something is.
More specifically, density is the mass per volume of an object.
(Mass is basically how much something weighs and volume is how much space it takes up).
As demonstrated here with the rock and Styrofoam peanut, two objects that are the same size (or volume) could have a different density.
Can two things be separated based on their density?
Clearly the answer is yes.
When you drop a rock in water, the rock "separates" from the water, sinking to the bottom.
The rock sinks because of the force of gravity on the mass of the rock, pulling the rock down.
If you mix other substances together that have different densities, they will often separate from each other again, due to gravity.
(The tendency for substances to separate out of a fluid is called sedimentation.)
However, sometimes it takes substances a long time to separate, especially if their densities are similar.
A centrifuge is a machine that can speed up the process of separating substances based on their density.
Scientists use centrifuges in laboratories all the time to separate one chemical compound or biological substance from another.How does a centrifuge help separate things based on their density?
By spinning really fast!
It all comes down to force.
For an object to move, it must experience a force that makes it move in a certain direction.
Once the object experiences this force, it is set in motion and will continue this motion until it experiences a new, different force.
For example, if you are riding in a moving car and it suddenly stops, you will rock forward because your body keeps moving at the same speed and in the same direction.
However, a centrifuge is a machine that spins objects in a circle, not in a straight line.
What forces act on an object when it is spinning in a circle?
When an object moves in a circle, the object is forced to move out, away from the center of the circle.
For example, as you ride in that same car and it makes a turn, you experience this circular motion as your body moves to the outside of the turn, away from the direction of the turn.
The force that keeps you moving in a circular path, even though your body wants to move away from the center of the circle, is called centripetal force.
What do these forces have to do with a centrifuge?
As we mentioned, a centrifuge spins really fast.
Substances, or samples, are put in tubes and spun inside of the centrifuge.
The samples are usually made up of a mixture of particles in liquid.
As the tube spins, these particles hit the side of the tube because they move to the outer edge, away from the center of the centrifuge, just as when your body is pushed to the side of a car making a turn.
When the particles hit the side of the tube, they slide down it because of sedimentation.
Just as the rock sunk and the less dense Styrofoam peanut floated when put in the glass of water due to the force of gravity, circular motion and gravity cause denser particles to move faster and end up closer to the bottom of the tube than the less-dense particles.
This separates the sample into layers, where each layer is made up of particles of the same density, as shown in Figure 1.
As more of these denser particles slide to the bottom of the tube, a precipitate may form.
A pellet is a relatively hard, solid clump.
Figure 1.When a sample is spun in a centrifuge, particles of different densities separate into layers, as diagrammed here with a tube containing a purple sample (left) separating into red and blue layers (right).
The tube on the left contained a mixture of particles that gave it a purple color.
In the tube on the right, the blue layer is made up of particles that are denser than those of the red layer.
If the blue layer were much smaller and hard and solid, it might be referred to as a precipitate.Now that you know how a centrifuge works, you can see what one looks like by watching the video.
This video shows a scientist placing samples in a large refrigerated centrifuge.
Notice how the scientist types the number 14,000 for the rotations per minute (rpm) setting?
This means that the samples will spin in a circle (a rotation) fourteen thousand times in a single minute!
That kind of speed generate a lot of force.
This video shows a scientists using one type of centrifuge that is commonly found in laboratories.
(Used by permission from Thermo Fisher Scientific, the copyright owner.)
Watch this Thermo Fisher Scientific YouTube video of scientists using a centrifuge  http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=54mwaja-uws  In this biotechnology techniques science project, you will build your own centrifuge using a salad spinner to investigate what butter is made of.
A salad spinner can be made into a centrifuge relatively easily.
Although a salad spinner centrifuge can not spin at super high speeds like the one in the laboratory video it is still useful.
In fact, such a centrifuge has even been used to analyze human blood samples!
(Watch the video to hear about two students at Rice University who made a centrifuge from a salad spinner to do this.)
When you centrifuge melted butter, it will separate into two layers.
But what are those two layers made of?
You will be mixing melted butter with milk and then with olive oil to try and find out!
This video shows two students at Rice University discussing their creation of "The Sally Centrifuge," a centrifuge made from a salad spinner used to analyze blood samples.
Watch this Rice University YouTube video of students discussing their creation of "The Sally Centrifuge" http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=COOIjVGPCt4 Make a centrifuge from a salad spinner and use your centrifuge to investigate what butter is made of.
A centrifuge separates particles based on density, but gravity can also do this over time.
Try this project again but also time how long it takes the tubes to separate into layers just by making them sit vertically (straight up in a drinking glass or vase).
How long does it take the mixed mixtures to completely separate into the layers you saw from centrifuging?
Does it take much longer than the minute it took for centrifuging?
How efficiently does the centrifuge separate other mixtures?In this science project you centrifuged butter with milk or olive oil to investigate butter, but there are many other things you can centrifuge to learn more about them.
For example, water-soluble liquids and fat-soluble liquids do not generally mix well and can be separated easily.
You can try to determine the solubility of a liquid by mixing it in equal parts with carrot juice or another water-soluble liquid and olive oil.
Centrifuge the mixture and see which layer got bigger.
Did the liquid turn out to be water-soluble or fat-soluble?
Some things you could test include rubbing alcohol, molasses, corn syrup, honey, maple syrup, petroleum jelly, vinegar, different kinds of oils, and liquid dish detergent.
If you spin a sample faster in the centrifuge, will it separate better?
Make a mixture of something (you can use melted butter again or try something else, such as olive oil, carrot juice, and sand) and see what happens when you spin it slowly in the centrifuge for one minute.
Compare how this looks to when you spin it faster in the centrifuge for one minute.
You can count the number of turns you do in a minute so you know how slow or fast you are spinning the sample.
How did spinning the mixture fast compare to spinning it slow?
Is this what you would expect?
How can you make your salad spinner centrifuge work even better?
Think of how to improve upon the design of your centrifuge, such as by using other kinds of tubes, other ways to attach the tubes, making it more durable, or even using a different kind of system to spin the tubes (such as a different salad spinner style or even a bicycle wheel).
Determine how you can measure your centrifuge's efficiency, perhaps by looking at how quickly two layers of a mixture are separated in a tube or determining how many times the tubes make a full rotation in the centrifuge in one minute (or rotations per minute [rpm]).
Can you make your centrifuge more efficient?
Is it close to being as efficient as a laboratory centrifuge?As an example of another kind of salad spinner centrifuge, here is one design used to spin small tubes: Baichtal, J.
(2010, March 16).
Make a lab centrifuge out of a salad spinner.
Make.
Retrieved August 21, 2012, from http://blog.makezine.com/2010/03/16/make-a-lab-centrifuge-out-of-a-sala/For more science project ideas on density and centripetal force, see:Centripetal ForceTightening the Turns in Speed Skating: Lessons in Centripetal Force & BalanceHow Salty Does the Sea Have to Be for an Egg to Float?Can Water Float on Water?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Biotechnology techniques science project, density, centripetal force, circular motion, salad spinner, centrifuge, salad spinner centrifuge, sedimentation, precipitate, laboratory equipment, science project Density Mass Volume Force Gravity Sedimentation Centrifuge Circular motion Centripetal force Particles Layers Pellet Rotations per minute (rpm) Homogeneous
