 Roaming Robots: Build Your Own Underwater Robot  The world's oceans are home to the most strange and amazing creatures.
What do scientists know about these deep-sea animals and how can they study them easily?
One way to learn about these animals in their homes is to use underwater robots.
Underwater robots can record data that would be difficult for humans to gather.
But what are robots and how are they made?
In this robotics engineering project, you will discover what makes up a simple robot and build and test your own underwater robot.
The ocean is divided into five zones.
These zones go from the surface of the water (0 meters [m]) all the way down to 11,000 m, where there is no longer any light and the pressure of the water can crush a car.
Although very little light exists at extreme depths, these deep zones are home to some of the world's most bizarre and fascinating creatures.
Animals like viperfish, rat-tailed fish, and giant isopods, shown in Figure 1.
Scientists can learn a lot by studying these creatures.
But the zones where these animals live are very cold and dark, and the pressures are too high for humans to work safely.
How do scientists gather information about deep-sea creatures?
They rely on underwater robots to do the hard work.Figure 1.
This collection of amazing deep sea creatures includes a (a) viperfish, (b) rat-tailed fish, and (c) giant isopod.
But what are robots and how can they help us?
Robots are machines often made to do jobs that are boring, repetitive, or dangerous for humans, like detecting leaks in gas pipelines, or getting rid of landmines.
Robots can work in harsh environments, like the ocean or in space, unsafe for humans.
An example of a space robot is the Mars Rover.
This robot went to the planet Mars to gather information for scientists.
An example of an ocean robot is the Tethys underwater robot made by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI).
This robot is designed to follow sea organisms while recording the physical and chemical properties of the water around them.
Check out this video introduction to the Tethys underwater robot.
This video  shows Tethys, an underwater robot that helps scientist at MBARI learn more about the oceans.
This video  shows Tethys, an underwater robot that helps scientist at MBARI learn more about the oceans.
There are two kinds of underwater robots: remotely operated vehicles and autonomous underwater vehicles.
Remotely operated vehicles (or ROVs) are connected to a cable that allows a human to control the robot from a ship or boat on the ocean surface or from within the robot.
Figure 2 shows a ROV robot.
Autonomous underwater vehicles (or AUVs) are controlled by computers on board the robot, and can operate without being connected to the surface.
Because both ROV and AUV robots contain computers and electronic equipment, underwater robots need to be waterproof.
This means that water cannot damage the equipment because it is inside a covering that prevents water from coming in.
Figure 2.
This ROV robot operated by Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution is 7.2 m long, 3.3 m high and 2.5 m wide and can explore to a depth of more than 900 m. Notice the scientist sitting in the acrylic sphere.
(Photo by: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [NOAA])In this robotics engineering project, you will build an underwater robot, an ROV, that moves up and down using a motor, propeller, and a plastic clothes hanger.
Before you start the project, you will need to figure out how and where to test the robot.
Will you test it in a swimming pool or in a large container?
(Note: Do not test it in a saltwater pool, as this can be dangerous.)
If you decide to test the robot in a large container, make sure that the container is deep enough and large enough to hold the clothes hanger.
Since the motor is a piece of electrical equipment, you will have to waterproof it by using a balloon to cover the motor and making sure that the edges of the balloon are glued to the surface of the motor (you can learn more about electricity from the Science Buddies Electricity, Magnetism, & Electromagnetism Tutorial).
After putting these pieces together, you will have a cool robot that works underwater and is lots of fun to experiment with.
To build a simple underwater robot.
Add two more motors to the hanger and have the robot move forward and backward, and then turn, in addition to moving up and down.
Do you need to add more ballast or floats?
What issues do you have to consider in order to make this possible?
Once you add more motors, use a double-pole, double-throw switch (also called a knife switch) to easily reverse the direction of the motor.
Figure 14 below shows how to wire a double-pole, double-throw switch to the battery and the motor.Figure 14.
This double-pole, double-throw switch is wired so that with every throw, the direction of the motor is reversed.
Add tools to the robot that enable it to pick up items from the floor of the test container.
For example, you could tie strings with magnets to the hanger to pick up metal objects or an electromagnet so that you can pick up and drop things.
You will have to figure out if you need to add floats to the hanger to enable the robot to move upward.Research robots frequently carry an on-board camera.
Cameras let scientists on land monitor what is going on underwater.
Can you attach a video camera to your underwater robot?
What additional problems will you have to solve for the video camera to work?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  jstarrh said:  2016-04-13 09:22:58 What was the most important thing you learned?
To take your time and make sure that you have connected everything properly.
What problems did you encounter?
The propeller hit the hanger in the beginning and we had to adjust.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Nothing, directions were clear and easy to follow.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    suzanne999 said:  2014-05-10 18:57:50 What was the most important thing you learned?
Be very certain that everything is water proofed, needed less flotation What problems did you encounter?
The heat shrinking tubing was missing from the supplies list- required last minute home depot tr Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    iitbharath said:  2013-08-15 10:12:54 What was the most important thing you learned?
sdfaf What problems did you encounter?
sfsdf Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
dsfsdf Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment Robotics engineering project, underwater robot, waterproofing, motor, solder, remote operated underwater vehicle, ROV, autonomous underwater vehicle, AUV Robot Remotely operated vehicle Autonomous underwater vehicle Waterproof Motor Propeller Solder Buoyant Ballast
