 Weathering the Windchill: How Does Wind Speed Affect How Quickly an Object Cools?
Have you heard the term windchill used before?
Maybe on the TV weather forecast?
The windchill factor describes what happens to an object (like your body) when it is cold and windy outside.
As wind increases, heat is carried away from the body at a faster rate, driving down both skin temperature (which can cause frostbite) and eventually the internal body temperature (which, in extreme cases, can lead to death).
In this science fair project, you will use a device to measure wind speed (an anemometer) and determine how the wind speed affects the rate of cooling.
The windchill factor describes what happens to an object (like your body) when it is cold and windy outside.
As wind increases, heat is carried away from the body at a faster rate, driving down both skin temperature (which can cause frostbite) and eventually the internal body temperature (which, in extreme cases, can lead to death).
Windchill charts are useful to help predict when a person is most in danger of frostbite, which damages skin and other tissues due to extreme cold.
The chart in Figure 1, below, shows how wind speed affects the time it takes to develop frostbite at various temperatures.
On the left side of the chart, the temperatures are relatively high, meaning there is no danger of frostbite (light blue).
As it gets colder, the danger of frostbite increases.
If you are outside when the temperature is 0F and the wind is blowing at 30 miles per hour (mph), you could develop frostbite within 30 minutes on exposed parts of your body (usually your fingers and face).
If it is minus 25F and the wind is blowing at 40 mph (this is in the purple part of the chart), you could get frostbite in as little as 5 minutes!
Figure 1.
Windchill chart.
(Wikipedia, 2009.
)There are two ways that the wind cools things off.
The first way is by simply blowing away the warm air that is next to your skin and replacing it with cold air.
This is called convective cooling.
Another way it cools is by evaporating the moisture on your skin.
As the moisture evaporates, it causes the surface to cool.
This is called evaporative cooling.
Both kinds of cooling occur on human (and animal) skin that is exposed to cold wind.For an inanimate object that has a dry surface, only convective cooling occurs.
In convective cooling, the object can only be cooled to the temperature of its surroundings.
For example, if you put a cup of hot coffee on a table, it will eventually cool to room temperature.
If you blow on it with a fan, it will cool faster, but it will only cool to room temperature and no further.
What happens if you spray the cup of hot coffee with a mist of water while you are blowing on it with a fan?
It is then being cooled by both convective and evaporative means; thus, it will cool faster than the dry cup and will also cool to a temperature a little below room temperature.
In this science fair project, you will measure how wind speed affects the rate of cooling of an object.
The speed of the wind will be measured using a handheld device called an anemometer.
The anemometer measures wind speed by measuring how fast the wind makes a fan blade turn.
As the wind blows, it spins the fan blades and a tiny generator to which the fan blades are attached.
The generator subsequently produces a voltage that is proportional to the speed of the wind, measured by an electronic circuit that gives an instant readout of the wind speed on a digital display.
The surface temperature of the object will be measured using an infrared thermometer.
Use an anemometer and an infrared thermometer to determine how wind speed affects the rate of cooling of an object.
Measure how evaporation affects the rate of cooling.
Repeat the procedure above, but add a third cup that is placed in the wind and is sprayed with water mist.
Hint: Don't forget to add a control cup of hot water that is sprayed with water, but not placed in the wind.Pick a temperature (for example, 60C) and note how long it took to reach this temperature for cups 1 and 2 in the different wind speeds.
Graph the wind speed on the x-axis (the x-axis will have cups 1 and 2 at the lowest speed, cups 1 and 2 at the medium speed, and cups 1 and 2 at the high speed), and the time to time it took to reach this temperature on the y-axis.
Discuss the results.Devise windchill experiments that are performed at cold temperatures.
For example, place cups of room-temperature water in a refrigerator and blow wind on one of them with a battery-powered fan.
Graph time on the x-axis and temperature on the y-axis.Build your own anemometer, as shown in the Science Buddies project How Does a Wind Meter Work?
and use it to do this science fair project.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  ScienceBear said:  2015-08-15 08:17:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
that on my 3 speed fan, all the speeds cooled the water almost the same amount in 5 minutes.
(i won 1st place and went on to state fair this was a good project) What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
instead of a temperature scanner use a temperature probeand use boiling water instead of anything else Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science fair project, windchill, wind speed, anemometer, frostbite, convective cooling, evaporative cooling Windchill Frostbite Convective cooling Evaporative cooling Anemometer Generator Voltage
