 How Does a Wind Meter Work?
On a windy day it is hard to keep your hat on!
The power of the wind can even be strong enough to power large wind turbines to make electricity!
In this experiment, find out how you can make your own instrument to measure the speed and power of the wind.
How does it work?
Weather is happening all around us every day.
But isn't it nice to know the weather ahead of time?
Suppose you have a soccer game this weekend, what is the chance of rain?
When you watch the weather forecast on the local news, you are watching the results of weather data that has been gathered by a meteorologist, who will use the data to try and predict the weather.
Watch this video from Cyberchase (PBSkids.org) about measuring the speed of wind.
Watch this video from Cyberchase (PBSkids.org) about measuring the speed of wind.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4wvkYuhacc8  A meteorologist measures weather patterns in the atmosphere to predict the weather forecast ahead of time.
To track changes in the weather, a meteorologist uses weather instruments at a weather station.
There are many different weather instruments, each made to measure a different feature of the weather:   a thermometer to measure temperature  a barometer to measure air pressure  a hygrometer to measure humidity  a rain gauge to measure precipitation  an anemometer to measure wind speed  a wind vane to measure wind directionAn anemometer is used to measure wind speed.
Speed is how fast or slowly something is moving.
But what exactly is wind?
Wind is movement in the air that can be seen or felt.
Wind occurs when air moves from a high-pressure area (where there are more molecules) to a low-pressure area (where there are fewer molecules).
See the CYBERCHASE episode, by PBS KIDS GO!, and watch as the CyberSquad heads to the Northern Frontier to solve a mystery by measuring and comparing wind speeds!
Then get ready to test winds yourself.
In this experiment, you will make your own wind meter, or anemometer.
An anemometer is useful because it rotates with the wind.
To calculate the speed, or velocity, at which your anemometer spins, you will determine the number of revolutions per minute (RPM), or how many times the anemometer spins a full circle from where it started in one minute.
To test your anemometer, you will set a fan at different speeds and count the revolutions per minute of your home-made anemometer.
How well will it work?
In this experiment you will investigate how the speed of the wind is measured by an anemometer.
Try using your home-made anemometer to measure the wind speed outside.
You can track the changes in wind speed over several days at your home.
How often does the speed of the wind change where you live?
You can also take your wind meter around town to find out if some parts of town are more windy than other parts of town.
If you live near the ocean, is it windier at the beach or inland?
If you live near the mountains or a tall hill, is it windier at the top or at the bottom?
Try making other weather instruments to track weather patterns in your backyard.
You can make a rain gauge to measure precipitation and a wind vane to measure wind direction.
Track the weather over several days.
How does your data compare to the local news forecast?
For a more advanced project, you can calculate the speed of the wind in miles per hour (mph).
Calculate the circumference of the circle made by the rotating paper cups and convert this to miles.
Multiply your RPM value by the circumference of the circle in miles, multiple by 60, and you will have an approximation of the speed at which your anemometer spins (in mph).
Winds of 5 mph cause leaves to rustle, while a 20 mph breeze can sway small trees.
The highest wind speed ever recorded was in the Tropical Cyclone Olivia in 1996; it reached 253 mph.
Your anemometer doesn't need to be pointed in the wind for use.
You should be aware that some forces are being ignored including drag and friction for this elementary anemometer design, so the velocity at which your anemometer spins is not going to be exactly the same as the wind speed.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Atmosphere Anemometer Speed Wind Revolutions per minute
