 Swimming in Acid: Understanding Ocean Acidification  The oceans are a precious natural resource, part of Earth's carbon cycle.
But what happens if the oceans absorb too much carbon dioxide?
Many scientists are concerned that the increased absorption of carbon dioxide is causing them to become more acidic.
What impact does that have on the marine life?
In this ocean science fair project, you will demonstrate ocean acidification and investigate the effect on the shells of marine life.
Many scientists around the world are concerned with global warming and climate change.
Global warming is defined as the increase in the average measured temperature of the air and ocean layers closest to Earth's surface.
Climate change is defined as any long-term significant change to the average weather that a given region experiences.
The causes of warming remain an active area of research.
However, one theory is that present global warming is due, in part, to an increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO2), since the start of the industrial revolution.Earth is protected and kept warm by our atmosphere, which is made up of several layers.
Visible sunlight penetrates easily through the atmosphere and warms Earth's surface.
Earth's surface then emits invisible infrared radiation back.
As the radiation moves up, layer by layer, through the atmosphere, some is absorbed by each layer.
Each layer of air sends some of the energy it has absorbed back toward Earth, and some upward to higher layers.
As you go higher, the atmosphere gets thinner and colder.
Eventually, the energy reaches a layer so thin that radiation can escape into space.
Adding more carbon dioxide to a layer allows that layer to absorb more radiation or heat energy.
So the layers from which most of the heat energy used to leave Earth become warmer, sending more of the heat energy back to Earth.
This means that the energy can't leave Earth until it reaches even higher, thinner, layers, which are colder and therefore cannot send as much heat back to the Earth.
The planet, as a whole, then takes in more energy than it emits, meaning it gets warmer.One mechanism that has prevented some of the CO2 from entering the atmosphere is our oceans.
Oceans absorb approximately one-third of the anthropogenic CO2.
However, this comes at an ecological costa phenomenon called ocean acidification.
As CO2 dissolves in seawater, the pH of the water decreases.
The pH is a measure of the amount of hydrogen ions or activity in a solution.
As the pH decreases, the water becomes more acidic.When CO2 dissolves in seawater, it forms carbonic acid.
This reaction is shown in Equation 1.Equation 1:    CO2 + H2O   H2CO3 (carbonic acid)                Carbon dioxide and water combine to form carbonic acid.
Some of the carbonic acid dissociates in water, releasing hydrogen ions and bicarbonate.
This is shown in Equation 2.Equation 2:    H2CO3  H+ + HCO3-                Carbonic acid dissociates in seawater, resulting in hydrogen ions and bicarbonate.
The hydrogen ions have two effects.
Some of them stay in the ocean water increasing the overall pH of the ocean.
Others react with carbonate ions already present in the water to make bicarbonate.
This process removes carbonate ions from the water.
Organisms such as coral, mussels, and clams use carbonate ions and calcium to make their shells or skeletons.
If the amount of carbonate is reduced, then it is harder for these organisms to flourish.
Equation 3 shows how hydrogen ions and carbonate combine to create bicarbonate.Equation 3:    H+ + CO32-   HCO3-                Hydrogen ions combine with carbonate ions to create bicarbonate.
The oceans naturally take up atmospheric CO2, about 7 billion metric tons per year.
The oceans absorb CO2 at the surface and transfer it to the deep waters, out of contact with the atmosphere for centuries.
Prior to the industrial revolution, ocean and atmosphere CO2 concentrations were in balance.
But elevated atmospheric CO2 levels, caused by the burning of fossil fuels, have forced excess CO2 into the surface waters of the ocean.
This fossil fuel CO2 gas invasion into the surface waters of the ocean is now proceeding at about 1 million tons of CO2 per hour.
The oceans are more acidic now than they have been in at least 650,000 years.Acidified water can also lead to acidosis in higher marine life forms.
Acidosis is an increase in carbonic acid in the body fluids, causing lower pH values in blood.
This can lead to a whole host of health issues in these organisms.In this ocean science fair project, you will demonstrate ocean acidification.
You will make seawater and add varying amounts of vinegar (acetic acid) to change the pH and see how this affects empty mussel shells.
This project takes about a month of testing, so plan ahead, but don't let this discourage you from being part of the climate change and global warming debate!
To understand and demonstrate ocean acidification.
You can accelerate the test by reducing the pH beyond 7.5.
How does reducing the pH beyond 7.5 change the final weight of the shells?Repeat the experiment with different kinds of shells.
For example, if you originally used mussel shells, try using clam shells in your second round of testing.See how temperature and pH affect the shells.
Place a jar with acidified seawater and shells in the refrigerator.
Keep it in the refrigerator for a month.
How does lower temperature affect the end weight of the shell fragments?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   Bella_Stapp said:  2017-03-05 21:57:55 What was the most important thing you learned?
Carbon dioxide can have very negative effects on marine life and we need to try our best to reduce our carbon footprints.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    robinroy27587 said:  2013-08-04 03:23:36 What was the most important thing you learned?
vbgj What problems did you encounter?
mjhyjkhm Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
nmkuk Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Ocean science fair project, oceans, marine life, shells, acidification, carbon dioxide, global climate change, mussel shell, seawater Global warming Anthropogenic Greenhouse gas Infrared radiation Ocean acidification pH Ion Carbonic acid Dissociation Carbonate Bicarbonate Fossil fuel Acidosis Aragonite
