 Pinwheel Magic: Take a Spin with Animation  Do you enjoy watching cartoons and animated films like How to Train Your Dragon and Toy Story 3?
Do you have fun playing video games?
What do all of these things have in common?
Fantastic computer animation, that's what!
It's a cool job to take an interesting story or game and make it more entertaining by animating it.
In this computer science project, you won't animate a full-length feature movie, but you will animate a pinwheela project that can go a long way toward creating your own longer animations!
You will create an animated pinwheel that can spin as a result of a push of a button or puff of breath.
How?
Not by magic, but by writing a simple computer program.
Don't worry, even if you've never programmed before, this pinwheel animation magic is within your reach.
Sound interesting?
Then read this science project and get started!
Note: This Science Buddies project idea was written using Scratch version 1.4.
A new version, Scratch 2, is now available.
You can use an online version of Scratch 2 in your web browser at scratch.mit.edu, or you can download an offline version.
While Scratch 2 offers improvements over Scratch 1.4, the layout and some features have changed slightly.
This means that the procedure below will not exactly match the new features of Scratch 2.
If you need help using Scratch 2, you should go to the official Scratch help page.
If you would like to follow our directions exactly, you can still download Scratch 1.4 here.
It's fun to enjoy a nice day at the park.
There might be just enough breeze to fly a kite and enough space to run with a pinwheel and watch it spin with each step.
You already know that a pinwheel needs wind in order to spin, even if it is just someone blowing on it.
But what if you could make a pinwheel spin without wind, and instead, by pushing a button, a slider, or blowing into a microphone?
That would be different and interesting!
But how can you do this?
Well, you can write a computer program that will make a pinwheel appear on your computer screen and spin when you push a button, puff a breath of air, or provide some other kind of user input.
You might be asking, what is a computer program and what is user input?
How do you put together a computer program?
Let's start with some quick definitions.
Figure 1.
This girl is having fun blowing on and spinning a real pinwheelsomething you can do, too, on the computer screen!
(istock.com, 2010.)
A computer program is a set of algorithms (instructions) that tell a computer exactly what to do.
What can you use to put together such a set of instructions?
One way you can put together a computer program is in Scratch, an easy-to-learn programming environment for your computer.
Scratch is easy to use, so even if you've never written a program before, you'll be able to use Scratch!
Plus, Science Buddies has put together a lot of  help resources, including the Procedure of this project, to help you get started.
You can write all kinds of programs in Scratch, including animations, stories, and games.
Scratch offers the user (in this case, you!)
many different types of instructions, called blocks, which you can snap together.
All you have to do is to drag and drop the blocks that you need into the editing window and you can create something amazing!Scratch offers all kinds of instruction blocksblocks to change the appearance of objects on the screen, blocks that can make objects on the screen move, and even blocks that ask for user input.
Wait, what is user input?
User input is information that the user (the person using the computer) shares with the computer program, like pushing a button or talking into a microphone.
The computer program then uses the user input to run the tasks in the program.
Even now, as you, the user, read this on the computer monitor, you're giving the computer input.
You're probably clicking the mouse or using an arrow key to tell the computer that you want to scroll down the page.
The computer program, in this case your Internet browser, responds to that input by moving to the next part of the webpage.
In Scratch, there is an instruction block that asks the user a question.
Once the program receives an answer (user input), it then uses the answer to the question to make the rest of the computer program run the way you want it to.
You can also use a simple device called a PicoBoard to share information with the computer program.
A PicoBoard is a collection of sensors.
A sensor is a device that detects the presence or absence of something.
An example of sensors with which you might be familiar is the Wii remote controller.
Depending on the buttons you push or motions you make with the Wii remote (these are the sensors), different things will happen on the screen.
The PicoBoard is similarit is a small board with a button sensor, a slider sensor, a light sensor, a microphone, and other sensors.
You can program in Scratch to receive information from the PicoBoard, then use any of these sensors to share information and interact with the computer program.In this computer science project, you will build an interactive pinwheel animation using Scratch and a PicoBoard.
The beauty of computer programming is that it allows you to create just about anything you can imagine, and this science project is a great way to get started.
You can create a very cool computer science project, while having lots of fun!
In this computer science project, you will create a pinwheel animation in Scratch that will spin as a response to user input from the PicoBoard.
Try to use as many sensors from the PicoBoard as possible in your animation.Try creating a story around the pinwheel, using different backgrounds, other sprites, and text.
Can the audience use the pinwheel input to affect the outcome of the story?Tired of pinwheels?
Apply the same principles to making an interactive animation of another object that interests you.
Hint: When creating your design criteria, think carefully about what the object does and how people normally interact with it.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Computer science project, computers, computer science, computer animation, Scratch, PicoBoard, video games, engineering, science project Computer program Algorithm Scratch User input PicoBoard Sensor Computer science Flow chart
