 Wild Winds: Detecting Turbulence Around Structures  Watch out!
It's Eddy Vortex, Superhero!
He swirls, he tumbles, he churns up air and water!
OK, maybe eddies and vortices aren't exactly superheroes, but they are powerful regions of air and water flow that you have to watch out for in some surprising places.
Try out this science fair project to discover why, as well as where and how to find them.
When you get a new piece of furniture, you have to figure out where to put it.
You want your room to look nice, but at the same time, you want to make sure traffic can flow easily in and out of the room, and that the room functions as it was intended.
For example, if the room is a play space, there must be enough room to spread out toys and games.
If the room is a living space, seating must be arranged so people can easily talk to one another.
Environmental engineersthe people who decide where to place or site a wind generatorhave a similar task.
They want to avoid blocking views or creating noise pollution with the wind generators, and at the same time, they want the generators to function as well as they possibly can for the given location.
They want this machine that changes the free energy found in wind forces into electrical power, to do the best job it can of making power, which requires consideration of factors like:    Cost    Aesthetics (beauty)   Zoning laws    Noise pollution    Wind speeds    Wind turbulence   Surrounding structures    Topography    Installation    Transportation    Wind generator type (horizontal-axis or vertical-axis)    Environmental conditions (extreme cold or heat)    Access to a power grid, and   Mechanical stresses.
For a wind generator to work effectively, it needs a location that has average winds of at least 10-13 miles per hour, or better, for over a year.
A good location is also free from "bad winds" that can damage the wind generator, such as turbulent or chaotic winds that change quickly in force, speed, and direction.
The power the wind generator is able to produce increases by the cube of the wind speed.
Cube means multiplying the wind speed by itself twice.
Therefore, a small increase in wind speed results in a large increase in the power that the wind generator can produce.
If you raise the wind generator up to as high as is allowed by building rules, you can take advantage of higher wind velocities.
The trade-offs, though, are possible obstruction of views, difficulty in installation and transport, and mechanical stresses and fatigue from high winds, which can cause the wind generator to fail.
Click here to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.In this project, you will focus on two of the factors used in siting a wind generator: wind turbulence and surrounding structures.
You might have heard the word turbulence before if you've flown on an airplane close to a storm.
The pilot might have come on the intercom system and cautioned the passengers to remain seated and buckled because the plane was expected to experience some "rough air" or turbulence.
Turbulence is chaotic, random changes in the flow of a fluid or gas.
An example is the behavior of smoke rising from a birthday candle, or the motion of frothy, white waves around the hull of a speedboat.
Turbulence creates eddies  (in the case of liquids, like water) or vortices (in the case of gases, like air).
In eddies or vortices (which is the plural of vortex), the flow of the liquid or gas is reversed.
An ideal place to spot an eddy in a river is on the downstream side of a rock or other obstacle in the river.
If you want to see eddies on the downstream side of boulders, visit the DragonflyTV video on the right and join Rasheed, Kohner, Scotty, and JB as they go whitewater rafting.Just as eddies occur on the downstream side of a rock in a river, vortices occur on the downwind side of a building or obstacle.
This is why airplanes cannot take off too close together.
Wake turbulence develops behind a plane as it takes off, which churns up the air downwind, making wind conditions too dangerous for the next plane, so air traffic controllers wait 2-3 minutes, depending on the size of the planes, before allowing the next one to take off.
This gives time for the turbulence to disappear.When siting wind generators, environmental engineers try to avoid placing generators downwind of structures or obstacles because of wind turbulence on the downwind side of the structure.
Turbulent wind is not an efficient way to generate power and the violent, changing winds can also damage the wind generator.
In this science fair project, you'll detect wind turbulence behind a structure by observing the motion of a streamer.
You'll also determine how far away you need to be from the structure for the turbulence to die down.
To detect and measure the turbulent airflow around test structures.
Evaluate how high above the structure you need to be to avoid turbulence.
Investigate how air flows around more than one structure.
Investigate how turbulence changes as you move away from the center of a structure.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, environmental engineering, wind energy, wind generator, eddy, vortex, turbulence, airflow, structure Environmental engineer Site Wind generator Wind turbulence Topography Chaos Cube Velocity Random Eddy Vortex Downwind Wake turbulence
