 Why Aren't All Medicines Pills?
No one likes shots, so why don't we swallow all our medications?
In this science project, you will use a model to explore one challenge behind making medications we can quickly swallow, using insulin (a medication taken by some diabetes patients) as an example.
Will your medication be functional after spending time in an environment similar to the stomach?
Have you ever wondered why some medicines can be swallowed as pills or liquids, while others have to be injected in the form of shots?
In this science project, you will explore why not every medication can be given in pill form or liquid form using insulin as an example.
Figure 1.
Not all injections can be replaced with pills or liquids.
If you have heard of diabetes before, you have probably also heard of insulin.
You may already know that people with Type 1 diabetes make no insulin, and people with Type 2 diabetes have bodies that do not have a strong response to insulin (they are insulin resistant).
But what is insulin, and why does it matter if your body responds to it?
Insulin is a protein that acts as a chemical messenger and opens up cells to absorb glucose, a type of sugar your body uses for energy.
Insulin's job is to help make sure there is just the right amount of glucose, in your blood.
Glucose is a little bit like the story about Goldilocks and The Three Bears.
Like Goldilocks, your body is happiest when the levels of glucose are just right.
Both too much glucose and too little glucose can make you sick, and, in some very specific circumstances, even kill you.
So, to stay healthy and happy like Goldilocks, diabetics (people with diabetes) need to keep track of their blood glucose levels to make sure they stay in the "just right" range.
According to the Center for Disease Controls and Prevention (CDC), approximately 6 million Americans, all type 1 diabetics and a significant percentage of type 2 diabetics, require doses of insulin.
For these patients, that means injecting a liquid form of insulin.
Why a liquid injection rather than a pill or syrup to swallow?
There are several reasons, but one major one that we will focus on here is that when you inject medicine, like insulin, it goes directly in to your blood.
In contrast, when you swallow a pill or liquid the medicine first travels through your digestive system as shown in Figure 2, where it is eventually transferred to your blood.
Figure 2.
Swallowed medication travels from your mouth, down through your esophagus, and to your stomach.
This diagram shows only part of the entire digestive system.
While in your digestive system, the medicine encounters proteases.
Proteases work to break down proteins, like the proteins your food is made up of, into smaller parts.
This is important for digestion because the smaller parts can be absorbed by your body and used as nutrition.
The same proteases may also act on medicines that are in the stomach.
Some medicines, like aspirin, are already quite small and are not proteins, so they are not broken down or changed by proteases.
But medicines that are proteins may be broken into smaller pieces or have their shape changed by proteases.
Often, changing the length or the shape of a protein also changes its function.
In that way, proteins are like keystheir exact shape determines if they will be able to do their jobs properly.
What do you guess (hypothesize), based on the information you have, will happen to insulin when it meets up with proteases in the stomach?
In this science project you will use jello cut into shapes with a cookie cutter as a model for insulin.
Each jello shape will represent a single insulin protein.
You will test what happens to the shaped jello (insulin) when it is placed directly into plain water, an environment similar to injecting insulin into the blood, versus what happens to the shaped jello (insulin) when it is placed in water with proteases, an environment similar to swallowing an insulin pill.
Meat tenderizer, found in the spice aisle of the grocery store, is full of proteases (see technical note), so making water with proteases is very simplejust add meat tenderizer to plain water.
Table 1 can help you keep track of what each thing represents in this model.
In the Human BodyIn this ProjectInsulin proteinsJello shapesBloodRed-colored water Proteases solution found in the stomachProteases solution created by dissolving meat tenderizer in waterInsulin proteins injected in the bloodstreamJello shapes placed into the red-colored waterInsulin proteins taken by pillJello shapes placed into proteases solutionFunctional insulin proteinsJello shapes fitting back inside the cookie cutterTable 1.
Table showing what the real-world items will be represented by in this science project.
What do you think will happen to the jello shape (insulin) when placed in the blood (colored water)?
How is that similar or different from what will happen to the jello shape (insulin) going through the stomach (proteases solution)?
From your experiments with this model, what do you expect to be able to conclude about the challenges behind making an insulin pill that can function properly to help control blood glucose levels?
Based on your experiment, can you make any generalizations about what kinds of medicines (not just insulin) would be difficult to put into a liquid or pill form?By the way, creating a working insulin pill is a problem scientists are actively working on!
Check out the Bibliography for an article about how researchers at Novo Nordisk are tackling the problem.
It is worth noting that how the insulin protein tolerates being in the stomach is just one variable the researchers are looking at.
How much insulin can be absorbed through the stomach and into the body, how quickly absorption can happen, and how to adjust the dose for different patients are all additional questions!
It is likely to turn out that a pill form of insulin only works for some diabetics; it is a better potential treatment for Type 2 diabetics who need a small insulin boost rather than Type 2 diabetics who need more customized insulin doses or Type 1 diabetics who need to constantly adjust their insulin doses based on what they are eating, exercise, and other factors.Technical note:The proteases in meat tenderizer will be listed as papain or bromelain on the ingredients list.
This project treats the presence or absence of meat tenderizer as a single variable.
A more advanced project could look at the different ingredients in meat tenderizer separately and see which ingredient has an effect.
Explanations in the Variations can help you get started.
Use jello shapes to model insulin (a medication) and test if, in your model, insulin is functional after being soaked in enzymes found in the stomach.
In this test, you left all jello shapes (insulin) submerged for 2 hours.
As a variation, you can study the change over time.
To do so, submerge 12 jello shapes in each solution (red-colored water and the proteases solution).
Instead of removing all the shapes after 2 hours, you will remove three shapes from each solution every 30 minutes and test, each time, how many of the three shapes fit your cookie cutter.
Would the jello shapes keep their shape for a limited time?
Scientists, like those at Novo Nordisk, are looking for ways to change insulin so that it still works in the body but is not affected by proteases in the stomach.
Can you do something similar and find a recipe that acts like jello but is not affected by the proteases in meat tenderizer?
Would vegetarian jello do the job?
Meat tenderizer has several ingredients.
In this science project, you study the difference between a solution with or without meat tenderizer.
As a variation, you can study which specific ingredient(s) in meat tenderizer had effects on the jello.
As an example, if salt is one of the main ingredients of your meat tenderizer and you like to know if the proteases (or other ingredients) and not the salt caused your results, you can add salt to your solution modeling blood and observe what happens to the jello shapes.
The nutritional label on your meat tenderizer can help you calculate how much salt is in your meat tenderizer solution.
Adding this amount of salt to the same amount of water to create your second solution keeps the presence of salt the same between meat tenderizer and no meat tenderizer solutions.
Note the addition of salt to a solution modeling blood actually works well, as blood has sodium (salt) in it.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  shreyaskbharadwaj said:  2015-11-27 22:43:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
The importance of different kind of medicines.
What problems did you encounter?
Creating a stomach like environment.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Provide a more clear idea of the question and the expected results to make clear what is trying to be achieved.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, diabetes, insulin, enzymes, proteases, digestive system, medication, injection, shot, glucose, pharmaceuticals, pills, stomach, insulin pill   Diabetes Insulin Glucose Digestive system Protease
