 Digital Photos and Dynamic Range  Digital cameras can be a great way to learn about photography.
Most digital cameras today have LCD screens, so you get instant feedback on your photo.
If you make a mistake, no problem, you just delete the picture.
It's nice that you don't have to worry about the expense and bother of developing film!
This project can help you learn to take better pictures.
Many digital cameras are the 'point and shoot' type that do all of the exposure settings automatically.
If you want to get serious about taking good pictures, it is worthwhile to spend some time learning how to use a camera in manual mode, where you set the lens aperture and shutter speed yourself.
A camera with manual mode capability is essential for this project.You should read your camera's instruction manual so that you are familiar with the steps used for putting the camera into manual mode, and for adjusting the camera's lens aperture (f-stop) and shutter speed.
You should also do background research so that you understand how changing the f-stop affects the camera's depth of focus, and how changing the shutter speed affects your ability to 'freeze' moving objects.One of the toughest challenges for taking good pictures is the huge range of light levels in the natural world.
Let's consider the extremes.
From the dimmest (starlight) to the brightest (full sunlight) illumination, the ratio is 1:1,000,000,000.
In other words, the full sunlight is 1billion times brighter than starlight.
Obviously, most photographic subjects do not span this entire range of intensities, but even on a cloudy day, it is easy to find subjects with a range of light levels of 1:5000 or 1:10,000, and even wider ranges on a day with full sun.
The challenge is to represent these differences in light level from your subject to differences in light levels in your photograph.The range from the dimmest spot to the brightest spot in your subject is called the dynamic range of your subject.
Your camera has its own dynamic range, which is quite often smaller than the dynamic range of your subject (one of the reasons that photography can be challenging!)
In this project you'll learn how to measure the dynamic range of your digital camera.
You'll also learn how to use pixel gray level histograms (or RGB histograms, for color photography) to match the dynamic range of your photographic subjects to the dynamic range of your camera.A digital camera essentially converts light levels to numbers.
Typically, the camera delivers its output in the form of a JPEG file, which can have gray levels ranging from 0255.
Many cameras have a display mode that shows you a gray level (or RGB level, for color photos) histogram of the photo (Figure1).
The x-axis shows the available gray levels, from 0255.
The y-axis shows the number of pixels at each gray level in the image.Figure 1.
Example of a pixel gray level histogram (left) from a digital image (right).
The x-axis shows the available gray levels (0255).
The y-axis shows the number of pixels at each gray level in the image.
Exposure was 1/125second at f/2.8.Compare the two tiles on the right-hand side of the image to the two tiles in the center of the image.
The tiles on the right have sunlight falling on them from a nearby window.
Notice that there is almost no texture visible in the two tiles on the right, compared to the two tiles in the middle.
In the histogram, the pixels from the tiles on the right are stacked up at the rightmost edge, i.e.
gray level 255.
We say that those pixels are saturated, because they can't get any brighter.
The camera's sensor can no longer register a change in brightness there, so we can't see any texture there in the photograph.Figure2 shows an image of the same scene, using a shorter exposure time.
Compare the histogram and the image to Figure1.
The sunlit tiles on the right now have clearly visible texture, and the histogram is no longer saturated at the high end.
On the other hand, there is less detail visible now in the shadowed areas behind the coffee cup and the roll of paper towels.
You can also see from the histogram that there is an 'unused' range of pixel values at the high end.
An ideal exposure time might have been in between 1/125 and 1/250second (e.g., 1/160second, if available on the camera; alternatively, the aperture could have been closed down by 1/3 or 1/2stop).Figure 2.
Same scene as in Figure1, but with half the exposure time (1/250second, f/2.8).
Now the bright end of the histogram is no longer saturated, and the texture of the sunlit tile is visible.These two examples illustrate the kinds of trade-offs you need to make in order to make best use of your camera's dynamic range.
When you are setting up your camera to take a photograph, you need to match the dynamic range of the subject to the dynamic range of your camera.
Sometimes you may lose detail in one region of the image (the shadows, for example) in order to make sure that you are showing sufficient detail in the highlights.
For example, you may be interested in showing details of clouds in the sky, and be willing to sacrifice detail in the shadowed areas.
On the other hand, your goal might be to show texture in the dark bark of a tree, and you might be willing to lose detail in the sky to do this.
Finally, you might think of ways to increase the light falling on dark areas (e.g., having an assistant hold up a reflector, outside of the camera's field of view) in order to decrease the dynamic range of the subject and maintain sufficient detail at both ends of the gray level histogram.
With practice, you'll find that understanding your camera's dynamic range and using gray level histograms improves the quality of your photographs.
The goal of this project is to learn how to match the range of light intensities in your subject to the dynamic range of your digital camera.
You'll learn how to use gray level histograms to do this.
Look for subjects that have different levels of contrast.
For example, subjects with sun and shade are high contrast.
Subjects in indirect sun tend to be lower contrast.
Is it harder to get good photographs with high-contrast or low-contrast subjects?
Can you use the full dynamic range of your camera in both cases?
See if you can take a photograph of an egg on black velvet cloth.
Can you adjust the lighting and exposure settings to match the wide dynamic range of this image to your camera?
Can you take a photograph that shows texture and detail in both the surface of the egg and the cloth?
This may be harder than you think!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
pixel gray levels, saturation, dynamic range exposure control: aperture (f-stop), shutter speed.
