 Worm Hunt: Isolating Soil Nematodes from Your Backyard  Do you know what is living in your backyard?
How about at the playground, or in your compost pile?
Nematodes, also called roundworms, are the most abundant animal on Earth and they might be living in any of these places.
In this science project you'll isolate nematodes from several soil samples to discover the best nematode habitats.
Nematodes, also called roundworms, are the most abundant multicellular animals on Earth.
There are more than 15,000 identified species of nematodes, and scientists are still discovering new ones!
Most nematodes are 1-5 millimeters (mm) long, but scientists have identified a few very long nematodes, too, like Placentonema gigantisma, an 8-meter-long nematode found in the placenta of a sperm whale.
All nematodes have fairly simple body plans.
These animals are tube-like in shape; have an outer body wall, called a cuticle; and a digestive track that runs most of the body length.
Because of this relatively simple body plan, nematodes are sometimes described as "a tube inside a tube."
Here are two very different nematodes in Figure 1.
Figure 1.a.
Caenorhabditis elegans is a bacterivorous soil nematode that is approximately 1 mm long as an adult.
(WormBook, 2006.)
Figure 1.b.
Ascaris lumbriocoides is a parasitic nematode that can live in the human intestine and grow to be 15-30 centimeters (cm) long.
(CDC.
)Despite a simple body plan, nematodes are complex animals.
Scientific research using a variety of nematodes has been important in understanding ecology, medicine, and basic biology.
One of the most well-studied nematodes is Caenorhabditis elegans.
C. elegans are approximately 1 mm long, are found in soils all over the world, and feed on bacteria.
These small worms are used to study a variety of biological phenomena.
In fact, research using C. elegans has been so important that several scientists who used C. elegans in their experiments have won the Nobel Prize!
Where can you find nematodes?
Just about everywhere.
They're residents of many different habitats, including soil, plants, freshwater, and saltwater.
Some nematodes are even parasitic, meaning they live, grow, and reproduce inside other organisms at the expense of their host's health.
Such a wide range of habitats also means that among the various nematode species, there is a lot of diversity in what they eat.
Soil nematodes include bacterivores (bacteria eaters), fungivores (fungus eaters), algivores (algae eaters), and herbivores (plant eaters).
In this science project, you will isolate bacterivorous nematodes from soil samples in your own backyard, or from any other local soil areas you choose.
In this science project you'll isolate nematodes from a variety of soil samples to determine which types of soil are the best nematode habitats.
Does soil depth have an effect on nematode abundance?
Compare the number of worms isolated from different soil depths.
Remember to change only one variable at a time!
Do different species of nematodes live in different soils?
Try classifying the nematodes you find in each soil sample based on physical traits.
You'll need a microscope to see the worms in more detail.
You'll also need to research different species of soil nematodes.
Not all soil nematodes are bacterivorous.
Some species are plant parasites and others consume fungi.
Design an experiment to examine plant- or fungi-eating nematodes.
Soil is only one of the many habitats nematodes are found in.
Design an experiment to examine marine or freshwater nematodes.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
nematode, E. coli, worms, bacteria, science fair project, soil, C. elegans Nematodes Body plan Parasitic Bacterivore Fungivore Algivore Herbivore Species
