 Dog Toys: What Makes One a Favorite or a Flop to Fido?
Got a pampered pooch in your household?
Then you know how much most dogs love their toys.
And not just any toy.
It has to be that particular beat up ball, gnawed frisbee, or ratty not-so-plush-anymore bunny with only one eye and partial ear remaining.
Seems that dogs, like people, have definite preferences for their play things.
This fun project investigates what makes a toy interesting to a dog.
In these experiments, you and your dog can have some fun while you learn about canine behavior and why toys are an important part of a healthy dog's life.
Click here to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org Animals, like people, are meant to be active.
A sedentary life style is not good for anyone including our household pets or animals living in posh, but restrictive, zoo enclosures.
That's why more and more pet owners and zookeepers now give the animals under their care various objects or structures that encourage movement, exploration, play, and thinking.
The goal is to create stimulating environments to encourage animals to behave much like they would in the wild.
This process of using objects to promote species-specific activities in animals is called environmental enrichment.
Environmental enrichment ensures animals are challenged in ways that are appropriate and healthy for their species.
That's why most zoos now design more natural looking enclosures where animals can interact with each other in roomier, more familiar surroundings.
Enrichment also includes perching or hiding structures, large and small play things, objects to investigate or pick apart, food dispensers that challenge an animal to search for treats, and even smelly fabrics or noise-making toys.
Basically, any thing that can be safely chewed, picked apart, or smelled, or are novel, challenging, or fun can be part of an animal's enrichment program.
The project video shows how two animal lovers, Chelsea and Camille, helped to develop enrichment toys for a couple of animal groups at their local zoo.
The girls first put good thought into what types of objects would be appropriate for each of the animals in their studies.
They then worked with the zookeepers to make their specialized animal toys.
Once the toys were completed and placed into the animals' areas, Chelsea and Camille made careful observations of the animals' behaviors to see first hand how much the toys were noticed and enjoyed.Check out the video to see the results.
Then read on to find out how to start your own investigation on identifying the right enrichment toy for your favorite animal, the family dog.
In this project, you'll study your faithful and friendly dog to find out what type of toys suit him/her best.
While not quite as exotic as a tiger or river otter, your favorite canine can serve as just as interesting a subject to study.
And since you already probably know a lot about your dog's personality and preferences, you'll have a big advantage when trying to predict which type of dog toy will be the most favorite.
Still, until you run your experiments and make your observations you won't know for sure, so you might be in for some surprises.
The goal of this project is to present different types of toys to your dog and make close observations to see which toys are hits and which ones are flops.
In selecting the toy options for your study, consider several factors.
Different breeds of dogs have distinct behavioral traits and general personalities.
Hunting dogs innately love to explore their surrounding primarily by sniffing.
Shepards and border collies can't help but look for any object to herd,  and breeds like retrievers enjoy nothing more than running after sticks or balls that they can chase or catch on the fly.
Most of these natural tendencies reflect the way a particular breed of dog would locate food, or forage, in the wild.
An enrichment toy that most closely matches a dog's basic instinctive behaviors in foraging or exploring their natural environment would be the ideal choice for that dog.
You should also keep in mind your dog's basic personality and age.
Some dogs may be shy or cautious.
They will need you to lead them to the toys or will want you to help them interact with a new object.
Other dogs who like to search may prefer that the toys be hidden underneath a basket, so they can have the challenge of finding and uncovering the new play things.
And don't forget the age of your dog.
Older dogs may approach the experiments more calmly and slowly and may need a little more time to fully explore the toy options compared to younger, more frisky dogs.Before you get started, do a little research on animal behavior and environmental enrichment.
Look up the background on the breed or breeds that most closely represent your dog.
Check out the theories about environmental enrichment.
Find out what types of enrichment are best for dogs in general and for your breed of dog specifically.
You'll see a list of search terms, basic questions, and a helpful bibliography in the the following sections to get your research going.
Finally, use your improved understanding of dog behavior to see if you can accurately predict the types of enrichment toys your dog will most enjoy before you run your tests.
The results of your experiments will reveal whether your instincts are correct, or whether your dog is much more unpredictable and fickle than you ever realized.
Good luck, and have fun with Fido!
The goal of this project is to test various dog toys to find out which type is most appealing to your dog.
Repeated Testing.
Does your dog learn to like certain toys over time?
Repeat your experiments on multiple days over two or three weeks to see if your dog's choices are consistent or if your dog eventually starts to enjoy additional toys.
Try other dogs.
Does your neighbor's dog have similar tastes in toys to your dog?
Try the same experiments with one or two other dogs to compare their responses to your dog's.
Be sure to make predictions about what the new dogs might like or dislike based on their breed and personality before you run your tests.
Other Toy Choices.
What other types of toys can you come up with to test on your dog?
Could you try toys that look alike but vary only in color, scent, or size, for example?
What would happen if you added toys that have food within them?
How about toys make from natural materials versus synthetic products?
Repeat your experiments using these additional categories of toys and compare the results to your first experiments.
Important Note: If you use any food items, do not include chocolate, grapes, or raisins as these are toxic to dogs.
Designer Toy.
Based on your results, design a new toy for your dog that incorporates all of his/her favorite toy features.
Try to find a toy that meets all or most of the criteria or make it yourself, if possible.
Test your "designer" toy against the other toy favorites of your dog in a new experiment.
Canine Camera.
Do you think your dog would have the same reaction to the toys if you were not in the room?
Set up a video camera on a tripod and film your dog's behavior when he/she is alone in the room with each separate set of toys.
Compare these results to your initial experiments when you were present.
The Battle of the Breeds.
If you have access to dog clubs that focus on specific breeds, recruit at least ten dogs of one breed and ten dogs of a different breed for an expanded project on dog toy preferences.
For guidelines on how many animals you ideally would want to use in this type of project see:  Sample Size: How Many Survey Participants Do I Need?.
For other Science Buddies projects related to dog behavior see:     Dog Smarts: What's Going On Behind Those Puppy-Dog Eyes?
Paw Preference in Pets   Tail Wagging and Brain Lateralization   Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Sureyitaaaa said:  2014-01-30 20:36:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
Dogs will choose something they are familiar to What problems did you encounter?
Rainy days Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    BS244798 said:  2011-08-22 17:05:24 What was the most important thing you learned?
ALL DOGS ARDIFFERENT What problems did you encounter?
NONE Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
NO Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
6                        21                Report Inappropriate Comment  Environmental enrichment Dog behavior Canine behavior Dog breeds and their specific traits
