 Rocket Science: How High Can You Send a Payload?
Rockets are definitively an engineering challenge.
These amazing gravity-defying machines have lifted test material, people, and even animals into space.
Feel like building one yourself?
In this science project, you will transform a water bottle into an aerodynamic bottle rocket with two compartments, one for the fuel and one for a payload.
You will then test how well it performs when lifting mass vertically up into the air.
Ready, set, soar!
Rockets are very interesting pieces of machinery.
They require quite a lot of power to beat gravity and lift themselves, and the things they carry, into space.
In fact, you can create a model of one yourself, like the ones shown in Figure 1 from an empty plastic bottle that uses the same basic principles as real rockets to hoist itself into the air.
Read on to discover these basic principles and to make your own bottle rocket.
Figure 1.
Water bottle rockets like these use the same physics principles as real rockets to lift itself into the air.
Rockets use reaction engines to create a forward thrust.
Newton's third law of motion explains why these engines work.
This law states that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.
In the case of a rocket, the action is the engine ejecting mass at high speed backward.
As a reaction, the rocket (engine) is pushed forward.
This mechanism does not rely on the atmosphere and works very well in space.
Figure 2.
Rockets use Newton's third law of motion to create a forward thrust; they eject mass backward at high speed (the action) to achieve a forward push (the reaction).
In aerospace (which is the branch of technology and industry concerning aviation and space flight), rocket engines eject exhaust gases produced through the combustion of fuel and accelerated to very high speed.
Your bottle rocket will not use combustion; instead, it will eject water and air to create a forward thrust.
Before liftoff, the bottle rocket will be partially filled with water and partially filled with air.
A special bottle rocket launcher will allow you to add air to your bottle rocket.
Air pressureor how hard the air presses outward from the inside of the bottlebuilds up in the bottle.
Figure 3 illustrates how air pressure inside the bottle pushes on the walls of the bottle, as well as the liquid inside the bottle.
Figure 3.
As you add air to a water bottle, pressure builds up inside.
As a result, the plastic walls and the liquid inside the bottle feel a bigger push.
Note that you will measure the pressure in your rocket propulsion chamber in pounds per square inch (psi) because those are the units of measurement on a bicycle pump.
However, psi is not a metric unit and in science the metric system is used.
To use the metric system, record the pressure in pascals (Pa) also known as newtons per square meter (N/m2).
The 30psi used in this science project corresponds to 206,850Pa or 207kPa (because there are 1,000Pa in 1kPa).
You can use an  online calculator to make the conversion from pounds per square inch to pascals.As you launch the rocket, the pressure created by adding air to the bottle pushes water and air out at high speed, propelling your rocket upward, as illustrated in Figure 4.
Figure 4.
Water ejected from a bottle rocket (action) propels the rocket forward (reaction), according to Newton's third law of motion.
In aerospace, exhaust is formed entirely from propellants carried within the rocket before use.
Fuel is stored and used in the propulsion chamber of the rocket.
The bottle forming the body of your bottle rocket will serve as the propulsion chamber.
In addition to fuel, rockets carry other items to space.
This is referred to as payload.
It is stored in the payload bay of the rocket.
A nose is added to make the rocket more aerodynamic, which means decreasing the amount of air resistance experienced by the rocket during flight.
In this science project, you will add a nose that can serve as a payload bay.
Fins can be used to stabilize the rocket during flight.
Figure 5 shows the different sections.
Figure 5.
Nomenclature of the different sections of a bottle rocket.
In this science project, you will measure how adding payload (quantified by its mass) affects the maximum height your rocket reaches.
To do so, you will need to add a payload bay to the most basic bottle rocket, an upside-down water bottle.
In addition, you will improve the bottle rocket by making it more aerodynamic.
More aerodynamic rockets have a straighter flight path, resulting in more reliable measurements of maximum height reached.
The Procedure provides handy tips and hints on how to create your own rocket and provides the procedure to perform a scientific test on how payload affects maximum height reached.
Ready to have a blast with your own rocket?
Create an aerodynamic bottle rocket and use it to study the changes in maximum height reached when your rocket lifts a payload.
Study how the pressure in the propulsion chamber of your bottle rocket influences the maximum height the rocket reaches as explained in Bottle Rocket Blast Off!.Study how the ratio of water to air in the propulsion chamber of your water bottle rocket influences the maximum height the rocket reaches.
For example, you can make measurements with your bottle when it is 1/8 water, 1/4 water, 1/2 water, and 3/4 filled with water.
Keep the pressure in your propulsion chamber constant for this study.As an addition to your science project, you can add a drawing to scale showing how the average measured angle corresponds to the rocket's maximum height.
A brief description of what to do: Choose a horizontal on the lower end of your drawing.
Place the observation spot and the launch location on the horizontal with the same number of units as the distance between the observer and the launch spot in your real-life test.
For example, if in your test, your observer was at 23m from the launcher, place 23 units between your observer and your launch location on your drawing.
This way, you will have one unit distance on your drawing representing 1m.
Draw a vertical line through the launch location.
You will measure the obtained maximum height on this line.Measure the average angles (the results of your test) with respect to the horizontal with a protractor placed at the observation spot.
Figure 17, below, shows how to place the protractor to measure the angles.
Draw lines at these angles, starting at the observer and through the vertical line from the launch location (the red, blue, and yellow lines in Figure 17).
The location where this line crosses the vertical indicates the maximum height the rocket reached.
You can measure the heights reached by the rockets on the vertical using your scale (one unit distance on your drawing equals 1m.
)Make sure to name the axes, and add a legend and a scale indication to your drawing.
Not all of these are shown in Figure 17.
Figure 17.
A scale drawing showing how the average measured angle relates to the attained height.
The angle is measured with a protractor.
Note the legend and scale are omitted in this graph.
Note you can find the mathematical formula linking distance, angle, and height in the Bibliography.Study the effect of adding wings or making your rocket more aerodynamic on the maximum height reached.Several simulators are available online, predicting the flight path of water bottle rockets.
These simulators are computer programs calculating the flight path of a water bottle rocket using the laws of physics.
Most of them allow you to change a number of parameters, like the volume of your bottle rocket, the pressure in your propulsion chamber, and others.
Use a simulator to study the effect of changing one specific parameter, like adding a nose to a bottle rocket or changing the water versus air volume in your rocket.
Then use your rocket to study the effect of changing the same parameter.
Do you get the same relative improvement on the maximum height reached?
Note that some simulators suggest values for the parameters.
You can leave the suggested values for all parameters you do not know.
NASA provides several Bottle rocket simulators.
Others can be found online.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, Soda water bottle rocket, bottle rocket, rocket launcher, payload, Newtons third law of motion, action-reaction, model rocket, aerodynamic, Aquapod, altitude finder, AltiTrack, mass Rocket Reaction engine Thrust Newton's third law of motion Air pressure Pound per square inch (psi) Pascal (Pa) Propulsion chamber Payload Payload bay Aerodynamic
