 Finding Phyla  Have you ever wondered how many different types of animals live around your home, like in your backyard or a local park?
Animals come in all shapes and sizes, each a small part of the amazing diversity of life.
These differences can also help us to classify animals into different groups.
One way people classify animals is by their phylum.
Do you know which phylum you belong to?
In this science project, you will investigate the diversity of the animal life around your home and try to figure out which phylum most of the animals belong to.
From the largest elephant to the tiniest water flea, all animals on the planet have unique characteristics.
Taxonomy is the area of science that uses these unique characteristics to put animals into certain groups.
You may already know of some of the groups.
For example, have you ever heard the term "the animal kingdom"?
A "kingdom" is actually a scientific rank used in taxonomy, and all of the animals belong to the kingdom called Animalia.
Within the kingdom Animalia, all animals are put into smaller groups based on their similarities and differences.
The taxonomic rank for these groups is called phylum (the plural of phylum is "phyla").
There are perhaps as many as 35 different animal phyla, but most phyla are very uncommon.
Scientists recognize eight major phyla to describe most common animals:Porifera: Commonly called sponges, these animals live underwater and siphon water through a series of pores to trap food particles.
You might have one of these in your tub if you purchase a natural sponge for bathing.Cnidaria: These include jellyfish, hydra, and sea anemones.
One famous cnidarian is the portuguese man-of-war, which delivers a painful sting to unsuspecting beach-goers.Platyhelminthes: These are flatworms that live in freshwater, marine, and terrestrial habitats.
They are most famous for their regenerative properties.Annelida: The annelids are the segmented worms, including earthworms, marine worms, and aquatic worms.
Earthworms are used for compost and organic gardening, while marine and aquatic worms are commonly sold as bait.Mollusca: Snails, slugs (like the ones shown in Figure 1, below), bivalves (like clams and oysters), squid, and octopus are all mollusks.
It is some people's personal favorite phylum to serve for dinner.
Some mollusks have shells and others are shell-free, though mollusks are commonly referred to as "shellfish."
Figure 1.
Slugs, like the ones shown here, are mollusks.Arthropoda: Arthropods are one of the most common phyla and include insects (like beetles, butterflies, flies, bees, wasps, ants, and grasshoppers, like the one shown in Figure 2, below), centipedes, millipedes, spiders, scorpions, shrimp, lobsters, crayfish, pill bugs (like the ones shown in Figure 3, below), and many more.
All arthropods are invertebrates, which means they have an external skeleton called an exoskeleton.
An arthropod's exoskeleton sheds as the arthropod grows by molting.
See Figure 2 and Figure 3, below, for pictures of some common arthropods.
Figure 2.
Grasshoppers are insects, which are a common type of arthropod.
Figure 3.
Pill bugs are another common type of arthropod.
Echinodermata: This is a favorite phylum when visiting tide pools, and includes starfish, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers.
All echinoderms have 5-part symmetry, just like a star (technically, this type of symmetry is called pentamerism).Chordata: This phylum is the most well-known one, even though it is quite small, because all vertebrate animals are also chordates.
(Vertebrates are typically animals that have a spinal column.).
It is the phylum we belong to, along with most of our pets (dogs, cats, rabbits, rats, fish, frogs, salamanders), farm animals (cows, pigs, lamb, chickens), and zoo animals (zebra, lion, tiger, panda, giraffe, polar bear, etc.
).In this zoology science project, you will do some field work to look for animals from each of the major phyla in your local area and figure out which phylum most of the animals belong to.
Will one phylum be a lot more common than others?
How much biodiversity (or number of different types of animals) is there in your area?
How many phyla will you find?
Do not worry if you cannot find them all  it may be harder than you think!
Find out how many different kinds of animals live around your area to measure animal biodiversity and find out what is the most common phylum.
In this science project you surveyed the distribution of different types of animals in one location.
For a slightly more difficult project, you could survey two or more locations and compare.
How do your local parks compare to each other?
You could alternatively try comparing your yard to the yards of your friends and neighbors, or try comparing business areas to residential areas.
If you live near the coast, you could compare the shoreline to a more industrial zone.
How do the number of animals of each phylum change?
How can these types of experiments tell you about the health of your local environment?Do you have a pen-pal or relative who lives in a very different environment than you?
Perhaps you live in the Arizona desert and she/he lives near the beach in Florida?
This is a perfect way to share data and compare two very different environments for species diversity.
Have your friend do the same survey, and trade data with each other.
Are there some differences in the kinds of animal phyla you each find in your region?Try this experiment at the grocery store!
You may laugh, but you would be surprised how many phyla you can find there.
The best grocery stores for this experiment are ethnic markets and grocery stores that sell unique foods like: dried invertebrates, fish, shell fish, octopus, snails, and even pickled jellyfish.
Search through the fresh foods, frozen foods, dried foods and canned foods for food products made from different animal phyla.
In some markets you might even see prepared crickets!Sampling for biodiversity is one way that scientists identify important regions for conservation.
Is there an area near you that is protected for conservation?
Research the area and find out what unique animals are there, and why the area is being protected.
Conduct your own biodiversity survey there to show which types of animals live there.
Remember to think about migratory or seasonal animals, too.Your wildlife observations can be helpful for several different citizen science projects.
For example, you could use your investigations to contribute to the Lost Ladybug Project, School of Ants, Bee Hunt!, Project Squirrel, Project FeederWatch, or Wildlife Sightings.
What are your local populations of ladybugs, ants, bees, squirrels, birds, and other wildlife animals like?
How does your data compare to other data collected through the citizen science project?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, animals, dogs, cats, horses, birds, zoo, zoology, taxonomy, biodiversity, arthropods, mollusks, diversity, phyla, ecology, environment, ecosystem, conservation Taxonomy Taxonomic kingdom The kingdom Animalia Phylum (plural: phyla) Annelida and annelids Mollusca and mollusks Arthropoda and arthropods Invertebrates Chordata and chordates Vertebrates Biodiversity
