 A Puzzling Parallax  Do you enjoy going stargazing?
In a good location on a clear night, you can see a huge number of stars twinkling in the night's sky.
Have you ever wondered how far those stars are from us?
Ancient astronomers actually discovered a way figure this out, measuring the distance from Earth to faraway stars.
How did they do it without modern technologies?
In this astronomy science project you will find out by exploring the link between the distance of an object and perspective (also known as parallax), which can be used to measure how far away distant stars are.
How do astronomers know the distances of planets, stars, and galaxies?
They use a visual phenomenon called parallax to measure stellar distances.
Parallax is the way an object appears to move, looking like it changed its position, when it is seen from two different locations, or perspectives.
To see parallax for yourself, hold out your arm and stick up your thumb.
Closing one eye, line up your thumb with an object across the room.
Now quickly switch your eyes (while keeping your thumb in the same position) and you will notice that the object you were looking at is no longer lined up with your thumb  the two objects appear to have moved away from each other.
(Note that the movement of the objects is only an apparent movement  they look like they moved, but they actually stayed right where they were.)
This optical illusion is because of parallax.
The difference in distance between your two eyes makes your thumb (a relatively nearby object) line up differently with the object that is across the room (a relatively distant object).In astronomy, parallax is used along with the Earth's orbit around the sun to measure stellar distances.
See Figure 1, below, for an idea of how this works.
Basically, when a person looks at the same stars when the Earth is at different places in its orbit around the sun, the closer stars will appear to move position relative to the more distant stars.
This apparent movement, or parallax, can be used to figure out distances between Earth and specific, nearby stars.
Figure 1.
When an astronomer looks at these stars from different places in Earth's orbit around the sun (labeled "1" and "2"), the "Near Star" will appear to move position relative to the "Distant Stars" (labeled "A" and "B").
This apparent movement, or parallax, can be used to find out the distance (the line labeled "D") between Earth and the near star.
(Diagram adapted from Carroll, 2003.)
In the example you did using your thumb and an object across the room, the star whose distance you are measuring would be represented by your thumb, the two different positions of the Earth would be like your eyes, and the distant stars would be like the object across the room.In this science project, you will investigate how the distance of a nearby object is related to how far it appears to move when you view it from two perspectives.
To set up your two perspectives, you will use two hula hoops placed next to each other.
You will use a meterstick to measure the visual shift of a near object (a small table) with respect to a distant object (a tree or tall post).
To discover the relationship between the distance of an object and the viewing perspective, also known as parallax.
Parallax is similar to the process our brains use when measuring depth perception.
Intuitively, you know which objects are near and which objects are far.
Try an experiment comparing binocular vision and monocular vision and the effect on depth perception.Astronomers use parallax to determine the distances of stellar objects in space.
But parallax can also be used to calculate and measure distant objects on the earth.
Builders often use parallax to measure the height of buildings or the location of a building site.
City planners use parallax to measure city parks and roads.
Can you think of an inventive way to use parallax around your city or town?Parallax shows us that near stars will move more quickly than distant stars.
We can see this if we watch the change in the location of stars in the night sky.
If you watch your favorite constellation over several nights, you will notice that the stars move together as a group.
Compare the movement of the constellation to nearer objects, like the moon or a planet.
Which objects move more quickly?
Can you pick out the difference between planets and stars using this method?In this experiment you moved the near object (the rock rubber banded to the meterstick) different distances away from the observation points (the hula hoops).
Another factor for measuring parallax is the distance between the two observation points.
Can you think of a similar experiment to test this variable?
(Hint: Try moving the observation points different distances apart instead of moving your near object.)
How does the distance between observation points affect parallax?For an advanced mathematics challenge, you could try doing a parallax activity that lets you calculate the distance between the observation points and the near object.
To get an idea of how to do this, watch this parallax activity video from NASA SciFile's channel.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, astronomy, stars, galaxy, perspective, parallax, space, physics Stars Galaxy Parallax Perspectives Optical illusions Astronomy Earth's orbit
