 That's a Pretty Tough Baby!
A Study of Gender Stereotypes in Children  Have you ever seen a baby in the park and wondered if it was a boy or a girl?
Maybe once you found out the gender, you thought how sweet, mischievous, or cute the baby was.
But waitdo you think that the words you used to describe the baby might be based on your own gender stereotypes?
A gender stereotype is when you expect someone to act a certain way simply because he or she is a boy or a girl.
In this human behavior science project, you will investigate whether young children use gender stereotypes.
What is it about babies that attract even the grouchiest people?
The big eyes, button nose, and mouth draw us in and stir our most tender feelings.
Often, when a parent brings his or her baby to a park, other park goers will stop and comment on the baby.
They might make statements like, "Oh, what a sweet little thing!
", "Look at him moving his fists, he's a real slugger!
", or "What a cutie pie!".
Is the word sweet used more often when the baby is a girl?
Is the word slugger used when the baby is a boy?
What about the word cute?Before we examine why people use certain words with certain babies, let's first discuss what prompts people to use those words.
Perhaps it is because they can tell the gender (male or female) of the baby and then, either knowingly or unknowingly, use different words.
But how can people tell the gender of the baby?
Is it because of the way the baby is dressed?
In Santa Cruz, California, a student noticed that adult passersby would treat his baby niece differently, depending on how the baby was dressed.
If she was dressed in overalls, then people would say how tough she looked.
If she wore a dress, then people would mention how sweet she was.
Sometimes, there was no way to tell the gender based on her clothes, and then people used neutral words.
These comments got this student thinking about gender stereotypes and how we adjust what we say and think based on how someone looks.
Stereotypes can be positive or negative, but they rarely communicate accurate information.
This Santa Cruz student wondered if children have gender stereotypes, and if certain descriptive words (adjectives) are classified as feminine, masculine, or neutral.
He decided to test groups of children to figure this out.
To do this, he first compiled three lists of adjectives: a list of passive (feminine) adjectives, a list of aggressive (masculine) adjectives, and list of neutral adjectives.
He then compiled a list that was made up of adjectives from each of the three lists and passed out the list to children in three different 5th-grade classes, along with a picture of a baby.
The gender of the baby was not clear.
He told one class that the baby was a boy and that they should pick words from the list that best described the baby.
He told the second class that the baby was a girl and that they should pick words from the list that best described the baby.
Finally, he didn't share the gender of the baby with the third class, but asked them to pick words from the list that best described the baby.
His final results were very interesting.In this human behavior science project, you, too, will investigate whether children in your area have gender stereotypes and whether certain words are considered to be passive, aggressive, or neutral.
Sound interesting?
Well, get ready to delve into the human mind and learn how we view each other.
To investigate the use of gender stereotypes in grade-school-aged children.
When do gender stereotypes form?
Does age have an effect on the words used to describe the baby?
Repeat your experiment with children from lower grades.Repeat your experiments with adults.
How do adults compare with children?
Do adults use more aggressive, passive, or neutral adjectives?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Beckyrd said:  2016-02-28 15:10:20 What was the most important thing you learned?
I already knew most stuff, I did because I wanted more people to realise the fact that they're putting these ideas onto their kids minds without knowing, that they too use stereotypes and the consequences they bring.
What problems did you encounter?
-I couldn't find 60 kids because I'm in a private school with barely 30 kids in each classroom.-I'm spanish speaker so it was really difficult to find neutral adjectives Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    stereoypesodatastetest said:  2012-02-14 16:09:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
fifth and sixth graders do not understand the words gender, siblings, pudgy, or slugger                                                                                           ; ) What problems did you encounter?
the students put weird combinations together such as pudgy and delicate, shy and tough,                                                                                           : ) Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
for the third test have them name the baby so you know what gender they think it is without giving it away that you are doing something with genders get more test subjects, smarter ones, older ones, I did this project with 5th & 6TH graders and ended up taking it to 20 year olds and they still had trouble circling 6 words and putting good combinations together Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
14                        5                Report Inappropriate Comment Human behavior science project, gender, stereotypes, children, babies, baby Gender Stereotype Percentage
