 Home Sweet Biome: How Do Plants Grow in Different Environments?
Have you ever looked around and noticed the plants and animals that grow in your neighborhood?
Have you ever visited friends in another part of your city, state, or even another part of the country?
Have you noticed whether the plants and animals where they live are similar to those growing near you?
What would it be like to live where they do?
Why do certain plants and animals grow in one area, but not in another?
In this science fair project you will learn about biomes and how different climatic conditions affect plant growth and be one step closer to becoming an expert on our amazing home, Earth.
A biome is a community of plants, animals, and soil organisms living in a climate.
Climate is defined as the average weather in a region over a long period of time.
There are three major biomes: terrestrial, marine, and freshwater.
Each of these is further divided into more-specific biomes.
Climatic factors that play a role in where biomes are located are: latitude (which means placement on Earth in relation to the equator; how much sunlight is available depends upon latitude), humidity (the amount of moisture in the air), and elevation (how high something is).
Climate is the main factor in determining the location and distribution of terrestrial biomes.
Some examples of terrestrial biomes are: tundra, desert, and tropical forest.
The tundra biome is characterized by extremely low temperatures, a short growing season, and poor soil nutrients.
The desert has low rainfall and the plants have evolved so they can live with less water.
The desert soil is very nutritive and needs only water to become productive.
The tropical rainforest is known for it highly diverse plant life.
The average temperature is between 68 and 77F, and annual rainfall exceeds 200 centimeters (cm).
Table 1.
Biomes of the world.The marine biome covers three-fourths of Earth's surface and includes oceans, coral reefs, and estuaries.
Coral reefs are found around continents and islands.
Examples include the Great Barrier Reef in Australia and the Tahitian reefs, which are both great places to snorkel and scuba dive because of the wide variety of fish and beautiful coral to see.
Estuaries mark the region where freshwater meets the ocean.
Estuaries are affected by the tides, but are sheltered from the full force of ocean wind and waves.
Here, water of different salt concentrations mixes and create an interesting diversity of plant and animal life.
An example of this type of biome is where the Mississippi River meets the Gulf of Mexico.
The freshwater biome consists of ponds and lakes, and streams and rivers.
Freshwater means that the salt concentration in the water is low; less than 1% compared to 3.5% for ocean water.
All of the plants and animals in freshwater biomes have adapted to the low salt concentration in the water.
Ponds and lakes vary greatly in size and since they are isolated bodies of water, they sometimes have limited species diversity.
Temperatures in ponds and lakes vary according to depth and season.
At its deepest, temperatures can fall to 39F, regardless of the season.
At the top, the temperature of the water can reach 72F in the summer and 32F in the winter.
Streams and rivers are different from ponds and lakes because they are flowing water.
The characteristics of streams and rivers change from the source to the end, and the temperature at the source is usually much cooler than at the end of the stream or river.In this science fair project, you will learn more about the different biomes on Earth and will model a couple of terrestrial biomes.
By the end of this science fair project you will understand what an amazing place our home planet is.
Figure 1.
This image shows the distribution of terrestrial biomes.
(Wikimedia, 2007.)
To investigate the effects of different biomes on plant growth.
There are animals in most terrestrial biomes.
Try introducing an insect into your most successful biome.
Observe the biome and record what happens to the insect.
Try making containers with different seeds and see how your biomes affect their growth.
Does seed type play a role in deciding which biome is more successful?
Try modeling different biomes.
For example, for the tundra biome you could place the container and bag in the refrigerator.
You could also model the desert by adding sand to your soil.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  peacheszendaya22 said:  2016-02-08 11:59:23 What was the most important thing you learned?
That plants in the dark, warm climate actually grow faster and taller than one's in a light, and slightly colder climate.
I though light helped plants grow.
But I did notice that those in the light had a darker green color than the ones in the dark.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Try different biomes.
i only tried two.
But but one in the fridge, or under a bathroom sink.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Llamaz said:  2015-12-14 19:37:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
idk What problems did you encounter?
idk Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
idk Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     bethanyms said:  2015-09-25 14:44:18 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing that I learned from this project was where the best locations are for plants.
From completeing this project, I now know where to put my plants.
:)  What problems did you encounter?
none  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
My only suggestion is that maybe there should be more plants or more locations so you can compare more environments.
:) Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Ct00 said:  2013-09-19 22:25:12 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that plants do live in certain environments.
Some live in others better.
What problems did you encounter?
None  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Environmental Science, science fair project, biomes, terrestrial, aquatic, marine, freshwater, climate, plant, growth Biome Organism Climate Terrestrial Marine Freshwater Latitude Humidity Elevation Tundra Desert Tropical forest Soil nutrients Estuary Diversity Condensation Precipitation
