 Are Childproof Containers Really Childproof?
Have you ever woken up in the middle of the night just not feeling well?
Maybe your mom or dad gave you some medicine and you felt better after taking it.
Medicine is a great tool in the fight against an illness, but medicine can be a poison if too much is taken.
Similarly, household products can clean your home and make it smell great, but if eaten, can be poisonous.
That is why most medicines and household products are stored in childproof containers.
But are childproof containers really childproof?
In this human behavior science fair project, you will investigate the effectiveness of childproof containers by seeing if children can defeat the safety mechanisms of different containers, and if they can easily learn how to open a childproof container.
When you're not feeling wellmaybe you've got a fever or a sore throatmedicine can help you feel better.
Medicines come in all different kinds of flavors and colors...but why?
One reason is that the actual medicines that make you feel better often do not taste good, so the manufacturers add flavorings, like grape and bubble gum, as well as color, to make them look and taste better.
Some medicines, like aspirin, cause stomach irritation.
To prevent this from occurring, the tablets have a coating that prevents stomach irritation.
The coatings can have colors like orange, red, or yellow.
The bad news is that some medicines can taste and look like candy to a young child.
And what happens when you eat candy?
You always want to eat a lot!
This can happen to young children who have access to medicinethey ingest too much, which can lead to them getting very sick.Household products, like cleaning solutions and cosmetics, come in various colors, packages, and scents.
Window cleaning solution could be mistaken for juice or a sports drink.
Kids are often attracted to the bright colors, interesting containers, and sweet smells.
In the United States, over 1 million children, 5 years old or under, were exposed to potential poisons in 2004.
To prevent children from taking too much medicine and from ingesting other household products, manufacturers started placing their products in childproof containers.But how effective are childproof containers?
Can children easily defeat the safety mechanisms on them?
How long does it take to learn how to defeat the safety mechanism?
In this human behavior science fair project, you will determine if childproof containers are really childproof.
Children often mimic adults opening containers, so you will also investigate how easy it is to learn how to defeat the safety mechanism and open the container.
Use several different kinds of containers from different household products and have the test subjects attempt to open the containers.
By doing this science fair project, you will become aware of any safety issues that may be present in your home, which will help you improve the safety of children in your family or in others you know.
You can also help your community by sharing your results.
The objective of this human behavior science fair project is to test the effectiveness of several childproof containers and to investigate whether the safety mechanism can be easily figured out.
Does gender affect the ability to open childproof containers?
Review the data and organize it by gender to determine if there is a dependence on gender.Gather test subjects of a younger age and an older age and repeat this human behavior science fair project.
How does age affect the ability to open childproof containers?If you would like to try a similar human behavior project, try the Science Buddies project Candy Confusion: Can Small Children Mistake Medicine for Candy?.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  M2704 said:  2016-11-07 15:00:22 What was the most important thing you learned?
That overall there are more kids who can figure out the mechanisms than others What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    volleyball448 said:  2016-01-29 09:16:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
that some are some arnt What problems did you encounter?
all of the kids wanted to do it Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
replace the empty bottles and put candy in them Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    theplaidtoms said:  2013-04-07 12:21:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
That kindergarteners were able to open the containers.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
girls or boys able to open the container more often Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    cserpa said:  2013-01-28 16:48:21 What was the most important thing you learned?
That children really are susceptible to the dangers of intoxication and even though we think otherwise, they really don't know the difference What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    RJackson said:  2012-11-11 17:44:19 What was the most important thing you learned?
With varying ages come varying results.
I have younger siblings, and thier difference in ages created different results, which showed a better indication of the "limits" of the abilities of these differing ages.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Human behavior science fair project, childproof container, poison, chemicals, safety Poison Childproof container
