 Jack It Up!
Lift a Load Using Hydraulics  Can you lift a car?
No?
You say you are not strong enough?
True, our bodies are not built to lift heavy loads like cars.
Fortunately, our brains are smart enough to harness the power of fluids, like water and oil, to create hydraulic lifts.
By pushing a button on a hydraulic lift, a mechanic can easily raise a car with one finger.
Lifts can also be used to raise lots of other heavy loads - even such massive things as steel girders to construct a skyscraper!
In this mechanical engineering project, you will get a firsthand look at the power of a hydraulic system by building your own working model of a lift.
What do a wheelchair lift, an excavator at a construction site, and a dentist's chair have in common?
The ability to lift a heavy load.
And in all of these examples, the ability is due to the power of hydraulics.
Hydraulics is the study of liquids and their mechanical properties: for instance, how they move, resist movement, act when subject to pressure, and so forth.
In engineering, one application of hydraulics is using liquids, like water and oil, to move things.
Why use a liquid to move things, instead of, say, air?
One important reason is that a liquid is incompressible, which means that if you press on it, you cannot change its volume.
For example, if you have a cup filled with marshmallows, you can fit even more marshmallows into the cup by compressing (squeezing) the marshmallows together.
But if the glass is full of water, there is no way you can fit more water into the cup - no matter how hard you squeeze!
Since liquid is incompressible, applying a force (for example, a push or a pull) to one end of a hydraulic system transmits (passes along) the force through the liquid to the other end.
A force spread out over an area, or a force divided by an area, is called pressure.
Pushing on the top of a glass of water is putting pressure on the water.
Another way of thinking about pressure is to imagine yourself pushing on an object with your finger or with the palm of your hand.
In both cases, you are applying the same force, but the pressure is different because the area of the tip of your finger is much smaller than the palm of your hand.
Figure 1 shows a simple hydraulic system that uses the concepts of force and pressure.
Figure 1.
This simple hydraulic system has two pistons in cylinders on the top.
The hydraulic system in Figure 1 is made up of a liquid-filled tube topped with two pistons.
Applying a downward force on this closed system (in this case, pushing down on the left-hand piston) causes the liquid to move against the right-hand piston and, because the liquid is incompressible, push the piston up.
Since the liquid is incompressible, the pressure in the liquid is the same at every point within the liquid.
When the energy from the force applied to one piston is transferred to the liquid and gives its energy to move the second piston, we say that work has been done to the liquid by the first piston.
Hydraulic machinery, like wheelchair lifts and car jacks, use liquids to do work.
That work can be applied to performing big jobs like lifting heavy loads.
An advantage of hydraulic tools is the concept of force multiplication.
Force multiplication enables the force you apply to one piston to be multiplied, by a multiplicative factor, to make a larger force acting on the second piston.
This only works if the first piston is smaller in area than the second piston.
If we take the simple hydraulic system mentioned and alter it to use force multiplication, it will look like Figure 2.
Figure 2.
Simple hydraulic system with pistons of different areas.
The piston with the smaller area is called the master and the piston with the larger piston is called the slave.
The difference in areas enables force multiplication.
When the master (smaller) piston is pushed in, the amount of force applied to the slave (larger) piston by the liquid is multiplied by the ratio of the area of the slave piston to the area of the master piston.
This relationship is derived in Equations 1-3.
Equation 1.Pressure at slave piston = Pressure at master pistonPressure is in units of newtons/areaArea is in units of centimeters [cm] squaredSince pressure is force acting over an area, Equation 1 is transformed into Equation 2.Equation 2.
FsFm=AsAmFs= Force applied by liquid on slave piston (in units of newtons, N)Fm=Force applied to liquid by master piston  (N)As= Area of slave piston (cm)Am= Area of master piston (cm) In Figure 2, the area of both pistons is a circle and the area of a circle is r2, where r is the radius of the circle.
Using this fact, Equation 2 is transformed into Equation 3, to find the force applied by the liquid on the slave piston.Equation 3.Force on slave piston = Force applied by master piston x (area of slave piston/area of master piston)Fs =Fm  (rs2rm2  )Fs= Force applied by liquid on slave piston (N)Fm=Force applied to liquid by master piston  (N)rs= radius of slave piston  (cm)rm= radius of master piston (cm)= pi (approximately 3.14)The ratio of the areas of the two different pistons in Equation 3 is called the multiplicative factor.
Using Equation 3, the force on the slave piston in Figure 2 is four times the force applied by the master piston.
So if the master applies 1 N of force to the liquid, the liquid's force on the slave is 4 N. The only issue is that the master must be pushed down 4 cm while the slave rises only 1 cm.Force multiplication is the reason hydraulic machinery is so useful.
A small force from the operator on one end is multiplied and results in a much larger force on the other end of the machine.
Construction machines like excavators and forklifts use the force multiplication of hydraulics.
Often these machines have hydraulic cylinders.
A hydraulic cylinder is made up of a piston and a cylinder that houses the piston and the hydraulic liquid.
In this mechanical engineering science project, you will build three model hydraulic lifts and demonstrate the concept of force multiplication using syringes with different radii.
The syringes act as hydraulic cylinders.
The plunger of the syringe acts as the piston in the hydraulic cylinder.
A real life example of a hydraulic lift is a vehicle wheelchair lift, like the one shown in Figure 3.
What will be the maximum weight each model lift can raise?
Will the maximum weight change if you change the size of the slave piston?
Figure 3.
A handicapped child can easily and safely enter a vehicle using a hydraulic wheelchair lift, as shown in this image.
To apply the principles of hydraulics in building a working model of a hydraulic lift.
Repeat the experiment using mineral oil as the hydraulic liquid instead of water.
Does this change affect the maximum weight supported for each lift?What other types of models of construction machinery or fun contraptions can you build applying the principles of hydraulics?
For example, can you build a barbershop chair or a toy to entertain your pet?
Let your imagination go!
The Engineering Design Process guide can help you get started.
Make a lift with two slave syringes and one master syringe.
What is the maximum weight this lift can support?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  laula said:  2015-01-22 08:46:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
how hydraulics help to multiply force What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I made a box where I can display de 3 connections of syringes at once.
It good because you see the difference Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    marcseverin said:  2013-05-10 05:30:46 What was the most important thing you learned?
1-But adding  the friction on our experiment the syringe it now able to support more load(masses) than before(without friction) 2-And between all three The 10 and 10 ,10 and 20 ,10 and 60  the one  who support the heaviest weight is the one for 10 and 60 and the one who support the smallest weight is the one for 10 and 10 3-we have notice that also we have to apply a force to lift up the mass we put on the top of the plate And when its not the maximum for the piston on the syringe does not come back .But when the piston attempt is maximum load the when we apply the force to lift up the mass when we leave to apply the force the piston come back to the initial position.
What problems did you encounter?
by adding the friction its not anymore easy to get the maximum load Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
adding a friction to the piston help the machine to lift more heavy weight Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Kyle_Z said:  2012-08-11 14:57:14 What was the most important thing you learned?
dont know What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
4                        22                Report Inappropriate Comment Mechanical engineering science project, mechanical engineering, hydraulics, hydraulic lift, force multiplication, piston, slave piston, master piston, force, work, Hydraulics Incompressible Force Area Pressure Piston Energy Work Force multiplication Newton Radius (radii) Multiplicative factor Hydraulic cylinder Hydraulic lift Diameter
