 See the Light by Making a Cell Phone Spectrophotometer  We encounter an amazing array of colors every day, from the greens of plants and the many colors of their flowers, to the pinkish blue of a sunset, to the artificial coloring in beverages.
How do we perceive all of these colors?
When light hits an object, some of that light is absorbed by the object, and the light that is not absorbed is what we see.
In this science project, you will build a simple spectrophotometer from a cell phone and use it to investigate how visible light is absorbed by differently colored solutions.
In biology and chemistry laboratories, researchers often use an expensive instrument called a spectrophotometer, which measures the intensity of light.
Although this instrument usually costs hundreds to thousands of dollars, using a cell phone camera and less than $60 in other parts, you can build a rudimentary version of this really useful piece of equipment.
Spectrophotometers have a wide variety of applications; they enable researchers to investigate topics such as how chemicals react, how quickly microorganisms multiply, and how much protein or DNA is present in a sample.
To understand how a spectrophotometer can do all of these things and more, it is important to step back and learn about the basic concepts underlying how a spectrophotometer functions.Visible light, the light that we can see, is electromagnetic radiation that the human eye can detect.
Electromagnetic radiation is energy in the form of electric and magnetic fields that move through space as waves, and it manifests not only as visible light, but also as x-rays, radio waves, microwaves, and more.
Watch this video to learn more about electromagnetic radiation.
Watch this video which gives an introduction to light and electromagnetic radiation (Khan Academy).
Watch this video which gives an introduction to light and electromagnetic radiation (Khan Academy).
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rLNM8zI4Q_M Different forms of electromagnetic radiation, such as x-rays and visible light, have different wavelengths, as shown in Figure 1, but they all travel at the same speedthe speed of light.
A wavelength is the distance between a point on a wave and the same point on the next wave, or, in other words, the distance that the wave travels in one cycle.
Very short wavelengths, such as the ones that make up visible light, are measured in nanometers (nm) (1 nm = 1x10-9 meters).
Figure 1.
The electromagnetic spectrum and the wavelengths of visible light.
X-rays, visible light, and radio waves are examples of electromagnetic waves.
Visible light is the part of the electromagnetic spectrum that we can detect with our eyes.
At the blue end of the visible spectrum, the wavelength of light is shorter (about 400 nm).
At the red end of the spectrum, the wavelength is longer (about 700 nm).For humans, the range of visible wavelengths is from 400 nm to 700 nm.
We can see electromagnetic radiation in the visible light range because there are molecules in our eyes (called rhodopsins) that respond to different light wavelengths, and our brain interprets their responses as different colors.
(The energy of the different wavelengths actually causes rhodopsin to change its structure.
)White light contains all of the visible wavelengths.
When shone through a colored solution, the solution absorbs some wavelengths of the white light and transmits wavelengths that are not absorbed.
When we look at the colored solution, we see the transmitted light.
The transmitted light may be the only wavelength that is not absorbed.
For example, if a solution absorbs all wavelengths except blue, the transmitted light will be blue.
Similarly, the transmitted light can be complementary to the only absorbed color.
Complementary colors are based on the three primary colors (red, yellow, and blue) and the secondary colors that are made by mixing two of these primary colors (orange, green, and violet).
When two primary colors, for example, yellow and red, are mixed together, they create a secondary color, in this example orange, that is complementary to the third primary color, blue in this example.
This is why if only orange light is absorbed from a solution, leaving primarily blue light to be transmitted, we see the solution as blue.
Similarly, a solution may appear blue if it absorbs both red and yellow light.
On the artist's color wheel in Figure 2, complementary colors appear on the opposite sides of each other.
Figure 2.
This artist's color wheel shows the primary colors (red, blue, and yellow) and the secondary colors that are made by mixing two of these primary colors (orange, green, and violet).
Approximate wavelength ranges for these colors are given in nanometers (nm).
A color's complementary color is on the opposite side of the wheel.
(Based on a figure from Martin Silberberg's Chemistry: The Molecular Nature of Matter and Change; McGraw-Hill, 2011.)
A spectrophotometer measures the intensity of light at different wavelengths by separating white light into a spectrum of colors, like a rainbow, when it passes through a colored solution.
The amount of light that is transmitted is measured by a light detector on the exit side of the solution, or sample.
Consequently, the spectrophotometer can create an absorption spectra for the sample, as shown in Figure 3, which shows which wavelengths are being absorbed the most by the sample.
Figure 3.
Absorption spectra of the food dyes blue #1 and red #40.
Note that the blue dye absorbs light strongly at a wavelength of about 620 nm, which is in the orange part of the visible spectrum (see Figure 1 for colors and wavelengths).
The red dye #40 absorbs strongly at around 500 nm, roughly in the blue-green part of the spectrum.
The molar extinction coefficient, also known as the molar absorption coefficient, is a measure of how efficiently the light is absorbed at a given wavelength.
(Thomasson, 1998.)
In this science fair project, you will build a simple spectrophotometer to measure the absorption of visible light in differently colored solutions.
You will place the sample solutions next to a light source, then put a diffraction grating between the samples and the detector.
You will make the sample solutions using water and different food colors, and the light source will be a white light-emitting diode (or LED).
Diffraction gratings are used in spectrophotometers to split and diffract beams of light in different directions, or, in other words, to essentially create a rainbow of colors, which is used to analyze the samples.
The detector will be a cell phone camera, which you will use to collect images.
You will analyze your images using a computer software program that measures the amount of light that was transmitted through the sample.
Much of this experiment will focus on optimizing, or improving, your spectrophotometer, to make it work the best it can given its inherent limitations.
Build a spectrophotometer and use it to investigate the absorption of visible light in differently colored solutions.
You can use the cell phone spectrophotometer you made for this project to investigate dyes in other liquids.
For example, you could test samples of different colored fruit juices or drink mixes.
If you use drink mixes, dilute each drink mix powder in water to be the same concentration (such as 5 grams in 100 mL of water; the packaging usually says how many grams of powder it contains).
Are the maximum absorbance wavelengths what you expect them to be?
If there are multiple peaks, can you explain why this might be?
If specific dyes are listed as ingredients, do you see distinctly the corresponding peaks?Another way that you can investigate multiple dyes in a sample is through paper chromatography.
Devise a way to examine the samples you investigated in this project using paper chromatography.
For some chromatography projects, see:Paper Chromatography: Basic VersionPaper Chromatography: Advanced Version 1Paper Chromatography: Advanced Version 2Plants contain a variety of pigments that you could use your cell phone spectrophotometer to investigate.
Collect differently colored flowers, plants, fruits, and vegetables and blend each of them in water to create differently colored solutions.
Filter the solutions to remove any large particles.
Investigate them with your spectrophotometer.
Do you see absorbance peaks where you expect them?
If the samples have multiple peaks, can you explain why this might be?
How sensitive is your cell phone spectrophotometer compared to a commercially available spectrophotometer?
If you have access to a commercially available spectrophotometer, use the same color samples on it and compare the resulting absorption spectra.
Are the absorption spectra very similar or very different?Can you use your cell phone spectrophotometer to investigate the concentration of colored solutions?
Devise a way to test this.
Find information about the Beer-Lambert law and determine whether your spectrophotometer supports it.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Writemaster said:  2013-05-02 07:03:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
fg What problems did you encounter?
fg Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
fg Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Spectrophotometer, cell phone spectrophotometer, visible light, transmission, absorption, dyes, science fair project, chemistry project Spectrophotometer Visible light Electromagnetic radiation Wavelength Electromagnetic spectrum White light Absorption Transmission Complementary colors Primary colors Secondary colors Spectrum Absorption spectra Molar extinction coefficient Light-emitting diode (LED) Diffraction grating Maximum absorbance Beer-Lambert law
