 I See a Full Moon Rising...and Shrinking...or Do I?
Have you ever noticed how the moon appears bigger at the horizon, just as it is rising over the treetops, than it does later in the evening when it is overhead?
Of course, the size of the moon does not change, but our perception of its size changes based on where it is in the sky.
In this human biology science fair project, you will investigate Emmert's law, which explains the full moon illusion.
You will estimate the size of the perceived increase in the size of the moon at the horizon.
A full moon rising over the horizon, like the one shown in Figure 1 below, often appears to be unusually large.
Many people will say that the moon gets smaller as it moves higher up in the sky above the horizon.
Actually, the angular size of the moon, which is about 0.5 degrees, is the same wherever it is in the sky.
For comparison, the tip of your little finger, when your hand is held at arm's length, is about 1 degree.
Angular size is measured in degrees, with 360 degrees equaling a full circle.
An object's angular size is the angle between the lines of sight to its two opposite sides.
For example, the angular size of the sky is about 180 degrees.
An object's angular size is a measure of how large the object actually appears to be, which depends on both actual size and the distance to the object.
This example is familiar to everyone: an object that is near to you appears larger (that is, it has a larger angular size) than when it is farther away from you.
Figure 1.
A full moon rising over the horizon often appears to be unusually large, but its angular size is the same wherever it is in the sky.What is the basis for this full moon illusion?
It is not that the moon appears larger on the horizon because it is seen next to things like trees and houses, since airline pilots flying at very high altitudes sometimes experience the moon illusion without any objects in the foreground.
One well-supported theory is that your brain "thinks" the region of the sky overhead is closer than the region of the sky at the horizon, so it adjusts the size of the moon's image accordingly.
Think about it: birds, clouds, and airplanes flying overhead seem closer than birds on the horizon do.
When the moon is near the horizon, your brain miscalculates the moon's true distance and size.One way to explore this phenomenon is with afterimages.
An afterimage is the image you see when you look at a brightly colored object and then look away.
It is caused by fatigue of your cone cells.
There are three types of cone cells, loosely called blue, green, and red, depending on which type of light they respond to best.
When you look at a red object, for example, the red cone cells are preferentially stimulated.
The stimulation of the red cone cells causes them to send a message to the brain, saying, in effect, "the color of the object is red."
Prolonged exposure to a particular color can cause cone cell fatigue.
For example, if you stare at a red object, the red cones become fatigued and temporarily unable to respond.
If you look at a white area after staring at a red image, you will see an afterimage that is the same size and shape as the original, but a different color.
Try this by looking at the red circle in Figure 2, in the Procedure tab, for 30 seconds, then looking at the white region to the right.
Can you see the blue-green afterimage?Why is the afterimage blue-green?
When you look at the white surface after staring at the red object, your eyes will essentially receive equal doses of red, green, and blue light, but only the blue and the green cones are able to respond.
Because of cone cell fatigue, the input from the red cones is missing from the region of the afterimage.
So you see the afterimage as blue-green.
The afterimage disappears over time because the red cone cells recover from their fatigue and become active again.
When the red cone cells are active again, all three types of cone cells respond to the white surface, and you see the white region normally.How can we use afterimages to explore the full moon illusion?
The actual size of the image on your retina, caused by staring at the colored circle in Figure 2, does not change.
But, as you will see in this experiment, the perceived size of the afterimage depends on the distance between you and the surface on which you view the afterimage.
In other words, the perceived size of the afterimage varies directly with the distance of the surface on which it is viewed.
This relation is an instance of a more general perceptual relation, known as Emmert's law, which states: The perceived size of a particular visual angle is directly proportional to its perceived distance.You will use Emmert's law to study the full moon illusion.
How much bigger does the moon appear to be at the horizon?
In other words, what is the magnitude of the moon illusion?
In this human biology science fair project, you will estimate the size of the brain's miscalculation in the full moon illusion.
Investigate Emmert's law, which is the basis for the full moon illusion, to determine the perceived increase in size of the moon at the horizon.
Draw more squares of increasing size on pieces of paper and repeat Part 3 in the    Procedure using these.
For example, the sides could be 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, and 5.0 cm.
Cut them out and compare each square to the square with 3.75-cm sides.
Train yourself so that you can identify the different relative sizes.
An exercise might be to flip them all over so that their magnitudes are hidden,    mix them up, and then try to select the various sizes.
Repeat Part 2, but this time, include the region of the sky at approximately 45 degrees above the horizon; that is, halfway between the horizon and the zenith.
Estimate the relative size of the afterimage at 45 degrees above the horizon compared to the image at the horizon.
Look at the same angle above the horizon during your trials.
You can use a flagpole or a telephone wire, for example, to help you return to the same region of the sky each time.
Draw a picture of the perceived dome of the sky.
What are the relative distances to the horizon and the zenith in the perceived sky dome?
How does it compare to a hemispherical dome?
Demonstrate that the actual size of the full moon does not change as it rises, by taking pictures of it at different angles above the horizon and measuring the diameter of the moon in the pictures.
It has been reported that the full moon illusion is reduced when the full moon at the horizon is observed through the viewer's legs.
In other words, when looked at upside-down!
Does viewing the afterimages through your legs change your results?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, human biology, full moon illusion, Emmert's law, moon, illusion explanation, moon larger on horizon Horizon Angular size Full moon illusion Afterimage Cone cell Cone cell fatigue Emmert's law Zenith
