 Powered by Pee: Using Urine in a Microbial Fuel Cell  Every day, we produce a lot of sewage (wastewater full of feces and urine).
In fact, it adds up to 6.4 trillion liters of urine alone produced worldwide each year!
The sewage is collected and then treated or disposed of.
But what if, along the way, there were a way to make that sewage do something useful?
Human urine is rich in nutrients, and some bacteria actually thrive on eating those nutrients.
There are also devices called microbial fuel cells that can generate electrical power by using certain bacteria.
Could human urine be used to generate electricity in a microbial fuel cell?
Find out for yourself in this science project.
Each year, people produce about 6.4 trillion liters of urine worldwide!
That is a lot of waste that needs to be collected and then properly treated and/or disposed of.
But maybe we do not need to see it as just "waste;" it might be able to serve a useful purpose while it is being processed.
Urine is full of nutrients, primarily nitrogen (in the form of urea), along with other compounds, including chloride, sodium, potassium, and creatinine.
Because of this, human urine has sometimes been used as a fertilizer for plants.
(For more on this, see the Science Buddies science project idea Growing Great Gardens: Using Human Urine as a Fertilizer.)
Among other uses, the nutrients in urine can also be used to feed microbes (microscopic organisms), like bacteria.
Why would this be useful?
As it turns out, in the early 1900s, scientists showed that microbes could make electricity, which is the basis of microbial fuel cell (or MFC) technology.
As natural resources are being depleted, scientists' attention has shifted to pursuing alternative energy sources, such as MFCs, even more than before.A microbial fuel cell, also known as a biological fuel cell, is a device that can use microbial interactions to generate electricity.
It is a renewable, clean source of energy, making it quite appealing.
An MFC has an anode, a cathode, and an area that separates the two (called a membrane).
Anodes and cathodes are both electrodes.
An electrode is something that conducts electricity, with electricity either flowing into, or out of it.
Specifically, an anode has electricity flowing into it, whereas a cathode has electricity flowing out of it.
So, for an MFC to function, electricity must be made to flow into the anode and then leave from the cathode.
How is this accomplished?
To answer this question, we will look at MFCs that use microbes from the soil to generate electricity.
When you think of electricity, and how it can be made in nature, you may think of lightning and electric eels, though you probably do not think about microbes!
But some types of soil bacteria can help generate electricity, too.
These bacteria, known as electrogenic bacteria, include the Shewanella species, which can be found in almost any soil on Earth and are shown in Figure 1, and the Geobacter species, which prefer living in soil deep underground or even under the ocean, where no oxygen is present.
How can these bacteria help make electricity?
The soil bacteria eat what is in the soil, such as microscopic nutrients and sugars, and in turn, produce electrons that are released back into the soil.
Electrons are subatomic particles that have a negative electric charge.
These electrons can be harnessed and used to create electricity, which is a form of energy.
For example, if a lightbulb has enough electricity flowing through it in the correct way, the lightbulb will light up.
Figure 1.
This is a high-magnification image of Shewanella bacteria, specifically the species S. oneidensis.
The bacteria are the cylindrical rods scattered in this image.
(The other parts of the image are ice pieces that the bacteria were submerged in to take this picture.)
(Image credit: PLoS Biology)In an MFC using these soil bacteria, the anode is buried in the damp soil.
Down there, the bacteria multiply and cover the anode (creating a biofilm on it), supplying it with a lot of electrons.
At the same time, electrons are taken away from the cathode.
How does this happen?
While the anode is buried in the soil, the cathode sits on top of the soil, leaving one of its sides completely exposed to the air.
Electrons from the anode travel up a wire to the cathode and, once there, they react with oxygen (from the air) and hydrogen (produced by the bacteria as it digests the nutrients in the soil) to create water.
The anode is buried deep enough, where there is no oxygen, so this reaction could not take place right next to the anode.
See Figure 2 for a visualization of this process.
The more electron-producing, soil-munching bacteria are in the soil, the more electricity the MFC produces.
Figure 2.
This diagram shows the reactions taking place in a microbial fuel cell (or MFC) that make it generate electricity.
(Wikimedia Commons, 2010, MFCGuy2010) To evaluate the overall performance of an MFC, usually its power output is determined.
This is done by measuring the voltage across a fixed resistor that you attach to the MFC and from that, power is calculated using a derivation of Ohm's law, as shown in Equation 1.
Equation 1:P=V2R P = \frac{V^2}{R} [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] P is the power in watts (W), V is the voltage (V), and R is the resistance in ohms ().
If you use several different resistors, you can generate a power-resistance curve, which allows you to determine the maximum power output of your microbial fuel cell, as explained in more detail in the Procedure.
As the bacteria will start generating power from the food present in the soil, the power output will start increasing over time and eventually reach a steady-state.In this environmental science project, you will investigate how adding human urine to an MFC changes its electrical power output.
Are you shocked that you will be using human urine?
Do not beeven NASA has experimented with using urine as a fertilizer!
Urine is actually relatively clean.
In fact, human urine in the bladders of individuals without bladder and kidney infections is sterile.
At the beginning of urination, the flow takes with it any bacteria in the urethra, cleaning the urethra, but contaminating the urine.
While this means the initial flow might not be sterile, the mid-flow urine will be sterile.
And as we mentioned, human urine is continually being made in large amounts, making it a renewable resource, and it is rich in nutrients (mainly nitrogen) that bacteria like Shewanella and Geobacter species can eat.
And the more Shewanella and Geobacter bacteria that are in the soil of an MFC, the more electricity it makes.
How do you think adding urine to an MFC will affect its power output?
Do you think a certain amount needs to be added for the power output to increase?
Is it possible to add too much and cause the bacteria to die?
There are all sorts of interesting questions you can ask in this science project; get ready to figure some of the answers out!
Investigate how adding different amounts of urine to a microbial fuel cell changes its power output.
Note: Carefully clean your microbial fuel cells before you start a new experiment.
We recommend using tap water to rinse the electrodes while gently rubbing them (with gloves on) until the dirty water runs clear.
Also completely rinse out the vessel with tap water.
See the end of the Frequently Asked Questions for details.In this science project, you tested how the addition of urine affects the power output of an MFC.
Can you think of other waste products that you could feed to the electrogenic bacteria?
What about cow manure, food waste, or compost?
Investigate what other waste products you can turn into electricity.
Hint: You may want to look into what the soil bacteria (discussed in the Introduction) like to eat and the environments they thrive in.
How does adding urine to the MFCas you did in this science projectcompare to adding nothing to the MFC and just letting it continue to run as you originally set it up?
To try this out, you can use the second MFC as a control to run at the same time as the one that you add urine to.
How does the power output of the MFC that has no urine added compare to the one that you added urine to?
For additional ideas focusing on using human urine as a resource, or other waste products to create energy, see these related Science Buddies science project ideas:Growing Great Gardens: Using Human Urine as a FertilizerFrom Trash to Gas: Biomass Energy   An unusual potential application for MFCs is using them to power medical devices that are implanted in a person.
It is possible that the MFCs could run using sugar and oxygen from the person's blood.
This is appealing because MFCs can run for a very long time, unlike batteries that would need to be replaced more often.
You could investigate how well adding something similar to blood, such as blood meal (a plant fertilizer), affects the power output of the MFC.
For more information on this type of application, see page 903 of this scientific paper:Franks, A. E., and Nevin, K. P. (2010, April 28).
Microbial Fuel Cells, A Current Review.
Energies.
Retrieved November 12, 2013, from http://www.mdpi.com/1996-1073/3/5/899/pdf What other factors might affect and improve the power output of a microbial fuel cell?
Investigate other parameters, such as temperature, soil moisture, or soil type, and the addition of other substances, like salt or sugar.
Develop a well-reasoned hypothesis for what you think will happen when this factor is changed and create a way to test it.
Which parameter do you think has the biggest effect on power output?
If your MFC is generating between 80W and 199W, it is doing really well, and if it is generating 200W or more, it is doing amazingly well!
Examples for investigating soil conductivity, soil type, and the addition of sugar as substrate are given in the Science Buddies science projects  Spice Up the Power of a Microbial Fuel Cell with a Dash of Salt, Turn Mud into Energy With a Microbial Fuel Cell, and      How Do Bacteria Produce Power in a Microbial Fuel Cell?.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, environmental science, electricity, electronics, urine, waste, sewage, microbial fuel cell, biological fuel cell, energy, power, voltage, electrolyte, battery Urine Nitrogen Microbes Bacteria Alternative energy sources Microbial fuel cell (MFC) Renewable Electrode Electrons Electricity Power output Resistor Ohm's law Watt (W) Voltage (V) Ohm () Sterile
