 Picture This: How Visualizing Data Can Lead to the Right (or Wrong) Conclusion  Big data is one of the most promising and hyped trends in technology and business today.
Big data refers to data-analysis jobs that are too large and complex to be analyzed by applications that are traditionally used.
Big data sets hold valuable information.
Many publicly available data sets have the potential to improve our everyday lives by giving us insight into the things we care about.
How well-equipped are we to extract information from the data?
Visualizations and aggregations (or categorizing the data into groups) are frequently used tools to represent data in a manageable way.
Unfortunately, when they are not used carefully, they might lead to false conclusions.
In this science project, you will create and execute a survey to find out if participants are prone to draw dubious conclusions from data presented as an aggregation.
Recently, storing data has become cheaper and cheaper, leading governments, corporations, and other organizations to create and store tons of data.
This data is significant because it helps identify trends and can be used to find connections or to solve problems or answer questions we might have.
In 2010 alone, the German Climate Computing Center generated 10 petabytes of climate data, which is 1015 bytes of data in one single year.
Some data sets are publicly available.
Are we equipped to extract information we care about from these large data sets, or is specific training and practice needed?
In this science project, you will look into what big data is, learn one way to extract information, and explore one common pitfall.
It is a good opportunity for you to test your own skill for manipulating and extracting information from data as you explore data sets and prepare a survey.Big data refers to data sets that are too large and complex to be analyzed by applications that are traditionally used to process and analyze the data set.
A historical context might help explain the concept of big data.
Up until about a century ago, scientists mainly used pen and paper to record data and make graphs.
Can you imagine how limiting that would be when faced with studies like global climate change?
In the 1980s, the first spreadsheet programs appeared.
Spreadsheet programs like Microsoft Excel increased rapidly in capacity to handle data, and are currently widely used.
They suddenly allowed us to record data electronically, and to automatically make graphs.
This made the storage and processing of data significantly easier and more efficient.
With the turn of the century, the cost to store data plummeted, leading companies, governments, and scientists to store massive amounts of data, data that would otherwise have been forgotten (like which advertisement you clicked on your computer, on a specific day and time) or never would have been recorded to begin with (like videos made by surveillance cameras).
Note that data is not restricted to numbers; it can include text, audio, pictures, and video.
As spreadsheets became insufficient to handle these massive data sets, other tools were created.
Super computers, parallel computing (where calculations are executed simultaneously on different servers), and grid computing (where calculations are distributed over machines located at different locations) were invented to help handle the data.Can you see how big data is a moving target?
What is considered to be "big" today will not be so years from now.
What is considered to be "big" for you as you do your science project will likely not be so for a scientist analyzing climate data.
To read more about big data, check out the Science Buddies page What is Big Data?
Extracting valuable information from big data is not an easy task.
The original data setthis is the set that has not been processed or manipulatedis often referred to as raw data or primary data.
Visual representations and aggregations are tools that help transform the data into graphical representations of informationalso called infographicsfrom which we can extract information.
Charts, diagrams, bar graphs, and maps are all examples of visual representations, which can be created using computer software.
Aggregations are created when you group the data into specific collections or categories based on one or a number of characteristics.
An example of an aggregation is grouping incidents according to their location (country, state, police district) or time of the occurrence (month, day, hour of the day).
Aggregations can drastically reduce the amount of data lines to store, making them easier to handle.
On the other hand, they also reduce the amount of detail available.
Most data tables available on the internet contain aggregated data.
The World Bank website is just one place where you can find these.
For this science project, we advise starting from non-aggregated data, like a list of crime incidents or a list of wild fires.
It is very important to keep the question you would like to get answered in mind when manipulating big data.
Say you would like to know the safest districts of the city in which you live, where safety is measured by the likelihood of encountering a crime incident.
Starting from a list of crime incidents (a big data set) found on the internet, you can create a visualization showing the number of crime incidents per district.
Figure 1 shows an infographic for the crime incidents list for San Francisco in 2014.
Figure 1.
San Francisco crime incidents reported in 2014, aggregated by police district, created with Tableau Public from the San Francisco 2014  incidents list.
Which districts would you identify as the place where you are least likely to encounter a crime incident?
Or would you conclude you cannot answer the question from the data presented and look for a different or more detailed visualization?
Would your answer be different if you were also presented with a geographic map of the police districts, as shown in Figure 2 for the San Francisco area?
Figure 2.
Map displaying the San Francisco police districts.Exploring the same data in more detail might lead you to visualize the incident locations on a map, as shown in Figure 3.
Would this infographic be better suited to answer the question at hand?
Figure 3.
San Francisco crime incidents displayed on a map, where color indicates the different police districts.
Each dot represents a crime incident at that location.
Darker dots indicate more incidents at that location.
Visualization created with Tableau Public from the San Francisco 2014 incidents list.
Looking only at Figure 1, people might be misled and identify a district with a lower total number of incidents as safer.
Because some police districts are smaller than others, this infographic does not provide adequate information to identify safer districts.
Adding a geographic map, like the one shown in Figure 2, might increase the awareness of how different in size the districts are.
Figure 3, on the other hand, provides information on the density of incidents, which is what is needed to identify the safer districts.
Take a moment to look carefully at Figures 1 and 3, and identify which misconceptions Figure 1 can introduce.
Take district Tenderloin as an example.
Figure 1 shows it has a fairly low total number of incidents, which might lead to the idea that this is a fairly safe area.
Figure 2 can place this low number in context, as Tenderloin is a very small district.
In Figure 3, you see that Tenderloin has quite a high density of incidents (a relatively small total number of incidents spread over a very small area provides a relatively high density of incidents, so a higher likelihood to encounter one).
Figure 3 will lead you to correctly conclude that Tenderloin is not so safe after all.
Data tables available often contain aggregated data (like a count per country) or are presented in a format that allows for easy aggregation, making people prone to create these visualizations first.
On the other hand, there are a lot of questions that can only be answered by infographics representing a density instead of a count.
To investigate the likelihood of contracting Ebola when visiting a country, you need information on the density of cases per country, not the total number of cases in a country.
As another example, the total waste produced by a school will not identify schools that successfully practice waste-reduction principles.
In this case, an infographic showing the waste per student would be more informative.
Similarly, the number of gun owners by country will not inform you about the likelihood of people in a country to own one or more guns.
In this case, an infographic of gun ownership per capita (which means "per person", or sometimes "per 1,000 people") would be more informative.
In this science project, you will study how prone people are to make quick, invalid conclusions from infographics showing aggregated data over location, where density is actually needed to answer the question at hand.
You will identify a data set containing incidents with their location, create visualizations of the data, and construct a question that can be answered by looking at only the density.
For your survey, you will select three groups of volunteers.
One group will be given a visualization displaying the aggregated data (like Figure 1) to answer the question.
A second group will be provided the same visualization, together with a geographic map (like Figure 2), and a last group will be given an x-y scatter plot of incidents by geographic location (like Figure 3) to answer the question.
Analyzing the responses will provide information about how easily people are misled by infographics showing an aggregation over location.
Construct and execute a survey to evaluate how likely participants are to draw incorrect conclusions from a visualization representing big data.
In this science project, you studied how prone people are to draw invalid conclusions when presented with an infographic showing data aggregated by location.
You could add a study to see if people recover from their mistake when provided with the more-detailed representation of the data afterwards.
To do this, first ask your participants to answer the question as described in this project, then provide them with the other visualization and ask them to answer the question again, now using both infographics A and B.
In this science project, you only looked at the answers provided.
You could add a speed component by measuring the time taken to answer the questions.
Do people take more time to understand a bar graph over a distribution of incidents by geographic location?
Is there a correlation between coming to false conclusions and the time spent answering?
The Introduction mentions other questions that can only be answered using a density of incidents.
You could change this science project to accommodate these types of data.
As an example, in trying to assess the risk of coming in contact with Ebola, you could present participants of one group with an infographic showing the number of cases per region (such as country) and a second group an infographic showing the number of cases per capita for the region (such as countries).
The number of cases per capita can be found by dividing the total number of cases in an area by the population of that same area.
If you are interested in the effect of specific courses like statistics, critical thinking, or reasoning on our vulnerability to draw dubious conclusions from infographics, you could compare the results of a group of students that have taken a particular class to students not taking the class.
Do they perform any better?
Make sure you add your margin of error, as your sample size of students having taken a class might be relatively small.
Be on the lookout for fast generalizations; not all statistics or reasoning classes are the same!
This science project only examines one factor that could lead to misinterpretation of an infographic.
The article from the Bibliography, misleading graphs, suggests many more.
You could study the vulnerability of the public to any of these misleading factors.
Mean values are often depicted in infographics.
The article Bar graphs depicting averages are perceptually misinterpreted: the within-the-bar bias claims that people are quickly biased by these representations.
Can you measure this factor in a survey?Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science project, visualization software, Tableau Public, infographics, graphical representation, big data sets, survey, aggregation Petabyte Big data Raw (or primary) data Infographic Visual representation Aggregations Sample size
