 Quick Draw McPaws: Teach A Computer Kitty How to Draw Shapes  Have you ever played a computer game in which a cartoon character, like a dog or a cat, moves or turns when you click on it?
Have you ever wondered how characters know how far to move or how far to turn?
In this computer science project, you will learn how with a simple (and free) program called Scratch, which will let you write your own computer program that tells a cartoon kitty how to draw shapes.
Note: This Science Buddies project idea was written using Scratch version 1.4.
A new version, Scratch 2, is now available.
You can use an online version of Scratch 2 in your web browser at scratch.mit.edu, or you can download an offline version.
While Scratch 2 offers improvements over Scratch 1.4, the layout and some features have changed slightly.
This means that the procedure below will not exactly match the new features of Scratch 2.
If you need help using Scratch 2, you should go to the official Scratch help page.
If you would like to follow our directions exactly, you can still download Scratch 1.4 here.
What are your favorite things to draw?
Pets?
Trees?
Flowers?
Rainbows?
One of the tricks that artists use when they plan a new drawing is to break down objects into smaller parts and shapes.
So the ears on a cat break down into triangles.
Or the beak on a bird breaks down into a cone.
Shapes like circles, ovals, squares, triangles, hexagons, octagons, cylinders, and cones are the basic building blocks of any drawing.
Figure 1.
In this drawing of a cat you can find many shapes, like the triangles in the ears, nose, and rug; the circles in the head and collar; the half-circles in the eyes; the oval in the body; and the rectangle in the rug.If you look at the simplest two-dimensional (flat) shapes, shown below, you can see that some of them have angles.
An angle is where a line makes a sharp turn.
You can measure how sharp the turn is by using a tool called a protractor.
A protractor has little marks on it, just like a ruler, but instead of measuring inches or centimeters, a protractor measures angles in degrees.
Figure 2.
These are simple two-dimensional shapes: A circle, square, triangle, hexagon, octagon, and a line.
Figure 3.
This is the math tool called a protractor that is used to measure the angles in two-dimensional shapes.
The protractor in this example is measuring 35 degrees.Pretend that you want to teach a friend how to draw a square.
You decide to walk the path of a square on the floor so that you can show the friend what she has to do.
You can see below that to draw a square, you would start walking at point A, travel to point B, and then turn (or rotate) 90 degrees, so that you can reach point C. Then you turn 90 degrees again to get to point D. Finally, you walk some more until you come back to point A.
Now suppose your friend tells you that she wants to learn how to draw a triangle, so you show her that path, too.
To draw a triangle, you start at Point A, travel to Point B, and then have to turn very far120 degreesso that you can continue on the path to Point C. Then you have to turn 120 degrees again, so that you can come back to Point A.
Now suppose your friend tells you that she wants to learn how to draw a triangle, so you show her that path, too.
To draw a triangle, you start at Point A, travel to Point B, and then have to turn very far120 degreesso that you can continue on the path to Point C. Then you have to turn 120 degrees again, so that you can come back to Point A.In this computer science project, you are going to teach a kitty how to draw.
The kitty is a cartoon character who is just a beginning artist.
She doesn't even know how to draw shapes, like a triangle, yet.
You'll help her by writing a simple computer programa set of instructions for the computer.
The computer program will tell her how to move so that she can draw her first shapes and get her start becoming a great artist!
To determine how to draw different two-dimensional shapes using the computer language Scratch.
Would you like to change the way Kitty looks?
Click on the Looks category for all sorts of fun things to try.
There are two elements called "Change Color Effect By" and "Set Color Effect to" Experiment with those to see what happens to Kitty.
Can you make Kitty turn pink with one of these blocks?
Note: When you are experimenting with how something looks, it is best to add the "Clear Graphics Effects" element near the top of the chain of blocks, so that you can start with a fresh, new look each time you click on the green flag.
Once you understand what these blocks do for the word Color, click on the word "Color" in each element and you can see even more exciting things to try, like changing "Fisheye," "Whirl," "Pixelate," "Mosaic," "Brightness," and "Ghost."
Experiment again to see what each of those does.
Is there one you like best?
Is there a block that has the power to turn one kitty into many kittens?
Another way to change Kitty's look is with the "Switch to Costume" element.
You first have to go to the center panel and click on the Costume tab.
Then, either draw something yourself with the tools there, or import (bring in) something that you want to change Kitty into, like a puppy or a fish from one of the folders that you see, like the Animals or Fantasy folders.
And, just for fun, you can always make Kitty say something at the end of her drawing, like "Ta Da!"
or "Where did Kitty go?"
(if she has changed into a different animal).
The "Say" elements allow you to have Kitty say whatever you wish.
If you can teach Kitty how to draw equilateral shapes (shapes that have sides that are the same length), can you teach her how to draw shapes with sides of different lengths, like a rectangle?
When you were testing your program, did Kitty draw some unusual shapes that look like flowers?
Or beautiful lace?
Can you make Kitty color in the flowers by changing the pen size?
Can you make Kitty draw a whole flower garden?
Make sure she draws herself some catnip!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   kelly1stich1 said:  2012-02-07 14:59:30 What was the most important thing you learned?
computer What problems did you encounter?
the directions Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
make the directions more clear Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
10                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment Computer science fair project, Scratch, computer program, cat, kitty, shape, computer language Angle Protractor Degree Computer program
