 Adsorption: Dyeing Fabrics with Kool-Aid  Have you ever wondered how your clothes get their color?
Dyeing textiles is a very complicated process and involves a lot of chemistry.
Not only are the properties of the dye and fabric important, but the dyeing conditions also have to be exactly right to get optimal color adsorption.
Curious about how it works?
In this science project, you will color wool with Kool-Aid and explore the chemistry of dyeing.
What happens when you put clothes into a dye bath?
As expected, they come out colored.
However, the intensity and degree of color can be very different, depending on the type of dye and fabric you use.
Not every dye works with every type of fiber.
So how does the color stick to the clothes?
First, the dye has to get in contact with the fiber and needs to get equally distributed into the fabric.
In the second step, the dye has to be retained by the fiber surface.
The adhesion of dye to the fiber surface is the most important step in dyeing, and is called adsorption.
During this process, the dye (also called the adsorbate) forms a film on the surface of the textile, or adsorbent.
The interaction between the dye and the fiber depends on their chemical structure and can be driven by chemical adhesion (chemisorption), which includes ionic or covalent bonding and the formation of hydrogen bonds, or physical adhesion (physisorption) including van der Waals' forces or electrostatic attractions.
Let us look into that in more detail using the materials for this experiment as an example.
Your adsorbent will be wool fabric, which is a natural protein fiber with lots of amino groups (-NH2).
The adsorbate that you will use is Kool-Aid, or more specifically, the food color that is one of its ingredients, called FD&C Red 40.
Due to its chemical structure, shown in Figure 1, Red 40 is classified as an acid dye.
Figure 1.
Red 40 is the salt of a sulfuric acid, meaning it contains SO3- groups, which makes it an acid dye.
(Image credit: by J, via Wikimedia Commons).So what is the dyeing mechanism for wool and Kool-Aid?
Acid dyes only work in an acidic environment and you will use vinegar to acidify your dyeing bath.
The acid protonates (which means it adds a proton to) the amino groups of the wool fiber, so they become cationic (positively charged).
Red 40, on the other hand, is anionic (negatively charged) in a solution.
During dyeing, the Red 40 will adsorb onto the wool fiber by forming an ionic bond, as shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2.
Dyeing mechanism of wool fabrics with food color Red 40 from Kool-Aid.
Knowing the chemistry of how a piece of cloth becomes dyed is very important to the textile industry.
A clothing manufacturer wants to get a good color, while using the least amount of dye, because dyes cost money!
In this project, you will evaluate the dyeing process by investigating how much dye can be adsorbed by a piece of wool, depending on the dye concentration in a solution, and by looking at the adsorption equilibrium of Red 40, which is distributed between the dyeing solution and the textile fiber.
The dyeing distribution is usually expressed by so-called adsorption isotherms that relate the concentration of dye adsorbed on the fibers to the equilibrium concentration of dye in a solution.
The Langmuir isotherm is the simplest adsorption model and is based on the assumption that during adsorption a continuous monolayer of adsorbate molecules is formed that is surrounded by a homogeneous solid surface.
It is most often used for the adsorption of solutes from a solution and is mathematically expressed as shown in Equation 1: Equation 1: qe=QbCe1+bCe q_e = \frac{Q \, b \, C_e}{1+b \, C_e}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]where Q represents the maximum adsorbate that can be adsorbed onto the surface [mg dye/mg wool], qe is the amount of dye adsorbed at equilibrium [mg dye/mg wool],Ce is the concentration of dye in solution at equilibrium [mg dye/mL], andb is the isotherm constant [mL/mg dye].The equation can be rearranged, as shown in Equation 2: Equation 2: 1qe=1Q+1QbCe \frac{1}{q_e} =  \frac{1}{Q} + \frac{1}{Q \, b \, C_e}  [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] which means that plotting 1/qe against 1/Ce will result in a straight line that allows you to determine Q and b from its slope and intercept.
To get all the necessary data for the adsorption isotherms, you will monitor the concentration of Red 40 in your dyeing bath (Ct) over time, which allows you to also calculate the amount of dye adsorbed by the wool (qt) using Equation 3 for each time point.
Once the adsorption equilibrium is reached, qt becomes qe and Ct becomes Ce.Equation 3: qt=(C0Ct)Vw q_t = \frac{(C_0\, \, \,\, \, \,C_t) \, V}{w}   [Please enable JavaScript to view equation] where qt is the amount of dye adsorbed at time point t [mg dye/mg wool],C0 is the initial dye concentration in solution [mg/mL], Ct is the dye concentration in solution at time point t  [mg/mL], V is the volume of dye solution [mL], andw is the mass of the fabric [mg].To measure the dye concentration in a solution, you will build a simplified version of a special device, called a spectrophotometer.
The color of your sample is related to the wavelength of light it reflects, as shown in Figure 3.
Figure 3.
The spectrum and wavelengths of visible light.
The units are nanometers (nm).
(Image credit: by Maulucioni, via Wikimedia Commons).A spectrophotometer measures the light absorption of your sample at a specific wavelength.
It does this by separating white light into a rainbow of colors using diffractive gratings and then passes the light through the sample.
The amount of light that is transmitted is measured by a light detector on the exit side of the sample.
The result is an absorption spectrum, such as the one shown for the food dyes Red 40 and Blue 1 in Figure 4.
For Red 40, the detector measures one small peak at around 320nm and a large peak at around 500 nm, which corresponds to blue-green light.
The solution appears red because the blue and green light has been absorbed by the dye.
Figure 4.
Absorption spectra of the food dyes Red 40 and Blue 1.
Note that the red dye absorbs light strongly at a wavelength of about 500 nm, which is in the blue-green part of the visible spectrum (see Figure 3 for colors and wavelengths).
Blue 1 absorbs strongly at around 620 nm, roughly in the orange part of the spectrum.
(Thomasson, 1998.
)Your simplified spectrophotometer will consist of a circuit that has a light source (a white light-emitting diode (LED)) and a light detector (a photoresistor).
Your dye solutions will be placed between the light source and the detector, and you will measure the amount of light that passes through the sample, as shown in Figure 5.
To keep your setup simple, you will not use diffractive gratings to split the light from your light source into separate wavelengths.
Instead you will use an absorption filter, or wavelength selector (blue-green-colored water) to produce the desired input wavelength that corresponds to the absorbance maximum of Red 40 (500 nm).
Your measurement output will be the level of resistance from your detector.
The photoresistor has a high resistance in the dark, and its resistance decreases as light levels increase.
The resistance of your photoresistor is related to the absorbance of your sample and is measured with a digital multimeter in ohms ().
As more light is absorbed by your sample, less light passes through the solution, so the resistance increases.
Figure 5.
Setup (not to scale) of your own simplified spectrophotometer device for measuring the concentration of food dye Red 40 in your dyeing solution.
The light from the LED passes through the filter (blue-green water) and the sample (red liquid) before it hits the detector.
It also passes through the sides of the vessels holding the liquids.
These sides need to be clear, flat, and 1 cm wide.
Cuvettes are designed precisely for this application.But how do we get from the light absorbance of a dye sample to its concentration?
This question is answered by the Beer-Lambert law (Equation 4), which states that the concentration of a chemical, such as Red 40, in a sample solution is directly proportional to the amount of light it absorbs; if you double the concentration of the chemical or dye, the solution absorbs twice as much light.
Equation 4: A=cl A = \epsilon \, c \, l [Please enable JavaScript to view equation]  A is the absorbance, which is unitless, is the molar absorption coefficient [L/(mol x cm)],c is the concentration [mol/L], and l is the path length of the light through the sample [cm].It makes sense that the amount of light absorbed is proportional to the concentration and to the length of the light beam's path through the solution.
These are familiar concepts from everyday observations.
But what is the molar absorption coefficient?
The size of the molar absorption coefficient reflects how well the molecule absorbs light of a given wavelength.
A red solution, such as Red 40, absorbs blue and green light better than it absorbs red light, which is why we perceive it as red.
For the same reason, a blue solution absorbs yellow and red light better than it absorbs blue light.
The color of the solution is determined by the color of light the molecules do not absorb, since this is the color that is transmitted to your eyes.
The molar absorption coefficient is high at the wavelengths that are absorbed the most, as shown in Figure 4.
This was a lot of information to process.
Take your time to understand the principles of adsorption and absorption and then hit the laboratory or kitchen and dye some wool!
Investigate the adsorption process of Kool-Aid onto wool fabrics.
How does pH affect the dyeing process?
As mentioned in the Introduction, acid dyes need an acidic pH to work.
But how acidic does the dyeing solution have to be to get good color adsorption?
Does lowering the pH even more increase the adsorption capacity?
Do this experiment, and vary the pH of your dyeing baths by adding more acid or a base to the solutions.
What other factors can influence the dyeing results?
During the adsorption process, the Red 40 dye and the wool fibers are forming an ionic bond, which gives the wool its color.
Can you disturb the chemisorption by adding another salt to the dyeing bath that competes with the Red 40 for bonding locations at the wool fibers?
Compare your dyeing results in dyeing baths with and without extra salt addition.
As the term "isotherm" infers, the adsorption isotherms are only valid for a certain constant temperature.
How do you think the adsorption isotherm will change if you change the temperature of your dyeing water baths?
Will the adsorption equilibrium be very different?
Does it take less time or more to reach the adsorption equilibrium with higher or lower temperatures?
You can find out by repeating the dyeing experiment at different temperatures.
Make sure you monitor your experiment long enough to reach adsorption equilibrium and choose your sample timing accordingly.
Wool is one natural fiber that works well with acid dyes like Red 40.
What other fibers can be used?
Will silk, another natural protein fiber, work just as well?
What about cotton or acrylic?
Set up dyeing water baths with different fabrics and compare the results.
Does the adsorption isotherm look the same for a different color; for example, the food dye Blue 1?
Repeat this experiment, but this time use a different flavor of Kool-Aid that contains the food color Blue 1 instead of Red 40.
Remember to change your adsorption filter for the spectrophotometer from a blue-green color into an orange color (2 drops of yellow and 2 drops of red food dye in 1/2 cup of water-vinegar solution).
Can you use the data you got from this experiment for a different adsorption isotherm model, such as the Freundlich isotherm?
Look up the equation for this adsorption isotherm and use your data to make similar graphs as you did for the Langmuir isotherm.
Which isotherm model fits your data better?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, dye, adsorption, Langmuir isotherm, wool, dyeing, Kool-Aid, fabric, food color Adsorption Adsorbate Adsorbent Chemisorption Physisorption FD&C Red 40 Acid dye Adsorption equilibrium Adsorption isotherm Langmuir isotherm Spectrophotometer Wavelength Light absorption Light transmission Absorption spectrum Light-emitting diode (LED) Photoresistor Absorption filter Wavelength selector Resistance Ohm Beer-Lambert law Molar absorption coefficient Breadboard Standard Calibration curve
