 The James Webb Space Telescope's Amazing Multiple Mirrors and Sunshield  Can you imagine designing and building a space telescope the size of a tennis court?
Believe it or not, that  someone's job!
Engineers are hard at work on the James Webb Space Telescope, or JWST.
This telescope has the potential to enable astronomers to see light from when the Universe was first formed.
No one knows what amazing discoveries this might lead to.
However, to make the telescope work properly, engineers have to overcome a lot of challenges.
In this science project, you can build your own model of key parts of the James Webb Space Telescope and discover firsthand how to solve a few of the engineering challenges.
Have you ever looked up at the night sky and wondered what was up there, and how it all happened?
What kinds of planets are circling other stars, or just how stars are born?
How big is space, and how do we know?
These questions also intrigue astronomers, who eagerly await a new tool that will help them find answersand, they hope, a few surprises as well!This new tool is the James Webb Space Telescope, or JWST for short, which is a joint project between NASA, the European Space Agency, and the Canadian Space Agency.
The JWST (a model is shown in Figure 1 below) will be a large infrared telescope, to be launched into space in 2018.
Currently being completed by Northrop Grumman, the JWST will study the formation of galaxies, planets outside of our Solar System, and newborn stars by examining their thermal (or infrared) radiation.
Figure 1.
In this full-scale model of the James Webb Space Telescope, or JWST, you can see two of the telescope's engineering challenges: the multiple-mirror assembly (honeycomb-shaped and yellow) that makes up the primary mirror, and the sunshield, the five large grayish-white layers beneath the mirror.
(Photo by: NASA)Why put a telescope into space?
Because Earth's atmosphere gets in the way!
Two main things happen to light from space as it passes through the atmosphere.
First, the light bends, thus blurring the images of space objects when viewed by a telescope on the ground.
You have probably seen what appear to be sheets of water when you travel along a highway.
This mirage is caused by light being bent by layers of air having different densities (usually cooler air over the hot air directly above the pavement).
In the same manner, Earth's atmosphere is full of air pockets with different temperatures, causing incoming light to dance around.
This is why stars "twinkle."
Second, although air looks transparent to our eyes, many types of light are blocked or absorbed in the atmosphere.
In order to take advantage of all the types of light when examining a space object, a telescope has to be positioned in space.
The JWST isn't the first space telescope.
The first such telescope was called Orbiting Astronomical Observatory 2.
It was launched in 1968 to examine the sky using ultraviolet light.
Its scientific program was rich in results, and, although inactive, OAO 2 was still in orbit as of 2011.
However, the best known of the space telescopes (and perhaps the most productive) has been the Hubble Space Telescope, or HST.
Since its launch in 1990, Hubble has provided astronomers with more than a million astronomical observations, which have overturned many of our ideas about where the Universe came from and where it is going.
Among other things, the HST measured the size of the Universe, provided the first evidence of "dark matter" and "dark energy," and observed the Universe to be expanding much faster than previously thought.
If the HST was so successful, why do we want to build, launch, and operate the JWST?
Well, you might be excited about buying an improved video game system that will play newly written games, or about hearing the latest collection of songs from your favorite band.
In the same way, astronomers are eager to use the JWST because it will let them study objects the HST could never even see!
One reason that the JWST will be able to provide images of objects that the HST cannot is that it has better light-gathering power.
Light-gathering power is the ability of a telescope to collect light from an object in the skythe more light, the better.
The main, or primary, mirror of a reflecting telescope is the big mirror that collects light.
The HST's primary mirror is 2.4 meters (m), or about 95 inches, in diameter.
The JWST's primary mirror is almost three times larger in diameter (see Figure 2 below), and it collects a bit more than seven times as much light.
The JWST will be able to see about three times farther into the early Universe than does the HSTfar enough to see the very first light in the Universe!Figure 2.
The JWST's primary mirror will be almost three times the diameter of the HST's.
(Graphic by: NASA) Although a huge advantage for astronomers, the JWST's mirror is one of the engineering problems for constructing the telescope.
The JWST's mirror is 6.5 m (more than 20 feet) in diameter, but the largest rocket currently available, the Ariane 5, can carry cargo of only about 3 m (roughly 15 feet) in diameter.
How can this huge mirror be launched into orbit?
To solve this problem, engineers have taken the JWST's 6.5-m primary mirror and divided it into 18 hexagonal segments.
When the rockets reach their destination in space, the mirror segments (and the other parts of the telescope) will have to automatically unfold from the rocket and use motors to properly align themselves.
In the video below, you can watch an animation of how the multiple-mirror assembly's unfolding and alignment is supposed to proceed.
The JWST will be positioned too far from Earth to send astronauts to fix alignment problems, so the engineers need to get things right on the first try.
This alignment is no small challenge.
To get the proper mirror shape for the JWST to work, the mirror segments will need to unfold within a few nanometers (nm) of what engineers have calculated are the best positions.
(A human hair is about 50,000 nm indiameter, so 5 nm is very small indeed!)
Watch this video shows how NASA expects the James Webb Space Telescope to unfold from the Ariane 5 rocket that will deliver it into space.
(Video by NASA Webb Telescope)  Watch this video shows how NASA expects the James Webb Space Telescope to unfold from the Ariane 5 rocket that will deliver it into space.
(Video by NASA Webb Telescope)  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpVz3UrSsE4 The JWST also faces another amazing engineering challengeheat.
Because the JWST will study the Universe using near- and mid-infrared light, the temperature of the telescope and its components must be maintained in the range of a few tens of degrees Kelvin.
However, where the JWST will be stationed in space temperatures can easily be as high as 400 Kelvin (about 127 C or 260 F), far too high to permit the JWST to operate.
This problem will be solved by using a sunshield (see Figure 3 below).Figure 3.
This full-scale sunshield membrane (note the scientist standing in the middle) is being deployed on the membrane test fixture for the JWST at ManTech in Hunstville, AL, ready for an exact measurement of its three-dimensional shape.
The sunshield has five of these layers, each of which must be precisely spaced with the next.
(Photo by: Northrop Grumman Aerospace Systems)Astronomers have calculated that the energy of the Sun's light hitting the sunshield will be approximately 250 kilowatts (kW).
The sunshield must reduce this energy to about 1 watt (W).
To do this, engineers have created a sunshield made up of five reflecting membranes, each of which is separated from its neighbor by about 15 centimeters (cm) of space.
The membranes are formed of very thin layers of DuPont Kapton E plasticabout 25 microns () thick, or about half the diameter of a human hair.
This plastic is extremely strong and resistant to the thermal, radiation, and micrometeoroid-filled environment of space.
The working principle of the sunshield is rather simple, but as always, the devil is in the details.
In Figure 4 below, sunlight hits the reflecting membranes of the sunshield from the left.
The first membrane reflects most of the incident light from the Sun, but absorbs and reradiates part of that energy.
Most of the energy that is reradiated into the space between the first and second membrane eventually bounces out the sides into space.
This reduction of energy takes place between each pair of membranes, until a tiny remainder of the Sun's energy is finally absorbed by the JWST telescope and instruments.
At 12-by-22 m (about the size of a tennis court), the sunshield is so large that it will also have to be folded to fit into the rocket and unfolded and positioned upon arrival (as shown in the video above).Figure 4.
The JWST has a sunshield made up of five layers.
Each layer blocks and deflects heat until the final heat reaching the telescope's instruments contains only about 4 parts in a million of the initial energy.
(Graphic by: NASA)Although we can't send a telescope into orbit for a science project, some aspects of the JWST's unique features can be experimented with on Earthand even in your basement!
The goal of this project is to construct a multiple-mirror light collector similar to the JWST's primary mirror made up of 18 smaller mirrors.
This multiple-mirror assembly is then illuminated using a heat lamp instead of a far-off celestial object.
We then develop a "sunshield" for a kitchen thermometer, to protect it from the direct heat of the heat lamp.
Having done that, we will learn a good deal about multiple-mirror optics by measuring the intensity of the light reflected from the mirrors as the position of the thermometer is changed.
This project illustrates the principles and practice of a multiple-mirror telescope and a cooling sunshieldtwo engineering features essential to the successful operation of the upcoming JWST.
To learn about multiple-mirror optics and conditions in space by building a light collector similar to that of the primary mirror of the James Webb Space Telescope.
The light collector will be illuminated using a heat lamp, and the intensity of light reflected from the mirrors will be measured from behind a protective "sunshield."
For the variations below you may find it helpful to read about and follow the Engineering Design Process.
Try different probe coatings.
Which probe coating(s) maximize the detection ability of the apparatus?Design various solar shields and see which ones do the best job of shielding the probe.
You can even try a design exactly like the JWST's!
Hint: Remember to make sure your sunshield is not interfering with your ability to detect heat from the MMA.Figure out a better alignment method.
For example, it might be possible to improve the alignment by removing the heat lamp and using a laser pointer mounted in the thermometer holder to provide the light.
Safety Note: Be careful not to look into the laser pointer beam.
Younger children should have parental supervision for this.
The sliding thermometer holder would be placed sideways on the optical bench so that the laser pointer is emitting its laser light to the left as in Figure 24 below:  Figure 24.
This diagram shows one way to set up a laser to align the MMA.
With a little thought and experimenting, you may design an even better alignment method!
The beam from the laser pointer can now be pointed at the center of one of the small mirrors by sliding the thermometer sliding mount in and out along the straightedge, and sliding the laser pointer up and down in the slot of the thermometer sliding mount.
Once this is accomplished, place the alignment tool along the ruler at the desired focal length, oriented so that the beam goes through the aperture in the tool.
Then adjust the small mirror using the adjustment screws so that the incident laser beam reflects directly onto the pre-measured central point of the alignment tool.
The result should be an MMA that is more precisely aligned to the desired focal length.
To see if this hypothesis actually works, try aligning your MMA both ways, and carry out the on-axis heating and focal plane testing.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  NathanaelLovesClippers said:  2016-04-28 11:34:30 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing really What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Science project, physics science project, engineering, model, James Webb Space Telescope, JWST, multiple mirror assembly, sunshield, space telescope, mirror alignment, light, sunshield, heat shield, engineering project James Webb Space Telescope Infrared telescope Atmosphere Hubble Space Telescope Light-gathering power Primary mirror Multiple-mirror assembly Sunshield Infrared astronomy
