 Spread the Soap, Not the Germs  Do you wash your hands?
You should it's the best way to prevent the spread of germs.
But germs can be tricky; they find nooks and crannies to hide in, so it takes good hand-washing technique to get rid of them.
In this science project, you'll investigate which parts of the hand are the most difficult to wash germs off of.
"Cough, cough, cough!
Achoo!
""Oh no, stay away from me!
I don't want your germs!
"You may know that germs are something you don't want, and that they can be spread from one person to another, especially by coughing and sneezing.
But what are germs?
Germs are tiny little organisms, too small to be seen without a microscope.
Not all germs make us sick, but many are the causes of a wide variety of common illnesses.
For example, one type of germ, viruses, cause the flu and can also cause us to get a cold.
Viruses need to be inside a human, animal, or plant to grow and multiply.
Unlike viruses, bacteria, another type of germ, can live on their own.
They're found in many different environments, but some prefer to live inside humans and these sometimes cause illnesses such as food poisoning or a really bad sore throat called strep throat.
Watch this DragonflyTV GloGerm Car video produced by DragonflyTV andpresented by pbskidsgo.org.
Watch this DragonflyTV GloGerm Car video produced by DragonflyTV andpresented by pbskidsgo.org.
http://www.pbskids.org/dragonflytv/show/glogerm.html Everyone gets sick sometimes, and it is pretty hard to avoid every germ all the time, but you can prevent the spread of germs by carefully washing your hands.
Germs are everywhere and when we touch things, we get germs on our hands.
Then we touch other things and those germs spread from object to object and person to person.
In this video from DragonflyTV, Jordan and Sydney do a science experiment to see how germs spread.
They want to know which leads to the spread of more germs: covering your nose with your hands or with your elbow when you sneeze.
Since germs are too small to easily track, Jordan and Sydney use a powder called Glo Germ, which can only be seen under an ultraviolet light, to simulate the spread of germs.
Which technique do you think spreads more germs?
Watch the video and find out!
According to health professionals, carefully washing your hands for 20 seconds (that's about as long as it takes to sing "Happy Birthday" twice) in warm water with soap will eliminate most germs and keep you healthier.
But germs can be tricky; they find nooks and crannies to hide in, so it takes good hand-washing technique to get rid of them.
In this science project, you'll use Glo Germ to investigate which parts of the hand are the most difficult to wash germs off of.
In this science project, you will investigate which parts of the hand are the most difficult to wash germs off of.
Does the length of time spent washing your hands impact how many germs are left after hand washing?
Repeat the science project above, this time using a stopwatch and having your volunteers wash their hands for different lengths of time, like 10, 20, and 40 seconds.
Remember to have at least three volunteers participate in each time trial.
Once they're on your hands where do the germs go?
Do they get transferred to other objects?
Design an experiment, using the Glo Germ, to examine where the "glowing germs" go.Try repeating Jordan and Sydney's experiment to find out whether covering your nose with your elbow when you sneeze spreads fewer germs than covering your nose with your hands.
Do your results match the DragonflyTV results?
Explore More!Interested in the science behind viral outbreaks?
Check out Zika Virus.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Arnav123 said:  2016-01-19 16:56:43 What was the most important thing you learned?
Germs are everywhere  What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    dd123 said:  2014-12-06 18:27:56 What was the most important thing you learned?
everything What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment microbiology project, science fair project, germs, Glo Germ, hand washing Germ Virus Bacteria Simulate
