 Yogurt Cultures  Have you ever wondered how yogurt is made and what makes some yogurts different from other yogurts?
You may have noticed that most yogurt containers advertise that the yogurt contains "live cultures."
This means that there are living bacteria in the yogurt!
These amazing bacteria can turn plain old milk into a yummy yogurt treat.
In this science project, you will investigate whether the bacteria affect what the yogurt feels, tastes, and smells like by making your own yogurt at home!
Yogurt is a yummy treat, but how is it made?
With the help of microorganisms called bacteria, milk is turned into yogurt.
Do not freak out though, these are not the kind of bacteria that cause you to get sick.
The bacteria in yogurt are good bacteria that can actually help you!
There are certain species of bacteria that are commonly used to make yogurt.
If you look at the ingredients listed on the yogurt product's packaging, you can often figure out the exact species of bacteria that it contains.
Some species you might find listed include: Streptococcus thermophilus (S. thermophilus); Lactobacillus bulgaricus (L. bulgaricus); L. acidophilus; L. casei; L. rhamnosus; Bifidobacterium animalis (B. animalis, or sometimes just "Bifidus"); and B. bifidum.To turn milk into yogurt, these bacteria ferment the milk.
Fermentation is when a substance gets broken down and turned into another substance.
During fermentation to make yogurt from milk, small sugars in the milk (specifically lactose sugars) get turned into a different chemical, specifically lactic acid.
The lactic acid is what causes the milk, as it ferments, to thicken and taste tart.
Because the bacteria have partially broken down the milk already, it is thought to make yogurt easier for us to digest.
Additionally, eating yogurt can help restore the good bacteria that normally lives in your stomach and intestines (your gastrointestinal tract) after they have been lost from, for example, taking antibiotics or having an upset stomach.
In this microbiology science project, you will investigate how using different types of yogurt to make your own yogurt cultures affects how those cultures turn out.
You will try different yogurt products as starter cultures to test which factors are important to the fermentation process and how the yogurt you make smells, feels, and tastes.
Do you think yogurts that use different bacteria will be different?
What about other factors in the yogurt that might affect the resultant yogurt culture, such as food coloring or added sugar?
You will also learn how to culture (grow) microorganisms, and how to use sterile techniques so that you will not contaminate your cultures.
Investigate whether using different yogurt starter cultures affects the yogurt that is made.
You can also test the effects of flavorings, preservatives, and other substances on yogurt cultures.
Does flavored yogurt work as a starter culture?
What about preservatives?
Does organic yogurt work better than regular?You can test if the amount of starter used in the culture makes a better product.
How does using more or less yogurt affect the yogurt culture?
Does it take a longer or shorter time to solidify?Try testing which type of milk makes the tastiest yogurt.
Try using whole, 2%, skim, soy, goat, or other types of milk.
How does the type of milk affect what the resultant yogurt is like?
Which milk works the "best"?In this science project you cultured the yogurt for three hours in the cooler, but varying the amount of time that the yogurt is cultured for can affect its flavor.
Try culturing the yogurt in the cooler for a longer amount of time, such as seven hours.
How does increasing the culture time affect the yogurt culture?
Does it look, smell, or taste different?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  lovemicrobes said:  2011-02-11 09:41:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that making yogurt at home doesn't work unless the culture is alive.
What problems did you encounter?
It cost more than the project says!
One of the links goes to a page about cabbage - not yogurt!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I think you need a safety warning about not eating the yogurt.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, microbiology science project, microbiology, yogurt cultures, making yogurt, live cultures, bacteria, yogurt maker, how to make yogurt, make yogurt, yogurt recipe, yogurt recipes, how do you make yogurt Yogurt Microorganisms Bacteria Fermentation Yogurt cultures
