 Roller Coaster Marbles: How Much Height to Loop the Loop?
This is a really fun project even if you don't like going on roller coasters yourself.
You'll build a roller coaster track for marbles using foam pipe insulation and masking tape, and see how much of an initial drop is required to get the marble to "loop the loop."
It's a great way to learn about how stored energy (potential energy) is converted into the energy of motion (kinetic energy).
Slow and clanking, the string of cars is pulled up to the crest of the tallest point on the roller coaster.
One by one, the cars start downhill on the other side, until gravity takes over and the full weight of the train is careening down into curves, twists, and turns.
The roller coaster is a great example of conversions between potential energy (stored energy) and kinetic energy (the energy of motion).
As the cars are being pulled up to the top of the first hill, they are acquiring potential energy.
The chain that pulls them up the hill works against the force of gravity.
At the top of the hill, the cars' potential energy is at it's maximum.
When the cars start down the other side, this potential energy is converted to kinetic energy.
The cars pick up speed as they go downhill.
As the cars go through the next uphill section, they slow down.
Some of the kinetic energy is now being converted to potential energy, which will be be released when the cars go down the other side.You've probably noticed that the first hill on the roller coaster is always the highest (unless the coaster is given another "boost" of energy along the way).
This is because not all of the potential energy is converted to kinetic energy.
Some of the potential energy is "lost" in other energy conversion processes.
For example, the friction of the wheels and other moving parts converts some of the energy to heat.
The cars also make noise as they move on the tracks, so some of the energy is dissipated as sound.
The cars also cause the supporting structure to flex, bend, and vibrate.
This is motion, so it is kinetic energy, but of the track, not the cars.
Because some of the potential energy is dissipated to friction, sound, and vibration of the track, the cars cannot possibly have enough kinetic energy to climb back up a hill that is equal in height to the first one.
The way that physicists describe this situation is to say that energy is conserved in a closed system like a roller coaster.
That is, energy is neither created nor destroyed; there is a balance between energy inputs to the system (raising the train to the top of the initial hill) and energy outputs from the system (the motion of the train, its sound, frictional heating of moving parts, flexing and bending of the track structure, and so on).You can investigate the conversion of potential energy to kinetic energy with this project.
You'll use foam pipe insulation (available at your local hardware store) to make a roller coaster track.
For the roller coaster itself, you'll use marbles.
There are as many possible variations to this project as there are twists and turns on a great roller coaster ride, but a good place to start is to see how much initial height you need in order to have your marble successfully navigate a loop in the track.You'll use the same size loop for each of your tests, but you'll add (or subtract) track before the loop so that you can change the initial height where the marble starts.
For each track configuration, you should try at least 10separate tests with the marble to see whether it can loop the loop or not.
You should also measure the slope of each track configuration.
An easy way to think about the slope is the expression rise/run (see the illustration below).
The rise is the height of the starting point, and the run is the horizontal distance from the starting point to the beginning of the loop.The illustration above shows how to measure "rise" and "run" in order to calculate the average slope of the track leading in to the loop.How much height (rise) will be required to successfully navigate a given loop size?
A foam roller coaster for marbles is easy to build, so try it for yourself and find out!
The goal of this project is to build a roller coaster for marbles using foam pipe insulation and to investigate how much height is needed in order for the marble to run through a loop of fixed size.
Here are just a few of many possible variations on this project.
Perhaps these will stimulate your thoughts about other experiments you could try:  You probably have marbles of different diameters in your collection.
What happens if you test marbles of different diameter on your roller coaster?
Can they all loop the loop?
If some marbles can't make it, can you figure out why?
You can expand the experiment by building a set of roller coaster tracks with various loop sizes.
How does the height requirement change when the loop diameter increases?
How does the height requirement change when the loop diameter decreases?
Maybe you noticed that your loop wobbles a bit as your marble passes through it.
The energy to move the track comes from the marble.
The energy that the marble loses to make the track move means less energy is available to make the marble itself move.
Can you think of a way to stabilize the loop so that it doesn't wobble?
With a stabilized loop, can the marble start at a lower height and still make it through the loop?
Design an experiment to find out!
Try using different lengths of roller coaster track so that you can adjust the slope of the track leading to the loop.
Keep the starting height the same, but change the slope by adding additional track length.
(Remember, slope is rise/run, so you'll be holding the "rise" constant, and gradually increasing the "run.")
Do you think that the marbles will continue to "loop the loop" as the slope is decreased?
Tip: start with a track height and loop diameter such that the marbles just make it around the loop.
For a more advanced version of this experiment, see the Science Buddies project Roller Coaster Marbles: Converting Potential Energy to Kinetic Energy.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Jennykins said:  2015-06-22 17:50:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned about kinetic energy and potential energy and how they affect movement.
What problems did you encounter?
The marble would sometimes fall off the foam pipe insulation tube before it would even make it to the loop of the rollercoaster.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    asosa28 said:  2015-01-14 20:13:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that the marble must not be too big and the loop of the roller coaster can't be tilting.
What problems did you encounter?
The marble kept on falling out of the loop because the loop kept on tilting.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    JulianRulez said:  2015-01-11 20:13:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
Kinetic energy and potential energy.
What problems did you encounter?
The problems I encountered was when I was trying to put the tubes together.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Mary591 said:  2014-02-07 03:54:32 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that if the marbles were bigger then it would move slower then the ones that were smaller.
I also learned that the time for a marble to move down the roller coaster was always different depending to how much the marble weighs.
I learned that I can make anything if I put my mind to it.
What problems did you encounter?
The problems that I had were cutting the foam pipes, getting the marble to go through he loops, and making sure that the marble wouldn't fall off the roller coaster or even stopping out of nowhere.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I think that you should have more projects on roller coaster.
:) Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
2                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    bisienere said:  2011-09-11 08:23:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
that the higer the coster the fastest the marble goes What problems did you encounter?
the coster kept on falling.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
it is very fun but it takes some time.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
19                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment    Davercks101 said:  2011-05-23 20:27:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
How to do Potential energy and lots of other useful calculations required in my physical science class What problems did you encounter?
Just getting the marble to go through.
Otherwise piece of cake :) Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No well thought out an planned nothing to change Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment    science0937 said:  2011-04-02 13:07:52 What was the most important thing you learned?
I will apreciate how much effort rollercoaster designers put into their creations because it takes a lot of knowledge to get the velocity and angles right.
What problems did you encounter?
i couldnt find a marble tht would fit inside my flexible tubing Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
i used flexible tubing instead of the pipe insulation Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
9                        3                Report Inappropriate Comment  Potential energy (stored energy) Kinetic energy (energy of motion) Conservation of energy (basic law of physics) Gravity Velocity Friction Slope (rise/run)
