 How Do Food Preservatives Affect the Growth of Microorganisms?
This project uses liquid cultures and agar plates to investigate the effects of different concentrations of a food preservative on microbial growth.
The problem of protecting food from spoilage has been with us since prehistoric times.
The solutions to this problem have changed with advances in technology and knowledge about what causes food to spoil.
This project will focus on retarding microbial growth, which is only one of the causes of food spoilage.There are many ways that food can be spoiled.
For example, oils in food can become oxidized, releasing free fatty acids that cause a bitter, rancid taste.
Additionally, natural enzymes that take part in the ripening process of fruits and vegetables can remain active after harvest, causing spoilage.
Different chemical preservatives have been developed to counteract each of these different mechanisms: "Preservatives can be categorized into three general types: antimicrobials that inhibit growth of bacteria, yeasts, or molds; antioxidants that slow air oxidation of fats and lipids, which leads to rancidity; and a third type that blocks the natural ripening and enzymatic processes that continue to occur in foodstuffs after harvest."
(Dalton, 2002)In order for an antimicrobial preservative to work, it must be used at the right concentration.
Ideally, it will disrupt microbial growth while at the same time preserving most of the nutritional value of the food.To do this project, you should first do background research on methods of food preservation.
Then, select an antimicrobial preservation method to test for your experiment.
As an example, this project will test one of the oldest preservation methods by adding different concentrations of salt.
The purpose of this project is to determine the effective concentration for anti-microbial food preservatives.
Compare refrigerated and/or frozen vs. room-temperature broth.
Try additional preservatives.
What are their effective concentrations?
Try preservatives with solid food, e.g., salt meat or pickled vegetables.
See the Science Buddies project, Minimizing Bacteria in the Thawing and Cooking of Meat for a method of pureeing solid food in order to assess bacterial content.
Be sure to establish baseline bacterial content by pureeing samples before treatment with preservatives.
Compare starting sterile vs. not.
If you have a pressure cooker, here is an experiment you can try.
Follow canning procedures for three jars.
For the other three, use normal conditions for cooking and left-over food storage in three separate jars.
Test by plating samples from successive jars from each condition at 1 day, 1 week, 2 weeks.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  moon said:  2011-04-03 18:26:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
where do the bacteria grow from.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
5                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, microbiology, microorganisms, microbes, bacteria, preservatives, food, additives, food preservation bacteria, conditions for bacterial growth, minimum, maximum, and optimum values for temperature, pH, osmolarity.
preservatives, food additives, food preservation.
