 Have Your Chips Lost Their Chomp?
Understanding How Food Becomes Rancid  You are looking under your bed for that video game you want to play, when you come across a real treasurean open bag of potato chips that you forgot about!
A crispy and salty potato chip is a tasty treat.
But wait!
This potato chip is not crisp and does not taste as great as it should.
What happened?
The chips have gone rancid!
In this cooking and food science fair project, you will look into what factors turned your chips rancid.
Have you ever snuck a bite of food you've rediscovered from under your bed or between the couch cushions?
Be careful, because food isn't good forever!
When food spoils and goes bad, it's often described as rancid.
Not only can eating rancid food taste bad, but a certain kind of rancidity can actually cause you to get sick,  which is why people have developed many ways to prevent foods from spoiling, including smoking, salting, and fermentation.
In modern times, we most often preserve foods by canning and refrigerating them.
But why does food become rancid in the first place?Fats or oils (also generally called fats) are added to foods, like crackers, cookies, and cakes, to improve the taste and feel (texture) of foods.
Foods become rancid when there is a chemical change to the fats in the food.
There are three types of rancidity: hydrolytic, oxidative, and ketonic.
Hydrolytic rancidity (pronounced HY-droh-LIH-tik, derived from the Greek work for water, hydra) happens when there is water involved.
Oils that are used for deep-frying become rancid faster because placing wet food in the heated frying oil introduces water.
Oxidative rancidity occurs when the food (fat) is exposed to the oxygen in air.
Oxidative rancidity happens in two steps.
The first step is slow and happens when the fat in the food is exposed to several factors, including light, high temperatures, and salt.
The second step is permanent and happens when oxygen interacts with the fat to create unstable molecules, which affect the taste.
Ketonic rancidity (kee-TAH-nik) occurs when molds (a microscopic life form) weaken the fats.
In this cooking and food science fair project, you will investigate oxidative rancidity.
Oxidative rancidity makes food taste bad, but it will not make you sick.
You will expose potato chips and raisins to air and to light for increasing amounts of time and see if and when the chips and raisins become rancid.
Time to get chompingbut don't eat all your specimens before the project is over!
To determine what factors cause potato chips to spoil and go rancid.
Are the texturesthe crispness of the potato chips and chewiness of the raisinsaffected in this science fair project?
Do you see a visual difference in the chips and raisins between the beginning and the end of the science fair project?
What is the effect of water on the potato chips and raisins?
Investigate hydrolytic rancidity.
What is the effect of temperature on the potato chips and raisins?
Do the foods stay fresher if they are kept at cooler temperatures?
Does age of the taster affect when things start to taste rancid?
Will a younger person notice when food becomes rancid before an older person?
Gather a group of 10 people, separate them by age, and perform the experiment.
Does gender affect when things start to taste rancid?
Gather a group of 10 people, separate them by gender, and do the experiment.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
cooking and food science fair project, fats, oxidation, rancidity, rancid, spoil, potato chip, raisin Rancid Fats Hydrolytic rancidity Oxidative rancidity Molecule Ketonic rancidity Mold
