 Squishy Robot Simulator  What do an octopus, an elephant's trunk, and an earthworm have in common?
They are all squishy, bendable and flexible because they do not have any bones inside.
You might not typically think of robots as "squishy," but scientists are increasingly trying to create soft robots that look and move like animals.
In this project you will use a "soft robot simulator" to design and race your own squishy robots.
Can you come up with the fastest design?
Do you ever wonder how engineers design large, complicated systems like cars, bridges, airplanes, or robots?
Building and testing designs for such objects can be very expensive  and potentially highly dangerous or even catastrophic if something goes wrong.
Since the invention of computers, engineers have increasingly used simulations to test their ideas.
A simulation is a model of a real-world object that uses mathematics and physics to predict how something will behave over time.
There are many types of computer simulations (more than we can list here  see the References section for more).
To give a few examples engineers use: Simulations of bridges to determine what forces heavy traffic will exert on the steel beams or other elements of the bridge, to make sure it is strong enough.Simulations of air flow inside a computer from the cooling fans, to make sure the components will not overheat.
Simulations to predict how machines will move  for example, walking robots, which is what you will do in this project.Engineers use these simulations to compare and refine their designs before they move on to building and testing a physical prototype  an early model of the finished product.
One type of frequently used simulation is called finite element analysis, or FEA for short.
A finite element simulation breaks an object into tiny bits, or "elements"  this enables a computer to simulate an object as if it were made up of many (hundreds, thousands, or even millions) of tiny connected blocks.
For example, Figure 1 shows a solid beam that has been broken up into a grid of cubes to study the weak areas when the beam bends.
Figure 1.
A finite element model of a rectangular beam as it bends.
The colors represent the internal forces in the beam (engineers refer to this as "stress").
The red represents areas of high stress where the beam is most likely to break (Wikimedia Commons user abaqus, 2009).
As the elements get smaller, it will take more of them to make up the same-sized object  for example, in a 1 meter (m) cube, you can fit many more 1 millimeter (mm) cubes than 1 centimeter (cm) cubes.
In general, as the number of elements increases, the simulation will become more accurate  but it will also require more computing power and take longer to run.
Figure 2 shows how the simulation of a car crash would be much more complicated than the simple rectangular beam simulation shown in Figure 1.
Figure 2.
A finite element simulation of a car crashing into a wall.
Simulations like these help engineers design cars to be stronger and safer for passengers.
Unlike the simple simulation in Figure 1, this one is much larger and more complicated (Wikimedia Commons user Maksim, 2006).
In this project you will use a program called VoxCAD to design and simulate your own moving robots, with the objective of designing the fastest robot possible.
VoxCAD is a combination of the words voxel and CAD.
Voxel stands for volumetric pixel  instead of a two-dimensional pixel on a computer screen, it is a three-dimensional pixel in a computer model.
CAD stands for computer aided design  the use of a computer program to aid in the design process.
VoxCAD is an open source program, which means that it is free to download, use, or modify.
VoxCAD has simple drawing tools (similar to programs like Microsoft Paint) that let you draw three-dimensional objects consisting of voxels.
You can also assign different material properties to the voxels.
Material properties are the physical attributes of a material that determine how it behaves.
Several material properties are crucial for how your robot will behave in VoxCAD:Stiffness is how hard it is to stretch or bend a material.
For example, metals like steel and aluminum are much stiffer than rubbers and plastics.Density is the weight of a material per unit volume.
The coefficient of thermal expansion refers to how much a material expands or contracts as its temperature changes.
Note: Because this project is intended as an introduction to VoxCAD, we will provide a file that you can download with pre-determined settings that you can use to do this project.
If you want to learn more about material properties and how changing them can affect your robot, you can check out this advanced VoxCAD project.
By creating three-dimensional objects with different materials, you can make all sorts of fun shapes and many different kinds of robots.
This video will give you an introduction to what you will do with VoxCAD in this project.
This video provides an introduction to the basic features of VoxCAD.
Watch this introduction to the basic features of VoxCAD YouTube video http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=__h-6fstJMU  In the Procedure section, you will get started with step-by-step directions for using VoxCAD and designing your own robots.
Use simulation software to design, simulate, and race different squishy robots.
This project provided you with a template file with pre-determined settings for the material properties and Physics Sandbox settings.
If you want to learn more about what these settings do and how to change them, check out these two abbreviated project ideas:VoxCAD: Material PropertiesVoxCAD: Physics Sandbox SettingsIn the real world, engineers do not just care about how fast things can move  they also care about efficiency.
You might have a very fast robot that uses a lot of active voxels, which in real life would consume a lot of energy and not be very efficient.
Check out this project if you want to challenge yourself to design the lightest, most efficient robot instead of the fastest.
Do you actually want to build a real-world squishy robot?
Check out the Science Buddies project Squishy Robots: Build an Air-Powered Soft Robotic Gripper.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Shaneroxes said:  2014-02-20 19:02:25 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that sometimes your designs don't work, but you just have to slightly alter them so that you can accomplish what you want to happen.
What problems did you encounter?
I encounter that it was hard to find the right design to use.
It was also hard to find the perfect balance of blocks to make it work.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Engineering project, robotics, soft robot, VoxCAD, finite element analysis, 3D simulation software, active materials, voxel, robot simulator Simulation Model Prototype Finite element analysis Voxel Computer aided design (CAD) Open source Material properties Stiffness Density Coefficient of thermal expansion
