 Are There Bugs Under Your Feet?
Look out!
When you walk on the grass, you are squishing millions of micro-invertebrates!
Just kidding, these animals are too small to squish.
Learn how to catch them by making a Berlese funnel in this fun project that will teach you about soil.
Did you know that the soil beneath your feet is full of life?
Healthy soil is teeming with life and full of micro-invertebrates, or tiny animals without skeletons.
Some examples of soil-dwelling invertebrates are worms (called annelids and nematodes), and bugs (called arthropods).
Here are some interesting facts about soil-dwelling arthropods from Andrew Moldenke at Oregon State University (Moldenke, A.R., 2000): Many bugs, known as arthropods, make their home in the soil.
They get their name from their jointed (arthros) legs (podos).
Arthropods are invertebrates; that is, they have no backbone, and rely instead on an external covering called an exoskeleton.
Arthropods range in size, from microscopic to several inches in length.
They include insects, such as springtails, beetles, and ants; crustaceans, such as sowbugs; arachnids, such as spiders and mites; myriapods, such as centipedes and millipedes; and scorpions.
Nearly every soil is home to many different arthropod species.
Certain row-crop soils, like the soil that corn and soybeans are grown in, contain several dozen species of arthropods in a square mile.
Several thousand different species might live in a square mile of forest soil.
Arthropods can be grouped as shredders, predators, herbivores, and fungal-feeders, based on their functions in soil.
Most soil-dwelling arthropods eat fungi, worms, or other arthropods.
Root-feeders and dead-plant shredders are less abundant.
As they feed, arthropods aerate and mix the soil, regulate the population size of other soil organisms, and shred organic material.Many soil-dwelling arthropods are very small, even microscopic, and can easily be missed unless you know how to catch them!
Very small arthropods are called micro-arthropods.
One way to catch soil-dwelling micro-arthropods is to construct a Berlese funnel, shown in Figure 1, below.
A Berlese funnel can be made using a funnel, some screen material or hardware cloth, and a dark jar filled with a preservative liquid like ethyl alcohol or antifreeze.
Soil or leaf litter is scooped into the funnel and the funnel is placed over the dark jar in a well-lit location.
The light will start heating up the soil from the top and creates a gradient of heat, light and moisture.
As the micro-arthropods burrow deep into the soil to reach more moist areas and to avoid the light and the heat, they fall into the jar filled with preservative.
Then you can look at them all with a magnifying glass and marvel at the diversity of soil-dwelling micro-arthropods, like the ones shown in Figure 2, below!Figure 1.
A Berlese Funnel consists of: A) liquid for conservation (alcohol at 70), B) bottle, C) filter, D) ground, litter, leaves, etc., E) funnel, F) heat, G) source of heat.
(Wikipedia Contributors, 2007; Image Credit: Valerie Chansigaud)Figure 2.
"The 200 species of mites in this microscope view were extracted from one square foot of the top two inches of forest litter and soil.
Mites are poorly studied,  but enormously significant for nutrient release in the soil."
(Moldenke, A.R., 2000; Image Credit: Val Behan-Pelletier, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada)In this experiment, you will construct your own Berlese funnel and use it to catch micro-arthropods from your garden soil.
You will collect micro-arthropod samples from soils at different locations around your home and garden.
Will the number of micro-arthropods in each sample correlate with the soil quality at each site?
In this project, you will make a Berlese funnel to investigate micro-invertebrates in soil.
Collect samples from other areas (your school, a park, etc...) and compare.
What do you notice?
Try and separate the organisms in each sample into similar looking fauna.
How many different types of organisms do you think you have?
Do any of them look familiar?
Advanced students can try to identify some of the insects and fauna in the samples.
Do different samples contain the same types of fauna?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Shan101 said:  2013-04-19 18:51:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
The bugs were attracted to light What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
It went well Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     labrat said:  2011-02-07 10:44:01 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned how to construct a Berlese funnel.
I was able to "preserve" several microorganisms.
What problems did you encounter?
None, although it took me a few tries to properly assemble my Berlese funnel.
A photo would be helpful (I took some that could be added to the PI) Took me several days and less than $20.
No safety concerns.
Only tricky item in materials was screen/mesh material.
I got some at the hardware store for $0.59/foot.
This project is very easy to execute, a "2" for difficulty is appropriate.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
1) Update Wikipedia link: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonio_Berlese    2)  Not exactly an "improvement" but my comments: This project is simple and gives good instructions for building a Berlese funnel?but it is really boring.
If I were a science fair participant in elementary school, I would probably never pick this PI to do.
I'm not sure what can be done to "spice" it up or give it a twist that would help a student have more to present at the science fair/project board if they chose to do this project.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment environmental science, berlese Soil Micro-invertebrate Micro-arthropod Berlese funnel Organism
