 Is the Gold in My Jewelry Real?
Have you ever wondered if a piece of jewelry is real gold or if it's just some ordinary metal alloy?
It turns out that some metals have a unique property; even in small amounts, they can be toxic to some organisms, including algae, molds, fungi, and bacteria, although it often takes many hours to see an effect.
Can this phenomena, called the oligodynamic effect be used to tell whether or not the gold or silver in a piece of jewelry is real?
Do bacteria react differently to pure, plated, and non-gold jewelry?
Find out for yourself in this unique treasure-testing science fair project!
Have you ever looked at a piece of gold jewelry and wondered "Is it real?"
To answer that question, you might first have to decide on the definition of "real."
Gold jewelry is usually described in karats (kt).
24-kt gold is pure gold.
While theoretically it is 100% gold, most countries allow a 1% margin for impurities.
Pure gold is relatively soft and easily dented, which means that jewelry made from pure gold is easier to accidentally damage.
So gold is often mixed with a variety of metals, including copper, zinc, and silver, to make jewelry of different physical strengths, karats, colors, and monetary values.
There are also cultural influences over what people think of as "real" gold jewelry.
In most Asian countries, "real" gold jewelry is usually 21-24 kt.
In the United States, "real" gold jewelry is normally 10 kt, 14 kt, or 18 kt.
However, looks are rarely a good way to judge if a piece of jewelry contains a significant proportion of gold.
Pieces that are less than 9 kt (the international cutoff for "real" gold jewelry), or that are gold-plated (meaning they have a thin layer of gold put over the surface of a less-expensive metal), or that are even made of brass, can still have the shiny appearance of yellow-gold.
So, how can we differentiate between real gold jewelry and all the others?
Because gold is a natural element (number 79, atomic symbol Au on the periodic table of elements), it has specific chemical and physical properties.
Jewelers and laboratories that specialize in testing metal use these properties to decide whether a sample is made of gold, and what the level of purity, or karatage, of the gold is.
These tests include properties like how the sample scatters light from X-rays, how heavy the ions released from the sample are, and the exact weight of the sample once it is purified.
Figure 1.
Looks alone aren't enough to tell which of these pieces of jewelry are gold and which are merely gold-plated, or other metals altogether.
From left to right, these pieces are made up of other metal alloys, gold plating, and 24-kt gold.It turns out that in addition to these physical and chemical properties, gold has a biochemical property: it is toxic to some life forms.
Although it is completely harmless to humans and other mammals, gold can be harmful to bacteria, algae, molds, and fungi.
Some other metals, including nickel, copper, cadmium, and mercury, also have this property.
Collectively, metals capable of causing harm to organisms are often referred to as heavy metals or toxic metals and many of them, like mercury and cadmium, are harmful to humans, too.
Usually, it is not the metal that is toxic, but the ions it forms when in contact with water.
An ion is an atom or molecule in which the total number of electrons does not equal the number of protons, which gives it a net negative or positive charge.
These ions are easily transported into tissues and cells where they interfere with normal functions.
The exact mechanism of their interference depends on the type of metal ion, and on the organism under attack.
This toxic effect of metal ions, even in very low concentrations, on bacteria is called the oligodynamic effect.
The word oligodynamic comes from the Greek words oligos, meaning "few," and dyanmis, meaning "force."
In this science fair project, you will investigate whether the oligodynamic effect of gold on bacteria can be used to determine whether a piece of jewelry is composed of gold, is just gold-plated, or is not gold at all.
To do this, you will use a harmless strain of the bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli).
You'll spread the bacteria uniformly across four agar plates: one with no jewelry, to serve as a  control, one with gold jewelry, one with gold-plated jewelry, and the last with non-gold jewelry.
In the plates containing jewelry, the water in the agar will combine with the metal to form metal ions.
Don't worry, it won't harm your jewelry!
The amount of metal that is converted into metal ions is so small you wouldn't even be able to measure the loss using the most sensitive of scales.
These metal ions will diffuse out from the jewelry into the agar where they can be absorbed by the bacteria.
The concentration of metal ions will be highest right next to the jewelry and gradually reduce as you move out in concentric circles from the jewelry.
If the metal ions produced have an oligodynamic effect, meaning if they're toxic to the E. coli, the bacteria will not grow where the ions are present.
The areas without bacterial growth are referred to as zones of inhibition and are characterized by a clear circle around the jewelry in an otherwise contiguous lawn of bacteria.
The larger the zone of inhibition, as measured by the diameter of the clear circle around the jewelry, the greater the oligodynamic effect.
Will the different types of jewelry (gold, gold-plated, and non-gold) exhibit different degrees of oligodynamic effect?
Can zones of inhibition be used to determine whether a piece of jewelry is "real" gold?
Try it and find out for yourself!
Figure 2.
This photo shows zones of inhibition, the clear circles surrounding the white disks in what is otherwise a lawn of bacteria, for a Kirby-Bauer disk-diffusion assay.
The procedure for this science fair project is an adapted version of that assay.
In both cases, the size of each zone of inhibition is measured with a ruler, and the data is recorded in a lab notebook.
(D.M.
Rollins and S.W.
Joseph, 2000.)
Determine if the antimicrobial properties of metals are a good test for whether or not a piece of jewelry is made out of real gold.
Do other metals have an oligodynamic effect?
Are they greater or smaller than gold's?
Devise an experiment to find out.
If you see a difference between the gold, gold-plated, and non-gold jewelry pieces in the experiment above, try using your observations as a way to determine whether other pieces of jewelry are real gold or not.
Hint: consider using a "blind" test method.
The science fair project above does not distinguish between the metals being bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic.
Things that are bacteriocidal kill the bacteria, whereas those that are bacteriostatic temporarily inhibit bacterial growth.
If you observe an oligodynamic effect, devise a test to determine if the metal ions are bacteriocidal or bacteriostatic.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Science fair project idea, microbiology project, bacteria, E. coli, oligodynamic effect, gold, jewelry, metal Gold Karat (kt) Gold-plated Brass Periodic table of elements Biochemical Heavy metals Toxic metals Ion Oligodynamic effect Positive control Zone of inhibition Kirby-Bauer disk-diffusion method
