 Do Different Dilutions of Disinfectants Affect the Development of Bacterial Resistance?
This is a project that illustrates the process of natural selection in action.
You'll need access to a laboratory for working with the bacterial cultures used in this project.
Organisms evolve over generations by the process of natural selection.
Individuals in every population exhibit variations in their DNA.
Natural selection is the process whereby some individuals in a population are more successful at producing offspring, due to genetic variations that they possess.
Over many generations, natural selection leads to an increased frequency of beneficial genes in the population.In the laboratory, bacteria can give rise to a new generation every 1520 minutes (Todar, 2002).
This rapid generation time makes them a good experimental model for studying the effects of selection pressure on a population.
In this project, you will study whether the ability of bacteria to acquire resistance to disinfectants depends on the concentration of the disinfectant.This project has potential applications in real-life situations.
When you go to the store, you can find a wide variety of antibacterial soaps available.
Can left-over residue from antibacterial soaps actually work as a selection mechanism for the development of resistant bacteria?This project uses the Kirby-Bauer disk diffusion method to measure the effectiveness of an antimicrobial agent.
Here is how it works.
The bacteria of interest is swabbed uniformly across a culture plate.
Then a filter-paper disk, impregnated with the compound to be tested, is placed on the surface of the agar.
The compound diffuses out from the filter paper into the agar.
The concentration of the compound will be higher next to the disk, and will decrease gradually as distance from the disk increases.
If the compound is effective against bacteria at a certain concentration, no colonies will grow wherever the concentration in the agar is greater than or equal to that effective concentration.
This region is called the "zone of inhibition."
Thus, the size of the zone of inhibition is a measure of the compound's effectiveness: the larger the clear area around the filter disk, the more effective the compound.
Figure1, below, illustrates the idea.
Figure 1.
The illustration above shows zones of inhibition around filter paper disks saturated with anti-microbial compounds.
The diameter of the zone of inhibition is a measure of the effectiveness of an anti-microbial compound (Rollins and Joseph, 2000.
)The bacteria will be subjected to five rounds of exposure, to each concentration of disinfectant.
For each round, you will determine degree of resistance by measuring the zone of inhbition for each dilution of the test compound.
After each round, you will select a colony closest to the disk for another round of exposure.
Does resistance increase after five rounds of selection?
Does the concentration of disinfectant have any effect on the development of resistance?
The purpose of this project is to determine if bacterial resistance to a disinfectant, after repeated exposure to a disinfectant, depends on the concentration of the disinfectant.
It stands to reason that bacteria could more easily evolve resistance to antimicrobials that interfere with an organism's biochemical pathways at a single point, compared to antimicrobials that act at multiple points.
Does the mechanism of action of the agent have an effect on the development of resistance?
Do background research on the mechanism of action of the various disinfectants you plan to use in your project.
Then design an experiment to test for development of resistance to "single-step" and "multi-step" disinfectants.
Keep in mind that some bacteria have sophisticated countermeasures, such as the ability to actively pump foreign chemical compounds out of the cell.
You'll also need to do background research on the mechanisms your test bacteria species use to thwart antimicrobial compounds.
Try testing different bacterial strains.
For example, you could use bacterial populations that you culture from different surfaces in your house, your skin, and your mouth.
Do bacteria that develop resistance to lower concentrations of disinfectants survive when exposed to higher concentrations of the disinfectant?
Design a continuation of this experiment to find out.
For a more basic project on disinfectants and bacteria, see: The End Zone: Measuring Antimicrobial Effectiveness with Zones of Inhibition.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  BloopPix said:  2016-02-25 17:40:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that different dillutions of disenfectant can effect the development of bacterial resistnace.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, microbiology, disinfectants, bacterial, antibiotics, antibacterial, resistance, zone of inhibition, selection colony, zone of inhibition, resistance, evolution, natural selection.
