 Technicolor Shadows:  Lessons in Light and Color  Is that right side of your brain yearning to express its artistic side?
This is a project that beautifully blends art with science.
Learn about light and colorful shadows in these experiments where you mix and match various colors of light to create a mini light show and shadow wall.
You might be surprised at the colorful hues you'll find lurking in the shadows.
We're all familiar with the quirky dark shadows we can create with our hands using a bright light projected onto a wall or screen.
In this project, you'll take dark shadows and transform them into amazing colors when you create a mini shadow wall that's anything but dark.
This technicolor light show seems like magic and looks like a colorful work of glowing art, but it's also a cool demonstration of the physics and science of light and color.
Click here  to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.orgThe project video shows how five science buddies successfully met the challenge from their teacher to make a colorful art exhibit without using paint.
The budding scientists put their heads together and developed several clever and colorful art displays each using light as the source of color.
One of their more impressive "art pieces" was a multicolor shadow wall similar to a smaller version you'll set up in this project.
The students found their initial inspiration for their shadow wall during a visit to The Exploratorium, an amazing science museum in San Francisco.
There they learned that the trick to creating a wall of colored rather than dark shadows, is to shine multiple colored lights onto the screen instead of using standard "white" lights.
That sounds fairly simple and logical.But what surprised the science club when they constructed their shadow wall was the discovery of shadows made up of colors that were different from those of the colored lights they beamed against the screen.
For example, if the lights shining on the screen were red, green and blue, some of the shadows that appeared were pink, turquoise, and yellow.
Also, when they blended certain colors of light together they sometimes got unexpected results showing up on the screen.
Red and blue lights together made the screen look magenta, a bright pink color, not purple like they were used to seeing when mixing paints.
You'll figure out why this happens and be able to predict which color will pop up in which shadows of your shadow wall after you study the results from a couple of simple experiments described in this activity.
But first, it might be helpful to review a few basics about light and color.
Light is a form of electromagnetic energy that moves in wave-like patterns.
We only know it's there because photoreceptors in the retina at the back of our eyes detect the incoming light waves and transfer that information to our brain via the optic nerve.
In the brain, the signals are interpreted into information that tells us not only what we see, but also what colors are present before us.
The color information originates from special photoreceptors in the retina.
These conical-shaped mini-sensors are aptly called "cones."
Each cone type is sensitive to a broad range of wavelengths of light, but each type has its peak sensitivity in a different part of the spectrum.
We have long-wavelength cones that are most sensitive to red hues, short-wavelength cones that are most sensitive to blue hues, and mid-wavelength cones that are most sensitive to green hues.
When all three types of cones are stimulated equally, the signals blend together in our brain and we see "white" light.
If the cones are stimulated to different degrees, we see variations of color mixed from the basic red, green, or blue hues.
Slight changes in relative signals from the three types of cones produce the millions of colors our eyes can detect.Visible light usually looks colorless to our eyes, but is actually composed of a  broad range of colorful light divided into bands by their wavelength, energy, and the color each produces when it hits our retina.
These are the familiar rainbow colors of the visible light spectrum that separate from one another when visible light passes through a prism or through a rainbow's water droplets in the sky.Figure 1.
The visible spectrum includes wavelengths of light ranging from 400 to 700nm in length (Illustration from Abrisa Glass & Coatings, 2005).
In this project, you will work with flashlights that produce the three "primary" colors of light red, green, and blue to see how they interact and blend together to yield multiple new colors on the background of the wall (see Figure 2, left panel).
Primary colors are called primary because they can be mixed to produce just about every other color our eyes detect.
In the most simple dual combinations of  primary colored light waves, red and green mix together to make yellow light; green and blue mix together to make a turquoise-like color called cyan; and blue and red mix together to make the bright pink-purplish color called magenta.Figure 2.
Red, green, and blue light combine to make white light (left panel).
Mixing two colors at a time produces yellow, magenta, or cyan colored light.
That's very different from mixing colors of paint or inks (right panel).
Note that combining three primary colors of inks produces black, not white.
You'll discover from your shadow wall how a color from one light can fill in what would normally be a dark or black shadow produced from another light shining on the same object.
For example, when you hold your hand up in front of any color light, you block that light from hitting the wall and that creates a dark spot or shadow.
But if another light, say green, is also beamed onto the wall from a slightly different angle, the green light spreads over the dark spot making it now appear green instead of dark.
If that green shadow receives additional light beaming in from a third colored light source, the green light will mix with that color light to change the shadow into one of the other color combinations described above.So in general, by looking at the placement and color of a shadow on a shadow wall, you can infer both the location and colors of the original light sources shining on the screen.
You also can observe how the additive process of layering and blending a few colors of light can create a remarkable number of possible mixed color variations.
Who knew studying shadows could shed so much light on our understanding of color!
To get started on this project, do some background research on light, vision, and color.
You'll see a list of suggested search terms and a few basic questions to investigate in the next section.
Then it's time to dim the lights, set up that shadow wall, and let the colorful show begin!
The goal of this project is to create a colorful mini light show and shadow wall to learn about mixing and subtracting the primary colors of visible light.
Try to make orange and violet colors:  Set up the three micro-lights with the blue light in the middle.
Shine the lights on the pen and see if you can adjust one micro-light at a time so that the yellow shadow becomes orange or that the magenta shadow becomes violet (purple).
[Hints: Both orange and violet colors of light are made when there is an unequal, rather than equal, mix of two colors.
To figure out how to create orange light, remember first that yellow light is an equal mix of red and green.
When green is no longer equal to red, but is instead slightly less intense, the two colors still mix but they produce orange instead of yellow.
Likewise, equal amounts of red and blue produce magenta light, but slightly less red will turn the magenta shadow into purple.]
Create additional variations in colors:  Use the three micro-lights as in Experiment 2, but place horizontal strips of red, blue, and green paper on the wall above a small strip of white paper.
Observe the slight differences in colors that result when the shadows appear on the various background papers.
Since each of the colored papers will be contributing more of their own color to the mixes of light you see on the wall, try to explain what relative changes in colors have occurred to produce the variety of hues on the wall.
And let there be more light: Add a fourth color to the light sources.
Purchase a yellow micro-light and repeat Experiment 2.
Try to figure out what light combinations come together to produce the new shadow variations when you have four lights shining on the pen.
Use color filters to subtract colors from the shadow wall:  Purchase a set of colored filters or use pieces of clear colored plastics or cellophane to discover what happens to the shadow wall when you shine the micro-lights through various color filters in front of the pen.
In these experiments, filters will reduce or eliminate all colors except the color they appear to our eyes.
So a blue filter lets primarily blue light through but not the other wave lengths or colors of light.
Try to explain the resulting colors in the shadows that appear on the wall.
For another basic Science Buddies project idea describing how to mix colors of light as well as dyes, see Mixing Light to Make Colors.
For a more advanced project on mixing colors of light where you build an electronic circuit board to test and mix primary colored LEDs, see  Color Mixing with Red, Green, & Blue LEDs.
To learn about mixing the colors of inks and dyes used in computer graphics and how it differs from mixing colors from lights, see the Science Buddies project,  Color Profiles.
To better understand what color saturation and contrast mean in digital images, see the Science Buddies projects  Color Saturation and  Digital Photo Contrast.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
Light Color Visible spectrum Light absorption Primary colors of light Colored shadows Cones, retina, and color vision
