 Golf Clubs, Loft Angle, and Distance  If your idea of a great weekend morning is taking some practice swings at a driving range, or heading out to the links to play a round, this could be a good project for you.
This project is designed to answer the question, what is the relationship between club loft angle and the distance that the ball travels when struck.
As everyone knows, the goal in golf is to hit the small white ball into the cup on the green, using the smallest number of strokes possible.
Golfers can carry up to 14 different clubs, each intended for a specialized purpose.
There are drivers to get the maximum distance when teeing off, fairway woods for hitting long distances when the ball is no longer on the tee, irons for various distance ranges, pitching wedges and sand wedges for chipping shorter shots onto the green, and a putter for the final shot(s) on the green.This project will focus on the irons, the mid-range clubs often used for shots approaching the green.
The irons in a typical set of clubs are numbered 3-9.
As the number of the iron increases, so does its loft anglethe angle of the club face with respect to the shaft of the club (see Figure 1).
A three iron has a loft angle of 15.
The nine iron has a loft angle of 45.
In between, the loft angle increases by 5 with each iron.Figure 1.
The angle between the club face and the shaft is the loft angle of a golf club.
The diagram shows the club head as it would look if you were facing the golfer and your eyes were at the level of the ball.As the loft angle of the club increases, the ball will be launched at a higher initial angle.
The distance that the ball travels will be determined by how fast the club is moving when it hits the ball, the angle of the club face to the ball at impact, and the amount of spin imparted to the ball.
Just after impact with the club, the ball will have an initial launch angle, an initial velocity, and an initial spin rate.
These parameters will largely determine the flight of the ball (other factors such as wind or collision with an object can also influence the flight).The goal of this project is to determine the relationship between the loft angle of the club and the initial launch angle of the ball, and between the loft angle of the club and the distance that the ball travels.
The goal of this project is to measure how the initial launch angle of a golf ball affects how far the ball travels.
Another important launch variable is the initial speed of the ball.
This is determined by how fast the club is moving when it hits the ball.
You need very high speed photography to measure this.
You can find this type of equipment at some golf pro shops.
Maybe you can think of ways to enhance your experiment using this "Ball Launch Monitor" technology to measure your swing with the various irons in your club set.
If you'd like to explore the aerodynamics of golf balls, you might be interested in the Science Buddies project A Cure for Hooks and Slices?
Asymmetric Dimple Patterns and Golf Ball Flight.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  PattyPigram said:  2015-06-01 05:27:00 What was the most important thing you learned?
Launch angle compared to distance What problems did you encounter?
Consistency of golf swing Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Loft angle Launch angle Spin Initial velocity
