 Does Your Cell Phone Radiate?
Measuring Cell Phone Electromagnetic Radiation  Every day, no matter where you are, you will see people using their cell phones.
People use their cell phones for more than just making calls though.
They use them for texting and searching the Internet, too.
But some health groups are concerned that using your cell phone too much can be hazardous to your health as it exposes your body to electromagnetic radiation.
In this electricity and electronics science project, you will investigate how much radiation your cell phone emits when used for calling and texting.
Just about everywhere you go, you can see someone using a cell phone.
You can use a cell phone to call your mom to pick you up from the mall, text your best friends, check the Internet for movie times, and even play games.
The cell phone is an important part of how we communicate with our friends and family.But how does a cell phone do all of that?
Cell phones are basically radios that depend on radio signals to receive and transmit information.
When you talk into your cell phone, it converts your voice into a microwave frequency signal.
Cell phones transmit and receive information at microwave frequencies, which are within the radio frequency (RF) spectrum.
Radio waves and microwaves are all part of the electromagnetic  spectrum.
See Figure 1 to view the full electromagnetic spectrum.
Figure 1.
The electromagnetic spectrum.
(Image courtesy of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 2009.
)Each cell phone carrier (like Verizon, AT&T, etc.)
is given a set of frequencies, which they use to transmit and receive information in a typical city.
Each cell phone carrier then breaks the city up into cells (each cell is a few square miles).
Each cell has a base station.
When you turn on your cell phone, it communicates with its closest base station and shares information about you and where you are located.
When you make or receive a call from a friend, many operations have occurred that identify where and who you and your friend are, determining which microwave frequencies your phones should use so that you can both talk.
Once the connection has been made, having a conversation on the phone is like talking on a two-way radio.When you use your cell phone to talk or text, your body absorbs some amount of the microwave frequency signal, and there might be some health issues associated with this.
The electromagnetic spectrum is classified into non-ionizing radiation and ionizing radiation.
Non-ionizing radiation does not damage the genetic material in body's molecules, and might or might not cause illness (more on this in the next paragraph), but if the exposure to microwave radiation is sufficiently intense (which you can read more about in the Office of Engineering and Technology reference in the Bibliography, below), then it can cause biological damage, such as burns and cataracts.
Ionizing radiation, on the other hand, is dangerous to our bodies, and in high doses can cause cancer and birth defects.
Radio frequencies and microwave frequencies are classified as non-ionizing radiation, and x-rays and gamma rays are examples of ionizing radiation.
There is a lot of debate about whether or not the radiation (the microwave frequencies that the cell phone is receiving and sending) from cell phones is harmful to humans.
Scientists know radiation levels decreases rapidly with distance but since the cell phone is held very close to the head, many scientists are studying whether the rise in cell phone usage is creating a rise in brain tumors.
There have been a lot of studies done, but the results have been inconclusive.
In this electricity and electronics project, you will conduct your own study.
You will look at a cell phone while it is in calling mode and texting mode and determine the amount of microwave radiation coming from the phone using a radio frequency meter at three different distances (2 centimeters [cm], 5 cm, and 15 cm) and from different sides  of the cell phone.
Some governments have set a maximum exposure to microwave radiation expressed in milliwatts [mW] (or .001 Watt [W]) per square centimeter at specific distances from the device.
Other exposure guidelines specify limits for human exposure to radio frequency emissions in terms of Specific Absorption Rate (SAR), a measure of the rate of absorption of radio frequency energy by the body.
In this science project, you will measure how much energy is send out by your phone in different directions and how it changes with increasing distance.
Only part of this energy will be absorbed by the bodyso your measurements can not directly be compared to SAR limits.
Would the radiation send out by a cell phone be different if you are speaking or texting?
Is it a good idea to always use a hands-free device when using your phone?
Perform your own study and figure out how comfortable you are using a cell phone with the data you gather.
To investigate if your cell phone emits electromagnetic radiation when making a phone call or sending a text message, and to determine the level of radiation at varying distances.
Repeat this project using different cell phones.
Do different cell phones emit different amounts of microwave radiation?
The Introduction  mentions radiation levels decrease rapidly with increasing distance from the emitting source.
Theoretically, the decrease is inversely proportional to the distance squared.
You can use your meter to study this decrease in more detail by measuring the radiation level (average power) at various distances like 2cm, 5cm, 15cm and 30cm.
Can you create a best fit to your data points following the 1/r2 rule?
Study how radio frequency signals change with distance around a radio or cell phone tower.
Would you say there are possibly health risks associated with living in a vicinity of one of those towers?
Or is it unlikely?
Study the power emitted at different distances by a Bluetooth device.
How does the power emitted by a Bluetooth device compare to the power emitted by your cell phone?
Wi-Fi signals allow wireless devices to connect to the a wireless network.
These are radio frequency electromagnetic signals as well.
You can use the RF meter listed in the Materials section of this project or a phone app as advised in the two projects listed below to measure the strength of Wi-Fi signals.
Be sure to check out following projects if you are interested in Wi-Fi Signals:     What  Materials Can Block a Wi-Fi Signal?
The Point of a Parabola: Focusing Signals for a Better Wireless Network       You can also create a map of the strength of  Wi-Fi signals in a public place, your house or your school.
Discover what has the biggest influence on the strength of the signal, a wall?
the ceiling?
Or is it just a function of distance?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   Ricard said:  2017-01-04 08:37:54 What was the most important thing you learned?
I could not manage to measure the radiation emitted by my cell phones.
What problems did you encounter?
My radiation detector measures frequencies between 50 Hz and 2GHz.
Mobile phone frequencies (450 Mhz and 900 Mhz) should be picked up.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
My guess is that I should buy another radiation detector.
HELP Which caracteristics are important for measuring the radiation emitted by cell phones ?
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Emilylime said:  2012-02-23 15:07:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
That there are many dangers from cell phone radiation.
What problems did you encounter?
Weather.
I tested some phones  outside, and the weather affected the data.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I tested over twenty phones, text and call, and the distance.
Nothing over 10 cm was recorded because nothing was emitted.
I used Velcro to attatch a ruler to the meter, so it could slide up and down the ruler.
Oh, and I won first place in my seventh grade science fair, and I am going to Science Congress.
wish me luck!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
16                        4                Report Inappropriate Comment Electrical and electronics science project, cell phone, radio, radio waves, radiation, frequencies, microwave, texting Frequency Electromagnetic spectrum Radio wave Microwave Absorb Non-ionizing radiation Ionizing radiation Watt Data Average power
