 Neanderthals, Orangutans, Lemurs, & YouIt's a Primate Family Reunion!
You have probably seen figures showing how human beings are related to chimpanzees, gorillas, and other primates.
In this genomics science fair project, you will use bioinformatics tools to generate your own primate family tree.
"Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution."
This quote is from a 1973 essay by the famous geneticist Theodosius Dobzhansky.
One of the key issues in biology is how we, as a species, are related to other life forms.
Based on anatomy and physiology, biologists have argued for decades that human beings are closely related to chimpanzees, with close, but somewhat more distant, relatedness to other primates, such as gorillas and orangutans.
Despite the best efforts by generations of biologists, there are still many skeptics concerning our place on the primate family tree.
In this genomics science fair project, you will make up your own mind by using raw protein sequence data and simple software tools to build a tree depicting Homo sapiens and our nearest non-human relatives.
How can you use a protein sequence to build a family tree?
When two populations stop interbreeding, the genes in each population begin to accumulate mutations that are specific to each population.
The longer the two populations are separated, the greater the number of genetic changes between the two populations.
You can directly measure these genetic changes by comparing the sequences of particular proteins.
If a protein mutates at a rate of 1 percent change per million years (say five amino acids change in a 500-amino-acid protein), then that protein in two species that split from a common ancestor 1 million years ago will be roughly 2 percent different.
Why 2 percent?
Because each species has accumulated 1 percent genetic change, independently of the other, resulting in 2 percent difference overall.
Assuming a constant rate of mutation, a tree can be built showing the relationship of different species based on the observed genetic changes.
To start this science fair project, you will go to the website for the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), a part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH).
At the NCBI website, you can look up the sequence of the protein you will use as a BLAST query.
BLAST is a bioinformatics tool that allows the user to search a database of proteins for sequences that are similar to the query sequence.
The query sequence is the sequence used to search the database.
You will also use your BLAST results to make a rough estimate of the rate of mutation by looking at the percent difference between a human protein and the same protein in different primates.
Estimating the rate at which mutations accumulate is a way of looking at evolution in action.You will use a protein sequence from the mitochondrial genome as a query.
Mitochondrial protein sequences have the advantage that they are available for many more species (including Neanderthal) than chromosomal proteins are.
The BLAST output has three regions: a color diagram showing the alignments between the query and the database hits, a list of database hits, and the actual alignments of the query sequence with the database sequences.
The figures below give more information about each of these outputs.
Once you have your BLAST results, you will make a table of the results, including the scientific names and common names of the species, the percent identity between the query sequence and the database hit, and the amount of time since Homo sapiens split from the other species.
Based on this table, you can calculate a rough rate of mutation.The BLAST page also has a tool for creating a tree of the BLAST results.
You will use this tree to generate a figure showing how human beings are related to other primates.
The numbers you'll see on the tree are estimates of the time since the various lines split, in millions of years ago (mya).
Figure 1.
Color key for the alignments.
(NCBI, 2008.)
Figure 2.
List of BLAST hits.
These are the proteins in the databse that are most related to the query protein.
A high "Score" value and a low "E" value both indicate a high degree of similarity.
(NCBI, 2008.)
Figure 3.
An example of a BLAST alignment.
BLAST aligns the query sequence with the database sequence.
A blank indicates a mismatch.
A plus sign, "+," indicates a conservative substitution (the amino acid is replaced by an amino acid with similar chemical characteristics).
(NCBI, 2008.)
The objective of this genomics science fair project is to build a family tree for the primates, including Homo sapiens, based on the similarity of mitochondrial proteins.
The method involves BLASTing a mitochondrial protein against a sequence database and analyzing the percent identity between hits.
Click on the button "Taxonomy report" on the BLASoutput page.
Use this information in your report.
Make a phylogenetic tree based on pair-wise comparisons.
Click on the sequences to download, then click on "Get selected sequences."
Go to the ClustalW2 page at EBI, and follow the instructions for aligning the sequences and generating a ClustalW-based tree.
Analyze the mutation rate for different parts of the NADH5 protein.
Are certain regions more prone to changes?
Why?
(Hint: Amino acids that are critical to the protein's structure or function will not vary as much as less-vital amino acids).
Select a different protein for evolutionary genomics analysis.
Go to the NCBI homepage, select "Genome" to search, then type in NC_001807.
This is the page for the Homo sapiens mitochondrial genome.
Open the NC_001807 page, and click on "protein coding: 13."
These 13 proteins are coded for by the mitochondrial DNA.
Pick one and repeat your analysis as above.
Do you get similar results?
Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
genomics, science fair project, primates, evolution, BLAST, mitochondrial protein, phylogenetic tree, mutation rate Mutation Amino acid BLAST Evolution Mitochondrial genome Mitochondrial protein sequence Neanderthal Chromosomal protein Conservative substitution Accession number
