 Hydroponics: Gardening Without Soil  Have you ever planted a garden?
It is a real pleasure to see a garden where all of the plants lie in neat rows and are healthy and thriving.
Plants need sunlight and nutritious soil to grow and be healthy, right?
Not always!
Hydroponics is the science of growing plants in nutrient-rich water.
Does it work?
Try this project and see for yourself!
You probably know that just as we get our nutrients from food, generally plants get their nutrients from the soil.
To thrive, plants need both macronutrients (like carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus) and micronutrients (like iron, sodium, and zinc).
Soil can contain all of these.Plants also need water and use it in many ways.
First, water acts as a solvent and helps to transport nutrients from the soil throughout the plant.
Second, water-filled cells help support various biochemical reactions in the plant.
A biochemical reaction is a reaction that occurs between chemicals inside the plants' cells to keep it alive.
A plant biochemical reaction that you may have heard of is photosynthesis.
Photosynthesis, a reaction involving sunlight, the chlorophyll in plant cells, water, and carbon dioxide, produces sugar for the plant to use as food.
When a plant doesn't receive water, photosynthesis and other biochemical reactions stop, the plant begins to turn yellow, dries up, and then dies.So is soil really necessary for a plant to survive, or can plants survive in just water?
What if the water had all of the nutrients in it that soil does?
The answer to this question is yes.
Plants can survive without being planted in soil.
The science of growing plants in nutrient-rich water is hydroponics.
The word hydroponics means "working water" and comes from the Latin words hydro, meaning "water," and ponos, meaning "work."
In hydroponics, the nutrients are available at the plant's roots.
So, without any work, the plant  gets its food and nutrition.
A plant with roots in soil has to work hard to extract its nutrition from the soil, and it can waste a lot of energy doing that.
But a plant in nutrient-rich water can spend its energy growing bigger leaves, fruits, and flowers in a shorter amount of time.
One benefit of growing plants hydroponically is that the nutrients in the water can be completely controlled, and the plant can receive exactly the right amount of nutrients at exactly the right time.
Another benefit of hydroponics is that it works in areas where the soils are not arable (not suitable for farming) and in areas where there is no soil.
Figure 1 shows a NASA scientist examining hydroponically-grown plants.
Figure 1.
A NASA plant physiologist at Kennedy Space Center examining his hydroponically-grown plants.
(NASA, 2004.
)There are six basic types of hydroponic systems: wick system, water culture system, ebb-and-flow system, drip system, nutrient-film technique, and the aeroponics system.
Each system has its advantages and disadvantages.
In this plant biology science project, you will experiment with the water culture system and perform your own hydroponics experiment.
You will compare the growth rate of lettuce seeds grown in potting soil with those grown hydroponically.
Which method will produce seedlings the fastest?
Will there be a difference in root growth between the two methods?
At the end of this science project, instead of having a "green thumb," you might have a "blue thumb"!
Compare the rate of growth and plant vigor of hydroponically-grown plants to plants grown conventionally, in soil.
Grow different varieties of lettuce hydroponically.
Do all varieties grow better hydroponically, or does growth depend on the variety?Instead of growing lettuce, try growing different seeds hydroponically.
Grow tomatoes, both hydroponically and in soil.
Is there a difference between the hydroponically-grown tomatoes and soil-grown tomatoes?
Do all plants grow equally well using both methods, or do some seeds grow better in either soil or a hydroponic system?
What happens if you don't have a balanced nutrient-water solution to grow plants hydroponically?
Follow the directions given in the instruction booklet, and vary the amounts of nutrients in the nutrient solution to see how it affects the growth of the plants.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  demonslayer908 said:  2015-09-15 17:31:11 What was the most important thing you learned?
that there is more than one way to grow things.
What problems did you encounter?
i had trouble growing the seeds.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
tell us a way to get rid of mold that grows in the tubes.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    searent said:  2012-03-03 12:49:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
you CAN plant plants without soil if you have water and you try hard enough.
What problems did you encounter?
i didnt really encounter any on this one.
this one was easy!!!!!!!!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
i cant think of any because this is a pretty good one already.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
18                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    scibuddy13258 said:  2011-08-10 20:07:59 What was the most important thing you learned?
When you are told plants need soil and water that isn't always true.
What problems did you encounter?
The water became dirty very fast it needed to be cleaned ALOT Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
List that the water should be changed at least 4 times a week.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
27                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    kritik said:  2011-05-16 16:48:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
Hydroponics is a beginning for a new and faster growing society and economy.
What problems did you encounter?
I could not readily find the  materials.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
This project would be much cheaper without using a kit.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
10                        8                Report Inappropriate Comment Plant biology science project, hydroponics, plant nutrients, soilless growing, soil, plant, lettuce, water, root, soil Macronutrient Micronutrient Solvent Cell Biochemical reaction Photosynthesis Chlorophyll Hydroponics Arable Physiologist Water culture system Aerate Area Ellipse
