 Battle of the Senses: Taste Versus Smell  Have you ever tried an apple that tastes like a banana?
It sounds weird, but what actually makes the apple taste like an apple?
Our tongue is definitely important for identifying food flavors, but if you have ever had a stuffy nose, you probably noticed that your smell contributes to taste as well.
Which of those senses has more influence on flavor?
Imagine eating an apple and, at the same time, smelling a really strong banana scent.
How to you think the apple will taste?
Will the nose or the tongue win the "flavor battle"?
Do you have a favorite food?
Can you explain what exactly makes you like this food so much more than others?
Is it its yummy taste, its wonderful smell, or perhaps its perfect texture?
It might not be so easy to pick just one reasonit is most likely a combination of all of these!
There is more to flavor than just taste.
In fact, the tongue is not the only part responsible for sensing the unique flavor for every food we eat.
The experience of flavor is the combination of taste and smell (figure 1).
Figure 1.
Tasting with your tongue and smelling with your nose.
(Image credits: tongue images by Rainer Zenz, via Wikimedia Commons; olfaction image (modified) by LC Uni Hohenheim, via Wikimedia Commons).When you put food in your mouth, your tongue picks up the five basic tastes: sweetness, saltiness, sourness, bitterness, and umami, which is a savory taste (think of meat or mushrooms).
If you look at your tongue closely, you might see tiny bumps on its surface.
These are called papillae and each of them harbors many taste buds.
On average, each person's tongue has about 2,0008,000 taste buds, and each of them contains about 50100 taste receptors.
Each receptor is best at sensing a single sensation and sends signals to the brain, which then identifies sweet, salty, bitter, sour, or umami.
The total sum of these sensations is the "taste" of the food.
So what about smell?
The five basic tastes listed above only partially contribute to the perception of flavor in your mouth.
For the rest of the flavor, the scent of the food and your personal sense of smellalso called olfactionplay important roles.
Once you put food into your mouth, odorants, which are specific chemicals that are responsible for its smell, enter your nostrils.
Inside your nose there are millions of smell receptors.
Once the receptor binds to a specific odorant, it sends a signal to your brain and you are able to identify the specific scent.
But did you know that your nostrils are not the only way smells can get into your nose?
Your mouth and your nasal cavity are connected in your throat!
You might have seen a great demonstration of this connection if you have ever seen someone shoot water out of their nose while laughing after they have taken a drink!
Smelling through the "back door" of your nosealso known as retronasal olfactionalso contributes to flavor perception when you are eating as you can see in figure 1.
So how does all the information about smell and taste come together?
There is a specific part of the brain that is able to pick up and respond to signals from both smell receptors and taste receptors.
This area of the brain, called the orbitofrontal cortex, is where researchers think that the information about smell and taste converge to produce the flavor we perceive.
This link between smell and taste is so strong that people learn to associate certain smells with a specific taste.
For instance, do you feel a sour taste on your tongue when you smell a strong lemon scent?
The food industry already makes use of this by introducing phantom aromas into food.
By adding barely detectable amounts of odorants into foods, our brain can perceive flavors without realizing that they are not actually there.
Some research even claims that the smell of a food accounts for up to 80 percent of how we perceive flavor, compared to 20 percent for taste.
Considering this linkage between smell and taste, it should be easy to change a food's flavor by just changing its smell.
So, do you think you can make an apple taste like a banana?
Well, head into the kitchen, gather some food, scents, and volunteers, and find out!
Investigate the effect of smell on taste and determine which sense (taste or smell) has greater influence on food flavor.
Table 1 showed you a list of recommended food/scent pairs for your taste experiment in this project.
Try to create new combinations with different foods and another variety of smells (you can even make your own, such as garlic oil or lemon scent).
Consider common food and scent pairings (in which the smell complements the chosen food), as well as uncommon food scent pairs in which the smell does not fit the chosen food.
Which combination will be more confusing for your senses?Can you think of other factors, besides smell and taste, that influence the flavor of foods?
What if you present your volunteers with the same food but with different textures (unchanged, chopped, blended, dried, etcetera)?
Will they notice a difference in flavor?
What about temperature?
Does it matter if food is frozen, at room temperature, or heated?
Design an experiment similar to this one to find out.Do you want to find out if phantom aromas really work?
Research has shown that, for example, ham or beef odors make people think that their food is saltier.
On the other hand, vanilla flavor is very strongly associated with sweetness and fools people into believing that there is more sugar in their food than there actually is.
Create your own "phantom aroma food" and try it out yourself.How will your food taste if your only way of "smelling" is through retronasal olfaction, or "smelling" through your mouth?
Another way to test the influence of smell on food flavor is described in the Science Buddies' project The Nose Knows Smell but How About Taste?Do you want to find out if you are a Supertaster?
Some people have many more taste buds than the average person, and therefore have the ability to perceive flavors much stronger and more intensely than others.
Find out how many taste buds you have in this project from Science Buddies: Do You Love the Taste of Food?
Find Out if You Are a Supertaster!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  ak47pk520 said:  2017-04-04 03:10:55 What was the most important thing you learned?
qweqeqweqweqweqweq What problems did you encounter?
weqweqweqweqw Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
eqweqweqweqwe Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Taste, Five Senses, Food, Eating, Smell, Aroma, Scent, Confusion, Food Aroma Pairing, Synesthesia Flavor Taste Smell Five basic tastes Papillae Taste bud Taste receptor Olfaction Odorant Smell receptor Retronasal olfaction Orbitofrontal cortex Phantom aroma
