 Deep Knee Bends: Measuring Knee Stress with a Mechanical Model  Are you interested in things like prosthetic limbs and artificial joints that can help people with disease or injury to lead a normal life?
Or maybe you're interested in sports medicine or physical therapy?
Either way, this project could be a good match for you.
Find out how the tension on the knee joint changes as a function of angle by building a simple mechanical model.
This project is based on a 2007 California State Science Fair project by Annie Lefley (Lefley, 2007).
Annie is a ballet dancer, and she noticed that grand plis (in which the knee is almost fully bent) put more strain on her knees than demi plis (where the knee is only partially bent).
Although ballet is much more graceful, you can think of it as the difference between a deep-knee bend and a half-knee bend.Annie wanted to find out how much the strain on the knee changed as the angle of the knee became more acute.
To find out, she built a cool mechanical model of the knee joint (see Figure 2, below).
In order to understand the model, you should study up on the anatomy of the human leg and knee joint.
Figure 1 shows two views of the knee joint from the 1918 edition of Gray's Anatomy of the Human Body.
On the top is the view of the joint from the front, and on the bottom is a sagittal section (cut-away view, showing the knee at mid-section).
The knee is the joint where the femur (thigh bone) and tibia (shin bone) come together.
The patella (knee cap) "floats" in front of the joint.
It is held in place by tendons (which connect the ends of muscles to bones) and ligaments (which connect bones to one another).
For the purposes of this experiment, the two main attachments for the patella are:     The quadriceps tendon (on the top), which connects to the main thigh muscle   The patellar ligament (on the bottom), which connects to the tibia   Figure 1.
Two illustrations of the human knee joint.
On the top is an anterior (front) view.
On the bottom is a sagittal (vertical) section through the middle of the kneeWhen you bend your knee to squat down (the ballet dancers out there among you can perform a pli, the rest of us can stick to what we know!
), you can feel the tension increase in your quadriceps muscle (on the front of your thigh).
The quadriceps tendon attaches to the patella, which is in turn anchored to the tibia by the patellar ligament.
The tension of the quadriceps muscle holds the femur in position as the knee is bent.
In the mechanical model, a spring is used to represent the quadriceps muscle.
A spring has an interesting property discovered by the physicist Robert Hooke, and now named for him (Hooke's Law).
Here is the property: the restoring force (F) produced by the spring is proportional to the distance by which the spring has been lengthened (x).
In equation form, this looks like:    F = kx.
The equation says that the force (F) of the spring is equal to the spring constant (k, a measure of the stiffness of the spring) times the distance (x) that the spring has been stretched.
The minus sign says that the force is exerted in the opposite direction of the stretching.
In other words, if you stretch the spring out, the spring force is pulling back in the other direction.
You'll see how you will be using Hooke's Law in just a minute, after we've described how the model of the knee works.In Annie's model (see Figure 1) the femur, tibia and foot are represented by pieces of wood.
The joints between the bones are hinges.
The quadriceps muscle is represented by a spring.
The patella is represented by a strip of metal, and the quadriceps tendon is represented by nylon guitar string.
As the angle of the knee joint is changed, the guitar tuning mechanism is used to adjust the tension on the "quadriceps" spring.
When the tension is at equilibrium, the joint will maintain its position.
If the tension is too low, the joint angle will increase (knee unbends).
If the tension is too high, the joint angle will decrease (knee bends more).Note: you may have noticed that the "patella" in Annie's model is not "floating" like the real one, and the real leg has more muscles than just the quadriceps.
However, the point of a model is to simplify the problem and to capture its essentials.
Figure 2.
Mechanical model of the knee joint constructed for this project.
The model has two main parts.
The first part is the supporting frame, which consists of a horizontal base and vertical supports.
The second part is the model knee, which consists of three separate pieces of wood (representing the femur, tibia/fibula, and foot).
The pieces are hinged together and attached to the frame via another block of wood (representing the hip) which can travel up and down along the vertical support.
A single spring represents the quadriceps muscle, and the quadriceps tendon is represented by a nylon guitar string.
The guitar string is attached to the spring at one end and to a guitar tuning mechanism at the other.
The tuning mechanism is used to adjust the tension on the spring.
(Lefley, 2007)So how does Hooke's Law comes in to this?
You can use your knowledge Hooke's Law to measure the relative force in the "quadriceps" spring as the angle of the knee is changed.
First you measure the length of the spring at rest.
Then, you set the angle of the knee, and use the guitar tuning mechanism to adjust the tension on the spring until you reach equilibrium (the joint is not moving one way or the other).
Measure the new length of the spring.
The difference between the spring's length under tension and its length at rest is the x from Hooke's Law.
It is important to note from Hooke's law that force is directly proportional to displacement.
So, you can still see the relative changes in force (i.e.
which knee angles cause higher or lower forces) without even knowing the spring's k value.
If you would actually like to calculate force instead of just measuring displacement, you will need to look up how to measure your spring's k value.
Refer to the Science Buddies project Applying Hooke's Law: Make Your Own Spring Scale to learn more about that process.
The goal of this project is to estimate the relative amount of strain put on the patellar tendon by various bending angles of the knee joint.
For a more basic experiment on the physics of springs, see the Science Buddies project Applying Hooke's Law: Make Your Own Spring Scale.
Advanced.
Can you use vectors to analyze the forces applied to the guitar string as the "knee" angle is varied?
See if you can come up with an equation to predict the force exerted on the guitar string at different angles.
Solve the equation for each of the angles used in your experiment, and graph the results with your data (use a different symbol and color).
How well does your equation agree with your experimental results?
Super advanced.
Maybe you're interested in a sport that involves the arms, like swinging a tennis racquet or pitching a baseball.
Do you think that you could come up with a model that would help you to estimate the forces exerted on the elbow in these sports?
Super advanced.
We said in the Introduction that the point of a model is to simplify a problem and to capture its essentials.
It is also a good idea to try to circle back and do a "reality check" on your results when you are done.
See if you can find a mentor for this project (a physician, physical therapist, or someone with a background in bioengineering) to help you with your analysis, and maybe even help to improve your model.
For example, would it make any difference to include a spring to model the lower leg muscles?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Lizard13 said:  2017-05-09 17:06:06 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned how hard the quadriceps work to get the knee to bend.
What problems did you encounter?
I encountered the problems of an unclear procedure; I had no idea where some things were supposed to be placed; the materials were very specific and the procedure was very vague.
Getting the guitar string to not snap was another problem.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I suggest that the procedure include measurements as to where things are supposed to go, as well as being less vague.
I also suggest that the picture of the project be more clear as to where things are supposed to go relative to each other.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    hkumah said:  2017-02-23 10:31:56 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned many things from doing this project.
For instance, I learned that Hook's Law measures the opposing force of a spring using the equation F=-KX.
I also learned how to attach hinges to various pieces and how to use a guitar tuning mechanism.
I also now have  some background on wood and woodworking skills.
What problems did you encounter?
One problem that was encountered was that the backboard was at first two small in width to allow the casters to fit, and then it was too big after we didi a new one.
Also, the leg pieces kept on breaking when we tried to attach the hinges so we had to increase the widths of the leg pieces and start all over.
Also, at one point the guitar string snaped and also, the drill did not work well on pieces of wood with smaller surface areas.Even though there was many setbacks and problems, at the end, the final design was a success.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
The procesure has to be more specific because when we were doing he experiment, it was more of a trial and error since we did not have proper procedures.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     SMADSQUAD said:  2016-10-31 18:32:10 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned a lot about the tendons in the leg with this project.
It has really motivated me to do more research in this field.
I feel like I learned a lot about the pains I get in my body that I didn't already know about.
Being a travel soccer player and always wanting to go into a medical field this project has really inspired me to pursue a path in the physical therapist field.
What problems did you encounter?
Some problems were encountered with finding all the parts(U channel/tube) the one that was supposed to hold the casters in place.
Some of the wood working was difficult(and I was working with a boy scout) Also it was difficult to get measurements with a different sized spring.
Most hardware stores won't be able to cut pieces as small as required so you will have to do it your self with a hand saw instead of an electrical saw.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I really liked the project, however there is definitely some room for improvement.
First I would recommend that you try to go to a doctor(Preferably a Physical therapist) and ask him or her to help you with the project and help you verify your results.
When completing an analysis of the project it would be a lot easier when you know how your data reflects to the real world.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    cbezold said:  2016-01-20 11:44:49 What was the most important thing you learned?
The deeper the knee bend, the more stress was caused to the patella of the knee.
What problems did you encounter?
Finding some of the materials.
Some of the wood dimensions were a bit hard to understand however I did figure them out in the end.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    GhostFoot19 said:  2014-12-24 15:38:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
How the angle of a knee bend affects the tension/stress on the quadricep tendon and muscle.
What problems did you encounter?
Problems with the model and some of the concepts were hard to understand Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Seriously, the plate representing the patella doesn't work!
It kept cutting into all my music strings and shaping them after two or three bends of the knee.
Me and my dad fixed it by using plates with a 90 degree angle with indents where the string could move smoothly.
It also would of helped if you explained more about Hooke's Law and how to calculate k. It's a confusing concept.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment     sideorder007 said:  2014-04-06 21:48:02 What was the most important thing you learned?
Hooke's Law cannont be applied to this project so it should be mention in any part of the project.
What problems did you encounter?
There is no way to determine Hooke's Law with this project.
You can not position the Knee in various position i.e.
15 30 45 90 degrees without the spring fatiguing at one of the angles.
Using the Guitar Tuner will not work.
You will go through a costly amount of spring purchases just to find the right one that will keep the knee stable in most positions.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Sorry but although the mechanical knee looks great to build it does not provide an accurate depiction of using Hooke's Law.
This project really should be taken out all together because you can't apply any of the laws without failure.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    nasooti said:  2013-08-31 12:36:51 What was the most important thing you learned?
biothecnology What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sarahto said:  2012-01-16 14:52:02 What was the most important thing you learned?
How much strain is put on the patellar tendon by various bending angles of the knee joint.
What problems did you encounter?
I could not figure out how to do Hooke's Law for my expirement Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Have more information about Hooke's Law and have an example of how to solve the equation.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
15                        4                Report Inappropriate Comment  Anatomy of the knee and leg: Femur Patella Tibia Fibula Quadriceps Tendon Ligament Physics of springs: Hooke's law, Spring constant Elastic limit
