 Pick a Card, Any Card  No matter what your favorite card game is, we all wish we could use psychic powers to draw the card we want on our turn.
You may not have psychic powers, but you might have the power of probability on your side.
In this science project, you will discover  how math can help you avoid the words, "Go fish!"
Each time you draw a card in a card game you have a certain chance at getting the card you need to beat your opponent and win the game.
Consider the game "Go Fish," being played with a regular deck of playing cards.
The object of the game is to win the most four-of-a-kind sets by asking your opponent for matching cards or by drawing matching cards from the deck.
At the end of the game, the player with the most sets of matched cards wins.
If you want to win the game, you need to increase your chances of getting matching cards, but how?By understanding how chance is related to math, you can learn to play with a winning strategy.
For example, what if you have three kings and one queen in your hand and it is your turn to ask for a card, which one should you ask your opponent for?
At first you might think that because you have more kings, you should ask for those, but it is actually better to ask for the queen!
Why?
Because you have a better chance of getting it!Here is how you can figure it out: There are only four of each kind of card in the deck, so there are four kings and four queens total.
If you have three kings in your hand, as shown in Figure 1 below, there is only one king left.
Since only one queen is in your hand, there are three queens left.
You have one chance to get a king, but three chances to get a queen out of the remaining cards.
That is why you have a better chance of getting the queen than the king if you ask for it.
Figure 1.
If you are playing "Go Fish" and have one queen and three kings in your hand, there are three queens and one king left in the deck or in your opponent's hand.At first this sounds very confusing, but the more you try it you will see how it works.
This strategy is based on something called probability, which is how mathematicians study how likely an event is.
There are many events that can be described by probability and math, especially in games we like to play.
The chance that you will draw a certain type of card in a game of "Go Fish", the chance that you will roll a six in "Chutes and Ladders," or the chance that you will spin green when playing "Twister" are all probabilities.The nice thing about a probability is that you can measure it by counting and using some very basic math, like addition and division.
In the example above, I knew that there were four kings in a deck of cards because I can count them.
I can use addition and subtraction to know how many I have left.
In this mathematics science project, you will measure the probability of drawing specific types of cards from a deck.
You will choose which cards to try for, and then measure your success at drawing the card.
Which cards will be the easiest to draw?
Which will be the most difficult?
Will your chances of drawing the card be related to how many of that type of card are in the deck?
How can probability help you choose the right strategy?
Test if the probability of drawing a particular type of card from a deck depends upon the number of that type of card in the deck.
A more advanced way of showing the results of your experiment would be to make histograms, which are a type of graph to show distributions.
They are especially useful for visualizing probabilities.
Try making a separate histogram for each type of card you tested.
Do this by graphing the number of cards drawn for each trial separately in a bar graph.
When all of the bars are lined up next to each other, what does the overall shape of the distribution look like?The probability of drawing a particular type of card also depends upon the number of cards drawn each time.
Try this science project again but this time see how your chances of drawing a particular card change as you draw more cards each time.
Try drawing samples of 3 cards, 5 cards, or 7 cards.
Do your chances improve as more cards are taken?Probabilities also change as cards are removed from or added to the deck.
Try this science project again, but this time remove cards from the deck before your experiment.
Try using two decks of cards combined together.
Does your data change?
Why or why not?
Try removing select cards from the deck, like taking out half of the red or black cards, before doing the experiment.
Will this change your chances?
What if you left the Jokers in the deck?
How would this change your results?Probabilities can change your strategies for playing a card game.
Can you do an experiment to show how probabilities can help you choose cards when playing "Go Fish"?
What about other popular cards games like War, Memory, or Solitaire?
Can you develop rules for a winning strategy?
Can you invent your own card game based on probabilities?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  seharrison said:  2013-05-03 09:35:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
Sometimes its the luck of the draw!
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
My son did this for his science fair project and the Scientists told him it wasn't a science project but a math project only.
He was upset about this.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science project, random, probability, strategy, cards, playing cards, odds, fun games, games for kids Chance Strategy Probability
