 How Do Roots Grow When the Direction of Gravity Changes?
You might not know it, but plants are able to sense their environment and actually respond appropriately.
One of the key parameters that every plant must respond to is the direction of gravity: stems go up (opposite to the pull of gravity) and roots go down (in the same direction as the force of gravity).
In this project, you will construct simple devices that hold several germinating seeds, which allow you to watch how growing rootlets respond as you rotate the devices, effectively altering the direction of gravity.
Geotropism (also called gravitropism) is the directional growth of an organism in response to gravity.
Roots display positive geotropism when they grow downward, while shoots display negative geotropism  when they grow upward.
Among the first scientists to study geotropism was Charles Darwin, who, along  with his son Francis, published The Power of Movement in Plants in 1880.
Despite a long history of  studying this subject, there are many questions about how geotropism actually works.
Watch this  time-lapse video to see a corn seedling root display geotropism.
This time-lapse video  shows a corn seedling root bend down in response to gravity.The process can be broken down into three phases: perception, transduction, and response.
Perception is the sensing of environmental stimuli.
Perception allows organisms to gain information about properties and elements of the environment that are critical to their survival.
The perception of gravity by root tips is thought to be mediated by special cells called statocytes (see Figure 1).
These cells contain small bodies that sink to the bottom of the cells in response to gravity.
The term for this type of body is statolith.
This perception process that takes place in the statocyte is essentially the same as dropping a rock to determine which way is down.
The statocyte cell senses where the statolith touches inside the cell; now it "knows" which way is down.The next step is for the statocyte to communicate this information to other parts of the root.
The goal is to tell the part of the root that is growing which direction to go.
To do this, it has to convert the signal generated by the falling statolith into a chemical signal.
The term used for converting information from one form to another is transduction.
The process of signal transduction is very important in biology.
For example, your eyes transduce light energy into electrical signals that are sent to the brain for processing, which allow you to see your environment.
In the case of the statocyte, the signal from physical contact of the statolith is "transduced" into a chemical signal that is able to communicate with other cells.The final step is the response of the growing cells to the signal indicating which way is down.
Signal transduction from the statocytes to the root-tip cells results in a specific response: growth in the direction of the gravitational field.
Molecular genetics, fine-laser ablation (this destroys very specific regions of the root to see how this affects growth), and zero-gravity environment experiments are some of the tools that are used to tease out the molecular mechanism by which plants sense and respond to gravity.
Figure 1.
This diagram of a plant root illustrates the regions of gravity perception.
Within the root cap at the apex (red), some cells develop into the gravity-sensing cells called statocytes (yellow).
These cells contain statoliths (small white dots) that move in response to the direction of the gravity (toward the bottom).
(Drawing by David Whyte, 2008).In this science project, you will be watching and recording three sets of seeds to see how the growing root tips respond to the change in the direction of gravity.
The first set will be germinated while held vertically between two plastic panes.
The second set will be germinated between horizontal plastic panes, so the roots will be blocked from growing in the same direction as the gravitational field.
The last set will be rotated 90 degrees to observe how quickly the roots respond to the change in direction of gravity (this could be every day, or at longer intervals, depending on how fast the root tips are growing).
In this science project, you will study how growing rootlets respond to gravity.
Investigate how rotating the seeds 180 degrees for various times affects root-tip growth.
Make five sandwiches with germinated roots.
Keep #1 vertical for the length of the experiment.
Rotate plates #2#5 by 180 degrees (so that the root tips are pointing up) for various periods of time each day.
During this trial time, the direction of gravity relative to the direction of root-tip growth is reversed.
After this period of "upside-down" growth, rotate the panes again so that the root tips are once more pointing downward.
Try this for several different time intervals.
For example, 10 minutes, 1 hour, and 6 hours per day.
Make a seed sandwich in which the seeds are germinated while held at a 45-degree angle to the vertical.
Use four plastic triangles,    90 x 45 x 45, and the modeling clay to hold the seeds at 45 degrees.
Question: does reducing the angle from 90 degrees increase the "scatter" in the data for the direction of growth?
Why or why not?
Try other angles and graph the scatter for each angle.
A simple measure of scatter might be the number of roots growing at 30 degrees or more, away from the vertical.
Graph the results of your experiments on polar graph paper.
(Polar graph paper can be downloaded here).
Figure 4 below shows the length and direction for three roots, taken at three different times.
What trends do your graphs demonstrate?
Figure 4.
Polar graph of rootlet growth.
(Drawing by David Whyte, 2008).
Perform the experiment so that one set of seeds is protected from light and the other is exposed to light.
Does the light affect your results?
You might try to use a scanner to record the positions of the root hairs.
Be very careful not to break the glass or cause any water damage to the scanner.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Lorne4th said:  2016-05-06 13:36:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing What problems did you encounter?
Nothing Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Nothing Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Demigod315 said:  2015-02-05 17:08:26 What was the most important thing you learned?
i learned that science is much bigger than i thought.
What problems did you encounter?
It was so hard to find thyme seeds I had to choose radish seeds.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    ericchiu199 said:  2013-03-07 19:27:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
i learned how the roots follow the gravity pushing down.
What problems did you encounter?
some of my plants died for some reason.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
2                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    searent said:  2012-02-14 21:07:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
how the roots grew with gravity What problems did you encounter?
i almost snapped the roots in half Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
well,you could try to plant a apple tree in a bag.
it would give surprising results.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
22                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    JESS3728 said:  2011-12-04 20:25:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
direction of gravity What problems did you encounter?
hard as fudge Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes make it eaiser please inclede graphs!!!!!
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
22                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment    Friskie297 said:  2011-11-26 10:04:02 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that plants grow better on their sides.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
8                        16                Report Inappropriate Comment    Nostalgia4 said:  2011-09-05 21:53:04 What was the most important thing you learned?
I think people assume that plant roots will grow the opposite way the plant is growing.
But I learned that that wasn't actually true.
Gravity affects the plants and they will grow downward no matter what.
What problems did you encounter?
The roots didn't grow out for a long time (more than the estimated period).
I thought I had to do it again, but it sprouted roots soon after that.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
27                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    dyami said:  2011-02-28 03:07:48 What was the most important thing you learned?
doing something useful is difficult but ejoyable What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        6                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, plant tropism, gravitropism, geotropism, germinate, gravity, plant biology, seed sandwich, seed Geotropism Statocyte Statolith Signal transduction Stimulus perception Cellular response
