 Acid Rain and Aquatic Life  Chemicals from Earth's atmosphere are making their way down to the planet!
Not in spaceships, but in rain.
The acid rain can infiltrate ground water, lakes, and streams.
How does acid rain affect aquatic ecosystems?
Acid rain occurs when pollution in the atmosphere (sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide) is chemically changed and absorbed by water droplets in clouds.
When there is precipitation, the droplets fall to earth as rain, snow, or sleet.
The polluting chemicals in the water droplets form an acid by combining with the hydrogen and oxygen in the water.
These acidic droplets can increase the acidity of the soil and affect the chemical balance of lakes and streams.
"Acid rain is a serious environmental problem that affects large parts of the US and Canada."
(EPA, 2006) Acid rain accelerates weathering in carbonate rocks and accelerates building weathering.
It also contributes to acidification of rivers, streams, and forest damage at high elevations (Wikipedia contributors, 2006).
What is an acid?
An acidic solution will donate hydrogen ions and usually taste sour, like lemon juice.
Acids are the opposite of bases, which accept hydrogen ions and usually feel slippery, like soapy water.
How do you tell if something is an acid or a base?
You use a chemical called an indicator, which changes in color when it goes from an acidic to basic solution.
Indicators can be extracted from plant pigments, like red cabbage.
If you want to learn how to make your own acid indicator, read the Science Buddies experiment Cabbage Chemistry.
In this experiment you will use an indicator that is concentrated on little strips of paper called "pH test strips".
The color of the paper will indicate the pH of the solution you are measuring.
The pH of a solution is a numerical measure of how basic or acidic it is.
pH 7 is a neutral pH, and solutions become more acidic as the pH decreases, and more basic as the pH increases.
Each one unit change in pH is a 10-fold change in the number of hydrogen ions in solution.
Your pH test strips will come with a color chart that you can use to measure the pH of your solutions.
This will give you a measurement of the acidity of your aquatic environments.
To find out more about the pH scale, you can check out the Science Buddies resource Acids, Bases, & the pH Scale.In this science project, you will test the effects of acid rain on a simple aquatic environment, consisting of small aquatic organisms, specifically some plants and snails.
The effect of possibly toxic chemicals on organisms is called environmental toxicity.
You will use household vinegar to create different solutions of various acidities.
You will then observe the organisms in the experimental environment to determine the effects of acidic conditions on viability.
To measure viability, you will count the number of living and non-living organisms in each experimental environment over time.
Test the effects of acidic water conditions on a simple aquatic environment containing animals and plants.
Another way to test the effect of acid rain on plants is to germinate seeds in acidic conditions.
Try using your solutions to wet a paper towel in a baggie, sprinkle in some seeds, and place in a sunny window to see how many will sprout.
You could try repeating this experiment but use other aquatic organisms, such as Daphnia magna, Elodea plants, live Tubifex worms, algae (like Spirulina), or even some small, inexpensive fish, like minnows, feeder fish, goldfish.
Some of these may be available from aquarium supply stores or ponds, or you may purchase them through online suppliers such as Carolina Biological.
You can also try watering a series of plants with neutral and acidic water.
How well will plants grow when watered with "acid rain" compared to neutral water?
Try these other Science Buddies experiments to test the effects of toxins on aquatic environments:     Heavy Metal    Something's Fishy About That Fertilizer    Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Justain said:  2016-08-24 10:22:35 What was the most important thing you learned?
Rain contains acid What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    mlee4962 said:  2014-09-11 17:51:41 What was the most important thing you learned?
Acid rain is not good for the environment and could be vary harmful instead What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, aquatic, algae, pH, plants, worms, environment, acid rain, rainwater Acid rain Acids Bases pH Aquatic environments Aquatic organisms Environmental toxicity Viability
