 Molecular Scissors  Ever used a pair of molecular scissors?
Restriction enzymes are molecular scissors that cut DNA into pieces.
Find out which enzymes will cut, and where by making a restriction map.
Then you can figure out what will happen if you change the sequence of the DNA.
Will the same enzymes still cut the new DNA sequence?
All living things come with a set of instructions stored in their DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid.
Whether you are a human, rat, tomato, or bacteria, each cell will have DNA inside of it.
DNA is the blueprint for everything that happens inside the cell of an organism, and each cell has an entire copy of the same set of instructions.
The entire set of instructions is called the genome and the information is stored in a code of nucleotides (A, T, C, and G) called bases.
Here is an example of a DNA sequence that is 12 base pairs long:  Notice that this piece of DNA has two sequences: one on the top and one on the bottom.
DNA is double stranded, which means that it has two strands.
The nucleotides of each of these strands are paired together in a particular way to match the other strand: A pairs with T and C pairs with G. If a nucleotide is paired according to these rules, it is called a match.
But if the nucleotide is not paired properly, then it is called a mismatch.
The information stored in the DNA is coded into sets of nucleotide sequences called genes.
Each gene is a set of instructions for making a specific protein.
The protein has a certain job to do, called a function.
Since different cells in your body have different jobs to do, many of the genes will be turned on in some cells, but not others.
For example, some genes code for proteins specific to your blood cells, like hemoglobin.
Other genes code for proteins specific to your pancreas, like insulin.
Even though different genes are turned on in different cells, your cells and organs all work together in a coordinated way so that your body can function properly.
What if there is something wrong with one of your genes?
This can cause problems for your body and how it functions.
For example, people who have type I diabetes have problems making insulin.
To help people with diabetes, scientists figured out a way to make insulin that diabetics can inject into their body.
The insulin is made by a bacteria that has the human gene for insulin.
For scientists to study a gene, they need to be able to isolate it.
The simplest way to isolate a gene is to cut it out and clone the gene into a small piece of bacterial DNA called a plasmid.
How do you cut out a piece of DNA?
A restriction enzyme is a protein that acts like a pair of molecular scissors to cut a DNA strand.
The enzyme recognizes a certain DNA sequence where it will cut the DNA apart.
Here is an example of a restriction enzyme called EcoRI that cuts DNA at a particular sequence, creating sticky ends:  (Image from Biotechnology Online, 2007)Once the DNA is cut apart, it can be put back together in different ways.
For example, the gene for human insulin can be cut out and then recombined with the DNA of a bacteria.
Then the bacteria can grow and make human insulin for people who need it to manage their diabetes.
Cutting DNA apart using restriction enzymes is a very important step in the discovery and manufacturing of genes that become important pharmaceuticals, like the insulin gene.
In this experiment, you will investigate how restriction enzymes recognize different DNA sequences.
You will use a computer program to generate random pieces of DNA sequence.
Then you will use another program to test your sequence and look for restriction enzymes that will cut it (often called cutters).
By comparing which restriction enzymes cut each unique DNA sequence, you can determine if changing the DNA sequence will change the restriction enzymes that cut it.
If the DNA sequence does not affect the restriction enzyme that cuts it, then the different DNA sequences will have a lot of cutters in common.
If the DNA sequence does affect the restriction enzyme that cuts it, then the different DNA sequences will have more unique cutters than common cutters.
In this experiment you will determine if cutting a piece of DNA with a restriction enzyme depends upon the sequence of the DNA.
Instead of generating a brand new random sequence each time, you can also make changes to the DNA sequence yourself.
You can make subtle changes, or dramatic changes.
You can try to add or change restriction enzyme sites.
How will these kinds of changes affect your restriction map?
You can test whether the length of the DNA will change the number of restriction enzymes that cut it.
Just change the size of DNA in bp in step one from 20 bp to test a series of DNA sizes.
Try 20 bp, 40 bp, 60 bp, and 100 bp.
Which has more cutters, long sequences or short sequences?
Some enzymes cut in the same place as other enzymes.
By looking at the sequence of the cut site, can you explain why?
Try comparing the cut site of restriction enzymes that cut in the same places as other restriction enzymes.
What do you see?
Sometimes, two restriction enzymes leave ends that can stick together.
These are called sticky ends, and will match up to another piece of DNA with matching ends.
Can you figure out how to use this experiment to generate different pieces of DNA and then put them together?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, science project, biotechnology project, biochemistry project, computer project, DNA sequences, online programs, restriction enzymes, molecular, DNA, enzyme Biotechnology DNA Nucleotide (A, T, C, G) Sequence Strand Genome Gene Restriction enzyme
