 Take a Musical Step Back in Time: Make Your Own Phonograph from Everyday Items  Don't you just love listening to music?
In the 1980s, people listened to music on the Sony Walkman.
Now, people listen to their favorite tunes on MP3 players and on their Apple iPhones.
But listening to music on devices actually started in the late 1800s and early 1900s.
In those days, people would gather around their phonograph to listen to their favorite tunespeople were just as amazed with the phonograph as you would be to handle an iPhone.
In this physics science fair project, you will make a simple pickup and stylus and see if you can play back music from a vinyl record album, investigating different membrane materials and pickup shapes.
Everybody loves listening to musicfrom rock to classical to punk, everybody has a style of music that appeals to them.
Different people like different music.
What is not different about people is how we listen to music.
We use CD players, MP3 players, and even telephones to listen to music.
The kind of media that is used in these devices is digital.
This means that the sound is represented by ones and zeroes.
But this is a relatively new way to represent sound.
From the early 20th century until the early 1980s, music was provided to listeners on plastic (vinyl) discs, called record albums or on a cassette tape.
These forms are an analog method of listening to music and sound.
People would rush out to purchase their favorite music on a record album, put it on their record players and waltz, boogie, and disco the night away.But when was the beginning of listening to recorded music?
In 1857, Edouard-Leon Scot de Martinville devised and patented a phonoautograph.
This machine could record sound, but could not play the sound back.
In 1877, French scientist Christopher Cros developed the theory of phonography.
He described how to record and to play back, but was not able to actually build a working model.
At around the same time, in the year 1877, Thomas Alva Edison was working on a system that would transcribe telegraphic messages through indentations on paper tape.
He noticed that when he ran a needle over the indentations, running at a high enough speed, he could hear sounds.
This gave him the idea to make a machine that would record sounds by making indentations in a material with a needle and playing back the sound by running the needle over the indentations.
He called his machine the phonograph.
Edison experimented with a diaphragm, which had an embossing point held against a metal cylinder, wrapped with tin foil.
In 1878, Edison established the Edison Speaking Phonograph Company to handle selling his invention.
He saw his initial invention as a tool that could be used to help with the recording of important business meetings, and a way to preserve languages.
The original phonograph had two needles or styluses; one for recording and one for playback.
When you spoke into the mouthpiece (or horn), the sound vibrations from your voice would make the diaphragm vibrate and the stylus connected to the diaphragm would make a groove in the foil-covered cylinder as it rotated.
The stylus would also move up and down, making indentations in the groove, as it vibrated, due to the sound vibrations.
To play back the sound, the second stylus was aligned with the groove in the cylinder and the cylinder rotated.
The stylus' up-and-down motion due to the indentations in the groove would cause the diaphragm to vibrate.
The vibrations in the diaphragm set the particles of air around in vibrational motion.
Eventually, the vibrating particles hit the eardrums in our ears and convert the vibrations into sound.
The vibrations from the phonograph's diaphragm are amplified by the horn so that we can better hear the sound.In this physics science fair project, you will experiment with playing back sound from a vinyl record.
You will investigate different diaphragm materials, along with different shapes of amplifiers.
Remember that just as Thomas Edison said, "Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration," so get to work!
Figure 1.
Thomas Alva Edison seated with his invention, the phonograph.
(Courtesy of The Library of Congress.)
To investigate whether simple materials can be put together to play back sound from a vinyl record album, and to determine which materials produce the best sound.
Try some of the other cans that you found.
Compare the loudness and clarity that you get from them with the different membranes.Try different sizes of needles.
Does the size of the needle affect the sound you hear?Try to record the impression of sound.
Instead of a needle, attach a ballpoint pen to the diaphragm and speak into the amplifier.
Hold the pen against a rotating piece of cardboard.
Can you see the vibrations of your voice?
How does the speed of the turntable or the lazy Susan affect the vibrations?Expand on the previous variation and try recording sound.
The PBS.org reference in the Bibliography gives details on how to record sound.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  eneadodi98 said:  2016-02-28 22:22:31 What was the most important thing you learned?
tin foil is awesome What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Dragon_Flier said:  2015-03-28 13:37:29 What was the most important thing you learned?
nothing.
What problems did you encounter?
tons of them.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
lots.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    DSalgado112113 said:  2013-11-22 12:46:03 What was the most important thing you learned?
that it was fun What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sciencegirl33101 said:  2012-03-24 13:13:04 What was the most important thing you learned?
THfunnel makes the best sound What problems did you encounter?
NONE!!!!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
angle the can o the right to get a better sound.
also think 1 spin per 2 seconds.
USMASKING TAPNOSCOTCH Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
19                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    clarabear08 said:  2011-10-29 21:33:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
A turntable is important in doing this experiment, availibility is low so a garage sale will have one.
Also, thrift stores will have cheap records.
I have learned that Thomas Edison went through a lot of trouble making the phonograph.
What problems did you encounter?
When trying to use a lazy suzan, the record would not spin at a consistent speed.
It took 2 days of non-stop calling to recieve a turntable.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Suggest availibility on where to get a turntable.
It is harder to find a turntable than a record.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
21                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    janet41 said:  2011-04-03 18:32:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
My daughter did this project-- she had a lot of fun building the turntable out of motorized K'nex, and testing different designs.
She gathered tons of data, using panels of 11 listeners, and testing 8 different designs for the cans and the membranes.
First she tested shapes of cans and funnels, holding the membrane constant.
Then she took the best design from that test (a funnel) and tested different membranes (latex, foil, plastic tape).
She had lots of charts, beautiful board, etc, and was very proud.
What problems did you encounter?
The judge said that because she held the cans in her hand, the pressure on the record and the angle of the needle were not controlled, resulting in poor use and understanding of the scientific method.
She was devastated when she got her critique sheets and her hours of work were not rewarded.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
You need to lower the grade level on this project to K through 4.
The project simply is not technical enough to take to a competitive science fair at the 7th grade level.
She was way out of her league.I'm rating the project poor because this simply did not stack up for the competition.
If I were rating it on "fun and educational" it would be very good or excellent.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
12                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    bellafree8 said:  2011-03-07 19:57:02 What was the most important thing you learned?
The most important thing I learned is that different structures vibrates differently.
What problems did you encounter?
One problem I had was that the needle allways pokes holes in the diaphragm.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
6                        2                Report Inappropriate Comment Physics science fair project, phonograph, Thomas Alva Edison, sound recording, sound playback, vinyl record, record album Digital Analog Phonograph Diaphragm (acoustics) Vibration Amplification
