 Focusing Your Flash for 'Freezing' Motion  Here's an interesting flash photography project.
With an inexpensive Fresnel lens, you can concentrate the light from your flash.
You'll be able to shoot with a smaller aperture and a shorter flash duration.
This will give you greater depth of focus and will allow you to 'freeze' motion at higher speeds.
The trade-off is that the light will be concentrated toward the center of the frame.
This project shows you how you can investigate that trade-off and find out how you can best use your flash for 'freezing' motion.
Figure 1.
A Fresnel lens flash focuser (Wayne Schmidt)Electronic flashes for cameras use a xenon flashlamp to create a brief, brilliant illumination of your subject.
Because the duration of the flash is so brief (perhaps as short as 1/31,000 of a second at the lowest manual power setting), the flash can 'freeze' motion.
Sometimes, though, using the lowest power setting may require you to open up the lens aperture too much, limiting the depth of focus of your shot more than you would like.For example, consider the problem of trying to capture a hummingbird in flight on film: "Shooting hummingbirds is tough.
To stop their wings takes a flash duration of 1/12,000 of a second or less.
When you're very close to them and stopped down to F18 to get enough depth of field for the entire bird to be in focus, you need all the light you can get.
Unfortunately, even zoomed out to their maximum focal length flashes have typical beam spreads of 45 degrees.
That means the light you want focused on a onesquare foot area is being spread over 50 or 60square feet.
Your only options are to push the ISO up (which causes graininess and red artifacts), open the aperture (reducing the depth or field), or slow the flash down to get enough light for a proper exposure (which gives you blurred wings.)
Fortunately, there's a cheap and easy solution: a beam focuser."
(Schmidt, date unknown)The inverse square law describes the geometrical fact that light intensity decreases as the square of the distance from the source (Figure2).
Figure 2.
The diagram illustrates the inverse square law.
As light from a point source radiates out into space, the area illuminated increases as the square of the distance and the intensity of the light decreases as the square of the distance.
By focusing the light into a smaller area, the flash extender will allow you to take photographs with smaller apertures and shorter flash durations.
The drawback is that the light will be concentrated towards the center of the frame The focus extender is not a good idea for lighting group photos, for example.In this project, you will build a flash focus extender to concentrate the light from your flash into a smaller area.
You'll take photographs over a range of apertures and flash durations to test how well the focus extender illuminates an object at the center of the camera's field of view.
The goal of this project is to build and test a flash extender for a camera's flash attachment using a Fresnel lens.
How far will you be able to extend the range of your flash?
In the experiment described above, the flash-to-subject distance was held constant, and the lens aperture was varied.
Repeat the experiment at various flash-to-subject distances to determine the range over which the flash extender will work.
For another experiment on light intensity and the inverse square law, see the Science Buddies project How does the Intensity of Light Change with Distance?.
Since the materials for making a flash extender are inexpensive and readily available, you could make several, using Fresnel lenses of different sizes.
How is the size of the lens related to the factor by which flash range is extended?
How is the power of the lens related to the factor by which flash range is extended?
How is the size of the lens related to the optimal position from the flash?
If you have or can borrow a flash meter you could make quantitative measurements of the flash intensity at various distances with and without the focuser.
Use a moving test object for your photographs.
One idea  would be to shoot pictures of a propeller attached to the shaft of a battery-powered DC motor.
You could use a potentiometer to control the speed of rotation.
Can you 'freeze' the propeller motion at higher speeds with the flash focuser?
See the Science Buddies project Measuring Vibrational Frequency with Light for a method you could use to measure the rotational speed of the propeller.
What percentage of the field of view is adequately illuminated when using the flash focus extender?
Design an  experiment to find out.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
inverse square law, Fresnel lens, lens aperture, depth of field, shutter speed.
