 Mapping Troposphere Ozone Levels Over Time  Ozone in the stratosphere protects the earth by absorbing harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun.
However, when ozone occurs in the troposphere, i.e., the air that we breathe, it is harmful to health.
In this project you can use data from EPA monitoring stations to analyze the weather/climate conditions that can lead to harmful ozone levels.
Ozone (chemical formula: O3) occurs naturally in the upper atmosphere (stratosphere).
It absorbs potentially harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun that would otherwise reach the earth's surface.
Ozone in the stratosphere thus serves a protective function for life on earth.In the lower atmosphere (troposphere) ozone is produced by chemical reactions from nitrogen oxides (NOx, chemical compounds with various ratios of nitrogen and oxygen) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
A compound is said to be "volatile" if it evaporates readily at normal outside temperatures.
Both heat and sunlight are also required for the chemical reactions that produce ozone.
Nitrogen oxides are produced in exhaust from factories, power plants, cars, and trucks.
Chemical solvents and gasoline vapors are major sources for volatile organic compounds in the atmosphere (AIRNow, 2007a).Ozone is a highly reactive form of oxygen.
The oxygen that we use for respiration (chemical formula: O2) is less reactive.
Ozone can more readily form compounds with an unpaired electron in the outermost shell.
These compounds, called free radicals, can cause chain reactions that cause indiscriminate damage to molecules in cells.
Virtually any large molecule in the cellproteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and DNAcan be damaged by free radicals.
Enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutases, and glutathione peroxidases) and anti-oxidant molecules from the diet (e.g., vitamins C and E) act as free radical scavengers, and protect cells from damage caused by free radicals.Since ozone formation in the troposphere requires heat and sunlight, ozone levels are more likely to rise when the temperature is high.
However, other conditions, such as an increase in the pollutants from which ozone is formed, can also lead to ozone elevation.
In this project, you can use map data from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other government agencies (AIRNow, 2007c) to track ozone levels in your area under different seasonal conditions to find out when ozone levels are most likely to be elevated.
The goal of this project is to investigate ozone levels over time using archived data for the United States from the AIRNow website.
Are there seasonal variations in ozone concentrations?
For example, you could compare ozone levels in winter months vs. summer months.
Sometimes the local climate can vary markedly within a small geographic area.
For example, in the San Francisco Bay Area (see the map, above) there are dozens of local microclimates.
You have the Pacific Ocean, the San Francisco Bay, and coastal mountain ranges all in close proximity.
The air tends to be cooler near the ocean and the bay, and rises rapidly in summer months as you move inland.
What effect(s) do you see in your area that may be attributable to local variations in elevation and/or bodies of water?
Do research on the sources of pollutants that form tropospheric ozone: nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds.
Are ozone precursors produced in higher amounts on weekdays vs. weekends?
Compare weekend data with weekday data to see if you can find consistent differences in ozone levels.Explore More!Looking for more big data science projects?Explore the World of Big Data with Your Science Project!
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  samanthah said:  2013-04-13 03:51:37 What was the most important thing you learned?
There are so many ways to do something, and my partner and I created our own variables and hypothesis to go with this project idea.
What problems did you encounter?
We compared the ozone concentration and magnitude of two years (2011 and 2012) for three cities (Phoenix, Houston, Las Vegas).
This proved extremely tedious and the data became confusing as we had temperature as a variable, and surface area coverage etc.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
To measure the ozone, grid each map (day of month) so that you have 16 blocks in each.
Count the blocks that are full or more than half full of the color you are measuring (yellow/orange/red).
This proved to be the easiest method.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment  Ozone Nitrogen oxides (NO Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Troposphere Stratosphere Electron Electron shells Free radical Parts per billion (ppb) Air Quality Index (AQI)
