 Make Your Own Low-Power AM Radio Transmitter  Have you ever wondered how an AM radio station works?
In this project you will learn the basics of how your favorite songs are transmitted by a radio station, by building your own simple AM radio transmitter.
You will learn the basics of how a transmitter works, and how you are able to tune to your favorite station and listen to music.
Electromagnetic radiation is all around us.
For example, light is electromagnetic radiation and so are x-rays.
When you listen to an AM or FM radio station, the sound that you hear is transmitted to your radio by the station using electromagnetic radiation as a carrierradio waves.
Electromagnetic radiation is a propagating wave in space with electric and magnetic components.
In a vacuum, electromagnetic waves travel at the speed of light.Electromagnetic waves such as light, x-rays, and radio waves are classified by their frequency or wavelength.
For example, electromagnetic radiation at frequencies between about 430 terahertz (THz) and 750 THz can be detected by the human eye and are perceived as light.
Electromagnetic radiation at frequencies ranging from 3 hertz (Hz) to 300 gigahertz (GHz)  are classified as radio waves.
Radio waves are divided into many sub-classifications based on frequency.
AM radio signals are carried by medium frequency (MF) radio waves (530 to 1710 kilohertz (kHz) in North America, 530 to 1610 kHz elsewhere), and FM radio signals are carried by very high frequency (VHF) radio waves (88 to 108 megahertz (MHz)).So how does a radio wave carry sounds such as voice or music to your radio receiver?
The radio station broadcasts a carrier wave at the station's assigned frequency.
The carrier wave is modulated (varied) in direct proportion to the signal (e.g., voice or music) that is to be transmitted.
The modulation can change either the amplitude or the frequency of the carrier wave.
The "AM" in AM radio stands for "amplitude modulation," and the "FM" in FM radio stands for "frequency modulation."
A radio receiver removes the carrier wave and restores the original signal (the voice or music).
Figure 1 shows graphically how amplitude modulation works.Figure 1.
Illustration of amplitude modulation of a carrier wave by a signal.
The top diagram shows a carrier wave at a set frequency and amplitude (green) and a signal to be broadcast (red).
The signal is used to modulate the amplitude of the carrier wave.
The bottom diagram shows the resulting output signal (blue).
Note how the peaks of the output trace (its envelope) follow the form of the input signal.
(Wikipedia contributors, 2006a)In this project, you will make a simple low-power broadcast circuit, using a crystal oscillator integrated circuit and an audio transformer.
You can connect the circuit to the headphone jack of a portable music player (e.g.
mp3, CD or cassette tape player).
You'll see that you can receive the signal through the air with an AM radio receiver.
Although the circuits used in radio stations for AM broadcasting are far more complicated, this nevertheless gives a basic idea of the concept behind a broadcast transmitter.
Plus it is a lot of fun when you actually have it working!
Before we get into the step-by-step instructions for building the circuit, we'll first go over the circuit design.
Figure 2 shows the connections you need to make to build the circuit.
The transformer isolates the music player from the rest of the circuit, couples the music player and the crystal oscillator, and "steps up" the signal voltage  from the music player in proportion to the ratio of 1k to 8.
The stepped up signal from the secondary coil of the transformer modulates the power to the oscillator chip (+ power at pin 14 and - power at pin 7).
A wire connected to the oscillator output (pin 8) serves as the antenna for broadcasting the amplitude-modulated radio wave.Figure 2.
Simple AM transmitter circuit diagram.
Note: the pins of the crystal oscillator are numbered according to standard positions for a 14-pin integrated circuit.
To do this project, you will need to know how to use a solderless breadboard.
If you have never used a breadboard before you may want to take a look at the Science Buddies reference How to Use a Breadboard before you start this science project.
The goal of this project is to build a simple AM radio transmitter and to test its broadcast range with a radio receiver.
Try receiving the signal from your AM transmitter with a crystal radio that you build yourself.
You can explore how the relative placement of the receiving and transmitting antennas affects signal strength at the receiver.
To see how to build a crystal radio receiver, see the Science Buddies project Build Your Own Crystal Radio.
Try using a 9 V transistor radio battery instead of 4 AA batteries.
What differences do you notice in the signal?
Advanced.
If you have access to oscilloscope in school, try to see the signals coming out from the antenna with your music device turned OFF and then ON.
Also connect the +6V of the battery directly to the oscillator bypassing the transformer and look at the signal.
What difference or similarities do you see between these three signals?
Advanced.
This is an extremely rudimentary transmitter and therefore the sound quality is not going to be good.
However, you could add more blocks to the present circuit and make improvements.
What could you possibly add to the present circuit so that you are able move your antenna further away from your radio and still hear the music?
For a slightly more complex circuit, try the following link: Bowden, B., 2006.
"Micro Power AM Broadcast Transmitter," Bowden's Hobby Circuits, retrieved August 1, 2011 from  http://www.bowdenshobbycircuits.info/page6.htm#amtrans.gif.
How does this circuit compare to the simpler one in the project?
How does the broadcast range compare?
Can you relate the difference in performance to the difference in the circuits?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  codernut said:  2015-11-29 19:26:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
how radio waves work What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
a way to improve the sound quality Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    denkhbaatar1 said:  2014-12-04 22:42:41 What was the most important thing you learned?
That it does NOwork.
What problems did you encounter?
It didn't work.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
A lot.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Less   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    SJJhs1230 said:  2014-03-24 14:31:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
that it does not work What problems did you encounter?
It din't work.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    starlearner said:  2011-11-22 21:22:57 What was the most important thing you learned?
Always wear goggles What problems did you encounter?
the battery exploded in my eye Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
6                        13                Report Inappropriate Comment    Jonny464 said:  2011-06-07 00:45:41 What was the most important thing you learned?
It helped me alot on electromagnetic waves What problems did you encounter?
the antenna did not work Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
the antenna needs to be kind of like a spring Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
17                        4                Report Inappropriate Comment    nsrathjen said:  2011-04-19 09:43:07 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned a bit about how radio works.
I don't think this project is as difficult as a 9-difficulty high school project should be.
What problems did you encounter?
If I was an average student who was building a circuit for the first time, I would be tearing my hair out.
The article is misleading in spots.
With the exception of the transformer, all of the parts can be bought through Mouser.
They run a great business -- their parts tend to be fresh from the factory and of much higher quality, whereas RatShack sends you made-in-China leftovers from 5 years ago as they're trying to divest themselves of all the hobbyist items.
Mouser's made me a customer for life, but if I was going purely by the parts list in the article, I would never know that they sell so many parts other than oscillators.Second, a transformer DOES NOamplify the signal from the audio player.
It is reprehensible that someone who claims to be working for AMD would make that kind of basic mistake.
Please don't let Mr Subba near a Science Buddies article again unless he actually knows what he is talking about.
Transformers merely connect one circuit to another and change impedance.
Electrical energy from the iPod circuit runs through the transformer's primary coil, which creates a magnetic field, which -- since something is connected to the other end -- causes electricity to flow "through" the transformer.
The voltage on the other side of the transformer is a lot higher because resistance is a lot higher.
I hope no student has been bitten by trying to use the "amplified" explanation in the project.Also, at no time in the article is it described how to connect the phone plug to the transformer.
The transformer's black wire connects to the longer bottom terminal (with the two "wings" attached) while the red one connects the other one (on my plug it's a smaller paddle-shaped thing, while the RatShack plugs have only a very small tube jutting outwards).
Each terminal has small holes to aid in soldering.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Bill Bowden's website has changed: http://bowdenshobbycircuits.infoI created a project at Mouser that could assist someone at finding the parts: https://www.mouser.com/ProjectManager/ProjectDetail.aspx?AccessID=f37b27bbfdIncluded in that list is a 7373 kHz oscillator.
If a student trying this project has or knows someone who has a shortwave radio, trying the shortwave band can be a lot of fun.
Using an 18-inch length of copper wire for an antenna, my transmitter covered the entire house with a signal-to-noise ratio of 20 dB or greater; comparable to the signal strength of commercial AM stations in my area.The range of this transmitter in the commercial mediumwave band, however, is only a few inches, and I live in an area where both 1000 and 1230 kHz are open.
It can be increased slightly by using a 9 V battery, further by using a longer antenna (ideally around 75 metres, though an appreciable difference can be seen well before that length) and even further by connecting the antenna to a good ground: either the actual ground, a cold water pipe, or a heating duct.Bottom line -- the project itself is interesting but the article does not seem to be written by someone who is reasonably familiar with the topic and is not up to the quality of other Science Buddies articles.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
12                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project idea, electronics project, AM radio, radio transmitter, radio receiver, broadcast, frequency, amplitude, Electromagnetic radiation and waves Electromagnetic spectrum Wave model Speed of light Wavelength Frequency Amplitude Crystal oscillator Transformer Amplitude modulation Heterodyne
