 Can You Crowdsource a Better School Environment?
How can you motivate students and teachers to make positive changes in their school?
Why not try using what is in everyone's pocketa smartphone!
With this project you'll try your hand at harnessing the power of crowdsourcing and mobile technology by creating an app that motivates users to change their school for the better.
Do not worry about the app creation, the MIT App Inventor tool makes that part easy; the instructions provided here will lead you through it step-by-step.
Will your crowdsourcing strategy work?
There's only one way to find out!
Tired of seeing your school with wind-blown trash on the grounds, graffiti on restroom doors, and grimy lockers?
Do the students seem to ignore the problems?
How could you grab their attention?
How could you motivate them to fix up the school and keep it clean?
First, let's investigate why a clean and tidy school matters.
Research has shown that people are more productive, feel safer, and behave more kindly in clean environments, making them better places to live for all of us (see Figure 1).
Clean environments also encourage people to take the necessary actions to keep things clean.
Reasons enough to take the first step in making your school clean and welcoming!
Figure 1.
Research has demonstrated that a clean environment encourages positive, kind behaviors.Recently, scientists and managers have managed to accomplish huge jobs by crowdsourcing.
They outsource, or pass on, parts of their tasks to the general public answering an open call to action.
The reasons that motivate people to participate in a crowdsourcing campaign can include their desire to contribute in ways that make them feel good about themselves, or a desire to use their knowledge of a specific subject, worldview, or spiritual belief to contribute to a large-scale project (something larger than they could do on their own).
The prospect of a prize, recognition, or personal advantage can also be motivational.
In this project, you will explore whether or not you can use crowdsourcing to perform the cleanup task at your school.
You will do this by creating an app that harnesses the power of crowdsourcing.
The word app is the abbreviation for application software.
It refers to a self-contained computer program designed to run on a mobile device like a smartphone or tablet.
But do not worry, there is an easy way to build apps even if you have had no programming experience.
Anyone, regardless of their experience level, can build an app using App Inventor, a simple programming tool developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Using App Inventor you can easily create apps for Android devices.
Android is a type of mobile operating system, created by Google, popular on many smartphones and tablets (its main counterpart is Apple's iOS).
The settings of your device can tell you which operating system your device uses.
App Inventor apps only run on Android devices.
But you do not need an Android device to create an app with App Inventor.
You can use any computer to create your app and a free downloadable emulator  (which mimics the operating system of one computer on a different computer) to test it.
The users of the appthe crowd you would like to deploy will need to have an Android device to run the app, however.Before you start coding, you need to form an idea of how your app will work and what it is supposed to accomplish.
Computer software engineers  call this set of descriptions the user requirements.
First, imagine what your crowd might look like: a small group of peers; individuals attending the school; who, exactly?
What is their age range?
Once you have identified your target crowd, brainstorm on what might motivate this group to contribute: a point system; a fun activity; social prestige; a good feeling about contributing to a bigger cause?
Do you see a potential for a success story?
What will the app look like?
What will the app do so it fulfills the task of cleaning up the environment as well as the users' need to be entertained and motivated?
How will the user interface look?
If this is still a little vague and you do not have an idea of what the user requirements of your app will be, do not worry.
The Procedure  will guide you through creating a school-cleanup crowdsourcing app where users earn points for performing cleanup actions and then store all entries in a table residing on the Web.
Once you have built this basic app, you can pursue several rounds of improvements or changes to customize the app and make it the best product you can.
Then you can test it out in the real world and see if your app can actually motivate a crowd of users to improve your school!
Follow simple steps to create your own mobile app and find out if crowdsourcing can be an effective way of cleaning up a school.
Create an app for a phone or tablet that increases awareness of environmental issues or prompts users to live a more sustainable lifestyle, such as an app that facilitates carpooling, walking, or cycling to school.Google allows fairly easy visualization of Fusion Table entries that hold location information in geographic maps.
Can you alter your app so it enters geographic location and displays the cleanup actions on a map?
What could you learn from the geographic distribution of the cleanup actions?
Transform the school cleanup into a neighborhood cleanup.
What adjustments would be needed?
How will you motivate people from your neighborhood?
Could you add an option where users email you before and after pictures of their action?
Can you enable them to upload pictures on the Web and add the link in your Fusion Table?
Create a duo of apps.
The first one would enable users to enter locations needing cleanup in a Fusion Table, including the geographic coordinates of that site.
The second would be a scavenger hunt-type cleanup game where gamers need to find the location given the longitude and latitude (which the app can retrieve from the Fusion Table created by the first app) before being able to perform the cleanup action.
Can you create phone apps for other areas in life where one could be useful, like apps for personal health, apps helping researchers collect data, or apps enhancing your social life?For a lower-level App Inventor project, check out the Science Buddies Project Idea Staying Healthy with Personal Medicine Apps.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  shanning001 said:  2016-11-13 16:04:34 What was the most important thing you learned?
N/A What problems did you encounter?
This project is really hard for children to understand.
I am a little bit younger than the age for this project, but I believe that even an adult would have trouble comprehending this project.
This project suggests that you need no prior coding knowledge which is completely untrue.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
You should add a more detailed procedure.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Poor What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very low Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair, computer sciences, programming applications, Phone Apps, MIT App Inventor, crowdsourcing, mobile app, school cleanup, sociology Crowdsourcing App App Inventor Android User requirements User interface Variables List Fusion Tables Executable Source
