 Burning Biofuels: Comparing Nonrenewable and Renewable Fuels  Have you considered where the gasoline that your parents put in your car comes from and how long that source will last?
The fuel that most vehicles use, gasoline, is a petroleum product.
Petroleum is a fossil fuel and is a nonrenewable form of energy, meaning we use it faster than it is able to be reproduced.
Burning fossil fuels also produces pollutants that might hurt our environment.
Using a kind of fuel from a renewable source would help save Earth's natural resources and cut down on pollutants.
In this science fair project, you will investigate whether a renewable fuel produces the same level of energy as an equivalent amount of nonrenewable fuel.
There's a lot of talk nowadays about renewable and nonrenewable energy sources.
But what do those mean?
Renewable energy is energy that is extracted from sources that are naturally replenished; such as the wind, water, and Sun.
Nonrenewable energy comes from fossil fuels.
Fossil fuels are made from the bodies of animals and plants that lived millions of years ago and were exposed to heat and pressure in the Earth's crust for millions of years.
Coal is one example of a fossil fuel.
It is a limited resource, and extracting energy from coal creates by-products that are believed to damage the environment and contribute to climate change.Biofuel is a form of renewable energy.
Biofuel (bios means life, in Greek) refers to living and recently dead biological material that can be used as solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel.
Agrofuel (agro usually refers to agriculture or crops) is a type of biofuel and is also a form of renewable energy.
Agrofuel is produced from specific crops.
There are two ways to grow agrofuels.
The first is to grow crops that are high in sugar, such as sugarcane or sugar beet, or that are high in starch, such as corn.
Then use fermentation to produce ethanol.
Engines can be modified to use ethanol fuel instead of gasoline.
The second strategy is to grow crops that have high oil content, such as soybeans.
When heated, the consistency of the oil changes into a form that can be used directly in diesel engines.There are disadvantages, however, to using agrofuels.
Agrofuels compete for land and resources with other crops that are grown solely for food.
Clearing land for growing agrofuels threatens biodiversity and drains the local water supply.
Instead of growing crops specifically for agrofuels, it might be a better option to convert waste vegetable oil into fuel.
This is a complicated, but doable, process.The first step in using agrofuels is to figure out if it's as good an energy source as nonrenewable fuel.
In this energy science fair project, you will determine if equivalent amounts of a renewable agrofuel release the same amount of heat energy as a nonrenewable fuel.
You will use fresh vegetable oil as the agrofuel and motor oil as the nonrenewable fuel to heat water.
Will the peak temperature depend on the type of fuel used?
Get to work and find out!
To determine if the energy in a biofuel is equivalent to the energy in the same amount of nonrenewable fuel.
Repeat the science fair project with different types of oils.
For example, try safflower oil or olive oil.
What are the characteristics of each type of oil?
How do they compare?
Does this account for any of your observations?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  sqader said:  2014-11-30 22:48:16 What was the most important thing you learned?
that we cant  What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
use different oils Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Lizzy19 said:  2014-09-06 19:33:08 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned that nonrenewable fuels are stronger.
What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I did this project for my 6th grade science fair, where I got first place.
And then I got sent to the county level, where i got second place in my age category for physical science.
Overall, a very good project.
My only complaint is that it's not very advanced.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment science fair project, energy, fuel, biofuel, biomass, agrofuel, combustion, renewable, nonrenewable, motor oil, vegetable oil Renewable energy Nonrenewable energy Fossil fuel Pressure Biofuel Agrofuel Fermentation Absolute value
