 Looking Downstream: Could Nanosilver in Consumer Products Affect Pond Life?
Do you know that many consumer products, such as sports clothes, cosmetics, and even food containers contain tiny silver particles?
These so-called nanoparticlesusually 1100nanometers (a billionth of a meter) in sizeare toxic to bacteria and fungi and therefore, are used to prevent them from growing on everyday items you use.
But what happens if the silver nanoparticles get into the water; for example, when you wash off your makeup or clean your clothes?
Do they affect freshwater organisms, and what about their effects on the environment?
In this science project you will investigate how a specific freshwater organism, Daphnia magna, responds to the exposure to different concentrations of nanosilver.
When thinking about silver, beautiful jewelry or coins probably come into your mind first.
But did you know that silver can also be in your clothes, your sunscreen, or even your toothpaste?
So why are these products not as shiny as coins, rings, or necklaces?
The reason is that the silver particles contained in these products are so tiny that you do not see them.
They are only 1100nanometers (nm) wide (1nm is one billionth of a meter (m) long, or 1.0x10-9m)that is about 50,000 times smaller than the diameter of a strand of hair!
This is why they are also called nanoparticles.
Nanoparticles can come in many different materials, sizes, or shapes, and all these features change how these particles behave.
So why is there nanosilver, which when suspended in a liquid is also called colloidal silver, in consumer products?
It turns out that silver does have a special propertyit is antimicrobial, which means that it is toxic to bacteria and other microbes and prevents them from growing.
This is why it is used to keep your clothes, sunscreen, or toothpaste free from bacteria.
But what makes the silver toxic to bacteria?
Scientists have found that silver releases silver ions (Ag+, individually charged atoms) that interfere with critical proteins inside the bacterial cell.
Once they are interrupted, the microorganism cannot properly function anymore and dies.
What is the benefit of using silver nanoparticles instead of larger silver particles?
The answer lies in the size of these particles.
Because they are 10100 times smaller than a bacterial cell, they not only release silver ions that affect bacteria, but they can also attach to the bacterial membrane and alter their properties.
In addition, silver nanoparticles can actually penetrate inside the bacterial cell and cause harm there by damaging important biomolecules.Now that you know that colloidal silver can have detrimental effects on microorganisms, do we have to worry about other organisms, too?
What if you wash your clothes and the nanosilver gets into the water?
Once silver nanoparticles enter the environment, it is very difficult to detect and measure them.
A good way to learn if there are any toxic substances in the water (besides measuring them) is doing a bioassay.
A bioassay is an experimental procedure that uses living organisms to determine if specific substances have a harmful effect on them.
At the same time, it is possible to identify what concentration (amount per liter of water) is toxic.
Bioassays are a powerful tool to assess environmental pollution or toxicity in a specific environment (ecotoxicity).
The most common way to do a bioassay is to expose the organism of choice to different concentrations of the suspected toxin and then measure their response or count how many of them survive over time.
It is critically important to maintain a control population of the organisms so that you do not mistake the naturally occurring death rate as the effect of toxins.
In this science project, you will use a freshwater organism called Daphnia magna (common name "water flea") to assess how they will be affected by different concentrations of colloidal silver.
You will try both high concentrations and make dilutions (solution with weaker concentrations) to test how the daphnia react.
Daphnids, like the one shown in Figure 1, are small freshwater organisms that are widely used for testing ecotoxicity.
They are up to 5mm in size and found around the world in most types of standing freshwater, such as ponds or lakes.
They are good swimmers and mostly transparent, which makes it easy to assess their viability or if they are still alive (as you can actually see their heart beating!).
How do you think the daphnia in this experiment will react to nanosilver?
Will different concentrations make a big difference?
Figure 1.
A female adult of the water flea Daphnia magna (Image credits: Wikimedia commons).
Investigate the effects of different nanosilver concentrations on the aquatic organism Daphnia magna.
What about other nanoparticles besides nanosilver?
Do they have the same toxic effects on Daphnia magna?
A way to test this would be to repeat this experiment, but instead of using colloidal silver, try out colloidal copper or zinc (available from Amazon).
Keep in mind that the toxic concentrations of these materials may be very different from the colloidal silver concentrations.
It might be necessary to first do a trial with a much higher nanoparticle concentration range to identify the right concentrations to test in your real experiment.
Which of the nanoparticles has the most toxic effect on the daphnia?
What are the lowest toxic concentrations of nanozinc or nanocopper compared to nanosilver?
Where can you find other nanoparticles, such as copper and zinc, and what are they used for?
You know that nanosilver is present in a lot of consumer products.
Instead of using the bought colloidal nanosilver solution, try to isolate colloidal silver from products that you know have nanosilver or colloidal silver in them.
You might need to do some research to find the right ones, but often sports clothing, such as socks or shirts, do contain silver nanoparticles or colloidal silver.
How much nanosilver does get into the water when washing these socks and is this concentration toxic to Daphnia magna?
Try to simulate a washing cycle by soaking and stirring the socks or textile in 500mL pond water for 1h and use this water for the daphnia experiment.
Be aware that during washing, not only will colloidal silver be released into the water, but all kinds of other chemicals, such as bleach, dyes or microplastics from the textile fibers as well.
These could also be toxic to the daphnia.
Make sure to also include similar socks without nanosilver  (same color and brand) and compare these results to the results of the socks with colloidal silver.
Do you see a difference between nanosilver containing socks and socks without colloidal silver?
What if you try different brands of socks or textiles?
Does the soaking time of the socks or repeated wash cycles have an effect?
Daphnia are not the only freshwater organisms that we need to worry about when colloidal silver is released into the environment.
Are other aquatic organisms susceptible to being killed by nanosilver, too?
One way to check this would be to use other freshwater organisms, such as small pond snails or  duckweed plants (available from Carolina Biological) for this experiment, instead of Daphnia magna .
Remember that you probably need to adjust the concentrations of nanosilver for these organisms, as they might be more resistant or even more susceptible to silver nanoparticles than daphnia.
How much nanosilver can these organisms tolerate?
Can you think of other living organisms that might be affected by nanoparticles in the water, too?
Do different life stages of daphnia (baby, juvenile or adult) react the same way to nanosilver?
Will you get a different LC50 for each of them?
What would that mean for a whole daphnia population in a lake or pond?
Find out by repeating this experiment but differentiating between neonate (baby), juvenile and adult daphnia.
You can easily distinguish them by size.
Neonates are the smallest (smaller than 1 mm), juveniles are between 1 and 2.25 mm and adults are larger than 2.25 mm in size.
An easy way to separate them would be to sort them with the help of three circles in your petri dish representing the three daphnia sizes.
You can find templates for  correctly sized sorting circles   here.
Make sure to verify that your printed circles have the correct size by confirming that the marker line on the sheet is one inch long.
Cut out the area with the circles and tape it underneath your petri dish.
When picking the daphnia, put them into the circles first and see which one fits best (neonate, juvenile or adult circle).
Then sort them according to their size and use the sorted daphnia for your experiment.
You might need to buy more Daphnia magna jars for this experiment as you want 10 daphnia of each life stage in each of your cups.
To find out, how the bacterium Escherichia coli responds to colloidal silver, try Science Buddies' project  Tiny Titans: Can Silver Nanoparticles Neutralize E. coli Bacteria?
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name   AwesomeL25 said:  2016-05-30 19:52:59 What was the most important thing you learned?
That you need to control variables very well.
What problems did you encounter?
25g/L didn't kill any at all.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
25g/L didn't do anything.
You need to test higher concentrations.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment Nanoparticles, Daphnia magna, toxicity, colloidal silver, ecotoxicity, water quality, bioassay, science project, environmental science, environmental biology, ecology Nanometer (nm) Nanoparticle Nanosilver Colloidal silver Antimicrobial Ions Proteins Bioassay Ecotoxicity Dose-response-curve Threshold concentration LC
