 Playing Along with Video Games: Investigating the Role of Procedural Music  Have you ever wondered about the various types of music in a video game you've played?
You may not have paid much attention to the music, but its job was to enhance your gaming experience.
In fact, the wrong kind of music can detract from the atmosphere of the game.
Can you imagine the music in Mario Kart playing in Street Fighter?
In a game, music can indicate many different things, such as a special or new event, shift of mood, or the arrival of a character.
This kind of music is called procedural music, and it changes according to what happens in the game.
In this video and computer game, you will design a game that uses procedural music to enhance the player's gaming experience.
Music can make us feel a variety of emotions.
For example, when you hear scary music in a movie, you know that something frightening may happen.
As the tempo of the scary music increases, you start to feel more and more excited until finally something happens.
A similar musical process can be used in video games, where music creates atmosphere.
In addition, music can signal to the player a change in event or experience level, or the arrival of a new character.
This type of music is called procedural music or procedural audio.
Procedural music or audio occurs when certain events within the game cause the music to evolve in real time in some form.
Unlike the synthesized music and sound effects in early video games like the original Pac-ManTM and Mario Bros.TM from the 1980s, the procedural music in games of the 21st century can switch from one tune to another, the tempo can vary, or different tunes can be layered on top of each other.
This gives the player a dynamic experience, where the music will always fit the gaming atmosphere.
An example of procedural music occurs in Super Mario Galaxy 2TM, when Mario grabs the grand star and special music signals this event, giving the player a sense of accomplishment.Procedural music in video games is created algorithmically.
This means that there are rules and logic that dictate how music is generated.
The procedural music in video games can be divided into two categories: interactive and adaptive.
Interactive music refers to music events that are directly triggered by the player or the input device, like footsteps when the player moves or shooting sounds when the player fires a gun.
The player has control of the timing, although the game's program or engine controls how the music is played back.
Adaptive music refers to musical events that are affected indirectly by the player.
Adaptive music is cued or controlled by the game's engine and is usually not immediately repeatable.Now that we know the different ways music can be triggered in a video game, the next question is how the programming in the game (the game's engine or brains) actually creates the music.
Procedural music can be generated using either transformational algorithms or generative algorithms.
Transformational algorithms don't affect the data size (the amount of storage space the music takes in memory), but they do affect the structure of the music.
The pitch of certain notes can be varied, and instrumental parts can be added or dropped within a phrase of the overall song.
(A musical phrase is a group of lines of music that has its own musical theme or logic.)
Generative algorithms increase the data size because the music is created rather than just modified during game play.
In this video and computer games science project, you will create a video game with procedural music.
How will you do this?
The first step will be to learn GameMaker Language (or GML).
With GML, you can write your own conditional statements and incorporate them into an already existing game or make a brand new game.
In both cases, your goal is to use procedural music to indicate changes in your game and to enhance the player's experience.
Use music to indicate a change of event, mood, or character presence in a video game.
Build your game using a different software package, such as Scratch.
Scratch is a free, easy-to-use programming language from MIthat you can use to make all sorts of animated stories, art, music, and even interactive games.
Installing Scratch is simple.
Download the software from scratch.mit.edu/.
You can also refer to Science Buddies' Scratch User Guide to learn more.Is procedural music really necessary?
Test a game sound-free and a full version with music on a group of volunteers.
Measure the players' satisfaction and interest in playing each game.
Is there a difference?
Because you will be testing on a group of volunteers, make sure to get permission from their parents or guardians if they are minors.Working with Human Test Subjects There are special considerations when designing an experiment involving human subjects.
Fairs affiliated with Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF) often require an Informed Consent Form (permission sheet) for every participant who is questioned.
Consult the rules and regulations of the science fair that you are entering, prior to performing experiments or surveys.
Please refer to the Science Buddies documents   Projects Involving Human Subjects and    Scientific Review Committee for additional important requirements.
If you are working with minors, you must get advance permission from the children's parents or guardians (and teachers if you are performing the test while they are in school) to make sure that it is all right for the children to participate in the science fair project.
Here are suggested guidelines for obtaining permission for working with minors: Write a clear description of your science fair project, what you are studying,  and what you hope to learn.
Include how the child will be tested.
Include a paragraph  where you get a parent's or guardian's and/or teacher's signature.
Print out as many copies as you need for each child you will be surveying.
Pass out the permission sheet to the children or to the teachers of the children  to give to the parents.
You must have permission for all the children in order to  be able to use them as test subjects.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Maeveywavey said:  2012-01-07 20:13:54 What was the most important thing you learned?
How to use music to indicate a change of events or mood What problems did you encounter?
None Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
No it was great Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
3                        17                Report Inappropriate Comment Video and computer games science project, GameMaker, procedural music, music, GML, GameMaker language, interactive, adaptive, generative, algorithms, algorithmic, procedural audio, transformational Tempo Procedural music Procedural audio Algorithm Interactive music Adaptive music Transformational algorithms Generative algorithms Musical phrase Conditional statements Flow chart
