 How Bright Is Your Glow Stick?
Measure It!
Objects that glow in the dark hold a special place in the imagination of both children and adults.
The lights go out at night, but these odd things refuse to disappear.
Where does the light come from?
Do they work in any climate?
In this science fair project, you will make a very simple electronic device to measure the light given off by luminescent materials.
The device will be used to study how temperature affects luminescence.
Have you ever wondered why glow-in-the-dark objects actually glow?
There is no battery attached to them and no other apparent source of energy that would explain where the light is coming from.
So what makes them glow?
The simple answer is that there are two types of glow-in-the-dark phenomena that make objects glow: chemiluminescence and phosphorescence.
The more complicated part is how these phenomena actually work.
Chemiluminescent objects, such as glow sticks, use chemical energy to produce light.
When you twist or bend a glow stick, you start a chemical reaction.
One of the products of the reaction is light.
There are three components of a glow stick: a solution of hydrogen peroxide, a solution of a phenyl oxalate ester, and a fluorescent dye.
The basic premise of the reaction is that the reaction between the two chemicals releases enough energy to excite the electrons in the fluorescent dye from the ground state to the excited state, as shown in Figure 1.
This causes the electrons to jump to a higher energy level and then fall back down and release light in a process called fluorescence.
Depending on the dyes used, a variety of colors can be produced.
Figure 1.
Energy scheme that shows phosphorescence and fluorescence.
When photons interact with a material, electrons can be excited from the ground state to an excited state.
When they return to the ground state, they release their energy in the form of light (fluorescence).
Electrons can also be trapped in a meta-stable state and when these electrons relax to the ground state they release light by phosphorescence.Phosphorescent objects also produces glow-in-the-dark "magic," but by a different mechanism than that of chemiluminescence.
Phosphorescent objects also do not use batteries to glow.
In fact, they behave like batteries themselvesyou "charge" them up with light, and they then provide a steady source of light for hours after.
The basis for this afterglow is the unique way that the molecules in phosphorescent materials react to light.
When you shine a light on an object, such as a glow-in-the-dark toy, you are bombarding it with photons.
Photons are small packets of energy that have zero mass and travel at the speed of light.
When a stream of photons collides with a solid material, the photons interact with the electrons in the material.
Electrons that absorb photons move to a higher energy level, the excited state.
Eventually, the electrons return to the lower "normal" energy level, called the ground state.
In the case of a phosphorescent material, however, some of the electrons that interacted with the photons become trapped in a meta-stable state.
These electrons have absorbed energy from the photons, which moves them into a higher energy state, but they are not able to release the energy right away.
The term meta-stable implies that they are in a precarious situationthey could be knocked back down to their normal energy level with just a little jostling.
An electron in a meta-stable state is like a flying disc or a ball caught in the branches of a treeit is temporarily resisting the pull to a lower state, but a little shaking will bring it back down.In the case of an electron in a meta-stable state, in a phosphorescent material, the "shaking" is caused by heat.
The higher the temperature of the object is, the more energetic the motion of the molecules in the object will be.
The molecules can bump into each other, and if a meta-stable electron is bumped just right, it will fall back to its normal energy level.
The electron might stay in its meta-stable state for seconds, hours, or even days, but on average, the length of the meta-stable state decreases at higher temperatures.
When the electron is eventually jostled down from its meta-stable state, it gives up the energy it possessed as a photon.
The glow you see in a phosphorescent object results from the release of energy in from of photons that origninate from meta-stable electrons that return to a lower energy level, as shown in Figure 1.Now that you know how glow-in-the-dark objects work, the next question is how you can actually measure their glow.
In this science project, you will do this with a simple self-made device that will allow you to measure the amount of light that is given off by luminescent objects.
You will do this using a photoresistor, a special type of electrical resistor that is sensitive to light.
This is handy if you want to measure the level of light.
Its resistance to the flow of electricity, which is measured in ohms (), is altered by light and is very high in the dark and very low in bright light.
So, if you put a glow-in-the-dark object in a jar and place a photoresistor in the lid of the jar, its resistance will change depending on how much the object glows.
You will use a multimeter to measure the resistance of the photoresistor.
To isolate the luminescent material from the surrounding light, you will build a special measuring jar, as described in the Procedure.
Get ready to measure the glow!
Build a simple device to measure the intensity of light produced by glow sticks and other glow-in-the-dark materials, and determine how temperature affects the intensity of luminescence.
Find out how long glow-in-the-dark objects actually glow.
Repeat this experiment, but continue to measure the light intensity (resistance) beyond 15minutes until you do not get any resistance reading anymore (meaning that the numbers get out of range on the highest setting 2000k), or approach the resistance reading that you get during your baseline determination in the dark (jar with nothing inside and closed lid).
Remember to adjust the measurement range on the multimeter when the resistance values get higher.
Once the numbers do not change that much anymore, you can space out the resistance readings to 5 or 10minutes.Does the color of the glow stick make a difference in how long or bright they do glow?
Compare the light intensities and glow behavior of different colored glow sticks.
Note that the photoresistor is cadmium sulfide (CdS) and its signal response is dependent on the wavelength of light.
Try to find graphs online that show the spectral response of the CdS photoresistor signal and normalize your data based on the percentage response at each wavelength.
Besides changing the brightness of the glow sticks, does the temperature also change how long the glow sticks glow?
Repeat this experiment, but this time start the measurements at different temperatures by submerging the glow stick in hot or cold water and keeping the temperature constant in a water bath.
Monitor the resistance (light intensity) until the glow stick stops glowing and compare the different glow times for all tested temperatures.How long do phosphorescent materials glow?
Repeat this experiment.
but this time use phosphorescent materials such as paint, glow-in-the-dark stars, or other toys.
Charge the object by exposing it to light for a specific time and then put it in the jar and monitor the resistance over time.
The decay might happen much faster, so adjust your readout time accordingly.
Also, as phosphorescent objects are usually not as bright as chemilumenescent ones, you might have to put the photoresistor closer to the object to get good data.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, glow-in-the-dark, chemistry, luminescence, chemiluminescence, phosphorescence, photoresistor, electron, meta-stable state, voltage, resistance, photons, ohms, multimeter, light detector, photoresistor Chemiluminescence Phosphorescence Ground state Excited state Fluorescence Photon Electron Energy level Meta-stable state Photoresistor Resistance Ohm
