 Leaky Clues to Dam Design: How Reservoir Height Affects Hydroelectric Power Production  It's hard to believe that the same water that you use every day to quench your thirst, cook with, bathe in, swim in, and wash your clothes and dishes, is capable of another trickit can make electricity!
Electricity can be generated through the flow or through the fall of water.
A big, fast-flowing river, for instance, contains a lot of moving energy that provides enough pressure to turn the blades of a turbine and run an electric generator.
This same pressure can also be created though through the fall of water from a great height.
Dams are the way we store water and raise it to a great height to create pressure.
The more water that is stored, the higher the height of the reservoir becomes, and the greater the pressure that is available to run an electric generator.
In this energy and power science fair project, you'll make a small model of a dam and poke holes at different points along the dam wall to investigate the places where the pressure and the potential for generating electricity is the greatest.
Electricity is a big part of your life.
Can you imagine not being able to turn on a light, the TV, the computer, or your video game console?
What about having no way to easily wash and dry your clothes, or keep your food cold?
When the power goes out in a big storm, it's a big deal!
It is always a high priority for power workers to get it turned back on.From where does all that electricity come?
Electricity is a secondary energy source, meaning that it has to be made from some other source of energy, like coal, natural gas, oil, nuclear power, wind, or water.
When electricity is made from the force or energy of moving waterwater that is flowing or fallingit is called hydroelectricity (hydro means "water").
Hydroelectricity has been around since the late 1800's.
Today, hydropower is a popular way to generate electricity, supplying the world with nearly one-fourth of what it needs, and reaching more than 1 billion people.
Hydroelectric power has several advantages.
Unlike fossil fuels, water is a source of renewable energy, meaning that it can be naturally replenished at a rate faster or similar to the rate that people use it up.
Hydroelectric power is also low-polluting, dams to harness it can create recreational lakes, and the power can help with flood control and irrigation.
Its disadvantages are that it can damage animal habitats or ecosystems, and in a failure, can cause flooding, such as the Teton Dam and Johnstown flood catastrophes, which you can read about in the Bibliography.
Engineers weigh all these advantages and disadvantages before deciding whether or not to build a hydroelectric power plant.
Hydroelectricity is made through the flow or fall of water.
A big, fast-flowing river, for instance, contains a lot of moving energy that provides enough water pressure to turn the blades of a turbine and run an electric generator.
This same water pressure can also be created though through the fall of water from a great height.
A dam is the way we store water and raise it to a great height to create water pressure.
Dams are among some of the biggest manmade structures ever built.
Figure 1.
This photo shows the Hungry Horse Dam in the state of Montana.
(Bonneville Power Administration, United States Department of Energy, 2003.
)Dams block the flow of a river or stream and create a lake or reservoir behind them, which acts as a source of stored energy (a battery is another example of a reservoir of stored energy).
The dam raises the surface water up to a great height, giving it potential energy, the potential to do work.
Water flows from the reservoir and through a dam by way of a special intake gate called a penstock.
It's kind of like one of those water tunnels you slide through at a water park in the summer.
Water rushes down the penstock and turns the blades of a turbine, which is connected through a metal shaft to an electric generator.
As the turbine turns, giant magnets inside the generator rotate past copper coils and alternating current is made.
This current is then transformed in a transformer to a higher-voltage current so the electricity can be sent over long distances to homes in cities far away from the power plant.
Figure 2.
This animation shows how a hydroelectric power plant makes electricity.
(United States Geological Survey, 2008.
)What determines how much electricity a hydroelectric power plant can produce?
There are several factors, but two of the most important are the water flow rate through the dam, and the distance from the surface of the reservoir to the penstock.
These determine how much energy can be released when the water is lowered, in a controlled way, from the reservoir.
You can approximate the hydroelectric power production of a dam with this equation:Equation 1:   Power = Water Flow Rate   Acceleration Due to Gravity   Reservoir Height   Coefficient of Efficiency  Power is in watts (W).
Water flow rate is in kilograms per second (kg/s).
Acceleration due to gravity is 9.81 meters per second squared (m/s2).
Height is in meters (m).
Coefficient of efficiency ranges from 0 to 1, with modern power plants having the highest efficiency.In this power and energy science fair project, you will investigate how the distance between the surface of the reservoir and the penstock affects the flow out of the penstock.
Do you think a deeper reservoir will create a different flow than a shallow reservoir?
It's time to find out!
To determine the best location on a dam to generate electricity by investigating how the height of water above a hole in the dam wall affects the length of the stream flow from that hole.
Investigate how hole size affects stream flow for a given hole height.
Develop a way to calculate the peak water flow rate out of each hole.
(The bibliography will give you hints on how to do this with the Bernoulli  equation.)
Assume an efficiency of 0.9 (common for today's modern power plants), and calculate the power that can be produced with each stream, using Equation 1 in the Introduction.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Sandman1 said:  2013-04-11 19:11:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
That the pressure can create a lot of force which can supply clean, renewable energy.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Add a estimate of big the hole should be because if its to big the project won't work.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
More   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment power and energy science fair project, hydroelectric power, dam, reservoir, hydropower, renewable energy Hydroelectricity Hydropower Generate Fossil fuel Renewable energy Habitat Ecosystem Water pressure Dam Reservoir Potential energy Penstock Turbine Electric generator Magnet Alternating current Transformer Voltage Bernoulli equation
