 The True Cost of a Bike Rack: Aerodynamics and Fuel Economy  Race car drivers need every advantage they can get to give them the competitive edge in a race.
In addition to human factors, like driving skill and reaction time, their cars must overcome physical forces, like air resistance, to maintain their high speeds.
While this science project will not have you driving around a race track at 200 miles per hour, you will get to test how increased air resistance affects a real car's fuel economy.
You will do this by measuring and comparing the gas mileage of a car with and without a roof rack.
If you are a big fan of car racing, you probably know that race cars can zoom around the track at speeds of over 200 miles per hour (mph).
At such high speeds, a car's engine must work very hard to overcome lots of air resistance.
Air resistance (also commonly referred to as drag) is a force that acts on a car opposite its direction of motion.
Air resistance occurs because the car (or any moving object) has to push a lot of air out of the way in order to move forward.
Air resistance is always opposite to the direction of motion, and it gets stronger as the car moves faster.
In other words, when a car moves forward, air resistance tries to slow it down.
The faster the car moves, the more air resistance it encounters, as shown in Figure 1, below.
Figure 1.
Air resistance is always in the opposite direction a vehicle is moving.
As a car's speed increases, so does the air resistance (image adapted from Ebaychatter0, Wikimedia Commons, 2012).Race car drivers want to minimize the air resistance on their cars, because air resistance slows them down.
This is why race cars are designed to be very aerodynamic, meaning they have very little air resistance.
While normal drivers are not concerned about the need to drive at speeds of 200mph, they also want to minimize air resistance, because it will help improve the car's fuel economy.
You may have heard adults talking, or seen commercials, about cars that "get good gas mileage" or "have a good fuel economy," but what exactly does this mean?
Fuel economy is a measure of how far, on average, a car can travel using a certain amount of gasoline.
In the U.S., it is measured in miles per gallon, or mpg for short.
So, for example, if a car "has a fuel economy of 30mpg," that means, on average, it can drive 30 miles on 1 gallon of gasoline.
Fuel economy tends to be better if you are driving at a steady speed (like on a highway), and worse if there are lots of sudden starts and stops (like in a city with lots of red lights), so cars are usually rated separately for their highway fuel economy and their city fuel economy.
In this sports science project, you will investigate how air resistance affects the fuel economy of a car.
You will measure the fuel economy of a car without a roof rack, and then with a roof rack added, which will increase the air resistance on the car.
Do you think adding a roof rack to a car will have an impact on its fuel economy?
If so, how big do you think the difference will be?
Do you think you will be able to measure a decrease in fuel economy, or will it be too small to notice?
Measure and compare the fuel economy of a car with and without a roof rack.
What happens if you actually add cargo to the roof rack (such as luggage, bikes, or skis)?
Repeat the experiment with cargo on the roof rack, and compare to the fuel economy with an empty roof rack, and no roof rack.
How does tire pressure affect a car's fuel economy?
Can driving with under-inflated tires hurt fuel economy?
Warning: Driving with tire pressure that is too low can be dangerous.
Have an adult help you figure out a safe range of tire pressures to conduct this experiment.
On a hot summer day, it may be tempting to turn your car's air conditioning on full blast.
But, did you know this can affect the fuel economy?
How does driving a car with and without the air conditioning on affect fuel economy?
What about driving with the windows down instead of running the air conditioning?
Is one option better than the other?
Does the amount of weight a car is carrying affect fuel economy?
How does the fuel economy change when the driver is the only person in the car, versus the driver plus several passengers, or additional cargo?
What about driving with a nearly full gas tank versus a nearly empty gas tank?
Does the weight of the gasoline itself make a difference?
Does weather affect fuel economy?
How does fuel economy vary on hot days versus cold days, or sunny days versus rainy days?
How does fuel economy vary for different types of cars (such as sedans, SUVs, pickup trucks, etc.)?
What about hybrid versus non-hybrid cars?
While it may be difficult to do your own full-scale laboratory experiments to measure fuel economy, use model cars to measure air resistance, and the impact of adding a model roof rack.
Here are some other Science Buddies projects that might give you some inspiration:     How Far Will It Fly?
Build & Test Paper Planes with Different Drag   Butterfly Wings: Using Nature to Learn About Flight   Science Buddies: How to Build and Use a Subsonic Wind Tunnel    Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science project, fuel economy, air resistance, drag, roof rack, does a roof rack affect fuel economy, gas mileage, fuel consumption, aerodynamic drag Air resistance Drag Force Aerodynamic Fuel economy Miles per gallon (mpg)
