 Heavy Metals and Aquatic Environments  You might know that lead can be toxic, and that you can get lead poisoning from eating or inhaling old paint dust.
Lead is called a heavy metal, and there are other sources of heavy metals that can be toxic, too.
Silver, copper, mercury, nickel, cadmium, arsenic, and chromium are all heavy metals that can be toxic in certain environments.
In this experiment, find out if one common heavy metal, copper, can be toxic to an aquatic environment.
You might know that lead can be toxic, and that you can get lead poisoning from eating or inhaling old paint dust.
Lead is called a heavy metal, and there are other sources of heavy metals that can be toxic, too.
Silver, copper, mercury, nickel, cadmium, arsenic, and chromium are all heavy metals that can be toxic in certain environments.
"Toxic metals, including "heavy metals," are individual metals and metal compounds that have been shown to negatively affect people's health.
In very small amounts many of these metals are necessary to support life.
However, in larger amounts, they become toxic.
They may build up in biological systems and become a significant health hazard."
(OSHA, 2004)In this science fair project, you will find out if one common heavy metal, copper (Cu), can be toxic to an aquatic environment.
You will use copper because it is one of the heavy metals that is easy to find and it is not very toxic to humans.
You will use copper sulfate as a source of copper that is soluble, meaning it will dissolve, or turn into a solution, when mixed with water.
The amount of an ion in solution is often measured in parts per million (ppm).
This means that if there is 1 ppm ion in solution, then there is 1 milligram (mg) of the ion present in each liter (L) of solution.
Heavy metals release free ions in solution that are very potent, and can cause an effect at very low doses.In this project, a good range of concentrations to test your copper solutions at is 0 ppm (no copper sulfate added) to 0.4 ppm (with increments of 0.1 ppm).
These are very low concentrations so it takes some careful planning to make the solutions.
We will show you here how to make a copper ion solution with the lowest ion concentration you will be testing: 0.1 ppm.
Making a copper sulfate solution with a concentration of 0.1 ppm means that you will need 0.1 mg of the copper sulfate in one liter of water.
However, it is very difficult to measure 0.1 mg.  To give some perspective, a new U.S. dollar bill weighs 1 g. If a dollar bill were cut into 1,000 pieces, each piece would weigh 1 mg.
If each of those pieces were further cut into ten pieces, cutting the dollar bill into a total of 10,000 pieces, then each piece would weigh 0.1 mg.
This is the amount of copper sulfate needed in one liter of water to make a 0.1 ppm solution.
It should now be clear why it would be hard to accurately weigh out something this small!This is why we need another way to make a copper solution with a concentration of 0.1 ppm.
Specifically, you will be making a solution that is at a much higher concentration than you will be testing, called a stock solution, and then you will be diluting the stock solution to create the concentrations you want to test.
First, 1 gram (g) of copper sulfate will be weighed out and mixed with 2 liters (L) of water.
This can be written as:  1 g copper sulfate 2 L water This means that 0.5 g (or 500 mg) of copper sulfate will be dissolved into 1 L of water, creating a copper solution with a concentration of 500 ppm.
How are we going to decrease the concentration even more?
We can take one drop of this solution and dilute it with more water.
There are about 20 drops of water in 1 milliliter (mL).
Knowing this, we can figure out how much copper sulfate will be in one drop of water using the following calculation:(  1 g copper sulfate  2 L water   )  (  1 L water  1000 ml water    )  (  1 ml water  20 drops water    )   =    (  .000025 g copper sulfate  1 drop water    )This tells us that there is 0.000025 grams (which equals 0.025 mg) of copper sulfate in one drop of water.
This means that four drops of water have 0.1 mg of copper sulfate.
Because a 0.1 ppm solution is 0.1 mg dissolved in 1 L water, if we mix four drops of the 500 ppm copper sulfate solution (0.1 mg) with 1 L of water, we will have a copper sulfate solution with a concentration of 0.1 ppm.The 0.1 ppm copper sulfate solution will be the lowest concentration of copper that you will test in your experimental aquatic environments.
You will add increasing amounts of copper (by adding additional drops) to the experimental environments to test effects of increased concentrations of copper.
After each experimental environment has had copper added to it, you will add a number of aquatic organisms, specifically duckweed and snails, to each environment.
How will adding copper affect the organisms in each environment?
In this experiment you will test the effects of the heavy metal copper (Cu) on an aquatic environment containing snails and plants.
Some water plants can remove contaminating heavy metals from aquatic environments.
Others are poisoned by them.
Do an experiment comparing different species of aquatic plants for this ability.
Use a copper test kit to test the water each day after the plants have been added.We used copper sulfate because it is highly soluble.
Can other sources of copper be a problem?
Try other sources of elemental copper, like pipes, wires, and metal sheets.
Also try other metal products that are weak toxins, like aluminum (foil, cans) or zinc (coins, wires).
Are any of these common sources of metals toxic to aquatic life?
It is important not to do experiments with lead or mercury, because they can be very toxic and cause developmental defects in children.Try these other Science Buddies experiments to test the effects of toxins on aquatic environments:Acid Rain and Aquatic Life Something's Fishy About That Fertilizer  Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Michelle5825 said:  2016-07-19 01:18:17 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned so much about water quality and that pH is really what affects not only plants, water, snails but soils too.
This project could be advanced by just testing pH and detecting data patterns.
What problems did you encounter?
Snails and plants are very expensive.
Also I didn't have access to proper water quality tools ie, a pH meter.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I think it's a very good project but to succeed in science fairs you need to solve an issue.
So include a way in the "make it your own" tab of how students could reduce the amount of copper sulfate used for treatment or maybe find a safer replacement.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    sugarhannah said:  2015-02-20 19:28:33 What was the most important thing you learned?
I learned many terms when doing this particular experiment.
Mine was a little different though since i used different types of plants and not animals or insects.
i learned a lot about copper and copper sulfate.
I also learned about its properties and how it is toxic to the plants.
So, i really had enjoyed this project.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
yes in mine i used only aquatic plants such as java fern and brazilian swords.
You get more accurate answers this way.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    scibuddy24804 said:  2011-04-29 18:19:24 What was the most important thing you learned?
more had a snail, more results What problems did you encounter?
Had a Snail is discontinued!
bought mine on ebay!
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
use something other than had a snail, it is discontinued.
if you do use it, buy it on ebay beforehand.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
1                        9                Report Inappropriate Comment  heavy metals and their sources copper (coins, pipes, wiring, fungicide, pesticide) lead (old paint, fishing weights) nickel (coins, batteries) mercury (thermometers, fluorescent light tubes) arsenic (pesticides and rodenticides) cadmium (batteries) chromium (chrome plating, batteries, toner, paint) environmental toxicity aquatic environments soluble insoluble solution parts per million (ppm) concentrations stock solution
