 Grasping with Straws: Make a Robot Hand Using Drinking Straws  Imagine how cool it would be to build a robot hand that could grasp a ball or pick up a toy.
In this robotics engineering project, you will learn how to use drinking straws, sewing thread, and a little glue to make a remarkably lifelike and useful robot hand.
What will you design your robot hand to do?
Pick up a can?
Move around a ping pong ball?
It is up to you!
With these starting instructions, you can design any type of hand.
You will simulate human finger anatomy as the basis for a fully functional robot hand that is easy to build and does not require complicated tools.
Your hands are amazing.
With them you can play the violin, cook a meal with your parents, or design a robot.
When people design robots, one of the parts they spend the most time on is the hand, or whatever other "grabber" the robot might have.
Robots do useful and important work, and unless they can grab and move things, they cannot get the job done.
Watch this video to see how a three-fingered robot hand handles a wide range of objects.
Watch this video to see how a three-fingered robot hand handles a wide range of objects.
In this project you will study the physiology of the hand to see how human fingers work and design a robot hand that uses human-like fingers to perform a task.
Best of all, you are going to make your robot hand from everyday drinking straws.
By simply applying some creativity and your engineering know-how, you can make a useful robot hand.The straw-hand design shown in this project mimics the way that tendons bend your fingers even though the  muscles that control the action are actually in your forearm.
To make your finger bend, a muscle pulls on a long string of collagen called a tendon.
The tendon connects the muscle to the bone in your finger.
It is kind of like remote control: When the muscle pulls, the finger bends at the joint.
You will use a drinking straw as both bone and skin, sewing thread as a tendon, and you will provide the muscle.
When you have finished this engineering project, you will have made a working robot hand, with multiple fingers that you control just by pulling threads.
(See Figure 10 at the end of the Procedure for examples.)
To design and build a working hand out of craft materials that demonstrates how a real robot hand might work.
Does your robot hand need more reach?
Perhaps you can design an arm out of wood or cardboard tubes to reach farther.
If your arm needs to bend, hinges from the hardware store for joints and some extra thread for tendons could be a great start.What other materials can you think of to make a robot hand from?Engineering is often inspired by nature.
What else can you see around you that you can build from simple materials?
Check out the  I Like to Move It: Motorizing a Robot Hand abbreviated  project idea to get inspiration on how to motorize your robot hand.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
View feedback on this project from other usersHide feedback on this project from other usersRecent Feedback Submissions   Sort by Date    Sort by User Name  Ballistamon said:  2015-11-15 22:00:27 What was the most important thing you learned?
none What problems did you encounter?
Well in all honesty, the explanation of how to use the needle and thread was lacking, and found myself having repeated difficulty getting the strings to go through the hole, otherwise no other problems did occur :) Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
no Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    bwinschel said:  2014-06-01 15:00:45 What was the most important thing you learned?
The cuts for the joints really made a difference if they were not perfect  What problems did you encounter?
joints had to be lined up  Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
take accurate measurments before the project and use wendys or arbys straws they work awesome Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
High Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
0                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    tshebalin said:  2013-06-01 08:06:15 What was the most important thing you learned?
n/a What problems did you encounter?
One of my students did this project and found that straws were too flimsy and dental floss kept getting tangled and/or split.
He was very frustrated.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I would recommend revising the materials/procedure so that the hand is made from more sturdy materials.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
OK What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Moderate Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
1                        1                Report Inappropriate Comment    perplexists said:  2013-01-30 22:39:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
Prototyping is very important in the engineering process What problems did you encounter?
THe straws bent to the side.
Clay fell apart.
Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
Stronger material Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
About the same   Do you agree?
2                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    Shreenath123 said:  2013-01-13 21:40:09 What was the most important thing you learned?
robot hands are cool.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
none Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Excellent What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Very high Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Much more   Do you agree?
3                        0                Report Inappropriate Comment    peanutgallery5 said:  2012-08-20 10:12:39 What was the most important thing you learned?
It was really cool being able to make something like a human hand.
I realized how much detail God put into our bodies when He created us.
What problems did you encounter?
none Can you suggest any improvements or ideas?
I used the straws with the bendy part which saved me some putting together.
Overall, how would you rate the quality of this project?
Very Good What is your enthusiasm for science after doing your project?
Compared to a typical science class, please tell us how much you learned doing this project.
Do you agree?
23                        4                Report Inappropriate Comment Robotics project, engineering project, robot hand, design robot Tendons Muscles Collagen Joints Physiology of the hand Shim
