 Pump It Up: Mountainboarding Speed and Control  Are you a "lawn shredder"?
Do you like nothing better than carving a sweet path down a mountain on your souped-up skateboard?
If so, then this mountainboarding sports science fair project is for you!
You'll investigate tire pressures and find out how to get the most out of your mountainboard ridethe most speed, and the best handling and control.
It's gnarly science, dude!
Pressure.
You feel it all the time, just by living on Earth.
At sea level, you have nearly 15 pounds per square inch (psi) of pressure pushing on you from Earth's atmosphere, that "air ocean" that you breathe and live in.
Did you know you were being squeezed so much?
Your body thinks it's normal!So, what is pressure?
To understand that, you first have to know what a force is.
A force is a push or pull that can make an object change its velocity.
For example, when you roll a ball along the floor, you give it a push to make it change from standing still to rolling.
When describing pressure, you don't talk about any old force though.
You only consider the force that is perpendicular to the surface of the object.
This is known as the normal force.
Pressure is defined as force per unit area.
The word per tells you that you use division to calculate pressure.
You divide the normal forces on the surface of an object by the surface area to get pressure.You've had lots of everyday experiences with pressure.
For example, if you are going to cut an apple and you try to cut it with the flat side of a knife, as shown below, you can't even break through the skin, but if you turn the knife so that the blade's edge is turned into the apple, you will cut through with relatively little force.
What changed when you turned the knife?
The surface area.
When the knife blade is held flat, the surface area is large, making the pressure on the apple low.
When the knife is held with the thin blade turned into the apple, the surface area is much smaller, making the pressure on the apple much higher, and a cut can be made.
The same is true if you think about your thumb and a thumbtack.
Press on a wall with your thumb, and there is no damage to the wall.
You cannot make a hole.
But if you put a thumbtack under your thumb and press, you will make a small hole in the wall because the thumbtack point creates a very small surface area, raising the pressure applied to the wall.
Figure 1.
This drawing shows that when you change the surface area of the knife that is in contact with the apple, you change the pressure on the apple.
A knife and a thumbtack are examples of solids, but liquids and gases, like the water and the atmosphere, are also capable of applying pressure.
For example, when you go beneath the ocean to a depth of 1 mile, you have 2,270 pounds per square inch of pressure upon you.
That's because a mile-long, 1-inch-square column of water weighs 2,270 pounds (lbs).
That's more than a ton!
No wonder divers need specialized hard suits and diving vehicles.
Up on dry land, the pressures are much more comfortable at about 15 psi.
That's because Earth's atmosphere extends about 50 miles outward from the Earth, and a 50-mile-long, 1-inch-square column of air weighs only about 15 lbs.
Whew!
Aren't you glad you live in an "air ocean" rather than the real one?
Click here   to watch a video of this investigation, produced by DragonflyTV and presented by pbskidsgo.org.If you corral air inside a container, like a balloon or a tire, you can create air pressures inside the container that are different from those of the atmosphere outside the container.
The atoms of air inside the container are in constant motion, bouncing all over and putting pressure on the walls of the container.
You can increase the pressure on the walls by increasing the temperature of the air so that the atoms move faster and bang into the walls more frequently, or by adding more air atoms to the container.
On a hot summer afternoon, you might notice that your bike tire feels firmer than it does in the morning when it is cooler.
That's because the atoms have been warmed up and have more motion.
They are hitting the sides of the container more frequently.
When you add air to a tire with a pump, you also make your tire firmer.
The pump is adding air atoms to the inside of the tire.
Increasing the number of air atoms increases the number of collisions on the wall of the tire, which increases the tire's pressure.In this science fair project, you'll see what happens when you adjust the tire pressures of your mountainboard.
At lower pressures, around 10 psi, the tires will feel squishier, and there will be more tire surface area in contact with the ground.
This may improve handling and control of your mountainboard, because there is more of the tire gripping the trail, but it might also slow you down, as a greater surface area results in greater friction, or resistance to motion.
At high pressures, around 60 psi, your tires will feel firm and hard to compress.
There will be much less tire surface area in contact with the trail, so there will be less friction.
This may give you great speed, but a lack of handling and control, too, which might make you unable to finish your course.
Wipe out!If you'd like to get a preview of this gnarly science experiment, visit the DragonflyTV video on the right and join Sean, Ben, and Neil as they shred some mountain in southern California.
To determine which mountainboard tire pressure provides the best speed, and which mountainboard tire pressure provides the best control.
Repeat this science fair project on test courses with different surfaces, such as sand and asphalt, to determine the best tire pressure for each surface.
Repeat this science fair project with a mountain bike to see if a two-wheeled ride requires different tire pressures than a four-wheeled ride for optimal speed and control.
Share your story with Science Buddies!I Did This Project!Please log in and let us know how things went.
science fair project, sports science, mountainboarding, extreme sport, pressure, tire, speed, control, handling Pressure Pounds per square inch (psi) Force Velocity Perpendicular Normal force Per Division Surface area Solid Liquid Gas Atom Friction Inverse relationship
